MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XV. 258 we get in this country is, however, always either dried into cakes or potted and salted. To stew Sturgeon.—Cut the fish in slices 1+ inch thick, dip them in vinegar, dry them well, flour, and broil the slices; then flour and lay them in a stewpan with some good broth, and let them stew gently until perfectly tender; thicken the gravy with butter or cream, add a spoonful of Harvey’s sauce, l a glass of wine, and serve it up with capers strewed over the top, and garnished with slices of lemon. To roast.—Put a good-sized piece in a large cradle-spit (5 or 6 lbs. will make a handsome dish for the head of the table) ; stuff1 it with forcemeat; keep it at the fire for 2 or 3 hours, but remove the skin; cover it with crumbs of bread, and brown it with the salamander; baste it constantly with butter, and serve with a good brown gravy, an anchovy, a squeeze of Seville orange or lemon, and a glass of sherry boiled I up, and poured into the dish. Sturgeon Cutlets.—Cut in slices f inch thick ; dry, flour, and egg them; dip them in crumbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, parsley, and thyme; fry them, and serve with Indian pickle, tomata, or piquant sauce. CARP AND TENCH 267.—Are rather pond than river fish ; and although ever , accompanied and considered of the same species, are yet widely different in both size and flavour—the carp arriving, in a long course of years, to more than 50 lbs., while the tench seldom reaches so much jis, a tithe of that weight. The flavour of carp also depends wholly on the way it which it is dressed, ; while the tench possesses naturally a very delicious degree of richness. There is also this rather extraordinary difference, that, while carp are preyed upon by pike and perch, the tench is never attacked by either, owing, as it is supposed, to a slimy substance in the skin. Being of similar habits, they both spawn in June, soon after which they recover, and are again in good order in the month of August. They however bury themselves in the mud during the period of winter; and from thus living in slime, the flesh often contracts a disagreeable muddy flavour, which cannot be removed until the fish is kept alive for some days in pure water; and this can only be done by persons who have ponds of their own in which to change