57 5 BREAD. Chap. XXVIII.] ward bran of the wheat, and making the whole into loaves, without sifting the flour into the different sorts of fineness. It is looked upon by medical men as a good remedy for in- digestion ; and the different effects created by the constant use of white or brown bread have been thus stated :— “ Mistaken notions respecting the quality of different sorts of bread have given rise to much waste. The general belief is, that the bread made of the finest flour is the best, and that whiteness is the proof of its quality : but both these opinions are popular errors. The whiteness may be, and generally is, communicated by alum, to the injury of the consumer; and it is well known by men of science that the bread of unrefined flour will sustain life, while that made with the refined, will not. Keep a man on brown bread and water, and lie will live and enjoy good health; give him white bread and water only, and he will gradually sicken, and probably in a short time die.”a Brown Bread, when divested of the coarser bran, not only merits this preference in point of digestion, but is even thought to nourish better, as proved by the experience of sailors on long voyages, who are always furnished with bis- cuits made from unrefined flour, and are both strong and healthy. It should be made of unbolted wheat-meal, into 3 quarts of which should be put a gill each of yeast and mo- lasses, with a quart of lukewarm water, and a teaspoonful of pearlash. This quantity will make as much as 2 loaves, when made in the usual mode of household bread. Bran, indeed, contains few nutritious parts, but then it contains the essential oil and the larger portion of the saline substances of the vegetable. The grain is furnished with two membranes or husks, the second or inner of which is the principal seat of the oil; and it is this oil which imparts that 1 agreeable smell to brown bread so superior to white. In grinding the grain, a large portion of the first skin is divided from the second, and mixes very intimately with the rest; the first is an indigestible husk, a great part of which will be separated by rejecting a third part of the bran, or by scuffling it rapidly in a circular turning machine of wire, the motion ol' which throws off' the outer husk; the finer parts, being thus intermixed, greatly facilitate the digestion of the bread by dividing its more glutinous pulp. n ‘ Literary Gazette.’