340 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XYIII. HARICOTS BLANCS—E. R. 421. —Are the seeds of the white French bean. Though but little known in England, they are a very common dish throughout France, where they are generally stewed and served with white sauce. They come to us in a dried state, and therefore are capable of keeping for 12 months, beyond which time it is not desirable to keep them, as they then re- quire so much soaking that the flavour is destroyed. They always require a few hours’ soaking before being dressed; the usual mode in this country is to put them into cold water, boil them for an hour, and bring them up in plain white sauce, sea- soned with pepper and salt, or sometimes with chopped parsley and a few grains of sugar. A VHollandaise.—Pick and well clean the haricots; put them into a pot with cold soft water and a bit of butter. While on the fire, add cold water to soften and prevent their boiling. When well softened, drain them; put them into a saucepan with a bit of butter and some boiled and strained onions cut in dice, a little highly-seasoned gravy-soup, salt, and coarse pepper. Shake them well, and finish with a little more butter. Spanish receipt for Haricots Blancs, or Garbanzas.— Pour hot water on the beans, and soak them for 24 hours; then boil them with some lettuce or parsley, and a little ham, till they are tender. Then fry some chopped onions and a little bit of garlic, and put them in a pot. A few minutes before they are wanted pound some toasted bread with some of the beans; then mix them with an egg, add spice, and pour them into the pot; warm and send them up to table. TO DRESS CHESTNUTS FOR DESSERT. 422. —Let them be well roasted, and the husks taken off. Dissolve 4 lb. of sugar in a wineglassful of water, and the juice of a lemon. Put this and the chestnuts into a saucepan over a slow fire for 10 minutes ; add sufficient orange-flower water to flavour the syrup ; serve in a deep dish, and grate sugar over them. To be handed round whilst quite hot. TO DRESS CARDOONS, OR CHARDONS. 423. —Cut them into pieces of 6 inches long, scrape them as asparagus, tie them in bundles, boil till tender, and have ready