76 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. VII. have transferred all its flavour to the liquid, and must be strained. Next day, take what is left of the soup ; put it into a pot, and simmer it over hot coals for -j an hour: a longer time will weaken the taste. If it has been well made, and kept in a cool place, it will be found better the second day than the first. If your family is very small, and the leg of beef large, it may furnish soup for several successive days. Half the leg may therefore be sufficient, previously breaking to pieces all the bones with a mallet or kitchen cleaver, which by causing them to give out their marrow will greatly enrich the soup. Or :—When a large quantity of any butcher’s meat is brought in for the use of the family, the joints will require trimming: take all the parings, adding a slice or two of bacon, beef or mutton bones, with an old fowl, or a rabbit, if you have one, turnips, and all sorts of vegetables, onions, herbs, a few slices of carrot, ketchup, pepper, salt, &c.; put a piece of butter at the bottom of the pan, cover it closely, and put it over a slow fire for a few minutes, shaking the saucepan occa- sionally. Then pour in boiling water, and let it stew until it is rich; apportioning the water to the quantity of meat. If there be any solid portion of beef, of which the soup is made, let it be taken out previous to the meat being “ done to rags,” and sent up along with the roots in some of the liquor, thick- ened and flavoured with any piquant sauce: it will form an excellent stew. These receipts constitute the standing household dish so well known in France as the pot an feu. Cheap and wholesome pottages, in common use among the middling classes in various parts of Europe, are also made in different modes, a few of which are these:— COTTAGE SOUPS. 7.—Take 2 lbs. of lean beef, cut into small pieces, with l lb. of bacon, 2 lbs. of mealy potatoes, 3 oz. of rice, car- rots, turnips, and onions sliced, or leeks and cabbage. Fry the meat, cabbage, and onions in butter or dripping, the latter being the most savoury ; and put them into a gallon of water, to stew gently over a slow fire for 3 hours, putting in the carrots at the same time, but the turnips and rice only time enough to allow of their being well done; and mashing the pota-