Chap. XXXII.] VAEIOUS EECEIPTS. 637 -g-r; .i- d.£. ture on a very slow fire to simmer for a little while, after which take it off, and, when it begins to cool, mix with it a few drops of any perfumed essential oil. Cold Cream will have nearly the same effect. Take 2 oz. of oil of sweet almonds, 1 drachm each of white wax and sper- maceti, which scrape very fine, and put them with the oil into an earthen pipkin to melt slowly on the embers, and stir it till it becomes quite smooth; after which, when becoming cold, add 1 oz. of rose-water, and put it into a gallipot closely covered; it should be a very thick cream. Thieves’ Vinegar.—“ Take a large handful of lavender- blossoms and the same quantity of sage, mint, rue, wormwood, and rosemary; chop and mix them well together; put them into a jar with 4 oz. of camphor that has been dissolved in alcohol, and pour in 3 quarts of strong vinegar; keep the jar for 2 or 3 weeks in the sun, and plunge it every night in a box of hot sand ; afterwards strain and bottle the liquid, putting into each bottle a clove of garlic sliced. It should be kept very tightly corked, and is best made in June.” a Hungary Water.—To 1 pint of highly-rectified spirits of wine put 1 oz. of oil of rosemary and 2 drachms of essence of ambergris ; shake the bottle well several times, then let the cork remain out 24 hours. After a month, during which time shake it daily, put the water into small bottles. Honey Water.—Take 1 pint of spirit as above, and 3 drachms of essence of ambergris; shake them well daily. Lavender Water.—Take 1 pint of spirit as above, essential oil of lavender 1 oz., essence of ambergris 2 drachms; put all into a quart bottle, and shake it extremely well. A very fine Scent.—Take 6 drachms of oil of lavender, 3 of the essence of bergamot, 60 drops of ambergris, and 2 grains of musk. Mix these into a pint of the best rectified spirits of wine. An excellent Water to prevent Hair from falling off\ and to thicken it.—Put 4 lbs. of unadulterated honey into a still, with 12 handfuls of the tendrils of vines, and the same quan- tity of rosemary-tops. Distil as cool and as slowly as possible. The liquor may be allowed to drop till it begins to taste sour. Bandoline for the Hair. Crush the pips of the ripe quince “ Miss Leslie’s Receipts, p. 424.