MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XVI. 278 these 7 the forcemeat: then put in the sweetbread, &c., which cover with the remainder of the forcemeat, smoothing it over with the back of a spoon wetted with the white of the egg before directed to be preserved. Lay on it a buttered paper, put the cover of the pan on, and bake 20 minutes. When done, turn the grenade on the lid to drain, carefully remove the bacon without breaking the skin of the fish, and serve veiy hot, with rich veal gravy round, not over it. The entrails of the mullet will give additional flavour to the force- meat. Where they cannot be had, the red part of lobsters, used alternately with the brown and white of the sole or mackerel, will look beautiful. Grenade of Sole.—Split a fine sole downwards, take out the bone, and lard the inside with strips of gherkins and truffles, then cover one half of the sole with the following forcemeat, which will be again covered by the remaining half of the sole; fasten them together with 4 splinter skewers, and bake with 4 or 5 spoonfuls of weak meat or fish gravy. Make the forcemeat of any dressed fish, crumbs of bread, the hard yolk of an egg, half a spoonful of boiled celery-root, half an anchovy, a spoonful of parsley, and half as much chervil, both finely minced, a little fat bacon or butter, and a raw egg, pepper and salt. When dressed, keep the fish hot, while the gravy it was baked in is warmed with a spoonful of caper-vinegar, and the same of the gherkin-liquor, to serve round it, with a few sliced gherkins. CROQUETTES OF FISH.—E. R. 289. —Take dressed fish of any kind, separate it from the bones, mince it with a little seasoning, an egg beaten with a teaspoonful of flour, and one of milk ; roll it into balls ; brush the outside with egg, and dredge it well with bread-crumbs, fry them of a nice colour: the bones, heads, tails, with an onion, an anchovy, and a pint of water, stewed together, will make the gravy. Lobsters make delicate croquettes; in which case the shell should be broken, and boiled down for the gravy. RISSOLES OF FISH.—E. R. 290. —Pick from the bones and skin any kind of cold fish, weigh it, and add one-third of grated bread-crumbs, a little cold melted butter, a small onion, previously boiled and finely