FAMILY SAUCES. 543 Chap. XXVI.] Or :—Take the green shells of ripe walnuts ; to each peck add 1 lb. of common or bay salt, pounded tine ; stir well together, and let them remain for 3 or 4 days, stirring them occasionally that the air may turn them black ;• then boil a gallon of water with 1 lb. of bay salt, and pour over the shells boiling hot; let them stand 8 or 10 days, and pour off' the liquor. Boil well 1 hour, adding, towards the last, 2 oz. of long pepper, the same of black, 2 oz. of shalots cut small, 2 oz. of brown mustard-seed bruised, i oz. of mace and cloves, 4 pint of vinegar, and i lb. of good anchovies. Pour into a jar or cask, and in 2 or 3 months strain and bottle. Walnut-Ketchup of the finest, quality.—Boil or simmer a gallon of the expressed juice of walnuts when they are tender, and skim it well; then put in 2 lbs. of anchovies, bones, and liquor, ditto of shalots, 1 oz. of cloves, ditto of mace, ditto of pepper, and 1 clove of garlic. Let all simmer till the shalots sink; then put the liquor into a pan till cold ; bottle and divide the spice to each. Cork closely, tie the bladder over, and put it in small bottles. It will keep 20 years in the greatest perfection, but is not fit for use the first year. Be very careful to express the juice at home, for it is generally adulterated if bought. Irish mode:—Take a few hundred green walnuts, scoop out all the whites, beat them in a mortar, and strain the juice through a cloth ; let it stand a day and night, strain it, and pour it off clear. To 1 pint of this liquor put i pint of vinegar with 4 lb. of anchovies, and to each pint thus made a clove or two of garlic, 2 or 3 shalots, some horseradish, and 1 onion cut in quarters ; boil it 2 hours, and then strain it off. When strained add to every pint of liquor half f oz. of mace, the same quantity of cloves, of nutmeg, and of whole black pepper, £ pint of port wine, and 2 tablespoonfuls of soy. Boil them together for i an hour. Then pour it oft' into an earthen jar, and let it remain covered until it is cold ; bottle it off' into clean dry bottles, distributing the spice equally in each ; cork it down closely ; take care in boiling to keep the saucepan covered. CUCUMBER KETCHUP.—E. R. 762.—Take an equal quantity of large cucumbers and large onions, pare and slice them; throw over them a handful of salt, and let them stand all night in a sieve placed over a pan.