294 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XYII. omitted, the above may be properly employed as an excellent sauce for roasted rabbit, or for full-grown poultry. White Sauce.—Boil a large blade of mace, a few cloves and peppercorns, in a pint of soft water, until the flavour be ob- tained ; strain it off', put it into a saucepan with 4 anchovies chopped fine, i lb. of butter rolled in flour, and 1 a pint of cream ; boil, and stir it well, 2 minutes. Put some in a tureen, and the remainder in the dish. For Chickens.—Take the legs and necks, with a small bit of the scrag of veal or mutton ; put them into a saucepan with 2 blades of mace, a few white peppercorns, an anchovy, a head of celery sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a small bit of lemon-peel; boil these in a quart of water to 4 a pint; strain, and thicken it with i lb. of butter and some flour; boil it 5 minutes, then put in 2 spoonfuls of mushrooms, and, having beaten up the yolks of 2 eggs with a teacupful of cream, put it into the sauce, and keep shaking it one way over the fire till it is nearly boiling; then put it into a sauce-tureen. Vegetable Marrow Sauce.—Few sauces are more delicate as an accompaniment for young chickens, whether roast or boiled, than vegetable marrow when deprived of its seeds, if stewed to a pulp and passed through a fine sieve, so as to form it into a puree, which may be then thinned either with fowl- broth seasoned with mace, or with cream and nutmeg. SA UCES FOR R OAS T FO WLS. 324.—Stew any moderate quantity of ham, veal, and mush- rooms, with sweet herbs, a shalot, a little allspice, and a piece of butter, until all become brown; then let the whole simmer gently for a long time in either weak broth or water, until they form a strong gravy; strain it, and season it with any addi- tional flavour that may be given by some of the made sauces. Serve hot in a sauce-tureen. Or:—Put into a small stewpan 2 slices of ham, a clove of garlic, a laurel-leaf, and sliced onions ; add a little good gravy, a sprig of knotted marjoram, and a spoonful of tarragon vine- gar ; simmer slowly an hour, strain off, and put into the dish or a boat. Or :—Boil some veal-gravy, pepper, salt, the juice of a Seville orange and a lemon, and i as much of port wine as of gravy; and pour it into the dish or a boat.