MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIY. 230 TURBOT. 241.—Boiled.—Let it be dried immediately after its being washed, for if left in the water it will become soft; see that the kettle be large enough to contain the fish without injury to its fins; rub the fish well with a lemon and a little salt; have ready hard water sufficient to thoroughly cover it; throw in salt in the proportion of 1 lb. to 6 quarts of water, with a little horseradish. Before putting the turbot into the kettle, make a cut down to the bone through the middle of the dark side, in order to prevent the skin from cracking, and see that the fishmonger has taken 2 joints out of the neck. Let it boil gently. If of a moderate size, about 8 lbs., it will take about 20 minutes. Slip the turbot, with the white side uppermost, upon a hot cloth doubled up on the centre of the dish, and serve it up with a garnish of scraped horseradish and parsley, with slices of lemon. The sauce should be made of lobster, with, if possible, the coral, or spawn. Shrimps are, however, sometimes substituted; and, in France, caper-sauce is the most usual. Cold boiled Turbot, eaten with oil and vinegar, or with a well-dressed salad, is excellent; and, in summer, the addition of a cucumber, whether the fish be hot or cold, is thought an improvement. Steived.—Cut a small fish into square pieces, flour and fry until it is brown; after which drain it from the fat upon a hah- sieve, and proceed as for stewed eels. A la Creme.—The remains of a cold turbot may be warmed either in a white sauce maigre, a la Creme, or in Bechamel, or any of the rich meat sauces. The fish should be, in each of these modes, cut from the bones, stripped of the dark skin, but that of the silver side left on, and heated in either of these sauces, without being fried. Baked.—Take a small fish, dry and flour it, make a little butter hot, which brush thickly over the white side of the fish; sprinkle it well with pepper and salt; butter a baking-dish, lay on the fish with the white side uppermost, bake for about i an hour. For sauce, a little melted butter and the gravy from the fish. BRILL 242.—Is a fish so much resembling turbot in appearance as