Chap. XXV.] 521 PRESERVED FRUITS. add the same weight of finely sifted sugar and the white of a small egg. Beat all together until it becomes quite thick, then put it upon buttered paper in a slow oven : let them remain until they will quit the paper, then turn them, and leave them in the oven until quite dry ; cut them into shapes and keep them near the fire in a box between paper. GOOSEBERRY CHEESE. 724. —Gather the rough red gooseberries when quite ripe; bake them until they are a perfect mash ; pass them through a hair sieve, then put them into a preserving-pan, and boil them gently. To every lb. of gooseberries put 3 oz. of sugar, which should be strewed in every now and then, a little at a time. It will take several hours to boil, in order to obtain the proper thickness. To dry Gooseberries.—Put 5 lbs. of gooseberries into a stewpan, and strew over them 1 lb. of sugar ; set them on a slow fire ; when the syrup begins to come out take them off; scald them in this way for 2 or 3 days, then take them out of the syrup, place them upon sieves, and put them before the fire or in the sun to dry. They may be dipped into powdered white sugar when taken out of the syrup, and thus candied. They should be laid between paper in tin boxes when put by for use. CHERRIES.—E. R. 725. — To Dry.—Weigh the cherries before they are stoned, and allow to every lb. of fruit £ lb. of lump-sugar ; when they are stoned set them over a slow fire to heat, then take them out of the liquor and put the sugar to them, and let them stand till it is dissolved. Then set them over the fire and let them just boil. Allow them to stand until they are quite cold, or, if convenient, for 2 or 3 days, in the syrup; afterwards strain them, and spread them on sieves to dry, either on a stove or in the sun, or in an oven after the bread is drawn. The same syrup will do again for more fruit. To Dry without Sugar.—Stone, and set them over the fire in the preserving-pan ; let them simmer in their own liquor, and shake them in the pan. Put them in china common dishes ; next day give them another scald, and put them when cold on sieves to dry in an oven of temperate heat. Twice heat- ing, an hour each time, will do them. Put them in a box, with a paper between each layer.