277 FISH. Chap. XVI.]' FILLETS OF FISH. 286. —Take any white fish, bone, split, and cut them into handsome fillets, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, make a fine forcemeat with lobsters or shrimps, lay it thickly on the fillets, roll them up, and tie or skewer them. Put them into a fish-gravy, and bake them in an oven : when done, thicken the gravy and serve up the fish in it. TO SCOLLOP FISH 287. —Is in some measure to make it into a pie, as the usual mode is to bake it in scollops or shapes resembling the shells ; I as thus :— Flake the fish, and imbed it in Jwead-crumbs moistened with thin melted butter or cream, flavoured with any approved sauce ; cover the top thickly with bread-crumbs, lay bits of I butter over, and bake it either before the fire or in a Dutch oven ; or lay the fish in the bottom of the dish, with a rich ] white sauce of cream, and cover the top only with bread- i crumbs. UNE GRENADE. 288. —Scrape gently the flesh of a large whiting from the skin and bones ; beat it in a mortar 15 minutes: having scraped 2 ounces of the finest fat bacon, beat them together another 15 minutes ; then add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 2 ounces of butter, a small bit of garlic chopped to a mash, a blade of mace in powder, and the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, and pound a full i hour more : when to be used, mix well therein the fresh-beaten whites of 2 eggs, reserving a teaspoonful to be used as hereafter directed. Meanwhile take the bones and fins from 4 or 5 little red mullet, without in- juring the skin, and cut them lengthwise an inch wide; do the same by a good-sized sole, having split but not removed any of the skin. Then stew a small veal sweetbread, a fresh artichoke-bottom, 8 oysters without the beard, and 2 truffles cut in bits, for I of an hour in a little butter, and let it become cold. When all the above are in readiness, line a pan of 5 or 6 inches in diameter with long slices of fat bacon, placed quite close, in the centre of which lay 4 bits of carrot, cut diamond shape, lengthwise; cover the bacon with the strips of fish perfectly united, alternately putting the brown and white of the sole and the red of the mullet next to the bacon, and on