MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXII. 410 CRUST FOR RAISED PIES. 536.—Boil water with a little fine lard, and an equal quantity of fresh dripping, or of butter, but not much of either. While hot, mix this with as much flour as you will want, mak- ing the paste as stiff as you can to be smooth, which you will make it by good kneading and beating it with the rolling- pin. When quite smooth, put a lump into a cloth, or under a pan, to soak till nearly cold. In raising paste it should be brought to a firm consistence, and of sufficient thickness to hold the meat together; it should therefore not be too rich, and it is easier to be worked if moderately warm than cold. The proper way to raise the crust is by placing the left hand on the lump of paste, and with the right keep working it up the back of the hand, till all be of the proper shape and thickness. When worked into the desired form the meat is then put into the pie, and, when quite full, the lid is put on and fixed to the wall or side; the top being ornamented with some device, also made of paste. Before putting it in the oven glaze it all over with white of egg. Those who have not a good hand at raising crust may roll the paste of a proper thickness, and cut out the top and bottom of the pie, then a long piece for the sides then cement the bottom to the sides with egg, bringing the former rather farther out, and pinching both together: put egg between the edges of the paste to make it adhere at the sides. Fill the pie, put on the cover, and pinch it and the side crust together. The same mode of uniting the paste is to be ob- served if the sides are pressed into a tin form, in which the paste must be baked, after it shall be filled and covered :a the tin should be buttered, and carefully taken off when done enough; and as the form usually makes the sides of a lighter colour than is proper, the pie should be put into the oven again for i of an hour. For Venison Pasty or Perigord Pie. To J peck of fine flour use 2% lbs. of butter and 4 eggs: mix into paste with warm water, and work it smooth and to a good consist- ence. Put a paste round the inside, but not to the bottom of " In lining a tin form, put in the sides first, having cut the paste rather deeper than the tin, so as to allow for its lying a little on the bottom, an that no joint may appear; then cut a piece sufficiently large to cot ei ie whole bottom.