412 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XXII. consistence as the butter. This should be more particularly observed in summer, as the heat then causes the butter to become very soft during the rolling of the paste, and to break through the surface, unless the dough is made of considerably less consistence in the first place, in order to allow for this. To each pound allow 2 eggs, well-beaten and mixed with the water. Mix the dough into a clear, smooth paste, without tough- ness, by rubbing it well with the heel of the right hand on the board until it has acquired a clear, smooth, shining ap- pearance ; mould it into a round lump, then press all the moisture from the remainder of the butter, and form it into a ball, taking care not to soften it: put this upon the paste and press it down, then enclose it with the paste like an apple- dumpling ; flour the marble well and roll it out; this is called the “ first turn then fold it in three, and roll it out again, which will be a second turn; now fold it again in the same manner, and put it in a cold place, if convenient on ice,a covered with a damp cloth, until it is required to be rolled out for use, when the number of turns required to be given to it more will depend on the thinness it has been rolled each time ; thus, if it is rolled out to the greatest extent it will reach, 4 turns will be generally sufficient for it. If rolled out thicker than this, or about ^ inch or rather more in thickness, it will then require from 4£ to 6 turns, but not more than 6£ in any case. The half-turn is merely doubling the sheet or fold- ing it in two. Experience alone can determine when the paste has been sufficiently rolled. VERY LIGHT PASTE. 538.—Mix the flour and water together, roll the paste out, and lay bits of butter upon it. Then beat up the white of an egg, and brush it all over the paste before it is folded ; repeat this when rolling out, and adding the butter each time till the whole of the white of egg is used. It will make the paste very flaky. For Tarts and Cheesecakes.—Beat the white of an egg to a strong froth ; then mix it with as much water as will make “ If ice is not to be had, and the butter is soft, put it into a basin, and set the basin in a pan of water mixed with plenty of salt and saltpetre, and let it remain in a cool place for an hour before it is used.