VEAL. 173 Chap. XI.] white pepper, and chopped chives ; then roll, bind it up tight, and stew it in water or weak broth with the bones, some carrots, onions, turnips, and a bay-leaf. Let the colour be preserved, and serve it in veal gravy, or fricassee sauce, with mushrooms and artichoke bottoms. Or:—Put the breast into a stewpan with just water enough to cover it, an onion, a stick of celery, and a bundle of sweet herbs; let it stew very gently, adding more water as it stews, until it is tender; then take out the bones, and remove the skin ; return the bones into the liquor, which will be a fine jelly, and serve as the sauce for several dishes. Cover the veal with a fine forcemeat, season it well, add egg-balls, and roll it up, securing it with tape. Put it into a stewpan with the fat pro- cured from pork chops, a slice or two of fat bacon or a lump of butter, and a teacupful of the liquor it was stewed in ; shake the stewpan about until the fat has melted, and turn the veal in it, that it may be all equally done, adding an onion and another bunch of herbs; let it braise or 2 hours, then strain the gravy, and thicken it; garnish with forcemeat-balls, egg-balls, and fried paste cut in shapes. Peeled mushrooms may be given by way of variety. When well done, this is an ex- cellent dish. « TENDONS DE VEAU. 167.—The tendons de veau are the gristle that is found in the breast of veal at the extremity of the bones ; it must be cut out from the meat before cooking. Lay the breast on the table with the bones upwards, and with a sharp knife cut the tendons off the ribs : the place where the tendons begin and the ribs end being shown by a line of white gristle. The breast can then be roasted or stewed, replacing the tendon by a good stuffing. Tendons aux Epinards.—Take the tendons out of the breast of veal, cut them in pieces 6 inches long, envelop them in a sheet of bacon fat, tie them up carefully, braise them with trimmings of veal, an onion, carrot, bay-leaf, 2 or 3 cloves, faggot of parsley, and thyme. Let them simmer gently, until so thoroughly done that a skewer passes through easily. Take them up, put them on a dish with a slight weight on them. When cold, cut them in slices + an inch thick, warm them in a little gravy, glaze them: serve on stewed spinach or sorrel, or with tomata-sauce.