264 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XV. in weight they are hardly worth purchasing, except for the purpose of enriching fish-stews or making small eel-patties. Preparatory to most modes of dressing, they should be well cleaned, gutted, and skinned; the heads and tails cut off, and the rest of the fish cut into short pieces of 3 to 4 inches in length, and left for an hour or two in salt water.1 To boil Eels.—They should be of a good size, prepared'as above, dried, floured, and boiled in salt and water, with a good deal of parsley, for about 4 an hour, or until tender ; then served with parsley and butter, of which a portion may be thrown over them, and they may be garnished with scraped horseradish. Or:—If, in lieu of parsley, the rind of a lemon, pared very thin, be boiled with the eel, and this boned and left cold, then covered with transparent calf’s-foot jelly, it will form an ele- gant little supper-dish. To fry.-—Instead of being cut into pieces, they maybe left whole, and trussed in a circular form, with their tail thrust through the jaws; but great care should be taken in gutting them. They should be rolled in yolk of eggs and bread- crumbs, or a thick coating of sweet herbs, and fried a pale brown. They may be served with any savoury or acid sauce that may be preferred. To broil.—The same process may be adopted by merely changing the frying-pan for the gridiron, and wrapping the eels in buttered paper; but, if thought proper, the bread- crumbs and herbs may be omitted, as well as the envelope of paper, and the eel merely brushed over with the yolk of egg. Turn them frequently, and take them up when quite brown. Some persons, indeed, prefer the skins to be kept on, as it retains the oily richness of the fish, which, when stripped of its skin, is deprived of some portion of its mellowness. The skin is, of course, not eaten ; but the fish itself is certainly rendered more delicious, and if taken with acid sauce, or the mere 1 u The best way to kill cm ccl is to divide the spine just behind the head, without severing it from the body, when the fish will die almost instanta- neously ” (Piscator, p. 38).—“ To skin eels in the most easy manner, first cut through the skin all round, just below the gills, with a sharp knife, then stick either an iron skewer or the prong of a stout fork through the head above, and so holding on by that part with your right hand, take a coaise towel in your left hand, and grasping the fish tightly below where you have cut through the skin, you may strip it off as easy as a stocking ” (lb. p. 16-)-.