MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIX. 354 WHITE PUDDINGS.—E. R. 447.—To two parts of beef-suet chopped add one part of oatmeal previously toasted before the fire; boil an onion or two, and chop them with pepper and salt; mix the whole well together, put the ingredients into skins, and boil them for an hour, pricking them as they boil to prevent their bursting. They will keep for some time in bran after they have been allowed to become cold. Parboil them when wanted, and then broil them on a gridiron. The quantity of suet may seem disproportioned to the oat- meal ; but unless there are two-thirds of the former to one of the latter, the puddings will be dry and bad. They require to be highly seasoned with pepper and onions. FORCEMEAT. French cooks pride themselves, and very justly, on the pains which they bestow on the elaboration of their force- meat, or farce. It is an art in which they have attained superior excellence, but in which there is no great difficulty. At many tables, where everything else is well done, it is common to find very bad stuffing, which, according to what it is wanted for, should be a selection from the following list, observing that of the most pungent articles least must be used. A general fault is, that the tastes of lemon-peel and thyme overcome all others, therefore they should only be used in small quantities; and except in a few very savoury dishes, cayenne and pepper of all kinds should be sparingly used. No one flavour should predominate greatly; yet if several dishes be served the same day, there should be a marked variety in the tastes of the forcemeats as well as of the gravies. The forcemeat should be consistent enough to be cut with a knife, but not dry and heavy. Herbs are a very essential in- gredient, and it is the copious but judicious use of them that chiefly gives the cookery of the French its superior flavour. Bacon or butter must always be substituted for suet when the forcemeat is to be eaten cold. The flavour given to the bread, or panada, is considered to be of great importance, and the highest point of perfection may be obtained by attending to the following directions:—