228 MODERN DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XIV. the fish is done at a moderate rate, neither too quick nor too slow ; and when done, lay it upon a cloth or writing-paper to drain off the fat. Hog’s-lard and butter are the materials most generally used, as are also the drippings from roast meat; for a great preju- dice exists in England against frying with oil, arising no doubt partly from expense as well as dislike, although it is more delicate than any fatty substance that can be employed for that purpose. Throughout the southern countries of Europe nothing else is ever used in the frying of either fish or meat of any kind, and dishes thus dressed ever appear superior on the foreign tables to those of our own. The oil, if skimmed when done with, may be employed again until entirely used ; and lard, if poured into cold water when melted, will harden on the surface. The largeness of quantity does not therefore occasion additional cost; and even should meat be fried in it after fish, it will occasion no unpleasant flavour. In broiling fish, care should be taken to make the gridiron very hot, and to rub the bars with butter previously to using. Fish prepared for broiling, after it is washed, should be rubbed well with vinegar, dried in a cloth, and floured—the vinegar preserving the skin entire, and the flour preventing it sticking to the bars. A cinder or a charcoal fire is the best, but a little salt thrown on a coal fire will check the smoke, and cause it to burn like embers. In the dressing of flat fish as cutlets, the fillets should be lifted from the bones, and the spine which runs through the centre of the round sorts should be extracted. The stewing of fish, and dressing it in fillets or cutlets, re- quires considerably more care in the cookery, as well as cost in the ingredients, than either of the previous modes; and as a preliminary to the operation, a gravy should be got ready, to be made in the following manner:—Take out all the bones, cut off the heads and tails, and, if this should not be sufficient, add a flounder, an eel, or any small common fish; stew them •with an onion, pepper, salt, and sweet herbs; strain it, and thicken it to the consistence of cream, flavouring with a slight addition of wine or any other sauce. The French employ the commonest sorts of their wine as a marinade, or sauce, both for the boiling and stewing of fish ; and that of English growth may be substituted in this country, if the cheaper kinds of foreign wine should be thought too expensive. Families who