Chap. XXII.] 425 MEAT PIES. and thyme, pepper, salt, and a little gravy. Cover it close and let it stew gently until tender; take out the meat, an pull out the bones; reduce the gravy, and when thoroughl cold remove the fat; then proceed to make the pasty. Line the sides of the dish with crust, but not the bottom; lay in the meat with fat between each piece, season with pepper and salt, put to it a pint of the gravy and a few bits of _ butter, cover with a good crust, and bake it thoroughly. Keep the remainder of the gravy till the pasty comes from the oven, put it by means of a funnel into the middle quite hot, and shake the dish to mix it well. The pasty must be Avell done, requiring generally 2 hours’ baking. A want of fat may be supplied by the fat of a loin of mutton steeped for 24 hours in port wine and garlic vinegar. To make a Pasty of Beef or Mutton to eat like Venison.— Bone a small rump or piece of sirloin of beef, or a fat loin of mutton, after hanging several days. Beat it very well with a rolling-pin; then rub 10 lbs. of meat with 4 oz. of sugar, and pour over it a glass of port, and the same of vinegar. Let it lie 5 days and nights; wash and wipe the meat very dry, and season it very high with pepper, Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, and salt. Lay it in the dish, and to 10 lbs. put •f lb. of butter ; spread it over the meat. Put a crust round the edges and cover with a thick one, or it will be overdone before the meat be soaked : it must be done in a slow oven. Set the bones in a pan in the oven, with no more water than will cover them, and 1 glass of port, a little pepper and salt, that you may have a little rich gravy to add to the pasty when drawn. YORKSHIRE GOOSE PIE.—E. R. 563 —Bone a goose, a fowl, and a pigeon; season them well with pepper, taking care to cover the whole of the inte- rior, or otherwise it will turn sour before it can be eaten ; put the pigeon into the fowl, and the fowl inside the goose, fillino- the interstices with various kinds of force and sausage meat and hard-boiled eggs. The liver and gizzard of the fowl and pigeon will assist in the forcemeat, which must be very well compounded ; sew up the goose, and put it into a thick crust. It will take several hours to bake. Make savoury jelly, which must also be well seasoned, pour it into the pie when it comes