The University Library Leeds J LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: OOOl&tf (\ fdA 3 in 106 01105 953 Kb3 OOOiCEp.yDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21528809Roman's &t6rarj> IN SIX VOLUMES VOLUME V COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING£0e T2?oman+6 fetfiraire VOLUME V COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Mrs BY ALFRED PRAGA •V ^ AUTHOR OF “dinners of the day’’; "starting housekeeping” “appearances"; “easy french DISHES FOR ENGLISH cooks” “EASY FRENCH SWEETS FOR ENGLISH COOKS” “how TO FURNISH WELL AND CHEAPLY” ‘‘WHAT TO WEAR AND HOW TO WEAR IT " ETC., ETC., ETC. LONDON CHAPMAN & HALL Ltd,s\WWCONTENTS COOKERY CHAP. PAGE Introduction ..... 3 I. Method of Boiling, Roasting, Grilling, Frying, Braising . . . . .24 II. Stocks, Soups, Purges, Consomm£es, Bisques . 40 III. Concerning Fish Cookery, Boiling, Frying, Broil- ing, Baking, Sundry Methods . . .61 IV. Sauces in General, White Sauces, Brown Sauces, Sauces in Particular, Cold Sauces, Sweet Sauces . . . . . .78 V. Vegetables in General . . . .104 VI. Entries . . . . . .126 VII. Sweets . . . . .169 VIII. Savouries ...... 205 IX. Ices, Iced Puddings, and Cream Ices of Various Kinds . . . . . .212 Nursery Cookery ..... 238 HOUSEKEEPING . . . . .257 INDEX ....... 307 vCOOKERYINTRODUCTION Of all the careers open to women, there are few, it would perhaps be safer to say none, for which so small an initial outlay is required as for that of a cook. Professional cooks of the purely domestic class are more and more difficult to obtain, and when got are, as a rule, far more inefficient than they were ten or fifteen years ago, whilst their hire is going up in an inverse ratio to their efficiency. Of course it is still possible, it always will be possible, to obtain a first-class article, but a first-class price must be paid for it. The chief drawback is that there are so many gentlefolk of moderate or comparatively small means who have a prejudice in favour of daintily cooked and properly served food, families residing in flats, or houses of medium size, who can afford to pay anything from4 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING The possibility of self training The rate of wages twenty-five to forty pounds per annum for the services of a cook who can cook, but who are quite unable to pay the outrageous wages demanded by the domestic cook of the present day. Now I am going to make a statement, which upon the face of it may seem rather an amazing one. In the majority of cases there is no need for a long and (more or less) expensive course of training at a cookery school, since any girl or woman of average intelligence can fit herself for a cook’s place with the aid of a thoroughly good cookery book, and plenty of home practice. Of course an exception must be made to this rule in the case of those who aim high, where the plums of the profession are to be sought after and striven for. By plums I mean situations in big establishments where the fees given range from ^80 to ^120 per annum, or purely decorative cooking, i.e. confectionery in its higher branches, or the preparation and cooking of single dinners for5 INTRODUCTION dinner-parties where the fee ranges from £i, is. to £2, 2S., and in some very special cases, even more. For all these latter a proper course of through, a proper it goes without saying, a certain sum of money expended. This sum may vary in accordance with several things, the aptitude of the pupil in question, the school or schools chosen, the length of the studying period, and, finally, as to whether the individual in question is willing or unwilling to go as im- prover under a chef. The period for which The . , • r 1 i question of improvers are taken varies from three months “improvers upward, and the training gained is in the under a chef majority of cases simply invaluable, and if obtained under a good chef, often far in ex- cess of the sum paid for it. Thus the amount paid for the purely tech- nical side in learning cookery in any or all its branches may range from the twenty-five guineas, paid at a local school in guinea or two guinea courses, up to two, three, four, training must be gone Thorough . 1 • 1 , training apprenticeship served^ and necessary6 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING or even five hundred pounds. But to those who, while wishing this career for themselves are yet unable to pay any money for training, there still remains the possibility of what I am old-fashioned enough to think, outside the realms of fine and fancy cookery and The best confectionery is the best training of all, training of all J ° the home training, and therefore in this connection let me reiterate what I have just said, that any girl possessed of the neces- sary intelligence may train herself into a thoroughly good cook (either to the French or English mode), by means of a reliable cookery book and plenty of home practice. By intelligence be it noted I mean chiefly The chief palate. For the first requisite of a good argood cook cook is palate, and the second is palate, and the third is likewise palate, moreover the finer the palate the better the cook. Now it is strange but true, that this gift of palate is not always to the gently-born. I have known (and trained) peasant girls, straight from the bogs of Ireland who have possessed the most7 INTRODUCTION wonderful palates, refined to a degree, and equally I have met with women of gentle blood in whom palate was to all intents and purposes an unknown quantity. Granted then that palate is the first, second Good health . . . . a sine qua non and third requisite in the woman who aims at for a cook making cookery her career, there are yet others to be taken into consideration, and of these good health is the principal. An anaemic girl should emphatically not choose a cook’s career. The close proximity to the fire, the enervating atmosphere of even the best ventilated kitchen imaginable, the draughts, the constant changes from heat to cold, from the extreme warmth of the kitchen where she perhaps has to grill a chicken to the iciness of the larder where she has to dive into the refrigerator for something, or prepare a drawn sauce, or an ice, the constant association with food, food, food, from morning till night is in itself quite sufficient to destroy any but the most robust appetite. All these things are extremely bad for the anaemically inclined.8 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Good Again good eyesight is almost a sine qua eyesight . , # non in the girl desirous of becoming a pro- fessional cook, for extreme heat of the fire is bad for weak or short sight; and in the long- run unless the eyes are protected by suitable glasses may do serious harm to the vision. Women or girls who suffer from a weak- ness, general or specific of the vascular system, are also unfitted for the role of cook by reason of the long hours of standing which must in- dubitably fall to the cook’s share, even when assisted by kitchen and scullery maids. Again those who inherit a tendency to erysipelas should think twice before they select cookery for a career, since the sudden changes from great heat to cold are bad for them. But Given good given good health and a fairly sound consti- health and . . . . . . r . palate success tution the would-be cook may go forward is practically . , r , . r • r 1 certain with confidence certain ot success it she applies herself with due assiduity to the task of her training. And here it should be noted that if the training is to be self-given, it must, if ultimate9 INTRODUCTION success is desired, be as thorough in every The need for thoroughness way as if the individual in question was attend- in training ing a school in the ordinary way. There must be no slurring over of the “ uninterest- ing things,” though they are I admit many, or of the “unimportant trifles,” because as a matter of fact it is precisely these same so- called “unimportant trifles” which go so far towards making up the sum of a good cook. Above all the self-trained cook, or perhaps I should say the cook who is desirous of training herself successfully, must be con- tent to start from the very beginning; she must not aim at a ragout until she can turn The . . riii 1 importance out an eminently successful hash; she must of little not pine to display her skill in the making ofthings vols au vent until she is certain that her plain short crust is above reproach. She should not worry about the ornamental icing of a cake until she is pretty sure that her cake mixtures are sufficiently light and her baking is all that can be desired. I emphasise these seem- ingly little things because I have found fromio COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING The first things to be mastered experience that it is precisely here that the self-taught cook generally fails. She is so anxious to run before she can walk that as often as not she “comes a cropper.” It is, I grant you, delightful to be able to do icing and to make nougat well, but it is of infinitely more importance to be able to roast, cook vegetables thoroughly, and turn out satisfactory soups and puddings ; and a pro- longed course of nothing more substantial than iced cake and nougats would be likely to be upsetting to even the most robust digestion imaginable. Therefore make “Be- gin at the beginning ” and “ One thing at a time and that one thing thoroughly ” your motto, and then, as I have said, success is practically certain. The first things to be mastered are the proper clarifying of fat; the making of stocks, both meat and vegetable, which shall serve as a foundation for soups, broths, and purees; the frying and boiling of fish; the art of dry frying, i.e. frying in a bath of fat;11 INTRODUCTION roasting and boiling meat successfully ; to cook vegetables well; to make a simple white sauce and a brown sauce successfully J the art of simple vegetable entrees; to mastering the plainer sorts of boiled, baked, and steamed puddings; and to making a plain crust which shall be suitable either for fruit or meat pies. I have placed all The various that any one not an absolute fool, if possessed of a palate, can learn to do perfectly all that I have set down in from two to four weeks, according to her intelligence. Together with these, and of about equal Things of importance, should go the art of making fmportan© tea, coffee, and cocoa properly; of toasting bread and tea-cakes ; of making thin (rolled) bread and butter; of boiling and frying eggs; grilling and frying bacon, kidneys, and tomatoes ; and the cooking of dried fish, so that breakfast as well as dinner may be in the fullest sense of the word a successful meal. and I hold importancei2 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Do not I hold also that made dishes of no matter attempt made . dishes at first how simple a kind should not be attempted at first, because the palate of an untrained cook is not always to be relied upon, and indeed requires a certain amount of training before it can be relied on. It is far easier to get into bad habits, such as, for example, The danger over flavouring, and adding condiments with flavouring too heavy a hand, than it is to get out of them, and for this, if for no other reason, I reiterate it, the untrained cook should not try her ’prentice hand and palate upon made dishes for the first three or four weeks of her noviciate. Having, however, we will assume, made a successful start, she should next attempt stews, Irish stew, hot pot, haricot of mutton, navarin of mutton, braised beef, and perhaps a simple curry or two, and when all these in their turn have been successfully mastered, then, and not till then, may she essay such things as a simple rechauffee, for, be it understood, there is far greater art necessaryINTRODUCTION *3 in the r^-cooking of a meat than in the The re initial process. meats Let her begin, then, with a simple hash or mince, and if these are creditable, as it is safe to assume they will be, she may next turn her attention to rissoles, croquettes, and later on to some of the many forms of kromeskies, and afterwards to patties (chaud) ; while to return a moment to the first course, the cookery of fish au gratin in its many forms and with its varied sauces can also be com- menced. Some of the more difficult forms of vegetable entrees—I use the word “ diffi- cult ” now solely in reference to the delicacy of flavouring required and not in relation to the actual cooking process may also be essayed. In this connection, too, let it be noted Salads that salads of various kinds, beginning with the simple French salade de saison, should also be made frequently, and here, if a reliable recipe be followed faithfully and carefully, failure is well-nigh impossible.i4 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING The pitiable efforts of the average English cook in regard to salad-making are due entirely to rank carelessness and to noth- ing else. The proper Cooks do not wash the raw green material a salad properly, they dry it insufficiently, and they mix it regardless of every law of salad-making. With reference to this special branch, as to other branches, I shall presently descend from generalities to particulars. To proceed. All the previous plats suc- cessfully essayed and accomplished, the cook may now turn her attention to rather more advanced recipes for the production of sweets and savouries. Creme caramel, simple jellies, Bavarois, Charlotte Russe, and ice puddings may all be attacked and vanquished in turn. Puff paste should come in for a due share of attention, and here, be it noted, success must not be looked for at first, as it is veritably only practice that will make perfect. Indeed, some of the cleverest cooks never succeed in turning out satisfactory pastry. The kitcheni5 INTRODUCTION saying that a u light pastry hand” is a re" j‘AdI!?stry quisite before puff paste can be successfully made is borne out in fact. Given a heavy hand the puff paste is likely to be puff in name only, but as I have said before, as regards pastry-making, it is practice and practice only that will make perfect. The novice should not be disheartened because just at the beginning sheencountersafailureortwo; success is sure to come later given a reliable recipe and the requisite lightness of touch. I shall presently give some rules for pastry- making in general and puff paste in particular, which, if carried out to the letter, should ensure success. Another branch of her art where the self- omelettes taught cook will be likely to meet with one or two contretemps at the commencement is with regard to her omelettes, for it is not easy just at first to acquire the knack of turn- ing and folding an omelette in the approved shape. Perseverance, however, will overcome this as other difficulties.16 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING The making With regard to the making of sauces I am of sauces of . .. various kinds not inclined, speaking from practical experi- ence, to attach so much importance to the difficulties besetting the path of the self- taught sauce-maker as some writers are. It is a maxim of mine that any cook who can make an entirely satisfactory white sauce can turn out anything in the way of a sauce suc- cessfully, from Soubise to Perigeuex. The chief fault with the English cook is that she has not the patience to allow the flour and butter a sufficient time to cook thoroughly, and as a result her sauces more often resemble paste than anything else; again, she does not stir with enough assiduity, and lumps result. She should note, however, that should this occur at any time, the sauce in question should be strained through a heated gravy strainer into a clean saucepan, and then re- turned to the fire in the usual way. Frying in Frying is another very important branch of deep 3t the cook’s art, and if the English cook could only be brought to realise the economy andINTRODUCTION *7 the desirability of frying in deep fat, what the French call in a “ bath of fat,” instead of in her beloved frying pan, soddened fish, rissoles, potatoes, croquettes, fritters, etc., etc., would be unknown. Under the present regime her beignets are too often beignets in name only. The art of braising, at once the most The art of economical, and certainly one of the nicest iais,ng ways of cooking fish, flesh or fowl, is easily self-taught; if the tyro will bear in mind that to braise successfully it is only necessary to cook with the least degree of speed and with the most gentle heat possible. Tea-cakes and scones, to jump to a widely Tea-cakes and different branch of cookery with a sudden- sc°nes ness for which I crave the reader’s pardon, are things easily made, and so, too, are the pudding mixtures, which in a way may be said almost to come under this heading. I am referring now to the sponge and Genoa mixtures, which are first baked and then saturated in syrup. The mention of syrup V. B18 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING The making of ices The art of bread making naturally brings one to the subject of sugar boiling, and here, too, since only practice will make perfect, the self-taught cook must be content to learn by her mistakes. In quite a little time, however, if she perseveres, she should be able to turn out really creditable sweets of the simpler kind. With regard to ices, anyone should be able to make the simpler sorts of ice straight off. The very best kind to commence with is a simple frozen custard (boiled) or a fruit cream, i.e. so much cream mixed with a due proportion of sweetened fruit syrup. Re- liable freezers are now to be had from prices commencing as low as 4s. nd., so that there is no valid excuse for the self-taught cook neglecting this branch of her training. Whenever possible the art of making bread should be learnt and practised, but this, too, is easily done by means of a reliable recipe; and if the recipe is strictly carried out failure cannot result. The proper art of making bread I consider a very valu-INTRODUCTION *9 able part of a cook’s education, and it should be noted that in country places a cook who can make bread really well can always get from ,/To to £15 higher wages than one who cannot, which in itself should be a sufficient argument. A proper knowledge of invalid broths and invalid 1 • , . c u • cookey cookery in general is of the utmost im- portance and should on no account be neglected. Indeed, I am firmly convinced that there is a big field and a big future for a big field the cook who will qualify herself in invalid futureb g cookery, and making this her speciality take places on the job. She would be able to demand, and moreover she could get, quite twice the wages of the average temporary cook. In many forms of illness and conval- escence, which will at once suggest them- selves to the reader, diet is of far greater importance than medicine; and, putting actual illness on one side, there is a future also for the cook who would be content to qualify herself to cook for dyspeptics, who20 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING would gain a thorough knowledge of the foods which would suit them, and who could provide that variety in their diet tables which is undoubtedly the spice of life. a cook who A cook who could intelligently carry out understands diet tables the doctor s orders with regard to diet would undoubtedly be a pearl of great price, for let it be noted, invalid cookery is distinctly not bordered north, east, south, and west by an ability to make beef tea and mutton broth properly, and boil a whiting or a sole, or send up an arrowroot pudding of the requisite lightness. There are innumerable broths and dainty dishes specially suitable for invalids of which the average cook has practically no knowledge whatever, or a knowledge so slight as to be of little real value, and it is here that the “ invalid cook ” would find her chance and her market, and a very well-paid market too, be it observed. The specialist I am myself a firm believer in the specialist, and the cook who will bring invalid cookery in all its many branches to the fine art itINTRODUCTION 21 deserves to be has a great future before her and need never lack employment. Another branch which should not be over- looked, although it can hardly be said with truth to come within the strict province of cookery, is in the making of various cups. In big establishments this of course always The making . . r , of the various comes within the province ot the butler, but kinds of cups, in butlerless houses, a cook who can make etc‘ successful claret, hock, champagne, Badminton or moselle cup, would be treasured. All these varieties are useful for supper or garden parties, and all more or less depend for success not wholly upon the wine and aerated waters used, but also upon the judicious flavouring employed. Then, too, a knowledge of Mulls is useful, and of the various hot drinks so beloved of sportsmen all the world over. The Irish—or was it Scotch ?—squire who married his house-keeper, because she made the very best punch he had ever tasted, was perhaps not so foolish after all; for if we spoke the22 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING truth, are we not, every one of us, man, woman, and child, fond of our creature com- forts, the chiefest of which, the suitable preparation of food, lies for good or ill in the hands of the cook. The art of And now to turn for a moment to the more dainty , garnishing aesthetic side or cookery, the art of garnish- ing. This, to use a colloquialism, I maintain should be learnt “going along.” Food which is daintily served always appears quite twice as appetising as the same dish sent up “ anyhow,” to use another graphic but inelegant phrase. It takes but a very little time, and an infinitesimal amount of trouble to garnish a dish, and the gain in the appearance thereof is so enormous, that one wonders how some cooks can be content to allow the slovenly dishes that sometimes appear in quite good houses, to go to table at all. Avoid over- Occasionally the tendency will be all the garnishing way^ an(j ^ jn qUest;jon Js allowed to spoil and become half cold, while the cook23 INTRODUCTION proceeds to over-garnish it. I have generally found that pupils from the Cookery School are the worst offenders in this respect, send- ing to table dishes “all glorious without,” but lacking, alas! most sadly within. The self-taught cook should aim at the The happy happy medium, and learn to dish up daintily and quickly at the same time so that that most desirable of consummations may be arrived at—a dish which looks as good as it tastes, and tastes as good as it looks! And above all let me impress upon the send things self-taught cook the importance of sending things hot to table. The flavour of the daintiest dish imaginable is spoilt if it arrives on one’s plate in a luke-warm condition. Personally I hold that a hot plat cannot be too hot, the time for transit from kitchen to dining-room, the serving, etc., etc., tend so much to diminish the heat, and a luke-warm dinner is neither a very appetising nor a very digestible form of hospitality.24 CHAPTER I Method of Boiling, Roasting, Grilling, Frying, Braising Rules to be Let us suppose then that the cook is just the kitchen about to enter upon her course or selr-mstruc- tion. The first rule she must lay down for herself is method, for method can, meta- phorically speaking, move mountains, whereas muddle cannot clear away even a mole-hill. And apropos of clearing away, another very valuable maxim for the cook is “ clear as you go ”; always have a proper place for every- thing, and keep things in their proper place ; turn out your store cupboards once a week, and line the shelves with clean paper. Keep all flavourings together on one shelf, all rice, tapioca, etc., together, and all the things needed for everyday use on the lowest shelf; and, finally, don’t forget to label everythingMETHOD OF BOILING 25 in as plain a hand as possible. The very The best place . , r i j • 11 for a small best place for a store cupboard in a small store cupboard house is, if possible, on the left hand side of the kitchen stove; in most kitchens if there is no cupboard already existing, there is space to fit one. Not to have to run backwards and forwards when one is cooking is a great saving both of time and temper. Space does not permit of me giving a detailed list of the requisites for a kitchen where the cooking is to be of the order I have indicated in the foregoing pages, but among the things that should not be forgotten are a pair of scales, so that every joint or bird before entering the oven may be duly weighed and then strictly timed, since it is only by adopting this method that the self-taught cook can train herself with regard to such things as roasting and boiling or braising. The average time required for roasting The time re- meat is quarter of an hour to the pound, roasdng^ and quarter of an hour over. This is for beef; it is always best to allow a26 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING And mutton, little longer for mutton, while for veal and veal and pork, . ...... &c. pork, and especially the latter, which, to be really digestible, must be very thoroughly cooked, twenty-five minutes to the pound is not too much to allow. When braising, the time may be increased to thirty-five minutes per pound, i.e. of very slow cooking. The time for cooking poultry and game varies considerably, having regard to the different kinds (some taking much longer than others), size, etc. A fair average, however, for poultry and game is fifteen minutes to the pound, and fifteen minutes over. To revert to beef again, the estimate of fifteen minutes per pound is for a thin piece of beef, for a large thick piece such as sirloin or wing ribs, twenty minutes to the pound, and say fifteen minutes over. Boiling Time requisite For boiling beef or mutton allow twenty beef^muttoni minutes to the pound, and from fifteen to twenty minutes over, whilst for boiling porkMETHOD OF BOILING 27 or veal twenty-five minutes to the pound and twenty minutes over must be reckoned. Bear in mind, too, that to boil meat successfully it must have a high temperature to begin with, and then a lower one. Thus, supposing a leg of mutton or veal is to be boiled, the water must first reach actually boiling point, then add salt in the proportion of two table- spoonfuls to the gallon of water. The meat can now be put in. This will to a certain extent chill the water, which must be brought to the boil again, and continued boiling for five or six minutes. The pan should then be How to boil drawn to the side of the fire, and the meatsuccessfully simmered gently for the remainder of the time. To make sure that sufficient heat to continue the cooking process is maintained, take off the lid and notice whether the liquid is still or stirring. If still, there is not enough heat to cook the meat in question; if stirring, it is being properly cooked. If on the contrary the water bubbles, it is cooking too fast, and the joint in question will be tough and tasteless.28 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Roasting Baste very The same rule holds good for roasting, when roasting A quick heat at first, say for ten or twelve poultry minutes, placing the meat quite close to the fire or in the fiercest part of the oven, and afterwards remove it a little or place it on the lower shelf. But the most important part of roasting a joint is the basting. If this process is neglected the joint can- not come to table in its fullest perfec- tion. This, be it observed, though it ap- plies equally to all sorts of meat, is of very special importance as regards both beef and pork. Plenty of basting renders a joint both tender and juicy, whereas little or no basting leaves it tough and hard in the extreme. And this fact, let it be borne in mind, applies as fully to poultry and game as to other foods. Grilling It is in grilling that the amateur cook so often fails, and for no other reason than that sufficient attention is not paid to the all-29 METHOD OF GRILLING important element in grilling—the fire. It ™y!f1^gfire is useless to expect to be able to grill sue- should be very fierce cessfully upon a smoky fire or upon a low fire, no matter how clear the latter may be. A proper fire for grilling should be very fierce, practically up to the top, and absolutely clear. The meat for grilling should be of the best quality obtainable. Steaks should be either fillet or rump, and the former for preference. Beef steak is not to be recom- mended, as it is always more or less tough, generally more. To ensure successful cooking, the steak in question should not be more than an inch and a half or an inch and three quarters thick at the outside; moreover, it should on no account be less than an inch and a quarter thick, as the fierce heat required for grilling would be likely to dry it up. Let it be noted that to grill really well, the bars of the grid- iron should be about three or four inches only from the coals, and that the gridiron should be made hot and the bars slightly30 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Grease the greased with a tiny bit of suet or lard paper fore grilling before the meat is placed thereon. It should then be cooked on one side for the space of say a minute or a minute and a half, and it must then be turned and allowed the same time on the other side. Then turn again and continue turning, allowing two minutes for each side until done. A steak an inch and a half thick will require from fifteen to eighteen minutes to cook, according as it is liked—under done or well done. A steak an inch and a quarter thick will want from twelve to fifteen minutes cooking, while a chop, if of an inch in thickness, must be allowed ten minutes if required under done, and twelve minutes if well done. Cutlets, half an inch in thickness, done to a turn, will take eight minutes; under done six minutes is sufficient to allow. Steaks and cutlets when grilling should always be handled with proper steak tongs, and on no account with a fork, as the constant pricking allows all the juice toMETHOD OF GRILLING 31 escape, and renders the meat tough and tasteless. If steak tongs are not obtainable the blades of two knives may be used instead, silver knives for preference; but on no account a fork, for the reasons I have stated. A veal cutlet should be allowed from ten Longer time to twelve minutes, or even a little longer, ^lbwed for as veal is all the better for being thoroughly veal cooked. A pork chop an inch in thickness should be given from twelve to fifteen minutes; the latter, by the way, being the time most generally required. Note that chops, steaks and cutlets, with the exception perhaps of veal, are all improved by being rubbed over with a slice of onion before being grilled, while for those who like its flavour, a split clove of garlic may be used in place of the onion. If merely a gout, as the French term it, is desired the bars of the gridiron before they are greased may be rubbed with a clove of garlic (split of course). This imparts an indefinable flavour, which, in the32 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING opinion of most cooks, greatly improves the steaks or chop in question. A nice way of serving either chops or steaks, but more especially the latter, is with a little very finely minced chives chervil and parsley upon the top of each. grilled steak A grilled steak with a pat of maitre JhLi butter d’hotel butter on the top, and accompanied by chipped or straw potatoes, and a well- made water cress salad, is an ideal luncheon, supper or dinner, for a hungry man, or for that matter, a hungry woman. If maitre d’hotel butter is not liked, anchovy butter or chervil butter may be substituted for it, for which recipes will be found later on. For those who like very rich foods, the following may be commended: To a tea- spoonful of Devonshire cream add a dash of cayenne and a little salt; mince a little chervil chives and parsley together to a pulp. Mix with the cream, place on top of the steak, and serve. Yet another way is to add the salt and cayenne to the creamMETHOD OF FRYING 33 and then add half a tea-spoonful of finely- minced capers and gherkin. A little minced shalot or chives may also be added if liked. The cream in reality is not really so rich as it sounds, since when making either green, maitre d’hotel or chervil butter, the latter is whipped until it practically becomes cream again, as for example in the case of brandy butter used this latter way in a sauce for a Christmas, a sponge, a Viennese, or Polish pudding mixtures. Frying The art of frying properly is so seldom an How to fry accomplishment of the plain cook, that I feelsuccessfully I cannot do better than explain the process here at length, especially as it is simplicity itself when once mastered. A few important points should be borne in mind. ist. It is no use trying to fry successfully in “dirty” fat, i.e. fat which has not been clarified, or has only been partially clarified.34 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING 2nd. It is no use trying to fry in fat which is lukewarm or for the matter of that which is under boiling point in the slightest degree. 3rd. Too many articles, whether fish, croquettes, rissoles, or what not must not be put into the pan at once, or the fat will be chilled, and successful frying an impossibility. How to clarify To clarify fat properly place it in a deep fat properly . , ... . .. basin and pour boiling water upon it until the basin is nearly full. Then leave till the next day, when the cake of fat will be found floating on the top. Remove this. If properly clarified it should be white right through, but if there are dark specks underneath the clarifying process should be repeated. Let it be noted that fat will keep good for a very long time if it is properly Careful strained each tune it is used, also the same fat StneTdfifi may be used throughout the entire dinner, i.e. for cooking fish, cutlets or sweets, if it is properly strained and returned to a clean sauce-pan, and then brought actually to boil- ing point again. The straining is of the35 METHOD OF FRYING utmost importance as it is the tiny pieces of fish, etc., which may get knocked off during the cooking process, which would flavour the next article fried unless the fat is freed from them. Bear in mind also that if the fat is allowed to burn it will be useless for success- ful frying. To fry to perfection then use, if possible, Things to an aluminium pan, fill it at least two-thirds wh^TfryW full of properly clarified beef dripping or lard, let it melt, and wait until the blue smoke rises, then, and not till then, add the article to be fried. Cook till of a golden brown hue, take out quickly, drain carefully on clean kitchen paper, place on a hot part of the stove, but not in the oven, and as soon as the dish is complete serve at once. Potato chips or straws may have a little salt sprinkled over them, if liked. Note.—It is futile to look for the blue The fat must smoke until the fat has ceased bubbling and be stl11 become quite still; and it is owing to the fact that so many cooks ignorantly add the article36 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING to be fried as soon as they see the bubbling that a good friture is so seldom met with in small establishments in England. The blue smoke, and the blue smoke only, is the only sure test of whether the fat is fit for frying or not. Braising How to braise This is one of the most delicious and at the successfully . . , . r , same time, without question, one of the most economical ways of cooking meat and poultry extant. Moreover, if due care be taken, a proper braising pan, always a costly article to buy, is not necessary. To braise in perfection, there should be heat above as well as below the lid, but when this cannot be managed a very successful dish may be achieved as follows : Place 2 ozs. of butter in a clear enamelled iron stew-pan, let it melt, then add to it an oz. each of carrot, turnip and celery, all cut or stamped into neat fancy shapes, two onions peeled and thinly sliced, and a bouquet garni. Add the meat in question, forMETHOD OF BRAISING 37 example, a fillet of veal, or beef will serve. Fry all together for ten minutes. Then lift the meat and with a fork rake the vegetables under it so that they form a bed. Replace the meat and cook for another five or six minutes, shaking the pan every two or three minutes in order to avoid burning. Next add just enough stock to cover the vegetables well. Cover the pan closely and draw it to the side of the stove and simmer very slowly, allowing from twenty-five to thirty-five minutes per pound of meat. Old, tough meat should Tough meat be allowed at least forty minutes per pound, longer65 , , .... r , . cooking thai and very large, thick pieces rrom thirty to tender meat thirty-five minutes per pound. As soon as the meat is considered sufficiently cooked, dish it up, and pour over it a little melted glaze, and place it in a hot oven to brown. Meanwhile strain the vegetables, remove the bouquet garni, and arrange the former in neat little groups or as a border round the meat. Skim the remaining gravy carefully, and thicken it with an oz. of flour and38 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING How to thicken the sauce or gravy Baste very thoroughly an oz. of butter kneaded together. Note these quantities may be increased according to the amount of gravy. Bring to the boil, add half a glassful of cooking port, and if the sauce is not quite dark enough a few drops of soy. Make very hot, pour over and around the vegetables, and serve at once. I have specified stock in the above recipe, and the stronger the stock used the better will be the dish, but if the cause of economy has to be very strictly studied, water or a little bovril may be used in its stead. Note too that the joint while braising should be very frequently but gently basted. Some cooks place a round of buttered paper on top of the joint while cooking, but this is a matter for individual taste. I have not found that it makes any appreciable difference. When braising veal the carrot indicated in the recipe may be omitted if liked, and a dozen silver onions substituted. Boeuf a la Napolitaine is a very nice way of treating a piece of silver side. It should be braised39 METHOD OF BRAISING as indicated above, and then when the joint Bceuf a la has been dished up, a gill of tomato catsup, and from two to four ozs. of previously cooked macaroni cut into two-inch lengths must be added at the same time as the port wine, which may be increased to a wine- glassful. Make hot and finish as directed. In the genuine Boeuf a la Napolitaine garlic finds a place, but this may be omitted if disliked. From half a clove to a clove of garlic very finely minced and fried at the same time as the other vegetables is the right quantity to use. Mutton, veal and beef are all suitable for this recipe also, whilst a tough old rooster may be made to appear quite a tender spring chicken when treated in the same mode.40 CHAPTER II Stocks, Soups, Purees, Consomm£es, Bisques Stocks The making Qne of the most important branches of of soups in general the art of cookery is the making of soups. Now these may be roughly divided into two classes, broths, of various kinds, and purees, and under the latter heading I have mentally classed all soups of the bisque kind, of which, by the way, I shall have more to tell you later. Let us take the simple foundation stock for ordinary soup first. In the average household of, say, from four to six people, there should be enough bones, both meat and poultry, left to make quite sufficiently good stock for all every-day purposes. In verySTOCKS, SOUPS, PUREES, ETC. 41 small households fresh bones would have to be bought. I give a recipe for both modes. Take three pounds of cooked meat bones, and chop them into pieces of a suitable size (remove the marrow, if any, as this makes such a nice savoury). Place the bones in a deep stew-pan, add to them two quarts of cold water and three tea-spoonfuls of salt. Bring very gently to the boil, then add a bouquet garni, i.e. parsley, thyme, bay leaf, etc., a dozen pepper-corns, an onion stuck with a couple of cloves, two carrots, scraped and sliced, a turnip peeled cut into small pieces, and, if possible, half a stick of celery. Continue boiling for five or six minutes, then remove any scum which may have arisen, cover the pan, draw it to the side of the fire and simmer very slowly for five or six hours, but take care that the stock does not reduce. There is little danger of this, however, if it is allowed to cook sufficiently slowly. Next strain the stock through a hair sieve into a clean basin, and leave in Soup from cooked meat bones of various kinds42 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING a cool corner of the larder until next day. Strain through a hair sieve again, and the stock will be ready for use. Boil up the Stock made in this fashion will require a up, but if the vegetables are omitted it will keep good in cold weather for several days without boiling, although it is a safer and a wiser plan to boil it up each day. Another Here is yet another recipe, slightly different Iecipe in one or two unimportant items. I give it to afford a choice of methods, as it is a recipe which will produce excellent stock from cooked bones and meat trim- mings : Take the bones and chop them into pieces of a suitable size. If marrow toast is liked, the marrow, if any, should be extracted from the bones. Place in a saucepan and add two quarts of cold water. Bring very gently to the boil; then add a gill of cold water, first removing any scum which may have arisen. Draw the pan to the side of the fire; add two large onions (sliced), two carrots (peeled and sliced), a turnip (cut into daily boilingSTOCKS, SOUPS, PUREES, ETC. 43 small pieces), a bouquet garni, if possible, a bit of celery, or, failing this, a little celery seed, twenty pepper-corns, and a little bit of basil when this can be had. Cover closely, Garnish and simmer very slowly for three hours. Wring a soup cloth out very tightly in cold How to pre- ° ... pare stock for water; strain the soup through this into a immediate use clean basin, and it will then be ready for immediate use if required, or it can be left till needed. This stock is nice served with a few strips of julienne to each plateful, or a little macaroni or spaghetti, or pate d'kalie, or a little well-cooked barley or rice. It forms, too, an excellent foundation for vege- table soups or purees. To make clear stock To make clear from fresh meat bones the following recipe fresh meat is a trustworthy one: Take sixpennyworth of bones—veal and beef mixed will give the best results. Break them into small pieces; remove the marrow, if any, and place them in the stock-pot. Add two quarts of water, and bring very gently to the boil. Remove any scum which may have arisen. Draw the44 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Flavouring pan to the side of the fire. Note.—If for clear stock, the stock-pot must he left uncovered during the cooking process. Add two large onions (stuck with a clove each and notched in order to allow the juice to escape), half- a-dozen pepper-corns, a bit of celery, or, failing this, a little celery seed tied up in a piece of muslin, two carrots (first carefully scraped), a turnip (cut into small pieces), and a bouquet garni. Simmer very slowly for five hours. Then strain through a soup cloth wrung out in cold water into a clean How to clear basin, and leave till next day. For all ordi- nary intents and purposes this soup will be quite clear enough; if for a dinner party, it may be cleared in the ordinary way by allowing 6 ozs. of finely scraped raw beef to each quart of liquid. Add to the stock, together with the beaten white of an egg, bring to the boil, stir occasionally, and simmer for one hour. It can then, when clear, be seasoned to taste, and served with any garnish preferred. Of the latter, savourySTOCKS, SOUPS, PUREES, ETC. 45 custard or the before-mentioned pate d'ltalie are perhaps the best liked. It should not be forgotten that stock is How to make a niaigre or not soup, but only the foundation of the soup, vegetable Here, again, is a recipe for vegetable stock, which, in my own opinion, is far preferable to either meat stock or plain water and milk when making a vegetable puree. Soak from three-quarters of a pint to a pint of Carter’s dried green peas for at least twenty-four hours; then place them in a clean sauce-pan, and add to them three pints of cold water. Bring very slowly to the boil, and then add half a gill of cold water every thirty-five minutes, simmering as slowly as possible all the while. At the end of two hours add three large carrots (scraped and thinly sliced), two large onions (stuck with a clove and notched in order to allow the juice to escape), half a stick of celery, or, if this is unobtain- able, a spoonful of celery salt, a bouquet garni, a bit of basil, a couple of leeks—note that these must be very carefully washed—and a46 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING large turnip cut up in small pieces. Con- tinue to simmer for another two and a half hours, but take care that the liquid does not reduce. At the end of three hours and a half add i oz. of butter broken into small pieces. Then strain the whole through a very fine hair sieve, and the stock will be fit for use. How to To make a good fish stock, take a sliced fish stock onion, a turnip sliced, a carrot, a piece or celery, and a couple of leeks, all cut small. Place a bit of butter in a clean stew-pan, and, as soon as it fritters, add the vegetables, and fry till of a nice light brown. Then add | lb. of any sort of white fish cut in small pieces, half-a-dozen pepper-corns, the bones and trimmings of the fish, a bouquet garni, and a bay-leaf. Add three pints of water— if possible, that in which fish has been boiled. Simmer very slowly for two hours, but take care that the liquor does not reduce. Strain through a very fine hair sieve, and the stock will then be ready for use.STOCKS, SOUPS, PUREES, ETC. 47 Consommes I have already told you how stock may be cleared, i.e. by allowing 6 ozs. of scraped raw beef to every quart of stock, and then adding the well-whisked white of an egg, and simmering slowly for an hour. Where expense is an object, stock may also be cleared in the following manner, but the results are not nearly so satisfactory :— Take half a pint of cold stock, which with An the remaining stock must first be freed from way of every particle of fat. Add to it the well- s beaten whites of two large eggs and the egg-shells, which must be well crushed and then mixed with the whites. The shells should, of course, be washed before they are broken. Mix thoroughly, and then add to it a pint and a half of the stock remaining. Place in a clean sauce-pan and bring gently to the boil, stirring all the while. Then draw the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer very gently for twenty minutes.48 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Wring a soup cloth out in boiling water; this can be done by putting it into a dry cloth. Then strain the soup through it into a clean sauce-pan, or, if required at once, into a heated soup tureen. Garnish as desired, and serve at once. How to make To make a clear vegetable or maigre stock, i clear maigre .... stock as it is called, proceed as follows: Take two very large onions; peel and slice them thinly, and place them in a delicately clean sauce-pan. Add to them two large carrots, carefully scraped and cut into small pieces; two turnips, peeled and sliced; two heads of celery, carefully washed and cut into i in. lengths; a bouquet garni, half-a-dozen pepper- corns, half a tea-spoonful of salt, if obtainable, a tiny bit of basil, and a quart of water. Bring very gently to the boil, remove any scum which may chance to arise, and then add a gill of cold water. Draw the pan to the side of the fire. Note.—Leave the lid off—and simmer very slowly for nearly two hours, taking care that the liquor doesSTOCKS, SOUPS, PURGES, ETC. 49 not reduce. Then strain through a soup cloth into a clean basin and use at once, or reserve till needed. It should not be kept longer than a day, unless the weather be very cold. Consomme with cheese is, as a rule, a clear soup .... . . with cheese pleasant change, since it is but rarely served at middle-class English tables. After clearing the flavoured meat stock in one of the two modes already described, it should be made very hot, with the addition of half a wine-glassful of cooking sherry for every quart of soup. Then grate very finely 4 ozs. of either Chedder, Gruyere, or any cheese best liked, and hand with the soup separately. Note.—The latter must be very hot, or the cheese will not melt properly. Consomme aux Petits Pois is a con- somme to which some previously cooked green peas have been added. About a small breakfast-spoonful should be allowed for each person. They should be cooked in V D50 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING salted water, with a sprig of fresh mint and a tiny piece of loaf sugar. Various Consomme a l’Allemande is a very garnishes for J clear soup strong, clear stock to which has been added some previously cooked Carlsbad plums, halved and stoned. Note.—To cook these properly, they should first be soaked over- night, then taken out of the water, dried, and cooked very slowly in a little stock until tender. For Consomme d’Italie, heat a quart of the flavoured and cleared stock in the usual way, then add to it from i oz. to 2 ozs. of Pate d’ltalie, which have been previously cooked separately in a little of the stock. Serve at once. Consomme au Vermicelli is generally much liked. The vermicelli should be cooked in a little stock before being added to the consomme. How to make Consomme a la Royale is very similar to gamTshfor the consomme a la Reine. Whisk the yolks deat soup an(^ whites of two eggs to a froth, then addSTOCKS, SOUPS, PUREES, ETC. 51 to them a gill of new milk, or, if expense is no object, a gill of cream may be used instead. Season with pepper and salt to taste. A tiny grate of nutmeg may also be added if the flavouring is liked. Colour a pale green by means of a few drops of spinach green- ing, or pink, with a few drops of carmine colouring. Butter a round jam-pot very thickly, and then strain the mixture into this through a fine gravy strainer. Place in a sauce-pan half full of boiling water, and steam till firm. Note.—The water should only come half-way up the jam-pot. Leave till cold, then cut into strips, and each strip into tiny squares or fancy shapes. Rinse quickly in very warm water, and then add to the soup. Note.—If made a day or two before it is required, the custard—i.e. the pot contain- ing it—should be left in cold water, or else it will spoil and be unfit for use. This latter, by the way, is one of the most delicate garnishes it is possible to make.52 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING clear mutton Mutton Broth, which is so often ordered invalids for invalids, will frequently be relished clear, when the ordinary mutton broth would be rejected. To make clear mutton broth pro- ceed thus: Take 2\ lbs. of the scrag of mutton, cut it into small pieces, free it from superfluous fat, and place it in a clean stew- pan. Add to it a carrot peeled and sliced, a large onion peeled and sliced, and a head of celery first carefully washed and cut into small pieces. Then add three pints of cold water. Bring to the boil, remove any scum which may have arisen, add a gill of cold water, draw the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer slowly for five hours. If required immediately, strain through a soup cloth, which has been wrung out in ice-cold water, into a clean sauce-pan; make very hot. Add 2 ozs. of well-cooked pearl barley {note— this must be cooked separately), and half a tea-spoonful of minced parsley. Make very hot, add pepper and salt to taste, and serve at once. If required for next day’s use,STOCKS, SOUPS, PUREES, ETC. 53 strain the soup (as directed) into a clean basin. Leave till cold. Remove the fat, if any, and finish as directed above. Purees Again there is nothing nicer or more econo- How to make ✓ ... ii-i vegetable mical than a puree, providing only that it be purges of dif- properly made. When other vegetables are not to hand, or are dear, a potato puree may be served with advantage. Here is the re- cipe : Take sufficient potatoes to yield 2 lbs. when peeled. Peel and wash them thoroughly, then cut into thin slices, and dry on a cloth. Place 2 ozs. of either butter or clarified beef dripping in a clean enamelled sauce-pan. As soon as it oils, add the potatoes, together with a large onion peeled and thinly sliced, and a small tea-spoonful of minced parsley. Fry slowly for a quarter of an hour, stirring continuously in order to avoid burning. Then add three pints of stock, that from a second boiling will answer the purpose excellently. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and54 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING simmer slowly until the vegetables are thoroughly cooked and quite soft. Then rub through a hair sieve into a clean basin, and return to another sauce-pan. Thicken with i oz. of flour and i oz. of butter kneaded together. Add a cupful of hot milk, and pepper and salt to taste. Make very hot, pour into a heated soup tureen, and serve with fried crusts handed separately. Note that white pepper should be used for The import- seasoning, and that the liaison, i.e. the kneaded UaUon when flour and butter, must be added or the soup "juries will not be of the proper creamy consistency. It is the neglect of this simple rule which is the cause of most of the unsuccessful purees one meets with. Note also that if economy has to be very strictly studied, water may be used in place of the stock indicated in the recipe, or half milk and half water. In either case, i.e. where the stock is omitted, the quantity of onions should be doubled or trebled. Puree Palestine.—This is a really de-STOCKS, SOUPS, PUREES, ETC. 55 licious soup, and if properly made is quite fit Puree # Palestine for a dinner-party menu. Peel sufficient white artichokes to yield 3 lbs. when peeled. Wash them well in cold water, to which has been added a spoonful of either vinegar or lemon-juice; this is to preserve the colour. Then peel them thinly, and rinse them again in cold water as quickly as possible. Place 2 ozs. of butter in a deep stew-pan; directly it fritters add the artichokes, and fry for ten minutes, but take care that they do not acquire any colour. Then add to them a quart of milk, and rather better than three gills of water, or if economy has to be very strictly studied, half milk and half water may be used. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer slowly until the artichokes are thoroughly soft. Then rub them through a hair sieve, and return to a clean sauce-pan ; add pepper and salt to taste, and thicken with 1 oz. of flour and 1 oz. of butter kneaded together. Stir till of the consistency of thick cream, make very hot, pour into a heated56 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING tureen, and serve at once, accompanied by fried crusts. The addition of twopenny- worth of cream, while it adds but slightly to the cost, is an enormous improvement to this soup. Some cooks add a small onion when cooking the artichokes, and a tiny grate of nutmeg when the puree is ready for table, but these are points to be decided by indi- vidual taste. a cheaper Lentil Soup is both good and economical. pur£e Soak a pint of lentils for twenty-four hours. Place 2 ozs. of either butter or clarified beef dripping in a clean stew-pan. Directly it oils, add a large onion peeled and sliced thinly, and a stick of celery, washed, peeled, and cut into short lengths. Fry for five or six minutes, then add the lentils, and three pints of cold water or stock from a second boiling, draw the pan to the side of the fire, cover closely and simmer very gently until the lentils, etc., are quite soft, and the celery thoroughly cooked. Next strain and rub through a hair sieve; return to a clean stew-STOCKS, SOUPS, PUREES, ETC. 57 pan; thicken with 1 oz. of flour and 1 oz. of butter kneaded together. Add pepper and salt to taste, and stir till of the consistency of very thick cream. Dish up in a heated tureen, and serve at once with fried crusts handed separately. If for the nursery table the pepper indicated in the recipe should be omitted. CR&ME d’OrGE is a most dainty SOUp, but How to make . . . ... a cream of as it is rather more costly to produce, it is barley easily more suitable for a dinner-party menu than for everyday use. Take a quart of white stock (i.e. stock made from veal and poultry bones) in which vegetables have been cooked, place in a clean sauce-pan, and bring to the boil. Remove carefully any scum which may have arisen. Mix 2 ozs. of Robinson’s patent barley flour with a gill of cold milk, add this to the stock, and stir rapidly over a slow fire for from ten to fifteen minutes. By this time the stock should be quite boiling. Add the yolks of two well-beaten eggs mixed with a58 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING pint of milk and i oz. of butter, bring gently nearly to the boil, but do not allow it to actually boil or it will curdle and be spoilt. Then strain through a heated gravy strainer into a hot soup tureen, and send to table at once. Fried crusts should be handed separ- ately. This is one of the most recherche Use cream soups it is possible to make, and if cream can milk, if be used in place of the milk indicated it will possible ^ further improved, and should then be called “Creme d’Orge a la Reine.” Carrot Soup.—This is a recipe for an economical version of PoTAGE A LA CrECY An economical Take six large carrots all as nearly of a size as possible. Scrape them carefully and slice thinly. Place i ozs. of either butter or clarified beef dripping in a clean enamelled stew-pan, and as soon as it oils add the carrots, together with a large onion peeled and sliced, and a stick of celery washed, peeled, and cut into short lengths. Fry for ten or twelveSTOCKS, SOUPS, PUREES, ETC. 59 minutes, then add three pints of stock; that from a second boiling will answer excellently. Cover tightly. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer slowly until the vegetables are thoroughly cooked and quite soft. Strain and rub through a hair sieve. Return to a clean sauce-pan. Season with pepper and salt to taste, and a tiny spoonful of sugar, and thicken with 1 oz. of flour kneaded with 1 oz. of butter. Stir till of the consistency of thick cream. Pour into a hot tureen, and send to table at once with fried crusts handed separately. Bisques Bisques may be said to come upon a How to make higher plain of cookery altogether, never-a blsque theless it is quite possible for the self-trained cook to turn out a creditable bisque if she follows the recipe here given. Take, for example, a bisque of crab, well wash half a pound of rice in several waters, drain and place it in a clean stew-pan together60 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING with a quart of either stock or milk. If economy is an object water will do. Add to it an oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, and a tiny grate of nutmeg. Simmer very slowly until cooked. Meanwhile take all the white meat from a large fresh crab and reserve it on a plate. Add the re- mainder of the crab to the cooked rice, place in a clean mortar, and pound vigorously till it becomes a paste. Next add to it a quart of well flavoured stock (note, it should be boiling hot), and rub the whole through a hair sieve, return to a clean saucepan. Add to it the claw meat, chopped first into neat squares, season to taste with a little, a very little, cayenne, a little essence of anchovy, and a few drops of carmine colouring. Fin- ally add a pint of cream, or half a pint of milk and half a pint of cream, stir over a slow fire until very hot, but do not allow it to actually boil or it will curdle and be spoilt. Serve with fried croutons handed separately.61 CHAPTER III Concerning Fish Cookery, Boiling, Fry- ing, Broiling, Baking, Sundry Methods The successful treatment of fish is another How to cook most important branch of cookery, but, given the observance of a few well-defined rules, which, by the way, must be rigidly observed, the self-trained cook, need have no qualms as to the well-being of whatever plat of fish she may have in hand. Boiling i st. To boil fish properly bear in mind To boil fish that, with two exceptions only, the water should be as hot as possible, short of actually boiling. It must not actually boil, as this would cause the skin to break and spoil the appearance of the dish for table.62 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Some 2nd. The two exceptions referred to are important rules to be mackerel and salmon. When cooking salmon remembered 7 when cooking allow the water to reach boiling point to commence with; to boil mackerel the water must be just lukewarm. 3rd. The water used should just cover the fish in question. 4th. When boiling fish add to the water a couple of table-spoonsful of vinegar and an ounce of kitchen salt per quart of water. 5th. Time fish strictly when boiling, viz., allow six minutes per pound and six minutes over. To cook salmon allow ten minutes to the pound, and from ten to twelve minutes over. 6th. Bear in mind that when cooking fish by boiling the water should only be allowed to simmer. If kept at boiling point the fish will spoil, and the outside break into pieces before the inside is sufficiently cooked. 7th. Fish should always be boiled in a proper fish - kettle with a drainer, as the proper draining is of the utmost importance.CONCERNING FISH COOKERY, ETC. 63 8th. The more flavourless kinds of fish Court may be enormously improved if cooked in a court bouillion, which is made by adding to the water in which the latter is to be boiled a bouque garni, a bunch of chervil and tarragon, an onion stuck with a clove or two, a bit of mace, and from twenty to thirty pepper-corns according to the size of the fish in question. 9th. When boiling fish leave the heads on, and do not remove the skin. 10th. When about to cook either brill or turbot, or a large plaice, etc., rub the white side gently with a cut lemon, squeezing out the juice upon the fish, and cook with the white side uppermost. Frying To fry fish successfully it must first be absol- How to fry r 1 ' utely dry. To accomplish this, when it has s been thoroughly washed, dry it very carefully upon a soft cloth, and then dust it with flour, the finer the flour used the better. Next dip it64 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING into beaten egg, and then into bread-crumbs, and then back again into the egg. Note that if economy has to be very strictly studied, the fish should first be brushed over Use an egg with the egg, using a proper brush (sold at brush when preparing fish any ironmongers) for the purpose. It can 7 S then be dipped into the bread-crumbs and afterwards back into the egg. By this method a single egg will suffice for quite a large amount of fish. If only a little has to be fried the egg may be divided and half used for the fish, the other half for cutlets or rissoles, as the case may be. Two egg- brushes should always be kept, one for fish and one for meat and pastry, etc. Dry Frying Next the fat should be heated until the blue smoke is actually rising from it in the manner already described. Then add the fish or fillets of fish, as the case may be, and fry to a bright golden brown hue. Take out quickly and drain very carefully upon clean kitchen paper and send to table at once, accompanied by its special sauce.CONCERNING FISH COOKERY,ETC. 65 Not only the amateur, but the professional cook often fails when it comes to frying white bait. However if one only goes to work properly it is just as easy to fry white bait well, as to fry any other kind of fish. To begin with it must be very carefully dried, and the drying process must be accomplished as gently as possible. Keep the fish if possible on ice till needed, or, failing ice, in salt and water, and in the coolest corner of the larder. Then place gently upon a thick soft cloth, but do not allow the fish to touch each other. Leave for about ten minutes, then shake off gently on to another cloth, and dust lightly with very dry flour, the finest procurable. For the actual frying process wait until the fat just smokes but no more. Add the white bait a few at a time only, and fry for not more than a minute and a half or two minutes at the very outside. Take out and place upon a sieve on the plate rack. As soon as all the fish have been done bring the fat to v e How to cook White Bait66 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING the boil again, and wait until the blue smoke rises thickly, then return all the white bait to the sauce-pan and fry again for just one minute. This will crisp them; then take out quickly, drain very carefully on clean kitchen paper, sprinkle lightly with salt, and if liked a very little cayenne, and send to table at once accompanied by quartered lemon and thin brown bread and butter. By following this recipe to the foot of the letter white bait may be cooked to perfection. Bear in mind, however, that the second cooking is of the greatest importance, as without it the fish will be flabby looking and tasteless although sufficiently cooked to eat. Broiling How to broil To broil fish successfully is quite an easy matter. The fish after being duly cleaned and carefully dried should be lightly brushed over with run butter, and then dusted with flour, very thinly. Next grease the bars of the gridiron with a bit of suet or a scrap of lardCONCERNING FISH COOKERY, ETC. 67 paper. See that the fire is very red and per- fectly clear, and then grill in the usual way. The marks of the gridiron should show on the fish when done. Mackerel is particularly good when grilled, and served with a maitre d’hotel butter, indeed some epicures aver that this is the only right way of cooking it. A grilled sole is also a favourite dish with many people; it should be served with colbert butter, or maitre d’hotel butter, whichever is pre- ferred. When a very small piece of fish has to be How to cook treated, as for example a thin slice of say ofTsh* pie e salmon or cod, which would be spoilt by boiling and is not altogether suitable for fry- ing, it will be found a good plan to bake it. Let it first be gently rubbed with lemon juice. Then dust very lightly with pepper, wrap it up in a sheet of thickly buttered kitchen paper, place it on a well greased white fireproof china dish in the oven, and cook gently Take it out of the paper. Dish upon the dish it was cooked in and serve.68 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Fish cooked in broth Fish fried in batter, too, is very nice. Of course it goes without saying that it should be fried in deep fat. Another nice way of serving boiled fish is to cook it in stock instead of water, with herbs for flavouring. Only clear bright cooking stock should be used for this, and a tartare or a mayonnaise sauce is best adapted for serving with it. Another nice way of cooking, say, for example, a sole, is to stew or boil it gently in milk. It should be then taken up and drained carefully, and the milk in which it has been cooked may be utilised for making a sauce to serve with it. A slip sole cooked in a little strong beef- tea is an admirable luncheon for a delicate person or as dinner for a child, and the beef- tea takes off from the somewhat insipid flavour the fish would otherwise possess. Whiting or even very small pieces of turbot or brill are also very good when cooked in this fashion. Note, however, that though un- clarified the beef-tea should not be in theCONCERNING FISH COOKERY, ETC. 69 least degree fat, or the dish will be rendered unappetising. Beef-tea made the day before, left till cold, and then carefully strained through a hair sieve or a soup cloth, is best for this special purpose. Other Methods of Cooking Fish But there are other methods of cooking fish besides frying and boiling it, and the baked fish, which is all the average English cook seems able to offer in the way of variety. I propose therefore to tell you of some of these, which are quite as easy of achievement and as inexpensive as either of the foregoing modes, and which are, more- over, quite fifty per cent, nicer. For example, there is fish with a cheese sauce. You have Turbot au no idea how good it can be. Almost any Fromage white fish, such as haddock, hake, cod, brill, halibut, whiting, soles, or lemon soles, or turbot, can be cooked in this way, and are all equally good, though perhaps the palm ought to be awarded to turbot au fromage.70 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING How to thicken the sauce Here is the recipe: take from i lb. to 2 lbs. of any of the above-named fish, wash it well, and dry it carefully; then place it in a clean enamelled iron stew-pan, add to it three gills of milk, salt to taste, an onion stuck with a clove and notched, in order that the juice may escape, a tiny blade of mace, and a good-sized sprig of parsley. Simmer very gently until the fish is cooked, but do not allow the milk to reduce. Then dish it up on a hot dish, and reserve. Strain the milk through a hair sieve into a clean sauce-pan, thicken it by means of 1 oz. of butter and 1 oz. of flour kneaded together, and stir till of the consistency of cream; then add to it from 2 ozs. to 4 ozs., according to taste, of grated Chedder or Dutch cheese. Stir until the cheese has thoroughly melted, pour it over and around the fish, and serve at once. Here is a still simpler and quicker way of cooking a small piece of white fish. Wash and dry it well, place it in a well-greased fireproof china dish, and sprinkle it thicklyCONCERNING FISH COOKERY, ETC. 71 with fried bread-crumbs, minced shallot, minced parsley and, if possible, about 2 ozs. of minced mushrooms. Place a bit of butter here and there, and pour over the whole half a bottle (small size) of tomato catsup; sprinkle more bread-crumbs on top, and bake in a moderate oven for from twenty minutes to half-an-hour, or more, according to the size and kind of the piece of fish in question. For example, whiting will take from fifteen to twenty minutes to cook in this way, soles or lemon soles about the same time; but cod, turbot, halibut or brill, which are thick fish, will need from twenty-five to thirty minutes, or perhaps a little longer. Our homely friend, the plaice, is also delicious cooked in this fashion, and it is worthy of note that, if liked, the sauce may be much improved by the addition of a little cooking sherry or port, which should be added to the tomato catsup and well mixed with it before the latter is poured over the fish. Fish cooked in this fashion is called a la Fish a la Portugaise72 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Portugaise. Thus—sole or turbot or cabil- land a la Portugaise. How to cook Another equally nice way of cooking Fish. Sole au J . gratin various sorts of fish is au gratin, or gratine, which is somewhat similar to the above. Sole au gratin is a very delicious plat. It is prepared thus: cleanse and trim a sole or lemon sole, wash it well and dry it care- fully, spread a white fireproof china dish rather thickly with butter, place the sole on it, and add to it pepper and salt to taste, a tea-spoonful of freshly fried bread-crumbs, a finely minced shallot, a tea-spoonful of minced parsley, and from i oz. to 2 ozs. of chopped mushrooms. Pour over it a dessert-spoonful of mushroom catsup mixed with a glass of cooking sherry, a gill of good stock, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, sprinkle more freshly fried bread-crumbs over the whole, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes; then serve at once. Another mode of serving fish cooked in this manner is, when done, to dish upCONCERNING FISH COOKERY, ETC. 73 the sole on a hot dish, add another glass of sherry to the sauce in which it was cooked, stir it well together over the fire until it reaches boiling point, then pour it over the fish, and serve at once. This latter is a rather more expensive mode, as •the necessary additional wine involves a little extra outlay. For all ordinary occasions the method of serving in the dish in which it was cooked is quite good enough. Soles aux Fines Herbes is prepared soles aux , . . r . . . , Fines Herbes exactly as in the foregoing recipe, but that, instead of using fried bread-crumbs, from half a gill to a gill of white sauce must be used in its stead. When cooked, dish up the sole on a hot dish ; add to the sauce a bit of butter about the size of a walnut and the juice of half a lemon, first freed from pips. Make very hot, pour over and around the sole, and serve at once. Sole a l’Aurore, or haddock or whiting Sole a l’Aurore a l’Aurore, is very good. Get the fish- monger to bone either of these for you, then74 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING for sole wash out the cavity with salt and water, and l’aurore „ J stuff it with the following farce: 2 ozs. of finely-chopped mushrooms; a minced shallot; a tea-spoonful of minced parsley ; if possible, a tea-spoonful of minced chervil and chives, pepper and salt to taste; and a table-spoon- ful of fresh bread-crumbs. Fry all these in a bit of butter about the size of a walnut, and then use as a farce. Butter a fireproof china dish rather thickly, place the fish upon it, add a few bits of butter here and there, and moisten with a glass of cooking sherry and a half a glass of mushroom catsup, and bake in a moderate oven for from twenty to thirty minutes ; then pour over it a gill and a half of aurore sauce, and rub over it the yolk of a hard-boiled egg; replace in the oven for two or three minutes, and serve at once. Sauce aurore is made thus: Take a gill of ordinary white sauce, add to it the well-beaten yolk of an egg, the juice of half a small lemon (first freed from pips), 1 oz. of grated cheese (any sort will do), a tea-CONCERNING FISH COOKERY, ETC. 75 spoonful of anchovy essence, a tiny grate of nutmeg, and pepper and salt to taste. Toss all together over a slow fire until very hot, but do not allow it to actually boil, or it will curdle and be spoilt. Then use as directed above. Another nice plat of fish is red or grey mullets, with fine herbs. For this, take from three to four mullets and wash them well in salt and water, then dry carefully. Place them in a thickly-buttered fireproof china dish, and sprinkle them thickly with minced parsley, chopped mushrooms, minced shallots, and fried bread-crumbs; add pepper and salt to taste, and moisten with half a wine-glassful of Harvey sauce, a glass of port and a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy. Bake in a moderate oven for from twenty to thirty minutes. When done, dish up on a hot dish; add to the liquor in which they were cooked a little grated nutmeg, the juice of half a lemon, freed from pips, and, by degrees, half a tea-spoonful of flour. Boil Mulets aux fines herbes76 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING up all together, stirring briskly the while. Then pour over and around the fish, and serve them at once. Mackerel are also nice when cooked in this way, but in their case only a very little butter is required, as mackerel is in itself such a rich fish. Grilled mackerel, with brown butter sauce, is excel- Macqueraux lent. For this, split and cleanse the mackerel; Noirwipe them over with a dry cloth, and dip each in clarified butter; grill upon both sides over a very clear fire, and pour half a gill of brown butter over them and serve at once. For the brown butter sauce place from 2 ozs. to 4 ozs. of butter in a small clean stew-pan; let it melt, and then fry it until it begins to turn brown, but take care that it does not reduce. Next add to it a table-spoonful of Harvey sauce, a table-spoonful of mushroom catsup, a pinch of sifted sugar, and a couple of drops of anchovy essence. Make very hot, and serve at once. This sauce, a very favourite one abroad, is also exceedingly nice with boiled or grilled skate, or withCONCERNING FISH COOKERY, ETC. 77 grilled fresh herrings ; it is, moreover, inex- pensive, and very easy to make. Note in reference to grilling that the very best fire for the purpose (after a charcoal fire) is one entirely made up of cinders. The fire should be made up early in the afternoon, and will then be just right for grilling by the time the late dinner has to be cooked. The right fire for grillingCHAPTER IV Sauces in general Sauces in General, White Sauces, Brown Sauces, Sauces in Parti- cular, Cold Sauces, Sweet Sauces The reproach hurled at us long ago, that we are a nation of fifty religions, but only one sauce, is, I am afraid, as true to-day as when it was first uttered; and, alas ! it must be confessed too often is that “ one sauce ” badly made into the bargain. Now, the art of sauce-making is by no means a difficult one to master. It requires care and unremitting attention; but given these and a really reliable recipe, there is no sauce that the self-taught cook cannot, with a little practice, and yes, perhaps, even a failure or two at first, accomplish success-SAUCES IN GENERAL, ETC. 79 fully. Roughly speaking, sauces may be divided into five classes :— 1st. Melted butter and flour sauces, with various kinds of or without additional flavourings, and ofsauces which either white or brown roux form the foundation. To this class belong Bechamel Veloute, and, some cooks assert, Sauce Espagnol. 2nd. Sauces having egg and cream as their principal foundation together with other flavourings. 3rd. The Mayonnaise and Tartare group of sauces made with egg and oil as a foundation and variously flavoured. 4th. Sauces, both hot and cold, wherein vinegar and butter or oil are the principal ingredients, as for example, Sauce Allemande for boar’s head or fish, and Sauce Polonaise for veal or beef. 5th. The various kinds of sweet sauces which are a class by themselves. I shall only now be able to give one or two examples from each class, but a book that8o COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING How to make a successful Bechamel sauce every cook self-taught or otherwise should possess is “The Book of Sauces,”* by S. B. Pownall, which deals with the subject of sauce-making in its entirety. Let me add here that a cook who can make a simple Bechamel sauce to perfection can achieve any sauce no matter how elaborate. The following is a reliable recipe for an ordinary Bechamel sauce of average thickness. Place rather more than half a pint of milk in a delicately clean sauce-pan, add to it a bouquet garni, i.e. parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, etc., tied together. An onion notched in order to allow the juice to escape. A slice of turnip and a little celery, or failing celery use celery seed tied up in a bit of muslin. Cover the sauce-pan tightly, bring the milk to the simmering point, and then let it con- tinue to simmer for fifteen minutes, but take care that it does not reduce. Next strain the milk and reserve it. Place i oz. of butter in a clean pan, and let it just melt, * Published by Chapman & Hall.SAUCES IN GENERAL, ETC. 81 then dredge into it by degrees i oz. of well dried and sifted flour. Stir vigorously over the fire for four or five minutes; then add the milk very gradually, stirring all the time in order to avoid lumps of any sort, and note that the pan should be withdrawn from the fire each time the milk is added, and not re- turned until the mixture is quite smooth. When all the milk has been added, bring the mixture gently to the boil, and allow it to continue boiling for five or six minutes. Add salt to taste, and just a squeeze of lemon juice. A little cayenne may also be added if liked. Strain through a heated gravy strainer into a sauce tureen, and it is ready for use. If there is any doubt in the cook’s mind as to whether a flour sauce is or is not suffi- ciently cooked, let her draw the sauce with the spoon from the sides of the sauce-pan. When it leaves the sauce-pan quite clean, it is correctly cooked. Note that a wooden spoon is the best kind to use when making sauces.82 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Two very The two most important things to bear in thing^°when mind when making sauces of this kind are, sauce making ^ ^ flour anJ butter must be SUfH_ ciently cooked before the milk is added, and that the mixture must be taken from the fire and whisked till smooth after each quantum of milk has been added; and 2nd., that the mixture should on no account be allowed to come to the boil until it is perfectly smooth and creamy, and quite free from lumps. Once a lump has been boiled it is not possible to smooth the sauce except by straining it. Where lumps are present this implies a cer- tain amount of waste. Bear in mind that it is useless to try and make sauce successfully upon a very fierce fire, as the sauce is almost certain to catch and be spoiled. Melted butter is made in precisely the same way, but water is used in place of the milk indicated in the foregoing recipe, and the butter and flour used are in the propor- tion of 2 ozs. of butter to an oz. of flour. The water of course is not flavoured, and only salt is used as a seasoning.SAUCES IN GENERAL, ETC. 83 Sauce Veloute which is also one of the two standard white sauces, Bechamel, being the other, is made exactly according to the first recipe, but flavoured stock (white and for preference made from chicken or veal) is used in place of the flavoured milk indicated. Cayenne is added at discretion, but unless used with very great care it is apt to spoil the delicate flavour of the sauce. To make Brown Sauce proceed exactly as How to make indicated for sauce Bechamel, using brown stock in place of milk, and cook the following ingredients with the flour and butter: A slice of onion, a slice of turnip, a bit of celery, etc. Note that the flour, butter, vegetables, etc., must be slowly cooked for at least twenty-five or thirty minutes, in order that they may become a bright brown colour. Great care should be taken that they do not burn, and to this end let them be cooked as slowly as possible. It should be kept in mind by the cook that no amount of added matter in the shape of burnt sugar or soy,84 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING though it may impart the requisite tinge, can possibly give the delicate flavour to the sauce acquired by the slow cooking. This sauce will require to be strained through a hair sieve when finished. It is called by some cooks “Espagnole,” but this is an error, as the genuine sauce Espagnol has Spanish ham as one of its chief in- gredients. Creme A Creme Bechamel Sauce is made by adding to the first recipe a gill of cream, and i oz. of finely minced mushrooms which have been previously cooked in a little butter. The sauce should then be made hot, rubbed through a hair sieve, reheated, and reserved until it is required. Sauce Sauce Allemande is made by adding in Aiiemande a(jjjtjon t0 cream the well beaten yolks of two eggs. Note that after the eggs and cream have been added, the sauce must not be allowed to boil, or it will curdle and be spoilt. The lemon juice should be added just the last thing. A tiny grate of nut-SAUCES IN GENERAL, ETC. 85 meg must also be used to complete Sauce Allemande. A Genoese Sauce is made by adding to Genoese Sauce the brown sauce above described a glass of cooking port, a table-spoonful of mushroom catsup, a tea-spoonful of anchovy, a lump of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and some finely minced parsley. Boil these well to- gether, and add a tiny pat of butter, say, half an ounce. Bring to the boil again, skim carefully, make hot, strain through a heated gravy strainer into a hot sauce tureen, and it is ready for use. Sauce Italienne is made thus:— sauceitalienne Place a dessert-spoonful of either salad oil or butter in a clean pan. Directly it boils or if butter fritters add to it a dessert-spoonful of minced shallots, a bay-leaf and thyme, fry for five minutes, then add a large table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, a glass of sherry, a tiny glass of mushroom catsup, a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy, and half a pint of brown sauce made according to the recipe given.86 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Bring gently to the boil, and remove any scum which may have arisen. Allow it to continue boiling for ten minutes. Then skim again, and it is ready for use. Some cooks tammy the sauce, but that is a matter for choice. Sauce For a Proven£ale Sauce proceed thus:— Place a large table-spoonful of salad oil in a clean sauce-pan, as soon as it boils add to it a table-spoonful of chopped capers, a table- spoonful of minced mushrooms, a dessert- spoonful of finely minced shallot, a clove of garlic, a bouquet garni, a bit of mace, and twenty pepper-corns. Fry all well together for five or six minutes, stirring vigorously to avoid burning. Then add a glass of cooking sherry, four large tomatoes, and an oz. of glaze. Continue to stir until the tomatoes have become quite dissolved. Then rub through a hair sieve. Return to a clean sauce-pan, make very hot, and the sauce will be ready for use when required. An Economical Sauce Piquante may be made as follows :—SAUCES IN GENERAL, ETC. 87 Place a dessert-spoonful of finely minced Sauce 1 Piquante shallot in a clean sauce-pan, add to it a bouquet garni, a tiny bit of mace, and a dozen pepper- corns. Add also a small wine-glassful of vinegar, bring very gently to nearly boiling point, then simmer for five minutes. Next add to it half a pint of good brown sauce, and a spoonful of either melted glaze or bovril (unmelted). Bring to the boil and continue boiling for ten minutes, remove any scum which may arise, then take from the fire and rub through a hair sieve. Return to a clean stew-pan. Add a spoonful each of chopped gherkins and capers, and a tea-spoonful of minced parsley. Make very hot, and use as required. This sauce is suitable for serving with cutlets, fillets or tournedos, or with a grilled chicken. Sauce Hollandaise is one of the most sauce valuable as it is also one of the most recherche sauces for serving with fish. The following is the genuine recipe, but an economicafimita- tion is possible, although I cannot honestly88 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING recommend it. The recipe may be found in any standard cookery book. Well whisk the yolks of four fresh eggs, and place them in a delicately clean sauce-pan. Add 2 ozs. of fresh butter, half a gill of double cream, a tiny grate of nutmeg, and pepper and salt to taste; whisk well together, then add about a tea-spoonful of Tarragon vinegar. Next place the stew-pan into another of larger size, which must contain half a pint of boiling water. Now place the sauce-pan over a rather slow fire, and continue to whisk the mixture until it becomes of a thick creamy consistency, and is perfectly smooth and thick. Very great care must be taken that it does not curdle. Should it do so it may be remedied, however, by adding the yolks of two more eggs. See that the sauce tureen is really hot before the sauce is added, and then serve at once, as this is a sauce which does not bear waiting with a good grace. Sauce Sauce Napolitaine is one of the sauces Napoli tame every COok should be able to turn outSAUCES IN GENERAL, ETC. 89 creditably. Place four finely minced shallots in a clean stew-pan, add to them a stick of horse-radish finely grated, a bouquet garni, a tiny bit of mace, three cloves, twenty pepper- corns, an oz. of lean ham finely minced, a glass of cooking port, a wine-glassful of Harvey sauce, 4 ozs. of red currant jelly, and a good spoonful of stock. Bring gently to the boil and continue boiling for five minutes. Then add half a pint of good brown sauce, and boil for another ten minutes. Add a tea-spoonful of melted glaze, or a tea-spoonful of Bovril. Stir for two or three minutes longer, then strain through a hair sieve into a clean sauce- pan. Make very hot and use as required. Note this sauce should be carefully skimmed during the boiling process. Sauce Poulette is another standard sauce Sauce Pouiette for serving with fish of all kinds except mackerel and herrings, for which it is not suitable. Place rather better than a gill of Bechamel sauce, made according to the recipe I have given, in a clean stew-pan. Add to it90 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Sauce Tartare the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, half a gill of double cream, pepper and salt to taste, and the juice of half a lemon first carefully strained. Make very hot, stirring all the time, and then add a tea-spoonful of finely minced parsley, and, if obtainable, a dessert- spoonful of chopped mushrooms first cooked in a little butter. Make hot and serve. Note great care must be taken that this sauce does not actually boil, or it will curdle and be spoilt. The sauce tureen, however, should be made hot before the sauce is added. To make a really good Mayonnaise or Tartare Sauce (the two are practically identical) should be the aim of every cook. Now Mayonnaise is by no means a difficult sauce to make, but it requires infinite patience, and in fact it is useless to even attempt to make it in a hurry. The result would inevi- tably be failure, and indeed the sole reason for the many failures one meets which are served up under the misnomer of Mayonnaise or Tartare sauce is that the cook, hoping toSAUCES IN GENERAL, ETC. 91 hurry matters, will persist in adding the oil too quickly when making the sauce. Bear in mind then that to make Mayonnaise sauce really well, the oil must at first be added a single drop only at a time, although afterwards this may be increased to two or three or four drops. Here is the recipe. Place the yolk of a large egg into a round basin. If possible wedge this basin firmly in ice, or failing this wrap it well round with a wet cloth and fix it as securely as possible on to the shelf or table by means of a couple of weights, the heavier the better. Add to the yolk of egg a small spoonful each of French mustard and English, and mix well together. Next take just half a pint of the very best salad oil; take this up a tea-spoonful at a time, and add it drop by drop to the egg, etc., working in each drop thoroughly with the back of a small wooden spoon. If the sauce begins to thin, the oil has been added too rapidly, and the mixture should be well stirred until it is of the thickness of cream before the next92 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING drop is added. For when quite finished the sauce should be of the consistency of double cream, which has been well whipped. When all the oil has been added, and the sauce is of the required thickness, add about a large dessert-spoonful of Tarragon vinegar and a tea-spoonful of strained lemon juice. Add very gradually and stir all the time, then when finished, still stirring, add salt to taste. This is simple Mayonnaise sauce. For Tartare Sauce add a tea-spoonful each of finely minced shallots, parsley, or chervil and capers. Gherkins may be used in place of the latter if liked. Mayonnaise sauce is much used for chicken and lobster salads. Tartare sauce is suitable for serving with all kinds of fish, with the exception, perhaps, of mackerel and fresh herrings, and is equally good with a grilled chicken or a grilled pheasant or pigeon. Sweet Sauces Of these so endless, almost, is the variety,SAUCES IN GENERAL, ETC. 93 it will not be possible to give many examples owing to the limited space at my command, but the cook who has mastered successfully the foregoing recipes will find that sweet sauces are, comparatively speaking, child’s play. Perhaps the best known sweet sauce, Puddin and the simplest, is the popular (too popular I am sometimes inclined to think) sweet white sauce. This is made according to the recipe first given, using, of course, ^flavoured milk and omitting the pepper, salt, etc. In its place substitute sifted sugar and a tea-spoon- ful, or a few drops, according to the amount of sauce, of any flavouring best liked, i.e. ratafia, vanilla, lemon, etc. Yet another way is to make half a pint of melted butter in the usual way, then add to it the juice (strained), the grated rind of a lemon, and a tea-spoonful of essence of vanilla, and sifted sugar to taste. Make hot and serve. Another mode is to add to the half pint of sauce a wine-glassful of either curagoa or maraschino, and this makes a particularly94 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING dainty sauce for a sponge, cabinet, or Viennese pudding. The strained juice of half a lemon should be added before the liqueur. sauce aux For serving with a baba or a savarin there Cerises is nothing nicer than a cherry brandy sauce. For this add to half a pint of rich melted butter a sherry-glassful of cherry brandy. Add also an ounce of finely chopped glace cherries, and a few drops of cochineal by way of colouring. Make very hot and use. sauce Sauce Gingembre is made by adding a ge re gill of the syrup from a jar of ginger to half a pint of rich melted butter; add also an ounce of preserved ginger, first finely chopped, and a liqueur-glassful of bene- dictine. Make hot and use. Sauce 1*Amour Sauce L’amour is made by adding half a gill of honey and the strained juice of a small lemon to half a pint of melted butter. Make very hot and serve. Yet another variation suitable for serving with any light steamed pudding may beSAUCES IN GENERAL, ETC. 95 made by adding four ounces of grated vanilla chocolate mixed to a paste with a little milk, and half a pint of butter sauce. Make very hot and use as required. A Rich Sauce au Chocolat is made as sauce au Chocolat follows : Place four ounces of loaf sugar in a delicately clean stew-pan. Add to it a gill of water, and boil for just over five minutes; next add by degrees four ounces of grated vanilla chocolate, and stir till quite smooth and creamy; then add a gill of double cream and a few drops of essence of vanilla. Make very hot and serve at once. Note after the sugar has been brought to the boil, the sauce-pan must be stood in another contain- ing boiling water, or in a bain marie, before the chocolate is added, until the sauce is finished. Sauce Allemande is a very delicate whip sauce sauce and easily made. Place the yolks ofAllemande two eggs in a small delicately clean stew- pan; add an ounce of lump sugar, which has been rubbed on the rind of a lemon,96 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING How to make a foam sauce then crushed, and a wine-glassful of cognac. Place the stew-pan in another three quarters full of boiling water, and whip the whole over the fire until it becomes a light froth. Serve at once. Note a wire egg whisk must be used for the whisking process. The quantity of egg, sugar, and cognac must, of course, be increased according to the amount of sauce required. Foam Sauce is very dainty, but it must be served the instant it is taken from the fire, when it becomes a froth, or else it will be spoilt. Whip two ounces of fresh butter until it becomes a cream; then add to it very gradually \ lb. of sifted sugar; continue to whisk until the mixture is quite white ; then add the white of an egg and whisk again, add another white of egg and continue to whisk until the mixture is perfectly light. Place the basin containing the sauce in a bain marie or in a sauce-pan three parts full of hot water. Add to the sauce a gill of boilingSAUCES IN GENERAL, ETC. 97 water and a tea-spoonfnl of essence of vanilla, and continue to whisk until the mixture is quite frothy. Then serve at once. Sauce Mousseline is one of the better sauce Mousseline class sauces which every cook should master. It is made as follows :— Place the yolks of five fresh eggs in a clean basin; add to them an ounce and a half of castor sugar, and whisk well together. Then add a sherry-glassful of maraschino and the whites of two eggs whisked to a froth. Whisk all well together, then place the basin containing the mixture in a sauce- pan three parts full of hot water, and con- tinue the whisking until the sauce is as thick as a souffle. Use at once. Sauce Sabayonlis. Another rich whip sauce, which is held in great esteem on the Continent, and is made as follows :— Place the yolks of six new-laid eggs in a clean basin; add to them three ounces of sifted sugar, a tea-spoonful of essence of vanilla, the lightly beaten whites- of two V.98 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Economical Sauces eggs, a wine-glassful of benedictine, and half a sherry-glassful of strained lemon juice. Place the basin containing the mixture in a sauce-pan three parts full of hot water, and with a wire egg whisk whip all well together until the mixture becomes quite spongy and light. Then serve at once. So much for extravagance. Now for the other end of the scale. An economical jam sauce may be made as follows : Place four ounces of jam in a small stew-pan ; add to it half a gill of water and boil for ten minutes, rub through a heated strainer and serve. Note.—If straw- berry, gooseberry, red currant, or raspberry jam is used, sufficient should be sieved to yield four ounces after the sieving process. This sauce may be greatly improved by the addition of a liqueur-glassful of brandy or wine, or any liqueur preferred. When a large quantity of sauce is required, a fruit sauce may be inexpensively made as follows: Place ij lbs. of loaf sugar in a cleanSAUCES IN GENERAL, ETC. 99 stew-pan. Add to it a pint and a half of water and boil for quarter-of-an-hour, skim- ming very carefully all the while. Then flavour it to taste with fruit syrup or fresh fruit juice. Make hot and use as required. Note this sauce is equally good when cold. Sauce au Sirop is also very cheaply made. Place 1 lb. of sifted sugar in a clean sugar boiler or sauce-pan. Add to it a gill of water, and stir over the fire until the sugar has become thoroughly dissolved. Then allow it to boil until it has become a very light syrup, but do not touch it while boiling. Remove from the fire ; add about a tea-spoon- ful of fresh butter and a tea-spoonful of either essence of lemon, ratafia or vanilla, whichever is preferred. Custard Sauce is too well known almost to need a description; it may be made in an economical way by using one egg, yolk and white together, to the half pint of milk, adding sifted sugar to suit the individual taste, or it may be as costly as you please,ioo COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING using cream instead of milk, or using the yolks of six eggs to the pint of milk, and a gill or so of cream. In either case the best method is to stand the jug containing the in- gredients in a sauce-pan full of hot water, and let the contents slowly thicken. Add flavour- ing to taste, and if the custard sauce is to be used hot, strain through a heated gravy strainer. If to be cold, the strainer need not be heated. I have read of thickening an eco- nomically made custard with corn-flour, but this is not a plan that would commend itself to me; moreover, it is distinctly unnecessary, as one egg per half pint of milk will allow for a custard sufficiently thick for all ordinary purposes. It may be improved, however, and very greatly improved, by the addition of a little cream, say twopennyworth to the half pint, or more if liked. For a very rich custard use preferably the yolks of the eggs only; and let these be beaten till quite light and then carefully strained. When the white and yolk areSAUCES IN GENERAL, ETC. ioi both used it will be found a good plan to separate these, and to whisk the white to a light froth, not a stiff froth, before it is added to the yolk and the milk. Sauce d’Orange. Rub the zest of two oranges olf on to several lumps of sugar; then scrape it off carefully and place it in a small stew-pan together with the juice and pulp of four oranges first rubbed through a delicately clean sieve. Add to it 2 ozs. of sifted sugar, a spoonful of arrowroot, a liqueur-glassful of curaqoa, and stir over a slow fire until the sauce thickens. Then use at once. Sauce aux Amandes. Scald 1 oz. of almonds and six bitter almonds, skin them, then chop them roughly, and place them in a mortar together with 4 ozs. of sifted sugar and a table-spoonful of orange flower water. Pound until they become a paste, rub through a sieve, and then place the pulp in a small clean stew-pan. Add to it a gill of cream and the yolks of two eggs. Place the panio2 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING over a slow fire, and whisk with a wire egg- whisk until the mixture becomes a smooth froth. Then use at once. This is one of the most delicate pudding sauces extant. Cherry Sauce is very nice, and possesses the merit of being very easily made. Place the contents of a sixpenny bottle of cherry or raspberry syrup in a small clean stew-pan. Thicken it with a spoonful of arrowroot mixed to a paste by means of a little of the cold syrup and water, and stir until the mix- ture thickens. Then add a few drops of carmine colouring and a spoonful of brandy. Make very hot. Add 2 ozs. of stoned and chopped cherries, and the juice which may run from these when chopped. Make hot and use. This sauce is also exceedingly nice when made with strawberry syrup and with strawberries in place of cherries. When the fresh fruit is unobtainable glace cherries may be used instead; and in the case of straw- berries, the strawberries from whole straw- berry jam. In place of the brandy indicated,SAUCES IN GENERAL, ETC. 103 whisky, rum, or any liqueur best liked may be used. Benedictine is particularly suitable, and so, too, is cherry brandy. In this latter case the cherries from the brandy may be used in place of others.104 CHAPTER V Vegetables in General Vegetable Entrees In England the vegetable is maltreated, in Germany it is appreciated, in France it is idealised, sums up to my mind the truth of the whole matter concerning vegetable cookery in general. This being so, it goes without saying almost that the cook who aims at making vegetable cookery her specialty has a fair, I had almost said a glorious, field before her, and need ask for no favour. Now one of the very first things the self- taught cook should master is the simple cooking of vegetables to perfection, because this is, so to speak, the foundation-stone which must be well and truly laid before anything notable can be achieved in the way of a vegetable entree, just as the stock for soup must be properly made, or the soupVEGETABLES IN GENERAL 105 will be a failure. As a matter of fact vege- table cooking is about the easiest branch of the art, and given careful washing and pre- paration beforehand, and a reliable time-table such as I append at the end of this chapter, success is practically certain. Apropos of cleaning too much attention The cleaning cannot be paid to this, if the vegetable or of various vegetables in question are to appear to the best advantage; all roots for example, such as artichokes, potatoes, carrots, turnips, parsnips, salsify, etc., etc., should be thoroughly well scrubbed with a proper vegetable brush, this latter obtainable at any ironmonger’s, and then carefully rinsed in plenty of water before they are peeled. Again such vegetables as cabbages, lettuce, endive, cauliflowers, chicory, should be well soaked in water to which has been added a little vinegar, in order to dis- lodge any insects which may have found their way between the leaves. When washed all vegetables with the exception of onions, Spanish onions and shallots, should be leftio6 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING in water until they are needed again. Apropos of washing such vegetables as spinach, celery and leeks, require great care, as they are so exceedingly gritty. Artichokes and salsify should be thrown into cold water as they are peeled, and a little lemon juice or vinegar must be added to the water to ensure their being of a good colour. Potatoes also should be put into water as soon as they have been peeled. Unless the contrary is indicated in the special recipes all vegetables must be put into boiling water to which salt has first been added. Vegetables of the root kind, such as artichokes, salsify, turnips, carrots, parsnips, potatoes, etc., must be kept closely covered while boiling, but greens of all kinds should be cooked in a saucepan without a lid. The Cooking With regard to the much vexed question of Potatoes _ . . . , . T of cooking potatoes to the best advantage i personally think that, whether old or new, they are far better steamed than boiled, but this mode of cooking takes quite twice asVEGETABLES IN GENERAL 107 long as the ordinary method, and is therefore not to be recommended when in a hurry. By its adoption, however, the trouble of draining and drying is completely done away with. Many cooks who can boil or steam a Boiling potato to perfection fail lamentably when it steaming comes to a question of simple mashed potatoes. The reason, a twofold one, is not far to seek. (1) The potatoes are imperfectly mashed, instead of being sieved, which makes them heavy. (2) Cold milk is used in place of hot, which makes them heavier. For a border of mashed potatoes or for Mashed ,. . r . . , . Potatoes and an ordinary mound for serving with cutlets potato proceed thus: Drain the potatoes whenBorders cooked with great care, then as quickly as may be rub them through a fine wire sieve. Return to a clean saucepan, and add salt to taste, an oz. of butter, and a glassful of perfectly boiling milk for every pound of potatoes. Beat up with a wire egg whisk until quite white. Then use as required. A table-spoonful of cream, one to everyio8 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Potato Chips The French Mode of Cooking Potatoes pound of potatoes, is a very great improve- ment if the mixture is to be used for a border. If this is used allow rather less milk, as the stiffer the border the better. Potato Chips require very careful frying. The pan should be at least half full of absolutely boiling fat from which the blue smoke is rising, then the potatoes which must first be peeled, washed, dried and cut into rounds as thin as a sixpence, should be added a few at a time only, and fried to a bright golden brown hue. Take out quickly, drain carefully, and reserve till all done. Then serve at once. Note the potatoes should be well washed after they have been cut into slices, and then very carefully dried. This is important, as if wet they will not fry success- fully. The best method of drying them is first on an ordinary, and afterwards upon a warm cloth. To fry Potatoes in the French Fashion proceed thus: Make the fat quite hot, but do not allow it to reach boiling point or toVEGETABLES IN GENERAL 109 smoke. Then add the potatoes a few at a time, and fry till quite tender, but do not allow them to acquire a colour. Take them out and drain very carefully, then bring the fat right up to boiling point. Add the potatoes all together, and fry for a minute or a minute and a half at the outside. Drain very carefully on clean kitchen paper, and serve at once. Straw potatoes or potato ribbons should be cooked as indicated for potato chips. Apropos of potato ribbons, an ingenious little instrument for cutting these may be had at any ironmonger. Potatoes a la Duchesse are delicious. They are made as follows : Bake six large potatoes. Then rub them through a very fine wire sieve. Place the puree thus obtained in a clean stew-pan, and add to it an ounce of fresh butter, the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, pepper and salt to taste, and a tiny grate of nutmeg. Place the pan on the fire, and stir gently until the mixture leaves the sides of the saucepan, Spread it Potatoes as an Entreeno COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Tomatoes Stuffed in the Provencjale Fashion out upon a large plate to the depth of an inch or so, cover with another plate, and leave till cold. Then shape into balls about the size of a very small tangarine. Dip in egg and breadcrumbs, and fry in clarified butter or in deep fat until of a light golden brown hue. Take out quickly, drain on clean kitchen paper, and send to table at once. Potatoes a la Duchesse may also be served as a separate course, in which case a little Bechamel sauce should be poured upon them. Tomatoes a la Proven^ale, an ex- ceedingly nice vegetable entree, are prepared thus:— Cut a small circular piece from off the top of each tomato. Then scoop out the seeds very carefully in order that the skin may not be broken. Stuff them. Place a gill of the best salad oil into a clean sautapan. Bring it just to the boil, then add the tomatoes, and cook very gently at the side of the stove it the fire is a fierce one, or over the fireVEGETABLES IN GENERAL m if it is fairly slow, for from ten to fifteen minutes. Brown them with the salamander. Dish upon a very hot dish, pour a little brown gravy round the base, and serve at once. The farce for the tomatoes is made thus: Scrape two ozs. of larding bacon very finely, and place it in a small stew-pan, add to it six ozs. of chopped mushrooms, four shallots, also finely chopped, and sufficient minced parsley to fill a table-spoon. Season highly with pepper and salt, add a pinch of powdered sweet herbs, and cook for five or six minutes, stirring all the time to avoid burning, then add the well beaten yolks of three eggs, and mix very thoroughly. Fill the tomatoes with the mixture, and mask the top with some freshly fried breadcrumbs. Finish as directed. Equally nice are Champignons aux gratin. To prepare these make a farce as directed Mushrooms for the Tomatoes a la Proven^ale. Then fhT"1 take a dozen large mushrooms, Punnet mush- FashimT^112 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Beans in the French Fashion rooms are the best for this special purpose. Clean them in the usual way, i.e. with a bit of flannel and some salt. Remove the skin carefully, and cut the stalks. Then stuff each mushroom with the farce, and cover with freshly fried breadcrumbs. Butter a white fireproof china dish thickly, arrange the mushrooms in this, and bake in a moder- ately hot oven for from fifteen to eighteen minutes. Pile up pyramidwise in the dish in which they were cooked, first removing any remaining butter. Pour a little good rich gravy round the base, and serve. Haricots Verts a la Fran^aise.—For these, string from a pound to two pounds of French beans. Then shred them very finely, and wash in several waters. Throw them into boiling water, add a handful salt, and cook till very tender. Then drain carefully. Place from an oz. to two ozs. (according to the amount of beans) of fresh butter in a clean stew-pan. As soon as it melts add the beans, together with pepperVEGETABLES IN GENERAL 113 and salt to taste, a tiny grate of nutmeg, and a little lemon juice. Toss over the fire until very hot. Dish up on a hot dish conical fashion as nearly as possible, garnish with fried croutons, and send to table at once. For HARICOTS VERTS A LA MaITRE Another d’hotel proceed exactly as indicated in the French^ foregoing recipe, but add in addition half a gill of good Bechamel sauce, a dessert- spoonful of finely minced parsley, and in- crease the quantity of lemon juice used. About half a lemon will yield the requisite quantity. Note.—It must be strained. Dish the beans up, and garnish with fleurons of pastry in place of the croutons indicated. The former are simply rounds of puff Fleurons of paste rolled very thinly, and stamped outPastry into fancy shapes by means of a pastry cutter. For Haricots Verts aux fines herbes Beans with proceed thus: Boil the beans as directed in the Fine Herbs first recipe. When quite tender drain them V. Hii4 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING carefully, and reserve. Place two ounces of fresh butter in a clean stew-pan, as soon as it oils add to it two finely minced shallots, a table-spoonful of minced parsley, a little grated nutmeg, the juice of half a lemon freed from pips and carefully strained, and a little minced chives and chervil, about half a tea-spoonful of each. Make very hot, but do not allow the butter to reduce. Then add the beans, and toss again for three or four Croutons of minutes. Pile up in the centre of a hot dish, garnish with fried croutons, which, by the way, are best made from stale bread, and serve. They should be about a quarter of an inch thick, and are better for a garnish for vegetables such as beans, spinach, cabbage, etc., if cut into finger lengths. Note that to fry croutons successfully the fat must absolutely boil before they are added, and too many should not be fried together, or the fat will become chilled and spoilt. For Petits Pois a la FRANqAisE:—VEGETABLES IN GENERAL 115 Boil the peas, together with a good sprig of mint, in salted water for twenty minutes or so. Then take out, drain carefully, and reserve. Place from an ounce to two ounces of fresh butter in a clean enamelled stew-pan, directly it melts add the peas, together with half a gill of cream, a tea-spoonful of sifted sugar, and a tiny squeeze of lemon juice. Toss till very hot. Then dish up on a hot dish, and garnish with fried croutons. Serve as quickly as possible. Petits Pois a la Venitienne are pre- pared in something of the same way, but the initial process is slightly different as the peas are stewed instead of being boiled. Take sufficient peas to yield a quart when shelled. Shell and place in a clean pan, together with an ounce and a half of fresh butter, and plenty of cold water. Rub the peas together so that they may become well coated with the butter. Pour away the water, place the peas in a stew-pan, and add Peas in the French fashion Stewed Peas116 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING to them two finely minced cabbage lettuces, a dozen spring onions, a good sprig of parsley, a spoonful of sifted sugar, and salt to taste. Cover tightly and stew very gently for thirty-five minutes; should any liquor remain, reduce it quickly, then dredge in by degrees a dessert-spoonful of dried and sifted flour, and two ounces of butter. Toss over the fire until very hot. Dish up on a hot dish, garnish with fried croutons, and serve at once. The spring onions may be omitted if liked, but they are a great improvement to the dish. If used they should be cut into one-inch lengths. When spring onions are not to hand a dessert-spoonful of finely minced chives may be used in their stead. Indeed some cooks prefer this mode. French beans are also excellent if treated after this recipe, but they require much longer stewing, and the amount of butter should be increased to two ounces. CoNCOMBRES A LA PoULETTE. Cut tWOVEGETABLES IN GENERAL 117 or three cucumbers into one-inch lengths. Place them in a marinade composed of a table-spoonful of oil, two table-spoonsful of vinegar, and a table-spoonful of salt, and leave for two hours. Next place two ozs. of fresh butter in a clean stew-pan, add to it a little grated nutmeg, a dessert-spoonful of sifted sugar, and let it just melt. Then drain the cucumbers carefully, and add them. Simmer very slowly over a slack fire for thirty-five minutes, next drain off the butter, add a gill of well made white sauce, the well beaten yolks of four eggs mixed with half a gill of cream, and a dessert-spoonful of finely minced parsley. Make very hot, then add the juice of half a small lemon, first strained carefully. Make hot again, but do not allow the sauce to actually boil, or it will curdle and be spoilt. Garnish with a border of fried fleurons of pastry, and serve at once. Cucumbers which are old and tough will require rather more cooking than those which are young and tender. Cucumbers cooked in the French Mode118 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Vegetable Vegetable Marrows if boiled lightly, and Marrows as _ ° J an Entree cut into neat pieces and drained carefully, are delicious served with a Poulette sauce made according to the recipe given in the chapter on sauces. Artichokes Artichauts A l’italienne.—Peel and in the Italian wash carefully two pounds of white arti- Fashion chokes. If liked the appearance of the dish may be improved by cutting them into fancy shapes. Butter a fireproof china sautapan very thickly. Arrange the artichokes in this, season them highly with pepper, salt, lemon juice, and a very little grated nutmeg. Cover tightly, then simmer very slowly over a slack fire for thirty-five minutes. Boil down a little in the glaze, or until they are of a deep golden yellow. Dish upon a very hot dish. Pour some sauce Italienne over and around them, garnish with fleurons, and serve at once. Green ARTICHAUTS VERTS A LA LyONNAISE. Artichokes in . , . , r the French This is essentially a vegetable entree tor a Mode ,. . . , j dinner-party, moreover it is one very seldomVEGETABLES IN GENERAL 119 met with in England, and therefore it possesses the charm of novelty. Take two green artichokes. Soak them in salt and water for at least a couple of hours before they are required. Then pull off all the outer leaves carefully, and trim the bottoms quite smooth with a very sharp knife. Next divide each artichoke into quarters, and remove all the fibre. Trim as neatly as possible, and parboil in salted water for five or six minutes. Then drain thoroughly. Spread a fireproof china sautapan with two ozs. of fresh butter, dust this over with a dessert- spoonful of sifted sugar, then add the quar- tered artichokes. Season highly with pepper and salt. Add a large glass of white wine, and a gill of very strong stock. Cover the pan, and simmer very slowly over a slack fire for about three quarters of an hour or a little longer; by this time if cooked with sufficient gentleness the artichokes should be of a deep yellow hue, and brightly glazed. Dish them up conicalwise, showing only the fonds.i2o COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Another Cucumber Recipe Skim the liquor in which they were cooked, remove any broken leaves, etc., etc. Add a gill of good gravy, or if this is not to hand, of brown sauce, an oz. of butter, and a dessert-spoonful of lemon juice (strained), mix thoroughly, and make very hot. Pour over the artichokes, and serve at once. Note the quantity of butter, wine and sauce, etc., used must of course be increased or lessened according to the number of artichokes used. Note also that it is specially important that the artichokes should have long soaking before they are cooked, as this is necessary in order to dislodge any insects which may have found their way into the leaves. Concombres a l’Espagnol.—Take two fine cucumbers. Peel them carefully, and scoop out all the seeds. Then parboil them in salted water for five minutes. Take out and drain carefully upon a soft cloth. Have ready some chicken farce, and fill each length of cucumber with this. Butter a fireproof sautapan thickly and arrange the lengths inVEGETABLES IN GENERAL 121 this, moisten with a little better than a gill of good stock, cover, and simmer very gently over a slack fire for thirty minutes, or until quite tender. Then take out carefully, and drain. Dish up pyramidwise on a very hot dish. Pour a little good brown sauce over and around them, garnish with fleurons, and serve at once. Choux de Bruxelles a la Belge.— Cabbage in Boil 2 lbs. of brussels sprouts in the usual Belgian way. Then drain them very thoroughly. Place rather more than 2 ozs. of fresh butter in a clean stew-pan, as soon as it melts add the sprouts together with a small spoonful of lemon juice first carefully strained. Season highly with pepper and salt, and a very little nutmeg. Toss till very hot, then add a gill of white sauce. Toss again till hot, dish upon a very hot dish, garnished with fried croutons, and serve at once. Chou-fleur a la Polonaise.—Boil a Cauliflowers cauliflower in salted water till tender. Fashion Then take out and drain carefully. Placei22 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING 2 ozs. of fresh butter in a clean sautapan, as soon as it oils, add to it as much finely minced garlic as will go on the point of a dinner knife. Fry for one minute, then add the cauliflower, first freeing it from any green leaves that may remain. Turn it very gently every minute or so, in order that it may be thoroughly sauteed in the butter; season highly with Coralline pepper and salt, and add a very little grated nutmeg, and just a squeeze of lemon juice. Make very hot, and take out with an egg strainer. Dish upon a hot dish. Garnish with fried croutons, and serve at once. Artichokes ARTICHAUTS A. LA PrOVEN^ALE. For Provencaie this peel 2 lbs. of white artichokes. Wash Mode them carefully, and parboil them for five minutes. Take out and drain carefully on a soft cloth. Place them in a deep fancy white fireproof china dish. Add salt to taste to a gill and a half of oil; sprinkle the artichokes thickly with finely minced garlic, allow four cloves of garlic to the 2 lbs. ofVEGETABLES IN GENERAL 123 artichokes, then add the oil, and almost mask the top of the artichokes with breadcrumbs. Add pepper to taste, and cook in a moderate oven until tender. Then dust with grated Parmesan cheese, about an oz. will be re- quired. Replace the dish in the oven, leave until the cheese has melted. Then send to table at once. Yet another nice way of serving white Artichokes is au fromage. Boil a couple of pounds of artichokes in the usual way. Drain carefully, and place on a very hot white china dish. Pour over them half a pint of well made white sauce, to which has been added 2 ozs. of grated Dutch or Parmesan cheese. Sprinkle the top with breadcrumbs, place a bit of butter here and there, add an oz. of grated cheese, and make very hot in the oven; take out and serve at once. Another nice way is to cook the artichokes in the milk. Then drain them, and reserve on a hot dish. Thicken the milk in which they were cooked with an124 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING oz. of butter and an oz. of flour kneaded together (i.e. these are the quantities for half a pint of milk ; they must be increased if needful), add 2 ozs. of grated cheese, and finish in all other respects as directed in the foregoing recipe. Time-Table for Vegetables. If the appended time-table be closely followed, the self-taught cook need have no fear that her vegetable cookery will not be a thorough success. Potatoes require 25 to 30 min. to cook. New potatoes require 15 min. „ „ Vegetable marrows—15 to 20 min. ,, Carrots—1 hour. ,, ,, Young carrots—20 to 35 min. ,, „ Turnips—30 to 35 min. „ „ Turnips (young)—15 to 20 min. ,, ,, Salsify—2 hours to 2\ hours. „ „ Beetroot—1£ to 2\ hours. „ „ Onions—1 hour to 3 hours. „ „ Celery—2 to 3 hours. „ „VEGETABLES IN GENERAL 125 White artichokes—30 to 35 min. to cook. Seakale—30 to 40 min. „ ,, Cabbage—15 to 20 min. ,, „ Brussels sprouts—10 to 15 min. ,, ,, Cauliflower—15 to 25 min. „ „ Spinach—15 to 20 min. ,, ,, French beans—15 to 20 min. ,, ,, Broad beans—15 to 40 min. ,, „ Green peas—10 to 20 min. ,, ,, Green artichokes—30 to 45 min.,, „ Mushrooms—5 to 15 min. ,, ,, according to mode of cooking employed. Note that the time for cooking broad beans varies considerably. They should, as a matter of fact, be cooked till tender, and this largely depends upon whether they are young or old. If the latter, they are frequently exceedingly tough. As regards dried vegetables of all sorts, it is impossible to give the time requisite for these. In all cases, however, they will re- quire soaking for a period varying from 6 to 24 hours, according to kind, etc., etc.126 CHAPTER VI Entries And now we come to what is by many people considered the most important branch of all in the cook’s education, viz., the cook- ing of entrees. Entrees in The term entree may be said to embrace a very large field, for, from the mutton cutlets and tomato sauce of the English plain cook, to the Quails en Casserole or Ortolans a la Viennese of the chef with a world-wide reputation, almost every made dish is termed “an entree.” No matter how indifferently—I had almost said badly —it may be cooked. Entrees may be divided roughly into three classes. First, those made with raw meat; second, those with meat which has already been cooked; and third, the cold127 ENTREES dishes, many in number, generally called chaudfroids. Now it is, as a matter of fact, not one whit more difficult to prepare a dainty entree than it is to roast a joint properly. It may perhaps take up more time, require closer attention, but when we come to the actual “ difficulty,” entrees, except in rare and isolated instances belong- ing solely to the fine fieur of cookery, are not difficult of achievement. And moreover let it not be forgotten that in the judicious use of the entree lies a great aid to economical cookery and housekeeping if wisely administered. It has been said, and truly said, that an Englishwoman will throw away as “ scraps ” material out of which her Gallic sister would concoct a dish worthy to grace any table. For example the daintiest imaginable croquettes or rissoles or kromeskies or quenelles may be achieved by a small remnant of veal or chicken which would otherwise be left on the bones for the cat, or if the cook happens to be very economically minded, be relegated to128 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING the stock pot. And here I speak from long experience of the English cook and her ways, and am indeed stating a fact, since innumerable are the times I have had to check a too prodigal cook with the remark, “ Don’t put that in the stock pot or throw it away ” (a scrap of game or poultry, as the case might be) ; “ if you add a little ham or tongue, or both, to it we can have some croquettes or kromeskies to-night.” Progressive Now the self-taught cook who wishes to 7 perfect herself in the art of the entree should be content with very small beginnings indeed. A simple little mince of chicken or veal at first; then a step further, and a dish of rissoles; another step, and a dish of croquettes; yet another, and she may have a gratifying success with some kromeskies. Then on by degrees to mousses, both hot and iced, and in a very short time she will be astonished at the number of dainty dishes which have become possible to her. Fri- cassees of all sorts, salmis (a cook who can129 ENTREES turn out a really creditable salmi is a pearl above price), a casserole of poultry or game; and be it noted the toughest old rooster treated en casserole assumes the virtues of the spring chicken, if one goes the right way to work. Innumerable, too, are the ways of cooking some Foreign . r Modes of pheasants, ror example; indeed the average cooking • PI16R sflnts Englishman, or Englishwoman, who knows the pheasant in no other guise except roasted or grilled, and upon rare occasions boiled, would be considerably astonished if he could meet with pheasant a la Gitana, a la Flamande, a la Portugaise, or a la Soubise, while if cooked a l’Espagnole the pheasant acquires not only new grace, but new distinction also. However, for the present, enough of general- ities, let us descend to the particulars of the above-mentioned recipes themselves, amongst others of a simpler calibre, etc.:— Entrees of Fresh Meat, Poultry and Game One of the simplest entrees made from v 1130 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING fresh meat is Noisettes de Mouton aux fines herbes. Howto Take a sufficient number of very small prepare t J Noisettes mutton cutlets. Trim them absolutely free from fat, and dust them very lightly with white pepper. Place an oz. or more, according to the number of cutlets, in a clean sautapan. Directly it oils, add the cutlets in rows. Season with salt and a little more pepper, and fry quickly over a hot fire until delicately browned on both sides. Then add by de- grees a table-spoonful of well-dried and sifted flour, 2 ozs. of chopped mushrooms, a tea- spoonful of finely minced parsley, a dessert- spoonful of chopped shallot, the juice of half a lemon, first carefully strained, a spoonful of mushroom catsup, and a gill of good stock. If stock is not to hand, bovril or even water may be used, but stock gives the best results. Stir all well together over the fire for five minutes. Then dish up the noisettes of mutton in the centre of a very hot dish. Garnish with potatoes a la Duchesse, orl3l ENTREES chipped potatoes, and serve at once. A border of green peas is also very nice for this dish, or if not considered too expensive, asparagus points. Veal cutlets are also exceedingly nice when veal Cutlets , , . r . . and Fillets of cooked according to the foregoing recipe, and Beef, little fillets of beef stamped out with a sharp round cutter from a fillet or point steak will be found very good. In the latter case half a glass of port wine may be added to the gravy at the same time as the stock. CoTELETTES DE VEAU A LA RuSSE For these add to the usual egg and bread- Veal Cutlets . , r i r i- i . , in the Russian crumbs a dessert-spoonful of finely minced Fashion horse-radish, a dessert-spoonful of minced shallot, and a tea-spoonful of parsley. Mix all, egg, bread-crumbs, etc., well together. Trim the cutlets neatly, and then dip each first into the well-beaten yolk of an egg, and, secondly, into the seasoned crumbs. Place from an oz. to 2 ozs. of fresh butter in a clean stew-pan. Directly it melts add the132 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING An Impromptu Entree cutlets, and fry till of a delicate golden brown upon each side. Then take out, drain quickly upon clean kitchen paper, dish up in the centre of a hot dish, garnish with a border of spinach or green peas, and send to table with some Sauce Piquante handed separately. If liked an oz. of very finely minced lean ham may be added to the seasoned bread-crumbs, or an oz. each of minced ham and tongue. This is considered a great improvement by some cooks. Note, too, that mutton cutlets may also be prepared according to this recipe, and will be found almost equally good. In the latter case an oz. of finely minced mushrooms may also be added to the seasoned bread-crumbs. The fillets from a cold fowl or pheasant, it divided neatly and then dipped into bread- crumbs seasoned as above directed, and fried in a little clarified butter, form an excellent little impromptu entree, when there is noth- ing else to fall back upon. They may be garnished with a border of green peas, 01»33 ENTREES spinach, or with a mixture made as directed for Duchesse potatoes. Note.—If the latter, it must be made very hot, and then after it has been duly arranged, browned with the salamander. Lamb cutlets, too, may be dressed in either of the before-mentioned modes. CoTELETTES d’AgNEAU k LA PrINCESSE. For this trim the cutlets very neatly, and Lamb cutlets leave them almost free from fat. Next, beat up a large egg with a spoonful of bread- crumbs. Add to it an oz. of finely minced mushrooms, a spoonful of pate de foie gras, a tea-spoonful of finely minced mint, and a very little chopped chives. Mix all well together, and season with salt to taste. Dip each cutlet first into beaten egg, and then into the bread-crumbs, and then back into the egg again. Place from an oz. to 2 ozs. (according to the number of cutlets) of fresh butter in a clean sautapan, and as soon as it oils add the cutlets and fry to a delicatei34 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING How to make Croquettes golden brown. Then take out, drain quickly on clean kitchen paper. Dish up on a very hot silver dish. Garnish with a border of green peas, and send to table with mint sauce and Duchesse potatoes handed separ- ately. If liked, tomato sauce may be used in place of the mint sauce indicated. To be able to make properly such things as Rissoles, Mince, Ragouts, etc., etc., is of great importance to every cook. So while upon the subject of entrees in general, I will give a few directions for their better achievement: Almost any kind of meat and many kinds of fish may be used for croquettes and rissoles, which are simply croquettes without the outer case of batter peculiar to the latter. The average proportion of meat, sauce, etc., used for an ordinary rissole or croquette mixture is as follows: To every 4 ozs. of cold meat, game, or chicken allow half a pint of Bechamel Sauce, made as directed in the recipe given under that head- ing. The meat should be minced by handENTREES l35 whenever possible, as the ragged mince pro- duced by the mincing machine is by no means so suitable, and does not result in nearly so dainty a dish. Having prepared the sauce and minced the meat as finely as possible, the two should be thoroughly well mixed, seasoned to taste with salt, pepper, and if liked a very little cayenne may also be added for its betterment, and then spread out upon a large dish to the depth of an inch. Leave till perfectly cold, if possible till next day, for as a matter of fact a croquette mixture is all the better for being made the day before. Then shape into balls about the size of a very small Tangerine ; if For Rissoles dip each into egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in boiling fat till of a light golden brown hue. Take out quickly, drain carefully on clean kitchen paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve at once. For Croquettes, make a short paste, using136 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Croquette for the purpose two ozs. of fresh butter, four ozs. of self-raising flour, first well dried and carefully sifted, a pinch of salt, and the well beaten yolk of one large or two small eggs ; roll out to the thinness of a worn sixpence; encase the balls in this, dip into egg and bread-crumbs or broken vermicelli, and then fry in boiling lard or clarified fat, as directed for rissoles. How to make Kromeskies are prepared in exactly the Kromeskies . , .... same way as croquettes or rissoles, with this difference, that instead of being shaped, a little of the mince must be rolled up in slices of very thinly pared streaky bacon, the fatter the better. I use the word <c pared ” ad- visedly, as the bacon should be cut so thinly as to be veritably a mere paring. Next dip into some lightly made frying batter, and fry in boiling fat as directed for rissoles and mince, etc., etc. The best kromeskies are made with either a mince of chicken or with chicken livers, the latter being perhaps the least expensive method, as sufficient livers fori37 ENTREES a fair sized plat may be had for 6d. or 8d. at any good poulterer’s. It should be noted that an excellent Cutlets en Chaudfroid or mixture for cold cutlets may be made by Cold Cutlets using three quarters of a pound of any meat or fish preferred to the half pint of sauce, Bechamel or Veloute, whichever is best liked (lobster, or salmon, or chicken, or rabbit, and even veal are excellent for cold cutlets of this sort). They should then be dipped in egg and bread-crumbs and fried in boiling fat in the usual manner, and are equally good hot or cold. These cutlets, too, may be improved by the addition of such things as a little finely chopped lean ham or tongue, or truffles or mushrooms, to the mixture of which they are composed. This refers of course only to meat cutlets ; when the latter are of fish, then chopped oysters, or picked shrimps, or prawns may be used with advantage. Apropos of fish cutlets, a very delicious Fish Cutlets variety of cold cutlet may be made with crab138 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING as follows: Cotelettes A la Princesse.— Allow rather more than half a pound of the white meat only of a crab to every half pint of well-flavoured Bechamel Sauce. Mix in the usual manner, and spread out upon a dish to the depth of an inch. Leave till perfectly cold, then stamp out into cutlets. Egg and bread-crumb these, then dip back again into beaten egg and fry in boiling fat until of a light golden brown hue. Take out quickly, drain carefully, and leave till cold. Take the brown meat from the crab, place it in a mortar, add to it a bit of butter about the size of a small walnut, and pound it to a paste. Then rub it through a fine hair sieve. Have ready half a pint of stiffly made mayonnaise. Season it with a little finely minced shallot, caper, and parsley. Then stir in the sieved crab very gently. Send to table with the cutlets, and serve an orange salad separately. If liked the cutlets may be served hot, in which case the salad is generally omitted, the sauceENTREES T3 9 of course being handed separately in either case. Yet another nice entree, and one by no means difficult of achievement, is the well- known Creme de volaille.—To make this pro-a Cream of Chicken ceed thus: Take rather more than half a pound of the white meat of a raw chicken (the meat from a cooked fowl may be used but will not give nearly such good results). Cut it up into smallish pieces and place in a mortar with a little pepper and salt and two ozs. of butter; pound vigorously until it becomes a paste, then rub through a very fine wire sieve ; and note that it must weigh a full half pound after the sieving process. Have ready half a pint of stiffly made Bechamel Sauce; note, allow two ozs. of sifted flour and three ozs. of butter to half a pint of flavoured milk when making the sauce; a little cream will also be found a great im- provement, but it must be double cream, or if single cream is used it should be slightly140 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING A richer Cream whipped in order to thicken it. Reserve the sauce and add to the puree of chicken two large eggs, one at a time. When both have been thoroughly mixed in, add the sauce and mix again lightly but thoroughly. Season delicately with pepper and salt, and add a few drops of strained lemon juice. Then mix again and use to fill a well-greased mould three parts full. Cover with well greased paper and steam very gently until done, i.e. when the centre is firm. Turn out very carefully, pour a cream Bechamel Sauce around it, and serve at once. The addition of button mushrooms, and if possible a little minced truffle to the sauce is an astonishing improvement, but this of course must be left to the discretion of the cook, as it adds to the expense of the dish. If a richer creme is desired, it may be achieved by using half a pint of double cream and a gill of Bechamel or Supreme Sauce, the quantity of eggs (raw) remaining as before. It must be noted, however, that141 ENTREES this mixture will require greater care in turning out as the cream is less firm than the first one. For an easy entree few things are nicer An easy than Poulet au Riz prepared thus: Truss a beginners young chicken as if for boiling, and rub it over lightly with lemon juice. Have ready half a pound of well washed and parboiled rice. Grease a deep stew-pan well. Then place the fowl and rice in it, add an oz. of butter broken up into small pieces, salt to taste, and half-a-dozen pepper-corns tied up in a bit of muslin. Add just enough stock, or bovril and water to cover the chicken and rice, cover the whole with a thickly buttered round of paper, place the lid on, and simmer very slowly over a slack fire for forty-five minutes, by which time the chicken should be done to a turn. Dish it upon a very hot dish, and place in the oven, to glaze, remove the pepper-corns and add to the rice the well beaten yolks of two eggs, half a gill of cream, a tiny grate of nutmeg, and pepper and salt142 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Pheasant or Rabbit cooked with Rice to taste, stir over the fire quickly until very hot, then garnish round the fowl and send to table at once. Chipped or straw potatoes are very nice with this dish. A young pheasant cooked in the same way is an admirable dish; and so, too, is rabbit. Note that the latter should be jointed before being cooked, as the appearance of the dish will be improved thereby. When dishing up arrange the joints conicalwise in the centre of the dish, and garnish with the rice as directed. A most delicious way of cooking fowl or pheasant is Pheasant a la Milanaise. For this truss a fowl for roasting, and take care that the inside has been well wiped (with a cloth wrung out in very hot water) until delicately clean. Take from 6d. to 8d. worth of chicken livers, place a tiny bit of butter in a clean stew-pan, add the chicken livers, and fry for a couple of minutes. Then place in a mortar together with a finely minced shallot, an oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, and143 ENTREES a very little grated nutmeg. Pound all well together, then add a heaped table-spoonful of freshly fried bread-crumbs, mix, and use to stuff the fowl. Roast in the usual manner, and baste well with plenty of butter, dish up on a very hot dish, garnish with a ragout a la Milanaise, and serve at once. For the ragout, take two ozs. each of previously Ragout . Milanaise cooked mushrooms, macaronis, ham and tongue, and if expense is no object truffles, and cut them all into inch lengths. Have ready half a pint of well made Bechamel Sauce, add the macaroni, etc., to this together with an oz. of grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese, pepper to taste, and a very little grated nutmeg. Toss over the fire until very hot, then use as before directed. This dish should also be garnished with potato rissoles. A pheasant cooked in the same manner will be found equally good. In the latter case, if possible two ozs. of ready cooked game should be added to the other ingredients when making the ragout.144 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Pheasant in the Spanish Fashion Pheasant A la Gitana.—Truss a pheasant as if for roasting, and reserve it. Take half a pound of streaky bacon, free it from rind, etc., and cut it into neat square pieces. Place an oz. of butter in a clean stew-pan, add to it a clove of finely minced garlic and the bacon; as soon as the butter melts, add the fowl, and fry until of a light brown hue all over. It must be turned frequently. Then drain off the grease as carefully as possible, add two large Spanish onions, peeled and thinly sliced, four or five large tomatoes also thinly sliced, and two glasses of cooking sherry. Cover the pan tightly, and stew very gently over a slow fire for three quarters of an hour. Shake the saucepan every now and then in order to avoid burning. Just before dishing up add a small spoonful of sweet red pepper (Spanish). Then dish up the bird on a very hot dish, and place it in the oven to glaze. Mix the sauce very thoroughly, taste in order to ascertain if the seasoning145 ENTREES is correct. Make very hot, and use to gar- nish the pheasant. Serve with Duchesse potatoes handed separately. Fowl is also exceedingly good cooked in the foregoing fashion, and so too are partridges. Pheasant A la Soubise is another dainty mode of cooking this favourite game. Truss a pheasant as if for boiling. Rub it well over with a split clove of garlic, place it in a clean deep stew-pan. Add just suffi- cient milk to cover it, a bouquet garni, and a blade of mace. Place the lid on tightly, and simmer very slowly over a slow fire for about forty-five minutes. Then dish up the bird on a very hot dish, and place it in the oven for a couple of minutes or so. Pour over and around it some Sauce Soubise; garnish with little groups of button mush- rooms, one at each end, two on either side of the dish, and serve at once. The Sauce Soubise is made as follows: How to make Peel and slice eight large onions very thinly, soubise and place them in a clean stew-pan with two V K146 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Another Mode ozs. of butter, a little nutmeg, and pepper and salt to taste. Cover the pan tightly, and simmer very slowly over a slack fire until the onions are nearly dissolved, but take great care that they do not acquire any colour. Next add to the onions four ozs. of well dried and sifted flour, two freshly boiled floury potatoes, and a pint of milk. Stir over the fire for fifteen minutes. Then rub through a very fine hair sieve. Return to a clean stew-pan, make very hot, and use as before directed. Some cooks when making this sauce use white stock in place of the milk indicated. In this case a gill or a gill and a half of double cream should be added for the better- ment of the sauce. Note that the button mushrooms for the garnish should be pre- viously cooked in a little butter, and then carefully drained on clean kitchen paper. Fowl cooked in the same way is also an excellent dish. Poulet A la Romaine.—For this trussENTREES 147 a chicken as if for boiling, and rub it over P°uiet a la ° Romaine lightly with lemon juice. Place half a gill of the best salad oil in a clean saucepan, bring it to boiling point, then add to it a clove of garlic, a bouquet garni, a pinch of salt, and a very little cayenne, fry for half a minute and then add the chicken, and fry for ten minutes. Turn the chicken frequently in order that it may become equally browned all over. Cover the stew-pan, draw it to one side of the fire and simmer very slowly for forty-five minutes, basting every five or six minutes. When quite done dish upon a hot dish, remove the bayleaf, garlic, etc., and pour off all the oil very carefully; add an oz. of glaze or a large tea-spoonful of bovril, and the contents of half a bottle of tomato catsup, make very hot, then add a wine-glassful of Madeira, and the juice first carefully strained of a small lemon; simmer over a slow fire until very hot, pour over and around the fowl, and serve at once.148 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING How to cook Dressed macaroni should be handed with Macaroni , this dish. It is prepared as follows : Throw half a pound of macaroni into some quite boiling, salted water, cook quickly until tender, by which time practically all the water will be absorbed. Then drain very carefully. Place two ozs. of fresh butter in a clean enamelled iron stew-pan, as soon as it melts add the macaroni, and toss until the butter is all quite absorbed. Then dish up and serve immediately. If desired oil may be substituted for the butter, but salt to taste must be added to it before the macaroni is placed in the saucepan. As a rule, it must be noted, butter rather than oil appeals to English tastes. Macaroni au Fromage is also served sometimes with fowl cooked in the foregoing fashion; it is prepared in exactly the same manner as dressed macaroni, but as soon as the butter or oil, as the case may be, is nearly absorbed, add from two to four ozs. of any cheese most approved, Gruyere,149 ENTREES Parmesan, Cheddar, or even Dutch may- all be used. Toss until the cheese is completely melted and has become stringy. Then serve as hot and as quickly as pos- sible, for it should be remembered that macaroni is not one of the things that will bear waiting. Poulet A la Portugaise.—Take a large fowl trussed as if for boiling, and rub it well over with a split clove of garlic, then reserve on a plate. Place from an oz. to two ozs. of butter, according to the size of the fowl, in a clean enamelled iron stew-pan, as soon as it oils add the fowl, and fry for eight or ten minutes, turning frequently in order to ensure its being of a golden brown hue all over. Meanwhile rub a pound and a half of ripe tomatoes through a very fine sieve. Add to the pulp thus obtained a liberal dust of spiced pepper, salt to taste, a tea- spoonful of finely minced shallot, and a very tiny pinch of sweet herbs. Next drain the fowl quite free from grease, place in a clean Poulet a la Portugaise150 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING saucepan, add to it the tomato puree, etc., and bring very gently to the boil. Then draw the pan to the side of the fire and simmer very slowly until the fowl is thoroughly cooked. This will take from forty - five minutes to an hour and a half according to the age of the bird in question. Next dish up the fowl on a hot dish, and place it in the oven to glaze for a few minutes. Add to the tomato puree a tea-spoonful of sifted sugar, a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, and a glassful of either sherry or port. Let the sauce boil up sharply for a few minutes in order to reduce and thicken it, pour over and around the fowl, and serve at once with straw potatoes handed separately. Dressed macaroni may also accompany this dish if liked. Pheasant may PHEASANT A LA PoRTUGAISE, which is pre- the sam^way pared in exactly the same manner as the foregoing, is also very nice, and partridges if cooked in the same fashion have also much to recommend them; indeed, old birds151 ENTREES will take on all the semblance of youth and its tenderness if treated a la Portugaise. Widgeon and teal are also equally good cooked in this fashion. For the latter bird add a heaped table-spoonful of red currant jelly to the sauce at the same time as the wine, and use port instead of sherry. Fillet de Veau A la Portugaise is prepared in exactly the same way as directed for Poulet Portugaise. A dish of dressed macaroni should also accompany veal cooked in this fashion. Fillet de Veau A la Russe.—Apropos of veal, too, another delicious way very little known in English cookery is a la Russe. Take a piece of fillet of veal weighing from four to five pounds. Rub it lightly with a clove of garlic,r and reserve on a clean plate. Place from an oz. to two ozs. of fresh butter in an enamelled iron stew-pan. As soon as it oils add the veal and fry for ten or twelve minutes, turning it frequently in order that it may become equally coloured. Fillet of veal in the Portugaise and Russian manner152 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING It should not be allowed to get brown, how- ever, only of a pale fawn hue. Next drain it free from grease and add to it sufficient milk to just cover it, a dozen button onions, and from a dozen to two dozen button mush- rooms. If button onions are not to be had, ordinary onions may be used in their place, but they should be chosen all as nearly of a size as possible. Bring very gently to just the boil, then cover the pan tightly, and simmer very slowly over a slack fire until the meat is thoroughly cooked, allowing from thirty to thirty-five minutes to the pound. When done dish upon a very hot dish, and garnish with the onions and mushrooms in little groups. Place the meat in the oven to glaze for a few minutes. Thicken the milk in which it was cooked with an oz. of butter and an oz. of flour kneaded together. Stir till of the consistency of thick cream. Then add to it pepper and salt to taste, a large spoonful of very finely grated horse-radish, a tea-spoonfulENTREES *53 of sifted sugar, half a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a tea-spoonful of French mustard, and a liberal squeeze of lemon juice. Make very hot, pour over and around the veal, and serve at once. If liked, this sauce may be made rather richer by using two ozs. of butter instead of one, and some cooks add also the well beaten yolks of two eggs. In the latter case the sauce must not be allowed to boil up after the eggs have been added, or it will curdle, and be spoilt. It should be made very hot, but it emphatically must not boil. A little cream is also an improvement. About half a gill will be sufficient. BLANQUETTE DE VEAU when properly How to make , . i i n- i a Blanquette prepared is very good, and affords an ex- de Veau cellent mode of using up the inferior parts of veal, but it must be borne in mind that the Blanquette de Veau as met with on the Continent is a very different thing to the Blanket of Veal of the average English plain cook.i54 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Take a piece of veal weighing from three to five pounds. Dust it lightly with spiced pepper and reserve on a clean plate. Place from an oz. to an oz. and a half of fresh butter in an enamelled iron stew-pan. Directly it oils add the veal and fry for from five to ten minutes. Turn it frequently, but take care that it does not acquire more than a pale fawn colour. Then drain off every particle of grease from the veal on clean kitchen paper, and return to a clean sauce- pan. Add to it just sufficient white stock to cover it, a large onion stuck with a clove and notched in order to allow the juice to escape, a bouquet garni, and a small blade of mace. Bring very gently to the boil, remove any scum which may have arisen, then draw the pan to the side of the fire and simmer very slowly until cooked. The time this will take varies according to the size of the joint, but from thirty to thirty-five minutes to the pound should be allowed. At the end of three quarters of an hour*55 ENTREES add half a pound of mushrooms (previously cleaned in the usual way, i.e. with a bit of flannel and a little salt), and continue to simmer slowly. When done dish up the meat on a hot dish and garnish it with the mushrooms. Remove the onion, mace, clove, etc., and thicken the liquor in which it was cooked with an oz. of flour and an oz. of butter kneaded together, add pepper and salt to taste. Make very hot, strain through a heated gravy strainer over and around the veal, and serve accompanied by chipped potatoes or artichoke chips. Fowl and pheasant may also be cooked after the fore- going fashion, and will be found very good. Indeed, an old fowl treated a la blanquette if allowed plenty of time for cooking is practically indistinguishable from a spring chicken. When stock is not to hand, milk may be used in its place. Indeed some cooks always use milk for a blanquette, but per- sonally I have found that stock gives the best results.156 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Artichoke The Artichoke Chips above referred to Chips are prepared as follows: Wash, peel and slice very thinly a pound of white artichokes. Then wash well again in a basin of water to which has been added a couple of table- spoonsful of lemon juice. Take out, drain thoroughly, and then dry very carefully on a clean vegetable cloth. Note that if in the very least degree damp, the chips will not fry properly, they must therefore be thoroughly dried, and if necessary use two cloths for the purpose. Have ready a saucepan half full of boiling fat (either lard, or clarified beef dripping, from which the blue smoke is rising, throw in the chips, a few at a time only, and fry till of a light golden brown hue. Then take out quickly, drain on clean kitchen paper, sprinkle lightly with salt, and serve at once, chicken a la Poulet k la Marengo.—Take a tender Marengo chicken and joint it neatly; place the back, liver, giblets, etc., in a clean stew-pan. Add to them a large slice of bacon cut into neat strips, an onion stuck with a clove, a pinchENTREES 157 of sweet herbs, a tea-spoonful each of finely minced parsley and shallots, and a little grated lemon peel. Add just enough weak stock or water to cover, and simmer slowly for an hour, taking care that the stock does not reduce, i.e. boil away. Then strain off, reserve, and when cold clear it free from fat. Note that if in a hurry this may be done by straining the stock through a serviette previously wrung out tightly in cold water. Place an oz. of butter in a clean stew-pan. As soon as it oils, add the joints of fowl, and cook till of a bright golden brown hue. Then strain away all the remain- ing grease. Add the stock made as described above, together with a couple of ozs. of previously cooked mushrooms and a glass of cooking sherry and cook till tender. Thicken with from half an oz. of flour and half an oz. of butter to an oz. of each, kneaded together. Stir till of the consistency of double cream, make very hot, and serve accompanied by dressed macaroni.158 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Pheasant is very good cooked in this fashion, and rabbit treated in the same way is almost indistinguishable from fowl. The head, etc., should be used when making the gravy, as the back joints of a rabbit contain a good deal of meat, and should therefore be fried with the other joints. Old partridges a la Marengo are also exceedingly good, and so too are pigeons. Wild duck is also nice treated after this mode. In the latter case use port in place of sherry, and add a garnish of olives. Omit the accompanying macaroni, and serve potato or artichoke chips in its place. Pouiet Saute Poulet Saute is another nice way of serving a fowl when in a hurry. Take a young spring chicken and joint it neatly. If you are unable to do this yourself at first, the poulterer will do it for you, but a little practice will soon make perfect in this as in other things. Place half an oz. of butter in a clean enamelled iron stew-pan, and as soon as it oils add to it the back of the fowl, the liver, giblets, etc., and two ozs. of streakyENTREES x59 bacon cut into neat strips and freed from rind. Fry for four or five minutes, then add a dozen pepper-corns, an onion peeled stuck with a clove and notched in order to allow the juice to escape, and a large sprig of parsley. Add also a gill and a half of either weak stock or water, and salt and pepper to taste. Simmer very slowly until reduced to just over a gill. Then strain and reserve. Place two ozs. of butter in a clean enamelled iron stew-pan, and as soon as it oils add to it the joints of fowl, and fry till of a bright golden hue. Strain away all super- fluous grease, and then add the gravy made from the fowl. Simmer for twenty minutes or until the gravy has reduced and thickened, then dish upon a hot dish. Garnish with green peas or French beans, and serve. When neither peas or beans are to be had dressed, macaroni may be used instead. It is worthy of note that when green peas are unobtainable, an excellent substitute may be found in Carter’s green peas. These160 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING should be soaked overnight, or if possible longer, and then when boiled according to the directions given on each packet they will be found almost equal to the fresh variety. Pouiet Saute Poulet Saute A l’Espagnol.—This is Spanish method another nice way of treating a chicken. Take a spring chicken, joint it neatly, and reserve on a plate. Place a large spoonful of Lucca oil in a clean enamelled iron stew-pan, bring it to the boil, then add to it a large onion, peeled and sliced, and a tea-spoonful of mixed parsley. Add the chicken and fry for fifteen minutes, turning frequently in order that the meat may become equally browned all over. Next drain on clean kitchen paper, and reserve till cold. When cold dip each piece into well beaten yolk of egg, and then into fine bread-crumbs. Have ready a saucepan half full of boiling lard. Add the joints of chicken, and fry till of a very bright golden brown colour. Take out quickly, drain care- fully, and serve piled high on a doyleyENTREES 161 garnished with watercress and accompanied by Ravigotte Sauce. The Ravigotte Sauce is made by adding a tea-spoonful of finely minced gherkins, a tea-spoonful of minced capers, and a tea-spoonful each of minced chives chervil and tarragon to half a pint of well made Mayonnaise Sauce. If liked three or four red chillies may also be minced and added to the other ingredients. This sauce is also suitable for serving with a variety of dishes. Boudins de Volaille A la Supreme.— An expensive This is a rather more expensive entree, and Entlee is one more suitable for a dinner than an ordinary luncheon menu. Roast a plump fowl in the usual way, basting it frequently with plenty of butter. As soon as it is done, drain it carefully on a clean piece of kitchen paper, and then remove all the skin. Next cut off all the meat from the bones, chop it roughly, and then pass it twice through the mincing machine. Place it in a clean mortar, add to it an oz. of fresh v L162 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING butter, a little grated lemon peel, a dust of white pepper and a very little salt, and pound to the consistency of a stiffish paste. Add to this half a gill of well made white sauce seasoned with mace or nutmeg, and a little spiced pepper. Salt may be added to suit individual tastes. Then rub through a fine wire sieve, using for the purpose the back of a wooden spoon. Place the puree thus obtained in a clean enamelled iron saucepan, add to it half a gill of boiling cream, and a like amount of well flavoured chicken broth. Make very hot, stirring continuously in order to avoid burning, as if the mixture “ catches ” ever so slightly the whole dish will be spoilt. Then spread upon a large dish to the depth of an inch and a half or two inches, and leave in the larder till cold. When sufficiently cool cut up into pieces of about two inches square, and coat these with a farce made of chicken livers, then egg and bread-crumb in the usual way. Have ready a saucepan halfENTREES 163 full of boiling fat, add the boudins a few at a time, and fry till of a light golden brown hue. Take out quickly, drain carefully, dish upon a hot dish, pour some sauce supreme in the centre of the dish, and send to table instantly, as if the serving is delayed the sauce will soak into the boudins and render them heavy and unpalatable. For the farce of chicken livers above re-farce of Chicken ferred to proceed thus: Take four chicken livers livers and wash them well in salted water, then drain and dry on a clean meat-cloth. Place a bit of butter about the size of a walnut in a clean enamelled iron pan, and as soon as it oils add the livers together with a tea-spoonful of minced parsley, half a tea- spoonful of minced shallot and a large mush- room ; fry for ten minutes, then drain free from fat, place in a mortar, and pound to a stiff paste. Season highly with salt and pepper, a grate of nutmeg, a little grated lemon peel, and if liked a couple of drops of lemon juice may also be added. Rub through164 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING a sieve and use as directed above. The sauce supreme in this instance is made as follows:— Sauce Place half a pint of white sauce in a clean Supreme, another recipe saucepan, add to it a dessert-spoonful of strong mushroom essence, a table-spoonful of consomme, half a gill of boiling cream, and a tea-spoonful of lemon juice strained and freed from pips. Mix thoroughly, make very hot, and use as above directed. Note, however, that when finished sauce supreme should never be thicker than cream, single, not double cream. The essence of mushrooms above mentioned is made as follows: Trim a pound of mush- rooms and clean them in the usual way, then chop them finely. Place an oz. of butter in a clean enamelled iron stew-pan, and as soon as it oils add the mushrooms and a few drops of lemon juice. Toss the mushrooms in the butter for eight or ten minutes, and add a gill and a165 ENTREES half of clear stock. Simmer very slowly for ten or twelve minutes. The fire should be a very slack one, as the sauce must on no account be allowed to reduce. Then pass through a fine wire sieve in the usual manner, and use as directed at once. Here is a very easily made and inexpensive entree. It is called Bouchettes de gibier aux fonds d’Artichauts Take the contents of a bottle of fonds a very inexpensi d’Artichauts, and drain them free from the Entree liquor they were preserved in, dust lightly with a little spiced pepper, and reserve on a clean plate. Place an oz. of fresh butter in a clean enamelled iron saucepan, and as soon as it oils add the artichokes and saute'e till very hot. Then take out quickly, drain on clean blotting paper, and fill the centre of each with a little potted partridge, sprinkle thickly with fried bread-crumbs, place each one on a fried crouton, make hot in a quick oven for166 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Chicken with Olives five or six minutes, and serve at once. Two of thefonds should be allowed to each person as they are rather small. Any kind of game best liked may be used in place of the partridge indicated, pheasant being particularly nice. Poulet aux Olives is a very delicious and uncommon entree, but if oil is used in the place of butter when cooking it, very great care must be taken to drain it till perfectly dry, or the delicate flavour of the dish will be completely spoilt. Take a chicken trussed as if for roasting, dust it lightly with spiced pepper, and reserve on a plate till needed. Place two ozs. of fresh butter, or half a gill of oil, whichever is most convenient, in a clean enamelled iron stew-pan. As soon as it oils, or in the case of oil, reaches boiling point, add a clove of garlic, notched, in order to allow the juice to escape, a large table-spoonful of bread-crumbs, and the chicken. Fry carefully for from fifteen to twenty minutes, basting all theENTREES 167 time, and shaking frequently in order to avoid burning. At the end of the time withdraw the stew-pan to the side of the fire, or place it in the oven, continuing the basting process and taking care that the bread-crumbs coat the chicken well. When thoroughly cooked, remove the bird to a hot dish, having first drained it carefully as directed; then pour off all the grease from the remaining bread-crumbs and remove the garlic. Add to the residue of the gravy an oz. of glaze, a tea-spoonful of lemon juice, a heaped tea-spoonful of red currant jelly, and a gill and a half of good stock or gravy. Make very hot, then add a dozen olives farcis. Make hot again, garnish the chicken with straw potatoes, and if liked Brussels sprouts or spinach. The glaze may be bought for fivepence an oz. at any good grocer’s, and the olives farcis are to be had in bottles costing from one shilling to one shilling and sixpence. If the basting and draining are carefully attended to this dish168 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Pheasant, Teal, Ptarmigan, etc., cooked after the same recipe is bound to be a success, but if the slightest portion of grease is allowed to remain behind, the flavour will be spoilt. Pheasant is excellent treated after this recipe, and so too is black game, ptarmigan or partridge. Hazel hen or guinea fowl may also be cooked in the same manner; while even a rabbit is amenable to it. Widgeon and teal are also suitable, but with these plain olives should be used in place of the olive farcis indicated in the recipe. Wild duck, too, may be treated in the same manner, but in this case a few finely chopped red chillies should be added for the better- ment of the sauce. Ordinary olives, or the olives farcis indicated in the recipe may be used at discretion, but owing perhaps to the strong flavour of the duck the ordinary (i.e. unstuffed) olives, I am inclined to think, give the best results. With wild duck a wine-glassful of cooking port, and a few grains of cayenne are a great improvement to the sauce.CHAPTER VII Sweets One of the first things the self-taught cook must set herself to master is the art of pastry making. It is just as easy to make good pastry as it is to make bad, and moreover it gives not one whit more trouble. Very successful and really economical puff pastry may be made by following this recipe. Place a pound of self-raising flour on a delicately clean pastry board. Add to it a pinch of salt. Make a little well in the middle, mix the white of an egg whisked to a light froth (not a stiff froth) with the juice of a lemon, first freed from pips and carefully strained, and half a tea-cupful of cold water. Mix this in with the flour, using two silver knives or two flat jam spoons, not the hands How to make Puff Pastry170 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING How to handle the Paste to mix it. Add a little more water according to requirement; some flour will take up more water than others. Mix to a light but not a wet paste. Then roll out once upon the board. Take half a pound of fresh butter, and squeeze it out flat with the hands, as thinly as possible to the size of half the square of pastry. Then lay it upon the pastry, and double the other half over. Roll out once. Double it again the reverse way, and roll out again. Double again and roll out again. Then leave it in a cool corner of the larder for at least an hour. Roll out twice again and let it rest for another hour. Roll out twice again and leave for another hour. Roll out twice again, and it should be ready for use, i.e. the butter all mixed in, and the paste of a deep yellow hue. Once it is finished, it should be rolled out as little as possible, only as is actually necessary. When making puff paste bear in mind, first, that the hands should be cool; second, that the paste must be handled as little as possibleSWEETS 171 with the hands and as lightly as possible; third, that when giving it the various turns, it must be rolled as lightly as possible. It is folly to try and make puff paste as some cooks do, by thumping the rolling pin down as if they were beating a carpet; true success in making puff pastry only comes with practice, but if the foregoing recipe be followed, good, light pastry should be attained at the very first attempt. To make a really good short crust suitable for everyday or nursery use try the following recipe :— Take a pound of well dried and sifted self- How to make raising flour, and mix with it a good pinch of salt and an oz. of sifted sugar. Take six ozs. of clarified beef dripping, and rub it well into the flour, then mix with tepid water as lightly as possible but very thoroughly; use a knife for the mixing process, but finish with the hands. Roll out in the usual manner, and take care to use the rolling pin as lightly as possible. For a Rich Short Pastry the following172 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Rich short recipe answers admirably: Take six ozs. of Paste well dried and sifted self-raising flour. Add to it a pinch of salt and an oz. of sifted sugar. Then rub in four ozs. of fresh butter with the tips of the fingers. Next add the well-beaten yolk of a large egg, and, when this has been well mixed in sufficient water to make a stiff paste, it should be rolled at once, and it will then be ready for use. Clarified beef dripping may be used in place of butter if expense is an object, but the butter will be found to give the best results. Note that when using dripping for making pastry that the dripping must first be thoroughly clarified. It is no use trying to make successful pastry with “dirty” dripping, i.e. dripping that is full of black specks. Sweet Puff To make a successful Sweet Puff Paste French in the French fashion try this recipe: Take Rtcipe a pound of self-raising flour. Add to it a pinch of salt and six ozs. of sifted sugar. Mix it very thoroughly. Then add to itSWEETS 173 the whites of two large eggs whisked to a light, not a stiff froth, and nearly half a pint of water. Mix all well together, using a silver knife for the purpose, until it is quite smooth. Divide the paste into two equal portions, and roll them out to the thickness of about quarter of an inch. Take half a pound of fresh butter, and press it out until it is nearly the size of the square of paste. Place it between the two pieces of paste, and press the edges together so that the butter cannot come through. Then roll it out to its utmost limit. Next double up the four corners of the paste to the centre, double the pastry in two, dust the rolling pin well with flour, and roll the paste out two or three times. Place it in a cool corner of the larder, and leave for an hour. Then give it one fold. Roll it out again. Let it rest for half an hour, and it will be ready for use when required. Note that it is important that in hot weather the paste should be kept in a very cool place. If the174 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING larder is not a good one, i.e. cool and well ventilated, the paste should be kept upon ice while it is resting between the turns; failing this, fill a basin with cold water and rest the plate with the paste upon this. A marble slab is by far the best for making pulf pastry on, but it is rather an expensive culinary luxury to buy. Yet another well known method of making puff paste is as follows. The self-taught cook may be advised to try them all, and then to stick to the special recipe which she finds gives the best result in her own case. Special Puff PuFF PASTE, SPECIAL. Rub four OZS. of PaStry salt butter into a pound of well dried and sifted self-raising flour. Then add to it as much cold water as will make it a light soft dough; it must not be a wet dough on any account. Roll it out once, then give it at least half a dozen folds. Roll it out once more almost to the full size of the pastry board. Take twelve ozs. of butter and divide itSWEETS 175 up into tiny pieces. Spread it on one half of the paste, double the other half over it, and press the edges well together in order to keep the butter in. Then roll it out and fold it five times. Place on a plate and leave in a cool corner of the larder for an hour. Then roll it out again, and give it three or four folds. Let it rest for an hour, and it will then be ready for use. To be able to make Rice Paste for fruit pies and tarts really well is a valuable accomplishment. The following is a reliable recipe:— Take half a pound of ground rice. Add Rice Paste to it a pinch of salt, half a tea-spoonful of baking powder, and an oz. of sifted sugar. Mix, and then rub in as lightly as possible four ozs. of butter. Add just sufficient cold water to mix to a paste. Roll out once, and dust lightly with flour. Then flatten out a quarter of a pound of butter. Place it on one half of the paste, and double the other half over, pinching the sides tightly together176 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Tourte a la Chinoise in order to prevent the butter escaping. Then roll out three or four times. Dust lightly with sifted sugar, and roll out again to the size required. Cover the tart or pie. Glaze the top with white of egg and sifted sugar, and bake in a moderately hot oven. Note that this crust which is used, as a rule, exclusively for fruit tarts or pies should be eaten as hot as possible. It should therefore be sent to table straight from the oven. An apricot or strawberry tart with a rice crust served with Devonshire cream is as great a dainty as the heart of man or woman could require. Apropos of apricots, and while we are on the subject of puff paste, a “Tourte A la Chinoise ” is one of the nicest sweets it is possible to make. Take a fluted pie dish, or a large shallow cake tin, and line it with some thinly rolled puff paste. Bake very lightly in a quick oven. Meanwhile, drain the syrup from a pound of preserved ginger. Place it in aSWEETS 177 clean stew-pan, and add to it a gill ot rum and a gill of cream, or else a gill and a half of custard made with a single egg, the yolk and white together, to nearly half a pint of milk, and sweetened to taste. Add half a pound of dried apricots, which have first been soaked for twenty-four hours, and simmer very gently until cooked. Note great care must be taken that the syrup, etc., does not reduce. As soon as the apricots are quite tender, add to them half a pound of preserved ginger cut into tiny pieces, and make very hot. Then use to fill the tart. Pour the thickened syrup over the whole and cover the tart with a meringue paste. Place in a moderate oven, and bake to a pale golden brown hue. Then take out and serve at once. For the Meringue Paste proceed as follows: Whip the whites of two large eggs or three small ones to a stiff froth with a pinch of salt and a few drops of lemon juice. When quite stiff add sifted sugar to taste, and a few drops of essence V MA Norwegian Recipe 178 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING of vanilla, and use as directed in the fore- going recipe. If liked, greengages or prunes may be substituted for the apricots indicated. When in a great hurry a very nice tart of this description may be made by using the whole fruit (only) from a jar of whole straw- berry jam, and making it hot in the ginger syrup together with the ginger cut small. Pudding A la Norvegienne Equally nice, in a rather different way, is “ Pudding a la Norvegienne.” Rub a pound of red currants through a hair sieve, and reserve in a clean basin. Peel, core, and slice thinly a pound and a half of apples.. Place a pound of loaf sugar in a clean enamelled iron stew-pan. Add to it the sieved currants and apples, and bring gently to the boil. Continue to boil until the apples are quite tender, but do not allow the syrup to reduce. Then add by degrees, and stirring all the while, a tea-cupful of bread- crumbs and the yolks of two well-beatenSWEETS 179 eggs. Mix very thoroughly and add half an ounce of clarified butter; then use to fill a greased pie dish. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth; add to it a few drops of lemon juice and sifted sugar to taste, and pile up as high and as lightly on the top of the pudding as possible. Bake in a moderate oven until the meringue is of a golden hue, then serve. This pudding is equally good cold. Charlotte de Pommes A la Francaise Take four ozs. of Savoy biscuits or Apple Charlotte in sponge fingers and split them. Butter a the French plain tin mould very thickly, then dip each split cake lightly into oiled butter and use them to line the mould, both bottom and sides, in such a manner that they overlap each other. Have ready about a pound of very stiff apple puree. Pour it into the mould, place some more split sponge fingers on top, so as quite to cover the puree, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Turn outi8o COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Another way carefully, and serve with whipped cream handed separately. The puree of apples is made as follows: Take a pound and a half of apples, peel, core and slice them thinly; place eight ozs. of sugar in a clean saucepan, and add to it an oz. of butter and half a gill of water. Bring very gently to the boil; directly it boils add the apples, and continue to simmer slowly until thoroughly cooked; then take out, rub through a fine wire sieve, add to the pulp thus obtained a few drops of vanilla, and use as above directed. Note that an excellent and slightly less expensive sweet may be made by using the tiny rolls, known to confectioners as u Floren- tines,” in place of the Savoy biscuits or sponge fingers. These Florentines cost but a halfpenny each, and when bought should be cut into three lengthwise through the middle and then used. Slices of ordinary bread, cut not quite a quarter of an inch thick and to the breadth of the Savoy181 SWEETS biscuits, may also be used if liked, and if economy has to be very strictly studied. Another delicious sweet in which apples play the principal part is Porcupine de Pommes. Peel and core three pounds of apples, all Apple as nearly of a size as possible; place a pound the Frenfh - . , , , fashion of sugar in a large stew-pan ; add to it not quite half a pint of water, and bring gently to the boil. Directly it boils add the apples, and simmer very slowly until quite cooked, but take great care that they do not lose their shape. When done lift them out gently with an egg slice. Fill each apple with a little sieved strawberry jam, and arrange them in a compote dish as nearly as possible in the shape of a hedgehog. Mean- while peel, core, and slice thinly three pounds of apples. Add them to the syrup in which the other apples were cooked, and simmer very slowly until thoroughly tender, then rub through a fine wire sieve. Use the puree thus obtained to fill all the interstices182 cookery and housekeeping a Cold Dish between the whole apples. Separate the whites from two eggs and whip them to a stiff froth, with a pinch of salt, a few drops of lemon juice, and sifted sugar to taste. Note the latter must be added very slowly, after the eggs have become a stiff froth. Then spread quite smoothly over the apples, and dust thickly with sifted sugar. Have ready half an oz. of blanched sweet almonds, cut into the thinnest possible strips, stick them all over the sweet, in as nearly as possible the manner of porcupine quills, then bake in a moderate oven until the meringue and almonds are of a pale fawn colour; take out and serve at once. If liked whipped and sweetened cream, flavoured with vanilla, or custard sauce made with two eggs to the pint of milk, may be handed separately with this sweet. Note that if left till cold it forms a very dainty dish for a supper or supper party menu. Note also that if the syrup used in cooking the first lot of apples has materiallySWEETS 183 reduced another eight ozs. of sugar and half a gill of water should be added to it and boiled up before the second set of apples is added. If proper care has been taken, how- ever, to cook the apples very slowly the first amount of syrup should prove quite ample for all. Meringue de Pommes A la Reine.— Take sufficient ripe apples to weigh two pounds when prepared, and peel, core and slice them very thinly. Place eight ozs. of sugar in a small clean stew-pan, add to it four ozs. of fresh butter, and bring very gently to the boil. Add rather better than half a tumblerful of rum or brandy and the apples. Simmer very slowly until cooked. Then drain on a hair sieve placed over a clean basin. Reserve the syrup and pile the apples in pyramidal form on to a dish. Whip the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth together with a pinch of salt and a few drops of lemon juice. Then add to it sifted sugar to taste, and use it to mask the Meringue Pommes184 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING apples, piling it as lightly and as high up as possible. Dust with sifted sugar, and arrange a trellis-work of thinly cut strips of angelica all over it. Place in a very moderate oven, and bake to a light golden hue. Serve with the following sauce handed separately: Place the syrup in which the apples were cooked in a small clean stew-pan. Add to it a wine-glassful of Marshall’s maraschino syrup, and the contents of a sixpenny jar of cream. Whisk all well together until very hot. Then use as before directed. If liked this sweet may also be served cold. In that case the syrup should be mixed with twice its bulk in whipped cream, and flavoured with a wine-glassful of the maraschino syrup. It should then be stood upon ice until required or failing ice the vessel containing it should be placed in a basin nearly full of cold water. Apple Souffle SOUFFLE DE PoMMES AU RlZ. Take a sufficient number of apples to yield a pound when peeled, cored and sliced. Place eightSWEETS 185 ozs. of sugar in a clean saucepan, add to it a gill of water and a table-spoonful of strained lemon juice. Bring gently to the boil. Then add the apples and simmer very slowly until thoroughly cooked. Meanwhile simmer an oz. of well washed rice in a little milk till tender, when quite done rub through a sieve. Reserve the syrup and rub the apples through the sieve. Then add them to the rice to- gether with a little very finely grated lemon peel and if required a little more sugar. Whip the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them very lightly into the other ingredients. Have ready a souffle mould, which has been rinsed out with boiling water and then well greased. Use the mixture to fill this and steam it in the usual way for twenty-five minutes. Turn out with great care. Pour the following sauce over and around it, and serve at once. Note that souffles of all kinds should always be served immediately or they will fall and be spoilt. For the sauce. Place the apple syrup in186 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING a dainty a small clean stew-pan. Add to it the yolks of the three eggs whisked till they froth, half a gill of milk, and a little essence of cinnamon. Stir all one way until the mixture thickens, but do not allow it to actually boil or it will curdle and be spoilt. Then serve at once. If the flavour of cinnamon is objected to, then a little essence of vanilla, ratafia or lemon may be used in its stead, or if expense is no object a liqueur-glassful of either Cura£oa, Maraschino, Noyeau or Kirsch. Here is another rice recipe :— Croquettes de Riz A la Portugaise sweet Well wash six ozs. of Carolina rice in Croquettes of , . . , Rice several waters. 1 hen place it in a clean stew-pan, and add to it four ozs. of sifted sugar, two ozs. of butter, half a stick of cinnamon, and a strip of lemon peel or a very little grated rind of lemon. Allow the butter just to melt, shaking the pan all the while in order to avoid burning. Then add a pint of milk, cover closely and bring gently to theSWEETS 187 boil. Draw the pan to the side of the fire and simmer slowly for rather more than three quarters of an hour, by which time the rice should have absorbed all the milk and become perfectly tender. Withdraw the pan from the fire and allow the mixture to cool a little. Then add the well beaten yolks of three eggs, and finally the whites, whisked to a firm froth, with a tiny pinch of salt and a very little lemon juice, mix lightly but very thoroughly, and then form into balls about the size of a small tangerine; make an aperture in each as carefully as possible, and insert a small spoon- ful of apricot jam or marmalade in the middle. Close up neatly, then dip in egg and bread- crumbs. Have ready a saucepan half full of boiling lard or clarified beef dripping from which the blue smoke is rising, drop the beignets in a few at a time and fry till of a light golden brown hue. Take out quickly, drain carefully on clean kitchen paper, dust sifted sugar over, and serve at once. Note that only a few must be fried at a188 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING How to fry time, or the fat will be chilled and the the Croquettes beignets as a consequence become greasy and spoilt. Note also that in every instance where beignets of any kind are to be fried the blue smoke must be actually rising and the fat quite still before the article in ques- tion is put in. I have I am aware mentioned this fact more than once before, but I do so again, because it is the neglect of this simple rule which is the cause of the soddened greasy fritters which one meets with at the average English table and nowhere else. Semolina Pudding is not as a rule a very fascinating dish, or one that appeals greatly to the grown-up palate, but Semolina Pud- ding a la Francaise is quite another thing. Here is the recipe itself:— Pudding de Semolina a la Francaise. Milk Place half a pound of the best semolina madeln the in a clean enamelled iron saucepan. Add Fashion t0 lt S1X ozs- °f sifted sugar, a pinch of salt,SWEETS 189 two ozs. of fresh butter, a table-spoonful of orange flower water, and half an oz. of crumbled ratafia biscuits or the same quantity of small macaroons (also crumbled). Mix all well together in the dry state, then stirring all the time add a pint of absolutely boiling milk. Continue to stir over a slow fire until the mixture thickens and leaves the sides of the saucepan. Then remove from the fire, and allow it to cool a little. Next add the well beaten yolks of three large eggs, or four small ones, and finally the whites of the eggs whisked to a firm froth. Use the mixture to fill a well-greased mould. Tie down with buttered paper and steam for an hour. Then turn out carefully, pour some ratafia sauce over and around it, and serve at once. For the sauce crumble an oz. of stale a Pudding ratafias. Then pound them in a mortar and rub them through a very fine sieve. Place in a clean small stew-pan, and mix them to a paste by means of a little cold milk or water. Add to them the yolks of one large egg (or two190 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING small ones) beaten till it froths, then the whites whisked to a very light froth, and by degrees half a pint of milk. Bring very gently to nearly boiling point, but do not allow it actually to boil or it will curdle and be spoilt. Then rub through a fine gravy strainer, previously dipped in hot water, over and around the pudding as directed. The foregoing sauce is also very nice with other steamed puddings, as for example rice or sago, or cabinet pudding, or a steamed cocoanut pudding, etc., etc. Pudding de Vermicelli A la Fran^aise ' a Vermicelli Place four ozs. of vermicelli in a clean die French stew-pan. Add to it a pinch of salt and four fashlon ozs. of sifted sugar. Pour on to it half a pint of boiling milk, and cook for two or three minutes over a moderate fire. Then add to it four ozs. of sieved apricot jam (i.e. sufficient jam must be used to yield a full four ozs. when sieved), the well-beaten yolks191 SWEETS of two large or three small eggs, and half an oz. of chopped pine kernels. Finally stir in the whites of the eggs, first whipped to a light froth, gently but thoroughly. Use to fill a well greased mould, tie down with buttered paper, and steam for an hour. Turn out carefully, and serve with apricot jam sauce poured over and around. Note if the pudding seems too stiff after the vermicelli has been cooked, a little more milk may be added at discretion. Pudding de Pain Bis A la Franchise This is a rather costly but exceedingly Brown Bread dainty sweet. Take three quarters of a fh^French pound of brown bread-crumbs (stale) andfash,on place them in a clean basin. Add to them six ozs. of sifted sugar, a little grated lemon peel, a very little powdered cinnamon, and a pound of glace cherries, first finely chopped. Mix all well together, then add half a pint of cream and the well beaten yolks of eight192 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING eggs; finally add the whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth; take a plain tin mould and grease it thickly. Then line it with split glace cherries, use the mixture to fill it, cover with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven. When done turn out care- fully ; dust with cinnamon sugar, pour some cherry sauce around the base, and serve at once. a quickly For the sauce proceed thus : Empty the made Pudding . Sauce contents or a od. jar or cherry syrup (obtain- able at any grocer’s) into a small clean stew- pan. Add to it a liqueur-glassful of kirsch, and an oz. of finely chopped glace cherries. Make very hot and use as directed. If the flavour of kirsch is disliked, a small glassful of benedictine or a little curaqoa or mara- schino may be used in its stead. Petits Choux Every cook should know how to make these, and really, when once mastered, the recipe is simplicity itself. How to make Petits ChouxSWEETS *93 Place half a pint of cold water in a small clean enamelled iron stew-pan. Add to it a pinch of salt, an oz. of sifted sugar, and not quite an oz. of fresh butter, and a small piece of rind of lemon. Note that the latter should first be carefully washed and dried before it is used. Bring almost but not quite to the boil, then take from the fire and dredge in by degrees sufficient well dried and sifted self-raising flour to make to a light creamy paste. Whisk with a wire egg whisk until perfectly smooth, then place on one side till cool. Next, add a small tea-spoonful of essence of vanilla and two well beaten eggs, one at a time. When of the right consistency the paste should drop from a spoon. Continue to whisk well until it does this, then add the white of an egg whisked to a firm froth with a tiny pinch of salt and a few drops of lemon juice. Leave in a cool place for about an hour; place sufficient lard or clarified beef dripping into a clean sauce- pan to half fill the pan when melted. Bring194 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING it slowly to boiling point, and as soon as it is quite still and the blue smoke rising drop in the mixture, a dessert-spoonful at a time, and fry till of a light golden hue. Take out quickly, drain carefully on clean kitchen paper, dust thickly with sifted sugar, and serve at once. Note, do not attempt to fry too many spoonsful at once, or the fat will become chilled and the Petits Choux as a consequence soddened and spoilt. Centri- fugal sugar may be used in place of the sifted sugar if liked. Petits Choux A la Cr^me Another Place half a pint of new milk in a clean recipe shghtiy enamepeci jron stew-pan, or if expense is no expensive 0^ject & gJJJ Qf and a gj]} an(J a half of cream may be used instead. Single, not double cream must be used. Add to it a good pinch of salt, a small tea-spoonful of butter, and an oz. of sifted sugar. Bring nearly to boiling point, then add just enough well dried and sifted self-raising flour toSWEETS *95 constitute a very light paste. Note that this must be done by degrees. Stir con- tinuously until the mixture leaves the sides of the saucepan. Remove b-om the fire and leave till cool. Then add, one at a time, three well beaten eggs, and a tea- spoonful of essence of vanilla or lemon, whichever is preferred. When of the right substance the mixture should drop slowly from a spoon. Place on one side and leave for an hour. Then add the whites of two eggs whisked to a firm froth with a pinch of salt and a few drops of lemon juice; stir it lightly yet thoroughly. Have ready a saucepan half full of boiling lard or clarified beef dripping from which the blue smoke is rising. Drop in the mixture from a wooden spoon, a very few spoonsful at a time, and fry till of a light golden hue. Take out quickly, drain carefully on clean kitchen paper. Dust thickly with sifted sugar, and serve at once. The two foregoing, when properly made,196 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING These sweets are most delicious sweets, but to be eaten must not be kept waiting in perfection they should be served the instant they have been drained free from the frying fat, as they will not bear waiting with even a small degree of equanimity. A little finely minced pistachio nut may be sprinkled over them at the same time as the sifted sugar, if liked, or cinnamon sugar may be used. La Dame La Dame Blanche.—This is a very Blanche 1 1 • pretty and at the same time a very easily achieved sweet. Separate the whites from the yolks of four large, or five small eggs. Whip the whites to a very stiff froth together with a tiny pinch of salt and a few drops of strained lemon juice. Then add sifted sugar to taste and a little essence of vanilla. Note that the sifted sugar must be added very slowly. Use the mixture to fill a well greased mould and steam in the usual way till set. Then turn out very carefully. Pour the following sauce around it and serve at once.197 SWEETS For the sauce whip the yolks of the eggs a custard till they froth, then add to them sifted sugar to taste and a pint of boiling milk. Mix well. Place in a clean enamelled iron stew- pan and stir till the mixture thickens and leaves the sides of the saucepan, but do not allow it actually to boil. Then add to it a few drops of essence of vanilla, and rub through a heated gravy strainer around the pudding as directed. An even better way to make the sauce, if time permits, is to place the ingredients in a large jug, stand the jug in a‘saucepan full of water, and bring it slowly to the boil, stirring all the time. Then finish as directed. Cold Sweets With regard to cold sweets, the path of How to make the self-taught cook is a comparatively easy C°ld Sweets one, as some of the very nicest entremets of this class are comparatively little or no trouble to achieve.198 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING I give one or two examples in proof of the truth of my words. Creme de Bananes Banana Take a dozen large bananas and slice them Cream _ _ 0 thinly. Place in a compote dish and dust thickly with sifted sugar. Then add to them half a wine-glassful of brandy and mix thoroughly. Leave for a few minutes in order that they may soak up the brandy. Then add the contents of a 6d. jar of cream, sweetened to taste and flavoured with a little essence of vanilla. Mix and serve at once or leave upon ice until required. Even more simple is a Compote de Gingembre a la Chantilly a Compote of in spite of its self-assertive name. Take six Ginger 07S 0f preserved ginger, and cut it into neat squares. Heap these up pyramid fashion in the centre of a fancy dish. Then pour rather better than a gill of their own syrupSWEETS 199 over them. Whip the contents of a 6d. jar of cream with sifted sugar to taste. Flavour with a few drops of essence of vanilla. Mask the ginger with this, and serve at once, or else leave upon ice till needed. Creme de Pain aux Cerises Take from two to four ozs. (according to the number of people to be catered for) of fresh, but not new, brown bread-crumbs. Add to them a large wine-glassful of either cura^oa, maraschino, noyeau, chartreuse or kummel, whichever is best liked, and mix very thoroughly and quickly, so that all the crumbs may get flavoured before the liqueur is soaked up. Then mix in by degrees the contents of a is. jar of double cream, whipped and sweetened to taste. Mix very lightly, pile up rockily in the centre of a fancy dish. Decorate with glace cherries and a lattice-work of thinly cut strips of angelica. Serve at once or leave Cream of Cherry Bread200 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING upon ice till needed. Note that the cream must not be overwhipped, or it will become buttery, and practically unfit for use at all. Macedoine de Fruits a quickly Take half a dozen bananas, two or three Macedoine large ripe pears, a pound of grapes, a pound of strawberries, half a pound of red currants, and half a pound of white currants. Peel and slice the bananas and pears, and place them in a deep fancy bowl. Stalk the straw- berries and the red and white currants, and pinch each grape slightly in order that the juice may run. Mix all well together, and add to them a small tumblerful of either whisky, rum or brandy. Then leave in a cool place for an hour in order that the juice may run freely. Next sweeten to taste, and cover the top with whipped and sweetened cream, or pour over the whole half a pint of very thick boiled custard. Serve at once with vanilla wafers handed separately, or else201 SWEETS leave upon ice till needed. When ice is unobtainable place the bowl within another bowl half full of cold water, and cover the top with a tightly strained damp serviette. Note these precautions are of course only necessary in the hot weather. Rather different is a Chartreuse de Fruits Take a pound of white grapes, half a pound of black grapes, half a dozen bananas, two or three large ripe pears, a couple of “lady” or dessert-apples, and from a pound to two pounds of ripe strawberries. Peel the bananas, apples and pears, and slice them thinly. Note that the apples and pears must of course be carefully cored. Stalk the strawberries and pinch each grape slightly in order that the juice may flow freely. Place all in a deep fancy china dish, or a silver bowl, and add to them sifted sugar to taste and a small tumblerful A Chartreuse of Fruit k202 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING of green chartreuse. Leave in a cool place for an hour in order that the juice may flow freely. Then add the contents of a gd. bottle of either raspberry or strawberry syrup. Mix very lightly yet thoroughly, and serve with whipped and sweetened cream handed separately. If chartreuse is not liked any other liqueur preferred may be used in its stead, but chartreuse is generally used. Note, too, that the addition of sifted sugar is not necessary except in the case of those possessing a very sweet tooth, as the syrup is quite sweet enough for all ordinary tastes. When possible the addition of a slice or two of pine apple, peeled and cut into tiny strips, is a very great improvement to this entrement, and in this case pine apple syrup should be used in preference to any other. Both the foregoing sweets may be achieved with a variety of any fruits in season. The recipe as it now stands being of course only possible in summer. Another very nice summer recipe isSWEETS Bavaroise aux Fraises Rub a pound of ripe strawberries through a Bavarois of r 1 Strawberries a fine wire sieve or a masher. Add to the pulp thus obtained 3 ozs. of sifted sugar and half an oz. of gelatine, first dissolved in a gill of boiling milk or cream, and then left till cool. Next add half a pint of well whipped cream, or half a pint of rich custard made with the yolks of the eggs only. Whisk all well together, then stir in the whites of two eggs whisked to a firm froth, and use the mixture to fill a well greased mould. Place in rough ice till set. Yet another and perhaps slightly improved Another method is to add 2 ozs. each of chopped glace cherries and candied peel or angelica to the other ingredients, but this of course is a matter for individual taste to decide. Creme au Chocolat Soak half an oz. of the best gelatine in a a Cream of pint of milk for at least half an hour. Then chocolate204 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING serve. add to it 2 ozs. of grated vanilla chocolate and 2 ozs. of sifted sugar. Mix all together and place in a perfectly clean rather wide- mouthed jug, and put the jug into a deep saucepan nearly full of hot water. Bring the water to the boil, and let it continue boiling during the whole of the time. Stir the cream for full twenty minutes, then pour into a basin, and continue to stir till the mixture is cool. Use it to fill a mould which has been well rinsed out in cold water, and leave in a cold place, or imbed in rough ice till set. Turn out carefully, decorate with whipped and sweetened cream, and205 CHAPTER VIII Savouries The art of the savoury is another of the The Art of . Savoury things which may be easily acquired by the making self-taught cook, and indeed once she can achieve a fried crouton of the requisite golden brownness and crispness all savouries are possible unto her. The very simplest form of savoury is the best to commence with. “CROOTES D’ANCH01S,”and CRO{jTES AUX Anchovy Crevettes, being fair examples. For the first, stamp out a sufficient number of rounds from a slice of stale bread by means of a small fancy pastry cutter; fry these, a few at a time, in a bath of fat, i.e. a saucepan Croutes aux half full of either lard or clarified beefCrevaes dripping from which the blue smoke is206 cookery and housekeeping actually rising. When of a golden brown colour take out, drain quickly on clean kitchen paper. Spread each with anchovy paste. Dust with cayenne, add a tiny squeeze of lemon juice. Make hot for a few minutes in the oven, and serve as hot as possible. For Croutes aux Crevettes fry the rounds of bread until of a golden brown hue. Take out, drain, and spread thickly with shrimp paste. Have ready twopenny worth of picked shrimps which have been sauteed in a little butter with a few drops of lemon juice until very hot. Pile upon top of the crusts. Dust with a little cayenne, make very hot, and serve at once. Croutes with For CroOtes aux Laitances.—Fry some herring roes . long finger strips of bread to a golden hue, take out, drain, and spread with some potted cod’s roe. Have ready some herring roes which have been cooked in a little butter and lemon juice. Arrange a roe upon each finger crouton; dust with cayenne. Make hot in the oven and serve at once. If theSAVOURIES 20 7 potted roe is not obtainable, the herring (or mackerel) roes may be used alone, but the best form of this savoury is as I have indicated in the recipe. CroCttes de Laitances A L’Indienne Take the hard roes from six herrings, croutons with cook them in a little butter and lemon juice hard roes and then place them in a mortar, add to them half an oz. of butter, a tea-spoonful of English mustard, rather better than a tea-spoonful of French mustard, and salt to taste. Pound all well together until the mixture becomes a paste. Then season highly with black pepper and a very little grated nutmeg. Make very hot, pile upon some fried croutons, dust with cayenne and serve. Let it be noted that this a very favourite savoury with the average man. For Cro£ttes au Gibier.—Take the re- Croutes au mains of any cold cooked game. Free it from Glb'er skin and bone, etc., and chop it very finely.208 cookery and housekeeping Season highly with black pepper, salt, and a very little grated nutmeg. Place a bit of butter about the size of a walnut in a stew- pan, and as soon as it melts add to it an oz. of chopped mushrooms, and fry for a minute. Then add the game and make very hot, have ready a sufficient number of fried croutons, pile the mixture upon these, dust with cayenne, add just a tiny squeeze of lemon juice to each, make very hot in the oven, and serve at once. CroOtes A l’Hollandaise A Fish Savoury Take the brown meat from a dressed crab, add to it pepper and salt to taste and reserve. Have ready a sufficient number of fried croutons, allowing one for each person, pile the mixture upon these, dust very thickly with grated Parmesan cheese. Add a little cayenne and a squeeze of lemon juice. Make very hot in a quick oven and serve at once. Note that fried squares of bread should be used for this savoury in preference to rounds.209 SAVOURIES Yet another and even nicer variation on An American Savoury the above are CroCtes A l’Americaine.— Take the brown meat from a lobster. Chop it finely, and mix with it a tea-spoonful of French mustard, a tea-spoonful of English mustard, a few drops of strained lemon juice, and an oz. of grated Parmesan cheese. Mix all well together and make hot in a sauce- pan with a bit of butter about the size of a walnut. Have ready some small neatly cut squares of fried bread, allowing one for each person, pile the mixture upon these, dust each with a little cayenne pepper, make very hot in the oven, and serve at once. Any cheese preferred may be used in lieu of Parmesan. A very dainty vegetarian savoury may be achieved with mushrooms. It is called CroCftes aux Champignons Clean four ozs. of mushrooms in the usual a vegetarian manner, i.e. with a bit of flannel and a little Sa'ouiy2io COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING serve. salt. Chop them neatly. Place an oz. of butter in a clean enamelled iron stew-pan. Directly it oils add the mushrooms, and fry for five or six minutes. Have ready some squares of golden brown buttered toast, allowing one for each person. Pile the mushrooms on these, sprinkle thickly with grated cheese, Gruyere or Parmesan for pre- ference, dust with a little cayenne. Make hot in a quick oven, and serve at once. Of cold savouries there is practically no end ; one of the nicest of these is Croutes Croutes a la Romaine.—For this have a la Romaine . „ . . r r • i 1 r ready a sufficient number of fried rounds of bread, allowing one for each person. Spread these with cream cheese, York cream or Pommel for preference. Take some Roman artichokes and free them carefully from their preserving liquor, then drain on clean blotting paper. Place one on each of the rounds of bread. Sprinkle with some finely minced capers. Add a dust of cayenne and2 I I SAVOURIES Yet another nice cold savoury may be made thus :— Cro£ttes A la Royale.—Take the hard Croutes a la Royale boiled yolks of three eggs, a table-spoonful of anchovy paste, and a table-spoonful of fresh butter. Work all well together, season highly with pepper and salt, and add a few drops of lemon juice. Have ready some rounds of fried bread, allowing one for each person. Pile the mixture on to these, dust with cayenne and serve. Another variation on the above may be made by halving the eggs, and then filling the whites with a mixture made as described. In this case the savoury is know as “GEufs aux Anchois.”CHAPTER IX Ices, Iced Puddings, and Cream Ices of Various Kinds The average self-taught cook is, as a rule, shy of attempting anything in the nature of ice pudding or ices, but, in reality, these are simplicity itself compared with many of the dishes she would attempt without a qualm. Nowadays, too, when a really good freezer can be bought for so small a sum as 4s. 1 id. or 5s. 1 id., there is no reason why in the hot weather a dainty ice pudding or a different ice should not be served at dinner every evening, if your taste incline that way. Of course, ices made with pure cream are expensive, but then those made with frozen custard made with milk, or milk and cream mixed, are cheapness and economy itself;213 ICES and so, too, are water ices, which, by the way, many people prefer to those made with cream. The rough ice for freezing is not at all expensive to buy, three or four pennyworth being as a rule sufficient for freezing a pint of ice, sixpenny worth for a quart, whilst a sixpenny bag of freezing salt will last quite a long time. If you purchase one of the freezers above mentioned, you will find that the fullest directions as to use are pasted upon the side; but, for the benefit of those to whom ice-making is at present an unknown art, I would impress that in order to make ice successfully, one half of its weight in freezing salt must be allowed to the broken ice. Note that it is impossible to freeze with ice alone. The freezing salt must be added also. I am not an advocate for the ice powders which are now sold on every hand for the purpose of making ices, as I consider these to be vastly inferior to the home-made articles ; and, moreover, the powders require practically2 14 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING quite as much “making” as would a pint of boiled custard flavoured with essence of vanilla or lemon, which latter, by the way, when frozen forms a delicious ice. Other rules to be observed when ice-making are firstly, that the freezer must be kept scrupu- lously clean, and also the moulds, if it is your intention to mould the ice or ices in question. The importance of this cannot be over- estimated. Secondly, be very careful to add only exactly the amount of sugar as set down in the recipes. Too much sugar will prevent the ice from freezing properly, whilst too little sugar will cause it to freeze in a hard, rocky fashion. Thirdly, note that the un- frozen mixture should not be moulded; it should be frozen to the consistency of a very stiff batter, and then moulded. Remember, too, that when making custard for ordinary ices, or for a frozen custard sauce, the custard should on no account be allowed to boil. It may reach boiling point, but if allowed to pass this, it will curdle and be completelyICES 215 % spoilt. Here are some recipes for very simply made and inexpensive ices :— Cr&me Glacee a la Vanille Well whisk two eggs together, the yolks first and then the whites. Add to them \ lb. of sifted sugar, and, by degrees, a pint of new milk. Place in a clean enamelled iron stew-pan over a slow fire, and whisk continuously until nearly boiling. Then add to it £ oz. of the best leaf gelatine. Continue to stir until the gelatine has thoroughly dissolved. Then strain through a hair sieve, add a few drops of essence of vanilla, and place in the freezer. Work until three parts frozen, and then, if it is to be moulded, empty it into the mould, pressing it down carefully. Place a piece of white paper between the ice and the cover in order to prevent sticking, and leave in the freezer until completely frozen. Turn out carefully, and serve with wafer biscuits, handed separately.216 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING There is a still cheaper variation on the above recipe ; though, needless to say, it does not give quite such satisfactory results. Mix together \ oz. of corn flour with \ lb. of sifted sugar. Place it in a clean enamelled iron stew-pan, and add to it by degrees a pint of milk. Bring gently to the boil, stirring continuously in order to avoid burning, and continue to stir until the mixture leaves the sides of the sauce-pan ; then add the well- whisked yolk of an egg, and finally the white, also lightly whisked. Stir for a few minutes longer, but do not allow it to again reach boiling point. Next remove it from the fire and allow it to cool a little, then add a few drops of either essence of vanilla, essence of lemon, or essence of ratafia; rub through a very fine strainer or a hair sieve; place in the freezer, and finish as directed in the foregoing recipe. For a genuine cream ice—and few things are nicer—the following extremely simple recipe will be found to give very good results indeed:—ICES 217 Cr£me Glac£e.—Whip a pint of double cream slightly, then add to it by degrees l lb. of castor sugar, and a few drops of either essence of lemon, essence of vanilla, essence of ratafia, or a liqueur glassful of either cura9ao, benedictine, maraschino, menthe verte, noyeau, or old rum. Mix thoroughly; freeze till dry, and then serve piled up high in the centre of an ice or a compote dish. If liked, the base may be decorated with a fruit salad, a macedoine, or a chartreuse of mixed fruits, or, if preferred, with strawberries and cream, or raspberries and cream, which ever is best liked. Here is another recipe, but a slightly more expensive one by reason of the preponderance of eggs required for its production. Whip the yolks of eight eggs until they froth. Then add to them £ lb. of sifted sugar, and, by degrees, half a pint of milk and half a pint of cream. If the latter is thought to add unduly to the expense, all milk may be used in its stead. Place in a218 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING clean stew-pan over a slow fire, and bring it just to the boil, stirring continuously all the time in order to avoid burning, until of the consistency of very thick cream. Note that it must on no account be allowed actually to boil, or it will curdle, and be completely spoiled. Then remove it, and allow it to cool a little. Add a few drops of either essence of vanilla, lemon, cherry, or ratafia, or a tiny liqueur glassful of curaqao or maraschino. Mix and rub through a hair sieve or a very fine gravy strainer. Then place in the freezer, and, if to be moulded, freeze till three parts frozen. Mould and finish off as described in the above recipes. The most delicious cream ices may be made with jams when the fresh fruit is unobtainable. Here are one or two ex- amples : Bring a pint of new milk to the boil, and then add to it the well-beaten yolks of eight large eggs; mix well, and return to a clean enamelled iron stew-pan, place on a slow fire, and stir continuously until it reachesICES 219 boiling point. Then remove and add to it a tea-cupful of strawberry jam. Mix well, rub through a very fine hair sieve, and allow the mixture to cool. Next place it in the freezer, and when just about half frozen add to it half a pint of whipped cream, sweetened with a heaped tea-spoonful of sifted sugar ; add also a few drops of cochineal or carmine colouring. Mould and finish in all other respects as directed in the foregoing recipe. Turn out very carefully, and serve with strawberry wafers handed separately. A still more quickly achieved ice, albeit the cream renders it rather more expensive, perhaps, than need be, is prepared thus: Take a tea-cupful of strawberry jam and rub it through a fine hair sieve; add to it the juice of a lemon, first freed from pips and carefully strained. Mix well, and then add a pint of double cream. Place in the freezer, and freeze and finish as directed in the fore- going recipes. Creme Glacee aux Fraises. — Most220 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING delicious cream ices, too, can be made with the aid of the varied fruit syrups, which can be bought so cheaply, from 6d. to 9d. a bottle and upwards, at any of the good grocers or at the stores. Whip the yolks and whites of two large eggs to a stiff froth, then add to them a little better than half a pint of new milk, whisk well together, place in a clean enamelled iron stew-pan over a slow fire, and stir gently until it comes to the boil. Then remove and allow it to cool a little. Add to it four large table-spoonsful of strawberry syrup, mix thoroughly, and strain through a hair sieve or a very fine strainer. Place in the freezer and freeze till dry. Then turn out and serve piled high on a fancy dessert paper, and with strawberry wafers handed separately. Another even quicker and less costly mode of producing practically the same thing is thus: Add four large table-spoonsful of strawberry or raspberry syrup to half a pint of new milk, then place in the freezer and221 ICES freeze till three parts frozen. Then mould, or else finish freezing, and serve piled high on a fancy dish, and with strawberry wafers handed separately. Sugar is unnecessary in these two latter recipes. Ices for Dinner-Parties A somewhat expensive but very delicious ice is Creme au Gingembre. It is made thus: Take \ lb. of preserved ginger, that pre- served in syrup, not the glace variety. Drain it and cut it into neat square pieces. Place these in a mortar, and pound them to a pulp. Then rub through a hair sieve. Add to the pulp the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs, 3 ozs. of sifted sugar, and a glass of ginger wine. Mix all well together, and then add a pint and a half of double cream. Mix again, and put the mixture in a double sauce-pan. Place the pan on the fire and stir gently all one way until the mixture thickens, then strain through a hair sieve, place in the freezer, and222 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING freeze in the usual way. It may be moulded when three parts frozen, or served piled high on a fancy dessert plate or doyley. Note that if expense has to be studied milk may be substituted for cream, but the latter gives by far the best results. Another delicious ice cream is made thus:— Creme a l’Italienne.—Place a pint and a half of fresh milk in a clean enamelled iron stew-pan. Add to it a stick of cinnamon, a little strip of lemon peel, and by degrees 6 ozs. of sifted sugar. Mix well, and then add the well-beaten yolks of eight large or ten small eggs. Mix very thoroughly, place the pan on a slack fire, and stir slowly all one way until the mixture thickens. Take care, however, that it does not actually reach boil- ing point, or it will curdle and be spoilt. As soon as it thickens withdraw it from the fire and rub it through a hair sieve, then leave till cool. When cold, add thereto a wine- glassful of brandy, with which has been mixedICES 223 the juice of a large lemon first freed from pips and strained, and half a wine-glassful of either noyeau or noyeau syrup, whichever is preferred. Strain through a strainer, place in the freezer, and freeze in the usual manner. Serve piled high on a fancy dessert paper or doyley. If liked, this ice can also be moulded in the usual way, i.e. when three parts frozen. A very nice ice for children’s parties is Creme au Marmelade.—Take a large tea-cupful of orange marmalade and place it in a clean basin. Add to it the juice of two large oranges (when oranges are unobtainable lemons may be used in their stead), first freed from pips and carefully strained, and a wine- glassful of orange syrup. Mix all well together, and then add to the mixture a pint of boiled custard which has been made with- out sugar. Mix again, and rub all through a hair sieve. Place in the freezer, and freeze in the usual way. Serve piled high on a fancy dessert paper or doyley. This mixture, too, makes a very nice iced pudding for a224 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING dinner menu, but in the latter case, if possible, cream should be used in place of the custard indicated in the recipe. Note, however, that it must not be sweetened, as the marmalade is quite sufficiently sweet in itself, and if too much sugar is added the ice will not freeze properly. Very nice, too, for a children’s party is a rice cream ice, which is made thus:— Creme de Riz.—Place a pint of fresh milk in a clean stew-pan. Add to it 4 ozs. of castor sugar, the peel, but not the pith, of a lemon, a little cinnamon, and two or three bay leaves. Simmer very slowly until the milk tastes strongly of the flavouring, but take care that it does not reduce. Mean- while mix 3 ozs. of ground rice to a creamy paste by means of a little cold milk. Then add, by degrees, the flavoured milk, stirring all the while. Return to a clean double sauce-pan, and bring very gently to the boil, stirring all the time. Continue to stir until the mixture leaves the sides of the sauce-pan.ICES 225 Then rub through a hair sieve into a clean basin, and leave till quite cold. When cool add to it a few drops of either essence of vanilla, ratafia, or lemon, whichever is best liked, and place in a freezer. When half frozen add to the mixture half a pint of double cream, which has been slightly whisked and sweetened to taste. If it is not desired to use cream, half a pint of milk, first sweet- ened to taste, should be added as soon as the mixture is sufficiently cool to permit of it. Note that it must be added by degrees, and should be first boiled and then allowed to cool before it is used. Cr£me de The.—This is a very fashion- able ice for afternoon or garden-parties, and, moreover, possesses the merit of being very easily made. Place 2 ozs. of tea in a small muslin bag. Put this in a tea-cup, and pour over it a gill of absolutely boiling water. Let it stand for five minutes, then add to it two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar. Wait until this has thoroughly dissolved, and226 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING leave till cold. Whip up a pint of cream until it froths slightly, then add to it 4 ozs. of sifted sugar and the cold tea. Mix thoroughly, place in the freezer, and, when three parts frozen, mould, and finish freezing in the usual way. Creme au Vin.—Wine ices are not so fashionable of late years as they used to be. Nevertheless, as they make a distinct variety from the usual fruit or nut ices, I give a single recipe for their production. The wine, of course, may be varied according to taste. Separate the yolks of ten eggs from the whites. Place the yolks in a basin, add to them a tiny pinch of salt and 4 ozs. of sugar. Whisk briskly for five minutes, then place them in a clean sauce-pan, and add to them a pint of either milk or cream, the latter, of course, for preference. Stir slowly over a slack fire until the mixture thickens, then withdraw, and leave till cool. When sufficiently cool, add to the mixture three glasses of hock, chablis, or champagne, or227 ICES any kind of white wine preferred, and the same amount of lemon syrup. Mix thoroughly, and place in the freezer. When three parts frozen add 2 ozs. of finely-chopped glace cherries, 2 ozs. of preserved ginger, also chopped, or 2 ozs. of chopped mixed glace fruits. Mix in lightly, yet thoroughly, and mould and finish in the usual manner. This too is a nice ice for garden-parties; or, if liked, when moulded, it may be served as an iced pudding. As I have said, the wine used may be chosen according to taste. It is usual, however, to select white wine. Port is sometimes used, but a light wine should be selected, as the very heavy varieties would not be suitable. Creme au Ratafia.—For those who like the somewhat pronounced flavour of ratafias there is no nicer ice, and it is not an unduly expensive one. Take 1 lb. of fresh ratafias, place them in a mortar, and pound to a powder, then rub them through a fine wire sieve. The big crumbs which remain on228 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING the top should be repounded in the mortar, and then rubbed through the sieve if they will not all go through the first time. Reserve on a clean plate until required. Well whisk three large eggs, and place them in a deli- cately clean enamelled iron stew-pan. Add to them 6 ozs. of sifted sugar, and a pint and a half of new milk. Place the pan over a slack fire, and stir slowly until the mixture thickens, then add it to the ratafia powder, mix all well together, and rub through a hair sieve. Add to the pulp a liqueur-glassful of curaqao. Mix again, place in the freezer, and then freeze in the usual manner. When three parts frozen, mould in the usual way, and finish as in the foregoing recipes. If liked, macaroons may be substituted for the ratafias indicated, and the ice would then be called Cr£me au Biscuit ; or wine biscuits may be used in the same manner. Select those flavoured with vanilla, if pos- sible, as these give by far the best results. Another very nice ice may be made by229 ICES using the remains of a stale sponge-cake. This should first be broken up into small pieces, and then rubbed through a very fine wire sieve. It is needless to pound it in a mortar, owing to the soft nature of the cake. Note, however, that a really stale cake should be selected. Creme de Bananes.—Peel six large ripe bananas and rub them through a sieve. Add to the pulp thus obtained the juice of two large lemons, first freed from pips and care- fully strained, and a glass of Curasao. Mix well, then add to the mixture a pint of double cream and \ lb. of sifted sugar. Mix again, and strain through a very fine strainer or a hair sieve. Place in the freezer, and, when rather more than half frozen, mould and finish as directed in the foregoing recipes. If liked, this ice need not be frozen, but can be served piled high on a fancy dish or a compote stand. Cr£me de Cassis.—This, too, is a delicious ice. Stalk 1 lb. of ripe black currants and place them in a clean enamelled iron stew-230 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING pan. Add to them 6 ozs. of sifted sugar, a tumblerful of water, and a few drops of either carmine colouring or cochineal. Bring gently to the boil, then take them off and rub them through a hair sieve into a clean basin. Add to them a pint of cream which has been pre- viously mixed with £ lb. of sifted sugar and a few drops of lemon juice. Mix lightly but thoroughly. Strain through a very fine gravy strainer into the freezer, and, when partly frozen, mould and finish as directed in the foregoing recipe. To make a red currant ice proceed exactly as indicated in the foregoing recipe, but use in addition from \ lb. to \ lb. of ripe raspberries, as this will ensure a better colour, and then, if not of quite the desired hue, a few drops of cochineal or carmine colouring may also be added. White currant ice is made in precisely the same way. Creme de Pain Bis (Brown-Bread Cream).—This is an excellent ice for a dinner-party, and, moreover, possesses the merit of being very quickly and easily made.231 ICES Take a Hovis loaf (it must be stale, but not too stale, or it will be unfit for use), and crumble sufficient to yield one pint of bread- crumbs. Place these in a clean basin, and add to them eight table-spoonfuls of maraschino or chartreuse. Mix thoroughly, and leave for half-an-hour. Then add to them a pint of either new milk or cream, the latter for preference. Mix again and freeze. When frozen, serve piled high on a fancy dessert- paper, and hand wafers separately. If liked, this ice may also be moulded. In that case it should be three parts frozen first, before being placed in the mould. Then finish as directed for the other ices. Where the flavour of maraschino is not liked, noyeau or benedictine may be substi- tuted for it, but as all these are very strong liqueurs indeed, it would be perhaps advisable to dilute them with half the amount of ordi- nary fruit syrup, such as orange or lemon, which will not destroy the flavour of the liqueurs in question.232 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING If the use of strong liqueurs is objected to, either on the score of expense or owing to temperance principles, I should like to say just a word in favour of Marshall’s liqueur syrups, which are sold in bottles, price is. each, and which may be obtained in a variety of flavours, the noyeau, cura9ao, kirsch and maraschino being particularly nice. These liqueurs are identical in flavour with the foreign liqueurs of the same name without the spirit, and, needless to say, as I have already quoted the price, they cost but a tenth of the price of the foreign article, whilst they give equally good, if not better, results. From personal experience I cannot speak too highly of them. To go on. Another delicious ice cream is Creme de Cerises.—Take i lb. of large ripe cherries, and stone them carefully in such a manner that none of the juice gets wasted. Then crack the stones and take out the kernels. Place the fruit and kernels on a plate and reserve. Place 3 ozs. of sifted233 ICES sugar in a clean enamelled iron stew-pan, add to it half a pint of water and the juice of a large lemon freed from pips and carefully strained; bring gently to the boil, add the cherries and kernels, and continue boiling for ten minutes. Next drain through a hair sieve into a clean basin, and reserve. Place the cherries, etc., in a mortar, and pound them to a stiff paste. Then add them to the syrup, together with a few drops of cochineal, by way of colouring. Add a pint of either sweetened milk, cream, or custard, whichever is most convenient, and a wine-glassful of kirsch. Mix and put through a hair sieve. Place in the freezer, and freeze in the usual way. If to be moulded, this must be done as usual when three parts frozen. Then turn out carefully and serve with wafers handed separately. Creme de Chocolat.—This is a very favourite ice with children, and is equally nice for a dinner-party or a supper or garden- party menu. Take f lb. of Cadbury’s vanilla234 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING chocolate and grate it into a clean enamelled iron stew-pan, add to it a gill of cold milk, and stir slowly over a slack fire until perfectly dissolved. Then add to this a pint of either sweetened milk or cream, or boiled custard. Mix thoroughly, strain through a hair sieve, place in the freezer, and freeze three parts. Then mould and finish off as before directed. Serve with vanilla or chocolate sugar wafers handed separately. Note that cream will give the best results for this ice, but that the use of custard is preferable to milk. A very quickly and cheaply made ice cream is coflfee cream, which is made thus:— Cr£me de Cafe.—Make a pint of very strong black coffee, strain through a fine piece of muslin or a serviette, and add to it 3 ozs. of castor sugar. Have ready a quart of boiled custard made with four eggs to the quart. Mix well together, then strain through a hair sieve, place in the freezer, and freeze till quite dry. Serve piled highICES 235 on a doyley or a fancy dessert paper. If liked, this ice may also be moulded. A very delicious variation upon the above may be made in the following manner: Take J lb. of freshly roasted coffee berries, place them in a small stew-pan, and make them very hot in the oven. Take care, how- ever, that they do not burn. Then add to them a pint of either boiling milk or cream. Place the pan containing them on a warm corner of the stove in order to keep very hot, but do not let it actually boil again. At the end of an hour strain it through a hair sieve, and add to it 3 ozs. of sifted sugar. Leave till perfectly cold, then place in the freezer and freeze in the usual manner. Serve piled high on a fancy dessert paper or a doyley. If liked, this ice also may be moulded. Some cooks add a small liqueur- glassful of benedictine to it, but this is a matter of choice. For those who are fond of the flavour of liqueurs there is nothing nicer than Creme236 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING au Curasao. Extract the juice from two very large oranges. Free it from pips, and strain it through a fine strainer into a clean basin. Add to it two large wine-glassfuls of cura9ao and i \ ozs. of sifted sugar. Mix thoroughly. Then add a pint of boiled custard, which has been made without sugar. Mix all well together, place in the freezer, and freeze in the usual way. Maraschino cream is also very nice. It is made thus :— Creme au Marasquin.—Slightly whip a pint of double cream, then add to it four wine-glassfuls of maraschino with which has been mixed the juice of a large lemon, first freed from pips and carefully strained. Mix all well together, and freeze in the usual manner. If cream is thought too expensive, custard made without sugar may be used in its stead, or even milk. Creme au Chartreuse is made in pre- cisely the same way by substituting chartreuse for maraschino, and Creme au Kummel is made by using two large wine-glassfuls237 ICES of kiimmel for the maraschino ; while Cr£me au Benedictine is made by adding two wine- glassfuls of benedictine to the cream custard or milk, as the case may be. Creme au Kirsh is made by adding a wine-glassful of kirsch to the cream, milk, or custard, whichever is used, but in this latter case the custard, or cream, or milk must first be sweetened to taste. Take care, how- -ever, that it is not oversweetened, as in the latter case the mixture will not freeze properly.NURSERY COOKERY 238 I. The Nursery Table The self-taught cook and housekeeper should bear in mind that too much care cannot be exercised when choosing the menus for the nursery table. True, the food chosen should be simple, but it should also be as appetising as possible, and, moreover, it must be the very best of its kind that means will permit. For it is better by far to confine a child to a strictly bread-and-milk and vege- tarian diet, than to give him fish, flesh, or fowl, that is even in ever so remote a degree tainted. Only the very freshest fish and poultry and meat should ever be given to the little ones. Tiny stomachs, be it borne in mind, are very delicate things, and what would not affect anNURSERY COOKERY 239 adult or a nearly grown-up child may render a “ tiny” very seriously ill indeed. Take that simple article, Beef Tea. In many houses the beef tea sent up to the nursery is nothing short of coloured water, and this is as often as not the result, not of meanness or stinginess, but of sheer ignor- ance. The mother knows nothing of cookery, and the cook, though well meaning, is almost as ignorant. Now, beef tea for little delicate children should be made with the utmost care, and cannot be cooked too slowly. Here is the recipe :— Free rather better than \ lb. of gravy-beef from fat. Then cut it into tiny squares, and place it in a wide-mouthed jar. Add a little over half a pint of water. Cover the jar, and place in a moderate oven. Stew very slowly for at least two and a half hours. Three hours would be better, but take great care that the liquor does not reduce, even in the smallest degree. Next, wring a cloth out very tightly in clean cold water. Strain the24o COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING beef tea through this into a clean saucepan. Make hot, add salt to taste, and send to table at once. This is an ideal recipe for beef tea for a very delicate child or person, when the stomach revolts at even the slightest suspicion of fat, but if for an ordinarily strong child, the straining process may be omitted, as the small amount of fat present will be likely to do more good than harm. Some people may perhaps think the fore- going recipe rather an extravagant one, but with this I cannot agree, as, in my estimation, watery beef tea is worse than useless, and had better not be given. Half a pint of water to the l lb. of beef are the proportions always used for my own nursery. Note, however, that the beef will afford a second boiling, which may be added to the stock-pot for its betterment, or will make very fairly good soup for the grown-ups. A nice way to thicken the above beef tea is by using a dessert-spoonful of Messrs Robinson’s barley flour. It should be mixed with a little241 NURSERY COOKERY cold water or cold stock, then added to the boiling beef tea, and stirred for six or eight minutes; it will then be ready to serve. Mutton Broth for the little ones should be made as follows :—Take 1 lb. of scrag end of neck of mutton, free it from all superfluous fat, and chop it into small pieces. Place these in a wide-mouthed jar. Add to them a pint of water. Place the jar in the oven and stew very slowly for at least two and a half or three hours, then strain through a hair sieve, and leave till cold. When cold strain through a very fine soup cloth, and all the fat will stay behind. Place the soup in a clean saucepan, thicken it with a tablespoonful of patent barley flour, and add salt to taste. Then serve at once. If the mutton broth is required in a hurry, it can be strained through a cloth previously wrung out in cold water, as described for beef tea, and should then be thickened in the ordinary way. Veal Broth, which is sometimes ordered Q V242 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING by the doctor for a delicate child, is made as directed for beef tea. The ordinary, not the very white, veal should always be selected for veal broth. Giblet Soup is excellent for children when ordinary chicken broth is out of the question by reason of its cost, and any poul- terer will gladly supply sufficient giblets to make at least a pint and a half of good broth for the sum of 6d. or 8d. Here is the recipe:— Take the giblets and wash them well in cold water. Then place them in a clean saucepan and add to them 2 ozs. of well washed rice or barley, whichever is preferred (tied up in a bit of muslin), and from a pint to a pint and a half of cold water. Place the pan on the fire and bring gently to the boil; remove any scum which may have arisen. Then add a wine-glassful of cold water. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer very slowly for three hours and a half, taking great care that the liquor does not reduce in the smallest243 NURSERY COOKERY degree. Then strain through a cloth, which has been wrung out in cold water, into a clean saucepan; add salt to taste. Make hot and serve at once. The foregoing are all recipes suited for quite tiny children just past the milk diet stage, but when they get a little older, say from two years onwards, a little vegetable by way of flavouring, say an onion or a little celery, may be cooked with the broth with advantage. Leeks, too, are good, and now and again a little carrot will do no harm, while Spanish onions are decidedly good, especially for children who are inclined to be very wakeful or who do not sleep well. Turnips, however, are to be avoided, as they often give rise to indigestion. Of course, it must be under- stood that a little of any of the vegetables named are only cooked in the soup; they must not be served in it, as in the majority of cases they would do positive harm to the child’s digestion.244 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING II. Nursery Table Solids intended for the nursery table should be every whit as carefully cooked as the fluids ; i.e. beef tea, mutton broth, veal and chicken broth, which I have already described and given recipes for. Great care, too, should be taken that they are not too underdone, unless the doctor has specially ordered very underdone meat to be given; there is one exception to this rule, however, and that is beef, since underdone beef is of peculiar value to anasmic children. Pork, of course, is an article of diet which should never be given to children under any circumstances, except in the form of bacon fat, or “ dip ” as the north country folks quaintly term it. As regards fish, soles, preferably slip soles, are by far the best kind of fish for the quite little ones. Brown or oily fish, as, for example, herrings, mackerel, salmon, etc., should never be given to children. When soles are un- obtainable or are beyond the purse, then245 NURSERY COOKERY plainly boiled whiting is the best substitute. While on the subject of fish, let it be noted that slip soles, or whiting, should be boiled in milk, in preference to water, when intended for the nursery table. If a basin of beef tea or mutton broth is to precede the fish, then the latter may with advantage be boiled in a little of the beef or mutton stock, since the milk following immediately upon the meat broth might prove upsetting to delicate little stomachs. To prevent dryness, a little of the broth or milk, whichever has been used in the cooking process, should be poured over the fish before it is sent to the table. A nice way to serve a sole for a little child of from two years old and upwards, is as follows:— Boil the sole till it is thoroughly done in either milk or stock. Then take out, remove the skin, free the fish very carefully from the bones, and with the back of a fork, mash it up lightly but thoroughly. Then add to it a dessert spoonful of bread crumbs (not new246 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING bread), and pour over it a little of the liquor in which it was boiled. Have ready a table- spoonful of lightly mashed potatoes, and mix it in with the fish and bread crumbs, and send to table at once. Potatoes for tiny children should always be prepared as follows:—Boil the potatoes until quite done, then rub them through a fine wire sieve ; return to a clean saucepan, add to them a wineglassful of absolutely boiling milk, or more, according to the quantity of potatoes and the number to be catered for. Beat up with a fork until all the milk has become absorbed and the potatoes are quite light, and then send to table at once. A little salt may be added to taste, but pepper should never be used for children of tender years, as it might inflame the coating of the stomach and set up serious illness. Whiting is exceed- ingly nice prepared as directed above, but it should be noted that underdone fish should never be given to children, or, for the matter of that, to grown-up people either, as it may,NURSERY COOKERY 247 and indeed, frequently does give rise to tape worm. The breast of a chicken (or a pheasant so long as the latter be fresh) constitutes a very nice dinner for a child just promoted to meat diet. It should be prepared like this: Free the breast from every particle of skin, then mince it very finely; pour over it a little of the natural gravy from the bird, add to it a small spoonful of plainly made bread sauce, i.e. sauce made without any seasoning save salt and perhaps a little onion flavouring, and a spoonful of mashed potatoes or sieved cauliflower. Mix all up together and send to table at once, adding a little more gravy if thought necessary. Pigeons roasted are sometimes given to children, but are not nearly so easily digested or so appetising as chicken or pheasant. Apropos of green vegetables, cauliflower is by far the best green food to give to a child of very tender years. Cabbages, sprouts, broccoli, etc., etc., should not be248 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING given as they all induce flatulency, and may give rise to a very severe attack of colic. Cauliflowers should be prepared as follows: First let the cauliflower soak in clear, cold, salted water for at least a couple of hours before it has to be cooked. Then remove all the outer and green leaves carefully, leaving only the white part. Boil this in the usual manner, taking care to overcook it rather than to undercook it. Then rub through a fine sieve into a basin. Place the pulp thus obtained in a clean stew-pan, add to it a bit of butter about the size of a small walnut, and a dessert spoonful of bread crumbs. Make very hot, beating all the time with a fork until it is quite light, then serve at once. A plate of sieved cauliflower, prepared as just directed, preceded by a basin of strong beef tea or mutton broth, thickened with Robinson’s barley flour, and followed by a milk pudding, forms an ideal dinner for a small child. If the special child in question is of a bilious turn, the butter may be omitted,NURSERY COOKERY 249 and a spoonful of the beef tea or mutton broth used in its stead. As regards onions, these, too, are veget- ables which form an important part of a child’s dietary once it has been promoted to the meat and vegetable stage. A puree of spring onions is not only a very nice dish, but a very healthy one for a small child. It is prepared thus: Take a couple of hand- fuls of spring onions, tip them carefully, and cut away most of the green part. Soak well in cold water in order to remove any grit or small insects which may be present. Then dry on a cloth, cut into short lengths and place in a clean saucepan. Add just enough milk to cover them, and stew slowly until quite tender. Then take out, drain, and rub through a fine sieve: return to the liquor in which they were cooked. Thicken with a little of Robinson’s patent barley flour, add salt to taste, and a tiny bit of butter. Make hot and serve. Note.—That as the majority of children25o COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING eat slowly, and indeed it is right that they should do so, all nursery food for the very little ones should be served upon a hot water plate. III. The Nursery Table As with the fluid and the savoury portion of a child’s dietary, so it is with the sweets, too much attention cannot be paid, not only to the selection and the quality thereof, but to the preparation and cooking. Very rich sweets should never, under any circumstances whatever, be given to a tiny child, and big children are far better without them. To the little ones, however, they are downright harm- ful, and many and many a child’s digestion has been ruined through the mistaken kind- ness of mother and nurse, who have allowed it to indulge in over-rich puddings and sweets, simply because the child in question “ liked them so ” or “ cried for them so ”—two favourite reasons with the injudicious. TheNURSERY COOKERY 25* two best forms of sweet and pudding for the tinies are milk puddings and stewed fruit. Milk puddings made with Groult’s farine de tapioca is delicious, and a pudding almost equally nice may be made with the patent barley flour, which is one of Robinson & Co.’s invaluable specialities. Here is a recipe:—Take a tablespoonful of barley flour and mix it with a tablespoonful of sifted sugar. Have ready half a pint of boiling milk, add it to the flour, mixing all the time. Place the saucepan on the fire, and continue stirring until the mixture leaves the sides of the saucepan. Then empty into a clean pie-dish, add a little more milk, or a little cream, or a well beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven until quite set. Take out and serve at once. In cases where cream has been ordered by the doctor to be added to the dietary, a little cream may with advantage, be used as directed above when making the various kinds of milk puddings. In the case of thin, or anasmic children, cream is of the252 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING greatest value as an article of food, but it should not be given unsterilised, and, more- over, it must be pure, i.e. without the addition of any so-called preservative, which in the majority of cases is simply boracic acid, and, as such, most harmful to the delicate stomach of a young child. At the better known dairy companies, it is always possible to obtain cream which is “ guaranteed free from any preservative,” if you choose to take the trouble to ask for it, and for children no other should be used. A ground rice pudding made as described for the barley flour pudding is exceedingly nice, and far better for small children than whole rice pudding, which is apt to set up indigestion, unless the grains are very per- fectly cooked indeed. Cornflour pudding, too, is very nice, made according to the same recipe. It may be much improved if a layer (about two tablespoonsful) of golden syrup or Frame Food Jelly be placed at the bottom of the pie-dish. Apropos of Frame Food jelly,NURSERY COOKERY 253 this, in combination with Frame Food, may be made into a delicious pudding. Here is the recipe :—Take two tablespoons- ful of Frame Food and place them in a clean basin. Add a tablespoonful of sifted sugar and half a pint of milk. Leave in soak for a couple of hours, then empty into a clean saucepan, and stir over a slow fire for fifteen minutes. Place a layer of Frame Food Jelly at the bottom of a clean pie-dish, beat up an egg with not quite half a pint of milk ; add this to the Frame Food, mix well, taste, and add more sifted sugar if thought necessary. Then pour over the Frame Food Jelly, and bake in a moderate oven until just set. Serve at once. If liked, a little cream (previously sterilised) may be served separately. An equally nice pudding may be made from the Frame P'ood biscuits, like this : Take sufficient biscuits to yield 2 ozs. of crumbs when crumbled. Rub them through a fine wire sieve or else pound them in a mortar. Pour over them half a pint of quite254 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING boiling milk, and then place on one side until all the milk has become quite absorbed. Place a layer of either honey, Frame Food Jelly, or golden syrup at the bottom of a clean pie-dish. Beat up an egg with half a pint of new milk ; then mix in this by degrees with the biscuit pulp. Add a little sifted sugar if thought needful. Mix all well together and then pour over the j elly. Bake in a moderate oven until just set, then serve at once. A little cream may be added to this pudding if liked, but in this case the egg is better omitted. A very nice pudding may also be made according to this recipe by substituting Quaker Oats for the Frame Food indicated in the recipe. If neither honey, Frame Food jelly, nor golden syrup are palatable to the special child in question, from a tablespoon- ful to two tablespoonfuls of coarse brown sugar may be used instead. As regards the all important question ofNURSERY COOKERY 255 Fruit This should always be first stewed, and then very carefully sieved, when intended for the nursery table. Stewed fruit, whether apples, prunes, or pears, is exceedingly health- ful for children, and if given as a regular thing will save many and many a doctor’s bill. But—and the but is a very important one— the fruit in question should always be sieved. This question involves only a very few minutes’ work, and by its means any chance of swallowing pips, or seeds, or cores is quite done away with. Prunes, too, let it be borne in mind, should always be soaked over-night before they are cooked, as the soaking renders them softer, easier to cook and to digest than they other- wise would be. They also go through the sieve more easily. Apples should be very slowly stewed in a simple syrup of sugar and water, and then sieved. Pears, which require both slow and prolonged cooking to render256 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING them fit for the nursery table, should also be carefully sieved, using a hair sieve in prefer- ence to a wire one for the process. A little cream may be served with the fruit if desired.K V 257 HOUSEKEEPINGHOUSEKEEPING 259 The woman who, without any previous Housekeeping . as a profession training, desires to make housekeeping (ulti- mately) her paid profession, is we will admit for the sake of argument, somewhat overbold, nevertheless success is possible to her, nay is practically assured if only she goes the right way to work. Despite all assertions to the contrary, the truly successful housekeeper is made, not born. She may doubtless be born with certain qualifications for the post, such as an innate love of order and neatness, of having everything done methodically, but, apart from this, as regards her actual training, she is “made,” emphatically made not born. Now the girl or woman who wants to Haphazard succeed as a professional housekeeper, must cleanliness first and foremost make method her watch- word, for without it, good housekeeping isFlats versus houses The young professional Housekeeper has practically an unexplored field so far. 260 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING an impossibility. Rooms and silver, furniture and glass, linen and fine china, all require periodical turnings-out, cleansings and polish- ing, careful mending and careful washing. Haphazard cleanliness is only another name for slovenliness or what is little better than slovenliness, and the laisser aller system as regards housekeeping is one to be avoided; of course it goes without saying that the woman, who wishes to become a successful housekeeper, must be strong; I am not now talking of keeping house in a small flat, where equally of course stairs are non-existent, and the servant, or servants, as the case may be, are under the eye of the housekeeper practi- cally all day long: neither am I considering the other extreme, the housekeeper in a great family where a certain amount of state is kept up; for such posts a special training is almost imperative. It is the average large, and what is generally known as a “comfortable establishment,” where the mistress goes out a great deal into society, or has a professionHOUSEKEEPING 261 of her own, or whose health is not of the most robust order, that offers a good field to the young professional housekeeper. As I have already said the first of her necessary qualities is that she must be strong. Supposing such an one possessing no previous experience desires to fit herself for a post of this kind. How may she best set about it? There are, it is true, one or two domestic centres, or training colleges where it is possible to obtain a course of instruction (long or short according to the amount one is prepared to pay), in all the domestic arts, but with these I do not pro- pose to deal, since the fees, moderate though they may be, are in the vast majority of cases quite out of the question. Let us rather consider the case of the girl, who, while of small means but good family, wishing to make housekeeping her career, is unable to afford any special training other than she can obtain at home. How can she best set about her course of self-instruction ? Colleges for Domestic Training Notably The Guild of Household Dames, Cheltenham. Terms on Application262 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Firstly, those about her must be willing to assist by every means in their power, the housekeeping keys should be made over to her forthwith; the housekeeping allowance, be it large or small, should be handed to her, unconditionally. At first doubtless, she will make a certain number of mistakes, mistakes, too, not always resulting in an increase of comfort to her immediate circle. In the nature of things she is bound to do so. But, she will learn by her very mistakes, and if she be of the right stuff, will profit thereby. I have already said that Method the Method in IS Housekeeping housekeeping. keynote of all really successful Accounts must be kept methodically; rooms must be cleaned with undeviating regularity; and a sharp watch must be kept on the tradesmen’s books if those luxuries are indulged in. This is theHOUSEKEEPING 263 A.B.C. of housekeeping, and once mastered, all the rest is easy. Now we will suppose that it is Monday morning, and that the tyro at housekeeping has just taken up the reins of government. Breakfast over. She How to start should go into the kitchen, larder, scullery, pantry, and area premises generally, and satisfy herself that they are in a thoroughly cleanly state, and that pots, pans and house- hold utensils generally, have received their just meed of attention. The cook should then be interviewed and receive her orders for the day, and for the early part of the next morning. If an order-book or a dinner- The Dinner book as it is sometimes called, has not hitherto obtained in that household, now is the time to start one. Any ordinary little id. account book will answer for the purpose, and the meals should be entered something after this fashion; the orders for the next day’s breakfast, and luncheon, and kitchen dinner, being written down at the same time as the orders for the late dinner.264 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING The following example will shew my meaning more clearly :— Luncheon. Kitchen Dinner Shepherd’s Pie. Cold Roast Beef. Salad. Apple Pudding. Cheese. Dinner Soup. Fried Fish. Tartare Sauce. Roast Lamb. Mint Sauce. Peas. Potatoes. Cabbage a la Creme. Russian Pudding. Orange Sauce. Anchovy Crusts. Coffee. Nursery Dinner Beef Tea and Barley. Boiled Soles. Sieved Cauliflower. Tapioca Pudding. Baked Apples.HOUSEKEEPING 2 65 Kitchen Supper and Nursery Supper. Bubble and Squeak. Bread Pudding. Cheese. Cocoa or Coffee. Children—Bread and Milk, or Frame Food, Milk, and Bread and Butter. Sieved Prunes. Breakfast Coffee. Dry Toast. Bacon and Tomatoes. Kitchen Breakfast Coffee. Cold Bacon. Bread and Butter. Nursery Breakfast Milk and Bread. Poached Eggs on Toast. Frame Food Jelly. Of course the above, which are only taken haphazard, may be elaborated or simplified as the case may warrant. They are merely to serve as an example. Where there are big children in the Nursery Tea nursery the orders for tea should be added,266 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING as growing children require something sub- stantial, and more in the nature of high tea, especially if the nursery supper is a light one. The orders for the ensuing day duly given, the store cupboard should next be inspected, the things that are running out carefully noted, in order that they may be replenished. The linen Then the linen for the wash should be duly counted (of course in all save very small establishments this duty devolves upon the head housemaid, or the parlour-maid, or where a linen maid is kept upon the latter). All shortages having been entered in the book when the clean linen was received. The turning Next, the special room which is that day °U ELooms to receive its weekly turning out should be seen to. Housemaids, even the very best of them, are proverbially careless with regard to dust sheets and fine china, etc., etc.; and as I am now supposing that the household under consideration is manned by but two servants, a cook general and a house parlour-HOUSEKEEPING 267 maid, there will naturally be a good deal for the housekeeper to do. Monday, too, is a good day to set apart for the regular inspection of the store cup- board, but this task should belong by rights to the afternoon hours. In the morning there will be tradesmen to see, shopping to be done, etc., etc., and the housekeeper must return in time for lunch, or rather in time to arrange the flowers, etc., for the dining- room luncheon table. As regards the regular routine of the The routine , , i • i 1 1 1 r 11 of the servant’s servants work, this should be most carefully work apportioned out, and then written down as legibly as possible on two sheets of card- board. A list should then be given to each servant, and the latter told that she will be held personally responsible for the due carry- ing out of all the work, which falls to her share. No duty however small, should be considered too insignificant to be placed upon the list as this prevents muddle of any kind, and also such excuses as, “ I didn’t know that268 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Every day and Special Duties How to train young Servants was my work, ma’am,” or, “I thought the cook always did that,” etc. If the lists be clearly and carefully written out, and nailed up in a prominent place in the kitchen and housemaid’s pantry, an enormous amount of quite unnecessary friction will be saved, and any cause for petty disputes or quarrels between the maids, be they but two or many is done away with. Each day should have its duties and its special duties apportioned to it, and then both the housekeeper and the maids will be enabled to see at a glance what is the parti- cular duty, or duties, for the day, and the housekeeper can then satisfy herself as to whether her orders have or have not been carried out. Now it is the nature of young untrained servants to shirk whenever possible, and therefore the housekeeper who wishes to succeed must set her face severely against shirking from the first. There must be no neglect of any duty, however slight andHOUSEKEEPING 269 seemingly unimportant, without a very good reason being forthcoming. And this as much out of kindness and desire for the servant’s welfare, as for the success of her own training. A young servant who is allowed to perform her duties in a slip-shod manner, is not likely to feel very grateful to her trainer when in after years she finds herself left behind in the race for good places and wages by reason of her incom- petence. This training is no easy matter to accom- plish successfully. It needs infinite patience, infinite perseverance, and infinite tact, for this, let it be confessed at once, is the day of the servants — the day of the mistresses has gone by. For this reason, if for no other, is the path of the housekeeper, and more especially the young housekeeper, beset with many thorns. As regards the set of rules before men- Rules for the tioned, the following lists will serve for a fair example. They can, of course, be en-270 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING larged or altered to suit individual require- ments, the size of the establishment in question, etc., or any special needs which have to be considered. Cook General’s Duties—Every Day Mornings— Down by 6 o’clock summer. 6.30 winter. Light kitchen fire. Sweep hall, dining-room and study. Light fires when needed. Clean steps and brasses. Clean all boots. Prepare kitchen breakfast. Have own breakfast. Prepare dining-room breakfast. After breakfast wash up. Attend to front door while parlourmaid does bedrooms, etc. Take orders for the day. Attend to Special Duties for the day. Prepare kitchen dinner and nursery dinner, and lunch for dining-room.271 HOUSEKEEPING Have own dinner. After dinner wash up. Finish Special Duties for the day Clean kitchen thoroughly. Prepare kitchen tea. Have own tea. After tea prepare late dinner. Have own supper. Wash up. Clean all knives. Tidy kitchen and scullery for the night. Special Duties Mondays.—Do washing, i.e. kitchen cloths and dusters. Turn out larder, pantry and store cupboards. Tuesdays.—Clean all the brasses and kitchen brights, etc. Do ironing. Wednesdays.—Turn out the dining-room. Thursdays.—Turn out study. Help turn out drawing-room. Fridays.—Help turn out best and own bedrooms.COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Saturdays.—Turn out kitchen, and area passages, etc., thoroughly. Be dressed by four o’clock. Nights out. House-parlourmaid’s Duties—Every Day Down 6.30 winter. 6 summer. Take hot water, tea and letters to mistress’ bedroom. Take hot water to master’s dressing-room, brush clothes, etc. Sweep and dust stairs. Dust hall, dining-room, drawing-room and study. Have own breakfast. After breakfast, lay dining-room breakfast. Wait at breakfast if required. Afterwards clear away. Strip all beds. Then wash all china and silver. Do bedrooms. Attend to Special Duties for the day. Dress. Lay dining-room lunch. Wait at lunch.HOUSEKEEPING 273 Have own lunch. Clear away. Wash up all glass and silver. Attend to Special Duties for the day. ■ Make and serve afternoon tea. Have own tea. After tea, wash up. Lay dinner table. Take hot water to bedrooms. Serve and wait at dinner. After dinner, clear away. Have own supper. Wash all glass and silver. Tidy bedrooms for the night. Take up hot water. Light fires if required. House-parlourmaid’s Special Duties Mondays.—Turn out dressing-room. Help sort linen for wash. Mend all house linen. Tuesdays.—Turn out mistress’ bedroom. Do mending.274 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Wednesdays.—Turn out spare bedroom and glass cupboard. Thursdays.—Clean all the silver, turn out drawing-room. Fridays.—Turn out best bedroom and own bedroom. Saturdays.—Turn out master’s dressing- room ; do mistress’ mending and own mend- ing. Be dressed by one o’clock. Nights out. and^ividing households where a between maid is kept, the Servants’ jt wip be founci a better plan to allow the cook and house-parlourmaid to divide the morn- ing’s work between them in the usual way, i.e. the cook doing hall, steps, brasses, and dining-room, and being answerable entirely for their sweeping and dusting; the house- parlourmaid doing the study, drawing-room, etc., etc., and not interfering with the cook’s work in any way; but in a small household, where there is yet a good deal to do, and perhaps a good deal of door work, it will beHOUSEKEEPING 275 found wiser to follow the suggestion I have made in the two foregoing lists, i.e. let the cook do the sweeping, grates, fires, etc. straight through, the house-parlourmaid being responsible for the dusting, etc., etc., as this plan enables her to keep herself far smarter for the door. It is a plan I have tried and found successful, but it is best to explain it fully to the cook, and give your reason for the rule when engaging her, as otherwise friction would result. The Parlourmaid In larger households, i.e. households “ manned ” by a larger staff, the duties of the servants would of course differ very considerably from the foregoing rules. Thus the parlourmaid will have her own special duties, chief among them, the laying of the tables for the various meals; the care of the glass, and china and silver, for all of which she would be responsible; the arrangement of The various duties of a Parlourmaid276 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING the flowers for the luncheon and dinner table; then, too, it falls to her lot to see, even if the drawing-room is not in her charge, that it is daily tidy before late dinner; she must answer the front door, show in visitors, announce them, make and serve afternoon tea; and in many houses where no butler or men servants are kept, the parlourmaid has the key of the wine cellar, and the wine is under her charge. To her, too, falls the duty of valeting her master when no valet is kept; whilst to revert to her table duties, she must, in addition to waiting, understand the art of carving, the serving of wines, etc., etc. The cigars, etc., would also be under her charge. The care of the table linen again generally devolves upon the parlourmaid, the house- maid being responsible for the other house linen and its repair. In many houses the drawing-room belongs, as regards its cleaning and dusting, exclusively to the parlourmaid, and also the dining room, but where two2 77 HOUSEKEEPING parlourmaids, upper and under, are kept the ^";ddHouse' second would do all the cleaning, the grates, etc., and the first the dusting. Where only one is kept the grates and the rougher part of the cleaning is generally performed by the housemaid. A first-class parlourmaid in short is a female The head 1 < Parlourmaid butler, and performs all a butler’s duties. She has her own pantry, where all her washing-up is performed, and for the neat- ness of which she is responsible. In some houses the actual rough cleaning of the pantry falls to the share of the housemaid, between maid, or kitchenmaid; it is even done occasionally by the boot boy, but these minor rules differ in different establish- ments. For example, in some houses theTheHouse- . . maid housemaid fills and takes in the scuttles for the drawing-room, dining-room, etc., etc., and this is the general rule, but I have known them filled by the housemaid and odd boy, and taken in by the parlourmaid. In any case it is the duty of the latter to see that278 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING The principal duties of the Housemaid the fires are duly replenished, the hearths swept, etc., etc. So varied are the points of etiquette, and so intricate, that in the majority of cases it will be found the best plan to let the servants settle the quite minor details for themselves, as this course saves so much unnecessary friction. The housekeeper, however, should make herself acquainted with all that goes on in this way, as much valuable experience may thus be gained. As regards The Housemaid’s Duties These again differ very considerably from those of the parlourmaid. The head house- maid, where no lady’s maid is kept, as a rule “maids” her mistress, and is responsible for the brushing and repairing of her clothes and linen, and the general well-being of her ward- robe. The linen press, too, is under her care. She is responsible for it and its con- tents, but of course in the actual repairingHOUSEKEEPING 279 and keeping in order she would be assisted by the under-housemaid or housemaids. To the latters’ share it would fall also to “maid” any visitors who may be stopping in the house at any time, and who have not brought their own maids with them. The upper-housemaid, too, when no under- The upper , .... ,. . , Housemaid parlourmaid is kept, generally assists the parlourmaid to wait at dinner, so it is requisite always when engaging a housemaid to make sure that she understands this branch of her duties thoroughly. To the housemaid falls the duty of seeing that all upper, i.e. bedroom and other windows are duly closed and secured for the night; the taking up of hot water to the different rooms before lunch and dinner, and the last thing at night, the preparing and tidying of the various rooms before bed-time, and the light- ing of bedroom fires when fires are required. Then in the morning the head housemaid should take up her mistress’ tea and letters, hot water, and bath water if required; the280 cookery and housekeeping Waiting upon the Nursery hot water, bath water and shaving water to the master of the house; the under or other housemaids doing the same things for visitors, if there should chance to be visitors, or for the other members of the family. Where there is a nursery and no nursery- maid or between-maid is kept, it sometimes falls to the share of the housemaid to wait upon the nursery: but here again it is as well to have a distinct understanding when an engagement takes place, as some house- maids object, and object very strongly too, to waiting upon the nursery; and this is the explanation of the “no nursery” one often sees inserted in a housemaid’s advertisement. If there is a distinct understanding before- hand, however, no subsequent objection should be taken any notice of, unless there are really tangible grounds for complaint. It must, however, be admitted that many nurses are most trying, not to say thought- less, in the amount of unnecessary attendance they require. That a nurse should never beHOUSEKEEPING 281 allowed to leave her charges unattended is of the uttermost importance, especially when the latter are tiny babies, or at the toddling stage, but a little forethought will often save her tired underling many and many a weary journey up to the top of the house and down again for some trifle which perhaps she could well have waited for without inconvenience. With regard to the duties of the Kitchen-maid these differ in so many kitchens that it is The various almost impossible to lay down any fixed rules Kitchen-maid concerning them. In most houses, however, it is the duty of the kitchen-maid to lay all the kitchen meals; and where no scullery- maid is kept, the duty of cleaning the whole of the area premises in addition to the kitchen itself usually devolves upon her. For the rest it will, I think, be found by far the best and most friction-saving plan to allow the cook to have full control over her underling,282 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING although interference and a sharp remon- strance is occasionally called for, if she be found to be overworking her. Note. — To the kitchen-maid, when no scullery-maid or boy for rough work is kept, falls the cleaning of the kitchen brights, saucepans and kitchen utensils generally, and the filling of the coal scuttles, etc., etc., and also in many houses the cleaning of the boots. Nights out With regard to the question, often a sorely vexed one, of nights out, it is usual to allow an evening once a week and every other Sunday; but I think that whenever it is possible to do so without inconvenience resulting, an hour every alternate evening should be allowed to each maid for the sake of health considerations. The cleaning In households where there is a nursery Nurseries it is usual (in small establishments) for the nurse to do these, with the exception of the grates and fires, which would fall to the share of the house-parlourmaid. When a between- maid is kept, I think it will be found by farHOUSEKEEPING 283 the best plan to let her do the cleaning of the nurseries, with the exception of the dusting, which should be done by the nurse herself. Servants’ meals are often a source of much friction, especially when there is a young house- keeper at the helm, and the housekeeping allowance is a small one : but if a thoroughly good breakfast, a meat breakfast be given; and a hot dinner, meat, two vegetables and a substantial pudding, in the middle of the day ; a hot supper every night is not a necessity; though meat, I think, should be allowed every other night (whenever the house- keeping allowance will permit of it). On alternate nights, hot substantial soup, cheese and a pudding might form the menu. Feed your servants well, and in the majority of cases they will serve you well, is a maxim the young housekeeper should bear in mind, for of a surety, discontent in the kitchen breeds discomfort in the dining-room. And this brings us to the all important Servants Meals284 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING The question question of servants’ allowances: whether of allowancing 1 the servants your staff numbers one or fifty, it will be found by far the best plan in the long run, and the most economical plan too, to allowance them. Let them know that their allowances must last the week, and then you will have no more trouble, and you will prevent anything in the nature of giving away. Personally I have found it by far the most economical mode of procedure to allowance the whole household at the follow- ing rates. Tea, quarter pound per head per week. Sugar, one pound per head. Butter, half a pound. Milk, three-quarters of a pint for each person; and bacon, a pound a head each. It is difficult to say exactly how much bread and coffee should be used, as this varies so. Many people dislike bread, whilst others veritably exist by it, and the amount of coffee used of course will depend upon whether you take that beverage strong or weak, and allow it in the kitchen or not. Jam and marmalade, the cheaper sorts,285 HOUSEKEEPING such, for example, as plum and apple, Aids to 7 economy apple and red currant, or yellow plum, catering varied by golden syrup, should always be allowed in the kitchen. Their use adds but very slightly to the weekly bills, and is always/ appreciated by the kitchen con- tingent. Then, too, a dripping cake may be made quite cheaply, and is another help to the menu for kitchen tea. For as I have already said, it should always be remembered that if servants are to work well they must be well fed, and in fact to feed them well is an economy in the long run. Too many young housekeepers fall into the error of over economising in the kitchen, aud invari- ably with disastrous results. To revert for a moment to the question Nights of nights out. The cook does the house- parlourmaid’s work, and vice versa, as a rule in most houses, and this plan is, I think, by far the best to adopt; while if a whole day out once a month is allowed, the same arrangement should hold good; but as a286 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING general thing, whole days are not often allowed in small establishments. A very important item of housekeeping is the regulating of The Coal Bill The better It is practically impossible here to state regulation of . the Coal Bill what amount of coal should be used in a household, because the average varies so much. Some kitchen ranges I have met with can dispose of a ton a week ! Two great aids to economy as regards the coal bill are, first; to insist that the kitchen dampers are rigidly kept in when the fire is not needed for cooking purposes; secondly, the cinders. Now the average maid, I am aware, regards the sifting of cinders with something akin to horror, and I am afraid in my heart of hearts I secretly sympathise with her, for a more disagreeable operation on a hot, or for the matter of that, a cold day, it would be difficult to imagine.HOUSEKEEPING 287 Its disagreeableness may be very much lessened, however, if one of the new patent covered sifters are used, but an even better plan is the following. Have the inside of the bars of all the a remedy and a suggested grates in the house fitted closely with very saving of fine wire (any working ironmonger will do this), so fine that only the merest ash can escape through it; and then not only will cinder sifting become unnecessary, but the fires will keep in quite twice as long as they otherwise would and waste is prevented. Firewood, too, constitutes a big item in the oilman’s bill, but if instead of the usual 6d. worth or is. worth generally ordered, the wood is bought fifty bundles at a time, the cause of economy will be distinctly served. Fifty bundles cost is. gd., and one hundred bundles from 3s. to 3s. 6d., according to the firm, i.e. some charging much less than others. Cleaning materials are also things that cleaning run away with no inconsiderable amount 0fMatenals288 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING money, but here, too, small economies are easily effected. Camphor wax, for example, which costs but 5d. a tin, is excellent for polishing floors and furniture and is but half the price of a tin of beeswax and turpentine. Where the use of the latter is preferred, it will, however, be found by far the best plan to buy it ready mixed, i.e. by the tin, which costs iod. at the stores or any good grocers. How to save Whenever space will permit, alas! that it Soap so seldom does in the average London house or flat, it will be found by far the cheapest plan to purchase all cleaning materials in fairly large quantities. Soap, for instance, should always be bought some time before it is wanted, then cut into pieces of a suitable size, placed in a dry place and allowed to slowly harden. It will then be found to last quite twice as long as it otherwise would. Hudson’s soap again, than which there is in my opinion no better cleanser, shouldHOUSEKEEPING 289 always be bought in the packet of three dozen, as this is by far the cheapest way to buy it. Blacklead, blacking, hearth-stone emery paper, brass polish, soda and knife polish are all things which will keep and which may be had far more cheaply by taking a quantity. Of methylated spirit, oil, etc., etc., I do not consider it advisable to buy more than a small quantity at a time. The subject, an all important one, of The Store Cupboard should always receive careful attention at the housekeeper’s hands, more especially if she wishes to qualify herself for the post of professional housekeeper in an establishment where in all probability the store cupboard will be, so to speak, a feature. Of course where the housekeeping allow- ance is a very small one, it will not be possible to stock the cupboard upon very liberal lines; nevertheless there are certain things it should How to stock the Store Cupboard290 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING always contain, and moreover these should never be allowed to quite run out, but should be replenished as soon as they get low. Whenever possible too, certain provisions by way of a stand-by should always be kept in the house, and then an emergency meal will be possible and pot-luck may be aug- mented without trouble or difficulty of any sort. a list of of the absolutely necessary things I things J jo needful append a list. With regard to the buying of fresh provisions it is, I think, by far the best plan to give a standing order for certain things, such as butter, eggs, lard, the bones for the preparation of stock, and also for the various relishes in the shape of dried fish and bacon for the breakfast-table. The hock of bacon (or gammon) which is to serve as a relish for the servants’ table, should be bought once a week, and if boiled and served with an accompaniment of greens and potatoes followed by a pudding, it will dispose of the kitchen dinner difficulty for one day291 HOUSEKEEPING at least, and can then be eaten cold for breakfast during the remainder of the week; while the liquor in which it was boiled will furnish an excellent soup for the kitchen supper, with the addition of a little pea flour and dried mint. Tinned foods should be conspicuous only Avoid tinned foods by their absence in the up to date store cup- board, so undeniably great is the danger attending their use. An exception must however be made in favour of sardines, as the variety sold in glasses are so expensive to buy. And golden syrup, which so far as I know, is quite safe to buy tinned. Stocking the Store Cupboard Now let us see how the store cupboard should be stocked to permit of really dainty cooking upon what for want of a better word I will call French-English lines. Or perhaps I should say, French cookery adapted to English needs. Presuming that the sum292 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING A list of store Cupboard Requisites of Various Kinds in hand is only a limited one, the list should stand somewhat as follows: — Macaroni, lasagne, vermicelli,rice, tapioca, sago, semolina, pates d’ltalie—3 lbs. of each. Then a 3 lbs. packet of Julienne; a 7 lbs. packet of split peas; a 7 lbs. bag of dried green peas; a 7 lbs. bag of butter beans; a 7 lbs. bag of dried haricot beans. All these latter are invaluable, as not only may they be used as a garnish for soup, as a puree served surrounded by cutlets, and as a thick soup, but as a vegetable boiled till tender and then sauteed in a little oiled butter and a table-spoonful of cream, and further improved by a squeeze of lemon juice and a dash of pepper, dished up on a hot dish and garnished by fried croutons they are excellent. Three pounds each of green and red lentils, and a bottle of Macedoine are invaluable adjuncts to the store cupboard. Glaze is another item which should not be forgotten, as it is indicated in so many recipes. Then as regards fish, there should be two293 HOUSEKEEPING or three pounds each of tunny fish, sardines, smoked sardines and filletted herrings in white wine. And having regard to savouries, there should be a couple of pots each of smoked roe, shrimp paste, salmon paste, smoked salmon roe, bloater paste, and anchovy paste. A bottle of capers, a bottle of gherkins, a large bottle of olives, both French and Spanish, a couple of bottles of anchovies in oil (filletted), and a bottle of ordinary anchovies (i.e. unboned). A couple of bottles of green peas, a couple of bottles of tomato catsup, a couple of bottles of mushrooms (button), two or three jars of fonds d’artichauts—invaluable these latter for a quickly prepared entree. Then, too, there should be two or three bottles, not tins, of fruits of the kind not in season. A bottle of preserved apricots; a couple of bottles of fruit syrup, raspberry and strawberry or pineapple are a good choice. A large jar of preserved ginger, a jar of honey, a large tin of golden syrup, a dozen packets294 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING of assorted jelly powders, a box of prunes, a packet of French tapioca, a tin of Robinson’s patent barley flour, a couple of pounds of dried apricots and the like quantity of apple rings, and these two latter make delicious pies when soaked overnight and cooked in a plain sugar syrup. Raisins, currants and sultanas should be bought by three or four pounds at a time, and candied peel by the box, is. ltd. to 2s. 6d. being a fair price to pay for it. Sifted sugar and Demerara sugar should be bought by the bag of 7 or 14 lbs., as it comes slightly cheaper than by the pound. Jam, again, should always be bought by the 7 lbs. jar; it is not only cheaper so, but it keeps better, and is always to hand when such things as a jam pudding or tart or a jam sauce is required. A large, i.e. 7 lbs., jar of marmalade is also a necessary; a 7 lbs. bag of oatmeal, or a couple of packets of your pet prepared brand of oats; a tin of luxette, a pot each ofHOUSEKEEPING 295 chicken and ham, Strasbourg meat, grouse or partridge, to be used when required for sandwiches. Note that they must be kept in a cool corner. A bottle of China soy, a bottle of Harvey sauce, a bottle of tabasco, a bottle of mushroom catsup, and a bottle of essence of anchovies. A large bag of self- raising flour, a pound packet of cornflour, a packet of arrowroot for the more delicate kinds of sauces, and a packet each of groults, pea flour, chestnut flour, and potato flour. A large packet of gelatine and a large packet of isinglass, and a bottle of rennet. Then of essences there should be a bottle each of vanilla, lemon, ratafia, almonds and cinnamon, whilst vanilla pod should be bought in addition, and may with advantage be kept in the sifted sugar jar for the better- ment of the sugar. Half a pound of sweet almonds, half a pound (or more if possible) of glace cherries, and half a pound of angelica also come under the heading of necessary sundries.296 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING A properly stocked spice-box containing allspice, nutmeg, cinnamon and cloves, ginger and mace is another necessity, whilst a tin of peppercorns and a box of saffron must not be forgotten. Pepper — black, white, red and sweet Spanish pepper—there should be a small tin of each provided. Cerebos salt must not be omitted, and cooking salt should be bought by the is. bar for economy’s sake. A tin of curry powder and a jar of Cap- tain White’s curry paste, together with a large bottle of mild Mango chutney, should always be kept on hand for the better pro- duction of curries. A large bottle of oil, a large bottle of vinegar, a small bottle each of French vinegar, tarragon vinegar, shallot vinegar and Chili vinegar are also absolute necessities. The oil, by the way, should be kept in a cool place, as great heat quickly turns it rancid. A tin of dessicated cocoanut, a jar of icing sugar, a pound of pine kernels, a packet ofHOUSEKEEPING 297 banana flour, must also be classed under the heading of necessities; while such things as dried herbs, mint, sage, thyme, marjorum, bay leaves, and dried basil, should on no account be forgotten. Among other useful items are the liqueur syrups (Marshall’s), which are a great aid to economical and dainty entremets and ices, as they take the place of their more highly priced brethren, in whose compositions alco- hol plays so large a part. This list of the things needful for the store cupboard might be prolonged inde- finitely, and indeed could be considerably enlarged with advantage, but I have assumed that strict economy is the order of the day, and therefore such things as truffles and foie gras find no place therein. A bottle of cooking port and a bottle of cooking sherry, which are to be had, price is. each, from any good grocer’s, are however necessities where even the simpler kinds of La Cuisine Fran- chise (bourgeois) is concerned.298 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING The Cost of Keeping House The cost of And now just a word as to the actual cost keeping house of the housekeeping bills. These of course will vary according to the style of catering and cooking indulged in. Ten shillings a week per head is a very fair average, and will allow of a certain amount of dainty cookery for the late dinner, and good plain food at the other meals and for the kitchen, but strict economy must be practised, and very good housekeeping is essential to man- age upon this sum. Also the meat bought will have to be largely foreign, for with the price of meat, and more especially the prime cuts of English meat, as high as at present, the latter is practically out of the question upon a small allowance. For 12s. a week per head, poultry oc- casionally, and little extra dainties will be possible; while for 15s. or 17s. per week, quite liberal housekeeping is possible, andHOUSEKEEPING 299 £i a week per head will allow of quite luxurious living. Let it be remembered that ios. per head in the dining-room means about 8s. per head for the kitchen, and i is. per head (dining- room) ios. for the kitchen; and the latter is quite ample, even with a large establish- ment to cater for. The 15s., 17s. or £1 above mentioned referring of course to the dining-room catering solely. To revert for a moment to the other end of the scale, it is possible to keep house for as little as 8s. or 9s. per head per week, but this sum will only allow of the plainest possible food. No poultry unless it be foreign, and of course foreign meat, while rigid economy must be practised. On an average it will I fear be only possible to allow meat once a day, for alas, now-a-days the purchasing power of a sovereign (as regards butcher meat more especially) is only just about half what it was two or three years back.300 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING In these, the cheaper estimates, the cost of cleaning materials is not included. A big item with which the modern housekeeper has to reckon is The Laundry Bill The laundry And here again it is very difficult to say just what the expenditure should be, because so much depends upon how many servants are kept, what amount of entertaining is done, etc., etc. French v. Also there are laundries and laundries, and laundries as a rule, at the so-called French laundries the prices are quite a third higher than the ordinary laundress would think of charging. Then, too, a good deal depends upon whether much or little washing is done at home. Personally I am of opinion that in the long run it is far cheaper to send the things out. They are a better colour, keep clean longer, and unless sent to a laundry where chemicals are largely used, they also last longer despite all assertions to the contrary.HOUSEKEEPING 3°1 Moreover, in the average London flat or small house without a garden, it is a most expensive economy to attempt to wash at home as it invariably results in spoiling the clothes. It is most difficult to get things to dry properly in an airless room; and the close ranges of modern times which have a knack, as cooks term it, of keeping in the ■ heat, are practically of no use in this respect. The tyro at housekeeping, however, should over cheap , r , iii -i laundries beware or the over cheap laundress as in the majority of cases she is nothing but a delusion and a snare. Chemicals are cheaper than manual labour, and therefore the over cheap laundress who cannot afford to allow much time to be spent over the work uses them ad lib., needless to say, to the detriment of the clothes in the long run. With regard to the allowance of clean The laundry .. , • i i r ii • • hill and how linen per week required, the following is a to keep it r • -i.i down fair, but by no means an extravagant average. The top sheet of every bed in use should be changed once a week and used as a lower302 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING sheet, being replaced by a clean one. This in a family of average size—father, mother, two children, nurse, and two maids would mean four single sheets and one double one every week. Six sheets in all. All white counterpanes or white bedspreads should be changed at least once a month; for the nurses and for the servants’ beds the coloured linen bedspreads may be recom- mended when economy has to be very strictly studied, but for the nursery whenever possible white should be used. Servants’ coloured counterpanes need only be changed once in six weeks. Pillow slips should be changed once every week on the servants’ beds, and twice a week on the mistress’ and the chil- dren’s. While the pillow shams for outside use, will only require changing once a fort- night if carefully folded every night. Of towels four to each room should be allowed, and a bath sheet weekly. Servants, one towel each weekly and one bath sheet each, which latter should last a fortnight.HOUSEKEEPING 3°3 The nursery towels on the other hand should be changed at least twice, and if possible, three times a week. As regards table linen, the kitchen table- cloth should be changed twice a week. The dark cream coloured ones, striped red or blue, are better than the white ones as they last so much longer and show dirt less quickly. For the nursery table the dinner cloth should be changed twice, and the tea and breakfast cloth twice. While for the dining-room table, four cloths a week would be a fair average. Of course if economy has to be very severely studied these numbers must all be reduced; but they are the smallest amount it is possible to allow, consistent withtrue daintiness. Serviettes should be changed at least twice a week, and three times would be better both for nursery and dining-room. D'Oyleys one each a week. Bread and cheese d’oyleys one each a week. Sideboard cloths once a week. Table linen304 COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING Toilet covers (coloured) once a fortnight. White once a week. Servants’ As regards the servants’ washing, most washing , 07 laundries are willing to take this at an in- clusive charge ranging from is. to is. 3d. or is. 6d. per week. So that taking everything into consideration the average laundry bill in the average family of comfortable means should range from 10s. to 15s. per week; and this amount of course can be much re- duced if such things as stockings, socks, handkerchiefs, teacloths and kitchen cloths are done at home. Nursery It is almost impossible to strike an average washing . . ... . as regards the nursery washing, since so much depends upon what amount the nurse does, whether the nurse and the children wear white principally, etc., etc., or whether there is a small baby. Housekeeping Accounts The keeping These often prove a great stumbling block of household .... accounts to the young housekeeper, and in this con-HOUSEKEEPING u V 3°5 nection let me remark en passant that she will find a knowledge of book-keeping of in- estimable service to her. Weekly books should be carefully checked and paid weekly, all small sums which may be said to come under the heading of petty cash, sundries, or current expenses, no matter how small, should be entered in a book each day. Receipts should be carefully filed, and above all no bills should be run indefinitely. There should be a fixed time once a week, once a month, or once a quarter for paying everything, and of all of these the “ once a week ” system is the best, the cheapest and in the long run the surest road to really successful housekeeping. “No bills of any sort” should be the No bills young housekeeper’s first motto, whether she be professional or amateur for in that way lies Success.307 INDEX A Apple Charlotte, a la Franchise, 179, 180 Hedgehog, 'a la Frangaise, 181 Souffle, 184 Artichokes, 55, 106; a l’ltalienne, 118; a la Provengale, 122; au fromage, 123; chips, 1 56 green, a la Lyonnaise, 118 B Bavarois of strawberries, 203 Beans, French, a la Frangaise, 112 ; aux fines herbes, 113 ; a la Maitre d’hotel, 113 ; a la Venitienne, 116 Beef, fillets of, 131 ; a la Napolitaine, 38 Beef tea, 239 Biscuits, Frame Food, 253 Boiling, 26; fish, 61-63 Braising, 17, 26, 36 Bread, making, 18 Broiling, 66 Broth, mutton, 5 2 ; nursery, 241 veal, 241 Brussels sprouts, a la Beige, 121 C Cauliflour, a la Polonaise, 12 1 Chicken, boudins of, a la Supreme, 161 ; cream of, 139; a richer cream, 140 a PEspagnol, 160 a la Marengo, 156 aux Olives, 166 a la Portugaise, 149 au Riz, 141 a la Romaine, 146 saute, 1 58 livers, farce of, 163 Choux, petits, 192; a la creme, 194INDEX 3°8 Coal, 286 Colleges, domestic training, 261 Consomme aux Petits Pois, 49 , a l’Allemande, 50 d’ltalie, 50 a la Roy ale, 50 au Vermicelli, 50 Consommes, 47; with cheese, 49 Cook, general, daily duties of, 270 self-taught, first rule for, 24, 128 training of a, 4 ; first requisites of a good, 6 ; advice to, 9-123 Cookery, invalid,'19; fish, 61 ; progressive, 128 ; nursery, 138 Cream, hanana, 198 of cherry bread, 199 chocolate, 203 Creme glacee de Bananes, 229 glacee au Benedic- tine, 237 au Biscuit, 228 de Cafe, 234 de Cassis, 229 de Cerises, 232 au Chartreuse, 236 de Chocolat, 233 au Curasao, 236 aux Fraises, 219 Creme au Gingembre, 22 1 a l’ltalienne, 222 au Kirsh, 237 au Kiimmel, 236 au Marmelade, 223 de Pain Bis, 230 au Ratafia, 227 au Riz, 224 —— de The, 225 a la Vanille, 215, 217 au Vin, 226 Croquettes, 134, 135 Croutons, 114 Cucumbers, a la Poulette, 116 ; a l’Espagnole, 120 Cups, 21 Cupboard, the store, 25, 266, 289 ; stocking the, 291-297 Cutlets, 30; lamb, a la Princesse, 133; cold, 137 fish, 137 ; a la Prin- cesse, 138 veal, a la Russe, 13 1 D Dinner-book, the, 263-265 E Eggs, anchovy, 211 Entree, an impromptu, 132 Entrees, 126-1683° 9 INDEX F Fat, to clarify properly, 34 Fish, boiled, 61 ; fried, 63 ; broiled, 66; fried in batter, 68; cooked in broth, 68 ; in milk for children, 244 Fonds d’Artichauts, with game, 165 Fruit, Chartreuse of, 201 Macedoine of, 200 stewed for the nursery, 255 Frying, 10, 16, 33, 35 ; fish, 63 ; dry, 64 G Game, 26 Garnishing, the art of, 22 Ginger, compote of, 198 Green Peas a la Fran$aise, 115; a la Venitienne, n.5 Grilling, 28 H Housekeeper, the, 260 Housekeeping, 259; method in, 262 ; cost of, 298 ; accounts, 304 Housemaid, duties of, 278 House-parlourmaid, duties of, 272 1 Ices, 18, 212; made with jam, 218 J Jelly, Frame Food, 252 K Kitchen, rules for the, 269 Kromeskies, 136 L Laundry, the, 300 Linen, house, 301 ; table, 3°3 Luncheon, an ideal, 32 M Macaroni, how to cook, 148 Mackerel au beurre noir, 76 Maid, between, 274 kitchen, 281 Materials, cleaning, 287 Meringue, paste, 177; of apples, 183 Mullet aux fines herbes, 75 Mulls, 21 Mushrooms au gratin, 111INDEX 310 N Nights out, 282, 285 Noisettes de Mouton aux fines herbes, 130 Nursery, the, 282 table, 244-256 washing, 305 P Parlourmaid, duties of, 275 Pastry, 14; fleurons of, 113; puff, 169, 172, 174 ; short-crust, 171 ; rice paste, 175 Pheasant, foreign modes of cooking, 129, 142; a la Milanaise, 142 a la Gitana, 144 a la Marengo, 158 a la Portugaise, 150 a la Soubise, 145 Potatoes, boiled or steamed, 106; mashed, 107; chips, 108; fried French fashion, 108 ; a la Duchesse, 109 ; for the nursery, 246 Poultry, 26 Puddings, brown bread a la Frangaise, 191 ; a la Norvegienne, 178; Semolina a la Frangaise, 188 ; Vermicelli a la Frangaise, 190; for the nursery, 251 Purees, 53 ; Palestine, 54 R Rabbit, with rice, 142; a la Marengo, 158 Ragout a la Milanaise, 143 Rechauffee, 12 Rice, croquettes of, a la Portugaise, 186 Rissoles, 135 Roasting, 25, 28 S Salads, 13, 14 Sauces, 16, 78; “The Book of,” 80; melted butter, 82 ; Veloute, 83 ; brown, 83 ; Creme Bechamel, 84 ; Alle- mande, 84; Genoise, 8 5; Italienne,85; Provengale, 86 ; economical sauce piquante, 86; Hol- landaise, 87 ; Napolitaine, 88 ; poulette, 89 ; may- onnaise, 90 ; tartare, 92 ; soubise, 145; supreme, 164 sweet, 92; cherry, 94, 102; ginger, 94; 1’amour, 94 ; chocolate, 95 ; Allemande, 95; foam, 96; mousseline, 97 ; sabayonlis, 97 ;INDEX economical, 98 ; syrup, 99; custard, 99, 197; orange, 101 ; almond, 101 ; pudding, 189, 192 Savouries, 205-211; croutes d’anchois, 205 ; croutes aux crevettes, 206 ; her- ring roes, 206 ; a l’ln- dienne, 207; gameon toast, 207 ; fish savoury, 208 ; an American, 209; mushroom, 209 ; croutes a la Romaine, 210; croutes a la Royale, 211 Servants’ allowances, 284 how to train young, 268 meals, 283 washing, 301 Soles a l’aurore, 73 —— aux fines herbes, 73 au gratin, 72 Soups, a la Reine, 58 ; bisque, 59 ; carrot, 58 ; creme d’orge, 57 ; giblet, 242 ; lentil, 56 Steaks, 29, 32 ; cream for 32> 33 Stocks, 40; from cooked bones, 41, 42 ; from fresh bones, 43 ; vege- table, 45 ; fish, 46 ; maigre, 48 311 Sweets, 169-204 ; la dame blanche, 196 ; how to make cold, 197 T Teal, 151 Tomatoes, a la Proven^ale, 110 Tourte a la chinoise, 176 “ Trifles,” “ unimportant,” 9 Turbot au frontage, 69 V Veal, to braise, 38 blanquette, of, 153 fillet of, a la Portu- gaise, fillet of, a la Russe Vegetables, 104 ; cleansing of, 105 ; time-table for cooking, 124 W Whitebait, how to cook, 65 Widgeon, 151PRINTED BY TTRNBULL AND SPEARS, EDINBURGH—'7® V’ i hCP (A CX (,{.RECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: \°\2C\ Microfilm No: Date Particulars Z°l2 1 ^7 Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification :ipt. ■ ('" p ‘| / . ^ ^ Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives Remarks