551 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part IU, must be clean and sweet. In sickness, care in all these respects must be doubled. In damj) and chiU autumn and spring days, a little fire is comfoidable, morning and even- ing. The food for the family must be fresh, to be whole- some; and it is economy to buy the best, as there is less Avaste in it. No housekeeper ought to be satisfied with any but the very best cooking, Avithout which the most Avhole- some food is unpalatable, and distressing; and no consider- -ations of economy, should ever induce her to jilace on the table bread with the slightest sour tinge, cake or jiudding in the least heavj^ or solid, or meat Avith the slightest taint. Their use means disease and costty doctors’ bills, to say nothing of her own loss of repute, as an accomplished housekeeper. If children and servants do their work im- proiierly, she should quietly insist on its being done cor- rectly; and in self-defense they Avill soon do it correctly, Avithout supervision. Order and system mean the stopjjing of waste, the practice of economy, and additional means to expend for the table, and for the luxuries and elegances of life,—tilings for Avhich money is Avell expended. It requires good food to make good muscle and good brain ; and the man or woman who habitually sits doAvn to badly cooked or scanty dinners, fights the battle of life at a great disad- vantage.” The Help. There is little space in a cook-book for lengthy disserta- tions on any subject, even in its most limited and practical sense. But there is one matter which enters so deeplj' into our home life, and which so nearly touches all the family inteiests, extending as it does, from attic to basement, and fiom pailoi to kitchen, that it can not on any account be passed by in silence. Ask the hundreds of thousands" of wives and mothers in these States, reaching from Maine to California, Avhat it is that giA^es them ceaseless anxiety, bur- dens them Avith care, and disturbs the peace and quiet of