548 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PART III. good breeding, that are common to all people of intelligence and culture. It is not enough, therefore, that we conform to a paidicu- lar style of manners, belonging to some individual city or country; outside of these conventional forms, we shall find oftentimes the very essence of true politeness, in the careful observance of those simple usages and customs, which in civihzed society are applicable to aU places and all times. A nice appreciation of these, is to a great degree intuitive; though very much can be instilled into the mind, by thor- ough training in childhood. The ever-watchful mother, who desires that her children as they grow up, shall take rank among the best in the so- ciety in which they live, will not fail to educate her sons and daughters in these seemingly small, but reaUy impor- tant things. She will teach them to show proper deference to older people, to visitors, or strangers; to sit down at table, or to rise from it, noiselessly; to wait patiently until helped to food; to pass dishes to others before helping one’s self; to avoid appropriating the best—or largest piece—of what is offered; to take from the plate the bit lying nearest, leaving the others untouched; to ask for bread or other aiiicles, rather tlian reach for them. She will also instmct each one to accept (or politely decline) the thing offered, at once, making no excuses, and no awkward delay; to decline what is not wanted in so gracious a manner, that its refusal shall seem complimentary, rather than otherwise ; to avoid jost- ling his neighbor’s elbow, or passing dishes in front of that individual’s plate; to sit erect, neither too near the table, nor too far from it; and if it is necessary to move one’s chair, to do it quietly. It is said to be easier to drill a regiment of soldiers, than to train an army of little ones. But the maternal head is supposed to be equal to every emergency; she must be all eyes, and all ears—yes, and all patience. Fortunately, labor