450 [PAET III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. otlier words, to get the most nutriment out of meat, it must be fresli and otherwise of good quality; it must be cooked in such a way that its nutritive properties will not be lost, or seriously impaired; and it should not be partaken of too frequently or in large quantities. If it were eaten not oftener than once a day in cold weather, and rarely if ever in warm weather, and the table supj)lied with an abundance of good home-made Graham bread, with fresh fruits and vegetaT)les—these taken ivith few seasonings or condiments, and without the addition of rich jiastries or desseids—we should witness less breaking down in health at thirty-five, fewer cases of confirmed dyspepsia, and not so many calls for tonics, ‘ strengthening bitters,” mineral w^aters, and other “ aids ” to the digestive organs. There is no doubt that the free use of animal foods and especially meats, taxes the vital machinery unnecessarily, and wears it out prematurely. To aid in the selection of foods in general and meats in particular, read the “ Hints on Marketing,” in the latter part of this book. The fact that tlie larval form of the tape-wonn is found in both beef and mutton (and also in swine), is sufficient hint to avoid the use of rare meats; for aside from the habit of totally abstaining from animal foods, the next best safeguard against these parasites, is thorough cooking. Even the hateful ti’ichinse, according to some authorities, is not confined to swine’s flesh. In cooking meats, never wash them, unless it is absolutely necessary; if your mutton, fish and fowl require rinsing, do it thoroughly but quickly, in cold water, as all soaking ab- stracts the juices of the meat. Cook immediately after purchasing, or keep in an ice-chest, or other very cold place. Roast, broil or stew, in the way that will involve the least waste, and that will render the meat the most nutritious with the least purely stimulating effect. This latter suggests the leaving out of seasonings, in toto. Salt and pepper, so freely