G8 UEALTH IN THE^ HOUSEHOLD. [PART I. sion, which would unfit it for the performance of its function. But it is entirely certain that, in a stomach whose powers and sensibilities are unimpaired and healthy, salt always retards digestion and embarrasses the function and diminishes the functional powers of the organ ; and the impaired stomach receives tone from it only uj3on a j:)rin- ciple which is always and inevitably unfriendly to its own physiological interests, and to those of the sj^stem in generaL And this is all true of every other assimilating function and j)rocess of the vital economy ; and hence it is a weU-ascertained truth in the science of physiology, that the dietetic use of salt is unfriendly to aU the j)rocesses of assimilation, nutrition and secretion, in the vital economy. 5. It always, in proportion to the freedom with which it is used, diminishes gustatory enjoyment. It is true that there are some substances eaten by man, whose qualities are such that they are rendered more tolerable by the use of salt than they would be without it; but it is neverthe- less true that the use of salt with those substances alwaj^s and necessarily impairs the nicely discriminating power of ihe organ of taste, and takes away the delicate perception of the agreeable qualities of more proper food, and thereby on the Avhole immeasurably diminishes tlie amount of gus- tatory enjoyment in the course of an ordinary life. In- credible as this may appear to many, every intelligent in- dividual may demonstrate its truth by three months’ fair experiment.” Now comes the query, how it came about that whole nations of jDeople took to the use of salt, and continued it through successive ages. The reason is obvious : it was no doubt a necessity, after the introduction of animal foods ; for in order to keep these from j^uti'efying, particularly in warm climates and on long journeys, an antiseptic was indispensable. A suitable substance for preseiwing meats from decay, was found in common salt; and though it so