HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 4 degree. Beef and mutton ai-e pei'baps the best of the flesh foods. Fish, fowls, oysters, etc., belong to lower orders of animal life, some of which are infested with vermin or animalcvJfe,* and aU of which feed upon less inviting food substances than do the nobler animals. A further objection to the use of meat is found in the fact that many animals are afldicted with acute or chronic dis- eases, and are often rushed into market in that condition. This is particularly true of swine, and often indeed of cattle. Were the actual statistics given in all their loathsome de- tails, of scurvy in swine, of ulcerated Hvers, of deaths from trichinae, of beef discolored from venous blood, and often from semi-putrefaction, it would be enough to paU the keenest appetite, even though it failed to convince the most perverted judgment. In the following pages the subject wOl again be adveiied to, and reasons given why hygienists regard meat, the best of it, as second-rate food ; and salt, its usual condiment^—■ which is a metallic, inorganic substance—as no food at all. Some hints will also be given as to the relative merits of the various food products, both in regard to health, and also to their nutritive value. It will likewise be shown, that so far as the quality of the hygienic diet is concerned, the resources of nature, as weU as of art, are not by any means exhausted. Indeed, the hygienists themselves have scarcely more than commenced to study tlie matter. The place to begin, of course, is in the department of agriculture. It is weU kno-VNOi that grains, fruits and vegetables, are capable of improve- ment by culture, to an almost unlimited extent; and there is little if any doubt that nearly all fruits fully ripe, and in their finest development, would be exceedingly palatable as nature furnishes them. It is much to be hoped that an enhghtened public sentiment, on this subject as on others. * The liquor of oysters is said to be filled with infusoria or animalculae.