40 [PAHT 1. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. remarks that, pliysiologically, “ the separation of the ingesta into ‘ food ’ and ‘ drink ’ is unsuitable ; that the two factors of life are food and air”; and that the former “embraces both sohd and liquid matter.” It is, indeed, a nice point to determine just what propor- tion of our food should be fluid and what sohd, to say nothing of the indigestible matter, as bran in wheat, which is necessary to the normal or healthy action of the intestinal canal. One thing is ceidain : in warm weather, when there is much waste of the fluids of the body through the skin, the supply of hquid material must be corresiiondingly large. Here is where the juicy fruits, and even the vegetables, sup- ply a great want in the vital economy ; they give us a large amount of fluid matter, in an organized state. Indeed, we have a most beneficent arrangement in the relation of sup- ply and demand ; when our needs are greatest and most urgent, the stock of supplies from Natm'e’s storehouse is most abundant. In the early spring, when we have grown tired of “ last year’s leavings,” the tender vegetables fill our markets and dehght our eyes in glad anticipation of a change in the repast. Tlie young beets, the spinach and asparagus, the early cauliflowci’, and even the lettuce and onions, have charms for us then. As summer draws nigh, the varieties of choice vegetables midtiply, giving us green peas, toma- toes, string beans, summer squashes, and an almost endless variety of products. Then come the autumn days, and with them the great Lima beans, the Hubbard squashes, and the sweet potatoes. Nor does the supply fail us when winter approaches ; there are still turnips, potatoes, cabbage, win- ter squashes, and other good things. Keally, it is little less than wonderful what varieties of vegetable products there are, even in a single latitude or climate. Another feature in regard to vegetable foods, is the strong contrast that exists in tlie flavors of the several products.