[part hi. HEALTH m THE HOUSEHOLD. 452 meats rare; some -want them well done; and some very weU done. Mutton usually requii-es less time than beef. There should be httle or no water in the pot, when finished. To roast meats, allow about the same time as for boiling or stewing; fifteen to tw'enty minutes to the j^ound, if liked rare; longer, for well done. In starting, a good plan is to lay the roast in a hot skillet, and sear the sides of it before putting it into the oven. Or if this is not convenient, you may dash a pint of boiling water over it, before jfiacing in the pan. Start without w'ater, in a brisk oven, and roast moderately tiU a fork wdl go through the thickest portion easily. You can cover, if the top browns too fast; no bast- ing is needed. If you use the “ Gem Roaster,” place the meat in it without water, close the vent, and roast in a very moderate oven, allow'ing fifteen minutes to the pound. Do not open tdl the time has expired; then, if the meat is not sufiiciently brownied, open the vent, replace the cover, and leave it in the oven ten minutes. In broiling, use no biitter or grease, except it be a httle suet to oil the gridiron; meat is best cooked and eaten in its own juices; not soaked in butter, or other oils. If you broil in a skillet have it hot, and use no gi’ease; tium fre- quently, searing both siu’faces in the very beginning, and then finish in ten minutes; cover closely between turnings. The art of broiling, is to heat quickly, imprisoning the juices in the outset, and to cook without scorching. If per- fectly managed, there will be very httle grease in the bot- tom of the skhlet, when done; only a spoonful or tw'o of gravy, which should be poui’ed over the meat. Roasted or boiled meats, if of good quahty, are generally better sliced cold than w^armed over; but if the latter jdan is decided on, do it as quickly as possible; as soon as the meat is thoroughly heated through, remove it from the fire. Never use the liver or kidney of an animal; both are depurating organs, strictly speaking, and are therefore filthy.