HEAXiTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAET L 62 excretions of the body. Persons who live without salt find that the perspiration, tears, sahva, and also the blood, lose theii- saline taste, even in a few weeks or months. And if we were to select for experiment those wild animals known to live without salt, as rabbits, squu'rels, etc., it might be a question whether an^^dhing short of a destmctiv e analysis of their tissues would reveal the presence of actual chloride of sodium. But suppose we should find it; what would this prove ? Simply that the vital organism has the power to create out of the foods furnished from the natural products of the soil those substances which it needs in the vital economy ; and if it has this power in the wild animals, the presumption is that the same power is not wanting, either in domestic animals or human beings. But it has been said that experience is, after all, the best test in these matters ; and that it is well knoANTi that not only human beings, but the domestic animals, require salt to keep them in healthful conditions. This latter statement is pm’e assumption—nothing more—the facts being on the other side. And the still more extravagant assertion, viz., that disease and death will follow the leaving off of salt is with- out a shadow of truth in it. There probably never was a time in the world’s history when there were not people who lived and thrived without it, and also without meat. Certain it is, that there are such at the present day, both in savage and civilized life. But so much has habit to do with our opinions, that there is perhaps not one person in ten who does not beheve that salt is absolutely essential to the health, and even comfort, of the domestic animals.* The * Dr. Graham, in his “ Science of Human Life,” says : “ It is a little re- markable that some have contended for the neeessity of salt as an article in the diet of man, to counteraet the putrescent tendency of animal food or flesh-meat, when there is not a carnivorous animal in natnre that even uses a particle of it; and few, if any, of the purely flesh-eating portions of