272 HEALTH IK THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAKT IH. Then add the rest of tlie water, the yeast, the Graham flour or corn meal—or “connell,” if you use it—and heal very thoroughly. Mix at night (in cold weather), and set the bat- ter in a moderately warm place till mornfng; it should then be light, but not sour. It will be rather foamy on top, and will rccjuire a vex*y little light stirring 5 if too stiff, stir in a few spoonfuls of tepid water. The buckwheat flour of thiiTy or foiiy years ago, was ground coarser (and it was very much better) than the ai- ticle now sold under that name; it fell like buckwheat, and it tasted hke it; it was also free from adulteration. The batter made from it had both a hghtness and a “ body, that is not now to be found; and the cakes, which w'ere xisuaUy the full size of the griddle, were maiwels of excel- lence. The modern buckwheat flour makes a batter that is too fragile to manage in the same way; hence the rule, to bake three cakes on a griddle of ordinary size, as they ai’e more easily turned without breaking. The batter should be quite thin ; thin enough to spread readily as it is povued on the griddle. Then have a good even fire, the griddle clean and hot, and oiled just enough to keep the cakes from sticking ; a convenient arrangement for this latter purpose, is a stick with a rag ’^’rapped around and tied on the end of it, and well saturated with olive oil or good sweet dripping ; change frequently, or keep scrupu- lously clean. Pour on just enough batter to make three thin cakes (you can hardly get them too thin), and the mo- ment they ai’e ready to turn, jxop them over ; if you let tliem dry out before turning, they will be spoiled. Regu- late the heat of the griddle so that the cakes will brown evenly, but not scorch ; this direction applies to all griddle- cakes. Nothing is worse than a raw or burnt batter-cake. Leave a little of the batter in the bottom of the crock, for a sponge the next evening; it will be better than to use fresh yeast every time. You may do this for a week oy