PRACTICAL HINTS. 553 PART III.J happiness of her daughter at heaid, will neglect to teach her, first, the duties of the household; and no daughter who aspires to he queen at home, and in her circle of friends, can afford to remain ignorant of the smallest de- tails that contribute to the comfort, the peace, and the attractiveness of home. There is no luck in, housekeeping, however it may seem. Everything works by exact rule; and even \\ith thorough knowledge, eternal vigilance is the price of success. There must be a place for everything, and ever^Thing in its place; a time for everything, and every- thing in its time; and ‘Patience, patience,’ must be written in glowing capitals all over the walls. The reward is sure. Yom’ husband may admire your grace and ease in society, your wit, your school-day accomplishments of music and painting; but all, in perfection, will not atone for an ill- ordered kitchen, sour bread, muddy coffee, tough meats, unjialatable vegetables, indigestible pastry, and the whole train of hoiTors that result from bad housekoejiing. On the other hand, success wins gratitude and attachment in the home circle, and adds luster to the most brilliant intel- lectual accomplishments. “One of the first ideas the young housekeeper should divest herself of, is that because she is able or expects some time to be able to keep servants, it is therefore unnecessary to understand household duties, and to bear their responsi- bility. ‘ Girls ’ are quick to see, and note the ignorance, or incapacity of the mistress of the house; and few are slow to take whatever advantage it brings them; but the capacity of a mistress, at once estalilishes discipline. In speaking of the sanitary conditions of the house, the same author remarks: “There must be plenty of sunlight, floods of it in every room, even if the carpets do fade; and the housekeeper must be quick to note any scent of decay from vegetables or meats iii the cellar, or from slops or refuse, carelessly thrown about the premises. Every room 24