t’ooD, Intellect and morals. I'AXiT I. 83 The trouble in this country is, that the fathers and mothers do not begin right; they demoralize their children from the very start, by giving them at table and elsewhere their ovm way in everything. In fact, the child orders and the mother serves. The women in the old country set us a good example in this respect; in England and Scotland no mother would thinlc of seating her little child at the table with grown people, and giving it any and everything that was before it. She places it at the^ child’s table in the nursery, and gives it plain bread and milk or mush and milk. Not so in America ; here the mother asks her little one what it will have, instead of giving it what she thinks it needs. Truly, we are a fast people ; and unless we change our habits we shall run a feai'ful career, brilliant but brief, dash- ing but dissolute, and ending at last in imbecihty or infamy. The physicians of the hygienic school, claim to have demonstrated two facts : first, that intemjxerance (unless inherited) rai*ely if ever begins until there has been the habitual use of condiments and the fighter stimulants, either in the food or di-ink. Second, that when the habit of taking strong drink is established, the safest, surest way to reform, is at once to abandon all stimulus in the dietary, at the same time that the drinking is discontinued. Many in- ebriates have been reclaimed in this way, and in a compara- tively short space of time ; nor is there in these cases the slightest desire to resume the drinking habit, so long as the other stimulants are not indulged in. In other words, by living correctly, you conquer the evil habit But an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. Can not the mothers act on this hint, and see to it that their sons (and daughters) are reared in such a way that vice will be no temptation to them? Solomon—who must have knovm from experience—said : “ Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he wifi not depart from it.”