[PART ir. 128 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. the bread to rise, it may be well to throw a folded blanket over it; or you may carry it to the furnace room, after the fire is low. Next morning, the bread having risen to twice its fii’st volume, is waiting a second kneading. Tf this can not be done immediately, you will have to set it in a cold room, lest it get too light; and bread that has risen overmuch is never sweet. The only really safe rule, is to knead as soon as the batch is ready ; ten minutes’ light kneading will be long enough. Mould into small loaves (this amount of dough will make five or six), put them into separate pans, cover, and set in a warm place ; in half an hour, or when they have risen to double their former size, place in a very moderate oven; do not forget this last item, as the bread should swell a Httle before its siuface hardens. FoUow with a steady heat—rather hotter than for white bread—and bake from forty to fifty minutes ; larger loaves would require about an hour ; reduce the heat toward the last, and finish with an evenly browned crust, not the least bit scorched. If -on removing from the oven, any of the loaves are not firm to the touch and well broAvned, top, sides and bottom, they must be set back a few minutes, for fm’ther baking. As soon as done, stand each loaf endwise, leaning against a stone jar or other upright object, on the kitchen table ; this will admit the air on all sides, leaAung the crust dry and brittle, not soft and tough. When thoroughly cold wrap in a clean cloth, and lay in the bread-box ; cut the next day. After the bread is two or three days old, you may slice and toast it; or cut it a little thicker, dip quickly into cold water, and crisp in a hot OA’en. Very good bread is made—and many like it for a change —by working into the above sponge equal parts Graham and white flour ; then knead, set to rise, mould into ioaves, and when risen again, bake as before. The bread ii, a pale buff color, and very sweet and good. Or you ma;) use all