PART I.] DRINKING AT MEALS. 73 sip of water, why should not we manage to swallow our foods, which ai’e much more moist, without resorting to the “ washing-down ” process ? Lilce the habit of taking only soft foods, that of drinking at meals is exceedingly detrimental to good digestion. The evils it brings ai*e manifold. In the first jfiace, it in- clines one to taking too large mouthfuls, and this, added to the fluid poui'ed down with the food, interferes with thorough mastication. “ Food well chewed is half digested.” But suppose we “ bolt ” it in ten to fifteen minutes, as is the usutil custom : instead of its being divided as finely as possible, and time given for the flow of the saliva whose office it is to dissolve the nutrient particles, and otherwise prepare them for the next stage in the process of digestion, the food enters the stomach, not only in a crude state mechanically, but without undergoing that first step in the vitalizing process which is ultimately to transform it into a constituent paid of the blood. If the ill effects stopped here, it would not be so bad ; but they do not. The moment the gastric juices begin to flow from the follicles in the stomach, they are met, not by the smooth pulp of finely masticated and insalivated food, but by a emde, half-ground sort of “ fodder,” wet up with a slush of hot coffee, strong tea, greasy cocoa, ice-water, or some other liquid, each as foreign in its nature to that vitalizing solvent which the stomach itself prepares, as it is possible to conceive. And if the drink taken is very cold, it will check or prevent the flow of both the gastric and the salivai*y juices, and thus cripple digestion at every stage, from the lack of vitalized material to carry on that proenss. If hot drinks are indulged in, the opposite effect follows, viz., an over-stimulation, and therefore exhaustion of the glands and follicles that secrete the digestive fluids. The next injury sustained is in the duodenum and small intestine ; the food, or that paid of it which reaches these, 4