PART III.J 475 POULTRY. rubbed fine (more or less, according to quantity’’ of crumbs), and stii* well together; if sage is not liked, use thyme or any other herb, as preferred. Then take a piece of fresh sweet butter, say the size of a walnut, to a quaid of crumbs; pour on a little hot water to melt it, and stir it in. Some add also a beaten egg, but this is not necessary; and some use suet finely pulverized, instead of butter; a chopped onion may be added, if hked. Pour in tepid water, a little at a time, stirring lightly with a spoon; be sure you do not make the dressing too wet; it should be moist and flaky, rather than wet and sticky. Fill the body of the turkey, not very full, as the dressing must have room to swell; then sew up the vent with a strong thread, removing it before serving. Stuff the crop in the same way, and sew it up; there should be enough dressing left out to fill a small dish. Tie the legs together with a bit of cotton twine, and then fasten them securely to the “ pope’s nose ” at the end of the back-bone. Put the turkey into a dripping-pan, lay the heaid and gizzard beside it, and throw the liver away; then pour in a quiud of boiling water, and start to roasting in a slow oven; the heat must be moderate at aU times, but very slow the first half hour. aUlow three to four hours or longer, according to the size of the turkey, or about thirty minutes for every j^ound; it will require all this time, if the oven is regulated as it sliould be; and if the fowl is not young, another half hour will perhaps be needed. To hurry any paid of tlie process, is to have a spoiled dinner; baste frequently, as the roast progresses, and add a little boiling water from time to time; the pan must not get dry, or nearly dry. Turn the turkey as the surface browns; and when it begins to harden at any point, as on the legs or wings, wet a clean napkin in warm Avater, fold it several thicknesses and lay it on the overheated part. The last half hour you will have to be particularly Avatch-