WHEAT AXD OTHER CEREALS. PART I.j 25 death on any one of them, or all of them put together. For example, wheat alone, with water (the latter as a carrier of nutrient material), will sui^poi't human hfe for an indefinite length of time. But if we sei^arate the wheat into gluten, stiU’ch, sugar, etc., and attemj^t to hve iipon these, with or w'ithout the water, certain death wlU in a few weeks or months repay us for our folly. And yet, well as these facts are kno'^m among physiolo- gists and scientists,.people stfil persist in eating white flour bread, which is mostly stiu*ch, actually prefening it to bread made from the flour of the whole whe|it! Really, is it not high time that we ceased to eat, and feed to oul^ children, an aiticle of food that dogs can not hve upon ? In speaking of this subject. Dr. Trail remarks: “All of these proximate constituents vary exceedingly in their ability to sustain the j^rolonged nutrition of man or animals ; but neither of them alone can sitpply perfect nutrition, nor sustain the organism for a gi’eat length of time. Their power to do so is in the ratio of then’ complexity. Thus, gluten, which combines in itself a greater number of ele- ments, or in other w^ords, is a more complex substance in its chemical composition than any other alimentary prin- ciple, is capable of sustaining the nutrition of animtils longer than any other.” Dr. Graham is even more exi^hcit on this important sub- ject. He says: “Can any inorganic compound of oxygen, hydrogen, carbon and azote, be made to answ'er as a substi- tute for animal or vegetable food ? Ceriainly not! And the reason is ecidently not because any pariicular chemical character or property is wanting in such a compound, but because such a compound has not the constitutional nature which adapts it to the constitutional nature and functional powers of the living animal organs.” He further adds: “A single pound of good wfiieat contains about ten ounces of farina, six drachma of gluten, and twm drachms of sugar ; 2