86 HE.VLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [pAKT 1. achs. Of course, there was no sweetness in it; the peai'ling or cleaning process, which the Ahron people understand so well, was not then applied to the manufacture of Graham floiu’; and the bran was so coarse and imtating that the “ Graham bread,” as it was called, made more dyspep- tics than it cured. The consequence was that those who ate it were a by-word and a reproach ; and aU succeeding dietetic reformers have been forcibly reminded of their folly, by the keen thrusts of a scrutinizing public—which always looks after these matters. Nearly half a century of close contact with invalids, has placed before the hygienic physician ceidain facts which can not be ignored ; and whether the science behind them is fuUy understood or not, the facts themselves remain. For example, if we have a nervous dyspeqttic to ti'eat, we know better than to set before him, at one and the* same meal, strawberries and beets ; or strawberries and cabbage ; or apples (raw or cooked) and sweet potatoes ; or apples and beans. These are only examples of at least fifty combina- tions that could be made, any one of Avhicih would give a weak stomach indigestion. The question then comes, whether it is not possible to lay down some general rules, which shall apply, in a certain sense, to aU cases ; whether, indeed, the vanguard of the “hygienic brigade” has not at last reached that point in the reform. It certainly stands to reason tliat the food products of the earth should be studied in their relations to each other, as weU as with respect to their nutritive qualities. In the first place, the commissariat, as a whole, should have in it all that is needed for the fullest growth and development of the liody ; and there should, if possible, be a sufficient variety to allow of more or less change in the bill of fare from one meal to another, and from day to day. One tires of the same thing, or exactly the same routine, over and over •, and all the more if there is any defect in the food