HE.VLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 540 [PART UI. from wliicli it follows, that the disagx’eeable odors escaping from filthy dish-cloths, grease burning on the top of the stove, musty old carjiets, pans of stale garbage, foul drain- liilies, etc., are not only breathed by the inmates of the house, but they are actually eaten! Look to it, then, that the 2dumbing is in the best of order, and the sink kept scrupidously clean. Have no dogs lying round the stove, and not very many cats or kittens; these, as a general rule, do not imjirove the sanitary condition of things. In the kitchen, every inch of the floor (especially if 'it be carpeted), should be well kept, and weU swej^t; and the woodwork and fumitui’e in both dining-room and kitchen, ought to be as carefully dusted and cared for, as any in the house. These rooms should be thoroughly aii’ed, every morning ; and through the day the kitchen should have as few occupants as possible, especially in the winter season, wiien the ventilation is less perfect. Moreover, the cook, whose presence is absolutely necessary, should be par- ticularly careful as to personal cleanliness, bathing, change of clothing, etc.; nothing indeed is more desirable, than that this individual should be scnipulously neat in aU her habits. As respects the dining-room, the table linen should be changed as often as necessary ; and when soiled it should be washed liy itself, and weU ii'oned. There is as much in the neatness and order with which every thing comes to the table, as in the quality of the furnishing; and any defect in the former, is even less excusable than the latter. In hygienic households, the manner of setting the table differs somewhat from the ordinary methods. As there is neither tea nor coffee, there are no cups and saucers, and of course no serving of the beverages named. In their stead AviU be found at breakfast or supper, a dish of stewed or canned fruit, which is served from the head of the table, and at the beginning of the meal. The only liquid that is