[part I. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD, 8:2 selves responsible for much of the ruin Tvu’ought in their own households. Had them tables been plain and simple, these things had not been. Is it any wonder that crime and bloodshed stalk rampant tlirough the land ? That licentious- ness lurks in the by-jiaths ? That women take to morphine or the mad-house, and men blow their brains out ? That homicides multiply with amazing rapidity, and theft and other crimes are frequent in high places ? These outrages on common decency and the whole communitj^ are not com- mitted by the plain, temperate members of society, who sit down tliree times a day to unstimulating food, go to their work regularly in the daytime, and retire to rest at night- fall. Could the private histories of the lawless ones be written, we should find the “ little foxes ” that spoil the tender vines. Rev. J. F. Clymer, wfiiose admirable little work on “ Food and Morals ” has akeady been alluded to in this book, gives a forcible illustration of the effect which diet has on char- acter, even in childhood. “ A father, by prayer and precept, and flogging, had done his best to reform his boy, whose staple diet was meat and sausage and pie and cake at his meals, with lunch between. The family physician said to the father, ‘ If you will put a leech back of each of your boy’s ears once a week for a month, you will do more to re- form him than your preaching and pounding will do in a year.’ The father asked for the philosophy of this pre- scription. ‘ MTiy,’ said the doctor, ‘ your boy has bad blood, and too much of it; he mud behave badly, or he would burst.’ ‘Then,’ said his father, ‘I’ll change his diet from beef and pie to hominy and milk.’ In three months there- after, a better boy of his age could not be found in the neighborhood. The acrid, biting, eAul blood had not become food for leeches, but it had done its wicked work and passed away ; and a cooler, blander, purer, safer blood had been supplied from sweeter, gentler food sources.”