PART I.] POOD AND PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT. K) t^-ose races that are celebrated for their beauty of form and complexion (as the Circassians), ai’e an agiicultural jicople, drawing their subsistence chiefly from the soil. But leaving the Eiu’opeans and Asiatics to work out their own destinies, may we not venture to inquire whether cer- tain jiliysiological defects among our own people, defects so pronounced as already to be considered national, may not in some degree be traceable to theii' dietetic habits? Is there not some error, which if corrected, would lead to more beneficent results? There must be a reason why sound teeth ai'e the exception ; why natural dentine gives place to porcelain ; why the teeth that remain ai*e ill-shapen, loose in their sockets, and covered with scmwy. There must bo a reason wh}' heads are bald so early ; why heavy tresses of beautiful hak, even on youthful brows, are so rai'e ; w'hy the few thin, straggling locks that remain, are harsh and faded, and the scalji covered with a scurvy dan- drutf. There must be a reason why firmly knit muscles, giving to the human figure a beauty and loveliness of form almost divine, have left in their stead, loose, flabby tissues, with very little muscular fiber in them. There must be a reason why the rose tints fade so early from the cheeks of tlie young ; why healthful boys and girls are converted into little, spindling, wizen-faced creatures, looking more like old men and women of diminutive stature, than like thriving, gi-owing children. There must be a reason why even in in- fancy the spine so often refuses to hold the body erect, and disease and deformity ensue. There is a reason, and it is our duty to find it. If the food we eat does not contain the elements out of which dentine is made, how can we expect to have good teeth ? If it is defective in nutritive quality, having a lack of those materials which make fibrin, by what process can we hope to clothe the bones with muscles? If it has a meager supply of the “ salts ” which enter into the forma-