G7 PART I.] SALT. SO energetic a resistance to it as when they are healthy and midepraved, and the salt is gi’aduaUy permitted to pass more and more freely into the general circulation, and he diifused throughout the whole vital domain, persuading the minute vessels of the glands and other parts, and becom- ing so permanently a quality of the serum of the blood as to be regarded by many as an evidence of the necessity for its dietetic use.” “ The facts in regard to the dietetic use of salt, then, are these :—1. Salt is whoUy innutritions—it affords no nourish- ment to any structure or substance of the human body. 2. It is utterly indigestible—it enters the body as a mineral substance—it is absorbed unchanged as a mineral substance —it goes the rounds of the general circulation as an unas- similated mineral substance—and is finally eliminated from the body through the kidneys, lungs, skin, etc., as an unas- sirailated mineral substance. 3. Its acrid quality is offen- sive to the vital sensibihties of the organs, always causing vital reaction or resistance, and this vital reaction constitutes the only stimulnlion ever produced by salt, and is therefore always attended with a commensurate degi'ee of iiTitation and vital expenditure, and followed by a coiTespondent degree of indirect debility and atony ; and consequently it always and inevitably tends to produce chronic debility, pretematural irritability, and disease ; the stomach, intes- tines, absorbents, veins, heart, arteries, and aU the other organs of the system, are always in-itated, exhausted and debilitated by its presence. 4. It never in any measure promotes digestion nor any of the assimilating functions of the system ; on the contrary, it always retards those functions, and is unfavorable to all tlie vitfil changes. AVhere a stomach has been greatly debauched and its energies prostrated, the sudden and entire abstraction of salt and aU other stimulants from the food would undoubtedly leave that organ in a temporary state of atony or depres-