559 PRACTICAL HINTS. PART III.J who now takes Ms turn in carting these “fresh country vegetables” through the hot sun, and along the dusty streets, and crying his throat sore to get somebody to buy. He will find more purchasers than one would suppose, par- ticuliu'ly among the boarding-house people, who must have sometMng to put on their tables; then, there are those fami- lies that live in out-of-the-way places, and who, rather than do without vegetables altogether, will take such as they can get. It is astonishing how much of this second and third-rate material accumulates, even in the hottest months; and until this is disposed of, no neio supplies must be brought in, for fear of a glut. Besides, a single car load of actually /re«/i produce, would spoil the sale of that on hand; this must be disposed of, before more is received. Hence, the super- abundance of stale articles, the extreme scarcity of newly gathered vegetables, and the high prices of the latter; to say nothing of the death roll that in hot weather follows the consumption of the former. AVhat is to be done ? The markets in these cities are so few in number compared with the population, and at the same time so far apaid, that nine-tenths of the people never go about them; moreover, the quaht}" of the produce, as already stated, is not such as to warrant a ready sale; so that once the stalls axe filled, they are likely to remain so. This being the case, tlie huckster in the country may take his time in gathering in the next supjfiy; the peas, corn and asparagus can remain in the field, till the stock on hand is more nearly exhausted. Once or twice a week—three times at the farthest—would be often enough to make this forag- ing expedition, from the simple fact that there is really no demand at the other end of the route. In short, the garden products grow old and tough in their beds, get stale after thev are gathered by standing around the farm houses, and when they reach the city through heat and dust, have no