TTF.AT.TH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 58 [part I. tained in fmits, pjrains and vegetables, ai-e tborouglily wliole- some, so long as we get them simply by eating these natural products. But when we separate them into starch, sugar, oil and the other proximate principles, and think to take these as foods proper, or in combination with them, we make a serious mistake. And were we to reduce all our foods to their proximate elements, and then tiy the experi- ment of hving upon them, we should in the end meet the fate of “ Megendie’s dog.” “ But,” say you, “ we do not wish to confine ourselves to these things—the proximate elements—we only desire to use them in combination with other substances.” Very true ; but the point is just here ; if the proximate elements, taken collectively (after they have once been separated from the alimentary substances to which they belong), are in- capable of supporting animal life, then they must be worth- less individually, no matter how small the quantitj^ in which we use them. If the proximate principles of food, combine them as we may with each other, lead to ceidain death, then it is plain that we must look for sustenance, not from these, but to those organized materials known to be cajjable ofi replacing the waded tissues. And if any one desires a test in this matter, let him try the experiment of making, say half his meals for tlmee weeks, provided he can hold out so long, out of as many of the proximate jirinciiiles of food as he may select, and see how he thrives during that jieriod. Before the time is one-quarter expired he will be tired enough of starch, sugar, oil, fibrin, albumen, casein, etc., and he will long for the foods proper, in undisturbed organic combination, in place of the miserable trash wliich he has been attempting to hve upon. Since, then, these proximate principles can not support animal life, may we not reasonably expect that any consid- erable proportion of one or more of them, taken habitually with the food, would produce abnormal conditions of the