PART 1.] 49 PORK-EATINQ. What care we for certain legal enactments enforced by the Jewish leader, far back in history ? True, our children die of scrofula, entire families having often been swept off with consumption; erysipelas appears in divers forms, and diphtheria (the legitimate result of foul feeding or foul air) is growing more and more common every year. Not only so ; there are everv now and then sudden and almost tragic deaths from trichinosis, whole families being the victims. But so far, these things fail to alarm us ; and though statistics show that diseases are multiplying among the swine them- selves, killing them annually by the hundreds of thousands, we take comparatively little heed. Of the twenty million dollars’ woiih of hogs in the United States that were sick in 1877, about 59 per cent. died. Has any one thought to inquire what became of the 41 per cent, that recovered? If, in the olden time, swine’s flesh in its normal con- dition was not fit for a Jew, can we, in these days, make that which has suiwived the ravages of hog-cholera, hog- fever, etc., suitable for a Christian? It is said that Dr. Adam Clarke—who evidently had an antipathy to pork-eat- iug—having once been called upon to say grace at a barbecue, bowed his head reverently, and uttered these words : “ O Lord, if Thou canst bless under the Gospel what Thou didst curse under the law, do Thou bless this pig.” The hog is a scavenger by natru’e, and by practice ; it is his proper mission on this earth, not to be eaten, but to eat up that which the nobler animals disdain to touch. Indeed, he adapts himself to circumstances, devouring whatever comes in his way. He is equally well pleased with the clean ears of corn, or the seething contents of the swill-pail; he will dine on live chickens, or devour carrion. Nothing is too fine or too foul to suit his undiscriminating palate ; he has been called “the scavenger-in-chief of all the back-boned animals.” Tnily he is omnivorous. And yet, bad as the hog is, it is not absolutely impossible to improve his condition. 3