A STORY WORTH READING. About Human Nature. We liave recently published a vol" ume containing a story of Human Nature which will be found of in- terest. It is called “The Man Won- derful in the House Beautiful,” and is an allegory, teaching the principles of Physiology and Hy- giene, and the effects of Stimulants and Narcotics. The House is the Body, in which the Foundations are the Bones, the Walls are Muscles, the Skin and Hair the Siding and Shingles, the head an Observatory THE LABYiuNTH. wliich ai’o found a pair of Tele- scopes, and radiating from it are the nerves which are compared to a Telegraph, while communications are kept up with the Kitchen, Dining-room, Pantry, Laundry, etc. The House is heated with a Furnace. There are also Mj^sterious Chambei’s, and the whole is protected by a Burglar Alarm. In studying the inhabitant of the House, the “ Man Wonderful,’’we learn of his gi-owth, development, and habits of the guests whom he in- troduces. He finds that some of them are friends, others are doubtful acquaintances, and some decidedly wicked. Under this form, we ascertain the effects of Food and Drink, Narcotics and Stimulants. It is a wonderful book, and placed in the hands of cliildren will lead them to the study of Physiology and Hygiene, and the Laws of Life and Health in a way that will never be forgotten. The book will prove of great interest even to adults and those familiar with the subject. The authors, Drs. C. B. and Mary A. Allen, are both regular physicians, and therefore the woi'k is ac- curate and on a scientific basis. “Science in Story” has never been presented iii a moi’e attractive form. It is universally ad- mitted that a large proportion of sickness comes from violations of the laws of Life and Health, and therefore it is important that this subject should be understood by all, as in this way we may become familiar with all the avoidable causes of disease. The reading of this book will very largely accomplish this end. It will be sent securely by mail, prepaid, on receipt of price, wliich is only $1.50. Address Fowler & Wells Co., Publishers, 775 Broadway, New York.