PAM II.] iiS7 M1SCELL/\,NY. the pan opens, leaving the cake standing on the bottom of it, whence it is easily shpped, right side up to a plate. There is also a movable stem, which can be taken off when tlic pan is used for bread, puddings, etc. The Ferris Cooker.—This is a round pile of tin pans placed over an iron dish of boiling water, each ready for any food, as meat, poultry, vegetables, pies, puddings, or —all cooking at once, and all covered closely so as to retain the steam, by a round top that shuts down over every dish, and fits tightly into the reservoir of water beneath. It makes a tall pile on the stove, but takes up no more room than one kettle, and its height does not interfere with any other pot or sauce-pan that may be neai’. The “ closed steamer ” described below is not unlike it. The Warren Cooker is said to be constructed on a similar plan, and is very highly recommended ; it is better known in the Eastern cities than in the West. Closed Steamer.—A closed steamer—so often referred to in this book—differs from the ordinary one in admitting the steam into several chambers at once ; this is done, not by holes in the bottom, but thi’ough flues in the side. Like the Ferris Cooker, it can be used in cooking two or more different dishes at the same time ; the only precautions being, not to let the bottom vessel get dry, and always to keep the water at a fast boil; if this is not done the steam \vill condense, and water collect in the chambers. Of course, the steamer should not be set off the fire unless ab- solutely necessaiy, and then only for a moment. The Geji Roaster.—An iron pan, with a closel3’’-fitting cover of the same material. It is used for roasting or broil- ing meats, fish, etc., and also for baking bread, biscuit, or cake. To roast meat, place it in the pan without water, fit on the cover, and set it into a moderate oven, closing the vent on top. Allow fifteen minutes to the ]iound, and do not uncover till done ; should the meat not be sufficiently