WILD BIRDS AND OTHER QAMK PART III.] 493 broiled on a gridiron, the latter should be of wii’e, and the wires not too far apart ; they will broil (or roast) in from fifteen to twenty minutes. If roasted, a good way after cleaning and rinsing, is to lay them, unstuffed, into a dripping-pan, add a cup of weak gravy—or w'arm water with a bit of butter—for basting, and jjlace in a hot oven. Then cut some shoes of good home-made loaf, a little stale, and toast these evenly on both sides, leaving the bread a trifle soft between its browned surfaces. Five minutes before the bii'ds are done, put a slice of toast under each of them ; baste once or twice, hft to a platter, thicken the gi’avy with a Httle browned flour, and pom’ it over. Partridge or Quail Pie. Clean the birds, cut them in halves or quarters, and cover with boiling water ; stew’ slowly till ahnost tender ; then lift out the pieces, and leave the liquor in the pot. Make a light cream paste, as per recipe hereafter given, and line a bake-pan with it, rolling the cnist about half an inch thick. Or if preferred, cover the sides of the dish, leaving the bottom bare ; then lay in the birds, and add a little par- boiled potato cut in small bits, if you like them ; you may put in some pieces of cold lamb, if you have it. Pinch off a few very small bits of the paste, and drop here and there over the pie ; these diminutive dumplings should lie in the spaces between the more prominent pieces of meat, giving room to swell. Stir into the liquor in the pot a little white flour -wet with milk, cream or water, let it come to a boil, and take it for moistening ; if there is not enough to cover rather more than half of the pie, put in boiling water. Then lay on the top cmst rolled half or three-quarters of an inch thick, and press firmly together at the edges; prick well with a fork, cut a good cross-slit in the middle, and bake with a moderate heat thirty to forty minutes. If the ^;rust is liked soft, mix the dough not very stiff, and bake