21 f>ART I.J WHE.VT AND OtUER CERE.VLS. if Ave select those that ai-e stiictly of organic origin, as starch, sugai*, oh, fibi*in, albumen, etc. The vit:il instincts reject those products that do not come directly from Nature’s own laboratoiy. The tables from Payen at the head of these chapters, will give a fair idea of the relative nutritive values of the dif- ferent grains. It wiU be seen that the saccharine element is most abundant in rye, the fatty in maize and oats, and the starchy in rice ; we observe, moreover, that oats are rich in mineral or saline matter (good for teeth and bones), and also in nitrogenous substances. The human body is kno\vn to be composed of some fifteen ultimate elements (the older authorities give thirteen), as shown by chemical analysis, all of which are supplied in common wheat. It is not strange, therefore, that this grain is a staple among food products throughout the civilized world, the fact being founded in the pliysiological needa of the human race. But it is- strange, yes, marvelous, that this same wdieat, which a beneficent Creator furnishes to our hand for the renewing of our bodies, should be largely strij^ped by man of its nutritive materials before he eats it. There is more than a grain of truth in the saying, that “ the principal article of human food in America is a robbed, depreciated substance, incapable of sustaining human life.” Tliat “ the human animal in America is drenched with starch ” (in the use of white flour), “ and destroyed by it.” That “ the ten thousand mills in America which are to-day engaged in pulverizing wheat, and sifting from it its gi’ay matter,” ought to be classed wdth the “ distilleries of the land,” as shorteners of human life ; and that the “ exter- mination of the one is not more to be desired, than the annihilation of the other.” "Wliat stupidity (shall we call it madness?) that in the flour of commerce we shoiald take away froin the wheat—• in a large degi’oe, certainly—no less than twelve of the