516 [PAKT III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. tlie same quantity of potato, then the rest of the hash, then tlie potato, of which there should be a good thick layer for tlie top. Smooth neatly with a knife, set in a brisk oven, and bake from thirty to forty minutes, browning at the end. When done send directly to the table, serving in the pan. The success of this dish dejiends, first, on the quality of the materials; second, on the rapidity with which they are 23ut together; and lastly, on the manner of baking. Prop- erly made, the jiie is excellent; slovenly done, it is quite inferior. Kettle Pie. This 2^ie may be made of beef, mutton, lamb, chicken, wild fowl, or other game; or you may combine these in any proportions you like. Cut the meat in small 2^ieces and stew till nearly tender, starting it in boiling water; cook slowly, with the pot closely covered. In the mean time mix a light cream paste, as 2)er reci2>e already given; use part milk for the mixing, else the crust will be too rich; have ready some potatoes, peeled, washed, and cut through once or twice, if they are large. When sufficiently tender, take the meat out, leaving the liquor in the 2>ot. Now take a clean kettle, 2nit into it a good layer of the parboiled meat, then one of cut 2>otato; and you may add a few small bits of the 2^aste, 2^inched off with the fingers; repeat the layers until the meat is all in; the kettle may be half or two-thirds full. Then skim and add the liquor used in boding; there should be enough of it to cover at least two-thirds of the 2>ie; if there is not, 250ur in boiling water. Roll a crust nearly half an inch thick, and lay it on; then cut a good cross-slit in the center for the esca2>e of steam, cover the kettle with a close-fitting lid, and 2dace it over the fire. You must regulate the heat so that the pot will bod constantly, but not hard; and it is best not to uncover tiU the last. It will require from thirty to forty minutes to cook, according to the size (or rather the de23th) of the pie^