PART I.] WHEAT AND OTHER CEREALS. 23 Coming fairly and squarely to tlie point, the truth of the whole matter is simply this : 'NVhat is best suited to the nourishing or building up of the body as a ichole, is also best adapted to the proper growth of its individual members. Tlie late R. T. Trail, M.D., has very justl}' remarked that “ Those who would prepare healthful food, and those who desire to ‘ eat to hve,’ should ever bear in mind that no one of the alimentary principles is capable in itself of properly nourishing the body. Neither of them, in the j)roper sense, is food, but merely a constituent part of food. And almost all the ahments or substances used for food, contain very nearly, and some of them quite all of these proximate ele- ments. Hence the futility of all the multitudinous experi- ments, in feeding human beings or animals on a constituent part of an aliment, instead of the ahment itself. Such experiments only show the physiological ignorance of the experimenters.” Those constituent parts of food which are known to phys- jologists as proximate principles of the “ second class ” (oil, sugar, starch), are purely of organic origin. And the same is true of those of the third class, as fibrin, albumen, casein, etc. These two classes differ widely, both in their nature and origin, from those inorganic substances which are des- ignated, proximate principles of the first class. The Latter —most of them metallic—though obtainable by destructive analysis from organic products, are also found elsewhere, some of them existing largely in the surface of the earth. Now, if the proximate elements of the second and third classes can be shovm to be incapable of siii^porting animal life, what shall we say to those of the first class ? If dogs starve to death on starch, sugar, oil, fibrin, etc., would they thrive well on chlorides, carbonates and phosphates ? And yet there are j^eople who do not hesitate to recommend even these. They imagine that if magnesia, siilphur, soda, etc., are lacking in the bones and other tissues, they can eat