P.VRT 1.] 51 PORK-EATINa. condition as it is thrown off from the tissues of scav- engers? And what the nature of the tissues themselves, when they are not only made out of, and nourished by a diet of garbage, but are thoroughly saturated with the almost putrescent matters with which the venous blood is laden ? It is a fact which we seem rather slow to recog- jiize, that the quality of all animal tissues partakes of the eharaeter of the materials out of luhich they are made. In other words, if we expect sound bodies with good fii'm tissues, we must look to the nature of the food we eat. Animal foods, of aU others, should, if eaten, be selected with the utmost care ; the animals themselves should be well fed, weU housed in winter, and allowed to graze from open pastimes in summer. No animal or fowl should ever be stall-fed, or sty-fed ; and none with carnivorous or om- nivorous habits, should be used as food. The creatime whose characteristics we ai-e at present discussing, combines in his personality too many bad qualities to give him a decent passpoi-t to our tables. He is of low organization, and naturally filthy in his habits ; he is desperately foul in his feeding, is often kept and fattened in a close, dirty pig-sty, and as might be expected, he is specially subject to disease.* And yet the hog is found in every market in this country, and in Europe ; though recently the German and Austrian markets have forbidden American pork ; and other nations, it is said, have the matter under advisement. Nor must it be supposed for a moment that the use of pork is at all limited to the few, or to the very poor among our people. There is scarcely one family in twenty that does not partake of it in one form or another. Tlie hams, the shoulders, the side-meat, the pickled souse (head-cheese), * Dr. Jas. C. Jackson makes the statement baser!, he sn5's, on informatioji derived from the pork-dealers of Cineinnati, Ohio, that “ ninet3'-live hofjs in one hundred have ulcers on their livers from the size of an ounce bullet to a hen’s egg.”