[part 1. 1IE.VLXH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 18 “ Yokohama, July 1, 1882.—Japan fui’nislies an example tliat tolls largely in favor of a vegetarian diet. That the Jaiianese are a people of muscle and great physical endur- ance is apparent on every hand. The specimens of muscu- liu* develojiment shown in the build and structui’e of the working classes, ai'e evidences of great strength and hardi- ness. The diet of these men is entirely of vegetables and fish, and they are very economical feeders at that. The quantity of food they requii’e, or at least the quantity they eat, is astonishingly small when compared with the food de- voured by the meat-eaters from the Westeim world. The amount of manual labor they perforin is sim2ily prodigious. The coolie, who takes the place of, and who does the work for which oxen and horses are utilized elsewhere, is about as strong, and can accomjilish about as much heavy work as the animtds themselves. They are jiossessed of immense jiower of limb, being able to jmll loads that woidd be con- sidered as much as any other di’aft animal coidd draw. It is wonderful to see them walking awa}" with the heavy loads they easily move ; and as carriers of burdens ujion the shoulder they are cajiable of staidling achievements. Seemingly their frames are as tough as steel, not suscepti- ble of cold or intense heat—going thinly clad in freezing weather, and not sluinking from the sun in its most ojqires- sive season.” There are also abundant statistics, and some of them from excellent authorities, showing that among the savage tribes there exist the most startling contrasts in resjiect to longevity, beauty of form, and strength of muscle. And the travelers who have made note of these facts, and who in all probability cared nothing whatever for dietetic rules or theories, tell us that the meanest and most hideous forms of human life (as the Calmucks) w’ere found among those peojfie who subsist almost exclusively ujion animal food, and this often of a very low order. On the other hand,