27G HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part m. ag for riclier ones. First of all, let there be good materials ; the best of flour (sifted), fresh eggs, and good sweet cream. If fniit is used let it be prepared beforehand ; currants should be looked over carefuUy, washed till they are free from all sediment, and then thoroughly dried in an oven that is not more than blood heat ; they must be well dredged with flour before using, and then stirred into the cake-batter the last thing before it is baked. Eaisins, if clean, may be spared the washing and drying ; simply pick from the stems, seed and chop them, and dredge well with floru'. Keep the eggs in a cool j)lace (or drop into cold water) till they are wanted ; and if jDracticable, beat them in a cool room. If more than one egg is needed, separate the yolks and whites as carefully as possible ; then beat the yolks with the sugar, and the whites by themselves ; the latter must be cut to a froth stiff enough to adhere to the plate, turned upside down. Use an eaidhen or stoneware basin, both for beating the eggs and mixing the cake. Before you begin with the batter, have all the ingredients at hand, and in order ; the cream of tartar sifted through the flour, the soda dissolved, the sugar (if not the gi’anulated) rolled fine, and the cake-pan clean and well oiled ; do not heat before oiling, as it makes the cake stick ; have the pan cold or lukewarm—never hot. Look to the oven, and see that the fire is just right ; you will need a steady, even * heat, one that you can depend upon till the cake is done. Some cooks prefer to use the soda without dissolving it; in this case you must mash with a knife till it is perfeotly smooth, and then sift it and the cream of tartar well throuofh the flour, or a part of it. An objection to this method is, that careless cooks do not always pulverize the soda tlior- oughly before sifting. The safest way, certainly, is to (/fs- &oloe it in boiling loader. If instead of soda and cream of tartar, baking-powder is used, mix well with a spoonful or two of the flour, and stir it (with thorough beating) into