HEALTH IH THE HOUSEHOLD. 30 [PABT I. two-tbircls bad decayed teetb. See ‘ReiDOi-t State Health Boai’d of Massacbusetts, 1875.’ “ 7. There is every probability that the prevalence of pre- mature grayness or baldness, is partly due to the present ex- clusive and universal use of white flour. Han* contains ten per cent, of sulpbamid (N H 2 S).—Mulder. But there is no sulphur or sulphui’ic acid in flom*. A flour, to be food, must contain in proper quantities aU ingredients found in the tissues, hair, teeth, etc. If it does not, then impairment of vigor, decay, and falling off must be expected as a natural consequence. “ 8. Flour for half a century has been regarded as one cause of constq:)ation. It has been proved that whole- wheat meal (or flour) regulates the bowels by giving the system nerve food to ‘nm,’ so to speak, the digestive functions and promote healthy peristaltic motions. Nearly all our functions are sustained by nerve-force ; hence the importance of having the nerves receive their full amount of phosphoric acid, which is the great pabulrun of the nerve tissue. “ 9. It is probable that the use of flour may be the cause of the change of the type of disease from strong (sthenic) to weak (asthenic).* “10. Why should mankind, then, use flour and render themselves liable to disease, because flour is impoverished food? Remember Megendie’s dog that died from eating * “ The mineral ingredients of food for plants, contained in fertilizers, if withdrawn seventy-five per cent., would entail vegetable growths of very feeble vitality and the resistance to the causes of disease. No farmer would think of manuring his vegetables with one-fourth the fertilizers ordinarily deemed necessary ; or if he did, he would get a miserable and weak crop, if he got any at all. Now it is asked, May it not be possible that the present type of asthenic disease is partly due to the use of an im- poverished food like flour ? The answering of this must be made by the organized medical societies, although there is every probability that the reply will be in the aflfirmativc.”