240 PAllT II.] CANNING FRUITS, ETC. this: Select those that ai'e not too ripe—a little firm to the touch; smooth, round ones of medium size, are the best. Peel without scalding, as it makes them less soft; the knife must be thin and shaii). Put them into the kettle whole— or if lai-ge, cut once through from stem to blossom; then heat rather slowly, until the whole mass is thoroughly hot, and boiling; skim if there is need. The jars being in order proceed to fill, first pouiing in a very little juice; then lift out the tomatoes, one at a time, and when the can is ahuost filled dip in the juicy portion, at the same time introducing a large spoon, and firmly pressing down the tomatoes, which will send the air-bubbles to the top. AVhen no more juice can be added, dry the moisture from the can, adjust the rubber, and seal as before. The covers must be tightened two or three times; once after the jars are entirely cold. AV'ith these precautions the tomatoes ought all to keep; thougli it is genei’idly 'safe to apply the ted, that of invert- ing the can after it is sealed, and cool enough to handle. The jars must be set in a closet or other dark jilace, and in- spected occasionally the first few weeks, to see that they are all in order; if mould begins to appear the can must be opened, the specks of mould carefully removed, and the tomatoes used. Glass cans that seal with wax, are thought to keep toma- toes better than those that are self-sealing; owing perhaps to the fact that the latter are not always well made. Tin cans are good to exclude the air, but as already stated, Ihe acid corrodes the metal more or less, and the oxide of tin is formed. For this reason glass is always preferable, even for tomatoes. If tin is used, however, it should be of the very best quality, and the cans opened before there is any decided metallic taste imparted to tlieir contents. A^eiw few brands are good after eight or ten months. AVhen the tin is poor, tlie acid corrodes it in a short time. 11*