200 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLH. [pART II. clean place, where they can be covered, if necessary, as soon as cold. In stewing fruits, do not allow the steam off old tin lids to collect and run down into the kettle, discoloring and poisoning its contents with I'ust. Lids of granitmed iron are light, durable, and free from oxidation. Tin lids, if used, should be kej)t bright and clean; and when the kettle boils so slowly as to cause the moisture to adhere, the cover should be removed. In cooking fruits that have a decided color, as bendes, chendes, currants, graj)es or plums, observe two iTiles: first, stew them slowly; fast boiling darkens the fruit, and injures the flavor; second, keep them from con- tact with the baser metals, as tin, iron, brass, lead, copper, etc. Cook in kettles that are porcelain-lined, or made of gi’anitized iron; and use silver spoons or wooden paddles for stirring. If canned for winter use, put these fruits into glass jars; tin not only discolors, it poisons them. In strain- ing fruit juices a clean cloth is best, as it does not discolor; though an earthen colander, if you can get it, does veiy well. In selecting small fruits, care must be taken that they are newly gathered, else they will lose their fine flavors, and also their healthful qualities. "When they are already beginning to decay, there is no alternative but to cook them—or throw them away. If not too fai’ gone, the heat will expel most of the escaping gases, and render the fruit less hurtful, and less objectionable to the palate; but no amount of cooking can make it as good as sound fimit. A great deal of that sold in our city markets, is in this half stale condition—too long off the trees and vines. On the other hand, much of it has been gathered and shipped be- fore it was ripe; and it is so sour and unpalatable when it comes to us, that cooking and even siveetening seems a ne- cessity, before it can be brought to our tables. Were there at all times an ample suj:»ply of good fruits, neither over-