TUE FRUITS. P.VET I.] 35 empty stomach, or simply with bread—never with vegeta- bles. In the morning, before tlie fast of the night has been broken, they are not only exceedingly refreshing, but they serv'e as a natural stimulus to the digestive organs. And to produce their fullest, finest effect, they should be ripe, sound, and eveiy way of good quahty ; moreover, they should be eaten raw. What is better than a bunch of luscious grapes, or a plate of berries or cheiTies, on a sum- mer morning the first thing on sitting down to breakfast ? Or a fine ripe apple, rich and juicy, eaten in the same way. In our chmate ajiples should constitute not the finishing, bui the beginning of the meal, pariicularly the breakfast, for ai least six months in the year ; and fniits, raw or cooked should make a part of the morning and evening meal (pro vided suppers are eaten), during the entire year. The good effects that would follow the abundant use o{ fruits are often more than counterbalanced by the per- nicious habit of completely saturating them with sugar. Very few fniits, if thoroughly ripe and at their best, requir.' any sugar, particularly if eaten in the raw state ; but un- happily it is a fact, that what was intended and prepared for us as a great good in the matter of diet, should be trans- formed into just tbe opposite. It is also a misforiune that people in this country should so habituate themselves to “ sweet things ” (foods prepared with sugar), that almost everjdhing in the line of fruit acids “tastes sour”; so that what would otherwise be a pleasant acid flavor, must be covered with or cooked in sugar, before it can be relished. The taste can be educated in this direction, as in its opposite, to an almost unlimited extent. This is seen in comparing the dietetic habits and tastes of the people of this country with those of Great Britain ; the former use perhaps five times the amount of sugar that would suffice for the latter. And cooked fruits that are “ plenty sweet ” for an Englishman or Scotchman, would not be touched by