IIEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 6G8 [part in. the temperatm’e is oul}’^ a little above the freezing point. For the benefit of our “ country cousins ” who can not hail the ice-wagon every morning, the following suggestions from the Buckeye Cookery, on constructing and filling an ice-house, may be of practical value: “ A cheap ice-house may be made IIN'^ partitioning off a space about twelve feet square in the wood-shed, or even in the barn. The roof must be tight over it, but there is no necessity for matched or fine lumber for the walls. They should however be coated with coal-tar inside, as the long-continued moisture puts them to a severe test, and brings on decay. Ice shoidd be tahen from stiU places in running streams, or from clear ponds. It may be cut wiih half an old cross-cut saw, but there are saws and ice-plows made for the purpose, to be had in almost every village. In cutting ice, as soon as it is of sufficient thiclmess, and before much warm weather, select a still day, with the ther- mometer as near zero as may be. Ice handles much more comfortably and easily when it is so cold that it immediate- ly freezes dry, thus preventing the wet clothes and mittens, which are the sole cause of any suffering in handling it; and ice put up in sharp, cold weather, before it has been sulijected to any thaw, will keep much better, and be much more usefiil in the hot days of summer, than if its packing had been delayed until late winter or early spring, and then the ice put up half melted and wet. The best simple con- trivance for removing blocks of ice from the water, is a plank with a cleat nailed across one end, to be slipped un- der the block, which slides against the cleat and may then be easily drawn out with the plank, without lifting. Cut the ice in large blocks of equal size, pack as closely as pos- sible in layers, leaving about a foot of space betw'een the outside and the waU, and filling all crevices between the blocks with pounded ice or sawdust. Under the first layer there should be placed sawdust a foot thick, and arrange^