PART II. J 247 CANMNG FRUITS, ETC. much trouble. It is believed, however, that the mystery is at last solved ; and that the whole difficulty—after reason- able care in excluding the air-bubbles—comes from the fact that the berries (in the cans that spoil) rise above the juice which should cover them, and begin to mould in consequence of the small particles of aii- confined in their meshes. The proper thing to do in this case is to keep watch of the cans, and as the fruit rises shake it down into the liquid contents below ; in other words, saturate the berries with the juice, until they sink to the bottom by their own weight ; then they w'iU be found to keep, without fxrrther difficulty. Should any can be neglected too long, and mould begin to form on the surface, it must be opened at once, and the fruit used before it is fmdher affected. A lady who cans strawbeiries every year, and whose au- thority must be heeded, inasmuch as she has never lost a jar, gives the following directions, founded on her OAvn ex- perience : “ Have good sound beiTies, put in water to make them quite juicy, and when they begin to l)oil skim off the froth. Cook a few minutes over a moderate fire, till the mass is thorouglily heated through ; and keep the fruit pushed down under the hot liquid. Then dip into glass cans (self- sealing) which you have rolled over and over in very hot water; let out the air-bubbles by running a silver spoon through the beiries, remove any froth that rises, and fill almost to the brim. "Wipe the moisture from the tops of the cans, adjust the rubbers (also dry), and screw on tho covers ; these should be kept in a warm place till needed— though a quicker way is to dip them into hot water, take them out, and dry with a cloth before using. I generally leave out the sugar, as I like the berries better unsweetened ; sometimes I sweeten a few cans, ‘jnst for company.’ As the fruit cools screw the covers again ; and keep up this tightening process for a day or two ; then set the cans