49G [part hi. HE.VXTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. left from stewing, bj stiiTing in a little white floui’ wet with milli or cream, and bringing to a boil; there should be enough gravy to cover about two-thii’ds of the pie; if there is not, add boding water—or half-boded soup if you have it, is better. Then jiinch off some very small bits of the paste, and droii them in between the jiieces of meat, or meat and potato. Put on the top crast, rolling it half to three-quar- ters of an inch thick, secure the edges, and prick wed with a fork; cut a good cross-slit in the center, and bake in an even oven from thirtj' to forty minutes, or tdl the crust is done. Serve in the dish. Rabbit pie is made in the same way; it is milder in flavor if paid chicken or lamb is used, or even mutton. A rib piece (of lamb or mutton) is best; it may be stewed with the rabbits, the ribs being cut into shoid lengths, and most of the fat removed. ^ Game Pie. Stew together young birds, and a young squirrel if you have it, tid ad are two-thirds done; the birds should be cut in halves or quarters, according to their size, and the squir- rel into joints. Save no giblets, except the heaids and giz- zards; cut these into smad bits, and stew with the rest; start in boiling water, cover closely, and stew rather slowly. When the meat is sufficiently cooked, take it out; there should be liquor enough left in the pot to make the gravy; stir into this a little white flour wet to a smooth paste with milk, cream or water, let it come to a boil, and set it off. Line a dish with light cream paste, and put in a layer of the meat; then add af/wnlayerof stale bread-crumbs moistened with warm milk or cream, and sprinkled with a little dry sage, thjnne or parsley, or a combination of these (using them siiaringly), if they are liked. Put in the rest of the meat, and two or three potatoes cut smad—not skced—and parboded in a little water eight minutes; some like a few pinches of the paste, tucked in between the larger pieces of