PART I.] SALT. 63 fact in the case is simply this : nearly all these animals— at least in the United JStates—have been trained to the use of it (as will presently be sho-wn), just as human beings have been; and the probabihty is that not one of them would touch the aiiicle if its taste had not been already peiwerted. Any American who has visited the rui'al districts of Scot- land for the fii'st time, wiU. at once remark that the horses, cattle and sheep, are among the finest that he has ever seen ; the cattle and sheep especially axe far superior to the average of them in this coiintry. No doubt something is due to the better and more humane treatment in feeding and housing them ; these fine cattle, sheep and horses, how- ever, are never given sail. The only cattle in the Cheviot Hills that ever taste it (and no doubt the nile is general throughout the country), are those that are fattened for the market. And just here are two important facts to be noted.* * One is, that these cattle at first refuse the salt, but by sprinkling it lightly over the food, they will, rather than starve, eat the latter with the sprinkle of salt on it; and finally they come to like the thing itself. The other fact to make a note of is this : their owners give it to the cattle for the purpose of making them eat more turnips. In other words, by creating a feverish or inflamed condition of the stomach (which salt will do—and all the more if the animal is unused to it), the cattle gorge themselves with the juicy turnips to quench their thii’st; they also drink more water, as a matter of course. This increased feeding causes them to lay on adipose tissue rapidly ; or in other words, it i^re- pares them more quickly for the market. the human family ever use it in any measure or manner ; and most por- tions of the human family who subsist mostly on vegetable food, wholly abstain from it.” * These facts were obtained from a native of Scotland, who was familiar with the raising and breeding of cattle, and other farm stock.