5G3 I>AET III.] PRACTICAL HINTS. green and fresh. If th) melon yields readily to pressure, as if half shriveled, it is stcile; beware of it! Fruits.—It is generally an easy matter to decide whether fruits are fresh or sttile; if stale, they either look withered, or show signs of decay; and usually they are more or less discolored. Stale blackberries have a dull red color, which some persons mistake at iii’st sight for unripe fruit; if eaten in this condition, they often cause cholera morbus. The following hints on the selection of meats, poultry, fish, etc., are taken from tlie Buckeye Cookery, which is ex- cellent authority: “ In buying beef, select that which is of a clear, cheny- red color, after a fresh cut has been for a few moments ex- posed to tlie air. The fat should be a Hght straw color, and the moat marbled throughout with it. If the beef is imma- ture, the color of the lean paid will be pale and duU, the bones small, and the fat very white. High-colored, coarse- grained beef, with the fat a deeji yellow, should be rejected. In corn-fed beef the fat is yellowish, while that fattened on gi’asses is whiter. In cow-beef, the fat is also winter than in ox-beef. Inferior meat from old or ill-fed animals, has a coarse skinny fat, and a dark red loan. Ox-beef is the sweetest and most juicy, and the most economical. When meat pressed by tlie finger rises up quickly, it is prime; but if the dent disappears slowly, or remains, it is inferior in quality. Any gi'eenish tints about either fat or lean, or slipperiness of surface, indicates that the meat has been kept so long that putrefaction has begun; and consequently, it is unfit for use, except by those persons who prefer what is known as a ‘ high flavor.’ Tastes differ, as to the best cuts. The tenderloin, which is the choicest piece, and is sometimes removed by itself, lies under the short ribs and close to the backbone, and is usually cut through with the porterhouse and sirloin steaks. Of these, the porterhouse is generally preferred, the paid nearest the thin bone being