[part I. 76 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. York, remarks, “ A very strong decoction of green tea, or the extract, speedily destroys life in the inferior animals, even when given in very small doses.” Of coffee. Dr. Trail, after speaking of its nervine and narcotic qualities, says : “ From all the testimony I can gather from medical and dietetical writers, coupled with some degi’ee of 25er- sonal observation, I should judge it to be more dii’ectly injmious to the digestive process, and more exhausting to the general nervous energy than tea, and less injurious to the kidneys and pelvic viscera.” To the unperverted jialate, coffee has a bitter, unj^leas- ant taste. “ Not so,” says the reader ; “ I relished it from the time I was a babe.” Quite likely; and in all proba- bihty you nursed it in with yom’ mother’s milk. Besides, very young babes will swallow from instinct almost anj"- thing that is given them, even to castor oil. If any one really wishes to find out whether tea and coffee are doing him an injury, let him totally abstain from both for a few months ; then let him take a good strong cuj) or two of either beverage, and retire for the night. If he does not lie awake part or all of that night, he will have better ners^es tlian a good many others who have tried the experiment, and tossed on sleejdess jiiUows till morning. What a blessing it is that “ strong ” toast-water, oat meal gruel, or fruit juice, even when taken by one wholly unused to it, has no such unjileasant effect! One can often teU a tea-toper at sight, particularly if the stimulant has so far done its work as to affect the general health ; the individual has frequently a slirunken, slu’iveled ajipearance that is unmistakable. And the tobacco-using habit, even in a young man, is sometimes detected by simply shaking hands with him. After the nerves are par- tially shattered there is no longer the’ firm grasp, but an unsteady motion, a half tremor in the hand, not unlike the shaking gait of a dog that has had a shght under-dose of