tJNLEAA'ENED BRE.\D. 103 PART n.] imrmed before mixing ; a process Avliich would help, no doubt, to expel any gases or vapors that it may have ab- sorbed. The best Graham flour in our market is that manufactured by Ferdinand Schumacher, of Akron, Ohio. This gentle- man has built a mill that cleans each grain perfectly before grinding ; it cuts the hull tine enough to jmss throiigh a coarse corn-meal sieve, and turns out an excellent article of lively Graham flour made from the best white wheat. By sending for his “f. f.” (very tine) grade, we get the choicest of Graham for hard rolls, loaf bread or pastries. Moreover, this flour is so clean and sweet that it wiU keep for weeks, if put in a cool place, without getting old or musty. His oat meal, pearl wheat and pearl barley, are among the best in the country, both in the quality of the grains, and the methods of preparing them ; each grain is nicely dressed, the rougher portion of the outer or woody tiber being removed. Cracked wheat, as it is call«d, is pre- pai’ed in the same way, before the kernel is divided or cut. The ordinanj cracked wheat (now fast disappearing from our markets), which is simply crushed, contains a large per cent, of dwarfed or shriveled grains ; the hulls, Avliich are harsh and flbrous, are comparatively unbroken ; and were it not for the “ dressings ” that usually accompany it at table, very little of this article would be eaten. First and best of all the varieties of bread preparations known to hygienists, is the cold-water bread usually called the hard Graham roll It is made by mixing wheat meal with pure cold water, the colder the better. Properly prepiU’ed and baked it is sufficiently light or poroiis, owing to the air that is confined within its texture during the process of baking. No other kind of bread begins to compare with this in wholesomeness ; and the longer one uses it, the better it is relished. It is substantially what Dr. Trail calls the perfect bread—or Premium Bread. There are many “ little things ”