LEA\'ENED AND OTHER BREAD. 131 PART n.] Then take enough sifted Graham Hour to mix with the sponge, and form a dough not very stiff ; knead till it looks and feels smooth and silky, and set it to rise. When light enough knead very little, form into loaves, and put them into the pans. As soon as they have xisen sufficiently (if too light tlie bread will not be sweet), set in a moderate oven, and bake till done ; they will recpiire fully an hour, if the loaves are of ordinary ^size. When taken out do not set them flat on the table, but place endwise, leaning against something until cold. Cut the day after baking. Graham Bre-vd with Potato Sponge. Peel foiu’ or five potatoes, drop into a quart of boiling water, and cook till soft; then hft them out, mash tiU free from lumps, and add the water (hot) in which they boiled, mixing well together. Stir into this enough sifted white flour to make rather a thin batter, and beat well to remove the lumps. Let it stand till luliew'arm, and then add half a cup of good hop yeast, and one pint of tepid water ; thicken with white flour to fonn a batter about as stiff as wiU pour from the spoon, and beat very thoroughly. Set this sjionge where it will keep warm without scalding ; when light, sift into the bread-bowl equal parts Graham and white flour, say three pints of each, and make a well in the center. Now add the sponge, mixing as you pour, and fonning a dough stiff enough to leave the sides of the bowl. Knead thoroughly, till the dough is elastic to the touch, which will take perhaps fifteen minutes ; then set it to rise, covering well, and leaving it in a w^arm place. As soon as risen fonn into small loaves, knead moderately, and set where they will keep w'arni. When light enough bake in a good even or\'en, nearly an hour. Do not cut the bread till it is one day old. This, and indeed all loaf bread, is better baked in a brick oven, such as bakers use ; and it is sweeter if put in pans (tin or iron) with closely-fitting covers. The pans may