451 MEATS, ETC. P.VRT III.] used by most cooks, not only impair tlie quality of meat bj" bardening the tibriu, and rendering it cbfficult of digestion, but the}' also inflame the stomach itself, and Avaste the di- gestive fluids, by stimulating unduly the organs that secrete them. For a fuller elucidation of this whole theme, the reader is referred to the articles on “ Salt,” “ Meat as an Article of Diet,” etc., in Part I. Suffice to say, in this short para- gi’aph, that meats if eaten, should be taken without season- ings, and not oftener than once a day; in warm weather (and w'arm climates), once a week would be better. And on no account should they form any part of the evening meal; at mid-day, that is, at dinner, when the digestive organs ai-e usually at their maximum of strength, is the better time for both meats and vegetables. Fresh meats are infinitely bettor than salted—for reasons that have elsewhere been given. If Sixlted meats are used, let the salt be soaked out as thoroughly as possible, before cooking; and in boiling, start in plenty of cold water, skim when the pot begins to boil, and cook slowly till done. Fre.sh meats should be dropped into boiling water (the scum removed as it rises), and cooked rather slowly till tender. If filling up is needed, add the water boiling hot; the amount necessary to start w’ith, depends very much upon the size and shape of the vessel; a deep, narrow one witli little evaporating surface, wiU require less water than one that is wide and shallow; and when the meat almost touclies the sides of the pot, it will take very little water to cover it. For boiled or stewed meats (fresh), the general dircdioi'.s are, to drop into boiling water, not more than is needed to cook them, skim at the proper moment, cover closel}', and stew or simmer slowly until a fork will readily pierce the thickest portion. Tliis will require firtocn to Iwentv-livc! minutes to the pound, or longer, according to ilie toughness of the meat and the palate of the e.iter. Home like their