TEA, COFFEE, ETC. 77 PART 1.] stryclmine—enough, not to kill him, hut to affect the muscles permanently, and produce something like “shaking palsy.” Poor creature ! one always wants to end his misery as soon as possible—not the young man’s, hut the dog’s. “ But how,” it is asked, “ are we to replace the waste fluids of the system, if we do not drink at meals ? When nearly three-fourths of the human hody is water, how is this to he supplied ? ” The (Question is not hard to answer. In the first i)lace, nature has provided an abundance of juicy fruits and vegetables, some of them having, as shown by analysis, as high as 80 to 90 per cent, water ; and it is our own fault if we do not furnish our tables with these products. People are apt to fox'get that their bodies are nourished by the orcjanized fluids in fruits and vegetables, as well as by the more solid materials. Some writers, as Schhckeysen, have placed fruit before bread, as an article of diet. The solid constituents of food, it is true, ai’e found chiefly in the gi’ains ; but the fluids, which make so large a per cent, of the body, are more abundantly supphed from the juicy fruits. As to drinking “ for the love of it,” it is a fact worthy of note that if we live on fniits, grains and vegetables, reject- ing annual foods and the various seasonings, as sugar, salt, pepixer, spices, etc., we shall care very little for drinking, even between meals. It is the presence of stimulants in ordinary foods, that creates thirst; do away with these, and the thirst is gone. As if it were not possible in the very nature of things, to eat a meal without something to drink, the question is frequently asked, “How would chocolate do ? ”—quite forgetting that no one would care for choco- late, if it were not for the quantities of milk and sugar that oi’e used in it as seasonings. Moreover, it is prepared from the oily seeds of the Theobroma Cacao, and is, therefore, a gi’easy substance, not at aU fit to moisten the food prepara- tory to its being received into the stomach. ^