4G1 PART UI.] BEKF, MUTTON AND LVMB. coudiments—and iu the uext place, the pot, however full (and it was often a big one), rai’ely held too much for all the chits that sat or stood ai'oimd the fmnily bo u'd. Or if any remained undished, it was served at the “ second table,” for the four or live youngsters that had to wait. But the times have changed; other methods of cooking, some of them not so simple or so heiilthful, have taken the place of those primitive dishes of the olden tune. A line thing for the doctors, may be, but not so good for the stomach. In these “ progressive ” days, the meats and vege- tables are prepared in various fancy ways, to suit the tastes —the “ educated ” tastes, if you please—of fashionable people. Nearly everything in the way of meats, or meat preparations, not roasted or boiled, is now “ braised,” or “ larded,” or “ fricasseed,” or fried, or spiced, or made into “ coUops,” or “ croquettes,” or “ pates,” or salads, or done according to some other fashionable or foreign method. These dishes are a mixture of animal foods, hard-boiled eggs, vinegar, salt, catsup, mustard, black pepper, cayenne, almonds, nutmegs, mace, allspice, cloves, capers, anchovies, pungent sauces, jellies, brown sherry, wine sauces, etc., etc. What w'onder that the wild man of the woods, whose stom- ach is not yet deadened with these vile compounds, no sooner receives the proffered morsel into his hungry mouth, than with frightful gesticulations he em’ses the hand that gave it, and declares that a huge practical joke has been played upon him! Even the plain, old-fashioned beef roast, yields to these modern innovations; it finds itself slashed into with long- bladed knives, and completely riddled and plugged with strips of fat pork, the latter disguised, however, with a con- coction of onions, mustard, nutmeg, cloves, allspice, black pepper, sage, vinegar, sugar—and some innocent bread- crumbs. (What company they do keep!) After several hours of roasting or stewing, this fine dish is garnished with