24 HEALTH W THE HOHSEHOLD. [part L magnesia, soda, sulplim’, etc., or the carbonates, i^hos^jhates, etc., which contain them—quite ignoring the fact that these substances are simply earthy or inorganic materials, and as such, utterly incapable of suj)porting animal life. They seem not to understand that the only possible way in which human (or animal) beings can make these substances avail- able, is to take them, not as inorganic matter, but fresh from the hand of Nature, as part and parcel of the food products, in a state of ^xirfect organization—before the chemist has laid his finger upon them. It has been truth- fully said, that where chemistry begins, organic Hfe or structure ends. If hme is a necessary constituent in our bones, we can easily supply the system with the iieeded “ salts ” by eating xoliecU, not lime, or other calcareous substances. If sulphur is requii'ed in the hair, we shall obtain it from the grains ; not by taking the crude ariiclo. If sodium is called for in the fonnation of the different structures, let us look to the wheat and other cereals for that ingredient; not to soda, or chloride of sodium. Had God or natnre intended that we should eat inorganic substances, or even made it posnihle for us to sul)sist upon them, wliat need would there be to till the earih ? If, like trees, we can live upon gases, or derive nourishment from l^hosphates, etc., why turn the fuiTow, or put in the seed ? These materials abound in the crust of the earth, and are in no sense the products of agi’iculture. But why debate this question ? It has been shown again and again, that so far from man’s being able to sul>sist upon inorganic matter, neither he nor the lower animals can get nourishment out of them ; they can only live upon tlie natural, organic products of the earth. It has been repeatedly demonstrated, that even tliose proximate principles which are strictly of organic origin, as oil, sugar, starch, fibrin, albumen, casein, etc., can Hot sustain animal life ; both dogs and men would starve to