HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part I. 32 which would contain fifteen elements. The whiteness of flom’ is, in fact, an outward sign of the starvation and death within. Indeed, the jn-esent universal use of white fiom* is one of the most remai’kable facts in the history of civiliza- tion—remarkable, because it is the only impoverished food upon the diet list. Over-boiled meats and vegetables are the only approach to imiDOverished food. People know enough not to eat them. But that they should love to eat white flour is certainly very remai’kable indeed, and almost an evidence of a fallen nature, as there is nothing like it in the whole history of eatiug. “ 11. What is wanted is a wholesome, healthful, nourish- insr wheat food—a whole-wheat flour in the fullest and O broadest sense of the term—containing every one of the fifteen elements in their normal proportions, and reduced to an entire evenness of condition, which is most favorable to digestion and assimilation. It is a common practice, to a lai’ge extent, to giind the finest and soundest wheat into fine flour, and the poorest into what is called ‘ Graham flom’.’ This term ‘ Graham flom ’ ought no longer to be used ; it is a kind of general name given to mixtures of bran, and poor and often spoilt flour, to a large extent unfit for human food. We must have a thoroughly piu’e, sweet, and nutri- tious whole-wheat flour, made from the choicest and ripest wheat, wholly (bran, or cortical portion, and all) reduced to a uniform fineness of quality, and well put up for family use ; and whoever will give his earnest and honest efforts to furnishing such a flour, and keep its manufacture up to this high standard all the time, ■^dU confer a lasting benefit upon his race and generation, and find a remunerative market for aU he can produce. The bro-svn loaf is to our eye as handsome as the white, and in it we secme all the important nutritive principles which the Creator for wise reasons has stored up in wheat.” As respects the relative values of white flom and that of