[part hi. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 550 becomes a necessity, endeavor to use it inaudibly, and in a.s inconspicuous a manner as possible. Before rising from tbo tal)le, lay your knife and fork on your plate, ^ilaciug tlieiu side by side. If bits of food have lodged lieriveen tlic teetli, defer using tbe tootli-jiick until after you have left, the table; then foUow with the tooth-bnish, using it thor- oughly. Should it be necessaiy to leave the table before the rest are done, ask the lady who presides at its head to please excuse you ; do this veiy cpiietly, and as i^olilely as possible. The hostess in like manner, should grant the favor with the same gentle courtes}'. All well-bred people avoid veiy loud or boisterous laugh- ing or talking, at table ; they also discriminate as to who should take the lead in conversation, giving the preference to those whoso age or sujierior wisdom entitles them to it. Nor will a person who has been well brought up, mdely in- teiTupt another wliile he is siieaking (even Indians talk one at a time), or contradict his statement in an abrupt or ex- cited manner; he whl wait patiently tiU the other has finished, then quietly take his turn in the conversation, and if he entertains opposite views, present them in a way that will not give offense ; one can be thoroughly in earnest without being dogmatic, or in the least discourteous. IMore- over, it is a rule to be observed in conversing at table, that questions requiring an immediate answer be put at the proper interval; and not when the person addressed has just taken a fresh mouthful. The reason of this is obvious, since no one of any sort of good breeding would attempt to utter a sentence with his mouth filled; and to compel him to do so, or—what is even more embarrassing—to oblige him to con- sume half a minute in masticating and swallowing his food before he can speak, is to violate one of the first rules of etiquette. On the other hand, if one takes his food hurriedly and in large mouthfuls, he gives no opportunity for putting the