HE.VLTH IN THE HOUSEnOLH. [PAHT m. 558 the whole country, for miles around, is scoured by those middle men, the hucksters, -who gather up the tender vege- tables, cart them from place to place through the hot, broil- ing sun, then keep them at their own houses till aU have been collected together, after which they are hauled lo the nearest dejDot, or the city market. By the tune they reach the latter place, they are no longer fresh and sweet. Once in the stalls, however, they must “ look their best ” to jiur- chasers; hence, the watering-pot is in demand. But where are the multitudes of buyers, who would no doubt like fresh vegetables for dinner ? Evidently they are not in the mai’kets; no, they are sitting quietly at home, read- ing the morning pajier; for rather than pay a high price for a tasteless and conqiaratively stale aidicle, they will get some- thing at the nearest meat-stand, and make a dinner on old potatoes, steak and onions, and whatever else can be “ pick- ed up.” Tliis conclusion is the more readily arrived at, from the fact that the central market is a mile or two away, and not (to most purchasers) on the nearest hue of street cars; and two hours spent (at breakfast time) in going and coming, with a heavy basket to lug to the nearest car, and then to your own door, is no f un on a sultry morning in June, July, or'August. It follows, therefore, that neither fruits nor vegetables find a ready sale in the stalls; the housewife, ’v\dth her morning’s work to look after, or the mother with her little children at her knee, can not spare the time to go half across the city to get vegetables for dinner, consuming the best houi’s of the whole forenoon. But what becomes of the produce in the market; the peas, corn and asparagus; the string beans, and new potatoes ? Why, the market-man sells part of it to the meat-man at the corner; another por- tion he must try to scU, himself; but failing to do so, he will let a considerable per cent, of it go to waste in his stalls; the balance will have to be disposed of to the city huckster,