ADDENDUM. 585 the polar regions, the conditions of animal life show plainly that the natui’al jDrocess of generating heat is not by put- ting heated substances into the stomach, but by the norm;d action of the vital forces upon food taken in its natural state. Greater thirst is experienced after eating cooked than uncooked food, and this results both from the change which the food has undergone, and from the perspiration caused by the increased heat of the body. The aidificial solution of the food impairs its nutritive properties, and weakens the natvu’al functions of the body, by depriving them of their natural! emplo^nnent; and this has been so long continued, that we are now almost incapable of digest- ing uncooked gi’ains, so that their enhvening and invigorat- ing action is almost unknown.” This writer lays a great deal of stress upon what he terms the “electrical vitality” of foods; on this subject, he says: “Finally—and this is the point that physiologists have hitherto quite overlooked—the food must contain a certain electrical vitalihj. Although the real origin and nature of the vital force is not yet known, we believe that it is closely related to electricity; not less so, indeed, than to light and heat. Electricity is abundant in aU purely natural products, and indeed every^vdiere, where a free and uninterrupted ex- change of the influences of light, heat and air exist. It is less abundant in closed dwellings and sleeping-rooms than in the open air. An outdoor walk refreshes us, not only by the increased consumption of oxygen, but by the in- creased action of the electrical forces. The same vitality is stored up in uncooked plants and fruits, but is greatly impaired by all our culinary processes. Fruits act also through their natural acids, their refreshing coolness, and the easv assimilation of their albuminous products, and other nourishing materials. “ By the electrical vitality of a food, we do not mean its nutritive worth, nor indeed any mateiial element of it, but 25=^