HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part I. 9G Nearly all ve^etaliles are Lest dropped into boiling water, and cooked rapidly ; particularly those of a watery nature, as cabbage, turnips, string beans, young peas, and potatoes, new or old. As soon as done, lift from the fire ; cooking a little too long, makes all the difference in the flavor. Cabbage thinly sliced will cook in thirty minutes. Another direction applicable to nearly aU vege^ tables, is to put them on in as little water as possible, having none to iioui’ off, or next to none. As a rule never soak potatoes or other vegetables before cooking them, and never parboil them—not even beans, unless the}’’ are very old and strong, and then only for a few minutes ; when the water is drained off rejilace it with more, boiling hot. Fruits if overripe must be cooked but little, and taken from the fire the moment they are done ; a trifle under- done is fully better than cooked too much. All green or unripe fruits are improved by starting them in cold water, and cooking or simmering slowlg (without stirring), for a long time. The long, slow cooking makes the fruit taste sweeter and riper. All dried fniits, as apples, peaches, pears, prunes, sweet currants, etc., should be well washed, dropped into boiling water, cooked rather quickly, and removed from the fire as soon as done. Peaches and apples di’ied by steam, usually cook in twenty-five or thiidy minutes, and sweet currants in thirty-five minutes. Grains are best steamed, starting them in hot or cold water (rice is less sticky started in cold), and cooked till tender ; the water in the pot below should be kept eonstantlg boiling. Steamed bread, to be good, must be well managed ; as soon as the batter is mixed, pour it into a round pan, well oiled, and set this inside the steamer ; the pan must not be quite full. Then cover it with an inverted plate or pie-pan ; and if the steamer is one with holes in the bottom, place two or three bits of wood under the pan, so that the steam