PaKT ..] SUGAR. 59 V l)ody ? Whfit are the facts in the case ? Take, if you l^iease, the article under consideration, viz., sugar ; and let us select the i:>ure white crystals, in order to have as little organized or extraneous matter in it as possible. Try liking a heaping tablespoonful of this each night on going to bed ; and if you wish, you may repeat the “ dose ” in the morning on rising. How long, think you, will it requii-e to create a “ bad taste ” in the mouth, cause soreness in the liver, and constipation of the bowels “? Try it. A teaspoon- ful of white sugar j^ut into enough milk or water to dissolve it, and given to a young babe, the quantity being rej)eated two or three times each day, would very soon derange its digestion, causing severe constipation. Another ex2:>eriment easily tried, is to double or treble the amount of sugar usually taken in the food, and note its effects. It will be seen that the increased quantity creates thirst, or in other words, slight inflammation of the mucous surfaces of the alimentary canal; and if the digestion is ordinarily none too good, the sugar wiU most likely cause headache, and other symptoms of indigestion. Now, any substance that can not be taken habitually, in the small quantity of say half a gill—not even on an enqity stomach—-svithout causing abnormal conditions of the l)ody, must, to say the least, be set down as of little value, dietet- icaUy considered ; and it is pretty safe to conclude that the less one uses of such an article, the better. No family of ordinary size can consume “ barrels of sugar ” in a year, nor half barrels, without detriment to the stomachs of its individual members; the difficulty, however, is usually traced to any but the riyht cause. It is quite common for persons Avho suffer, for instance with periodic sick-hoad- ache, to affirm that what they eat has nothing whatever to do with it; that the headache is inhcritcA from father or mother. Did they ever think to inquire what gave it to the father or mother? So much easier is it to put the causeg