464 [PAHT III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. projjol’tion, you may put it in the center of tlie disli, and lay the vegetables around it. Stew'ed Beef or Mutton.—(Pot RoomL):^ If the meat is beef, and a rib or sirloin piece, prepare as for a roast, rolling it up securely, and fastening with skew- ers; if mutton, wash well in cold or tepid water, and dry Avith a clean cloth before cooking. Put it into a pot not too large for the piece—it should fit rather snugly to the sides of the vessel—and pour boiling Avater over it, enough to half or tAvo-thirds cover; this AA^ill partially sear the sur- face, and prevent the juices from escaping. Cover with a closely-fitting lid, heat quickly to the boiling point, and as soon as the scum rises remove it. Then boil rapidly five to ten minutes, after which cook very slowly, stewing rather than boiling, and opening the pot as little as possible. MHien half or two-thii*ds done, turn the meat the other side up, and stow as before; you may have to turn again, once or tAvice; if beef, it will requme twenty to tAventy-five min- utes to the pound, to cook it; the time may A’ary a little, ac- cording to its quality, and the slowness with which it boils. Glutton will usually steAv tender in less time ; say eighteen to twenty minutes to the pound, slow boiling; the pot must not get dry before finishing. MTien done, the water should be about all boiled aAvay; if a little remains, you may lift the lid and let it evaporate faster. If you Avish the meat broAvuod, like a roast, set the pot Avhere the gravy in the bottom will get quite hot without burning ; and Avhen the under side is browned sufficientlA’, turn it over and brown the other; this is Avhat is called, a “pot roast.” Abvays start it to cooking in good season; fo"r if done a little earh", it Avill not matter; the meat wiU keep hot in its own steam, proAuded the jiot is set in a warm place, and closely covered. AVhen yoAi take it up drain all the gravy into an old bowl or cup, and set it away; Avhen