PART II.] CANNING FRUITS, ETC. 239 corrode. You will need a funnel and dijiper of the same wai’e; or the latter may be porcelain. Do not use cans made of tin; acid fruits coiTode it, and are jioisoned by it. Besides, much of the tin now made contains large quantities of lead; and this being easily cor- roded is doubly poisonous. Even stone ware is not to be relied on; its surface is usually full of small holes, render- ing it porous; and a gi’eat deal of this ware is lined with lead-glaze, rendering its use dangerous. Grood glass jars are the best, and in the end the cheapest; the “ Mason,” the “ Hero,” and the “ Gem,” have aU been used; the Mason especially, has been a great favorite; but some of recent make are not to be compared with the older jars; the glass is thin and poor, and some of the covers tit badly, owing to the defective finish of the cans. The best materijil for covers, as well as jars, is glass; if they are made of zinc, they should be porcelain-hned. The jars, to be well made, should be of good glass, uniform in thickness, and of sufficient weight; the covers also should be perfectly fitted. "Wdien the fruit is emptied from the cans, the covers and mbbers should be carefully washed, dried, and put away for another season; the rubbers ought not to stand in veiy hot water, as it spoils them. Zinc covers that have been used, must be rubbed with sapolio and water till clean and smooth, and then thoroughly rinsed and dried. Any cans to which covers can not be perfectly fitted, should be set aside; you can sometimes fill them for temporary use, in case you run short of good ones. If tin cans are used, the fruit should all be emptied out, immedi- ately after they are opened; for as soon as the air reaches the inside, the contents wdl be more or less affected by the metal. In preparing for canning put the fruit over the fire, and while it is coming to a boil bring the jars, covers, rubbers, dipjier, fumiel, etc., and lay them on the table; bring also q, Avooden paddle, silver spoon, small dish for emptyings.