5G9 PART III.J PRACTICAL HINTS. ments should be made for thorough drainage, as water in contact with the ice will melt it rapidly. As the layers are put in place, pack sawdust closely between the mass of ice and the wall; and when all is stored, cover with a foot at least, of sawdust. In using ice, be careful to cover aU crevices with sawdust, as the ice Avill molt rapitUy if exposed to the air. “ The less ventilation and the more completely an ice- house is kept closed, the better the ice wiU keep. The cold air which surrounds the ice, if undisturbed by currents, has little effect on it; but if there are openings, currents are formed, and the warm air is brought in to replace the cold. This is especially the case, if the openings are low, as the cold air being the heavier, passes out below most readily. For this reason, great care must be taken to fill in fresh, sawdust between the walls and the mass of ice, as it settles down by its own weight, and the melting of the ice. There is no advantage in having an ice-house wholly or partly underground, if it is constructed as directed above. Fine chaff, or straw cut fine, may be substituted for sawdust when the latter is difficult to obtain. Of course, the build- ing may be constructed separately, in which case the cost need not be more than twenty-five to fifty dollars.” Those who have not an ice-house, but can get the ice, may easily construct an ice-chest; a few feet of inch boards, these of hard Avood—never use pine, as the odor is un- iffeasant—with zinc for lining, a little sawdust for packing, a handful of nails and four hinges, constitute the materials. The chest must of course have doulffe Avails, with a space be- tween for the packing; also an inner and outer lid, both fitting closely, to exclude the air. In the center of the chest, stretching from side to side, must be movable slats (strips of Avood covered AviUi zinc), or if you have it, a Avhe shelf, resting on a fold of the zinc lining. When in use, lift this shelf or pai-tition, lay the ice in the bottom of the chest, rg-