P.VRT I.] 39 THE \TEGET.VBLES. had.* On the same principle, if not to the same extent, human beings thrive best on a diet that contains a certain per cent, of coarse material. For example, the graitis, as wheat, rye, etc., wliich are excellent in themselves, iire not tlie best by themselves. Nor must we overlook the fact that our bodies are made up of both fluids and sohds—about one-foiu’th of the latter to three-fourths of the former ; or, as some one has stated it, in rather general terms, the human body is so many pounds of salts, etc., and a “ few pailfuls of water.” Now, when we consider that the fluids of the body are the flrst to waste, either in sickness or health, it wiU be seen that in order to supply that waste, liquids as well as solids are required in the food. The potato, which is 75 jrer cent, water, and which many caU poor in nutritive value, will of itself sustain life for an indefinite length of time. Indeed, if we had to choose a single article, and live on it exclu- sively, the potato would come nearer meeting the wants of the system, so far as its Jluids are concerned, than the gr*ains, which contain so large a proportion of solid matter. Pa^y, in his treatise on Food and Di<^tetics, very justly The following para^niph is from Dr. Gr.aham’s “ Scieuce of Human Life”: “About thirty years nco,” sa3’’s Governor William Kinp:, of Maine, “I went to the West Indies, and during my voyage became, acquainted with the following fact, which may be relied on as strictly true.- A vessel from New Eiurland, with a deck load of horses, bound to the West Indies, was overtaken by a violent calc, which swept away all the hay on board, and carried awo}' the masts. The captain was obliged to feed his horses on com. After a while they began to droop and to lose their appetite, and at length wdiolly refused to eat their grain, and began to gnaw the scant- lings and spars within their reach, and to bite at tlie men, and cver}dhing else that came in their way. The captain threw pieces of wood before them, which they immediately began to eat. After this, he regularly sup- plied them with a quantity of cedar shingles, which they eagerly ate as they would hay, and soon recovered their appetite for their grain, and imi)roved in health and sprightliness, and continued to do well on theif food of corn and cedar shingles till they got into port.”