HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAHT III. 552 should be undertaken in a work of this kind. It may also admit of a doubt, whether it is of much use to lay down any set rules in regard to the furnisliing of a house, when we take into account the fact that a style which might be in every way suited to a given locality, or to a particular station in life, would be wholly unsuited to another. There are, however, certain things pertaining to housekeeping, that hold good at aU times, and that every housckeeiier ought to know. Some of these things are so well expressed in that excellent work, the Buckeye Cookery, and are so thoroughly fitting, that the author has ventured to cj^uote from it, verbatim: “Housekeeping, whatever may be the opinion of the butterfiies of the period, is an accomplishment in compai’i- son to which, in its bearing on woman’s relation to real life, and to the family, all others are trivial. It comprehends all that goes to make up a weU-ordered home, where the sweetest relations of life rest on firm foundations, and the purest sentiments thrive. It is an accomplishment that may be acquired by study and experiment, but the young and inexperienced housekeeper generally reaches success only through great tribulation. It ought to be absorbed in girl- hood, by easy lessons, taken between algebra, music and painting. If girls were taught to take as much genuine pride in dusting a room well, hanging a curtain gi’acefuUy, or broiling a steak to a nicety, as they feel when they have mastered one of Mozart,’s or Beethoven’s gi’and sympho- nies, there would be fewer complaining husbands, and un- happy wives. The great lesson to learn is, that work well done, is robbed of its curse. The woman who is satisfied only with the highest perfection in her work, drops the drudge and becomes the artist. There is no dignity in slighted work; but to the artist, no matter how humble his calling, belongs the honor wliich is inseparable from all man’s struggles after perfection. No mother who has the