ADDENDUM. 583 fruits, especially, excite the mind to its highest activity. After eating them we experience an inclination to vigorous exercise, and also an increased capacity for study and all mental work; while cooked food causes a feeling of satiety and sluggishness. Not only do plants lose their vital, hut to some extent also theii’ n\itritive properties, when cooked. The vegetable acids and oils, the latter being of especial value in the development of the bony structure of the body, are, by cooking, dissipated; while the albuminoids are co- agulated, and thereby less easily digested, so that the nu- tritive value of the food is reduced to a minimum. Another injury that residts from cooked food, is that caused by the artificial heat. All beat excites through expansion an in- creased activity, but this activity is not normal in the case of food eaten hot. “ Again, the sensoiw nerves of the hps and the nerves of taste, are weakened by hot food to such an extent that they no longer seiwe as an iuffiUible test of its quahty ; and hence aidicles that seem in the mouth to be palatable and good may be very injurious to the s} stem, both on account of their natural properties and their artificial heat. In a similar manner the sense of ‘smell is blunted; and not less injuriously does hot food act upon the teeth, the enamel of which is destroyed, rendering them unfit for their work of mastication, in consequence of which the food passes un- prepared into the stomach. The eyes are also injured by the action of hot food upon the nerves connected with them. Tliat condition of weak and watery eyes so ajipar- ent in the habitual drunkard, exists in a certain degree with aU whose systems are enervated by hot and stimulat- ing foods. But the greatest harm from hot food is caused in the stomach itself, the coats of which are ii'ritated, red- dened, and unnaturally contracted by the heat, so that they lose their vigorous activity and capacity for the complete performance of their natural functions. The blood excited