36 [part L HEALTH m THE HOUSEHOLD. the average American without the saccharine condiment. It is worthy of remark, moreover, that those who are excessively fond of sweet fruits or condiments, rarely fad to call for the intensely sour, as lemons or pickles. This, indeed, is a neces- sary consequence ; for when the liver is badly congested from the use of sugar, the vital instincts natiirally call for the keen acids, in order to empty out the bile ducts, set them in good working order, and get rid of the debris. Whoever can induce our people to tmm theii* attention more largely to the cultivation of fruits, and then show them the necessity of making them a staple on their tables, to the exclusion of so much animal and fatty foods (particularly butter), win confer upon them an incalculable blessing. Such a change would save the hves of thousands of children —to say nothing of those of a larger growth—and it would make the ones that sui’vive better ivorth the saving. Many persons, with rather feeble digestive powers, can not manage raw fruits, as apples, at the evening meal; and some, who can eat them with iinpunity at the begimiing of the breakfast or dinner, can not digest them well at the end of the meal. One reason for this is, that after taking warm food into the stomach, its neiwes are to a certain degi’ee re- laxed, and that organ is no longer able to do its best work. And just here we have the explanation of another fact, viz., that if the meal is simplj'’ a cold lunch, raw fruit can gener- ally be eaten at the beginning, middle, or end of it, without the slightest inconvenience. Sylvester Graham, M.D., furnishes stdl another reason, which is probably a good one, why raw fruit is usually better digested in the earlier than the later hours of the day. He says : “ But it should always be remembered that fruit of every description, if eaten at all, should be eaten as food, and not as mere pastime, or merely for the sake of gusta- tory enjoyment; and therefore it should, as a general rule, be eaten at the table, or constitute a portion of the regular