555 PEACTICAL HINTS. PAET III.] their homes. They will tell you, many of them with care- worn faces, tired limbs and toil-worn hands, that the one thing which money can not purchase, nor a good home se- cui'e, is help! In eastern cities, where there are more women than men, the supply of female helpers is more abundant. In the West, however, there are many causes at work, which tend from year to year to reduce the number. There was a time when farmers’ daughters, the bed of them, could be had to assist with house-work, or to take sole charge of it if necessary, and at comparatively small wages. But as the country grew older, and the farmers became weU-to-do and more intelligent, their daughters were sent to school, or to learn dress-making, or some other trade. In the mean time the tide of emigration has been steadily flow- ing in, and Biddy, or some other giil from a foreign shore, has long since taken the place of the farmer’s daughter; she it is who now does the cooking, washing, ironing, and the house-work generally, or it is left to colored help, or to the mistress. The result of all this has been, that the situation as helper (or “ servant,” as they say in the South and West), is not qvite respectable; and consequently not as desirable as it was formerly. The danflard has been lowered ; green Irish, or other foreign help, is not on a par with the intelli- gent, well-trained mothers’ daughters of forty years ago. And owing to the dropping off of this latter class of work- ers, together with the increase of population, there is scarcely an adequate supply of help, even of indifferent quality. What, then, are the legitimate consequences ? They are three-fold: First, a rise in wages ; second, a diffi- culty in obtaining help; third, untrained labor. Put these three items together, and what follows ? Half or two-thirds of the housekeepers, both in the city and coun- try’, have either to do their own w’ork, or to put ujo with help that is thoroughly incompetent, and at the same time