201 PART II.] FRUITS AND FRUIT JUICES. ripe nor underripe, but fine in quidity and choice in variety, -sve might reject the inferior grades, and eat the others without even a “ gi’ain ” of sugar. Such, however, is not now the case, whatever it may be in the future. In the following reciiies, it will be observed that fruits with mild acids, as apples, peaches, petu’s and grapes, are cooked with no sugar whatever; and that even the tart va- rieties are jirepiu’ed with very little. And yet, so fine and palatable ai’e they, that persons who have eaten them at our table, can scarcely believe that tliese fruits have little or no sweetening in them, except their own rich juices. One great advantage in dispensing with sugar, is that we ai’e not poisoned with the many deleterious articles now used to adulterate it. Moreover, the liver is not clogged with that constipating, ferment-producing substance (sugar), which at best, is but a proximate principle of food, a dis- turber of good digestion, and like its twin sisters, oil and starch, incapable of sustaining animal life. Some hygienists, as elsewhere stated, have tried mixing the sweet and sour fruits together, making the one sweeten the other. It has been objected that this plan, theoretically good, has some di’awbacks in practice. In the first jilace, the sweet fruits (dates, raisins, figs, etc.) are more expen- sive than sugar. In the next place, it is difficult to get them fresh; and when stale, they are covered over with crystals of grape sugar, which is, perhaps, not more Avholesome than the common article made from cane. And lastly, it is said that the flavor of fruits prepared wuth dates, etc., is not as palatable as when sweetened in tlie usual way. It must be admitted, however, that the method referred to, has, to say the least, fewer adulterations to contend with. As stated in the introductory chapters in this work, some raw fruits, as apples and grapes, are best eaten at the be- ginning of the meal, and at breakfast, rather than supper; and that for persons of feeble digestion, and indeed for 9*