64 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part I. The horses and sheep, as before stated, never taste salt; in fa(d, the sheep are far too numerous and too frisky, as they run over theii’ native hills, ever to be “ salted ” by the shepherds ; and they are iierfect paragons in physical pro- portions, as well as in muscular activity. “ But,” say you, “ they get it, from living so near the sea ; from the grass, and the air” Ridiculous ! The air of Scotland is as free from saline properties as it is in this country ; and so is the grass on the Cheviots. The salt in the sea is not “ evap- orated ” into the aii’; neither is it “ deposited ” in the soil that covers those great masses of uplifted rock, knowm as the “ hills of bonny Scotland.” It has been stated that the farmers in Kentucky who raise fine horses, made the dis- covery years ago, that by leaving off the use of salt their horses thrived better, and had finer, sleeker coats in conse- quence. It now remains to account for the fact that, as a rule, the horses, cattle and sheep, in this country show no antipathy to it, but on the contrar}^, seem to relish it. The question is easily answered ; they nurse it in, with their mothers’ milk, which is ah’eady impregnated with it, owing to the habit of “salting” among farmers. So that the calf, like the young child, gets the taste of salt with its nutriment from the hour of its birth. “ But what about the wild animals that go to the salt ' licks ? ” is the next question. This might be answered by asking another : “ What of the wild animals that do not go to the licks ; if salt is necessary for some, why not for all ? ” And wo know that wild amimals, as a rule, never taste it. We also know that it is positively injurious to some of them. It is a well-known fact that salt fed to birds, and even chickens, wiU kill them ; and a good supply of it about the roots of trees will destroy them. Of the deer that are said to go to the licks, Dr. Graham says : “ As to the instinct of the lower animals, it is not true that there is any animal in