87 PART 1.] Pood combinations, etc. itself, either as regards its quality in growth and matui’ity, or its actual nutritive value. Moreover, the wants of the system are not always exactly the same ; they may vary somewhat, owing to diseased con- ditions or torpor of functional action, so that there will he an actucil need, if not a positive longing, for certain kinds of food that ai*e necessary to restore nonnal action to the system. For instance, a person who has taken “ quantities ” of certain medicines, the effect of which is to congest or toiqiify the liver and other organs of depuration, is apt to have an intense craving for acids. Another, who has been fed for weeks on a diet tliat contains too little nutrient materiid, will call for something that has a larger per cent, of solid matter in it: as bread, beans or peas, rather than cabbage, tiumips, soups, or other watery substances. Many a p^^rson has risen from the table feeling dissatis- fied, actually hungry, after eating in quantity a full meal. In such cases, either the articles eaten have not been di- gested, or they were of such a character that they did not supply the natural waste of the system. One who has made this matter a careful study, can very nearly tell at a glance whether the food on the table is such as will give general satisfaction to persons with reasonably normal appetites,—though, as just now stated, there are individ- uals whose appetites are anything but normal. For example, the tea-toper or coffee-drinker suffers from head- ache after trying to make a breakfast without the accus- tomed beverage. Or the lover of beef-steak rises from his morning meal from which the favorite dish is absent, feel- ing that he has had no breakfast. The sense of all-goneness in these cases is not from a lack of nutrient material, but OAving to the absence of the habitual stimulus. In selecting foods for the table, one must take into con- sideration both the habits of the individuals who are to be fed, and the ever-varying climatic conditions. Persons of