60 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PART I. beliind us, out of oui’ reach, than to correct our own bad habits. “ But how can we do without sugar ? ” j^ou ask, AVliy, easily enough, at least as a rule ; even the acid fruits, as strawberries, cherries, etc., if fully rijDened, ai'c sweet enough for the unperverted palate. And if these fniits come to our markets a little green, we can at least be con- tent to add only so much sugar as will make them as siveet as fully ripened fruit ; this amount you will find to be very httle. Some hygienists cook sweet and sour fruits together ; preferring to make the one kind sweeten the other, rather than to use sugar. Whether this plan is at aU times practi- cable, is a cjuestion elsewhere considered in this work. The fact that much of the sugar of commerce is lai’gely adulter- ated, is another argument against its use ; a great deal of what is sold in the market under that name, is glucose. AVhether this substance is more or less injurious than cane sugar (it is certainly less sweet), might be a matter of some importance, dieteticaUy considered. One thing is sure, both are proximate elements, and as such are incapable of sustaining animal life. The habit which some have of sweetening cooked grains and breadstuffs, is a foolish and most unnatural practice; they are sweet enough of themselves; and if we were to train oiu’ children to eat these foods without sugar, they would not want it.* The fact is, we like the saccharine con- diment in just those dishes in which we have been taught to eat it, and in no others. For example, we do not want sugar in mashed jiotato, cauliflower, or string beans, any more * “ Sir Aiitliony Carlisle relates an anecdote from liis experience among the Arctic inhabitants : ‘ The most nortliern races of mankind,’ he says, ‘ were found to be unacquainted with the taste of sweets, and their in-' fijnts made wry faces, and sputtered out sugar with disgust; but the little urchins grinned with ecstasy at the sight of a bit of whale’s blubber,’ Pavy’s “ Food and Dietetics,” page 412,