lOS HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [pART II. tliosG delicate flavors with which nature has endowed them. The usujil method, however, is to drown everything in sugar and sjTups, thus obliterating the individualilij that belongs to these delicate products of the earth. In an admii-able little work on “Cooking and Castle- Building,” written by Emma P. Ewing, the reader will find the following excellent remarks: “ Never spice fruits, lest you destroy their jiavor. I always detested nutmeg, allspice and cinnamon, in ajiple pies. I now see the reason. Kich sj^ices and delicate flavored fruits form an unsuitable and imaiTistic combination.” “The fine, dehcate flavor of finits should be preserved as perfect as iDossible; and for this reason they should never be cooked in tin, or stin-ed -uith a metal spoon less pure than silver. A wooden spoon or spatula is the best for the purpose.” “ If it is desii-able to add to the flavor of the fruit you are cooking, add the flavor of another fniit. For instance^ flavor ajiples with either pine-apple, strawberry, quince, lemon or orange. Even the perfume of flowers, like rose- water, may add to the deliciousness of a dish of fruit. But to bury roses in a cake, seems as inappropriate and unnat- ural as to deaden fruit with spices.” “ In cooking fruits of all sorts, whether for present or future use, aim to preserve the flaA'^or of the fniit as far as possible; and to this end, avoid all contact with tin or base metal, and all needless exposure to the air. Cook as soon as possible, after the fruit is in proper condition. Cook in small quantities. Simmer gently, instead of boiling rapidly. The flavor of some fruits is preserved better by canning them without sugar. Peaches and blackberries are finer flavored when canned without sugar. At the time of open- ing and serving, sugar can be added if desired.” In the selection of fruits, the first thing is to trj'^ to secure the best; those that are the nearest perfect, and of the choicest vaiieties. This done, they should be carefully