56 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part 1. wholesome an article of diet as either milt or cream. Lite other oils, it is, to a ceidain degree, indigestible ; not that it gives a “ pain in the stomach,” as a general thing, but it does not enter into those vital changes which are necessary to convei-t food into chyle jiroper. It mixes with the pan- creatic juice in the form of an emulsion simply, and goes into the blood in that crude condition ; and being carried through the system by the capillaries, it is deposited as fat in the various tissues, and largely in the skin. From the very nature of its constituents, butter has little nutritive value in it; it usually contains 3 to 5 per cent, of casein (due to the j>resence of milk), and about twice that amount of water ; the other substances are oils, fixed and volatile. These readily decompose on exposui*e to the atmosjDhere, and butyric and other fat acids are set free. Persons who live largely upon butter emit a strong odor from the skin, very perceptible to those who do not use animal foods. The salt which has to be mixed with it to make it “ keep,” is not, to the hygienist, a desirable addition, for reasons which will hereafter be stated. Pereira says: “ Fixed oil or fat is more difficult of digestion, and more obnoxious to the stomach, than any other alimentary jirin- cijile. Indeed, in some more or less obvious or concealed form, I believe it will be found the offending ingredient in nine-tenths of the dishes which disturb weak stomachs. ]\Iany dyspeptics who have most religiously avoided the use of oil or fat in its obvious or ordinary state (as fat meat, marrow, butter and oil), unwittingly employ it in some more concealed form, and as I have frequently witnessed, have suffered therefrom. Such individuals should eschew the yolks of eygs, livers (of quadrupeds, poultry and fish), and brains, aU of which abound in oily matter. Milk, and es- pecially cream, disagrees with many persons, or, as they term it, ‘ lies heavy at the stomach,’ in consequence of the butter it contains. Ttich cheese, likewise, contains butter, and on that account is apt to disturb the stomach,”