SALT. G5 PART I.] nature, whose natural history is known to man, wliich in- stinctively makes a dietetic use of salt. It is true that some herbivorous animals, such as the deer, when they are dis- eased by worms, grubs, or bots, in the alimentary cavity, will instinctively go in pursuit of salt, not as an article of diet, not as a seasoning to theii* food, but purely as a medi- cine, to destroy the animals in their stomachs ;* and they never instinctively use it at any other time, nor for any other pui'jjoses.” It is often asked whether any immediate pathological effects follow the use of salt. Let the person who asks this (piestion, try taking double the usual quantity of this condi- ment,at dinner ; in less than an hour there will be a burning in the stomach (local inflammatory action) which will call loudly for water; this feverish condition may last a good part of the afternoon, or it may pass off as the salty sub- stance is carried out of the stomach. A better test is to take the salt itself, undiluted except with a little water ; try a tablespoonful if you like, on an empty stomach. (This amount of a food proper, as rice, oatmeal mush, or good apple sauce, taken by a hungry man, ought not to cause any unjDleasant sensations.) If you are not a most inveterate salt-eater, the quantity named wiU produce nausea, and per- haps vomiting. But to save the trouble of so unpleasant an experiment, suppose we take the testimony of Dr. Graham. He says : “ Salt is a mineral substance, and is wholly innutritions and indigestible. If a tablespoonful of it be dissolved in half a pint of water, and introduced into the human stomach, it is immediately perceived by the organic sensi- bilities of that organ as an offending or disturbing substance ; great irritation is produced ; the vital forces, if not exceedingly impaired react with energy ; mucous ••• Dr. Graham, who did not believe m>ich in medicine, was evidently will- r_g to give the worms the benefit of the “art killative.”