240 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part II. clotlis for drying, and a wide tin basin to set the cans in while filling. Idace all on a table near the stove, and have plenty of bot water ready. Tlie following method of filling is a good one, and it has the merit of breaking no jars; 'When the fruit is sufficiently cooked, take the wide tin basin, set it as near the stove as possible (either on the stove-hearth, or on a table near at hand), and fill it, say one-third full of very hot, but not boilin" water: too hot to hold the hand in. Then introduce O f a can sideAvise, roll it over and over quickly in the water, and set it right side up in the basin, with the water in and ai'ound it. Introduce another can in the same way, and continue the process till the bottom of the basin is nearly covered; it will hold perhaps four jars. Drop the covers also into a basin of very hot water. Now, the kettle of boiling fruit being at hand, turn down one of the jai’s in the basin of hot water, roU it over quickly, empty it, and adjust the funnel, which should be small enough to fit into its mouth. Then with a dipper pour in, rather slowly at first, a little of the sp-up; follow with the fruit, until you have filled the jar; see if there are any air-bubbles entan- gled in the meshes of the fruit. If so, dip the silver spoon into the hot mass in the kettle, and then introduce it down the sides of the jar and through its contents, in such a manner as to let out the air; if when the latter escapes the fruit has settled jireceptibly, add a little juice, until the jar is almost brimming. This done, wipe the moisture from the top of the can, and place the elastic on smootlily; then lift a cover from the basin of hot water near by, dry it, and screw it on till it clasps the rubber tightly aU around. Do aU this in less time than it takes to tell it—or at any rate, as quickly as possible. If there are any doubts about the jar being air-tight, turn it upside down, and see if bubbles rise through the fniit. If the mbbers are old and stiff, dip them into hot water and then out, wiping dry before using.