PILVCTICAL HINTS. 545 Part III.] able. The lack of sunshine, the poorer ventilation, and worst of aU, the dampmss that pervades all basements, were enough ceiiainly to condemn them. Besides, a kitchen down staii’s is exceedingly inconvenient, even with an ele- vator; the cook must either live iu the basemeut (having everything brought to her), which is a sort of prison life or she must climb the stairs many times every da}\ The best floor for a kitchen and dining-room, is one of smooth hard wood, well oiled; this will show no grease spots and it is easily kept clean. A good thick rug, laid in front of the kitchen table for the cook to stand on in winter, will keep her feet warm; she can hft and shake it each morning, when she sweeps. The outside door should be weather- stripped at the bottom (and up the side if necessary), to keep out cold draughts of air. The dining-room should have its own flre-place or register, and not depend ujion the kitchen for its heat; for along with the warm air, the odo7’s from that quaider will also And admittance. The character of the purse-holder, is not unfrequently shown in the furnishing of the dining-room and kitchen, particularly the latter. To do first-class cooking without suitable utensils and other accommodations, is next to im- possible; and if these are wanting it is evidence either of bad judgment, penuriousness, or downright poverty. It is a common saying, therefore, that in the furnishing of a house, one should begin in the rear. To be brief, then, the dining-room and kitchen should be light, airy, clean, and well furnished ; they sliould also bo sufficiently roomy, lioth in lateral dimensions, and in height. In a sanitary point of view, as well as for cleanliness, the air in these apartments should be ])nre. It is a fact too lit- tle understood, that water and other liquids, and oven semi- fluid substances, as stewed fruits, juicy vegetables, etc., have the power of absorbing foul gases from an impure atmos- phere, to such an extent as to render them half iioisonous;