HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 2 the crisp little rolls, twenty minutes from the oven, the well- cooked oatmeal, and the luscious stewed fruits—^to say nothing of good baked potatoes, and other side dishes that find their way to the table—all are enjoyed with a zest that rarely belongs to steak, biscuit and coffee. But a more important point to the physiologist is, that the food eaten is far more healthful and nutritious than the aforesaid articles; from the simple fact that it contains a much larger per cent, of those substances that are necessary to form bone, teeth, muscles, tendons, and the other tissues of the body. This is why one can work longer and with less fatigue on hygienic food than on any other ; it nourishes better. Were proof needed on this point, the tables in Part I., giving the constituents of food, ought to furnish it. Stfil another virtue belonging to this diet is, that it con- tains no stimulating or abnormal substances, to tax the vital powers in getting rid of them ; no salt, pepper, spices, or other irritating condiment; everything is usable, in one way or another. Neither is there an excess of oily or saccharine matter, to clog the digestive or the excretory organs. But, to get at once to the root of the matter, we will take up the a, b, c, of the hygienic dietary ; resting assured that if our premises are correct, the conclusions will take care of them- selves. All persons who are thorough hygienists, according to the teachings of the late R. T. Trail, M.D., believe that inorganic substances are incapable of nourishing or building up the vital structures of our bodies. To begin with first princi- ples, we hold that vegetable organisms are fed by inorganic substances, and by these alone ; that animal organisms are fed by organic substances, and by these only. We also maintain that, other things being equal, the products of the vegetable kingdom are better suited to man’s needs than are those of the animal kingdom ; and that out of the former, those products are best suited for foods which most