HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 5G4 [part III. the sweetest. If the tenderloin is wanted, it may be secured by buying an edgebone steak, the remainder of which, after the removal of the tenderloin, is equal to the siiloin. The small porterhouse steaks are the most economical; but in lai’ge steaks, the coarse and tough parts may be used for soup; or, after boiling, for hash ; which in siiite of its bad repute, is really a very nice dish when well made. A round steak, when the leg is not cut do-svn too far, is sweet and juicy.” “ The interior portion of the round, is the tender- est and best. The roasting jiieces ai’e the sirloin, and the ribs, the latter being most economical at the family table ; the bones forming an excellent basis for soup, and the meat, when boned and roUed uji (which should be done by the butcher), and roasted, being in good form for the carver, as it enables him to distribute equally the ujqier jjaid with the fatter and more skinny portions.” “ Mutton should be fat, and the fat clear and white. Be ■wary of buying mutton with yellow fat. An abundance of fat is a source of waste, but as the lean part of fat mutton is much more juicy and tender than any other, it should be chosen. After the butcher has cut off aU he can be per- suaded to remove, you will stiU have to trim it freely before boiling. The lean of mutton is quite different from that of beef. Wliile beef is a bright carnation, mutton is a deep dark red. The hind quarter of mutton is best for roasting. The ribs may be used for chops, and are the. sweeter; but the leg cutlets are the most economical, as there is much less bone, and no hard meat, as on the ribs. Almost any part will do for broth. As much of the fat should be re- moved as practicable, then cut into small pieces and simmer slowly, until the meat falls to pieces.” “ A young turkey has a smooth black leg, and (if male) a short spur. The eyes are bright and fuU, and the feet supple, when fresh. The absence of these signs denotes {j,ge and staleness.”