HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PART I. fifteen elements that belong to it, and without wliich the gro\\'th of the human body can not be maintained! In other words, the wheat, with its fifteen elements, which ai’e nearly or quite identical with those of the human body, is reduced for the most jiart to a white, starchy substance, containing only three of the ultimate elements, carbon, oxygen and h^'drogen. The ricli supplies of silica, sodium, sulphur, phosphorus, calcium, nitrogen, and other elements that ai’e found in the bones, teeth, hair, nails, muscles, and in the blood, are gone! And the self-defrauded people, instinctively aware, as it were, that they are perishing for lack of those life-giving products, are now attempting to supplement the loss in a way that is none the less ridiculous and foolish. Vainly endeavoring to compensate for the things wasted, they betake themselves to the swallowing of certain substances which are little else than proximate ele- ments or principles derived from the foods proper. Why this roundabout process ? Why separate these vari- ous substaimes from the grains, doing violence to their organic structures, and then eat them individually rather than take them in organic combination, as Nature has pro- rided them? The idea is entertained by some, that in selecting and combining certainof the grains, a food can be prepared that will not only siq^ply some special need in the system, but that it will afford nomishment to a pariicular organ or part of the body. Following tliis theory there arc persons who delight to sup on cooked gluten, to eat wheatena, “ diabetic bi'ead,” “ brain food wafers,” or any of the “ food preparations,” as they are called, rather than to take the food itself. Nor is it at all uncommon to see per- sons wet up wheat Iman, coarse, flaky stuff, hardly fit for horses, and swallow it as a “ medicine,” and then sit down at meal-time, and eat white flour bread in preference to that made from the whole wheat! Any way but the right way ; particularly if it be fashionable, or in seeming accord with the old-time custom of “ taking something.”