HKVLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part III. 304 and cream of tartar, and take these instead of baking- jiowder, unless you know the latter to be free from adulter- ations. The “Price,” or the “Koyal,” is thought to be as good as any ; these powders are said to contain no foreign ingredient, except starch—of which there is about 33 per cent. ; so that in measuring, it is necessary to heap the spoon ; whereas, a “ teaspoonful ” of soda or cream of tiirtar, is the sjioon filled not above the level. In making with Indian meal, particularly if the pudding is to be steamed, get the yellow flint (golden), if possible, though the white flint is good. And in steaming, endeavor, first, to keep the water constantly at a fast boil; second, if any has to be added, to put it in boiling hot; thii’d, not to open the steamer till the pudding is done ; fourth, to send to the table as soon as it is taken out. In either steaming or boiling, allow plenty of room for the pudding to swell; if you boil, Avring the bag out of hot water, and flour it well inside before filling. Allow for swelling a space equal to at least one-third the volume of the pudding ; then tie securely and boil, keeping plenty of water in the pot, and the latter closely covered ; turn the bag over from time to time. In boiling a roily-jioly, a good plan is simply to baste a cloth loosel}^ around it, flouring weU inside, and allowing. room'to swell. Puddings that in baking incline to stick to the bottom or sides of the pan, as batter puddings, green corn jmddings, etc., should be poured into a dish (the latter well oiled), and then set in the oven Avithin a shallow pan of boiling water. Custards, and all puddings that contain milk and eggs, should be managed in the same way, baked vei'y sloicly, and only tiU the custard is set. If the milk is to be heated, do it in a farina-kettle, or a tin bucket set in a pot of boiling Avater ; then there is no danger of scorching. When it begins to boil, lift from the fire ; and either cool to luke- Avarm before stiiTing it into the beaten eggs, or add it ft little at a time, to ]irevent curdling.