[part II. llE-^LTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 120 a double taiirate of potassium and sodium is fonned ; these salts (which are left in the bread), are nothing more nor less than the “ Rochelle Salts,” which are used in medicine as a “ mild purgative.” The carbonic acid that escapes in the process of forming them, is what puffs up the loaf. When there is not sufficient acid present to combine with the soda, a portion of the latter remains, giving the bread a yellow color, and a very disagreeable, alkaline taste. Pure baking-powder of the best quahty, consists of the bi-carbonate of soda, and cream of tartar (tartrate of potas- sium), mixed together. The propoidions given by some chemists as the best, are six ounces of the former to sixteen of the latter ; but the usual rule is, one measure of soda to two of cream of tartar. It is safe, however, in actual measurement, not to have too much soda. Bi-carbonate of soda, with lactic acid (sour milk), is considered by some as less objectionable than the ordinary baking-powder, just described. Instead of the cream of tartar, cheajier sub- stances, as alum, acid phosphate of calcium, etc., are fre- quently sold ; and both the acid and alkaline salts (bi- carbonate of soda and cream of tartar), are often largely adulterated Avith various foreign and injurious substances. It is difficult, therefore, to say which is least hannful, the “ soda bread,” with its indigestible, inorganic salts and adulterations, or the yeast bread, which at best has passed through certain stages of decay. Very much, however, depends upon the management of the yeast, and the bread made with it; it requires gi'eat care to have it just right. If the process of fermentation be not arrested at the proper moment, the bread will be sour or veiy nearly so, and ex- ceedingly indigestible. Never buy compressed yeast, and on no account brewers' yeast ; if you want first-class broad, your own hop yeast, well made, is infinitely better than either. All brewers’ yeast hastens the process of fermentation so rapidly, that