6 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. cucumbers, or grapes and Lima beans, etc., etc.—is a topid that in the main has been quite overlooked. In the last few years, however, some careful observations have been made by hygienists, in the management not only of verj'’ sensitive stomachs, but also those of ordinary strength ; and the con- clusion has been reached, that here as elsewhere, there are certain general principles underlying the whole subject, which, if properly understood, would be of much value. Certain physicians, among them the writer of this book, beheve that (for feeble stomachs at least) fruits and vege- tables do best when taken at separate meals; that vege- tables, when eaten, should be taken at dinner; and that disregard of these rules often leads to indigestion. It is a question, then, whether with care in these respects, there would be that difficulty which some persons experience in eating fruits, and others in eating vegetables. In the management of patients with even a moderate amount of vitality, the writer has found no difficulty in enabling them to eat fruits in abundance, and without the slightest inconvenience; and to a certain extent the same is tiTie as respects the use of vegetables. A very good rule for general observance, is to make the breakfast of bread and fruit, and perhaps some grain preparation; the dinner of bread, vegetables, etc.; and the supper of bread and fruit only, or bread and fruit juice. It is also a good plan, if raw apples, peaches, or grapes are eaten, to take them at break- fast, and by all means at the beginning of the meal. Let the fine sub-acids touch the bottom of the stomach, so to speak. If melons ai’e eaten, they should be taken at or before the dinner; if at the meal, they should be seiwed at the com- mencement of it, not at the close. These niles have been found to work weU with persons who are sick, and they can hardly work ill with those who are in good health. Or, as it is sometimes said, “What wall make a sick man well, will also keep him well.”