10‘2 [part II. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. flour is the white wheat, of which the Genesee is a variety. This has very nearly the right propoi-tions of hull, gluten, etc., to make wholesome and palatable breadstuff. On the quality of flour, the late li. T. Trail, M.D., in his “ Hydropathic Cook-Book,” says : “ Unless the grain is well cleaned before it is ground, Ave can not have the most de- licious bread. There is, too, a great difference between fresh-ground and stale flour, the former making incom- parably richer, sweeter bread. Those Avho ‘ eat to live,’ or to enjoy, had better, therefore, look well to the kind of grain, to its being thoroughly cleaned from dust, cockle, smut, sand, chaff, etc., and to its being ground but a short time before using.” “ The wheat meal or Graham flour in market is not unfrequently an admixture of ‘ shorts ’ or ‘ middlings,’ with old, stale, soured or damaged fine flour ; and fine flour is sometimes—more especially in European markets—adul- terated with whiting, ground stones, Ixnie dust, and of Pari&” The most difficult thing after the selection of the wheat, is to have it ground in the best manner. There are but few mills in the United States that make fii’st-class Graham flour. Either the wheat is not cleaned before grinding, or it is cut too coarse, or the stones get hot by running too fast, and “ kill ” the flour, or it is ground or rather mashed Avith dull stones, so that the hull is scaled off in large flakes of bran. In this latter condition, it is so coarse and rough as seriously to injure the delicate coats of the stomach and boAvels, especially if it is used for any great length of time. This is one cause of the prejudice that sometimes exists in re- gard to Graham bread. All flour, of whatever kind, should be kept in a dry, cool place, and in a pure atmosphere, where the circulation is good, as it absorbs impurities readily. And for leaA^ened bread, it is said that the flour should ahvays be thoroughly disintegrated (sifted or shaken), and in very cold weather