MEAT AS AN ARTICLE OF DIET. PART I.] 47 It win readily be seen, by glancing at the tables given at the head of these chapters, that all meats fall far below the gi'ains in nutritive value. Some of the field vegetables, as sweet and Irish potatoes, artichokes and winter squashes, contain nearly or quite as much solid matter as meat, and considerably more than milk ; while beans, peas and lentils contain about three times as much as ordinaiy meat. Some years ago, great importance was attached to the fact that meats contain a large per cent, of nitrogenous sub- stances, these being considered by Liebig and others as higlily essentitd to the production of muscular force. This theoiy, however plausible, has of later years been disproved by able authorities, as Frankland, Traube and others. In- deed, Liebig himself, who was the originator of the doctrine, has abandoned it altogether. In like manner, other j)et theories, as what were supposed to be the “ elements of res- piration,” the “ heat-forming principles,” etc., have fallen to the ground, or at least lost much of their former signifi- cance. The more rational view is now somewhat favorably entertained, that whatever is best suited to the building up of the various structures of the body, or in other words, is capable of replacing that which is lost, must necessarily bo jiro- ductive of vital lieat and vital force, these being generated in the normalqiiantUy. Tlie late R. T. Trail, M.D., in speaking of the doctrine advanced by Liebig, remarks : “ The theoiy has no practical value in dietetics, for the reason that aU the elements of nutrition, whether heat-forming, or flesh- forming, or bone-forming, are sufficiently distributed, and nearly equally so, throughout all those poriions of both the vegetable and animal kingdom that man ever does or can employ as food.” All domestic animals, either from the ignorance or negli- gence of those who keep them, or from other causes, are liable to be diseased ; this is particularly true in those stock- raising districts that are adjacent to cities. Tlie animals are