16 [PAHT I. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Boussiugaiilt, Payen and others, f>lace the grains at the head of all nutritive substances, as will be seen by the tables at the beginning of this chapter. And while it does not follow that we must, as a rule, use the more nutritious articles of diet to the exclusion of the others, it would seem to be in accordance with reason that the former should occupy a more prominent place in the food list than the latter. For example, wheat, which contains 85 per cent, of sohd matter, would be better suited to sustain life than turnips, that have only 11 per cent. ; and better also than meat, that has but 36 per cent. In so far, therefore, as chemical analysis can give us any hght, the grains rank highest as foods. But it is sometimes said that the relative value of the different food products can be better determined by experi- ence than by chemical analysis ; and as there is not space in this short chaj)ter to investigate the latter, let us give a passing thought to the former. Experience, to be of value, must be derived from the observation of a sufficient number of individuals to give us something like a rule, deduced from facts which these individuals can fm’nish. What, then, are the facts ? Looking over the nations of the earih, savage and civilized, we find great disparity among them as to the physical development of their inhabitants ; some are weU proporiioned, with good bones and muscles, sound teeth, robust bodies, and all the other evidences of fine growth and excellent general health. Others are small in stature, ill-proporiioned, wanting in muscular development, and othenvise inferior in physique; and while it must not be taken for granted that food alone is responsible for these several results, still it can not be denied that it is an imporiant factor in the case. Comparing the dietetic habits of the people of these nations, there has been found to exist a very striking correspondence between the quality of the food they eat, and the size, strength and symmetry