PART I.] 31 WKEATEN VS. WHITE FLOUR. white-flour bread exclusively! How can pai’ents expect their children to grow up with strong teeth, nerves, eyes, nail’, etc., on floiu’? In children every tissue and organ is growing, increasing in size, and developing. Every element which belongs to those tissues and organs should be con- tained in the food or ahinentary substances, and in normal proportions, as provided by the Creator in the natural sub- stances designed and proved by history to be perfect food. Wheat is such an article ; but white floiu’ made from it is a substance weakened, deteiiorated, and impoverished ; and history show's that people eating it are more subject to tissue- wasting disease (consumption, etc.) than ever before. Why then, not use the whole of the original wheat, ground or re- duced to a uniform condition, without loss or injury to the food elements, with its native normal balance of quantity of mineral ingredients in a soluble assimilable form, as Liebig and others advocate ; and such as it is demonstrated undeni- ably and incontrovertibly, by facts of history, to be capable of producing the highest type of manhood the world ever saw ? Why raise a pale, feeble, nervous, and smaU-sized race of people on flour because flour-bread looks white and light, and therefore is considered nice? What jn’inciple of aesthetics is it that confers such a pre-eminent place upon the color of white ? Wliy not brown or bronze ? What is more grateful to the senses than the complementary colors of landscape ? If it wei*e aU white, it would be both re- pulsive and injurious. This preference of white over yel- low or brown, or any other color, is not based upon the truth of existing facts, else it would be inferred that a w'hite statue is preferable to a bronze. The fact is, the elevation of white bread into the highest place of preferment is altogether unfounded and unwarrantable. The white color comes from starch ; and the whiter the bread the more starch it contains, and of course the less nutrition, as stai’ch has only carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen to make tissue,