[part III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 486 l)its of the paste, either pinched off, or rolled and cut into scpiares ; some added new potatoes, half as large as a hen';) egg. Then came more chicken and more dumplings, wdth or without the j^otatoes ; hits of butter rolled in flour were also interspersed, to say nothing of a light siirinkling of those “contraband” ai-ticles, pepper and salt. One thing did not go in, at least in our section of the country, viz.. Halt pork, or any kind of pork. It was as foreign to chicken pot-pie, as Bologna sausage to peach cobbler. After filling the kettle to within an inch and a half of the top, the liquor that had been saved was poured in ; there was enough of this to come iiretty well up the sides of the pot, and almost cover the jiie. Next in order came the top crust, a thick sheet like the others ; and the edges being well secured, a big cross-slit was made in the middle, and the whole surface well pricked vdth a fork to prevent blis- tering. The kettle had now to be placed over a bed of coals on the hearih, and its lid laid on ; this latter having been heated—but not to redness—over the main fire, was covered vnth two or three shovelfuls of bright coals. Every now and then the cook lifted the lid with a big wooden poker, and turned the kettle quarter way round, to give aU sides a chance to bake, from the heat of the blazing fire before which it stood, and over which hung another dinner pot, suspended from the crane or trammel. An iron tea-kettle full of boiling water, stood directly in front of the open fire ; and if the pie needed more gra\y (always a debatable question), the next time the lid was lifted and the kettle tui’ned, a little hot water could be poured into it through the cross-slit in the center. In from forty to fifty minutes the ciaist was thoroughly done, and the pie ready to dish. In these latter days of cook-stoves and kitchen ranges, this pie is usually made in an iron bread-pan, and baked in the oven. A “ kettle pie ” is sometimes made the same as the