556 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAKT III. liigh-jiriced. Is the statement ovei’di’awn ? Let the fai’m- ers’ wives in tlie Middle or Western States, and tlie wives of mechanics or other tradesmen in the cities, answer. Ask them if they can get competent help, or any helii, often- times, for either love or money. The mistress who has help to-day, may be without it to- morrow; her neighbor offers higher wages, or requii’es less work for the same money, and the gii’l is off. In other words, the employer and employe have changed places ; the latter dictates her terms, and the former has either to accept them, or to “make a change,” which is usually a thing to be dreaded. For even if the lady is foilunate enough to secm’e help, the new girl wiU have to be drilled in; and if things do not hap2ien to suit her, she will not wait for the drilling; she will simiily jiick uji her bundle, and leave. She know^s very w'ell that half a dozen places are ready for her, some of which wiU no doubt be easier to fill, inasmuch as there will be less w'ork to do, or the w'ork itself can be done in a less skillful way. Is it any w'onder that the mis- tress comes finally to tolerate very indifferent service, and as little of it as she can get along with ? The long and the shoit of the whole matter is, that the girls are on the look-out for easy jilaces (the terms wfill take care of themselves), and the poor housewives are asking each other if there is such a thing as comiietent help. Now, what is the remedy for this state of affairs ? There is no one to blame, in the least—unless it be the emjiloyers themselves, for not having looked into the matter, long be- fore this. The w'hole difficulty is simply in the relation of supply and demand; change this, and the evil will at once disajipear. Is there not some w’ay of producing the kind of lielp we w^ant, and enough of it? Most assuredly there is. We have but to establish training schools, in w'hich the “raw recruits” that come from L-eland, Germany, Den- mark, Sweden, amjwhere, shall be thoroughly drilled into