rPAKT I. HE.\LTH IK THE HOUSEHOLD. 26 and a robust laboring man maybe bealthfully sustained on one pound of good wheat per day, wdth pure water, for any length of time he chooses, without the least physiological inconven- ience; but let him attempt to live on ten ounces of j^ure farina, six drachms of gluten, and two drachms of sugar jier day, with pure water, either taken separately or mixed together, and he w'ill soon find his ajipetite and strength and spirits failing, and his flesh forsaking him; and death wiU terminate his experiment in less than a year. Can chemistry teU us why this is so ? Indeed she can not! But physiology tells us with promptitude and accui’acy, that wheat, in its whole substance, is constitutionidly adaj)ted to the anatomi- cal structure and physical powers of the ahmentary organs of man; but chat farina and gluten and sugar, in their con- centrated forms, are not; and therefore that the wheat, wdiile it affords healthfid nourisliment to the body, also sus- tains the organs in digesting and apiiropriating that noui'ish- ment; but that the farina, gluten and sugar, though purely nutrient principles, break down the alimentary organs, destroy their functional powers, and cause the whole system to perish.” Now, either Dr. Graham is con’ect in these statements, or he is not. If incorrect, it would be the easiest thing in the world to demonstrate the fact, by a few^ simple experiments upon dogs. If Dr. Graham is right, we ought to credit his statements, and have the benefit of his teachings. "What has been said in this connection in regard to wheat, is in noAvise limited to that grain—it applies with more or less force to rye, oats, barley, and the grains in general. If we want the best that there is in them, w’e must neither reject nor destroy any of the nutritive substances w^hich they con- tain. Even the woody fiber w'liich forms the outer coating of the grain, when properly cleaned and cut sufficiently fine, seiwes its puipose in the intestinal canal—on the same prin- ciple that straw is needed for horses, when they are fed too