ADl>i;NDi;M. 587 unnatural stimulants by which a vicious appetite is created; in the puiity which guards the system against corrupt hu- mors and diseased conditions; in the refreshing coolness which maintains the digestive organs at a proper tempera- ture, and in a vigorous condition ; in their perfect adapta- tion to the nature of the digestive organs, so that they may be transformed into blood without doing violence to any part of the system; and finally, in that electrical vitahty which renders them analogous to hving beings, and the absence of which reduces them to a condition of physical death. These properties are united in theii’ highest perfec- tion, only in uncooked fruits and grains, as they come from the hand of Nature; and the unperverted appetite demands nothing else.” An excellent little work called the Natural Cure, has just been written by Dr. C. E. Page, in which he has a chapter on the “ Natural Diet.” In this chapter the doctor advo- cates the use of uncooked grains, fruits, and even vege- tables (provided they are eaten), and gives his reasons therefor. He also relates the experience of a number of individuals who have lived for a considerable time on un- cooked foods, and who have, as they beheve, been greatly improved in their general health. Felix L. Oswald, M.D., a writer well known in recent publications, has also put himself on record, in the following words: “ We can not doubt that the highest degree of health could only be attained by strict conformity to HaUer’s rule, i. e., l>y subsisting ex- clusively on the pure and unchanged products of Nature.” Quotations from other authorities might be given, show- ing, if not a decided preference for uncooked foods, at least a disposition to look into their merits; and as no hann, but always good, comes from thorough investigation, the au- thor of Health in the Household is not only willing to hear, but anxious to learn, all that there is to be known on the subject. If “ better things ” are yet in store, by aU means