PART I.] C9 SALf. clianged the nature of the meat as to render it harder to digest, and very much less nutritious,* still, it kept it from going to total destruction. Then, as the flesh-eaters partook of the salted meat they not only came to like it, hut they also relished the vegetables that were cooked with it. To be brief, one can learn to eat and like almost anything, by simply continuing the use of it; and the fact that it pleases the palate, is no proof either of its wholesomeness. or of its relative nutx’itive value. But if there is any one article of food or drink that we can not leave off, even for a day, without gi’eat discomfoii (as wine, tea, coffee or a good salted beef-steak), we may rest assiu-ed that that m-ticle is doing us hai’m ; or in other words, that it is not simply a food, but to a greater or less degree a stimulant; and just to the extent that we are enslaved by it, to that extent are we akeady injm*ed. A diet of salted meats, as almost every one knows, pro- duces scurvy, the disease being caused by the combined effects of salt and grease,. Eichard T. Colburn, of New York, who is a hygienist, has written a small work on “ The Salt-Eating Habit,” from which the following quotations are taken : “ I am told by an Italian who has lived among them, that the Algerines do not eat salt”; neither do the Indian tribes on the Cohrmlria Eiver, and Prrget Sound— among whom the writer has tr.aveled. “ I am assured by many of the great herders in Texas, Colorado and Califor- nia, that the native cattle are not fed salt, never see it, and * Pavy says : “ The effect of a saline is to depreciate (he mitritive value of the article b}' cxtractini; tlie soluble eonstituents, ami by also hardening; the texture, so as to render it difficult of disrestion.” lie also says ; “The analysis of brine shows that the process of saltiiur must materi.ally diminish the nutritive value of meat, for it is fouiul to contain a lar<;e jiorfion of the inirredients of its juice. Liebii? estimates the loss of nutritive value as amountine: to one-third, or even one-half. Soakln" salted meat in water removes its saltncss, but can not, of course, restore the nutritive principles that have been lost.”—Food and Dietdics,