551 P.VRT III.] PILVCTICAL HINTS. question, and allows himself none for making a response. In other words, he mtxkes the business of the hour, eating, not talking. This may be excusable under ceiiain circum- stances; but to eat habitually at raih'oad speed, is to deprive one’s self of a vast amount of pleasure in social life, which has no equivalent in mere gustatory enjoyment. The En- glish and Scotch people, and indeed most foreigners, seem to understand this better than we; they niiike the hour of eating a time for social chit-chat, in which the plcasui-es of the appetite are more than equaled by the feast of fellow- ship and good cheer, that gives relish to the plainest viands. And really, there is no good reason why we should not to a ceidain extent imitate their example; we have but one life to live, between the cradle and the grave ; then why not enjoy the pleasures of home, family and friends, while we have them ? At the generous board, whence the w’ants of the body are suppHed, let there be an added repast to feed the hungry soul. Here every one, from the oldest to the youngest, should lie put upon his best behavior, bringing nothing to the table that is disagreeable or unwelcome. Let the troubles and trials of every-day life retire into the back- gi’ound ; leaving for after remembrance the cheerful faces, the socitd gathering and the kindly words, which do so much to make uj) tlie sura of human hapjiiness, and to bind the members of the household together. If sti’angei’s or friends are gathered here, let this lie the time and jilace to extend, not merely the common comiesies of life, but large- hearted, generous hospitality. The veiy poorest can give this ; not in nch or costly viands, but in the warmth of a kindly heart. A cnist of bread is sweet, if offered with an open hand. Housekeeping. There is entirely too much embraced in the tenn “ house- keeping,” to be set forth in a single chapter; and it may be a question whether the discussion of a theme so suggestive,