FOOD AND PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT. PART I.] 17 of their bodies. It has also been noted by travelers that in those countries, in Europe and elsewhere, in which the people were remarkable for long life, strength of body and line proportions, combined with rare personal beauty and good complexions, their dietetic habits have been relatively simple, and the food itself restricted for the most part to the products of the soil. The peasantry of Europe furnish examples of whole nations of people living almost exclusively on a grain and vegetable diet, with perhaps a moderate sujiply of milk. They use coarse bread, and an abundance of cereals, va- riously prepared. They eat very little meat, and their food as a whole, contains few condiments. It is likewise worthy of remark, that among these simple rural people, who can not afford either the rich dietary or the sparkling wines and other stimulating drinks used by the wealthy, there is a smoothness of skin and purity of complexion that is cpiite the exception among the upper classes. Tliis is particularly noticeable in England and Scotland ; and it is said to be the same in Germany. There is a ceriain Avholesome come- liness among the peasant lads and lasses that does not quite belong either to the people of rank (who, having every facility for mental and physical culture, ought to look well), or to the denizens of cities, whose habits of eating and living are less simple than theirs. According to Felix L. Oswald, M.D., “ The strongest men of the three manliest races of the present world are non-carnivorous : the Turanian mount- aineers of Daghestan and Lesghia, the Mandingo tribes of Senegambia, and the Schleswig-Holstein Bauern, who fur- nish the heaviest cuirassiers for the Prussian army, and the ablest seamen for the Hamburg navy.” The following item from the San Francisco Chronicle, is another bit of evidence showing that the best of muscle can be made from a diet that is simjile and sparing, and that contains very little animal food :