PART II.] UNLEAVENED BRE.\D. 105 rise or spriii" up as the pressure is removed. Then take half of it, and roll it over and over on the moulding-board with the hands, forming a long roll about an inch and a quarter in diameter ; cut this off in bits nearly an inch and a half in length, or large enough to make a roll from three to four inches long, and not quite three-quarters of an inch thick. Take each bit sepai’ately and roll it firmly together, making it smooth and round, and of the length and thick- ness just stated. Leave no dry flour on it, but let it drop from your fingers smooth, straight, and well-worked. As the rolls are made place them in the bread-pan, leaving quite a space between each, so that in swelling (as the air expands in baking), they may not touch each other. Make out the panful quickly, and on no account allow the rolls to stand after they are moulded, lest the air escape and they become heavy. For the same reason, let the oven be hot enough to brown moderately, almost from the begin- ning, as the lightness of the bread depends upon the con- finement of the atmospheric air within its crust, which forms around the roU in baking. Hence, the more crust there is above the flat surface of the pan, the lighter the bread will be. This is why rolls or round balls are always lighter than biscuits. The more even the heat of the oven, the better for baking ; it should be hot enough to scorch white bread. If too hot, the rolls will blister, letting out the air ; if too cold, the air will escape before the crust forms, and in either case the bread will be heavy. A tolerably good rule is to have the oven so hot that you can hold your hand in it just long enough to count ten, rather slowly. A little experience, however, soon enables the cook to regulate the heat. Before putting the rolls in the oven, prick well with a fork to prevent blistering. It wiU require about thirty minutes to bake thoroughly ; and if you happen to get them thicker than usual, it wiU take five minutes longer. When about 5*