HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part 1. 88 sedentary habits would be satisfied at a given meal with a few plain aidicles, and these largely of fmits ; whereas, a laborer would require a larger proportion of more nutri- tious foods, as Graham bread, beans, or some of the grain preparations, with less juicy or w^atery materials. If, how- ever, the weather is warm, inducing profuse perspii'ation, the more juicy fruits and vegetables are in special demand. But a combination of dishes that would be delightful in the sultry days of July or August, would be altogether insuffi- cient to satisfy the appetite on a cold December day, or a keen frosty morning. And when the weather is not only cold, but damp, the food is always best relished if it is warm. Often a good plate of warm soup (not hot), to be followed by corn-bread and baked potatoes, and perhaps another warm vegetable, is very acceptable on damp, cold days, when there is a raw atmosphere, chilling one all through. To be brief, the cook should use her rare good sense in these matters ; she should consider the character of the eaters, whether they are sick or well; accustomed to active outdoor exercise, as farmers, or to sedentary habits, as students, book-keepers, etc. She should also vary the quality of the food, not only to suit the weather, but the season of the year. In May or June, when the markets are full of strawberries and other fruits, with plenty of fresh garden stuff, the “ boarders ” will hardly be content six days in the week with dried apples and prunes for fruit, and old potatoes with last j^ear’s beans, for vegetables ; they will be thinking of the green peas, asparagus and new pota- toes, that they saw in the city market; and the loads of fresh benies, cherries, etc., that looked so inviting. Last, but not least, she must study the individuality of the various food products ; for, as already remarked, cer- tain kinds are so unlike—not to say antagonistic in char- acter, that they seem not to digest well together ; or as we