POULTRY. 473 PART m.] that it will not eat; like the hog, it is a scavenger of not a very high order. The turkey is pei'haps a grade higher, from the fact that it roams over a lai’ger territory, and gets more grain with less local tilth. Ducks and geese, whether wild or tame, are any thing but choice in their eating; nothing delights them more than to pick the worms out of the bottom of stagnant pools, where they lie in a bed of slime. ]\Iuch of the poultry in our markets is stall-fed, before it is killed; the fowls are cooped up in close stalls or cages where they can not stir, and then they are stuffed with corn dougli or other soft materials, as long as they can swallow. In this imnatural condition they are soon covered with thick layers of unhealthy fat, every pai’ticlo of which is saturated with the retained excretions of their bodies. You will have no difficulty in recognizing them, as you see them in the mar- kets; the fat is not a healthy yeUow, but a pale sickly white; it lies in thick pads, under the skin, extending from the middle to the end of the back-bone; and the whole surface of the body looks greasy, filthy and disgusting; none of that cleanly, wholesome appeai'ance, which belongs to farm-fed poultry, roaming at large. First, then, secure a fowl tliat has not been stall-fed; this will often be hard to do in the large cities, especially about Christmas time. You can judge something of the age by the pin-feathers, by the sliort or long spurs on the legs, and also by the coarse or fine texture of tlie skin; if the fowl is young the skin will be easily torn, and the end of the breast- bone soft and gristly. Next, see that it has been recently killed, and the dressing properly done; these things yo4i ought to be able to know at sight; if you do not, a little practice will teach you ; and the olfactories will aid in the mean time. If the chicken or turkey does not smell sweet inside, do not buy it. True, there are ways of “ doc- toring ” spoiled birds, with soda, salt, etc.; Tmt a fowl that ijeeds such attention had better be left in the market, sincQ