THE SCIENCE AND PEACTICE OF SURGERY. I,THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY: INCLUDING SPECIAL CHAPTERS BY DIFFERENT AUTHORS. WITB NINE HUNDRED AND SIXTY-NINE ILLUSTRATIONS ON WOOD, MOSTLY NEW AND ORIGINAL. BY FEEDEEICK JAMES GANT, F.E.C.S. SENIOR 8UEGE0N TO THE ROYAL FREE HOSPITAL; AUTHOR OP " THE PRINCIPLES OP SURGERY : CLINICAL, MEDICAL, AND OPERATIVE." SECOND EDITION, IN TWO VOLUMES, EEVISED OR EE-WRITTEN, AND MUCH ENLARGED THEOUOnOUT. LONDON: BAILLIERE, TINDALL, AND COX. PARIS: BAILLIERE. MADRID: BAILLY-CAILLIERE. PHIT;ADELPHIA: LINDSAY & BLAKISTON. 1878.INTfiO AT THE CAXTON' PRESS, BECCLES.I. 6 PEEFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. In offering to the Profession a new edition of this work, I have endeavoured to render it a more trustworthy and complete repre- sentation of Sm-gery, in its widest acceptation; although within the limits of a compendious Text-book. And, while writing to meet the requirements and varied circumstances of the Surgeon in the course of practice, I have thus also fully main- tained the educational character of the Student in Surgery. Accordingly, the whole of the Text has been thoroughly revised, or in many parts rewritten; and a large amount of new matter is introduced, extending to five hundred and thirty-two pages beyond the previous edition—exclusive of Index. Not a chapter, and scarcely even a page, has been left without some such alteration or addition, conformably with the state of Surgery, both in its Science and Practice. So general and important are these changes throughout, that the present edition may be rgarded as a new work. Pursuing the original design of this Surgery, I have sought to supply a sound and enlarged exposition of Pathology, in the various forms of Injury and Disease, respecting also their diagnosis, their causes, courses, and prognosis; with a full con- sideration of their Treatment, as derived from all this pathological knowledge, and supplemented by the resources of experience- especially in regard to the appropriate Surgical Operations and Manipulations, the plan and performance of which are carefully described in detail. The various kinds of Surgical Apparatus are noticed, and their modes of application explained,vi PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. Having regard to the intimate relation of A.natomy—as well as Pathology—to the Practice of Surgery, whether in the diag- nosis of morbid conditions or their treatment by Operations, I have introduced the Pi'actical Anatomy of various important parts, in connection with their injuries and diseases; e.g. of the Arteries, with reference to Ligature; of the region or parts concerned, in relation to Hernise; and of the Bladder, Prostate Gland, and Urethra, as bearing on the Surgery of these organs. Physiology is interwoven, occasionally, with the Pathology of morbid condi- tions. The arrangement of the work is simple and comprehensive. By a condensed view of Modern Surgery, as a Science and an Ai't, the Student will gain an elementary knowledge of both. Then follows the primary division into General and Special Pathology; the one comprising Diseases of Nutrition, of the Blood, and of the Nervous System; the other being a Histo- logical association of Diseases, as affecting Textures and Textural Systems; and Topographical, as pertaining to Organs and Regions. Beginning with the Head, and proceeding downwards in the Body, this latter subdivision includes every branch of Surgical Practice. Some subjects to which, for many years, I have given particular attention, e.g. Diseases of the Joints,—chiefly with relation to their treatment by Excisional Surgery,—and Diseases of the Genito- urinary Organs, may have been dwelt upon more fully than others, yet not with undue prominence as parts of a whole. For the vast accumulation of facts within the rano-e of modern Surgery, very many sources of information—whether in the form of Special Treatises, Monographs, Transactions of Societies, Hospital Reports, Medical Journals, etc., have neces- sarily been referred to, not omitting some of the more important researches with which our American brethren and foreign con- freres have enriched Surgical literature. Indeed, it would be almost impossible to name individually all those to whom by their published writings I am thus indebted. But I trust that original observations are always duly acknowledged in the Text, —supplemented by the Index. My own pathological observa- tions and surgical experiences, interspersed throughout the Text, are not collected together in the Index. In certain special departments of experience, this new edition has the advantage of original contributions from authorities on their respective subjects. The chapter on " Injuries and DiseasesPREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. Vil of the Eye " has been revised and considerably enlarged by Mr. Power, senior Ophthalmic Surgeon to St. Bartholomew's Hos- pital ; the chapter on the " Ear " is entirely due to Mr. Purves, Aural Surgeon to Guy's Hospital; and that on "Dental Sur- gery " to Mr. Charles S. Tomes. " Diseases of the Throat and Larynx " are represented by the large experience of Dr. Morell Mackenzie; and, in like manner, Mr. William Adams has dealt with "Deformities," as including Orthopoedic Surgery, and Lateral Curvature of the Spine. Professor Erasmus Wilson has written a chapter on " Diseases of the Skin," presenting an original view of Dermatology, reclaimed from the barren technicalities of a speciality, and cultivated in the light of general pathology and therapeutics. The concluding chapter, on " Diseases of the Female Genital Organs," has been revised and extended by Dr. Robert Barnes. I have also to thank Dr. Mahomed for having com- municated a special description of the " Sphygmograph " and its applications in various clinical investigations. Nor should I omit to mention the kindly assistance I have had from my colleague, Mr. William Rose, by his review of " Cleft Palate and its Treatment." These valuable revisions and additions cannot fail to render this work a more complete expression of British Surgery, and more generally useful. Eight hundred and forty-nine netu wood engravings have been introduced, partly replacing those which have been with- drawn, partly additional, making a total of nine hundred and sixty-nine illustrations—as compared with four hundred and seventy in the previous edition. The great majority have been selected, by permission, from the rich collections of pathological specimens in the Royal College of Surgeons, and most of the Hos- pitals of this metropolis; St. Bartholomew's, St. Thomas's, St. George's, Guy's, University College, London, Middlesex, King's College, St. Mary's, and the Royal Free Hospitals. My acknow- ledgments of all these original illustrations from nature are severally specified by foot-notes throughout the work; and for the information of those readers who may be desirous of acquiring yet further knowledge of this series, some descriptive account of the specimen of injury or disease, and clinical history of the case, are not unfrequently appended from the Museum catalogues m each Hospital, thus so as not to intercept the continuity of the text. In my arduous selection of appropriate specimens from collcc-Vlll PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. tions SO large and various, the Curators of these Museums have enhanced the value of the work by directing my attention to the more noteworthy cases; and here, perhaps, I would thank espe- cially Mr. Charles Stewart, of St. Thomas's Hospital, for thus having criven his aid. My own illustrations, amounting to about one hundred and sixteen, relate partly to microscopic specimens, but principally to clinical cases, and the operations of Surgeiy,—in their various stages, and their results. They are mostly indicated by foot- notes, but many other engravings which have no reference whatever have been designed by myself. To the Wood Engi'aver and the Draughtsman, Messrs. George Evans and Son, great credit is due for the finished skill each has displayed in the exercise of his art; limited only by my own particular request to make the engravings faithfully efiective, rather than elaborate. Lastly, the Index has been altered and enlarged, chiefly with reference to the general transfoi'mation which the work has undergone. And, for the convenience of use, this edition is pub- lished in Two Volumes, both in this country and in America. Frederick Jajmes Gant. CONNAUGHT SqUABE, LoNDON, W. Odoher, 1878.CONTENTS OF VOL. I. INTEODUCTION. MonERN SuEGEEY as a Science and a Scientific Art. A primary division of Medi- cine. Pathology, and the intimate relations of Anatomy and Physiology. Biology, Physics, and Chemistry. The relative importance of Diagnosis—its Methods, Physical, Structural, Chemical, and as connected with Pathological Anatomy by Post-mortem Examination; Etiology and Prognosis. Their relation, severally, to Treatment. Conservative Surgery, and Medicine. Plastic Surgery. Pathology in the plan and performance of Surgical Operations. Conditions Favourable and Unfavourable for Operation. Pathological Condi- tions ; constitutional and local. Hygienic Conditions : Diet; Ventilation and Sunlight; Atmospheric Space in "Wards of Hospitals, Civil and Military; Drainage; Prevention of Contagion or Infection ; Antiscpticism. Preparation of Patient for Operation. Arrangements—The Eoom, Table, Instruments, Assistants. Anajsthetics—Historical notice. Chloroform—its Physiological Action. Phenomena or Symptoms. Contra-indications to the employment of Chloroform, and exceptional Operations. Administration of Chloroform, and signs of Anaesthesia. Inhalers. Death from Chloroform—by Asphyxia, Car- diac Syncope, Coma, persistent Sickness. Treatment of an overdose. Sulphuric Ether. Other Anesthetics—Nitrous Oxide or Laughing Gas; Bichloride of Methylene; Chloral. Local AnEethesia. Freezing—by frigorific mixtures, ether-spray. Dangers attending, or consequent on. Surgical Operations. Dressing of the Wound, and Constitutional After-treatment. Eesults of Oj)era- tion—Temporary, Permanent. Modes of Unsuccessful Results. Statistics in Surgery. PART I. GENEEAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. DISEASES OF NUTRITION. PAGE OuAPTER I.—Inflammation. Nutrition ......... 37 Inflammation ........ 40 Textural Changes, and State of the Circulation and Blood-Vessels . 40 Signs ......... 45 Constitutional Symptoms—Inflammatory Fever . . .50 Causes ........ 70 External and Internal . . . . .70 Exciting and Predisposing . . . . 71CONTENTS. X NFLAMMATiON—contmued. Course and Terminations . . . . . . Eesolntion 73 Effusion and Products . . . . . .74 Suppuration and Abscess ..... 84 Ulceration 93 Mortification ....... 98 Treatment ........ 90 Local ........ 97 Constitutional . . . . . . .102 Varieties of Inflammation . . . . .122 Chapter II.—Tumours or Morbid Growths. General Pathology, and Treatment . . . . . .12,5 Special Tumours ........ 128 Cysts and Cystic Tumours ...... 12!) Fatty Tumour—Lipoma. Steatoma .... LSlJ Sarcoma ......... 1.38 Fibro-cellular Tumour ...... 139 Painful Subcutaneous Tubercle. Neuroma . . . 141 Glioma. Myxoma. Psammoma . . . . 142 ( Fibrous Tumour . . . . . . .143 Fibro-Calcareous. Fibro-Cystic . . . . 144 Fibro-nucleated and Recurring Fibroid Tumours . . 144 Cartilaginous Tumour—Encbnndroma. . . . 14fj Fibro-cartilaginous. Ossific . . . . .147 Myeloid, or Fibro-plastic Tumour .... 148 Vascular or Erectile Tumours—Angioma .... 149 Nsevus—Telangeiectasis . . . . . 1")2 Aneurism by Anastomosis . . . . l.")4 Osseous Tumours ....... l.'i.T Glandular Tumours—Lymphoma. Adenoma .... Io.t Infiltrating Growths—Cancer ..... I.o.t Encephaloid. Scirrhus. Colloid ..... l.'ifi Varieties—Villous. Melanotic. Fungus Hscmatodes . l.'>9 Scirrhus . . . . . . . . KiO Varieties—Osteoid . . . . . .160 Colloid—Varieties . . . . • • . KU Cyst-Formation . . . . . . . lf>l Causes . . . . . • • .164 Course ........ 168 Terminations . • • .169 Eecurrence, and Secondary Cancer .... 1"1 Treatment 1":^ Operations . . . . • • . 17(> Epithelial Cancer—Varieties . . • • .178 Chapter III.—Degenerations. General Pathology nnd Treatment . . . • • .187 Special Degenerations 1^8 CirAPTER IV.—ITlceration and Ulcers, Ganorene and Moktificatio.v. Ulceration . . • • • • • -201 Healthy Ulcer -"^ Inflamed Ulcer 209 Irrilal)lf! Ulcer 209xi CONTENTS. PAGE Ulceration and Ulcers, Gangrene and Mortification—coniwMed. (Edematous Ulcer . • • • • • .210 Indolent and Varicose Ulcor . . . • • 210 Pliaged£Bnic Ulcer . • . • • • .212 Hsemorrhagic Ulcer . • • . • • • 213 Scorbutic Ulcer . . . • • • • .213 Scrofulous or Strumous Ulcer ..... 214 Cancerous Ulcer . . . . ■ • .215 Lupoid Ulcer ....... 215 Rodent Ulcer ........ 21G Syphilitic Ulcer . . • • • • .216 Gangrene and Mortification . . . . . . .216 Causes . • • ■ • • • • 218 Fever ......... 224 Treatment ........ 225 Amputation ........ 226 DISEASES OF TIIE BLOOD. Chapter V.—Scrofula. General Symptoms ........ 228 Special Forms ........ 228 Causes . . . . . . . . • . 234 Treatment......... 235 Scurvy and Purpura ........ 236 Chapter VI.—Rheumatism and Gout. Rheumatism ......... 240 Symptoms and Diagnosis . . . . . .240 Treatment ........ 241 Gout 243 Symptoms and Diagnosis ...... 243 Treatment ........ 245 DISEASES OF CONTAGIOUS OEIGIN. Chapter VII.—Syphilis. Local Syphilis . . . . . . . .249 Chancre, and its Diagnosis ...... 249 Chancroid, or Local Contagious Ulcer ..... 250 Bubo, and its Diagnosis ...... 253 Constitutional or Secondary Syphilis ..... 258 Skin Diseases ....... 259 Roseola ........ 259 Lichen ........ 260 Tubercular Eruption ...... 260 Lepra . . . . . . . 260 Psoriasis ........ 260 Vesicular Eruptions ...... 260 Pustular Eruptions ....... 260 Ulceration of the Skin . . . . . .261 Diseases of Mucous Membranes. . . . . . 262 Ulceration of Tonsils ...... 262 Syphilitic Iritis ........ 263 Chronic Enlargement of Testicle ..... 263Xll CONTENTS. oYPHiLis—continued. Diseases of Bones, and Periosteum ..... 2C4 Tertiary Symptoms ....... 205 Congenital, Hereditary, or Infantile Syphilis .... 2<J5 Vaccino-Syphilitic Inoculation ...... 209 Diagnosis of Constitutional Syphilis ...... 209 Unity or Duality of Syphilitic Virus ..... 270 Treatment ......... 272 Local Syphilis ....... 272 Constitutional Syphilis ....... 276 Congenital, Hereditary, or Infantile Syphilis . . . 281 Syphilization ........ 282 Chapter VIII.—Erysipelas. Simple Erysipelas ........ 2S5 Phlegmonous Erysipelas ....... 287 Caxises. ......... 2'JO Treatment......... 294 Chapter IX.—Pymuja and SEPTioiEMiA. Symptoms ......... 297 Secondary Abscesses ....... 299 Pathology ......... 300 Exciting Causes ........ 306 Treatment ......... 307 Chapter X.—Hospital Gangrene. Signs ........ .308 Origin and Course ....... 309 Causes ..... ... 312 Treatment. ......... 314 Chapter XI.—Poisoned Wounds. Hydrophobia . . . . . . . . .316 Treatment ........ 318 Snake-Bites . . 321 Treatment ........ 322 Insect-Bites ......... 322 Dissection-Wound ....... 323 Malignant Pustule—Charbon ...... 324 Treatment ........ 325 Glanders 325 Treatment ........ 325 DISEASES OF THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. Chapter XII.—Shock of Injury. Symptoms and Diagnosis ....... 328 Causes 328 Terminations ......... 329 Inflammatory Traumatic Delirium—Prostration with Excitement . 330 Nervous Traumatic Delirium . . . .331 Treatment 332 Chapter XIII.—Tetanus. Symptoms and Diagnosis Varieties . 333 335CONTENTS. XIU Tetanus—continued. Pathology Causes .... Coiu'se, and Terminations Treatment . . . • Chaptek XIV.—Delikium Tbemens. Symptoms Pathology .... Causes. . . Terminations Treatment Chapter XV.—Hysteria. Symptoms and Diagnosis Local Affections . Causes—Constitutional and Social Treatment .... PART II. SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. Division I. INJUEIES AND DISEASES OF TEXTUEES. SKIN AND SUBJACENT TEXTURES. Chapter XVI.—Wounds—Incised Wound. Wounds of Arteries and Veins. Incised Wound ........ 358 Reparation ........ 359 Immediate Union . . . . . . . 360 Primary Adhesion ...... 360 Suppurative Granulation and Cicatrization . . . 363 Healing under a Scab ...... 363 Modelling Process ....... 364 Treatment ........ 364 Antiseptic Dressings ...... 367 Theory of Antisepticism ..... 369 Results . . . . . . . .369 Wounds of Arteries ....... 371 Reparation ........ 373 Treatment ........ 375 Astringents ........ 376 Cauterization ....... 376 Compression ........ 376 Ligature ........ 377 Acupressure ........ 380 Torsion ........ 383 Wounds of Veins ........ 384 Constitutional Treatment of Hajraorrhagc, Arterial or Venous . 385 Entrance of Air into Veins ....... 386 . 336 338 . 339 339 341 343 343 344 344 . 346 347 . 355 356XIV CONTENTS. Chapter XVII. —Contusion. Contused and Lacerated Wounds. Punctured Wounds. Contusion ......... Treatment Contused and Lacerated Wounds ...... Reparation ........ Treatment ........ Amputation ....... Punctured Wounds ........ Treatment ........ Chapter XVIII.—Gunshot Wounds. Structural Conditions........ Signs . . . . . . . ... Projectiles ......... Consequences ........ Prognosis ......... Treatment ........ Amputation ........ Excision ........ Chapter XIX.—Morbid Cicatrices. Deficient Cicatrix ........ Excessive, and Exuberant—Cheloid Cicatrix .... Painful Cicatrix ........ Ulceration—Growths and Degenerations of Cicatrix Chapter XX.—Burns and Scalds. Lightning. Frost-bite. Burns and Scalds ........ Course and Terminations ...... Treatment ........ Lightning ......... Frost-bite Chapter XXI.—Cellulitis. Carbuncle, and Boil. Cellulitis . . . . ■ . Symptoms and Diagnosis Treatment .... Carbuncle or Anthrax .... Treatment .... Boil or Furunculus .... Chilblain ..... Whitlow or Paronychia .... Onychia ..... In-grown Toe-nail .... Corns. Horns. Warts 388 300 3'JI 3'J3 39G 397 399 400 401 403 406 408 40'. t 4o:» 414 415 417 417 419 419 420 422 425 427 42S 430 430 431 431 432 433 434 435 436 4.S7 437 MUSCLES AND TENDONS. Chapter XXII.—Sprain. Rupture. Tumours. Sprains or Strains . . - • ■ Rupture of Muscle and Tendon Reparation . . • • • Treatment Displacement of Tendon . • ■ • Inflammation of Muscle . . . • Tumours 439 439 440 441 442 442 413 tCONTENTS. XV BURSiE AND SHEATHS OF TENDONS. Ganglion. Chapter XXHI.—Inflammation. luflammation of Burs89 Of Bursa) Patella) Bunion Tenosynovitis Ganglion NERVES. Chapter XXIV.—Injuries. Neuritis. Neuralgia. Injuries . . Neuritis Neuralgia . . • • Tumours ARTERIES. Chapter XXV.—Aneurism. Structural Conditions Circumscribed—True Aneurism Diifused—False Aneurism Fusiform or Tubular Aneurism Dissecting Aneurism Signs .... Diagnosis Causes Course Terminations Spontaneous Cure Treatment Compression Ligature Manipulation Galvano-puncture Injection . Treatment of Traumatic Aneurism Aneurismal Varix and Varicose Aneurism Signs . . . . Causes .... Treatment .... Chapter XXVI.—Aneurism op Special Arteries. Arch of Aorta . . Aneurisms at Root of Neck .... Treatment ...... Innominate Aneurism Aneurisms of Right Carotid and Subclavian Arteries Carotid Aneurism .... Subclavian Aneurism .... Aneurism of Carotid Artery .... Wounds and Traumatic Aneurism Aneurismal Varix ..... Aneurism of Internal Carotid . . . Extra-cranial ..... Intra-cranial ...... 444 445 446 447 448 449 450 450 452xvi CONTENTS. Aneurism of Special Arteries—continued. Wouiuli?, and Traumatic Aneurism, of Internal or External Carotids 49» Aneurism of Subclavian Artery . . .... . 499 Wounds and Traumatic Aneurism ..... 502 Aneurismal Varix ....... 502 Aneurism of Axillary Artery ...... 503 "Wounds and Traumatic Aneurism . . . .505 Aneurisms of Brachial, Radial, and Ulnar Arteries . • .505 Wounds and Traumatic Aneurism ..... 506 Aneurismal Varix, and Varicose Aneurism . . . 50G Aneurism of Abdominal Aorta . . . . . . 50(] Aneurisms of Iliac Arteries—Common, Internal, and External . 50G Aneurisms of Gluteal, Sciatic, and Pudic Arteries .... 509 Wounds, and Traumatic Aneurism, of Gluteal Artery . . 509 Aneurism of Common Femoral Artery ..... 509 Wounds and Traumatic Aneurism . . . . 511 Aneurismal Varix, and Varicose Aneurism .... 511 Aneurism of Femoral Artery—-Deep and Superficial Femorals . 512 Wounds and Traumatic Aneurism . . . . . i>13 Aneurismal Varix, and Varicose Aneurism . . . 513 Aneurism of Popliteal Artery . . . . . .513 Wounds and Traumatic Aneurism . . . . 517 Aneurisms of Tibial Arteries—Anterior and Posterior . . . 517 Aneurismal Varix, and Varicose Aneurism . . . 51S Chapter XXVII.—Ligature op Arteries. Ligature of an Artery in its continuity . . . . .518 Ligature of an Artery at the seat of Wound . . . . 521 Ligature of Innominate Artery . , . . ... 521 Surgical Anatomy . . . . . . .521 Operation ........ 522 Ligature of the Internal Mammary Artery .... 523 Ligature of the Common Carotid Artery ..... 523 Surgical Anatomy ....... 523 Operation ........ 525 Ligature of the External and Internal Carotid Arteries . . 525 Surgical Anatomy ....... 525 Operation Ligature of the Lingual Artery Surgical Anatomy . Operation Ligature of the Subclavian Artery Surgical Anatomy Operation Ligature of the Axillary Artery Surgical Anatomy . Operation Ligature of the Brachial Artery Surgical Anatomy Operation Ligature of the Radial Artery Surgical Anatomy Operation Ligature of the Ulnar Artery . 527 527 . 527 527 . 527 580 . 531 531 . 533 534 . 534 535 . 530 53G . 5o7 537CONTENTS. xvii LiGATTJRE OP Arteries—continued. Surgical Anatomy ....... 537 Operation ........ 538 Ligature of the Abdominal Aorta, and of Iliac Arteries—Common, Ex- ternal, and Internal ....... 539 Surgical Anatomy .... ... 589 Operation—External Iliac ...... 540 „ Internal Iliac . . . . . .541 „ Common Iliac ...... 541 „ Abdominal Aorta ..... 541 Ligature of the Femoral Artery—Common and Superficial . . 541 Surgical Anatomy ....... 541 Operation—Common Femoral Artery ..... 545 „ Superficial Femoral Artery .... 545 Ligature of the Popliteal Artery ...... 546 Surgical Anatomy ....... 546 Operation . . . . • • • . 548 Ligature of the Anterior Tibial Artery .... 548 Surgical Anatomy ....... 548 Operation ........ 550 Ligature of the Posterior Tibial Artery ..... 551 Surgical Anatomy . . . . . . . 551 Operation ........ 552 Peroneal Artery ...... 553 Chapter XXVIII.—Diseases op Arteries. Arteritis ......... 553 Degenerations ........ 555 Ossification ......... 560 Senile Gangrene ....... 560 VEINS. Chapter XXIX.—Injuries. Varicose Veins. Phlebitis. Varicose Veins or Varix .... Phlebitis ....... Thrombus ...... Embolism ...... Phlebolithes or Vein-Stones . . . 562 567 568 .571 573 LYMPHATICS AND GLANDS. Chapter XXX.—Lymphatitis. Tumours. Lymphatitis—Inflammation of the Lymphatics Adenitis—Inflammation of the Lymphatic Glands Enlargements and Tumours—Lymphoma . 573 575 576 Chapter XXXL—Fracture. Fractures Signs Diagnosis Causes Reparation Treatment Compound Fracture BONES. 578 579 580 581 582 585 592xviii CONTENTS. Fracture—continued. Treatment .... Amputation ..... Complicated Fracture . . . . , Treatment Diseased Callus, and Deformed Union Treatment ...... Ununited Fracture, and False Joint. Disunited Fracture Treatment ...... Chapter XXXI[.—Special Fractures. Fractures of the Facial Bones Nasal Bones ..... 610 )) 15 Septum Narium .... f!l 1 Malar Bone ..... )) 11 Zvsroma «j J ^wiiit* ..... \)I ^ >) Jl Tinner .Tn.w C, 1 9 >) 11 TiOWPT* .Tnw C, 1 '> . U 1 .J 9? ?1 TTvoifl Rirno U 1 •> ?1 11 Ribs, and Costal Cartilages G16 1> 11 Sternum ..... 618 )1 11 Clavicle ..... . 619 >) 11 Scapula ..... 624 I) 11 Humerus ..... . 627 ?J 11 Ulna . . . ■ . 634 1) 1) Radius and Ulna .... . 637 )> 11 Radius ...... 638 » 11 Carpal, Metacarpal Bones, and Fingers . . 642 •> 11 Innominate Bones .... 642 »• 11 Sacrum ..... . 64.5 H 1* Coccyx . . . . • 646 » 11 Femur ..... . 646 1) 1) Patella ..... 660 >1 )> Tibia ..... . 665 n >I Fibula ..... 669 19 11 Tarsal, Metatarsal Bones, and Toes . 671 Chapter XXXIII.—Diseases of Bone. Ostitis, or Inflammation of Bone Scrofulous Ostitis Syphilitic Ostitis . Periostitis Endostitis Osteitis Deformans Suppuration Osteo-myelitis Diffuse Periostitis Circumscribed Abscess of Bone Caries . . • ■ Necrosis .... Partial Necrosis Necrosis without Suppuration Rachitis or Rickets Mollities Ossium . Fraorilitas Ossium 596 598 600 60] 601 602 603 COG ICONTENTS. xix PAGE Diseases of Bone—continued. Tumours . ....... 701 Exostosis ......... 701 Enchondroma ....... 704 Osteo-Sarcoma—Fibrous Tumour . . . . .704 Cysts . . . . . . . . 704 Cystic Tumours ........ 705 Hydatid Cysts ....... 705 Eecurring Tumours . . . . . . . 706 Cancer—Interstitial ...... 706 „ Periosteal ....... 708 Pulsatile Tumour, and Osteo-Aneurism .... 709 Diseases of Particular Bones ...... 710 JOINTS. Chapter XXXIV.—Iottjries. Sprains. Wounds. Dislocations. Sprains or Strains ........ 711 Wounds ......... 711 Dislocations ......... 713 Signs ........ 714 Diagnosis ........ 714 Causes ........ 715 Eeparation ........ 716 Treatment . . . . . . . . 716 Compound Dislocation ....... 722 Treatment . . . . . . . . 723 Amputation ........ 724 Complicated Dislocation ....... 726 Treatment . . . . . . . . 726 Unreduced Dislocation and False Joint .... 726 Treatment ........ 728 Congenital Dislocations ....... 730 Chapter XXXV.—Special Dislocations. Dislocations of the Lower Jaw ...... 731 „ Spine ...... 733 •, „ Ribs . . . . . . .734 „ Clavicle ...... 735 » Scapula . . . . . . .737 „ Shoulder-joint ..... 738 Subglenoid ...... 738 Subclavicular ..... 730 Subsjiinous ...... 739 Complicated ..... 744 „ „ Elbow-joint . . . . . . 747 Radius and Ulna .... 747 Ulna ....... 749 Radius ...... 749 J) „ Inferior Radio-Ulnar Articulation . . . 755 ,1 „ Eadio-carpal Articulation .... 7.')G Injuries allied to Dislocation .... 757 V „ Carpal Bones ..... 757 )> „ Metacarpal Bones ..... 758 » Phalangeal Bonos ..... 753CONTENTS. XX Special DiSLOcxTioy;^—continued. Dialocatious of the Pelvis . . . . _ -j-^j )' Hip-joint ...... 7C1 On the Dorsum Ilii ..... 762 Into Great Ischiatic Notch . . . 708 Into Obturator Foramen .... 7G!) Upon the Pubcs ..... 771 Anomalous Dislocations .... 77.^, i» ). Patella ...... 777 Jl 1) Knee-joint ...... 770 )» » Fibula ...... 78:^ )i ). Ankle-joint . . . . .783 »• » Astragalus ...... 78(J » » other Tarsal Bones ..... 788 „ „ Metatarsal Bones ..... 790 )> „ Phalangeal Bones ..... 790 Chapter XXXVI.—Diseases op Joints. Synovitis ......... 791 Chronic Kheumatic Synovitis or Arthritis .... 796 Scrofulous Synovitis ........ 799 Scrofulous Disease or Caries ...... 801 Ulceration of Articular Cartilages ...... 807 Anchylosis, or Stiff Joint ...... 810 Loose Cartilages . . . . . . . .813 Tumours ......... 815 Neuralgia ......... 815 Chapter XXXVII.—Diseases of Particular Joints. Diseases of the Hip-joint . . . . . . 816 Scrofulous Disease—Morbus Coxarius .... 816 Chronic Eheumatic Arthritis—Morbus Coxsb Senilis . . 824 Neuralgia ........ 82.5 Disease of the Sacro-iliac Joint ...... 825 Chapter XXXVIII.—Deformities. Deformities of Face and Neck ...... 829 Wry-neck or Torticollis ...... 829 Strabismus or Squint ....... 8H8 Deformities of the Arm and Hand ..... 831 Deformities of the Leg ....... 834 Knock-knee ........ 834 Bowed or Bandied Legs ...... 834 Contraction of Knee-joint ...... 835 Talipes or Club Foot . . . . . . .836 Talipes Equinus ....... 837 Talipes Varus . . . . . . . ' . 840 Talipes Valgus ....... 843 Flat or Splay Foot . . . . . . .844 Talipes Calcaneus ....... 844 Varieties of Club-Foot . . . . . .845THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. INTRODUCTION. MODEEN SUEGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN AET. Sdegeet is that primary division of Medicine wliicli has for its ohject the cure or the relief of morbid conditions of the body, in a corre- i spending division of Pathology. But the line of separation is arbitrary, ' conventional, and indefinite. Firstly, as to the nature of the morbid conditions, or Surgical Pathology. All injuries, malformations, and deformities, congenital ; and acquired, and all diseases afiecting external parts, are usually ; allotted to Surgery. Secondly, in respect to the kind of Treatment, or the means of cure 1 or relief. Surgery comprises all operations effected by instruments, 1 manipulative procedures, and the employment of mechanical ap- ] pliances; but it also has recourse to the administration of medicinal I agents, and to hygienic measures. Surgical Pathology is both General and Special. General Surgical 1 Pathology comprises the different forms of Injury and Disease which are common to all parts of the body; and these morbid conditions, illustrating the laws of Pathology, are the primary source of guidance in all surgical practice. As general forms of Injury—Wounds, Fractures, Dislocations, and Aneurisms, may be naturally associated; and especially in virtue of the various laws whereby these lesions undergo Reparation, through processes which are more or less clearly referable to modifications of healthy Nutrition. But this department will be more conveniently considered in connection with the particular Textures injured. As general conditions of Disease—Inflammation, Morbid Growths or Tumours, and Degenerations, may also be referred to modifications of Nutrition; namely, to Accelerated, to Reproductive, and to De- clining Nutrition; while Ulceration, and Gangrene or Mortification, represent textural Death. Certain Blood diseases. Contagious dis- eases, and general diseases of the Nervous System, further illustrate the laws of Pathology. B2 THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. Special Surgical Pathology may bo subdivided into injuries and diseases of tbe Textures and Textural Systems—6.(7., the Skin and the Vascular System, and those which, with malformations, pertain to Organs and Regions—e.^^., the Organs of Special Sense, and of Repro- duction. The latter subdivision, as a mode of classification, makes no pretension to any scientific distinctions; it is simply an anatomical or a topographical arrangement of morbid conditions. In relation to Anatomy and Physiology, the truth has become fully recognized that disease is not an independent entity in the body, as if foreign to the healthy organism; but that Pathology represents only modes of living and modes of dying; although the line of transition from healthy to diseased states, in regard to structure and function, is indefinite, and variable in the history of every individual existence. But the student must ascend to yet higher ground than this in his contemplation of modern Surgery as a Science. Animated, or rather inspired, by a far more comprehensive spirit of inquiry, than that which relates to the human species alone, John Hunter's view of Pathology was an extension of a colossal Physiology, and a corre- sponding Anatomy, embracing the whole living creation. It was from this vast range of Biological Science that Hunter sought to interpret the structural conditions and the phenomena of life in any one species; and thus, for example, to enlighten our otherwise isolated knowledge of human anatomy, physiology, and pathology;—of man, structurally and functionally, in the states of health and disease. From this elevated point of view we must look, to justly appreciate the Hunterian conception, and its influence on the British School of Surgery. Sub- sequently, it became apparent how largely and intimately the Sciences of Physics and Chemistry enter into this system of Biology; and thence we might trace the grand contributions of the Continental Schools, more especially, and particularly in Germany and France. Here, then, we discern the three primary elements of modem Scientific Medicine. The more immediate sense, however, in which Modern Surgery claims the rank of a Science, is by virtue of the progress of Pathology; —of that Science which teaches the nature of all the abnormal or diseased changes which the living organism is liable to undergo; the causes of such conditions; their vital course, terminations, and conse- quences. In this country, the section of Pathology which relates to Surgery first assumed a representative position, mainly by the labours of Sir James Paget, as recorded in his renowned "Lectures," and " The Pathological Catalogue of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons;" while, in Germany particularly. Surgical Pathology has been developed chiefly by the genius of Virchow and Billroth. Regarded as a scientific Art, the Practice of Surgery has a corre- sponding derivation from Science. The pathology of injuries and diseases, taken individually, em- braces : (1) the particular structural condition presented, its signs and symptoms, and its diagnosis or detection and discrimination from other conditions; (2) its cause or causes, or etiology, and the effects of the morbid condition itself as a cause; (3) its course, terminations, and consequences, and the prognosis or foreknowledge of these events. The treatment in any case may be operative, or medicinal, or both.MODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. 3 The comparative importance of tlie three divisions of investigation respecting injury or disease, and of the whole of this pathological knowledge in relation to treatment, may be estimated as follows :— 1, Diagnosis is primarily necessary, in order to discover the par- ticular structural condition, and extent of the injury or disease, when capable of being so defined, and its distinction from other conditions. To make this discovery, the concomitant effects of the morbid condition are taken as Signs or Symptoms of its existence. The relative diagnostic value of such evidence will depend upon, and vary with, its more or less constant and exclusive conjunction with the morbid condition. Accordingly, a Symptom, or as the etymological meaning of this term would express, a coincidence or co-occurrence, is less characteristic and distinctive than a Sign, the latter being that by which anything is known or recognized. Any sign peculiar to a morbid condition is named pathognomonic. But the co-existence, or at least the consecutiveness of symptoms,—any one of which would be equivocal, if taken by itself,—constitutes a weight of evidence, greater in the aggregate than that which the several items of evidence would represent by being merely added together. This augmenta- tion of collective evidence is by virtue of a law of mental association, and not a property of numbers or of any kind of magnitude. If in one balance of a weighing scale were placed a weight of five pounds, and in the other a weight of one pound, the balance is as five to one. Other weights of one pound each being successively added to the one-pound scale, would severally tend to equalize the balance ; and five such weights would equal a five-pound weight; but five separate pounds weight, so to speak, of evidence, taken together, preponderate over a single five-pound weight of adverse evidence. In the diagnosis of the different general forms of Injury—already mentioned—the discrimination of Fracture from Dislocation and other conditions, affords an instructive illustration of the equivootal value of signs and symptoms, taken singly and separately, but of their conclu- siveness, when considered collectively, in determining the diagnosis of this injurv. Let me first biiefly enumerate the signs and symptoms of Fracture, say in either limb; and then proceed to the Diagnosis; as hereafter stated in the course of this work. Fracture is attended with mohility of the broken portions of bone, and crepitation, a rough grating sensation, felt and heard when the broken surfaces are gently moved in contact. Usually the normal outline of the limh is altered, by the displacement of the fractured ends of bone, a deformity which the experienced eye will frequently recognize at a glance ; and there is more or less elevation or depression, also occasioned by the displacement, prior to swelling, at the immediate seat of fracture. Shortening of the limb, in some degree, takes place, when one of the single long bones is broken; this sign arising from the involuntary contraction of the muscles which act on the lower fragment. Lastly, pain, and inability to use the limb, are functional symptoms, which the patient experiences, and which may be included in the evidence obtained by the surgeon in his examination. Proceeding to analyze the diagnostic value of these signs and symp- toms, as the evidence of Fracture, they may severally be estimated asTHE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 4 follows :—The pain may be insignificant at first, before swelling super- venes ; and the power of motion is retained in the case of impacted fracture, or where one only of two companion bones is broken, the other acting as a splint. With fracture of the radius, in the forearm ; or of the fibula, in the leg; the ulna or the tibia thus preserves some of the motions of the limb, although the special functions of either broken bone are lost. But if the functional symjoioms of pain and loss of volun- tary power attend the injuiy, they may each arise from other causes than fracture ; as from dislocation, a bruise, or an attack of rheumatism, which thus far may simulate fracture. The physical signs of Fracture, taken singly, are sometimes absent. Mobility, in the case of impacted fracture ; crepitation, if there be much displacement, or if soft tissue of any kind intervene between the fragments, or if some days have elapsed since the accident. The deformity of the limb, and the elevation or depression at the immediate seat of injury, may be wanting; as in impacted fracture, and in fracture without displacement; and these signs are less pronounced than usual, when one only of two companion bones is broken, the other resisting and supporting as a splint. Short- ening also is less marked or absent in all such cases. The most difficult case is this : a fracture of one of two companion bones in the leg or forearm, in a muscular subject, and when considerable swelling has supervened. There is no shortening, and no deformity as from fracture, no crepitation can be felt, and mobility of the broken portions is obscured by the swollen cushion of soft tissues around the seat of fracture. "Where is the surgeon," saysBoyer, "who has not hesitated sometimes to deliver an opinion in cases of this description ? " On the other hand, if the signs of Fracture be present, they may, severally, arise from other causes; with one exception,—namely, mobility in the continuity of a bone. This can arise only from fracture. Crepi- tation attends the play of the tendons in their sheaths, in connection with inflammation; although the creaking, jerking crepitation thus pro- duced, diifers from the rough grating of broken bone. The altered contour of the limb, and of the part at the seat of supposed fracture, and the shortening of the limb, might arise from various other con- ditions ; a previous fracture, interstitial absorption, or other disease of the bone, or from deformity, congenital or acquired, as rickets or mollities ossium. In the proximity of a joint, these signs may be due to dislocation ; but the presence of crepitation, and of mobility, are the turning points of the diagnosis. It appears, therefore, that no physical sign taken singly, except one—mobility—is pathognomonic of Fracture, and that any one sign may be absent; but that all these signs taken collectively, determine the diagnosis of this kind of injury. Functional symptoms, singly or com- bined, are insufficient; yet their concurrence will confirm the diagnosis. The surest ground of diagnosis is Pathological Anatomy, as directly manifesting during life the existence of morbid conditions; by the physical, the structural, and the chemical changes, which the different textures or organs, and the fluids, afiFected, have undergone. Thus, in the diagnosis of the general forms of Injury or of Disease:—the physical characters of Wounds are distinctive of these injuries, as represented by the terms incised, contused and lacerated, and punc- tured wounds ; the physical signs of Fracture are equally diagnostic, —in the altered length and shape of the limb, and the alteration at5 MODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. the seat of injury, with the presence of crepitation and mobility at tliat part; the signs of Dislocation also are characteristic; and the same may be said of most other injuries; while, among diseases, the signifi- cance of physical diagnosis is illustrated by that of Tumours ; as with regard to their -various differences of shape or surface-character, con- sistence, size, and mobility. By an appeal to stmctural characters appertaining to the textural elements of Morbid Products of Nutrition,—the cells and fibres, or other organized constituents of such Products, as found in the dis- charges from natural passages, it may be possible—under examination with the microscope—to determine their nature; whether as to pro- ducts derived from the mouth, oesophagus, stomach, or intestines, the lungs, kidneys, urinary bladder, or urethra, the uterus, or vagina ; or as yielded by the skin, or procured by subcutaneous puncture. This turning out of the interior of the body, or gathering from its surface, supplies the materials for all that minute inspection which is associated with the achievements of microscopic examination. Among tumours or morbid growths, for instance, the diagnostic value of structural characters, and as compared with physical diagnosis, is forcibly illus- trated by the differentiation of the recurring varieties of non-malignant tumours, from the typical forms of such tumours. Thus, the fibro- nucleated tumour—a recurring growth, and the ordinary fibrous tumour, possess the same physical characters,—those of a hard, elastic, lobulated tumour; but the recurring form represents only a rudimen- tary condition of fibrous tissue,—consisting of fine filaments infiltrated with an abundance of well-defined oval nuclei; whereas, the fibrous tumour consists simply of developed fibrous tissue. These two struc- tural conditions can be readily distinguished under the microscope, and by merely puncturing the tumour with a grooved needle, this method of Diagnosis is made available in clinical .examination. Its critical value lies in the fact, that tumours which otherwise present the physical characters of identity, and would thus be mistaken, have yet a widely different vital history and therapeutic importance. An ordinary fibrous tumour, never recurring, admits of removal by the knife as a certain cure; but a fibro-nucleated tumour recurring, is so far allied to a cancerous growth, and when removed, springs up again and again, so that in spite of surgical interference, it not unfrequently runs its course to a fatal termination. The same diagnostic superiority of structural characters, might be further exemplified by the recurring fibroid, as compared with the fibrous tumour, in relation to their vital history and treatment; while something might be said to reclaim the value of the structural method of Diagnosis with regard to cancer- growths. But, if the microscopic examination of organized products has yielded important diagnostic results in relation to Surgery, how fruitful has been this method of diagnosis in its extension to crystalline forms. No one will dispute the value of the knowledge thus acquired respect- ing Urinary Deposits. Overlooking the varieties observed in the crystals of each kind of deposit, certain well-defined forms may be regarded as typical, and representing the morbid conditions of urine in which they are found ; such crystalline deposits supply conclusive or corroborative evidence of the diseases with which they are more or less constantly and exclusively associated. The rhomboidal prisms ofTHE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 6 uric acid; the octohodral and dumb-bell crystals of oxalate of lime ; and the prismatic, foliaceous, penniform, or stellate crystals of phos- phatic deposits ; will severally suffice to identify the morbid conditions of urine, which physical characters, and even chemical tests, perhaps, will not so surely determine. Organized forms occurring in the urine, may supply evidence equally trustworthy; casts of the uriniferous tubules, with blood and pus-corpuscles, presenting their characteristic appearances under the microscope, in connection with acute desquama- tive nephritis. Or, the artificial production of certain organized forms in urine, after its emission, may be the means of diagnosis; as by the yeast-plant in the urine of diabetes mellitus. Chemical diagnosis seems to contend with the structural method, for superiority, in regard to its scientific exactitude. Destined, probably, hereafter to become the most minute method of detecting and discriminating the essential changes which constitute morbid conditions, chemical diagnosis has already thrown a vivid and pene- trating light on certain classes of diseases which appertain to Surgery. Urinary Pathology, forming a neutral ground for research, has been cultivated by the labours of Prout, Bence Jones, Golding Bird, Leh- mann, Julius Vogel, N^eubauer, Owen Rees, Lionel Beale, Thudichum, Parkes, W. Roberts, Hassall, and other physicians; but Urinary Deposits have to be examined also by surgeons, if they would practise their art in the light of modern progress. All the various morbid conditions of the urine are of diagnostic importance in the treatment of surgical diseases, and relative to the favourable circumstances for surgical operations and their after-treatment. This source of guidance is often the key to the successes and failures of surgical practice in dilferent hands. Albuminuria is specially significant. The escape of albumen in the urine and the retention of urea in the blood,—the daily loss of so much nutriment in one of its highest forms, and the accompanying ureal blood-poisoning,—constitute a process so destructive, that, if overlooked, it would undermine any good results in the whole range of operative surgery. Phosphatic urine, in con- nection with cystitis, is specially ominous in the treatment of stone in the bladder, as to the relative safety of lithotrity and lithotomy. Now, the chemical tests for these, and all other morbid conditions of the urine, have been reduced to practical forms so simple and conclusive, as to be readily available to every one engaged, and almost under any pressure of time, in Surgical Practice. Diagnosis may be confirmed by the functional disturbances, which, as symptoms, accompany the particular injury or disease ; also by connect- ing either condition with its cause or causes; and by the characteristic effects of the operative or medicinal treatment employed. For example, pain, and inabihty to use a limb, are symptoms in aid of the physical diagnosis of Fracture or Dislocation, although the same symptoms may occur from even a sprain, without either such injury; and the functional disturbances arising from the pressure of a Tumour on surrounding parts are similar, with reference to Tumours of very dis- similar nature. In further aid of diagnosis, the external cause of an injury or disease, may be taken into account; the crushing violence to which a limb has been subjected, being presumptive evidence of a comminuted fracture ; or the direction in which force has been applied, will perhaps indicate the form of a dislocation. Lastly, theMODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. 7 effects of treatment may confirm our diagnosis ; as when, in the reduc- tion of a Dislocation, the sensible snap of coaptation announces the replacement of the articular surfaces; or, the non-recurrence of a Tumour, after extirpation by operation, is evidence in support of its non-malignant nature. Medicinal agents afford, occasionally, diagnostic testimony, by their definite and specific effects; as by the influence of mercury in sypliilis, quinine in ague, and sulphur in the cure of itch. But it is only by careful and repeated clinical observation of the physical, the structural, and perhaps the chemical conditions,—^which are the more constant signs of disease or injury; by a similar observa- tion of the functional alterations, as coincident symptoms; the asso- ciation of causes, and the effects of therapeutic measures; and by connecting all this evidence, gathered during life, with the patho- logico-anatomical alterations—as demonstrated by the scalpel, the microscope, and perhaps by chemical appliances—after death, and in all stages of these alterations, that we can rationally hope to establish the most exact and earliest Diagnosis. This connection, oft-recurring, at length begets self-confidence; so that with the accumulation of such experience, our diagnosis, although determined during life, and therefore by evidence not infallible, yet having been repeatedly verified by post-mortem examination, has now become proportionately exact. The most remarkable result of Diagnosis thus worked out has been the analysis of compound diseases. Morbid conditions which were formerly regarded as simple, have been discovered to be com- pound—to consist of several diseases, which may, or may not, be associated; each of which presents its own individual pathological history, and has its own peculiar treatment. One of the most striking illustrations of this diagnostic analysis is afforded by our present differentiation of joint-diseases. The term "white swelling," which was formerly in vogue, is now known to have included at least three diseases of dissimilar character—scrofulous caries, synovitis, and ulceration of the articular cartilages, this analysis having been clearly established by the diagnostic investigations of Sir B. Brodie. Under the old term amaurosis, several distinct diseases of the retina have been discerned. Again, in the province of medicine ; continued fever, by the clinical and post-mortem investigations of Sir William Jenner, has been resolved into typhus and typhoid; exanthematous diseases as distinct as smallpox and measles. More recently also, the term phthisis pulmonalis, which in the time of Louis signified exclusively tubercular disease of the lungs, is now being resolved into other diseases, by the penetrating analysis of modem diagnostic inves- tigation. It is needless to point out how much all this advancement of Diagnosis has reformed, and is still changing, the old Nomenclature of diseases and the old iSTosology or classification of diseases. 2. Etiology comprises the knowledge of causes, and their operation, m the production of injury or disease. Such causes may be external to the body, as external violence in the production of injury, or exposure to cold in inducing disease; or, they may be internal, by the excess, deficiency, or perversion, of structure and function. Both classes of causes may be either predisposing, or immediate and exciting, in their operation. Sometimes, the former occurs after the latter mode of causation, as when an individual undergoes fatigue or privation, after8 THE SCIENCE AND PKACTICE OF SURGERY. exposure to an infectious poison. Then, that weakening of the system cannot be said to predispose, but it is aptly named the determinmg cause. An innate power of resisting the supervention of morbid conditions, explains why the same cause does not invariably produce its reputed effect in different individuals, or in the same individual, at different periods of life; this uncertainty being due to different degrees of resisting power. But the influence of habitual toleration will also much affect the operation of causes, whether external or internal. Either kind of cause may be self-sufficient, but both kinds frequently co-operate, or operate in succession; the internal cause more commonly predisposing, the external, when sufficiently aided thereby, immediately inducing disease or injury. Thus, a fall which does not produce a hernial protrusion in one case, immediately does so in another, owing to weakness of the abdominal wall at the seat of rupture, as the structural predisposing condition to this lesion; and a posture which does not cause an apoplectic seizure in one case, immediately does so in another, owing to the blood-vessels of the brain having become brittle from calcareous degeneration. Causes are also distinguished as local and constitutional. The former term requires no definition; the latter signifies such conditions of disease as have a systemic character, and a correspondingly wide- spread influence in the production of local manifestations. Such are principally diseases of the blood, of the nervous system, or of nutrition. Local causes may give rise to constitutional diseases; and conversely, any constitutional cause must give rise to, and be manifested by, some local affection or affections. Thus we often speak of the constitutional origin of local disease, a general and most important doctrine of etiology, originally taught by Abernethy. The detection of internal causes, whether local or constitutional, may be regarded as an extension of diagnosis, and consequently pertains chiefly to Pathological Anatomy; but the operation of these causes, through functional disturbances, comprises the further study of Pathology. Diseases, which were formerly regarded as of local origin, and to be removed by topical applications, have been traced back to their constitutional origin in the blood-forming processes ; of which such diseases are only manifestations, and are accordingly submitted to constitutional treatment. It has been thus that our knowledge of scrofulous affections has been expanded; that many skin diseases, and ulcerations of mucous membranes, diseases of the eye, the bones and joints, of the testicle, and other parts, have also been referred to constitutional syphilis; while the pathology of gout and rheumatism has been equally fruitful in the intei-pretation of many otherwise anomalous local affections. Nor has the pathology of the nervous system been unproductive in the same direction; and thus we now recognize hysterical affections of the joints, and other parts of the body, as distinguished from inflammatory disease; a discrimination which has saved many limbs that, doubtless, were formerly sacrificed by an erring surgical interference. On the other hand, the local origin of constitutional disease embraces the causative relations of injury, and local disease, to morbid states of the system. In relation to the nervous system, the vital history of injury comprises the phenomena of shock, reaction, prostration with excitement or traumatic dehrium, and tetanus.9 MODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. The doctrine of constitutional irritation, originally established, by Travers, was a fertile source of inquiry for subsequent clinical ob- servers ; and only recently, the history of shock has been further elucidated by the investigations of Furneaux Jordan and Le Gros Clark; while the phenomena of tetanus, by the original researches of Lockhart Clarke, have been connected with certain definite structural changes in the spinal cord,—a hyperEemic state of the blood-vessels with exudation, and disintegrative softening of the gray substance of the cord. The vital history of local disease, in relation to the nervous and vascular systems combined,—another illustration of the pathological law to which I have referred,—has equally engaged the attention of clinical observers. Thus, we have come to acquire our present knowledge of the pathology of inflammatory fever, as proceeding from a focus of inflammation in whatever part may be effected; and the development, subsequently, of hectic fever from prolonged suppuration, and gan- grenous typhoid fever from mortification of the part or local death. AU this advancement has been the work of many contributors whose labours cannot be here adverted to. There is yet another law respecting the operation of internal causes which merits more then a passing notice; it is the causative relation of local diseases,—that one morbid condition of a part, may give rise to the same, or to another, morbid condition in another part, continuous, contiguous, or remotely situated in the body. Inflammation exhibits abundant illustrations of these modes of operation as an internal cause. The continuous extension of inflammation is witnessed in its progres- sive spreading in the skin or mucous membrane, as in erysipelas, and the sore throat of scarlet-fever. Contiguous extension is illustrated by secondary nlceration of the articular cartilages, consequent on caries of the subjacent bone, or on synovitis. So also ostitis may proceed from periostitis; cellulitis from inflammation of the skin; and con- versely. Taking internal organs from the head downwards ; meningitis is succeeded by cerebritis; scrofulous and purulent ophthalmia, by inflammation of the cornea and deeper textures of the eye ; laryngitis, by oedema glottidis; gastritis, enteritis, cystitis, and metritis, each probably, by peritonitis. The transference or metastasis of inflamma- tion to a distant part is exemplified by the supervention of orchitis from the sudden suppression of gonorrhoea. Nervous and muscular affections, of a sympathetic kind, might also be referred to, as a large and most interesting class of manifestations, in all organs and regions of the body, more or less remote from their internal causes; some such affections depending on a cause of irritation in the trunk of the nerve affected, or centrally, in the brain or spinal cord ; or, proceeding from the transference of an impression from one distant nerve to another through the medium of the central nervous axis—reflected sympathetic affections. Space will not permit me to enter further into this important view of internal causes. Originally, I believe, investigated by Dr. Whytt, the subject was ably elucidated by Sir B. Brodie in his "Local Nervous Affections," a work which almost more than any other has influenced the practice of Modern Surgery ; and yet further light has been thrown thereon, by the researches of IProfessor Hilton, in his admirable Lectures on " Pain and Rest." To complete this general view of diseases in their causative relations to each other, I may just notice the association of diseases—theirTHE SCIENCE AKD PEACTICE OF SURGEBY. 10 co-operations and orders of succession in the body. Constitutional morbid conditions frequently co-exist. This combination of morbid states of the blood and nervous system is exhibited by fever, in every variety. Among blood diseases; erysipelas, which occurs not unfrequently in surgical practice, may co-exist with typhus, or with typhoid fever, with small- pox, or with syphilis—primary or secondary. Local morbid conditions frequently co-exist; as in the association of inflammation with every kind of injury—wounds, burns, fractures, dislocations, etc. As illustrating the order of succession perhaps most commonly met with; a (local) suppurating wound induces (constitutional) blood-poisoning or pyaemia, and this disease is reflected by the formation of (local) secondary abscesses in various parts of the body. Primary syphilis in its relation to the blood, and thence to secondary syphilitic affections, IS another familiar example of the same order of succession. Among diseases of the nervous system, we observe tetanus arising from some local injury, and then reacting upon that part, causing it to assume an unhealthy condition. After a strangulated femoral hernia, for which I operated, no bad symptom ensued for a week, then tetanus supervened, and the wound immediately re-opened and became distinctly gangrenous. But I can only glance at the whole of this inquiry, which I have endeavoured to develop in my " Principles of Surgery." 3. Prognosis is a department of clinical knowledge, which, compared with modern Diagnosis and Etiology, is far less advanced. To foretell the course and terminations, and the eventual consequences of any given disease or injury, is generally far more diflBcult than to discover the morbid condition itself, and its causative relations. At the same time, the practical importance of this foreknowledge in relation to Treatment cannot be doubted; whether we look to the prevention of impending complications, of a fatal issue, or of the consequences which may ensue even in the event of recovery. To this end, the old "prognostics" of symptoms being "good" or "bad" according to the suggestions of empirical experience, affords no better knowledge than can be acquired by observant nurses no less than by practitioners. On the other hand, the intelligible guidance of Pathology has hitherto failed, in most cases, to cast more than a dim and uncertain light on our prognostications. Why is this ? There are two unavoidable difli- culties to be overcome. The " natural history " of disease has been watched but little, and recorded less ; this deficiency in our knowledge being the result of our having to treat disease, as well as to observe its progress ; so that its vital history is continually modified by the intervention of our medicinal agents and operative procedures. Then again, individual peculiarities of constitution, age, sex, social position, and many other circumstances, have to be taken into account, and the influence of which in this or that case, may defy calculation. Certain general principles only seem to be trustworthy: the persistence of causes in their operation, as the immediate ground of Prognosis ; with the kind and extent of structural alteration which the organ or part has undergone, and the influence of which is somewhat proportionate to the period during which the disease or injury has continued, unless as a chronic lesion to which the system has become habituated. Beyond this source of foreknowledge, the nature and the importance of the functional disturbances may indicate the probable issue, and its conse- quences when not a fatal termination.11 MODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. As tlie student yet lingers at tie bedside over the living human body, to watch all the wondrous phenomena it presents in its multiform diseased conditions,—its innumerable modes of living and modes of dying; and, as he has then revealed to him glimpses of that higher life,— the innermost workings of the soul, as a moral agent, when almost disso- ciated from its co-operation with physical forces ; under these privileged circumstances of observation, he will more fully realize the superiority of his clinical study of life over that of the pure anatomist and physio- logist in their view of the body only through the course of its development and the evenly balanced condition of health ; and, in his position of final intercourse with nature, he is favoured with something like an experimental demonstration of that life which is to come, beyond this brief tenure of our earthly existence. Such, then, are the chief aspects of modern Surgery as a Science, Let me now turn to its practice as an Art. Thus regarded. Surgery, like most other Arts, may be practised in either of two ways—Em- pirically, by experience alone, or as a Scientifi.c Art, by the guidance of the Science pertaining to it. In its full signification, this Art embraces the scientific, as distinguished from the empirical, practice of diagnosis, etiological investigation, prognosis, and treatment. In its common acceptation, the art of treatment is more especially considered; and from this point of view, the aspects of modern Surgery are singularly interesting. 4*^"Treatment derives its Indications from each of the three foregoing heads of inquiry respecting morbid conditions. Diagnosis fixes the essential nature of the morbid condition, and thus not unfrequently indicates the requisite remedial measures, particularly as to surgical operations, manipulative procedures, and mechanical appliances; etiology suppUes the knowledge of causes, which, if they be still in operation, must be removed ; and prognosis determines the remaining indications of treatment. A considerable portion of surgical treatment yet remains empirical; but it is now generally felt and acknowledged to be so far aimless, and as often therefore unsuccessful. Such treatment of injury or disease is like trying to hit a mark blindfolded. It can, indeed, only be regarded as a temporary resource, accepted by the practitioner under the pressure of his natural anxiety to relieve human suffering in any possible way, but as often little better than nothing until enlightened by Pathology. As thus directed, however. Treatment acquires three primary Indi- cations of the highest importance. In proportion as the natural course of any morbid condition is towards an unfavourable issue, the Surgeon thence discovers the earliest occasion for interference, and the unfavour- able conditions to be removed; while, in proportion as the natural course is towards recovery, it indicates the least amount as well as the hind of surgical assistance requisite, from time to time, to conduct the case to this happy issue. Treatment in accordance with the natural course of morbid condi- tions towards recovery, is evidently responsive to the requirements of a Self-Bestorative or Repa,rative Power, which is inborn and inherent in the living body. The existence of some such power had been recog- nized by clinical observers from the earliest period, but the practical acknowledgment of its varied operation and resources in the treatmentTHE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OP SURGERY. 12 of diseases and injuries, forms the most prominent aspect of modern Surgery as an Art. A less definite recognition of this power had pre- vailed from the time of Hippocrates downwards; it was the archoeus of Van Helmont, the anima of Stiihl, the vis medicatrix naturae of Cullen; but the original observations of Hunter on Reparation, in the healing of wounds, and after other injuries, first gave this distinctive character to modern surgical treatment. The Restorative Power is manifested, partly in its resistance to external causes of disease, as the influence of cold; but principally, in the processes of nutrition, and other functions whereby structures, when disorganized, are recovered to or towards a healthy state, and readjusted. In relation to the recovery of parts injured, it may be termed the Reparative Power, which is exhibited in all the various processes of reparation, with regard to wounds, fractures, dislocations, and other injuries. Treat- ment which shall be responsive to the requirements of this twofold power of restoration or reparation, I have long since designated " Con- servative," whether in Surgery or Medicine, as denoting its preservative efficacy, the timeliness and moderation of its remedial assistance. (Med. Times and Gaz., 1864-65.) A few leading illustrations of the power of Reparation, in its various manifestations, as so many laws of Pathology, will inculcate their bearing in the Conservative practice of Surgery. And firstly, the law of Reparation by Adhesion, in the Healing of Wounds, and other injuries. The older surgeons, in their treatment of Wounds, never attempted to solicit "union by the first intention," without any intervening blood or lymph; nor did they venture to invite union by " adhesive inflammation," or simply " primary union," through the medium of plastic lymph, as it is now understood. Believing also,—as John Bell records,—that wherever a bone was laid bare, it must exfoliate; until they saw exfoliation take place, they would not permit such a wound to heal. Thus, they would not lay down the skin in a wound over the shin-bone ; and if there was a lacerated scalp, they cut the torn piece off. And so too in operations and their after-treatment. If they extirpated a tumour, they cut away also all the surrounding skin. If they trephined the skull, they always scalped the patient; and in amputating a limb, they cut by one stroke down to the bone, or after the flap-operation, they dressed the stump and flap as separate wounds. These references to the past will suffice to illustrate the great change which the Practice of Surgery has under- gone by virtue of a distinct recognition of the Reparative power in even one of its almost innumerable modes of manifestation. Sahcutaneous reparation is another law of Pathology, like that of primary adhesion, the recognition of which is due to Hunter; and this law also has conferred an equally conservative character on a scarcely less wide extent of modern Surgical Practice. The wide difference,— both in point of time and safety,—between the healing of an injury under the circumstances of exclusion from, or exposure to, the atmospheric influence, has led to the important practical distinction of wounds, as being open or subcutaneous ; and the same law lies at the bottom of our distinction of simple and compound fractures and dislocations. Hence it has become the primary principle of treatment with regard to all these lesions and injuries generally, to convert them from the con- dition of open into that of subcutaneous lesions ; whether in the form13 MODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. of wound, fracture, dislocation, or other injury. The further develop- ment of this principle from the subcutaneous reparation of tendons, is exemplified by the practice of tenotomy. Introduced by Stromeyer, in 1831, the subcutaneous division of tendons has become the estab- lished treatment of deformities depending on muscular contractions; and in the hands of Scarpa, Dieffenbach, Lonsdale, Little, Tamplin, W. Adams, and other surgeons, tenotomy has created that department of practice known as Qrthopasdic Surgery. . Enlarging our view of the Reparative power, we observe in the treatment of Aneurism, as now understood, only so many imitations of the modes of natural cure, by the formation of clot and obliteration of the aneurism. As one such imitation, we have the Hunterian applica- tion of ligature to a sound portion of artery, at some distance on the cardiac side of the aneurism, just to take off the force of the arterial current, and thus induce coagulation in the sac; a mode of cure which has since been fulfilled also by temporary compression, and for which Surgery is indebted principally to the Dublin school. Distal ligature, or compression, would obtain the same result in the sac, by imitating occlusion of the vessel as occurring from the impaction of a piece of clot, dislodged from the sac into the artery below ; and manipulation of the aneurism, as proposed by Sir W. Fergusson, wt)uld effect this dislodgment by a mamial procedure, which is, however, attended with considerable peril. Then again, galvano-puncture, and injection, are procdflures designed to induce coagulation, somewhat as in the event of inflammation affecting the sac—another rare mode of spontaneous cure. Not to amplify these illustrations of modern surgical treatment, as responsive to the resources of Nature, medical treatment also has under- gone a similar advancement, at least to the acknowledgment of their curative efficacy. Pew surgeons there are who will not, each from his own practical experience, concur in the convictions expressed by an eminent American writer. Dr. Bigelow, in his treatise on " Nature in Disease " : "It is difficult to view the operations of Nature divested of the interferences of Art, so much do our habits and partialities incline us to neglect the former, and to exaggerate the importance of the latter. The mass of medical testimony is always on the side of Art. Medical books are prompt to point out the cure of disease. Medical joui-nals are filled with the crude productions of aspirants to the cure of disease. Medical schools find it incumbent on them to teach the cure of disease. The young student goes forth into the world believing that if he does not cure disease, it is his own fault. Yet, when a score or two of years have passed over his head, he will come at length to the conviction that some diseases are controlled by Nature alone. He will often pause at the end of a long and anxious attendance, and ask himself how far the result of the case is different from what it would have been under less officious treatment than that which he has pursued ; how many, in the accumulated array of remedies which have supplanted each other in a patient's chamber, have actually been instrumental in doing him any real good ? He will also ask himself whether, in the course of his life, he has not had occasion to change his opinion, perhaps more than once, m regard to the management of the disease in question, and whether he does not even now feel the want of additional light ? " The term " Conservative Surgery," as originally understood, whenTHE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OP SURGERY. 14 introduced hy Sir W. Fergusson in 1852, was restricted to operations for the preservation of some part of the body, which would otherwise have been inconsiderately and unnecessarily sacrificed. The perform- ance of some operation of removal having become necessary, in conse- quence of an incurably diseased or injured state of a part; a lesser and limited operation, the extirpation of that part alone, may then be suffi- cient, instead of an operation involving also any portion of the sound organism. ^ "With regard to two, or more, practicable operations of re- moval, this consideration of anatomical preservation may guide the Surgeon's choice. For example, excision of an incurably diseased joint may be performed, instead of amputation of the limb. Thus, observes Sir W. Fergusson, " a compromise may be made, whereby the original constitution and frame, as from the Maker's hand, may be kept, as nearly as possible, in its normal state of integrity." This, then, is Pre- servative Surgery. Surely, however, it may be said, that is simply the object of all true surgery—the preservation of limb and life. Why, therefore, designate it by the superfluous prefix—conservative? "A rose by any other name would smell as sweet; " and Surgery will be equally saving, whether called conservative or not. Yet, on looking back to the gloomy records of the past, to the reckless amputations and mutilations which were then practised, it was not, perhaps, with- out a significant reason that the true character of Surgery should have been recalled, and a rallying standard erected, for a time at least,—the standard of Conservatism. Is any such admonition still necessary ? Allied to the conservative or preservative character of Modern Surgery, as displayed in operations whereby the removal of some por- tion of the body is effected ; another aspect of Surgery has assumed an equal prominence,—its reparative character, as exhibited in the design of the various operative procedures for the restoration of parts lost, whether in consequence of injury or disease, or for the construction of parts wanting by congenital malformation. Thence the origin of " Plastic Surgery." Enlightened by physiology in the fact that each individual part of the body has its own separate vitality, and by patho- logy in the additional fact, that the whole organism is ever ready to re-acknowledge any outlying, or even detached portion, by processes of reparative union; plastic surgery has responded to these overtures of science by the contrivance of some operation of anatomical repair, in almost every region, nay in almost every hole and corner of the body. Thus, rhino-plastic operations have been devised* for the repair of structural deficiencies in the nose, these original specimens of sur- gical reparation being connected with the names of Gaspare Taglia- cozzi of Bologna, in the sixteenth century, and Oarpue, who introduced the Indian Operation, in 1814; since which period, plastic surgery has visited the lip and palate, in the operation for hare-lip and cleft-palate; while the genito-urinary organs have become the scene of busy repara- tive procedures for the cure of rectal, urinary, and uterine fistulas, by closing up these communications between adjoining passages, so as to regain their continuity ; and extroversion of the bladder has been met by various constructive procedures. The principle of surgical repara- tion has lately undergone a remarkable extension, and acquired a new signification. Plastic Surgery had availed itself of portions of integu- ment borrowed, but not detached, from adjoining parts. But the15 MODEEN SUBGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. physiological fact known to John Hunter, that detached portions of the body may be re-united or even transplanted, had been witnessed in such instances as where a bit of the nose or a finger-end, accidentally cut off, was thus restored; and the additional fact of subsequent growth was not unknown ; yet the principle involved in these remarkable phenomena remained without much suggestive application in the prac- tice of Surgery. This double law of independent vitality and growth has recently received a most remarkable and friiitful illustration in the practice of skin-grafting, as originated by M. Riverdin; particles of skin being implanted on a granulating surface, that each may repro- duce integument from itself as a centre, and thus complete the cica- trisation of a large or slow-healing ulcer. Some most remarkable results have been achieved by this method of reparation, the introduc- tion of which into this country is due to Mr. G. D. Pollock, 1870. Pathology in Surgical Operations.—In the plan and performance of Surgical Operations, the G-uidance of Pathology supplements and com- pletes that of healthy Anatomy. It is only under the circumstances of disease or injury, and life com- bined, in one word, Pathology,—as superadded to Anatomy, that the operating surgeon interferes. He is never called upon to touch the body in its healthy and dead anatomical conditions. Surgical Anatomy, properly so called, is found to be modified throughout by constant association with pathological conditions, in the performance of any operation. Such an association therefore will tend to correct the purely Anatomical impressions of the Student, and to safely guide the operating Surgeon. Certain Operations are only apparent exceptions to this otherwise unexceptional law in Operative Surgery. It may be that the seats of operation and of disease or injury are not identical; that our operation is somewhat removed from the diseased or injured locahty. Such are amputations, and the ligature of arteries for aneu- rism. But even under these circumstances, pathological anatomy can alone determine whether or not we operate clear of the disease and amid healthy tissues; whether, for example, the bone and soft parts left after amputation are healthy, and whether we cast our ligature around a healthy portion of artery. This negative application of pathological anatomy is obviously of the highest importance in respect to the suc- cessful results of surgical operations. On all other occasions, the physical properties and relations of parts disclosed during an operation are then so changed by disease as some- times scarcely to admit of recognition; and thus it is that anatomy plus certain pathological alterations, or the patliologico-a,na,tomical con- ditions of the body, are those with which, the operating surgeon is concerned. Guided by this a priori principle, we can predicate those pathological conditions which from their nature must chiefly influence the perform- ance of surgical operations ; alterations of certain physical properties, more especially of colour, consistence, and elasticity ; also modifications of shape and size, with those affecting the situation, position, and rela- tion of parts. Such peculiarities altogether change the scene with which the mere anatomist is familiar. Nor are these the only circumstances that overshadow the appear- ances to which he is accustomed. Whoever has observed the arm of a dead subject as it lay extended over the side of a dissecting-table, must16 THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OP SURGERY. have been struck with the well-marked bicipital depression, especially visible on a thin subject. If injected, the brachial artery can almost be distinguished as a prominent line throughout its course. Apparently, a single incision would bring one down upon the vessel, and so it does. The skin, gluey and adhesive, hangs upon the knife; nor does the incision gape ; the artery is soon exposed, not being overlaid by the contracted biceps, and only, perhaps, obscured by the turgid vein on its inner side. Contrast all this with the same proceeding during life. We observe no such well-defined groove to guide our incision; the skin yields before the knife with a crimp and elastic resistance ; the wound gapes; the swollen and vibratile belly of the biceps muscle, especially if amply developed, overlays the artery, while the vein, perhaps not so turgid, immediately conceals it. More or less haemorrhage will also further obscure the vessel, which can only be recognized by its beauti- ful fawn colour and its pulsating under the finger. I have purposely excluded the brachial plexus of nerves from this sketch, in order more clearly to contrast the dead with the living. This illustration will apply, mutatis miUandis, to operations for the ligature of other arteries; and the experience of every practical Surgeon will supply him with the more extended application of the same principle to all other surgical operations. We must, therefore, acknowledge also the guidance of living conditions in the performance of surgical operations. The condition of life modifies certain physical appearances, and chiefly those affected by pathological anatomy. Thus, the colour, consistence, elasticity, and even the size and shape of the various parts of the body, their situation, position, and relation to contiguous parts, are presented to the Surgeon, when modified by the twofold conditions of Disease and Life combined. Pathology,—conjoined with Anatomy,—is, therefore, our guide during surgical operations. In proportion as we are familiar with I^athological conditions, by so much are we enabled to foresee, and to provide for, the peculiar appearances and conditions which the knife discloses, and to recognize them as they are successively presented in surgical operations. Guided by this anticipatory knowledge, our operations are no longer discoveries made by dissection, hut 2Jlanned and methodical proceedings, conducted on known principles; in fact, an Art, based on the science of Anatomy supplemented by Pathology. The twofold Principle I have advanced will be further elucidated by tracing the comhined influence of disease and life on the scenes of the chief Operations of Surgery. And here the results of inflammation, meeting us so constantly, first invite attention. The swelling that accompanies an effusion of serum, or pus, in the event of suppuration, deepens and displaces those tissues amid which it infiltrates. Their physical properties are soon changed. Cellular tissue, so abundant, assumes the appearance of wet tow; muscle becomes soddened and discoloured; the larger blood-vessels perhaps alone escape, appearing dissected out and isolated from their adjoining tissues. Or, the fibrin effused solidifies, and its more or less complete organization ensues. If the latter change, then induration and subsequent contraction of the tissues affected, together present pathological conditions which contrast with those arising from the mechanical agency of fluid. If17 MODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. gangrene supervene, then we observe the gradual loss of all the physical properties peculiar to each living tissue, as severally they are consio"ned to the uncontrolled dominion of chemical forces. Observe the skin darkened or black, and also the intermediate tints of tissues between it and bone, whitened and rou^gh. Moreover, the tissues resicn their consistence and elasticity as they imperceptibly lose their organization and return to a liquid form. I would not locate these changes, because with unimportant differences they may occur in every region with which the operative surgeon is concerned. If we review the history of other products not due to inflammation, we observe them disturbing the relation of parts surrounding their locality, and by pressure gradually obstructing and even obliterating hollow organs in their vicinity. The clinical history of all tumours or swellings exemplifies these mechanical results; but growths more especially, by their gradual and unlimited enlargement, produce such displacements. This circumstance chiefly determines the necessity for extirpating tumours which are otherwise harmless in their local and constitutional consequences. I would not allow such benign growths, as fatty or fibrous tumours, to remain too long imbedded; for, although the general health may continue uninfluenced thereby, they may yet by their gradual enlargement so far encroach on adjacent and important parts as eventually to render their own removal difficult, if not impracticable. This indication more especially refers to tumours situated in regions where vital structures are crowded together. Such are the face and neck, where the presence of large vessels, nerves, etc., complicates the removal of tumours. Under these circumstances I have removed more than one tumour; which, although of innocent tendency, would soon have passed beyond the ramus of the jaw posteriorly, and had already encroached on the cavity of the mouth. This condition would suggest the early extirpation of tumours, benign in themselves, when lodged in the sides of other cavities ; as, for example, the abdomen and joints. Thus placed, they might by pressure and inward progress eventually endanger life, if their removal were attempted at a later period. Next, inspect certain regions of the body, in which the relation of their pathology to surgical operations being more special is even more conspicuous. Observe aneurisms,—say one of the axillary artery. The mere ; anatomist would suppose that the subclavian artery in the outer ■ third of its course would offer no special obstacles to its easy ' deligation. On the dead subject but few exist. The operator I observes the depression over the vessel, in the situation supposed, I above the clavicle. He makes his incision along that bone; he very t Boon recognizes the subclavian vein below, branches of the brachial I plexus above; and the shoulder being now depressed, he at once I passes a ligature around the arteiy. But with the shoulder elevated ' by an axillary aneurism, and the artery above having a corre- ( spending depth, the vein turgid from obstructed return of blood, I and more so under chloroform, the sterno-mastoid and omo-hyoid I imiscles swollen, with perhaps also a portion of the trapezius; those I modifying conditions of disease and life combined, all couspiro to render this operation perhaps the most difficult in surgery. They tned the skill of a Listen and a Dupuytren; the former of whom at C18 THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. first ligatured the lower cord of the plexus instead of the artery; the latter, at the end of one hour and forty-eight minutes, only succeeded in casting a ligature around the fourth cervical nerve ! Need I say more for the influence of aneurisms on adjacent parts during life? Turning to hernial tumours, as I would term them for my present purpose, how significant is the relation of Pathology to Operative Surgery! The mere anatomical knowledge of the so-called " cover- ings '' of hernise will avail but little when tested by an operation on the living body. I can understand the coverings of a piece of intestine when thrust in the direction of a hernia through the crural or inguinal apertures in the dead subject. "We might then dissect and display the superimposed layers of tissue thus artificially made tense. We might successively remove the skin, superficial fascia, intercolumnar and cre- masteiic fibres, with perhaps also some cellular tissue and the fascia transversalis from olf the sac of peritoneum, successively covering a portion of intestine thus protruded through the internal inguinal aper- ture. But I cannot understand how all this applies to a recent oblique inguinal hernia, and still less to one of former date; for then the external and internal inguinal apertures are found so approximated, and the " coverings" enumerated so matted together by constant pressure, as to have altogether effaced their mere anatomical characters and relations. In like manner, what are the "coverings" of femoral hernia ? One stroke of the knife might bring us down upon the sac, through skin and fasciee—superficial, cribriform, and transversalis; where is the septum crurale ? It therefore appears that Anatomy can be used only as a diagram for the study of herniaa, and that, like other pathological conditions, we must rely on the knowledge of hernia themselves to direct us during operations for their cure. In short, we can no longer put our trust in Anatomy alone, but may rely with confidence on Pathology as our guide. Looking around the urinary bladder and neiglibouring organs, we again discover the intimate relations of Pathology to surgical operations. The thin scrotal skin and tunica vaginalis may easily be transfixed with a common needle, and one might therefore suppose that the fluid of a distended hydrocele would always be readily detected and evacu- ated. Apart from pathological experience, no one could have pre- dicated from mere anatomical knowledge that the tunica vaginalis may itself become so thick and dense as not only to disguise the fluctuation and translucency of hydrocele, but to yield before the point of a trocar with the resistance of thick pasteboard. Should the testicle require removal, how much are our incisions modified and the adjacent parts endangered by the enormous bulk to which this organ and its coverings sometimes attain ? The urethra and fellow testis might be wounded by a bare turn of the knife. Anatomy per se can only funish our landmarks under these circum- stances, and we must trust to our actual experience of such tumours and in their removal from the living body. Again, the every-day operation of catheterism cannot be learnt on the dead subject. The parts are then so peculiarly flabby, and the urethral passage so adhesive to even a well-oiled catheter, as to commu- nicate no sensation of that grasp of the instrument which an operator experiences during life. If, indeed, the urethra be indurated andMODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. 19 contracted with, stricture, then certainly we can learn nothing but the direction of the passage by practising on the dead body. In passing an instrument, the Surgeon's hand should be tempered by the vital conditions o£ the urethral canal,—its muscular irritability, its nervous sensitiveness, and perchance its disposition to bleed; coupled with the various states of organic induration and contraction met with at the seat of stricture. Should retention of urine demand relief, additional pathological knowledge may be needed. The variable size, shape, and consistence of the prostate, and even its relative position to the neck of the bladder, as altered by disease and examined during life, will further determine our pathway,—per urethram, or per rectum,—when guided no longer by pure anatomy and lost to sight. Approaching the bladder, and inspecting the scene of other opera- tions designed to gain an entrance thereto, we find, wherever we seek admission, that our procedures should be governed by anatomy, modified by the twofold conditions of disease and life combined. Is it our intention to remove a calculus by the lateral or Cheselden opera- tion ? Then what availeth it us to know that our incision through, the skin may also divide the superficial perineal branches of artery and nerve, and will inevitably sever the inferior hgemorrhoidal ? 'No anatomical knowledge, however exact, could foretell how far distant the artca^ of the bulb may be from the margin of the triangular ligament which is not seen; nor can we discern the transverse artery and muscle, and still less perceptible are a few fibres of the levator ani. Yet such are some of the misleading details of Anatomico-Surgical works respecting "the parts cut in lithotomy," or "the structures divided in this operation." All we know, or care to know, is, that as our first or perineal incision was directed by anatomical considerations, so also that a trifling stroke or two with the knife is continued until, guided upwards by the point of our left forefinger, it enters the groove of the stalf just in front of the prostate gland; the knife being then carried onwards through this body into the bladder, is followed by the finger; which, at once a protector of the rectum, a blunt gorget, and searcher, is required to discover the pathological conditions of the prostate and bladder, as it dilates the former and explores the latter, for the situation of the stone, just before sliding the closed blades of the forceps over the finger, as the guide thereto. The foregoing illustrations afford sufiicient evidence of what Pa- thology can do for the performance of Surgical Operations. Without the knowledge of Anatomy, attired in the garb of disease and life, neither safety nor success can be attained in the planning and performance of Surgical operations. " The operator,—I would say, without this knowledge,—is seen agitated, miserable, trembling, hesi- tating in the midst of difficulties, turning round to his friends for that support which should come from within, feeling in the wound for things which he docs not understand ; holding consultations amid the cries of the patient (before the days of chloroform), or even retiring to consult about his case, while he lies bleeding, in great pain and awful expectation." But the old carpenter style of Operative Surgery, derived merely from the dissecting-room, is passing away ; it belonged to a period when Surgery ranked with the mechanical arts, and shared their honours.20 THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. No less important in Operative Surgery is the knowledge, partly- Pathological, to which I would next direct attention, as mainly deter- mining the success of operations. Conditions Pavouiublb ano Unfavourable for Operation.—The selection of cases fitted for Operation should always most seriously engage the Surgeon's consideration. The Conditions Unfavourable for any Surgical procedure being known, all other conditions may be presumed to be favourable. Unfavourable conditions comprise: (1) certain states of the Patient's Health, constitutional, and local in regard to the seat of disease or injury,—in short, certain Pathological conditions; (2) the Hygienic circumstances by which he is surrounded. Constitutional conditions unfavourable for Operation, relate both to the mind and body. Persons who are naturally of an irritable and anxious, or of a desponding, mind, cannot sustain a surgical operation so well as those of a tranquil and cheerful disposition. This rule holds good also in the case of persons who, from temporary circumstances, may be men- tally affected in like manner. And especially unfavourable, is any despondency respecting the issue of the operation itself. This adverse influence affecting the patient's bodily health, before and after the operation, will be alone sufficient to undermine the result of any skill on the part of the Surgeon. On the other hand, the sustaining in- fluence of hope is well exhibited by the fatal effect produced when it is suddenly withdrawn. Sir A. Cooper tells the story in his Lectures of a poor countryman in Guy's Hospital, who, lying in bed previous to a capital operation, was asked by a student what part of the country he came from ; "Cornwall," he replied. Then said his interrogator, "You will never see Cornwall again." Nor did he; the man never rallied. An instance of such heartless or thoughtless indiscretion, suggests the kind of address and tact, animated by honest sympathy, with which the true Surgeon will manage his patient's mental disposition, ever fairly supporting hope as the well-spring of life. Conditions of bodily health, of a constitutional character, unfavour- able for Operation, are numerous. They relate to all the organs of the body, and vary in importance according to the physiological agency of the organs in maintaining life. Thus, the nervous system, the heart, lungs, disgestive organs, and excretory organs, especially the kidneys and skin, have severally to be considered, and from a twofold point of view. Firstly, organic conditions must be considered, as affecting the general health, and thence the life, of the individual, when subjected to any particular surgical operation; and, secondly, they should be regarded in relation to reparation, or the reserve-power of nutrition requisite after any operation of magnitude, and which necessarily also entails an ordeal of some duration for the system to undergo, before the health can possibly be re-established. Age, or Period of life, has a very significant relation to the proba- bility of recovery after surgical operation, no less than from any injury of equal severity. Extreme periods of life,—infancy or childhood and old age, are about alike unfavourable for operation, as affecting the nervous system—by shock, and the circulation—by hemorrhage. But old age, or an approach thereto, is more especially adver.se, owing to the degenerations of textural structure which the vital organs haveMODEKN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. 21 naturally undergone in the course of this period of life. Nutrition is inactive, and reparation accordingly is defective ; hence the special liability to secondary hemorrhage—the vessels being insecurely closed, and to pytemic infection—the wound remaining open; or exhaustion ensues from the prolonged process of repair, and thus the patient is apt to sink even during convalescence. Bad subjects for surgical operation are those persons who, if not old in years, are yet, in appearance, old—prematurely—for their age. Certain types of this description are vividly portrayed by Sir James Paget in his highly suggestive " Clinical Lectures and Essays": " They that are fat and bloated, pale, vnth soft textures, flabby, torpid, wheezy, incapable of exercise, looking older than their years, are very bad. They that are fat, florid, and plethoric, firm-skinned, and w^ith good muscular power, clear-headed, and willing to work like younger men, are not indeed good subjects for operation, yet they are scarcely bad. The old people that are thin, and dry, and tough, clear-voiced and bright-eyed, with good stomachs and strong wills, muscular and active, are not bad ; they bear all but the largest operations very well. But very bad are they who, looking somewhat like these, are feeble, and soft-skinned, with little pulses, bad appetites, and weak digestive power; so that they cannot, in an emergency, be well nourished." Previous habits of life are connected with sofne such bad subjects for surgical operation. Habitual intemperance, in the use of stimulants, is specially unfavourable; whether the individual be a confirmed drunkard, or an habitual soaker, who never appears to get drunk. The latter are, indeed, worse subjects for operation than the former. On the other hand, teetotalers, as being more often reclaimed drunkards, are also by no means good subjects. " Of such people," observes Sir James Paget, "I have no good opinion when they come to be the subjects of surgery ; for they seem to retain the bad liabilities of the intemperate long after they have given up their bad habits." Habitual over-eating—another mode of intemperance—is scarcely less important, although perhaps less generally prevalent, relative to the risks of life from surgical operation. Among the " upper classes," not a few persons are thus bad subjects,—having their blood surcharged with unassimilated food, especially of an azotised character; and this evil condition reaches its maximum in the retention of excremen- titious matter, from the want of bodily exercise, or when relieved only by " carriage-airings." I proceed to notice, more particularly, various constitutional and organic conditions. The state of the nervous system is a primary consideration. When itself naturally irritable, or when in an irritable state for the time being, this condition is peculiarly unfavourable for surgical operation. It seems to be associated with a weak circulation, and the patient is apt to sink soon after any severe surgical procedure. But the judicious administration of opium with wine, brandy, or other stimulants, will often succeed in preparing the patient for operation, and carry him oy her through the critical period subsequently. Chloroform, be- sides preventing pain, has a specially beneficial influence in irritable nervous persons, subjected to operation for surgical disease, or when the circulation is depressed by the shock of injury. Hysteria does not render the patient liable to any special risk; the sensibility to pain not being attended with any notable excitement of the circulation orTHE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 22 fever, and the power of repair is unaffected by tlie constitutional peculiarity. pertain Uood diseases prohibit any operation, otherwise than one of immediate necessity for the preservation of life; as hernia or tracheotomy. Thus, any operation of choice should be postponed when the patient is labouring under erysipelas or pyasmia. Other diseases have not a fatal tendency, yet their existence is adverse to the successful result of an operation. Such are scrofula, and the con- tamination of the system by malignant disease. In the latter case, an operation will be almost surely followed by a return of the disease, in situ, or its development in some distant part. Heart disease, aiid particularly fatty degeneration of this organ, should make the Surgeon consider the necessity or the advantage of any operation attended with much loss of blood or shock to the nervous system. Consequently, when the pulse is habitually feeble, irregular, and perhaps slow, the patient breathless on slight exertion, and marked with the arcus senilis; these symptoms co-existing, almost surely in- dicate fatty degeneration of the heart, and should warn the Surgeon that he has a bad subject to deal with. Lung disease does not seem to have so important a relation to Surgical Operations. This may, perhaps, be explained by the fact that after any severe operation, the patient being confined to bed, there is no sjDecial demand on the function of the lungs as the organs of respiration. As double organs also, one may be more or less diseased and incapacitated, and the other fulfil a double or compensatory function, and especially in the case of old-standing disease. Phthisis is an exceptionally unfavourable condition, and particularly if this disease be in an active state or in an advanced stage. The operation for fistula in ano, a disease often co-existing, should not be performed under these circumstances. The Digestive Organs play a most important part with regard to the result of surgical operations, and disorders or derangements of these organs demand the most careful consideration. Obviously this is due to the necessity arising after any operation of magnitude, for an extra supply of nutritive material to meet the demands of the reparative process, a supply which implies an active state of the digestive organs incompatible with any kind of indigestion. Irritable dyspepsia, and hepatic derangement, terms not very definite, but sufiiciently familiar in practice, represent the conditions which are most adverse to surgical procedures. The Kidneys and Slcin, as excretory organs, have a grand relation to surgical operations by purifying the blood of noxious matter, the reten- tion of which would inevitably spoil the material requisite for reparation. Disease of the kidneys, in the various forms of degeneration, accom- panied with albuminous urine, and the retention of urea in the blood, constitutes the most unpropitious condition under which a patient can be subjected to operation. The wound is apt to undergo diffuse in- flammation and sloughing, while the patient sinks rapidly from the exhaustion of blood-poisoning. This seems to arise from the local products of inflammation, thus induced, becoming absorbed, and which accumulating in the blood, soon overwhelm the system beyond the endurance of life, when already oppressed by the urasmic poisoning. In this condition also, both kidneys are diseased, so that there is noMODERN SURaERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. chance of any relief by one organ compensating for the functional deficiency of the other, as in the case, sometimes, of the lungs. The state of the skin must also be taken into consideration before undertaking any operation. A cool, moist, soft, perspiring skin is no less conducive to success, than a free secretion of healthy urine. Chronic diseases of the skin, such as lepra or psoriasis, involving a larse extent of the cutaneous surface, had better be treated before proceeding to any surgical operation which can be postponed. Pregnancy does not prohibit any surgical operation, excepting in so far as this state may thereby be itself affected. In the case of a lady advanced in pregnancy, I have removed a large slough from the abdo- minal wall by incision, without disturbing the course of pregancy ; but, on another occasion, in the same person, the removal of necrosed bone from the scapula, under the influence of chloroform, was followed by a miscarriage the next day. Idiosyncrasy, or some unknown constitutional condition peculiar to the individual, may prove singularly prejudicial to the success of even a trifling operation. Thus, in one case, after removing a small fatty tumour from the abdominal wall, on the following day the adjoining integument presented a sphacelated black patch, with an abundant, thin suppurative discharge from between the lips of the incision. Local conditions unfavourable for operation relate to any diseased state of the part itself, which will tend to produce an unsuccessful result. Thus, acute inflammation of a joint, for example, would be adverse to excision; and a sloughing condition of the parts involved in the flaps of an amputation, would defeat the purpose of this operation. Cancer, or disease of a malignant nature, should never be removed, unless the whole disease can be freely extirpated. Any portion beyond the reach of operation will necessarily cause a return of the disease, in situ; an important consideration, in addition to the question of proba- bility as to the development of cancer in some distant part. Hygienic Conditions.—Besides the state of health, constitutional and local, by which a patient may be in an unfavourable condition for opera- tion ; the hygienic circumstances in which he is placed, both before and afterwards, will much affect the probability of success. Adverse hygienic conditions comprise chiefly: Defective Diet, in quality, quantity, or in both respects ; Overcrowding of the sick and wounded, especially those having open and suppurating wounds, or Deficient Ventilation, associated with which is the Exclusion of Sunlight; Defective Drainage; Exposure to Contagious or Infectious matter, by dressings or inhalation, as in the propagation of Hospital gangrene and erysipelas. Some of these adverse circumstances, relative to operation, require further consideration, beyond what ordinary ex- perience would suggest. Deficient Ventilation.—The minimvm space allotted to patients in the Surgical Wards of an Hospital should be 1600 cubic feet of air to each person. And this quantity must be accompanied with change of air also, by proper ventilation. In different Hospitals, the number of cubic feet of air per bed varies considerably. Civil Hospitals range the highest; in England, the wards of Hospitals with relation to the number of beds, are calculated to allow an amount of space varying from 600 to 2000 cubic feet per bed, and in London the allotment is increased even to 2600 cubic feet; in the Hospitals of Paris it is less—24 THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 1700 cubic feet. Military Hospitals, in general, have not been arranged on the same liberal scale; 800, 700, or even 300 cubic feet of air for each patient having been deemed sufficient, the ai-my regulations thus being a provision for overcrowding. But, more recently, this hygienic defect has been reformed. Thus, in the Herbert Hospital at Woolwich, the allotment of space per bed is 1200 or 1400 cubic feet. A surgical ward for twenty patients should measure 80 feet long by 25 feet wide, and 16 feet in height; thus allowing about 1600 cubic feet per bed. Each bed or patient should have a surface area not less than 8 feet wide and 12 feet long; cubic space over the bed would be an in- sufficient provision. Consequently, the arrangement of beds should allow at least three feet between each on either side, and 12 feet between foot and foot. In the event of infectious disease, further isolation of each patient will be advisable, and either or both adjoining beds should be left unoccupied. Atmospheric impurity, whether pro- ceeding from the person or the excretions, diminishes as the square of the distance. In open localities, or in the country, less than the average cubic space per patient is requisite than in towns and crowded districts. Hence, the advantage of an Hospital built in detached sections, as New St. Thomas's, and of Cottage Hospitals; also the greater comparative salubrity of huts or tents in the MiUtary Hospital system,—an advantage which I experienced with regard to patients in the wooden huts on the heights of Balaklava above the sea, and which was also strikingly exhibited in the Franco-Prussian War. In private practice, the aerial conditions of our London squares are more favour- able than in narrow old streets; while in poor districts, the dense neighbourhood, small and ill-ventilated rooms, overcrowded and badly drained tenements, represent the consummation of unfavourable atmospheric conditions. Sunlight has a decidedly beneficial influence, which should not be overlooked, in relation to the general health, and thence to recovery after surgical operations; excepting when the supervention of inflam- matory fever would indicate the propriety of excluding any source of disquietude, or, again, after ophthalmic operations, where the stimu- lating action of light would be directly injurious to the eye. The sanitary influence of solar light is referable not only to the light and heat, but also to the chemical rays which are known to be associated; and this compound emanation has a potent action on all vitality. In the vegetable kingdom, the blanched appearance of plants reared in dark localities, contrasts sadly with the brilliant tints of flowering plants grown under sunshine; and among animals, similar peculiarities with regard to colour are observable in different localities or climates, from the white polar bear of northern latitudes, to the gay plumage of birds in tropical countries. In the human species, colour is developed by solar light, as shown by the inhabitants of different climes, and by the influence of each returning summer; but the pallid appearance of the artizan in dark workshops, or of office-clerks, compared with the ruddy brown hue of the countryman, presents not only a striking con- trast of apparent health,—the ansemic and enfeebled state of the one is no less unfavourable for surgical operations. This aneemic condition is due, partly at least, to the habitual absence of sunlight in certam occupations. The production of pigmentary matter, whether in the cuticle, or as the colouring matter, hasmatiu, of the red corpuscles ofMODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. 25 the blood, is affected by solar light. Hence the importance of ample sun-lighting, by the arrangement of windows in the wards of Hospitals, or in the bedrooms of private patients, especially with regard to recovery after the loss of blood incident to many surgical operations.. Defective Drainage, in its causative relation to the generation of typhoid fever, is now generally acknowledged, and the noxious in- fluence of decomposing animal or vegetable sewage-matter, in surgical* practice, is too well known to need further notice. Exposure to Contagious or Infectious Matter.—Among the characters of Modern Surgery, as an Art, Preventive treatment has acquired a position of great importance. The human body is encompassed by many external causes of disease, which may be not only of a palpable kind, but exist as subtle influences, wafted about in the air or im- pregnating the water, by either of which media they may find an entrance through any breach of the cutaneous surface, and must gain admission in the act of breathing or the reception of food. Other such agents there are in the recognized form of virus, ever ready to be communicated from one affected human being to another, or from the bodies of animals through poisoned wounds. Here, then, are so many sources of contagion or infection; the latter term sometimes being restricted to the reception of the morbid influence through the medium of the atmosphere, or by means of any other intermediate substance, called fomites. Certain diseases of contagious or infectious character more especially pertain to Surgery; principally erysipelas, pyaemia, and Hospital gangrene. Yet these diseases are preventible, chiefly by cleanliness in dressings, and clean or fresh air, the latter requirement having reference to free ventilation, and isolation of the patient or patients affected. Antisepticism may be regarded as disinfection in the treatment of wounds, not primarily poisoned; the object being to prevent the putrefaction of any animal fluid, as blood, liquor san- guinis, or pus, in contact with an open wound, and the consequent systemic infection known as pyaemia or septicEemia; the one disease signifying, literally, purulent infection of the blood, the other, that infection which arises from the introduction into the blood of decom- posing animal matter, septic matter, of any kind. Hence the so- named antiseptic dressings, in all their variety; for the experimental investigation of which, with regard to carbolic acid in particular. Surgery is principally indebted to Professor Lister, of Edinburgh. Diseases which arise from the local introduction or inoculation of any virus, as in Syphilis, are also far more of a preventible nature than amenable to any known curative treatment. Preparation of Patient for Operation.—It is scarcely necessary to observe that, on the ground of personal liberty of the subject, and legal liability of the Surgeon, the consent of the patient, and of his or her immediate relatives, should first be obtained before proceeding to any surgical operation. But this rule will as necessarily admit of excep- tions, according to the mental capacity, or the age of the patient, and the more or less urgent nature of the case proposed for operation. If the patient be sensible, of sound mind, and mature age; and he resolutely and persistently refuse to allow an operation of urgency to be performed; and if, moreover, his determination be backed by that of an immediate relative, as his wife; the Surgeon will have no alternative but to give up the responsibihty of the case. Thus, I have26 THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. seen a man die from strangulated hernia, in spite of my earnest and repeated remonstrances to him, and to his wife, as the strangulation proceeded to a fatal termination. On the other hand, if the patient be insensible, or imbecile, or in the case of a child or infant, and in the absence of immediate relatives or parents, the operation being an urgent one, the Surgeon will be free to act according to his own judgment. The preparation of the patient, mentally and bodily, will consist in inspiring him with cheerful hope, and in bringing his bodily health to a quiescent condition, especially observing that the actions of the digestive organs, and of the skin and kidneys, are healthy, when time can be allowed for any such preparation. This tranquil, even state of mind and body, is that best fitted for operation. But, when no time can be permitted for any constitutional preparation, as after most severe injuries, the patient must be at once submitted to operation. Arrangements for Operation.—The arrangements requisite for the efficient and convenient performance of surgical operations, relate to the Room, the Operating-table, Instruments, with other Appliances, and Assistants. The Room-, of convenient size, should admit a good light, an over- head or sky light being very desirable for most operations; it must be adequately warmed in cold weather, or for the performance of opera- tions wherein the abdomen is opened and the viscera exposed, as in operating for strangulated hernia and in ovariotomy; but there should also be the means of free ventilation or change of air about the patient, when under the influence of ether or chloroform. Besides the requi- sites of light, temperature, and air, an ample supply of water, warm and cold, must be at hand. The Op crating-table must be strong, and firm-standing (not moving on castors), of convenient height, and width only of the body, covered with, blankets overlaid with india-rubber sheeting, and provided with pillows. The tables constructed for operation, as used in Hospitals, are fitted with a mechanism for raising the head and shoulders to any requisite height; and flaps are provided for leaving the legs unsup- ported, as for amputation, or when the nates are placed so as to rest over the end of the table, as for lithotomy, and other perineal opera- tions. A low, firm stool will be a requisite accompaniment for these operations, to seat the operator in cutting for stone, or an assistant in holding the leg for amputation. An Operating-chair, instead of a table, is necessary for cases wherein the patient is seated; as in opera- tions about the face, the extraction of nasal polypi, for cleft-palate, or the removal of either jaw; also for other operations, as amputation at the shoulder-joint, and tapping the abdomen. The chair itself, firm-standing, and high-backed to support the head, much resembles a dentist's chair. These arrangements respecting the room and table should be seen to by the Surgeon himself, when not regularly provided as in a Hospital; but the remaining provisions, as to instruments and assistants, must always be personally superintended. The Instruments necessary should be well selected with regard to the nature and possible complications of the operation; and for con- venience, they should be arranged on a small table or tray, in the order in which they are to be used, and placed near the Surgeon, so that he can help himself to any instrument he may require, or have itI MODEBN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. 27 handed to him immediately by an instrument-assistant. The collection of instruments, however few, had better be covered with a towel, to conceal them from the eye of the patient when brought into the room. Sponges, of various sizes, clean and compressible, with lint and plaster, will always be provided by any well-trained nurse; but here again, the Surgeon had better see that these appliances are at hand. Any splint or other accessory requisite for application after operation, and previously prepared by the nurse or an assistant, should also be inspected. A tray containing sawdust or sand may be placed on the floor so as to catch the blood; but this has a repulsive appearance, and it is more agreeably substituted by a piece of maroon-coloured oil-cloth under the table. The operator may be conveniently dressed, in an easy-fitting, long-cut alpaca coat, or dressing-gown. The Assistants should be in number sufficient, but not superfluous, and each should have an allotted duty to perform, ordei'ly and silently. Thus, for a capital operation, as amputation, joint-excision, or lithotomy, four, or not less than three assistants, will be required; one, specially to administer chloroform; then, in the first-named operation, another to command the main artery; a third to hold the limb in position ; and a fourth to take charge of the flaps, and ligature the vessels as they are seized by the Surgeon. A fifth assistant might hand the instruments; but they are often taken up most readily by the Surgeon from the table near to him. Anesthetics.—The greatest gift of God to man, through Natural Science, is, perhaps, the discovery of means for the prevention or the abolition of bodily pain. This exemption approaches the realization of that blissful hereafter, one of the Divine promises of which is, that then "there shall be no more paia." Glimpses of the truth as now made known had appeared in various ages; but it was not until the year 1800 that Sir Humphry Davy, having himself experienced relief from pain while breathing nitrous oxide gas, suggested the possibility of employing the influence of this agent for the same purpose in surgical practice. After the lapse of nearly half a century, in 1844, the same idea occurred to Dr. Horace 'Wells, a dentist in Hartford, America, who underwent the extraction of a tooth without pain after inhaling the gas, and he administered it with the same effect to several of his patients; but, finding the practice uncertain, he soon abandoned it. About the game time, Dr. W. T. G. Morton of Boston, in America, who had previously been a partner with Wells, sought of his own accord, without it would appear receiv- ing any suggestion from him, to discover an efiicient anaesthetic; and having experimented upon himself and the lower animals, he extracted a tooth painlessly from a patient, under the influence of sulphuric ether by inhalation; this event taking place on the 30th of September, 1846. He then publicly exhibited the efficacy of this agent at the Massachusetts General Hospital; and thenceforward anaesthesia in surgery became an established blessing to mankind. It was not long ere this invaluable discovery was recognized, and followed up by farther investigation in this country ; which resulted in the introduction of chloroform, and its employment instead of sulphuric ether. The latter agent is still extensively used as an anaesthetic in America; but in Europe, chloroform is generally preferred to it, or was 30, at least, until quite recently. Disguised under the name28 THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OP SURGERY. "chloric ether," in which it exists diluted with spirit of wine, this agent was employed by Dr. Morton in his first experiment upon him- self ; and it is a fact, not perhaps generally known, that it was also used in the same form, in preference to sulphuric ether, by Mr. Lawrence, at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, in the summer of 1847. It was in the autumn of 1847 that Dr. Simpson, who was engaged in a series of experiments with various narcotic vapours, employed for the first time the active principle of chloric ether, at the suggestion of Mr. Waldie, of the Apothecaries' Hall of Liverpool; and finding that pure chloroform had certain advantages over sulphuiic ether, he zealously recommended it to the Profession,, and it has since been generally used. The advantages alluded to in favour of chloroform are, that it is a more potent anaesthetic, its inhalation causes less bronchial irritation, its odour is more agreeable, it is less volatile, thereby rendering its administration more easy; and lastly, the vapour of chloroform not being inflammable like that of ether, it is fitted for operations by artificial light. Chlorofoem.—This anaesthetic agent will be briefly considered in regard to :■—its physiological action; the phenomena produced by inhalation; the question of its contra-indication in certain diseased conditions of the system; the method of administration; death from chlorofoi'm; and the treatment of an over-dose. Physiological Action.—The action of chloroform on the functions of the nervous system is such as to render it exactly suitable for the pur- poses of surgical practice. Chloroform is a narcotic, and hke most medicinal agents of this class, it produces temporary excitement, followed by suspension of the functions of the nervous centres ; but it affects them not simultaneously, but in a certain order. The brain is the first to evince loss of power, in the failure of sensation, including consciousness, and voluntary motion; the spinal cord, or rather the whole cerebro-spinal axis, secondly, soon loses the reflex function of involuntary excito-motion so far as regards the voluntary muscles, which lie perfectly relaxed and passive. This combined state of in- sensibility to pain, paralysis of muscular action, voluntary, and involun- tary with regard to the voluntary muscles, presents a condition most favourable for the performance of surgical operatibns. On the other hand, the involuntary action of the muscles engaged in respiration remains, and the action of the heart, as dependent on the gangha of the sympathetic nerve, continues. Thus then, while the whole physio- logical condition of the nervo-muscular system suits the convenience of the Surgeon, and the patient is rendered insensible to pain; those dependent functional actions are retained which are essential to life. Certain other important advantages attend the inactivity of the cerebro-spinal centre. The shock of injury, which would be increased by the additional violence of surgical operation, is diminished under the influence of chloroform ; thence, the contractile power of the heart, as affected by the action of the brain and spinal cord upon the cardiac ganglia through the medium of the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves, is unreduced by such violence, thus averting the tendency to cardiac syncope and death during operation; and lastly, in the absence of faintness, the vessels bleed freely, and by at once declaring those which require ligature, the liability of secondary Immorrhage is prevented. Moreover, the mental tranquillity secured before operation by the pros-MODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. 29 pecfc of imimiiiity from suffering, is a condition higUy favourable to recovery afterwards. With regard to muscular action, ansBsthesia sheds a relaxing influence of special advantage in all those operations ■where any such action would interfere with the requisite procedures ; as in joint-excisions, amputations, ligature of arteries, herniotomy, colotomy, and other operations of abdominal section, and in operative procedures on the genito-urinary organs and rectum. Phenomena or Symptoms produced by the action of chloroform.— After inhalation for a time, varying considerably in different individuals, but generally of longer duration in adults who have been accustomed to the free use of narcotics, and shortest in children, symptoms of excitement are manifested by various ejaculations, and by muscular rigidity and movements requiring some restraint; but this state is soon and suddenly succeeded by complete relaxation and insensibility, accompanied with deep, heavy respiration. Or, without any previous stage of excitement, the patient may at once pass into a state of tranquil sleep. The suspension of reflex action is denoted by the absence of unconscious winking when the eye-ball is touched with the tip of the finger, as a stimulus ; a state commonly regarded as insensibility of the conjunctiva. The heart's action, and pulse, at first quickened and more forcible than natural, subsides under the influence of chloroform, and becomes slow and feeble or scarcely perceptible. The respiration also becomes feeble and imperfect, and the blood proportionately venous ; a state approaching or bordering on asphyxia. Snoring or stertorous breathing is soon induced, passing into complete obstruction to the entrance of air into the chest, although the respiratory move- ments of the thoracic walls still continue. Occasionally, without any premonitory stertor, the breathing becomes more or less suddenly obstructed, and a livid turgescence overspreads the face. Death is imminent where inhalation is carried to this degree as regards either the circulation or respiration; and whether as the result of administer- ing a highly concentrated vapour, or of long-continued inhalation. There are instances occasionally of persons who, from some peculiar idiosyncrasy of constitution, are incapable of being affected by chloro- form ; they are proof against its anassthetic influence. Thus, I have known four ounces of chloroform administered to a lady, by inhalation, without producing the slightest effect. Gontra-indications to the employment of chloroform.—Certain con- stitutional conditions and organic diseases, are said to prohibit the use of chloroform, or to require extreme caution in its administration. The influence of shock has already been adverted to, in speaking of the phy- siological action of chloroform. Pain is not a stimulant but a depres- sant, and therefore the performance of an operation during the con- tinuance of shock, and without chloroform, would increase the collapse ; and, moreover, as already explained, the influence of this agent pro- tects the action of the heart from the tendency to cardiac syncope, resulting from the pain incident to an operation. Hence, operations may be safely performed, under the influence of chloroform, during the shock of injury; thus overturning the old rule of postponing operation, amputation for example, until the patient has recovered from the state of collapse. The system may be at once relieved from the injurious presence of a mangled limb, or life preserved where it would be hopeless to wait for returning consciousness. But, daring shock, itTHE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OP SURGERY. 30 is unnecessary to give chloroform to its full extent; but only so far as to deaden sensation in the incisions or painful part of the operation. Epileptic persons may be subjected to the influence of chloroform inhalation, administered cautiously, however, considering their liability to suffer from congestion of the brain. Hysterical persons are said to be subject to laryngeal spasm, during inhalation. Disease of the Heart does not absolutely contra-indicate the adminis- tration of chloroform, but only that it be given with extreme caution; watching the pulse especially, and the breathing. In fatty degeneration of the heart, the sedative influence of chloroform is liable to suddenly arrest the action of this organ with instant death. In valvular disease there is less danger. Disease of the Lungs is not specially obnoxious to inhalation. In phthisis, not far advanced, no difficulty arises; but with bronchial irritation, troublesome cough is apt to be produced. Disease of the Kidneys, resulting in degeneration of these organs, and the retention of urea in the blood, is a condition decidedly un- favourable for the administration of chloroform. Congestion of the brain being superadded to the urasmic-poisoning, may induce epileptic convulsions, with lividity of the face, stertorous breathing, and coma. All Surgical Operations allow of the employment of chloroform, excepting a few in which the assistance of the patient is required, and in operations attended with copious haemorrhage into the mouth. In some cases, however, pain may be prevented to a great extent, by giving chloroform during the earlier or more superficial parts of the operation. Age is no objection to the employment of chloroform; infants and octogenarians taking it with safety. Administration of Ghloroform.—Prior to giving chloroform, the patient should be directed to omit taking food for four or five hours, as the presence of any food in the stomach is apt to cause troublesome vomiting during inhalation. The patient lying recumbent with the head and shoulders just comfortably elevated on a pillow, he should not be allowed to raise himself in any struggling excitement, or be raised, into the sitting posture whilst under the influence of chloro- form, lest cardiac syncope take place. Any tight band round the neck or waist should be loosened, the breast had better be exposed, and care should be observed not to subject the thorax, or the abdomen espe- cially, to any compression, as the respiration becomes principally dia- phragmatic. Chloroform may be administered simply on lint or a handkerchief, or by means of an inhaler of some kind. The former mode is in general use, it being equally safe, provided only two precautions be observed; the chloroform must not be given too suddenly, or the vapour breathed in too concentrated a state without a free ad- mixture of air. The mode of administration is simply this: a piece of lint or a handkerchief folded two or three doubles, and about the size of the hand, is sprinkled with a drachm or two of chloroform, measured from a graduated bottle; it is then held near the nostrils, but so as to admit a free admixture of air with the first few inhalations; after the lapse of about a minute, a towel may be placed over the face of the patient31 MODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. and the hand of the chloroformist to enclose the vapour, still observing to admit the air freely under one corner or one-half of the towel. This is continued, interrupted perhaps by the temporary excitement and struggles of the patient, until the arm falls involuntarily and relaxed when raised, and the eyelid ceases to move when the conjunc- tiva is touched with the finger. During the course of inhalation, the chloroformist should have his other hand on the pulse, carefully feeling its force and frequency, while at the same time he unceasingly watches the breathing. If at any moment, earlier or later, during inhalation, the pulse sinks to a feeble, slow beat; or if the breathing becomes strongly stertorous; immediately discontinue the administration of chloroform; and for the relief of the respiration, at once seize the tip of the tongue, with forceps or the fingers, and draw it firmly forwards out of the mouth, until the tendency to obstruction has subsided. The breathing returns with perfect freedom, and the over- shadowing lividity of the face disappears. Chloroform can then be cautiously re-applied, if necessary. Inhalers of various kinds have been devised for the purpose of regu- lating the proportion of chloroform and the admixture of air. Snow's inhaler, or Clover's chloroform apparatus, may be employed; and the latter is spoken of very highly by those who have used it, as being most eSicient. But simplicity with efficiency is always a great re- commendation, and thus the administration of chloroform by means of a piece of lint or a handkerchief can be accomplished ab once, when any form of inhaler may not be at hand and would have perhaps to be fetched from a distance of some miles. Even in Hospitals, inhalers are not commonly employed. In point of safety, the two methods of chloroform administration are equally available, provided only that a free admixture of air be attended to. I have seen chloroform given in some thousands of cases without an inhaler, during about thirty years,—ever since its introduc- tion, and both in Hospital and private practice, with only one death, or even an approach to a fatal termination, when the requisite precau- tions for safety have been observed. Death from Chloroform.—During inhalation, death may occur from the failure of either of the organs which constitute the tripod of life; by asphyxia, by cardiac syncope, or by coma; through failure of the respiration from insufficient aeration, or by laryngeal obstruction; cessation of the heart's actions; or congestion of the brain. Asphyxia is indicated by the ordinary symptoms: lividity and tur- gescence of the face, violent respiratory efforts, and cessation of the pulse, and of the heart's action. These symptoms may arise simply from deprivation of air resulting in a highly venous state of the blood ; but stertorous or snoring breathing is superadded, when the asphyxia arises from laxyiigeal obstruction. The cause of this obstruction is generally attributed to a " falling back of the tongue," thus mechani- cally obstructing the entrance of air through the larynx. But Mr. Lister has specially investigated the question, and he finds that the obstruction arises from an approximation of the apices of the arytsenoid cartilages towards, or to, the base of the epiglottis ; the stertorous breathing resulting from the vibration of the corresponding portions of mucous membrane, the posterior parts of the arytjcno-epiglottidean folds. Traction of the tongue firmly forwards abolishes the obstruc-82 THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY, tion and stertor, not by any mechanical action on this part of the larynx, for the base of the tongue and hyoid bone remain unmoved in position. It would appear that such traction operates by reflex action through the medium of the nervous system, but whether by inducing or relaxing muscular contraction in the larynx, is uncertain. Cardiac Syncope always occurs sudderfly. The patient, after a few inspirations, suddenly becomes pale and faint, the pulse beating almost imperceptibly for a few moments, and then ceasing, although the respiration may continue; death taking place by paralysis of the heart. This organ may itself be healthy, but more frequently it will be found to have undergone fatty degeneration. Goma presents the same appearances as asphyxia, but without failure of the heart's action. The face becomes livid, the breathing stertorous, and the body convulsed; the heart continuing to beat up to the last, as death results from congestion of the brain. This mode of death occurs mostly in epileptics, and in persons affected with uraemic blood-poisoning from old-standing renal disease. These three modes of death are referable generally to the incautious administration of chloroform; whether as regards an excess of chloro- form in proportion to the admixture of air, or the prolonged inhalation of this anaesthetic agent. Persistent Sickness is another occasional cause of death ; but it occurs after the administration of chloroform, and seems to be a conse- quence of some idiosyncrasy of the individual. I have only known one case, death having occurred from the exhaustion of continued sickness for four days after amputation of the thigh for encephaloid cancer of the knee-joint, in the person of an otherwise apparently healthy young woman. In another case, after excision of the knee for scrofulous dis- ease, in the person of a young woman, sickness set in and continued for a week, but it was subdued by the hypodermic injection of morphia, while life was sustained by nutritive enemata. The after effects of chloroform may, however, relate to the lungs or to the brain; congestion of one or other of these organs being attended with the unfavourable or even dangerous symptoms of a tendency to asphyxia or perhaps pneumonic dyspnoea, or of headache, tending perhaps to apoplectic coma. Treatment of an Overdose of Chloroform.—The indication to be ful- filled will vary according as the symptoms, or apparent mode of death, arise from asphyxia, or from cardiac syncope; the object being to re-establish the respiration, or to stimulate and restore the heart's action and the circulation. But in either case, the following directions should be carried out immediately:— The administration of chloroform must at once be discontinued. Firm traction of the tongue must be immediately had recourse to, this being effected by seizing the tip of the tongue with fingers or forceps and drawing it well forward out of the mouth. Air must be allowed to circulate freely around the patient, by open- ing the nearest window and the withdrawal of bystanders. The chest, exposed and free of constriction, should be whipped or flagellated with a wet towel in order to stimulate reflex respiratory action. This failing, artificial respiration should be resorted to; the best mode being compression with the hands just below the sternum, by aMODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. 33 port of sliarp concussive jerk, followed by relaxation for expansion of the thorax, while the tongue is still drawn out of the mouth. Electricity may be employed as the last resource, by applying one pole of a galvanic battery over the spinous processes of the upper cer- vical vertebrfe and the other to the prjBCordial region, so as to stimu- late the respiratory and cardiac ganglia. Friction of the extremities, and bottles or cans of hot water to the feet, may also be used, to promote the general circulation. These means of resuscitation should be continued perseveringly while any sign of vitality remains, for it has happened that a patient irrecover- ably dead, to all appearances, has thus at length been restored to life. Sulfhuric Ether has regained its original celebrity as an anaesthetic in America, its re-introduction into surgical practice having been accomplished mainly by the late Dr. Mason Warren, of Boston ; and it seems not unlikely to be again brought into general use in this country. The advantages claimed for ether instead of chloroform are: the greater safety of that agent,—fewer deaths having occurred from its administration, and the less tendency to vomiting under its influence,— a decided superiority in many operations. Anhydrous ether produces insensibility nearly as quick as chloroform, thus being equally eligible in this respect. It can be administered most readily, without much loss of vapour, by means of an inhaler in the form of a cup-shaped receiver, fitted to the mouth and nose, and provided with a small air aperture. A piece of flannel is placed in the inhaler, and then satu- rated with a measured quantity of well-washed ether from a graduated bottle. The symptoms of aneesthesia, under the influence of ether, are similar to those induced by chloroform, but the stage of excitement is perhaps more marked. During the ensuing relaxation, whatever surgical procedure may be necessary, is performed. Nitroios Oxide Gas has again been placed in the list of anaesthetic agents, chiefly by the advocacy of Dr. Evans, an American dentist in Paris. The action of this gas is speedy, but of questionable safety if continued longer than a few minutes, and of transient duration, sensi- bility returning almost immediately after the inhalation ceases. It is, therefore, specially adapted for operations of almost momentary pain, and which are not succeeded by immediate after-pain. Hence, the value of nitrous oxide gas in dentistry; while it is less serviceable in general surgery. The symptoms produced depend somewhat on the admixture of atmospheric air with the gas. Mixed with air, nitrous oxide is highly stimulating ; excitement is rapidly induced, and of that lively and agreeable kind which originally suggested the name of " laughing gas." Unmixed with air, its inhalation is attended with no stage of excitement, but a state of profound coma is soon presented ; and this being due to the almost asphyxiated condition of the patient, it is accompanied with turgid lividity of the face, and staring expansion of the nostrils. These alarming symptoms pass off with equal rapidity, when inhalation is discontinued, leaving generally no feeling of nausea or other discomforts. The gas may be conveniently inhaled from an india-rubber bag or balloon, of sufficient size to contain the quantity requisite for producing insensibility ; and the dose can be repeated by refilling the bag from a cast-iron stock-bottle, provided with a stop- cock, the gas having been rendered portable by condensation in the liquid form. DTHE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 34 Bichloride of Methylene and Chloral Hydrate are anaesthetic agents wtich have more recently been added to those already noticed—nitrous oxide gas, sulphuric ether, and chloroform. For this addition we are indebted to the experimental researches of Dr. B. W. Richardson. Bichloride of Methijlene, compared with chloroform, has certain alleged advantages ; anaesthesia is rapidly induced, and it can be main- tained for any length of time, without also any muscular excitement or rigidity, recovery is rapid and complete, and without any unpleasant after-symptoms. Sickness, however, is not less liable to occur from the influence of this agent when continued beyond a few minutes. In point of safety, it seems to be about equal to chloroform. According to Dr. Richardson's estimate, up to October, 1869, bichloride of methy- lene had been administered to between six and seven thousand persons with only one fatal termination. It occurred in a patient of Mr. Can- ton's, on whom he was about reluctantly to operate at Charing-Cross Hospital, for advanced malignant disease of the upper jaw. The patient, a man thirty-nine years of age, was previously exhausted, bodily and mentally, by great suffering of three months' duration, the apparent date of the disease; one nostril was closed by the tumour, thus obstructing respiration, and the patient was subjected to the influ- ence of the bichloride in a sitting posture. One drachm and a half, in separate quantities, had been administered, when the man's head fell back, the pulse became feeble, and then ceased. There was no accom- panying stertor nor lividity of countenance. The horizontal position, artificial respiration, and galvanism, failed to restore life. Other fatal cases have since occurred. Mr. Rendle, of Guy's Hospital, observes that the rapid action of bichloride of methylene,—in twenty or thirty seconds,—and the rapid recovery from its influence, are apparently due to its great volatility and solubility, enabling a large quantity to reach and escape from the nerve-organs at once; while its safety is referable to its rather stimulant action on the heart, and to its speedy elimina- tion. The bichloride, being very volatile, should be kept in a well- stopped bottle, placed in the dark, and inverted under water. Mr. Rendle's inhaler consists of a leathern receptacle, dome-shaped, and perforated for the admission of air; having also an accurately fitting mouth and nose piece. This inhaler is lined with a loose flannel bag, fastened round the mouthpiece by an elastic band. A drachm dose of the bichloride of methylene is scattered over the interior of the flannel bag; the vapour should then be administered cautiously, with a sufl&cient proportion of air not to induce anaesthesia under one or two minutes ; and as sensibility returns in only a few minutes, the effect of the bichloride may be maintained by giving another drachm, if necessary, observing to discontinue the inhalation immediately, in the event of dangerous symptoms,—namely, cessation of the pulse and respiration, with turgid lividity of the face. This ansBsthetic agent is employed chiefly in operations on the eye, as at the Ophthalmic Hospital, Moorfields, and in the Ophthalmic Wards at Guy's Hospital; also in Ovariotomy, by Mr. Spencer Wells, at the Samaritan Free Hospital, where I have seen it used very satis- factorily. In general surgery, to save time, bichloride of methylene is sometimes administered in order to rapidly induce anesthesia, which is then continued under chloroform. Chloral Hydrate is, by some observers, said to possess powerfulMODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. 35 ansesfchefcic properties; others deny that it is an hypnotic or anaesthetic, but regard it as a powerful excitant. I have found its action to be very uncertain. Local Anesthesia.—The application of cold to a part of the body, in order to reduce the temperature of that part to a frost-bitten con- dition, is a mode of anaesthesia which may be advantageously employed in certain surgical operations. It is eligible in all superficial and limited operations, in regard both to their extent and the time requisite for their performance. Such are, the avulsion of a toe-nail, puncturing abscesses, slitting up fistula, and-the excision of small tumours. Freezing of the part operated on may be eiSected either by the application of a frigorific mixture, as introduced by Dr. J. Arnott, or by the ether-spray, devised by Dr. B. W. Richardson. The frigorific mixture of pounded ice and salt is easily made, and answers admirably. This mixture is put into a muslin bag, and applied to the part, being raised in a minute or two to see whether the desired effect has taken place. The skin almost immediately loses its colour and becomes white, a change the more observable when previously reddened by inflammation; but this blanching of the skin is no sign of freezing having occurred; soon, however, a dead white, opaque spot appears, quickly spreading over the cutaneous surface, and then the part is frozen and anaesthesia produced. The integument cuts hard, like parchment, and the blood is singularly florid. Reaction speedily sets in, the part bleeds freely, and often becomes very painful. But no constitutional disturbance accompanies, or ensues from, this freezing of a part of the body. I have seen or known only one case of any un- favourable consequence. The patient, a healthy, florid young woman, had sat and seen me remove one of her great toe-nails, looking at the operation with perfect indifference; but when reaction took place, she suddenly fainted, and again and again, until the syncope was alarming. The EtJier-spray is another means of freezing a part and inducing local angesthesia; but in this method it is effected by evaporation of ether thrown upon the surface in the form of a fine spray from a little apparatus contrived by Dr. Richardson for the purpose. It offers a more ready method for the convenience of surgical practice, as it may always be kept at hand; whereas ice cannot always be obtained. Unfortunately, so far as my experience has gone, the apparatus, simple in itself, usually seems to be out of working order when wanted. Dangers attending, or consequent on, Surgical Operation.—The perils pertaining to operation are principally as follows :—(1) Haemorr- hage, primary and secondary; (2) Shock; (3) Exhaustion; (4) Tetanus; (5) Inflammation; (6) Gangrene; (7) Erysipelas; (8) Pyaemia. Of these different contingencies, some are coincident with, others consequent on, the operation. They will all be fally considered in various chapters of this work. Dressing of the Wound, and Constitutional After-treatment.— The dressing of a wound made by surgical operation is the same as that of an Incised Wound, or Amputation-Stump ; and the dressings will vary with the supervention of Inflammation, and its consequences Suppuration, Gangrene, and Ulceration. The Constitutional After- treatment must have reference to the various states of the system in the contingencies already alluded to; and to those resultino- fromTHE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 86 Inflammation—namely, Inflammatory Fever, Hectic, and Gangrenous- typhoid febrile disturbance. All these states also are considered in their appropriate chapters. Results of Operation.—The object or purpose of any Surgical pro- cedure should be viewed with regard both to its temporary and its per- manent results. An operation may be successful from the one point of view, but not from the other. The unsuccessful results of any Surgical procedure may, perhaps, be reduced to three general heads:—(1) A return of the original condition for which the operation was performed ; (2) the substitution of some new condition, not better, or worse, than the first; (3) the inducement of disease in some distant part of the body. Of the two first modes of unsuccessful results, such instances may be cited as, after amputation of a limb, the return of gangrene in the stump; after excision of a joint, the substitution of a useless limb. The third mode of unsuccessful result is illustrated, after ligature of an artery for aneurism, by the development of aneurism in another part; or after the excision of cancer-growth, the development of internal cancer. Statistics in Sctrgert.—To properly estimate the facts gained by observation, whether in the Science or the Art of Surgery, we must count them. The impressions of experience so called, respecting pathology and treatment, are too vague and indistinct for any trust- worthy conclusions. Accuracy of observation is essential to rehable results, and the number of observations taken is also a very important consideration. Hence, the value of Statistics, or the Numerical method of inquiry; which, by the process of counting, imposes a rigid check upon any dissimilarity of the facts thus enumerated by units, and estimates their evidential significance by their number,— absolute, or relative to other series of facts with which they may be compared and weighed. It is sometimes said of Statistics, that any- thing can be proved by figures, for or against a given question at issue. The fallacy of this assertion is demonstrated by the very process of counting, as the corrective of erroneous data. The numerical method may, indeed, seem dry and unattractive to persons of an imaginative disposition, for its inherent exactitude imposes on such persons a disagreeable restraint. But, as men of Science, and Students or Practitioners of an Art involving the tremendous issues of life and death, truth should ever be our first consideration. And, for the fruits accruing from well-assorted collections of facts, and their comparison, I may point to the very important results which have thus been achieved in many departments of Surgery, as exhibited in the course of this work.PAET I. GENEEAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. DISEASES OF NUTEITION. CHAPTER I. INFLAMMATION. Inflammation may be defined to be a local modification of Nutrition ; consisting, essentially, in an increased textural productiveness and destruction of texture, and acceleration, therefore, of the nutritive process; resulting in an accumulation of mixed, organized matter,— partly, of products having an imperfect structural homology or re- semblance to healthy conditions of texture or textural elements, and partly, of debris or waste of the textures involved. In connection with this process of accelerated and imperfect nutrition, the local circulation of blood, and the containing vessels, undergo certain changes; an increased flow or determmation of arterial blood to, and in, the capillary vessels, at the seat of inflammation, stagnation and accumulation or congestion of blood in the capillaries of the inflamed parfc, the veins transmitting the increased current of blood through collateral capillaries, with enlargement of all the vessels concerned; vascular changes which are accompanied with an effusion or exudation of organizable plasma or liquor sanguinis. The condition of the local circulation in the capillaries is known as the stasis of the circulation in an inflamed part. This complex process has the most comprehensive significance, both pathological and practical; having relation to all Injuries, Diseases, and Surgical Operations. Hence, a due knowledge of Inflammation and its consequences, is of primary importance in the study of Surgery. The pathology of Inflammation is most appropriately introduced by a brief consideration of the physiology of healthy Nutrition,—in the maintenance of the structural integrity of the body, and the modifica- tions of this process in growth and development. Nutrition is that process, wherein the blood or its constituents as nutritive material—liquor sanguinis, plasma or blastema—is converted into the various textures and organs of the body; thereby restoring or repairing the loss or waste of their structure, which continually accom- panies the exercise of their respective functions. The changes which88 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. the nutritive material undergoes are of two kinds:—cliemical, in respect to its composition, plastic or formative, as productive of structure; analogous but opposite changes taking place in the course of decomposition and destruction of the textures. In any diseased modification of Nutrition, as Inflammation, the process is essentially the same in kind, differing only in degree. Hence, the products or structural results, and their appearances in course of destruction, are the same, differing only in character. Parallel, but apparently less definite, modifications of chemical composition, may be inferred. The process of Nutrition may be traced, to some extent, in certain tissues, which, being situated on the sui'face of the body, are open to observation. Epidermic tissues, namely, scarf-skin or cuticle, nails and hairs, are thus patent. The cuticle, for example, is a layer of cells overlaying the vascular and sensitive true skin. From the latter, a thin, and nearly transparent, serous fluid perpetually exudes, and in this, as a nutritive plasma or blastema, the cuticular cells are formed. Let a portion of cuticle be removed by a blister or a slight bum; the exposed surface is found to be constantly bathed with this fluid. If lightly sponged dry, the surface immediately perspires, as it were, and moistens again. The cells, first formed in this fluid, are soft and round, as seen under the microscope, in newly formed cuticle. They are also soluble in acetic acid. They give place to similar cells under- neath, and as the first formed pass upwards from the true skin, they become dry, hard, and flattened, and acquire the characters of ordinary scaly epithelium; which eventually disintegrates and desquamates from off the surface of the body. A chemical change also accompanies the maturation and destruction of cuticular cells; in this stage, they are insoluble in acetic acid. This twofold process—formative and destructive—is ever going on ; the cuticle being produced, and reduced more or less perceptibly by the decay, death, and shedding of the cuticular cells ; they having pre- viously served their function of protecting the subjacent true skin. Molecular disintegration and death, by the constant exercise of function, may be inferred, if not seen, to be proceeding in all other tissues. But constant waste, thus induced, implies constant repair, and the reparative material can only come from the blood. This vital fluid must, therefore, present an appropriate composition for the repair of each component tissue of the body, and must also be supplied in adequate quantity thereto, as all the tissues are alike undergoing incessant destruction. Assuming this twofold condition of quality and quantity of blood, due to the tissues severally ; they, on their part, select and secrete or separate from the blood-vascular system, as the common reservoir, that kind and quantity of plasma which is appropriate for their indi- vidual nutritive maintenance. The blood is thus left reduced m quantity, and, moreover, deprived of those constituents which have entered into the formation of the tissues. But, as each tissue draws its own particular nourishment, the residual mass of blood, m circu- lation, becomes relatively adapted, in quality, for the proper nourish- ment of other tissues, of dissimilar composition. The tissues, severally, in their functional relation to blood-elaboration, may therefore be regarded as excreting organs.INFLAMMATION. 39 The blood is renewed in quantity, and further maintained in quality, by the co-operation of other functions,—digestion, excretive secretion, and respiration; while its circulation is regulated hy the agency of the nervous system. Again and again is this fluid, replenished and reno- vated, distributed to every part of the body, each tissue claiming and retaining that quantity of the common pabulum which may be neces- sary, and selecting those ingredients which enter into its own formation, to repair its waste and thus maintain its substance. Groiuth and Development.—It will be obvious that any increased nutritive demand, beyond that of mere maintenance, as by Growth, necessarily implies at least an increased supply of blood to the part undergoing this change, and perhaps also a different quality of blood to meet any such additional requirement. Indeed, ever moving and vibrative as are the leaves of an aspen tree even on a breathless summer's day, so likewise oscillatory is the nice adjustment and equilibrium of nutrition. The balance of maintenance could never be continued from hour to hour, scarcely from minute to minute, without a varying capacity in the circulatory system to satisfy ever- varying demands. This provision is brought into action by nervous influence. It is now known, originally by the experimental researches of M. Claude Bernhard, that the circulation of the blood is inflaenced by vaso-motor nerves—nervi-vasorum—forming a wide expanse of the nervous system, distributed to the blood-vessels, principally to the arteries, and extending even to their ultimate ramifications. This vascular system of nerves is derived, in part, directly from the sympa- thetic or ganglionic system, as from the splanchnics, which are the vascular nerves of the abdominal viscera; and in part, indirectly, by communicating branches between the sympathetic cord and the anterior roots of the spinal nerves, as the source of nerve-supply to the blood- vessels of the extremities, upper and lower. But, while the vaso- motor system of nerves thus proceeds from the sympathetic, its primary origin is in the cerebro-spinal system; isolation of any portion of the sympathetic, by division of its spinal communicating branches, being attended with paralysis of its vaso-motor functions. There is also, apparently, an excito-motory centre, presiding over the whole vaso- motor system of nerves; for the motor influence of these nerves on the blood-vessels can be elicited by stimulating afferent spinal nerves, being therefore reflected by that centre, through efferent sympathetic vascular nerves. The situation of the centre here referred to is intra- cranial,—the vaso-motor influence ceasing when the spinal cord is divided immediately below the medulla oblongata, and thereby causing paralysis of the whole vascular system. The most important results respecting the physiology of the vaso-motor system of nerves, as shown by the effects of their stimulation or their division, are thus summarily stated by Dr. Burdon Sanderson:—That section of a vascular nerve produces congestion of all the tissues to which it is distributed; that excitation by the interrupted current, or by mechanical means, produces constriction of the minute arteries presided over by the irritated nerve, and consequent anaemia; that excitation of a sensory nerve produces increased activity of the capillary circulation in the part in. which the nerve originates; and that all arteries exhibit alternating states of contraction and dilatation, their rhythmical40 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. movements being entirely independent of those of the heart and the respiration, and ceasing when the vessel is paralyzed by division of its nerves. Development contrasts with growth, in representing the quality, as well as quantity, of structure produced. But the two are concurrent and co-equal manifestations of the formative power, in heakhy Nutrition. It would appear that emotional influence is not limited to appor- tioning the supply of blood, and thence the quantity of growth or the size attained by a part subject to such influence; tbe quality or kind of growth produced is also, in a measure, regulated thereby. A fatty tumour was removed by Mr. Lawrence, several years ago, from a woman's shoulder; and when the wound had healed soundly, she imagined the tumour to have been a cancer, and that it would return. Mr. Paget saw her some months afterwards, and she had a large and firm painful tumour in her breast, just like a portion of indurated mammary gland. She was assured by Mr. Paget that her supposed cancer would disappear ; and it did become very much smaller, without any help from medicine. As this tumour had arisen under the influence of fear, so it very nearly subsided under that of confidence. The patient was lost sight of before the tumour had been completely absorbed. In this summary of the process of Nutrition, we obsei've a co- operative relation subsisting between its essential conditions:—textural changes; and the blood, in quality and quantity, as representing the nutritive material; accessory to which are the blood-vessels which convey the blood to the part nourished; and the nerves in connection therewith, which further regulate the supply. The accessory character of the two latter conditions is also evinced by the fact of Nutrition taking place in comparatively avascular textures, and those which are destitute of nerves ; as cartilage. Thus, then, is Nutx'ition maintained ; and we also observe in these conditions adequate provision for the extra demands of Growth and Development, whereby blood is duly determined to textures or parts undergoing this twofold physiological change. Bidparation of texture, after destruction by injury or disease, is subject to the same conditions. The processes of immediate union, primary adhesion, suppurative granulation, with perhaps secondary adhesion, and scabbing, as described in subsequent chapters, may therefore be properly associated with this general consideration of the physiology of Nutrition. Inflammation is another modification of Nutrition, the same elements co-operating. This process can be observed when it takes place in textures on the surface of the body, as the skin; and it is best illus- trated when occasioned simply by a burn or other injury, rather than when induced by the operation of a blood-poison, as in erysipelas, boil, or carbuncle, wifiich are specific and complicated illustrations of inflam- mation. (1.) Textural Changes.—The twofold nature of the textural changes in Inflammation, is the same as in healthy Nutrition; but the textural productiveness, and the destruction of texture, are both increased; and the process proceeds more rapidly. Hence, the products are not only increased in quantity, they are also imperfect structural conditions ofINFLAMMATION. 41 textural elements, by various degrees of arrest of their development; such as exudation and pus-corpuscles, coagulated fibrin with plastic corpuscles, granular matter, and serum; while the debris or waste matter of the texture is apt to accumulate. In virtue of its increased productiveness, inflammation differs from nutritive maintenance, and is allied to growth; but in virtue of its rapidity, the process is so hurried on, that more is accomplished in a given time, and consequently the products are imperfectly developed. Accelerated Nutrition would therefore, I think, be an appropriate name for Inflammation, as at once expressing its nature and distinctive character. Experimental investigations have been instituted, chiefly by Pro- fessors Cohnheim and Strieker, with regard to the changes which the textural elements undergo in inflammation. Non-vascular tissues are best adapted for the observation of such changes,—apart from the blood-vessels and circulation ; as the cornea of the frog, cartilage, and tendon, under the influence of irritation by caustic or a seton-thread. But vascular tissues, as connective tissue in the frog's tongue, muscle, mucous membrane, and gland tissues, especially that of the liver, have also been submitted to similar examination. The general results have been—that the textural changes represent increased activity of cell- life, in the proliferation or germination of protoplasm or of cells, which multiply either by cleavage or by endogenous germination. Whether this increased textural productiveness be due to the direct stimulant action of the material effused from the capillary blood- vessels, or be referable to nerve-influence, may be regarded as an open question. (2.) State of the circulation of blood, and of the blood-vessels, in rela- tion to, and in, the part inflamed.—This element of inflammation necessarily pertains to vascular textures; nevertheless, comparatively avascular textures, such as cartilage, which are nourished by imbibition, are affected by the circulation of blood in the adjoining textui-e, whence they derive their nutritive material as the source of supply. The blood current to, and from, an inflamed part, through the arteries and veins respectively, is increased in quantity, force, and rapidity; so also it would appear to be primarily increased in the capillaries of the part, but secondarily it becomes stagnant, a condition known as the stasis of the circulation in those vessels. The arteries, veins, and capillaries all apparently become enlarged. Enlargement of the arteries, with increased flow of arterial blood through them, constitutes determination of blood; enlargement of the capillaries," with stagnation or accumulation of blood in them, consti- tutes congestion of blood; the enlarged veins transmitting the increased current of blood, through collateral capillaries. In inflammation, the presence of determination of blood, subse- quently of congestion, and the co-existence of both these vascular con- ditions, are facts which have been more or less established by the following experimental observations :— (a.) Arterial and Venous Circulation.—The arteries towards an in- flamed part throb with increased pulsation, while the veins therefrom are turgid. It might appear that the former are beating with blood apparently rebounding from some obstruction in advance, and that the latter become turgid with stagnant blood. But experimental observa-42 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. tions demonstrate tbe accelerated rapidity and force of the blood's motion to, and from, an inflamed part. Let an artery toward a part inflamed be divided, and the blood is seen to be ejected to a much greater distance than that from an artery of the same size and distance from the hearb, but not contiguous to an inflamed part. This increased propulsion was noticed by Dr. John Thomson, when the arteries of a finger were divided in whitlow, and when those of the prepuce, much inflamed, were cut in the operation for phimosis. More exact, because comparative and otherwise complete, was the observation of Mr. Lawrence. One hand of a patient being inflamed, venesection was performed, at the same time, and in a similar manner, in both arms: the vein from the inflamed hand yielded about three times more blood in a given time than the vein from the uninflamed hand. The blood's motion from the part was increased. Enlargement of the arteries leading to an inflamed part, in the human subject, is rendered probable by Hunter's well-known experi- ment on a rabbit. Hunter froze the ear of a rabbit, and thawed it again; acute inflammation began, with increased heat, and considerable thickening of the part. The rabbit was killed when its ear was at the height of inflammation. The head was then ejected, and the two ears were removed and dried. The uninflamed ear dried clear and trans- parent ; its vessels were distinctly seen ramifying through its substance; but the inflamed ear dried thicker and more opaque, and its arteries were considerably larger. (6.) Ga'pillary Circulation.—The state of the capillary circulation in inflammation has been observed in the transparent parts of certain of the lower animals, chiefly in the web of the frog's foot, or in the mesentery of that animal, and in the bat's wing. Conclusions drawn from such data relative to the human organism, are inferential only, the physiological and structural conditions being dissimilar. Yet these inferential conclusions represent the remainder of what is known respecting the nature of inflammation, in the human subject. Determination and Congestion of blood co-exist at the seat of inflam- mation. Dr. C. J. B. Williams was one of the earliest observers who demonstrated this conjunction of increased and diminished motion of the blood in the capillary vessels in inflammation, and also that the resulting compound state of the capillary circulation may originate either in determination or in congestion, or in the concurrence of both simultaneou sly. To illustrate the origin of inflammation by the concurrence of deter- mination of blood and congestion, Dr. Williams adduces elperimental observations on the web of the frog's foot, under the microscope. "If," says he, " a strong irritant, as a grain of capsicum, or a minute globule of essential oil, be applied to the Aveb, all its blood-vessels speedily become enlarged ; those most irritated are very large and red, and the blood in them is stagnant and coagulated; contiguous vessels are also very large, but less red, and the motion of the blood in them is slow, and often in pulses or oscillations ; whilst in vessels beyond, the en- largement of the capillaries is less considei'able, but that of the arteries is obvious, and the current of blood is very rapid."* The general enlargement of the capillary vessels is well shown in the bat's wing; * "Principles of Medicine," Edit. 3rd, 1856, p. 323.INFLAMMATION. 43 where, as compared with their natural condition, before irritation (Fig. 1), the vessels have become dilated to nearly twice their diameter, and many more have become visible within the area of the focus of irritation. (Fig. 2.) Fig. 1.* Fig. 2* Fig. 3.t The vessels having undergone dilatation, they may become saccu- lated, lengthened, and tortuous, as the result of their weakened and inelastic state from over-irritation, in an advanced stage of inflammation (Fig. 3) ; and the blood contained in the vessels undergoes certain changes, the red cor- puscles being impacted, accompanied with an increased production, apparently, of the pale corpuscles, which also appear to be more adhesive, and cling to the sides of the vessels. The capillary cir- culation of a warm-blooded animal, as in the bat's wing, when thus subjected to irritation, does not exhibit any in- creased proportion of white corpuscles, according to the observations of Wharton Jones and Paget; and in the frog, that condition may be due to an unhealthy state of this animal. Dr. Williams' ori- ginal description has more recently been confirmed essentially by Dr. Burdon Sanderson, and other observers ; —that, in inflammation, the vascular phenomena consist of "increased activity of the capillary circulation in the affected part, followed by diminished circulation ; " or conversely, that the vessels may become contracted, in the first instance, followed by dilatation; this difference depending on the kind of irritant employed, as a solution of ammonia, while a solution of caustic soda produces dilatation succeeded by con- traction, and croton oil seems to have a variable effect on the vessels, sometimes producing the one, sometimes the other. The leading vascular change in inflammation—acceleration of the capillary circulation-—is referable to an impression received by the cen- (Wharton Jones.) t (Paget.)44 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. tripetal nerves of the injured part, and reflected by the vaso-motor centre through the centrifugal nerves to the vessels. This physio- logical explanation rests on the observations of Ludwig and Loven; in curarised rabbits, excitation of the central end of a divided nerve in the external ear, or of the dorsal nerve in the foot, was noticed with regard to its elfects on the corresponding artery; and similar experi- ments on the sciatic nerve of the frog, relative to the circulation in the web of the foot, were conducted by Strieker and Riegel, and repeatedly verified by Dr. Sanderson. Emigration of blood-corpuscles through the walls of the Capillaries.— In the course of Inflammation, the passage of blood-corpuscles through the walls of capillary vessels, seems to have been been originally noticed by Dr. W. Addison (1842), and more completely described by Dr. A. Waller (1846) ; but this remarkable fact first attracted atten- tion by the observations of Professor Recklinghausen (1863), Professor Strieker (1866-6), and specially by the investigations of Professor Cohnheim (1867) and Dr. Prussak; more recently confirmed in this country by Dr. B. Sanderson. Experimental observations upon the transparent parts of animals, as the foot-web, or the mesentery of the frog, or the tongue of that animal, have been the source of our know- ledge in this important physiological inquiry. The jJrocess of emigration in the passage of white corpuscles, or leucocytes, is as follows:—The Fig. 4.* corpuscles having accumulated within the capillary vessels, those which lie on the interior of the vessel begin to sink into the capillary wall, presenting button-shaped projections externally (Fig. 4) ; gradually enlarging in the shape of pyriform bodies, the imbedded corpuscles pass through the wall, but are still adherent by their pedicles; lastly, becoming detached, the passage is completed, and the corpuscles— which have thus emigrated from within—are each free outside the vessel. The red corpuscles may emigrate in like manner, though less abundantly. The cause of this migratory process seems to be, that the cells possess an inherent vital activity—that of protoplasm, and resembling the mobile power of amoeba}; and that the capillary walls also possess the same contractile power of protoplasm, in addition to their vital capacity for proliferation, as evinced in the ramifying formation of new vessels, and, moreover, the physical * Mesentery of living Frog.—a. Vein. hb. Adjoining connective tissue per- meated by colourless corpuscles, which have migrated from the vessel, c. Central column of red corpuscles, y^. (Cohnheim.)INFLAMMATION. 45 properties which, had long since been known. Thus, then, the capillary vessels and the blood-corpuscles, white and red, are apparently alike endowed with the power of amoeboid activity ; and thence the emigra- tion of the corpuscles in the process of Inflammation. In tracing the process of Inflammation, it is difficult to determine the order of succession in the changes which essentially constitute this process. The question of priority, therefore, on the part of the textures or blood, is doubtful. "Whether an increased textural productiveness, and consequent demand for nutritive material, induces an extra flow of arterial blood towards this focus of accelerated nutrition; or whether a determination of blood solicits the formative power of the textures to more active, albeit abortive operation ? The latter view, originally advocated by John Hunter, long held undisputed acknowledgment in the schools and in medical literature; before the textures were discovered, so to speak, by Bichat, and before the grand and fertile theory of cell-development introduced by Schwann and Schleiden. But the independent vitality of the textures in relation to the blood, a physiological doctrine probably entertained by Haller, was subsequently extended to pathology by Hebrenstreit, Burdach, Alison, and others; while, in respect to Inflammation especially, this doctrine is strenuously advocated with great originality of argument by Virchow, and exclusively adopted by Mr. Simon and other patholo- gists in recent works. For the discussion of any other doubtful points respecting the intimate nature of Inflammation, and more particularly as investigated in animals, the reader is referred to abundant sources of interesting information in the writings of Wilson Philips, Kaltenbrunner, Gerber, Gendrin, Miiller, Lebert, Alison, Henle, Macartney, Addison, Gulliver, Wharton Jones, C. J. B. Williams, Bennett, Paget, Lister, Virchow, Billroth, Cohnheim, Strieker, Simon, and Burdon Sanderson. Signs.—The local signs of inflammation—as enumerated from time immemorial—are redness, heat, swelling, and pain; the first three being objective phenomena, pain a subjective symptom; and there is also some functional disturbance or loss of functional power in the part affected. (1.) Redness is a sign of inflammation, owing to the determination of arterial blood; but the development of this sign will be proportionate to the number of capillary vessels pervading the part, and the extra flow of blood through them. The colour, a florid hue, varies according to the arterial or venous character of the blood, and as shaded by any intervening texture; or it may be entirely unseen throtigh the depth of integument concealing the engorged vessels. Various shades of redness are met with in different inflammations: a bright crimson hue in acute inflammation; a darker or purple tint in the chronic form; a damask redness in erysipelas, or a brownish lividity in phlegmonous erysipelas; a yellow redness when associated with jaundice; a copper hue in syphilitic inflammation; a purplish lividity, deepening into black, whenever inflammation becomes gan- grenous. The vascular engorgement, or hyperaemia, presents different shapes, according to the peculiar anatomical arrangements of the capillaries in the texture or part. Hence punctiform, stellate, arbo- rescent, maculiforra, or spotted, and uniform blush-redness, are ireqaently recognized, as in the skin and mucous membranes whichGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 46 are open to inspection. The redness may be circumscribed, as in phlegmonous inflammation; or diffused, as in the erysipelatous. Ha3- morrhagic redness, arising from the interstitial extravasation of blood, in the form of spots or petechias, may be an accidental coincidence with, or result from, inflammatory engorgement of the capillary vessels; but increased redness from this source will be readily dis- tinguished from that of inflammation, the one remaining under pressure with the finger, the other disappearing when the engorged vessels are thus emptied. Persistent redness, such as I have described, is the earliest an- nouncement of inflammation, and also its most exact indication, being invariably present even when unseen, a sign of no other kind of hypersemia, and the measure of its own. The exceptional case of a growing part, e.g. new bone, or the gravid uterus, having similar redness, scarcely invalidates the general fact that this sign is, other- wise, peculiar to inflammation. Nor does its exceptional absence in extra-vascular tissues, e.g. cartilage and the cornea, affect the other- wise general constancy of this hyperasmia. Even in such cases the adjoining textures exhibit its characteristic appearance, as by a zone of redness around the cornea, in corneitis, and increased vascularity of the adjoining bone, in inflammation of cartilage. In either case, the seat of hyperaemia coincides with the capillaiy plexus which is subservient to the healthy nutrition of the part inflamed. Redness from the development of new vessels in an inflamed parb is not an early occurrence, but a consequence of the process of in- flammation. (2.) Seat is another local sign, partly due to the determination of blood; as such it is proportionate thereto, and to the number of vessels through which the extra supply of arterial blood is passing. But the increase of temperature will be perceptible only according to the superficial situation of the inflamed part, and the facility with which heat is transmitted through any intervening textures. Is heat generated by inflammation ? The flow of arterial blood, and therefore of red blood-corpuscles charged with oxygen, may pos- sibly generate heat. Yet the experiments of John Hunter show that the temperature of an inflamed part never rises more than two or three degrees, and scarcely, if ever, above the average heat of arterial blood—say, from ninety-eight to one hundred degrees Fahr. On the other hand, the experiments of Becquerel and Breschet, and the more recent "thermo-electric " observations of Mr. Simon and Dr. E. Mont- gomery are apparently conclusive on this point—that an inflamed part is no mere passive recipient of heat, but is itself actively calorific. For among the observed results are these :— " That the arterial blood supplied to an inflamed limb is less warm than the focus of inflammation itself. " That the venous blood returning from an inflamed limb, though found less warm than the focns of inflammation, is warmer than the arterial blood supplied to the limb; and, " That the venous blood returning from aii inflamed limb is warmer than the corresponding current on the opposite side of the body." Granting, then, that the inflammatory process unquestionably involves a local production of heat, "to interpret this fact," adds Mr. Simon, "is perhaps, in the present state of physics, not possible."47 INFLAMMATION. Whatever be tlie source of increased heat, it continues witli the inflammation, unlike the transient warmth of blushing, or other non- inflammatory determination of blood. Respecting its diagnostic value, the increased heat arises at the same time as the redness; it is an equally early, if not an equally exact sign of inflammation. (3.) Swelling.—The persistent or inflammatory determination of blood is accompanied with the appearance of coagulable lymph or fibrin, and serum,—constituting what is known as effusion or exuda- tion; which by its accumulation in the part, and augmented by increased textural productiveness, or proliferation of tissue, in both ways gives rise to swelling in a greater or less degree ; unlike the issue of that temporary distension of the vessels, which ordinary determina- tion of blood denotes. From a persistent increased flow of blood, the surcharged vessels would appear to be gradually relieved by effusion of the liquor sanguinis. Virchow regards the fibrin, not as an exudation or effusion from the vessels, but as an educt from the vessels, in consequence of the activity of the histological elements themselves. Professor Bennett suggests that the tissues attract the fibrin, which, however, pre-exists in the blood. The engorged vessels themselves occasion some degree of swelling of the part; an increase proportionate to the vascularity of the part, and to the degree of turgescence of its vessels. Full-blooded internal organs become most swollen in this way, such as the lungs, liver, spleen, and kidneys when inflamed. But with persistent engorgement further enlargement ensues by effusion, and the situation, size, shape, consistence, and physical characters generally of this swelling, will, for the most part, depend on the kind of structure in which it takes place. Liquor sanguinis is readily effused into the constituent cellular texture of the organ, or part inflamed, and therefore most readily into the substance of loosely parenchymatous organs ; frequently, moreover, the most vascular, such as those just enumerated. Lymph and serum overflow into cavities, e.g. into serous membranes and synovial sacs. These and similar structures solicit the overloaded vessels to relieve themselves, and their size becomes enlarged, in a corresponding measure, by inflammation. Witness hepatized lungs from pneumonia in its second stage ; immense enlargement of the liver from chronic inflammation ; enormous increase of the spleen, forming the ague- cake by an analogous process; and the large size to which the kidneys attain by chronic nephritis and Bright's disease. Phlegmonous erysipelas—engaging, as it does, the subcutaneous cellular tissue deeper and deeper—is characterized by considerable swelling. Witness the opposite results in tight, unyielding textures—;such as effusion beneath fasciae and in fibrous textures generally, and an abscess formed in the substance of bone, but unattended with any perceptible swelling, and suspected only by the intense and unremitting pain it occasions. Certain textures allow of an intermediate amount of swelling between the extremes presented by cellular and fibrous tissues. Such are the degrees peculiar to the skin and mucous membranes. Of the latter I may mention pulpy thickening of the large intestine in cases of chronic dysentery; while swelling, in some measure, of the skin is one featureGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 48 of most of its eruptions, however otherwise diversified their appear- ance may be—as rashes, scales, papules (pimples), vesicles, pustules; and most conspicuously is this the character of solid tubercular swell- ings, such as occur in secondary syphilis. The shape of inflammatory swelling is also a mixed result, principally due to the kind of structure into which effusion takes place ; partly, however, to the kind of matter effused. If thin serum, the swelling will be fluid, fluctuating, and diffused; if coagulable lymph be poured out, it will be more solid and circumscribed. I shall not attempt to describe the various degrees of density or consistence which inflam- matory swelling presents, as resulting from the combined influence of the kind of matter effused, and that of the receiving structure. These alterations may be of two kinds: softening, chiefly in connection with acute inflammation, and induration, chiefly in consequence of chronic inflammation. The diagnostic value of inflammatory swelling is not equal to that of redness. It is necessarily a later sign than redness, which always precedes effusion by an important and often appreciable period of time. Iritis is announced by injection of the ciliary arteries and a zone of redness around the iris, before the perilous effusion of lymph. Erysipelas spreads with a red blush before the disorganizing engorge- ment of the subcutaneous cellular tissue. Regarded as an exact sign, although some degree of swelling invariably follows inflammatory determination of blood, and although the nature of an obscure swelling is assured, if not by its physical properties, at least by puncture, and if necessary by further examination of the material of the swelling with the microscope; yet these guarantees of identity are the only unequivocal advantages of this sign. Unlike redness, it is no measure of the degree of inflammation. The most intense may produce a trivial swelling in an unyielding texture, and a trivial degree of inflammation will soon exhibit considerable swelling in a loose tissue. Subject to these disqualifications, swelling is the more valuable sign, practically speaking, of inflammation. It can be discovered when the redness cannot be seen. In all superficial textures and parts, swelling can be readily detected. The skin, cellular texture, muscles, periosteum, bone, blood-vessels, and lymphatics, and the component tissues of the joints, severally present each a characteristic swelling when inflamed. Certain internal organs are also open to examination, e.g. the pelvic viscera, excepting the bladder. Thus, inflammatory enlargement of the prostate, or the uterus, and thickening of the rectum, can be felt, and possibly seen. Certain other organs are, indeed, beyond the reach of vision and the direct application of the hand, yet the ear can then detect effusion and swelling by means of percussion, as of the liver, gastro-intestinal canal, and spleen; and this may be aided by ausculta- tion, as of the heart and lungs. (4.) Pain.—Observe the influence of swelling. No sooner has the first contribution toward swelling been made by persistent distension of the vessels of the inflamed part, than pain, or at least exalted sensibility—tenderness—is induced by the blood's influence on the nerves of that part. The degree of pain from this cause will be regulated by both the elements which determine the amount of hyperoemia—that is to say, will be proportionate to the determination of blood, and the number of vessels in the part; but the number of sensory nervesINFLAMMATION. 49 affected will further apportion the degree of pain. As swelling" ensues from effusion, the same conditions which represent the degree of tension, will also measure the intensity of the pain. Thus a more solid, and therefore circumscribed effusion of coagulable lymph, underneath an unyielding texture, such as a fibrous membrane, e.g., the fascia- lata, or a fluid similarly circumstanced, as an abscess in the substance of bone, are aggravating conditions inducing the most severe and unremitting pain; while a fluid, serous effusion into a loose texture such as the cellular tissue, say of the armpit, allows of a considerable accumulation without much pain, and will then be more tolerable. Pain is also attributed to structural change in the nerve-fibrils of the inflamed part. The character as well as the degree of pain accompanying inflamma- tion, is equally diversified. A burning pain in erysipelas, whence the popular name of this disease—St. Anthony's fire; a scalding pain in inflammation of the rectum, during evacuation of the foeces. Chronic rheumatism and lumbago are attended with the dull aching pain of inflamed fibrous and muscular tissues; gout, with a wrenching pain ; abscess in bone, with an unremitting burrowing pain; inflammation of the dental periosteum, or periodontitis, with a throbbing pain. In other parts this character of pain is the known forerunner of suppura- tion. Parts endowed with but little sensibility in health, generally become acutely sensible when inflamed ; as fibrous textures and bone, including the teeth; the intestinal canal in enteritis, the pleura and peritoneum respectively, when inflamed. Parenchymatous organs like- wise acquire exalted sensibility, as manifested by the heavy, oppressive pain of pneumonia. Organs of special sense are for a time quickened by inflammation, and convey their own sensations but too keenly. The ear becomes too susceptible of sound, and iritis begets intolerance of light. The pain arising from inflammation may extend to parts distant, but continuous with the seat of origin; as from a whitlow, the pain passes up the finger and hand, thence perhaps up the forearm to the shoulder. Ophthalmic pain may involve the brow. Beflected pains in distant parts are not uncommon symptoms of in- flammation. Pain in the inner side of the knee may emanate from inflammation of the hip-joint; in the glans penis, from cystitis; in the testicle, from nephritis ; under the right shoulder-blade, from hepatitis ; and under the left scapula, from gastritis. Reflex motions are often excited in like manner : sneezing, by catarrh ; coughing, by bronchitis and pneumonia; vomiting, by gastritis; and (reflex?) micturition, by cystitis. The diagnostic value of pain is comparatively little. The pain of Inflammation being chiefly dae to swelling, is scarcely an earlier sign. It is also the most inexact sign ; pain may he absent in true inflamma- tion, and present without; and is rather a measure of the kind of swelling than of the degree of inflximmation. By itself, therefore, pain has little diagnostic importance. (5.) The function of the oi'gan or texture affected, undergoes certain changes, which constitute additional local symptoms of inflammation. They may be described in general terms, as exaltation of function, followed by its depression, and various perversions of function having an intermediate character. Thus, with inflammation of the brain ; delirium, increased sensibility, and convulsions, are succeeded by stupor50 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. and paralysis. Inflammation of the spinal cord presents similar symptoms ; excepting, of course, any modifications of purely cerebral functions. With nephritis, the secretion of urine is first increased, then diminished; and so with regard to other secreting organs. In pneumonia, dyspncBa represents increased respiratory effort, but this is attended with imperfect aeration of the blood and the retention of hydro-carbonaceous matter. Accumulation of excrementitious matters in the blood is the most serious consequence of inflammation affecting any specially excreting organ ; as the kidneys or skin. From Inflammation, as a local morbid process, which I have desig- nated Accelerated Nutrition of the part affected, we pass to its ac- companying constitutional disorder, a febrile condition of the whole body. Gonstitutional Symptoms—Inflammatory Fever.—The phenomena of this fever are briefly these:—The heart's action is excited, the pulse becoming more forcible and frequent than usual, and in some cases less compressible, while the temperature rises, perhaps to 10° F. above the normal heat of the blood,—-as determined by the clinical ther- mometer placed within the axilla or the mouth of the patient, for two or three minutes; the skin is dry and hot, alternating with chilliness or even shivering, the urine scanty and high-coloured, the tongue dry and furred, the bowels probably constipated, and the faeces dry and hard ; thirst and inappetency, weakness with general nervous excitement,—restlessness, sleeplessness, or delirium, and hurried respi- ration, are also primary phenomena. Thus, the vascular, secretory, and nervous systems, are together engaged in a constitutional disorder —symptomatic of the local inflammation, and hence sometimes named Symptomatic Fever. When the nervous phenomena predominate, as delirious excitement, soon succeeded by exhaustion in broken-down constitutions, it has been named Irritative or Nervous Fever. In a typical case of inflammatory fever,—as arising from compound fracture, without much haemorrhage,—the patient, if otherwise sound and strong, exhibits the following symptoms, of which the clinical description given by Mr. Simon is true to life :—Before twenty-four hours have elapsed from the time of injury, the patient's general system begins to be thus affected. He feels hot, or alternatively very hot and chilly. His skin and lips and mouth are dry. He passes urine in less quantity, but of higher colour, than usual. His pulse is quickened. A sense of general disorder gains upon him. He becomes restless and intolerant of disturbance. Signs of drought increase with him. His urine becomes scantier and more coloured. His skin feels hotter to the surgeon's hand, and his pulse, whether full or hard, is quicker and stronger than before. He craves more and more for water. His face has a flushed, anxious look. He is thoroughly uncomfortable; feeling distressingly hot, but at intervals feeling touches of chilliness—sometimes even of such cold that he shivers with it. His sleep is troubled and unrefreshing ; or, as night comes, he gets delirious. His tongue, besides being dry, is furred. If his bowels act (which commonly they are inapt to do without laxatives) the excretions are morbidly offensive. Grradually these symptoms give way : in proportion as the injured limb ceases to be tense, and passes into suppuration, the skin and mouth become moist again ; the ex- cretions lose their concentrated character; the hard pulse softens, and51 INFLAMMATION. the heart's action becomes quiet; the nervous system is no longer restless; the look of trouble passes from the countenance; and the patient can again take solid food. On Temperature in Disease, and the Clinical Thermometer.—In the process of Inflammation, the generation of heat may be termed a "product," just as the collection of lymph and white blood-cells, whether known as effusion or suppui*ation, are also products ; accruing from those textural changes, involving the blood, which constitute a localized acceleration of nutrition, and which, in the increased produc- tion of heat, is still not inaptly designated Inflammation. But this increased production of heat in the part, becomes a more exact sign of the degree of inflammation, in proportion as any rise of temperature can be accurately measured. Then again, heat from the part, passing by successive increments into the blood in circulation, and thence raising the temperature of the whole body, is assuredly the most essen- tial element of inflammatory fever. Yet here also, the value of this element, as a symptom of the degree or intensity of the fever, must be estimated by measurement. And in febrile conditions generally, not to mention most other forms of disease or injury, the temperature of the part or of the body has become a cardinal consideration. Fig. 5. —" |nii|iii\|nii|iiM|iiiijllii|iiii|iiMiiii||iii||iMi|iui|uii|iiM|iwi|iiiiiiiii|nii|iiii|u Accordingly, in the clinical observation of inflammatory fever, for example, the question of temperature is now commonly determined by means of a delicate thermometer (Fig. 5), the use of which has entirely Fig. 6. TEMP DECEM BER 9. 10. II • 12.13. 14.15-1 e. 17- 18-19.20.21.22.23 24-25.26.2752 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. superseded the far less exact appreciation of temperature by the sense of touch. For this method of observation, " Temperature Charts " have been constructed, to accurately record the temperature of a patient, at the two most significant periods, morning and evening, in the course of every twenty-four hours. The state of the Respiration, and of the Pulse, each with regard to one important element—its frequency—is taken in conjunction with the Temperature. The chart on page 61 (Fig. 6) represents the rise and fall of tem- perature daily, morning and evening, in a case of traumatic inflam- matory fever, from compound fracture of the leg, under my care in the Hospital. After the fever-curve in this case, the influence of disturbing causes in producing an increase of temperature, is indicated also by the rise which occurred from readjustment of the splint, and when suppuration commenced. For the record of observations in ordinary cases, a tabular view will perhaps sufi&ce, as in the following form :— No._ Stjrgeon_ in Register. Ward House Surgeon Dresser Name Disease Date. Hour. Temp. Pulse. Resp. Remarks. Date. Hoar. Temp. Pulse. Resp. Remarks. But the characters of the Pulse afford no less faithful indications as to the state of the circulation ; and here the invention of the Sphygmo- graph has at length supplied the most exact and intelligible evidence ; for with this instrument the pulse wave writes, and records, its own testimony. Pulse-tracings must, however, be read and interpreted aright by the clinical observer. The use of the Sphygmograph in the investigation of disease is not generally understood; and as Dr. Mahomed has made this instrument and its applications the subject of special study, I am indebted to him for the folloAving description. On the Pulse in Disease, and the Sphygmograph.—" Various forms of Sphygmographs have been contrived, but none ever obtained re- cognition as an instrument likely to be of use in clinical medicine, till M. Marey produced his, which, with some modifications, is the one now in general use. His instrument was portable, could be applied •without much difiiculty, and yielded valuable information with regard to the circulation. The chief fault about this instrument is the in- ability to vary or gauge the amount of pressure applied to the artery,INFLAMMATION. 63 and required] to develop the pulse, gested by which, to regulate and employed is at once accu- rate and simple. Fig. 7 is a drawing of this instru- ment, from which a general idea of it can be obtained, while Fig. 8 is a sectional diagram to illustrate the ar- rangement of the levers and the method of measuring pressure. The instrument consists of a brass frame- work attached to ivory bars, and is strapped upon the arm, which reposes on a double inclined pad or splint. The framework supports the spring which presses upon the pulse and the system of levers, by which the movements im- parted to the spring by the pulse are magnified and conveyed to the writing lever, which inscribes them upon a slide, moved past its extremity by clockwork. To the framework also is attached a small brass box containing the clockwork; along a groove in the top of this box the slide, on which is stretched smoke paper, travels. " The mainspring of the instrument A (Fig. 8) is at- tached to the framework by a hinge-joint H, and is free at the other end, which is Vai'ious methods have been measure pressure. That I sug- have applied to the pulse. To the centre of this spring is attached a small block c, which is received between the bifurcated extremity of the short intermediate lever B, and which is attached to the block by a pin which forms its centre of movement. The free extremity o£ this lever isGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 54 turned upwards at a right angle, and ends in a sharp knife edge, upon which rests the long writing lever d. The centre of movement for this lever D is a pin, which passes through it and into the framework of the instrument at the point f. The screw E passes through the intermediate lever B, close to its free extremity, and rests upon the spring which presses upon the pulse. The movements of the pulse are imparted directly to the spring a, from the spring to the screw E, which rests upon it, by the screw to the intermediate lever B, and from the intermediate lever to the writing lever D. " The writing lever d thus forms a lever of the third order, and though working at a mechanical disadvantage with regard to power, it gains in. rapidity and extent of movement; the small movement im- parted to it by the intermediate lever B, close to its fulcrum F, is greatly magnified by the very great proportional length of the whole lever, and the consequently much greater excursion of its free or writing extremity. By the screw E, the short intermediate lever is kept in contact with the writing lever, the distance between the writing lever and the spring varying with the depth to which the spring a presses into the soft parts, and therefore with the degree of pressure employed and the amount of fat in the subcutaneous tissue. " The pressure of the spring upon the artery is varied by turning the thumb-screw at the side of the instrument, and thus causing the eccentric G to revolve above the spring a. The longer the radius of the eccentric at its point of contact with A, the greater the pressure upon the spring, and therefore upon the artery. The amount of this pressure is indicated on a dial plate, seen at the side of the instrument, and measured in ounces of Troy weight. The pressure employed to obtain a perfect tracing should always be recorded, and the pressure required to completely compress the pulse and arrest the movements of the lever may also be noted. " It is unnecessary to detail at length the method of applying the instrument; suffice it to say that the arm should be placed on a double inclined pad, the angle of which should be about 135°, the instrument strapped on to it, care being taken to apply the ivory pad at the extremity of the spring over the centre of the radial artery, where it lies on the inner side of the styloid process, and is crossing the anterior ligament of the wrist-joint. The proper pressure to employ is that with which the greatest height of upstroke can be obtained. The upstroke should be uninterrupted and the apex shai'p, forming an acute angle with the downstroke, any variation from this being due (except in very rare instances) to an imperfect application of the instrument. The paper on which the tracing is taken should be double enamelled, and enamelled on both sides. It is most easily smoked by burning a small lump of camphor, the size of a pea. After the tracing has been obtained, it may be varnished by passing the slip of paper through a simple spirit varnish, made by dissolving one ounce of gum benzoin, or Burgundy pitch, in eight ounces of methylated spirit.* " The tracing obtained by this instrument from a normal pulse reveals the fact that the pulse felt by the finger is not merely a simple movement of expansion and contraction of the artery, produced by * The instniment and all necessary appliances can be obtained of Mes.«i s. Krohue and Sesemann, 8, Duke Street, ]Mancliester Square. Price seven guineas.65 INFLAMMATION. each coHtraction of the heart, but is composed of three factors, the part played by each of these varying under different circumstances of disease. They do not depend, however, for their existence on any peculiar or complicated condition of the circulation in the human body, but merely on the ordinary laws of hydrodynamics, and are invariably produced when fluid is pumped, in an intermitting stream, forcibly and suddenly through an elastic tube. The development of each varies with conditions which can be experimentally ascertained and varied at will, so that a pulse of any character can be obtained by regulating the conditions accordingly. " The simplest pulsatile movement that can be conceived in an elastic tube is the mere passage of a wave of fluid through it, causing more Fig. 9.—Formation of Pulse Wave. (a.) Tidal wave b. (6.) Tidal wave b + percussion wave A. (c.) Tidal wave B+ percussion wave A + dicrotic wave c. or less sudden expansion, and a gradual collapse of the tube, as it passes through it; such a wave is the foundation of the pulse, and has been called the " Tidal " wave. (Fig. 9a.) If the impulse imparted to the fluid is more sudden, an element of percussion or shock will be intro- duced (Fig. 9b), giving an abrupt and vertical upstroke, from the jerking up of the lever by the sudden expansion of the artery. Owing to its acquired velocity, this movement of the lever is rather greater than the corresponding movement in the artei-ial wall which produced it, and on reaching its highest point, it falls suddenly by its own weight, till it is again caught and perhaps slightly raised by the tidal "wave A, which is now only reaching its maximum of distension. " The third element is that of elastic recoil, and is produced by the contraction of the elastic wall of the vessel or tube, which occurs imme- diately on the termination of contraction or systole; this is called the ' Dicrotic' wave. (Fig. 9c.) The elastic wall of the vessel is over- distended during systole, owing to the acquired velocity of the blood, which is considerable on account of its great inertia and the force of the ventricular contraction ; and immediately systole ends and theGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 56 acquired velocity is exhausted, the over-distended elastic wall springs back and originates a new wave, which is prevented passing backwards by the closure of the aortic valves which it produces, and therefore passes forwards, imparting a fresh impulse or wave to the blood-stream, called the dicrotic wave, or diastolic expansion. A small gfecondary wave of somewhat similar production to the last is occasionally seen in the remainder of the downstroke, being apparently a slight oscilla- tion, before an equilibrium is attained between the blood-pressure within the tube and the elastic pressure of its walls. "Various degrees of dicrotism occur, to which terms have been applied indicating the relation of what is known as the Aortic notch to the respiratory line of the tracing. The Aortic notch, sometimes called the dicrotic notch, is the notch immediately preceding the dicrotic wave, or diastolic expansion. (Fig. 10, c.) It is so called be- FlG. 10.—Degrees of Dicrotism. (a.) Dicrotic. (6.) Fully dicrotic. (c.) Hyperdicrotic. cause it is coincident with the closure of the aortic valves, and indicates the termination of systole; the portion of the pulse wave preceding it coincides with systole, that following it with diastole. The Respiratory or base line of the tracing is the line drawn through the lowest points of the upstrokes. (Fig. 10, A B.) It should be straight in a normal tracing, but it varies if the amount of blood in the vessels, or arterial tension, varies. Thus, if during the tracing a deep inspiration be made, the blood tension is reduced, owing to the suction action of the thorax, and there is a fall in the respiratory line, while by complete expiration the tension is increased, and an elevation occurs in the respiratory line. So in some cases of disease, when there is severe dyspnoea, and dilatation of the right side of the heart, there is a constant variation in the respiratory line with each movement of respiration; it is then caUed ' undulating.'INFLAMMATION. 57 " To return to tlie degrees of dicrotism. If the dicrotic notch C is well marked, but its lowest point does not reach the respiratory line, the pulse is called ' dicrotic,' or sometimes hypodicrotic, but this term tends to confusion (Fig. 10a) ; if the notch c reaches to the level of the respiratory line A B, the pulse is called fully dicrotic (Fig. 105); lastly, if the notch C sinks below the level of the line A B,°it is then called ' hyperdicrotio' (Fig. lOo). Fig. 11.—Extreme Developments of each "Wave. (a.) Exaggerated percussion. (6.) Ditto. (c.) Exaggerated dicrotic. (c?.) Exaggerated tidal. (e.) Ditto. A = Percussion, b = Tidal, o = Dicrotic. "Briefly, then, the Percussion wave is due to shock or sudden impulse, and is produced by sudden and forcible contraction of the heart. It may occur in a very exaggerated degree and form the^ most striking feature in the tracing (Fig. lla), owing to an excited action of the heart; or it may be transmitted much more rapidly than the tidal wave, so that the two become distinctly separated68 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. from each other (Fig. llh). This occurs in conditions of high tension, with excited and forcible action of the heart, as in early stages of Bright's disease. The Percussion wave is Increased by Diminished by 1. Forcible contraction. 1. Feeble contraction. 2. Sudden contraction. 2. Gradual contraction. 3. Large volume of blood. 3. Small volume of blood. 4. Fulness of vessel. 4, Emptiness of vessel. "The Tidal wave is the true pulse wave, and indicates the passage of a volume of blood through the arteries, pumped into them by each contraction of the heart. It resembles the passage of the tidal wave or ' bore' up a river; hence its name. It is transmitted more slowly than the percussion wave, or rather attains its maximum intensity more gradually; hence their separation in the tracing. Though they usually commence to distend the artery together, the percussion wave necessarily attains its maximum intensity instantaneously, it being only a shock, while the tidal wave does so more gradually. (Fig. lift.) Sometimes a considerable interval elapses between them. (Fig. lib.) Frequently they are inseparable, the percussion wave not existing, or else being merged into the tidal. (Fig. 11c and e.) The Tidal wave is Increased by Diminished by 1. Slow and prolonged contraction. 1. Quick and short contraction. 2. Large volume of blood. 2. Small volume of blood. 3. Emptiness of vessels. 3. Fulness of vessels. 4. Diminished outflow, or slow capillary 4. Increased outflow, or rapid capillary circulation. circulation. " The Dicrotic wave is the wave of elastic recoil, due to the con- traction of the aorta. It occurs during the diastole of the heart. It may reach almost as high as the tidal and percussion. (Fig. 11c.) The Dicrotic wave is Increased by Diminished by 1. Sudden contraction. 1. Gradual contraction. 2. Emptiness of vessels. 2. Fulness of vessels. 3. Increased outflow, or rapid capillary 3. Diminished outflow, or slow capillary circulation. circulation. 4. Elasticity of aorta. 4. Rigidity of aorta. 5. Relaxation of muscular coat. 5. Contraction of muscular coat. " The Sphygmograph will indicate and explain the meaning of all the terms usually employed in describing the pulse. Thus, the pulse maybe 'hard' or 'soft;' that is, require much or little pressure. It may be ' sudden ' or ' gradual,' namely, having a well-marked per- cussion wave or none at all; ' large' or ' small,' according to the size of the tidal wave and height of upstroke, which will depend on the volume of blood sent into the vessels by each systole, on the emptiness or fulness of the vessels during diastole, and on the conti-action or relax- ation of the muscular coat of the arteries. Should they be contracted, the terms ' wiry' or ' contracted' are applied to the pulse. The pulse is called ' flickering' when the systoles are feeble and unequal, the tidal waves being therefore unequal in volume and perhaps in rhythm; or ' undulating ' from an undulation in the respiratory line; ' dicrotic,' if the dicrotic wave can be felt. Irregularities in rhythmINFLAMMATION. 59 are also parfcicularlj well sliown, and their cause, wlietber purely cardiac or dependent to some extent on the respiratory movements, indicated. There is one character of the pulse, however, which is perhaps the most important of all to recognize, and which the Sphygmograph does not indicate, namely, that of 'persistence.' By this is meant the ability to feel the arteiy during the diastolic period, owing to its prolonged dis- tension and overfulness, due to contracted arterioles or impeded capil- lary circulation, whichever may prove to be the true cause of what is known as 'high tension.' Although this particular character is not shown by the Sphygmograph, and can only be felt by the finger, nevertheless others which are always associated with it, are most per- fectly indicated by the instrument, and comprise the signs of ' high tension.' It is as a measure of 'arterial tension' that the Sphygmo- graph is perhaps of the greatest value, and a few words on the indica- tions of the degree of tension existing are necessary. "By the term 'high tension' a condition is meant in which the arteries are fuller than natural. It produces increased resistance to the heart's contraction, and increased pressure on the arterial walls. If such a condition be chronic, it produces hypertrophy of the left ven- tricle and thickening of the heart, as in chronic Bright's disease, and is also the immediate cause of atheroma, aneurism, apoplexy, albuminuria, and other conditions. The most constant indication of this condition is prolongation, or undue sustension of the tidal wave. This can be Fig. 12.—To gauge High Teusion. (a.) Line from apex of up- stroke to bottom of aortic notch. (&.) Line from bottom of notch to base line. gauged as follows :—Let a line be drawn from the summit of the often upstroke to the bottom of the aortic notch (Fig. 12a, A c); if any part of the tidal wave rises above this line, forming a curve with its convexity upwards, the tidal wave may be said to be unduly sustained, and the arterial tension to be high. The next important sign of high tension is the height of the line drawn from the bottom of the aortic notch to the base line. (Fig. 12&, c D.) The longer the line, the higher the arterial tension, and vice versa. " In high tension the percussion wave is usually well marked, and separated from the tidal wave. (Fig- llh.) Sometimes it is absent, from failing power and feeble contraction of the heart. (Fig. 11c.) High tension may exist with the muscular coat of the arteries contracted or relaxed ; the upstroke may therefore be short or high. It usually requires considerable pressure to develop the pulse, but notGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 60 invariably; thjs depends upon the strengtli of the heart and the force of its conti'actions." " The other extreme of tension is gauged by the dicrotic wave, the size to which it is developed, the shortness of the line c D (Fig. 12i), or its entire absence; the pulse being fully or hyperdicrotic. (Fig. 10b, c.) In addition to this, the percussion wave is generally absent, and the collapse of the tidal wave sudden, the angle formed by the upstroke and downstroke being very acute. This sudden collapse is due to the emptying of the artery being sudden and not gradual. (a.) High. Fig. 13.—Variations in Arterial Tension. Chronic Bright's disease. Pr. 5 oz. (h.) Medium. Normal. Pr. 3 oz. f\ (c.) Low. Normal. Pr. 3 oz. - M (d.) Very low. Typhus. Pr. 1 oz. "The degrees of tension which are commonly met with are very various; four types may be givenThe extreme high tension of Bright's disease (Fig. Ua) ; the medium or normal tension of a healthy pulse of good tone (Fig. 136) ; the low tension oiten found in healthy persons, with bad tone and relaxed vessels (lig. 13c); the extremely low tension of the hyperdicrotic pulse of fever (tig. 13rf). To these might be added the pulse of empty arteries, as m free aortic ""^^^From this consideration of the pulse in general, let us return to that of Inflammatory fever, which is of considerable interest and affords valuable assistance in the prognosis and treatment of the case. In simple inflammatory fever of the sthenic type, although the tempera- ture may be high, the pulse is one of rather high tension; this is also the case with erysipelas in some cases, and these are generally of a mildINFLAMMATION. 61 nature. In inflammatory fever of an asfhenic type, and occiirring in debilitated subjects, the pulse may bo one of low tension and consider- ably dicrotic; this is especially the case if there be any tendency to pytemia, when the pulse is almost invariably of low tension and very dicrotic. So, in low forms of asthenic erysipelas, the pulse is often hyperdicrotic, and these cases especially require free stimulation. With pulses of high tension in inflammatory fever, depletion and anti- phlogistic treatment may almost invariably be employed; it is the ' hard' pulse which the old practitioners regarded as the infallible indication for bleeding. Fig. 14.—High Tension Pulses in Traumatic Fever. (a.) Second day after ovariotomy. I. 100. Pr. 2 oz. (&.) Third day after excision breast. Pr. 3 oz. of (c.) Scalp wound. Pr. 2 oz. (d.) Severe contusions and frac- tured thigh. T. 103-8. Death next day. Pr. 2 oz. 1 \ /'^ " If, however, the pulse in inflammatory fever be one of low tension, stimulants and a generous regimen are required. Fear also may be entertained of pysemic infection ; absorption probably takes place more readily in this condition than in high tension. Further indications may be afforded by the amount of pressure required to develop the tracing, and the presence or absence of well-marked percussion showing the strength of the heart and its mode of contraction; a sloping upstroke and a rounded top being the infallible indications of a failing heart. " There is no rule as to the nature of the pulse in inflammatory fever, erysipelas, or pytemia; either high or low tension may occur in either of these conditions. Roughly speaking, however, it may be said that62 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. high tension is most likely to be met with in inflammatory fever and low tension m pyaamia. The tracings in Fig. 14 give types of •degrees of high tension occurring in inflammatory fever in different individuals, and from various causes; while those in Fig. 15 give Fig. 15.—Low Tension Pulses in Pya5mia. (a.) Pyjemia. Pr. 2 oz. (h.) Puerperal pyaemia. Pr. 3 oz. (c.) Pyaemia after amputation of thigh. Death two days after- wards. T. 103-5. Pr. 2 oz. types of low tension occurring in pyaemia. The last tracing in Fig. 14 gives the form of pulse immediately preceding death, when the tension has been high throughoub, namely, a short and rather sloping upstroke, with a slight rounding of the apex, and a want of sharpness or rounding off of the angles about the tracing ; while the last tracing in Fig. 15 exhibits the form of pulse preceding death, the tension having been low throughout the illness. In this case the pulse is hyperdicrotic, Avhile the upstroke is also short and a little sloping." The Urine, in Health and Disease.—The urine in disease undergoes alterations which can be estimated only by observing the characters and composition of the urine in health, as the representative and ex- ponent of blood-conditions in health. The student, therefore, Mnll do well to start with this physiological knowledge before proceeding to the description of febrile urine. HEALTHY URINE. Physical Characters.—A fluid, clear, of a bright amber colour, peculiar aromatic odour, and specific gravity or weight, varying from 1-015 to 1-030, the average being 1-020, when cold. The quantity secreted varies from 30 to 80 fluid ounces in twenty-four hours, theINFLAMMATION. 63 averao-e being about 52 ounces. Sligb.tly acid, except after food, when it becomes neutral or alkaline, during digestion in the stomach— cbymification. Chemical Composition or Constituents—qualitative and quantitative.— Mean or average in twenty-four hours, for the adult male :—• Grains. Urea 512-40 Uric acid 8-56 Phosphoric acid 48-80 Oxalic acid 1-42 Sulphuric acid 31-11 Hippuric acid 34-50 Chlorine . 126-76 Extractives, e.g. creatine and creatinine, and colouring matters . . . 154-00 Soda . . 125-37 Potash 58-21 Ammonia 8-58 Lime ....... 3-55 Magnesia 3-09 Iron undetermined Mucus (adventitious) .... 7-00 Total C Solids 1123 35 Grains-weight. I Water 524 Ounces measure. In estimating the quantity of any urinary constituent excreted in twenty-four hours, the weight of the body and activity of the functions must both be compared therewith. Thus the excretion of only 150 grains of urea, in a person whose weight is 80 lbs., would be a healthy proportion ; but if the weight be 170 lbs., that quantity would be very disproportionate, and indicate a diseased condition of serious or fatal consequence. The physiological origin of the urinary constituents is represented in the following tabular view, taken from Dr. Golding Bird's well- known work, edited by Dr. Birkett:— 1. Organic I'roduGts. 1st. Ingredients characteristic of the secretion fUrea, uric acid, creatine, creati- produced by the destructive assimilation of tissues, | nine, colouring and odorous and separated from the blood by the kidneys. I principles. 2nd. Ingredients developed principally fromf^^ addition to the above, hip- the food during the process of assimilation. P^"° .^f^""^^ ' ° ^ [ dental constituents. 2. Inorganic Products. 3rd. Saline combinations separated from the blood, and derived from the food. Sulphates, phosphates, chloride of sodium, and all soluble salts taken with the food, and often undergoing decomposi- tion in tlie system. 4th. Saline combinations chiefly generatedfSulphates, during the process of destructive assimilation. (Phosphates. 3. Ingredients derived from the Urinary Passages. 5th. Mucus of the bladder. Gth. DebriH of epithelium. 7th. Phosphate of lime.GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 64 Febrile urine exhibits physical characters and chemical peculiarities of diagnostic importance. At first, it has a deep red colour, strong urinous odour, super-acid reaction, high specific gravity; and the quantity secreted in a given time is diminished. These alterations are chiefly owing to a reduced proportion of vs^ater, rather than of solid constituents in the urine, which has thus become concentrated. But the inorganic salts, especially the chloride of sodium, are diminished, both absolutely and relatively; while uric acid and the urates are increased. Even when urates are not deposited, there is always an excess of uric acid. Urea is increased in some cases, and probably diminished in others. The greatest quantity present would appear to be in meningitis, and an excess is found during exudation; but urea is diminished during resorption, in pneumonia, pleurisy, and in acute rheumatism, especially if accompanied with endocarditis. Extractive matter is generally increased, and lactic acid is often present. Oc- casionally, a small quantity of albumen is found, but only for a short time. As inflammatory fever declines, the urine deposits a lateritious brick-dust, coloured sediment, more or less abundant, consisting of urate of ammonia. The quantity of sxveat is much diminished during inflammatory fever, but its chemical composition at that time is not well understood. Ulcers, also, which have been discharging freely become diy. The flow of saliva is less free, and the tongue furred. This appearance arises from a material of whitish yellow or brown colour and firm consistence, overlaying the posterior and middle portion of the tongue on its upper aspect, and adheinng closely. It cannot be removed altogether by scraping, but as the fever declines it is shed spontaneoxisly. If, says Dr. Thomson, this fur arose from the nature of the saliva secreted, then, instead of being found only on the upper, middle, and posterior parts of the tongue, we should find it incrusting the whole internal surface of the mouth. It is probably secreted from the papillag to which it adheres. A similar appearance arises from irritation of the stomach, without any fever at all. Discrimination, therefore, is neces- sary, by considering whether other symptoms concur. Blood.—The blood undergoes certain very important alterations in inflammation, and which are of two kinds,—namely, in respect to its vital properties, and therefore as affecting its coagulability and coagu- lation; and in respect to its chemical composition. The resultant blood-condition affords another and very significant symptom of inflammatory fever, and which can be readily ascertained, when neces- sary, by drawing off a sample, say a few ounces, from the general mass of blood, as supplied by venesection. (fi.) The altered vt^ai properties of the blood comprise—an increased tendency to coagulation, and to the separation and contraction of the fibrin in a free state. The phenomena known as the huffy coat and sizy blood are thus produced. These appearances can be understood by comparing the changes which take place, as observed in the coagulation of healthy blood. Let 51 pint of fresh-drawn blood be exposed in a shallow basin; im- mediately a vapour, having a faint odour, arises, which (halifns) was first noticed by Haller. In about four minutes a pellicle appears at the edge of the vessel, soon extending over the surface of tlie blood and down the sides of the vessel. It pervades the whole mass in about eightINFLAMMATION. 65 or nine minutes. The fluid blood is thus converted into a jelly. But in a variable period, from seventeen to twenty minutes, or much later, this jelly begins to shrink away from the sides of the basin, and the colourless, transparent serum exudes—a process which, continuing for several hours, or even days, at length leaves a blood-red clot, floating about in limpid serum. And what is this clot ? The fibrin of the liquor sanguinis, whicb has spontaneously solidified into fine homo- geneous filaments, interwoven like felt, and which has caught and involved the red corpuscles. They also have spontaneously aggregated, their disc-shaped surfaces cohering side by side, and forming rouleaux, like piles of money, which connected themselves into an irregular net- work ; the shrinking of this fabric, intertwined vnth that of the fibrin, expressed the serum, and thus aided the solidification of the clot. Two constituents, therefore—the fibrin and red discs—together sponta- neously aggregate to form the clot, wliich consists of woven filaments involving the net of red discs. The expressed serum is structureless. The pale or colourless corpuscles are irregularly distributed throughout the clot and serum. These changes are represented in the following table :— ^, ., -^^ { Liquor Sanguinis. \ , ) ^ , ^ , -r., i Fhiid Blood. \ , ^ Fibrm. ^, . } Coagulated Blood. I Corpuscles. | ^^loi. j If the blood, freshly drawn as we have supposed, be inflamviatory, its coagulation then presents a clot, the upper portion of which is pure fibrin, of a tawny-yellow colour, and known as the huffy coat. This, therefore, consists of a portion of fibrin, which has coagulated apart from the mesh formed of red discs. And what is the immediate cause of this kind of clot ? Obviously, that the red discs separated and subsided from the liquor sanguinis before the fibrin began to coagu- late. How does such isolation arise ? Possibly in either of two ways, or by a concurrence of both. The fibrin may coagulate so slowly as to allow time for the blood-discs to separate and subside. But Dr. Stokes watched the coagulation of inflammatory blood in twenty-seven cases. In fifteen of them the buffy coat formed; in the remaining twelve it did not. In four of these twelve samples of ordinary coagulation, it began only at the end of eight minutes after venesection, and in other three of this series not until after twenty to forty minutes had elapsed, making a range between the two extremes of from eight to forty minutes. This delay of coagulation gave ample opportunity for the red discs to escape from the fibrin during its solidification; yet they did not subside, and the usual red clot formed. On the other hand, in twelve of the fifteen samples of buff-forming coagulation, the yellow clot of pure fibrin formed in only five minutes, and in the remaining three it was delayed only to ten minutes; so that, during this com- paratively short period of five or ten minutes, the red particles had Beparated and settled down, leaving the buff-coloured fibrin free and floating. Slow coagulation, therefore, does not explain the production of the bulfy coat. The only other active element in coagulating blood is the mesh- forming discs; and how do they behave in freshly drawn inflammatory blood ? They individually possess undue power of aggregating (H.66 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Nasse), and the net thus wrought has also undue power of contracting (W. Jones), whereby the serum is more eiTectuallj expressed from its meshes. This fabric, therefore—the component particles of which have individually greater specific gravity than the serum—has now even greater weight, bulk for bulk, and being formed earlier than usual, subsides in the serum before the fibrin has fairly solidified, or perhaps before this more essential element of the clot has begun to coagulate. John Hunter seems to have anticipated this view of buffy blood, and Schroeder Van der Kolk, with other observers, has corroborated it. Combining all these observations—formation of the buffy coat seems to imply an increased separation and contraction of fibrin in a free state, rather than its increased power of separation and contrac- tion, and that the blood-discs are the initiative and active element in the process of buff-forming coagulation. Slow coagulation of the fibrin will, however, favour this result, by allowing more time for the gregarious blood-discs to fl.ock together and exercise their function as a contracting mesh. If, therefore, the blood be artificially preserved in a fluid state, by adding serum to above its normal proportion, thereby delaying coagulation, the red discs aggre- gate and subside, and the buffy coat is thus presented. Probably both the causes I have mentioned concur to produce this result, and that as they prevail more or less during the act of coagulation, so is the buffy coat of pure fibrin more or less completely established. The earliest intimation that blood is about to undergo this kind of coagulation, is the appearance of a violet tint, not unlike the bloom of black Hamburg grapes, on the surface of the exposed blood. This appearance was, I conceive, noticed by Hunter, and regarded by him as due to the red particles shining through a thin layer of buff-coloured lymph, just as blood in the veins gives a similar tint when viewed through the skin. The tint will therefore vary as the layer of fibrin becomes thicker. Coagulation proceeding, if the mesh of red particles separate and subside from the fibrin, but yet slowly and incompletely, and if the free fibrin but imperfectly solidifies and contracts, then a loose sizy clot is produced, resembling a solution of isinglass, attached to the sides of the vessel, and scarcely trembling when shaken. If, again, the separation and contraction of pure fibrin be more complete, a flat, yellow buff-coloured cake is produced, swimming in serum; but the under portion of this clot is red as usual by admixture of the red discs. If, again, the separation and contraction of fibrin be still more complete, the fully formed, solid, and buff-coloured clot is presented, withdrawn from the sides of the vessel, and probably concave or cupped on its upper surface; the lower portion of this clot ha-sdng formed more slowly, has contracted more strongly, and drawn dovrn the central part of its upper aspect. The blood, or rather the clot, is buffed and cupped. Even in this case the red particles and fibrin do not completely separate. In thirty samples of buffed blood, care- fully inspected by Dr. Richardson,* he never failed to find red discs iu the lower portion of the clot, and in many instances this red lower portion had the consistence of ordinary coagulum. The diagnostic value of these appearances is not absolute. In- * " The Cause of the Coagulation of the Blood," p. 335.INFLAMMATION. 67 variably present with, inflammation, they are also present in other conditions affecting the blood. Coagulation exhibits the buffy coat notably in pregnancy, and other conditions attended with an excess of fibrin in the blood; and both the buffed and cupped appearance niay proceed from slow coagulation, without any change in the constitution of the blood itself, as when this fluid is drawn quickly, in a full stream, and received into a narrow deep vessel. Conversely, exposure, as by a trickling stream, into a shallow vessel, hastens coagulation, and thus prevents these results. (&.) Besides these deviations in the process and product of healthy coao-ulation, inflammatory blood is found to have undergone certain alterations of chemical composition. Its constituents, no less than their properties and endowments, are perverted. Becquerel and Rodier enu- merate the following alterations in the blood of acute phlegmasise:— 1. An increased proportion of fibrin. 2. A decrease of globules. 3. A decrease of albumen of the serum. 4. An increase of fatty matters. 5. A decrease of soda and soluble alkaline salts. In point of practical interest, the importance of all these chemical changes appears to concentrate in. the influence they exercise on the separation of the fibrin, and its coagulation in a free state. Alkaline salts in excess are well known to retard coagulation, and a decrease of the soda and soluble alkaline salts will have the opposite effect. Less time than usual is then allowed for the blood-discs to subside, and so far the formation of the buffy coat is not promoted. An increased proportion of fatty matter will probably favour the early separation of pure fibrin, by inducing it to rise with such matter to the surface of the blood drawn, and leave the red discs below. A decrease of the albumen of the serum will have a similar effect, by directly diminishing the specific gravity of this fluid, so that the blood-discs sink more readily. The mean specific gravity of the serum in the phlegmasise generally, is estimated by Becquerel and Rodier at 1027'0 ; and although, according to ISTasse, that is about the average in health, yet the specific gravity of serum in inflammations frequently declines below the mean of 1027. And this is due to the proportion of albumen being reduced below the healthy average of 80 parts in 1000, to 73"35, and even as low as to 64'84. It was formerly stated by Gendrin that the albumen rose to about twice its proportion above the standard of health. The decrease noted is in a direct ratio to the increased proportion of fibrin. So also the blood-discs decrease in quantity proportionately to the increase of fibrin (Simon), and this reduction will facilitate their complete separation—the more so, since, by undue aggregation of the discs, their combined specific gravity preponderates even more than they do individually. Lastly, the increased proportion of fibrin above the average of two to two and a half parts in 1000 of blood, contrasting as it does with the reduced proportion of blood-discs, is the culminating point in favour of a clot being formed of pure fibrin; and this increase, and corresponding formation of the buffy coat, was noticed by Andral andGENEEAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. 68 Gayarret to rise as higli as ten parts in 1000 of blood drawn, in acute articular rlieumatism, and in pneumonia. The source of this additional proportion of fibrin is doubtful. Simon suggests that the blood-discs are transformed into fibrin, and in conformity with an acknowledged physical law, that as textures waste in proportion to their functional activity, so therefore the blood- discs disintegrate more abundantly in inflammation—owing to their function as bearers of oxygen to the various textures being overtaxed, in the more frequent transmission of these discs through the lungs, by acceleration of the blood's circulation. The flotilla of oxygen-laden cells perishes from overpresscd service, and their wrecks are converted into fibrin. Simon's statement that the discs decrease in quantity proportionately to the increase of fibrin, harmonizes with his theory; but, against it, Becquerel and Rodier urge that this destructive change ought to take place whenever the circulation is accelerated, and therefore whenever fever exists. Yet an increased proportion of fibrin is not found in other fevers accompanied with an accelerated circulation. Is the excessive fibrin transformed albumen ? Probably similarity of composition allows of such transformation; and certainly, as the albu- men diminishes in quantity, so does the proportion of fibrin increase. Of this metamorphosis we know neither the cause nor the mechanism, observe Becquerel and Rodier. Summarily, the coagulation of inflammatory blood—when drawn and fresh—-amounts generally to this : the blood-discs, having an nndue tendency to aggregate, and the net they form an undue power of contracting, more speedily sink in serum, normally of less specific gravity than the discs individually, of still less than the shrunken net of discs; and that this separation of the discs (before coagulation of the fibrin) is facilitated by their reduced number, and by diminished specific gravity of the serum itself. The fibrin, itself increased in quantity, then coagulates free of blood-discs, at least in its upper portion, and rises to the surface of the serum, its ascent being probably aided by admixture with the free and floating fat. Pathology of Inflammatorij Fever.—The alterations of the hlood, in connection with inflammation, proceed apparently from the persistent local determination of blood, coupled with the increased productiveness and destruction of the textures. The increased proportion of fibrin, and the increased tendency to coagulation and to separation and con- traction of the fibrin in a free state forming the buffy coat, are both commonly proportionate to the extent of the inflammation, and its duration in an active state. Under similar circumstances of nutrition, the same blood-conditions are induced in a greater or less degree; as during pregnancy, when the uterus is growing ; and the buffed appear- ance of the blood is readily induced hy inflammation in fast-growing children, in whom also the plastic products are then unusually copious. Other writers believe—and Mr. Simon ranks himself most unreservedly among them—" that the blood yields more fibrin, not in proportion as it is ripe and perfect, but rather in proportion to quite opposite conditions ; that an increased yield of fibrin corresponds not to the rise, but to the decline, of albuminous material; that its relations are not with repair, but with waste ; that its significance is that of something intermediate between life and excretion."INFLAMMATION. 69 (1.) The Fever of inflammation was formerly supposed to arise from the increased proportion of fibrin in the blood, or hyperinosis, as the cause of febrile excitement of the circulation, and the other functions involved. Hunter advocated this interpretation of inflammatory fever, and he gave cases which, as tested by venesection, seemed to support it. But the recent results of chemical analysis indicate that inflam- matory fever may possibly be absent with hyperinosis, or present without it; and they certainly prove beyond doubt that the degree of inflammatory fever cannot be measured by the amount of hyperinosis. MM. Becquerel and Rodier estimate the increase of fibrin in various diseases to range from the healthy average of three to ten parts in one thousand of blood; and that a slight increase from three to five takes place in chlorosis, in certain cases of scurvy, more especially when it assumes the chronic form, during pregnancy also, and in erysipelas of the face; yet surely the two first mentioned diseases are not inflammatory, nor are the ordinary constitutional symptoms of pregnancy those of inflammatory fever. On the other hand, a diminished proportion of fibrin below the average of three in one thousand was noted in scarlet fever, small-pox, and measles ; but the ordinary type of these fevers is inflammatory in a high, degree. Lastly, when present, the degree of this fever does not correspond with the amount of hyperinosis. A great increase of fibrin up to ten in one thousand was noticed in acute articular rheumatism, in pleurisy, and pneumonia; and a proportion varying from five to ten was also found in peritonitis, bronchitis, and severe erysipelas of the face—diseases which are accompanied with at least as high a degree of inflammatory fever as pleurisy or pneumonia. (2.) The foregoing facts and considerations compel us to attribute the accompanying inflammatory fever to some other source than the blood; and the only other bond of sympathetic connection between the heart and inflamed part is the nervous system. Many years since, Abernethy suggested this channel of communica- tion, and subsequently, Travers pointed out the agency of the nervous system, and drew the distinction between nervous excitement alone and inflammatory fever. Although he attributes this fever to excite- ment of the circulation from hyperinosis, yet he observed that the first morbid impression was upon the nervous system, and transmitted by the nerves of the part injured or inflamed to the nervous centre, and thence to the organs of circulation. In proof thereof, Travers urges the priority of nervous excitement in the development of inflammatory fever. The premonitory symptoms, viz., headache, lassitude, dis- quietude, nausea, chilliness, and rigor, are indications of the more or less troubled condition of the nervous centres; to these the alterations in the measure and force of the circulation, the permanent and sensible changes upon the internal and external surfaces, and their secretions, succeed—viz., quick pulse, hot skin, dryness of the mouth and fauces, furred tongue, vitiated and scanty secretions. (3.) But the chemically changeful state of the textures, and thence of the blood in circulation, with the evolution of heat, are the essential constituents of inflammatory fever; and its symptoms are those of this more active change and increased temperature. There is, observes Mr. Simon, an accelerated devitalization and destructive transformation of organic matenal, which infects the blood through the venous and lymphatic outflow; the general mass of blood, thence70 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. receiving corresponding increments of heat, and an unwonted afflux of chemically changing material, thus in its turn undergoes similar changes, chemical and calorific; and this process is then extended, through the circulation of the blood, to all the textures in the body. Every tissue, according to its chemical mobility, participating in the excitement, thus reflects in a lesser degree the disorder of the inflamed part, and contributes its share to that overproduction of vfaste material and of heat which characterizes inflammatory fever. As the blood gets hotter and hotter, more and more do the symptoms of fever become developed; as the blood subsequently gets cooler, so do they decline. The "crisis" of febrility consists in a rapid, and generally continuous, rise of temperature; the "lysis," in a slow, and usually intermittent, return to the normal standard. Certain of the phenomena which precede and accompany in- flammatory fever are diflicult of explanation. I allude more particu- larly to inappetency and thirst. Healthy hunger and thirst are now generally allowed by physiologists to be sensations expressing corre- sponding requirements of the system, rather than proceeding from conditions of the stomach. These sensations, observes Dr. Carpenter, bear no constant relation to the amount of solid or liquid aliment in the stomach, whilst they do correspond with the excess of demand in the system over the supply afforded by the blood; and they abate by the introduction of the requisite material into the circulating blood, even though this be not accomplished in the usual manner by the ingestion of food or drink into the stomach. Agreeably to this physiological provision, inflammatory fever should be attended with hunger, rather than inappetency. Albumen is the pabulum most extensively demanded by the tissues for their support, and its propor- tion in the blood declines considerably during inflammation; yet this deficiency is accompanied with the loss of appetite. Again, the secretions are suppressed, and water, therefore, retained in the blood; yet this excess is attended with incessant thirst. The rise of temperature—to perhaps 107° Fahr.—during inflammatory fever may be due, partly, to suppression of the perspiration, whereby heat is retained which would otherwise pass off by evaporation from the skin; and the excited nervous system probably contributes to the actual production of heat. But the principal source of increased heat "would appear to be the chemical changes in the textures of the in- flamed part. Causes; External and Internal,—Exciting and Predisposing.—In common with most diseases, the etiology of Inflammation relates to causes without and within the body ; and the latter, at least, may have either an immediate, or a predisposing causative influence. The External causes of inflammation are manifold, but they may all be comprehended under four heads :—(1) Mechanical injury or irrita- tion, as wounds, fractures, dislocations ; or foreign bodies, introduced into the organism, as grit, portions of clothing, a splinter of wood, a bullet, and parasites, animal and vegetable; (2) Heat and Cold; (3) Chemical agents which decompose or kill living animal matter, as strong acids, caustic alkalies, chloride of zinc, and other escharotics ; (4) Vital irritants, or animal and vegetable poisonous matters, and some mineral poisons; as the venom of noxious animals and plants, cantharides, mustard, capsicum, essential oils, arsenic, etc.INFLAMMATION. 71 Internal causes may be either of an exciting character, in having an immediate action ; or predisposing in their operation. Exciting internal causes comprise the blood, textures, and excre- tions of the body, severally, under peculiar circumstances ; and morbid products, organized and unorganized. Blood extravasated and decomposing is a foreign body. So also are the various textures, when dying or dead; in the form of slough of the soft tissues, sequestrum of bone. The various excretions, as urine, ffEces, bile, are irritants to the organs which naturally contain them, if such matters be in a state of decomposition; or if, being themselves healthy, they are extravasated ; as urine into the scrotum, feculent matter into the peritoneum. These excretions are peculiarly obnoxious to cellular texture and serous membi'ane. Lastly, morbid products are apt to excite inflammation. Of deposits, softened tubercle does so in the lungs and other parts ; of growths, cancer especially has this effect, the ichorous discharge more particularly being irritating. Calculi are familiar examples of unorganized products exciting inflammation in organs where they occur. For example, a stone in the kidneys provokes' nephritis'; in the bladder, cystitis. All exciting causes of inflammation, in regard to their modes of action on the part affected, may be referred perhaps to two types : the stimulant kind, like heat, which acts as an excitant of textural changes in the nutrition of the part; the depressive kind, like cold, which acts as a textural depressor. Predisposing internal causes include all those conditions which, co-operating locally, would constitute inflammation; or which, as systemic conditions, incKne towards inflammation. The body is thus rendered susceptible to the influence of exciting causes. But the pre- disposition differs relatively, according to the nature of the cause which excites inflammation. For example, an excited state of the vascular system favours the production of inflammation from local irritation; whereas, a depressed state of the vascular system favours the develop- ment of inflammation from exposure to cold. It is not easy to refer an inflammatory predisposition to any one element of inflammation; but an approach to certain illustrations of their respective influences is exhibited by the inflammation of different parts, wherein one or other of these elements predominate. Thus, tissues in a devitalized state, and ready to die under the action of stimulants or depressors, are prone to inflammation; but tissues whose reproductive power is greatest, and which are commonly also most vascular, are equally predisposed; as, for example, the skin compared with fibrous or tendinous structures; or tissues whose pro- ductive power is temporarily exalted, as during the growth of the body in childhood and youth. The more vascular organs are similarly inclined; the lungs, for example, as compared with most other organs. On the other hand, a deficient supply of blood to a part inclines to inflammation by textural starvation; as in incipient senile gangrene. The condition of the hlood is specially influential; poorness of blood— spanasmia—depending on a deficiency of animal food, is apt to induce inflammatory affections of low type, by defective nutrition; rheumatic and gouty inflammations are ever impending when an excess of lactic or of lithic acid, respectively, is in circulation; the retention of urea in the blood, as in Bright's disease of the kidneys, leads to inflammation ofGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 72 the serous membranes; and suppressions of the excretions in general, have other inflammatory tendencies ; while the introduction of irritant poisons into the blood gives rise to inflammation in different organs,— arsenic gaining admission through an ulcer, leads to gastritis, and blis- tering by cantharides produces bloody urine. It would seem that at least some such inflammatory afi'ections are natural efforts to eliminate the poisonous matter from the system. Thence the predisposing influ- ence of constitutional conditions generally, most of which are blood diseases manifested by various local inflammations, and ever ready to recur; as secondary syphilitic diseases of the skin and other parts, scrofulous affections of the bones, skin and other textures. Other blood conditions predispose, as unquestionably, to local inflammations ; but they require for their development the co-operation of external exciting causes—contagious matters—in each case peculiar, relatively to the special condition of blood, which is thereby brought into action. All the infectious and eruptive fevers are of this kind. Predisposition through the influence of the nervous system is evoked by nerve injuries, the operation of which in producing peri- pheral inflammation is thus generalized by Simon :—A part deprived of sensibility becomes specially incapable of protecting itself against mechanical and chemical irritants, and accordingly inflames—e.g., the urinary bladder, subject to the action of retained urine, in paralysis. A part injured in respect of its innervation, is likely to suffer some circulatory disorder, with corresponding disturbance of natural temper- ature, and proneness to inflammation. The co-operation of all these elements will render the predisposition complete, and almost give rise to inflammation. Thus, the functional activity of any organ implying the concurrence of all the conditions essential to nutrition, in excess, such activity is accompanied with a proportionate proclivity to inflammation; as in the mammary glands, after parturition when lactation commences, and during its continuance; or the ovaries at the period of menstruation. The operation of inflammation itself is both local and constitutional. Locally, inflammation operates by extension, continuously, in the texture or organ affected; contiguously, to parts adjoining ; or, by transference (metastatis) to a part remote from that originally affected, the primary inflammation then subsiding. Continuous extension is witnessed in the progress of inflammation along the skin or mucous membrane, as in erysipelas, and the sore throat of scarlet fever. Contiguous extension is illustrated by ulceration of the articular cartilages of any joint, consequent on caries of the adjoining head of bone, or on synovitis. Thus also ostitis supervenes on periostitis; cellulitis on inflammation of the skin, and conversely. Taking inter- nal organs, from the head downwards : meningitis is succeeded by cerebritis ; scrofulous and purulent ophthalmia, by inflammation of the cornea and deeper textures of the eye ; laryngitis, by inflammation of the subcellular texture and oedema glottidis; gastritis, enteritis, cystitis, and metritis, respectively, may extend to the peritoneum, giving rise to peritonitis. The transference of inflammation is exemplified by orchitis super- vening on the sudden suppression of gonorrhoea. Such then is the general operation of Inflammation locally; con-INFLAMMATION. 73 stitutionally, its operation was ti'aced in the origin and development or the pathology of inflammatory fever. Course and Terminations.—Inflammation may proceed to either of four Terminations : Resolution, or disappearance ; Effusion, or lymph- production ; Suppuration, or pus-formation ; Ulceration and Mortifica- tion, or death of texture. Excepting the first of these terminations, that of resolution or simply cessation of inflammation, the line of de- marcation between each of the remaining three modes of termination, is indistinct, and they are commonly more or less combined. A more definite line of distinction may be drawn between them, by regarding the course of inflammation in reference to its two principal constituent elements; increased productiveness, and increased destruction, of texture. According as one or other of these predominates, so may we associate therewith the remaining terminations of inflammation respectively ; as efEusion, and suppuration ; ulceration and gangrene. 1. Resolution.—Inflammation may subside and terminate without any permanent structural result. The redness fades away, the part recovers its healthy tempei'ature, slight swelling if perceptible sub- sides, and exalted sensibility or pain ceases; while any inflammatory fever passes off. This is resolution; a termination of inflammation by the concurrent cessation of all the elements of this process ; and consequently, the cessation of its local and constitutional mani- festations. 2. Productiveness may predominate ; then. Inflammation proceeds to Effusion, or, perhaps, Supfmration—an increase of new material in the part, beyond the small proportion which necessarily attends inflamma- tion. Liquor sanguinis appears, consisting of coagulable lymph and serum. In the latter constituent, the proportion of albumen and of salts is increased ; but of these there is a larger proportion of chloride of sodium and phosphates than in the blood, as shown by Lehmann, and Dr. L. Beale. Three conditions of lymph may be distinguished by tolerably well marked structural characters; the fibrinous and the corpuscular of Paget, and a transition condition, consisting of both fibrils (filaments) and cells, the latter predominating. Similar susceptibilities of organi- zation represent the varieties noticed by Dr. C. J. B. Williams, as the euplastic, aplastic, and cacoplastic. They differ also in point of vascu- larity, in the course of theu' development. With these typical conditions of structure are associated tolerably definite physical properties. Fibrinous or Euplastic lymph—trans- paret, nearly colourless, and tenacious. Corpuscular or Aplastic lymph—opaque, yellow, diffluent. Transition condition or Cacoplastic lymph—opaquish, yellowish, and less tenacious than the euplastic type. These characters are more clearly contrasted when placed in juxtaposition. LYMPH. Fibrinous. Transition condition. Corpuscular. Physical (Transparent Opaquisli- Opaque. properties ] C-olou^'less. Yellowish. Yellow. ^ ^ \ Tenacious. Tenacity less. Diffluent. ( Fibrils. Cells. Cells. Structure < Cells. Fibrils. Granules. ( Blood-vessels. Blood-vessels few. Blood-vessels absent. Ex. False membrances. Ex. Cirrhosis. Ex, Pus. VGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 74 The qualities of lympli are certainly most obvious when it is effused from simple membi-ances, as the serous—for instance, pleuritic effusions; while the more complex structure of skin and mucous mem- branes retard its separation, and modify its properties by the admixture of their own secretions. Hence the varied products of skin diseases, and those discharged from the gastro-intestinal canal, the urinary and pulmonary passages. It will be desirable first to describe, more particularly, the ele- mentary products of Effusion, including Suppuration ; and then, their apparent source and mode of production, or the pathology of Effusion. Products of Ivflammation—Effusion.—(1.) Coagulable lympt is more or less tenacious and at first transparent, but it acquires a slightly opaque yellow colour. It is produced in the form of minute villi. This appearance is best seen on free surfaces which are least subject to motion or pressure; as between convolutions of the intestines in peritonitis, between the lobes of the lungs in pleurisy, and about Fig. 16.* the base of the heart in pericarditis. (Fig. 16.) But wherever serous surfaces are in contact and play upon each other, the ductile lymph is drawn into threads or plastered into films; as on free portions of the pericardium and pleura, and on the parietal aspect of the intestines. Coagulation having taken place, coagulated lymph is somewhat solid, though still retaining its tenacity and opaquish yellow colour. Its organization, in this its simplest condition of structure, is that o: fine filaments, interwoven in various directions; as in the buffy cont of the blood. These filaments are formed apparently by the liueav union of molecules and they vary fi'om rivTro to toutto of an inch in diameter. * Pericarditis showing villiform lymph. (Bennett.)75 INFLAMMATION. (2.) Cells or corpuscles appear in coagulable lymph, and are found interspersed among the molecular formed filaments, in coagulated lymph. These cells contain each from three to eight granules, the diameter Fig. 17.* of which equals that of the filaments. The cells themselves range in size from to rooT) of an inch, (^'ig- 17.) They have been named plastic by Dr. Bennett, because occurring so often in plastic lymph; and also named pyoid by Lebert, from their general resem- blance to pus corpuscles. But neither water nor acetic acid much alfect these plastic cells. Most probably, they are altered white corpuscles of the blood, which have emigrated. Cells of this kind undergo development. By elongation, they assume an oat-shape; prolonged yet further in opposite directions, they are attenuated into filaments,—forming fibre-cells. Thence is produced fihro-cellular, or connective, tissue, generally the highest state of organization of inflammatory efi^usion. (Fig. 18.) Pig. 18. Blood-vessels are found in organized inflammatory lymph, and possibly in coagulated lymph, but they do not appear to be formed m it; they project into the new tissue from the structure on, or in, which it is placed. The vessels are formed by the same process of sprouting, coalescence, and construction of loops, as in granulations. Lymphatics were discovered by Schroeder Van der Kolk in false mem- braues. Nerves have been twice seen by Virchow in adhesions; one of the pleura; the other of the peritoneum, between the liver and diaphragm. False Membranes are formed on the inner or free surface of serous and oE mucous membranes ; as in pleurisy, pericarditis, and peritonitis ; m croup, and dysentery. Such membranes consist of inflammatory * ^lolecular fibres and plastic corpuscles, in simple exudation on a serous sunace. Above are corpuscles after the action of acetic acid. 250 diam. (Bennett.)76 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. lymph, which has undergone more or less development; and on serous surfaces, it may reach the state of organization just described, that of fibro-cellular tissue, supplied perhaps abundantly with blood-vessels. The physical characters of false membranes vary according to their more or less high degree of organization and vascularity; the mem- brane formed is either pliant and yielding, or tough and unyielding. Adhesion is apt to take place when the opposed surfaces of a serous cavity lined with inflammatory lymph, meet together. Similar adhesion may take place in wounds, or under other circumstances. Any such result of inflammatory lymph-effusion is sometimes referred to adhesive inflammation. Other and more highly developed tissues are reproduced. Many such results of inflammatory lymph-production are adduced by Paget. Adipose tissue may be formed, if not directly from inflammatory lymph, yet in the fibro-cellular tissue of completely organized adhe- sions. Elastic tissue is sometimes abundantly formed in the adhesions developed from inflammatory lymph, and particularly in those of the pleura. Epithelium covers the surfaces of well-formed adhesions. Fibrous tissue is produced from the development of inflammatory lymph, interstitially deposited in any fibrous tissue; as in ligaments, capsules of joints, etc. Bone is often formed, either as a late trans- formation of inflammatory lymph, which had become organized into perfect fibrous tissue; e.g., osseous plates in false membranes of the pleura, and in those of the pericardium, which plates are not true bone; or new bone appears in the form of ossific deposits, connected with inflamed bone or periosteum. Cartilage may be produced in chronic rheumatic arthritis. This new cartilage is prone to ossify. Lymph-effusion may undergo ah sorption; or if persistent, its operation may be either destruc- tive, or reparative and construc- tive, and accordingly unfavourable or favourable to the function of the organ or texture affected. Destructive consequences of lymph-effusion are illustrated by many organs. The heart may be shackled by tags of false mem- brane, which continually restrain- ing the action of this organ, at length induces its hypertrophy; a compensatory provision of in- creased structure for extra con- tractile power. Or the heart may undergo compression by great thickening of the cardiac reflexion of the pericardium, in consequence of the interstitial deposition of lymph therein (Fig. 19) ; and thence, eventually, the organ be- * Great thickening of cardiac reflexion of the pericardium. Sudden •while turning in bed.—Author.77 INFLAMMATION. comes atrophied. The lungs may suffer in like manner, either way. Peritonitis is apt to agglutinate the abdominal viscera into one mass. Within the substance of parenchymatous organs, contractile lymph being deposited, they become stuffed, consolidated, and sometimes atrophied and granulated. Such are old hepatized lungs, cirrhosed liver, and granular kidneys. Strictures are liable to form around canals, as the oesophagus, rectum, and urethra, narrowing or closing them and thus interfering with the functions of these passages. Eventually, displacements of movable viscera are wrought by the slow contraction of lymph-deposit, overcoming the struggle of function to recover the right adjustment of parts. Analogous mischief may happen to the mechanism of the limbs; joints become stiffened by firm fibrous anchyloses, the tendons are bound in their sheaths, and the fascifB as:o:lutinated, in chronic rheumatism. This fettered condition of organs, their compression, consolidation, and atrophy, obstruction, and displacements, are the principal destruc- tive results of lymph-effusion. On the other hand, its operation is not unfrequently reparative, to reinstate an old function, ©r constructive, to fulfil a new and useful purpose. The reparative power of adhesive inflammation is manifested by the healing of incised wounds in those cases where the effusion of lymph is induced by inflammatory hypersemia. The repair of simple fracture and of simple dislocation, when reduced, is an analogous process, and commenced probably by inflammatory hypersemia consequent on the injury. So, also, wounded arteries are permanently closed by adhesion of an inflammatory character in some cases; and the healing of liga- tured arteries is certainly effected by adhesive inflammation, which seals the divided coats of the vessel above and below the line of ligature. Penetrating wounds of the thorax and abdomen, implicating the viscera, afford ample and varied evidence of the reparative power of adhesive inflammation. Wounds of the lung are healed by adhesion of the pulmonary pleura consequent on inflammation. Wounds of the ab- dominal viscera are healed in like manner wherever the peritoneal mvestment extends; and the visceral reflexion of the peritoneum is very apt to adhere to the parietal reflexion of this membrane opposite the external wound. These results are explained in describing the healing of wounds of the abdomen and thorax respectively. In certain cases the peritoneum is purposely injured by the surgeon, so as to establish adhesive inflammation. This constitutes the radical cure of hydrocele and that of hernia; the former being accomplished by a stimulating injection, the latter by long-continued pressure with a truss ; or the radical cure of hernia may be accomplished on the same principle by the successful operation recently introduced by Mr. Wood. Lastly, among the most familiar examples of beneficial adhesive in- flammation, I may mention the well-known fact that foreign bodies, long imbedded in the living tissues, thus become enclosed in organized lymph, and their presence rendered comparatively harmless. An encysted foreign body is quiescent. Constructively, we observe inflammatory adhesion preventing sup- purating, or confining its extent, in the pleura, or in the peritoneum, occasionally ; in the synovial capsules, and determining the boundary of an ordinary abscess ; beyond which circumscribed limit, in any case,GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 78 the pus formed cannot pass. Then, again, the same process prepares the way for the discharge of pus, without infiltration of the textures during its passage or escape into any natural cavity through which it may traverse. Any collection of matter having become circumscribed —as an abscess—by the deposition of inflammatory lymph, it is thus also gradually conducted through the surrounding textures at their most yielding point; the pathway having been previously paved securely for this purpose by their adhesion. An abscess is thus advantageously opened by Nature. Absorption makes the channel, and in the direction of least resistance; but adhesion makes its banks secure. With this precaution a collection of matter is safely conveyed from a great depth in the body, and by an otherwise dangerous route. Witness the evacuation of pus from the pleura, in empyema, through a large and pendulous mamma. Adhesions of other serous surfaces favour the escape of matter. When a student, I once saw an abscess of the liver which pointed and threatened to burst externally, but which eventually relieved itself by perforating the diaphragm and right lung successively; a continuous expectoration of pus being provided for by adhesion of the pleura where perforation had taken place. Sometimes, by a similar provision, an. abscess of the liver discharges itself externally, or into the stomach, the duodenum, or the colon. An abscess of the kidney will also thus communicate with the colon; and an abscess in. the right iliac fossa will be emptied into the colon, CEecum, or bladder. (3.) Exudation corimscles are round or irregular little masses, having a dark and mulberry-looking appearance, under the microscope. Their size is about jiho to of mch in diameter. They consist of granules aggregated together, and sometimes enclosed in a cell-membrane; hence they are named also compound granular corpuscles. (Fig. 20.) Within each of these corpuscles is seen a round transparent nucleus, varying in size from 5^ to of an inch in diameter. The granules vary from 10^5 to jjxnnj of an inch. They are fatty. Acetic acid does not afiect the cells or masses ; but they dissolve immediately in ether, and disintegrate under the influence of potash or ammonia. (4.) Piis is a fluid having peculiar physical characters ; an opaque greenish-yellow colour, diffluent or creamy consistence, faint odour, and an average specific gravity of 1030, but varying considerably f roni 1020 to 1040. All the characters of healthy pus differ considerably in the many diseased states of this pi-oduct. This fluid consists of a serum in which are sus- pended an innumerable multitude of corpuscles. (Fig. 21.) They are spherical, somewhat granular- looking cells, from of a line in diameter; and consisting of a cell-membrane, enclosing granular or molecular matter, and a nucleus situated, generally, on the interior of the cell wall and adherent. It varies in size from ^ to * Granular cells and masses from cerebral softening. (Bennett.) t I'us-corpusclcs, as seen in healthy pus; the fine transparent cells are as seen after the action of acetic acid. (Bennett.) Fig. 20.* Fig. 21.t79 INFLAMMATION. of a line across, and consists of two, three, or four granules aggregated together. These secondary nuclei are rotmd, oval, sometimes elliptical. The whole cell,—its membrane, and contained molecular matter and compound nucleus, are albuminous. Water distends these corpuscles, and acetic acid dissolves the molecular matter, perhaps also the cell- membrane, and by loosening or breaking up the nucleus, displays its compound structure. (See Fig. 21, the five ti-ansparent cells.) Pus-serum is a clear, colourless, or very faintly yellow fluid, having a weak alkaline reaction, and coagulating by heat into a dense white mass. Albumen is its chief constituent, in proportion from 1"2 to 3"7§. Fatty matter is extracted by ether, and it consists of olein, margarin, oleic and margarie acids, and cholesterin. These fatty matters vary from 2 to 6§ of the wbole fluid, of which proportion, cholesterin alone often reaches to l^. Mucin, pyin, casein, chondrin, glutin, and leucine, are occasional constituents. The solid constituents of this serum range from 14 to 16§, of whicb from 5 to 6g are mineral, and the soluble salts are to the insoluble as 8 to 1. Of the former, chloride of sodium is most abundant, being three times more so than in tbe serum of blood. The soluble phosphates range from 3 to 10§. The insoluble salts are phosphates of lime and magnesia, with a little sulphate of lime and peroxide of iron. Certain incidental matters may be present in pus, as in any other exudation; namely, bile-pigment, the resinous acids of the bile, urea and sugar. (Day's " Chemistry.") Pus is seldom found pure, but associated with various ingredients, the debris of surrounding textures, and mixed with secretions. Healthy or laudable pus may thus become serous, mucous, sanguineous, stru- mous, cancerous, etc. Or pus may be specific; as the syphilitic pus, vaccine matter, pus of porrigo, of glanders, etc. The products of Inflammation are usually found associated ; but one or other so far predominates, in different textures or organs, as to give its own structural character to the deposit; in cellular texture and parenchymatous organs, as the lungs, the product is chiefly granular matter and exudation corpuscles; in or on mucous mem- branes, chiefly pus; on serous membranes, chiefly coagulable lymph. Pathology of Effusion and of SujJj^uration.—Analogy would lead us to expect a general resemblance between the processes of healthy nutrition and inflammatory effusion;—that the composition and vital condition of the blood will predispose to the formation of certain products; and that this process is affected by the degree of inflam- matory hyperfemia, and by the force of the general circulation; that it is regulated by the nervous system; and is completed by the secretory or the formative power of the inflamed structure. How far does all this anticipation accord with known facts ? (a.) As to the condition of the blood, in its relation to inflammatory effusion. Serum exudes from the engorged vessels, and fibrin, there- fore, may also escape in a fluid state. But inflammatory blood supei'- abounds with fibrin, and this condition will tend to deposit it more freely. The liquor sanguinis effused will be, for the most part, fluid fibrin; and such is the typical character of coagulable lymph, which represents the first product of inflammation, before the formation of filaments, or of exudation, or pus-corpuscles. It is that which appears m the first instance on blistered surfaces, as demonstrated by Paget's observations.GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 80 (h.) The quantity of liquor sanguinis, and therefore of fibrin, efEused, is further regulated by the degree of hyperismia, aided by the force of the general circulation. Virchow denies this explanation of fibrin-production. He argues that nobody has ever been able to prove the affirmative experimentally; that nobody has ever been able, by producing a mere change in the force of the current of the blood, to induce the fibrin to transude directly, as it is wont to do in certain inflammatory processes ; for this, some irritation is always required. But, in the absence of experimental proof, clinical observation supplies, I think, some probable evidence. When the pulse is strong and hard, the blood-stream beats forcibly through unyielding vessels, in an inflamed part; then fibrin is pro- duced abundantly in that part. When, again, the pulse is rapid rather than strong, and compressible, the blood current is misdirected; then less fibrin is found in the part inflamed. The former condition is illustrated by common phlegmonous inflammation, with much fibrin; the latter, by erysipelas, with much serum. (c.) Beyond these causes of lymph-effusion, it is possible that the charaeter of the deposit may be influenced by the nervous system; but the share of its influence, if any, must be determined by future inquiry. (d.) Lastly, the structure in which inflammation takes place, may itself exercise some power, either by selecting the fibrin from the blood, thereby inducing its effusion, or by producing it in the inflamed part through metamorphosis of the material effused. In other words, an inflamed structure may possess either a secretory or a formative power. Virchow adheres to the latter view, and maintains by experimental observations, that irritation indtices the effusion of a fibrinogenous substance, which can be converted into fibrin. In proof of the self- sufficiency of irritation, Virchow adduces the operation of a blister; that firstly, serum only is yielded, but if the irritation be more violent, a fluid which coagulates. The general doctrine advanced is thus stated : A patient who produces at a certain point a large quantity of flbrin- forming substance, much of it passes from that point into the lymph, and finally into the blood. The exudation may therefore in such cases be regarded as the surplus of the fibrin formed in loco, for the removal of which the lymphatic circulation did not suffice. As long as the current of lymph does suffice, all the foreign matters which are formed in the irritated part are conveyed into the blood; but, as soon as the local production becomes excessive, the products accumulate, and in addition to the hyperinosis, a local accumulation of fibrinous exudation will also take place. More consistent with known facts is the operation of a secretory power, by which structures select this or that constituent of the blood as it passes through them, and by which the effusion of that particular constituent is determined. An approach to the proof of this theory is, I conceive, the behaviour of the same blood in different textures. Blood, having the same composition and properties, deposits in one inflamed part much fibrin; in another, rather albumen; in a third, more fatty ma,tter. In pleuro-pneumonia, for example, fibrin and a large proportion of serum are effused from the inner surface of theINFLAMMATION. 81 pleura; an albuminous matter is deposited in tbe lung parenchyma; and pus, in wbicli fat abounds, is more readily secreted from the (bronchial) mucous membrane. These products are known ingredients of the same blood, flowing alike to each of the three structures mentioned, and yet they severally receive a diiferent kind of deposit. The inference is, that the particular deposit is selected or secreted by the particular kind of texture. How far this secretory power is a vital property, how far it results from the physical construction of the texture, is an open question. Assuredly the physical consistence and permeability of a part will very much affect its capability of receiving this or that kind of effusion. Pyogenedis, or the origin and formation of pusrcorpuscles, is a process respecting which various explanations have been propounded, but all of which may be resolved into two sources :—(1.) Derivation of pus- cells from some source external to the capillary blood-vessels. Dr. Redfem's original observations on cell-division in articular cartilage, subject to irritation, suggested the doctrine of pus-production by the proliferation of tissue-cells. Subsequently, similar observations on the cornea of the frog, by Virchow and Heis, confirmed this view. After cauterization with nitrate of silver, or after the passage of a seton, the corneal texture swarmed with young cells, apparently in various stages of endogenous development from the tissue-cells. Enlarging fi'om this stand-point of experimental investigation; corpuscles or germs are said to abound in the cellular or connective tissue throughout the body, which, as a common stock, may generate pus-cells; and it is alleged that cell-growth results from irritation of the pai'enchymatous textures. Such is Virchow's theory of pyogenesis. Dr. Burdon Sanderson observes, that " a region is found outside the focus of suppuration, in which the connective-tissue corpuscles present altei*a- tions which are so distinct, that it is impossible for any one who is conversant with them to doubt that they signify that the tissue is germinating." This doctrine completely overturns the old theory of pus-formation by disintegration and solution of the textures. As Virchow expresses it, " Pus is not the dissolving, but the dissolved, i.e., the transformed tissue; a part becomes soft, and liquefies whilst suppurating, as the result of the proliferation of the tissue." (2.) Effusion, or exudation of the plasma of the blood, would appear to be the source of pus-cells, according to Rokitansky ; and trans- formation of the exudation corpuscles was the doctrine propounded by Dr. Hughes Bennett. In either case, the source would then be from wiilmi the vessels. It is alleged that exudation granules aggregate and constitute a compound granular mass. An investing cell-mem- brane may gather round such a mass, as a nucleus. Both these are forms of the exudation corpuscle. Partial liquefaction of the peri- pheral granular matter of a cell-enclosed mass, may then give rise to a pus-cell, with its compound granular nucleus. The chemical metamorphosis of cell-contents, or the substitution of albuminoid for fatty granules, is not explained. But the structural relation of pus-cells to exudation corpuscles, would seem to be a degenerative transformation. Several such apparently transformative conditions of exudation corpuscles are represented in Fig. 20. i'i.) Eniujration oi the paLu hlootl-corpusdes through the walls of the capillaries, is now the generally accepted iiitci'pretation of pyo- GGENERAL rATIIOLOGY AND SURGERY. 82 genesis. The process of transmission has been already described. But the principal evidence in support of this being the source of pus-cells, may be thus stated. The structural resemblance or identity of pus- corpuscles, and the pale corpuscles of the blood, had long been known. Then the amoeboid activity of pus-cells—no less than that which the pale corpuscles are known to possess—was shown by the original observations of Recklinghausen. But the evidence that pus-cells are pale corpuscles of the blood, rests upon two orders of facts respecting the results of ii-ritation in a non-vascular texture, as the cornea of tlie frog. After a few days, the cornea assumes a yellowish opacity, situated invariably at the periphery of the centre of irritation ; the inference being that the source of any pus-cells must have been extraneous to that centre. Then again, molecular colouring matter in contact with cells is known to be appropriated by them; accord- ingly, Cohnheim introduced aniline blue into the lymph-sac in the frog's back, and the pus-cells in the cornea were found to be tinted with this colour; whereas, on introducing the same material into the cornea, the corpuscles remained colourless. Similar results were obtained from the injection of cinnabar, by Hoffman and Reckling- hausen. Fus-'production appears to be governed by conditions analogous to those which regulate the formation of other inflammatory products, and those of nutrition in general. " Secretory power " would seem to be in operation, regulated probably by " nervous agency," and determined by the "condition of the blood;" possibly also by the " flow of that blood to the part." (a.) Pus has been termed a secretion; and its constant production in connection with certain textures, rather than others, although the blood be the same, plainly indicates that such parts possess and exercise some secretory or separating power. The readiness with which mucous membranes suppiirate is well known. Bronchitis, enteritis, and cystitis are prone to induce purulent sputa, faeces, and urine, respectively; indeed, pus has been found on a bougie five minutes only after it was introduced into the urethra. Other textures are far less prone to suppurate. An incision through the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue probably unites by adhesion, without any suppuration, or pus is not produced for two or three days. (fe.) The pus-forming po%ver of textui'es is probably regulated, like other secretory power, by the nervous system. In paraplegia, cystitis usually ensues, and this paralytic cystitis produces purulent urine in a more marked degree than cystitis arising from other causes. Injury of the fifth pair of nerves is followed by suppuration of those parts which they supply. Such cases show the cfl:"ect of intercepting the nervous influence to a part; but the nervous system exhibits its influence by inflammation and suppuration of a part through sympathy with some irritation in another and perhaps distant part. Sir Jqmes Paget refers to a specimen in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, where extensive deposits of lymph and pus were found in the testicle of a man Avhose urethra contained a portion of calculus impacted after lithotrity. The influence of mental emotion in jiro- ducing inflammation with speedy suppuration is manifested by the following case, and of which there are similar ones. A lady was watching her little child at play, and she saw a heavy window-sash fall83 INFLAMMATION. upon its hand, cutting off three of its fingers. In a short time the mother also had inflammation of the corresponding three fingers of her own hand, and in twenty-four hours pus was evacuated by incision. (c.) Pus-production is determined very much by the condition of the blood. One would suppose so, judging from the analogy between pus-secretion and other efforts of the secretory power. Certain experi- ments made by Paget supply apposite illustrations. They show that the same tissue, inflamed by the same stimulus, and as near as possible in the same degree of inflammation, yields, in different persons, and in whom therefore the blood may be considered dissimilar, different forms of lymph. The inference is obvious, that blood-conditions determine the kind of product which shall be formed, or, as we may say, secreted. Blisters raised by cantharides in thirty patients gave sometimes a fibrinous, sometimes a purulent, product. It was found that in cases of purely local disease, in patients otherwise sound, the lymph formed an almost unmixed coagulum, in which, when the fluid was pressed out, the fibrin was firm, elastic, and apparently filamentous. Whereas, in cases at the opposite end of the scale, such as those of advanced phthisis, a minimum of fibrin was concealed by the crowds of corpuscles imbedded in it. Paget therefore concludes that the highest health is marked by an exudation containing the most perfect and unmixed fibrin; the lowest, by the most abundant formation of corpuscles, and their nearest approach, even in their healthy state, to the characters of pus-cells. (d.) Has continued determination of blood any influence in pro- ducing pus? It has been alleged by Dr. C. J. B. Williams, that such a result is most likely to ensue in complex and highly vascular structures, where the effused matter is retained in intimate contact with the blood-vessels; hence intensity and continuance of inflammation in the true skin, cellular textures, glands, and most parenchymatous organs, pretty surely lead to suppuration. But, if an incision be made when pus is about forming in a large boil, an abundance of solid lymph is seen agglutinating the cellular texture. Pressing as this does upon the vessels which it encompasses, they become, at least partially, occluded. And this obstruction, this solid lymph and agglutinated cellular texture, may extend for some distance, giving the external swelling a broad base. Around the periphery of the solid swelling blood plays freely, yet without pus forming there; whereas, in the centre, first appears a white spot of pus, far removed from the circumferential determination of blood. This afilux of blood goes on depositing fresh lymph, thus enlarging the swelling; while in the midst of the solid lymph and occluded vessels, more and more removed from all such external influence, suppuration proceeds. Per- sistent determination of blood, therefore, only prepares a structure for suppuration; suppuration itself is an independent process. Con- sequently, we are not surprised to discover pus in a texture where determination of blood cannot have availed much; as in the centre of a large fatty tumour, itself but ill provided with vessels for its own supply of blood; and the freest afilux of blood without suppuration, as in a gouty toe. Sirpifi of Effusion, and of Supj^uraiion.—Inflammatory Effusion is attended with swelling, in consequence of the progressive accumulation of the products of effusion. The nature of this swelling may bo84 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGKUY. recognized partly by considering the physical character of the pro- ducts; liquor sangtiiuis presenting a swelling, at first fluid, but as coagulation ensues, it soon assumes the character of a mixed product —solid and fluid, varying as either fibrin or serum prevails. Should the swelling be of doubtful character, the diagnosis can be com- pleted by puncturing its substance, and if necessary by further examination with the microscope of the matter efEused or the resulting products. Suppuration is announced by a throbbing or pulsating pain, in- creased heat, redness, and swelling. But proceeding as these signs do from increased determination of blood; a condition not essential to suppuration—they are not invariably present, or followed by sup- puration ; the inconstancy, in either respect, depending on the kind of texture in which inflammation takes place. In any unyielding texture, inflammation is accompanied with a throbbing pain, without suppuration necessarily ensuing; toothache being a familiar example. In a loose parenchymatous texture, which more freely admits the afflux of blood, extensive suppuration may have supervened, without any previous throbbing; as in the cellular texture of the ischio-rectal fossa. On the other hand, with regard to increased swelling; in loose cellular texture, considerable effusion and swelling may have taken place without suppuration ensuing; while, in an unyielding texture, an abscess forms, without any previous increase of swelling. The diagnostic value of these symptoms is perhaps fairly this: when suppuration does occur, in unyielding textures, it is invariably pre- ceded by throbbing, with increased heat and redness; and, in yielding textures, by increased swelling. Otherwise, these are not constant signs of approaching suppuration. Consequently, they. are not absolutely trustworthy as premonitory symptoms. But the physical properties of pus confer certain distinctive characters on any soft part in which it is formed. Just as the first effusion of lymph is recognized by a semi-solid swelling, arising from the products—fibrin and serum—into which that lymph has become resolved; so now another product—fluid, but of creamy consistence, and slightly viscid—imparts a more elastic feel to the swelling. It is the sign of diffused suppuration, and this condition may continue, or a further change takes place. Abscess.—Lymph may become deposited so abundantly around the focus of suppuration, as to effectually circumscribe and imprison the pus. The textures, thus encompassed, die, disintegrate, dissolve, and are removed by absorption, leaving tbe pus, more or less pure, in their place. An abscess is formed; which may be named acufe or subacute, with reference to its more or less speedy formation; some- times also termed a hot, or a piUegmonous abscess, as having regard to the sthenic character of the inflammation, or the firmly circumscribed boundary of solid lymph. A common boil is a good example of this form of abscess. It is the opposite condition of what has been termed diffuse abscess, which is nothing more than diffused suppuration. The circumferential lymph of this pus-containing cavity becomes highly organized, by the development of capillary blood-vessels, having a looped arrangement (Pig. 22); and it assumes somewhat the structure and characters of mucous membrane, and acquires a secretory power. It becomes pus-forming, as well as pus-containing; it is a pyogenic85 INFLAMMATION. mcmhrane; and as it absorbs old pus, as well as secretes new matter, \ the abscess is gradually concocted or ripens. _ ] The Signs are now those of abscess. The throbbing pain, heat, ^ and redness, all tbe signs of previous active hyperaemia, are mitigated , by the yielding resistance of pus as compared with that of partially I solid lymph.; unless the matter be confined under any unyielding | texture, sucli as a fascia, or within bone. But a fluid and fluctuating, elastic swelling is presented, rather than one having the solidity of coagulated lymph, or the softness of pus diffused. To detect the presence j of matter, a gentle tapping pressure with one or two fingers may suffice to convey the sensation of fluid; or, by this digitation on one side of the abscess, while the fingers of the other hand are lightly applied to the opposite side, a fluid stroke, or a wave-motion—fluctua- tion—will be more or less distinctly felt. According t© the depth of the matter, so must these manipulations vary in degree; but the sense of touch varies also in different individuals, and the Student \ should lose no opportunity of gaining the " tactus eruditus." ; i Fig. 22.* \ Like any other structure, pyogenic membrane may lose its func- tional power; then, pus-secretion failing, while absorption continues and prevails, the abscess dwindles and gradually disappears; or, retaining its power unimpaired, secretion and absorption are, perhaps, equally balanced, and the abscess remains stationary and becomes chronic. This form of abscess often occurs in the cellular texture, but usually in connection with dead bone—necrosis—or within the sub- stance of a bone, as in the head of the tibia; and in the lymphatic glands or the salivary glands, chronic abscess is not uncommon ; although in these parts, owing to the constitutional character of the suppuration, this abscess is usually named scrofulous. The signs are still those of abscess, as a fluid, fluctuating swelling; but the pain is less, unless maintained by some source of irritation, as in necrosis, and there is little heat, or redness. Yet the pyogenic membi'ane may acquire a higher degree of secretory power; pus accumulates, the membrane itself grows proportionately, and the abscess enlarges. The pus- * Section of abscess. (Diagram after Paget.)* IGENERAL TATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 86 secreting sac or cyst, thin and smooth, is gradually transformed into a thick, soft spongy membrane, slightly mammillated, and of a greyish or reddish brown colour; at the same time, the matter secreted generally loses the creamy consistence of pus in an acute abscess, and becomes converted into a thinner, sanious, flocculent or flaky, yellow fluid. The sac is attached to the surrounding textures loosely or closely. They are detruded and absorbed under constant pressure by the expanding abscess, and thus also the area or size of the fluctu- ating swelling increases; slowly attaining to perhaps a considerable size. Then the swelling has become more unlike that of an ordinary acute abscess, and, owing to the thickened induration, more resembles a solid turnour, for which a chronic abscess might be mistaken by an inex- perienced surgeon. Allied to the chronic abscess is the co7i-gestive, or cold, also named lymphatic, abscess; wliich occurs, sometimes, in the cellular texture or in the glands of debilitated subjects; the part suddenly falling into suppuration, as a thin bag of matter, without any notable symptoms of abscess. Thus, in the loose cellular texture of the thigh or axilla, or in the neck, a nearly painless and perhaps colourless swelling appears, and which freely fluctuates when examined. This swelling is often of large size, and may rapidly increase ; tending to burrow beneath the integuments, and in the cellular planes between the muscles. For, unlike an ordinary chronic abscess, the circum- scribing wall of fibrin always remains thin and ill-defined; but the contained matter is similar—a thin, sanious, opalescent, yellow fluid, consisting of serum, with broken-down pus-cells, in a state of fatty degeneration. As compared with the healthy pus in an acute abscess, the matter in a chronic, or in a congestive abscess, is even more and more aplastic. Course.—In a variable period, usually before an abscess becomes chronic, absorption of the pyogenic membrane itself begins, under the expansion of constant fluid-pressure. And generally, in the direction of least resistance the abscess points; the circumferential tissues under- going absorption more readily, or yielding more, in that direction, as the expanding force there gains advantage. On the side of the abscess opposite to this thinning portion, the pyogenic membrane, according to Macartney's observations, actually grows thicker, and conti'acts so as to exercise some degree of expulsive power. A prominent point appears, tense, as with fluid ; over which the skin assumes a dark livid tint, with a shining or glazed aspect, while the cuticle is shed in receding rings. Here fluctuation is most perceptible through the thinned integument, which at length becomes relaxed. This spot varies in extent, from a small point to an area the size of a shilling, or larger; and the margin is usually circular and well defined. Soon a small slough separates and pus escapes. Thus, also, in the case of mucous membrane, an aperture is formed; but serous membrane yields with a rent. Distension is relieved, and if the aperture be sufiiciently free and dependent, or made so, the matter is discharged or drains away daily, coagulable lymph is effused instead, and forming gi-anula- tions, it contracts towards the aperture, and gradually closes the cavity of the abscess. The residual abscess is now a healing ulcer, and the process of reparation is completed in a period varying from, perhaps, twenty-four hours to days, weeks, or months. If contraction be incomplete, the sac of the abscess is brought to87 INFLAMMATION. getliei' only here and there, leaving intervening pus-producing cavities; a multilocidar abscess is formed. Or, the cavity conti-acts into a long narrow channel, lined with a perfect pyogenic membrane throughout its course, and having an obstinate indisposition to heal; a fistula is formed. It may be convenient to distinguish a sinus by the absence of these characters. The latter is generally said to be distinguished from the former, chiefly, by its having only one opening; a sinus being a long, narrow, suppurating canal, opening externally or internally, and having little disposition to Heal. But any such canal is an incomplete fistula; as may be fistula in ano. Sometimes an abscess, after evacuation, acquires an unhealthy character, and remains without any tendency to heal. The sac secretes a fetid sanious pus, induced probably by the admission of air, or by some constitutional disorder affecting the pyogenic membrane, and the production of granulations is delayed. Or, at a later period, when the abscess is reduced to an ulcer, it, like ulcers arising otherwise, may exhibit an obstinate indisposition to heal. From constitutional causes chiefly, this ulcer may become irritable, inflamed, sloughing, or phagedtenic. The function of pus may be inferred from its relation to the process of healing by suppurative granulation, in a healthy ulcer or sore. The cells of pus are either degenerate or immature granulation-cells. If the former, pus represents the superficial portion of organized granulation- matter, which, having lived its time, passes off, just as the outermost epithelial cells are shed. If immature granulation-cells, pus represents the superfluous portion of organizable granulation-matter, which never reaches maturity. This is the more probable interpretation. Compare pus-cells—as unaffected by acetic acid—(Fig. 21, cells to the left), with, granulation-cells (Fig. of granulation-structure, in this work), and their great similarity or identity will be obvious. As immature granulation- cells, pus ceases to be secreted when the granulations come to the level of the skin, for then, the ulcer being filled up, no more oi'ganizable material is needed. Suppuration may thus be associated with a restorative or reparative purpose; as in the closing of an abscess after evacuation of its contents, and in the healing of open wounds, com- pound fracture, and dislocation. The situations where abscess originates are regulated, it would seem, very much by the different kinds of texture. Rarely, if ever, is abscess formed in fibrous or cartilaginous tissues, nor within any serous mem- brane. The situations where abscess may be found, are very various. It may have extended from its seat of origin to another, and perhaps distant, locality. Abscess by translation, as any such extension is termed, somewhat inaptly, is favoured by various circumstances: by the dif&culty with which pus produced in certain parts, finds its way to the surface; by the comparative facility with which it travels to other parts ; by slow progress of the abscess, allowing opportunity for its extension; and by special circumstances conducing, which are peculiar to each case. Examples of such abscess occur chiefly in connection with the spinal column. Taking them from above downwards; abscess arising from disease of the cervical vertebrae, may present directly forwards behind the pharynx; or it may extend behind the sterno-mastoid muscle to the side of the neck; or into the axilla, or the thorax. From the88 GENKRAL I'ATHOLOGY AND RURGKRY. dorsal or lumbar vertebra?, abscess may present directly backwards, or forwards into the thorax or abdomen; or it may extend downwards— through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, in the case of dorsal abscess—and forwards, between the abdominal muscles, to some point in front of the abdomen; or to the external abdominal ring; or, guided, apparently, by the obturator vessels and nerve, to the obturator fora- men, it points in the upper part of the thigh ; or within the sheath of the psoas muscle to the upper part of the thigh, more externally, it appears as psoas abscess. Passing thence lower down, dorsal or lumbar abscess may point in the popliteal space, the calf, or even as low down as the ankle; or extending, from its seat of origin, downwards, and inwards, into the pelvis, the abscess may point at the side of the vagina, rectum, or sacro-sciatic foramen, or escaping thence, burrow externally befewecn the bone and gluteal muscles, so as to present in the gluteal region. Abscess by translation is further illustrated, by extension from the seat of origin in the shoulder joint to the elbow ; or from the hip to the knee. In the diagnosis of abscess by translation, any such extended collection of matter must not be confounded with metastatic or secondary abscess, consequent on pyemic infection. The Signs of translated abscess are: a fluid, fluctuating swelling, like that of an ordinary abscess ; but its concomitant redness, heat, and pain, are absent. Some degree of inflammation may ensue, from the weight of pus on the most dependent part of the abscess, and pain also may be experienced, owing to pressure on nerves in the neighbourhood. Fistula and Sinus.—The pathology of sinus and fistula has a wider significance than in relation only to abseess; for these passages may result from iilceration and sloughing, or from the imperfect healing of wounds. Generally, all these modes of formation depend on some local source of irritation; as a piece of dead bone, the escape of some secretion, as urine or feculent matter, and less frequently, bile, gastric juice, or saliva ; and, the disturbing action of muscles in the neigh- bourhood of the part affected. Thus may be produced fistula in connection with necrosis or caries ; perineal fistula, and vesico-vaginal fistula; fistula in ano; biliary, gastric, and salivaxy fistulse ; fistula from the healing of wounds in the limbs. Sometimes, two of the causes referred to may concur in producing fistula ; as fistula in ano, resulting from abscess, caused by the escape of some feculent matter into the cellular texture adjoining the anus, and the closure of the abscess being prevented by the disturbing action of the sphincter ani muscle. The walls of a fistula or sinus are lined with a more or less com- plete pyogenic membrane, secreting an unhealthy purulent fluid, in varying quantity, mixed perhaps with some other secretion. Accord- ing to their indisposition to heal, these passages are more or less hard —callous, as it is termed, Avith condensation of the surrounding cellular texture. On introducing a probe up such a passage, it is found to be but slightly sensitive, or ready to bleed. An opposite state may be met with; the passage feeling soft or spongy, acutely tender, and bleeding freely; so that even under gentle pressure, the probe may easily penetrate the wall of the passage, and get out of the track. The orifices of a complete fistula are two—an external or integu- mental, and an internal, leading into an abscess, or into some mucous canal or cavity, as the urethra or the rectum. Sometimes both orifices may be said to be internal, as in vesico-vaginal fistula. An incom-INriiA:\rMATTON. 89 pletc or blind fistula, or sinus, has only one opening, which may bo external or internal, whence such fistula is named accordingly. The external orifice presents certain varieties of appearance, which aro practically important, as indicating the state of the fistula, or the presence of some source of irritation, local or constitutional. Thus, an inverted orifice, with a border of thickened and indurated integu- ment, is connected with a callous and chronic condition of fistula; Avhile an everted external orifice, presenting an out-crop of soft, spongy granulations, or " proud-flesh," may be connected with caries or necrosis, as the foreign body which maintains this indisposition of the fistula, or fistulge, to close. (Fig. 23.) Other appearances maybe dependent on some constitutional influence, as scrofula or syphilis. The discharge from a fistula, so long as the passage is indisposed to heal, is itself never of a healthy character; but it is less characteristic, contrasting only with healthy pus in being a thin, ^3 grumous, yellowish or reddish fluid, con- sisting of serum with broken-down pus- cells and blood corpuscles. Besides the ordinary conditions of fistulce, they are liable to assume the various dis- eased states of an ulcer ; becoming irritable, inflamed, sloughy, or phagsedenic. When manifesting a tendency to close, as a healing fistula, the pyogenic membrane, which had previously a mammillated or imperfectly granular surface, now forms healthy granulations, and the passage be- gins to contract and get smaller; while the external orifice is no longer inverted or pouting, but is beset with small, florid granulations, followed by cicatrization. The discharge also assumes the creamy con- sistence and appearance of healthy pus. In this general description of Fistulaa, it is unnecessary to notice the various lengths of these passages, their irregular width, and their tortuous, and perhaps branched, directions; for although these particulars are, indeed, of practical importance, they pertain rather to the special pathology of organs and regions. Hectic Fever.—The constitutional disturbance or hectic fever conse- quent on suppuration and abscess, is characteristic. Commencing at a variable period in the course of inflammation, the first symptoms are those of prostration with excitement. A sensation of chilliness or a shivering fit—rigors—announce the one, while the other—nervous ex- citement—is exhibited by restlessness and sleeplessness, the pulse also retaining its frequency, or rising in rapidity, although losing its force and hardness. The heat and flush of skin subside, a cold clammy sweat supervenes, the urine becomes pale, abundant, and deposits a pmkish sediment of lithates. The tongue loses its brown fur, is white and pasty with a bright scarlet tip ; the appetite is very capricious, sometimes absent, with loathing of food and even vomiting; while profuse watery diarrhoea succeeds to the previous constipation. Pro-90 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. grcRsiye emaciation and trembling weakness bespeak tbe failure of nutrition; and the general course of the symptoms at length proclaims the victory of exhaustion. Hitherto this fever has been uninterruptedly continuous with that of inflammation; but if it be prolonged, it acquires an intermittent character,—exhaustion prevailing, yet with recurring efforts of excite- ment, particularly of the circulation, followed by increased secretions from the skin, kidneys, and bowels. Thus, towards evening, after a day of dread exhaustion and when the skin is pallid, a chill is felt; soon the pulse rises in force slightly, and in frequency to perhaps 100 or ] 30 beats per minute. Then the patient temporarily revives ; the hollow checks are crowned with a tint of crimson hue, and the sunken Fig, 24. eyes are lustrous; giving to youth and beauty a complexion and an expression which are not of this world. The palms of the hands and soles of the feet feel hot and dry. During the night or towards morning, this fitful fever abates with profuse perspiration, urgent liquid diarrhoea, and probably diuresis. Daylight is welcomed, but only with feelings of greater prostration. The temperature in rigor, observes Le Gros Clark, rises always shortly before the commencement of an attack, and remains high for a varying period, commonly about half an hour after the shivering terminates; then it subsides gradually down to the degree from which it rose, or even lower. This diurnal rise and fall of temperature is well indicated in the annexed chart (Fig. 24), relating to a case of hectic91 INFLAMMATION. in a young girl, labonring under pi'olonged suppurative discliarge from disease of the hip-joint, and on whom I operated in the Royal Free Hospital. Such is hectic fever. Intermittent, it occui's at various periods ; frequently as a quotidian, sometimes as a tertian or quartan. Thus far resembling other intermittent fevers, hectic has diagnostic dif- ferences. It seldom recurs at a period perfectly regular, for more than three or four paroxysms. Then recurring at irregular intervals, it may disappear entirely for ten or twelve days; unlike the course of ague. Moreover, the intermissions of hectic are not complete, the pulse still remaining above par, and very easily excited. It is rather a remittent fever. Hectic, therefore, may recur two or three times daily; and a vei'y slight degree of emaciation, a pulse a little quicker than ordinary, with a slight increase of heat, particularly after meals, are sufficient to constitute incipient hectic. These ai-e the earliest symptoms. Rigor is not necessarily the earliest, nor the most con- stant constitutional announcement of suppuration, and of approaching hectic. This symptom may be present without suppuration and consequent hectic, as the harbinger of an. ague fit, or as arising during inflammation from exposure to cold ; or from the mere introduction of a bougie into the urethra. On the other hand, hectic fever some- times supervenes stealthily, without previous rigors. Pathology of Hectic.—The causative relation of suppuration to hectic fever, would appear to be, not through purulent infection of the system, but through absorption of the disorganized textures, and therefore proportionate to the pi"ogress of suppuration. (1.) Purulent infection is irreconcilable with known facts. Pus often exists in the body without hectic supervening, as, for example, in chronic diseases of the joints, and in psoas abscess. Probably, how- ever, in such cases absorption is not very active. In other cases, pus is readily absorbed, yet without inducing hectic. A large bubo will sometimes subside in a few days without any symptoms of hectic, and every pus-secreting ulcer is liable to absorb its own secretion, and yet hectic is an unusual concomitant. Purulent absorption, therefore, is not a cause of hectic fever. Yet, I am not prepared to assert that hectic ever occurs without previous suppuration. Assuredly the ' quantity of pus formed is no measure of the degree of hectic which shall ensue ; for after amputation, say, of a compound fracture, a much larger quantity of pus may form eventually, before convalescence, than 1 had been secreted during the period prior to amputation, and yet the ! hectic shall subside. (2.) Recovery follows the removal of the disorganized part. In - some way, therefore, a causative relation exists between the disorgani- zation of a part, and the supervention of hectic. It cannot be that ■ the progressive destruction of nerves by suppuration, and the injury thence inflicted on the nervous system, gives rise to hectic, for the - symptoms are not those of nervous irritation, and, moreover, they are intermittent, or at least remittent. This certainly looks as if some noxious matter was gradually absorbed and accumulated in the blood, until thrown off by a hectic paroxysm, again to re-accumulate. The matter in question is not pus, or if absorbed it does not infect. By f^^^^s/on we are led to infer that the morbid matter is probably ithe dehriB of the disorganized textures. Clinical observations andGENEKAL rATIIOLOGY AND SURGERY. 02 examinations of the blood in hectic are wanting to confirm this view; meanwhile it is a significant fact, that the urine deposits lithates during the decline of each hectic paroxysm, ° This interpretation of hectic indicates the relationship existing between the progress of suppuration and itself. If hectic arises from absorption of disorganized textures, then it must increase with the progressive formation of pus : not that pus, in such case, itself infects, but because its formation necessarily implies the concurrent and corresponding absorption of the encompassing textures, and by thus poisoning the blood, induces hectic fever. Sup- puration and hectic are, therefore, related indirectly, as cause and eliect; and moreover, the quantity of pus accumulating or discharged, actually becomes a fair measure of the degree of hectic. Certain acknowledged principles of preventive treatment admit of explanation by the theory I have advanced. Absorption of the textures is checked when the progressive accumulation of pus is prevented; hence, the importance of making an early, free, and dependent opening, Avhich also allows any dehris of the tissues to escape. Again, absorp- tion of disorganized tissiies is altogether prevented by removing them; hence, the necessity for amputation where their destruction is exten- sive and beyond hope of recovery to a healthy condition. Amputation under these circumstances is often followed by surprisingly beneficial results. As Hunter originally observed, a hectic pulse at 120 has been known to sink to 90 in a few hours after removal of the hectic cause. Persons have been known to sleep soundly the first night afterwards who had not slept tolerably for several preceding weeks. Cold sweats have stopped immediately, as well as those called colli- quative. Purging has immediately ceased, and the urine begun to drop its sediment. All these facts and considerations harmonize with the theory, that hectic fever arises from absorption of disorganized tissues. Pus itself sometimes, apparently, enters the circulation as pus; but this pro- duces very different constitutional symptoms and results; those of pycemia, followed by secondary abscesses. The circumstances under which purulent infection arises will be noticed more particularly in connection with that subject. Respecting the symptoms, it may be here summarily stated, that they are still those of a blood-poison, and of a typhoid character, but the exhaustion induced is more speedy, and more overwhelming,—more typhoid; and the poison is either not eliminated at all, or insufl&cient to allow of marked inter- missions,—the fever is less intermittent, or more continued, than hectic. (3.) Destruction of texture, as the result of inflammation, comprises mortification and ulceration. (See Terminations, p. 73.) Mortifica- tion, or the death of a part, receives different names according to the partial and recoverable, or total and irrecoverable, loss of vitality in the part affected; the one condition being named gangrene, the other sphacelus. Both these terms refer to death of the soft textures, and wlien this takes place to a limited extent and is accompanied with ulcerative separation from the living textui-es, it is termed slough,^ and the process, a sloughing of the part; when bone is affected, mortifica- tion is called necrosis, and the dead portion, a sequestrum, and its separation, exfoliation. This latter term is sometimes restricted to the93 INFLAMMATION. detachment of an external portion of bone, in the shape of a tliiu scale or plate. Ulceration may be conveniently described first, as being in its nature introductory to mortification. The fTienomena of ulceration generally, are these:—A portion of integument having become inflamed from any cause, after a few days a small piece separates and comes away, leaving a corresponding loss of substance—a chasm, from which a discharge, variable in kind and quantity, issues. Thus, then, the skin, or mucous membrane, with perhaps the subjacent cellular tissue, has undergone a " solution of continuity," slowly, however, as contrasted with a wound, or other recent breach of texture, and an ulcer is formed. (Fig. 25.) Its forma- tion and extension constitute ulceration. The pathological nature of this process has long been a disputed question. All the explanations Fig. 25. advanced may be reduced to two beads. Firstly, that ulceration signifies molecular dis- integration, liquefaction, and separation of the soft parts, thereby leaving a chasm. Secondly, that ulceration is an illustration of the process of absorption, the lymphatics and veins being jointly engaged, more especially the former. Possibly, both modes of removing the dis- organized textiires, co-operate in ulceration. The evidence will be fully cousidered in connection with the general pathology of Ulceration (ch. iv.). Textures undergo certain changes of structure preparatory to their ulceration. The latter is essen- tially molecidar disintegration; but, in so far as it proceeds from inflammation, degeneration of texture prepares the way for such disintegration. And the previous degeneration is generally fatty. The proper discharge from an ulcer—the pro- duct of ulceration, not of a granulating sore—is iclior. It is a thin sanious fluid, colourless or slightly yellow, structureless, but mixed with exudation, pus, and blood corpuscles, and with the debris of the ulcerating textures. Hence its variable appearance. Its essential chemical composition is unknown. Ichor corrodes the living tissues, and is thus distinguished from pus, which it often re- sembles in appearance. Thus also it maintains and extends ulceration. Ulceration, although itself a destructive process, is sometimes restorative or reparative, in virtue of its purpose. For example, by the pointing of an abscess and the natural forrnation of an opening for the escape of matter externally, or internally into some channel through which it can be safely discharged, as through, the bronchi, stomach, intestine, or bladder. Mortification is only another mode in whicb any part of the body may die; a reciprocal relation subsisting between this process of destruction and ulceration. They differ in degree, but are one in kind. Ulceration may be exaggerated into mortification, and this may subside into that. Both are convertible by difilerent gradations of the same process of destruction. Thus, now and then during ulceration,GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 94 some temporary cause may accelerate the inflammation; a larger por. tion of tissue undergoes degeneration and dies than can disappear aa discharge, and this portion of dead tissue becomes visible in the shape of slough, instead of having been removed imperceptibly by molecular disintegration and liquefaction, aided by the corrosive action of the ichorous secretion. Accordingly the ulcer presents a rim of slough, and from time to time, another and another, as the margin of the ulcer recedes and enlarges, either by sloughing or ulceration. Of course the sloughs will vary in their depth and extent, sometimes approaching the result of molecular disintegration, sometimes appearing as ob- viously portions of dead tissue, plainly showing the transition of ulceration to mortification. Small fragments of bone may be detached and cast off with the fluid from an ulcerating surface, and these, observes Paget, when they are not fragments of tissue detached by ulceration extending around them, are good examples of the transition that may be traced from ulceration to sloughing or gangrene of parts. Continued inflammation ends either in ulceration or mortification. And indeed the very fact of pus—a product of inflammation—accumu- lating in any texture or organ, by progressive suppuration, necessarily implies the death and removal of the occupied portion. But the determination and kind of blood, the kind of texture, and the nervous influence on the part, are each or all of them so modified as to bave a tendency to death. The determination of blood may be more intense, or the kind of blood may be that which indicates the operation of some blood-poison, or at least a morbid condition of the blood, as in carbuncle and boil, phlegmonous erysipelas, sloughing bubo, and certain secondary syphilitic ulcerations, hospital gangrene, malignant pustule, malignant scarlatina, and small-pox. Unyielding textures are liable to gangrenous inflammation, owing apparently to strangulation of the capillary vessels, consequent on effusion which cannot be accommodated interstitially. Inflammation of any texture situated beneath one of this kind, as beneath a fascia or tendinous aponeurosis, has also a gangrenous tendency, and thus subpericranial inflammation is soon followed by gangrene and sloughing, exposing the scalp. But inflammation of a loose texture, if a comparatively avascular one, as the subcutaneous cellular tissue, is prone to sloughing, owing apparently to strangulation of the vessels, consequent on the ready accumulation of effusion, e.g., in phlegmonous erysipelas. The influence of the nervous system is shown by the tendency to sloughing from injury to the spine. Mortification of the ankle has thence fol- lowed within twenty-four hours. (Brodie.) Ulceration of a part may supervene on injury of the nerves leading thereto; a central penetrating ulcer of the cornea was thus formed in consequence of destruction of the trunk of the trigeminal nerve by the pressure of a tumour near the pons varolii. (Paget.) And in another case, under my own observation, in the Royal Free Hospital, a similar ulcer of the left cornea followed an injury to the posterior part of the left side of the head. There was also considerable injection of the conjunctival vessels, and mucous secretion. These symptoms ceased, and the nicer healed, leaving a slight opacity in the centre of the cornea. Other illustrative cases arc on record. • The Signs of gangrenous inflammation arc—Ucutc burning pain,95 INFLAMMATION. instead of tlie throbbing of approaching suppuration. The redness deepens into purple, and thence to a livid hue, a change of colour due to stagnation of the blood in the dying part. The swelling, moreover, is peculiar, for here the textures are disintegrating and softening, macerated also by the effused fluid in which they are soaked. Hence a flabby softness is presented. Phlegmonous erysipelas, as it advances, well iUustrates these signs of gangrenous inflammation. Their diagnostic value is assured by their constancy and exclusive- ness; they are never absent collectively in gangrene resulting from inflammation, nor present collectively in any other disease. Acute burning pain is, perhaps, the earliest or premonitory symptom. From this condition of local disorganization the constitutional dis- order at once commences. More insidious, its symptoms resemble those of pyEemia, although differing in degree. A wild, apprehensive look, with great restlessness, are conspicuous ; the features and manner at length become more composed, and the face assumes a pallid hue. The skin over the whole body and the tunicse conjunctivae sometimes acquire a peculiar yellow colour. Utter prostration of mind and of muscular power gradually supervenes, and a quivering subsultus tendi- num. The pulse beats very feebly, rapidly, and irregularly, feeHng like a rough wire drawn under the finger. The secretions are soon perverted; the skin, at first hot and dry, is now bathed with a cold, clammy sweat; the urine, fetid and scanty, may be suppressed; a brown, rough, dry tongue is accompanied with nausea and a putrid diarrhoea. As the powers of organic and of animal life fail, involuntary excito-motions predominate; spasms and convulsions shake the mori- bund body, while coma ends in death. This represents the course of an extreme case of gangrenous inflam- mation ; but, short of it, various degrees of the same constitutional disturbance occur in different cases, and it represents also the constitu- tional disturbance which proceeds from spreading gangrene. But the gangrene may cease to spread. The reddish-brown tint of the skin in advance of the dead part becomes brighter and more cir- cumscribed. Shortly, a white raised line of demarcation is seen in the living skin, immediately adjoining the dead portion. Soon this line melts away into a groove by ulceration; extending deeper, it forms a fissure, and successively passing down through tissue after tissue at length converges, and completely detaches the whole of the dead parts. While the living organism is thus separating itself from the slougli, adhesive inflammation precedes the line or fissure of ulceration in its length and depth, sealing the blood-vessels, so as effectually to exclude any further communication with the dead tissues, and prevent absorp- tion of their debris. The typhoid type of fever passes off, and is exchanged for some degree of inflammatory fever, which accompanies the process of separation and detachment of slough. The typhoid fever of gangrenous inflammation arises, apparently like hectic fever, from absorption of the disintegrating and dying or dead textures. This conclusion rests on two species of evidence. Firstly, the fever arises, and invariably, when mortification has advanced to sphacelus, i.e., when dead tissues are present; and, more- over, when the veins, in some cases at least, are free to absorb. Secondly, it begins to subside, and invariably, when sphacelus hasGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 96 ceased to spread, i.e., when the Hving organism is separating itself from the dead part, and wlien adhesive inflammation of the blood- vessels, corresponding to the line or fissure of separation, has inter- cepted any further communication through these vessels with the dead tissues. Mortification, itself a destructive process, is, like ulceration, occa- sionally restorative, or reparative, by virtue of its purpose. It is so in the loosening and evulsion of a foreign body by sloughing of the part wherein it is embedded, the natural process whereby a thorn in the flesh is extricated. The spontaneous cure of aneurism, by sloughing, is another example; with many others of similar character. Treatment of Inflammation, and its Consequences.—The earliest occasion for interference with inflammation is determined by consider- ing its purpose with reference to the part afi'ected. If it be the repar- ation of some loss of structure, or the construction of some new and useful mechanism in connection with such part, the process should be allowed to run its course, or when inadequate, it should be encouraged by maintaining or superinducing the requisite conditions. Reparatively, inflammation is available in the healing of incised wounds or fractures, when the soft tissues or the bone are indisposed to unite by non-inflammatoiy adhesion. Other instances of this kind are cited at p. 77, and many additional illustrations will occur in practice. Constructively, the plastic operation of lymph-deposit is available for the opening of an abscess safely from a great depth and by a dangerous route ; and here also many analogous cases, additional to those noticed at pp. 77-8, are sure to come under the observation of the watchful clinical observer. Supplemental to the restorative purpose of inflammation, as viewed productively, the destructive aspect of this process may have a similar character. Thus, ulceration forms an opening for the discharge of superfluous organizable material—pus ; and mortification, by slough- ing, is useful in loosening and facilitating the evulsion of a foreign body. Obviously in any such case, if interference be necessary, the destruction of textures can be turned to good surgical account. Whenever the purpose of inflammation is neither reparative, con- structive, nor usefully destructive, the process should forthwith be arrested, or siibsequently conducted to a favourable issue. In accordance with the pathology and causes of inflammation, the following are the general indications of treatment to be observed:— (1.) The removal of any exciting cause or causes in operation is the fundamental rule of treatment; bearing more especially on the arrest of inflammation. The causes alluded to comprise the various kinds of ii-ritant matters—mechanical, chemical, and vital—that were enu- merated among the "external" causes of inflammation (p. 70); more- over, any constituent of the organism which has become a foreign body, and morbid products, which are more apt to assume that character. They are the " internal " exciting causes of iiiflammation (p. 71). The significance of their operation, and the efficacy of. their removal, as causes of irritation, are well illustrated in the every-day practice of Surgery. Blood, extravasated and decomposing, is a poison ; its evacuation is followed by the subsidence of infianimation and constitutional disturbance. A slough of soft textures contauii-INFLAMMATION. 97 nates; its withdrawal is similarly beneficial. The extraction of a piece of dead bone will arrest a discbarge of pus which had continued for weeks, months, or years, and had reduced the patient to the brink of the grave. Excretions are obnoxious when decomposed, and power- fully irritant to parts not intended by nature for their reception ; as urine extravasated into the cellular texture of the scrotum. And the evacuation of excretions under these circumstances arrests the con- current inflammation. Hence the efficacy of free incisions in the scrotum in the case supposed. Of morbid products, a calculus in the kidney provokes nephritis; this inflammation ceases when the stone passes down the ureter into the bladder, and is succeeded by cystitis, which in its turn subsides when the foreign body is removed by lithotomy or lithotrity. These examples will suffice to enforce the general rule of treatment. Whenever the exciting cause in operation—whether externally or internally—^is removable, the process of inflammation not unfrequently ceases with its removal. Fortunately also the fulfilment of this indica- tion meets the requirements of an already large class of cases, and an increasing class as our knowledge and detection of causes becomes yet more early and exact. It is thus that inflammation of local origin may often be arrested, as compared with that which depends on constitu- tional causes. In all other cases the process continues and runs its course to struc- tural results, if unopposed. The treatment required is no longer pre- ventive only, but counteractive also. (2.) Removal, therefore, of (a) the pathological conditions or elements which, co-operating, constitute inflammation; and of (h) its local consequences with their accompanying constitutional disorders ;— inflammatory fever, hectic, and gangrenous typhoid fevers. (a.) The conditions to be overruled by appropriate remedial measures comprise—accelerated textural productiveness, and accele- rated textural waste or destruction of texture; the determination of arterial blood, and any morbid quality of the blood supplied to the inflamed texture or organ; also perversions of the nervous influence. Experience has established the remedial efficacy of certain measures, both local and constitutional, and which constitute the "antiphlogistic " treatment. This term having been long since recognized in practice, it may be conveniently retained without implying any theory as to the modus operandi of the agents employed. Local antiphlogistic measures consist in rest of the part, and the application of cold, heat, or warmth, with moisture, as in the common bread-and-water poultice or moist spongio-piline epithem ; in blood- 1 letting by leeches or scarification, an elevated position of the part : inflamed; incisions, sufficient to relieve tension; antiseptic dressings; I blisters, setons, issues; caustics, as caustic-potash, mineral acids, iodine, burning heat or the actual cautery, and other strong irritants; astrin- gents, friction, pressure. Constitutional or systemic measures include — blood-letting by venesection, purgatives, diaphoretics, diuretics, starvation and the antiphlogistic regime, antimony, opium, mercury, wine, brandy, am- monia, and other stimulants ; cinchona bark, the mineral acids, and other tonics ; cod-liver oil, nutritious diet. HGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 98 Taking this list of remedial agents, some are of the most opposite character, but they may all be used appropriately, in the course of inflammation generally, and in the order enumerated. Best.—This element of remedial treatment has a most important relation, local and constitutional. Rest of the part undergoing inflam- mation will tend to arrest that process, by suspending the exercise of function, and the consequent nutritive changes, in the part thus afEected; rest of body and mind is restorative, by suspending, in some degree, the functional activity of the nervous, the muscular, and the vascular systems, which are principally engaged in febrile disturbance, and the excitement of which reacts unfavourably on the inflamed part. Thus, an inflamed hand should be kept at rest by placing it in a sling, or supported on a pillow, or more absolute rest may be secured by the mechanical contrivance of a splint; while the repose of recumbency on a couch, the cessation of any mental exer- tion or emotional excitement, and the exclusion of talkative friends, of noise and light, or other impression on the senses—in short, of every source of disturbance to the patient—constitute that general quietude which will be most favourable to recovery. Gold is more efiicacious in the early treatment of inflammation, and as affecting external parts of the body. It may be applied, according to the degree of cold required, by means of cold water or ice, or by an evaporating lotion of spirits of wine and water in various proportions. Lead lotion—the liquor plumbi diacetatis, a drachm or more to eight ounces of water—is another refrigerant, but far less serviceable. The application of cold externally will even reach an internal organ, as the brain in meningitis, through the interposed scalp and cranium; but in all such cases the more intense cold of pounded ice in a bladder is necessary to produce a beneficial effect. Esmarch uses an india-rubber bag, which certainly looks better in private practice. To some internal organs cold can be applied directly, as to the stomach in gastritis, by swallowing bits of ice. The leading fact to be observed in every case is, that refrigeration should be continuous and uniform. This twofold requirement is best fulfilled by some form of self-acting irrigator. A skein of cotton pen- dant from a bottle of cold water suspended over the part will supply a constant dribbling stream, and thus answer the purpose very well. Its efficiency is witnessed in preventing or arresting inflammation of the large joints. Heat, moderate, with moisture, is preferable in those cases where cold is uncomfortable to the part, or occasions any shivering sensation. Moist warmth is more advantageous also when inflammation is esta- blished, the efficacy of cold as a textnral depressor being restricted rather to incipient inflammation. Warmth and moisture are con- veniently applied in the shape of a light, soft bread-and-water or linseed-meal poultice ; or by means of spongio-piline soaked in warm water. The latter surpasses any kind of poultice, which is apt to dry, thus becoming an irritant, and is uncleanly. Spongio-piliue is even more retentive of moisture than an equal substance of flannel, and more suitable, therefore, as an epithem. Blood-letting locally is advantageous whenever it appears desirable to make a sudden, considerable, and direct impression on an inflamed part, as the eye in iritis. Leeches, scarificatiou, or cupping are avail-INFLAMMATION. 99 able for this purpose. LeecHes can be applied to a part wbicli is inaccessible to the cupping-glass, as tlie os uteri. But the drawing action of a cupping-glass, the pressure of the atmosphere being removed, penetrates to a greater depth than the abstraction of blood by leeches. Hence cupping is more suitable for inflammation of internal organs, as the kidneys when inflamed. In employing either mode of topical blood-letting, it should be re- membered that hemorrhage may continue for some time after a leech- bite or cupping. An average-sized leech, when fully distended and ready to drop off, holds about a drachm and a half of blood, and the amount drawn by a cupping-glass can be watched and measured ; but the quantity which flows subsequently should always be taken into account and allowed for, more especially with regard to leeches, the after-heemorrhage from which is more uncertain—by fomentation amounting to half an ounce, or far more, even spontaneously. A single leech has thus proved fatal to an infant. The haemorrhage is, perhaps, best arrested by touching the little triangular punctured wound firmly with nitrate of silver ; or, by transfixing the bite with a fine needle, and applying a figure of eight ligature. Dry cupping, or the application of an exhausted cupping-glass without previously using the scarificator, is a method of drawing blood to the surface, without abstracting it from the mass in circulation; yet it may be questionable whether the blood thereby rendered stagnant, is not spoilt for the purpose of any returning circulation. The corpuscles are damaged or destroyed, and this change will, of course, be more likely to occur, the more frequently the cupping-glass is re-applied to the same part; so that the blood might as well be withdrawn from the body, as left partially extravasated with its corpuscles broken up. It has been proposed to stop the afflux of blood to an inflamed part, either by ligature or compression of the main artery ; a mode of reducing the local circulation which may prove even more effectual than the topical abstraction of blood. Ligature was thus practised by Professor Campbell, at the Georgia Hospital, during the American war; and his experience led him to this conclusion—that in all cases of destructive inflammation, especially from injury, in the leg or arm, ligature of the artery supplying the affected part should be tried, whenever the state of the patient will admit of this procedure, before resorting to amputation. Compression, recommended by Professor Vanzetti of Padua, has been practised with success, not only by himself, but also in Paris, and in Prague, and in a case by the late Mr. C. H. Moore. Position.—An elevated position of an inflamed part is equivalent to the local abstraction of blood. The determination of blood becomes diminished, and the return of blood facilitated ; whereby the quantity in the part is greatly reduced. Elevation thus offers a resource which is a good substitute for, or a useful adjunct to, local blood- letting. Its efficacy is witnessed in the treatment of inflammation affecting different parts of the lower extremity; as in compound fracture of the leg, dislocation or disease of the knee-joint, and other morbid conditions. The relaxation of any muscles which, subject to spasm, would disturb the part inflamed, is another important con- sideration. This must be affected hj posture. Incisions may be resorted to for the relief of tension; this beino-100 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. caused partly by distension of the blood-vessels in the part inflamed, but principally by the scrum effused. The incisions should be made in extent and depth according as either condition of tension predominates. In chcmosis, the sub-conjunctival collection of serum suggests the kind of incision necessary. In glossitis, vascular distension is relieved by scarification over the upper surface of the tongue, rather than by one free incision. In phlegmonous erysipelas, both sources of tension are relieved by incisions in different parts of the skin, as the chief seat of vascular distension, and extending down to the subcellular texture, which is engorged with serum. In all cases, however, the requisite length and depth of incisions must be determined practically, by their effect in relieving tension. A poultice is applied, but after the cessation of hemorrhage, lest more blood be lost than would be desirable. If the bleeding return, the poultice must be removed, and strips of dry lint placed in the bottom of each incision u.p to the surface, and a light pad over all, retained by a bandage; with the limb or part in a elevated position. After a few hours, the bandage and pad may be removed, and a poultice re-applied, over the strips of lint, which should not be withdrawn nntil they separate with suppuration. Incisions for the discharge of pus and slough will be considered in a subsequent part of the treatment of inflammation. Antiseptic dressings are eligible in the treatment of inflammation, only when attended with an open surface. Their nature and modes of application are explained in the treatment of Wounds. Irritants.—Blisters, in the form of cantharides plaster or the blistering fluid ; rubefacients, as the mustard poultice ; setons, issues ; caustics, as nitrate of silver, potass-fusa, the mineral acids, iodine, mercury, tartar-emetic, croton oil, burning heat or the actual cautery, and other strong irritants, are remedial measures of more or less value in chronic forms of inflammation. Their intensity of action varies, but their kind of action is said to be counter-irritant or derivative from the inflamed part, by exciting inflammation in the neighbourhood of that part. This may be true in some cases. In other cases ii'ritante have the opposite effect—they increase the inflammation in the part itself ; either bringing it to a termination by resolution, or by promoting effusion and hurrying on the process to suppuration. According to the object in view, therefore, we should apply any such agent more or less nearly in relation to the part inflamed, and be guided in our choice of one or other by regard to the intensity of its operation; observing also that the local irritation do not increase the febrile disturbance. A seton consists of a skein of silk, worsted, cotton, or hemp thread, which is attached to the eye of a needle, three or four inches long, and a quarter of an inch in breadth. The integument is pinched up between the thumb and forefinger, and the needle passed through, carrying the seton-skein after it; the needle is then cut off, leaving the lash of threads in the subcutaneous track, and either end hanging out. In- flammation is soon excited, with suppuration; and this counter-irritation and derivative discharge are established for so long a period as it may be desirable to allow the foreign body to remain. If the needle be not at hand, the seton may be passed by means of a common probe; a bistoury having been passed through the fold of integument, the armed probe is slid along the flat of tbe blade.INFLAMMATION. 101 An issue is applied in the following manner:—Take a -piece of adhesive plaster, say three inches square, and having cut a round central aperture, the size of a sixpence, fix it upon the part where the issue is to be formed. Then place a small piece of caustic potash, the size of a pea, in the central hole of the shield, and cover over with another piece of plaster. The severe burning pain of cauterization passes ofl: in the course of a few hours, when the plasters may be removed ; a black eschar is seen, which should be poulticed for a few days, until it comes away, leaving an ulcer in the form of a hole. To maintain the discharge, insert a pea or a glass bead, which may be smeared occasionally with savine ointment. A few examples vnll illustrate the remedial value of this class of agents in inflammation. Blistering the skin is very serviceable in chronic and deep-seated inflammation of the bones and joints. In chronic arthritis, the bulky ends of bone which form the knee-joint and their articular cartilages, are most advantageously influenced by the action of blisters, placed above or below the joint. A seton or issue, which produces a constant discharge of pus from the neighbourhood of the vertebrsE, is often of signal service in caries of the bodies of these bones. When applied to the nape of the neck, the same beneficial eSect is witnessed in chronic meningeal inflammation of the brain. Of caustics, the potass-fusa is sometimes useful in similar cases, but it is comparatively seldom employed. I rarely use this kind of caustic; and, indeed, it seems to be going out of fashion. Nitrate of silver, lunar caustic, promotes the resolution of a whitlow, a bunion, a hordeolum or sty in the margin of the eyelid, and such like intractable conditions of inflammation. Of the mineral acids, as caustic appliances, nitric acid, undiluted, is of great service for converting phagedtenic ulceration into inflammation with healing granulations ; but this is scarcely an appropriate illustration as to the treatment of inflammation itself. Iodine "paint," consisting of equal parts of iodine and of iodide of potassium, to two parts of rectified spirit, and four parts of water, is a strong irritant, of considerable value in removing the effusion and induration attending chronic inflammation generally. Various stimu- lating embrocations also, as camphor and ammonia, with olive oil, are thus used. The actual cautery may be resorted to, with marked benefit, occasionally, in cases of deep-seated and chronic inflammation affecting the joints and bones, and especially the vertebrae. Thus also the burning-moxa was formerly iu some repute. Placed over the spine, and allowed to burn down, it produces a circular slough of skin about the size of a shilling or half-crown. Several moxee were sometimes applied in a row. But the remedial eflicacy of such a powerful counter-irritant measure as even one moxa, is very doubtful; while the severe and continued pain is a decided disadvantage, and more so in virtue of its tendency to aggravate inflammatory fever. This consideration, indeed, restricts the use of the more powerful kinds of counter-irritants. Unlike the pain caused by the clean cut of a knife in most surgical operations, the pain induced by strong cauterization is felt when the influence of chloroform has ceased, ■ although the part itself may be killed outright. It deserves full I trial, observes Mr. Simon, whether every intense, and consequently I pamful, form of counter-irritation might not be superseded by the102 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. employment of other means, less intense, but more extensively ap- plied ; whether, for instance, ten inches of poultice may not be equiva- lent to four inches of blister, or to one inch of issue. In respect to thoracic inflammation, for example, where blistering is employed as a matter of routine practice, the unsurpassed clinical authority of Professor Skoda pronounces such treatment to be always useless, sometimes hurtful. Astringents prove serviceable in a congestive, and often chronic state of inflammation; the capillary vessels being distended and obstructed. A solution of nitrate of silver, or the sulphate of zinc —five or ten grains to the ounce of distilled water—may then be used with great benefit, as in congestive conjunctivitis ; and the relief afforded by an alum gargle in relaxed sore-throat, is another illustration of astringent applications. Cold douches probably act in like manner, by constringing the weakened and overloaded vessels of a part affected with chronic inflammation ; as the joints, for example. Friction oifers another resource, in a similar state of inflammation ; the act of rubbing with the hand, or shampooing, not only tending to unload the vessels, but also operating as a stimulant, to promote the circulation in the part. Hence friction may be aided by the use of some stimulating liniment or embrocation, as of camphor and olive oil. Pressure has the beneficial effect of supporting the vessels when in a relaxed state; but this means may also be combined with a stimulant application. Thus, the support of a bandage, or of simple strapping with soap-plaster spread on leather, may be exchanged for the em- plastrum ammoniaci cum hydrargyro; and either mode of treatment is often very efiicacious in chronic inflammatory afiections of the joints, breast, or testicle. CoNSTiTDTiONAii REMEDIAL MEASURES.—Systemic Uood-letting, by venesection. This mode of depletion has fallen nearly into disuse, in the treatment of inflammation. The explanation of this change of practice on the part of the Profession generally, is referable to two entirely different views, each having its partisans. According to one school, so to speak, the human constitution has itself undergone a great change in the loss of vital power, whereby febrile symptoms have altered from an inflammatory to a typhoid character. The late Dr. Alison was the champion of this doctrine. • On the other hand, it is contended that the principle on which blood-letting had hitherto been practised is opposed to Patho- logy, and that our more advanced knowledge of this science has led to its abandonment. This explanation is offei'ed and ably advocated by Dr. J. H. Bennett. Assuredly the change of practice has taken place, and experience sanctions its propriety in most cases. As to its interpretation; probably in regard to this, as to many vexed questions, both parties are partly right, and partly wrong. But it is not only in the present as compared with former practice, in one period as compared with another, that differences of opinion have prevailed respecting the remedial value of general bleeding in inflammation; it is no less remarkable, as Mr. Simon observes, that contemporaries living under the same sky, and practising in the same103 INFLAMMATION. year on the same disease, have waged controyersy on this subject; and not nnfrequently it has seemed probable that medical juries, inquesting any given dead patient, would divide in equal numbers, whether much bleeding or little bleeding had killed the man. In explanation of this anomaly the same author urges that, prac- tically, all impartial observers seem now to agree, that while there are inflammations which bleeding can relieve, yet there are also inflamma- tions wliich every act of depletion, instead of diminishing, will increase. And the obvious inference from this fact is one which, certainly, the pathology of inflammation would indicate—that the therapeutical value of blood-letting does not so much consist in its directly controlling inflammatory excitement, as in its controlling some condition, which may or may not be concomitant. What, then, is this condition ? Reserving for a moment that which Mr. Simon suggests, I would first notice another. Forcible contractile action of the heart, with a strong pulse, un- doubtedly maintains the local determination of blood; although this latter may be aided by the accelerated nutritive changes of the part itself, using up the plasma supplied, and thereby continuously eliciting exudation from the capillary vessels. Greneral blood-letting, by venesection, powerfully relieves the action of the heart, even to syncope. But, with inflammatory fever, the system is more tolerant of loss of blood than in health, or other diseases. This increased tolerance was first clearly shown by Dr. Marshall Hall, the results of whose investigations are given in the following table, which represents, as compared with health, the mean quantity lost before incipient syncope is induced, the patient being in the sitting or the erect posture :— 1. Healthy Tolerance: This depends on the age, sex, strength, etc., and on the degree of thickness of the parietes of the heart; but it is about . . . . . j xv. 2. Increased Tolerance: Congestion of the brain . . . . . j xl.—I. Inflammation of serous membranes . . . ] Inflammation of synovial membranes . . . >^xxs:.—xl. Inflammation of fibrous membranes . . . j Inflammation of the parenchyma of organs— brain, lung, liver, mamma, etc. . . . q xxx. Inflammation of skin and mucous membranes, erysipelas, bronchitis, dysentery . . .5 3. Diminished Tolerance: Fevers—eruptive and others . . . . j xi.—xiv. Delirium tremens, and puerperal delirium . . J x.—xii. Laceration or concussion of the brain . . ^ Accidents, before the establishment of inflam- ( w ... mation H viu.—x. Intestinal irritation . . . . . .) Dyspepsia, chlorosis ^ viii. Cholera vi. The condition to which Mr. Simon refers as deserving especialGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 104 notice, is that state of the vascular system which, often designated " vascular tension," is characterized by a hard pulse. Both these conditions—forcible action of the heart and vascular tension—are alike diminished by general bleeding; the pulse becoming weaker, slower, perhaps more regular, and softer. The propriety of having recourse to this reducing measure should therefore be determined and regulated by reference to the state of the general circulation, as indicated by the characters of the pulse in respect to its force and hardness. But the necessity for blood-letting is proportionate also to the physiological importance of the organ affected, which might otherwise be permanently damaged by the structural results of inflammation ; and the urgency on this ground will be indicated by the functional disturbance which the organ itself suffers, and induces by its functional relation to other organs. These conditions of organic significance are not accompanied with a corre- sponding tolerance of blood-letting. For example, they co-exist in pneumonia, especially double pneumonia; the lungs being highly important organs functionally, dyspnoea, and general functional dis- turbance thence arises. Yet in this disease the tolerance of blood- letting is thirty ounces, as shown by the table, or only double that of health, and less by twenty ounces than that of the highest range in the list. The effects of blood-letting are more than moruentary. This should always be remembered in considering the necessity for producing a powerful and persistent impression on the general circulation. Such impression can be made in either of two ways; the one or the other having a salutary tendency, according to the previous duration of the inflammation. Recent inflammation may be arrested by the loss of a moderate quantity of blood, suddenly—i.e., through a large orifice or from both arms at the same time, and the patient being placed in the sitting posture, so as to induce syncope. Inflammation of a few days' duration will be more surely brought to a termination by the loss of a larger quantity of blood, gradually; the bandage above the orifice in the vein being loosened, and the patient placed in the recumbent position to avert the tendency to syncope. Or venesection may be repeated from time to time, according to the symptoms; thereby renewing and further maintaining the impression originally made on the circulation. The advantage of gradual over sudden loss of blood, in inflammation of some duration, is evinced by the fact that, if the first impression be thus maintained, it is found unnecessary to repeat it. Local blood-letting, by means of leeches, or cupping, will prove sufficient subsequently, in most cases; and advantageously so, by directly affecting the inflamed part without powerfully and persistently influencing the system. And it should never be foi-gotten, that the permanency of systemic impression is directly proportionate to the quantity of blood lost. Nutrition is reduced throughout the body, and any process of reparation may fail. Probably the vital injury of excessive blood-letting or of such hcBmorrhage accidentally, is never quite recovered from. Venesection or Phlebotomy might be effected by opening any vem of sufficient size to admit of "a free flow of blood; but the vein usually105 INFLAMMATION. selected is one at the bend of the elbow,—the median basilic in particular; or the external jugular in the neck, will be preferable in exceptional cases. At the hend of the elhoiv, venesection maybe performed, with certaia precautions, as follows :—The median lasilic vein having been selected, on account of its large size, superficial situation, and fixed position by the aponeurosis between it and the brachial artery; a spot is chosen just above or below where the vein crosses upwards over that vessel. A roller bandage is drawn round the arm above the elbow, to obstruct the current of blood; in order that the vein shall be made more promi- nent by distension, and that, when opened, the stream of blood shall be free and uninterrupted. (Fig. 26.) Then, compressing the vein with the thumb of the left hand, just below where the puncture is to be made, so as to steady the vessel, the blade of the bleeding-lancet Fig. 26. being held betwixt the thumb and forefinger of the right hand, the point of the instrument is thrust into the vein, until resistance ceases or a drop of blood escapes, when, by a slight upward movement of the blade, a small oblique incision in the vessel is completed ; observing also to divide the skin somewhat more extensively, that the opening in the integument shall be larger than that in the vein. The stream of blood should be received into a vessel, shallov? or deep, according to the observations which may be desirable with reference to its co- Fig, 27. agulation and the formation of the buify coat. When the blood-stream becomes sluggish, the flow may be accelerated by desiring the patient to grasp some substance, as the lancet case, and work his fingers ; whereby the muscles of the forearm compress the deep veins, and thus produce an increased flow through the super- ficial veins. The quantity of blood to be drawn oif will be regulated by the considerations already explained. Then the stream is stopped by placing the thumb on the bleeding orifice, and removing the ligature from above the elbow. A compress of lint is slid on to the wound, and retained in position by a figureGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 106 of eight bandage. (Fig. 27.) This is done by carrying the roller round the arm below the elbow, thence upward across the pad, and round the arm above the elbow, down over the pad again to the first turn. The arm being placed in a bent position, should be kept at rest, in a sling, for a few days. In performing venesection, certain accidents are liable to happen, unless the precautions already noticed be observed. Thrombus, in the form of a collection of blood within the cellular texture around the vein, would arise by any displacement of the vein from want of com- pression in the act of puncture, so that the cutaneous and venous orifices do not correspond; or from a too limited cutaneous incision, thus also retaining the blood and causing a lodgment. Aneurisrnal varix, or varicose aneurism, would occur, or result, from thrusting the lancet too deeply, so as to transfix the vein and enter the artery, or from any sudden start of the patient. Hence the importance of selecting a spot for puncture, above or below where the vein obliquely crosses upwards over the artery. To avoid auy risk of wounding the artery, some surgeons have preferred opening the median cephalic vein. A tight bandage after venesection has been known to induce gangrene of the forearm; and as the bandage becomes tightened when the arm is bent, allowance for this should be made in adjusting the turns of the roller. The external jugular vein may be chosen for venesection in certain exceptional cases of inflammation, as in meningitis or encephalitis; or in non-inflammatory affections of the brain, as apoplectic compression. It will be convenient to here notice this method of venesection. The spot selected for puncture is where the vein lies on the sterno-mastoid muscle, the vessel being there more superficial and fixed than in any part of its course. Compression is made with the thumb just below the point for opening the vein, in order to give some prominence to the vessel by distension, and, moreover, prevent the entrance of air, a liability which wonld almost inevitably have a fatal result. The incision should be made obliquely, but across the dii*ection of the fibres of the platysma myoides, which, by their contraction, will thus make the wound gape and secui'e a fair opening. Otherwise, if the incision were made parallel to the fibres of the platysma, scarcely any blood would flow, and extravasation taking place, that would give rise to thrombus. When a sufficient quantity of blood has been abstracted, the thumb is placed over the opening, and a pad of lint slid on to the spot, being there retained by cross strips of adhesive plaster; aided by a bandage, if necessary, carried across the pad, and round under the armpit of the opposite side. Arteriotomy may be performed as an occasional substitute for phlebotomy, and principally in affections of the head or of the eye. The temporal artery is the vessel selected, and its anterior branch, as being superficial, and well supported by the temporal fascia. On compressing the vessel with the thumb on the distal side of the intended aperture, it becomes prominent, and then with the lancet an oblique opening should be made. The blood may be received into an unexhausted cupping-glass; an exhausted receiver would stop the stream by pressure of the circumference of the glass across the vessel. The flow of blood can be arrested by completely dividing the artery, the cut extremities retracting and contracting. If necessary, the ends107 INFLAMMATION. may be secured by L'gature, torsion, or acupressure. A lint-pad is, however, usually applied; and this answers best, as the vessel rests on the fascia and temporal bone, the temporal muscle only intervening. The pad is fixed firmly in position by a double roller bandage, carried round the bead, twisted over the compress, and fastened under the cbin. Purgatives not only remove feeculent matter, which would otherwise be a source of irritation affecting also a large extent of intestinal mucous membrane, but their operation is depletory by inducing the discharge of serum from the blood. Purgatives are, therefore, a useful adjunct to, or even a substitute for, general blood-letting, in relieving vascular tension. Different kinds of purgatives appear to act on different portions of the intestinal tract; and hence a combination of these medicines may prove more efficient than any one alone. Salts and senna, jalap and rhubarb, are familiar examples of such com- binations. It would be very desirable to acquire more extensive and exact knowledge respecting the action of purgatives for this purpose. But they probably have also different selective powers, in promoting the discharge of different constituents of the blood, and various effete or noxious matters; thus affecting the quality as well as reducing the quantity of the blood in circulation. Here, more especially, further clinical observation would be bighly desirable. Besides removing irritant matter, and having a depletory and an excretory operation, purgatives are said to have a derivative action, apparently by inducing hyperasmia of the intestinal mucous membrane. In this way they are supposed to antagonize inflammation of the brain, for example. But it is a kind of action which prohibits the continued use of purgatives, lest intestinal inflammation be superinduced. The purgative operation of mercury is referable to its agency in promoting the secretion of bile,—itself a natural purgative. Besides, however, having this effect, the " cholagogue" action produced by larger doses of mercury is equivalent to general blood-letting as a depletory, and superior as an excretory, remedy; for the copious spinach-like evacuations produced are equally effectual in reducing vascular tension, and are specially excrementitious, without unnecessarily diminishing the quantity of blood in circulation. Calomel, in doses of five, ten, or twenty grains, and repeated as occasion may require, is perhaps the best cholagogue. The action of mercury on the liver as a secreting and excreting organ, suggests a general inquiry respecting the action of other purga- tives, specially on the glandular apparatus of, or associated with, the gastro-intestinal organs. What medicines specially affect the secretion of the pancreas ; what, with regard to the glands of the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane, namely, the tubular, the cardiac, and the lenticular glands of the stomach; the glands of Brunner, the crypts of Lieber- kuehn, and Peyer's glands, of the smaU intestine; and the innumerable follicles of the large intestine ? Biajyhoretics and diuretics, medicinal agents which increase or alter the secretions of the skin and kidneys, respectively, are purgatives in their way. They are depletory, excretory, and derivative. Such is the acetate of potash, a diaphoretic, and the nitrate of potash, a diuretic. Little or nothing is known of these, and similar medicines, in their108 GENEEAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. intimate relation to inflammatory fever. Experience alone sanctions their use. Their administration constitutes what is more particularly designated "febrifuge" treatment. A liberal allowance of water, soda-water, or other bland fluid, seems to favour the excretory operation of these medicines ; probably by diluting, and, as it were, washing away effete raatters from the system. A cool, fresh atmosphere around the patient is a most important adjunct to febrifuge treatment, in carrying off the heat, and excrementitious emanations of febrility. Hence, the antiphlogistic value of a well-ventilated apartment, the amount of clothing or bed-covering being regulated by the diaphoretic treatment ; while cleanliness must be attended to, as subservient to atmospheric purity, and freedom from any irritation to an externally inflamed part. Starvation is another kind of depletion, by withholding the supply of nourishment. And if this were all that the term suggests physio- logically, its significance therapeutically in relation to pathology, would be very simple. But starvation has reference to many differently constituted textures ; each undergoing its own nutritive changes, and having its own food requirements. Consequently, the starvation of any one kind of texture, and kindred textures, is physiologically possible without, at least proportionately, depriving others of their food. Thus, the albuminoid textures, of which muscle is the type, might be starved, apart from the gelatinous, as skin and mucous membrane; and these again apart from osseous texture. The various artificial preparations of food have not, however, hitherto reached this desideratum of com- position, for the purposes of therapeutic treatment, yet it would bear very directly on inflammation,—accelei'ated nutrition,—as affecting different organs and their component textures. The "antiphlogistic regimen " is rather a negative than a positive regimen. Dietetically, it consists in abstinence from animal food and stimulating drinks, and in the moderate use of bland fluids, as barley-water, gruel, arrow-root. But it also implies the exclusion of all surrounding circumstances of excitement to mind or body. A cool and well-ventilated apartment, an easy bed, exclusion of light and noise, the prohibition of conver- sation, of the constant presence and attention of friends, and the banishment if possible of care; such are the principal features of this regimen. Antimony, as an internal remedy, most nearly resembles general blood-letting. After a dose of, say, half a grain, repeated or increased to one or even two grains, every three hours, until vomiting occurs, the effect on the circulation and secretions are very marked. At first, the pulse becoming more rapid and feeble, it dwindles down to a fine thread. Then, vomiting having occurred, the pulse loses its frequency, and perhaps regains its force, but acquires a peculiarly full and soft character; showing that vascular tension is overcome or relieved. Simultaneously, perspiration and the secretion of urine are notably increased ; and liquid evacuations from the bowels not unfrequently accompany this relaxation. The muscles also are flaccid and powerless. In short, the whole muscular system, voluntary and vascular, is re- laxed ; and a flux or flow takes place from various secreting organs, which further reduces the vascular tension. Any local inflammation is thus materially diminished. A full dose of tartarized antimony having this result, similar109 INFLAMMATION. effects, tlioughi in a less marked degree, and witliout fclie distress of vomiting, may be produced by smaller doses. Fortunately, however, vomiting soon ceases, while the beneficial influence continues with the full administration of the medicine; or this symptom maybe conti'olled by administering it in the form of a saline draught with four or five minims of diluted hydrocyanic acid. The action of this remedy is most salutary when even nausea is not induced. Antimony will be most advantageously prescribed after general blood-letting to maintain its effects, and in proportion as the vascular tension, indicated by hardness of the pulse, continues. But either resource may be considered a substitute for the other; and experience o-ives the preference to antimony, generally. It is found to be most effectual in pneumonia, orchitis, and inflammation of other unyielding textures ; less so with regard to serous membranes; and it is contra- indicated in enteritis. Opium is of signal service in the treatment of inflammation. It seems to act partly like antimony and blood-letting by overcoming vas- cular tension, but opium has the advantage of also subduing nervous excitement. Its administration is, therefore, most appropriate when this is the predominant element in inflammatory fever; or when, excite- ment of the circulation declining, that of the nervous system with general weakness becomes prominent. It is thus that opium proves so beneficial after severe injuries or surgical operations ; where shock is followed by excessive reaction, or prostration with excitement prevails over or outlasts inflammatory fever. In some cases, opium acts specially on the part injured or operated on, by subduing muscular movements, voluntary or involuntary, as by paralyzing the peristaltic movements of the intestine after the operation for strangulated hernia. It seems also to depress the tex- tural activity of the inflamed part, and to influence, in some way, favourably, inflammation having an ulcerative or gangrenous tendency. The chief disadvantages attending the use of opium are—the sick- ness it is apt to occasion at first, and constipation by its more continued use. The latter can be controlled or prevented by our next remedial measure, prescribed in combination with the opium. Mercury counteracts the constipating tendency of opium, and this, in its turn, overrules the aperient action of mercury; either medicine checking the intestinal influence of the other. The combination generally employed is calomel and opium; in the proportion of from one grain to five of the former, with a quarter of a gi'ain to one grain of the latter, given as a pill every four hours or so. But does the continued administration of this familiar formula pro- duce any remedial effect, through the systemic influence of mercury ? This is debateable ground. Unquestionably, mercury can be intro- duced into the system—meaning thereby the blood in circulation—and it then produces peculiar symptoms ; the gums becoming red, spongy, and tender, the breath having a peculiar foetor, and a metallic taste being experienced like that of copper in the mouth. The salivary glands under the tongue and at the angle of the jaw become somewhat swollen and painful, and the secretion of saliva is increased. This associated group of symptoms, constituting " salivation " or ptyalism, announces that the system is under the influence of mercury. Mer- curial infection, or " mercurialism," aa it is called, is in fact attestedGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 110 by the supervention of certain symptoms; just as the introduction of the syphilitic virus, for example, is followed,'in the course of time, by enlargement and ulceration of the tonsils, some definite skin eruption, and perhaps iritis ; symptoms declaring the syphilitic infection to have taken place. So far, then, there are certain effects specially due to the systemic influence of mercury. Formerly also, and until recently, it was unanimously held that the same influence prevented or retarded the effusion of fibrin, and promoted its absorption. That " the constitutional action of mercury opposes the organizing efforts of inflammation," is the somewhat equivalent expression of Mr. Simon. Does this represent the remedial virtue of mercury in the systemic or constitutional treatment of inflam- mation ? A good illustration of such influence was supposed to be, the visible disappearance of lymph in iritis, apparently under the operation of mercuriaHsm. Long as this therapeutic theory prevailed, and practice accordingly, there are reasons for doubting the accuracy of the one, and the efficacy of the other. That mercury exercises some kind of influence over nutrition, there can be no doubt; but it is questionable how far the natural course of inflammation, having induced the effusion of fibrin, may itself tend to absorption, apart from the co-operation of mercury. Mr. Simon limits the agency of mercury by the following qualifications: that, " if mercurial cachexia in its lesser degrees, and independently of the purging which may attend it, has a real effect on inflammatory products, this effect probably relates only to such products as are not organized, and perhaps is nothing more than the giving of some special assistance to the dissolution and removal of fibrin." Further clinical investigation is needed to determine the question at issue. Assuming the systemic influence of mercury upon inflammation, its remedial operation can be insured only by employing it in a certain class of cases, and with certain precautions. Both these practical requisites are generalized by Sir Thomas Watson, thus:— " In common adhesive inflammation, whether of the serous or areolar tissues; whenever, in fact, you have reason to think that coagulable lymph is effused, and mischief is likely to result from its presence, then you may expect benefit from the proper administration of mercury; as an auxiliary, however, to blood-letting, when blood- letting is indicated, not as a substitute for it Previous blood- letting renders the body more readily susceptible of the influence of mercury; and the operation of the mercury comes in aid of the salutary effects of the abstraction of blood. The two remedies accomplish by their joint power what neither of them might be able to accomplish singly. "On the other hand, mercury is likely to be hurtful in those forms of disease, where the morbid action approximates to its own action; in cases of erysipelatous inflammation having a disposition to gan- grene; in scrofulous diseases; in inflammatory complaints attended with general debility, and an irritable condition of the nervous system, or a manifest tendency to take on a low and typhus-like character." On behalf of the scrofulous diathesis, it is added that moderate sali-Ill INFLAMMATION. vation may prove salutary during an attack of common inflammation, and as surely injurious if tlie inflammation be scrofulous. "When we have to contend with acute inflammation, and desire to prevent or arrest the deposition of coagulable lymph, our object is, after such bleeding as may have been proper, to bring the system as speedily as possible under the influence of mercury. " We know that the whole system has been brought under the specific influence of mercury, as soon as its efilects become even slightly perceptible in the gums and breath of the patient; and in adults we cannot be sure of it before. These symptoms are enough; you need not in general look for any more decided affection of the mouth, such as ulceration of the gums, swelling of the glands beneath the jaw and the tongue, and a profuse flow of saliva All that is requisite is, that the gums should become distinctly tender, and that the mer- curial foetor should be unequivocally manifest, and that these symptoms should be kept up for a certain time. Now this is best effected, usually, by giving some form of mercury in equal and repeated doses by the mouth. For urgent cases, calomel is the best form in which it can be administered; two or three grains given every four or six hours, will generally sufiice to touch the gums in the course of thirty- six or forty-eight hours. If it act as a purgative, its specific effect upon the whole system will be postponed by that circumstance; and it then becomes expedient to combine it with just so much opium as will prevent it passing off by the bowels. A quarter of a grain of opium with two grains of calomel, or a third of a grain of opium with three or four grains of calomel, will generally be sufficient to restrain the purgative operation of the latter. When a speedier effect is desii-able we give larger doses; such as five or ten grains every three, or even every two hours ; or we combine mercurial inunction with the exhibition of calomel by the mouth. It is impossible to lay down any precise rule that will fit all cases. Blue pill, or else the hydrar- gyrum cum creta, may, in certain cases, be preferable to calomel; but they must be given in greater quantity. "Mercury is of great service in many cases of chronic inflammation; and I may repeat here the observation I formerly made when speaking of blood-letting—that the treatment must keep pace, as it were, with the disease. When textures have been slowly altered by a gradual deposition of coagulable lymph, we should gain little or nothing by suddenly or speedily salivating our patient. The lymph, if it can be dispersed at all, must be gradually taken up again: and mercury, given with the view of promoting its absorption, must be slowly and gradually introduced into the system, and its specific influence, when at length it is felt, must be sustained for a considerable length of time." Certain evil consequences are apt to follow the use of mercury. In fact, the symptoms of systemic infection by this mineral have a general resemblance to those of constitutional syphilis, or systemic infection by the syphilitic virus. But as, in most cases, the unfavour- able action of mercury is fairly attributable to its immoderate or pro- longed administration—an error of rare occurrence now-a-days—it is scarcely necessary to consider the treatment of mercurial poisoning. Profuse salivation is, however, an exception which merits attention. Some persons are very easily salivated. In one case—related by Dr.GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 112 Farre—a lady was affected furiously, in a few hours, by two grains of calomel; prescribed as a purgative witb some cathartic extmct. She died at the end of two years, worn out, and having lost portions of the jaw by necrosis. Intense salivation is best relieved by the application of a few leeches to the swollen and painful glands. Smearing the gums with powdered tannin, will probably reduce their engorged con- dition, and give additional comfort. Gargling the mouth with weak brandy-and-water is another resource, not unfrequently successful in relieving the distress. Chlorate of potash, taken internally, is spoken of very favourably by Herpin, M. Ricord, M. A. Fournier, and Mr. Simon, as far as his trials of it have gone. The doses given were commonly ninety grains during the day ; and it is expressly stated, that, while the inflammation of the mouth was thus effectually cured, the therapeutical influence of the mercury was in no degree diminished. On the other hand, some persons are very difficult to salivate. Such cases are not uncommon, and unfortunately they seem most apt to occur when the controlling agency of mercury is most urgently required. In syphilitic cases of obstinate resistance to mercurialism, Mr. Simon finds that this insusceptibility often gives way, if tartarized antimony be administered in conjunction for a day or two ; a half-grain dose, and then a few quarter-grain doses at eight-hour intervals. Stimulants.—Wine, brandy, ammonia, or other stimulants, are necessary, whenever inflammatory fever has passed into a state of general depression and exhaustion, the natural sequence of nervous and vascular excitement. Requisite, therefore, as stimulants may be in proportion to the weakness manifested at even an early period, they are sure to become indispensable as the fever itself subsides. And on account of the local condition also, stimulants may be appro- priate. When, in the course of inflammation, productiveness pre- dominates, in the shape of effusion and suppuration, it will be necessary to support the circulation under the demand then made; and when destructiveness prevails, it will be even more imperative to sustain all the vital powers under the influence of poisonous matters absorbed in the course of suppuration, pyasmia, ulceration, or sloughing. The "genuine effects of stimulation"are thus generally emunerated by Dr. Anstie, who has made this the subject of elaborate inquiry; but who, it must he confessed, has arrived at conclusions opposed for the most part to those of previous authors, and which are open to further clinical investigation. The effects observed are eight in number: " relief of pain; removal of muscular spasm, tremor, or convulsion; reduction of undue frequency of the circulation; reduction of excessive secretion; removal of general debility, or of special fatigue of the muscles, brain, or digestive organs ; removal of delirium, or maniacal excitement, and production of healthy sleep ; support of the organism in the absence of ordinary food; local increase of nutrition where this is deficient." In regard to one of these effects, at least—"reduction of undue frequency of the circulation"—this view of the action of stimulants would be at variance with the known efficacy of administering them for the exhaustion consequent on inflammatory fever. The kind and quantity of stimulant or stimulants which should be113 INFLAMMATION. administered, will vary greatly according' to tlie age, constitutional strength, pi'evious state of health and habits, of the individual. But the consideration of these particulars must be left to the experience and judgment of the practitioner in each case. Tonics.—Cinchona bai'k, the mineral acids, sulphuric, nitric, nitro- muriatic, and other tonics, are useful under, perhaps, similar circum- stances to those requiring the aid of stimulants, in the treatment of inflammation. Tet these two classes of remedial agents have different, perhaps opposite, effects, in some respects, although it is difficult to distinguish their operation in every particular. A stimulant certainly produces its effects suddenly and transiently; a tonic, its effects more gradually and more permanently. Then again, the chief primary effect of the one is to quicken the circulation, as manifested by increased rapidity of pulse; while, the chief primary effect of the other is to strengthen the circulation, and hence an increased force of pulse. Thus far these two kinds of agents contrast. Both, however, concur in restoring the balance of the circulation from the depression connected with or consequent on the subsidence of inflammatory fever; and subsequently, in contending against the ex- haustion of continued effusion or profuse suppuration; or again, in overcoming the depression arising from absorption of poisonous matters, in the course of suppuration, pyasmia, ulceration, or sloughing. The mineral acids seem to exercise a special influence on the secretion of the skin, and, indeed, tlie secretions generally. Having administered the sesquicarbonate of ammonia, as a stimulant, with, the tincture of bark or the disulphate of quinine, as a tonic, when first weakness supervenes; the ammonia should afterwards be exchanged for, say, the diluted nitro-muriatic acid; this tonic combination of bark and acid being the most effectual means of restraining the sweats of hectic fever, and of cleaning the furred tongue in gangrenous typhoid fever. The general improvement is often, very remarkable, and permanent. God-liver oil and nutritious diet are naturally associated; the one seeming to renovate the power of assimilation, the other supplying tlie materials for restoration. Both, become appropriate, and nutritious diet absolutely necessary, on the subsidence of inflammatory fever, and during hectic, pyaemia, and gangrenous typhoid fever; whether for the reproduction of new blood and the general renovation of textural nutrition, or for the reparation of any local deterioration of texture, or loss of substance, consequent on inflammation. Cod-liver oil may be regarded, partly, as a kind of food, supplying a limpid fat which passes easily into the circulation. In the first 1 instance, it is not unfrequently rejected by the stomach or bowels. I Beginning, therefore, with a moderate dose, not exceeding a teaspoon- ■ of pale, transparent, inodorous, and almost tasteless oil, taken . twice or three times a day, this quantity may be gradually increased ■ to a table-spoonful. It is best taken in a little milk, as an emulsion, !0r floating on orange wine, ginger wine, or other light cordial. The addition of a little diluted nitric acid is highly recommended by +u ^' or if the tendency to nausea be extreme, ithe thirtieth or fortieth of a grain of strychnine in solution, with ach dose of oil, will be found an excellent corrective. A further114 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. precaution is, that the oil be taken ten or fifteen minutes after a meal. The expression " nutritious diet," can scarcely be defined. It is assuredly the opposite to "antiphlogistic diet." Nutrition in the abstract, implies an adequate supply of all the proximate elements which form the textures and organs of the body; whereas the demand arising from inflammation must vary with the particular part affected. Nutritious food, of some kind, will be most needed in proportion to the supervention of suppuration, possibly profuse, and sloughing, possibly extensive. And experience, rather than any chemical knowledge, suggests an increased proportion of animal food, with a liberal allow- ance of ale or porter, as malt beverages, besides alcoholic stimulants. (&.) Removal of the Local Consequences of Inflammation.—They are —productively,—effusion and its organization, suppuration, and the formation of abscess ; destructively,—ulceration, sloughing, and morti- fication. As connected with inflammation, it would be unpathological to regard these local consequences otherwise than as continuations of this process; terminally, it is true, yet continuations of one and the same process, essentially. The local remedial measures, therefore, which counteract the constituent elements of inflammation, are preventive of these after conditions. Bat the removal of inflammatory products yet remains to be con- sidered. This may be effected either by absorption, or by evacuation; the latter being aided generally by some operative interference. Effusion, consisting of serum, fibi'iu, and exudation corpuscles, may be dispersed by a stimulating embrocation of ammonia and olive oil, or of camphor and soap liniment; by mercurial ointments, such as the unguentum hydrargyri nitratis ; by the compound tincture of iodine, or by " iodine paint; " and by spii'it lotions. The influence of some of these agents is aided by the friction employed in their application. Pressure, uniformly applied by even bandaging, will also promote absoi'ption; and this may be aided by some stimulating agent used conjointly, as Scott's ointment to an enlarged knee-joint. Absorption, is however, available only in chronic inflammation. Incision will be appropriate when the inflammation is acute, and accompanied probably with considerable tension, as in phlegmonous erysipelas. In all such cases stimulating applications are inadmissible. Suppuration becoming inevitable in any case, the secretion of pus should be encouraged, by quickening the inflammatory process. Abstaining, therefore, from the further use of any remedial measures for counteracting inflammation, the formation of pus is best insured by warmth and moisture topically applied, as by a light poultice, or moist spongio-piline. The absorption of pus is possible. Serum, the fluid portion of pus, is thus readily removed. Pus-cells must undergo a preparatory change. They disintegrate and re-enter the circulation ; or remaining, in part at least, the broken-down pus-cells aggregate and form a cheese-like matter, which may at length become cretaceous. But the probability of absorption taking place, is little available for any practical purpose. Ahscess, or a collection of matter, generally tends to point, and the suro'eon should then follow the footsteps of nature. An incision should115 INFLAMMATION. "be made, whenever and wherever pointing has taken place, and of sufficient extent to allow a free opening for the evacuation of matter, and its discharge as secreted subsequently; these directions constituting the rule of treatment. Abscess in certain situations should be opened early ; indeed, the surgeon cannot be too alert. Thus, in parts abound- ing with loose cellular texture, as the neck, axilla, groin, neighbourhood of the anus and vagina, popliteal region, and generally in the cellular planes between muscles. So also suppuration underneath unyielding fibrous expansions, and in the sheaths of tendons. Then again, when adjacent to mucous canals or important organs; as the trachea, pharynx, thorax, abdomen, urethra, rectum, and joints. Abscess^ moreover, arising from irritant matters, as by the extravasation of urine or ffeces, should be promptly set free. Abscess in situations less acces- sible, although urgent, perhaps, in other respects, requires some delay; as with regard to the lungs, liver, spleen, kidneys, and most internal organs Fig. 28. A dependent opening, in order to facilitate the after escape of pus, has been particularly recommended, rather than an opening in the situation of pointing. But this practical injunction may be ob- served too absolutely; for where- ever matter points, there, ulti- mately, an opening will take place. If necessary, however, a depend- ent cowuier-opening may also be made, to insure the ready dis- charge of pus as it forms. To discover the presence of pus, the mode of opening an ab- scess is important. By introduc- ing a bistoury perpendicularly, a drop of matter wells up along the side of the blade, or a half-turn of the instrument will enable it to do so. The puncture thus made i is then readily converted into an i incision of sufficient extent. (Fig. 28.) This little operation may be T rendered painless by the topical influence of the ether-spray. But, by t thus freezing the integument, which is already in a low state of vitality, s sloughing is apt to follow; and this consideration may be of more c consequence than immunity from a few moments' pain. Thick and flaky pus, and especially when situated deeply, requires a proportionately more extensive incision. Extrusion of any texture, ■as muscle or fat, hindering the free evacuation of pus, may be obviated by inclining the blade of the bistoury, instead of withdrawing it, as the matter flows. Haemorrhage is usually slight and temporary. But in puncturing a deep-seated abscess, there may be some danger. Mr. Hilton, there- ^rore, recommends that an incision be made through the integuments and fascia, so as to expose any muscle under which the pus lies; the icavity of the abscess should then be penetrated by a director, along the groove of which, as a guide, a slender pair of dressing forceps being116 GENEKAL PATHOLOGY AND SUKGERY. introduced, tlie Wades are opened, the muscular fibres separated, and free exit is safely given to the pus. Sometimes, the nature of a swelling or tumour may be doubtful; whether it be solid or fluid, and if the latter, whether an extravasation of blood, or an inflammatory effusion or pus. To clear up the diag- nosis, before making an opening with a bistoury to discharge any such fluid matter, it may be advisable to introduce a grooved needle. A drop of fluid wells up along the groove, or any solid organized material lodged in the groove is abstracted by withdrawing the needle ; and either product can then be examined by the naked eye or under the microscope. I often have recourse to this procedure. The admission of air is generally of serious consequence, by in- ducing purulent decomposition and irritative fever or septicaemia, or prolonged suppurative discharge and hectic exhaustion. Hence, some precaution must be observed in opening any large and chronic abscess. A valvular aperture—as originally proposed by Abernethy—is the best safeguard. Having drawn the skin well to one side, a bistoury is introduced perpendicularly, as usual, but ere the matter has en- tirely ceased to flow, the integument is allowed to regain its former position; thus obliquely overlaying the aperture in the cyst. The external opening no longer directly communicating with the internal, any matter will continue to drain away without the ingress of air. Moreover, only so much pus escapes as may be discharged by the collapse of the walls of the abscess. It will, however, generally be better to close the opening, by sliding over it a small pad of lint, and then moderately compressing the whole cavity of the abscess, by means of a larger pad and bandage, to restrain the re-accumulation of matter. When the cavity has partly refilled, the same operation is repeated, and as often as may be necessary for the cyst to contract securely and finally close. But when a large chronic abscess occasions no incon- venience, it is a better rule not to open it, rather than endanger the patient's life. Whether an abscess be acute or chronic, small or large, any thumb- ing or squeezing would be an unpardonable injury to the delicately organized and highly vascular lining membi'ane, which, previously pus-forming, should now become lymph-producing for reparation. On one occasion, having opened a large chronic abscess, situate over the gluteal region, I took the liberty of introducing my finger; deeming it advisable to do so, for the double purpose of turning out the uncom- monly thick flaky matter, and of ascertaining whether the cyst com- municated with dead bone ; the case, a rare one, having simulated either disease of the hip-joint or of the sacro-iliac articulation. The subsequent escape of matter will be insured by introducing a strip of lint through the incision, and into the cavity of the abscess, in order to prevent adhesion of the lips of the aperture, and to promote contraction and healing by granulation from the bottom of the cavity. This safeguard strip of hnt is readily passed in with an ordinary probe or director, or with the flat handle of the scalpel. The strip is with- drawn in the course of a day or two, and a fresh piece not replaced, if a pus-discharging aperture be fairly established. If necessary, the discharge may be facilitated by the employment of a " drainage-tube," as recommended by M. Chassaignac. It is a small india-rubber tube with lateral holes; and this pipe may be passed, through a canula,INFLAMMATION. 117 into the abscess, leaving one end hanging out, the canula then being withdrawn; or the pipe, attached to a probe, is drawn through the abscess by a counter-opening, and both ends tied together. The objection to this proceeding, is the irritation caused by the tube, as a foreign body. In fact, it is a seton; and I have never yet seen any pus escape through the tube. In chronic abscess—as of the lymphatic o-lands—with congested, bluish, and disorganized integument, whether thick and indurated, or thin and undermined, it may be advisable to open the abscess by the slower and more painful method of introducing a stick of potass-fasa, to provoke a healthy action in the pai-t; or here the irritation of a seton, or a stimulating injection, may be resorted to with advantage. But dressing the cavity from the bottom with lint, will generally prove sufficient. Otherwise, the dressing of an opened abscess should be unirritating. A light poultice may be applied to encourage the discharge of pus, during the process of granulation from within ; or the application of a piece of lint to close the aperture, as soon as possible, will be appro- priate, when the abscess is to be reopened from time to time. Abscesses by "translation," and "secondary abscesses" in the course of pyaemia, should be treated as chronic abscesses; and the more so the larger the size to which they have attained. A valvular opening therefore should be made, and closed witk a piece of lint after the tension of the sac is sufficiently relieved, this being repeated when necessary. Obviously such, treatment relates only to external, or at least to accessible parts. The antiseptic method of opening an abscess was devised by Pro- fessor Lister, with, the view of counteracting any contaminating influence from the surrounding atmosphere—due perhaps to germinal matter—and of thus precluding the decomposition of pus, consequent on the admission of air to the cavity of the abscess. Accordingly, the abscess is opened with a bistoury in the usual manner, bat under the protective influence of some agent, which seems to possess the power of opposing any such septic change in animal matter—an antiseptic; and for this purpose, carbolic or phenic acid is generally employed. The method of treatment consists, either in surrounding the abscess with an antiseptic atmosphere of carbolic acid; or of placing the abscess under a fluid, such as oil, which has heen rendered anti- septic. Then the opening is made, apparently with greater safety than when thus unprotected. The former method is practised by throwing a spray of carbolic acid solution upon the part, thus creating an antiseptic atmosphere; and the blade of the knife may also be dipped in the solution, which should be of moderate strength, about one part of the acid to eighty of water. Under cover of an antiseptic oil, say one part to four of linseed oil, an abscess may be opened yet more securely, or the matter may be allowed to escape from under a layer of lint soaked in the oil. After either of these methods of open- ing an abscess with antiseptic precautions, the opening should be dressed with carbolic acid paste, or the oil, thickened with chalk, and then covered with tinfoil, the more effectually to preclude the admis- sion of air. I do not find, in practice, any unequivocal advantage from the antiseptic method of treatment; and I am disposed still to rely, as I have done for years with quite equal success, upon the security afforded118 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. by those general hygienic arrangements, in regard to clean air and clean dressings, which prevent the necessity of having recourse to any antiseptic measures. In short, I advocate what may be termed 'pre- septicism, instead of an^isepticism, in the practice of Surgery. Why admit an enemy, in the shape of an impregnated atmosphere, to the bedside, and to the wound, of a patient; and then devise means to oppose the entrance of that enemy, through this breach, into the fortress of life ? Those Surgeons are to be pitied who seem compelled to practise the Art of Heahng, amid the perpetually adverse and embarrassing circumstances of foul air, and perhaps foul appliances, in aa Hospital which had far better be destroyed to below its founda- tion and rebuilt, or removed to another site—as in the case of the Norwich Hospital—and which should be constructed, and appointed, with the hygienic provisions for health to each patient. Otherwise, the Surgeon must ever be in battle with an unseen, subtle, and deadly foe; until, at last, from dire necessity, he invents some " antiseptic system of treatment," which is founded in conjecture, and, with ever- changing tactics, is followed in despair. Nevertheless, Professor Lister deserves great credit for the courage and skill he has so long dis- played in fighting this unequal battle with the shadow of death; by what further means of warfare, and the apparent conquests he has gained, will be seen in the treatment of Open Wounds. Fortunately, however, even under the unfavourable circumstances of the most insalubrious Hospital, an abscess can be opened without the slightest risk of any contaminating aerial influence, by a method which entirely precludes the admission of air, in the following manner:— Suhcutaneous pneumatic aspiration supplies the requisite method of drawing off a purulent collection, without the possibility of air entering the cavity of the abscess. A fine needle-like canula is thrust into the abscess, with a slight rotatory movement to facilitate the passage of this slender instrument, which is attached by a caoutchouc tube to a receiving bottle—the aspirator (Fig. 29)—from which the air has been Fig. 29. exhausted by means of a small pump. Needles of various sizes are used, according to the thickness of the fluid; and a small wire-stylet is provided to keep the passage clear. The purulent fluid is seen to pass into the bottle, descending in a steady stream, until it ends in dropping and may be slightly tinged with blood; when the needle should be withdrawn from the abscess. Now and then, a more complete vacuum may be maintained by working the pump.119 INFLAMMATION. Aspiration is due to the ingenuity of Dr. Georges Dieulafoy; and in his hands, coupled with the practice of most surgeons, this method of treatment has been extended to the removal of any collection of fluid; while it is applicable alike for the purpose of exploratory punc- ture, in diagnosis, without the admission of air. The tube near the needle is interrupted by a piece of glass-tube; so that the puncture cannot penetrate beyond even a layer of fluid, without some portion traversing the glass window,—being siicked up, as it were, by the aspirator. The diagnosis is at once indicated. This method is specially serviceable to determine the presence and nature of a fluid, when the collection is in small quantity, or deeply seated. Thus, aspii-ation has been employed successfully, whether for diagnosis or treatment, in abscess within joints, or under the muscles of the thigh, in the gluteal region, or in the iliac-fossa; or as affecting internal organs, such as the liver or kidney. Cystic ovaries, or cysts within the pelvis, have been submitted to aspiration, through the abdominal wall, or per vaginam. Effusions within the skull, in hydrocephalus ; into the peri- cardium, the pleural or peritoneal cavities, have thus been safely with- drawn ; and the hernial sac may be relieved of fluid, so as to admit of effectual taxis, in returning the visceral protrusion. Collections of blood, which may have become partly coagulated, yield less readily to aspiration. Yet I have drawn off a mixture of bloody serum, to the amount of fifteen ounces, consequent on extensive bruising of the back. But, in aU cases, the fluid is apt to re^ccumulate, especially when pressure cannot be brought to bear upon the part. Lastly, in retention of urine, supra-pubic puncture with the aspirator, affords the means of speedy and safe relief ; and which may be resorted to several times with impunity. Gomiylications of Abscess.—HcemorrJiage into an abscess sometimes occurs, and either before or after it has been opened. The source of the bleeding may be capillary, from the highly vascular pyogenic membrane; and then the haemorrhage is of an oozing character. It usually occurs when the abscess is opened, and the nature of the case is plainly declared by the admixture of blood with the pus, or the discoloration of the purulent discharge afterwards. This form of haemorrhage arises partly from the capillary vessels yielding under the loss of pressure of the fluid which had occupied the cavity of the abscess ; but the bleeding proceeds principally from the unsurgical thumbing and squeezing to which an abscess is sometimes subjected, in order to empty the cavity; and sometimes there may be a constitu- tional tendency to haemorrhage, as from scrofula or purpura, or in the haemorrhagic diathesis. Arterial or venous htemorrhage arises from ulceration laying open an artery or vein of some size ; and then the bleeding is sudden and profuse. This may occur before or after the opening of the abscess. In the former case, the nature of this com- plication is indicated by the sudden enlargement of the swelling; and when the haemorrhage is arterial, by the pulsating character of the tumour. But these signs are often obscure, and in the latter case, the abscess can only be distinguished from an aneurism by any marks of inflammatory action and the previous history. The treatment of these different forms of abscess-hasmorrhage will vary accordingly. Capillary bleeding may be restrained, by laying the abscess freely open, and then applying a compress and ice-bag.120 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Venous hoemon-liage may perhaps be stopped by the further support of plugging, with a styptic solution of irou, placed well home upon the bleeding vessel. But where the hjemorrhage is arterial, it cannot be arrested by compression, or by ligature of the vessel alone within the cavity of the abscess, for there the ulcerated or sloughy state of the part forbids the attempt, which might be followed by a fatal recurrence of the bleeding at any time; but we may perhaps trust the additional compression of the main artery above tbe abscess, or re- course must be had to ligature of that vessel. Another complication of abscess may be mentioned, as occurring sometimes wben the collection of matter is situated adjoining a mucous canal. Air permeates the cavity of an abscess so placed, or gains access by ulceration ; or gas may perhaps be generated by decompo- sition of the matter contained within the cavity; constituting what bas been named a tympanitic or emphysematous abscess. This change takes place more frequently in abscess lying against the rectum or the pharynx. The sound elicited by percussion, or a gui-gling sensation on manipulation, will suffice to make known the admixture of air and purulent fluid, when the situation of the abscess admits of this mode of examination. No special mode of treatment is required ; but an early and free vent should be given to the contents of such an abscess, and the cavity syringed out with an antiseptic solution. Sinus and fistula require special treatment, in some respects. Any assignable local cause having, if possible, been removed, as a piece of dead bone, or other foreign body; pressure by a graduated compress and bandage, will succeed occasionally in bringing about adhesion, if the sinus or fistula be recent and accessible. Drainage affords an efficacious resource when the fistula remains open, owing to the collec- tion of purulent matter below the level of the external opening, or too deep in to have a free discharge. The matter may then be allowed to drain away, either by inserting a piece of drainage tube, or by making a counter-opening; but a proper position of the part will sometimes seciu'e the requisite freedom of discharge. The tube acts also as a seton, and so far may promote the healing of the fistulous track ; but it must be withdrawn in a few days, lest it should provoke continued suppuration. When induration has taken place, or pressure cannot be applied, stimulating injections of sulphate of zinc or nitrate of silver, sometimes answer the purpose. Or a red-hot wire introduced up the passage, may prove successful. This is conveniently accom- plished by Mr. Marshall's apparatus, whereby a platinum wire, intro- duced cold, is made red-hot instantaneously by the galvanic current. Generally speaking, however, a sinus or fistula having become indurated, it obstinately resists any attempt to excite adhesion. Slitting up the passage with a curved bistoury, on a director if necessary, and heahng by granulation from the bottom, must then be had recourse to. A familiar illustration is the operation of fistula in ano. Whenever the per- sistence of a fistula depends on some constitutional cause, the general health must be attended to accordingly; as in the case of scrofulous disease of bone, with fistulse leading down to caries or necrosis. The destructive consequences of inflammation, i.e., ulceration and sloughing or gangrene, severally present certain indications of treat- ment.121 INFLAMMATION. Ulceration—as depending on inflammation—may be arrested by counteracting any of the constituent elements of inflammation, which, are still in operation. Local antiphlogistic treatment, including rest and an elevated position of the part, is indicated. During reparation, the process of suppurative granulation needs little or no assistance. Warmth and moisture, by means of a light poultice or spongio-piline epithem, may be continued while the chasm is filling up; rest and position being still observed. S aperfluous organizable material—pus— is discharged; and when the granulations have grown to the level of the skin, and are no longer suppurative, the aid of a poultice may be discontinued. Water-dressing, simply to exclude the irritating action of the air, is then alone necessary. This application should be ex- changed for some slightly stimulating wash, if the pale and flabby state of the granulations suggests the propriety of so doing. A weak solution of sulphate of zinc answers very well. The pressure of a bandage will aid its eifect, and repress any exuberant growth. Sloughing and gangrene are, in like manner, amenable to local anti- phlogistic treatment, with the view of arresting the process of de- struction. Effusion—always an essential constituent of inflammation—is here the element, in particular, to be counteracted or its effect overcome. The relief of tension is imperative. Hence, incisions as free as may be necessary, are the primary indication of treatment. Its efficacy is witnessed in phlegmonous erysipelas and carbuncle. The process of separation of the living from the dead textures, must be encouraged. Warmth and moisture, by a poultice or spongio-piline epithem, or the more stimulating action of a yeast poultice, will be highly serviceable, both in limiting the sloughing and inducing the detachment of slough. The latter kind of poultice has the advantage of destroying the foetor of decomposing textures. Charcoal in powder, chlorides of lime or zinc, and carbolic acid, are also valuable antiseptic applications. It should, however, be remembered that any stimulant application may overact, and by hurrying on the inflammation beyond that requisite for the ulcerative severation of textures, would cause the gangrene to spread. The line of separation having formed, the detachment of slough has yet to take place. During this period, its extraction prematurely would be attended with hcemorrhage, perhaps considerable. Nature may be aided gently, from time to time, by slight manipulative interference, here and there. Finally, the removal of slough is an obvious indication which can hardly be overlooked. Dead soft textures are easily withdrawn by the finger or forceps; a sequestrum will require to be extracted from the encompassing sheath of new bone. The healing of soft textures, subsequently, is by granulation; and the treatment that for a simple healing ulcer. Thus ends the local treatment of inflammation, in its consequences, productively and destructively. The treatment of the concomitant constitutional disorders—hectic fever, arising from suppuration, and the typhoid fever arising from gangrene—is represented by those constitutional remedial measures which come into use as the inflammatory fever, declining, is suc- ceeded by general weakness and excitement. Stimulants and tonics on the one hand, with opium, and a nutritious diet, constitute the resources referred to.122 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Pyemia, also, is amenable to this plan of treatment, if, indeed, it be subject to any remedial measures. Varieties op Inflammation. The excess or the defect, or, it may be, the peculiar character, of one or more of the constituent elements of inflammation, gives rise to corresponding varieties. The principal are as follows :—sthenic and asthenic; acute, subacute, and chronic; phlegmonous ; congestive; erysipelatous ; diphtheritic or pellicular; haemorrhagic ; and certain specific inflammations ; as the scrofulous, the gouty, and rheumatic, the syphilitic and the gonorrhaBal. The sthenic and asthenic varieties of inflammation, observes Dr. C. J. B. Williams, are I'eferable to a difference in the strength and irritability of the heart and arteries, and in the quality and quantity of the blood vrhich they propel. Sthenic inflammation is marked by a strong, hard pulse, high fever, very fibrinous blood, a full and active development of the chief symptoms of inflammation, and a tendency to the effusion of the more plastic products. This form of disorder occurs in subjects of the most robust constitution, in whom therefore the effects of disease are most readily shaken off. Asthenic inflammation occurs in persons, the tone and real strength of whose vascular system is low, and whose blood, generally speaking, is poor. The pulse is not always affected; but when it is so, it is in frequency rather than in strength or firmness ; the fever, if there be any, is of a slight, remittent, or low character. The products are either scanty, or of a cacoplastic or aplastic nature ; or the effusion may be chiefly serous, the inflamma- tion differing little from flux and dropsy. Treatment.—Sthenic inflammation requires the early and more free use of reducing measures—blood-letting, local and perhaps general, purgatives, antimony, and mercury. The system tolerates this antiphlogistic treatment better than in other varieties of inflamma- tion, and if employed in time, it is commonly successful, as the vigour of the constitution naturally tends to recovery. Asthenic inflammation, on the contrary, admits of less reducing treatment; and early recourse to stimulants and tonics, with a generous diet. Thus, bark or quinine, ammonia, wane, brandy, and animal food, must be soon administered. Acute, subacute, and chronic inflammation properly relate to its duration, but these terms are often used as synonymous with sthenic and asthenic. Acute inflammation may be, and commonly is, sthenic, but its distinctive character is, that it tends to a speedy termination of some kind or other. It may end in resolution, effusion, suppuration, or gangrene, in a period varying from a few days to three weeks. An inflammation lasting above the latter period is termed subacute, and if protracted beyond six weeks is properly called chronic. The latter is- commonly asthenic, though it sometimes presents a good deal of the sthenic character. Acute inflammation, when at all extensive, is attended with considerable fever and constitutional disorder. With subacute inflammation the fever is less, and may even be absent. In chronic inflammation there is rarely much fever, and when present, it is of a remittent or hectic kind. The products of acute inflammation are commonly copious and dis-INFLAMMATION. 123 tinctive, being either free coagulable lympli or pus. Chronic inflamma- tion results chiefly in pus-formation, or in contractile lymph-deposit; while in subacute inflammation, the products are often of intermediate nature, as purulent lymph or curdy matter. Treatment.—Acute inflammation demands also the prompt use of antiphlogistic measures, regulated, however, by the more or less sthenic character of the symptoms. The subacute variety, marked by less febrile symptoms, but of longer duration, in a continuous or recurring form, suggests a moderation of such treatment, and its renewal from time to time as occasion may indicate. Mercurials with opium are often the most efiicient remedies. Chronic inflammation rarely admits of any reducing measures, but needs a stimulant and tonic plan of treatment, with mild mercurials, sustained by a nourishing diet; this course being prolonged for probably a considerable period. The local treatment, equally tedious, must be directed to the removal of the inflammatory products, by blistering, iodine, stimulating embrocations, pressure, and other applications to promote absorption. Chronic abscess should be treated as explained in noticing the local conse- quences of inflammation, generally. Phlegmonous inflammation is illustrated in the phlegmon or com- mon boil of the skin. Its chief feature consists in its being abruptly circumscribed by an effusion of solid lymph, which brings the inflam- mation to a termination, either by suppuration, or by slow subsidence, as in blind boils. A highly fibrinous condition of the blood contributes to render inflammation phlegmonous, but this form of inflammation is commonly exhibited by cellular and parenchymatous textures. The type of phlegmonous inflammation is usually sthenic ; and even when it advances to suppuration or sloughing, it defends the system against the noxious influence of the pus and dead matter. Hence, the fever is inflammatory, and the local pain, irritation, and heat are considerable. Treatment usually should be similar to that which is appropi'iate for inflammation of the sthenic type ; though the febrile disturbance may be asthenic, as is often the case in boils and phlegmonous erysipelas. But the tension of the part affected always demands relief by early and free incisions. Congestive inflammation is that in which the accumulation of the blood in the vessels of the affected part, and retardation of its move- ment, predominate over the determination of blood. Hence it is com- monly asthenic, and generally originates from causes that produce congestion, the reaction which converts this into inflammation being imperfect or partial. Its symptoms are less prominent than those of more active inflammation, and partake more of the character of con- gestion. There may be little pain, heat, or fever; but the redness, where visible, is more marked and deeper than usual, and if the affected organ be very vascular, as the liver, lungs, and kidneys, the swelling may be considerable. Congestive inflammation is usually subacute or chronic, not tending to speedy results ; but a kind of flux or dropsy may occur early, as happens from congestion. The solid effusion ensuing is generally cacoplastic; thence the consolidations or indurations resulting, are often of a dense indolent kind, tending to contract or to degenerate still further into aplastic matter. Inflamma- tion of the lung supervening on disease of the heart, on bronchitis, andGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 124 on aspliyxia, is generally congestive ; and so is inflammation of the liver, as arising from any cause. _ Treatment, both constitutionally and locally, will be that which is suitable for the subacute and chronic varieties of inflammation. But the congestive character of this variety seems to be specially amenable to mercury and antimony, as witnessed in the treatment of hepatitis and pneumonia respectively. At a later period, with a lax state of the vessels in the part affected, the mineral acids are very favourable, as part of the tonic treatment. Erythematic or erysipelatous inflammation contrasts with phlegmo- nous in its tendency to spread, owing to its not being attended with the effusion of plastic lymph. In its severe form, it is accompanied by much redness, pain or smarting, heat and swelling; the effusion is chiefly serous or sero-purulent, and often raises the cuticle in blisters. It may issue in resolution; but in its worst form, it terminates in diffused suppuration, sloughing, or gangrene. The fever is asthenic, or even typhoid, and of an infectious character. Treatment.—Depletion will be sufiiciently accomplished by salines, aperients, diaphoretics, and diuretics, without having recourse to any blood-letting or other active antiphlogistic measures. But this treat- ment must soon give place to stimulants and tonics—ammonia, bark, and particularly iron,—the sesquichloride of iron seeming to be specially beneficial, with a generous diet of wine, brandy, eggs, beef- tea, and other easily assimilated animal food. To prevent the spread of infection; isolation of the patient, free ventilation, cleanliness with regard to dressings, and the use of disinfecting agents, as by chlorine vapour and chlorinated washes, constitute our chief resources. The general plan of treatment, thus indicated, is more fully described in detail under the head of Erysipelas. Diplitlieritic or fellicular inflammation of mucous membranes is somewhat allied to the erysipelatous, being diffused and spreading, genei'ally asthenic, and accompanied with a low kind of fever. But it is attended with more soreness than pain, little swelling, and a deep redness, which is eai-ly obscured by a characteristic film of gx'ayish or dirty-white albuminous matter, exuded on the inflamed surface. Patches of this kind often occur on the tonsils in sore throat, re- sembling sloughs. In scarlatina sometimes, diphtheritic inflammation affects the whole throat, and extends even to the trachea and bronchi, and into the mouth and gullet. The films of lymph effused ai'e often foetid, apparently from incipient decomposition. Treatment should be in no sense depletory or reducing, but similar to that for the erysipelatous variety ; excepting perhaps in the employ- ment of mercury, with the view of controlling the pellicular exudation. Stimulant and astringent applications to the fauces may prove eflacacious: the nitrate of silver, pencilled, or applied in a strong solution, by means of a glass brush; dilute mineral acids, the nitric or hydrochloric, one part to two or three of glycerine; or solutions of alum or sulphate of zinc. A borax gargle, consisting of three or four drachms of borax, with an ounce of honey, to a pint of water, will also be serviceable for cleansing the throat and correcting the foetor of the exudation. Ecemorrlagic inflammation is attended with effusion or extravasa- tion of bloodj in a greater or less degree. It occurs in subjects125 TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. scorbutic or afEected with purpura, and in connection with disease of the liver or kidneys. Thus, Dr. C. J. B. Williams has met with several instances of hsemorrhagic pleurisy and pericarditis in conjunc- tion with cirrhosis of the liver, and Bright's disease of the kidney. The treatment forms part of that which is appropriate for whatever disease with wliich this variety of inflammation may be associated. The specific inflammations in Scrofula, Rheumatism, Gout, and Syphilis, will be fully described under these different titles, among Blood-diseases. CHAPTER II. TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. Morbid Growths present certain general characteristics, in respect to their structure and vital endowments, which may be advantageously noticed, before describing the various species of Growths. 1. In common with all other Morlaid Products, Morbid Growths are products supplemental, in the sense of being additional, to the parts of the body in which they occur. They form Tumours. 2. In their textural structure, and in their physical properties, Growths generally resemble the various healthy tissues in which they severally originate. There is a structural homology or at least analogy between the two, and their structural elements are similar if not identical; but there may be an apparent structural difference, or hete- rology. Growths are, therefore, sometimes designated Homologous or Heterologous; according as they represent a lesser or greater degree of structural departure from the normal condition of the tissues in which they are formed. Yirchow proposed the terms Hyperplasia and Heteroplasia to represent these relations of Growths, and of New formations generally, to the normal tissues of the body. Growths, in common with other organized Morbid Products, do not generally attain to the same state of textural development as healthy tissues; they so far represent structural retrogressions of the normal tissues to various rudimentary conditions, by arrests of develop- ment of their structural elements. In their degree or grade of organization. Growths represent states of textural structure, at least as highly developed as the False tissues produced in the Reparation of Injuries or resulting from Inflammation. 3. A Growth generally presents a well-defined boundary, often a distinct capsule, by which the included structure can be readily distinguished circumferentially from adjoining textures. By virtue of their structural homology or resemblance to healthy tissues. Growths may perhaps be regarded as hypertrophies or over- growths, but as discontinuous from the surrounding tissues; while, by the latter character, they are distinguished from out-growths or hypertrophies continuous with the adjoining tissues, e.g., out-growing portions of the thyroid and prostate glands. 4. The vital power of Growths is peculiar, and exhibits their126 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. essentially morbid character. They possess the inherent power of reproducing their own structural elements, when adequately supplied with blood or plasma as the nutritive material suitable for their production. Hence, I would designate Morbid Growths products of Reproductive Nutrition. They thus increase and multiply. But another vital characteristic is this; they apparently fulfil no useful purpose in the animal economy. It is not, observes Sir James Paget, in the likeness or in the unlikeness to the natural tissues that we can express the true nature of T umours; it is not enough to consider their anatomy, their phy- siology also must be studied; as dead masses, or as Growths achieved, they may be called like, or unlike, the rest of a part; but as things growing, they are all unlike it. It is, therefore, not enough to think of them as hypertrophies or over-growths; they must be considered as parts overgrowing, and as overgrowing with appearance of in- herent power, irrespective of the growing or maintenance of the rest of the body, discordant from its normal type, and with no seeming purpose. Such are the general structural characters, and such the general vital endowments of Growths, or Tumours. But the vital changes of certain Growths contrast remarkably with the progress of others. Some appear to exercise a merely local and mechanical influence; their pathological significance is limited to surrounding parts, which are variously pressed, obstructed, and, possibly, obliterated by absorp- tion. Inflammation, suppui-ation, and ulceration occasionally occur in parts around, owing to pressure of the tumour, and thus a pendulous growth, more especially, may protrude. Otherwise, the healthy mechanism only of the part becomes impaired by these localized Growths. Moreover, when completely extirpated, as by the surgical operation of excision, they never return. Other Growths are localized, but they are also recurring; returning in situ, even again and again, when apparently completely extirpated. And yet other Growths are recurring but not localized; they gradually pervade surrounding tissues, and affect neighbouring lymphatic vessels and glands; they are prone to undergo ulceration, and by extension of this process thus destroy adjacent parts. They propagate also in different and distant regions of the body, and grow in succession and with increasing rapidity. Growths having these vital characters, are aptly denomi- nated infiltrating (Walshe) or .malignant,—a less expressive term; while all other Growths being distinguished by the negation of this generic attribute, are non-infiltrating or innocent, comparatively speaking. According to the clinical distinctions already noticed, coupled with some Anatomical or Histological differences of Species, Morbid Growths may be classified as follows :— Localized Growths (non-infiltrating). Cysts. Simple or barren. Serous. Sanguineous. Synovial, Mucous. Oily. Colloid. Seminal.127 TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. Compound or Proliferous. Cystigerous. Glandular. Cutaneous. Dentigerous. Cystic Tumours—e.g.. Fibrous. Cartilaginous. Fatty Tumour. Lipoma. Steatoma. Sarcoma (Vircbow) :— Fibro-cellular Tumour. Painful Sub-cutaneous Tubercle. Neuroma. Glioma. Myxoma. Psammoma. (Vircbow.) Fibrous Tumour. Fibro-calcareous. Fibro-cystic. , . ,. f Fibro-nucleated. Eecurrmg Varieties. | Recurring Fibroid. Cartilaginous Tumour. (Enchondroma.) Fibro-Cartilaginous. Ossific. Mixed with otlier Growths. ^ . -TT • J.- ( Myeloid. (Paget, or Eecurrmg Varieties, j ^ibro-plastic. Lebert.) Granulation Tumours. (Vircbow.) Elephantiasis. Sypbilitic Tumours—e.g., Gummy Tumours; Lupus ; and Swellings of Glanders and Farcy. Vascular or Erectile Tumours. (Angioma.) , Nsevus.—Telangeiectasis. Aneurism by Anastomosis. Osseous Tumours. Glandular Tumours. Lymphoma. Adenoma. Papillary Growths. Warts. Horns. Infiltrating Growths. Cancer. Encephaloid. Varieties.—^Villous. Melanotic. Fungus Haematodes. Scirrhous. Varieties.—Osteoid. Colloid. Varieties. Cystic Cancers. Epithelial Cancer. Varieties. General Etiology.—(1.) Pathogeny of Morhid Groivtlis.—As distin- guished from the Pathology or Structure and Vital History of Morbid Growths, tbeir Pathogeny or Generation is an inquiry of great interest and practical importance. The origin of Morbid Growths appears to be similar to that of Inflammatory Products, in their being either textural geneses, or re- ferable to morbid conditions of the blood—dyscrasise. Virchow, Rind- fleisch, and 0. Weber concur in regarding Tumours as of local origin ; Billroth and other pathologists equally incline to their constitutional production. According to Virchow's theory, new formations, whether as in- flammatory products, or as new growths or tumours, are produced from the germs with which connective tissue and derivative tissues are said to abound; this common stock of germs being the source of new formations, instead of the plastic lymph, blastema, or exudation matter, which has so long been accredited. This theory of " con- tinuous textural development," in opposition to the "blastema" theory, IS based upon two species of evidence: the absence of any discernibleGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 128 exudation of amorphous matter, prior to the appearance of organized elements ; and the discovery that connective tissue, and its equivalent tissues, as bone, are full of germs or cell-elements. Thus the body is said to consist of a more or less continuous mass of connective-tissue- like constituents, in which, at certain parts, other things, such as muscles and nerves, are imbedded. It is in this more or less " con- nected framework " that germinal new formation goes on, and in accordance with the same law which regulates embryonic development. The histological origin of new formations would appear to occur in either of two ways: generally, by cell-division; by endogenous de- velopment, in some instances. The relation of Morbid Growths to Healthy Tissues has engaged much attention. So long since as 1857—twenty years from the time I am now writing—I endeavoured to establish a general Law of " Structural Retrogression," * which explains the relation of Morbid to Healthy Histology, and the generation of Morbid Growths—extend- ing to Organized Morbid Products, in general—from Healthy Tissues. Subsequently, I ventured to formulate this Law in the following terms : "that Organized Morbid Pi'oducts are merely ^persistent rudimentary conditions of the structural elements of their analogous iZeaZ</;i/ Tissues, by arrested development of those elements ;" f " that such Products, including ' New Growths,' representing only so many developmental conditions of analogous Healthy Tissues, are seTcrally formed by so many arrests of their development; " and that " Degenerative retro- gressions of the original tissues are formed by so many relapses to as many more simple, although not developmental, conditions of their structural elements." X (2.) External causes, e.g., mechanical injury, chemical agents, and the influence of cold, have a very uncertain relation to the production of Morbid Growths. Such causes commonly give rise to inflamma- tion, acute or chronic; they rarely result in the formation of any Tumour, properly so called. Pathologists, however, are divided on this question. General Indications of Treatment.—From the general pathology of Morbid Growths, and their relations to the developmental anatomy of Healthy Tissues, certain general indications of treatment are deducible. 1. To reduce the structural condition to a lower degree of retro- gression, by degeneration or by disintegration, in order to facilitate absorption of the Tumour. Medicinal agents, and local appliances, e.g., stimulating applications, compression, may fulfil this indication. 2. To superinduce some other morbid process, in situ, for the direct suppression of the Growth, and its obliteration or destruction as a Tumour. Inflammation, or Sloughing, by stimulant injections, setons, caustics, congelation, may fulfil this indication. 3. To remove the Tumour, as such, mechanically, by surgical opera- tion ; puncture, enucleation, ligature, excision, amputation. Special Tumours.—Morbid Growths are severally distinguished by differences or peculiarities, in respect to their structural condition, and physical characters of shape, size, weight, consistence, colour, situation, and number produced ; and by their vital history of origin, including * "What has Pathological Anatomy done for Medicine and Surgery?" Ten serial Essays. Lancet, 1857. i t " Principles of Surgery " (1864), p. 25. % Ibid. p. 93. jTUMOUES OR MORBID GROWTHS. 129 Fig. 30* hereditary predisposition and relations to age and sex; causes—consti- tutional and local; course, and consequences. In other words, Growths have differences of character—pathologico-anatomical, physiological and pathological, in regard to species. These differences I proceed to describe and to consider in the diagnosis, etiology, and prognosis of the various kinds of Tumours, as arranged in the foregoing table. The special Treatment of each will also be described, in illustration of the general indications already enunciated. Cysts and Cystic Tumours.—Structural Condition.—This is very varied. (1.) Cysts. " Essentially, this species of growth," observes Paget, "is a cyst, sac, or bag, filled with some substance which may be regarded as entirely, or for the most part, its product, whether as a secretion, or as an endo- genous growth." This cyst (Fig. 30), sac, or bag, is either soli- tary, or frequently aggregated with others ; and each may be free and movable, or imbedded in the substance of some other growth, thus forming a "cystic tumour." But the contents of the cyst or cysts are the chief features of distinction. Some contain fluid unorganized secretions, and are spoken of as simple, or more correctly, barren cysts. Others contain organized, endogenous growths, and these are denominated compound, or more appropriately, jproUferous cysts. (Fig. 31.) But the simple sac is the type, from which the proliferous cyst may be re- garded as a departure to a more complex condition; and between the former in its simplest state of development, and the latter in its most anomalous condi- tion, each intermediate variety 1 may be distinguished by the < contents of the cysts, and the y whole arranged in a tolerably « even series of progressive or- g ganization. Fig. 31. t * A simple cyst in the broad ligament of the uterus, with very vascular walls —o.JNew vessels, h. Broad ligament. 30 diam. (Wedl.) tn tirf '^^p VuV^ ^ mammary gland.—A vascular growth is seen attached 10 part ot the inner surface of the cyst. Below is a smaller cyst nearly filled with Bizr^Pagto'''" ^"^'^"^"^'^^'^ Three'fourtSrthe naturalGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 130 Simi^le Cysts.—A cyst is formed of fibro-cellular tissue, but without an epithelial lining. This is present in the more finished cysts, and is usually the tessellated variety of epithelium. A more perfect secreting surface is thus prepared, and the varieties of simple cysts take their names from the nature of their secretions—their contents. Thus we recognize the serous, sanguineous, synovial, mucous, oily, colloid, and seminal cysts. These barren cysts may be found in almost any part of the body— and to this subject I shall have occasion again to refer in connection with the origin of cysts—but the seminal cyst has, so far as I am aware, been found attached exclusively to the spermatic cord, and by virtue of the spermatozoa which it contains, may be regarded as on the verge of that higher organization which characterizes the proliferous cyst. Proliferous Cysts.—The organized growths within a proliferous cyst are sometimes simple cells, detached, or pedunculated and attached to the interior of the cyst whence they have sprung. Thus are formed the common cystigerous ovarian tumours. Occasionally the sub-cysts are found imbedded in the walls of the parent cyst, or even projecting from its external surface, so as almost to appear of exogenous forma- tion. This mode of cyst-formation is, I think, illustrated by inference from Dr. Mettenheimer's observations on the structure of the common hydatid mole, or cystic disease of the chorion ; but for the details of this supposed process the student is referred to Sir James Paget's Lectures. Glandular proliferous cysts are so named from their containing some kind of organized substance or substances, the structure of which resembles some kind of healthy gland-tissue, and for the most part that in which the cysts are imbedded. The thyroid and mammary glands, and perhaps the prostate and labial glands, are the chosen seats of this species of cyst. But a gland uliferous cyst may be developed apart from any connection with a secreting gland. A tumour of this kind was removed by Paget from beneath the gracilis and adductor longus muscles of a woman twenty-five years old. The patient remained well at the end of more than three years afterwards. A similar case and operation occurred to Lawrence. Cutaneous proliferous cysts are so called from their structure con- sisting of, or containing skin or its remains, with hair, or other forms of epidermic tissue, and fat. These cysts are not necessarily confined to the skin, as sebaceous and atheromatous tumours or wens, but are more commonly found in ovarian tumours; and, very rarely, in the testicle, lung, kidney, bladder, sublingual tissue, and within the skull. Teeth may also be discovered within capsules in abnormal situations, as in ovarian tumours, and the jaws ; and such capsules have received the name of dentigerous proliferous cysts. Signs and Diagnosis.—The signs and the distinctive characters of cysts are chiefly physical; their diagnosis from all other tumours beiug an application of pathological anatomy, through the medium of Physical Sign A simple or barren cyst, with its fluid contents, necessarily implies a circumcribed and fluctuating tumour, or the resistance only of fluid pressure. Such are cysts,—serous, sanguineous, enlarged synovial bursse, adventitious ganglia, often seen on the back of the wrist,TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. 131 mucous cysts, e.g., surcharged Nabothian follicles about the neck of the uterus, or distended Cowper's glands just within the orifice of the vagina, the less fatty cysts, e.g., certain wens, and seminal cysts in connection with the spermatic cord—encysted hydroceles. A collec- tion of such cysts presents similar characters. The resistance of the circumscribed fluctuation varies in degree, from that of the most fluid, to that of the most solid-feeling thick fluid ; as grumous blood, synovia, mucus, or the butter-like consistence of sebaceous cysts. Subject to these original deviations, the typical condition of the cystic-growth is that of one or more membranous bags, filled with some kind of fluid; and as such, its physical characters supply a complete diagnosis. Any uncertainty as to its nature can be determined by puncturing the supposed cyst with a grooved needle or with a fine trocar and canula, and examining its contents, simply by inspection, or under the microscope. Other conditions are subsequent productions :— ^he proliferous development of a solid growth within a parent cyst, is especially observed in sero-cystic disease of the breast, and in cystic bronchocele. A tumour, originally fluid and fluctuating, is thus con- verted into an unbroken solid mass; but during this transitional change the growth, not yet completely filling the cyst or cysts, is immersed in fluid, so that the whole feels a mixed tumour—partly fluid, partly solid. Ultimately, if one of the cysts should burst from over-distension, or if it be artificially laid open, the growth within, no longer restrained, increases, and protruding in the form of a fungus, gives to the tumour a new and characteristic appearance. Varieties and Diagnosis.—A thickened cyst simulates the characters of other tumours. It may resemble a chronic abscess, i.e., without the pain, heat, and redness of inflammation, only presenting swelling with fluctuation. But a pus-cyst, so to speak, is more blended with sur- rounding tissues,—it is less circumscribed than a cyst which has merely become thickened. An ordinary cyst is. sometimes actually converted into a painless chronic abscess. Their diagnosis is then practically unimportant. Cystic parasites are of comparatively rare occurrence : 1 cysticercus cellulosus and echinococcus hominis may appear in the I cellular texture, the former as a small, the latter as a large cyst. Their ; nature may be ascertained by puncture, and an appeal to microscopic t examination. Billroth has seen the cysts of the first-named parasite 1 removed from the nose and tongue, and vesicles of echinococcus removed t from the back and thigh. Trichina spiralis, also an encysted parasite, i inhabits the voluntary muscles, and always in vast multitudes, appear- : mg to the eye as white specks. But this cystic condition is perhaps c boyond the reach of diagnosis, and certainly of surgical treatment. (2.) Ctstic-tdmour.—A cyst or cysts within the substance of a solid tumour renders the diagnosis more obscure than when not so imbedded. Thus, cysts are, occasionally, set in the substance of a fibrous, fatty, or cartilaginous tumour, or in cancer-growth, and perhaps no kind of tumour is exempt. The depth of integuments, underneath which a cyst may be situated, will more completely conceal its true character. But the physical signs of cysts in tumours are constant. A cir- 1 cumscribed boundary, and fluid resistance, in some degree, to the touch,■^^^ GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. jpir ^^company the presence of a cyst or collection of cysts. } f // characters are also peculiar ; they point to no other kind of tumour or swelling, except in the cases adverted to. Fig. 32.* Situation.—Cystic growths—originating from the erring develop- ment of cells or nuclei—may occur in any texture or organ, but most frequently in the kidney, thyroid gland, mammary gland, choroid plexus, chorion; in the neck, gums, about the sheaths of tendons at the wrist, —forming ganglions; and about the epididymis, as seminal cysts, encysted hydroceles, or hydroceles of the spermatic cord. Cysts having this origin are single, or numerous, in the same organ or part. Origin.—Of Simple or barren cysts: the serous date from birth or earliest childhood, as by transformations of nsevi; or from puberty or later life, as an ovarian tumour by enlargement of Graafian vesicles; or from perhaps still later li:^^, as mammary cysts which begin during r>r after the time of natural degeneracy of the milk-glands. Of Proliferous cysts: the cutaneous which occur in or near the orbit, are congenital; whereas those which, as wens, occur in the scalp, are not congenital. They are, however, hereditary, though unconnected with any constitu- tional tendency. * Cystic tumour of the femur. (After Pean.)TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS* 133 Cyst-formation, whether barren or proliferous.—Three modes of production are tolerably well established ; but no accurate classification of these growths can be determined upon this ground of distinction. Cyst-formation is as follows : — Firstly.—By the dilatation and coalescence of the spaces in cellular tissue, a rude cyst is formed, and afterwards finished off on its internal surface, which becomes smooth, and perhaps lined with epithelium. Thus are formed certain adventitious burste, e.g., the little sac which Hunter first pointed out underneath the skin of an old corn. The simple cyst fashioned from areolar tissue may acquire a proli- ferous power, as witnessed occasionally in adventitious bursse, from the inner surface of which pendulous little polypi sometimes grow. Secondly.—By the dilatation and distension of certain natural cavities are produced retention-cjsts, so named by Virchow. The dila- tation of gland-ducts may thus give rise to cysts. Of this kind of cyst are those sacculated enlargements of the lactiferous tubes, filled with milk or serum, which Sir B. Brodie first described as sero-cystic conditions of the mammary gland. But this disease is perhaps more usually due to another mode of cyst-formation, which I shall describe presently. So also ranula, a cystic swelling under the tongue, may re- sult from the obstruction and dilatation of the duct of the sub-maxillary gland. Natural bursas sometimes enlarge, and become distended with synovia. The bursa betwixt the skin and patella thus enlarged, and known as " housemaid's knee," is a familiar example. Mucous cysts, by enlargement of the Nabothian gland-follicles about the cervix uteri, or of Cowper's glands in the female, situated just within the vagina, are further illustrations of cyst-formation by dilatation and distension of a natural cavity with its own fluid. Fat-cysts are produced in this way, out of the sebaceous and hair follicles, forming common wens. Cysts of the sweat-glands are unknown. Graafian vesicles, by over- growth, are evolved into ovarian tumours. I may here notice certain rare kinds of sanguineous cysts, which, from a case related by Sir James Paget, appear, as he says, to be " dilated portions of blood-vessels shut off from the main streams." Of sanguineous cysts having this mode of origin, one was removed by Mr. Lloyd some years since from a man's thigh. It lay in the course of the saphena vein, but neither that nor any other considerable vein was divided in the operation, or could be traced into the cyst. This cyst was of spherical form, about an inch and a half in diameter, and completely closed ; its walls were tough and polished on their inner surface, it was full of dark fluid blood, and its venous character was manifested by two valves, like those of veins, placed on its inner surface. On one of these a soft- lobed mass, like an intra-cystic growth, is seated. The preparation is in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital. This specimen teaches an important lesson; that a simple cyst formed by the expansion of a natural cavity, may become proliferous, a Boft-lobed growth having sprung from the interior of the cyst; and this truth is confirmed by the proliferous power of the lactiferous tubes when enlarged in certain cases of sero-cystic disease of the breast, and the prolific growth of cells in the parent cysts of an ovarian cystic tumour. Thirdly.—Besides these two modes of cyst-formation, another mode of production has been discovered, chiefly by the observations of Eoki- I■■■^4 GENEKAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. tansky, Frerichs, and Mr. Simon, respecting cysts of the kidney. It would appear that certain cells expand and develop themselves into larger cells, which aggregate together in " nests," each nest becoming enveloped with a thin capsule of fibro-cellular filaments, which thus forms a cyst containing cells. Fig. 33.* But the erring cells themselves may each acquire suflBcient size to merit the name of a cyst. The cells which naturally inhabit the villi of the chorion, according to Dr. Mettenheimer, occasionally enlarge into cysts, and form the hydatid mole. From erring cells are some- times produced serous cysts in the neck, in the thyroid body, in the gums, in the mammary gland, and a cystic condition of the choroid plexus. By this mode of origin, also, may be evolved certain sangui- neous cysts, e.g., in the neck ; certain adventitious synovial burs®, e.g., ganglions formed in connection with the sheaths of tendons; and certain seminal cysts. (Paget.) A surprising proliferous power is frequently manifested by cysts derived from erring cells, of which some instances of cystic diseases of the breast and other glands are probably illustrations. Associated with this power of growth and development, is the well-known fact that proliferous cysts frequently recur after, as it would appear, the com- plete extirpation of the original cyst. Sir James Paget relates a remarkable case of this kind, recorded by M. Lesauvages. The patient was sixty-three years old. The first tumour of the breast, of great size, was extirpated in February, 1832 ; a second appeared, and was removed * Proliferous cyst-formations from the cortical substance of the kidney, as a sequel to Bright's disease.—a. The fibrous sheath in progress of development out of d, the elongated and caudate nuclei coursing around the parent cyst or aggregation of parent cysts. They eventually break up into the requisite fibres, c is to repre- sent the point-molecule, within an amorphous blastema, out of which the nuclei (6) form. They are at first spherical, afterwards elongated, and ultimately broken into fibrillation. This constitutes the "alveolar type or arrangement." 90 diara. (Eokitansky.)TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. 135 before the healing of the first wound ; a third in May ; a fourth in September of the same year; a fifth sprang up, and was removed in February, 1833 ; a sixth in the ensuing May ; by a seventh operation, in June of the same year, three tumours were again excised ; but from the same spot two more arose, which grew rapidly, and the patient died. Course.—The vital career of cysts, and cystic tumours, is sufi&ciently indicated by the proliferous changes which cysts, originally barren, may undergo, and their issue, in the protrusion perhaps of the intracystic growth. The rate of growth of cysts, and the probability of their recur- rence, when removed, or apparently obliterated, vary considerably. Thus, of Simple or barren cysts; the serous and sanguineous observe no definite rule of increase, and neither, per se, are likely to return. A mucous cyst is more difficult to obliterate, and long after apparent cure, may fill again. Of Proliferous cysts ; the cystigerous may be slow growing, as an ovarian tumour, and not liable to recur- rence ; so also cutaneous cysts, as scalp wens; but cysts proliferous with vascular growths, may grow rapidly, as in the mammary gland, and generally return, even repeatedly. Treatment.—Cysts and Cystic Tumours are amenable to treatment, in accordance with the general indications, 1, 2, and 8. Simple or Barren Cysts, containing unorganized secretions of various degrees of fluid consistence, may be eiSectually reduced by absorption, destroyed, or removed, by one or other of the following modes of treatment:— Stimulating applications, as the compound tincture of iodine, may induce absorption of the contents of the cyst; and if no re-secretion ensues, a cure will thus be effected. Puncturing the cyst, and drawing off its contents, followed by compression by means of a pad of lint and bandage, is also a curative proceeding of at least a temporaiy character. But the cyst is apt to fill again eventually. By this treatment, I suc- ceeded for some time in controlling two large cysts deeply situated, one beneath the muscles of the calf, the other deep in the popliteal space. The diagnosis also, in these cases, was determined by the preparatory puncture. Puncture, and a stimulant injection, or the introduction of a seton, may succeed in obliterating the cyst by adhesion of its interior, or destroying it by sloughing, and in either way effecting a cure. Excision of the cyst is a procedure available when other resources have failed, or more advantageously, in the first instance, before the textures have been tampered with by any other treatment. A cyst may have become converted into a painless chronic abscess. I once removed a large cyst, in this condition, from beneath the tensor-vaginae and sartorius muscles, by an incision eight inches long. The man made a good recovery. In another case, I removed such a cyst from the axilla. Complete excision is rarely necessary to insure the non- recurrence of any simple cyst; a small portion left after operation, will granulate and cicatrize. But a cluster of cysts must be removed entirely; otherwise, any one remaining will afterwards continue to grow. Thus the whole mammary gland, if beset with cysts, must be sacrificed. Proliferous Cysts.—Excision is the only sure and safe mode of treat- ment ; removal of the cyst or cysts entirely, by the knife, being neces- sary to overcome the productiveness of any such cyst. Cystigerous^GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 136 and glandular, proliferous cysts, the latter especially, render this pro- ceeding the more necessary. Cutaneous proliferous cysts also are more properly excised. The common scalp-wen, for example, in most instances ; and the operation in this case is very readily accomplished. An incision having been made extending down through the cyst, either half can be seized with forceps and easily turned out of its bed, the cellular connection offering very slight resistance. Erysipelas is apt to follow this simple operation, in old or debilitated subjects. It may, therefore, be advisable in such cases, to remove the contents of the cyst by puncture, or even to destroy the cyst by sloughing. If the fo rmer mode of treatment; the introduction of a probe through the small black point existing in most cases, will permit the contents to be squeezed out of the sac, which may then be made to heal from the bottom, by the substitution of a few threads as a seton. Or if it be desirable to induce sloughing of the cyst, this can be effected by intro- ducing a stick of caustic potash, and turning it about a few times, or by pencilling the skin over the tumour. In either way the cyst is laid open, when the slough separates, and heals from within. Nitric acid and other powerful irritants are useful for the same purpose. Fattt Tumour.—Structural Condition and Diagnostic Characters.— This growth is of soft, doughy consistence, defined or circumscribed, deeply and largely lobulated (Fig. 34), and freely movable; sometimes shifting from its original locality owing to the looseness of its connec- tion ; often attaining to a large size and great weight, even to fifty Fig. 34.* Tig. 35.t pounds ; usually subcutaneous, and probably situated somewhere about the trunk, posteriorly; and solitary. It has the composition and general structure of ordinary fat—i.e., fat-cells (Fig. 35), collected together, and imbedded in a fibrous mesh-work, more or less abundant, and resembling condensed cellular texture ; this, however, is continuous with a thin fibro-cellular capsule enclosing the tumour; prolongations of which, penetrating the mass, separate it into lobes, while, externally, the whole investment is loosely connected with surrounding parts. Blood-vessels, collected mostly at one point of the tumour, pass into its substance from the cellular capsule. A cavernous dilatation of the veins has often been noticed by Billroth. * Fatty tumour, rpmoved from under the tongue; half-size. (Listen.) t Structure of a flbro-fatty tumour.—a. Isolated cells, showing stellate crystals of margaric acid. (Bennett.)TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. 137 Varieties and Diagnosis.—Occasionally, the cellular capsule is thick, dense, and fibrous. Its prolongations may also become fibrous and firm. The whole substance of such a tumour is hard and compara- tively immovable, and although still circumscribed and lobulated, re- sembles a fibrous tumour. The lardacaous variety is of this description. Hard fibrous knots, as of the fibro-cellular stroma, or even bony nodules, can, occasionally, be felt within a tumour otherwise fatty. Or the mass may be, or become, softer than usual. Oleaginous fat, with but slight fibro-cellular partitions, presents the characters of a bag or cyst of fluid, and gives out the physical signs of a fluid encysted tumour. True cysts are, occasionally, developed in a tumour other- wise fatty; thus giving the consistence of roundish elastic bags of fluid set in a doughy substance. Still more rarely, suppuration occurs, centrally perhaps, within a fatty tumour, and forming a chronic abscess, simulates the character of a cyst. Lastly, the characters of any such tumour, purely fat or mixed, may be obscured by the depth of integuments beneath which it lies buried. But all these conditions are exceptional, and, excluding that of the occasional depth of the tumour, they are subsequent conditions also. Neither, therefore, will scarcely afiect the exactitude and the earliaess of diagnosis, by physical signs; the ordinary physical characters of fatty tumour being generally present, and exclusively indicating this kind of growth and no other morbid condition. Steatoma—a lard or suet-like variety of fatty tumour—is liable to occur in whatever part of the body this growth makes its appearance ; but steatoma has been found in some parts more especially ; among them, in the mesentery, testicle, and mediastinum. (Walshe.) Fatty tumour is usually a solitary growth; but in exceptional cases, several may co-exist from two or three, up to as many as a hundred, or more. I have removed several small fatty tumours from the same person. They were subcutaneous ; four in one arm, and one in the other. Situation.—Fatty tumour most commonly occurs in the subcutane- ous adipose texture, especially of those parts where fat normally abounds in the healthy state, and is liable to accumulate; as about the trunk, e.g., on the back, neck, and shoulder ; also over the buttock, the thigh, or abdomen; between the peritoneum and abdominal walls, escaping from which by the abdominal rings, it forms fatty hernia, so called. (Walshe.) This kind of tumour occurs more rarely in Synovial sacs, especially that of the knee-joint, or in the sheaths of tendons ; and in such situa- tions having a branched appearance, it forms the "lipoma arborescens" of Miiller. Fatty tumour may be produced where fat. is normally scanty, as beneath the hairy scalp ; or, where fat is normally absent; as in the sub-mucous cellular tissue of the stomach, the intestine, the bronchi; in the sub-serous cellular tissue of the pleura or dura-mater, and beneath the investing membranes of the ventricles. Also in the substance of organs ; especially in the lungs, liver, kidneys, and in' bone " affected with osteoporosis and eccentrical atrophy." (Roki- tansky.) Between the corpora albicantia and optic nerve, in one case. (Miiller.) A fatty tumour, the size of a mushroom, was found between the arachnoid and dura mater, on the level of the fourth lumbar ver- tebra. (Albers.) One as large as a walnut, in the walls of the venaGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEEY. 138 portas. (Andral.) In or under the tongue, this species of tumour has been known to occur. (Listen. Paget.) Origin.—Fatty tumour is very rare in children, but not unfrequently begins in youth, though, growing slowly, it may be overlooked for many years; it may begin to grow at any later age, but very seldom appears first in old age. This kind of tumour scarcely ever seems to be hereditary. Sometimes it has so appeared after fever or some general illness, as to seem due to a constitutional cause. It is some- times referable to local causes, as a blow, or, more commonly, frequent friction, as by a strap or band over the skin. But in the majority of cases, no good cause whatever can be assigned. Course.—The influence of a fatty tumour is purely local and me- chanical. The rate of growth is generally very slow, sometimes fitful, very rarely rapid. It does not return, even when partially removed. It is not liable to ulcerate, but I have seen ulceration of the skin, ap- parently resulting from weight and friction, in the most dependent part of a pendulous fatty tumour in the thigh. Treatment.—Absorption of a fatty tumour is perhaps possible, under the influence of medicinal treatment. Thus, this kind of growth is said to disappear occasionally under the influence of liquor potassse, administered in half-drachm doses, gradually increased to a drachm, and continued for a month or more. In one case, the tumour was sensibly diminished in size by this mode of treatment, which was originally tried by Sir B. Brodie. Excision, as a rule, is the only successful treatment. It is rendered necessary by the large size to which a fatty tumour generally attains ; and especially when the mass is so placed—which, however, is not generally the case—that by its further enlargement, it would encroach on important parts adjacent, thereby rendering the operation eventually difiicult or impracticable. The freedom with which a fatty tumour shifts its place, owing to the loose cellular connections of its thin di'y capsule, is an additional reason for timely performance of the operation. I have thus had occasion to remove a fatty tumour from the cheek, from the shoulder overhanging the axilla, and from other situations. The operation itself, although perhaps extensive, is easily performed. Dissection, even among parts of anatomical importance, is scarcely I'equisite. The lobulated mass rolls out of its bed or is easily detached, until some corner appears where the nutrient vessels enter. Haemor- rhage is inconsiderable, but when these vessels are divided, a ligature or two may be needed. Any small portion of the tumour left behind is immaterial, it ceases to grow. The portion of skin to be removed is not so extensive as would at first sight appear necessary. Any small portion spoilt by pressure and any superfluous portion, may be included in the excision; but the remaining integument will retract and pucker up, after the operation. Sarcomatous Tumours.—A large class of tumours are comprised under the common term Sarcoma; including the Fibro-cellular, the Fibrous, the Cartilaginous, and their varieties; also Glioma, Myxoma, and Granulation Tumours; or, all those Growths, the structure of which consists of fibro-cellular tissue, connective tissue, in various de- velojjmental conditions. But although the term Sarcoma, known since the days of Abernethy, has been revived by Virchow, Billroth, and other eminent pathologists, and adopted in some surgical works ; yetTUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. 139 it is a very indefinite term—Sarcoma (aapi, flesh) implying only the physical character of fleshiness, and thus associating tumours other- wise widely different. Billroth himself acknowledges that they possess a very diverse histological structure—round-celled, spindle-celled, giant-celled, net-celled, alveolar, and pigmentary; further, that their vital or clinical course is widely diverse, comprising local or innocent tumours, recurring, and systemically infectious growths; and that there is no correspondence between the histological structure of sar- comatous tumours, and their clinical course. Fibro-cellular tumour may be taken as the type of Sarcoma. As a tumour it is distinguished from polypus, mucous or cutaneous, chiefly by its relation to the adjoining texture. Both are over-growths ; but, while polypus is merely an out-growth of fibro-cellular tissue, the same structure, as a tumour, is distinctly isolated by a capsular investment. Structural Condition and Diagnostic Characters.—The mass, thus detached, is roundish, and of tolerably regular outline, usually deeply and largely lobed. Its chief physical character is a remarkably elastic Fig. 36.* tension, due to the structural resemblance of this tumour to dropsical cellular tissue, circumscribed. It may grow to great size and weight, perhaps forty pounds. Section shows a yellow surface, marked with white lines, which have an undulatory direction across the tumour, and may divide its substance into distinct lobes. (Pig. 36. Yirchow.) Fig. 37.t * Section of sarcoma. (Virchow.) f Large spindle-celled sarcoma. (Yirchow.)GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 140 * Giant-celled sarcoma. (Virchow.) _ The yellow substance, the white bands, and the capsule, alike con- sist of fibro-cellular tissue, more condensed in the latter portions; but the whole is remarkably succulent, being infiltrated with a serous fluid, which exudes plentifully and con- tinues to ooze from the cut surface. The tissue of which, together with the serous fluid, this tumour consists, represents an immature state of the normal fibro-cellular tissue. With many well-developed filaments, there are more abundant nuclei and cells forming fibres— spindle-shaped cells, or with fila- mentous prolongations, in various stages of development. (Figs. 37 and 38.) Yellow elastic tissue is very rarely present, unlike its fre- quency in ordinary connective tissue. Analogous as the texture of this tumour is to ordinary fibro-cellular tissue, it is, nevertheless, of rare occurrence, compared with other tumours—fatty, or carti- laginous—whose component textures are reproduced far less frequently than this tissue. Situation.—Fibro-cellular tumour occurs most frequently in the scrotum, labium, or tissues by the side of the vagina; or in the deep- seated inter-muscular spaces in the thigh and arm. As out-growths, some proceed from, and are connected with, the mucous membrances, forming polypi—e.g.., in the nasal passages, very rarely in the antrum; in the external auditory meatus ; in the uterus, and urinary bladder. As cutaneous out-growths, they appear on the scrotum, prepuce, nymph se, clitoris and its prepuce. In one instance, a fibro-cellular out-growth—which I examined with the microscope after its removal from the clitoris—was the size and shape of a large cocoa-nut. It weighed thirty ounces. Fibro-cellular tumour, not out-growth, is usually solitary. Origin.—This kind of growth may begin at any period of life, but most rarely before adult age, and most frequently at middle age or later in life. It is so seldom referable to inheritance, any general disease, or to violence, that any such relation would appear to be only a coincidence. Course.—Portions of cartilage sometimes partially ossified, are occa- sionally produced in, or over, the tumour. Its texture may also degenerate. The rate of growth is variable ; being very rapid, as much as three or four pounds a year—e.g., in the scrotum; or more slowly increasing. Recurrence is very improbable, unless the tumour ^ be unusually soft and succulent, and the fibre-cells in great proportion rudimentary. Treatment.—Excision of a fibro-cellular tumour is the only effectual mode of removal. It becomes necessary owing to the increasing size of the growth. The operation cannot be accomplished with the same facility as that of a fatty tumour. Nevertheless, a thin capsule defines the lobulated mass, its connections are not very close, and the141 TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. hasmorrliage is bat slight compared with the size of the tumour. I have excised such tumours without any recurrence. The largest fibro-cellular out-growth I have yet seen, that of the clitoris enlarged to the size of a cocoa-nut, was easily removed by a sweep of the knife through the peduncle. Painful Subcutaneous Tumour, or Tubercle—so named by Mr. W. Wood, who first described it—is a peculiar variety of fibro-cellular tumour, to which and to fibrous tumour it is structurally allied; but peculiar, if only as distinguished by the pain, intense and paroxysmal, which commonly occurs, and which is not to be accounted for by the structure of the tumour, itself perhaps destitute of any nerve-filaments, nor by any special relation to adjacent nerves. This painful tumour, situated in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, is barely visible; for it is beneath the skin, and scarcely projects. It is also of small size, rarely exceeding half an inch in diameter; but it can be readily felt, as a roundish body, very firm and elastic. Isolated by a capsule, this hard body is free in the subcutaneous tissue, and is, therefore, so far movable; but it may be intimately adherent to the skin, and move with it when pressed under the finger. The super- imposed skin, if adherent, has the general appearance of a cicatrix; it is slightly puckered, stretched, glistening and white, unless during a paroxysm of pain, when it may become congested and swollen, and the surrounding blood-vessels turgid. The surface and section of this tumour are alike in colour variable ; commonly yellowish; sometimes only greyish, or pure white. Its sub- stance consists of fibro-cellular or fibrous tissue, with an abundance of nuclei intermixed; and the whole represents an immature state, or rather various immature states, of either tissue. JSTerve-filaments have not been discovered. The I'ig- 39.* tumour is usually solitary, as well as subcuta- neous. It is thus also distinguished from !N"eu- roma, a fibrous tumour connected with a nerve. (Fig. 39.) This latter species of growth is characterized by the presence of nerve-fila- ments in, or spread over, the mass; and by the large number of such tumours often produced in various parts of the body, not less perhaps than 2000 having been found in one unprece- dented case. (R. W. Smith.) Situation.—Painful subcutaneous tumour or tubercle occurs, as its name denotes, beneath the skin; and especially in the extremities, more particularly the lower limbs, very rarely on the trunk or face. It has, I believe, been found deeply imbedded in the substance of muscle. This tumour is solitary in nearly every instance. Origin.—Painful tubercle is very rare in both early life and old age. It occurs much more commonly in the female than in the male. Course.—Slow growth, and non-recurrence when removed entirely, characterize the life of this little tumour. Treatment.—This variety of fibro-cellular tumour generally requires * Neuroma. (After FoUin.)142 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 40.* t Net-celled Myxo-sarcoma. (Virchow.) the same treatment as that growth. But excision is resorted to, and with the ready concurrence of the patient, to exterminate, so to speak, the otherwise excruciating paroxysmal pain in the tumour, rather than in consequence of any mechanical inconvenience by its size, which is always inconsiderable. The pain may perhaps be relieved, for a time, by firm pressure with a metallic ring placed on the circumferential j)or- tion of skin; but the tumour will ultimately have to be excised to obtain permanent relief from suffering. I am not aware that pain ever recurs in the cicatrix, although free excision may be advisable, as a precaution ; assuredly the tumour itself never returns, when completely extirpated. Neuroma is also amenable only to excision. The nerve-filaments, enclosed in, or expanded over, this little tumour, must generally be divided. Occasionally, the tumour can be dissected out of the nerve, leaving it intact. This more conservative mode of excision is especially important in the case of a large nerve, as the sciatic. But the presence of more than one, sometimes very many, neuromata in various parts of the body, may render any operation useless. As a palliative, in both these forms of painful tumonr, the topical application of the most benumbing anodynes, e.g., the tincture of aconite, is worthy of trial. I have met with instances of fixed pain limited to a spot, at the junction of the ball of the thumb and wrist, and in other situations, where great relief has been obtained by the occasional application of aconitine ointment,—one grain to a drachm of lard. The best aconitine must be used ; it was prepared by Messrs. Morson, of Southampton-row, who are justly celebrated for the prepar- ation of this and other vegetable alkaloids. Glioma.—A variety of fibro-cellular tumour is thus named by Virchow, from its originating in the neuroglia or connective tissue of nerves ; bnt it contains no nervous element, only round cells of variable size—as in granulations (Fig. 40), or with offshoots, and an inter-cellular substance. Parts of the tumour may have under- gone fatty or calcareous degeneration. Glioma may be soft, resembling myxoma or medullary cancer, or of hard consistence, like fibrous tumour. Section presents a vascular surface, translucent, and blnish-white or pinkish-grey. This tumour occurs at an early period of life, and more often forms in the eye than in other parts. Treatment.—Excision is the only cure; and recurrence is improbable, unless the cells are of large size. Myxoma—so named by Virchow —or mucous tumour, originates in moist and soft connective tissue, and consists of a modification of that texture. (Fig. 41.) The sub- stance of this growth is remark- ably gelatinous, loose and juicy, like that of the umbilical cord, and on section it trickles away in thick gelatinous strings. Such tumours * Round cells of Glio-sarcoma. 350 diam. (Virchow.)Fig. 42.* TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. 143 tnay be found in tlie eye, or tlie brain ; in the connective tissue of the nerves, in subcutaneous tissue, as near the angle of the jaw ; or deep in the thio-h, in the breast, or in the jaw. As a mixed tumour associated -with other textural elements, as bone or cartilage, the growth may attain a large size, still of slimy softness, and situated perhaps in the septum of the nose. Treatment by extirpation with the knife will always prove a permanent cure, when the locality of the tumour admits of complete removal. Among fibro-cellular growths may be mentioned a rare species, named by Virchow Psammoma; a tumour containing brain-sand, and which forms only in the choroid plexuses and dura mater. FiBEOUS Tumour.-—Stmctural Gonclition and Diagnostic Characters. —The great firmness and elasticity of this growth are peculiar; and less so, its spheroidal shape when uninfluenced by the pressure of sur- rounding parts, and its occasionally lobulated character. The tumour sometimes attain a large size and weight, even seventy pounds. Its chemical basis is gelatine, but the other constituents are unknown. On section, it commonly presents a greyish colour, sometimes a yellow, brown, or bluish tint, and variously intersected by white opaque lines ; the surface assuming a convex form, like that of an inter-vertebral fibro-cartilage, owing to the elastic tension of the texture. It consists of the white, and perhaps the yellow or elastic fibres of ordinary fibrous tissue, which have an undulatory arrange- ment (Fig. 42); or a concentric disposition around distinct axes, with intermediate waving filaments ; occasionally, a uniform aspect, without any marked fasciculation. Like fibrous tissue, it is but scantily sup- phed with blood-vessels, which pass into the substance of the tumour from a fibro- cellular capsule, conducted by thin un- sheathing partitions, in the lobulated form of growth; and the capsular investment is more apparent around those tumours which are imbedded in solid organs. The vascularity of a fibrous tumour is generally inversely proportionate to its density. An abundant supply of vessels, both arterial and venous, may render the texture highly vascular, the veins perhaps forming a coarse, cavernous network. Nerve-filaments do not seem to enter into the pi'oper sub- stance of a fibrous tumour ; but, according to Billroth's observations, the fibrous texture may form around nerves and blood-vessels, and thus both may occupy the centres of the concentric arrangement of fibres. Muscular fibres, of the unstriped kind, are sometimes associated with the fibrous tissue; and the tumour so constituted Yirchow has named Myoma, or it may be called Myo-fibroma. Uterine fibrous tumour, especially, answers to this description, being a fibro-muscular rather than a purely fibrous growth. Situation.—Fibrous tumours are formed in connection with the fibrous or fibro-cellular textures ; most commonly in the substance of the uterus, or in the fibro-muscular tissue of the ligamentous re- * Uterine fibrous tumour, section, like polypus, but discontinuous with the substance ol' the uterus. (Paget.)GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY^ 144 flexions of the peritoneum ; in tlie ovaries, Fallopian tubes, or vagina (Walshe) ; in the interstitial fibro-cellular tissue of nerves. Connected sometimes with boJie, and—like cartilaginous tumours— formed either in its substance, or between it and the periosteum. The jaws are most liable to this kind of growth. Connected with the dura mater, is another frequent situation. In the sub-mucous cellular tissue, " more particu- larly of the intestine, stomach, and oesophagus; now and then in that of the larynx " (Rokitansky); in that of the pharynx, the nares, the rontal and sphenoidal sinuses; in the sub-peritoneal and sub-pleural tissue (Walshe); in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, as in the lobules of ears, after piercing for earrings (Paget); in the mammas, testicle, thyroid gland, thymus gland; in the arterial tissue; and indeed wherever fibrous or fibro-cellular tissue is normally present or most prevalent. As occurring in the substance of the heart of a child, six years old, a unique specimen is described by Luschka. (Virchow's " Archives," viii.) Fibrous tumour is usually a solitary growth; excepting in the nerves or nterus, in either of which several may co-exist. But when in the uterus, this species of growth rarely forms in any other part at the same time. Origin.—This tumour rarely appears in youth, most commonly in middle age—thirty to fifty years—and very seldom in advanced life. The uterine fibrous tumour may have some physiological relation to the organ in connection with which it occurs. Sex seems thus far to have some predisposing influence. No hereditary tendency can be traced. Course.—The influence of a fibrous tumour is purely local and mechanical. It may undergo softening, or sei'ous infiltration. Ulcer- ation of the integument of a superficial tumour is not uncommon, but the ulcer is quite healthy, and even disposed to heal. The rate of growth is slow, as compared with that of fibro-ceUular tumour; but recurrence is equally improbable. Varieties and Diagnosis.—Earthy matter or cysts may be found within the substance of this growth, and hence the terms fibro-cal- careous and fibro-cystic, as designating these modifications. Other and more important varieties are recurring growths; the fibro-nucleated (Bennett), and the recurring fibroid. (Paget.) (a.) The fibro-nucleated variety presents the external appearance and general characters of an ordinary fibrous tumour, for which Fig. 43* But it might be readily mistaken, the microscopic characters are those of the rudimentary white fibres of fibrous tissue, mixed with numerous large oval nuclei; thus representing a developmental con- dition of healthy fibrous tissue. (Fig. 43.) In point of course and tendency, the fibro-nucleated variety does not affect the lym- phatics around, nor does it con- taminate more distant parts ; yet, when extirpated, it has a tend- ency to return, in situ, (b.) The recurring fibroid variety also, in its * (a) Nests of nuclei, with interposed fusiform fibres, from section of a uterine polypus, boiled in dilute acetic acid, and dried. (Wedl.)TUMOUES OR MORBID GROWTHS. 145 first stage, presents the external appearance and general characters of its minute structure it consists essentially Fig. 44." fibrous tumour. But m of fibre-cells,—cells elon- gated and attenuating in- to white fibres, mixed with nuclei; thus repre- senting another develop- mental stage of healthy fibrous tissue. (Fig. 44.) Not affecting parts con- tiguous or remote, the recurring fibroid variety has emphatically, as its name would suggest, a tendency to return again and again, in situ. Moreover, in this its second stage, it successively assumes the appear- ance of encephaloid cancer; having now become soft, bloody, and fungoid; but retaining its former structiiral characters, and vital sig- nificance, which is only somewhat less than that of encephaloid cancer. It will, therefore, be observed that the fibrous tumour, and recur- ring fibroid in its first stage, possess the same physical characters, conjoined with a different structure ; and, conversely, recurring fibroid tumour, in its first and second stages, presents dissimilar physical characters, associated with the same essential structure. Origin.—Both the recurring varieties of fibrous tumour usually begin between youth and middle age, very rarely either in childhood or in advanced life. Treatment.—Fihrous Tumour.—Excluding this form of growth in the uterus, excision is still the only known remedy. Considering the large size to which the tumour sometimes attains, and especially the irregular shape which it acquires by adaptation to the parts around, the operation should be performed early. It is, however, accomplished less readily than that for a fatty, or even a fibro-cellular, tumour. Tet a thin capsule defines, and but loosely attaches the tumour to surrounding parts, from which it can be easily split; and the hemor- rhage is inconsiderable, as pertaining to the tumour. In connection with bone, the attachment is very close, and the basic portion of bone will probably have to be removed. Enucleation, or simply turning the tumour out of its bed, is available in some instances ; chiefly for the removal of uterine fibrous tumours. Recurrence, after either mode of operation, is very improbable. Recurring Fibroid, and Fibro-nucleated Tumours.—The treatment of both these recurring varieties of fibrous tumour is governed by the same general considerations. They are not influenced by any known medicinal agents, except perhaps the first-named variety of this growth. Iodide of potassium in large doses continued for several weeks, seems to have prevented the return of recurring fibroid tumour, in cases observed by Dr. Esmarch of Kiel. Excision is the only other resource. The size and often rapid growth of these tumours are urgent con- siderations. The operation must be freely performed, to insure, if possible, total extirpation of the tumour, which, however, is localized, though apt to return. Haemorrhage may be profuse. * Structural elements of recurrent fibroid tumour. (J. Birkett and Wilks.) Trans. Path. Soc. vol. vi.GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 146 Fig. 46.t The probability of recurrence is uncertain. Any such tumour may be removed, apparently entirely, an indefinite number of times, and eacli interval may be of longer duration, even to some years apart, after repeated operations; thus prolonging life, and granting successive periods of ease. Or, as is usually the case, this history may be reversed; more rapid growth, and shorter intervals of freedom, larger operations, progressive exhaustion and death. Car tilaginous Tumour.—Enchondroma of Muller.—Structural Con- d/iiion, and Diagnostic Characters.— Fig. 45.* This tumour presents the appear- ance, the chemical composition, and the structure of masses of foetal car- tilage. It is enclosed in a tough fibrous capsule, which conducts a few blood-vessels. The surface of a cartilaginous tumour is more or less iiTegular and lobulated, the fibrous capsule pass- ing in between and separating the lobes; the whole mass varies also considerably in size (Figs. 45 and 46), from that of a pea to the bulk of a man's head, or growing even to enormous dimensions. Its sub- stance is pulpy or more consistent, it may be hard, but elastic, crisp when cut, and a section is bluish- white, like London milk, glistening and translucent. These appear- ances, however, vary with modifica- tions of structure. Two structural elements are found, the same as in ordinary car- tilage ; cells, and an inter-cellular substance, the latter being semi- transparent or molecular and dim, but more commonly fibrous. (Fig. 47.) The cells also may be scat- tered or aggregated, multiform, and they resemble either mature or rudimentary cartilage-cells. Their envelope is, therefore, more or less defined; it encloses one or more nuclei, within each of which is seen a nucleolus or two. Occasionally the nucleus appears radiated, not unlike the lacunaj and surrounding canaliculi of bone. There is, in fact, an intimate structural homology between the cartilaginous tumour and healthy cartilage, in its develop- * Euchondroma of the hand. The tumours are drawn too regularly round, and have not the nodulated character of the cartilaginous tumour, t Cartilaginous tumour of humerus. (Liston.)147 TUMOUBS OR MORBID GROWTHS. mental conclifcions ; and this resemblance extends to the myeloid variety of enchondroma. Blood-vessels, however, may be found permeating the inter-cellular fibroid matrix, which are not present in normal carti- ja.o-e—a distinctive structural cha- racter. (Billroth.) The diversity of appearance presented under the microscope, by adjoining portions of the same enchondromatous growth, in regard to its structural elements, is peculiar to this kind of tumour among non-malignant , or innocent tumours; a diversity . of elementary forms which pre- ' vails in only one other kind of ; growth,—cancer. Situation.—Cartilaginous tu- 1 mour is most frequently connected \ with the bones and joints; especially those of the hand, i.e., phalanges : and metarcapus; the corresponding bones of the foot, particularly the 1 last phalanx of the great toe; the lower end of the femur, neighboui'- ^ \ ing end of the tibia; the humerus, scapula, sternum, ribs, ilium, and i cranium. In the sheaths of tendons it has also been known to occur. i 1 Apart from bone and cartilage, enchondroma may form in the parotid i. gland, testicle, mammary gland, ovary, lungs, and in the subcutaneous | ,i areolar tissue. (Rokitansky.) This kind of growth is not unfrequently solitary, excepting in con- : nection with the bones of the hands or feet, where several may co-exist. Origin.—In connection with bone, cartilaginous tumour begins most c commonly at an early period of life; some, on the hands, in infancy, i c others, more often, between childhood and puberty. Their beginning i i in later life is, however, not very rare, even on the bones ; and in other | parts they commence, usually, in full adult or middle age. Inheritance, i 0 or injury, may have some influence in the production of this tumour, pparticularly when connected with bone. Course.—The influence of a cartilaginous tumour is purely local and i Dmechanical. The rate of growth is uncertain; generally slow, occa- s sionally rapid; or the tumour sometimes develops rapidly after havin >• bbeen stationary for a period of many years. Recurrence is very iiimprobable, unless in the case of a soft enchondroma. j Varieties, and Diagnosis.—The consistence of an ordinary cartila- '-•ginous tumour is liable to undergo remarkable changes. Fibrous transformation may be met with. A species of ossification sometimes takes place, beginning either on the surface or within the substance of the tumour. Again, the whole tumour may soften and feel like a ' fatty growth, or a mass of colloid cancer; or ossific nodules may soften and feel like a group of cysts. Such are the most important points of apparent resemblance between the cartilaginous tumour and other * Cells, and inter-cellular substance or stroma, of a cartilaginous tumour, from ' the phalanx of a finger. Many of the cells are only drawn in outline; some of them 1 present double or triple contour lines; most of the nuclei are large and granular. The groups of cells are intersected by bands of tough fibrous tissue. Magnified I ibout 100 times. (Paget.) I148 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Lastly, associated with other growths, fo growths, tumours. Myeloid tumour is allied to the fibrous by virtue of one structural rminsr O mixed Fig, 48.* element, the fibre-cell, and to the ordinary cartilagi- nous tumour by its more abundant many-nucleated corpuscles. (Fig. 48.) These corpuscles and im- perfect fibres appear to be identical with those of healthy rudimentary bone. Hence, the marrow-like as so designated by Paget, has also been namedTbltp^^c''^^^^^^^^^^^^^ strinJnt'frotS^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^ - The external characters of the myeloid variety of cartilaginous j,^^ tumour are tolerably definite. (Fig. '* 49.) Its surface is more or less lobulated. If enclosed within bone, its shape is uniform and spheroidal; if seated on the surface of a bone, its outline is irregular, as seen in epulis. The fleshy, inelastic firm- ness of a myeloid growth is re- markable, although its consistence varies. On section, the surface pre- sents a greyish-white basis colour, daubed with irregular blotches of a bright red, livid or brownish tint. This blotched appearance is unconnected with any correspond- ing vascularity, the supply of blood- vessels being scanty even when the tumour is most ruddy. The cut surface is also succulent, and exudes a yellowish fluid. Situation.—Myeloid tumour selects bone more frequently than any other tissue. Paget has seen this growth in the mammary gland, and probably also in the neck near the thyroid gland. Origin.—The tumour begins very rarely in early life, or in old age; most frequently between youth and middle age. It is seldom referable to inheritance, defective health, or injury. Course.—The rate of growth is usually slow. Myeloid tumour is not apt to ulcerate or protrude like a recurrent fibroid growth; but it is liable, if not prone, to return when extirpated by the knife, thus differing essentially in its vital career from the typical form of cartila- ginous tumour. * Elemental cells of myeloid tumour.—a. Fusiform cells, or fibro-plastic cells. (Lebert.) b. Group of cells, each containing many nuclei. 350 diain. t Myeloid tumour of the bones, in the elbow joint. A typical specimen. (Canton.) Trans. Path. Soc. vol. xiii.149 TUMOUES OR MORBID GROWTHS. Treatment.—Cartilaginous tumour must be removed by surgical operation. The functional inutility of the part, owing to the size, increasing growth, and relations of the tumour, will determine the necessity for interference; as in regard to other non-recurring and non-malignant Growths. But the size to which it may grow is scarcely so much a consideration, as the firm attachment of the tumour to bone, in the great majority of cases. Amputation, therefore, rather than excision is indicated. The performance of the latter operation is aided by certain circumstances. The mass, usually lobulated, is defined by a tough capsule investing the whole surface, excepting at the base of attachment. Within bone, this investment is complete. In either case, the capsule is connected to the texture around, by a dry connective tissue which can be more or less readily split up. The hemorrhage is but slight, as occasioned by removal of the tumour, itself only sparingly vascular; and the surrounding textures are singularly healthy. Enucleation of a cartilaginous tumour from within bone is, observes Sir James Paget, more often practicable than practised. Recurrence need not be apprehended, otherwise than in exceptional cases. Any remnant portion of this kind of tumour will, according to Dieffenbach's observations, undergo ossification and become quiescent; but this result is uncertain. It should also be remembered that the part operated on may be rendered functionally useless, by the magnitude of an escisional procedure, or from tenosynovitis consequent on the interference with tendons in removal of the tumour. Thus, a finger subjected to such operation may become more useless than before. Myeloid tumour admits only of free excision or amputation, and as a recurring growth is far less favourable for operation. Vascular or Erectile Tumour.—Angioma.—Structural Gonditions, and Diagnostic Characters.—This tumour essentially consists of a conglomeration of blood-vessels, connected together, more or less in- timately, by fibre-cellular or con- nective tissue, which may form an investing capsule; the "whole being thus circumscribed as a distinct tumour, but of irregular shape, and perhaps lobed (Eig. 50) ; or, the mass not being distinctly isolated, is diffused, flattened, and shades off into the surrounding textures. The size or extent of such a mass, in either case, varies with the species and its growth, and is subject to temporary alterations, under cir- cumstances which will be noticed presently. Varieties.—Three varieties or species of this tumour are well defined, and easily recognised when formed in or under the skin. The constituent blood-vessels are capillaries, with arterial and venous * Section of an erectile tumour—showing the fibrous trabecular structure and investing capsule. (Hunter.)—Museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons, Enf^iaud Dra^Yn one-third larger than the sj^ecimen. ° Fig. 50.*GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 150 Fig. 51. trunks proceeding, respectively, to and from the mass ; but either order of vessels may predominate, and constitute nearly the whole mass apart from the connective tissue. Thus then there are the capillary the venous, and the arterial varieties of vascular tumour. The first consists almost entirely of capillaries—dilated, tortuous and convoluted, as in "noevus matemus" or "mother's mark" also known as Telangeiectasis. The second is formed almost entirely of enlarged veins, or venous sinuses, embedded in a firm, fibrous network, —constituting a cavernous and erectile structure. This variety of vascular tumour was that which John Bell specially described, and to which he gave the name of " aneurism by anastomosis," or " aneurism by the dilatation of anastomosing vessels." The third variety consists almost en- tirely of arteries—enlarged, elongated, tortuous, and perhaps convoluted, and (■^(^ V ^ y-ai» II \ ¥1 """^^"^^ freely communicate. This is \^^^^jm. iM ■^^^ called " aneurism by anastomosis. Vamjl''fj^Wrlff y (Fig. 51.) If the larger vessels are involved, it has received the name of " cirsoid aneurism." These varieties of structual condition are accompanied with con-esponding peculiarities of physical characters, by which their diagnosis can be determined. A vascular tumour is soft and compressible, but regains its former size when the congeries of vessels is left free to fill again,—the tumour is erectile. Its sabstauce some- what resembles a sponge; and if visible, as when subcutaneous or in the skin, the colour of this distended sponge plainly shows that it is full of blood, arterial or venous. The cajjillary and venous varieties are alike characterized by their circumscribed shape and soft doughy consistence, which can be moulded under the fingers ; but at the same time a trembling sensation or indistinct throbbing is felt, if the mass for the most part be venous, and have attained some size. After compression, the tumour sloivly re-distends, and assumes increas- ing size and tension during exertion, especially if sudden and violent, as in running, coughing, straining, struggling ; and by any obstruction to the free return of venous blood. A bluish tint is laerceptible when the tumour is situated superficially. Lastly, if wounded, the mass collapses. The arterial variety is chiefl.y distinguished by its strong pulsations, and threatening distension, increasing also under any occasional excitement of the heart's action, and with the flow of arterial blood. Situation.—This species of tumour may be deep-seated ; in muscles, in bone, the stomach, spleen, liver, kidney, supra-renal capsules, the uterus, in the brain, orbit, parotid gland, the tongue, and indeed wherever capillary blood-vessels naturally exist and most abound. The diffused form is more frequently situated superficially, as beneath the skin, and probably involving it; constituting the common cutaneous n^vus, as seen on the scalp or the face. Origin.—The vascular tumour is not unfrequently a congenital growth; it may be a subsequent formation, but more frequently in151 TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. childhood than in after years. Anenrism by anastomosis occurs mostly in children under fifteen, seldom in adults; and in an old person, Lisfranc knew of no instance of this form of vascular tumour. Goiirse.—The progress of growth is not generally steady, but by fits and starts; sometimes rapid, sometimes slow-growing. Very commonly, observes Paget, their increase is only proportionate to that of the rest of the body; and when full growth is attained, they also cease to o-row. Not rarely they are stationary, or shrink, even wbile the rest of the body is growing; and this is especially likely to happen with those that are white and scar-like where the skin is involved. The same autbor also notices certain structural alterations to wbicb the vascular tumour is subject, by degeneration or by disease. These morbid conditions disguise the original character of tbe tumour, and may now mislead the diagnosis. Thus, a vascular tumour may become converted " into a soft, but tougb and dry yellow-ochre or brown substance, like that of a supra-renal capsule." Scar-like patches is another transformation, affecting the substance, or surface of the tumour, and accompanied witb closure of the vessels in that portion. Acute inflammation may consolidate and cure; or, leading to ulceration, form bleeding sores, ill-disposed to heal. Either blood-clots, or phlebo- liths, sometimes partially consolidate; or cysts, serous or sanguineous, give a more elastic feel to the mass. More rarely, this kind of growth forms in another growth, and usurping its structure, converts part or the whole of such growth into a vascular tumour, and acquires its character. Thus, a cavernous enlargement of veins was noticed, as an occasional formation, in fatty and in fibrous tumours; while aneurism by anastomosis is often found in the substance of encephaloid cancer. Lastly, " it is probable also that one form of vascular tumour may be converted into another: a capillary one becoming either arterial or venous, by the excessive growth of one or other set of vessels ; or an arterial one, by opposite changes, becoming either capillary or venous." Treatment.—Vascular or Erectile tumours admit of treatment in accordance with each of the three general indications pertaining to morbid growths. (1.) Absorption, by compression, steadily maintained by means of the air-cushion and spring. Compression is most practicable and eifectual when the tumour rests on bone, thus supplying counter-pressure. ■ (2.) Obliteration, by cauterization, or injections, for the purpose of producing sloughing or consolidation of the tumour. Either plan of treatment is most appropriate for small vascular tumours, as certain UEEvi. In parts where the deformity occasioned by sloughing and cicatrization are unimportant considerations, cauterization, with the strong nitric acid freely applied to the integument covering the tumour, is perhaps warrantable. In parts otherwise circumstanced, as the face, the injection of some stimulant into the tumour is preferable, with the view of exciting inflammation short of sloughing, and thence consolida- tion of the tumour. Perchloride of iron may thus prove remedial, introduced drop by drop at different points, by means of a glass syringe, having a screw piston and a fine penetrating nozzle. Setons of silk, passed through various parts of the tumour, and allowed to remain in for some days, will, perhaps, more slowly produce the same result. I have not had much experience in either of these, or similar modes152 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. of treatment. What I have done or seen has led me to avoid such applications, as useless or pei'ilous. (3.) Removal, by ligature or incision. The former method is ap- propriate for vascular tumours larger, and, therefore, more arterial or venous, than those which can be safely obliterated by caustics or injec- tions, or in cases where such treatment has failed. The advantages are—less liability to hjemorrhage, and a more healthy sore when the tumour is detached. The difficulties are—to include all the vessels connected with the tumour around its base, and-to completely strangle without cutting them by the ligature,—thus insuring extirpation of the growth. But success is at least equally uncertain with regard to the treatment both by obliteration and absorption. Cessation of pulsation, or only a thrilling tremor in the tumour, and inability to reduce it by pressure, are signs that the operation of ligature has been effectually performed. Excision is also applicable to vascular tumours of large size, especially those of a venous character, and those which are encysted. But the situations should be such as to allow of the parts being readily brought together after operation. Free excision is necessary, to pre- vent the risk of haemorrhage, primary or secondary, and compression around will be an additional precaution. N^vus.—This species of vascular growth in the skin consists of capillary vessels, enlarged, tortuous, and convoluted in the form of lobuli; involving the papilla, the sudoriferous glands, the sebaceous follicles, the hair follicles, and extending down into the subcutaneous cellular texture, thus being seated both in and under the skin. But the vessels in either situation may be almost solely affected, forming the cutaneous and subcutaneous varieties of nasvus. And the vascular growth may incline to the venous or to the arterial character. The external appearances of n^evus are commonly these: it is a vascular cutaneous spot, of a dark red or steel-blue colour, flattened, but somewhat raised above the skin; soft and compressible, painless, perhaps slightly pulsating under the finger, but disappearing on pressure, and returning when again set free; the vascular distension being incx'eased by coughing, struggling, or any other effort which affects the circulation. Such a spot is usually congenital,—as a " mother's mark," it is situated generally on the scalp, face, or back of the neck, and varies in size from a pin's head to that of a half-crown, or larger. It is often single, but there may be two, three, or more vascular spots. Stationary nsevi of this description are known as " moles." A less common form of nasvus is that which presents a vascular patch of skin, having a deep red or claret colour, and extending over a large portion of the surface, as the side of the face, and perhaps down the arm and trunk. Treatment.—When of small size, cutaneous, and not progressively increasing, a ntevus may well be left to itself; and it may atrophy, wither, and disappear. When of large extent, although superficial, as on the face, presenting the appearance of a large purple patch; such nsevus must be left alone, it is irremovable, albeit a great dis- figurement. But, when ncevus is of large size, or subcutaneous, and increasing in size, occasioning also much disfigurement; operative interference becomes necessary, and indeed urgent in proportion to the development of these characters.TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. 153 Operations for the cure of nsevi may be performed with a view either to their destruction and obliteration, or to their removal: (1) To induce adhesive inflammation in the substance of the tumour, with coagulation and permanent plugging of the erectile tissue; (2) cauterization, by the application of strong nitric acid or potassa fusa, in order to thus destroy the growth; (3) removal by incision, with the knife; or (4) by ligature, applied subcutaneously. Adhesive inflammation, as a means of destroying nsevus, is eligible only when the tumour is of small size, and occurs in situations inaccessible for excision or ligature. Ntevi situated near the eyelids, at the inner canthus, or on the tip of the nose, are thus circumstanced. In- flammatory adhesion and coagulation may be induced in various ways. By the injection of some stimulant, as perchloride of iron, by means of a screw-piston glass syringe, as used for the hypodermic injection of morphia; care being taken to throw in not more than two or three drops at one time, lest sloughing supervene, or coagula- tion extending into the surrounding vessels, a fatal embolism ensue from a clot entering the general circulation. Gralvano-puncture is another mode of exciting coagulation and consolidation. Subcutaneous puncture, and division of the vascular tissue, by means of a fine teno- tomy knife, is also an efficient, and a safe mode of destroying the tumour, in like manner. Or, by the introduction of seton-threads, for a sufficient time, and at different parts, in this way to induce inflammatory consolidation. Cauterization is eligible for the destruction of ngevus, where it is small and cutaneous, and its disfigurement is worse than the cicatricial scar resulting from the application of strong nitric acid or potassa fusa. Thus, a small "mother's mark," or an acquired vascular spot, may be touched with a glass rod dipped in the acid, or lightly pointed with a stick of the caustic. Uxcision may be resorted to for the removal of large nsevus, but this method will be appropriate especially when the growth is distinctly encapsuled, and can be dissected or shelled out. Ligature, applied subcutaneously, is the other method of removal which must be had recourse to, in all other conditions of nsevus, when of large size, not encapsuled, but connected with large feeding blood- vessels, especially arterial. The haemorrhage attendant on excision would be dangerous or fatal, and can only be prevented or controlled by ligature. Accordingly, the objects to be accomplished are—the complete and immediate strangulation of the vascular tissue, observing to include the whole tumour, and well around the limits of the disease ; but avoiding the skin, which may be divided in the intervals of the ligatures, or a single ligature may be passed around the tumour, subcutaneously. Small, firm, round whip-cord answers best. The nusvus-needles are curved, and firmly set in wooden handles, resembling aneurism-needles. Nffivus, of moderate size, and in a situation where cicatricial dis- figurement is not of much consequence, may be ligatured by two double ligatures passed underneath the base of the tumour, and cross- ing in opposite diameters, so as to divide it into four sections ; the skin may be either reflected, or divided circumfercntially, in the intervals of the ligatures, which are then successively drawn sufiiciently tightGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. cicatrizes. 154 Fig. 52. around tlio base of tumour, and tied in a reef-knot. An ordinary naevus on a child's head, generally thus admits of ligature. (Fig 52 ) The tumour, when effectually strangled, sloughs in a few days, leaving an open sore, which granulates and NfBvus of larger size, and so placed that the sacrifice of integu- ment would entail much disfigure- ment, may admit of subcutaneous ligature; the skin being left entire in this operative procedure, and con- sequently not sacrificed by slough- ing. The nsevus-needle, armed with a double ligature, is intro- duced at some point of the base of the tumour, and carried round its circumference to the same point; the cord is drawn out into a single ligature, the needle withdrawn, and the two ends pulled steadily and tied tight enough to thoroughly strangle the included mass of vascular tissue. If the mass be so large, or so placed, that it can- not be thus encompassed by a single passage of the ligature, then the needle-point may be made to emerge at a convenient spot, one end of the cord drawn out, the needle withdrawn, and having been re-threaded with that end of the ligature, it is re-introduced at the point of emergence and carried round the remainder of the tumour to the point where it was first introduced; the operation being completed by strangulation and securing the ligature. A nasvus on the cheek can be removed by this method, without any resulting disfigurement, more than a puckered appearance. I have known a dragging down of the lower eyelid to ensue, but this can be remedied by the operation for Ectropium. Ligature may be employed at an early period of life; in infants a month or two old, and with a successful result. Akeurism bt Anastomosis, consists of enlarged, elongated, tortuous, and perhaps convoluted arterial vessels, which freely communicate. The tumour or swelling has an ill-defined outline, and presented, when near the surface, a flattened but irregular aspect,—corresponding to the eel-like arteries (Fig. 51) ; and its distinctive character, as a vas- cular tumour, is its strong pulsations. This species of vascular growth is situated, most commonly, in the subcutaneous, or the sub-mucous cellular tissue; especially of the scalp, face, neck, or the orbit, and occasionally of the tongue. Or the tumour may be deep-seated, as in muscle or bone. Its origin—unlike n«vus—is not congenital, but the growth commences usually in childhood; and it is sometimes referable to a blow or other injury of the part affected. Treatment.—Ligature.—The tumour may be removed by ligature, either of the circumferential feeding branches, or of the main trunk of the part. The former procedure has not been followed by successful results;155 TUi\IOUES OB MORBID GROWTHS. ten recorded cases having failed, without one single instance of ultimate ciire. In two cases, however, where the scalp was the seat of aneurism by anastomosis, Gibson aided the effect of circumferential ligatures by incisions around the tumour in the intervening spaces; and this procedure proved successful. Ligature of the main trunk has been practised on the carotid, when the tumour was seated on the scalp, or in the orbit; or the brachial, and femoral arteries, have been ligatured, when the disease occurred on the arm or leg. The carotid has been tied in twenty-three recorded cases; in five of which, both arteries were tied at intervals of several weeks. Single ligature proved successful in some of the cases ; double ligature in all five. Ligature of the carotid for aneurism by anasto- mosis in the orbit, has been performed in thirteen cases; with a successful result in the majority. These two procedures—ligature of the circumferential arteries, and of the main trunk—may be combined or practised in succession, and the former aided by the intervening incisions. Other methods of treatment have been resorted to, but with less safety, or less success. Excision—another mode of removing the tumour—has been prac- tised, with previous ligature of the circumferential arteries. But the risk of hasmorrhage, primary or secondary, is considerable. Hence this operative procedure is suitable only in exceptional cases, where the tumour is of small size. Obliteration, by adhesive inflammation, or perchance sloughing, is another principle of cure, which may be applicable in the case of a small-sized tumour. Thus the injection of perchloride of iron has been tried. But experience is wanting to determine the relative safety and success of this treatment. Direct compression may be mentioned, as it would-seem an eligible mode of obliteration, when the tumour is so situated as to offer coun- ter resistance to the pressure of a pad and bandages ; e.g., on the tem- poral or parietal bone. Yet compression has seldom proved successful. Osseous and Glandular Tumours, respectively, are more properly considered in connection with Diseases of the Bones, and Glandular Organs. Infiltrating Growths comprise, perhaps, only one genus—Cancer: its typical species being Bncephaloid, Scirrhus, and, perhaps, Colloid, with many sub-varieties; distinguished chiefly by shades of difference in their general characters of colour, consistence, shape, size, and mobility. Structural Conditions, and Diagnostic Characters.—The three species of cancer present under the microscope the same cell. (Pig. 53.) This, at first I'ig- 53* colourless and pellucid, consists of a deli- cate envelope, containing a large clear nucleus or two, sometimes more, never less, within each of which is imbedded one or two nucleoli, also large and clear. Such is the " cancer cell." (Bennett.) But is this cell peculiar to, and character- * Cancer-cells a, from scirrhus of the mamma. Transparent cells h, seen after the action of acetic acid. 250 diam. (Bennett.)GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 156 istic of, cancer ? In considering tlie diagnosis of cancer, I shall have occasion to recur to this question. The cell assumes various shapes; either round, more usually caudate or spindle-shaped; and it presents other forms by outgrowths in one or more directions. (Fig. 64.) Fig. 55.t Fig. 54.* These cells are deposited in a filamentous stroma or mesh-work, which has a variable locular arrangement and closeness of texture. (Fig. 55.) This inter-cellular stroma is probably, in most cases, nothing more than the fibrous tissue of the Fig. 56.t textures, amid which the cancer- cells are infiltrated. (Fig. 66.) But another inter-cellular sub- stance—gelatinous, translucent, and amber-coloured—may be pre- sent in more or less abundance, and this is probably peculiar to cancer,—the colloid species. The leading species of cancer are further allied by possessing a similar chemical basis; namely, >i^^^^n| imv chiefly albumen, associated with ^^^^^^^^^:^l^^^^/f^'^///m'^/^ fibrin, gelatine, osmazome, fat, certain salts,—such as the phos- phates and carbonates of lime, with the carbonates of soda and magnesia, the oxide of iron, and But the results of chemical analysis hitherto made are not very reliable. Species.—^As the proportion of cells, or of inter-cellular matter, pre- vails, so do we recognize Encephaloid, or cancer, far excellence, abound- ing with cells; and therefore soft, opaque, and of a dead white or fawn colour. Hence the terms cerebriform or medullary, applied to this * Cancer-cells in the most advanced stage of development. (Bennett.) t Section showing the arrangement of cells and fibrous stroma in scirrhus of the mamma. (Bennett.) X Stroma of soft cancer, with partial infiltration of colls. (Rindfleisch.) water.157 TUMOUBS OB MOBBID GBOWTHS. form of the disease; and—the cellular or special element of cancer pre- dominating—encephaloid yields on pressure an abundant quantity of " cancer-juice," which resembles milk or cream. Scirrhus, on the other hand, is far more fibrous, and therefore hard and craggy; semi-trans- parent in a thin section, and of a bluish-white or fawn colour; compara- tively little " cancer-juice " is exuded on pressing the cut surface of the fibrous stroma, and this little rather resembles thick gruel than cream, or it may be a small quantity of thin yellow serous fluid exudes; but the fibrous stroma itself contracts, whereby the cut surface speedily assumes a concave aspect, unlike the section of any other tumour, which remains level or becomes slightly convex at its margins. Colloid—in contrast vnth both the foregoing—is gelatmous, owing to the predominance of the gelatinous, intercellular matter, and in which the cells are suspended, the whole being infiltrated through a delicate fibrous stroma: it appears, therefore, either as a trembling mass, or a glairy fluid, dimly transparent, and of a greenish yellow colour. Cancer is essentially an infiltrating growth ; but while this pecu- liarity almost constantly prevails in scirrhous and colloid cancers, encephaloid becomes encysted, about as frequently as it remains free. A very thin, yet distinct fibro-cellular capsule may invest this typical form of cancer, and from which thin partitions pass into the tumour thus defined, intersecting its substance, or investing its several lobes. Generally speaking, this capsule is not adherent to the surrounding textures ; it furnishes a matrix in which numerous and tortuous blood- vessels ramify, previous to supplying the mass itself with vessels. Encephaloid is, indeed, always abundantly vascular, as compared with scirrhous and colloid, both of which are relatively destitute of blood- vessels. Lymphatic vessels have been shown by injection in medullary cancer, according to the observations of Schroeder van der Kolk, with regard to specimens of this species in the stomach and liver. Nerves probably exist in the substance of a cancerous tumour; for pain is felt in scirrhous, and less so in encephaloid cancer, when cut into during a surgical operation. This sensibility may be diie to the nerves of the part, involved in the cancer-growth. But the question of nerve supply, in point of origin, proportion and distribution, has yet to be demon- strated anatomically, by dissection. Tumour.—The investing capsule, when present, gives a definite outline to an encephaloid tumour—round, oval, spheroidal, or lobed, which contrasts with the irregular and unbounded outline of scirrhous and colloid, the infiltrating course of which is very rarely circumscribed. The boundary of either of these species of cancer is perceived rather by their degrees of consistence, as compared vnth that of the textures around the seat of infiltration. The greater vascularity of encephaloid, coupled with its capsular and therefore more isolated condition, in many cases, are circumstances favourable to a corresponding rapidity of growth, and evolution as a distinct tumour; consequently this, the typical species of cancer, frequently attains an enormous size and protrudes (Fig. 57) : whereas scirrhus, being diiferently circumstanced in these respects, remains smaller, rarely acquiring a larger size than an orange, and this rendered indistinct by infiltration of the surrounding textures. It shrinks yet smaller by their condensation and absorption, as its abundant fibrous158 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Stroma continuous with parts around, draws texture after texture withm the claws, as it were, of the infiltrating mass. (Fig. 58 ) In- filtration penetrates onwards, while contraction pulls backward • so Fig. 57.* that there is a double action at work—like the pulling on of a glove. Colloid cancer, although ill-provided with blood-vessels for rapid growth, is scarcely restrained by a contracting fibrous stroma, and—in this particular resembling encephaloid—it spreads to an indefinite size, but not as a distinct tumour. The circumscribed, or non-circumscribed, condition of cancer much affects its mobility as a distinct tumour. Encephaloid is often dis- tinctly movable in the organ or textures in,,- which it is imbedded; while scirrhus and colloid can be moved about, only as a diffused mass in connection with those textures to which the cancer has contracted adhesion by infiltration. Such are the chief peculiarities respectiiog, the shape, size, and mobility of the three typical species of cancer—in addition to their individual properties of consistence (and colour); and by the concur- rence of which characters they can be recognised during life. Diagnosis of Cancer.—No sufficiently exact structural differences have as yet been detected, by which to distinguish these species of cancer-growth ; we are, therefore, compelled at present to rely solely on their physical characters to determine the question of their {differ- ential) diagnosis, so far as these characters can be recognized through superimposed integuments. This conclusion refers only to the comjjarative value of structural * Advanced carcinoma of the mamma,—exliibitiug a promiueut, fungoid, and bleeding mass. (Ciuveilhier.) t Scirrhus of breast.—iScction showing contraction of nipple.TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. 159 characters; for many other circumstances associated with cancer—its seat, character of the pain, influence of the growth on surrounding parts, the constitutional symptom of cachexia, course, and duration of the growth, and the peculiarities of age, sex, previous diseases of the individual, and hereditary taint—combine to regulate the diagnosis. All these elements will be more conveniently considered in the Vital History of Cancer. Biit the structural individuality of cancer-groivtk, as a distinct kind of growth, is itself uncertain. The supposed characteristic " cancer- cell " is occasionally absent in tumours, otherwise cancerous; and similar cells may be found, and as often—according to Foster—in healthy as in diseased tissues, and are, therefore, not peculiar to cancer. These two propositions, taken together, apparently negative the value of the " cancer-cell," as the most exact ground of identification. Excluding, however, those exceptional forms of growth which simulate cancer in their clinical history, but which do not present the cells of cancer; and excluding also those exceptionally healthy tissues with which similar cells are found; this structural element is the most unequivocal sign of the presence of cancer. In not a few cases, I have thus clearly demonstrated the nature of a cancer-tumour, by puncture with a grooved needle and submitting the material withdrawn to microscopic examination. The three species—encephaloid, scirrhus, and colloid—may possibly co-exist and be combined in the same growth. Of this association I once saw a remarkable example in the post-mortem examination of a patient, who had been under the care of one of my colleagues at the Royal Free Hospital. The abdominal viscera were literally agglomer- ated into an enormous mass of cancer, which consisted of the three cardinal species above mentioned. A beautiful wax model is preserved in the museum of the hospital. Then, again, these species of cancer may succeed each other, as well as co-exist, in the same individual. Yet, with all this fraternization, they never lose their individuality; they never become transformed. Varieties.—Many varieties of cancer have been described, which are worthy of notice, not because they possess any essential importance, but owing to the uncommon appearances they present, at least on examina- tion as pathological specimens, and which may verify the Surgeon's diagnosis, after removal by operation. Like the typical forms of cancer, their varieties also are, in most instances, occasioned by difEerent pro- portionate quantities of their constituent elements—the cancer-cells and fibrous stroma. Some of them, however, are'occasioned by morbid changes of structure; degeneration, and the consequences of inflam- mation. They are all, severally, distinguished and recognized by their physical characters, which have suggested appropriate names. The varieties of Encephaloid are—"mastoid" cancer, so named from its resembling, on section, the boiled udder of the cow. This term was originally proposed by Abernethy. " Solanoid" cancer resembles, on section, a sliced raw potato. It is hard, almost homo- geneous, pale yellow, and crisp ; hence this name, which was first suggested by Recamier. The substance of suchi a mass yields milk- like fluid in abundance, under pressure, and eventually softens. The "milt-Hke" tumour, so named from its general resemblance to the milt of certain fishes. (Monro Tertius.) "Nephroid" cancer exhibits, onGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 160 section, a peculiar arrangement of the fibrous stroma, and a semi-trans- parent watery glossiness, with other characters, not unlike those which the section of a kidney presents; whence its name. (Recamier.) " Fas- ciculate" cancer is another variety suggested by the peculiar appearance of its fibrous structure. (Miiller.) The co-existence of softness, and linear or fibrillar arrangement, constitutes its most readily ascertainable peculiarity. (Walshe.) "Heematoid" cancer is a modification of en- cephaloid, in which the brain-like character is associated with an unusual amount of vascularity, the vessels sometimes interlacing so as to constitute a dense and somewhat spongy network, without, however, the peculiar structure of erectile tissue. "Fungus hsematodes" is rather an. advanced stage of cncephaloid, than a variety of this species of can- cer. It represents the occurrence of interstitial haemorrhage, which either infiltrates the whole mass, or forms irregular accumulations of blood in its substance; and ulceration of the integuments taking place, a fungoid bleeding growth protrudes. "Villous" cancer is a term somewhat expressing the appearance presented by this form of encepha- loid. It is very vascular, and apt to bleed copiously. This and its other characters are well marked when the disease occurs on the mucous membrane of the urinary bladder. It is described by Rokitansky as "dendritic vegetation;" an excrescence consisting, in its stem, of a fibroid membranous structure, on which the branches and villous flocculi are borne, as larger and smaller pouch-like and flask-shaped buddings, or sproutings of a structureless hollow tissue. " Melanotic," or mela- noid cancer, is, with very rare exceptions, medullary cancer modified by the presence of black pigment in its elemental structures. This is a species of degeneration; besides which, encephaloid is subject to fatty and calcareous degenerations. Other morbid changes are suppuration and sloughing, which it is very liable to undergo. The varieties of Scirrhus are—so-called " Chondroid " cancer, which is an early stage of scirrhus, dense and crisp; exhibiting, on sec- tion, an unusually shining aspect, and bluish-white colour. (Recamier.) " Lardaceous" cancer is occasioned by the infiltration of scirrhus through the substance of an organ, which then frequently appears not unlike the boiled rind of bacon. "Napiform " cancer is so named from the peculiar arrangement of its fibrous stroma, which, on section, has some similarity to a cut turnip. (Recamier.) "Apinoid" cancer derives its name from the striking resemblance presented, on section, to the cut surface of an unripe pear. This similitude arises from the dissemination of comparatively opaque and almost buff-coloured spots through a translucent ground of very pale yellowish-hlac tint. The quantity of more opaque substance gradually increases, and eventually predominates, so as to alter the appearance of the surface completely. (Walshe.) Allied, is the " reticular " cancer of Miiller. "Hsematoid" scirrhus is a condition of rare occurrence; but when it does happen, its peculiarities are of the same kind as those of the hsematoid variety of encephaloid; differing only in being less fully developed. (Walshe.) "Osteoid" cancer, or ossifying fungus growth (Miiller), occurs as a tumour, consisting chiefly of bone, but having on its surface, and in the interstices of its osseous parts, an unossified fibrous constituent, as firm as fibrous cartilage ; after a time, similar growths ensue in parts distant from the seat of the first formed, and not on bones alone, bnt also in the cellular tissue, serous membranes, the langs, lymphatics, etc. It161 TUMOUES OR MORBID GROWTHS. would appear to be tbe calcareous or osseous degeneration of scirrhous, or of medullary cancer, with which it not unfrequently co-exists. Un- interrupted gradations may be traced between the osteoid variety and these typical forms of cancer. Scirrhus is subject to other species of deo-eneration, and to morbid changes in common with encephaloid. Ulceration is more frequently observed in the course of scirrhus. Colloid cancer is singularly exceptional in not presenting varieties, properly so called. Nevertheless, the quantity of fibrous stroma, or of colloid matter, may respectively predominate. If the former, then this species assumes the appearance of a very tough, white, fascia-like mass, in which are small separate cysts or cavities, filled with the colloid substance. In the opposite extreme, large masses of colloid matter appear to be only intersected by fibrous white cords or thin membranes, arranged as in areolar tissue, or in a wide-meshed network. Another variety refers to the quality of the colloid matter, rather than its quantity. It may be, or become, white and pearly, or opaque. I once met with a remarkable specimen of colloid cancer, in a female patient at the Royal Free Hospital (1862), and which I carefully examined. Most of the abdominal and pelvic viscera were affected with this disease ; namely, the stomach; the intestinal canal, which was beset ex- ternally, here and there, with pedunculated masses of colloid, somewhat resembling plums on their stalks; two colloid masses were imbedded in the spleen; the pancreas was wholly converted into the same gelatinous substance, enclosed in loculi; the bladder was distended with a trembling mass, which rolled out like a jelly, leaving the mucous membrane pulpy, ragged, and bloody. The substance of the uterus and ovaries was infiltrated with drops of colloid, together forming a mass which seemed to be incorporated with a similar con- dition of the rectum. The gelatinous matter thus extensively diffused, was in some parts white, and of brilliant pearly transparency, looking like colourless and clarified jelly throughout the pancreas, white and opaque in the spleen and uterus ; while it presented its usual amber colour and transparency in the other organs I have specifi.ed. This opacity of the colloid matter was probably due to molecular disinte- : gration. Such are the principal varieties of each of the three typical species I of cancer. Some of them are, as I have said, the result of certain : morhid changes, to which cancer itself is liable ; they are illustrations I of a pathological law which prevails extensively—that morbid products I themselves undergo morbid changes—the diseases of diseases. Hence 1 their almost numberless, and sometimes perplexing, complications. Cyst-formation.—A further illustration of this law I have yet to ; notice in relation to cancer. This production, if not one of accidental ; association, represents an actual substitution of cyst-formation for (cancer-growth, and at the expense of its own structural elements. Thus cysts may either be formed with cancer; or from and out of the ( cancer-structures, by their erring development and growth. Sir James Paget's work contains the best summary of this subject, ( of which the following is an abstract:— (1.) Respecting cysts accidentally associated with cancer, but of ' independent formation. Scirrhus of the mammary gland may occupy a portion of it only, ; in the rest of which many cysts may be formed, that are in no sense MGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 162 cancerous; or, the ctief lactiferous tubes may be dilated into pouches or cysts, contiguous to, but quite independent of, the neighbouring cancer-growth. Such a cancer may nevertheless in its course enclose these cysts, and they remain for a time imbedded in its substance. Tlie ovary may be the seat of cysts, and also the seat of cancer; the two growths thus accidentally associated, will probably become connected, although of independent origin. Further than this, cancers may grow from the walls of common cysts, i.e., of cysts which have not origi- nated in cancer-structures. Medullary cancer, especially the villous form, sometimes grows from the walls of cysts which have themselves no cancerous appearance. (2.) Cysts derived from cancer structures—by their erring develop- ment and growth—constitute a series parallel with that of the cysts barren and proliferous, which form in innocent tumours, or in the natural textures. Cancer-cysts having this origin, are, therefore, either barren or proliferous. Of the barren species are :—Cysts filled with serous fluid, variously tinted. Serous cysts are often born in cancers, especially in those of the medullary type, which grow quickly, or to a great size. One or many such cysts may be present on the surface or in the substance of a cancer. Sometimes a single cyst of this kind enlarges so as to surpass the bulk of the cancer, exceedingly perplexing the diagnosis. Sometimes many cysts are present, as if the tumour were entirely composed of them, with cancerous structure only in their interstices. Sanguineous cysts are born as often as serous, in medullary and other cancers. The imprisoned blood undergoes changes in respect of colour and consistence, thereby diversifying considerably the appearances presented by cancers containing these cysts. Colloid cysts, i.e., cysts containing a glairy jelly—not cancerous—may likewise be developed in cancer-growths, by conversion of their structural elements. The ])roliferous cysts which originate in cancers, bear on their inner surface cancerous growths—thus corresponding with the glandular growths which spring from the interior of cysts in the mammary and thyroid glands. These endogenous growths are often found in the alveoli of colloid cancer. Clusters of clavate, or flask-shaped villous processes, resembling those formed in the early stages of " dendritic vegetation " of villous cancer, spring from the waU of the alveolus. The origin and modes of development of these cysts—simple and proliferous—have been traced by Kokitansky, and shown to correspond with those of all other cysts; the only difl'erence being the source of the cyst-formation—here a cancerous element, while in respect of all other cysts it is an element of some natural tissue. Situation.—The preference of Cancer for different tissues and organs, ranges according to the following average scale. (Rokitansky.) " First, the uterus, the female breast, the stomach, the large in- testine, and especially the rectum ; next the lymphatic glands, especially as retro-peritoneal cancer-accumulation iu front of the vertebral column; hepatic, peritoneal cancer; bone-cancer ; cancer of the skin, and of the lips; of the brain; of the globe of the eye ; of the testes ; of the ovary; of the kidneys; of the tongue, and the oesophagus ; of the salivary glands and parotid;" to which I may add—without pretending to determine their relative places in the scale of frequency—cancet-163 TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. of the urinary bladder, of the pancreas, and of the spleen ; in each of ■which organs I have seen, as already described, masses of colloid. In the remarkable case referred to, other organs were similarly affected: the stomach, intestinal canal, uterus, ovaries, and rectum. This scale does not specify the particular species of cancer, in each of the different tissues and organs named; yet their relative liabilities in this respect is a matter of great practical importance, considering the unequal degrees of "malignancy" evinced by the several species of this growth. (1.) Encephaloid cancer—^the most malignant species—selects first, in order of frequency, the testicle; next, the hones and particularly the femur; the intermuscular cellular texture of the limbs; the eyeball or orbit; the breast; the walls of the chest, or abdomen; the lym- phatics. Moreover, encephaloid " occurs in organs in which no other cancer, least of all scirrhous, ever occurs,—as in the liver, the kidneys, the lungs, the testicle, the lymphatic glands." (Rokitansky.) Encephaloid cancer is not usually solitary. It commonly co-exists in many textures and organs. Melanotic cancer—mostly a variety of encephaloid, by pigmentary degeneration of its cells, and the most common of all melanotic tumours —is prone to grow first, in or beneath pigmentary moles (Paget) ; or selects first the liver (Rokitansky) ; but it may occur " in the brain and about the nerves; at the eyeball, in the lungs, thyroid gland, liver, spleen, kidneys, bones, lymphatic glands, ovaries, in and beneath the intestinal mucous membrane, between the mesenteric layers, in the skin and subcutaneous areolar texture, upon serous membranes, in the dura mater, upon and within the heart." This variety of cancer occurs as secondary formations, in very many textures and organs, simultaneously. Villous cancer—another variety of encephaloid—is produced, accord- ing to B.okitansky, exchisively upon membranes ; more especially upon mucous membranes, and most of all that of the male urinary bladder, near the opening of either ureter; next to this the mucous membrane of the stomach, and in particular the pyloric portion. It has been observed suspended by a pedicle from the internal membrane of the rectum, and even from that of the gall bladder. Secondly, it is very . apt to grow extensively from the internal wall of ovarian cysts—cysto- ■ carcinoma—where it is recognised as villous cancer by its copious : accompaniment of medullary sap. In these cases, it is often concurrent with cancerous infiltration of the lymphatic glands about the lumbar vei-tebrae, and with peritoneal cancer—representing villous cancer upon i a serous membrane. It has been observed also upon the dura mater; • occasionally upon the general integument ; and perhaps in bone. Lastly, it occurs in parenchymatous organs. (2.) Scirrhous cancer selects first the breast in the proportion of 95 1 per cent. (Paget.) Next in order of frequency, the stomach; perhaps still more frequently, in this organ (Rokitansky) ; then, according to ■ the last-named authority, the colon in its sub-mucous cellular tissue; •more rarely in the vaginal portion of the uterus; upon serous mem- : branes, and in the sub-serous areolar tissue. Again, as an expansive degeneration of the omentum, and of the mesentery; in the salivary -glands; in the fibrous tissue of the bronchi. In several of these as < well as in other structures,—^for example, the ovaries and the brain,GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 164 there occur " cancerous growths of embryonic composition, and in all likelihood of fibro-cancerous (scirrhous) nature." To this list may be added cancer-growths secondary to scirrhus, and which, in proportion as they are consecutive, incline more and more to the condition of encephaloid ; for example, of the lymphatic glands, the bones, muscles, skin. Schirrous cancer is not unusually solitary. (3.) Colloid cancer selects the stomach and large intestine, the serous membranes, and particularly the peritoneum. In other textures and organs this species is mostly secondary; as in the lymphatic glands, the lungs, the ovaries, the bones, the breasts; "and in rare cases, the kidney, uterus, and liver " (Rokitansky) : to which I may add, the pancreas, spleen, and urinary bladder. Colloid cancer is usually solitary. Vital History of Cancer.—Causes.—Age has no definite influence on the production of Cancer; the three species having been known to originate at every period of life. Even during intra-uterine life, scirrhus in the heart was found in one case. At birth, meningeal cancer, and instances of cancer affecting other organs, have been found. In infancy, childhood, maturity, middle age, the decline of life, and extreme old age—even at ninety-three—cancer is liable to occur. But certain periods of life are prone to cancer-growth, as indicated by its mortality ; the tenth to the fifteenth year is least liable, the thirty-fifth to the eightieth year, and perhaps to a later period, is most liable, the tendency increasing with each succeeding decennial period. There seems to be a more rapidly increasing tendency after thirty and on- wards for some years, as compared with the same number of years before that period; the proportion of deaths, in both sexes, from the age of thirty to forty increasing to six times more than between twenty and thirty. Sex much affects the liability to cancer. Thus, from forty to fifty years, in females, the mortality increases sixfold; whereas, in males, the number of deaths increases only two and a half times. Sex in relation to Species.—Scirrhus is more common in the female, as affecting the breast; encephaloid occurs more commonly in the female, as affecting the uterus; but exclusive of this organ, men are more liable than women ; colloid is of about equally fi'equent occurrence in both sexes (Lebert) ; but epithelial cancer is most frequently met with in the male. Age in relation to Species.—Encephaloid occurs more often iu infancy and youth ; scirrhus in adults, it being uncommon before puberty or even the thirtieth year; colloid in adults only, or excessively rarely, if ever, before the thirtieth year. Hereditary tendency.—Evidence in this direction may be resolved into two general facts. In some families cancer is known to have occurred in more than one individual. Mr. Sibley traced it among cancer patients at the Middlesex Hospital, in one case of every nine; Sir James Paget, in one of every six cases. Mr. Arnott and Mr. De Morgan each had charge of members of a family in whom disease was thus exhibited; the father and his relatives were healthy, the mother died of cancer of the breast, two of her sisters of phthisis, and one of dropsy. Of six daughters, five had cancer of the breast, the youngest was still healthy, and the only son died of phthisis. On the otherTUM0UB3 OR MORBID GROWTHS. 165 hand, to give some force to such, observations, some entire families are exempt from the disease. Hereditary tendency in relation to Species, is about equally in- fluential in the production of scirrhous and medullary cancer. Constitutional tendency to cancer can only be inferred—yet the inference is strong—from the apparently negative relation of this disease to any external causes. The various presumed, external causes of chronic maladies shall continue in operation in many individuals, for a length of time with every degree of intensity and in all possible modes of combination, without producing the slightest manifestation of cancer; and cancer exercises its most fearful ravages in persons who have never been influenced by any such causes. Excluding, there- fore, external causes, some internal and individual, or constitutional, tendency must have been in operation. Thus, medullary cancer occurs mostly in persons of apparently scrofulous diathesis, although 89 per cent, seem to have good general health at the commencement of the disease; and. in scirrhus, at its first appearance, this proportion rises to 95 per cent. (Paget.) On the other hand, there are reasons for believing that cancer, like syphilis, is primarily local, and only secondarily constitutional. Yel- peau is, perhaps, the leading authority who supports this position; and the reasons adduced are thus stated by Mr. Erichsen in. his work on Surgery:— (1.) Cancerous tumours spring up in individuals who have always enjoyed perfect health, and who, to all appearances, are perfectly well at the time of the occurrence of the disease. (2.) These tumours are not unfrequently the result of some local injury or irritation. (3.) The constitutional health does not, in the majority of cases, appear to suSer until some months have elapsed; when, as the lym- phatics or glands become implicated, or neighbouring tissues invaded, signs of cachexy set in. (4.) If the disease be removed before neighbouring parts have become contaminated, the health, if it have suffered, often improves materially. (5.) The patient remains free from any recurrence of the disease for a considerable period, in the great majority of cases. (6.) In some instances, no recurrence whatever takes place, the disease being eradicated from the system, which could not be the case if it were constitutional. (7.) Recurrence having taken place soon after an operation, it is almost invariably either in the cicatrix or in its immediate neighbour- hood ; owing to cancer-cells which had been widely infiltrated escaping removal, and subsequently developing into a new tumour. Were the disease constitutional, recurrence would be as likely to take place in other parts, or in internal organs, as it does when the operation has been too long delayed. (8.) The same tendency to recurrence after removal, and even to secondary deposit in distant organs, is observed in respect to other tumours which are incontestably, primarily local—e.g., the fibro-plastic and the enchondromatous, and which only become constitutional in their more advanced stages, and in a secondary manner. This last proposition seems to me fallacious ; both the tumoursGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 166 adduced being "localized" growths, although the fibro-plastic or myeloid variety of enchondroma is undoubtedly a recurring tumour. External causes.—Injury or irritation, is not found to have more than a limited influence on the production of cancer. Thus, scirrhus of the breast seems to have some such origin in less than one case in six; medullary cancer, however, twice as often—one in three cases; colloid is doubtful in this respect; but epithelial cancer has a traumatic origin most frequently—one in two cases. (Paget.) The causative influence of injury is evinced when cancer-growth is the immediate consequence. Instances of this kind are more often met with in the history of medullary cancer. Or again, a broken tooth scratching the tongue or cheek, may induce epithelial cancer in either of these parts; the friction of a clay-pipe, constantly used, may aifect the lip in like manner; and the irritation of soot in contact with the scrotum or pre- puce appears to induce the well-known chimney-sweeper's cancer of those portions of integuments. Effects of Cancer.—(a.) Locally.—Pain may be regarded as an effect, produced, apparently, by compression of the nerves in, and around, the cancer-growth; by separation of their fasciculi and fibrils with interstitial deposit; and, in the case of scirrhus, by dragging of the nerves as the growth contracts. Pain is, therefore, due rather to a mechanical operation of the tumour, than arising from any vital endowment of the growth itself, which is in fact comparatively destitute of nerves. Encejp haloid cancer, in particular, is of this character; the tumour scarcely seeming to be sensitive, when cut into during a sur- gical operation for its removal. Scirrhus, however, seems more espe- cially to give rise to pain from within itself, the pain radiating thence along the nerves. The kind and degree of pain vary considerably. Lancinating pangs, particularly when the tumour is handled, are commonly experienced in sciiThus. A hot dart, molten lead, and other such expressions are also used to denote both the character and severity of the pain in this species of cancer. The pain of encephaloid is generally less severe ; and colloid is comparatively painless. In cases taken indiscriminately the pain differs ; a dull aching sensation, a feeling of weight and coldness, distressing itching, represent these varieties. The pain varies also in point of date, duration, and constancy. Thus it is not generally of early occurrence: being absent in most cases of scirrhous breast, for the first year or year and a half. Its duration is temporary; occurring from time to time, as when the breast is handled. And cancer, not uncommonly, runs through its whole career without any pain. It is absent in about one-fifth of the cases, including all organs and localities. (Walshe.) The pain is usually proportionate to the rapidity of growth; becoming more severe and persistent when the tumour is inflamed or ulcerating or about to slough, and acquiring the hot burning or scalding character. The Lymphatic vessels, and glands, proceeding from the seat of cancer-growth become implicated at an earlier or later period, and in various degrees, according to the species of cancer. Scirrhus, espe- cially, is thus infective, as shown by the axillary glands when the breast is the seat of disease ; Encephaloid has the same influence in a lesser degree ; Colloid, more slowly, and in the least degree ; but Epithelial cancer is very constantly infective, in about the proportion of one in167 TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. two cases, althougli the glands are not involved to so great a distance from the seat of disease, as in the other species of cancer. The results of Paget's observations, respecting the decidedly infective character of epithelial cancer, are at variance with those of Lebert and Hannover. Cancerous lymphatic glands present more or less enlargement and induration, without any adhesion, or discolouration of the skin, at first. But the course of their disease is similar to that of the primary cancer- growth. Derangements of function are produced, some of which are irritative ; as pleurisy and hydrothorax by mammary cancer, peritonitis by ovarian cancer, vaginal discharge by non-ulcerated scirrhus of the uterus. Other derangements are mechanical; as effusions by the compression and obstructions of blood-vessels, spontaneous fracture with cancer of bone, stricture of the urethra or bowel, pressure on the brain, spinal cord, or nerves, inducing paralysis, partial or complete, pressure on the optic nerve or from within the eyeball, impairing or destroying vision. (h.) Constitutional effects.—The functions of the various parts of the body, other than of the part affected, may continue uninterruptedly for a longer or shorter period as cancer advances. Thus then the general health remains unimpaired, independently of the local disease. Conversely, the growth of cancer is inversely proportionate to the general health; being temporarily arrested, if it remain unaffected or is maintained, and coming into activity as it declines. Consequently, with advancing age, there is, so far, a greater liability to cancer; and particularly of the uterus, during the decline of generative power. In like manner the functional vigour of any part of the body apparently protects that part against the production and growth of cancer; whei'eas the decline of such vigour has the opposite tendency. Thus, pregnancy and lactation protect the uterus and breasts, respectively; while the cessation of those functions is favourable to cancer-growth in these organs. The supervention of either of the functions refei"red to, is, however, sometimes accompanied with a rapid extension of the disease, or the tumour may remain unaffected by these local changes. Cachexia is the term used to denote all those functional derange- ments, chiefly of the circulation, nutrition, and innervation, which together represent the constitutional condition. Peverishness, loss of appetite, nausea and vomiting, distressing thirst, imperfect digestion, obstinate constipation or diarrhoea, ^^progressive emaciation with peculiar yellow sallowness," muscnlsir weakness, sleeplessness, and melancholy; such are the leading phenomena of this condition. They are somewhat proportionate to the amount and diffusion of cancer-growth in the system, and hence are more pronounced when it appears in different parts suc- cessively, as secondary cancer, and as affecting especially the great internal organs, which minister to the nutrition of the body. Cachexia is most marked in scirrhous, or in encephaloid at an early period of the disease, and least in colloid cancer. Much has been urged for and against the reality of cachexia as a constitutional symptom of cancer. I think the truth may be thus expressed; that an individual affected with cancer often presents a pallid, or perhaps yellowish and emaciated appearance, but that this state is not peculiar to cancer disease. The patient may look very ill and worn, just as in any other chronic disease ; and that no such state can be recognized as the cancerous cachexia. This acknowledgment, however, amounts only to the fact, that in168 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. regard to cancer, as of nearly all diseases, no one symptom is pathog- nomonic, but that the diagnosis must be determined by the concurrence of symptoms,—co-existing or successional. Co-existing Diseases.—Diseases of various kinds may co-exist with cancer, without apparently influencing it, or being influenced by it. Thus, Bright's disease of the kidney has no effect on the course of cancer, which may proceed favourably, even to withering and complete cicatrization, independently. Extensive skin disease, syphilis, caries of the spine, fatty and cirrhosed liver, may severally co-exist. " But," observes Mr. Moore, " exanthematous fevers are unknown in the cancer wards of the Middlesex Hospital, excepting erysipelas, which is not less common in such patients than in others. Erysipelas sweeping over a cancerous ulcer will sometimes efface its specific characters, rendering it a healthy, granulating, and cicatrizing sore. In a few days, or weeks at most, the original kind of ulcer has reappeared. Hospital gangrene, occasionally, has a similar temporary effect, and ultimately the same result. Apoplexy and heart-disease seem to have some protective influence against the production of cancer. Tubercle appears to be no less manifestly incompatible with cancer, while yet related to it." Traces of old tuberculous disease are remarkably common in the bodies of persons dying with cancer, and in 34 per cent, of them phthisis exists in the family; yet the two diseases are never found in active growth together in the same person. Active tubercle co-existing, supplants as it were cancer, which may wither and even cicatrize as the patient is rapidly dying of phthisis. Course.—In the vital history of cancer, certain aspects of its progress are particularly worthy of observation. Bate of Orowth.—Encephaloid cancer takes the lead, growing generally to some dimensions in a short time, or even with vast rapidity. Scirrhus grows more slowly; colloid, with a medium degree of rapidity. Duration of Groivth.—Scirrhus is of longest mean duration, averaging three or four years ; encephaloid is of shorter mean duration, averaging about two years; colloid holds a middle place also in this respect. But the suspension of cancer-growth for a time, the tumour remaining stationary, is not uncommon. This period may extend even to years. Thus, scirrhous cancer has been known to remain quiescent for ten and twelve years ; medullary cancer, in like manner, and perhaps more frequently, for a period of twelve and fifteen years. Sex appears to have but little influence on either the rate or dura- tion of growth. Age seems to have some influence ; the progress of cancer, generally, being more rapid in the young, and chronic in old persons. Arrest and Decay.—These changes consist in a cessation of growing, and a destruction of the proper structural elements of the tumour. Cells and nuclei break up, oil-globules and granules are substituted, by a degenerative transformation. The chief element in a withering cancer is fat, contrasting with the general emaciation of the body. Scirrhous cancer-growth is thus arrested, in rare instances. Softening—which contrasts with the hard withering of cancer—takes place,"principally, in encephaloid, itself soft cancer. It is transformed into matter having a creamy or milky appearance, very slightly viscid, and the consistence of soft cheese or thin pus. The proportion of milkyTUMOUES OK MORBID GROWTHS. 169 opaque fluid, yielded on gentle pressure, indicates the progress towards this change. As affecting colloid cancer, softening represents, not perhaps any further change in its already jelly-like matter, but the breaking down of its containing stroma, with rupture of the locnli and escape of their contents. The commencement of softening, in any species of cancer, is either at the circumference or centre of the tumour; and in a single spot, or in several spots, simultaneously. Age seems to have no definite relation to these changes. In old persons, the arrest of cancer is not an uncommon event. One such case, under the care of Mr. Cooke in the Cancer Hospital, was that of a healthy-looking woman, with a ruddy complexion, and aged eighty-two. Scirrhus of four years' duration existed in her left breast, and she had been an out-patient just twelve months. Another instance, in the Uni- versity College Hospital, was that of a woman aged seventy-seven. The disease had existed for seven or eight years, but was progressive during the last eight or nine months. Terminations.—(a.) Resolution and Absorption is one mode of spo«.- taneous mre. This would appear to be synonymous vdth Atrophy,—as the result of withering and induration of the cancer, coincident with fatty, and perhaps calcareous degeneration of its structure, until the tumour has partly or entirely disappeared. Both the ordinary species of cancer-growth have been known to undergo spontaneous cure in this way. But such instances are very rare, and exceptional. Thus, scirrhus of the breast disappeared in a lady whose other breast had been extirpated for this disease. In this case, scirrhus was found in several of the abdominal viscera ; the patient having died of asthma not long after the subsidence of the breast-cancer. An encephaloid cancer of the eye of an infant ultimately disappeared, and was followed by dropsy and atrophy of the eyeball. (6.) Suppuration is another mode of spontaneous cure. A man had a large scirrhous tumour removed from his back. The disease returned. No operation was again performed; but subsequently violent inflammation supervened, an abscess followed with profuse suppurative discharge, and then recovery, (c.) Mortifica- tion may extirpate a cancer, though rarely. The whole tumour is eHminated by sloughing in a mass. None of these modes of sponta- neous cure, however, have proved of permanent duration. Cancerous Ulceration and Ulcer.'—The former consists in the mole- cular disintegration or destruction of the structural elements of the textures, as in ordinary ulceration, preceded, however, by interstitial inBltration circumferentially; thus differing from ordinary ulceration. And the infiltrating cancer-elements, although themselves dying, seem to exercise a destructive influence over the proper textural elements. Species of Cancer, in relation to Ulceration.—Cancer-growth mani- : fests a tendency to ulceration, in different degrees, according to the 1 particular species. Scirrhus is inherently disposed to undergo this I change, and which is exhibited in either of two ways : by softening and ) disintegration of the cancer-substance, leading to discharge through 1 ulcerative destruction of the integument; or, by cancerous infiltration ^ with adhesion of the integument to the tumour, resulting in ulcex'ation. Two modes of ulceration, therefore, may be recognized,—the deep or c excavating, and the superficial or erosive; the former presenting an I ulcer which has characteristic appearances—those of the scirrhous170 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. ulcer; the latter, an ulcer, having no specific characters. Medullary cancer evinces less tendency in its substance to ulceration, and com- paratively little disposition to infiltration of the integument; but the tumour _ growing more rapidly than scirrhus, the skin, subject to the mechanical influence of mere bulk, yields partly by tension and attenu- ation, and partly by common inflammatory ulceration, or perhaps sloughing, the aperture thus formed having the characters of an ordinary ulcer indisposed to heal. The growth protrudes as a fungoid mass, which is liable to repeated attacks of inflammation, with suppu- ration, ulceration, or sloughing. Haemorrhage also occurs, from time to time, or interstitial extravasations of blood into the cancerous mass. Consequently, a protruded encephaloid cancer appears in the form of a softened and bleeding exuberant growth—fungus haematodes. Diminished in bulk occasionally by ulceration or sloughing, farther protrusion takes place, so as to overlay and become adherent to the margin of the ulcer, which then appears everted. Colloid cancer is indisposed to ulcerate, although freely infiltrating the surrounding textures. Epithelial cancer is very prone to ulceration, as will be described in connection with this species. The ulcer resulting from the process of infiltration, and destruction of textare, presents certain appearances which are most characteristic in the scirrhous ulcer. Of variable size and shape, the edges, at first perhaps thin, irregular, and level with the surrounding surface, or sunken, undermined, and inverted, become thickened, elevated, and everted—a condition commonly observed. The bordering skin acquii'es a bluish red, or brown tint; and the surface, excavated and irregular, presents large prominent granulations, or a base of slough and blood. A thin, greenish, foetid, and acrid discharge—ichor-—oozes from the ulcer. Other changes may occur which more or less obscure these appearances, but they are chiefly exceptional or accidental. Hemor- rhage, for example, may be profuse, and particularly from the ulcer of encephaloid cancer. The capillary vessels are the usual source of this hsemorrhage ; but it sometimes proceeds from erosion of the larger vessels, or from rupture of the varicose veins communicating with the ulcer. An admixture of melanotic matter may occur, as seen also in ulcer of encephaloid cancer. Then again, a cancerous ulcer is liable to those pathological processes which affect an ordinary ulcer ; as inflam- mation and phagedsena. A cancerous ulcer enlarges slowly or rapidly, both circumferentially and in depth, the whole area of the textures being infiltrated with cancer- elements. Consolidation increasing, the ulcer becomes firm and fixed, both in its margins and base; scirrhous ulcer especially acquires these characters, like this species of cancer in the course of its growth. Hardness and immobility, therefore, superadded to the appearances of margin and surface already described, render the cancerous ulcer more peculiar. Cicatrization and Cicatrix.-—Paradoxical as it would seem that any process of healing should take place in a cancerous ulcer—itself inherently destructive and texturally indisposed to heal—nevertheless, cicatrization supervenes occasionally. Unlike that of an ordinary ulcer, this cicatrization rises over the prominent granulations and dips into the hollows of the ulcer. In the majority of cases, the process and its result are only temporary; as when erysipelas sweeping over a171 TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. cancerous ulcer renders it a healthy cicatrizing sore, for a time. But, in some cases, the healing is established, and a sound cicatrix has formed. This has occurred in the ulcers of both scirrhous and en- cephaloid cancers. Of such unusual permanency, a case is related by Nicod, and several others were observed by Bayle. The Cicatrix of a cancerous ulcer is, in some respects, peculiar. It is extremely thin, of a red or violet colour, and often traversed by large vessels. Contraction is restrained by the firmly adherent skin around, the cicatrix is thus rendered very tense and even more attenuated, and disposed to ulcerate again. Recurrence of Cancer, locally.—This is a very common event in the vital history of cancer, whether after its separation spontaneously, or removal artificially by the knife. The period of recurrence is generally early; in scirrhous cancer, under six months in the great majority of cases (Lebert) ; in encephaloid, about seven months as the average (Paget) ; in colloid, a period of uncertain duration; and in epithelial cancer, the period of immunity may extend to months or years. As a general rule, the rapidity of recurrence is proportionate, not to the previous duration, but to the rate of gr6wth, of the primary cancer. Local reproduction takes place under different circumstances, which are classed, by Dr. Walshe, as follows:—(a.) The process of cicatriza- tion may not distinctly commence, or be interrupted at an early stage, and funga- Fig- 59.* ting growths spring from some part of the ulcer or wound. (6.) A perfect cicatrix forms, and after a variable lapse of time, a tumour grows in the subjacent tissues, presses outwards the newly formed scar, destroys it, and appears externally with the characters of cancer. (c.) In the cicatrix itself, reproduction may occur, by the development of tuberiform cancerous growths. (Fig. 59.) {d.) The lymphatic glands, near to the original cancer-growth, may become the seat of recurrent cancer; as often witnessed after the removal of scirrhus, which primarily affected the breast. Encephaloid is said to be the species of cancer usually reproduced, whatever was the growth; but the accuracy of this observation is doubtful, at least regard to scirrhous cancer of the breast, the recurrent form of which is equally scirrhus. Colloid perhaps never forms consecutively to ■ either of the other species of cancer-growth. Recurrent cancer is said to grow more rapidly than the primary ^ cancer, but certainly this is not the rule in regard to scirrhus. Less • pain and exhaustion attend the recurrent disease, whether scirrhus or encephaloid, than the primary growth. Dissemination of Cancer in the System.—Secondary Cancer.—(a.) In t textures contviiuous with that, or those, of the original growth. Con- t tinuity of tissue is here the medium of communication, directly permit- t ting of mfiltration. The textures which convey the cancer-elements, n,ir„i!i^^-"™^'^^ scirrhus in the breast, after operation; presenting a series of n noaules m and around the cicatrix. One in the centre has ulcerated. (Cruveilhier.) original in172 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. may be naturally continuous, or connected by adhesions. Of the former, Mr. Moore saw an instance where the only cancer in a lung was a small portion of an out-growing cancerous gland of the postei-ior mediastinum, and the only infected absorbent in the root of that lung was one of considerable size, not more than au inch from the implanted cancer. (6.) In contiguous textures also cancer may, apparently, spread, without any direct medium of infiltration. Dr. Hodgkin and other pathologists mention cases in which an ovary, the mesentery, or the liver, being the seats of cancer, the parts in contact with those organs, as the intestine, the walls of the abdomen, the supra-renal capsule or kidney itself, became similarly diseased, (c.) In textures and organs remote from the original growth, secondary cancer may appear.—(a) The lymphatic vessels are undoubtedly one channel of transmission. The almost unexceptional infection of the lymphatic glands in the neighbourhood of a cancerous growth,—and which is, indeed, one of the generically distinctive characters of cancers, as a growth—supports this view. Such infection, in relation to primary cancer, is parallel to bubo, in relation to chancre. Either, however, may also be regarded as part only of the primary disease. But cancer can be traced further in the lymphatic system, progressively infecting glands more and more remote from, yet still directly connected with, the part in which the growth first appeared. Surely this diffusion of cancer is secondary. In only about one out of every forty-three cases of fatal cancer is there secondary deposit in internal organs, without infection of the interven- ing lymphatic glands, en route, connected with the site of the external primary disease. The veins, and venous circulation, would appear to be far less a medium of transmission. Cancer-elements having entered the venous system, through the thoracic duct, the lung, as the proximate organ, would next become the seat of cancer-deposit. Yet, in 173 cases of cancer, the lymphatic glands were infected in 140, the lungs in 22 only. The fact, however, of both these organs being affected, in most cases, and simultaneously, indicates the agency of the pulmonary venous system, (y) The arteries and arterial circulation are engaged even less than the venous circulation. Arterial blood flows to all parts, yet they are not equally prone to cancer. The liver is first in order, thus contrasting with the lungs, among internal organs. It was the seat of secondary cancer in 60 of 173 instances taken indiscriminately, and in 60 of only 90 cases in which the disease spread at all beyond the lymphatic glands of the part first affected The kidney is far less liable,—it was attacked with consecutive cancer twice only in 173 cases; and the spleen but once in that number. The bones and serous membranes are both commonly invaded. These differences of liability suffice to show the extreme irregularity of secondary cancer, in its presumed relation to the arterial circulation, as the medium of transmitting cancer-elements from the primary growth. One general. law respecting the dissemination of cancer in the system, would seem to be this;—it is regulated, in some measure, by the retention of cancerous matter within the body, or its discharge externally through the integuments by ulceration or through some natural passage. Cancer of the uterus with free discharge per vaginam, is followed by secondary cancer in not more than 25 per cent.; whereas deep-seated cancer of the breast produces secondaryTUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. 173 cancer in 79 per cent. In calling attention to this important general fact Mr. Moore justly adds, there are covered cancers, thougli very few' which remain solitary to the end of life, and there are cancers on free surfaces which do become disseminated. The successive dissemination of cancer in the system, or primary and secondary cancer, must not be confounded with the simultaneous dissemination of cancer, or the production of more growths than one, in different parts, at the same time. The total absence, probably, of functional symptoms at an early period is apt to mislead, e.g., in cancer of the brain, lungs, liver, and stomach, organs of leading functional importance.- Thus cancers which are apparently successive may really be simultaneous. The relative tendency of the three species of cancer to affect the system secondarily, differs with respect to each. Encephaloid and scirrhus seem to dispute the first place in this aspect of their vital history. But colloid undoubtedly has here the lowest rank, as also in the other characters of malignancy. Species and shape of secondary cancer.—Encephaloid is produced in the majority of cases; Scirrhus far less frequently, and even rarely, although perhaps always secondary to scirrhus cancer of the breast (Paget); Colloid has not yet been found, in any case recorded. (Walshe.) The nodular form is that which secondary cancer usually assumes, especially in the liver, lungs, and bones. In a cicatrix, as after excision of a cancerous breast, this form of secondary cancer is very common. Nodules or button-Hke tubercles appear, which spread and coalesce ; or a hard ridge forms in the line of cicatrix. In either case the colour, whitish at first, deepens into a purpHsh-red hue. In proximate lymphatic glands, secondary cancer produces—and probably at an early period—tenderness, enlargement, and induration, increasing even to buUety hardness. Termination by Death.—This, the natural and most frequent issue of cancer, takes place in various ways, which may be concurrent or suc- cessive, (a.) By the constitutional influence of the disease on nutrition and blood-production, as manifested by cachexia; the proper cancerous death. (b.) The direct influence of the disease, locally, on various functions, e.g., of the liver, stomach, oesophagus, intestines, (c.) Haemorrhage, internally or externally, e.g., Cancer of the uterus. (d.) Exhaustion from pain and discharge, e.g., Cancer of the uterus, (e.) Mortification, e.g., cancer of the limbs. (/.) Intercurrent diseases, generally of the inflammatory class, e.g., pleurisy, or pnemonia, by cancer affecting the ribs and lungs, (g.) Substitute diseases, e.g., phthisis supplanting cancer; tubercular deposit in the lungs, for ex- ample, being pathologically equivalent to the cessation of cancer- growth in some other part of the body. Treatment.—Naturally incurable and fatal as cancer is generally, it may, as we have seen, undergo certain structural changes of a self-curative character, the purpose of which it should be the aim of therapeutics—medical and operative—to imitate. To establish this correspondence between the treatment of injuries and diseases and the processes of Pathology, in respect to their natural courses and ten- dencies, is one of the leading features of modern Surgery; and this relation of art to the indications of nature, is better illustratedGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 174 by the treatment of Cancer than by that of any other Morbid Growth. (1.) Arrest of Cancer, and Hygienic and Medicinal Treatment.—The natural arrest and decay of cancer consists in the cessation of growth, and the disintegrative destruction, of its proper structural elements'; changes which are accompanied with, and denoted by, withering of the Tumour. This course and termination are observed mostly in the career of scirrhus, as witnessed best in the puckered-up chronic mammary cancer and shrivelled breast of old women. No known medicinal treatment seems to insure this result; although iron, bark, cod-liver oil, the anodyne influence of opium, and such other agents as, apparently, improve nutrition, may prove auxiliary. But hygienic measures, especially in the shape of a generally nutritious and easily assimilated diet, and a cheerful, hopeful tone of mind, will be most efficacious. The growth of a cancer-tumour is inversely proportionate to the arrestive influence of the general health. Thus, when the body is well nourished, the tumour starves. Local applications are advantageous resources occasionally. Any temporary supervention of inflammation may be treated accordingly, by a few leeches or a light poultice. Pain recurring or persistent, and affecting the general health, is often mitigated by a belladonna plaster, or by conium or opium ointment. A scruple of the iodide of lead in a drachm of glycerine, mixed with an ounce of unguentum opii, is recom- mended by Mr. Mooi'e. Gently rubbed over the tumour two or three times a day, it reduces any swelling, as well as relieves pain. Soap plaster, used simply to protect, not to compress, the integument, is also calculated to retard the progress of the growth. Compression may control pain, but its efficacy in repressing growth is doubtful. First tried at the Middlesex Hospital many years since, it was unfavourably reported on by Sir Charles Bell; subsequently, highly extolled by Recamier—who stated that 30 per cent, of his cases were cured—and advocated by Dr. Walshe—it has, nevertheless, not found much favour in this country. Compression is best effected by means of the air-cushion and spring, devised by Dr. Neil Arnott. Pres- sure varying in force from two and a half to twelve or sixteen pounds can thus be brought to bear on the tumour. (2.) Sloughing and Enucleation. — (a.) By Cauterization. — This method of treatment is warrantable only in cancer which is already ulcerated, and has acquired adhesions beyond the fair reach of the knife. Cancerous glands, as an extension of the disease, are not so con- veniently removed by the application of caustic. But they, and the textures around the slough, mostly become notably diminished in size; an important fact with reference to the glands, compared with their progressive enlargement after removal of the primary tumour by ex- cision. Yelpeau's observations seem to confirm this difference in favour of treatment by caustic. It may be followed by successful results, but of temporary duration; a few weeks only—if the disease be incompletely extirpated, or lasting until after the wound has healed— if a healthy granulating surface was obtained. Eventually, in either case, cancer reappears, in situ, and runs its course with rarely an excep- tion to a fatal termination. As compared with removal by the knife, the advantages of cauteri- zation are—the bloodless character of the operation and, consequently,TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. 175 less exhaustion, and the less liability to erysipelas or pyemia; the dis- advantage is, the pain, severe and persistent. Various caustics have been employed; the concentrated mineral acids, sulphuric or nitric, or the solid caustic alkalies,—potash or lime, and various chlorides, that of zinc especially. Of all these, the glacial sulphuric acid mixed with powdered saffron, forming a black paste, is preferred by Velpeau, particularly in fungoid and bleeding cancers. The caustic alkalies combined, form the well-known Vienna paste. The chloride of zinc mixed with flour readily forms a paste by deliquescence. If a liquid caustic be used, the surrounding skin should be protected by a barrier of gutta-percha or other similar material attached to the skin. If chloride of zinc be used, the skin, which resists this agent, must previously be destroyed by sulphuric or nitric acid. The depth to which the action of any such agent extends and the destruction of the tissues accordingly, will depend on the strength and quantity of the caustic employed. But the result can only be roughly estimated. The slough produced varies in appearance witb the kind of caustic employed ; a dry, hard, contracted blackish eschar, resulting from the application of a strong mineral acid; a wet, pulpy slough, from chloride of zinc. It separates after a time, a few days to a month, disclosing a healtby granulating surface, but perchance, of prodigious depth and extent. Other modes of applying caustics have, therefore, been devised. The repeated introduction of chloride of zino through incisions daily made deeper and deeper, affords a precaution for limiting the slough to the depth and extent of the cancer. This plan of treatment was first practised in this country by Dr. Fell, of the United States; a report on which was drawn up by the Medical Staff of the Middlesex Hospital, in 1857. Another mode is to under- mine a cancer with caustic, introduced through narrow passages pierced with a seton needle. Of all these caustics, my own experience inclines to the chloride of zinc, which I first saw used by Mr. Listen, many years ago, and the efficacy of which has since been attested by its results in some cases. In the ulcerated stage of cancer, disinfectants become requisite, for the double purpose of cleansing the sore, and of counteracting the effects of that peculiar fcetor which would otherwise encompass the patient in a self-created poisonous atmosphere. Charcoal or yeast poultices, and lotions of chloride of lime or carbolic acid, are thus beneficial. I can speak favourably of the latter poultice and lotion. They were remarkably efficacious in the case of a large cancer spring- ing from the arm and involving the shoulder. Ulceration having commenced in front of the axilla and subsequently in other parts of the tumour, the odour would have been intolerable to the patient but for these appliances. (6.) Gongelation.—The continued application of intense cold, is another means of destroying a cancer. Used in conjunction with caustic, congelation mitigates the pain, without diminishing the cauterization. Freezing is, alone, far less effectual. When most successfully practised, its destructive action extends not deeper than an inch; the only advantage then being the freedom from pain during and even after this process. As a method of treatment for cancer, it was introduced by Dr. James Arnott. Pounded ice may prove sufficient; but a mixture of ice, salt, nitrate of potash, and hydro-GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 176 chlorate of ammonia, will freeze more thoroughly. The frigorific mixture should be circumscribed by gutta-percha or other pliant material, fashioned into a bowl around the part, with a tube to drain oft" the fluid as the mixture melts; and the process must be continued for some hours. (3.) Excision, or amputation, for the immediate removal of cancer, is the treatment most worthy of consideration. Grranting the local origin of cancer, and thence the subsequent infection of the system ; excision—as distinguished from any process of removal—is indicated, and at the earliest possible period. Hence also amputation, where practicable, may be preferable to excision—a partial operation, which may not thoroughly extirpate the disease. The delay of either opera- tion will assuredly allow the infiltrating course and adhesions of cancer to ensue, thereby rendering it locally impracticable or constitutionally useless. These pathological considerations suggest certain general reasons in favour of both excision and amputation, and their comparative advantages. (i.) Extirpation of the disease, entirely and permanently. This is very rarely accomplished. (ii.) Temporary removal of the disease, and thence a proportionate restoration of ease and health. This immunity is always gained. The period of non-recurrence varies; perhaps less than one, it averages two years. Early pei-formance of the operation may prolong this period to ten, fifteen, or twenty years. Such prolongation has been observed particularly in scirrhus affecting the breast. The experience of Velpeau and of Sir B. Brodie concur as to the long period of immunity which may be enjoyed. (iii.) Prolongation of life. Comparing the duration of life in cases without operation, and after. Sir James Paget states that, in the former case, the average period scarcely exceeds two years ; whereas, in the latter, it extends to about twenty-eight months. Mr. Moore goes much further, observing that in seventy-eight cases of cancer affecting the breast, not operated on, the average duration was 32-25 months; and in fifty-seven such cases the average was 63-2 months. Any estimate of this kind is liable to a twofold error; the selection of cases for operation is generally those most favourable to life, and the probable mortality of the operation itself. The latter varies from five to ten percent.; and albuminuria peculiarly predisposes to a fatal issue. Objections with regard to each of the three foregoing considerations may be raised as to the propriety of operative interference, but the same objections apply with equal or greater force to any kind of treat- ment whatever, in the course of a disease so, apparently, irregular as that of a cancer. The species of cancer affects the estimate as to the average prolongation of life, with and without operation. Thus, in Scirrhus, the relative periods may be stated as fifty-two months against forty-eight months, or even a still more advantageous difference (see Cancer of Breast) ; in Encephaloid, thirty-three months against twenty months; in regard to Colloid, the difference is undetermined; but, in Epithelial Cancer, the relative periods are, with operation, fifty- seven months, without operation twenty-seven months, or less than half the duration of existence granted by surgical interference. The conditions of cancer, or the cases which are respectively favour-TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. 177 able and unfavourable for operation, may be stated, approximately, as follow ; cancer of the breast being taken as the type:— (a.) Favourable for operation.—(1.) A single tumour, not diffused, and whether in the nipple, on the surface, or in the substance of the breast. (2.) When the nipple alone, or some very limited portion of the skin, is drawn in towards the subjacent tumour. In either case, the integument not being widely infected but simply dimpled, the breast may be removed. But the disease is apt to return in and around the cicatrix. This took place in the case of a scirrhous breast wHch I removed in the condition described, a small portion of skin not larger than half a crown being attached to the gland. (3.) Ulceration of a cancerous tumour does not preclude operation, if in other respects the case is suitable. (4.) The glands having become diseased to an extent which does not interfere with their removal, is a condition propor- tionately favourable for excision of the primary tumour. But the state of the glands cannot be exactly determined, otherwise than in the course of the operation, and if then found to be cancerous, they also must be removed; not necessarily, however, at that time, if such an enlarge- ment of the operation migbt be perilous. Subsequently, and as soon as the health permits, the cancerous glands should be excised. This post- ponement I had recourse to in the case of a lady whose breast I removed for cancer ; when the wound had healed, I then removed the axillary glands—by a more limited incision than a continuation of the original operation would have involved. The disease eventually returned in the breast-cicatrix. (5.) Amputation of a limb is justifiable, although the glands show some hardening or doubtful enlargement. This rule appHes both to the encephaloid and epithelial disease. (6.) Hereditary tendency, strongly manifested, does not entirely prohibit operation. In a family, of which six members were the subjects of cancer, one sister underwent excision of the breast in 1845, and another in 1846. Both remained well, until in each, with a recent recurrence of the disease, a second operation was performed in 1856 — eleven and ten years after the primary operation. In 1859 both patients were alive. (7.) Recurrent cancer may be removed under the same restrictions, as with reference to a first operation. My own experience of operation in such cases, is not favourable. In two—the original disease having been mammary scirrhus—one or two only small button-like nodules reappeared in the cicatrix; these were at once excised, yet the disease speedily returned again. (8.) Age does not prohibit the removal of a growing cancer. (&.) Unfavourable for operation.—(1.) Certain constitutional condi- tions—e.g., cancer co-existing, especially in some internal organ, or marked cancerous cachexia, albuminuria or other grave organic disease. (2.) Diffused cancer and persistent oedema. But the latter condition is significant only when circumferential; oedema remote, depending on obstruction to the circulation at the seat of disease, e.g., oedema of the hand from cancer of the arm, is not itself a prohibitive condition. In such case, I have seen the swelling subside and return ; apparently with varying states of the circulation as connected with the growth of the cancer above. (3.) Adhesion, if at all extensive, either of the skin, or subjacent textures, is decidedly prohibitive of operation. (4.) Ulcer- ation, otherwise than to a very limited extent and depth, is equally so. (5.) Cancerous tubercles in the skin over a cancer, is a condition even more unfavourable for operation. Over a mammary cancer, increasing N178 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. thickness of tlie skin, its widespread adhesion, and enlargement of the pox'es, constitute a decisive contra-indication. (6.) The glands having become diseased to an extent which interfei'es with their removal, pro- hibits also removal of the primary tumour, either by excision or ampu- tation. (7.) Rapid growth, in any way, is decidedly unfavourable for operation. Hence most encephaloid cancers are better left alone, unless in a very early stage. (8.) Cancers, the relations of which to important parts around cannot be foreseen, are better not meddled with. Thus circumstanced, are cancers beneath the scalp, which often implicating the bone, penetrate the skull; cancer of the eye, which often involves the optic nerve; cancer of either jaw, particularly the upper, where it is apt to protrude into the maxillary sinus or the ethmoid cells ; and cancers about the root of the neck. I once assisted my colleague Mr. de Meric in removing an encephaloid cancer situated about the sixth rib, below the fold of the pectoral muscle on the right side. The tumour was not larger than an orange, the skin unbroken, and it seemed movable on the rib. Yet, on commencing the operation, the haemorrhage was alarming, the rib gave way, and any further attempt was at once discontimied. The man, of florid complexion, became blanched with almost fatal syncope in a moment, and rallying only for a short time, he died of internal haemorrhage ; a warning in all such, and similar cases. Epithelial Canceb.—One variety of cancer I have reserved for special description; because, although in many points allied to ence- phaloid and somewhat to sciirhous cancer, it nevertheless presents very chai'acteristic appearances, and possesses much surgical interest. I allude to epithelial cancer. Structural Condition and Diagnostic Gharacters.~ll\\\5 variety con- sists essentially of cells or scales, resembling those of scaly epithelium, infiltrated among the component elements of the skin or mucous mem- brane, or sometimes among the textures of internal organs. Whatever portion of the skin or mucous membrane may be thus affected, the epithelial cancer-cell or scale has very much the same characters. (Fig. 60.) It is flattened, of an irregular outline, with usually a pro- FiG. 60.* longed diverticulum at some point of its margm, and of a variable size. It contains pale molecular matter, converging towards a central nucleus which is clear, bright, and well-defined, round or oval, and very small in comparison with the cell; more uniform also m its shape and siz^. This nucleus is usually single. It may contain two or more mmute granules, but rarely a bright distinct nucleolus ./i ..lu " or Associated with these cells, are what Paget calls "brood-cells, or * Epithelial cancer-cells or scales in various forms. Magnified 350 times. (Paget.)179 TUMOUES OE MOEBID GEOWTHS. endoo-enous cells. They present many varieties of appearance, wliicTi may be regarded as the results o£ one or more nuclei, enclosed within cells, assuming, or tending to assume, the characters of nucleated cells. The "globes epidermiques" of Lebert (Fig. 61)—" lami- nated capsu les,'' Paget—are the most singular and character- istic structures of epithelial cancer, yet not peculiar to this disease; nor are they, appa- rently, special structures, for they consist of epithelial scales. These capsules are very large and spherical cysts, containing granular matter, nuclei, or cells, ob- scurely seen within them; and clustered so as to almost appear as if fused together; but each capsule consists of epithelial scales, superim- posed in successive layers, thus forming a laminated capsule. Such are the structural elements of epithelial cancer. They are found infiltrated—principally in the substance of the skin or mucous membrane—but not uniformly diffused throughout the component textures of the part affected. The cancer-cells may predominate in the corium, forming a swelling very slightly elevated above, or imbedded below, the proper level of the integument, and the depth or thickness of which is much less than its dimensions laterally; or these cells may predominate in the papilire, presenting a prominent warty or exuberant out-growth; or, tlae sub- integumental texture may be their chief seat, forming a deeper-seated, flat, or rounded mass. OY these varieties, the first two maybe named the superficial or out- growing ; while the third is the deep-seated form of epithelial cancer. Paget believes that either of these principal varieties may occur in any of the usual seats of this disease, but that they are not both equally common in every such part. The superficial, and especially those which have the characters of warty and cauliflower-like out-growths, are most frequently found on mucous membranes, especially of the genital organs; those also on the extremities and the scrotum have usually a well-marked warty character, and are rarely sub-integumental. The deep-seated are more frequent in the tongue than elsewhere. It must not be forgotten, however, that these distinctions are more airparent than essential. Their value consists in reference to the earliest and most exact diagnosis of this disease, in whichever form it may chance to make its first appearance. For subsequently, and especially when ulceration has commenced, an epithelial cancer which was superficial or exuberant, is prone to extend into deep-seated parts ; and one at first deeply seated may grow out exuberantly. Moreover, when ulceration is progressing, a greater uniformity of external ap- pearance is found; because, in general, while all that was superficial or exuberant is being destroyed, the base of the cancer is constantly extending, both widely and deeply, into the sub-integumental tissues. * Object to the left, a single globe epidermiqiie. (Lebert.) Object to the right, formation of a hmiiuatcd epithelial capsule, by endogenous development of nuclei into nucleated cella, their detrusion, and concentric lamination. (Rokitausky.) Fig. 61.*180 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Respecting, then, the earliest appearances of epithelial cancer, the following are most diagnostic. 1. Of the superficial or out-growing, prior to ulceration, they are t)il6S6 I (a.) An outspread swelling arises—say on the lower lip, labium, pudendi, or scrotum; and an unnatural firmness or hardness of the affected skin is perceptible ; but the superficial dimensions much exceed the thickness of this swelling. Its outline is round, oval, or sinuous; and its surface, sometimes nearly smooth, is more often coarsely granulated—like that of a syphilitic condyloma—deriving this ap- pearance from the enlarged and closely clustered papillae. Generally, the surface is moist with an ichorous discharge ; it may, however, be covered with a scab, or encrusted with a soft substance, consisting of Fig. 62.* detached epithelial scales. In most cases, the part is unduly sensitive, and injected with blood. If the papillae become infiltrated, they con- stitute the cauliflower-lilsie mass so characteristic of the ordinary form of epithelial cancer. (Fig. 62.) This mass looks very vascular, is moist with ichor, and covered with pasty cakes of epithelial scales, which beset the interstices of the enlarged papillae. (ft.) Occasionally, the shape of an out-growing epithelial cancer is that of a sharply bordered circular or oval disc, upraised a little above the level of the adjoining skin, or mucous membrane, and imbedded to about the same depth below it. The surface of this disc—usually flat or slightly, concave—is granular, spongy, or irregularly cleft; and its margins are surrounded with healthy texture, which becomes raised and often slightly everted by their enlargement—e.g., many epithelial cancers of the tongue. (c.) Sometimes, epithelial cancer grows out in the form of a cone. * Epithelial cancer of hand; showing the papillary character, from specimen in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's. (Ser. x. i. 6.) The history of this case is in I'ott's Works by Earle, iii. J82. The patient was a gardener, who had been employed in strewing soot for several mornings. The disease was ot five years' duration. ( Paget.)181 TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. (d.) Lastly, the out-growing form of this disease may be a narrow- stemmed, and possibly pendulous, growth from the skin. These and other shapes of superficial epithelial cancer resemble somewhat the appearances presented, by warty and condylomatous growths; but they differ essentially in respect of their minute struc- ture ;—being infiltrations of the skin and papillas with epithelial cancer-cells ; whereas the structui-e of warty growths remains healthy, however strange may be the appearance they assume. (2.) Deep-seated epithelial cancer is generally (a) an advanced stage of the superficial; for by progressive infiltration, the subcutaneous or sub-inucous tissues are invaded; (b) but this variety of the disease may occur primarily, although comparatively rarely. " Thus," ob- serves Paget, " the first formation of epithelial cancer may be in masses of circumscribed infiltration of the tissues, beneath healthy skin or mucous membrane. This condition is more frequent in the epithelial cancers that form, as recurrences of the disease, near the seats of former operations, or as secondary deposits about the borders of primary superficial growths." Situation.—Epithelial cancer selects either the skin or subcutaneous texture; or the mucous membrane ; and of these textures the portions most liable are ranged by Paget in the following scale of frequency. Fii'st, its chosen seat is the lower lip, at or near the junction of the skin and mucous membrane ; then the prepuce (glans, Rokitansky), scroium of chimney-sweeps; the nymphse, the tongue; occasionally in very many parts; as at the anus, interior of the cheek, upper lip, mucous mem- brane of the palate, larynx (trachea, Rokitansky), pharynx and "cardia;" neck and orifice of the uterus (stomach, Rokitansky), rectum, and urinary bladder; skin of the perineum, of the extemities ; the face, head, and various parts of the trunk. In yet more rare instances, as a primary disease, it occurs in other than integumental parts ; as in the inguinal lymphatic glands, in bones, in tissues forming the basis or walls of old ulcers. Rokitansky has met with epithelial cancer only once in a parenchyma, namely, in the liver, and then encysted in a capsule of fibro-cellullar tissue. By extension from its original seat, this growth may involve many deeper textures ; fascite, muscle, bones ; and as a secondary disease it may, but very rarely, supervene in internal organs—the lungs, liver, heart, spleen, or kidneys. ^ Epithelial cancer, as a primary disease, is usually solitary. Occa- sionally, two or more co-exist, and even in the same part, as on the prepuce and glans. Eventually, secondary epithelial cancer-growths form in the tissues surrounding the primary and parent growth. Origin.—Predisposition to the production of epithehal cancer in- creases as age advances, the proportionate liability rising with each decennial period. This becomes more apparent when compared with the number of persons living at each successive period; so that if the frequency of occurrence between 20 and 30 years be represented by 12, that between 40 and 50 years is equal to 100. Billroth estimates the period of greatest liability to be from the fortieth to the sixtieth year, rarely later; but sometimes the disease appears in childhood. With regard to the part affected. Sir J. Paget believes that the mean age of occurrence is lowest in the sexual organs, and highest in the integu- ments of the head, face, eyelids, and upper extremities. Males are more often attacked than females ; in 105 cases affecting parts commonGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 182 to both sexes, 86 were in men, 19 only in women. Hereditary predis- position would seem to be traceable in members of the same family; or where scirrhus or encephaloid cancer has alfected some, other members have been the subject of the epithelial disease. External Causes.—Previous injury of the part is more often predis- posing in regard to the production of epithelial cancer than of perhaps any other kind_ of tumour, excepting melanotic cancer of the skin. But the injury is generally some slight and oft-repeated damage, as by frequent blows or friction, thus amounting to prolonged irritation. The habitual smoking of a clay pipe, as affecting the lip, and the irritation arising from soot lodged in the crevices of the scrotum, are familiar examples of the external causes of epithelial cancer. It is often seen to proceed from a crack or fissure, to appear in the form of a small hard knob, lump, or scabbing wart. Some chronic morbid condition of a part may become the seat of the disease; as a cicatrix, especially when exposed to injury. Goimse.—Epithelial cancer is constantly progressive, but its rate of progress varies from time to time, and according to the part affected. The disease may run its course in a year, or continue for three, five, ten years, or longer. Sometimes advancing slowly, in a year it gains only the fraction of an inch on the part around; or spreading rapidly, in a few months it invades to the extent of several inches. This pro- gress is perhaps now and then interrupted by partial cicatrization— when ulceration had supervened. But the average rate of progress is less than that of any other species of cancer-growth. And, with reference to the part affected, epithelial cancer advances more slowly in the scrotum and lower limbs; more rapidly, and with great malignancy, in the mouth, tongue, and penis. The deep-seated form of growth is also more malignant than the superficial or out-growing. The ulcerative stage of epithelial cancer is that in which the disease is commonly seen; and the usual state of ulceration observed is that of progressive destruction of the central and superficial parts of the cancer, with more than co-extensive growth of the marginal and deeper parts, thus constituting the type of the " cancerous ulcer." It is important, therefore, to be able to discern the first aspect of ulceration—both as regards the superficial and the deep forms of epithelial cancer, respectively; and then, the characters of the com- plete ulcer. (1.) Ulceration of superficial or out-growing epithelial cancer, pri- marily appears as either a diffuse excoriation of the whole surface of the cancer, except its borders; or else a shallow ulcer limited at first t3 some fissure where the disease commenced. The discharge from this excoriated or ulcerated surface dries into a thin scab, or a thicker and darker crust; which conceals for a while the ravages of ulceration, still slowly extending beneath,—downwards and outwai-ds. (2.) Ulceration of deep epithelial cancer begins iu one of three^ ways:— In some cases, the superimposed skin or mucous membrane having become adherent and thin, cracks; and this condition may remain stationary for a long while, in the form of a dry dark crevice; but usually ulceration, commencing from this point, extends into the mass of the cancer. In other cases, the substance of the cancer having become inflamed,TUMOUES OR MORBID GROWTHS. 183 j it softens, suppm'ates, and discharges its contents through an ulcerated j opening, or a long rent; leaving a cavity which speedily assumes the ! characters of an ulcer, and extends peripherally. ] In a third series of cases, and, perhaps, especially in secondary for- mations, and in those under the scars of old injuries, the cancer protrudes through a sharply bounded ulcer in the sound integument or scar, growing exuberantly, with a soft shreddy surface, like a medullary j cancer, or with a firmer, warty, or fungous mass of granulations. - ; Dissimilar as are the earliest aspects of ulceration in both forms • of epithelial cancer—out-growing and deep—they gradually assume a ' uniformity of appearance which is very characteristic. (3). Complete Ulcer.—An excavated sore, of a round or oval shape, i presenting a roughly granular surface, which has a brick-dust red * colour, and oozes a stale-smelling discharge. This surface bleeds easily, although not freely. The textures surrounding its base and borders become indurated and rigid, as they progressively become more and more infiltrated with cancer-cells. The ulcer thus acquires a remai'k- I able degree of immobility, and its margin protrudes in the shape of a ' thick everted ridge, well defining the boundary of the ulcer. Infil- tration increasing, the marginal ridge forms an irregular nodular belt, . which overhangs the base of the ulcer, and gives an undermined ap- j pearance to its everted borders. If the papillce of the surrounding skin are more particularly the seat of cancerous infiltration, then a warty j rather than a nodular belt springs up around the ulcer. With all I these signs of progressive infiltration, followed by ulceration, the work | of destruction is not stayed below the base of the already excavated sore. It spreads deeper and deeper, sparing no texture, not even large arteries, which hold out against the invasion of most other forms of ulceration, if indeed they do not escape altogether. But arteries of the | first magnitude yield to the unsparing ravages of epithelial cancer. 1 Pain, varying in kind and intensity, such as burning or neuralgic pain, attends the course of ulceration. The lymphatic glands are in- fected at an early or later period, according to the rapidity of the disease; and involving the proximate glands, which become enlarged and somewhat indurated, the disease extends to other glands, yet not '. so far as in other species of cancer. Thus, when the lip is the primary seat of disease, the cervical glands are secondarily aifected ; while the lumbar glands show the extension of disease from the penis or scrotum. Internal organs are far more rarely infected than from any other species of cancer. Cachexia is neither early nor well-marked; nor in any way peculiar. The average duration of life is from two years to \ two and a half; although life is not unfrequently prolonged to three I or four years, or to a more distant period,—unlike the usual course of other cancers. Here, also, the part aifected will regulate the prog- ! nosis. Epithelial cancer in the limbs generally runs its course to a | fatal termination more slowly than when the lower lip or the tongue j is the primary seat of disease. The age of the patient, at the com- j mencement of the growth, scarcely influences the duration of life. I Affinities to Cancer.—There are good and sufficient reasons for re- garding this disease as a variety of Cancer. Its infiltrating character as a growth, is the essential guarantee of identity; while its indis- criminate invasion of all textures, its ulcerative tendency, and unsparing destructiveness, corroborate the malignant nature of this growth. ThenGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 184 again, the lymphatic glands are early liable, although not prone, to become affected by the continued epithelial infiltration of the primary growth; but secondary formations thence arising are almost exclusively limited to_ glands in connection with the immediate vicinity of the primary disease. A similar epithelial form of growth, or more com- monly encephaloid cancer, may however ensue, and indiscriminately in parts distant from the original disease ; and there is also the less sig- nificant fact of recurrence, sooner or later, after removal by operation. Lastly, in point of hereditary influence, members of the same family, in whom either scirrhous or encephaloid cancer occurs, are peculiarly liable to the epithelial form of growth. Duly weighing all these affinities, singly and collectively, this epithelial growth is rightly de- nominated epithelial cancer. In this conclusion the most able patholo- gists concur ; Kokitansky, Virchow, Paget, and others. Epithelial cancer must not be confounded with the " Epithelioma " of Hannover and Bennett, who include under that title many other growths besides this variety of cancer; and it differs also from the "cancroid" of Lebert. Treatment.—The guiding indications of treatment in respect to epithelial cancer are two; one or other of which is always practicable. (1.) To superinduce inflammation and sloughing, thus destroying the cancer. This may be accomplished by caustics, such as those already mentioned for the destruction of cancer generally; the strong mineral acids, caustic alkalies, and chloride of zinc. But it must be confessed that this method of treatment is not more successful in the one case than the other. In one instance, of an epithelial cancer of the entire circumference and nearly the whole length of the vagina, I repeatedly applied the strong fuming nitric acid by means of a glass brush; but without apparently any effect, for better or worse. (2.) Removal of the cancer is the most effectual treatment. This may be accomplished by excision, ligature, or amputation. The former method is, generally, most eligible; care being taken to cut sufficiently wide for the entire extirpation of the growth. It will be necessary to include any neighbouring lymphatic glands which have decidedly become secondarily affected by the cancerous infiltration. But the strong infiltrating tendency of epithelial cancer renders its effectual removal by excision doubtful. Removal by ligature, or the ecraseur, is the alternative method; wherever excision is impracticable, or would be imprudent, or inefficient. Amputation is necessary, primarily or secondarily, in certain cases. It may be so, in the first instance, owing to the extent of the disease, or its locality, as when situated on the leg, or the arm, near the trunk. Of the latter urgency for amputation I had an instance in the case of an epithelial cancer just below the shoulder-joint. The patient died, after the operation, of Hospital gangrene. Secondary amputation is un- avoidable in any case of recurrent cancer; caustics, excision, ligature, or even primary amputation, as the case may be, having failed, perhaps successively, to extirpate the primary disease. Eecxorrence of the disease after apparently complete removal by operation is, I believe, the rule, without exception. And the epithelial growth returns sometimes in the cicatrix, sometimes in the lymphatic glands, when previously healthy. The period of recurrence varies considerably; being very early, or much longer after operation,—aDEGENERATIONS. 185 year and a half, possibly to five years, or an indefinite time. But the ■prolongation of life is a very advantageous consideration. The average duration after operation is nearly five years,—thereby granting a period about twice as long as without operation, or an additional two years and a half, as the advantage gained by timely surgical interference. False Tumours.—Certain swellings, or even distinct lumps, of a transient or movable character, are apt to arise occasionally, simu- lating morbid growths or tumours properly so-called, in various parts of the body. Phantom tumours, appearing and disappearing, may arise from partial contraction of the muscles, any such tumour presenting a firm elastic swelling; as in the walls of the abdomen. When the part becomes relaxed, the apparent tumour subsides. Or, it may travel to another portion of the same muscle, by a similar lumpy contraction, as a shifting tumour, and then to other parts, in a succession of such tumours. These muscular lumps occur mostly in females of an hysterical temperament, being, in fact, a local manifestation of the constitutional malady; and their nature will be further declared by the apparent tumour vanishing when kneaded with the fingers; or, if the muscle be relaxed under the influence of chloroform, no further doubt can be entertained. Floating tumours not unfrequently form within the abdomen, a lump appearing, or becoming perceptible on careful palpation with the hand; but the lump is freely movable, and easily slips away from the touch to some other part of the abdomen, where it may again be found. The patient also feels these migratory movements. Any such tumour may be firm and elastic, and of the size and shape of a kidney; being met with also on one side or the other, commonly in the right loin, the lump resembles a movable kidney, and this, in some cases, is its real nature. But the tumour may be only a dough-like lump of faeces impacted in the cells of the colon, or a tympanitic and sacculated distension of the intestine— these conditions occurring mostly in hysterical women ; and sometimes an ovarian tumour or cyst, loosely attached, may have a floating character, with a more or less solid or fluid consistence. The treatment of any false tumour must of course be guided by its supposed nature. As an hysterical affection, the treatment appropriate might thus prove remedial. But often the phantom or floating lump baffles alike the suggestions of pathology and the resources of experience. CHAPTER III. DEGENERATIONS. ' To clearly understand the significance of the term degeneration, it is 1 necessary to bear in mind the nature of healthy nutrition, of which 1 physiological process. Degeneration is only another modification,— I concluding the Pathology of Nutrition. The functions of the various organs and parts of the body, in health, 5 are so adapted or adjusted as to constitute an evenly balanced livingGEKERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 186 organization. And tliis co-operation is continued throughout life, in health. But the activity of all the functions—nutrition, for example- varies considerably during the successive periods of existence. After birth and with an independent existence, during infancy, youth, and adolescence to maturity, the function of nutrition is yet more one of groiotli and development. During mature manhood or womanhood, this function is simply one of maintenance, to repair the muscular waste of the body consequent on the functional exercise of its various members and organs. Lastly, as age approaches, and during decrepitude, the nutritive power of the body proportionately declines. Waste is still repaired; but the textural structure repro- duced is an imperfect representation only, not a copy, of either its original or mature condition; it is a retrogression of textural structure, effected by a degenerative modification of nutrition. Degeneration is, therefore, only the concluding stage of the natural course of healthy nutrition, and as the retrogression of textural structure ex- tends more or less throughout the body, and certainly pervades vital organs, the whole organism retrogrades or reverts to the unorganized matter whence it came. Earth returns to earth, ashes to ashes, dust to dust. To die by degeneration is, therefore, as natural as to live by growth and development, and by the subsequent maintenance only of nutrition. This function is, indeed, the consummation and resultant of all the other organic functions; and when in the order of nature they decline, nutrition declines also into degeneration, which it then Represents. But this ultimate modification of nutrition is sufficient for life as age advances, all other functions declining at the same time, and in due proportion. The senile retrogression of textural structure, thus effected, cannot, in any sense, be designated a diseased condition, nor the result of any moi'bid process. Nor again, when degeneration, natural to advancing and advanced life, occurs prematurely, can it then be regarded as a morbid process of nutrition, issuing in a diseased condition of textural structure. It is only premature old age ; but the individual overtaken by degeneration is the subject of defective nutrition, and in this sense only, retrogression of textural structure by degeneration ranks, and may be classed, with morbid products of Nutrition. Degeneration, whether senile or premature, is a form of atrophy: but it is so by a deterioration of structural quality, not by a mere diminution of quantity. And, be it observed, this structural deteriora- tion is effected by the relapse or falling back from a higher condition to a lower or more elementary grade of textural structure, or even to an altogether structureless condition. It moreover, takes the place of or substitutes the proper elements of the original texture, which disappear. This relapse and siihstitution of textural structure, are the essential characteristics of Degenerative transformation. By substitution, it is distinjruished from the transformation of texture resulting from simply Disintegration. Causes.—Analogy and facts alike concur to render the conclusion liighly probable that degeneration, as being a modification of nutrition, is caused primarily by an appropriate blood-disease, in regard to each kind, of which it is the local and anatomical manifestation. On the other hand—as Paget observes—degeneration, like simple atrophy of quantity may arise from local causes, and apparently the187 DEGENEEATIONS. same sucli causes; namely, diminished supply of arterial blood, as by partial closure of the chief nutrient artery of the part; or by abi-ogation or suspension of function. Futhermore, both degeneration and atrophy occur commonly in old age, but possibly prematurely; both also may occur simultaneously in one and the same texture, under precisely the same conditions; and a cause of atrophy in one case may cause degeneration in another. In relation to disease, both may co-exist, as in inflammation; or the disease, so called, may be only degeneration, as in simple softening of the brain or spinal cord, and the liquefaction of inflammatory exudations during the suppurative process. General characters of Degeneration.—(1.) The new material is of lower chemical composition; i.e., less remote from inorganic matter, than that of which it takes place. Thus, fat is lower than any nitrogenous organic compound, and gelatine lower than albumen, and earthy matter lower than all these. (2.) In structure, the degenerate part is less developed than that of which it takes the place : it is either more like inorganic matter, or less advanced beyond the form of the mere granule, or the simplest cell. Thus, the approach to crystalline form in the earthy matter of bones, and the crystals in certain old vegetable cells, are characteristic of degeneration; and so are the granules of pigment and of many granular degenerations; and the globules of oil that may replace muscular fibres or the contents of gland-cells, and the crystals of cholesterine that are often mingled with the fatty and earthy deposits. (3.) In function, the part has less power in its degenerate than in its natural state. (4.) In its nutrition, it is the seat of less frequent and less active change; and without capacity of growth, or of development. General Treatment.—The pathological indications of treatment, in regard to degeneration, are two :— (1.) To elevate the condition of degeneration to some higher state of textural structure. This indication cannot be fulfilled by any known Hygienic or Therapeutic measures. The practicability of effecting recovery from degeneration would seen to be inconsistent with the vital incapacity of a degenerate part for growth or development. (2.) To counteract any further degeneration in an already degene- rate part, or its extension to texture continuous. This indication may, perhaps, be accomplished by Hygienic and Therapeutic measures, either of which are general or topical. It would appear that whatever in- fluence, of a preventive tendency, any such measures may have, their action is mainly through the medium of the blood, by raising its quality and promoting its circulation. Hygienic measures, of a counteractive character, have reference to the functions concerned in blood-production. Diet, selected with regard to the particular form of degenei'ation, pure air, friction of the skin, shampooing, baths warm or cold,' regular exercise, and other means of promoting excretion, are thus highly important. Medicinal measures, within the present range of therapeutics, are less obviously counteractive of degeneration. Iron, cinchona bark, the mineral acids, and other tonics, may have some beneficial influence, by improving the quality of the blood and invigorating the circulation; while aperients, diaphoretics, and diuretics increase and regulate the excretions of the bowels, skin, and kidneys. Some such resources areGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 188 found in convenient, and apparently inimitable combinations, in the various natural chalybeate and saline mineral waters of Vichy, Wies- baden, and other Spas. In such resorts, persons of a "broken or worn-out constitution "—subjects of degenerative changes of structure —experience a temporary revival of their failing powers, if not a permanent restoration to health. Rarely will any topical applications prove beneficial; degeneration of any kind, and perhaps affecting internal organs, can scarcely be influenced by such treatment. Special Kinds of Degeneration.—Pathologists differ as to the number and specific distinctions of the various kinds of degeneration. The classification of Paget is not that of Dr. J. Hughes Bennett; nor this, again, that of Dr. C. J. B. Williams. As this branch of Pathology stands at present, I would propose the following arrangement:—(1) Fatty degeneration ; (2) Pigmentary ; (3) Fibrous; (4) Amyloid ? Waxy, or Lardaceous; (5) Granular; (6) Calcareous, osseous, or mineral degeneration. These various forms of degeneration are of much, pathological interest in Surgery, as well as in Medicine; and it is a subject upon which, respecting Fatty degeneration in particular, I have made a series of microscopic observations, both in animals and the hnman species. The Student, to whom it may be necessary that he should enter further into these modes of degenerative transformation, will find the following summary of service, which is revised from my work on " Principles," now out of pi'int. He will thus be enabled to supplement his pathological knowledge as relating to the normal tissues, as well as pertaining to the products of Inflammation, and Tumours or Morbid Growths ; the whole of this pathological histology completing the Diseases of Nutrition. The special forms of degeneration ai'e little amenable to any treatment beyond the general indications already noticed. (1.) Fatty degeneration presents certain general, yet distinctive characters—structural, physical, and, it may be, chemical. Examina- tion with the microscope shows minute granules in the very substance of some structural element; be it a cell—in its contents, or in the place of its nucleus ; if a primitive fibre—in its substance ; if a simple membrane—in its substance : thus, in all cases substituting, at least in part, the original structural element, which has undergone this degenera- tive metamorphosis. These granules are particles of fat or oil; for being highly refractive, they are bright and glistening; they are soluble in ether ; and they tend to coalesce into distinct drops of oil. Proportionately as the oil-granules usurp the place of an elemental structure, its proper substance disappears. For example, a cell having become full of oil-particles,—a granule-cell, its walls disappear, leaving only a granule-mass ; and these granules are apt to coalesce into di'ops of oil. The interstitial tissue of the texture usually undergoes fatty de- generation simultaneously. And the disposition of these oil-granules is peculiar and significant. They are arranged, as Virchow observed in the liver, in the course of the capillary blood-vessels, which become thickly studded with particles of oil, as if deposited from the blood. The general physical characters of a texture whose structural189 DEGENERATIONS. elements have undergone fatty degeneration are tliese :—The texture is softened, or if soft in its healthy condition, it has now assumed a doughy consistence, which retains any impression or mould given by the fingers, as if it were soft putty; but this fatty texture is friable, greasy, burns readily and with a bright flame, and yields, by analysis, an unusual quantity of fatty matter. It has also acquired a dirty- brown colour, here and there mottled with a dead-leaf or wash-leather colour; these patches corresponding to the most advanced stage of fatty degeneration. Muscular texture in the state of fatty degeneration well illustrates these physical characters; while the co-existing changes of minute structure are also well defined, and they are characteristic of this degeneration. I select the muscular texture of the heart, for its fibres being striated, they resemble and represent those of voluntary muscle. The fatty degeneration of this organ is also a most important question in the practice of Medicine and Surgery; and, I may add, in relation to Medico-legal Inquiry respecting the (natural) causes of sudden death. The history of our present exact knowledge respecting fatty de- generation of the heart proves beyond a doubt that this condition of its muscular texture was for a long time confounded with the mere interstitial deposit of fat in the muscular substance of this organ. For the physical appearances of both these conditions are similar. They are those which I have just described, and they contrast with the healthy characters of muscular texture. Portions of the heart, commonly of the left ventricle, have acquired a mottled yellowish appearance, chiefly visible on the interior or the external surface of the ventricle, immediately underneath the endocar- dium or pericardium. When viewed more closely, these spots present wavy transverse lines. Each spot is not abruptly defined, but tinted off into the adjoining healthy texture. If degeneration be incipient, these spots are yellowish brown ; if advanced, they have assumed a dead-leaf • colour. The muscular texture is no longer fibrous, but friable; : and if the degenerative transformation be extensive, involving a con- I siderable portion of the whole substance, the heart will have acquired ! a doughy softness, which retains any impression given by the fingers. ' The organ is palpably greasy, and its texture burns readily, and with a ' bright flame. Chemical analysis has shown that, in connection with ithis degeneration of texture, the quantity of fatty matter, and the ] proportion of olein to margarin, is much increased.* Both ventricles are more subject to this degeneration than the 1 auricles; but, although rarely, the muscular substance of the whole 1 heart may undergo the same change. The foregoing physical appearances had long since been observed by ILaennec, and previously by Dr. A. Duncan, in 1816, and would even 5 seem to have been known to Lancisi and Morgagni; but many such (observations referred to fat, merely accumulated, on the surface of the 1 heart, and deposited interstitially amongst its fibres. It was reserved ffor the microscopic researches of Rokitansky, Drs. C. J. B. Williams sand Peacock, and more especially for those of Sir James Paget, Drs. (Ormerod and Quain, to fully demonstrate the changes of structure * See " A Chemical Investigation of the Pathology of Fatty Degeneration," by Mir. J. Peel. Appendix to "Address in Medicine," by Dr. E. L. Ormerod. "Brit. iMed. Journ." 186i.GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 190 wliicli the muscular fibres themselves undergo in fatty degeneration. By comparing the texfcural elements of muscle in a healthy state, these alterations of structure will be more clearly appreciated. The annexed figures represent the appearances of healthy muscular fibres taken from the hearts of a bullock and sheep, which I examined. Half a dozen fibres are presented in Fig. 68. The transverse striae are well shown, and also the fibrillas projecting from the end of each fibre. Similar appearances are seen in the fibres from the sheep's heart. (Fig. G4.) Pig. 63. Fig. 64. iilpll In fatty degeneration of the muscular fibres, a observed m the human subject, the earliest stage exhibits characteristic alterations. The fibriUce evince a disposition to disintegrate, as shown by their readily splitting longitudinally and tranversely. (Fig. 65, a and b. Wedl.) The transverse strise become less distinct, and oil-particles visible—within the sarco- lemma of the fibres, and externally— besetting the fibres, a condition repre- sented by the fibre to the right of h (Fig. 65) ; but this not an essential condition The former may be termed particles, to distinguish them latter, between the fibres, or _— ... particles. The intra oil-particles appear, firstly (Pigs. 66 and 67) as minate erannles, arranged transversely, as it were, across the dn-ection of the Ihres; thus coLsponding ^^^I^Z^TTIL^^^^ h4hf t« W^^^^^^ highly reiLtive, and by |L1lbl|tyiLthe.;Snhs^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 68, cr simnltaneonsy .n other a'ig^^^^^^ entirely i'ffPP^-''''^^^;^^^^^^ confusedly aggregated to- t^,'^^^SE^^^ '^ol..Jr aspect, in this respect somewhat intra oil- from the inter oil-191 DEGENERATIONS. resembling tlie tealtliy appearance of nnstriatecl organic muscular fibre. The bright glistening appearance of the aggregated oil-particles, and their solubility in ether, are still characteristic marlcs of dis- tinction. Ultimately, the oil-particles have coalesced into distinct drops Fig. 66.* Fig. 67.* Fig. 68.f of oil (Figs. 69 and 70), some of which, adhere to the interior of the * Patty degeneration of muscular fibres of heart in cattle, exhibited by the Smithfield Club as prize specimens of breeding and feeding, 1857.—The Author. t Another prize specimen; the best sheep, of any long-woolled breed one year old, showing more advanced fatty degeneration of muscular fibres of the heart.—The Author. X The best Devon ox, above three years old, showing most advanced fatty dege- neration of muscular fibres of the heart.—The Author. § Muscular fibres of human heart, in most advanced fatty degeneration. (Wedl.)192 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND STJRGETIY. sarcolemma, which still remains unbroken and enclosing them. The large oval nuclei, which are perhaps peculiar to the muscular fibres of the heart, have become obscure, or altogether disappeared. But no fat- particles or drops are commonly found between the fibres, and the absence of any interstitial fat is conspicuous, unless the sarcolemma has par- tially disappeared in the course of degeneration, or has been ruptured in displaying the fibres with needles. In contrast with this degeneration, I have here represented the appearance produced by disintegration of the sarcous elements in the muscular fibres of the heart, (Fig. 71) ; show- ing the entire absence of transverse striae, un- accompanied by the substitution of oil-particles. This transformationresultedfrommal-nutrition, induced by dense thickening of the cardiac re- flexion of the pericardium consequent on pericarditis, as represented in Fig 19, page 76. Sudden death occurred while turning in bed. (Royal Free Hospital). Fatty degeneration is regarded as a chemical transformation. It is alleged that this conclusion might be inferred from the fact, that in fatty degeneration of striated muscular fibre the oil-particles are primarily arranged in the same manner as the proper structural constituents, or sarcous elements of the fibrils, whose place they occupy. It is urged as a more direct proof, by Dr. Quain,* sup- ported by Dr. C. J. B. Williams,t Paget,J Bennett,§ and by other distinguished pathologists, that fatty matters are produced during the spontaneous decomposition of nitrogenous substances, as the for- mation of adipocire in muscular tissue ; instances of which are given by Virchow. || Then again, muscular tissue is converted into adipocire when macerated in water for some time ; and this artificial production of fatty matter in muscular tissue was originally adduced by Dr. Quain, and since by the above-named pathologists and others, in confirmation of the chemical theory of fatty degeneration, by which muscle and other textures are transformed into fatty matter within the living body. But the carefully conducted experiments of Mr. Peel and Dr. Ormerod lead to the conclusion that, in the production of adipocire from muscle, the fatty matter is " not a newly formed substance, but a new arrangement of the old materials, a saponification of the fat already existing." Hence, that the chemical theory of fatty degeneration is fallacious, and that the increased production of fatty matter is a vital change,—that degeneration is a physiological or pathological process. Fatty degeneration is apt to arise in connection with a general increase of fat in the body; a fact adverted to by Dr. T. K. Chambers,^ as a casual coincidence in the human subject; and, I have shown this * " Med. Chir. Trans.," vol. xxxiii. p. 140, etc. t " Principles of Medicine," 1856, p. 449 et seq. X " Surgical Pathology," 1833, vol. i. § " Principles and Practice of Medicine." ; || " ArcMv," B. i. p. 167. II " On Corpulence," 1850, pp. 120, 121.193 DEGENERATIONS. Fig. 72. f i, connection in over-fed prize cattle,* and thence the fallacy of the [, principle of the English system of fattening cattle. The blood-vessels are prone to fatty degeneration, which is then known by the name of atheroma. The larger arteries are not unfrequently beset with flattened and ! slightly elevated patches on their inner surface, but underneath the thin lining membrane. This atheromatous matter is yellowish, opaque, ■ of cheesy consistence, yet friable ; and it consists of oil-particles with 1 crystals of cholesterine (Fig. 72. G-ulliver), which partially occupy the place of the middle muscular coat. Eventually, a further deposit ensues, • consisting of mineral salts—probably phosphate and carbonate of lime, by which the atheromatous matter be- ■ comes hard and brittle, and the patches assume the character of calcareous or bony plates, but with a very imperfect imitation only of the structure of bone. The inner lining membrane may then give way, and the degenerate portion of artery having lost its elasticity, is disposed to yield to the pulsating throbs of the arterial wave-current, and expand into an. aneurism. This series of degenerate transformations is especially apt to occur in some portion of the arch of the aorta; and in one remark- able case of aneurism of the transverse aorta, which I examined for my colleague, Dr. Cockle,J a no less remarkable condition co-existed: —the whole thoracic aorta was converted into a continued series of bony plates, forming a bony tube, which condition terminated abruptly at the aortic aperture in the diaphragm. The histological characters of fatty and calcareous degeneration of the larger arteries were discovered by Mr. Gul- liver ; § but the smaller blood-vessels, arteries, veins, and capUlaries are also liable to a certain transformationrespect- ing which two opposite views are held. The smaller blood-vessels (Fig. 73) may become studded with fatty gra- nnies, at first thinly and irregularly scattered, subsequently more thick set; or the oil-particles may aggregate into patches, sometimes oval or round, gene- rally of an irregular shape; and these aggregated granules are apt to coalesce into drops of oil. • " Evil Results of Overfeeding Cattle." 1857. t Fatty particles, oil-drops, and granule-cells, with crystals of cholesterine; from broken-down atheroma of an artery. (Bennett.) X Case read before Med. Soc. Lond., 1862. § " Med. Chir. Trans.," vol. xxvi. p. 86. II Fatty degeneration of blood-vessels, illustrated by the cerebral vessels of an aged individual who died of apoplexy .— a, ultimate capil.'ary ; h, larger vessel; c, ^ma,ll artery, with fatty particles scattered over its surface. (Wedl.) 0 Fig. 73.GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 194 Now, the question is—Are these granules outside the vessels, or in the substance of their walls ? Patches of granules were described and figured by Pr. J. H. Bennett* in 1842, and attributed to fatty degene- ration of exudation-matter, thrown out from the vessel. In 1849, Mr. Paget t also described the same appearances, but attributed them to fatty degeneration of the vessels themselves. These latter observations referred to the smallest cerebral vessels, in connection with apoplexy, and softening of the brain, respectively. He describes the fatty granules as being situated " beneath the outer surface" of the vessels. That in small arteries of of an inch in diameter, the granules are formed in the more or less developed muscular or transversely fibrous coat; in veins, the corresponding layer, immediately within their external fibro-cellular nucleated coat; in vessels, whether arteries or veins, whose walls consist of only a simple pellucid membrane, bearing nuclei, the substance of this membrane is the first seat of the fat deposit. As this degenera- tion proceeds, the portion of vessel thus affected undergoes changes of structure, the nuclei and fibres disappearing, until at length blood- vessels of of an inch in diameter appear like tubes of homogeneous pellucid membrane, studded with oil-particles, in its substance. By this change, the proper structure of the vessels wastes, and eventually disappears, giving place to the fatty granules. Alterations of shape, also, are not uncommon. Usually, the outer layer of the wall is lifted up by one or more clusters of oil-particles, and the outline of the vessel becomes tuberous. Sometimes aneurismal dilatations form. This fatty degeneration of the smaller blood-vessels occurs most frequently in arteries of xmt of an inch in diameter; veins of the same size, or smaller, are next in order liable; and capillaries, least so. A similar degeneration of the blood-vessels of the lungs has been observed by Dittrich, and in branches of the pulmonary artery, accom- panied with tuberculous disease of the lung, by Dr. R. Hall. J The placental blood-vessels often exhibit a similar transformation; and those of the eye, in connection with arcus senilis. Fatty degeneration of the cerebro-spinal substance, and of nerve- fibres, is questionable. The brain or spinal cord may liquefy or soften, partially, or throughout its whole substance, with breaking up of the nerve-fibres, and the production of abundant granule-cells or masses, and free-floating granules ; but these changes are collectively denomi- nated by Paget " liquefactive degeneration:" and this arises from obstructed circulation through the substance of the organ, or from ab- rogation of its function. Atrophy of nerve-fibres is thus described by Waller:—At first transverse lines appear in the intra-tubular substance, indicating its loss of continuity; then it is apparently divided into round or oblong coagulated masses, as if its two component materials were mingled; they are converted into black gi-anules—resisting the action of acids and alkalies; and finally, these granules are slowly and imperfectly eliminated. Besides fatty degeneration of textures, the healthy integrity of which is most essential to life, this transformation may occur in per- haps any other texture. In the air-vesicles of the lungs, and in the * " Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal," vols. Iviii. and lix. t " Medical Gazette," vol. xiv. X " ^^d. Chir. Rev.," October, 1855.DEGENERATIONS. 195 bronchi (Bennett) ; * in tlie cells of the liver—hepatic cells—consti- tuting fattj degeneration of that organ; in the shut sacs of vascular glands, as those of the spleen (Bennett) ; in the pancreas (0. J. B. Williams) ; f in the kidneys, as hirst shown bj Bowman ; and generally in the ducts of all glands which are lined with epithelium. The stomach, intestine, and urinary bladder, are probably not exempt; their fatty degeneration being a further illustration of this process, chiefly as regards organic muscular hbres. By a similar transformation of the uterine substance after parturition, this organ regains its former dimensions, or nearly so. The placenta often passes into fatty degene- ration—so named by Dr. Barnes, and originally figured by Dr. J. H. Bennett, in 1844,J who regards the fatty molecules and granule-cells, not as produced hj a transformation of the placental tissue, but of exudation-matter, or by that of extravasated blood. " The yellowish or fawn-coloured deposits may be infiltrated throughout the tissue of the placenta over a greater or less space, or they may occur in isolated spots forming nodules. They are generally somewhat indurated, and give rise to the idea that they are coagulated fibrin. I (Dr. Bennett) have frequently examined them, and traced all the changes interme- diate between a coagulated exudation, or extravasation of blood, and the ultimate conversion of the foreign matter into a mass of molecules filling up the intervascular spaces. Similar observations have been more recently made by Drs. Hanfield Jones § and Cowan. || In many cases the fatty material may be seen forming a layer separate from the vessel, and inside the limitary membrane of the villus."^ Bones are liable to fatty degeneration of their texture ; a condition corresponding to the "moUities ossium" of most English authors. The characteristic properties of the osseous texture in this state are— its softness and brittleness, pale yellow colour, oily greasiness, and lightness; the texture being that of a spongy bone deprived of its earth, and soaked in soft fat, while the original size and shape of the bone remain unaltered. Hence the name—Eccentric Atrophy of Bone —proposed by Mr. Curling, as suggesting one of the most striking characters of this transformation. Oil, not fat-cells, fills the cancelli, and is even found in the lacunge and canaliculi (Yirchow). Combined .with this oil, Bennett describes numerous cells, each of which varies in. size from T2V0 to of an inch in diameter, and contains a round nucleus, also varying much in size, and occasionally showing various stages of division and of endogenous development. The production of this cell—as in most of the so-called fatty degenerations of tex- ture, according to the same observer—is attributed to an exudation from the blood-vessels, mingled with more or less of the coloured corpuscles, in which new cells are developed, combined with fatty transformations of the albuminous and fibrinous materials ; thus dif- fering from the structural condition of bone, known as " rachitis," which, although also accompanied with softening, is regarded as arrested development of bone, with increased growth of cartilaere- cells (Kolliker). * 0/). cit, p. 234. t " Principles of Medicine," p. 448. X " Treatise on Inflammation," plate, Fig. 10. § "British and Foreign Med. Chir. Rev.," vol. ii. p. 354. II "Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal," April, IS.H. IT " Principles and Practice of Mediciue," 1859, p. 238.GENEEAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 196 Cartilage is prone to true fatty degeneration ; oil-particles, and by coalesceqce, oil-drops, substituting the contents of tlie cartilage-cells; during which transformation the nucleus vanishes. Oil-particles may likewise beset the intercellular hyaline basis ; which, together with the cell-contents, acquire a marked opacity. "Arcus senilis " consists of oil-particles in the substance of the cornea, near the iris, forming a marginal ring round it. This fatty degeneration was discovered and originally described by Mr. E. Canton.* Its significance extends far beyond the organ of vision, whose function remains unimpaired ; for, unless consequent on in- flammation of the eyeball, arcus senilis is the pathologico-anatomical indication of many other and most important co-existing fatty de- generations,—of the ophthalmic artery, of the muscles attached to the eyeball, of the heart; and, in fact, a degenerative tendency throughout the body. Thus, a well-marked arcus, in both eyes, is the surest external and visible sigu, during life, of internal and unseen fatty and other degenerate conditions of organs, discovered after dea,th. Arcus senilis was present in about ^ of the cases in which Dr. C. J. B. Williams had reason to infer the existence of fatty de- generation of the heart. And although commonly seen, as the term implies, only in advanced life, the arcus in earlier years is, apart from local disease of the eyeball, a sure indication of premature old age. The lens is sometimes transformed into fat (Dalrymple, Lebert), con- stituting soft cataract. New Products—i.e., false tissues, deposits or exudations, and growths—are by no means exempt. A pleuritic false membrane, for example, may be converted into fatty matter. Of deposits, pus-cells are especially prone to fatty transformation of their contents, forming granule-cells; tubercle-corpuscles disintegrate, in the softening of tubercle. Among growths, cancer is apt to become studded through- out its substance with oil-particles, free, and in the cells, which are then no longer distinguishable as "cancer-cells." Eventually the cell-walls disappear, and the whole or portion of the growth which has thus degenerated, becomes a confused mass of fatty matter, with the remnants of cells. It is worthy of note, that the fatty matter may appear in yellow masses, not unlike softened or yellow tubercle, and. that this resemblance explains some instances of the so-called co-exist- ing admixture of tubercle with cancer. (2.) Pigmentary is akin to fatty degeneration ; the material depo- sited in either case being essentially carbonaceous; in the one, oil- particles or drops ; in the other, pigment-particles or granule-masses of pigment: but the origin of this pigment-matter is different in different cases; and its pathological significance is therefore equally diverse. Pigment-matter may represent the colouring matter of the blood, or of the bile ; and these being distinct sources, refer to morbid con- ditions of origin, as distinct; but the particular colour of the pig- ment deposit—commonly black, sometimes red, brown, green, or yellow—does not enable us to determine with precision the question of origin. . . Carbonaceous matter introduced into the body, and deposited m * "Observations on Arcus Senilis," Lancet, 1850-51.DEGENERATIONS. 197 the textures, is obviously not pigmentary degeneration. Sucli is tte black matter found in the lungs and bronchial glands of colliers and others who habitually inhale smoke. The colour of this matter is not discharged by hydrochloric acid or by chlorine ; a point of distinction between it and the pigment of morbid origin, which disappears under the influence of these chemical agents. Pigmentary degeneration occurs frequently in the mucous mem- brane of the stomach and intestines of old persons, and is recognized by slate-coloured discoloration of this texture. So also in cases of dysentery. Of new tissues, intestinal cicatrices not unfrequently present the same appearance. Deposits of ttibercle eventually become surrounded with black pigment-matter. New growths may be infil- trated with this matter, as commonly occurs in encephaloid cancer; or pigment may be deposited by itself, and accumulate in the form of a distinct tumour, as melanosis. (3.) Fibrous degeneration would appear to be an evolution of one structural constituent of the transformed texture—the fibrous element —at the expense of another constituent, which itself has undergone degeneration and disappeared; leaving its surviving companion more conspicuous, and the representative of the originally compound texture transformed as if entirely by degeneration. Muscles are the chief seat of this fibrous transformation, and especially the voluntary muscular texture. In the course of that general and natural wasting of the body which denotes old age, the voluntary muscles especially become paler and more fibrous, as seen after death; though softer, because less contractile, during life. This senile atrophy is characterized by wasting of the muscular fibres, while the interstitial fibro-cellular tissue thus becomes more apparent, forming a condensed sinewy texture, instead of muscle. As felt during life, the tendons seem to have encroached upon and substi- tuted the muscles. By this shrinking, and by that consequent on the disappearance of subcutaneous fat, the rounded outline of youth is lost in the shrunk shanks of the lean and slippered pantaloon. Apart from this textural transformation incident to age, it is ques- tionable whether fibrous degeneration occurs otherwise than by the deposit of interstitial exudation-matter. The muscular texture is still a chosen seat. Of voluntary muscles, those of the limbs may acquire a fibrous condition, as the result of chronic fascial rheumatism; the intercostal muscles and diaphragm also, in chronic pleurisy ; while fibrous degeneration of organic muscular texture is exemplified by that of the heart after endocarditis or pericarditis. Membranous textures likewise are peculiarly liable to this change, apparently by interstitial deposit. Hence, probably, the opaque white thickenings of serous membranes which are seen as patches in the cardiac reflexion of the pericardium, in the valves of the heart, in the pleura, in the peritoneum, especially over the liver, and in the arachnoid. Other accredited examples of fibrous degeneration are certain indurations produced by interstitial fibrinous effusions, as in the interstitial cel- lular tissue of parenchymatous organs—the liver, kidneys, spleen, or lungs—constituting cirrhosis ; or in the submucous or subcutaneous cellular texture; the latter, so-called degeneration, being that in- duration of this tissue which is occasionally witnessed in a newly-born infant.GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 198 Fibrous degeneration, or induration of yjarenchymatous organs, takes place at the expense of tlieir proper structure, which atrophies and partially disappears. (4.) Amyloid, waxy or lardaceous degeneration, is probably allied to, if not a variety of, the fibrous degeneration. The texture affected acquires considerable firmness and density, is somewhat transparent, and of a yellow or yellowish-brown colour, which in many cases con- trasts with the colour of the original texture. The cut surface is not unlike that of firm bacon. Thus, the liver, the kidney, or the spleen, having acquired these characters, is then said to be in a state of waxy degeneration. The essential structure of the tissue or organ atro- phies ;—the secreting cells of the liver or kidney, and its malpighian bodies, wither; at the same time these cells present a remarkably pale and transparent appearance, as they become insignificant. The cor- puscles of the spleen, both in its parenchyma and in its malpighian bodies, shrivel, and have also a similar appearance. Amyloid degeneration is apparently due to interstitial exudation- matter. This material is unorganized; it is itself tran.slucent, but presents a dull surface, at first of a greyish tint, afterwards perfectly colourless; it belongs to the albuminoid group of organic chemical compounds, but its precise composition and chemical relations are unknown. If deposited in a free state, amyloid matter appears in the form of " coi-pora amylacea," bodies which are concentrically laminated, like starch-granules; as found sometimes in the nerve-centres. Pure amyloid matter assumes a blue colour by the action of iodine ; and this fact, first observed by Virchow,* led him to conclude that the waxy material in question was similar to starch, and therefore hydro-car- bonaceous. He accordingly named it " animal amyloid." Meckel regards the amyloid matter as fatty, and especially cholesterine; he therefore retains the name, lardaceous or cholesterine disease: but Friedreich and Kekule f have ascertained that the composition of the purest amyloid matter obtained from the spleen closely resembles that of the albuminous principles; and this conclusion is confirmed by the independent analysis of Schmidt. J Yet the chemical reaction of amy- loid being unlike that of albuminous matter, the material itself is so far peculiar. Ordinary albuminous matter is rendered yellow by iodine; and this reaction explains the different shades of colour produced, when a texture is submitted to the influence of iodine,—as a test for amyloid degenera- tion. The blue and yellow colours present the resultant colour—green; its shade, however, varying with the different proportions of the nor- mal albuminous and amyloid matters. Thus, there are cases, observes Virchow, Avhere throughout the whole extent of the digestive tract, from mouth to anus, the small arteries of the mucous membrane are affected with amyloid degeneration. The intestines are pale grey, translucent, and may have a slightly waxy appearance. Apart from microscopic examination, the nature of this change might not be dis- cerned. But the iodine test supplies a ready method of detection. Brush a little iodine upon such mucous membrane, and a number of densely aggregated yellowish or brownish-red spots are soon seen to * "Archiv f. Path Anat.," Bd. vi. s. 13.5, 268, and 416. t Iljid., Bd. xvi. s. 50. X " Annal. d. Chemie und Pharmacie," Bd. ex. s. 250.199 DEGENERATIONS. start up, leaving the intervening mucous membrane merely yellow. These points are the amyloid degenerate villi. Waxy and fatty degenerations are frequently combined, as in the liver and kidney respectively; but a series of analyses, chiefly by Dr. Drummond, and collected by Gairdner,* has elicited this important o-eneral result:—that the human liver in the state of waxy degenera- tion contains considerably less fat and water, and a greater amount of solid constituents, than in the healthy state. (5.) Grranular degeneration is manifested by an albuminous matter —granular, i.e., structureless, and, it is said, deposited interstitially; but superseding the proper structural elements of the texture, which atrophy and disappear. Thence the original texture becomes con- verted into a granular mass. With this degenerative transformation, the texture loses its cohesion, and also acquires an opaque yellow- ish colour. It is apparently identical with what Bennett denominates "molecular albumen," and a variety of "albuminous degeneration." I am inclined to regard tliis degeneration as being, more correctly speaking, a disintegration of the structural elements of the original texture, without the deposition, of any new granular or molecular albuminous matter. It chiefly affects the fibrous textures or fibrous new formations; either of which by their disintegration would yield this kind of matter, and present the physical characters of yellowish opacity and want of cohesion already noticed. (6.) Calcareous degeneration—the lowest form of all—approximates organized textures to unorganized concretions. The new matter con- sists of phosphate of lime and magnesia, and carbonate of lime. This matter also is said to be deposited interstitially in the original texture, the structural elements of which, having atrophied, are gradually superseded; thus completing that substitution of texture which con- stitutes a degenerative transformation. Rokitansky regards calcareous degeneration as a chemical precipitation of the apparently new mineral matters from their natural combinations with the animal matters of the texture. This view is analogous to what I have denominated the disintegration of organized matter; and still more so to degeneration by absorption of one structural constituent of a compound texture, and thence the evolution of another such constitnent. Calcareous degeneration takes place in tissues of simple organiza- tion and of low vitality in respect of blood-supply and nutrition. For example, in fibrous textures, in cartilage and fibro-cartilage, and in bone; the mineral transformations of these textures constituting that natural petrifaction whereby, as age advances, the body is slowly yet surely reduced to its primitive earth. Bat this degeneration is not unfrequently secondary to some other; commonly consequent on the fatty metamorphosis, and of the arteries, principally. Atheroma in the coats of these vessels, or in the valves of the heart, is followed by calcareous degeneration, so that both become associated in the same portion of texture; as was noticed in connection with fatty degenera- tion. The calcification of nerve-texture is seldom met with in the human species. Of deposits, tubercle is most liable to calcify, as in the pulmonary texture, and the tuberculous matter deposited in the bronchial and lymphatic glands. This change would seem to arise * " Monthly Journal of Medical Science," May, 1854.GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 200 from absorption of the animal or albuminous matter of the deposit, and precipitation of the associated mineral constituents. The same change may occur in exudations on serous membranes, forming osseous-like or calcareous plates, as on and in the pericardium, and in parenchymatous organs, forming calcareous concretions. Morbid growths of all kinds are liable, and some are prone, to calcification; fatty tumour, sometimes fibrous, or cystic tumour; cartilaginous tumour, very commonly; cancer, not unfrequently. And in all cases, this degeneration arrests the further progress of growth, and is a natural mode of cure. Regarding Degeneration, of whatever kind, as a process resulting in the transformation of the structural elements of textures and organs, this process may take place in apparently three diJferent ways, repre- senting as many modes of degenerative transformation. This change of textural structure may issue from (1) the deposi- tion of new matter, which directly substitutes the proper structural elements of the texture undergoing degeneration, they having dis- appeared; or (2) degeneration may proceed from cliemical trans- formation of the proper structural elements, or again, from similar transformation of exudation-matter, interstitially deposited. These modes of degeneration are illustrated by fatty degeneration. Pig- mentary degeneration, properly so called, I have restricted to the de- position of pigment-matter from the blood or from the bile. Fibrous degeneration, in its typical form, I have regarded as (3) the evolu- tion of fibrous tissue, by the atrophy and disappearance of another and moi-e essential structural constituent of a compound texture ; as in muscle, the muscular fibres disappearing, this change evolves and exhibits their interstitial connective tissue, which becoming con- densed, readily assumes the character of fibrous tissue. The actual conversion of muscle into fibrous tissue is the received view of fibrous degeneration. Obviously, however, this change cannot be effected by conversion of the muscular fibres,—for they have partially or entirely disappeared ; but it may occur from the more or less complete sub- stitution of interstitial exudation-matter, which assumes the fibrous character. This is the acknowledged mode of amyloid degeneration, and the new matter interstitially deposited seems to be chemically allied to that of fibrous degeneration in having an albuminous nature, while structurally it differs in being granular or structureless. Granular degeneration is also said to take place by the disposition of new matter interstitially ; as another form of albuminous material, which gradually usurps the place and substitutes the structural elements of the original texture, and thus completes this degenerative metamorphosis. I have regarded it as a process of Disintegration of the structural elements, without the deposition of any new matter; and that the granular matter is formed chiefly by the breaking down of textures originally fibrous, or by that of fibrous new formations. Calcareous degeneration is an analogous process; being either a chemical precipitation of saline matters from their associated albuminous matters, or possibly the de- position of new calcareous matter, interstitially, with absorption and disappearance of the albuminous matter. These Transformations—degenerative and disintegrative—of tex- tures, original and adventitious, are represented in the following table :—ULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 201 EETEOGRESSION OF THE STRUCTUEAL ELEMENTS OF TEXTURES. (1.) Bj the deposition of new matter— a. Directly substituting the original structural elements, which have themselves disappeared. Fatty and Pigmentary degenerations, respectively. h. Interstitially deposited, and accompanied with the absorp- tion and disappearance of these elements. Fibrous, including amyloid or waxy degeneration. Granular degeneration. Calcareous degeneration. (2.) By chemical transformation— a. Of the original structural elements. Fatty degeneration of muscle. (Dr. R. Quain.) 1. Of interstitial exudation-matter. Fatty degeneration, in many cases. (Dr. J. H. Bennett.) (3.) By atrophy of one structural constituent of a compound texture, and the evolution thiereby of another constituent. (The author.) Fibrous degeneration of muscle. (The author.) (4) By disintegration— (The author.) a. Of the original structural elements. Granular degeneration, so named, of fibrous textures. h. Of interstitial exudation-matter. Granular degeneration, so named, of fibrous new for- mations. By chemical precipitation, analogue of disintegration. Calcareous degeneration, so named. (Rokitansky.) Retrogression of textural structure, by Degeneration—morbid, only when it occurs prematurely—represents, as I have said, the relapse or falling back from a higher condition, to a lower or more elementary grade of textural structure ; and which substitutes the proper con- stituents of the original texture. This relapse and substitution are the essential characteristics of Degeneration. CHAPTER IV. ULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. Death of any part of the body, as contrasted with its nntx"ition, is ( essentially a disintegration of the constituent elements of structure and 1 resolution into molecular matter; the destruction of the organization ' which resulted from development; the falling to pieces of that which t the formative power had constructed. Disintegration, like Degenera- t tion, therefore denotes both a process and its result in the destruction I of structure.202 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Disintegration is related to Degeneration: the latter presupposes tbe former, but conversely, the former does not necessarily presuppose the latter; for Disintegration may occur independently, without any preceding Degeneration of texture. Ulceration, and Mortification including Gangrene, are essentially processes of Disintegration and textural death. But the pathology of these processes, and their difference in degree only, should be clearly understood. Uloekation is a disintegrative process, essentially; generally also oi inflammatory origin. The molecular matter resulting from ulcera- tion may disappear in either of two ways :— Firstly.—By discharge, in the liquid form; thus leaving a chasm or ulcer. Secondly.—By absorption through the lymphatics and veins jointly, especially the former vessels; thus leaving a chasm or ulcer. Possibly, both modes of removing the disintegrated textures co- operate in ulceration. Observe a case of common ulceration. The shin having come into collision with some blunt obstacle, receives a tolerably severe bruise. What probably happens ? The bruised portion of integument becomes inflamed; in the course of a few days a small piece separates and comes away, leaving a chasm, from which more or less discharge of some kind issues; in fact, the skin, with perhaps the subjacent cellular tissue, has slowly undergone " solution of continuity," and an ulcer is formed. (Fig. 74.) Its formation and extension are termed ulceration. The balance of evidence is, I think, decidedly in favour of the removal of the disintegrated matter by discharge. This matter can, indeed, be seen to come away occasionally; the molecular matter accu- mulating in the form of minute sloughs, whenever disintegration pro- ceeds too rapidly for its discharge in the liquid form; and again disappearing as molecular matter, when disintegration and discharge proceed evenly. Hunter originated the doctrine of "ulcerative absorption"—a doc- trine which eventually took firmer root than perhaps any other of Hunter's views. "When," says he, "it becomes necessary that some whole living part should be removed, it is evident that nature, in order to effect this, must not only confer a new activity on the absorbents, but must throw the part to be absorbed into such a state as to yield to this operation;" and among the circumstances which lead to absorp- tion. Hunter enumerates '■'■death of the part." Now, the possibility of dead tissue being removed by ulcerative absorption is demonstrated by the appearances which necrosed bone presents when a portion has been exposed, and the remaining portion for a time sui-rounded by living textures. For example, the shaft of the femur having become necrosed, the sequestrum loosens and even- tually separates, or is easily taken away with the forceps. If, during the process of separation, part of the sequestrum has been exposed, that portion is seen to be smooth and polished, while the remaining poi-tion which has been enclosed in new bone is seen to be xoorm-eaien, obviously, under these circumstances, from absorption. So also dead bone, artificially inserted into living bone, is in time partially absorbed. New blood-vessels are developed around a sequestrum, apparently to meet the increased demands on absorption. Mr. Aston Key calledULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 203 attention to this fact when first he advocated the doctrine of ulceration by absorption through the veins, rather than by the lymphatics, as Hunter had alleged. "When," says Mr. Key,* "the sequestrum is removed from its case of new bone, and the interior of the latter is exposed to view, a number of flocculent bodies are seen attached to a membrane that supplies the newly formed bone. When injected, these are shown to be highly vascular, and are seen to fill the indentations in the dead bone. If the latter be carefully taken out of its case of new bone, these vascular elongations will be found to have a slight attachment to those parts of the dead bone in which they are embedded." The absorbent function of this new vascular apparatus is in accord- ance with other facts of similar import. Thus, Sir A. Cooper f pos- sessed an injected preparation of an ulcer of the leg, in which the veins were developed in a remarkable manner. They were numerous and large, and surrounded the margin of the ulcer. In another preparation of ulcer of the leg the lymphatics were injected, but th.ey appeared to be neither increased in size nor in number. These observations prove the possibility, and even the probability, of ulceration by absorption ; yet this view of ulceration is overruled by two series of facts. Before stating them, I may mention a kind of compromise of the question at issue, and which I allude to chiefly on account of the general accuracy of observation which its distinguished author, Pro- fessor Goodsir, has evinced. Groodsir maintains, or did maintain,J that ulceration is a process independent of the vessels, both veins and lymphatics, they being " passive agents, mere ducts for conveying away the products of action. " A rapidly extending ulcerated surface appears, as if the textures were scooped out by a sharp instrument. The textures are separated from the external medium by a thin film. This film is cellular in its constitution, and so far it is analogous to the epidermis or epithelium." It is alleged that this cellular layer possesses the peculiar (vital) power of disintegrating the subjacent texture, and that by virtue thereof, so far from ulceration denoting a diminution of the formative power of the part, progressive ulceration represents its undue activity. " The apparent diminution is a consequence of the extremely limited duration of existence of the cells of the absorbent layer, which die as rapidly as they are formed, disappearing after dissolution partly as a discharge from the surface, but principally through the natural chan- nels by which the debris of parts which have already performed their allotted functions are taken up into the organism. " In this view of ulceration there is substituted, for the hypothetical active or aggressive power of absorption ascribed to the veins and lymphatics, a power which is known to exist in the organic cell during the progress of its growth; and the ultimate removal of the matter from the scene of action is ascribed partly to the formation of discharge, partly to the yet unexplained, but at the same time undoubted, and in all probability passive, agency of the returning circulation." * "Med.-Chir. Trans.," 1833, vol. xviii. p. 215. + Ibid., vol. xviii. p. 212. t " Anatomical and Pathological Observations," by J. Goodsir and H. D. Good- sir, 1845, p. 14 et seq.GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 204 I am not in a position to offer any direct evidence against ulcera- ' tion by absorption in this sense; but I recur to the two series of facts to whicli I have alluded—the one series disproving absorption in any sense, the other demonstrating the disintegration, liquefaction, and discharge of disorganized textures in the process of ulceration, and this apparently without the intervention of any cellular layer, as described by Goodsir, _ In the first place, respecting ulceration without absorption. The veins proceeding from an ulcerated part are obviously much congested in certain cases, and therefore do not allow of that free passage of blood which venous absorption implies. A common varicose ulcer of the leg is a good illustration ; and, as regards the lymphatics, ulcera- tion may occur in a texture destitute of these vessels, or at least in which they have hitherto been searched for unsuccessfully. Ulceration of the cornea is a familiar example. Its conclusiveness is impaired by the presence of lymphatic vessels in, or immediately beneath, the con- junctiva. This anatomical fact was, I beheve, first observed by Dr. Sharpey, who states * that he has distinctly seen lymphatic vessels, distended with their own lymph, on the surface .of an eye which had repeatedly suffered from chronic inflammation. Again, Mr. Gaskell f has brought forward certain facts which are inconsistent with the theory that ulceration is absorption by the lymphatics. Thus, ulceration does not appear to be most common where the absorbents are most freely distributed. They are more numerous and of greater size in the jejunum than in the ileum, yet ulceration is rarely found in the former portion of intestine. The absorbents are freely distributed on the surface of the body, yet spreading ulceration does not extend so readily on the external surface as a little below. Lastly, absorption readily takes place from the surface of serous membranes; nevertheless, their inflammation is rarely followed by ulceration. The independence of ulceration and absorption, whether by the veins or lymphatics, is I think, further established by another species of evidence. " If," as Key remarks, J " the formation of an ulcer be an act of absorption, the parts that are removed in the formation of a chancre are so disposed of; the absorbents, in forming a chancre, carry into the system tissues tainted by the venereal poison, and must there- fore, in every instance, contaminate the whole mass of circulating fluids. A bubo, therefore, ought to be one of the earliest accompani- ments of chancre. Whereas, during the ulcerative stage of chancre, the glands in the groin usually remain free from infection ; it is when the ulcerative stage is at an end that the gland enlarges and bubo forms. In other words, when the absorbents are most actively engaged in producing the ulcer, and in carrying the poisoned mass into the gland, the latter exhibits no sign of irritation ; but when the absorbents are inactive, the gland begins to enlarge." Furthermore, as Wallace § truly alleges, if " ulceration implies absorption, contamination of the system should always follow a chancre," unless, indeed, we assume that the venereal poison may be received into the mass of circulating fluids, without necessarily causing constitutional disease, an admission which we are not warranted in making. * " Elements of Anatomy," 1848, vol. i. p. 260. t " Jacksonian Prize Essay," 1837. MS. Roy. Coll. Surg. Eng. X Op. cit, 1835, vol. xix., p. 141. § '"On the Venereal Disease," 1838, p. 51.ULCERATION AND ULCEBS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 205 Duly considering the anatomical facts which I have adduced, namely, the condition of the veins in certain cases of ulceration, and the absence of the lymphatics in other cases; also, the fact that con- tamination of the blood is neither a constant sequent of primary venereal ulceration, nor, in its order of sequence, consistent with the hypothesis of absorption; the fair inference is, that ulceration may begin and continue without absorption. Other facts show that ulceration is a process of disintegration, solu- tion, and discharge of disoi'ganized textures. Take, again, the ordinary case of an ulcer arising from a blow on the shin. In the course of a few days, a small portion of dead tissue—a slough—comes away. Its discharge announces ulceration. Dead texture can, as we have seen, be absorbed, yet this slough is discharged. It may be urged that in such case sufficient time is not allowed for absorption; that the tissue dies too extensively and too rapidly for the process of absorption to keep pace with that of destruction. But subsequently, as ulceration continues, a similar discharge of dead tissue continues. This discharge of textures m^iy be recognized when now and then they die too rapidly to dissolve as they die, and thus become imperceptible. In all sloughing ulcers, whether from inflammation or fast-spreading phagedsena, the disintegrated portions of texture are visible. On the other hand, the common indolent ulcer and the varicose ulcer, also indolent, are gene- rally free from the debris of the textures, which, as they have died, have been disintegrated, dissolved, and discharged. This, at least, is the fair inference ; for every intermediate degree of disintegration and solution of the textures is witnessed, from the most obvious sloughs down to debris and all the varieties of mixed discharge. This view of ulceration is supported by Mr. Key's observations, at the later date* referred to; by the observations of Earle,t Gaskell,]: and Wallace.§ Mr. Paget,|| also, has collated much important evi- dence in the same direction. Thus, in ulceration of cartilage, inflam- matory exudation has no share, and the process of ejection of the disintegrated tissue may be clearly traced; but of cartilage it may be said, being extra-vascular, absorption cannot take place. The same process of ejection, however, is discernible in ulcerating bone (where absorption may occur), as shown by the observations of Virchow; and Bransby Cooper ^ noticed, that while in pus from soft parts' only traces of phosphate of lime are found, the pus from around diseased bone contains in solution nearly two and a half jier cent. A similar, but less complete, observation was made by M. T. Taylor,** and also by B. von Bibra.tt Then, again, this view of the pathology of ordinary ulceration harmonizes with the process by which a specific ulcer is seen to be formed. Earle XX pointed out the sameness of the process. An in- cipient chancre is a vesicle which, bursting, discovers a minute slough. * Op. cit., vol. xix. " Further Eemarks on the Ulcerative Process," p. 135. t "On the Nature of Inflammation,"ilfed. Gaz., 1835, vol. xvi. p. 254. X " Jacksouian Prize Essay," 1837. MS. Coll. Surg. Eng. § "Venereal Disease," 1838, p. 48 et seq. II " Lectures on Surgical Pathology," 1845, vol. i. pp. 420, 453. H Mad. Gaz., 1845, and "Lectures on Surgery, 1851, p. 127. ** "Diseases of the Bones." Stanley, 1849, p. 89. tt " Ohemibche Untersuchungen verschiedcner Eiterarten," 1842, p. 85. XX Op. cit., p. 254.GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 206 • Op. cit, p. 49. Its separation occasions the first loss of substance; subsequently, mole- cular disintegration continues the process of ulceration; for, as Wal- lace * observed, if a venereal ulcer be examined with accuracy, a red margin is seen, and frequently on the inner side of this margin a white line ; the red margin in advance denoting the inflammation which pre- cedes ulceration, and the white line within, the texture which was red, but is now vrhite, having been converted into a slough hefore lique- faction and consequent separation. Minute sloughing, occasionally recurring on the surface of a venereal sore during the progress of ulceration, again suggests the true explanation of this process; mole- cular disintegration of the textures, being now and then exaggerated to visible sloughing of portions of them, declares the sameness of the process. Degeneration precedes the disintegraj;lon, when consequent on in- flammation. The degeneration connected with inflammation, unat- tended with ulceration, is usually fatty. Thus it takes place in muscles, as shown by Virchow's observations, and perhaps in muscular tissue of the involuntary order, e.g., the heart, as in a case of fatal traumatic pericarditis examined by Mr. Paget; in bones, in the Hver, and the kidneys, as shown also by Virchow; in the cartilages, as noticed by Redfern; and in the cornea, by Strube. Calcareous de- generation may be the prior textural change. It takes place in chronic rheumatic arthritis; with inflammation of the laryngeal cartilages; and the formation of imperfect dentine, with inflammation of the tooth- jjulp, is, perhaps, another illustration. Cell-infiltration of the surrounding tissue, with hypersemia, usually also precedes the enclosed disintegration of tissue. (Billroth.) The proper discharge from an ulcer—the product of ulceration, not that of a granulating sore—is ichor, the nature of which is not well understood. Iclior is usually a thin sanious fluid, colourless or slightly yellow; structureless, but mixed with exudation, pus, and blood corpuscles, and with the disintegrated matter or debris of the textures. Its chemical composition, as to the essential constituents of this fluid, is unknown. Its chief property is corrosiveness; the operation of ichorous discharge maintaining and extending ulceration. Diagnostic Characters of Ulcers.—An ulcer differs widely in appear- ance. Ulceration forms a chasm of very variable extent and depth, from the slightest abrasion of the integument to the deepest cavity down to and into the bone ; its shape circular, crescentic, or irregular ; it is found less frequently bare, than accompanied with sloughy por- tions of tissue, or with granulations of some description, overspreading the whole or part of the surface. The circumferential margin of the ulcer varies in thickness, and in direction; being turned inwards and perhaps undermined, everted, irregular, or tolerably even ; it may be hard or soft; its colour and that of the surface may be red, dusky brown, livid, or otherwise shaded; while the ichor or discharge varies greatly in quantity and quality from the typical characters already stated, through every description of mixed discharge, replaced hy healthy pus. The integument around may be healthy, inflamed, indurated, csdematous, or show pigmentary discolouration.ULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 207 Causes.—All these different appearances proceed, generally, from constitutional conditions, as scrofula, scurvy, syphilis ; but, occasionally, they are produced by external causes acting locally on the part; as by friction, continued pressure, filth, or various topical applications and dressings of an irritant character. Two classes of ulcers, therefore, each including subordinate varieties, might be recognized with reference to their etiology; but, practically, it would be difficult to draw this line of distinction. The course of ulceration is either that of progressive extension, in surface and depth ; or that of healing by suppurative granulation and cicatrization, as the mode of reparation. (See Reparation by Granu- lation in Contused and Lacerated Wounds.) Treatment.—Two general indications may be mentioned for guid- ance in the treatment of all ulcers; namely, to arrest disintegration, and to induce reparation. The measures, both local and constitutional, which may be appropriate for the fulfilment of these indications will. be learnt in the treatment of the various species of ulcers. The following species present, perhaps, the most distinctive characters :— (1.) Healthy or typical Ulcer. (2.) Inflamed. (3.) Irritable. (4.) (Edematous. (5.) Indolent, and Yaricose. (6.) Phagedsenic. (7.) Hemorrhagic. (8.) Scorbutic. (9.) Scrofulous. (10.) Cancerous. (11.) Lupoid. (12.) Syphilitic. (1.) Healthy or Typical Ulcee may be consequent on a wound or other injury, or the separation of a slough; and the open sore thus formed, in a healthy person and itself in a healthy state, will be known by certain characters. Of I'ig. 74. variable extent, depth, and shape, the surface is uniformly mammillated with small florid granu- lations (Fig. 74), which, however, do not bleed readily and are not painfully sensitive. Healthy 2ms, opaque, yellowish, and of creamy consistence, more or less in quantity, bathes the granulating surface. The margin of this ulcer shelves gently down to its base, and is scarcely perceptibly harder than the adjoining healthy skin. The new skin, corresponding to the margin, has an opaque white colour, and its formation is preceded by a linear translucent film of cuticle, which, veiling the subjacent granulations, has a bluish-white tint. The granulations immediately within this line are more florid than those nearer to the centre of the ulcer, because more vascular where the cuticle and skin around are being formed. The histological or textural condition consists of an abundaat emigration of cells, infiltrating the connective tissue around the ulcer, and at the base of the granulating surface, where these wandering cells become granulation-cells, some of which pass off as pus-cells. There is also an increased develop- ment of vascular loops, especially in the papillas around the margin of the ulcer, where the granulations are most vascular and florid- and the jJajoiUce are themselves enlarged. Around the margin of theGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 208 ulcer, the epidermis is thickened, and perhaps indurated, forming a somewhat raised border, shelving down to the thin bluish-looking line of circumferential new cuticle. (Fig. 75.) The surface having reached the level of the skin, by granulation, and the formation of pus—superfluous organizable material—having ceased; cicatrization proceeds inwards by the continued formation of Fig. 75.* marginal skin, preceded by cuticle, and thus, at length, exhibits the characters of healthy cicatrix, in the recent state. (See also Reparation by Grranulation.) Treatment.—Little or no positive treatment is requisite, a healthy ulcer healing spontaneously, provided any circumstances adverse to the process of reparation be excluded. Rest, position, to prevent tension and any undue determination of blood, and protection of the surface by water-dressing, are sufficient. Shin-Grafting may be here noticed; a principle of treatment due to M. Reverdin, whereby the cicatrication of a granulating surface may be completed, and in a much shorter period than from the cir- cumference alone; as when the ulcer is of large size, or indolent; or in order to prevent contraction of the cicatrix, as after bums, which would result in deformity and functional inutility of the part. The procedure of skin-grafting is as follows :—A very small portion or particle of healthy skin is excised from some part of the body, as the thigh, and transplanted by laying it on the surface of a granu- lating ulcer, as on the leg; the particle of skin being there retained with a fine strip of adhesive plaster, or perhaps better, simply by overlaying it with a small piece of wet lint. The excision is easily accomplished by raising the bit of skin up with fine forceps, and paring it off with a scalpel, or snipping it off with sharp scissors; or an instrument, combining forceps and scissors, has been devised for this purpose. In removing the particle of skin, its depth should not extend into the subcutaneous fat, or produce hardly an appear- ance of blood from the spot. The surface of the granulations may be freshened with the point of the knife, and so as to imbed or graft the transplanted portion ; but it is better merely to lay the particle of skin down, there retaining it in easy contact with a layer of lint. Several bits of skin may be thus grafted, according to the size of the ulcer. The changes which any such reproductive centre under- * Cutaneous ulcer of the leg. Section magnified 100 diam. (After Forster.) —a, the cutis; h, the surface of the ulcer; c, the thickened and raised border of epidermis.ULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 209 goes are, according to my own observations, apparently as follows:— The particle remains stationary or dormant for a few days, possibly even for some weeks, before beginning to grow; it may perhaps die away and nearly disappear as a thin, bluish-white point; then, if examined with a magnifying glass, a network of vessels will be seen in, and as a zone around, any cutaneous centre about to grow. The particle assumes an opaque white appear- ance, and loses its vascularity; it enlarges with a thin, semi-trans- parent, fringed border, preceded by the vascular zone, and increases also in thickness, thus growing both circumferentially and in substance from below. These changes of character are more observ- able in the reproduced portion of skin, the original centre remaining thinner and more transparent. Any such islet does not extend indefinitely, probably not to a larger size than a fourpenny piece or a sixpence. The areas of cicatrix, thus formed, meet together, or extend into the margin of the ulcer, and at length the surface becomes covered and cicatrization is completed. Skin-grafting sometimes suc- ceeds or fails; and when practised in the sam6 individual, at the same time, and in the same manner, on the same ulcer, some engrafted centres prove reproductive, others die out. (2.) Inflamed Ulcer.—A departure from the healthy type of ulcer; the usual signs of inflammation are characteristic. An area of redness with some swelling around the ulcer are more or less con- spicuous appearances, while a burning heat and aching pain are experienced, particularly when the part is pendent, as the shin—a common situation for an inflamed ulcer. The granulations have a rose-red rather than a florid colour, or they may be absent and the surface of the ulcer overspread with a thin ash-grey slough; the suppuration is scanty, thin, and perhaps tinged with blood. As in- flammation subsides, the cuticle peels of£ or desquamates for some distance around the ulcer. This condition of sore accompanies inflammatory fever, an ulcer previously healthy then becoming inflamed; or it may be produced by external violence or consequent on local irritation. Treatment.—Any cause or causes in operation will, as usual, primarily direct the treatment, namely, their removal. Then, remedial measures are those appropriate for inflammation. A poultice, or a cold evaporating lotion, if more agreeable, and perhaps the local abstraction of blood by a few leeches applied in the neighbourhood of the ulcer; with rest and an elevated position of the part; and, finally, water-dressing as the sore assumes a healthy character and under- goes the process of healing. Bandaging the limb may, at this period, be useful to support the weakened vessels of the part; and thus prevent any liability to the continuance or recurrence of a low state of inflam- mation ; a very troublesome chronic condition, which is apt to follow an acutely inflamed ulcer. (3.) Irritable Ulcer.—This variety of ulcer is to be distinguished from an inflamed ulcer, with which it might be confounded. Painful to a degree, even of a neuralgic character, the other and more peculiar signs of inflammation, particularly circumferential redness and swell- ing, are wanting. The granulations are imperfect or absent, reddish here, tawny there ; but they are very painful and sensitive to the touch, and readily bleed on slight pressure or the application of a210 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. stimulant dressing. The discharge is thin and sanious; and tlie edge of the ulcer, irregular, sharp, and abrupt, evincing no disposi- tion—not to say an obstinate indisposition—to commence cicatrization. Commonly situated on the shin or lower part of the leg, an irritable sore or fissure of the anus also not unfrequently occurs, which well illustrates the pain and other characters of this variety of ulcer. It is generally connected with some disturbance of the diges- tive organs, and with constitutional irritation as distinguished from inflammatory fever. More rarely, some cause of local irritation may co-operate ; as the passage of the faeces and the contraction of the sphincter-ani muscle with regard to irritable ulcer in ano. Treatment.—The removal of any cause in operation is the primary consideration. Hence the rectification of the constitutional disorder, as by saline purgatives and mercurials to influence the secretion of bile. Then opiates, occasionally, will do mucli to allay the general irrita- bility. Of topical applications, nitrate of silver freely applied is the most efiicacious. Lead and opiate lotions may be recommended. Rest of the part is necessary or advantageous, as in the treatment of other ulcers; and thus, division of the sphincter-ani muscle by incision through a fissure of the anus, will relieve pain and facilitate granulation in that situation. In any case of in'itable ulcer, as healthy granulations spring up, the pain subsides; and the cicatrix formed is not more than ordinarily sensitive. (4.) QjDEMATOUS Ulcer.—In this variety of ulcer, the granulations are large, pale, translucent, and flabby, sometimes cropping up as large gelatinous masses above the level of the sore. The discharge is watery, and the margin has no disposition to commence cicatrization. Indeed, the granulations are apt to slough. This condition arises in connec- tion with a weak circulation, or it may proceed from the soddening of an ulcer by continued poulticing or other prolonged application of moisture and warmth. Treatment.—In addition to the removal of any constitutional or local cause, local treatment is often remarkably curative. An elevated position, astringent lotions, as of sulphate of zinc or nitrate of silver, and the support of a bandage, will probably succeed in reducing the granulations to the level of the ulcer, when exuberant, and strengthen their vitality, thus favouring cicatrization. (5.) Indolent, and Varicose Ulcer.—A deep and, perhaps, large excavation, presenting a flat surface,—without granulations, of a dusky or pale colour, scarcely sensitive to the touch nor disposed to bleed, and having a firm, hard base adherent to the subjacent fascia. A thin ofi^ensive discharge exudes. The edges are everted, thick, and callous, and of an opaque-white colour, owing to accumulated epider- mis ; the surrounding integument to some distance is congested, of a dusky hue, and pigment-stained, thickened, hardened, and bound down to the textures beneath. Such an ulcer is obstinately indisposed to heal. It is commonly situated on some part of the leg. An ordinary-—-non-specific—indolent ulcer does not seem to be dependent on any constitutional disorder; but it is apt to occur in weakly, ill-nourished, and perhaps ill-fed persons. The varicose ulcerj is a variety of indolent ulcer, and so named from its connection with the varicose condition of the adjoining veins. Resembling generally an ordinary indolent ulcer, it difi'ers in certainULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 211 tolerably distinctive characters. Situated on some part of the leg, commonly on tlie inner side towards the ankle, and single; in the recent state it is of small size, ovoid shape, and with its long axis in the direction of the limb; without granulations and firm, a bluish- purple colour of the base and more so of the margin and adjoining integument will be noticed, and the ulcer is not unfreqiiently painful and sensitive. Inflammation and sloughing, or other conditions, may temporarily veil these appearances; but the tortuous, knotty enlarge- ment of the venous trunks, or the more difiiused mottling of smaller varicose veins, with, perchance, a brownish-red pigment-stained skin around the ulcer, is still a characteristic accompaniment. In the progress of varicose ulcer, an occasional event of practical importance is venous hsemorrhage; arising from the ulceration having penetrated an enlarged vein, it may occur suddenly and copiously. Treatment.—An indolent ulcer cannot cicatrize so long as it and the surrounding integument are both bound down ; the margin being upraised and retracted, and the base depressed. Accordingly, pressure and stimulation conjoined, represent the plan of treatment. The nitrate of silver freely applied to and around the ulcer, or the continued ap- plication of zinc ointment, with tolerably firm bandaging, may bring it into a healthy condition. A more even and constant pressure is secured by strapping the limb with strips of linen spread with soap- plaster, mixed with a little adhesive plaster to fix it. Drawn around the limb, from the side opposite the sore, each strip in succession should partly overlap the preceding one, and the ends be crossed obliquely; thus forming a compact casement, and which should extend two or three inches above and below the sore. This is known as Baynton's method of strapping. The strips should be changed every other day, to remove the discharge; but when the integument has became softened and loosened, so that the sore is beginning to heal, the strapping may be allowed to remain for a week at a time. At length, simple dressing, and the support of a roller-bandage, will com- plete the cure. Blistering circumferentially, softens and loosens the integument, and may thus tend to facilitate cicatrization. The actual cautery is recommended by Billroth, to induce purulent inflammation, or to destroy the callous edges entirely. A warm-water bath, according to Zeis's practice, has proved very efficacious in softening the dry, hardened borders of the ulcer. Incisions have been recommended to allow the granulations to contract; and, in most obstinate cases, transplantation of a portion of adjoining healthy integument, sufficient to close in the ulcer, may be tried, with the view of forming a substitute cicatrix. Of these resources, I am decidedly in favour of blistering. Opium seems to have some special influence in rendering the granulations florid, and promoting the healing of an indolent ulcer. It is therefore advisable to keep the system under this influence by the repeated administration of opium, in small doses. At the same time, the aid of stimulants, tonics, and a general diet should not be overlooked. When an indolent ulcer has healed, the thin and tense cicatrix may be protected and supported with a pad of lint and bandage, worn as long as may be necessary. The varicose ulcer is amenable to the same plan of treatment; but'GENEKAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY, 212 the varicose state of the veins, as the apparent cause in operation, IS an additional and the special object of treatment. An elevated position of the limb to relieve congestion, and an elastic bandage or stocking to equally support the vessels, will prove sufficient for this purpose, in most instances. When the ulcer has healed, it may still be necessary to wear an elastic stocking, as a preventive measure. In more obstinate cases, and with the view of a permanent cure, oblitera- tion of the veins must be resorted to. Curved incisions may be made, free and deep, on either side of the ulcer-margin, according to the method which Mr. Gay originated, and whereby a twofold principle is fulfilled; the destruction of any circumferential or smaller veins, and relief of the tension of the contracted and indurated skin. Ulcers of from one to twenty years' standing have thus been induced to heal, and with a permanently firm cicatrix. But the larger veins may re- quire obliteration. Of the various means devised—and noticed in connection with Varicose Veins—the safest and most successful, in my experience, is that by subcutaneous section of the veins; with the precaution of a twisted suture, for compression, on either side, to stop any communication with the circulation. A hare-lip pin is passed underneath the vein, and another at a point about an inch distant. Care must be taken that tbe vessel be not transfixed, a misadventure easily avoided by dipping the pin, and readily discovered by the escape of a drop or two of venous blood. If the vein be transfixed, the pin should be withdrawn and introduced at another point. A ligature passed round either pin in a figure of eigbt fashion, will compress the vessel sufficiently to cut off all communication with the venous blood in either direction, and thus isolate the portion of vessel be- tween the pins. Division of the vessel in that situation subcutane- ously, as recommended by Mr. Lee, will then more thoroughly insure its obliteration. (See Veins.) Several such interceptions may be necessary at different points in the course of the saphena vein; in which case the highest pair of pins should be introduced first. The pins must be allowed to remain for about a week or ten days, unless the supervention of ulcerative suppuration should indicate the necessity for withdrawing one or more of the pins at an earlier period. I do not find the tendency to slight ulceration of sufficient importance to require the precaution generally recommended, that of protecting the skin with a piece of bougie before applying the ligature. After this operation, in no case have I seen any perilous consequence, such as phlebitis or pyismia, but diffuse or erysipelatous inflammation ensued for a while, in one case. In some instances, after the lapse of a year and a half or two years, occlusion of the vein has still been complete, a permanently successful result which has allowed of active exercise with comfort; in other cases, the varicose condition has returned, as the only unfavourable issue ; while in yet a few, it has remained on the removal of the pins, and a repetition of the operation has altogether failed. Venous haemorrhage, occurring in the course of a varicose ulcer, may be arrested by a compress of lint, secured by a bandage, over the aperture in the vein which has given way; and by elevation of the limb. (6.) Phagedenic Ulcer.—Essentially a spreading ulcer, it is characterized by dusky red discoloration and swelling, with perhapsULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 213 acute pain around the ulcer; a grayish, glutinous or slimy slough, which exhales a peculiar foetid odour, occupies the surface of the sore, and the edges, sharp, irregular as if worm-eaten, and undermined, fall away rapidly; thus enlarging and deepening the area of the ulcer. Sloughing may predominate in such ulceration, and hence sloughing and phagedsenic ulcers are not uncommonly associated. Sooner or later, constitutional disorder ensues; irritation rather than inflammatory fever, with great weakness and exhaustion. Allied as this ulcer is, in its local and constitutional characters, to Hospital gangrene, it would seem that phagedtena arises from an external cause,—contagious matter applied to a sore; the constitu- tional disorder being secondary and symptomatic, although in its turn affecting the ulcer. On the other hand, habitual deprivation of food, the abuse of stimulants, or living on spirits, and, perhaps, overcrowd- ing, with destitution, seem also to give rise to phagedsena. Treatment.—To arrest the rapidly spreading ulceration, a free appli- cation of strong nitric acid, by means of a glass brush, is most effectual. Followed by poultices, the slough, thus formed, is detached, exposing probably a healthy surface, which has acquired a healing character. Re-application of the acid may be necessary, or the continued applica- tion of yeast, charcoal, or chlorinated poultices may be sufficiently stimulant and cleansing; and, at the same time, disinfectant. Opium, administered in small and repeated doses, so as to keep the system under its influence, is most potent in allaying the irritative fever; while the strength of the circulation and Healthy nutrition are restored by quinine, the mineral acids, and a generally nourishing diet. (7.) Hjimoerhagic Ulcer.—Any variety of ulcer may assume this character, but some more particularly—e.g., the irritable, phagedsenic, varicose, cancerous, and, perhaps, lupoid ulcers—by the penetration of a blood-vessel; and the scorbutic ulcer, by passive hsemorrhage owing to the blood-condition. Not unfrequently, an ulcer oozes blood about the catamenial period,, and especially in women suffering from amenor- rhoea ; the haemorrhage then being vicarious menstruation. An ulcer thus acquires a bloody, clotted appearance. Treatment.—Arising from such various causes, an hjemorrhagic nicer is a contingency rather than any special variety of ulcer, and should be treated accordingly in connection with whatever ulcer it may be associated, by reference to the particular condition, local or constitutional, which causes the haemorrhagic character. (8.) Scorbutic Ulcer.—Although scurvy in itself, observes Mr. Busk, cannot be said to be attended with any peculiar form of ulcera- tion, ulcers or sores of any kind already existing from other causes assume, in consequence of the scorbutic taint, a more or less peculiar character, and when thus modified have usually been termed " scorbutic ulcers." It is the effusion of a semi-plastic fibrous material—the same as that which causes the spongy swelling of the gums, etc.—on the free surface of sores or ulcers, which gives them the peculiar aspect termed scorbutic. Ulcers of this kind are distinguished by their livid colour, and irregular tumid border, around which no trace of cicatriza- tion is evident; whilst the surface of the sore is covered with a spongy, dark-coloured, strongly adherent, foetid crust, whose removal is attended with free bleeding, and is followed by a rapid reproduction of the same material. This crust, in bad cases, as remarked by Lind, attains to a214 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. "monstrous size," and constitutes what has been named by sailors " bullock's liver." ^ Treatment.—B,Qgardmg a scorbutic ulcer as but a manifestation of the blood-disease—scurvy, the appropriate treatment is that which pertains to this disease; and having regard to its apparent dietetic cause, namely, the deprivation of fresh vegetables, remedial measures will consist, chiefly, in their restoration. Hence the well-known efficacy, preventive and curative, of potatoes and of lemon or lime juice. This dietetic treatment may be aided, medicinally, by the mineral acids and bark ; and, as a topical application, a lotion of dilute nitro-muriatic acid has an astringent and cleansing effect on the ulcer. (9.) Scrofulous or Strumous Ulcers.—Consequent on the ulcera- tion of a scrofulous tubercular swelling, or the opening of a scrofulous abscess, the ulcer is remarkably indolent, yet its characters are unlike those of the ordinary indolent ulcer. Large, pale, flabby granulations, sometimes exuberant, form the surface of the sore, with a thin puriform discharge; the margin is thin, livid, and undermined, sometimes pre- tending to heal by incrustation of the discharge. The characters and tendency are those of an ordinary cedematous ulcer; but a scrofulous ulcer is even less disposed to heal soundly. A scrofulous cicatrix appears drawn, puckered, and incomplete. Small bridges form across the xdcer, underneath which a probe can be passed readily, in and out, here and there. Nature does but "skin and film the ulcerous spot." The co-existence of indolent glandular swellings and abscess, in other parts, will complete the diagnosis. Scrofulous ulcers are most frequent in the neck, groins, cheeks, scalp; and about the knee, ankle, wrist, and elbow. They are often numerous and clustered. The immediate cause in operation would appear to be a blood- disease, the nature of which however is unknown. But whatever impairs the nutritive qualities of the blood and its circulation, pre- disposes to scrofula. Hence deficient or defective food, insufficient ventilation, want of cleanliness and excretion, poor clothing, cold, damp, and even dark localities, with other hygienic conditions of similar import, are the nurseries and nurses of this blood-disease. Individual predisposition, as usual, plays its part; for among a family of children in precisely the same hygienic circumstances, one becomes scrofulous, while the rest remain free. Treatment.—In addition to the removal of any adverse hygienic condition, iron, bark, and cod-liver oil are calculated to strengthen the circulation and improve nutrition. The digestive organs will also require watchful attention. A stimulating plan of treatment with moderate pressure on the ulcer is appropriate, as for an cedematous ulcer. Thus, niti-ate of silver or sulphate of copper, and bandaging, are beneficial as topical appliances; but the more important part of the treatment is constitutional. The scar of a strumous ulcer is unsightly, and may occasion defor- mity, either by contraction, or, more commonly, by over-growth, and the formation of bars raised in radiating lines, or networks, or tongues of skin. In such cases, observes Sir James Paget, excision of the scar may be necessary; but in many instances a great portion of the excess of scar can be removed by repeated slight blistering, and with time nearly the whole will level down.ULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 215 In a superficial scrofulous ulcer on the hands or feet, excessive crowth of the papillce at the base or borders of the ulcer, gives a re- markably warty character to the ulcer; which often remaining after cicatrization, leaves a coarse, nodular patch of skin, with opaque, thick cuticle. In this particular resembling a papillary epithelial cancer, the diagnosis of this form of scrofulous ulcer may be determined, by the absence of hardness in the granulations or the base, of a sinuous or upraised border, and of rapidity of progress; and by the presence of more than one, perhaps many such ulcers. These warty strumous affections may be cured by repeated applica- tions of iodine-paint. (10.) Cancerous Ulcer.—Already described in this work, as part of the general history of cancer, the characters of a cancerous ulcer are here aUuded to as compared with those of a lupoid ulcer. The scirrhous ulcer is most distinctive. Beginning in the skin and extend- ing down to deeper textures, or commencing subcutaneously—in a cancerous mass, and extending upwards to and involving the skin—the ulcer, formed in either way, presents an irregular cavity, the surface of which is covered with large, hard granulations, discharging a thin, pecuUar smelling ichor; the edges are elevated, thick, and everted, with much circumferential induration. The neighbouring lymphatic glands are, or become, indurated, and enlarged. The ravages of this ulcer are unlimited. Treatment.—See Cancer. (11.) Lupoid Ulcer.—Commencing as a fissure or soft wart, the ulcer formed is an excavated hollow, having, commonly, no granula- tions, the edges sharp and worm-eaten, with no induration around. The lymphatic glands are unaffected. But this ulcer, also, spreads and spares no texture. It is the true Lupus Bxedeus, or the disease known also as "noli me tangere," owing to the frightful appearance which is at length exhibited. This disease commences in the earlier half of life, sometimes in childhood, very rarely after middle age; and females are rather more liable to it than males. It is allied to scrofula. As contrasted with a cancerous ulcer, the differential characters, above stated, were early impressed on my mind by two well-marked cases which I observed when a student at the University College Hospital. The one, an elderly woman—under the care of Mr. Morton —had a large cancerous ulcer of the leg, which presented the appear- ances I have described; the other, a middle-aged man, an ostler— under the care of Mr. Listen—had a large lupoid ulcer of the cheek, with the appearances already noticed,—namely, opposite to those of a cancerous ulcer. Treatment.—Various powerful escharotics have been tried with the view of arresting the progress of a lupoid ulcer, and converting it into a healing condition. Caustic potash is very serviceable, as it readily unites with the tissues. Chloride of zinc, mixed with flour and form- ing a paste by deliquescence, was used in Mr. Listen's case. The mtense pain, for a time, which followed its application, would now-a- days be subdued by the continued influence of chloroform. Subse- quently, poultices help to bring away the slough. Further extension of the ulcer may be thus arrested, and the cavity evince a tendency, at least, to heal. This favourable change took place in the case alluded to, and I have since met with similar instances. Cicatrization mayGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 216 ensue. Iron, bark, and cod-liver oil, with other means of improving nutrition, have a decidedly beneficial influence. The disease seldom returns in the cicatrix, but lupoid nodules often re-appear in the imme- diate neighbourhood. These admit of early excision, as a preferable mode of removal to the more wide-spread destruction resulting from cauterization. Rodent Ulcer.—Variously named, as Rodent Cancer, Cancroid Ulcer, or Lupus Exedeus, the nature of this ulcer is disputed. Dr. C. Warren, of Boston, regards it as a modification of epithelial cancer, but distinguished as the small-celled and non-infiltrating form, and the progress of which is very slow. On the other hand, Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson and Sir James Paget have failed to find in rodent ulcer any of the structural elements of cancer, epithelial or scirrhous. It consists of fibroid tissue, with numerous nucleated exudation-cells. There can be no doubt, however, that the boundary line between these affections, although usually distinct, is not abrupt; that transitional forms occur. Commencing as a troublesome pimple, situated generally near the nose or inner angle of the eye, this may disappear and return, during a period of some months or years ; at length, a small, superficial ulcer forms, having a raised and hardened margin, set in healthy tissue. Progressing slowly, as a fretting ulceration, it spreads to the nose or eyelid, yet sparing the eye until a later period ; extending in depth, the ulceration destroys the nose and bones of the face, passing back- wards even to the pharynx, and thus forming a hideous chasm, over- spread with a greyish pultaceous matter. Similar ulcers are said to have occurred on the breast, and external genitals, but such cases are doubtful. Rodent ulcer rarely appears under forty years of age ; and both sexes are about equally liable. !N'o kind of treatment has any curative efficacy. At an early period, the part may be excised; or cauterization, with fuming nitric acid, may have some beneficial influence in temporarily arresting the spread of ulceration. Any poi'tion of loosened bone had better be removed, in order to preserve a cleaner surface, and which lies perhaps beyond the reach of detergent washes. Prom the carious cavity of deep ulceration I have removed, with forceps, several large portions of loosened bone, blackened, sodden, and foetid; or entire bones, as the ethnoid, save the cribriform plate, with the vomer, or the maxillary antrum and the palate bone. No hemorrhage attends such procedures. (12.) Syphilitic Ulcee.—Primary, secondary, and tertiary syphilitic ulcers form part of the general pathology of Syphilis. Mortification.—The transition of ulceration to mortification, as already noticed, will have suggested their mutual relation. As pro- cesses, they differ in degree, but are one in kind. The former may be exaggerated into the latter, and this again may subside into that. Ulceration and mortification are convertible by gradations of the saine process, disintegration of structure ; the one, molecular, as a liquid discharge; the other en masse, presenting accumulations of disinte- grated matter. Thus, during ulceration, ever and anon some tem- porary cause may accelerate the process; a larger portion of tissue undergoes disintegration than can pass away as discharge; a portion of such matter then appears as slough, instead of having disappeared imperceptibly—molecule after molecule—in ichorous solution. It isULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 217 as if the " flow " of a tidal stream washed up more material than the returning " ebb " can well recover—the line of coast shows the remain- ing debris. Even so, the surface of an ulcer may present a rim of slough, and from time to time, another and another, as the margin of the sore recedes and extends. Signs. — Gangrene, or the incipient stage of mortification, exhibits certain characteristic appearances. The skin is livid or has a black hue, shading off to a reddish brown around the dying part. Its con- sistence is changed; becoming soft, with considerable swelling and pitting on pressure, while. the cuticle is raised into vesicles containing a yellowish serum, or phlyctense—large bladders, full of bloody serum. The part is, in fact, altogether sodden and succulent, from the infil- tration of the constituent cellular texture vnth serum. This condition is the humid gangrene of French authors, the hot of German writers, and the acute of our own school. (Fig. 76.) Or the part may be Fig. 76.* hard, shrunken, and dry. An opposite condition, known as dry, cold, or chronic gangrene. (Fig. 77.) In either state, the sensibility of the part is diminished, and its temperature reduced. The odour of gan- FiG. 77.t grene is peculiar and pungent; it becomes foetid with the evolution of gas by decomposition, which, inflating the cellular texture, much increases the swelling; and owing to the admixture of gas and serum, it then has the additional character of crackling under gentle pressure] or of fluctuation like a collection of pus, if the deeper textures be thus * Traumatic humid gangrene. (After Listen.) t Senile dry gangrene. (After Fergusson.)GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 218 distended. The part is irrecoverably dead; mortification having ad- vanced to its second and furthest stage—the condition of sphacehis. The textures, in this condition also, may be dry and shrunken; as in senile gangrene which has advanced to sphacelus. In either case the part is insensible and cold. The anatomical condition of sphacelus is somewhat peculiar. Dis- integration of the soft textures still prevails; the bones, indeed, may have undergone but little change, otherwise than appearing dry and bloodless, their periosteum being detached; but the articular cartilages and tendons are dull and slightly softened, while all the softer textures have broken down indiscriminately, with one exception. The blood- vessels alone have escaped destruction. Thus, phlegmonous erysipelas may have laid bare several inches of the femoral artery, by sphacelus of the integuments, and yet that vessel remain intact. The blood also —stagnant and coagulated therein, after death—may remain fluid and circulating during life; or, coagulation having taken place, the vessel will be impervious, and perhaps to some distance above the seat of sphacelus. Hence the absence of heemorrhage during amputation in such cases. Causes—External and Internal; and their Operation.—The patho- logy of ulceration and mortification being essentially the same, their etiology also is the same. External causes are of three kinds: physical—as mechanical violence and injury, heat, cold, electricity; chemical decomposing agents; and vital, as animal poisons introduced into any living texture. Either of these external causes may immediately kill the part, or kill, if the tissue be vascular, by inflammation supervening and terminating, perhaps speedily, in ulceration or in mortification. (1.) Violence or injury of any kind may give rise to gangrene, which is thence denominated traumatic. It is thus distinguished from gan- grene arising from any internal, and commonly constitutional disease —e.g., a blood-condition ; and which, as a local manifestation of that disease, is thence named idiopathic gangrene. This distinction is noticed, more particularly, in connection with contusion and contused wounds. Of traumatic causes, pressure or contusion, directly applied, severely although momentarily, as by a squeeze, kills the part immediately. A finger caught in the hinge of a door may thus be squeezed to death. Pressure, continued, although less severe, excites gangrenous inflam- mation. In either case, mortification is limited to the part injured. Indirect contusion or concussion, as by a fall, produces either gan- grene or gangrenous inflammation; and the mortification will be more extensive, although still co-extensive only with the part injured. Pressure or contusion—applied directly or indirectly—chiefly injures the capillary vessels and smaller arteries; but traumatic gangrene more frequently arises from injury to larger-sized blood- vessels. Considerable hemorrhage takes place, causing gangrene, partly by pressure of the blood extravasated among the textures, partly or principally by cessation of the supply of blood requisite for nutrition. Wounds implicating the larger blood-vessels, compound fracture, and dislocation, especially operate in this way. Gangrene is not necessarily limited to the immediate and apparent seat of injury : it may extend—e.g., up a whole limb, but still only as high as the causeTJLCEEATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 219 in operation. Heat, cold, and electricity require no further considera- tion as causes of mortification, than that they operate, either by killing outright, or by inducing gangrenous inflammation; cold, however, not seeming to have the power of killing a part at once. A frost-bitten or frozen portion of the body is not irrecoverably dead. (2.) Chemical decomposing agents, on the other hand, mostly take effect by killing immediately—decomposing the living tissues with which they come in contact. Such are caustic alkalies, the concen- trated mineral acids, and other escharotics. (3.) Animal poisons introduced into the body, are generally less immediately killing to the part—i.e., they induce gangrenous inflam- mation. Bites of venomous serpents represent this class. Internal causes are perversions of the constituent elements of nutrition. Blood of a certain " quality," suitable to each part for its nourishment, and a certain " quantity " of this blood supplied to and circulated through the part; "an appropriate physical and structural condition of the part itself; " and some kind of " nervous influence ; " —these are the internal conditions which, when perverted, become internal causes of mortification. (1.) Blood-conditions, by alterations of quality, are eminently con- stitutional causes. Their pathological nature is but little understood; but their local manifestations in gangrene, having chai-acteristic appearances, are well known. Some of these blood-conditions were alluded to, in speaking of the varieties of ulcers as depending on con- stitutional causes. Other such causes more especially give rise to mortification, in various remarkable forms. Thus are produced carbuncle, boil, and the carbuncle of plague ; phlegmonous erysipelas, bloody small-pox, malignant scarlatina ; glanders, ergotism, scorbutic sloughing, noma or cancrum oris, the phagedsenic and sloughing buboes of syphilis. Other diseases of, or involving, the blood evince a tendency to gangrene; as manifested in uraemia, diabetes mellitus, septicaemia, typhus, and other fevers. Of these gangrenous diseases, those which fall within the province of surgical treatment will be described under the titles referred to. As an example of pure gangrene, from blood-disease, the following may be here noticed :— Ergotism results in gangrene of the toes or fingers, from eating bread made with the ergot of rye. The symptoms are peculiar ; red- ness and heat, with a tingling itching or crawling sensation in the skin, or sometimes a burning pain, succeeded in a few days by a sensation of cold, then loss of sensibility, and the part becomes black, hard, dry, and withered,—an extreme foi-m of dry gangrene. But a humid and putrid gangrene has been known to occur. The toes are more commonly affected than the fingers ; and the gangrene may spread up the foot and leg, even to the thigh, so that both lower extremities, black and dry as charcoal, and shrivelled, have resembled the remains of Egyptian mummies. The fever attending this gangrene is more or less pronounced, and sometimes accompanied with much delirium. Separation of the dead parts may be attended with an excruciating burning pain, followed perhaps by a distressing sensation of cold. An acute and a chronic form of the disease have been re- cognized; the former being distinguished perhaps by sevei-e general cramps, and death ensuing in from four to eight days ; while, in the latter, the patient usually survives, though with the loss of toes orGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 220 fingers. According to Duhamel's memoir in the Royal Academy of Sciences, 1748, in 120 cases, not more than four or five recovered. Post-mortem examination shows congestion of the brain, liver, and lungs ; the blood also, apparently, has undergone some change, predis- posing to hasniorrhage. The cause of this gangrene is a diseased state of the rye-grain,—known as ergot, or spurred rye, when eaten as bread. In this state, the grain is of large size, has a black colour, and horny consistence. But a similar diseased state of wheat may be equally pernicious. The gangrene induced by such food is peculiar to wet seasons and certain localities. First described with accuracy by Dodard, as having occurred in France, 1630, ergotism is uncommon in Grermany, Italy, or England. Mortification arising from any blood-disease spreads without limita- tion, as to its extent. (2.) The quantity of blood supplied to and circulated through any part depends upon, and is regulated by, the heart's mechanism and action, the state of the blood-vascular system—arteries, veins, and caplliaries—and the physical condition of the blood itself, chiefly in respect of its spissitude and adhesiveness. These conditions are severally, and collectively, more or less causes of mortification. Of diseases and malformations of the heart, their influence in rela- tion to mortification is impressiTcly illustrated by a probably unique case, —gangrene of both feet in a boy (like Fig. 77), arising from dilatation of the auriculo-ventricular opening, and of the auricle and ventricle, on the right side of the heart. Double amputation, which I performed by modifications of Hey's and Chopart's operations, was followed by speedy recovery, with sound stumps ; but death ensued from cardiac and pul- monary conditions,—pericarditis, capillary bronchitis, and pleurisy.* Ancemia, with weakness of the heart's action, is a rare cause of gangrene. Both feet, as the parts most distant in the circulation, are specially liable to be afl!ected. This ansemic gangrene occurs some- times in young chlorotic females; the premonitory symptoms being fatigue, fainting fits, and rigidity of the hands and feet; In one case, Billroth noticed that the tip of the nose first became gangrenous. (a.) Arteries are liable to undergo changes of structure, which are particularly worthy of notice surgically. Ossification or calcareous degeneration of the larger arteries, with fibrous thickening of the smaller ones, is accompanied with a more or less inelastic and contracted state of the vessels, thus leading to coagu- lation of the blood, in tubes which have become too narrow and rigid for the transmission of that fluid, and in quantity adequate to meet vary- ing demands. This condition represents the changes of structure con- cerned in producing " senile " gangrene,—a dry form of mortification, commonly affecting the foot, when the arteries of the leg have under- gone these changes. Some slight injury, followed by low inflammation, is usually the immediate or exciting cause in such cases. Traumatic gangrenous inflammation is, in fact, engrafted on the state of the arteries, as a predisposing condition. Mortification, commencing generally in a part most distant from the heart, as the ball of the great toe, and thence spreading upwards, gradually assumes the appearance of a black slipper on the foot. (See Fig. 77.) # "Trans. Clin. Soc.," 1872.ULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 221 Arteritis—inflammation of an artery—is a far less frequent cause ; it acts in a similar manner, and may induce gangrene of the same character, or more dry and horny. Fibrinous coagulum may form as a thrombus within an artery, either by the deposition of fibrin around a calcareous projection from the interior, or in a sacculated dilatation of the vessel; in either way the clot, gathering more fibrin, advances into the artery, so as at length to entirely plug up the canal. Or, instead of arterial thrombosis, the coagulum may not have formed in the artery where it is found im- pacted, but have been washed from the left ventricle of the heart and carried thence by the current of blood to that vessel; such a clot being known as an embolus, and an artery thus impacted with clot, as embolism. The gangrene arising from either of these modes of arterial occlusion may be dry or moist, according to the rapidity and complete- ness of clot formation or impaction. Rupture of the internal and middle coats of a large artery, by vio- lence, will also induce coagulation; the loose portion folding inward across the stream of blood. Mortification is liable to supervene. Aneurism is another cause ; partly by interrupting the free flow of arterial blood through the aneurismal artery, and partly, by pressure on adjacent veins, obstructing the return of venous blood. Popliteal aneurism will thus induce gangrene, which soon passes into sphacelus. Wound of a main artery acts in two ways. A punctured wound is sometimes an immediate cause, by loss of blood; gangrene taking place in the extremities. Sir B. Brodie mentions the case of a drunken man, who was bled profusely, and both feet became gangrenous in a few hours. A contusion or bruise may lead to sloughing of the vessel, after some days have elapsed; this being attended with haemorrhage and false aneurism, followed by mortification. Laceration of the vessel may, in like manner, have the same issue. In either case, the integu- ments may have escaped injury. Simple fracture, and perhaps simple dislocation, will thus lead to mortification, occasionally. Compound fracture and dislocation, far more frequently. Ligature of an artery is liable to induce to gangrene, an event which will be considered in the treatment of Aneurism. It is highly important to observe the partial extent to which gan- grene spreads, in connection with all these vascular lesions, as con- trasted with gangrene arising from any constitutional cause. Unlimited in that case, it is here limited in extent to the source of gangrene, and probably restricted to less than that extent, by the enlargement of branches coming from the artery above the seat of injury, which supply a collateral and compensatory circulation of blood. Thus limited is the gangrene arising from the ossification of arteries or senile gan- grene ; from arteritis; from embolism; from partial rupture of an artery; from aneurism ; from wound of an artery, whether punctured, contused, or lacerated; and from ligature. But, then, the limitation connected with some of these causes—the point to which gangrene may extend—can scarcely be determined during life. This is the practical ground of distinction between senile gangrene, arising from ossification of the arterial vessels, and traumatic gangrene; and in favour of the latter, the limitation of which can be more definitely predicated. Failing this foreknowledge, the Surgeon must wait the "line of demarcation," drawn by nature.GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 222 (h.) Veins are less liable to become causes of mortification; obstruc- tion to the return of venous blood from any part of the body, having a less important relation in this respect, than obstruction to the supply of arterial blood. Phlebitis induces coagulation of blood within the vein or veins in- flamed, and this obstruction is attended with oedematous swelling of the linib or part below. The swelling becomes tense and persistent, a condition bordering on gangrene. Phlegmasia dolens, in which the iliac and femoral veins, the main venous trunks of the limb, are inflamed, thus perils the leg below. Fibrous obliteration of a venous trunk is another such cause, once in a way, of tense anasarca. ^ Phleboliths or vein-stones, not unfrequently formed within various veins, more particularly the iliac, have a similar tendency. Aneurismal varix and varicose aneurism, resulting from a communi- cation between an artery and a companion vein, as from unskilful venesection at the bend of the elbow, is attended with venous engorge- ment, persistent and increasing, and oedematous swelling of the limb below, threatening gangrene. Prolonged pressure on a large vein, itself in a healthy state, is an extraneous cause of obstruction to the return of venous blood. Tumours may thus, indirectly, have this effect in relation to mortifica- tion. But, usually, pressure produces an entire arrest of the circula- tion, arterial and venous; as by the application of a tight bandage at the elbow, after venesection, causing gangrene of the hand; the con- striction of paraphimosis leads to gangrenous inflarnmation of the prepuce; and a hernial stricture induces gangrene of the included bowel or omentum. On any exposed part of the body, the influence of prolonged pressure is witnessed in the formation of ulcers, as bed- sores. The limitation of gangrene is no less characteristic of that which arises from obstruction in the course of a large vein, than from obstruc- tion of a main artery; the gangrene, in either case, extending possibly up to, and probably within, that situation. Thus both classes of causes, those pertaining to the arteries and those pertaining to the veins, concur; and differ from any constitu- tional cause, in relation to gangrene. But the limitation dependent on some venous causes, like that dependent on certain arterial causes, can scarcely he foreseen. Diseased conditions of veins are more often perplexing in this respect, as com- pared with any tendency to gangrene of traumatic origin from injury to a large vein. (c.) Capillaries.—Compression of these vessels is followed by gan- grene of the part, if thereby deprived of a due supply of blood. Inflammation, therefore, with lymph-production, and compression of the capillary vessels, reacts destructively upon the textures. More- over, inflammatory products, for the most part, are inherently short- lived. And especially during suppuration, the surrounding textures are dying, disintegrating, and being absorbed to make room for the new product—pus ; destruction and production here usually keep- ing pace. Hence the formation of abscess necessarily pre-supposes the death and absorption of the textures around; and co-extensively with the formation of pus, which now occupies their place. Sometimes,ULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 223 they die faster than absorption can remove them, and then their i mortification—as sloughing of the soft textures or a sequestrum of | dead bone—becomes plainly visible. Certain conditions predispose to gangrenous inflammation. Blood- poisons ai-e constitutional causes of this kind ; as in the production of carbuncle and boil, phlegmonous erysipelas, and the other forms of : gangrenous inflammation, already mentioned in connection with the \ constitutional causes of mortification. Intensity of inflammation has a similar tendency. And lastly, the vascularity of the texture affected; a comparatively avascular tissue readily becoming gangrenous, and especially if looseness of texture pennit the accumulation of serum, as the cellular tissue in erysipelas ; but any texture will be perilled under the pressure of effusion beneath an unyielding investment, as the ten- dinous expansion of the occipito-frontalis muscle. j (3.) Physical and structural conditions of the part relative to mor- : tification in general. i Of physical properties; an unyielding fascia or aponeurosis, e.g., ' the fascia lata, predisposes subjacent textures to gangrene, by pressure ' in the event of any effusion of blood or serum therein. Looseness of j texture also predisposes to this issue, by favouring an interstitial • : accumulation of blood or serum. Traumatic gangrene is determined, ' partly, by these physical conditions impeding the nutrition of the part; although mainly, by the insufficient circulation of blood depriving it of adequate nourishment, and by the damage which the textures have, directly or indirectly, sustained by violence. Structural conditions predispose to mortification; the proportion of blood-vessels having this relation. Both extremes meet. Thus, comparatively avascular textures have a tendency to gangrene ; e.g., the liability of cellular texture to slough, from any cause. Highly vascular textures also have j a similar tendency, apparently by favouring the intensity of inflamma- j tion and effusion; e.g., the skin as compared with fibrous or tendinous textures, which often resist sloughing long after the integument has disappeared in consequence of an extensive bum. Predisposition to gangrene from textural conditions is most con- spicuous when they are co-operative causes. Cellular texture, for ex- ample, being comparatively avascular, as well as liable by its looseness ' i to become the seat of interstitial effusions, most readily sloughs. Causes of Ulceration.—By some variation in the degree of any cause of Mortification, this process of mass-disintegration subsides into that of molecular disintegration. Ulceration is mortification by small in- \ stalments. Consequently, similar conditions of texture predispose thereto. Thus, with regard to vascularity; the less vascular textures are prone to ulcerate, as well as mortify,—e.g., cellular texture and j cicatrix tissue; in this respect agreeing with the liability of the highly '' vascular skin, and mucous memljrane, to inflammation and thence to ulceration. | The comparative liability of different textures to ulceration and mortification, is well shown in the natural process by which a dead I limb is gradually separated from the living tissues; they detaching j themselves from the dead. All, excepting the cellular texture and ! tendons, are severed by ulceration forming a fissure, which is pro- gressively incisive down to and through the bone. The dead skin, vessels, muscular tissue, and bone are severally detached evenly, by ki224 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. ■ulceration ; but tlie cellular texture and tendons die for some distance upwards within the stump, and are separated irregularly, by sloughing. (4.) Nervous influence, of some kind, plays an important part in mortification and ulceration. For example, injury to the spine has been followed within twenty-four hours by mortification of the ankle; and the tendency to ulceration in such a case, or of the cornea in con- nection with facial paralysis, is equally remarkable. Considering the whole internal etiology of mortification and ulcera- tion practically, the most important general fact is the co-operation, usually, of two or more causes, in either mode of textural death; whereby it is diificult to determine the share due to each internal condition, more especially in conjunction with the operation of external circumstances, such as moisture, temperature, etc. The Fever of Mortification.—Coincident with mortification, as the local disorganization, the constitutional disorder at once commences. Its phenomena or symptoms are generally more insidious, but not unlike those of Pytemia, though differing in degree. The patient has a wild apprehensive look, with great restlessness; the features and manner at length become somewhat composed, and the face assumes a pallid hue. In some cases, the tunica conjunctivas, and the skin over the whole body, acquire a peculiar yellow colour. Utter prostration of mind and muscular power gradually supervenes, and a quivering subsultus tendinum steals over the body. The pulse is now very feeble, rapid, and irregular, feeling like a fine rough wire drawn under the finger, and perhaps scarcely to be distinguished from the vibrating siibsultus of the adjoining tendons. The secretions are soon perverted. The skin, at first hot and dry, is afterwards bathed with a cold, clammy sweat. The urine, foetid and scanty, may be suppressed. A brown, rough, dry tongue with black sordes encrusting the lips, is accompanied with nausea and a putrid diarrhoea. The powers of organic and of animal life failing, involuntaiy excito-motions prevail; spasms and convulsions shake the moribund frame, while coma ends in death. Post-mortem examination reveals no appreciable morbid con- ditions, although Billroth states that, in some cases, putrid abscesses have been found in the lungs. Or, the mortification ceases to spread. The reddish-brown tint of the skin bordering the dead part, and which has hitherto spread in advance, gets brighter and more circumscribed. A white raised line— the " line of demarcation"—forms in the living skin immediately adjoining the dead; it melts into a groove by ulceration, which extend- ing deeper and deeper, as a fissure, successively passes through tissue after tissue, and at length converging, completely detaches the whole of the dead part. (Fig- 77.) Pending this course of severation from the living organism, adhesive inflammation precedes the line of ulcera- tion, and, corresponding to it in length and depth, seals the blood- vessels ; thus effectually excluding any further communication with the dead tissues, and preventing their absorption for the time to come. The typhoid fever immediately begins to subside, and ultimately ceases. In exchange, some degree of " inflammatory fever " accompanies the concurrent process of ulcerative separation and reparative adhesion. Such is a descriptive outline of the origin, course, and termination, fatal or favourable, of the constitutional disorder proceeding from mortification. Arising with spreading gangrene, it ceases when theULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 225 dead part is detached from the living body. Respecting the obvious dependence of this fever on mortification; these two general facts, taken conjointly, seem to warrant the conclusion that absorption of the dead tissues as the connecting link is the immediate cause of the fever. The presence of gas, as decomposition supervenes on sphacelus, is probably a co-operative cause, subsequently, by its direct influence on the nervous system. Absorption of dead matter primarily, nervous sympathy secondarily, and ultimately both together, induce and main- tain the typhoid fever which proceeds from mortification. Treatment of Moetipication.. Taking a comprehensive retrospect of the pathology and etiology of (ulceration and) mortification, the Indications of Treatment are four :— (1.) To remove the cause or causes in operation, and thus arrest the progress of death. (2.) To remove the dead part—e.g., a slough, a sequestrum, a limb ; and the proper time for such surgical interference. (3.) To solicit the natural separation of the dead part, with repara- tive closure of the blood-vessels; and then the reparative process of granulation and cicatrization. (4.) To control the constitutional disorder, consequent on mortifi- cation. (1.) The first indication of Treatment—that of removing the cause or causes of mortification—requires no further explanation than by reference to the causes themselves, whether they be external or in- ternal. Thus, any occasion of pressure, as by a tight bandage, must be removed ; or ossification of the arteries in the legs must be managed, by reference to the pathology of this internal cause, as a persistent condition, in senUe gangrene. (2.) Removal of the dead part by operation, and the proper time for such surgical interference. The earliest opportunity for fulfilling this indication, with due • regard to the non-recurrence of gangrene in the part adjoining, may 1 be a highly important question for the surgeon's consideration. Thus, the removal of a loose slough of soft textures or a seques- 1 tmm of bone, cannot admit of any such doubt; for there and then, 1 mortification has become defined. The amputation of a limb will, however, be a question having r reference to the spreading of gangrene, and the probability of its re- currence in the stump. The consideration which j?ariZy determines this question is,, the con- s stitutional or the local origin of the gangrene. In the former case, s spreading without limitation, as to its extent, amputation must be post- r poned until the "line of demarcation" has formed; in the latter, limited ■i va. its extent to the source of gangrene, and probably restricted to within I! that boundary, by the establishment of a collateral circulation, from i above to below, amputation may be performed prior to the formation of ti the line of demarcation. Thus, in traumatic gangrene, from whatever cause,—contused or lacerated wound, compound fracture or disloca- ition—amputation is determined, not by waiting for the limitation of ' sloughing, but by the extent of injury as its source. QGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 226 But in certain of these naturally limited gangrenes, the limitation cannot he foretold, simply because the exact situation of the causative condition cannot be diagnosed. Of arterial conditions; such are ossifi- cation of a main artery or arteries, leading to senile gangrene ; arteritis, indefinite in a lesser degree, as to its extent; embolism; and partial rupture of an artery without any external wound. Of venous condi- ditions; such also are fibrous obliteration of a large vein; phleboliths or vein-stones impacted; and phlebitis, indefinite as to its extent. Hence, in all these cases, arterial and venous—the treatment appro- priate for the particular causative condition having failed—amputation must be deferred until such time as nature has indicated, by the forma- tion of the line of demarcation, that limitation which cannot be fore- seen. The venous conditions referred to seldom, if ever, necessitate amputation. On the other hand, the line of demarcation can be foretold, in other cases of definitely local origin. Such are aneurisms, spontaneous and traumatic, and wounds of a main artery; aneurismal varix, and varicose aneurism; and any occasion of prolonged pressure on a large vein. Hence in all these cases—arterial or venous—the treatment appro- priate for the particular causative condition having failed, amputation may be resorted to before the formation of the line of demarcation has indicated the actual extent to which the gangrene will spread. Generally speaking, the rule for amputation may be thus stated, in all cases of local origin; idiopathic gangrene, however caused, suggests the postponement of amputation until the limitation of gangrene is declared by Nature; whereas traumatic gangrene, however caused, suggests amputation more immediately, this anticipation of Nature by Surgical Art then being justifiable. Two exceptions are urged by Erichsen—namely, gangrene from frostbite, and that from severe burns. In these injuries, he considers it better to wait for the forma- tion of the line of separation, and then to fashion the stump through or just above it, as the circumstances of the case require. In Spreading traumatic gangrene, the question of amputation is to be determined rather by the consideration that a constitutional cause is in operation. Operative interference, thei'efore, should be deferred, pending the formation of the natural line of demarcation,—as was directed by Sharp and Pott. The contrary rule is, however, maintained by Larrey, and some other modern surgeons of large experience; that in this condition, if life be in danger, amputation should be performed, although gangrene may yet be spreading. (3.) Solicitation of the natural separation of the dead part, with reparative closure of the blood-vessels ; and the healing process of granulation and cicatrization. Constitutional gangrene, or gangrene arising from local conditions the exact situation of which cannot be diagnosed, may, in either case, have compelled the delay of amputation until the line of demarca- tion takes place; but Surgical Art should solicit this limitation, and thus also, if possible, restrict the extent to which the gangrene might otherwise have spread. By maintaining the temperature of the part not yet mortified, the lo(iial circulation may become diffused sufficiently to sustain its vitality; whereby the line of demarcation between the living and the dead portions will be declared. Hence, the preventive value of cotton wadding, with which material the limbULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 227 should be deeply enveloped. This padding need not be reapplied for some days; the gangrenous part being covered with lint soaked in a solution of permanganate of potash (Condy's fluid), a chlorinated, car- bolic, or other antiseptic lotion. Concentrated solutions of carbolic acid, e.g., 3 ii to lib of olive oil, are apt to induce symptoms of poison- ino-, indicated by olive-green urine. (Billroth.) A poultice of pow- dered charcoal answers the double purpose of an antiseptic and moist warm dressing. In senile gangrene, the line of demarcation having formed, and separation of the dead part slowly taking place, reparative closure of the blood-vessels will be promoted by a light poultice or epithem of moist spongiopiline, to encourage adhesive inflammation. When the soft textures are thus safely detached, the bone may be sawn through, and the otherwise natural amputation completed by this amount of surgical interference. Granulation and cicatrization supervene as in tbe bealing of a healthy ulcer, although perhaps more slowly than usual. Simple water dressing, or some gently stimulating lotion, will therefore generally prove sufficient in the way of topical treatment. Balsam of Peru, pure or diluted, with an equal part of yolk of fegg, is highly recommended as an application in these cases. Remembering the persistent cause of gangrene, namely, ossification of the arteries, exposure to cold must ever be avoided, and the circulation in the legs cherisbed by the patient wearing thick woollen socks, flannel drawers, and other suck warm clothing. (4.) Constitutional Treatment.—Prior to closure of tbe vessels, the constitutional disorder consequent on gangrene—the typkoidal fever— requires supporting measures; an easily assimilated diet, comprising proportionately more animal food, malt liquor, and alcoholic stimulants, will prove most beneficial. Of medicinal stimulants and tonics ; the sesquicarbonate of ammonia and chlorate of potash, with cinchona bark or cascarilla, form a combination whicb is, I think, more lauded in the books, than suggested by pathology or sanctioned by expei-ience. Opium is, generally, a remedy of great value, apparently by subduing the pain and nervous excitement; and by promoting the capillary circiilation, thus aiding the process of separation. It should be ad- ministered in small but repeated doses, to the amount of two to four grains in the twenty-four hours, and increased as the system is brought under its influence ; but opium is contra-indicated or must be discon- tinued, whenever it disturbs the digestive organs or occasions headache. The hypodermic injection of morphia may, however, not be obnoxious. Inflammatory fever, in some degree, accompanies occlusion of the vessels during the separation of the gangrenous part; opium may, therefore, still be continued to suppress nervous excitement and the heart's action, while it perhaps sustains adhesive inflammation. Tbe stimulant and tonic plan of treatment should be moderated during this period, and resumed during convalescence.DISEASES OF THE BLOOD. CHAPTER Y. SCROFULA. By the term Blood-disease, I mean a disease in which some alteration of the blood is the primary affection, as from a poisoned woand ; or is the central condition, although the blood-forming organs, and all the textures, in the processes of assimilation, primary and secondary, and thus the whole body may be engaged in the disease. The latter will be considered first, as representing blood-diseases of a constitutional character, essentially. Their aflBnities and differences are of great practical importance. Scrofula should be distinguished from Tuberculosis ; for these diseases do not appear to be identical, as some pathologists have main- tained, and even still allege. I endorse the view held by Sir James Paget, that this is their relation—" the scrofulous constitution implies a peculiar liability to the tuberculous diseases, and that they often co-exist. But their differences are evident, in that many instances of scrofula (in the ordinary meaning of the word) exist with intense and long-continued disease, but without tuberculous deposit; that as many instances of tuberculous disease may be found without any of the non- tuberculous affections of scrofula; that, as Mr. Simon has proved, while diseases of ' defective power ' may be experimentally produced in animals by insufficient nutriment and other debilitating influences, tuberculous diseases are hardly artificially producible; and that nearly all other diseases may co-exist with the scrofulous, but some are nearly incompatible with the tuberculous." General Symptoms.—Scrofula exhibits itself locally by " mal-nutri- tion and chronic inflammation." This inflammation is scarcely ex- pressed by pain or heat, or redness, but rather by swelling, more or less considerable and doughy, slowly enlarging, and tending to suppu- ration ; yet scrofulous suppuration is unwillLng, so to speak, and the pus a mixture of curd and serum. Should a scrofulous abscess point, the skin thins, but gradually, and assumes a purplish tint; an irregular rent follows after some time, and the flaky matter rolls out. Perhaps this aperture gets blocked up and imperfectly closed ; the matter re- accumulating, again to be discharged, and so on from time to time. Or the aperture may remain free, with puffy everted edges, of a purplish colour, and the discharge continue—now thick, now thin. The scrofulov^s ulcer, which eventually results, is equally indolent. It persists, with a thin, livid, undermined margin, large, pale, flabbySCROFULA. 229 oramilations and a gleety discharge ; although, sometimes pretending to heal, by this discharge crusting over its surface. Should cicatri- zation ensue, the scrofulous cicatrix appears drawn, puckered, and incomplete. Small bridges form across the ulcer, underneath which a probe can be passed readily, in and out, here and there. Nature does but " skin and film the ulcerous spot." Special Forms.—Scrofula is essentially a " pervading " disease. It blossoms and bears fruit chiefly in the absorbent glands, in the skin and cellular texture, mucous membranes, bones and joints, eyes, salivary glands, tonsils, ears, breasts, and in the testicles. Then, again, in some cases, various parts are simultaneously affected, in others consecutively; the scrofulous affection " migrating" from one texture or part to another texture or part. But their order of priority cannot be stated with accuracy. In some textures, the scrofulous affection is moi*e pro- nounced than in others. Ahsorhent glands, so called, appear to invite the deposit of scrofu- lous matter. At first soft and fleshy, these glands enlarge and harden; portions of each gland are observed to have altogether lost their flesh colour, and acquired a degree of transparen,cy, and a texture approach- ing to that of cartilage. At length, a soft, white, or yellowish, curd- like substance is deposited. Glandular tumours, thus formed about the neck and groin, sometimes attain an enormous size; in the latter situation, being perhaps half as lai'ge as the head of a new-born child. An enlarged scrofulous gland is not necessarily impervious—at least, mercury can be injected in many instances. Scrofulous glands are remarkably indolent, but eventually they soften and discharge the peculiar pus—flaky and ichorous, perhaps cretaceous matter; or they remain as soft and spongy tumours, beneath a thin, silky cuticle, which frequently breaks and oozes; or they waste, and are at length repre- sented only by a few bands of condensed cellular tissue attached to the cicatrized integument. Absorbent vessels are said to be rarely the receptacles of scrofulous matter, but there are such instances on record. Chronic enlargement with suppuration of the lymphatic glands is one of the earliest and most characteristic manifestations of scrofula. In childhood, therefore, these glands may be found as just described, in various stages of scrofulous inflammation and suppuration. Yet this is a rare event in children under two years of age. Cullen men- tions a case in which the disease broke out at the very early period of three months. Taking the other extreme, Thomson found the mesen- teric glands affected with scrofulous inflammation in persons of very advanced age. In various parts, also, of the body, the lymphatic glands may become scrofulous. Those in the neck—glandulm concatenatcB—are perhaps most frequently affected. This enlargement of the cervical glands is apt to arise from slight and transitory injuries and affections of the hairy scalp, ears, eyes, nose, and more particularly from slight and temporary affections of the teeth, gums, and other parts within the mouth. Decay of the first teeth is often the immediate cause of scrofulous glandular swellings in the neck, bat their eruption, seldom or never. The axillary and crural glands are less frequently affected than those of the neck. The mesenteric glands are very liable to undergo scrofulous inflammation, constituting that formidable disease230 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. tales mesenterica, by arresting the absorption and passage of chyle through these glands, and thus inevitably depriving the whole body of its nutriment. A tumid abdomen, with progressive emaciation, begets suspicion of this disease; while detection of the mesenteric mass, by palpation and percussion, will go far towards confirming our diagnosis. But wo look for the concurrence of some other expressions of the scro- fulous diathesis. Age, also, should be taken into account; although, in this respect, Thomson found the mesenteric glands affected in children two years old, in persons between twenty and thirty, and in those wbo had passed their sixtieth year. The cellular texture is peculiarly liable to exhibit scrofulous swell- ings, bordering on suppuration or actual collections of matter. In the subcutaneous cellular tissue, small nodules are apt to form closely resembling scrofulous glands in appearance. They often appear very suddenly; and from the absence of pain and discoloration, they may exist a long time without being perceived. They are usually of an oval figure, and seem to be produced by the effusion of a fluid into the interstices of the cellular texture ; they are very variable in their size, being one day more prominent and tense, and the next more flaccid. Subcutaneous abscesses may form, and are usually numerous. When an absorbent gland suppurates and bursts, a fistulous sore is the result; but abscess in the subcutaneous cellular texture commonly terminates in an open scrofulous ulcer. In the sheaths of muscles, large chronic abscesses sometimes gather insidiously, containing the pus which characterizes scrofulous suppura- tion. The sJcin is more than liable—it is prone—to scrofulous eruptions and ulceration. Its wrinkled seams and puckered scars are familiar to common observation. And these vestiges are not unfrequently " sym- metrically " disposed on either side of the body. An instance of remarkably symmetrical scrofulous scars on the neck and fore part of the chest, occurred in a patient of mine at the Royal Free Hospital. In the middle line, a vertical scar extended downwards to the sterno- clavicular articulation, terminating in a kind of root, and upwards to the OS hyoides. From thence a branch scar passed upwards and back- wards to the angle of the jaw, on either side ; and from this again, on either side, another seam extended upwards to the mastoid process, and downwards on the sterno-mastoid muscle. Either axilla was the seat of a horizontal seam, which discharged a small quantity of scrofulous matter. According to the special experience of Erasmus Wilson, cuta- neous scT'ofula is presented in two conditions—that of tubercles, and that of idcers. Scrofulous tubercles are small, purplish or livid, indo- lent tumours. They soften internally and discharge an imperfect pus, remain open or fistulous for a long time, and on disappearing, fre- 'quently leave hard knots in the skin. They appear on the neck and face, and near ulcers resulting from inflammation of the absorbent glands. When such tubercles have partially discharged their contents, a crust of inspissated matter forms, which being rubbed off occasionally, exhibits an open sore, with an ichorous discharge, and no disposition to heal. Eventually an ugly cicatrix or scar marks the site of these sores. Usually but one scrofulous tubercle arises; sometimes a group of three or four close together, which may have a circular arrangement, enclosing an area of thin, shining, livid or purpHsh skin. Rings ofSCROFULA. 231 this kind occur chiefly on the back of the hands and feet. They are very intractable. The characters of the scrofulous ulcer need not be repeated. An irregular, livid, and puckered scar is its remnant. Such cicatrices are seen mostly in the neck, near enlarged glands, and in the neighbour- hood of joints. Inflammation of the matrix of one or other of the nails is not un- common, more particularly in young persons having the scrofulous diathesis. Scrof ulo-derma ungueale, so named, begins by inflammation of the skin immediately round the edges of the nail about to be affected ; then follows considerable swelling, with vivid redness of the end of the finger, extending even to the bone, and presenting the appearance of a clubbed finger. The nail is shed, disclosing an angry raw surface, upon which, from time to time, there reappears a rugged, Hi-formed, and imperfect nail. Fungous granulations and unhealthy pus continue for perhaps many months. Other cutaneous manifestations of scrofula are noticed by some writers. Pomgo favosa, larvalis, and furfurans ; eczema impetiginodes and rubrum, in their chronic forms ; and f.hat variety of lupus which appears as small, red, button-like, indolent tubercles, chiefly on the lips and nose, occasionally on the genitals. These tubercles excoriate and run into eroding ulcers, with pale, shining, spongy granulations and encrusted margins ; or perhaps this work of destruction is concealed by a thick incrustation, which every now and then drops off, exposing its subjacent ravages. The osseous system and the joints seem to invite scrofulous inflamma- tion—in this respect somewhat contrasting with the indisposition evinced by these structures towards the syphilitic poison, unless rein- forced by mercury. The bones and joints, then, are more conspicuous in the history of scrofulous manifestations. In the extremities of long bones, or in the bones of the carpus and tarsus, their cancellated portion is specially liable to undergo scrofulous caries. Sometimes this species of mal-nutrition runs its course within the shaft of a long bone, but generally speaking, as I have said, in the neighbourhood of joints. The latter are secondarily invaded, caries so placed then being denominated "scrofulous disease of the joints." In the career of scrofula, mucous memhranes are not exempt from harm, particularly if its blood-associate, tuberculosis, be considered an ally. The eyes, ears, nose, upper lip, tongue, tonsils, salivary glands, and larynx, severally exhibit scrofulous inflammation; yet this is not altogether limited to the mucous membrane in connection with these parts. Scrofulous ophthalmia is a variety of conjunctivitis, characterized by great intolerance of light; so that the child (for this affection occurs mostly in young subjects) seeks a dark room, or buries its head m the bed-clothes, and screws its brows together with screaming agony on any attempt being made to examine the eyeball. From habitually endeavouring to exclude the light, the corrugator and orbicularis muscles become hypertrophied, eventually giving a remarkable heavi- ness of expression. When the eyelids are separated, a copious flow of tears trickles down the cheeks, excoriating the face. The eyeball is now involuntarily upturned to avoid the light, a patchy redness is observable on the conjunctiva, and vesicles or pustules are seen hereGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 232 and there at the margin or on the surface of the cornea. These pus- tules burst and expose small ulcers. Frequently an interstitial deposit overshadows the whole cornea, which thas becomes thickened and opaque (pannus), projecting also, so that the eyelids cannot be closed. This is one destructive sequel, and should ulceration of the cornea not terminate comparatively favourably, in specks of opacity, perforation of the anterior chamber will be inevitable, the aqueous humour is dis- charged with prolapsus of the iris, and the eye collapses. Fretting ulceration of the Meibomian glands, attacking the margin more especially of the eyelids, and known as ophthalmia tarsi, is a frequent concomitant of scrofulous ophthalmia; or this diseased con- dition extends to the iris, giving rise to scrofulous iritis. But there is nothing peculiar about this variety of iritis, taken per se; and indeed it is only as one of a series oi local manifestations that we venture to designate it " scrofulous" iritis, and refer the whole series to one and the same constitutional cause in operation. The organs of hearing do not escape. Chronic suppuration per- forates the tympanum; the ossicula crumble, loosen, and are washed out by the discharge. The nose assuredly enjoys no immunity. Habitual swelling, ulcera- tion, and foetid discharge from the pituitary membrane—ozaena—may or may not be accompanied with caries and discharge of portions of the spongy bones. The upper lip is commonly tumid, protuberant, and chapped. Fissures also and ulcerated spots are seen on the tongue. Nodules, moreover, superficially imbedded in the substance of this organ are said to arise in most instances, and to present the following characters. They vary in size from a small shot to that of a horse-bean ; are pain- less, unless subjected to firm pressure, which occasions a pricking sensation. The superimposed mucous membrane reddens, soon breaks in the centre, and forms an ulcer, which spreads and destroys by sloughing erosion; accompanied with mucli pain, profuse salivation, furred tongue, and foetid breath. If cicatrization ensue, hardness still remains ; fresh nodules also form in other parts of the tongue. Chronic and considerable enlargement of the tonsils, with perhaps indolent ulceration, is another outbreak of the scrofulous diathesis; so likewise is swelling of the sub-lingual, sub-maxillary, and occasionally the parotid salivary glands; but these affections alike owe their signi- ficance to the invariable co-existence of other local diseases of more unequivocally scrofulous origin. Chronic laryngitis may be due to this constitutional cause. The vocal cords become thickened; the voice therefore is hoarse or squeak- ing, and the breathing embari'assed; a tickling cough from time to time ejects a slimy, not frothy, expectoration, streaked with blood perhaps; or the sputa are muco-purulent. In either case the breathing is relieved by this expectoration ; but eventually ulceration of the rima glottidis renders its closure imperfect, the act of coughing incomplete, and expectoration therefore difficult; so that the respiration is yet moi'e oppressed. Should ulceration of the epiglottis supervene, there will be considerable difficulty of deglutition. A certain mammary tumour was first described by Sir A. Cooper. In young women, says this author, who have enlargement of the cervical glands, I have sometimes, though rarely, seen tumours of a233, SCROFULA. scrofulous nature form in their bosoms, confined in most cases to a single tumour in one breast; but in one case two existed in one breast, and one in tlie otber. They are entirely unattended with pain, are distinctly circumscribed, are very smooth on their surfaces, and scarcely tender to pressure. They are very indolent, but vary with the state of the constitution, diminishing as it improves, and increasing as the general health is deteriorating. They can only be distinguished from simple chronic inflammation of the breast, by the absence of tender- ness, and by the existence of other diseases of a similar kind in the absorbent glands of other parts of the body. They produce no danger- ous effects, and do not degenerate into malignancy. Lastly, a peculiar enlargement of the testicle, or rather, of the epididymis, is worthy of special notice among the local manifestations of scrofula; and it particularly exhibits the usual characters of stealthi- ness and slow development. A small nodule, consisting of yellow friable matter deposited within the tubules or ducts, appears generally at one end of the epididymis; little pain or tenderness attends this structural change, and it may progress without complaint. Another and another such nodule forms on the 'surface of the testis, but generally connected with the epididymis, which becomes beset with three or four small tumours. Thus the testicle itself feels enlarged and irregular at an early stage of this disease. It has been stated by Mr. Curling, that scrofulous matter is also deposited within the body of the testis, in the form of pearly or greyish bodies, of the shape and size of millet-seeds—i.e., grey granular tuber- cles, which I suppose this description denotes. That these tubercles have a linear arrangement, like strung beads, less abundant and less regular in the anterior part of the organ than towards the rete-testis, where they are closely set, and sometimes confluent; and that they undergo transformation into a yellow friable cheesy substance, which at a later period softens, and is often broken up into a curdy j^urulent fluid, the gland-structure being absorbed to give place to this tuber- culous matter. But, if tubercles are deposited within the testicle itself, this structural change signifies little in reference to the diagnosis of this disease, for the testis is often masked by small local effusions of fluid in the tunica vaginalis, the surfaces of which are partially adherent. Now, the epididymis may remain nodose for many months ; the nodules quiescent, or enlarging very slowly, and becoming j^ainful. At length one declares itself more than the rest, attaches itself to the skin, which then assumes a purplish discolouration, ulcerates, and dis- charges a curdy purulent matter—the substance of the nodule. Other nodules undergo successively this process of disintegration, softening, and evacuation; but, unlike healthy abscesses, they do not heal. Fis- tulous openings obstinately continue to exude a mixed discharge—now curdy, now serous, now seminal; and in this advanced stage of the disease,^ destruction of more or less of the gland-substance is inevitable. According to Sir B. Brodie's observations, occasionally one testis is completely disorganized; more frequently the organ is only partially destroyed, and a considerable portion of the glandular structure re- mains unimpaired. Sometimes the disease is confined to one testicle; sometimes both arc similarly involved. By this process of disorganization and protracted discharge theGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 234 testicle is drilled and worm-eaten, as it were; so that eventually the organ collapses and shrivels up, a fragment only of its former self. There is seldom, therefore, any protrusion of gland-substance through the fistulous scrotum; on the contrary, in a favourable case the aper- tures gradually become inverted and depressed, leaving, after the lapse of time, a puckered cicatrix, adherent to the remainmg portion of the gland, as a lasting record of all this mischief. Blood-pathology.—In concluding this summary of many local diseases, which, possessing the same general characters, are fairly asso- ciated under the name of Scrofula, it is impossible to overlook at least two general facts that indicate their blood-origin. These diseases are perversions of nutrition in "many" textures and organs simultaneously; they " migi'ate " from one locality to another, and they are occasionally symmetrical. So, therefoi-e, scrofula is, properly speaking, a blood- disease, and the diseases alluded to are but local manifestations of a constitutional cause in operation. Nothing definite is known respecting the composition of the blood in scrofula. The blood is said to be rich in its amount of fibrin, but thin, of inferior plastic quality, and poor in its proportion of red cor- puscles ; such is the result of analysis by Andral and Gavarret: that the solids of the serum are increased, and the blood-globules dimi- nished, was the result of Dr. M. Glover's analyses; and so on I might enumerate the conclusions of many other distinguished chemists. Causes.—Temperament.—Certain bodily organizations evince a ten- dency to scrofula, and beget a suspicion that it will declare itself in some way, sooner or later. Individuals thus constituted are ever verging on this morbid condition, with threatenings of its outbreak here or there; but it must be confessed that no one temperament alone possesses the scrofulous character. It is the tendency of those whose circulation is habitually weak—^are leucophlegmatic—who have flabby muscles, a dull muddy complexion, large heads, pigeon breasts, tumid bellies, and large joints; but then the strumous tendency is manifested in those persons also who, with a more active circulation, are rather of the sanguine temperament, have firmer muscles, a clear, transparent, ruddy complexion, which readily assumes a purple or livid hue by exposure to cold. The circulation, although active, is susceptible. Chilblains, therefore, not uncommonly occur in children of this tem- perament; while their yellow or reddish hair, large lustrous blue eyes, crimson-patched cheeks, and pouting upper lip, are associated with that lively, impulsive, affectionate, and precocious disposition which so often raises hopeful expectations never to be realized. In contrast, however, with this organization and with these mental endowments, the same strumous tendency may be evinced in the highest degree by those who, without any marked character of circuhv- tion, are habitually subject to biliousness. In such persons the liver seems to be their weak point. Sluggish, yet enduring power is theirs also; and hair approaching black in colour, a dark olive or yellowish complexion, and dry skin, are aptly associated with a gloomy, often resolute, and reflective disposition. Theirs is the melancholic tempera- ment. These are the chief signs of the scrofulous diathesis, although it may appear also in persons of the nervous temperament; and, indeed, the same tendency can be induced in those who are congenitally most indisposed to it when subjected to circumstances favourable to its development.235 SCROFULA. Hygienic Conditions.—Whatever impairs the nutritive qualities of the blood and its circulation may produce scrofula; therefore, deficient or defective food, indoor life, insufficient ventilation, want of cleanliness and excretion, poor clothing, cold, damp, and even dark localities, with other circumstances of similar character, are the nurseries and nurses of this blood-disease. At the same time, individual predisposition, as usual, plays its part; for among a family of children iu precisely the same hygienic circumstances, one becomes scrofulous, while the rest escape. Treatment.—Preventive measures are far more efficacious than remedial treatment. They consist in the anticipation or timely removal of the predisposing hygienic conditions just adverted to; any inborn predisposition by temperament being beyond prevention. Due atten- tion to food is primarily important. In the absence of more precise knowledge respecting the blood-condition in scrofula, it is impossible to direct and regulate the diet chemically. Experience, however, suggests a light nutritive diet, and not to overload the stomach by a heavy meal. Stimulants may be necessary to assist digestion, but they should be indulged in sparingly. The pampered scrofulous child of affluent parents is as badly ofE as the ill-fed child of the poorest. The bowels, which are very apt to be costive, or at least irregular in their action, will require the assistance of gentle aperients, such as rhubarb or the confection of senna. Not less important is daily exercise in pure air, and ablution not only to cleanse the skin, but to invigorate the circulation and promote excretion. Hence, sea-bathing may prove very beneficial. Friction with the horse-hair gloves and belt, or a rough towel, and warm clothing, with flannel next the skin, are likewise salutary. But, a warm, dry, light locality for habitation, in a well- ventilated and well-drained dwelling, constitute the hygienic surround- ings which are most preventive of scrofula. The latter, especially, is a hard prescription for the poor to carry out. Among, however, the many blessings bestowed on them in this vast metropolis, by the imperishable philanthropy of Mr. George Peabody, a yearly decreasing predisposition to scrofula will perhaps be the greatest boon. Curative treatment implies the same continued attention to the removal of any causes provocative of this disease. The hygienic con- ditions of diet, exercise, air, ablution for cleanliness and invigoration, clothing, and climatic influence, are still of paramount importance. But certain medicinal agents, principally iron, iodide of potassium, bark, and cod-liver oil, have an acknowledged therapeutic value. Iron may be given in the form of vinum ferri, the ammonio-citrate, the citrate or the sulphate of iron ; the latter of which preparations I prefer, as it improves the blood more effectually. This is denoted by a notable arrest or diminution of any sci'ofulous deposit in the glands or other parts of the body. Iodide of potassium has a beneficial influence on scrofulous deposit, apparently by promoting its absorption; but I must confess that this mfluence seems to me overrated. Iodide of iron is unquestionably remedial, but this is probably due to the iron rather than the iodine. Perhaps, therefore, the therapeutic value of iodide of potassium in scrofula, may be attributed to the latter ingredient; an explanation in harmony with the generally accredited efficacy of other preparations of potash in this disease.GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 236 Cod-liver oil must be regarded rather as a food than a medicine; by supplying the diminished amount of fat in the blood, relative to the fibrm. ^ It certainly has a most marked influence on scrofulous mal- nutrition. Cinchona bark, whether in the form of decoction or tincture, or quinine, is highly serviceable as a tonic in strengthening the circulation, and thence indirectly improving nutrition and all other functions. But it has no special influence on scrofula, and must be regarded as an adjunct to other medicinal measures. I am thus ac- customed to prescribe the sulphate of iron in doses of three to five grains, with one or two grains of the disulphate of quinine, three times a day ; coupled with a teaspoonf ul of cod-liver oil. Local treatment has some effect on the chronic enlargement of glands, and of other parts, arising from scrofulous deposit. Applications of the compound tincture of iodine, or the stronger iodine-paint, may be advantageously aided in their stimulant operation by the pressure of strapping with soap plaster, or bandaging. Usually, however, these glandular enlargements will not subside, at least under topical treat- ment. "When abscess forms, and discharges subsequently as an ulcer, these results must be treated accordingly. Much has been said about the virtues of caustic potash and other barbarous modes of apparently punishing a scrofulous abscess or ulcer; but there need be nothing peculiar in their local treatment, and it should ever be remembered that constitutional treatment can alone have any curative efiicacy in scrofula. Operations for scrofulous conditions of the bones, joints, or other parts, should be determined by the same consideration. Constitutional treatment will often succeed in averting the necessity for excision or amputation; a highly important consideration, since any local form of a constitutional disease is always an unfavourable condition for opera- tion, and the removal of the part affected can in no way cure that disease as the primary cause. Hence, also, the postponement of such operation may not unfrequently be justifiable ; and until the local con- dition becomes more defined, or its progressive extension renders operative interference imperative, whether with regard to the part affected or its reactive influence on the general health. Scurvy and Purpura. General Symptoms.—Scurvy and Purpura are alike manifested by hremorrhages into many textures, occurring at the same time or in succession; and it will be readily imagined that these hremorrhages take place with greater facility in some textures than in others. Into cellular tissue, for example, blood is very apt to escape. Such spon- taneous haemorrhages result from alterations which the blood itself has undergone. Scurvy.—Symptoms.—The symptoms of scurvy may be well illus- trated by a supposed case. A sallow and dejected-looking man, whose strength has been gradually failing, becomes the subject of haemor- rhages of a peculiar kind. The gums are turgid, spongy, and rotten ; they ooze blood on the slightest pressure ; the teeth loosen in their sockets and drop out. This fungous condition of the gums ceases abruptly at the reflexion of the mucous membrane to the lips, which are extremely pale; so also are the tongue, fauces, and inside of the cheeks. In some rare instances, however, the lividity extends nearlySCURVY AND PURPURA. 237 all over the hard palate. Red or livid spots are found on various parts of the body, principally on the legs, together with bruised-looking patches, of a yellowish-green colour, swollen and as hard as brawn. Extensive effusions of fibrin rather than pure blood, forming very hard, broad, and painful swellings, are found imbedded in the deep cellular texture and between muscles. Over these fibrinous mats, the skin sometimes retains its natural colour, but usually appears bruised, is always thickened and brawny, and adherent to the subjacent textures. SwelHngs such as these occur particularly in the thighs and legs, but most commonly in the hams, occasioning stiffness and contraction of the knee-joint. Nodes also arise from this effusion taking place between the bones and their periosteal investment; the tight swellings formed thereby giving great pain upon the slightest motion, even by turning in bed. None of these effusions, whether of fibrin or blood, ever suppurate ; nor do the nodes just mentioned, however large their size, ever cause the bone to exfoliate. The dark livid or purple colour of scurvy overshadows any skin- eruption, wound, or ulcer, which may chancd to be present during this disease. A dark grumous coagulum juts out from the surface of an ulcer; and this—which, owing to its appearance, has been named by sailors hulloch's liver—often attains an incredible size in the course of a single night. To conclude the catalogue of haBmorrhagic lesions, repeated issues of blood from the nose are common, blood may be coughed up or vomited, lost by the bowels, and perhaps passed with the urine. Scurvy is apt to prove fatal suddenly, from exhaustion. This re- markable feature in its career, with others of instructive moment, were exemplified in an equally remarkable manner during Lord Anson's expedition, 1740-44. The narrative states:—"Many of our people, though confined to their hammocks, ate and drank heartily, were cheer- ful, and talked with much seeming vigour and in a loud, strong tone of voice; yet, on their being the least moved, though it was only from one part of the ship to another, and that in their hammocks, they immediately expired; others, who confided in their seeming strength, and resolved to get out of their hammocks, died before they could reach the deck. It was no uncommon thing for those who could do some kind of duty and walk the deck, to drop down dead in an instant, on any endeavoiir to act with their utmost vigour ; many of our people having thus perished during the course of this voyage." Purpura.—Similar Symptoms characterize Purpura, but there is not the same marked dejection and feebleness, nor are the gums always fungous. Extravasation of blood occurs in the form of small, round, purple spots, rather than parti-coloured blotches. These spots of blood are scattered in almost every texture. According to Sir Thomas Watson's experience, they are not peculiar to the skin, nor to the sub- cutaneous tissues, but occur occasionally upon all the internal surfaces also, and within the substance of the viscera. For example, on the mucous membrane of the mouth, throat, stomach, and intestines; on the pleurae and pericardium, in the chest; on the peritoneal investment of the abdominal organs ; in the substance of the muscles ; and even upon the membranes of the brain, and in the sheaths of the larger nerves; and they may be accompanied with large extravasations of blood in most of the vital organs of the body. Such lesions are neces-GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 238 sarily perilous. Bateman states that he witnessed three instances in which persons were carried off, while affected with purpura, by hemorrhage into the lungs. Watson saw two post-mortem examina- tions, in both of which a considerable quantity of blood was found spread over the surface of the brain, between its membranes; and in one of these cases blood was extravasated also into the cerebral substance, with extensive laceration. Blood-patholocjy.—Scurvy and Purpura are plainly blood-diseases. The hlood itself spontaneously exudes, and appears as a bruise, yet without any bruising force having been applied. This hasmorrhage and ecchymosis takes place in many textures, and visits one after another. The whole organism, in fact, becomes leaky, yet without the blood- vessels themselves being in any diseased state. Scurvy.—To what morbid condition of the blood must scorbutic haemorrhage be ascribed ? The blood has undergone remarkable and significant changes of colour; from the florid red of health, it has assumed a dark brown or green tint; it appears, also, only half coagulated, the supernatant serum being of a livid colour. Again, the red corpuscles are observed by Drs. Ritchie and Buchanan to have become irregular in their outline, their discs more flattened, and more disposed to cohere together and aggregate into large insulated masses, than the corpuscles of healthy blood. These peculiar appearances are denied by other observers, who regard them either as inconstant or altogether absent. Dr. Garrod, for instance, affirms that recent ex- aminations have shown the blood not to be in a dissolved state, as was formerly supposed, but that the globules are normal in appearance, the clot firm and frequently buffed and cupped. • The balance of evidence, however, preponderates in favour of the peculiar colour and fluidity of the blood, and the collapse of the red corpuscles. The chemical constitution of scorbutic blood is doubtful. In the present state of Chemical Pathology, according to one authority, potash is deficient. Dr. Garrod's analyses led him to con- clude that the proportion of this alkali is reduced. Other authorities— Becquerel and Rodier—find the proportion of soda increased in scoi'butic blood, and that oi fibrin diminished. Treatment.—Scurvy.—The preventive and curative treatment of this disease is alike dietetic. It is an undonbted fact that certain articles of diet possess anti- scorbutic properties. Lemon-juice is the grand anti-scorbutic, whereby thousands of persons have been rescued, who otherwise would inevitably have perished from scurvy. 1457 cases of scurvy were sent to Haslar Hospital in the year 1780. Subsequently, in 1795, lemon-juice was provided by order of the Admiralty, through the representations of Sir Gilbert Blane and Dr. Blair. Then only one case of scurvy appears in the hospital returns for 1806; and for 1807, one. Potatoes, whether in a raw state or cooked, are equally anti-scorbutic. Many other articles of diet, more or less in use, are enumerated by Dr. W. Bndd, and their anti-scorbutic properties compared. So far, the prevention of scurvy is practicable. But this kind of knowledge is ew^mcaZ; we are ignorant (as Dr. Budd justly remarks) of the essential element common to the juices of anti-scorbutic plants, and in which their efficacy resides. Therefore,239 SCURVY AND PURPURA. one plant cannot be substituted for another—prior to actual experience of its anti-scorbutic value—with the sure and certain prediction that it will pi'ove equally efficacious, or more so. And why are we still ignorant of this "essential element," and incapable, consequently, of substituting an untried for a known anti-scorbutic ? Because the blood-condition essential to scurvy is yet unknown, and that some- thing, by virtue of which various plants are anti-scorbutic, is therefore equally unknown. Accordingly, the prevention of scurvy can be determined only by the results of actual experience. Mark the further consequences of this empiricism. If j)otasli were assuredly known to be the thing in question, it could be procured in almost any emergency from the ashes of any plant or of any wood, and especially, as Dr. Garrod has suggested, from that ubiquitous weed, tobacco, which is rich in potash. In the present state of knowledge, the commissariat of an army, a navy, or commercial marine—ever liable to be placed in straitened circumstances with regard to all food—are in the dark on this most critical point. In encampments far from home, during sieges and long voyages, the allowance of lemon-juice has perhaps long been exhausted, and fresh vegetables are a dream ; when, therefore, under these adverse circumstances, scurvy stealthily threatens, with pallid hue and dejected mien, the light of Pathological Chemistry would supply an unerring guide in search of that yet unknown something—be it potash or what- ever else—by which the impending scourge would assuredly be averted. It might be possible, by a simple process perhaps, to extract that needful something from an abundant source at hand, in a locality otherwise well-nigh barren and desolate. To conclude, on behalf of the prevention of this disease; any new and untried kind of food cannot be suhstituted, in an emergency, for another less plentiful; and, should all food run short, then the essen- tially anti-scorbutic constituent cannot be extracted from substances perchance close at hand, in which, like a precious pearl, it remains undiscovei'ed, while scurvy is already overshadowing its victims. Empirical experience is our only resource under these circum- stances, and the rules which it authorizes for our guidance are neces- sarily of a very general character. They are enumerated by Dr. Budd as follows:— Firstly.^—Anti-scorbutic properties reside exclusively in substances of vegetable origin. Secondly.—These properties ai'e possessed in very different degrees by different families of plants; least so by the farinaceous, as wheat, oats, barley; most so by the succulent, as the aurantise, comprising oranges and lemons; lastly, by potatoes. Thirdly.—The anti-scorbutic property is impaired by the action of strong heat; nevertheless, boiled potatoes are anti-scorbutic (Dr. W. Baly) ; impaired, also, by vinous fermentation, but improved probably by acetous fermentation. To show the difficulty of determining the essential treatment of scurvy empirically, I might add, in striking contrast, the conclusions of Sir R. Christison in favour of azotized substances, and of animal origin, perhaps exclusively, such as milk. I'urj)ura.—Although resembling scurvy in appearance, the curative treatment of purpura, by abstinence, purgation, and venesection, as240 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. recommended by the late Dr. Parry, of Bath, is altogether at variance with that which is so efficacious in cases of scurvy; and points, there- fore, to some essential difference between these two diseases, otherwise allied. The manifestations of both are unquestionably of blood-origin, yet essentially different in this respect; and not until Chemical Patho- logy has determined the blood-condition peculiar to Purpura will it be possible to interpret rightly the whole etiology of this disease. Its rational preventive and curative treatment will follow. CHAPTER VI. EHEDMATISM AND GOUT. Rheumatism.—Symptoms and Diagnosis.—^Rheumatism is manifested by an inflammation affecting some portion of fibrous tissue; the liga- ments and tendons around the joints are more commonly selected, sometimes the fascite, and very probably the pericardium and endocar- dium. This inflammation is specific. It is denoted, just as common inflammation is expressed, by redness, heat, pain, and swelling; but rheumatic inflammation is distinguished by not tending to the effusion of plastic lymph, nor to suppuration and gangrene; unless, indeed, some other texture besides fibrous tissue shares the inflammation, as synovial or serous membrane, when its products are the same as those of ordinary inflammation. Fever.—This local condition is preceded by and accompanied with inflammatory fever, in perhaps its highest degree,—contrasting, there- fore, in every way with fever of the typhoid type. A strong, rapid, hard pulse ; headache without any delirium, excepting when pericarditis or endocarditis ensues; acid perspirations and urine; these are the chief phenomena of rheumatic fever. And this fever not only precedes the local inflammation, but possibly runs its course without any such manifestation. Blood-pathology.—Rheumatic inflammation, whether exhibited by the joints, the fascia3, or the heart, is evidently due to the operation of some morbid blood-condition ; and for two reasons more especially. The very fact of the same inflammation affecting, possibly, "many parts"—e.g., many joints—simultaneously, points to the blood as its common cause. So also does the " metastatic " character of this in- flammation. Passing from one joint to another—from the shoulders to the elbows, or from the knees to the ankles, perchance back again to the joints first affected, and probably thence migrating to the heart; these and similar alternations of the same form of inflammation betoken some morbid condition of the blood, which, as a reservoir supplying in common all parts of the body, is turned on, as it were, more abundantly (by inflammation), now on this part, now on that. The "symmetrical" distribution of chronic rheumatism, in many cases, affecting as it does corresponding parts of either half of the body, is further evidence of there being a blood-disease in operation; whileEHEUMATISM AND GOUT. 241 sucli distribution exhibits also tbe elective power of similar portions of the same texture. But although the blood, vitiated in some way, is determined to the fibrous texture, by virtue of its elective power, we cannot say what particular ingredient, normal or foreign to the blood's composition, is appropriated thereby. The texture undergoing rheumatic inflamma- tion selects something—but what ?—from the blood. Judging by the acid state of certain secretions—perspiration, saliva, and urine—during an attack of acute rheumatism, it would appear that an acid of some kind prevails in rheumatic blood; and, first suggested by Prout, other authors—Todd, Fuller, 0. J. B. Williams, Headland, etc.—have since concurred in believing that this acid is lactic acid. It is urged that as the perspiration contains lactic acid, with lactates of soda and ammonia, and that exposure to cold, checking this secretion, is well known to be frequently followed by an attack of rheumatism, that therefore this disease is due to an accumulation of lactic acid in the blood. But then, sufficient exposure to cold ought invariably to have this effect; or—making- allowance for individual peculiarities of constitution—at least in many instances such would be the effect of exposure. Moreover, the not unfrequent spontaneous origin of rheu- matism in hospitals, where patients are protected from exposure, is irreconcilable with the theory in question. Again, it is alleged that primary mal-assimilation—dyspepsia, in fact, of some kind—produces lactic in excess, which accumulates in the blood. But this theory also is not consistent with observation, so far as the absence of any symptoms of indigestion is significant. Neither has it been demonstrated that lactic acid accumulates in the blood, as the product of secondary textural mal-assimilation; for chemical research has failed to discover any abnormal quantity of this acid in rheumatic blood. And this fact equally tells against the supposition of its accumulation by primary mal-assimilation, or by suppressed excretion of the perspiration. Nor does uric acid superabound in rheumatic blood. Garrod's chemical analyses establish this negative fact. In truth, rheumatic blood is decidedly alkaline. Treatment.—Preventive.—The essential morbid condition—which, in those subject to rheumatism, is ever in operation as the cause predis- ; posing thereto—being unknown, the evolution of rheumatic symptoms, I from time to time, cannot be averted; and as if to show how com- 1 paratively unimportant, apart from this knowledge, is that of knowing 1 the exciting and reputed cause of rheumatism, it is useless to avoid < exposure to cold, for that alone will never evoke the disease, and if the 1 blood be charged with the unknown poison, it will arise spontaneously. Curative Treatment.—The same want of exact knowledge as to the {•nature of the rheumatic blood-poison, renders our remedial measures It proportionately aimless. Whatever it be, there is probably, as with other blood-poisons, a natural tendency to elimination from the system hby one or more of the excretory organs. Hence, it is not surprising ,t that experience should sanction the employment of medicines affecting t. the liver and intestinal canal, the kidneys and skin. In amte rheumatism—with high inflammatory fever—it may be ^necessary, in the first place, to reduce the general circulation byGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 242 systemic blood-letting, venesection. Usually, however, a cholagogue dose of calomel, and an aperient saline, will prove sufficiently depletory, and remove also any source of irritation from the intestinal canal. But such measures are preliminary only. Then, the colchicum and alkaline treatment is generally the most effectual anti-rheumatic. Bicarbonate of potash, in Targe doses—two scruples or half a drachm—combined with the wine of colchicum in doses of ten or twenty minims, may be administered every four hours. The joint-affections may thus subside within an average period of ten days, and the urine becomes alkaline. Sometimes the colchicum producing sickness and purging, it must be discontinued, or moderated ; but it is desirable to keep the urine alkaline for two or three days after the joint-symptoms have subsided. This plan of treatment is certainly successful in many cases. In pro- portion as s7jnovial symptoms predominate, or mix themselves distinctly with the fibrous—observes Sir Thomas Watson—in proportion as the disease approaches in its characters to gout, you may expect to be successful with colchicum. Dr. Garrod, who originated the pntash- ti'eatment in large doses, affirms that it greatly diminishes the tendency to pericarditis and endocarditis. Nitrate of potash—still in large • quantity, half an ounce to three ounces a day—is the favourite salt with some practitioners; acetate of potash with others. The late Dr. Grolding Bird trusted to the latter, given in quantities of half an ounce, much diluted, in divided doses, during the twenty-four hours. In three days only, it has been known to overcome the pain and in- flammation, leaving the joints still swollen but placid. Iodide of potassium finds favour with yet other men of experience, surgeons chiefly, and lemon juice has been advocated by Dr. Owen Rees. Both the latter agents answer better in the less acute form of rheumatism. All these agents are probably eliminative, principally through the kidneys. Calomel and opium, quickly pushed to slight salivation, is another plan of treatment. It would seem to be preferable in cases having a tendency to cardiac inflammation. Opium is, perhaps, most remedial in all cases of acute fibrous rheumatism. Sir Dominic Corrigan has great confidence in its efficacy. Beginning with one grain, repeated at short intervals in the twenty-four hours, he gradually increases the quantity up to an average of twelve grains during that period; and continues it until the disease declines. In chronic rheumatism, the compound powder of ipecacuanha (Dover's Powder), guaiacum, and sarsaparilla have reputed efficacy. It would be useless to extend the list. The general nature of the treatment of this disease, acute and chronic, may be gathered from the foregoing observations. Local treatment can scarcely be of any avail for a disease which, apparently, naturally expends itself by inflammation of whatever part or parts may become affected. Assuredly no repressive application can be salutary. Warm fomentations are calculated to lead the in- flammation, as in all other cases, to an issue by resolution. Alkaline fomentations, and especially with an alkaline and opiate solution, are found to be even more conducive to this termination. Dr. Puller, who strongly advocates such an application, usually employs a solution of carbonate of potash or soda, about half an ounce, in nine ounces of hot water, adding six drachms of liquor opii sedativus. Flannel steepedRHEUiMATISM AND GOUT. 248 in this hot lotion is wrapped round tlic inflamed ;joinl.s, and thoii encased with thin gufcta-peroha. Chronic rliorunatisni, attondod witli thickening and stiffness of the joints and faHcim, may bo Honiowhat ameliorated by warm baths, vaponr batlis, shampoo!tig, or rriciliioriH. The Turkish bath will thus prove bonoiiuial, provided there bo no heart affection of consequence. Gout. GrOUT is a blood-disease allied to rheumatism, but differing in its pathology and treatment. General Symptoms and Diagnosis.—This disease is manifoHiod l)y an inflammation affecting the joints, very commonly the first joint, or ball, of the great toe. Commencing, usually, when the individual about to suffer has retired to rest, and has enjoyed some hours perhaps of sloop, ho is awoke with fixed pain in one of his feet,—mostly, as 1. liavo snid, in the ball of tho (jreat toe, but sometimes affecting the heel, instep, or aiiklo. With this pain, cold shivering is generally experienced, succoedcd by heat, as the pain, boring, grinding, and wrenching, fastens more and yet more firmly on the spot of its election. "Place your joint in a vice," said a witty Frenchman, "and screw the instrument up until you can endure it no longer. That will represent rheumatism. 'I'lion give another twist, and you will somewhat realize gout." The skin over this part is acutely tender, red, tense, and shilling, encircled by some Oidoma, and by converging turgid veins. MucVi restlessness and excitement supervene. In vain the sufferer seeks to relieve himKolf of the weight of his bedclothes upon the part inflamed ; in vain he shifts his foot from place to place in search of a cool and easy position, 'i'he pain, T-emorKO- less, grapples yet more tightly. At length, in the course of twenty- four hours or so, it loosens its hold gradually, perhaps suddenly. 'J'he sleepless excitement also then subsides, and the victim enjoys some temporary repose. He wakes again to undergo punishment. The toe-screw is reapplied, it may be with a turn or two less; and day by day a slighter punishment is inflicted, until at lengtli the full penalty has been paid. The cuticle peels off the part affected, for gouty in- flammation ends by resolution; it never terminates by tho effusion of plastic lymph, suppuration, or gangrene. In these respects, this in- flammation and that of rheumatism are similar. Eventually, after frequent attacks of gouty inflammation, the cellular texture around the joint usually becomes pervaded with a deposit of urate of soda, forming concretions, at first pull^aiceous, then "chalk-stones," of perhaps considerable size. The nodular fingers and toes of chronic goat is a matter of common observation. The skin over these nodules being stretched, at length breaks, and the chalky concretions are laid bare. Urate of soda has been found infiltrsiting all the textures of one or several joints, in synovial membrane, cartilage, the heads of bone, and ligaments; and usurping their plai;e, the articulations are irreparably destroyed. Premonitory symptoms refer to the functions of the «tf;mar;h and kidneys, more especially. Dyf-pepsia, denoted by inappetency, <mjeta^ tions, heartburn, and acidity of the saliva; together with Hcanty urine, cl^r, high-coloured, and containing less than the average anionnt of uric acid or none at all; these symptoms portend a fit of the gout. AnGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 244 intolerable lownesa of spirits, with general restlessness and peevishness, are not unfrcquen tly additional warnings. Blood-pathology.—Chemical analysis demonstrates the presence of an excess of uric acid, with no other change, in the blood. The absolute test of "blood-disease" having been thus supplied in this instance directly, it supersedes the occasion of any other evidence. But I might point to facts such as these :—Gout visits "many textures " and parts of the body " simultaneously " or in "succession." According to Dr. Gai-rod's original observations, the blood in gout always contains uric acid in abnormal quantities and in the form of urate of soda, which salt can be obtained from it in a crystalline state. It arises, apparently, from mal-assimilation,—primarily, of albuminous food in the course of digestion, or secondarily, in the metamorphosis of muscular texture. Or, it may denote simply an excess of animal food over the wants of the system. And the fact first disclosed by Garrod's analyses of the blood, coupled with the known phenomena of arthritic inflammation, inducing the formation of urate of soda concretions, and abundant deposit of urates in the urine, constitute a series of facts, which plainly declare the pathology of this disease. An attack of gout is an effort of nature—of the restorative power—to expel a poison, uric acid, from the blood. Sir Thomas Watson well describes this struggle. " Morbific matter (it may well be called a poison) is gene- rated, or detained, under certain circumstances, within the body, and silently collects in the blood; until, after obscure threats, perhaps, and prelusive mutterings, it explodes in the foot; and then the bodily economy, like the atmosphere after a thunder-storm, is for a while unusually pure and tranquil." Or, gout may engage many joints at once, or flit from one to another; or wander about, disturbing the heart, the lungs, and the brain. Hence palpitation and syncope, dyspnoea, disturbed vision and hearing, with cerebral commotion, bordering on apoplexy and pamlysis. This is known as irregular, lurking, or masked gout. Sometimes, however, having settled in the foot, it suddenly disappears, and migrates to the stomach, heart, or brain; retrocedent gout as it is then called, being unlike the retreat of an ordinary foe, an assault on the very fortress of life. Less perilous migrations are witnessed, when gout betakes itself to the urethra, occasioning a scalding discharge; to the testicle, constituting one form of orchitis; to the eye, giving rise to ophthalmia. All these manifestations of irregular and migratory gout should be borne in mind, otherwise the disease in some form might be over- looked. In whatever shape gout may have appeared, whether regular, disguised, or migratory, its decline is marked and measured by a flow of urine, surcharged with uric acid, thus relieving its accumulation in the blood. Detection of Uric Acid in the Blood.—The ready method proposed and practised by Dr. Gan-od for this purpose, and for which the abstraction of only a very small quantity of blood is requisite, he thus describes as the " uric acid thread experiment; " " Take from one to two fluid drachms of the serum of blood, and put it into a flattened glass dish or capsule; those i preier are about three inches in diameter, and one-third of an inch in depth: to thisKHEUMATISM AND GOTJT. 245 add ordinary strong acetic acid, in the proportion of six minims to each, fluid di-achm of serum, which usually causes the evolution of a few bubbles of gas. When the fluids are well mixed, introduce a very fine thread, consisting of from one to tliree ultimate fibres, about an inch, in length, from a piece of unwashed huckaback, or other linen fabric, which should be depressed by means of a small rod, as a probe or point of a pencil. The glass should then be put aside in a moderately warm place until the serum is quite set and almost dry; the mantel-piece in a room of the ordinary temperature, or a book-case, answers very well, the time varying from twenty-four to forty-eight hours, depending on the warmth and dryness of the atmosphere. " Should uric acid be present in the serum in quantity above a certain small amount, it will crystallize, and during its crystallization will be attracted to the thread, and assume forms not nnlike that presented by sugar-candy on a string. This may then be examined by a linear magnifying power of about fifty or sixty, procured with an inch object-glass and low eye-piece, or a single lens of one-sixth of an inch focus answers perfectly. The uric acid is found in rhombs, the size of the crystals vai-ying with the rapidity with which the drying of the serum has been effected and the quantity of uric acid in the blood." An amount of uric acid equal to at least 0'025 grains in 1000 grains of serum, in addition to the trace existing in health, must accumulate before this experiment gives indication of its presence. Premonitory symptoms, however, coupled perhaps with the signal given by this test, announce that gout is impending. Hygienic Causes.—Certain habits of life predispose to gont, and certain other habits of an opposite character have an opposite tendency. Indulgence in animal food more particularly, and stimulating drinks; generally, in point of fact, what is called " rich living," together with a sedentary, idle life; these are the acknowledged parents of gont; while moderation in the " pleasures of the table," even abstinence, with a life of active exercise, has no such offspring. Luxnry and ease have long since been mistrusted as unqualified advantages compared with the apparent hardships of earning daily bread, by daily labour; so much so, that Abernethy's pithy advice, " Live on sixpence a day, and earn it"—pointing, as it does, to the two elements, food and exertion, in relation to gout—has passed into a proverb. Treatment.—Preventive. — The regulation of diet according to exercise—of bodily supply to expenditure—is the preventive measure fui-nished by experience. But experience is insufficient for practical purposes. It affords no clue to the right understanding of the physiological relation subsisting between food and exercise, nor of the pathological relation between these hygienic requirements, and which guides the rational prevention of gout. Physiological Chemistry having first demonstrated the fact that all kinds of animal food, more especially, furnish uric acid in their transit through the body, by indigestion, or by metamorphosis of the muscular textures, it becomes obvious that the balance between the production and elimination of uric acid can alone be adjusted and regulated by a supply of animal food in proportion only to the textural waste from bodily exercise. Then, Chemical Pathology contributed the additional and com- plemental fact, that uric acid existing as urate of soda in abnormal246 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. excess in tlie blood, is the materies morhi of gout. Obviously, thero- fore, the preventive measure which should be directed against sucli accumuJation is this:—To allow only that farticular amwunt of animal food which, with daily exercise in proportion, will preserve the blood free from uric acid, short of the trace existing in health. Now this goes a stop beyond mere experience. Guided by an exact knowledge of the essential morbid blood-condition from whence proceed all the phenomena of gout, we are enabled so to regulate tbe health as to prevent this disease. Exact information of the blood-condition, respecting any individual in question, can be readily obtained by abstracting a very small quantity of blood for analysis, or by examining the serum exuded under the application of a blister. Moreover, by this scientific knowledge we are led to rationally admi- nister certain medicines in aid of our hygienic preventive measures. Alkalies—of which the bicarbonate of potash is perhaps the most eificacious for prolonged use—may be administered daily, to neutralize any fresh accession of acid; and colchicum, as a diuretic, will aid the elimination of urate of soda by the kidneys. The mineral waters of Vichy, Wiesbaden, and other places of known repute, owe their virtue chiefly to similar qualities ; but in speaking of the principle of preven- tion, I need not enter further into detail. To illustrate the prophylactic management of gout. Dr. Grarrod relates a case, on the authority of Sir H. Halford, in which colchicum with quinine taken in moderate doses daily, gave immunity for two years, when previously scarcely two months elapsed without an attack. Curative Treatment.—Having due regard to the origin of the gouty diathesis—by mal-assimilation, primarily or secondarily—hygienic measures are also curatively important. A reduced proportion of animal food is obviously the leading curative measure, and active exercise daily to increase the elimination of any excess is equally necessary. No remedial measures are at present known for directly correcting mal-assimilation in respect to lithic acid or other products. The elfect of increased bodily exercise may be to increase the destructive meta- morphosis of the highly nitrogenous textures, i.e., muscle, and thus directly increase the production of lithic acid : but this may also react beneficially in subsequently correcting the mal-assimilation. Lithic acid passing off in the urine as lithate of ammonia, the latter is liable to be decomposed by the action of any free acid present in the urine ; and lithic acid being insoluble, it appears as a deposit of reddish-yellow sand, consisting of crystals, which may aggregate aud form a calculus. The administration of alkalies to neutralize the acidity of the urine is indicated, of which bicarbonate of potash is, perhaps, the best for oft-repeated use. Other alkalies employed for this purpose are the bicarbonate of soda, the acetates, tartrates, and citrates of soda and potash, phosphates of scda and ammonia, and borates of soda and potash. Hence the therapeutic efficacy of various mineral waters, to which gouty patients resort: the waters of Vichy, Homburg, Wiesbaden, Carlsbad, Kissengen, and Aix-la-Chapelles. Conversely, the removal of any source of acidity is also indicated; but this refers chiefly to hygienic considerations. Thus, with regard to food, the vegetable acids, or that which will form them, as sugar or starch in the food, should, in Dr. Bence Jones's opinion, be pro-RHEUMATISM AND GOUT. 247 hibited. On the other hand, free perspiration should be promoted, to eliminate the acids of the sweat, the retention of which would precipitate uric acid in the urine, and thus lead to the formation of calculus. Warm clothing, warm bathing, friction with horse-hair gloves and belt—an excellent stimulant—and diaphoretics, are therefore most efficacious adjuncts in the treatment of the gouty diathesis. Lithate of ammonia being soluble in urine at the temperature of the body, its solution is secured, provided only that fluid be not over- charged. Dilution of the urine will best prevent supersaturation and deposit. The free use of aqueous drinks or soda water, is calculated to fulfil this indication, and thus probably prevent the formation of a lithate of ammonia calculus. Diuretics, which increase the secretion, will also aid the dilution of the urine; and in both ways tend to eliminate lithic acid or lithates from the system. The wine of colchicum, in doses of ten minims and upwards three times a day, prescribed with the carbonate of potass to keep the lithic acid in combination—the resulting lithates being further held in solution by the administration of diluents—will to- gether carry off both, and soothe the irritability of the bladder which accompanies their discharge. Saline aperients seem to aid this desir- able result. Any prolonged subjection to such a cause of elimination, requires also the simultaneous action of small doses of blue pill, ap- parently to maintain the secretion of bile, which otherwise being retained as compared with the secretion of urine, would disturb the balance of their constituents in the blood.DISEASES OF CONTAGIOUS ORIGIN. CHAPTER VII. By the general term Contagion is meant the communication of Disease, either by external contact with morbid matter, perhaps of an imper- ceptible kind, or through the inhalation of such matter in the atmo- sphere by the act of breathing-in, which is sometimes distinguished as Infection. The disease produced by the former mode of contact is not necessarily constitutional, but, possibly, merely a local affection; e.g., Itch, as contrasted with secondary or constitutional Syphilis. Certain Diseases of the Blood, which come within the province of Surgery, are naturally associated, as being Contagious, or the offspring of Contagion; Syphilis, Erysipelas, Pyaemia, Hospital Gangrene, Hydrophobia, Snake-bites, Malignant Pustule, and Glanders. Of these diseases, the first four are derived from the human species, the remaining four from animals. This distinction allows a corresponding division of the whole class. Syphilis. Syphilis is essentially a blood-disease, produced by the introduction of specific virus or poison into the general circulation. Its introduction, by local contact or by inoculation, is attended with certain tolerably definite manifestations in the skin or mucous membrane of the part, and in the proximate lymphatic glands, in the form of chancre and bubo, respectively,—constituting primary or local syphilis; while the consequent blood-disease is manifested by certain tolerably definite inflammatory modifications of nutrition in the skin, mucous mem- branes, eyes, testicle, periosteum, bones, and other parts,—constituting secondary or constitutional syphilis. But the term Syphilis is also under- stood to signify an entirely constitutional disease; the term Chancre being restricted to the primary lesion or ulcer at the point of inocula- tion of the virus, which, followed by lymphatic absorption, in the form of bubo, gives rise to systemic infection or Syphilis. The so-called Chancroid, or simply Local Gontagioiis Ulcer, would thus be distin- guished from Chancre, by the absence of systemic infection. Gonorrhoea has long been recognised as an entirely distinct disease, arising from the contagion of another species of virus, which produces an inflamma- tory discharge from the urethral mucous membrane, of a contagious character, but which does not infect the system. These three diseases. Syphilis, Local Contagious Ulcer, and Gonorrhoea, alike arising from impure sexual intercourse, are included under the common term— Venereal Disease.SYPHILIS. 249 Primary and Local Venereal Ulcers.—(1.) Ghancre,a,nd. its Diagnosis.— Chancre is a primary syphilitic sore or ulcer. After exposure to con- tao"ion or inoculation, a period of incubation ensues, during which nothing is discernible, and the individual thinks himself well. The duration of this period varies, averaging from two to three weeks, and being rarely under a week (H. Lee), but, perhaps, extending to five or six, and very rarely to eleven weeks. (Bumstead.) Then the primary manifestation of syphilis begins. Commencing with a trifling itching, affecting usually some spot in the furrow at the base of the glans penis, near the frsenum, or it may be on the prepuce or the skin of the penis itself; there soon, appears, as the initial lesion, a small pimple, whose summit speedily becomes a vesicle, containing a thin transparent fluid-lymph, or becoming thicker and opaque—in fact, purulent—when subject to irritation. The vesicular stage of chancre is seldom met with. I have seen it only twice. This vesicle or pustule bursts and forms an ulcer. If the syphilitic virus be introduced through a crack or abrasion, which may happen in the act of inter- course or have existed previously, the chancre forms an ulcer, without any incipient pimple or vesicle; obviously because the cuticle there raised by secretion, was here removed. The primary syphihtic ulcer may appear in either of two forms, (a) A superficial erosion, flat or elevated, when the subjacent in- duration has taken place. The shape of this sore is circular, but sometimes irregular; and it has a smooth or polished surface, of a red or greyish colour, overspread with a discharge consisting of lymph- globules and epithelium scales. Or, (b) the ulcer presents a small circular cup-sliaped cavity, having a smooth, red interior, without granu- lation, and discharging a thin serous fluid, or glazed with a little adhesive lymph, and set in apparently healthy texture. About the end of the first week, and never before the third day, chancre becomes indurated, and circumscribed, like a split pea, by an effusion of plastic lymph beneath its base, and around the ulcer; its coloar now having a fawn hue, or assuming various shades of brown or red, according to the secretion. A single exception is met with in chancre on the glans penis, which rarely acquires induration. It is here simply a spot denuded of cuticle, and having a red, moist, glistening, flat surface, (c) Occasionally, no ulcer is produced, nor perhaps any discoverable l^reach of surface; but induration appears in the form of a hard knot or tubercle, imbedded, and covered with epithelial scales. Diagnostic value of Induration.—When confined to the base of the ulcer, induration of an elastic, cartilaginous hardness, and terminating abruptly, was regarded by Hunter as characteristic of true chancre. Yet he acknowledged that this indurated base is not peculiar, being common to other indolent ulcers. "When affecting the texture around, as well as the base of the ulcer, M. Ricord regards cartilaginous in- duration, thus disposed, as absolutely pathognomonic of " infecting chancre," or that species which accompanies and denotes constitutional syphilis. This kind and form of induration is, indeed, the local ex- pression, by chancre, of the syphilitic blood-disease,—the first secondary symptom. The latter doctrine is supported by the authority of Pro- fessor Bumstead, of New York, and Mr. H. Lee, and is now generally accepted. On the other hand, the fact should not be overlooked that precisely250 GENEEAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. the same condition of induration may be produced artificially, by irritating applications ; such as kali purum (Hennen), corrosive sub- limate (Acton), and better still, says Ricord, by cbromate of potash, nitrate of silver, or the nitric and sulphuric acids; " so as to deceive even the most careful and experienced practitioners." The duration of chancre, as an open ulcer, is commonally a period of some weeks; it continues often until after the appearance of secondary symptoms, and being thus indolent and indisposed to heal, it then cicatrizes slowly and perhaps imperfectly; or the sore may reappear. Induration remains for a longer period, usually for at least twfp or three months ; especially when the chancre is situated in the furrow at the base of the glans penis. As instances of extreme per- sistence may be mentioned induration of two and three years, in several cases known to Bumstead; nine years, in a case seen by Puche; and thirty years, in one instance, according to Ricord. On the other hand, induration may disappear before the chancre heals, leaving a perfectly soft base to the cicatrix. This occurs particularly in the parchment form of hardness, around a superficial chancre ; the deposit being limited to the mucous membrane, without involving the sub- cellular texture, it is soon resolved. The termination of chancre is not attended with any loss of sub- stance, and thus there is no marked cicatrix. When situated on the skin, as the outer aspect of the prepuce, a brown or dusky-red dis- colouration often remains, which, however, at length fades away into a white colour. Chancre is generally solitary; although sometimes more than one such sore may be produced. It is protective against the recurrence of a similar sore, conferring a relative, but not an absolute, immunity against subsequent attacks. Thus, inoculation with the secretion of chancre fails to reproduce chancre in the same person, or in another person already affected ; in other words, chancre is neither capable of awio-inoculation, nor of /ie^ero-inoculation ; the reason of non-repro- duction being, apparently, that the system or constitution is already nnder the influence of the syphilitic virus—syphilis is established. Whenever the discharge from an indurated chancre proves to be in- oculable, it never begets a similar sore, but only a pustule, and then some slight erosion or ulceration. The failure of reproduction may, therefore, be regarded as diagnostic evidence that the ulcer is not a chancre. But it should be observed that no one character of chancre is invariably constant, nor peculiar to this species of ulcer, and, therefore, not absolutely pathognomonic; neither its period of incubation, its circular shape, its induration, its indolence, nor its protective power, and non-inoculable nature. Taken collectively, however, and in con- junction with an indurated or a bullety-hardened enlargement of the neighbouring lymphatic glands, forming a multiple indurated bubo, the nicer is then recognized as a chancre. The co-existence of secondary symptoms in constitutional syphilis, will of course strengthen the diagnosis. (2.) Chancroid, or the Local Gontagioits Ulcer.—Commencing as a pustule, which bursts, or occasionally as an open sore, the ulcer formed has a circular shape, as if punched out; but the base presents a cellu- lar or honey-combed, worm-eaten appeai-ance, and is covered with a251 SYPHILIS. greyish-yellow membranotis secretion, consisting of disintegrated tex- ture and pus-globnles; and the margin of the ulcer is a little under- mined and vertical, instead of sloping inwards to the base, as in hard chancre. No induration ensues, so that when the prepuce, for example, is retracted, the nicer bends upon itself, instead of rolling over eji masse, like the indurated chancre; and on raising the sore between the thumb and finger, it feels quite soft and doughy, its edge and base moving easily, and a little pus oozes out; it is a soft and suppurating ulcer, the "soft chancre," or the "simple, non-infecting chancre," so named by Ricord. Attended with some loss of substance, the ulcer heals by granulation, generally in a shorter period than chancre, and cicatrization leaves a depressed and permanent scar. This soft, suppurating sore has no period of incubation ; it appears from two to four, rarely five days, or within a week, after exposure to contagion. Chancroid is much mOre common than chancre ; perhaps in the proportion of 4 to 1, though some say 3, or only 2 to 1. It may be solitary, but is often multiple ; and it affords no protection against recurrence, conferring no immunity whatever for the future. The ulcer is reproductive by inoculation, and the reproduced sore can be propagated in like manner. Hence, this fact supplies a diagnostic test of chancroid ; or, as often happens accidentally, the purulent secre- tion affects contiguous parts. The nicer is sometimes associated with a soft and suppurating enlargement of a neighbouring lymphatic gland, as in the groin—a suppurating bubo. The possible co-existence of chancre and chancroid—the indurated and the soft, suppurating ulcer—or of either species with gonorrhoea, must not be overlooked. And the co-existence of the two species may occur in the same sore—a suppurating ulcer, with an indurated base, an auto-inoculable discharge, and which is capable of communicating syphilis to an uninfected person. Such is the mixed chancre of Rollet and the French school. The consequent bubo may be both indurated and suppurating. Mixed chancre is produced by double inoculation, occurring perhaps at the same time; as in sexual intercourse, when a healthy man has connection with a woman having both a chancre and a chancroid; oi' the inoculation of either species may be engrafted upon a pre-existing ulcer of the opposite species. In either case, when fully developed, mixed chancre can be propagated, in both its kinds, by successive inoculation from one person to another. But prior to full development, when double inoculation has occurred, chancroid first appears, which by contagion will only reproduce itself; and towards the close of ulceration, whichever kind of sore lasts the longest, it will reproduce itself only. Chancroid may be contracted by an individual affected with secondary or tertiary syphilis ; and the ulcer then retains its identity of character, and runs its course. An apparent interchange of the two kinds of ulcer is liable to happen, temporarily, from various accidental circumstances; so that the chancre, even when indurated, may perchance suppurate for a while, owing to some cause of irritation ; and the soft sore may, for a time, become somewhat hardened by irritation, although it still discharges a purulent fluid. But, when the disturbing cause is removed, either kind of ulcer re-assumes its original and distinctive characters.GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 252 The conversion of indurated chancre into the soft chancroid ulcer, would seem to be an admitted possibility, according to the view advocated by M. Clerc, and other observers; that the soft sore is a derivative from hard chancre, as resulting from the transmission of the syphilitic virus through the system of a person who had already undergone syphilitic infection. This relation of chancroid to chancre would be analogous to that of the varioloid eruption to variola, or of the false to the true vaccine pustule. Diseased Conditions of Chancre, and Chancroid Ulcer.—Either oi these specific ulcers may assume the characters of some ordinary form of ulcer, under circumstances referable to the state of the general health, and that of the digestive organs in particular. Thus, the ulcer may become irritable, or painful and disposed to bleed; if inflamed, the usual appearances of this kind of ulcer are presented. Phagedoenic chancre appears as an irregular sore, with sharp, undermined edges, and a worm-eaten surface, covered with a white or black slough; serpiginous phagedena is a variety distinguished by the creeping character of the ulceration, its unlimited extent and duration ; and sloughing or gangrenous phagedaenic chancre has the mixed characters which its name implies. The three last conditions of ulceration are very destructive, especially the latter variety. When alfecting the prepuce, this part becomes greatly swollen, brawny, and dusky red; but the phimosis or contracted state of the preputial orifice, conceals the ravages beneath ; a black patch appears, and sloughs, disclosing the glans, or if the foreskin be slit up with a bistoury, the phagedEenic ulcer is discovered, and perhaps only a remnant glans. The existence of chancre, as an ulcer having any distinctive characters, has been altogether denied by many observers of known accuracy and large experience. First: Rose (1817), whose experience in the hospital of the Coldstream Guards ranged over a large number of cases, admitted that although there are many symptoms common to chancres, they are not entirely peculiar to them. Hennen (1829) acknowledged with regret that there are "not any invariable character- istic symptoms by which to discriminate the real nature of the primary sore;" and, having witnessed many instances of self-deception, in attempting to diagnose a sore for the cure of which mercury is indis- pensable, from one of a different nature, he repudiated the pretensions of those who assume to themselves the possession of a tactus eruditus by which they can distinguish this kind of chancre. Recurring to the diagnosis of chancre, rather than the kind, Mr. Bacot's experience (1829) led him to affirm, that chancre may present every variety of appearance to which a breach of surface is subject; and Colles (1837) stated, "as the result of long, attentive, and anxious observation," that primary venereal ulcers present an almost endless variety of character. To this effect also were the observations of Wallace (1838) ; for, says he, neither the mode of origin, nor the form, nor the colour, nor the size, nor the number of the ulcers of primary syphilis, are pathog- nomonic. Acton (1851) avowed it was incontrovertible, that other sores, not of a specific nature, may assume all the aspect of real chancres ; and Labatt (1868), considering the great variety of appear- ances presented by primary ulcers, experienced the difiiculty of classi- fying them, and confessed that hitherto every such attempt had ended only in disappointment.253 SYPHILIS. Mr. H. Lee recognizes four different morbid ^processes and corre- sponding forms of Primary Syphilis :— First.—The inoculated part may become affected with the adhesive form of inflammation, in which lymph is poured out either in the sub- stance or on the surface of the part. Second.—The inoculated part may, within a few days of the applica- tion of the poison, be affected with su-ppurative inflammation. Third.—The absorbents may assume an active share in the morbid process, and taking up some of the infected parts, and with them portions of the syphilitic poison, produce an acute inflammation of a lymphatic gland. This form of the disease is termed ulcerative in- flammation. Fourth.—The morbid action may terminate in mortification. Of this there are two practical subdivisions :— (a) Death of the whole infected part, which is then thrown off as a slough; (i) Dissolution and death of a part only of the contaminated structure, leaving a part still infected. Situation.—The external parts of the genital organs are obviously the common situation of the chancre, and some parts are more especially liable. Thus, in the male, that portion of the penis is commonly the seat of chancre, which having been exposed in sexual intercourse, is apt to retain any secretion with which it came in contact. Hence, the furrow between the glans and prepuce, and perhaps near the frasnum is the most frequent situation; but chancre may form on the inner surface, or at the margin of the prepuce, or on the frsenum; sometimes on the glans, or at the orifice of the urethra, or perchance on the skin, of the penis. Urethral chancre is, however, not unfrequently met with; the chancre being situated immediately within the orifice of the urethra, or higher up in the canal. In the one case, it may easily be seen on just everting the lips of the urethral aperture; in the other case, it can be felt as a more or less nodulated induration of the urethra when pressed between the thumb and finger. Chancres thus situated have been found by Ricord to extend along the whole canal up to the bladder, in rare cases. Urethral chancre emitting its discharge from the external orifice, may be mistaken for gonorrhoea; but, while their diagnosis cannot be determined by the variable appearance of the dis- charge, inoculation will evince its true nature; a chancre being produced if the matter be syphilitic, and not by gonorrhoeal discharge. The presence of a nodulated induration in the urethra will corroborate the diagnosis. In the/emaZe, also, the external genitals are the common situation of chancre, as just vnthin the labia minora; less frequently on the mucous membrane of the vagina, or on the os uteri or within the cervix. Examination will readily discover a chancre when situated externally; but the speculum must be used to detect the presence of a vaginal or uterine chancre. In certain unnatural situations, chancre may occasionally be found ; as at the anus, or on the lips of the mouth; suspicious of practices which need not be named. Bubo, and its Diagnosis.—Bubo is a generic term, signifying a' swelling of the lymphatic glands, and specially those of the groin {jiovfioiv, the groin), of an inflammatory character, acute or chronic, and with or without suppuration. It may arise from any cause of local irritation, affecting the lymphatic vessels continuous with theGENERAL PATHOLOaY AND SURGERY. 254 glands, producing sympathetic bubo ; or proceed from the absorption of poisonous matter, or virus; or it maj depend on constitutional causes, as scrofula. (I.) _ Syphilitic or Indurated bubo denotes absorption of the syphilitic virus from the primary sore, which, on its way to the blood through the absorbents, irritates the nearest absorbent glands —commonly the inguinal—whereby they become swollen and hard, and perhaps suppurate. Compared with chancre, bubo can scarcely be called a primary symptom, for although the time of its accession after chancre is uncertain, it is always somewhat later. On the other hand, it has been held that bubo may possibly arise from direct absorption, without the previous formation of chancre; that bubo may thus be the only primary symptom. Such buboes, therefore, have been named "primary buboes," and by the French, "bubous d'emblee." But the existence of non-consecutive bubo, as indicative of true syphilis, is inconsistent with the present state of knowledge; although a simple inguinal adenitis may arise without any appreciable lesion of the genitals. Indurated bubo begins at a period of about eleven days (Rollet), and never later than two weeks (Ricord), after the commencement of chancre; or, usually, at a somewhat earlier date, the time when induration of the base of the chancre takes place. (Bumstead.) It appears as a hard, bullety, and scai-cely painful swelling of the lymphatic gland, nearest to the spot whence the poison was absorbed; the absorbents themselves proceeding to the enlarged gland, share this inflammatory induration, and sometimes feel like hard whipcord. Along the back of the penis, such cords may be felt leading to the groin, where generally, just above Paupart's ligament, lies the swollen, bullet-like gland. In the female, if a chancre be situated on the fore part of the vulva, this swelling is found at the external abdominal aperture; if situated posteriorly, then betwixt the labium and the thigh, inflamed lymphatic vessels lead to a swollen, hard gland in the groin. Commonly, as Bassereau observes, more than one gland is affected, forming a multiple bubo, of small olive-shaped or globular tumours, having a cartilaginous hardness, and which are freely move- able upon each other, being unattached to surrounding tissues, or to the overlying integument; and this little mass corresponds in direction to the inguinal fold. Almost painless, or only slightly tender, it does not interfere with walking. Sometimes the bubo is situated on the opposite side of the chancre ; or both groins may be affected, presenting double inguinal bubo. Chancres within the urethra, on the perineum, the anus, the mouth or neck of the uterus, the lower part of the abdomen, or the buttocks, are equally associated with inguinal bubo. Biit, when the vessels of absorption pass through other than the inguinal glands, the bubo will be situated elsewhere. Thus, Hunter saw a syphilitic bubo far down on the thigh. The course of indurated bubo is slow ; reaching its full develop- ment in a week or two, its ultimate duration varies from several weeks to five or six months (Bumstead), or may be prolonged even to a period of years. (Ricord.) Like chancre, it is thus essentially indolent and usually more persistent. It terminates by resolution; suppuration is a rare event, having occurred in only sixteen out of 383 cases, according to Bassereau, while Fournier met with only two in 265 cases.255 SYPHILIS. This species of bubo almost invariably follows a chancre, itself indurated; follows it, observes Ricord, as a shadow follows a body; and the constancy of this sequence is attested by Fournier's report, that 265 cases of chancre were succeeded by bubo in 260, and in only three of these was the absence of induration from the outset certain. This constancy of connection with indurated chancre con- firms the diagnosis as to the nature of the bubo. But, occasionally, induration may arise from some other disease; thus far simulating syphilitic bubo. Scrofulous enlargement of the inguinal glands exhibits a somewhat hard and indolent swelling; the accompanying constitutional condition and history are, however, distinctive of scrofula. Cancerous enlargement of the glands will probably be con- nected with cancer of the penis. (2.) Inflammatory Bubo.—Arising from any cause of lymphatic irrita- tion, and commonly from gonorrhoea, this species of lymphatic glandular enlargement is then named simple adenitis or sympathetic bubo ; but as proceeding from chancroid ulcer, by the absorption of its virus, it may be designated chancroidal bubo, being in fact a chancroid of the lymphatic gland affected; or it is also known as virulent bubo, owing to the contagious character of the pus produced. Beginning usually within a fortnight after the appearance of chancroid on the genitals, one gland only, or sometimes more, presents a swelling in the groin, but the enlarged gland is somewhat soft, never indurated, and decidedly painful, so that the patient walks with a limping lameness ; differing in all these particulars from indurated bubo, in connection with chancre. This state may last for an indefinite period, as an indolent bubo; and then subside by resolution, when resulting from simple adenitis. Or, the gland enlarging, it engages the fascia and skin, whereby the tumour becomes adherent and fixed. Suppuration may then ensue from simple inflammation; and chancroidal bubo always proceeds to this issue. The integument acquires a purplish-red hue, and a stretched, shining appearance, while the cuticle is shed in receding circles, and the cutis becomes thinner. At some softer point, fluctuation can be felt, the thin skin cracks, and matter exudes from the interior of the gland, and from around; or the circumferential abscess bursts first, a few days before that within the gland. The nicer formed assumes all the characters of chancroid; its interior being overlaid with a greyish- yellow membranous secretion, its margin undermined and vertical or everted, while the pus from within the gland is auto-inoculable,—any abrasion of the surrounding skin thus reproducing a chancroid ulcer, or inoculation can be artificially effected. Chancroidal bubo may be thus distinguished from the bubo of simple adenitis, and from the in- durated bubo of syphilis,—in the rare form of its suppui-ation. Asso- ciated causes will confirm the diagnosis. Thus, simple adenitis may arise from the local irritation of gonorrhoea, balanitis, vulvitis, herpes, eczema, or other inflammatory affections of the genitals; or from a crack or abrasion in seminal intercourse; from over-sexual indulgence ; or from muscular exertion, as in walking, dancing, or rowing; and occasionally, from the presence of a chancroid or a chancre, acting as a source of local irritation, not of absorption. (Bumstead.) On the other hand, chancroidal bubo is connected with a causative chancroid; as indurated bubo is with indurated chancre.GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 256 Chancroidal bubo may acquire all the characters of some common ulcer; as the indurated and indolent, the irritable, the vnflamed, the phagedcenic, the serpiginous form of phagedaena, or the sloughing pha- ged(B')iic. The three latter forms of bubo, originally chancroidal, are more or less destructive; the ulcer sometimes increasing to an enormous size, extending inwards over the perineum, or upwards perhaps as high as the navel, or downwards on the thigh, while its depth may there threaten the femoral artery. Diagnostic value of Inoculation.—Does inoculation supply the positive test of Syphilis? The answer to this question will be yes or no, according to whether or not the so-called chancroid ulcer be acknow- ledged as a species of chancre. The failure of inoculation to reproduce a chancre upon a person already affected, affords only a negative result, as the evidence of pre-existing systemic infection, i.e., of Syphilis; and reproduction of the ulcer by inoculation indicates its locally con- tagious nature, i.e., its chancroidal character, as distinguished from chancre. Bearing in mind this negative and positive result of inocula- tion, we are prepared to understand, and to reconcile, the apparently contradictory results of observation respecting the question at issue. The virus or pus from a supposed chancre, or a suppurating bubo, being introduced beneath the skin of any part by a lancet charged therewith, produces another such chancre,—passing through the stages of a pimple, a vesicle or pustule, to the perfectly formed ulcer. Thence, in like manner, another such chancre may be produced. This power of reproduction was known to and used by Hunter, as a test of syphilis. But opinions have ever been divided respecting the diagnostic value of inoculation, just because the chancre and the chancroid ulcers may have been indiscriminately used in the cases submitted to this test. Evans, Bell, Sperino, and other observers have alike insisted on the value of reproduction by inoculation, in order to determine the specific natui'e of a supposed chancre; and Ricord, who almost accords to "induration" the rank of an absolute sign of the "infecting chancre," yet acknowledges that the individuality of this ulcer, as a distinct species, " exists neither in its form nor in its floor, nor in an absolute manner in any one of its external characters; its nature is in the pus which it secretes. Inoculation is the pathognomonic character of chancre, and which alone suffices to establish the diagnosis." But it is now known that Ricord's observations had reference to "simple chancre," aZms chancroid, or the local, contagious, and soft, suppurating ulcer. That, comparing the indurated and systemic-infecting, true chancre with this chancroid ulcer, as to the results of inoculation, in forty-four inoculations of the latter, on individuals already affected, thei-e were forty-four reproductions of the original kind of ulcer; but that in fifty-five inoculations of the former kind,—chancre,—there were fifty-five sterile results! Consequently, the answer of Inoculation as a diagnostic test, is; of chancroid, positive,—that it is auto-inoculable; of chancre, negative,—that it is not auto-inoculable. And this negative result of inoculation is so far available in the diagnosis of Syphilis. It is, therefore, probable that the supposed instances of positive result adduced by Dr. Sperino, were from simple suppurating sores, with some amount of accompanying induration. In ninety-nine cases of in- durated chancre, in only one instance did inoculation succeed upon the patient who thus had the disease, and that was within a very shortSYPHILIS. 257 time after contagion. Sucli is Pournier's experience. Puclae could produce auto-inoculation in only 2 per cent. Poissou obtained a similar proportionate result in fifty-two cases of trial; and Laroyeune was un- successful in every one of nineteen cases. Bumstead observes that the failure of inoculation is favourable to the supposition that the sore is a chancre. In the earliest stage of chancre, before its specific action upon the patient's constitution has been developed, the result of inoculation may be a specific hardened sore, accurately resembling the original. So far Mr. Lee concedes the positive value of this test. But that as soon as the specific adhesive inflammation has once taken place in a patient, his system is no longer in the same condition as before ; he is no longer capable of being inoculated, and inoculation, if attempted, in the vast majority of instances, entirely fails. M. Clerc's observations (1855) lead to the conclusion that even the initiatory sore of syphilis is non-inoculable, in most cases. The differential nature of chancre and chancroid can, however, be readily discovered by inoculation. The power of reproduction is inborn in chancroid, and available, therefore, as the test, from the very first formation of lymph, when the chancroid is yet a pustular pimple. Inoculation is the earliest, and the most infallible, criterion of chancroid. What if this method of diagnosis be postponed to a later period ? Even then the open suppurating bubo is a chancroid, and its pus will produce another sach ulcer by inoculation ; not the pus secreted in the cellular tissue around the suppurating gland, but that which issues from the gland itself. Here, then, is an additional positive test, diagnostic of chancroid from the negative answer of chancre. Inoculation should be avoided whenever the patient's constitutional condition is broken down, or the nicer of a phagedaenic character; the site chosen should be some portion of integument not liable to phage- dsena, as the skin on the chest; and the inoculated point should be freely cauterized with nitric acid, as soon as the diagnosis of a resulting chancroid is determined. The little operation is thus described by Prof. Bumstead :—Take a clean lancet, moisten its tip with the purulent secretion, and enter the point perpendicularly with a slight impulse, not deeper than to the vascular layer of the skin; the instrument is then turned once round on its axis, and withdrawn, and any remains of the pus upon the blade is smeared over the orifice of the puncture. No after care is required. Duration of Specificity.—Ghancre retains its specific nature for a considerable period, frequently weeks, sometimes months,—in one of my own cases, probably eight months, during which time the sore can communicate the disease to an unaffected person. This period of statu quo specific," thus of uncertain duration, extends to when the ulcer cleanses itself, begins to throw out healthy granulations, and to cicatrize from its circumference. These, therefore, are the signs of the loss of contaminating power. Bitbo, however large, which has arisen from a chancre when about to heal, is simply a swelling of the lym- phatic gland, which, as Ricord observed, fails to supply virulent matter in the event of suppuration. Chancroid, or the soft, suppurating ulcer, mostly cicatrizes in the course of a few weeks; but the period of repair may be prolonged much beyond, the sore retaining its virulent specificity of local contagiousness up to the last moment of its exist- SGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGKUV. 258 ence ; while, indeed, cicatrization is proceeding at the circumference, the pus is specific in the centre of the ulcer, and may propagate chancroid in a neighbouring part, or in another person. But different modes of therapeutic treatment will affect the duration of specificity, and must be taken into account. The mercurial and non-mercurial methods of treatment have a different influence on chancre, in this respect, and unfavourable to the former method, in its prolonging or not curtailing the period before healing,—that period being taken as the indication of continued specificity. Thus, to com- pare the large collections of cases by Sir James M'Grigor and Sir Will iam Franklin. In 194)0 chancres collated indiscriminately, and which healed without mercury, the average period was, without bubo, twenty-one days; with bubo, forty-five days ; whereas, in 2827 chancres, including a larger proportion of indurated sores treated with mercury, the average period prior to healing was, without bubo, thirty-three days; with bubo, fifty days,—a longer continuance of the specific nature under the influence of mercury. Syphilis—SEcnNDAET or Constitutional.—The blood having become infected with the syphilitic virus, after the appearance of chancre with induration, in the course of a month or six weeks, or a longer period, a constitutional disturbance—the syphilitic fever—ensues, in a degree more or less marked. According to the observations of Dr. Guntz, the period of its accession varies to within fifty and sixty-five days, in the natural course of the disease, unaffected by ti'eatment; but that no fever appears within or even beyond that period, when, from imme- diately after infection, the patient has been brought under the influence of mercury, used internally or externally. The symptoms of febrile disturbance are those of ordinary pyrexia; some acceleration of the pulse, a dry, hot skin, and furred tongue; succeeded by great debility, wandering pains, and gradual emaciation, with the wan sallowness of syphilitic cachexia. Occasionally, Guntz has known a violent rigor or shivering fit to precede the symptoms. The temperature always rises considerably, perhaps to 103|° F., in the first twenty-four hours; then, on the second day, it falls much lower, followed perhaps by evening exacerbations daily, for a long time.' With the accession of syphilitic fever, various inflammatory modi- fications of nutrition are developed, which have a tolerably regular order of sequence, in different parts of the body. As manifestations of the blood-disease in operation, they are "secondary" or even "tertiary" to the chancre and thence the bubo, which, proceeding from the original source of infection, constitute " primary " syphilis. The slow-healing power of the primary sore, and of an. open bubo, somewhat suggest the prevailing character of these secondary manifes- tations. From the first moment of the pus-forming pimple, the whole career of syphilis is one of didntcgraiion of the tissues, with an abortive effort of the reparative power by plastic lymph-forming induration. Disintegration by desquamative or otlier destructive eruptions of the skin ; disintegration, by corroding ulceration of the tonsils, tongue, lips, palate, and perhaps the nose; disintegration, by iritis, with molecular lymph ; disintegration, by irreparable destruction of the texture of the testis; disintegration, by caries and necrosis. Premature baldness, fretting ulceration around the roots of the finger and toe nails, and a wan cachectic pallor, bespeak the consummation of syphilitic decay.259 SECONDARY OR CONSTITUTIONAL SYPHILIS. During the course of secondary syphilitic manifestations, certain facts respecting the accession of rigors and rises of temperature merit attention. In the eruptive stage, the pyrexia is sometimes associated ■with repeated rigors, as noticed by Lancereaux; and they may assume an intermittent character—quotidian, tertian, or double tertian. But this intermittent type of febrile disturbance is met with generally in the later stages of syphilis, when deep cachexia has supervened. The temperature rises, perhaps, from time to time, coincident with the ex- tension of skin-eruptions. In the later stages, when syphilitic affec- tions of the bones and joints have ensued, the observations of a committee of inquiry on temperature * led to some notable results ; that in the febrile disturbance which usually accompanies, and is pro- portionate to the amount of joint or periosteal affections, nocturnal exacerbations occur, the temperature rising from one to four degrees, with an equal morning fall. The association of rheumatoid symptoms with an equal outbreak of macular or papular eruption is accompanied with fever, but not with the oscillation of temperature. Iodide of potassium affects the fever remedially, the temperature being reduced within three days after its administration in sufficient doses. la pysemia, the oscillations of temperature much resemble those noted in syphilitic rheumatoid affections. Comparing (Secondary) Syphilis in all its various forms, with similar diseases arising from other causes, their resemblance is often remarkable, and their appearances differ rather in degree than in kind. Probably, therefore, none of the manifestations of (constitutional) syphilis, as secondary symptoms, are singly characteristic ; but a con- currence of such symptoms—secondary or consecutively—may be diagnostic. The descriptions given in Mr. Lee's elaborate treatise, with regard to syphilitic eruptions, for the most part amply confirm this general proposition. (1.) Skin-diseases.—Similar eruptions—exanthematoiis or rashes, papular or pimples, tubercular, squamous or scaly, vesicular and pus- tular—arise alike, as manifestations of constitutional syphilis in the skin ; and also under other circumstances. Roseola or rose-rash.—The eruption which usually first succeeds the syphilitic fever, is of a rose-red colour, not raised above the surface of the skin, disappearing on pressure, and returning as soon as the pressure is removed. It arises in the form of more or less rounded patches, giving a mottled appearance to the skin; when examined closely, each patch is seen to be made up of a cluster of papillae, more injected than natural. This eruption sometimes vanishes within a few days. If it persists, the papillas forming each patch generally become visibly en- larged, and the colour of the eruption gradually changes to a copper hue. This colour is commonly present in all syphilitic eruptions which remain for any length of time without suppuration or ulceration ; but it is not peculiar to (secondary) syphilitic eruptions, it is not pathog- nomonic. It is, observes Erasmus Wilson, commonly met with in chronic eruptions of other kinds—for example, in acne; and non- syphilitic eruptions often possess more of the dull and muddy copper colour which is generally supposed to be characteristic of syphilis, * "Trans. Clin. Soc," 1870. Report by C. Bilumber, A. B. Duffin, BerkeleyGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 260 than syphilitic eruptions themselves. Moreover, when present in un- doubtedly syphilitic skin-diseases, it does not superveue until their decline. The eruptions which follow this first efflorescence on the skin, ex- hibit a variety of appearances. Lichen, a papular eruption.—The papillas of the skin are enlarged separately, in the form of hard elevations having a copper-colour, which terminate by desquamation or resolution. These elevations may be scattered irregularly over the body, or collected together into groups. Tubercular eruption.—Effusion of plastic lymph having taken place, it becomes organized, as in the papular eruption, but now in the form of small and tense conical eminences, covered with a red shining cuticle ; which, gradually acquire a copper tint, and shed their shining silvery scales of cuticle. Tiie tubercles may be scattered singly over the surface, or aggregated into groups. Lepra, a scahj eruption, commences, like the mottled skin of roseola, by the injection of circular groups of papillae. The papilla? are at first separate, but soon the whole circular patch becomes equally involved; an effusion takes place into the substance of the skin, which then pre- sents a small flat elevation, the edges of which are sometimes raised higher than the centre. A copper colour, of a more or less decided hue, overspreads the eruption, but it is often partially masked by a thin layer of cuticle, which is shed in thin white shining scales, as in common lepra. Numerous patches, all perfectly circular, may form on any part of the body. Patches of syphilitic lepra sometimes much resemble flattened syphilitic tubercles. Psoriasis—another scaly eruption—appears in tbe form of oval or irregular patches, slightly elevated above the surface. They are not depressed in the centre, and are often traversed by cracks or fissures. A copper or brown colour is often observable, but covered with epithe- lial scales of various degrees of thickness. This disease is much more persistent than syphilitic lepra. It occurs on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, or on any part of the body. Vesicular eruptions, as manifestations of constitutional syphilis, are similar to, if not identical with, vesicular eruptions not of syphilitic origin. Thus, in point of their origin only, we recognize syphilitic herpes, eczema, and pemphigus or pompholyx. In all, an effusion of serous fluid raises the cuticle into vesicles, or blebs—bulljB, which are simply large vesicles such as form in the last-named form of eruption. But the diagnostic characters of syphilitic vesicular eruptions are even less peculiar than those of the eruptions already noticed. Pustular eruptions constitute also an analogous class to the non- syphilitic. They, like eruptions generally, may arise from the trans- formation of other eruptions, in the course of syphilis. Thus, the papular may change into the vesicular, and this pass into pustular. The proper pustular eruptions of syphilitic origin are divided by Cazenave into three kinds :— (a.) Psydraceo'us pustules, which are either small and narrow, or of large size, elevated, and round. They have a hard base, and are sur- rounded by a copper-coloured areola. The pustules ai-e of a dull reddish hue, and are developed in successive crops; showing examples of the disease in its origin, maturity, and decline. Tjeir progress is slow, and the accompanying inflammation moderate. In some cases,CONSTITUTIONAL OR SECONDARY SYPHILIS. 261 however, it destroys the true skin, and leaves a small, white, circular scar, depressed in the centre, and not larger than a pin's head. This form chiefly occurs on the face and forehead, -where it somewhat re- sembles acne rosacea, but it may appear on every part of the surface. The pustules dry into a small greyish scab, which separating, may leave either a cicatrix or some injection of the skin. On the limbs, psydraceous pustules are of the size of a lentil, but slightly elevated above the surface, with a hard base; and they contain a very small quantity of yellowish-white matter, contrasting with the copper-coloured elevation on which it rests. They are not followed by ulcers; a thin scab forms on them, which is succeeded by a scar, or sometimes by a livid discoloration, or a small chronic induration. (6.) Impetigo, preceded by slight malaise.—This eruption com- mences with redness of the affected parts; then small collections of purulent matter from irregular-shaped patches, more or less confluent, resting upon surfaces of a coppery-red colour, which are soon covered by scabs irregular in shape, harder, darker coloured, and more adherent than those of non-syphilitic impetigo. Beneath these scabs are ulcerations, followed by scars, varying in shape and extent. This eruption more frequently occurs on the face, but it may alfect any part of the surface. It sometimes appears on several parts simul- taneously, but it has no tendency to spread. It is always secondary. (c.) Ectlujma.—The pustules are still larger,—the size of a shilling, or more isolated, and few in number; chiefly occurring on the limbs, and especially the legs. Commencing as large livid spots, the epidermis becomes raised over a considerable portion of each spot, by a greyish, sero-purulent matter, which increases slowly, and is always surrounded by a broad copper-coloured areola, unlike the violet-red of non-syphilitic ecthyma. After a few days, the pustules having broken, scabs form, which are of a circular shape, dark and hard; gradually increasing in thickness they fissure at their edge^ and are very adherent and persistent. On separating, they expose deep round tdcers, Avith sharp-cut hard margins of a purple colour, whilst the bottom is greyish. They have little tendency to enlarge. The scabs generally re-form, and repeatedly, until the ulcers heal; leaving circular and lasting cicatrices. This is the most common species of syphilitic pustular eruption, and that which is usually met with in new-born children. Here, the pustules are broad, superficial, flat, of an oval shape, and in great numbers; the scabs are dark and thick, and conceal small ulcers underneath. The countenance of the patient has quite a peculiar appearance; it is drawn in, and marked with numerous wrinkles, like that of an old person; the skin has an earthy hue, the body is emaciated, and exhales a most disagreeable odour. Ulceration of the Skin in constitutional syphilis, may be either a sequel of some kind of eruption, or it may arise independently; the syphilitic blood-disease always predisposing to disintegration of texture. But the characters of any such ulcer can scarcely be regarded as peculiar to syphilis. Ulceration of the skin in connection with disease of bone about the skull, is specially noticed by Mr. Lee, with reference to its apparent cause—irritation—rather than as arising from the direct influence of the syphilitic poison. The importance of this diagnosis, in relation to the appropriate treatment, is obvious.262 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. (2.) Diseases of Mucous Membranes.—Ulceration of the tonsils— " sore throat "—ranks among the earlier and less equivocal secondary symptoms. The ulcer formed is excavated, with a sharp and prominent, not to say everted, margin. The bed of this ulcer is sloughy, the surround- ing mucous membrane dusky red. But even these appearances are not distinctive of syphilis, and original observers, such as Rose and Carmichael, concur in mistrusting "the ulcerated sore throat." Certainly, the excavated ulcer of Hunter is not consequent on the indurated chancre only; and we must acknowledge, with Carmichael, that affections of the throat are too indistinct to afford any certain diagnosis. Fissures of, and milky stains on, the tongue and inside the lips are more pathognomonic, but the former must be distinguished from those cracks which accompany irritable dyspepsia, and the latter—opaque white spots—resemble aphthous spots. More doubtful are mucous tubercles situated on various parts of the buccal mucous membrane, as the tongue, lips, palate, and tonsils. These tubercles are of a whitish colour, and may be seen also on the skin, in the form of pale, soft little cushions, bedewed with mucus; the skin surrounding each tubercle appearing puckered around its margin. Such tubercles—condylomata—are commonly found in secondary syphilis, grouped around the anus or on the scrotum; also, fretting along the margin of the external labia in the female; perhaps on the perineum, inner aspect of the thighs, and on the groins. Sometimes these tubercles occur in the axillas (E. Wilson) ; and, in fact, wherever ordinary tubercles are warm and moist, they frequently become mucous tubercles, skin readily assuming the appearance of mucous membrane. But mucous tubercles are not necessarily syphilitic. Wilson notices the transition of roseola into lichen, of the roseola eruption into such tubercles, and that the conversion of lichen into them is by no means uncommon; yet roseola and lichen are not necessarily syphilitic erup- tions. Ulceration of the nasal mucous membrane, that of the hard and soft palate, of the pharynx opposite the mouth, and of the larynx, is liable to occur in secondary syphilis. These ulcerations are frequently ac- companied with caries of the nasal bones, of the hard palate, even of the vertebras behind the pharynx, and necrosis of the laryngeal cartilages. The breath and discharges are singularly foetid. Is any such ulceration peculiar to secondary syphilis ? Colles acknowledges his inability to determine whether an ulcer in the nose be venereal or not. The appearances of scrofulous ozsena closely resemble those of venereal ozaena. Colles describes an ulcerated opening situated on the septum nasi, about a quarter of an inch from its anterior extremity, this ulcer being uniformly circular, and as large as the surface of a split pea; but he adds that a similar aperture may be found in persons who certainly never had any venereal affection, and that it may remain for years, at least for eight or ten years, in cases under observation. Extensive ulceration of the pharynx, as well as ulceration of the nasal raucous membrane and caries of the nasal bones, were noticed by Carmichael to be frequently associated with the primary phagedtenic ulcer, but that similar ulceration of the pharynx arises in constitutional conditions assuredly not venereal. Chronic laryngitis, and ulceration263 CONSTITUTIONAL OR SECONDARY SYPHILIS. of tlie rima glottidis, denoted by a broken voice, impulsive cougb. and foul expectoration, may be a manifestation of advanced and grave secondary sypbilis. Portions of the laryngeal cartilages—e.g., the cornua of the thyroid cartilage, in an ossified state—are occasionally coughed up. But syphilitic laryngitis presents nothing peculiar in its characters, from first to last, whereby it can be distinguished from chronic laryngitis under other circumstances. The symptoms just mentioned might follow laryngitis, from a common cold. (3.) S]iphilitic iritis was overlooked by Hunter, in his observations of the course of the venereal disease; but although iritis is undoubt- edly a frequent form of secondary syphilis, it cannot be distinguished from arthritic iritis; and resembles scrofulous iritis, in so far as regards the appearance of the eye itself. "Although," observes Law- rence, " the effusion of reddish, brownish, or brownish-yellow lymph on the iris in the adult, clearly shows the case to be venereal, I have seen analogous appearances in several instances, both of young children and infants, in whom no suspicion of syphilis could be entertained." The symptom in question is not peculiar to syphilitic iritis. Nor is "displacement of the pupil upwards and inwards" a characteristic appearance. It has been seen, especially by Mackenzie, in chronic I'heumatic arthritis; and still more frequently in scrofulous sclerotitis, Avithout iritis. Moreover, it is present only occasionally in syphilitic iritis. This symptom, therefore, is inconstant as well as equivocal. Mackenzie mistrusts all the special symptoms accorded to syphilitic iritis, excepting the tawny or rusty colour of the iris near its pupillary edge, a condition present in most syphilitic cases, and almost exclu- sively in them alone. (4.) Chronic enlargement of the testicle occurs late, if at all, in' the course of syphilis, and cannot be distinguished from scrofulous enlarge- ment of this organ. The physical characters which the testis assumes in these two diseased conditions are very similar. In both cases, the enlargement may commence in the epididymis—sometimes in syphilitic, generally in scrofulous disease. In both cases, this swelling subse- quently engages portions of the testis itself, the intervening portions i-emaining free and healthy; so that sometimes, by careful manipula- tion, nodules can be felt in the substance of the organ, through the tunica albuginea. At length the whole testicle becomes considerably enlarged, and feels hard and heavy. Then the scrotum may become inflamed and adherent, eventually undergoing ulceration, accompanied with protrusion of the testicle. In one such case, having excised the organ, on section, the appearances were those of a scrofulous testis. The epididymis was filled with a yellow friable matter, which, under the microscope, was seen to consist of imperfect broken cells and granules; while nodules of this substance were deposited here and there throughout the testicle, itself otherwise healthy, the reddish-grey colour of its tubuli seminiferi contrasting with the yellow nodules. The man bore the mark as of a chancre at the corona glandis, which he says occurred about two years ago, and that the testicle began to (;nlai'ge nine months prior to the operation. Judging merely from the condition of the organ itself, in this case, it would have been almost impossible to have pronounced its enlargement syphilitic; and, indeed, the most accurate diagnosticians have acknowledged the resemblance of scrofulous and syphilitic disease of the testicle. Under whatever264 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. circumstances clironic enlargement of tlio testis takes place, the symptoms are precisely the same, observes Sir B. Brodie. Dupuytren, also, was led to this conclusion by his observations. Simple glandular enlargement or hypertrophy, and atrophy, of the testicle, are also noticed by some authors. The absorbent glands, in various parts of tbe body, are liable to become enlarged, and their indurated enlargement, especially on the occiput and back of the neck, is regarded by Ricord, I believe, as diagnostic of secondary syphilis. But this condition is attributed, by other writers, only to disease of the parts in communication with such glands. (5.) Diseases of the bones, periosteum, fascia;, and ligaments are possi- ble manifestations of constitutional syphilis, advancing from the surface to deeper textures within the body; but this is a neutral ground, shared by the mercurial poison—prolonged mercurialization, by scrofula also, and by rheumatism. The question of venereal origin is open, therefore, in every case, to investigation, probably afterwards to doubt. A truly syphilitic node, for example, is usually considered to signify merely chronic enlargement of the bone itself. A hard swelling forms, without any redness of the skin in the first instance, nor for some time; eventually it becomes red and acutely painful. The syphilitic virus appears to select certain bones or portions of bones for the pro- duction of nodes ; they are mostly subcutaneous, as the inner aspect of the shaft of the tibia, the subcutaneous portion of the ulna, the sternum, clavicle, and cranium; rarely also, I have found the seat of election to be the humerus, just above the inner condyle, or the crest of the ilium. These portions of bone more especially form nodes, which become inflamed. Nodes arising from periostitis are softer, and evidently inflamed from their commencement. They are also more acute. These distinctions are time, and yet the hard chronic node is no criterion of secondary syphilis. This kind of node seldom, if ever, appears, excepting when mercury has been used, and coming, as'it does, late in the career of syphilis, has perhaps been preceded by more than one salivation. Issuing from the mixture of mercury and syphilis, one cannot say how far a chronic node is due to one or the other. Carmichael's experience led him to regard this symptom as "equivocal and uncertain." Colles notices "a general nodose affection of the bones," which is liable to be confounded with so-called syphilitic nodes. Caries and necrosis are no less doubtful evidence of constitutional syphilis. Spongy softening of the bones, denoting caries, may happen in an advanced stage of secondary syphilis, and has its chosen seats ; these being chiefly those where nodes are prone to form-—on the tibia, ulna, clavicle, sternum, and, above all, the nasal bones and cranium. But whatever bone or bones undergo carious softening, there is nothing characteristic of syphilis. Mercury as well as syphilis may be at work; and indeed we rarely, if ever, find caries in syphilitic cases, excepting where mercury has been freely used. None of the cases of syphilis which came under the observation of Guthrie, in the York Hospital, were accompanied with caries; and such was also the experience of Rose, in his series of cases, upwards of 120 in number, and where he was able to ascertain that the patients remained free from syphilis for265 CONSTITUTIONAL OR SECONDARY SYPHILIS. manj months afterwards, or if secondary symptoms returned, caries was not one of them. Necrosis, in. constitutional syphilis, is equally often the offspring' of mercury. Tertiary Symj^tonis.—All the foregoing diseases can scarcely be designated secondary. Some of them, and more particularly disease of the testicle and of the bones, are tertiarij, as compared with others previously described in the series. So also are certain ulcerations affecting the nose, lips, and roots of the nails. A tubercular nodule may form on the ala of the nose. It is a har- dened copper-coloured mass, varying in size fi^om the eighth of an inch and more; persistent perhaps for many months, then ulcerating and destroying the nasal cartilages, and possibly extending further. Cracks on either lip may appear, and remaining for weeks or months, ulcerate extensively. Ulceration about the roots of the nails, onychia, may occur, having a brown, or black colour, surrounded by a deep copper-red margin, and attended with a most offensive discharge. The fingers, toes, or both, though commonly the former, may be thus affected. In either case the ulceration is very obstinate, and the nails loosen, or fall off. The hair may become dry, withered, and faded in. colour; cracked or split at its extremities, and be shed or easily combed off, abundantly, even to baldness. If the bulbs are affected, the hair is not repro- duced, and the baldness is permanent, a condition known as alopecia. It may be partial or entire; and affect the beard, eyebrows, and eye- lashes. In one case, recorded by Vidal, the hair over the whole body came off. Gummy Tumorirs are met with, consisting of degenerative trans- formations of connective tissue, and having a yellowish-white appear- ance on section; of variable size, but with an ill-defined outline, being perhaps thinly encapsuled, yet continuous with adjoining textures. The consistence of these tumours is tolerably distinctive—hence named gummy; they yield a soft or firmer resistance to the touch, or having undergone atrophy and conversion into caseous matter, the little mass becomes a harder lump. The parts in which such tumours may be found are very widespread:—in the skin or mucous membrane, or seated in the sub-cellular tissue, and at length forming tertiary ulcers, as on the tongue or soft palate, or in the pharynx and larynx; in fibrous mem- branes, as the periosteum, or in bones, appearing as nodes; while, in the connective tissue of muscles, gummy tumours are not uncommon, as obscure growths; and in organs, more particularly in the liver, lungs, spleen, brain and nerves, kidney and testicle, these formations constitute the syphilitic affections of internal organs which have specially been investigated by Lancereaux and Dr. Wilks. Lastly, a wan, yellowish hue overshadows the skin in an advanced stage of the disease, which is designated the syphilitic cachexia; but this may denote a mercurial deterioration of the blood. Congenital, Hereditary, or Infantile Syphilis. — The term in- fantile syphilis is not intended to signify primary syphilis in an infant, communicated at birth, from a primary sore or chancre existing in the person of the mother. The disease referred to is truly constitutional syphilis inborn,'and transmitted as an hereditary infection, from the mother at the time of conception or during the period of intra-uterine life. But constitutional syphilis in the mother, in the father, or in both266 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. parents, is not necessarily transmitted to the offspring; who may in- deed be singularly free from any manifest constitutional syphilitic taint, or any other evidence of impaired constitutional vigour—as scrofula. Syphilitic infection of the ovum appears so to lower its vitality, as to entail many morbid consequences. Abortion may ensue, at a variable period of pregnancy, the ovum never reaching maturity. Several con- secutive miscarriages may thus take place, until the maternal or paternal state of infection is rectified or eradicated ; when the mother will probably retain the foetus for the full period of pregnancy—nine months, and then give birth to a living child. From the time of birtli, the infant may exhibit symptoms of secondary syphilis, and present a cachectic, weakly, dwindled, and as it were, aged appearance. Or, free from any secondary symptoms at birth, they supervene in a variable period—a few weeks, commonly between the second and eighth week —or, possibly, not until adult age. But after the eighth month, Trous- seau aflBrms that the disease very rarely appears. The mode of communication would appear to take place in either of four ways, or in their combinations:—(1) From constitutional syphilis in the father, and without communicating any apparent infection to the mother; (2) from constitutional syphilis in the mother; (3) from both parents; (4) from systemic infection of the mother, through a primary sore—a chancre contracted during pregnancy—the embryo having been quite healthy at the time of conception. And the liability of the foetus to infection is much greater during the earlier period of pregnancy than in the later months; an analysis of eleven cases by Diday tending to the conclusion that, after the end of the seventh month, syphilis acquired by the mother is not transmitted to the offspring. But neither parent may exhibit any symptoms of syphilis, the disease having been latent for perhaps a period of many years. (Bumstead.) The important relation of these modes of transmitting syphilis to offspring will be obvious, both in regard to treatment and to medico- legal inquiry. Many other questions pertaining to hereditary syphilis remain open to doubt, and are disputed. Firstly, whether a mother, pregnant with a syphilitic foetus, the offspring of a father having the constitutional disease, can be infected through it without herself having had primary syphilis ? Ricord answers this question in the affirmative, and the pos- sibility of this mode of maternal infection, is supported by a large amount of evidence collected by Mr. J. Hutchinson. Secondly, whether a wet-nurse, having the constitutional disease, can infect the child she suckles, through the medium of the milk ? Yes, says Ricord; no, says Acton. Thirdly, conversely, whether a syphilitic child can infect a healthy nurse ? No, say Ricord and Acton. But Hunter and Law- rence relate cases in which several nurses have been thus infected, in succession; and two of whom transmitted the disease again to their own offspring. Evidence in support of the affirmative of both the two latter questions, may be found in " Ranking's Half-yearly Abstract," vol. iv. As to the mode of communication by suckling; any crack or abrasion on the nipple, or on the Hp or mouth of the child, will facilitate the transmission. But, according to Dr. Colles, mere contact, without any excoriation, will suffice. Symptoms.—Congenital syphilis is not indicated by any constantCONSTITUTIONAL OR SECONDARY SYPHILIS. 267 and peculiar symptoms taken singly, but collectively tliey are diag- nostic. The order of development is uncertain. The cachectic, wasted, and withered condition of the child usually attracts attention. The face has a muddy tint, or there is a tawny-coloured patch in the place of either eyebrow, from which the hair has fallen; the skin is loose and wrinkled, especially around the eyes, mouth, and nose, which also has a flattened appearance; and the expression is remarkably old-looking, giving to the visage of the infant a monkey-like aspect. The voice or cry is cracked, like the sound of a penny trumpet, as Dr. Farre observes. Secondary symptoms are manifested by the skin, and mucous membranes—especially of the nose and mouth. Congestion of, and offensive muco-purulent discharge from the nasal mucous membrane, are accompanied with a puffed appearance of the nose, and constant snufiiing breathing, as a chronic catarrh, existing from birth, or soon supervening. The mouth may exhibit ai'ound the lips radi- ating cracks or fissures, with spots of ulceration, and milk-white ])atches may be found on the palate. Cutaneous eruiMons appear, before birth—the infant presenting some such eruption from birth, or not until some weeks have elapsed—usually three or four. Certain parts are affected more particularly; the mouth and anus, the nates or scrotum, the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet. Hence, observation should always be directed to these parts, in examining an infant supposed to be the victim of hereditary syphilis. The congenital eruption may be recognized in t"he form either of mucous patches, of a spongy, oozing character, especially besetting the angles of the mouth and perhaps the fauces, or gathered around the anus; elsewhere the eruption may be .that of roseolous spots, which come and go; or the cracked appearance of psoriasis may be presented, more especially in the inelastic skin of the palm of the hand and sole of the foot; some- times the eruption takes the form of flat, squamous tubercles ; or vesicles or bullae, known as pemphigus, which dry into scales or scabs. A brownish-red, coppery colour, of or around these eruptions, is more characteristic. Iritis is not uncommon; this affection occurring in about five or six months after birth, and being attended with an abundant effusion of lymph, occluding the pupil so that the sight is generally lost. Interstitial corneitis usually appears, but at a later period,—between the eighth and fifteenth yeai"s. Syphilitic periostitis and caries are comparatively rare; but sometimes the bones lose their epiphysial connections. The teeth, both temporary and permanent, are affected in the tertiary or later form of congenital syphilis. Ac- cording to Mr. J. Hutchinson's original observations, certain carious or ill-developed appearances are presented. The tempora'ry teeth are cut early, have a bad colour, and are liable to a crumbling decay. The upper central incisors usually undergo this destructive change early, and always first; then follow the lateral incisors, which become carious and are Fig. 73. shed; lastly, though rarely, the canine teeth wear away, so as to assume a flat- tened, tusk-like character. (Fig. 78.) The teeth represented are the upper set of a syphilitic child, aged nearly three . years. Owing to early decay of the incisors, the sypliilitic cMld remains I edentulous from an early period, in regard to these teeth, and has aGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY, 268 remarkably unsightly appearance in the laugh of childhood, until the permanent ones are cut. The permanent teeth are more peculiarly affected; chiefly the upper incisors, and first the central ones. They are discoloured, short, peggy, rounded at the angles, standing apart with inter- spaces, or converging ; and marked, on their margin, with a deep broad notch. (Fig. 79, show- ing two upper and four lower permanent incisors, recently cut, in a girl, the subject of inherited syphilis.) They readily disintegrate, crumble, and wear down. After the period of infancy, the individual peculiarities of physio- gnomy and appearance of the skin, by which the subject of inherited taint may be recognized, are, as Mr. Hutchinson observes, the conse- quences of specific inflammations which the patient has undergone at former periods; e.g., the synechias and lustreless iris of irilis, the malformed teeth of periostitis of the alveolus and dental sacs, the protuberant forehead of hydrocephalus, the flattened nose of snuffles, the pale, earthy, opaque skin of cutaneous eruptions. If in infancy the child escapes some such inflammatoiy affections, their consequent peculiarities of appearance will be wanting in the picture of after- years. Growth and development are often arrested. As some com- pensation to the innocent victim of this inherited disease, it is probable that he enjoys some protected immunity to fresh syphilitic infection, or that the acquired disease would then have a milder character in a constitution which has once paid the penalty. The prognosis of congenital syphilis may be determined mainly by the more or less early supervention of the symptoms of the disease. A withered tawny-faced infant at birth, and affected with snufiling and nasal discharge in the course of a day or two, will probably die. The difficulty of suckling such an infant,—for the act of sucking is imper- fectly performed, the supply of milk from the diseased mother may be poor and scanty, and the substitution of a healthy wet-nurse would be obviously improper—the difliculty of weaning the infant to food suitable to its weak digestion and assimilation, and the oppressed respiration under which the child labours, are all very unfavourable to the reno- vation of nutrition and ultimate recovery. Whereas, when the infant remains free of syphilitic manifestations after birth for a period of two months or longer, and is then affected with symptoms,—when the syphilis is hereditary rather than congenital, it is probable that nutri- tion will have become sufficiently established for the child to outlive the disease, and perhaps also the liability to its return. But the mortality from congenital syphilis is far higher than that from the acquired disease. Bassereau is led to believe that in at least one-third of the congenital cases, death ensues within a few months after birth. Post-mortem examination discloses morbid conditions of certain internal organs, more especially; which, however, do not seem to possess any special practical importance. They comprise chiefly the appearances of broncho-pneumonia—death having often resulted from this pulmonary affection ; indurated deposits in the lungs, of a yellow colour and elastic consistence, which are probably gummy tumours,—the small cells found in these deposits being characteristic, and different from those of tubercle and cancer; a degenerate andCONSTITUTIONAL OR SECONDARY SYPHILIS. 269 softened state of sucti tumonrs may present the appearance of purulent infiltration or abscesses in the lungs; a so-called suppuration of the thymus gland, often found after death, is pi'obably of a similar nature; syphilitic peritonitis has been noticed by Sir James Simpson ; and lastly, the albuminoid liver, a degeneration of very common occurrence in congenital syphilis. First noticed by Grubler (1848), and afterwards minutely described by Diday, this albuminoid degenera- tion may be recognized—as Sir William Jenner observes—by certain characters; the liver is large, smooth, hard, heavy, pale, and semi- transparent, and infiltrated with a matter something like glue. The Treatment of Congenital Syphilis will be mentioned in con- nection with the general Treatment of Syphilis. Vaccino-Syphilitic Inoculation.—A most important social question is, whether a true chancre—an infecting syphilitic sore—can be com- municated by vaccination, through the vaccine virus ? Dr. Viennois, in 1860, brought forward cases, apparently, of such syphilitic trans- mission ; other cases subsequently occurred under M. Trousseau, in the Hotel Dieu ; and, since, at Rivalta, an overwhelming demonstration occurred, one child, thus infected, having re-transmitted the disease to another child, and thence, through both, to forty-five other children, and to twenty other mothers or nurses ! In this country, the observations of Mr. Thomas Smith and of Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson have since borne corroborative testimony as to the possibility of vaccino-syphilis. Diagnosis of Constitutional Syphilis.—The presence of constitu- tional syphilis, as manifested by secondary symptoms, is determined solely by the calculation of probabilities; and this is the basis of diagnosis in respect to all diseases, excepting the few that are abso- lutely determined by pathognomonic signs. The diagnostic value of any one symptom is represented by the constancy of its presence and association with the same disease, and by the early period of its occurrence. But the co-existence, or at least the conseciitiveness, of symptoms, any one of which is equivocal, per se, constitutes a weight of evidence greater in the aggregate, than that which the several items of evidence would represent by being merely added together. To illustrate this force of concurrence, by the evidence of secondary symptoms, I shall pass over the order of priority of these symptoms ; thus overlooking the relative value of each, as an early symptom. No one secondary symptom is sufficiently constant or peculiar to syphilis, to make their order of succession a question of much practical interest. But the fact of these symptoms being concurrent in the same person, outweighs their inconstancy. Let the weight of (iwii-syphilitic proba- bility be represented by 5 ; then any one of the five usual secondary symptoms may be absent, or, if present, may point perhaps to constitu- tional syphilis, perhaps to the mercurial crasis, perhaps to both; per- haps to neither of these blood-diseases, but proceed from other causes. Thus, the skin-eruption having a coppery hue ; the excavated ulcer of either or both tonsils ; iritis; enlarged testicle ; node, caries, necrosis; are severally equivocal symptoms of constitutional syphilis ; but taken collectively, or at least as consecutive symptoms, they outweigh the sup- posed anti-syphilitic counterpoise. Constitutional syphilis is diagnosed by an overbalance of probabilities in its favour—this overbalance being due, not to the actual diagnostic value of each symptom or probability,270 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. but to their concurrence. In like manner, other circum.stances may tend to corroborate our diagnosis. The fact of primary syphilis, present or antecedent, has its weight—the weight of an additional probal)ility, concurring. We look for the remains of a presumed chancre or chancres, and probably, also, the vestiges of a bubo or buboes. The diagnosis of constitutional syphilis—thus clearly illustrating the diagnostic value of concurrent symptoms—is the species of evi- dence on which rests the diagnosis of most other blood-diseases ; and, indeed, of diseases generally, the evidence of which is symptomatic. Blood-pathology of Syphilis.—Syphilis, secondary or constitutional, so-called, is essentially a blood-disease ; the evidence being, partly, the " number of textures " affected with some form of mal-nutrition—as of the skin, mucous membrane, iris, periosteum, bone and testicle; partly, the "migratory" character of these local affections—from skin to mucous membrane, to the iris, thence to the testicle, or to periosteum and bone; and partly, the "symmetrical" character of some sucli local affections; occasionally, also, their "serpiginous," or creeping nature, as phagedaanic ulcerations of syphilitic origin. But the last two characters would seem to indicate some determining power in the textures, respecting the particular locality and form in which a par- ticular blood-disease shall manifest itself. Lastly, syphilis is capable of being propagated by "inoculation," thereby inti'oducing the materies morhi into the blood. The blood-pathology of syphilis shares the obscurity of other blood- diseases with few exceptions. The microscope exhibits nothing re- markable ; chemical analysis, at present, brings nothing to light. The potent virus works unseen, being known only by the commotion it occasions. As when a diver has disappeared beneath the surface, we watch the troubled waters, without seeing his operations in the deep; so likewise the syphilitic virus having dived into the blood, we know nothing of its doings there, only that it throws up some eruption on the skin or mucous membrane. Moreover, as the debris and bubbles thrown up by a diver cannot be distinguished from the commotion pro- duced by some monster sporting in the deep; so also the scales and pustules of syphilis are subsequent and equivocal signs of the kind of poison at work. But the virus has not hitherto been detected in the blood; nor does inoculation with syphilitic blood manifest any charac- tei'istic results. Ricord failed to discover inoculable pus in the blood, even in veins nearest the chancre. MM. Ricord and Grassi first noticed " a decrease of the globular element in the blood of persons affected with syphilis arising from the simple or non-infecting chancre ;" and indurated chancre also is apparently followed by a diminished proportion of globules, while the albumen increases. Gausatiue relation of Local to Constitutional Syphilis; and the Unity or Duality of the Syphilitic Virus.—Of the two forms of Local Syphilis vifhich have been designated Chancres, opinions differ respecting their causative relation to Constitutional Sypliilis. It would be impossible within the limits of this part of the work, to discuss the evidence and arguments pertaining to this vexed question. Ricord and his school maintain that only one form of local syphilis —the indurated chancre—is the source of systemic infection, that it is tlie infecting sore, and that it invariably produces constitutional syphilis ; but that the non-indurated or soft chancre is always a271 CONSTITUTIONAL OR SECONDARY SYPHILIS. local disease, and never followed by secondary affections. Hence, indurated cliancre is the onli/ form of 'primary syphilis; and, indeed, that the supervention of induration is the first manifestation of systemic infection—the first secondary symptom. According to other authors, the term syphilis signifies an entirely constitutional disease, not to be distinguished as primary and secondary; the term chancre being restricted to the initial local lesion of syphilis, whereby the virus is introduced or inoculated. If therefore, indurated chancre be the only species of ulcer which is followed by syphilis, it thus differs essentially from soft chancre; the one being the only form of local, or primary, syphilis; the other, distinctively named chancroid, being only a local contagious ulcer of venereal origin. Hence the Dualist theory, in regard to the production of these two diseases, rirst proposed by Bassereau (1858), a former pupil of Ricord's, this theoiy has been advocated by several eminent supporters; Rollet, Cullerier, Bumstead, H. Lee, and others, and is still gaining adherents. But Dualists strenuously maintain the unity of the sypldlitic virus. On the other hand, some observers, scarcely less distinguished, maintain that while the indurated chancre possesses the greater power of producing constitutional syphilis, and is thus the most frequent cause, yet that soft chancre—chancroid—may also, occa- sionally, have this relation. Hence, that chancroid may be regarded as a form of local, or primary, syphilis. This is known as the TJnicist theory; or the reference of these apparently different diseases to one common causative origin. Velpeau, Devergie, and Casenave, more prominently represent the school of Unicists. My own experience inclines to the latter view of the relative infecting character of hard and soft chancres, and thence to Unicism. Inoculation throws some light on this question. The general results of inoculation in regard to syphilis, may perhaps be stated as follows :— (1.) That a chancre always produces a specific virus. (2.) That all chancres—hard and soft—are capable of being propa- gated by inoculation. (3.) That inoculation with the serum or lymph from an indurated sore will only produce a chancre, and that an indurated one, when the system is unaffected. During, therefore, only the earliest stage of such chancre—i.e.. prior to induration, which may be regarded as the first secondary symptom. (4.) That inoculation fi"om an indurated sore—the system being unaft'ected—is invariably followed by secondary affections. (5.) That inoculation from a soft chancre is less certainly pro- ductive of secondary affections. (6.) Secondary syphilis may be propagated by inoculation. (7.) But, that inoculation from secondary syphilis is inoperative on the individual himself, or upon another individual having secondary syphilis. (8.) That the secretion of other specific diseases existing in syphilitic subjects (including the specific syphilitic pustule, and the sores which result from it), has no power of imparting constitutional syphilis. (H. Lee.) (9.) That the natural secretions of glands in syphilitic subjects, when those glands are not themselves specifically diseased, have no power of imparting constitutional syphilis. (H. Lee.)272 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. If any of tliese propositions be erroneous, the error arises not simply from the difficulty inherent in the investigation of inoculation, but also from the difficulty of rightly estimating the mass of, ap- parently, contradictory evidence on this subject. The modus operandi of chancre in producing systemic infection, is doubtful. The lymphatic or absorbent vessels were formerly regarded by Hunter, and his school, as the only medium of transmitting the syphilitic virus. Independently of the experimental facts adduced by Segalas and Magendic, in evidence of the veins also being absorbents, there are two general facts which, apparently, disprove the absorbent function of the lymphatics, in the production of syphilitic systemic infection. (1.) That in those cases in which the irritation of the lymphatics is greatest, and where, therefore, we have the best evidence that the morbid matter has entered them, there is very seldom any secondary syphilitic afEection. (2.) That the best-marked cases of systemic infection are as rarely preceded by any very evident signs of inflammation of the lymphatic glands. In the first class of cases, moreover, the progress of the syphilitic virus may be traced along the lymphatic vessels as far as the first lymphatic glands in their course, but never beyond. In any part of this course, the poison may be arrested and produce a hard knotted cord or round induration, or even a fresh chancre; but there is no proof that the virus is con- veyed unchanged through these glands; on the contrary, the vessels beyond are never affected, and bubo never forms in the glands next in order. Thus, chancre on the penis or vulva induces bubo of the gland in the groin, above Poupart's ligament, but does not affect the vessels and glands within the abdomen; chancre on the finger affects the gland on the inner side of the biceps muscle just above the elbow, but not the axillary glands. Duly weighing these facts, and the analogy of the syphilitic virus with other poisons, in producing systemic infection, Mr. Lee is inclined to believe that the syphilitic virus is communicated directhj to the blood, through the nutritive changes of the part around a chancre, or point of inoculation. Treatment.—Primary and Local Venereal Ulcers.—The first con- sideration in the treatment of syphilis is the question of the prevention of systemic infection. (I.) GJiancre.—The early destruction of chancre, within the first four days after contagion, and thence the prevention of systemic infection, was known as the abortive treatment of syphilis ; that primary syphilis being thus anticipated, the secondary or con- stitutional form of the disease would not follow. Accordingly, cauteri- zation and excision of the chancre have both been advocated and practised; the former preventive measure especially, by Ricord and Sigmund of Vienna, and reported to have proved successful, for the prevention of infection, in some thousands of cases. But, considering the long period of incubation of the syphilitic virus,—two to three weeks as the average time, from the very beginning of which absorp- tion must have proceeded—and the fact also, that when chancre is produced, the system has already become infected, it will be obvious that any local treatment which shall be preventive or abortive of syphilis must be extremely improbable or even impossible. Destruc- tive cauterization has proved unsuccessful during the incubatory273 CONSTITUTIONAL OR SECONDARY SYPHILIS. period,—as early as four or five days after the sexual intercourse; and, as applied within only a few hours after the development of chancre, it has failed to avert the constitutional disease. In a case by Diday, the chancre having appeared a month after intercourse, abortive treatment was tried within six hours; the sore healed in three days, yet secondary symptoms supervened in three weeks. The reputed efficacy of abortive treatment, relative to chancre, is also denied by Professor Bumstead and Mr. H. Lee, and it is now generally discredited. Former cases of supposed success were probably those of the locally contagious, soft suppurating nicer. (2.) Chancroid, the Local Contagious Ulcer.—The period for the production of this ulcer after contagion is of short duration; from two to four days, or within a week. Preventive cauterization must, therefore, be had recourse to within that time. Subsequently, how- ever, the same treatment is available to prevent the propagation of chancroid; and for the destruction of bubo, which becoming a sup- purating ulcer, has the same contagious character. Cauterization, to be effective, must be, not a slight superficial application, which only destroys the surface of the ulcer, but cauteriza- tion, deep, broad, and destructive. We are dealing not merely with a poisoned wound, but a reproductive poisoned wound. The escharotics most reliable are therefore the mineral acids, sulphuric and nitric, chloride of zinc, potash and lime combined in the form of Vienna paste, pernitrate of mercury, and the actual cautery. Nitrate of silver has the dangerous reputation of being sufficiently caustic, because some chancroid sores heal after its application. Of the other agents, sulphuric acid, mixed with finely powered charcoal—the carbo-sulphuric paste, as originally employed by Ricord—is a very effectual caustic. Chloride of zinc and flour, in equal parts, forming Canquoin's paste, is also very serviceable, and was first advocated by RoUett and Diday. Either of these caustics may be used with a glass-rod, or a glazed crockery spatula. The caustic must be applied over the whole sore and around, so as to include the infested peripheral zone of tissue beyond it. The effect of cauterization should be limited within due bounds, if necessary, by means of some antidote; as a solution of carbonate of potash, after an acid caustic, or an acid, such as vinegar, to restrain an alkaline caustic. But the caustic or paste may be left on the ulcer, where with the slough it forms an adherent scab, and the sore heals underneath. Or, where a caustic paste has done its work, in a period of about two hours, it may then be removed, and water- dressing or dry lint substituted, the latter being preferable; thus simply to protect the surface from the risk of contact with any adjoin- ing chancroidal ulcer. Destructive cauterization is impracticable, observes Professor Bum-, stead, when the chancroid cannot be fully exposed; as in consequence of phimosis, or concealment within the urethra, os uteri, or other inaccessible situations. It is inadmissible with regard to ulcers situated directly over the urethra, either in the male or female, owing to the risk of opening this passage ; so also in chancroids of the deeper portions of the vagina, where the walls are in contact with the bladder, rectum, or peritoneum; in sores upon the margin of the urinary meatus, lest cicatricial structure should result; lastly, wherever the presence of other ulcers in the neighbourhood, which cannot be sub-274 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. jected to the same treatment, would thus expose the surface, after separation of the eschar, to re-inoculation, as in the case of chancroid upon the margin of the prepuce, with phimosis concealing a chancroid within. Excision is rarely so successful as cauterization. Even when per- formed freely enough to insure extirpation, and with the precaution of removing any contagious matter, the wound is liable to become re- moculated, forming a larger contagious sore than the original one. Hence, removal with the scissors or knife is eligible only in certain parts; as in the case of chancroids fretting the margin of the prepuce or the border of the labiae of the vulva, where the instrament can be carried sufficiently wide of the uloers. The fresh surface should then be touched with caustic, to form a protective eschar. Phimosis, complicating sub-preputial chancre or chancroid, may be a congenital malformation, or acquired by induration or inflammatory engorgement. Destructive cauterization can be df no use, when chancre, thus enclosed, has become indurated, systemic infection having already taken place ; and with chancroid, the phimosis being of an inflamma- tory character, any such treatment might induce gangrene. But the part should be regularly cleansed, by syringing the prepuce with tepid water, or with a weak astringent solution, as the nitrate of silver, five or ten grains to the ounce. The operation for phimosis—that of slitting up the prepuce—in order to make any direct application to the chancroid, would be an improper procedure, from the liability of thus converting the wound into a larger chancroid ulcer, cases of which have happened. It will be observed that the abortive treatment of chancroid, chancre not being thus controllable, has regard not only to the in- dividual affected; it is also the surest preventive measure, socially considered, by extinguishing the source of contagion. As a public preventive measure against the propagation of primary syphilitic infection, the " Contagious Diseases Act" for the periodic inspection of different classes of the community, was recently insti- tuted ;—a similar legislative enactment to that which is in operation in France. As might be anticipated with reference to a procedure of such nature, its expediency has been strenuously advocated from a sanitary point of view, and an extension of the Act urged, by numerous scientific supporters; and it has been equally denounced, on moral and social grounds, by irreconcilable opponents. The Government has wisely declared its intention of abiding the result of the most complete inquiry. The curative local treatment of chancre, as a specific sore, is best accomplished by mercury. It may be applied in the form of mercurial ointment, spread on lint, and laid on the sore ; or as a lotion—the lotio nigra, consisting of calomel and hme water, in the proportions of ^i. to 3vi.; or, by calomel fumigation, locally applied, as suggested by Mr. Lee. Five or ten grains of calomel may be volatilized over an ordinary fumigating lamp, and the ulcerated part should then be held directly over the vapour, until the white powder is fully deposited on the sore, where it must be allowed to remain. Cha.ncroid having been destroyed by free cauterization, it becomes a simple healing ulcer, which needs only the protection of water- dressing. Various lotions, of a stimulant or astringent character,CONSTITUTIONAL OR SECONDARY SYPHILIS. 276 may, however, sometimes be used witli advantage; as the diluted nitric acid, 3i. to ^v'lix. of water, or a weak solution of sulphate of copper, o-fs.v. to 5i-; tannic acid, ^i. to ^vi., is another good formula, or perhaps the aromatic wine, ji. to ,^iii. of diluent, as employed by French surgeons; while nitrate of silver, grs.xv. to ^i., is much recommended by Rollet. Disinfectant and cleansing washes may be substituted, as occasion requires; a chlorinated solution, 3!. to ^'li. of water; or a solution of carbolic acid, 3ii. to Oi., which Professor Bumstead prefers. The various forms of ulceration which both chancre and chancroid may assume, as already noticed, will require modifications of treat- ment accordingly. Thus, the inflamed and the irritable sores are to be treated by the same measures which would be appropriate for similar ulcers otherwise arising. Inflamed and siippurating indurated chancre is a rare variety, but an inflamed and indurated chancroid—the phlegmonoid form, so named by Ricord—is not uncommon; in either condition, the inflammatory character must be met by the application of cold lotions, or poultices, and other antiphlogistic measures. Phagedcenic ulceration comparatively seldom attacks chancre, and is connected with secondary symptoms of the most severe and intract- able character; in the form of rupia, chi-onic periostitis and ostitis, sloughing ulceration of the throat and nose. PhagedEenic chancroid is not infrequent. In either case, the ulceration may have the creeping and persistent form of serpiginous phagedasna, spreading to an un- limited extent. Treatment comprises free cauterization with strong nitric acid, or the actual cautery; opium, tonics, and a supporting diet; a temperate, quiet life, and fresh air. Ricord speaks highly of the potassio-tartrate of iron, and so also does Mr. Lee, both as a tonic and local application. A mixture of half an ounce of this salt to three ounces of water may be taken thrice daily, in doses of a tablespoonful, an hour after meals ; and a solution applied to the ulcer as a dressing. The co-existence of phimosis, with sub-preputial ulceration, frequently occurs ; and then the foreskin must be slit up, to reach the part afi^ected. Bubo.—(1.) Indurated Bubo, or a bullety, hard, and indolent swelling of one or more lymphatic glands, commonly in the groin, is generally the consequence of a previously indurated chancre, with accompanying systemic infection. No preventive treatment, therefore, can avail to avert the development of this kind of bubo, when, at least, the causa- tive chancre has undergone induration. Curative measures relate to the treatment of constitutional syphilis, under the influence of which treatment the bubo may gradually subside and disappear by resolution; meanwhile occasioning little inconvenience. (2.) Soft, and Suppu- rating Bubo is usually the consequence of a similar kind of ulcer— chancroid ; and both having simply a locally contagious nature, this causative bubo is amenable to treatment accordingly. Prevention may be accomplished by the early destruction, or abortive treatment, of the original chancroid, in the manner already explained. Ctirative indications comprise—the resolution of inflammation, if possible, in order to prevent suppuration ; or in that event, the treatment of abscess, and of the resulting ulcer. Inflammation may be sub- dued by rest in the recumbent posture, cold lotions, local blood- letting, counter-irritation, or compression; aided by a somewhat276 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY, lowering general treatment, by saline purgatives and reduced diet. Loochos should not be applied except in this early stage; since any formation of matter near the surface might inoculate the bites, which would thus be converted into chancroids. Each bite had better be covered with collodion and a bit of adiiosive plaster, as a protective from any adjoining source of contagion, if one such point happens to become a chancroid. Of counter-irritants; iodine paint may be used, or a strong solution of nitrate of silver, 5iii. to ^i. of water, with the addition of TT\^xx, of strong nitric acid, as recommended by Sir H. Thompson; others prefer blistering, or even the actual cautery, as employed in French hospitals, by means of a pointed iron at a white heat, applied to numerous points over the bubo. Compression can be effected by a pad of compressed sponge and spica-bandage, afterwards moistened with warm water to cause the sponge to swell under the bandage. Ricord's pad for buboes offers another resource. But I have rarely found any repressive measure succeed among the large number of out-patients at the Royal Free Hospital. Sujjpurating bubo should speedily be advanced by poulticing, and opened without delay ; before the formation of sinuses, which would undermine the thin, bluish integument, leaving it indisposed to cicatrize. The abscess is readily slit open with a curved, sharp-pointed bistoury or scalpel; observing to make a free incision, and in the vertical rather than in the horizontal direction, as the former cut allows a gaping outlet for the escape of matter when the thigh is raised. Any sinuses should then be followed up with a director, and laid open. If the glands at the bottom of the cavity appear isolated or pedunculated, they had better now be removed, instead of being extruded by a tedious ulceration. This may be done with the knife or scissors, or by touching the little mass freely with a stick of potass fusa. The latter is also preferred by some surgeons for opening the abscess, when it appears likely to become sloughy, as thus a cleaner and more thoroughly exposed cavity will be formed. Haemorrhage is seldom much, and is easily arrested. The ulcer of the opened abscess always assumes a chancroidal character, and secretes virulent matter. A poultice is applied, or strips of wet lint, to the bottom of the cavity, and the sinuses ; subsequently this dressing should be exchanged for the lotions applicable to chancroid, or in its varied conditions of in- flammation or phagedsena. During the cicatrization of a healthy sore, this process of healing will often be promoted by the support of a compress and spica-bandage, and in all cases by keeping the patient at rest. No particular constitutional treatment is required, and mercury would certainly be prejudicial. In the rare event of indurated bubo having suppurated, the local treatment is the same; but the constitutional influence of mercury or other general treatment may be employed with advantage. Constitutional Syphilis.—Preventive treatment still claims our first consideration. After the development of chancre, and before consti- tutional syphilis is manifested by any secondary symptom, except, perhaps, induration of the chancre, there is yet an intervening period of blood-incubation—extending over about a month or six weeks, more or less, during which the development of constitutional syphilis may be intercepted. Otherwise, the blood will assuredly declare its noxious influence on nutrition, in due time; by some secondary disease of the277 CONSTITUTIONAL OR SECONDARY SYPHILIS. skin, by sore throat, iritis, and so forth. The impending evil is sure to supervene, in some form; the storm is sure to burst. There follows the indurated or infecting chancre, says Ricord—a blood diathesis pregnant with misfortunes and tempests. An infallible explosion of constitutional affections will ensue. But if some such manifestations are inevitable, in the natural course of systemic infection, all experience concurs, I believe, in the possibility of averting them by medicinal intervention. By what particular pre- ventive measures ? Here opinious differ widely. Merciiry has long been, and is still generally, credited with the most potent prophylactic influence. The symptoms of its protective opera- tion, constituting mercurialization, and the modes of administering mercury, will be noticed presently, in connection with the curative efficacy of this medicinal agent. It appears indisputable, that if mer- cury be not preventive of systemic infection, no other known medicinal agent possesses such influence in any perceptible degree. The chief difficulty attending investigations with reference to this question, is first to determine the natural course of local syphilis, in its different forms—whether or not systemic infection would assuredly supervene; and thus, with corresponding certainty, to estimate the positive and negative results of mercurialization, or of other supposed protective measures. Remedial Treatment.—Mercury holds the first place, and iodide of potassium the second, in the present anti-syphilitic materia medica. It would be impossible aud useless to enumerate all the various remedies for constitutional syphilis, which have been tried and failed, more-or less entirely. Such are sarsaparilla, guaiacum, opium, conium, juniper, sassafras, dulcamara, etc. Mercury seems to produce a systemic condition which is antago- nistic to, and incompatible with, constitutional syphilis, in most of the forms of its manifestation. And, indeed, this positively remedial operation of mercury is rendered equivocal only by the fact that the natural tendency of syphilis to recovery requires further clinical ob- servation. The sym,ptoms of the systemic influence of mercury, and of its suffi- cient operation remedially, are, a slight tenderness of the gums adjoin- ing the teeth, with, perhaps, a slightly increased flow of saliva, fcetor of the breath, and a coppery taste in the mouth. But this degree of salivation must be maintained, until any secondary symptoms, whether as regards the skin, the throat, or the eyes, have entirely subsided; including also induration of the primary sore. Ifot until then can mercury be safely discontinued, with a view to the non-recurrence of secondary symptoms. The administration of mercury is a matter of equal importance, and scarcely less so, the hind of mercurial preparations employed. It may be introduced into the system, through the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane, by pills or solution taken internally ; or through the skin, by the rubbing in of ointment—inunction ; or by exposure to vapour, known as fumigation, or the mercurial bath ; or by inhalation. Sig- mund advocates hypodermic injection. Blue pill—pilula hydrargyri—from three to five grains, two or three times a day; or calomel, a grain or more, in the form of a pill, and taken as often ; have long been favourite forms of administering mer-GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 278 cury. But these preparations are apt to produce irritation of the gastro-intestinal canal, and the liver, by their continued use—occa- sioning bilious diarrhoea and sickness, long before their beneficial operation on the system can take place. Their introduction is, in fact, thus intercepted, and the mercury is said to "run off by the bowels." A small proportion of opium—say, a quarter of a grain—combined with each pill, will tend to make the blue pill or calomel settle on the stomacli. The iodide of mercury, combined with opium in the form of a pill, is the preparation which I have long been in the habit of pre- scribing. It is less irritating to the stomach, and equally remedial. The l^q^lor hydrargyri hichloridi, in half-drachm doses, more or less, is a convenient form of administering mercury internally; but I use it rather to sustain the systemic influence of the iodide. Mercurial inunction supplies a more sure metbod of affecting the system, without any collateral disturbance of the digestive organs. It consists in rubbing in a small quantity of some mercurial ointment ou the inner or thin-skinned aspect of the thighs, every night. A drachm of the blue ointment, unguentum hydrargyri, may be thus continued nightly, until the gums are touched, and the secondary symptoms evi- dently subsiding. The ointment must be rubbed in until it disappears, and then the greasy surface should be left unwashed. This, however, is a laborious and dirty ordeal, an additional penalty for any one to pay besides having syphilis. Mercurial fumigation may be preferable as a more cleanly and equally efficacious mode of introducing mercury through the skin. It consists in exposing the surface of the body, enveloped in a blanket up to the chin, to the fumes of some mercurial powder, which is heated until it rises in the form of vapour, and which can be advantageously associated with steam, as a vapour bath. For this purpose, an appa- ratus has been contrived by Messrs. vSavigny. A more ready con- trivance is a half brick, heated to a dull redness, on which the powder is placed, and set in a pan containing a little water. Calomel is the mercurial preparation generally employed; and fifteen or twenty grains, the quantity usually sufficient, will undergo volatilization, entirely, in fifteen or twenty minutes. The patient is then put to bed, so that the particles of calomel shall not be wiped off the surface of the body. This mode of introducing mercury is highly recommended by Mr. Lee, who observes that, in his experience, neither of the other modes removes the symptoms so readily as calomel fumigation; none is attended by so little mischief to the patient's constitution; and none is followed so seldom by a relapse. He extends it, as I have already mentioned, to the local treatment of primary sores; and by means of a tube and mouth-piece, the vapour of calomel can be conveyed to the throat, for the treatment of secondary syphilitic ulceration affecting that part. Mercurial inlialation can be administered by a simple and efficient form of inhaler, which is easily constructed; a common earthen teapot, to the spout of which is attached a tube of vulcanized india-rubber, about a foot long, and provided with a bone mouth-piece, in shape like the amber of a meerschaum pipe. A scruple of calomel is placed in the teapot, and the little hole in the lid which allows the escape of steam is stopped with a peg of tightly rolled paper,—better than wood, which yields and loosens in driving it in. The pot thus equippedCONSTITUTIONAL OB SECONDARY SYPHILIS. 279 is ready for use. Resting on an iron tripod stand, the bottom of the pot is exposed to the flame of a spirit-lamp, placed snfBciently near, so that the flame shall expand under the whole bottom. In two or three minutes, the calomel begins to pass into vapour, and, the lid having been raised for a moment to ascertain that fact, the patient is told to inspire through the mouth-piece, at the same moment closing his nostrils between his thumb and forefinger, and then to expire through the nostrils; and so on alternately, breathing in a naturally free and easy manner. After about ten or fifteen minutes, all the calomel will have been inhaled as vapour, save a small quantity which adheres as a thin, white film to the interior of the pot and tube. In two cases wherein I have resorted to the inhalation of calomel- vapour for the treatment of secondary syphilis, with ulceration and sloughing of the throat—the teapot inhaler I improvised having been used—the following facts are worthy of notice for guidance in general. (1.) In both cases, previous treatment by mercury, and iodide of potassium, administered by the mouth, had been tried, successively, and failed; and, in one case, it was impossible thus to continue the treatment, these medicinal agents being absolutely rejected by the stomach with nausea, and constantly recurring sickness. (2.) The gradual process of inhalation,—ten or fifteen minutes, and the quantity used, twenty grains. (3.) Explosive coughing after inhalation,—variable in period of sequence, in its degree, and duration, but subsiding spontaneously and permanently. This might be moderated by reducing the quantity of calomel to, say, half—ten grains, while the same beneficial influence might be gained by repeating the inhalation. (4.) Slight salivation, in about forty-eight hours, and disappearance of the secondary symptoms; ulceration of the throat, especially. (5.) Compared with mercurial inunction, and with the mercurial bath; the inhalation of calomel vapour is more speedy and effectual, in its systemic influence, than the one, and far more so than the other. (6.) As to safety; in one of the two cases, the patient died, some days after inhalation, from bronchitis and pneumonia, but this patient had a very feeble venous circulation, and his constitution had been worn out by an Indian climate, and great intemperance, more than by constitutional syphilis. In the other case, the pulmonic effect of inha- lation was inconsiderable, and the process was repeated on four different occasions, without any danger. The balance of evidence, from these two cases, is, therefore, in favour of inhalation; and relatively also to mercurial inunction, and the mercurial bath.* Excessive mercurialization produces symptoms which it may be con- venient here to notice. They are; profuse salivation, swelling of the salivary glands, gums, tongue, and face, ulceration of the mucous meTu- brane, loosening of the teeth, and even necrosis of the jaws. Diarrhoea, with bilious evacuations. Certain varieties of skin diseases, e.g., mer- curial eczema. Periostitis and ostitis, otherwise than connected with the mouth. Low fever with great prostration or mercurial erythism. Nervous affections—e.g., neuralgic pains, partial paralysis, or mercurial tremor, sometimes complete paralysis and death; usually observed in those subject to the action of mercurial fumigation. * Summary of a Paper read before the Harveian Society, London.GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SUKGERY. 280 Iodide of potassium.—'Not to be trusted for tlie prevention of con- stitutional syphilis, iodide of potassium ranks next to mercury as a curative agent; and especially in some forms of the disease, and in a certain constitutional condition, whether natural to the individual or morbid, where the action of mercury cannot be borne. It may be stated generally, that in the forms of skin eruption accompanied with plastic induration, in the earlier period of constitutional syphilis, and in young and vigorous subjects, mercury is most curative; whereas, in pustular eruptions, enlargement of the testicle, periostitis and ostitis, and any tertiary affections, in the later periods of syphilis, and in debilitated, cachectic subjects, iodide of potassium is the more remedial. But, perhaps, it may be added that its effects are less permanent than those of mercury, and thus the disease is liable to recur. Iodide of potassium is given in doses, usually from three to five grains, thrice daily, and combined with cinchona bark, cascarilla, or other vegetable tonic; this adjunct generally being requisite under the circumstances of suppuration or ulceration, wherein the iodide is prescribed. This medicinal agent was, I believe, originally brought into use for the treatment of constitutional syphilis, by Mr. Samuel Cooper, Mr. Morton, and other Surgeons at University College Hospital, about the time when I was a Student in that Institution; and it has since found much favour with the Profession. I have prescribed it with marked advantage in some thousands of cases, principally at the Royal Free Hospital. Iodide of mercv/ry has considerable repute with many continental surgeons; a grain being given in a pill three times a day, and gradually increased to three grains. Or, this combination may, probably, be effected in the system, by the concurrent administration of iodide of potassium or iodide of sodium, while mercury is introduced through the skin; thus obviating any irritation of the digestive organs which might be excited by giving the iodide of mercury itself. Sarsaparilla has far less influence on constitutional syphilis than was formerly supposed, within my recollection. Its therapeutic value would seem to be restricted to the more asthenic or later secondary, and tertiary symptoms, and as occurring in debilitated subjects; the same circumstances which render iodide of potassium preferable to mercury. Or, again, mercury having produced a new series of symptoms simulating the syphilitic, sarsaparilla will then be remedial; or it may come into use at a subsequent period, to remove the sequel'' of a mercurial course. Sarsaparilla is thus, on the one hand, a sub- stitute for iodide of potassium ; or, on the other hand, an anti-mercurial. The decoction is the preparation usually employed, but it must be concentrated, and drank freely ; in not less quantity than a wine-glass- ful three times a day. It may be advantageously combined witli iodide of potassium ; the two forming what has been indefinitely named an " alterative " mixture. Sarsaparilla has also a tonic influence, but less so than bark, and it is said to be diuretic and diaphoretic. This compound influence may give sarsaparilla an advantage over the more purely tonic operation of bark, when given in combination with iodide of potassium. Guaiacum—another overrated medicine in relation to constitutional syphilis—is nevertheless, apparently, beneficial under similiar circum- stances to those which render sarsaparilla—and iodide of potassium—CONSTITUTIONAL OR SECONDARY SYPHILIS. 281 preferable to mercury; particularly in secondary affections of the periosteum or bone, and as occurring in cachectic subjects; or it may be useful in clearing off the effects of mercury. The stimulant and diaphoretic actions of guaiacum may, perhaps, explain its thera- peutic influence in the course of secondary syphilis, and as an anti- mercurial. It would be of little practical importance to enlarge this general view of the medicinal treatment pertaining to Syphilis. Excluding the many nostrums which, from time to time, have had a temporary remedial reputation; the details of the course of treatment, with reference to the various forms of skin eruption, and other secondary, arid tertiary, syphilitic manifestations, can alone be taught at the bed- side, or learnt by experience. The pathology and treatment of Syphilis are thus summed up by Mr. Lee:— There are four varieties of local syphilis, resulting from the inocula- tion of the syphilitic virus, which are quite distinct, although they may occasionally succeed each other. The first variety is accompanied by the adhesive inflammation, and produces a peculiar chronic enlargement of the inguinal glands, which does not involve the skin or the cellular membrane. This variety is followed by secondary symptoms, and requires, both in its primary and secondary forms, mercurial treatment. The second is accompanied by suppurative inflammation. It does not affect the inguinal glands. It is not followed by constitutional diseases, and requires merely local treatment. The third is accompanied by the ulcerative inflammation. It pro- duces suppuration, generally of one inguinal gland only, which yields an inoculable secretion. It is not followed by constitutional syphilis, and may be treated by local means. The fourth is accompanied by mortification. It does not affect the inguinal glands, is not followed by constitutional symptoms, and re- quires only local treatment. Treatment of Congenital, Hereditary, or Infantile Syphilis.—The treatment of the congenital manifestations of Syphilis is advantage- ously considered in connection with that of the constitutional disease. And here also the surgeon should begin with the higher consideration oi preventing the disease, before proceeding to the curative treatment of its manifestations in the infant after birth. It may be within the province and the power of the medical practitioner to thus preclude much domestic shame and misery, by timely counsel with regard to marriage, if he be consulted respecting such an important question. When may a syphilitic patient safely marry ? Mr. H. Lee imposes only a fairly judicious restriction by allowing an interval of three years from the date of the primary stage of the disease, and that the patient shall have remained free of any syphilitic manifestation for the period of one year; but that even then the patient should be warned of the possibility of a relapse. When a syphilitic male patient is already married, but his wife is not pregnant, the husband should be candidly told of the risk of his transmitting the disease both to his wife and offspring; and he himself should be placed under specific treat- ment. When, unhappily, there is reason to believe, or suspect, that the woman is infected, she, also, shoald be treated accordingly, withGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 282 the View of preventing abortion, or the transmission of the disease to the foetus inutero. Now this timely intervention can be accomplished only by a course of mercury. And it is better to administer mercury externally, by inunction, or by fumigation, rather than internally, by the mouth; for in the latter way, the treatment is apt to be defeated by the occurrence of diarrhoea, which might induce abortion. Mis- carriage, perhaps on a second or third occasion, having been thus prevented, the foetus is tolerated in utero, to perhaps the full period; and may then be born healthy, and continue free from syphilis. But m the event of there being congenital disease, namely at birth, or shortly afterwards, the same treatment should at once be resorted to, for its curative efficacy. The infant should be treated as a separate being, and protected also from the possibly contaminating influence of the mother, if she suckle her child—as morally she is bound to do, rather than that the unwarrantable risk should be incurred of infecting a healthy wet-nurse by the child. If the mother be weak, and thus physically unable to suckle, the infant should be weaned. Mercurial inunction may be conveniently applied to the child by Sir Benjamin Brodie's method; the mercurial ointment, made in the proportion of a drachm to an ounce of lard, is spread over a flannel roller, which is bound round the waist once a day. The child kicks about, and the cuticle being thin, the mercury is absorbed. It does not either gripe or purge, nor does it make the gums sore, but it cures the disease, and without fail. Very few children are said to recover, to whom mercury is given internally. But if this mode of administration be adopted, the hydrargyrum cum creta is perhaps the most efficient pre- paration, in congenital syphilis. At the same time, when the mother continues to suckle her child, she also should be kept under mercurial treatment, lest any further contamination be conveyed to the child, through the mother's milk. I do not know that such treatment of the mother has any indirect curative influence on the child, for its efficacy seems to be spent in the constitution of its first recipient, the mother. From careful analysis of the milk, in such cases, by MM. Lutz and Personne, it appears that not the slightest trace of mercury can be found in this, the source of the child's nourishment. Mercurial treatment must be continued until, and for some time after, all the symptoms of congenital syphilis have disappeared. Then iodide of potassium may be substituted, given in milk to the child; or, as this medicinal agent is probably eliminated in the mammary secretion, it may be administered through the mother. The weakly child should be weaned early, and reared artificially with more nourishing food; cow's milk, and perhaps veal or chicken broth. The local treatment of the syphilitic eruptions, cracks and fissures, comprises the application of slightly stimulating ointments and lotions ; with scrupulous cleanliness, by sponging the fundament more especially, and the use of clean linen. Syphilization yet remains to be noticed. It is said to be the curative treatment of constitutional syphilis by repeated inoculation with the syphilitic virus, and for the prevention of its recurrence. Syphilization is also practised for the cure of primary ulcers, under the influence of which it is said they soon lose their hardness and begin to cicatrize. Buboes are thus affected beneficially. Vegetations remain uninfluenced.283 CONSTITUTIONAL OR SECONDARY SYPHILIS. This mefhod of treatment, originated by M. Auzias-Tnrenne, about 1845, and adopted by M. Sperino, is specially advocated by Professor Boeck, of Christiania, with reference to constitutional syphilis ; and, in 1865, he visited this country to inculcate his views by practical illustra- tion in the Lock Hospital. The matter from a primary syphilitic ulcer, hard or soft, the former being preferable, or that from the artificial sore of a patient undergoing syphilization, is inoculated or introduced, in the same way as vaccine matter. To prevent large ulcers and cicatrices, the inoculations are commenced on the side of the trunk. Three inoculations are made on each side. After three days, pustules will have formed, and fi'om these, other inoculations are then made. This is repeated every third day, the matter being always taken from the last pustules, nntil no further effect can be produced with this matter. Fresh matter is now introduced, from another patient; pustules ensue as from the matter first used, but the pustules and ulcers resulting from this second matter are not nearly so large as those originally produced. A third matter elicits pustules and ulcers yet smaller and fewer in number ; until, ultimately, no matter applied to the sides will produce any specific effect. But the arms and thighs are still suscepti- ble to inoculation, either from fresh matter or from matter of the last pustule. The process is therefore now repeated on these parts in suc- cession, until there also an immunity is obtained. Ordinarily, this occurs in from three to four months. The conclusions arrived at by Professor Boeck are :— (1.) That artificial chancres on the sides and on the arms are always smaller than those on the thighs, and the series of inoculations shorter. (2.) By continued inocnlation the nlcers always become less and less, until at last inoculation gives a perfectly negative result. (3.) The inoculated individual grows insensible to one matter, but is still susceptible to another, yet in a lower degree; and again to a third matter, but in still lower degree; and so on until no further effect is produced by any matter. (4.) Immunity having been obtained on the sides and on the arms, it will still be possible to have rather a long series of inoculations on the thighs. All these phenomena are said to be constant; they do not occur in one individual and not in another; they will always be presented. "We have here an invariable law of nature." A saturation of the system with syphilis — according to MM. Auzias-Turenne and Sperino—is thus established; a syphilitic diathesis —according to Dr. Boeck—which, when once established, cannot be increased or intensified by the further inoculation of virulent matter. But the continued insertion of this matter stimulates the disease, and enables it to pass through its regular course; thus completing the series of phenomena which follow systemic syphilitic infection, in a far shorter period than if left to itself, or subjected to any other method of treatment. Relapses, and the supervention of the so-called tertiary disease, are therefore rarely found after this curative treatment; whilst the continued introduction of syphilitic matter into the system destroys, in a varying period of time, the susceptibility of the individual ; ultimately producing a local as well as a general immunity to the disease, which constitutes its preventive treatment.284 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Patients of all ages, even very young infants who are the subjects of hereditary disease, have undergone this course of treatment. In the latter, however, inoculations will frequently not take effect; nor in persons with acquired constitutional syphilis, who, at the same time, are suffering from some acute or debilitating disease. But the latter adverse conditions are temporary, and immunity is generally obtained. Its duration in regard to the local action of the virus is limited, freedom from susceptibility to the production of chancre being gradually lost after the inoculations have been discontinued; but the systemic immunity continues, and frequently throughout the life of the patient. These results have been attested, it is said, by some hundred of cases. It is admitted, however, that the success of syphilization is very much modified by the fact of whether, or not, the patient had previ- ously undergone mercurial treatment. Dr. Boeck alleges that mercury interrupts and retards the natural course of syphilis, and that, in like manner, it interferes with the treatment by continued inoculation,— thus diminishing the curative efficacy of syphilization. It was at this stage of the inquiry, more particularly, that syphiliza- tion was tested at the Lock Hospital, in twenty-seven cases, under Dr. Boeck's immediate supervision. Mr. James R. Lane and Mr. Gascoyen —the surgeons to that Institution—have supplied an elaborate report of these cases; which, while it contributed interesting particulars on points connected with the clinical history of syphilization, and in- directly with the pathology of Syphilis, condemns it as a method of treatment. On this aspect of the question, the report concludes:— " We are entirely in accord as to the practical bearings of Syphiliza- tion, and we are decidedly of opinion that it is not a treatment which can be recommended for adoption. We consider that, even if it could be admitted to possess all the advantages claimed for it by its advo- cates, its superiority over other modes of treatment, or in many instances over no treatment at all, would not sufficiently compensate for its tediousness, its painfulness, and the life-long marking which it entails upon the patient. " If Syphilization could be relied upon, after other treatment had failed, to control the severer forms of the disease, especially in its tertiary stage, or to prevent its hereditary transmission, the benefit derived would, without doubt, more than counterbalance these dis- advantages ; but unfortunately these are precisely the cases in which it has admittedly the least influence." (" Med.-Chir. Trans.," 1867.) CHAPTER VIII. ERYSIPELAS. Erysipelas is a blood-disease, manifested by a diffuse and spreading or serous inflammation of the skin and subcellular texture, possibly also of the mucous membranes; and of an infectious character. The latter element of this definition is disputed, and indeed open to doubt.285 ERYSIPELAS. Any sncli doubt, and disputation, seem to have arisen from one oversight—that of associating erysipelas, as a diffuse inflammation of the skin and subcellular texture of the head and face 07ily, with erysipelatous inflammation of the skin and subcellular texture of any other part of the body. The former is decidedly infectious ; the latter, apart from co-operating causes, less decidedly so. According to some authors, the pathology of erysipelas is en- larged so as to include almost any diffuse and spreading inflam- mation ; as when arising from the contagion or local introduction of decomposing animal or septic matter; e.g., the cellulitis proceeding from a poisoned wound; with which may be associated diffuse phle- bitis and diffuse lymphatitis. But thus would be placed in the same class, diseases which, having the resemblance of appearance, as inflam- mation, yet differ in their pathology, especially with regard to their infectious or non-infectious nature. Simple or Cutaneous Erysipelas.—The inflammation is located principally in the papillary layer and rete malpighii of the skin. (Billroth.) Commencing in the integument of the head or face, simple erysipelas exhibits the following characteristic appearances:— On the nose, either cheek, the margin of either eai", or sometimes on one of the temples, a slight blush of redness becomes visible, accompanied with stiffness rather than swelling of the shin; which has lost only its wonted suppleness, and acquired a shiny roseate hue. A tingling, burning sensation also, rather than pain, is experienced, and hence the popular name of this inflammation—St. Anthony's Fire. The redness of erysipelas assumes different tints; usually being more scarlet, rather than purple ; but of whatever tint it may be, it disappears entirely on pressure, and returns immediately the finger is withdrawn—so free and persistent is the determination of blood. The tension also of the skin is readily perceived on passing the finger from the sound to the inflamed part. An abrupt margin defines this redness and this stiffness ; both are circumscribed by an irregular line. The inflammation, thus mapped out, spreads continuously: erysipe- las is, par excellence, a creeping skin affection; and while it diverges, creeping like water spilt on an impervious surface, the skin becomes swollen, some serum is effused into the subcellular texture also, and this swelling is soft and diffused. Nature makes no adequate repara- tive effort to limit and circumscribe the serum with lymph. Serous effusion, therefore, proceeds, and the swelling increases—so much so as to close the eyelids, distend the cheeks, disfigure the features, and, at length, obliterate all traces of personal identification. " What great events from little causes spring: " that trifling red nose, and now this defaced visage ! Terminations.—At this stage of the inflammation its course is sometimes arrested, the redness fades, the swelling subsides; and this termination by resolution occurs with, or without, shedding of the cuticle, in silky scales, or a branny powder, at the end of three or four days. In many instances, however, the issue is less speedy. Serous effusion, having continued for a period varying from twelve to thirty-six hours, elevates the cuticle into vesicles, or larger blebs, exactly like those which follow a burn or scald. These semi-trans- parent and yellowish, or sometimes livid blisters, soon burst, andGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 286 discharging their contents—serum, pure or bloody—subside into thin incrustations. When, in the course of a week or ten days, these peel off, they disclose the subjacent skin either in a sound state or beset with superficial ulcerations. Suppuration, in the form of small subcutaneous abscesses, sometimes occurs. In some instances the true skin is less spared. It has a reddish-brown or livid hue, and even gangrene of the sidn succeeds; announced by great tension, heat, and acute pain. But this issue of erysipelas is rare, and generally fatal. Such are the origin, course, and terminations of simple erysipelas— an inflammation akin to erythema, and contrasting with the phlegmo- nous variety, in which the skin and subcellular texture are both the seat of inflammation—the latter tissue being more especially, but secondarily, engaged. Diagnosis.—It is highly important to distinguish simple erysipelas from certain other diseases, which bear more or less resemblance to this cutaneous inflammation. Urythema is an inflammatory affection of the skin, which presents a pale rose colour, with slight tension of the skin, and is attended with a tingling or painful sensation; but this inflammation appears in the form of irregularly circumscribed patches, of variable extent and number, and which have not the spreading cha- racter of erysipelas. Any part of the body is liable to be attacked with such patches, but the trunk or limbs are more commonly affected; rarely the head. The accompanying febrile symptoms are slight. Erythe- matous inflammation is transient, subsiding with efl3orescence, in a week or two ; or it may assume a chronic character. The varieties of erythema are distinguished principally by the shape, size, and colour of the flattened patches; in one variety, however, E. nodosum, the patches are elevated, and somewhat indurated, in the form of oval and more or less firm swellings, to the extent of two or three inches long, and which have a red or purple hue. They are commonly seated on the shin; and so far mii^ht be mistaken for syphilitic nodes. Certain diffuse inflammations of the subcutaneous cellular texture more nearly resemble simple erysipelas in appearance. Capillary lymphatitis is one such inflammatory affection of the smallest lymphatic vessels beneath the skin, to which I would especially direct attention, with regard to diagnosis. This inflammation appears in the form of a uniform blush of redness, nnlike the ramified streaks presented by the larger lym- phatics when inflamed; the redness is of a pale rose tint, and is accom- panied with little or no cutaneous tension to the touch of the finger,— these two characters differing so far from those of simple erysipelas, to which perhaps may be added the less-marked boundary of capillary lymphatitis; yet in both diseases the inflammation has the same con- tinuously spreading character. But in respect to their causative origin, the distinction is most manifest; erysipelas generally being communicated by infection; whereas capillary lymphatitis is always of traumatic nature,—as a diffuse subcutaneous inflammation of the smallest lymphatics, proceeding from an open wound, or even a sub- cutaneous lesion, perhaps only friction of the skin. Traumatic erysipe- latous inflammation arises only in connection with a wound ; and, indeed, it may be doubted whether, usually, the traumatic erysipelas, so called, is not essentially capillary lymphatitis. From erythematous inflammation of the skin, this inflammatory affection of the subcu-287 ERYSIPELAS. taneous- lymphatics may be distinguished by its not appearing as numerous patches, in diiferent parts of the body, but only in connec- tion with the local lesion, from whence it arises; and by the spreading character of the inflammation. Phlegmonous, or Gellulo-Gutaneous Erysipelas—and its Diagnostic cha- racters.—Another form of the inflammation—phlegmonous erysipelas —presents diflFerent characters from those of simple erysipelas. The roseate hue, if it should appear in the first instance, is soon exchanged for a brownish or livid tint which mottles the skin. The subcellular texture is gorged with serum, and exhibits a considerable swelling, which, however, readily pits on pressure with the finger. This cedema- tous swelling, of considerable size, and this purple shade of colour exhibited by the skin, contrast with the characters of simple erysipelas as it first appears. The burning pain also is more severe, and perhaps accompanied with throbbing. Otherwise, the simple and phlegmonous varieties have points of resemblance. In both, the redness presents a defined margin; in both, the inflammation extends itself continuously by creeping over the surface. But then again, in phlegmonous ery- sipelas, serous infiltration of the subcellular texture advances and deepens with alarming rapidity; and although itself diffused, the stuffed cushion of cellular tissue soon feels braimy. A few small vesicles only represent the overflow of serum under the cuticle; they do not reveal the perilous state of affairs beneath the skin. Terminations.—Burrowing suppuration and rapid sloughing threaten; these dangers not being attended with increased tension, swelling, and pointing, as in phlegmonous inflammation; on the contrary, rather with diminished tension, subsidence, and flaccidity. At that period, ob- serves Dupuytren,* when phlyctenae have formed, and the cellular texture becomes thickened and indurated, the symptoms appear for two, three, or four days to be stationary; and an inexperienced surgeon is even led to hope foi" the resolution of the inflammation, while the danger is really urgent, and suppuration already exists. This, then, is the critical period of phlegmonous erysipelas. If unchecked, the conclusion of its career may be told in a few words. Very soon after this period of deceitful calm comes an outburst. A more livid hue overshadows the integuments ; the skin melts away in patches, accom- panied with a discharge of bloody sanious fluid, and the exposure of white sloughs of cellular tissue, portions of which bulge here and there through apertures in the integument. Sometimes this texture perishes extensively, but if partially spared, large sloughs of cellular tissue, resembling masses of soddened tow, are eventually detached; while the adjoining cellular texture is drilled with small abscesses, or a pro- fuse suppuration burrows wherever fluid can find its way—between muscles, and possibly into a neighbouring joint. Thus all parts around become involved in the ravages of phlegmonous erysipelas. In one fatal case, under Dupuytren's observation, the whole leg was laid bare of skin and cellular tissue, exposing the tibia and patella. After prolonged suppuration and sloughing, those textures which do escape—the muscles, fasciae, tendons, and bones—are so agglutinated together as to seriously and permanently impair their uses in the ^nimal economy. * « Clia. Chir." t. ii. p. 311.GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 288 Diagnosis.—Two forms of inflammation affecting the subcutaneous cellular texture—the one diffuse, the other circumscribed—must be distinguished from phlegmonous erysipelas. GdlulUis sometimes occurs in the form of a subcutaneous and diffuse inflammation, which so far resembling phlegmonous erysipelas, these two diseases are asso- ciated, according to the pathology of some authors. But, as in the diagnosis of other diseases, no constant differences of character can possibly be referable to diseases of essentially the same nature. Thus, cellulitis may bo recognized by a diffuse, oedematous, and spreading swelling, with the ahsence of cutaneous inflammation; there being perhaps scarcely the slightest blush of redness in the skin, although the pain is severe. The skin may become secondarily involved, by advance of the cellular inflammation from beneath upwards; but the subcutaneous cellular tissue is primarily and essentially the seat of the inflammation. Cellulitis arises from various blood-poisons; which may be introduced, either through a poisoned wound, or by atmospheric influence affecting any wound, or gain access to the circulation through inhalation. Thus, the etiology of diffuse cellular inflammation' comprises the blood-poisoning from a snake-bite or a dissection wound; and in the idiopathic form of the disease, as unconnected with any wound or surgical operation. But the disease does not appear to be the offspring of infection, or to have an infectious character. The febrile disturbance in cellulitis is more profoundly of the typhoid type, than in phlegmonous erysipelas; it runs its course more rapidly, and the exhaustion is more overwhelming, and generally fatal. The etiology and constitutional symptoms may, therefore, be taken in conjunction with the characters of the cellular inflanimation, as a wider ground of diagnosis between these diseases. Phlegmonous inflammation contrasts with phlegmonous erysipelas in certain particulars, and which determine their diagnosis—a question of much importance. Circumscribed and limited infiltration of the subcutaneous cellular tissue with coagulating lymph is the essential pathological condition peculiar to phlegmon. It is an inflammation of the cellular texture jjrimarily, the skin being only secondarily involved; whereas phlegmonous erysipelas selects, first, the skin, and then in- volves the subcellular tissue. Coagulating lymph, rather than serum, is effused in phlegmon; the consequent swelling is therefore circumscribed and limited, instead of being diffused and wide-spreading; it is also braiuny in the first instance, that of phlegmonous erysipelas becomes so gradually; lastly, respecting the issue of these two species of inflam- mation, that of erysipelas is prone to slough, while that of phlegmon is liable only to this termination. It seems unnecessary to add a third form of Erysipelas—the " oede- matous " of some pathologists, for the phlesfmonous form is itself oedematous in one stage of its career. In both, a diffused infiltration of the subcutaneous cellular texture with serum is conspicuous, and the pitting of this oedema on pressure with the finger is its most distinctive character. Erysipelas may spread from the scalp and face to the neck, thence to the thorax, and occasionally extend as far as the extremities; or it may begin in some other part than the head and face—such as the leg, sometimes the trunk. In whatever part of the body Erysipelas first shows itself, its characters and course are similar; but while289 ERYSIPELAS. fading in that portion of the skin where it first ajipeared, it travels to the neighbouring skin. The various stages of this inflammation, therefore, usually co-exist in dilferent parts of the skin; the portion last affected being red and swollen, another part vesicated, while others are undergoing desquamation. So marked sometimes is the spreading or progressive character of the inflammation, as to have received the name of JE. ambulans. Or, if not spreading continuously, but sub- siding and migrating from part to part, this variety has been named JE7. erraticiimi, or metastatic, when migrating possibly to some internal mucous membrane, or serous cavity. Thence, complications are oc- casionally met with, as in other eruptive fevers. For example, meningitis may occur in connection with erysipelas of the face; pleurisy, when the trunk or other parts are affected. Fever.—Erysipelas is preceded by, and attended vsrith, a fever of the typhoid type; but which is generally characterized by a marked de- rangement of the digestive system, especially of the liver, so that the patient may become more or less jaundiced. Commencing, usually, with smart rigors, and a hot, dry skin, followed by perspiration, per- haps profuse; then the erysipelatous inflammation makes its appearance. Sometimes, however, the premonitory symptoms are simply a sense of weariness with a chilly feeling, ere the cutaneous or cellulo-cutane- ous inflammation is declared. But in either case, the gastric and hepatic derangements are denoted by a yellow, flabby, steaming tongue, which soon assumes a dry, brown, and corrugated aspect, with bitter, hickuppy eructations, nausea, and epigastric oppression; the bowels' are constipated, or pass only lumpy, dark-coloured, and offensive motions, issuing in diari^hoea; while a yellow tinge overspreads the skin and conjunctivae. This retention of bile in the blood is shown also by the state of the urine, which has an orange-red colour; the secretion is scanty, turbid with lithates, and loaded with urea; some- times a varying proportion of albumen is found on examining the urine with the usual tests of heat and nitric acid. The circulation labours under the influence of the blood-poison. On the accession of the fever, the pulse increases in frequency, and the temperature rises from 98° to 100° or 102°, during the apparent coldness of the rigor- stage ; but soon the supervention of exhaustion is manifested by the feeble, irregular, and liquid or thready character of the pulse, which often, however, retains its rapidity. The temperatui'e gradually de- clines as the inflammation subsides; or rises daily, morning and evening, especially as the inflammation continues to spread, or returns in an erratic form. In unison with the circulation, symptoms of nei'- vous depression are evinced by the clasping headache and drowsy sleeplessness, which may be noticed in erysipelas of the head and face, more especially; and sometimes, maniacal excitement having prevailed for a time, the low muttering and wandering delirium of typhoidal fever overwhelms the patient, as he sinks into the arms of death. On the other hand, there can be no more favourable omens than a subsidence of the pulse and temperature; both gradually re- turning to the normal standard, as the blood-poison seems to have spent itself in the inflammation, and the red or purple hue of the skin fades away, not prematurely, but in the natural termination of the attack. In the course of erysipelatous fever, the premonitory symptoms ■of rigor or chilliness may not be followed by the outbreak of cutaneous uGENEPxAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 290 iiiHammation until after a period of from twenty-four hours to two or tlu-ee days; during which interval, however, other symptoms an- nounce the approaching attack. Thus, pending erysipelas of the head and face, a diffuse inflammation of the fauces, or " sore throat," generally precedes, and accompanies, the cutaneous inflammation; and, indeed, this affection of the mucous membrane is, according to some observers, an invariable accompaniment of the initiatory fever of idiopathic erysipelas. Swelling and tenderness of the lymphatic glands may be the forerunner of an erysipelatous outburst in an adjoining part; as of the cervical glands with relation to erysipelas of the head and face. A wound or ulcer assumes an unhealthy character; the granulations losing their florid hue, and the purulent secretion becoming thin and sanious. It may be here noticed, that when erysipelatous inflammation sweeps over a cicatrix, the new tissue often begins to ooze, and threatens to reopen; as I have seen after excision of the hip-joint. But in a case of knee-joint excision, I have known a most violent attack of erysipelas pass over the seat of recent union without loosening the recent anchylosis. Blood-patJwlogy.—Erysipelas has been thus examined, yet with little result. The blood is rich in fibrin, and poor in globules; but these alterations, together with others that occur, are common to all the phlegmasise. They are not peculiar to erysipelas, and therefore not characteristic. Post-mortem examination, in the uncomplicated disease, reveals no apparent cause of death; no organic changes, except a tendency to disintegration, softening, and blood-staining, common to all blood-diseases. Causes.—Iibfection.—Erysipelas may be caused by infection—I.e., it may be produced by inhalation from a person having the disease. But this mode of production is observed only in some cases. Certain cases reported by Dr. Wells * are much to the point. An elderly man was attacked with erysipelas of the face, and died in about a week from the time when Dr. Wells first saw him, viz., on the 8th of August. On the 18th of the following month an elderly woman, landlady of the house in which the old man had been a lodger, came under the care of Dr. Wells, also with erysipelas of the face. On inquiry it was found that the old man's wife had been seized with erysipelas a few days after his decease, and had died in about a week. Another old Avoman, who had nursed the landlady, was also attacked with this disease and died. Lastly, a young man, nephew of the old man, was seized, shortly after visiting his uncle, and died in a few days. In this last case the proba- bility of infection having been the cause of erysipelas is obvious, and with some probability the same mode of propagation may be inferred respecting the whole series of cases. For the report further states, that the landlady had been several times with the old man and his wife during their sickness, and that after their death she had removed some furniture from the room they had occupied to her own apartment. Cases of like import occurred in the practice of Dr. Wells's contempo- raries—Mr. Whitfield, apothecary for very many years to St. Thomas's Hospital, Pitcairn, and Baillie, who made similar observations in St. George's Hospital during the years 1795-96. Many years afterwards, to show the growing impression in favour of this doctrine, I might * " Trana. of a Society for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge," ISOO, vol. ii. p. 214.291 ERYSIPELAS. reftr to cases of infectious erysipelas, recorded severally by Dickson,* Blackett,t and Stevenson.J Then Mr. Arnott § took up the inquiry. He collected what had been done by others, and added the results of his own observations. " In one family, the mother was first affected with inflammation of the j^haayns, terminating in mortification. On her death the husband was attacked with inflammation of the throat and erysipelas of the face. As he recovered, the daughter was similarly seized with inflammation of the pharynx and severe erysipelas." Five years prior to this paper, although published subsequently, a series of ob- servations yet mox*e convincing, if possible, were made Toy Dr. Gibson.|| For example, the infant son of a gentleman was seized with erysipelas on one foot. Afterwards, the mother became affected with erysipelas of the face and scalp. Then the nurse, who suckled the child, was attacked with symptoms of pneumonia. She was removed to her father's house, four miles off. He, who some days before her arri- val had received a wound of the scalp, was now seized with erysipelas of the face and scalp, and died. Soon afterwards, a sister, living in the same cottage, had fever with sore throat, from which she slowly recovered. Two children, in the same house, were cut off with what appeared to be croup. Taking a fair estimate of all these cases, it will be obvious that those are most decisive where the persons who became affected resided at some distance from the house in which erysipelas first manifested itself. Persons living together might possibly be subject to some endemic source of disease, as bad drainage, or insufficient ventilation. But if the fact of persons acquiring erysipelas, after associating with those who have this disease, is in favoiu? of its propagation by infection; so also, when the source of contamination is removed, the disease should cease to spread. Of this the following is an illustration:—The wards of the Dublin Fever and Dysentery Hospital were large and extremely well ventilated. " On paying my daily visit," writes Dr. Brereton,«[[ "I observed one of the patients, who had been admitted with fever some days previously, to be formidably attacked with erysipelas. On the following day I found the patient in the next bed seized with it. On the third day, two patiejits in the adjoining beds were similarly attacked. I then," continues Dr. Brereton, "became seriously of opinion that the disease was contagious, but resolved not to have those already affected removed until I had tried the result of another day. On the foUpwing morning, I found three more in like manner labouring under the disease; and what made it more remarkable, they were all simi- larly attacked in the head and face. I had them immediately put into another ward, where there were no patients ; they all recovered, and no more erysipelas afterwards appeared." In this series seven patients were attacked successively, but here the supposed cause being removed, its effect ceased. Respecting, then, the propagation of erysipelas by infection, we nave the clouUe test of causation fulfilled; the presence of erysipelas is * " Med.-Chir. Jour.," April, 1819, p. 615. t " Med. and Physical Jour.." April, 1826. I " Edin. Med.-Chir. Trans.," vol. ii., 1826. § " London Med. and Physical Jour.," 1827, vol. vlii. II " Edin. Med.-Chir. Trans.," vol. iii., 1829. •^r "Dub. Jour, of Medical Science," vol. vi. p. 176.GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. at once followed by this disease in persons associating therewith, and, being withdrawn, the disease at once ceases to multiply. It has been affirmed by some men of observation that this law holds good only of erysipelas affecting the face and scalp. Arnott and Wat- son are of this opinion ; but, restricting, as they do, their definition of this disease to its manifestation on the head and face, the law of in- fectious propagation becomes absolute. Other authorities, however— and the majority—who do not take this locaUzed view of erysipelas, are inclined to acknowledge its propagation by infection. I can throw into the scale my testimony as to the infectious character of facial erysipelas, and probably of every Idiopathic manifestation of the disease on any part of the body. Are fomites capable of transmitting this disease ? Yes, certainly. Among the earlier writers, Wells observed that a certain patient caught erysipelas in consequence of being laid in the unchanged bed of one who died of it. In one of my cases of knee-joint excision, two months after the operation, when the union was fairly firm and the wound had entirely closed, the patient, a female, aged fifty-three, caught erysipelas from having been transferred to a bed where the mattress had been accidentally stuffed with some flock previously used in the bed of an erysipelas case. The attack, thus communicated, was so severe—the inflammation extending up the limb to the loins and lower part of the abdomen—that she nearly lost her life. But the wards of an hospital may themselves become contaminated, and communicate the disease on a larger scale. By Gibson's report, already quoted, we learn that a woman, with erysipelas of the hand, having been admitted into the Montrose Infirmary, and the patients in either adjoining bed having become affected, the whole ward was then cleared out, cleansed, whitewashed, and fumigated. " Yet when they were again placed in that ward the disease reappeared," and it became necessary to remove all the patients from this little infirmary, and to take every precaution ere the infection was eradicated. The contaminating power of fomites, in the shape of furniture, floors, etc., is evinced by the fact that dry- scrubbing instead of washing the floors of an hospital, or the decks of a ship, is the surest safeguard against this source of infection. But fomites of all kinds retain most tenaciously the poison of erysipelas; and, indeed, Gregory is of opinion that this poison is banished with more difficulty than other known miasm. The period of latency or incubation—varying in each kind of infec- tious disease—in erysipelas, extends from two to fourteen days; and when developed, the infecting area is twenty to thirty feet. External causes.—Erysipelas acknowledges, apparently, a traumatic origin, in some instances. Hence all kinds of wounds, injuries, surgical operations, and irritants,. such as blisters, caustics, etc.—are accre- dited causes of this species of inflammation. Besides mechanical and chemical irritants, heat and cold may be accorded their share of im- portance. The situations or parts of the body more commonly affected with traumatic erysipelas, may be arranged, according to Billroth's ex- perience, in the following order of fi'equency : the lower limbs, then the face, upper extremities, breast and back, head, neck, and abdomen, this scale corresponding to the proportionate frequency of injuries in the different parts. Sometimes, erysipelas appears and proceeds as293 ERYSIPELAS. an epidem/ic; the disease seeming to be the offspring of some unknown atmospheric influence. Or again, it may have an endemic atmospheric origin; the disease arising from the overcrowding of patients in the ward of an hospital, deficient ventilation, or defective drainage. In like manner, the uncleanly dressing of wounds is an accredited source of erysipelas, and of its propagation. Predisposing causes.—Any external cause may be reinforced, at least, by conditions within the body; resulting mostly from previous habits of intemperance, previous hardships, or both, perhaps also from mental depression—cii'cumstances which have depraved the blood and enfeebled its circulation. But the disease is also most prevalent in spring and autumn, or at least when hot and cold wet weather alter- nate ; and if period of the year has some predisposing influence, so also has the period of life, they being most liable who are old in years, or old for their years. Apart from predisposing causes, erysipelas, probably, would not arise; with their concurrence the scratch of a pin only may be ap- parently the traumatic origin of this disease. Yet even in such cases its infectious character becomes developed. In one instance, noticed by Lawrence, erysipelas of the head and face, consequent on the insertion of a seton in the neck, was the only presumptive cause of this affection in two other persons. Travers, indeed, goes so far as to afiirm that he has repeatedly seen the "idiopathic" arising from the "traumatic," or this from the formei", and either from its own source. Lastly, the possibility of erysipelas arising spontaneously—that is to say, in an individual without any assignable external cause, and there- fore without infection—is, I think, indisputable. The recurrence of this disease in the same individual is possible. I can speak from my own personal experience, having had it four times severely, in my head and face, when from nine to thirteen years of age. I was then a pupil at the King's College School, and although many years have elapsed, I well remember the flaming pain, and that my face was like a distended bladder. I just mention these particulars to verify so early a reminiscence in evidence of an important fact, that susceptibility to trxie erysipelas—i.e., affecting the head and face—is not exhausted by one attack. Unlike most eruptive fevers, the blood does not lose its capability of undergoing this infection, again and again. Prognosis.—The constitutional conditions which rank as predis- posing causes of erysipelas, mainly suggest the prognosis of this disease. In persons of intemperate habits, and who are the subjects of degeneration of the kidneys, with albuminuria, or of the liver with a tendency to jaundice, erysipelas is generally fatal. In the aged, or persons of prematurely old and broken constitution, the prognosis is unfavourable. These adverse conditions owe their significance to the • retention of excrementitious matters in the blood, or blood-poisoniug, coupled with an enfeebled circulation. But the form of erysipelas, the part affected, the extent of the inflammation and the destruction of texture, the co-existence of other diseases as complications, or of various injuries when the erysipelas is of traumatic origin, have each their special share of importance in determining the issue. Thus, simple cutaneous erysipelas is less perilous than the phlegmonous or cellulo-cutaneous form of the disease; but, as affecting the head espe-GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 294 cially, or the trunk, the clanger is greater than when either limb is the seat of the infiammation; although the destructive character of phlegmonous erysipelas, in, the course of suppuration and sloughing, may prove fatal by exhaustion. Treatment.—Preventive measures must have reference to the causes of this disease. Its propagation by infection suggests the prompt isola- tion of any person having erysipelas—as the source of infection, free ventilation of the apartment, and the separate use of any bedding or other infected article, which might act as a fomes in carrying the disease to other patients. Dry-scrubbing instead of washing the floor of the bedroom or ward, has already been, alluded to as a safe-guard; evaporation favouring, apparently, the dissemination of the infected atmosphere. Cleanliness with regard to the dressings used for other patients, and on the part of the nurses, is an obvious injunction. With all these precautions, a nurse or the practitioner himself may yet be the medium of communicating the disease. Disinfectants, such as chlorine vapour, or chlorinated solutions, permanganate of potash, and carbolic acid lotions, have more or less influence in purifying a con- taminated atmosphere, or in guarding the wounds of patients who may be exposed to its operation. These preventive measures are less urgent with reference to erysipelas of traumatic origin. Predisposing causes, pertaining as they mostly do to the previous health of the individual, scarcely admit of prevention. They suggest, however, the greater protection of persons thus liable to infection. Such are persons whose blood has been depi'aved, and circulation en- feebled, by previous habits of intemperance, and by the wear and tear of a laborious, anxious life. Albuminuria is peculiarly inviting to erysipelas. Diabetic patients also are said to be liable. Remedial treatment—so-called—is a misnomer; for, like all in- fectious diseases, erysipelas runs a certain natural course, and the only power of art is to avert any unfavourable tendency. It is probable that a blood-poison is undergoing elimination from the system, through the great secreting surfaces—the skin, thus inducing the inflammation, and the mucous membranes. Consequently, the bowels having been evacuated by a mercurial and rhubarb or colocynth pill; a saline aperient, diuretic and diaphoretic mixture, may then be given with advantage for some days. Thus, the sulphate of magnesia, with nitrate of potash and small doses of tartarized antimony, seem to pro- mote elimination. The acetate or carbonate of ammonia, in camphor mixture, will be more si^ecially diaphox-etic. Bicarbonate of potash, in large doses, say half a drachm, has sometimes appeared to me to fulfil a special purpose, that of neutralizing the blood-poison, whatever it be. Erysipelas is, I think, thus allied to rheumatism or rheumatic gout, to erythema and urticaria; in all of which diseases potash has some peculiar remedial influence. And in harmony with their thera- peutic afl&nity, I have observed clinically, that the same individuals are not unfrequently subject to each of these diseases. A dusky yellow hue of the skin, and slight yellowness of the conjunctiva, with perhaps nausea and oppression of the stomach, arc often present in erysipelas. This condition, verging on jaundice, is best overcome by the repeated administration of calomel or blue pill, to restore tlin secretion of bile. A blister over the region of the liver is also. I295 EEYSIPELAS. believe, recommended by Mr. Syme. These measures are apparently more efficacious than tlie ipecacuanha emetic usually ordered to empty the stomach. The saline plan of treatment will, generally, prove sufficiently depletory—as well as excretory—without having recourse to blood- lettino-, to however small an amount. Debility, and the increasingly typhoid character of the fever, from the commencement of the disease, soon indicate the necessity for the substitution of a stimulant and tonic treatment. Carbonate of ammonia, in five or ten grain doses, with disulphate of quina, in similar or even larger doses, may be given every four hours. Tincture of the sesquichloride of iron, from ten to twenty minims every two hours, is highly extolled by Dr. Balfour, as a certain and unfaihng remedy, whether the erysipelas be infantile or adult, idiopathic or traumatic. The diet must correspond to this medicinal treatment. Wine should be given, tolerably freely, in all cases, and even from the very be- ginning. Brandy and egg beat up together, form a convenient and agreeable mixture, at once stimulating and nourishing. Beef-tea and the other preparations of nutritious and easily assimilated food, repre- sent the general character of our dietetic resources. Now, the degree to which this depletoiy, or stimulant and tonic, plan of treatment should be pushed, will vary with the symptoms, as they are more those of inflammatory or of typhoid fever. As the pulse becomes feeble and rapid, the tongue coated with a brown fur, and increasing debility supervenes, so must the one treatment be exchanged for the other. It is thus that the jjMegmonoits variety of erysipelas may, in the first instance, require more active depletory measures—purgative, dia- phoretic, and diuretic salines, with antimony, in doses to touch the pulse, and the occasional use of blue pill or calomel, in slightly chola- gogue doses; but these measures must soon be exchanged for a yet more free administration of quina with carbonate of ammonia, and a more supporting diet also, than in simple erysipelas. And again, erysipelas of traumatic origin may need yet further support, in proportion to the severity of the injury conjoined with the erysipelas. Complications, arising from internal inflammations, as meningitis or pleurisy, may be treated in the same way as when these diseases occur independently; due allowance being made for the low character of any such inflammation when associated with erysipelas. Local Treatment.—Any repressive application would be obnoxious ; not only as tending to divert the natural course of the disease, in the elimination of the blood-poison, but as possibly repelling the inflamma- tion to some other part, its migration or metastasis being perilous and prolonging the disease. In both these respects, the cutaneous inflam- mation of erysipelas is analogous to an attach of gout. Warm fomentations by spongio-piline or flannel steeped in a hot decoction of poppy-heads or camomile flowers, and continuously ap- plied, will hasten the termination of the inflammation by resolution. These epithems are also more soothing to the j^atient than dredging the part with flour or magnesia; a dirty, encrusting, and irritating application formerly in vogue, and still used by some surgeons. Nor can much be said in favour of a strong solution of nitrate of silver,GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 29G originally used by Mr. Higginbottom, as an application to tbe inflamed surface; which, if it fail by its astringent action to induce resolution, may, by over-stimulation, provoke sloughing. A circumferential line drawn with the nitrate of silver, strongly pencilled, was recommended by the late Dr. A. T. Thomson, for the purpose of setting up a sort of incompatible inflammation, and thereby arresting the progress of the erysipelas. But this boundary rarely, if ever, proves a barrier; such at least is the result of general experience; and I now never have recourse to the nitrate of silver in either of these ways. Phlegmonous erysipelas presents nothing peculiar,. otherwise than as pertaining to the subcutaneous cellular texture, which, with the skin, is invariably although secondarily involved. Free incisions, and at an early period, therefore, fulfil a twofold purpose; as especially advocated by Lawrence. By relieving tension, they may be preserva- tive of the skin, and perhaps of the subcellular texture; both of which are so apt .to slough extensively. Moreover, pain is thus relieved, and the inflammation itself moderated by a discharge of blood with the serum effused. It is, indeed, remarkable to notice how the skin speedily loses its purple hue, and becomes almost blanched, as the engorged vessels bleed freely; the patient acknowledging a proportionate miti- gation of the pain previously endured. Incisions also facilitate the discharge of pus and sloughs, which to some extent are inevitable. The preventive and curative eflicacy of this treatment is now generally admitted ; but the number, lengtb, and depth of the incisions are par- ticulars about which differences of opinion exist. Some surgeons prefer one long incision, a practice, however, fraught with probably more danger from shock and htemorrhage, while it is certainly less effectual for the relief of tension than incisions in different parts. A few cuts—three or four, and' of as many inches in length—will be suf- ficient in most cases. In no case need they be carried deeper than into the subcutaneous slough, which is easily recognized by its ash-grey colour. The treatment subsequently is similar to that of any other suppurating and sloughing wound. Erysipelas of Neiv-horn Infants.—After birth, and for a period of about a month, the new-born infant is still under the influence of the blood derived from the mother, and retains, therefore, all the maternal susceptibilities which are thus entailed. Among these is the liability to erysipelas; in the mother, the source of contagion being the open uterine surface or wound left by detachment of the placenta ; while in the infant, the portal of contagion is the open end of the still incom- pletely obliterated umbilical cord, as originally pointed out by Dr. P. Lorain, and confirmed by Trousseau. Hence, should blood-poisoning arise in the mother and her offspring under these precisely analogous conditions, the local manifestation in the infant, by a diffuse cutaneous inflammation, may be properly designated jj«erperaZ inflammation. Commencing insidiously, a red blush appears, usually at the pubes, which rapidly, spreads to the scrotum or vulva, down the thighs and up the abdomen; thus extending without fading on the part first affected. Aijfcended with but little febrile disturbance in the first in- stance, in the course of two or three days, fever supervenes, and which soon assumes the typhoidal character, with gastro-intestinal symptoms of vomiting and diarrhoea, the little patient speedily sinking into a state of fatal collapse. Meanwhile, the inflammatory affection of ihe297 PY/TLMIA. skin and subcellulav texture may Have subsided into suppurative for- mations of matter in various parts of the body; or gangrenous patches are not uncommon. Death takes place generally within a week; although the attack may be prolonged for ten days, or even three weeks. Sometimes pus-forming pleurisy or peritonitis complicates the disease, and may hasten the inevitable issue. The low vitality of the new-born infant would not seem to be a secondary cause of death; for, at a somewhat later period—;after only the first month of extra-uterine life—erysipelas is not more perilous than in adults. ' And while, in the one case, no treatment avails; in the other, under the resources of supporting measures, the blood-disease may run its course to recovery. CHAPTER IX. PTiEMIA—ICHOREHiEMlA. OR SEPTICAEMIA. The term Pyaamia literally signifies pus in the Blood (ttuov, pus, aT/xa, blood) ; a purulent infection of the blood, and arising, as originally observed, from the local disease known as suppurative phlebitis or in- flammation of the veins; that this infection is, generally, soon followed by the formation of secondary abscesses, or at least by deposits of matter, secondary to the primary disease, and which are distributed in various remote organs and parts of the body. But Pygemia has more' recently acquired a far more comprehensive, or a new, patho- logical signification, as representing also, or instead of purulent infection, three other blood-conditions:—(1) leiicocytosis, or an increased production of the colourless corpuscles of the blood, which are struc- turally nearly identical with pus-corpuscles, but which proceed from irritation of the lymphatic vessels and glands; (2) fibrinous infection, more commonly, as arising from the disintegration of fibrinous coagula, or thrombi, which had formed within the veins, or arteries, and that the circulation of such matter being arrested in the capillary vessels— a condition known as embolism of these vessels—the fibrinous embolia form metastatic deposits; and (3) the blood infection which arises from the absorption of decomposing animal matter or septic matter, and thence named ichorrhcemia or sepUccei^cc. Several kinds of systemic infection, allied or different in their nature, may, therefore, be associated under the generic name of Pyaemia; but, with this understanding, that title may still be retained, subject to whatever differences may have to be mentioned in connection with Septicfemia. Pyaemia.—Symi^toms.—A wound suddenly ceases to secrete and dis- charge pus, becoming drier and glazed, or slotighy; the patient is seized with a concussive rigor or shivering, more or less violent, and lasting for a few moments only, or for some minutes,;M;his is accom- panied usually with a sensation of cold, and always with great prostra- tion; the face looks haggard, vacant, and alarmed, as if the person were conscious of some vital injury, the nervo-muscular system re- sponding with a prolonged shudder. Rapid sighing sometimesGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 298 completes the picture of prostration. At length the heart arouses, and the pulse rises, even to 150 per minute, beating feebly and irregularly; soon a scorching heat of skin is experienced, and flooding perspiration succeeds. The paroxysm is over. Throughout the course of such an attack, the temperature, as registered by the thermometer in the axilla, undergoes remarkable chauges. During rigor, and perhaps before, the temperature actually rises, ranging between 100 and lOG degrees. This increase of heat is exactly proportionate to the severity of the rigor. When sweating begins, the temperature falls, until a lower level is reached. But, although subject to notable fluctuations, it remains uniformly above the normal standard. Similar paroxysms may recur at periods varying from twelve to thirty-six hours ; or at about the same hour for three or four days ; or at irregular intervals. Differing in its symptoms and fitful character from an attack of inflammatory fever, the attack as described might be mistaken for an ague fit; but other significant symptoms soon supervene. The breath—as noticed by Berard and G-amgee—has a very peculiar odour, like that of sweetish liver, or of new hay. This, however, is an uncertain symptom, sometimes being absent, or present in febrile disorders which are not pycemic. But all the secretions show signs of a blood-poison undergoing elimination from the system, albeit ineffectually. The tongue becomes dry, and brown or blackish, while sordes encrustations appear on the teeth and lips. Rank perspi- ration, often profuse in the sweatings, ammoniacal urine, and a putrid diarrhoea of bilious, serous or mucous, and perhaps blood-stained dis- charges, alike compete, as it were, incessantly to throw off the poison ; but these drains only help to complete the exhaustion. The skin acquires a pallid, muddy hue, or becomes overcast with a dirty-yellow tinge, giving the face and conjunctivse a jaundiced appearance; and the abdomen may be tympanitic. Rapid emaciation soon reduces the patient to a shadow; and now —at about the end of a week or ten days—the wound may have, regained some secretion, but in the form of a thin, foetid, purulent fluid; while in the subcutaneous cellular texture of different parts, doughy and scarcely painful swellings may be foiind, or one or more of the larger joints, as the knees, elbows, ankles, or hips, are swollen and acutely painful, as if attacked with acute rheumatism; but loose fluctuation is perceptible—in fact, the joints affected are full of pus or purulent fluid. Perhaps these secondary ahscesses have formed in some one or miore of the internal organs, and are announced by symptoms peculiar to the organ affected. Thus, with cough, expectoi'atiou, and the signs of local pleuro-pneumonia, the lungs will probably be the seat of purulent deposits ; or, with pain, especially on palpation, over the region of the liver, and perhaps bilious vomiting or purging, that organ may be suspected ; or, with cerebral symptoms and coma, tbe brain would not be overlooked. Yet the absence of any local symptoms and functional derangement, as compared with what is discovered after death, is often remarkable; the viscera seeming to tolerate secondary abscesses, without much disaffection. The patient, who had been restless and sleepless, as in all febrile disorders, sinks into a low muttering delirium, and at length into a comatose state; or death takes place from sheer exhaustion, the prostration from pytemic blood- poisoning is so ovei'whelming.299 PYAEMIA. Instead of this typical and marked form of infection, an irregular and less pronounced manifestation of the disease is not uncommon. The wound may have undergone no morbid change, remaining in a state of healthy suppuration; no rigors, or pyemic shudder, may have announced the attack; but there is an insidiously increasing rapidity of pulse, and pungent heat of skin, alternated by sweats, with utter prostration, and thus the patient sinks. " The life of all his blood Is toucliecl corruptibly; and tlie piu-e brain (Which some suppose the soul's frail dwelling-house) Doth, by the idle comments that it makes, Foretell the ending of mortality." Pycemia is not always fatal. Sedillot and Vidal have recorded cases of recovery. Nelaton dissents, and afl&rms that death is inevit- able. It takes place usually about the tenth day; sometimes earlier, as the third day; or, much later—six or seven weeks. According to the duration of the disease, pycemia may be designated acute or chronic. Secondary abscesses.—Post-mortem examination reveals numerous abscesses in one or more organs and textures of the body; and they are not inaptly termed secondary, when subsequent to an abscess, or at least to suppuration, in some other part. Secondary abscesses most fi'equently occur in the lungs and liver. Their general characters are these:—In several portions of the organ affected, black blood has accumulated; such portions are indurated, brittle and easily break down under slight pressure of the finger; the texture is congested and disintegrated, forming the red infarctions so named by continental pathologists. Some of these disintegrated portions present a yellow spot of pus in the centre of the black mass, in other parts pus has altogether supplanted the blood and disintegrated textures; and these pus-deposits are tolerably circumscribed—in fact, abscesses are then formed, each surrounded with a dark margin of congested tex- ture. Mr. Lee states that the central spot of each affected portion at first consists of lymph, which gradually extends towards the circum- ference. If the disease continue, these spots suppurate, the affected portions having previously softened and disintegrated in the same order in which they were primarily sohdified. Secondary abscesses are usually of a small size, in the viscera varying from a pin's head to a walnut, very numerous, and of rapid formation, a few days sufl&cing for their development in many organs. Although most commonly found in the lungs and liver, other organs and tissues are not exempt. They occur elsewhere—approaching the following order of frequency— in the spleen, brain, kidneys, heart, skin, mucous membranes, within serous and synovial cavities, in the muscles and cellular tissue, and in the eye ; in the prostate (Gamgee). The diagnosis from primary abscess is twofold. It will be observed that the chosen seat of an ordinary or primary abscess—the cellular texture—is not the usual habitation of secondary abscesses; and usually there are no local symptoms—no pain, or functional derange- ment, although certain parts—as the lung, pleura, peritoneum, and intestinal canal—will not tolerate secondary abscesses without some local symptoms of disaffection. It may also come to pass that death ensues from coma, asphyxia, or from necrtemia as the result of further 1GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 800 blood-poisoning accruing from the non-elimination of various excre- mentitious matters. The blood itself has undergone serious changes of chemical com- position, probably; of physical properties and vital endowments, certainly. It has less plastic |iower, coagulates imperfectly and less readily. Hence, the more fluid blood is apt to transude, minute hiBmoiThages take place in various textures, and the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane is stained with a reddish tint. Pygemic pus often appears in the form of a thin, sanious, or oily fluid, abounding with exudation corpuscles, and characterized also by a proportionate absence of pus-cells; but the chemical composition of this fluid has not been found to differ from that of healthy pus. Se^pticcemia is manifested by essentially the same symptoms,— prostration, coma or delirium, with profuse rank perspiration and diarrhoea, all which indicate the operation of some blood-poison, and apparently the secretive effort of nature to eliminate it. But, accord- ing to Billroth's description of septic poisoning, the initial chiUs, with increased temperature, are very rare, and they never occur in the course of acute septictemia; later in this disease, the temperature falls to the normal standard, or even below it. The pulse dwindles down to a mere thread, and in a state of perfect collapse, the patient dies in twenty-four hours, although life may be prolonged for a week or two. Death may occur in an early stage, with rising temperature. Sometimes the disease runs its course with an abnormally low tempera- ture, especially in enfeebled or aged persons. After death, the subcutaneous cellular texture is often found in- filtrated with bloody serum, or purulent matter, accompanied with gangrene of the skin in parts. But the internal organs are usually free from secondary abscesses, although congested and softened as in most blood-diseases. Peyer's glands in the ileum and jejunum may be swollen, when there had been profuse diarrhoea; and perhaps the serous membranes exhibit sero-pnrulent effusions, as from a low form of pleuritis and pericarditis. The blood—as, for example, in the cavities of the heart—is in a state of imperfect coagulation, consisting of sizy clots, or fluid, like treacle. No peculiar morbid alterations are found in the composition of the blood. SeTptopycemia is so named by Heuter, to denote a mixed state of infection, arising from the entry of decomioosed pus into the circula- tion, and attended Avith a combination of the symptoms of septicaemia and pyeemia. But while the distinction of these states of infection is often impracticable, their admixture cannot be recognized as a separate disease. PatJwlogy of Pycemia.—Having stated the leading facts relative to pyremia as at present known, and its local consequences; what is the nature of the blood-condition or systemic infection, and what is its relation to the formation or production of the secondary abscesses ? First, as to the nature of the blood-condition. The several kinds of infection, already alluded to, have been more or less accredited by different observers. (1.) Purident infection.—The cii-cumstances under which pyasmia arises would lead to the inference that during life iniH itself, as hund fide pus, has entered the circulation, either by sup- purative inflammation of the veins, occasionally of the lymphatics, rarely of the arteries; or by absorption through the veins, aided byPYAEMIA. 301 ' the lymphatics, laid open and exposed by meclianical injury, as by wounds, or rapid sloughing of the suppurating part; and that the pus thus produced within vessels, or introduced from without, possibly cir- culates with the blood, inducing secondary deposits. Si(,i}pwative Phlebitis.—Hunter originally observed, that "in all cases where inflammation of veins runs high, or extends itself con- siderably, it is to be expected that the whole system will be affected. For the most part, the same kind of affection takes place which arises fi'om other inflammations, with this exception, that where no adhesions of the sides of the vein are formed, or where such adhesions are incom- plete, pus, passing into the circulation, may add to the general dis- order, and even render it fatal." Nearly all subsequent observers confirmed Himter's theory of pyaemia as thus indicated; that suppurative phlebitis having occurred, the entry of ims into the circulation is the immediate cause of systemic infection. Cruveilhier came to the conclusion that pus is transmitted from the veins in which it is formed; and his observations of the stages of suppurative phlebitis seemed to establish two facts. Firstly, when pus produced within a vein is excluded from the general circulation, as by a barrier of coagulated blood, or by adhesion and obliteration of the vein, no symptoms of pyeemia ensue; secondly, when the obstruc- tion is removed, the symptoms of pytemia immediately commence. The unavoidable inference is, that pus is carried from within the suppu- rating vein into the general circulation. It would appear that pus is first formed, not between the vein and the clot, but in the very centre of the coagulum, which soon blocks up an inflamed vein. The symptoms of pygemia do not arise then. But the proportion of coagulum diminishes, while that of the pus increases, and this may take place here and there in the course of the vein, as the inflammation is more or less advanced, thus presenting adhesive, alter- nating with suppurative, phlebitis. Usually, adhesion limits and cir- cmnscribes the suppuration; and then, also, the general mass of blood, in circulation, remains uncontaminated. In a more advanced stage, the distended vein becomes knotty at the various parts where pus has accumulated; the vessel bursts, and partly discharges such matter into the adjoining cellular texture, forming abscesses; but, when the dyke made by the clots is broken dozvn, being removed by absorption, pus is transmitted into the circulation, and then pya)mic symptoms imme- diately commence, announced by violent rigors, and soon proceed to a fatal termination. This interpretation of pyaemia, as the consequence of suppurative phlebitis, was supported, apparently, by the observations of most pathologists, British and foreign; and whose writings were specially I referred to in the former edition of this work. ! Others have denied the possibility of pus entering the circulation i under the ordinary circumstances of suppurative phlebitis. Tessier I alleges that at all stages of venous inflammation the pus is enclosed in I the cavity of the vein by clots or false membranes, and that at no period of the anatomico-pathological existence of phlebitis, is its entrance into the blood possible. Mr. Lee appeals to the results of ' experiments on blood out of the body. He urges that the simple 1 experiment of mixing some pus with healthy, recently drawn blood, will ) at once show that such a combination cannot circulate in the livin""302 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. body. It will be found tliat the blood coagulates round the globules of pus, and forms a solid mass which will adhere to the first surface with which it comes in contact; and it will be evident that it is not till the coagulum thus formed is broken up or dissolved that its elements can circulate with the blood. But Mr. Lee's inference from his " simple ex- perimentassumes that that which is true of blood mixed with pus out of the body, is also true of blood circulatinrj with pus in the livmrj body. The inference drawn breaks down, because the circumstances of the two cases are so essentially different. This, as Hunter said, is "putting living and dead animal matter upon the same footing, which is a con- tradiction in itself." The real objections to Cruveilhier's theory may be gathered, partly, from the process itself, described as phlebitis, advancing to suppuration. That the initial change is not in the coats of the vein affected, but consists in the formation of a coaguhim within the vessel; that the pus, so called, does not proceed from the interior of the vein, but appears in the centre of the clot; and that only when this pus-like matter, from within the coagulum, enters the circulation, pysemic symptoms supervene. To these facts may be added the positive evi- dence supplied by microscopic examination ; that this pus-like material is simply disintegrated fibrin, which has thus become changed into granular matter; a fluid, having the yellowish colour and consistence of pus, but not containing cellular elements, which are essential to-pus; in other words, it is—as Virchow expresses it—a puriform, but not a purulent, fluid. Sometimes, however, cells, like pus-corpuscles, are found associated with the granular fibrin; but these cells pre-exist within the clot, they do not originate therein, nor come from the adjoining coats of the vessel. Recent coagula are found to contain such corpuscles heaped up in masses, and which are set free by dis- integration of the enclosing fibrinous coagulum. These cells are, in fact, the pale corpuscles of the blood, which are now known to be identical with pus-corpuscles in appearance; and their pre-existence within the substance of the intra-vascular clot, explains what would othervnse seem to be the prodiiction of pus. What becomes of the red corpuscles ? They shrivel up, lose their colouring matter, and disintegrate with the fibrin; presenting a yellowish, instead of a reddish, puriform fluid. Bearing in mind this series of changes in the fibrinous coagula, and the enclosed blood-corpuscles, pale and red, we perceive how the whole process of disintegration, with perhaps the appearance of pale blood corpuscles, was mistaken for ijus-production ; although even then, the twofold fact of its occurrence, in the centre of a coagulum, and that clot-formation vpas the initial change within the vessel, might have corrected the misconception as to the nature of this pi'ocess. Moreover, it is alleged, as the result of experimental observations, that no exudation can be produced within a vein, when the blood-stream is prevented from passing through it; thus apparently disproving the possibiHty of phle- bitis having any such result. Virchow does not deny the possibility of a real phlebitis, and that it may advance to suppuration; but that it is an inflammation which affects the walls, and not the contents, of a vein; and that even abscesses may form, which cause the wall to bulge on both sides like a variolous pustule, without any coagulation of the blood ensuing in the cavity of the vessel. Sometimes, however, phlc-303 fYJEMlA. bitis leads to tlie formation of inequalities upon tlie inner wall, wliicli favour the production of a coagulum, and thence the series of changes already described; possibly also, in consequence of the fibrinous dis- inteoration extending laterally to the wall of the vessel, phlebitis may°be induced,—the wall becoming cloudy and thickened from the interstitial deposit of exudation-matter, followed perhaps by suppu- ration, but within the substance of the wall. Supj^iorative Lymphatitis.—Inflammation of the lymphatic vessels, advancing to intra-vascular suppuration, is another accredited mode of pytemic infection; by the transmission of pus through these vessels, and the lymphatic glands, thence into the venous circulation. Bat, in objection to this interpretation of pyaemia, may be urged the apparent impossibility of pus-corpuscles finding their way through a lymphatic o-land ; owing to the fact that the lymphatic vessels in the gland, having divided into yet smaller vessels, enter into spaces which are filled with cellular elements ; thus offering an insurmountable obstruc- tion to the passage of pus-corpuscles. Enlightened, however, by our present knowledge respecting the amceboid activity with which pus- cells are endowed, this difficulty would appear to be questionable. But Virchow, who adduces the anatomical argument here referred to, enforces it by an experimental observation as to the effect produced in the proximate lymphatic glands, by the absorption of insoluble colour- ing matter, after tattooing some distant part, say the arm, with gun- powder or cinnabar. The lymphatic vessels transmit, in the current of lymph, molecules of such matter, which are smaller than even the' smallest j)us-corpuscles, bu.t which are always arrested and deposited in the nearest group of glands; as shown on section. It is further alleged, that any iiTitation of the lymphatic glands, in connection with suppurative lymphatitis, will give rise to an increased production of lymph-corpuscles; thus inducing a blood-condition which cannot be distinguished from the apparent admission of pus-corpuscles,—leucocy- tosis, as if pyeemia. Arteritis rarely advances to apparent suppuration, and more rarely are there any consequent symptoms of pyaemia. But now and then, utter prostration, with an incredibly rapid pulse, suggest this inference; and the oppressive delirium of pyaemia speedily closes the scene. Such cases may be instances of capillary embolism, arising from the disin- tegration of a fibrinous clot in the inflamed artery, fragments of which matter being carried in the blood-stream, are arrested in the capillary vessels of various organs, as the kidney or spleen, forming metastatic deposits therein. Suppurative phlebitis, suppurative inflammation of the lymphatics, and possibly, suppurative arteritis, are not the only apparent sources of pyemia,—the immediate cause being the direct transmission of pus from the vessels in which it is formed into the general circulation. Precisely the same constitutional disorder frequently follows the absorption of pus from suppurating surfaces, as wounds and sores. Yelpeau, Marechal, Hochoux, and others have attributed pyasmia solely to absorption, and in such cases. What are the particular circumstances which allow the absorption of pus from a suppurating surface, so as to induce pycemia ? It is well known that pus may be absorbed from an abscess without pya3nxia ensuing, the pus-corpuscles having previously undergone a fattyGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 304 transformation and disintegration into granular matter; and Cru- veilhier himself pointed out the important distinction between the absorption of pus when 2»'eparecl for absorption, and pus in the con- dition of _ pus, at once entering the circulation. In the former case, no constitutional disturbance follows; in the latter, pyasmia. To allow of the absorption of pus in an unaltered condition, the ahsorVmrj vessels must have been laid oj^en ; the veins, lymphatics, or both, must have undergone solution of continuity; and this, either by a wound without subsequent repair, or by rapid sloughing, without time for closure of the vessels by the adhesive process. They therefore remain open during suppuration, and their mouths—so to speak—being in immediate contact with pus, allow of its admission and transmission. This mode of purulent infection accords with Mr. Listen's observa- tion, that " when from any cause the extremity of a large vein in a Avound is not closed—when it is not plugged iip by plastic matter, pus seems to enter it readily, and by mixing with the circulating fluid, causes dreadful mischief. Great constitutional disturbance accom- panies the purulent deposits which follow in the soHd viscera and in the joints." In other cases these results are preceded by rapid slough- ing. A wound suddenly loses all power of healing by adhesion, and any adhesions that may have formed give way, the granulations be- come pale and flabby, and true pus is no longer discharged; the surface acquires a mottled brown colour, and by this time symptoms of pyaemia have commenced. Bums, attended with extensive suppu- ration, are not unfrequently followed by pyaemia; and certain sjiecific diseases, as glanders, in like manner, threaten purulent infection by absorption. Occasionally, suppurative phlebitis advances so far as to allow of absorption through a vein having burst, and opened into an abscess. In one case, the femoral, popliteal, posterior tibial, and peroneal veins communicated with abscesses (Cruveilhier). In another case, the internal jugular vein opened into a neighbouring abscess (Travers). (2.) Thrombosis—Leucocytosis—IcJwrrlicBmia or Seijticcemia.—These three pathological conditions are here grouped together, as represent- ing—according to Virchow's observations—the diiferent sources and kinds of blood-infection, which severally, or in association, constitute what is commonly called Pyaamia; a condition, therefore, which may be complex, and certainly is not thus regarded as one of lyurulent infection. Thromhosis. — A Thrombus, consisting of fibrinous coagulum, formed within a vein, is liable to undergo softening and disintegration ; and fragments of variable sizes, entering the blood-cun'ent (Fig. 80), are carried in the course of the circula- tion, through the lai'ger veins issuing in the vena cava to the right cavities of the heart, and passing thence into the pulmonary artery, they may become * Diagram, from Virchow. Fig. 80.*PYEMIA. 305 arrested and impacted in the pulmonic capillaries, or in tlio portal capillaries of the liver (Fig. 81), thus, and there forming metastatic deposits. To this pro- Ficf. 81 * cess of fibrin-trans- ference, and impacted state of the vessels, Virchow gave the name of Emholism ; while any such im- pactedblood-clot,thus transferred, is named an emholus or embolon. But disintegrated fibrin, as derived from the breaking down of a throm- bus, consists of granular matter, and not of cells; however much, there- fore, this material may resemble pus in its physical characters of yellow- ish-opaque colour, and milky or creamy consistence, it is not a purulent fluid, although puriform. Moreover, as Virchow has shown, a similar process of fibrin-transference and embolism may take place in the arterial system; from fibrinous coagulum having formed in the heart, or thrombosis in an artery; and which, therefore, must be quite inde- pendent of any phlebitis, suppurative or otherwise. Billroth qualifies Virchow's theory of fibrin-transference, by the apparent fact that a thi'ombus may be actually converted into pus, in vii'tue of the con- tained white blood-cells, just as pus is formed from cells wandering, out of the vessels. When also a disintegrating thrombus has imbibed any purulent, or perhaps putrid matter, as from an adjoining wound, embolic fragments carry with them such matter, and thus generate metastatic abscesses. In this way—if the matter be putrescent—there will be a combination of septiceemia with the pytemia, properly so called. Leucocytosis signifies an increased quantity of the pale corpuscles in the blood, which having a close structural resemblance to, or identity with, pus-corpuscles, it becomes impossible to recognize pygemia as pus in the blood. Dr. Hughes Bennett, who originally discovered this white- celled blood, described it as suppuration of the blood. Leucocytosis may arise from any local irritation of the lymphatic glands and vessels. Ichorrhcemia or Septicoimia denotes that infection of the blood which proceeds from the absorption of ichorous or putrescent animal matter; whether generated in a wound, or inoculated. SepticEemia has more recently been investigated experimentally by Weber of Bonn, and Polli of Milan; animals having been subjected to septic blood-poisoning by the injection of putrescent animal matters into their circulation. The latter observer regards septicemia as a true fermentation of the blood, induced by the action of living oi'gan- isms, as bacteria and vibriones. Sulphites of the alkalies, or alkaline earths, seem to have a safely prophylactic influence, in being anti- fermentative, without having any poisonous or corrosive action. (3.) Miasma.—The production of what appears to be pyeemic infec- tion is sometimes referred to the importation of germs or minute living organisms, dried pus dust, or other organic matter, emanating from wounds. This view is suggested by the fact that pyoamia com- monly arises in Hospitals when and where many wounded patients lie crowded together, and in close wards; aggregation and deficient ven- * Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.—A drawing. X306 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. tilatioii seeming to develop, as well as facilitate, the transmission of the contagious matter in the atmosphere. On the other hand, in wards not crowded, and freely ventilated, although occupied with wounded patients, i^yaomia is uncommon. According to Liicke's observations, blue-coloured pus abounds with organic germs, which are infective to other wounds; and this colour is not inherent in the pus as it comes from a granulating surface, but is developed in the absorbent lint or other dressing. ^ Bilh'oth, among other clinical observers, advocates the miasmatic origin of pyajmia; and I must confess that my own experience entirely accords in its probability, although not as the only mode of causation. At the Royal Free Hospital, under the favourable hygienic conditions of space and ventilation, coiipled with yearly removation of the wards, weekly scrubbing of the floors, frequent change of the bedding and Unen, and scrupulous cleanliness in the dressings of wounds, without any employment of sponges as a medium of inter-communication, pya3mia very rarely occurs. Regarded as the offspring of the contrary adverse conditions of hygiene, pyasmic infection is associated with other diseases of blood-poisoning, which together have sometimes received the name of "Hospitalism." This position is, however, the subject of much disputation. As the general outcome of a long dis- cussion at the Clinical Society of London, 1874, the question having been raised by an able address from the president, Mr. Prescott Hewett, it would appear that pyaemia is relatively as frequent after operations in private as in hospital practice; but this estimate was gathered more from the impressions of experience than from any sufl&ciently large collection of authentic cases, compared with those in Hospitals. For my own part, I cannot accord much weight to any such comparison; external circumstances alone being considered, while the influence of individual predisposition is necessarily unknown. As in the production of other blood-diseases, the development of pyaamic infection depends not only upon the seed sown, but also, and perhaps principally, upon the nature of the soil in which it is implanted; and respecting this element in the estimate, we are altogether ignorant. Formation of Secondary Abscesses.—The mode of production of secondary abscesses, in various and remote organs and parts of the body, in consequence of purulent infection of the blood, is doubtful. It may be by the arrest, and actual deposition, of pus in the capillaries of the parts affected, conveyed there through the circulation—the theory originally entertained; or, that the arrest of pus, or of dis- integrated fibrin, in these vessels, induces suppurative inflammation— phlebitis—of the smaller veins, as suggested by Cruveilhier. Causes.—(1.) Predisposing.—Certain causes appear to favour the production of blood-poisoning, whether pysemic or septica3mic. They are all of an enfeebling character, and are referable to the consti- tutional condition, habits, and hygienic circumstances of the individual infected. Thus may be enumerated, exhaustion, consequent on pro- longed illness, and especially from blood-diseases, as typhoid fever, or in certain organic diseases, as degeneration of the kidneys vfdth albuminuria, and phthisis ; or exhaustion, increased by the shock of injury or surgical operation, as' from compound fracture or amputa- tion ; mental depression also is another such predisposing condition; while parturition, when diihcult or tedious, induces a peculiar liabihty.PYiEMIA. 307 The habitual indulgence in alcoholic liquors is said to bo specially prejudicial. Hygienic circumstances chiefly include impure air from overcrowding of patients, want of cleanliness in the dressing of wounds, defective drainage, deficient ventilation, and the relative in- fluence of heat and cold on the decomposition of animal matter. Age and sex have apparently no particular relation to the liability of pyaemic or septictemic infection. (2.) Exciting Caitses, and their Ojjemiion.—Injuries and surgical operations attended with much suppuration, are well known to threaten pyemia; and they may do so, perhapis, partly by absorption of pus, and partly by suppurative inflammation of the disorganized veins. Com- pound fractures may thus occasion purulent infection ; and injuries of the head probably operate chiefly by suppurative inflammation of the veins of the diploe. Dance first suggested this explanation; Cruveil- hier gave the anatomical proof by dissection,—according to his theory. Indeed, the latter observer affirms that phlebitis of bones is one of the most frequent causes of visceral abscesses, from wounds and surgical operations implicating the bones. The mere removal of a necrosed bone is sometimes followed by pyaemia; but whenever destruction of the osseous texture, accompanied with suppuration, is followed by pyeemic infection, absorption of pus probably has been partly the cause, its absorp- tion being determined by the anatomical condition of the veins, which are kept open by the bony channels through which they pass. Amputa- tions of the limbs, of the breast, lithotomy, and the operation for fistula in ano, likewise threaten pyEemia, when suppuration is abundant. Absorption and suppurative phlebitis may co-ojoerate in these cases to infect the blood with pus. They assuredly co-operate in jjysemia following venesection. The vein is punctured, and the aperture absorbs pus, subsequently diffused around the vein; while the vein itself, having suppurated, transmits pus into the general circulation. Probably, suppurative inflammation of the lymphatics contributes to pyemia, in some cases where and when absorption of pus may have taken place. A faint blush in the course of the lymphatics frequently supervenes on the sudden cessation of a purulent discharge; forthwith pyasmic symptoms commence ; eventually the lymphatic vessels appear as red lines ramifying from the sore, becoming harder and more painful —more inflamed, in fact—as pyaemia advances. Pyasmic infection, thus read in the light of purulent absorption from suppurative phlebitis, consequent on wounds, may also be interpreted according to the other modes of pathogenesis already noticed; thrombosis, leucocytosis, septicEemia, and miasmatic infection. Prognosis.—The course of pysemic infection is generally to a fatal termination. But our prognosis will be more or less unfavourable according to the acute or chronic character of the disease. The more frequent the rigors, and more rapid the prostration, and the earlier secondary abscesses supervene, death will be more certain and speedy. When the progress of the symptoms is slower and less marked; when also the fever subsides for some days, and the wound begins to regain a healthy appearance; then, recovery is more hopeful. In septicaemia, the prognosis will be guided by similar considerations. Treatment.—Preventive measures consist in the rigorous observance of hygienic precautions, especially with regard to cleanliness in dressing wounds, freo ventilation, and the avoidance of any crowding of patients308 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. ill Hospital wards. Ha3morrliage should be arrested, and inflammation subdued; and any collection of blood or pus prevented or at once evacuated. Antiseptics, such as carbolic acid and chlorine solutions, may be used, but their prophylactic agency is an open question. Pysemia is scarcely amenable to any remedial measures. Stimulants and tonics, with as much nutritious and readily assimilated food as can be taken, constitute the only plan of treatment for probably sus- taining the patient through the dread exhaustion which must be undergone, even when recovery ensues. Thus, wine, brandy, or as brandy-and-egg mixture, strong beef tea, ammonia and quinine—in large doses, as four or five grains—may be administered repeatedly, every three or four hours. Opium has a marked beneficial influence in controlling the rapidity of the pulse, and the general irritability as- sociated with prostration. Creosote seems to have some corrective influence on the putrid intestinal discharges. The natural excretion of a blood-poison might apparently be promoted by laxative aperients and sudorifics, especially the warm bath; but the profuse diarrhoea and sweating in the course of pyaemia both tend to increase the ex- haustion; and the remedial efficacy of any eliminative measures, hitherto tried, is also very doubtful. Cleanhness in the dressing of a wound, and free ventilation, must still be observed. But amputation, for the removal of the source of infection, will rarely succeed in ar- resting the course of pyemia. I have tried this resource, and failed, even immediately after the incipient rigors. Secondary ahscesses, when tense, and in any superficial or accessible part, may be opened; and by a valvular incision, as in the treatment of a chronic abscess, so as not to admit air to the readily decomposing purulent collection. CHAPTER X. HOSPITAL GANGRENE. Hospital gangrene is fortunately known to but few surgeons in civil practice now living; and we must refer to those of the past for in- formation. The shortcomings of personal observation are, however, amply compensated by the testimony of many witnesses on record; for a disease so formidable has ever been watched with deep interest when- ever it occurred. From original sources of information, therefore, we are enabled to identify this disease, while its etiology suggests ap- propriate preventive measures. Hospital gangrene has received various other names; not because of any doubt respecting its pathological nature, but as expressive of its various characters, and mode of origin. Thus, Pulpy Gangrene, Phagedsenic Gangrene, Sloughing Phagedsena, Putrid Ulcer, Pourriture des Hopitaux, Contagious Gangrene, Hospital Sore, and Diphtheria of Wounds, are severally synonymous. Signs, and Diagnostic Characters—OYerlooking the many phases of this gangrene, and regarding only its more constant phenomena, its nature i^s perhaps best expressed by denominating it, essentially, gangrenous inflammation; that is to say, inflammation certainly, but inflammation passing at once into gangrene, thereby appearmg only a process of textural disintegration. Sometimes the process of destruc-309 HOSPITAL GANGEENE. tion resembles more that o£ phagedena, alternating with, rapid sloughing; so that the worm-eaten phagedjenic surface suddenly be- comes a large slough, and then again phagedsenic. These different aspects of the disease are apt to mask its really gangrenous character. What, then, are the phenomena more constantly observed ? Acute pain, sudden engorgement and bloated swelling, dusky-red discoloura- tion around the doomed part, and conversion of its textures into a putrid glutinous or slimy slough, exhaling a peculiar foetid odour. Rapidly extending, all the soft textures are soon melted down, leaving only the bones staring, of an ebony black,—as if the rafters of a house Avhere a fire had raged. These general characters are clearly visible in the portraits of this disease, drawn by eye-witnesses; varied, however, by special circum- stances ; principally, by the previous kind of injury to the part affected, the textures engaged, and the constitution of the individual. Origin and Course.—To identify this gangrene under the modifying circumstances referred to, it is necessary to trace its origin and pro- gress—in a stump after recent amputation, as an incised wound, or granulating as an ulcer, a recent gunshot wound, a small puncture, an old sore, and lastly, a blistered surface. For the particulars of these six aspects of Hospital Gangrene, I avail myself, chiefly, of Blackadder's original and valuable treatise. (1.) When a stumj} is affected, and the patient has a plethoric habit, or is accustomed to live freely, intense inflammatory action soon runs through its whole substance; swelling rapidly increases, so that in a few days the stump acquires more than twice its former size, and being much indurated, occasions the most excruciating pain. In this state the patient may become delirious, and die suddenly by effusion into some of the larger cavities. More frequently, however, gangrene seizes upon the integuments and cellular textiire, large sloughs are thrown off, and some of the larger blood-vessels giving way, the patient sinks under the exhaustion of repeated hgemorrhage. Sometimes the progress of the disease in a stump is more gradual, yet ultimately nearly as fatal. Inflammation is much less acute—there is comparatively little tumefaction, and the pain is far less severe; but the discharge is much more copious, and the cellular texture connecting the integu- ments and muscles is rapidly destroyed. Heemorrhage generally suiser- venes later than in the preceding instance; it is, however, the most common cause of death. Sometimes a stump, almost soundly cicatrized to all appearance, will suddenly bui'st open and fall into gangrenous disintegration. Such cases are well described by John Bell. In one day he saw three stumps burst open, each of which had so nearly cicatrized, that you could have covered the small spot remaining un- healed with the tip of the little finger. When this gangrene supervenes after any amputation, the case may be regarded as that of an incised wound, heahng probably by adhesion, but suddenly diverted from primary union, and undergoing the afore- said process of destruction. (2.) Observe the same gangrenous inflammation supervening on a healthy gramdating wound, or ulcer. The nicer becomes painful and swollen, loses its healthy florid appearance, while the granulations, which were small and distinct, become flabby, and in some cases appear as if they were distended with air; in others, vesicles containino- aGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 810 wateiy fluid or bloody serum, have been observed, and the sensation in the sore has been described as resembling the sting of a gnat. The secretion of pus is arrested, and the surface is covered with a tenacious viscid ash-coloured matter, which adheres firmly. After some time a discharge of thin ichorous matter ensues, a very peculiar cadaverous febrile smell, the pain increases, the edges of the sore are reverted, and generally assume a circular foi'm; an erysipelatous redness encircles it, extending possibly to a great distance, even over a whole limb; the neighbouring glands, as those of the axilla or groin, swell, inflame, and perhaps suppurate. This diffuse inflammation goes on apace, thin ichor continues to be discharged in great quantity, and a thick slough, apparently of coagulable lymph, like melted tallow, covers the whole surface of the sore; the ftetor is intolerable and the pain insupportable. At last an oozing haemorrhage soaks the dressings, or a larger blood- vessel having sloughed, robs the patient of his last remaining source of strength, and the typhoid constitutional commotion soon terminates in death. Blackadder noticed that when the disease attacks a larcfp. recent wound, its whole surface may be alfected at once; while in other eases, the gangrene commences on, or near, the lips of the sore. (3.) Passing from incised to contused wounds; when the disease attacks a recent gim-shot woiond, the discharge, two or three days after contagion, is found to be lessened, and to have become more sanious than purulent. The sore has a certain dry and rigid appearance, its edges are more defined, somewhat elevated and shariDened, and the patient experiences in it a stinging sensation, as if occasioned by a gnat. Then, or a day or two later, the integuments at the edge of the sore become inflamed, and the surface of the sore itself assumes a. livid or purple colour, and appears covered with a fine pellicle, such as forms on coagulating blood. (4.) As attacking a 'puncture or scratch, "the first apj)earance of hospital gangrene resembles that of a part inoculated with vaccine virus." The primary inflammation begins at the end of the second, or early on the third day ; it reaches its height about the sixth; but when the scab begins to form in one disease, fliagedienic ulceration begins in the other, and if allowed to proceed soon aifords sufiicient proof of the non-identity of these diseases. (5.) Should the disease attack an old sore, where a considerable depth of new texture has been formed, a vesicle arises, filled with a livid or brownish-black fluid, which bursts and assumes the appearance of a small dark-coloured spot. Such vesicle, or spot, is usually situated at the edge of the sore. Phagedfenic ulceration, spreading therefrom, makes comparatively very slow progress through the surface-bed of new texture, but having reached the subjacent natural texture, its progress is suddenly accelerated, acute inflammation supervenes, and a large slough forms. (6.) Lastly, when attacking the skin from which the cuticle has been removed, as by a blister, one or more small vesicles first appear, filled with a watery fluid, or bloody serum of a livid or reddish-brown colour. The situation of this vesicle also is generally at the edge of the sore. Its size is not unfrequently that of a split garden-pea, and it is easily ruptured, the pelHcle which covers it being very thin. If the vesicle contain a watery fluid, and has not been ruptured, its appearance resembles a greyish-white slough; if containing a dark-311 HOSPITAL GANGEENE. coloured fluid, or wlien ruptured, it appears a thin coaguluni of blood, of a dirty brownisli-black: colour. During the formation of the vesicle a painful sensation in the sore is generally experienced, like that of a gnat stinging. Thus the earliest and most elementary phase of Hospital Gangrene may be vesicular; just as gangrene generally begins, the senile gan- grene in particular. The features peculiar to, and characteristic of, this so-called Hospital Gangrene, ensue siihsequenthj—its slimy slough, its rapid progress, its appalling devastation. I shall presently have to notice one character which foretells all the rest, I mean proiJagation by contagion, and possibly by infection also, whereby the disease runs through a whole ward—a whole hospital if unchecked—passing from bed to bed with the rapid strides of death. The local results to be anticipated are always sad, sometimes shocking. Among Blackadder's cases; in one, half of the cranium was denuded, the bones were black as charcoal, the integuments de- tached posteriorly to the second cervical vertebra; anteriorly, to the middle of the zygomatic process of the temporal bone; and this was originally only a superficial scalp wound. In another case, the in- teguments and cellular texture, on the anterior parts of the neck, were destroyed, and the trachea laid open, presenting a horrid spectacle. Among John Bell's cases, in one, the skin and muscles were carried away from the shoulder down to the bellies of the supinator muscles; and eventually, when the sloughing terminated, nothing seemed to be left of the arm except the bone, covered with a velvet-like surface of shining red flesh ; and this was originally only a narrow splinter wound on the middle of the outer side of the arm. Continuing our course down the body; in one case, a very slight and superficial wound of the thigh grew into a sore, at first no bigger than the palm of one's hand ; in two days as large as the crown of a hat; and in a week the whole skin of the thigh was destroyed, the muscles were sti'ipped of skin and fascia from the hip to the knee, the trochanter was almost laid bare, the hamstring muscles were exposed to a considerable extent, and all the muscles of the thigh dissected in a manner which no drawing could express. With even these cases in view, imagination will scarcely realize the ravages of this gangrene. A tattered skeleton, still held together by ligaments ? No; for the joints may be laid open exten- sively, and the knee, ankle, elbow, or wrist disarticulated. Constitutional Disorder.—Long before any such irreparable injury has been inflicted, the constitutional powers take affront. The period, however, at which the constitution begins to exhibit symptoms of iiTitation is extremely irregular, sometimes as early as the third or fourth day, sometimes as late as the twentieth. The countenance assumes an anxious or feverish aspect, the appetite is impaired, thirst succeeds, and the tongue is covered with a white mucus. Some constipation prevails at first, which ends in diarrhoea. The pulse is rather irritated than accelerated. The general symptoms, however, have an inflammatory or typhoid character, according as the causes of either predominate. When an inflammatory diathesis prevails, the system becomes gradually more irritated, until acute inflammation attacks the sore, an event that frequently happens about the end of the second week. At this period the pulse is frequent and sharp, and not uncommonly the patient has one or more shivering fits, sue-312 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. ceeded by great increase of heat, seldom or never terminating in a profuse perspiration. The cold fit is sometimes followed by a bilious mtestmal evacuation, with mitigation of the febrile disorder. If the local mischief be not arrested, weakness increases daily to exhaustion; the fever loses its inflammatory character, and unless the patient be cut off by hfemorrhage, he falls # victim to extreme debility. When the disease has a typhoid character, the pulse is small and frequent, the appetite and strength gradually fail, not unfrequently diarrhoea supervenes, and the patient at length sinks, retaining his mental faculties to the last. Causative Belation of the Local and Constitutional Conditions.— Whether does the constitutional disorder or the local disorganization precede ? What is the order of succession; which is the cause; which the effect ? Surgeons are neai'ly equally divided on this question; but the weight of experience decidedly preponderates in favour of the local origin of hospital gangrene. (1.) Local Origin.—Blackadder affirms—that in no single instance which he had an opportunity of observing, did the constitutional symptoms precede the local; unless the case be held an exception, where a stump became affected after amputation had been performed, on account of the previous effects of the disease.—That the morbid action could almost always be detected in the wound or sore previously to the occurrence of any constitutional affection.—That in several instances the constitution was not affected until some considerable time after the disease had manifested itself in the sore.—That when the disease was situated on the lower extremities, the lymphatic vessels and glands in the groin were observed to be in a state of irritation, giving pain on pressure, and were sometimes enlai'ged before the constitution showed evident marks of derangement.—That the con- stitutional affection, though sometimes irregular, was in many cases contemporary with the second, or inflammatory stage.—That when a patient had more than one wound or sore, it frequently happened that the disease was confined to one of the sores, while the other remained perfectly healthy, and this even when they were at no great distance from each other. To these five arguments, three more may be gathered from Wel- bank's well-known essay, forming so much additional support in favour of the local origin of this disease. That part of the diseased surface may clear off and granulate, while gangrenous disorganization continues progressive at the opposite edge; that, however advanced the sore, it not unfrequently becomes healthy, and rapidly so, on the application of appropriate measures; and that the symptoms of general disturbance also which supervene are promptly relieved by measures that control the local condition. Partly at variance with these facts and arguments, is the experience of Guthrie; that the febrile symptoms do seem to follow the appear- ance of the local alteration, is, in many cases, indisputable ; that they precede or accompany the local symptoms in many other cases, is in- disputable ; and that the disease in a mild state, although capable of committing much mischief, is neither preceded nor followed by febrile or constitutional symptoms, cannot be doubted. (2.) Constitutional Origin.—On the other hand, there are, or have been, those who affirm tliat the constitutional disorder generally, at313 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. least, precedes the local disorganization. Thus, John Bell noticed that the hospital sore is usually preceded by a degree of fever. Thomson— writing also from his own observations—states that these two classes of symptoms—the local and constitutional—are not invariable in the order of their appearance; for sometimes the one, and sometimes the other class, seems to occur first in the order of succession; but that the constitutional symptoms usually precede the local. Hennen also advocated this doctrine even more strenuously. The question of local or constitutional origin may be further ex- amined by reference to the known causes of hospital gangrene. External Causes.—All observations respecting the etiology of this disease agree in certain particulars; that it occurs as an endemic, springing up in some way among those who become affected. Thus, newly built hospitals are free, so also are generally those built on high ground; while the disease arises in crowded and ill-ventilated hospitals. But it is regarded by some observers as possibly an epidemic miasmatic disease; for it may appear very suddenly, both inside and outside an hospital at the same time, and disappear after a time, although the sanitary condition of the hospital and the treatment of the wounds remain unchanged. This mode of production, in hospital gangrene, is urged by Von Pitha and Fock; and as an occasional source, it is supported by Billroth, who suggests the possibility of atmospheric organisms acting like a ferment, and thus inducing de- composition on the surface of a wound—a germinal mode of origin. Infection.—Thomson regards the disease as possibly infectious. " I have seen," says he, "hospital gangrene introduced into an hospital by a single individual, and, when proper precautions were not taken, spread extensively among the other patients, but chiefly among those who lay nearest in the ward to the person originally affected or among those who had had most frequent intercourse with him. I have also known patients attacked in succession with hospital gangrene who had used the same bedding, or who, without using the same bedding, had occupied in quick succession the same small apartment." Fomites, therefore, can convey the infectious matter, and retain it some time. So highly infectious is this disease, according to Beyer's observation, that it broke out in wounded patients, who, hoping to escape, had quitted the infected hospital, and retired to elevated situations where they breathed the most salubrious air. The infecting distance, or range of the contaminated air from the focus of infection, is unknown; but the disease certainly attacks patients at some distance apart (Thomson). Nor is the period of latency, after infection, more exactly determined. I think, says this author, I have repeatedly seen the disease attack patients in less than three days after they had been exposed to its influence. The production of hospital gangrene by infection seems to be dis- proved by Blackadder's observations, and chiefly by the result of the following experiment. He placed three patients with clean wounds alternately between three other patients severely affected. Their beds were on the floor, and not more than two feet distant from each other ; but all direct intercourse was forbidden, and they were made fully aware of the consequences of inattention to their instructions. The result was, that not one of the clean wounds assumed the morbid action peculiar to the disease, nor was the curative process in any degree impeded.GENEBAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. 314 Goniagion.—This mode of communication can be traced as the only cause, m all cases since the days of La Motte, 1722, and Pouteau, in whose posthumous works, published 1783, hospital gangrene was first specially noticed. Pouteau observed that it may be communicated to the most healthy wound or ulcer in a person of the best constitution, and breathing the purest air, by merely placing in contact with any such wound or ulcer, sponges, lint, etc., contaminated by contact with a sore undergoing the disease. Thomson concurs in the accuracy of this observation, as well as advocating the infectious character of hospital gangrene. Delpech traced its propagation in almost every instance to the direct application of the morbific matter to the sores. Blackadder also recognized this mode of propagation in ninety-nine cases out of every hundred, Welbank arrived at a precisely similar conclusion. He speaks of the disease as being highly contagious by using the same sponges to different patients. And Guthrie specifies this as one of the " conclusions" of his observations during the Peninsular War. Nay more, that it is contagious through the medium of the atmosphere applied to the wound or ulcer. Boggie's experience during the same war compelled him to admit that hospital gangrene may be propagated by contagion, although he is disposed to attribute less importance thereto than to the continued operation of other local causes of an irritating character, in the shape of dirt, acrid appHcations, motion or mechanical irritation; attributing also considerable importance to other stimulating causes affecting the constitution, as hot weather, stimulating food, and the intemperate use of wine and sj)ii"ituous liquors. In short, Boggie considers it inflamma- tory gangrene, and recommends antiphlogistic regimen. While, however, admitting that all such conditions—local and constitutional—m&j preclisjjose to hospital gangrene, it does not arise in numberless instances where they are conjoined in full operation. Their essential importance,- therefore, cannot be allowed. The etiology of hospital gangrene is so far obscure that its cause or causes, in thej^rsHnstance of its occurrence, require further elucidation. The general conclusion is this:—The disease may arise from over- crowding in an ill-ventilated hospital or other institution; also, possibly, from epidemic influence ; and that the disease is perhaps communicated by infection, from the sore itself emitting a poisonous exhalation; but it is assuredly also propagated by contagion. Treatment.—Guided by the etiology of hospital gangrene, the nature of our preventive measures is at once suggested. Provision should always be made for space and ventilation, relative to the number of patients, in the arrangements of an hospital, or of the wards allotted to the reception of wounded cases, whether from accident or surgical operation. When the first case appears in any hospital or other institution, our immediate object is to decompose the poisonous slough and discharge, and, moreover, arrest the progress of gangrene. Strong caustics, such as will fulfil these intentions, should therefore be forthwith applied. Arsenic was originally recommended by Black- adder. The liquor arsenicalis, or diluted Avith an equal quantity of water, or with twice that quantity, was used, according to the emer- gency of the case. Strong nitric acid was first employed by Welbank. Either of these caustics, or even the actual cautery, should be applied until a new, hard, dry slough is formed, encrusting a clean and healthy315 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. surface. Bromine, or with the bromide of potassium in solution, was introduced by Dr. M. Groldsmith, U.S.V., and is much advocated by Dr. Hamilton. This agent has proved highly efficacious as a caustic, when thoroughly applied to the gangrenous surface, previously denuded of slough, or as a disinfectant and prophylactic dressing to unhealthy wounds. Pure bromine seems to have answered far better than a compound solution with the bronide; and a strong solution, 3i. to jiv. of water, may be used with advantage to paint the integument, to the extent of an inch, around the gangrenous part, after catiterization; while a solution of half the strength, oi- to jviii., will be sufficient when applied as a dressing. To prevent the iiropagation of this gan- grene, punctilious cleanliness as regards the hands of the dresser, lint, watei-, and other appliances, should be daily observed in dressing all other wounds, even the most trivial and healthy. The bedding, also, should be changed, and clean linen furnished, as often as may be necessary to prevent their impregnation and the accumulation of fomites. Free ventilation and isolation of the patient will have similar preventive efficacy, and should not be neglected, although the disease may not be assuredly infectious. When apparently of epidemic origin, it will be necessary to remove the patients, as in a military hospital, to another locality. Constitutional treatment must have reference to the combined state of irritation and debility; by the administration of opium, quinine, and stimulants, with nutritious diet. The protective value of these measures has long since been fully established by their results. Thiis, in military hospitals, the disease is apt to occur. Tet my own experience in respect of hospital gangrene, as it appeared during the war (1855), in the hospitals in the Crimea and at Scutari, does not approach what was formerly daily observed in civil hospitals. In the Hotel Dieu, for example, it raged -without intermission for two hundred years ; so much so, that " a young surgeon," says an ancient French author, "who is bred in the Hotel Dieu, may learn the various forms of incision, operations too, and the manner of dressing wounds; but the way of curing them he cannot learn. Every patient he takes in hand must die of gangrene." Now- a-days, such scenes have passed away like a dream. This disease has not been witnessed for many years in the hospitals of this country, excepting on three occasions,—^in the Middlesex Hospital, 1835, in University College Hospital, 1841, and in St. Bartholomew's Hospital, 1846-7. With these exceptions, true hospital gangrene— contagious gangrene—has not reappeared; and many experienced surgeons of the present day have no practical knowledge of it what- ever. Billroth testifies to its equal rarity in many continental hospitals, as at the Berlin Charite, and that in Zurich it is unknown. The disappearance of a disease, once so frequent, once so formidable, can only be attributed to its causes having since subsided; and they are precisely the circumstances that have been specially obviated by the hygienic arrangements of the well-appointed and well-regulated hos- pitals of recent years; nevertheless, we are still bound to recognize hospital gangrene and to remember its etiology, as the best security for our continued observance of those protective measures which can alone prevent the recurrence of this disease in future.316 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. CHAPTER XL poisoned wounds. Hydrophobia. Hydrophobia is the constitutional disorder of tlie human species whicTi arises from contagion with the saliva of a rabid animal. The dog and cat, and other animals of the canine and feline species, are peculiarly prone to hydrophobia, or rabies, as the disorder is then termed; and there is abundant evidence to show that the bite of a " mad dog, cat, wolf," etc., induces this disease by virtue of the saliva thus introduced. The ivound, itself is often trivial—a mere scratch or graze from a tooth of the animal in the act of snapping; yet a very large proportion of persons bitten by a rabid animal undergo hydrophobia, sooner or later, and die; and it is incredible to imagine that so many individuals, differing in their constitutional idiosyncrasies, should aHke experience the same constitutional disorder, and that a fatal one, from a wound scarcely worthy of the name. The existence of a hydrophobic virus, in the shape of a peculiar morbid saliva, has been also demonstrated experimentally. Several animals were inoculated with the saliva of a rabid dog, recently dead ; a dog, a cat, a horse, and a cock were thus infected by Dr. Zine. Dupuy, in like mannei', induced the disease by taking a sponge, which had been bitten by a mad dog, and rubbing it on the open sore of a sheep. Youatt drew a silk thread backwards and forwards through the mouth of a rabid animal, and having inserted it as a seton in the neck of a sound dog, this animal subsequently died of rabies. If, then, the inoculation of a peculiar virus be indisputably the cause of hydrophobia, is this disease capable of being conveyed by clothes impregnated therewith ? Can it be communicated by fomites ? Clearly so; for a dog's tooth is itself a femes. To this effect, also, Mr. Trevelyan, writing to Dr. Bardsley, states that, after losing one pack of hounds by rabies, he not only removed the straw, but had the benches of the kennel scalded with boiling water, and afterwards all the joints painted and filled up with hot tar; the walls were then whitewashed, and the pavement cleaned with hot water. Thus secure as he imagined, he collected another pack; yet rabies again broke out and recurred year after year. In consequence of these continual attacks, he removed the pavement, threw the earth beneath into the river, refitted, new painted, and whitewashed the kennels; ever after which the pack continued perfectly healthy. The virus is usually introduced through a bite of the animal diseased, but the mere application thereof to ever so slight a wound, scratch, or other solution of continuity, in an ahsorbincj surface, is sufficient. In such case, the lick of a rabid dog generally induces hydrophobia. The surety of inoculation will obviously be affected— by the number of wounds inflicted, by lodgment of the vii'us or its escape by hjemorrhage, and, above all, by unobstructed inoculationHYDROPHOBIA. 317 throngli the naked flesh as compared with the protection offered by clothes. Thus, of fifteen persons bitten by a mad dog, and attended at Senlis by the Commissioners of the French Royal Society of Physic, ten were bitten on the naked flesh, and five through their clothes; of the former, five proved fatal. Apart from these modifying circum- stances, there may be no evil consequence from the bite of a rabid animal, and the immunity enjoyed must be ascribed to some unknown jDeculiarity of constitution. Perhaps, observes Billroth, in not more than one out of twenty cases the disease ensues. But this propor- tion would appear to be far too low an estimate, as shown by the cases to which I have just referred; and also by the fact that, at Rochelle, of twenty-four persons bitten by a rabid wolf, eighteen perished. Local Gonclit'ion.—Hydrophobia ensues in a variable period, ave- raging about six weeks, from the date of the reception of the virus. The wound has generally healed, or it may not have healed quite soundly. In either case, slight pain of a rheumatic character shoots from the site of the bitten part to some distance; so that if the hand be the part first affected, the pain extends up the arm and shoulder, fixing itself in the trapezius muscle probably, or the proximate side of the neck. Sometimes a tingling heat, or even a sensation of cold, is experienced, rather than pain; but either sensation equally extends,— say, up the arm and shoulder. Generally, actual pain is felt, and eventually shooting towards the heart. Meanwhile the cicatrix swells, reopens, and discharges an ichorous matter. Occasionally no local symptoms occur; neither the customary radiating pain, nor any in- flammatory condition of the cicatrix. Constitutional Disorder.—^After the lapse of some days perhaps, other and more formidable, because constitutional, disorder begins. The nervous system, together with its ally, the muscular, are the subject of all those phenomena which characterize this affection. The cerebro-spinal axis acquires undue susceptibility. Consequently, the symptoms are those of cerebral excitement, with excessive general sensibility, and spasmodic affection of the muscles engaged in deglu- tition and respiration, ending in convulsions of the whole body. Rapid- flo^ving thoughts, reviving memory, and fertile imagination, are ex- pressed by a more animated manner and conversation; although, in some cases, a downcast pensive mien, yet withal irritable and peevish manner, prevails. Far more frequently, however, thoughts and fancies whirl through the brain tumultuously. An overwhelming dread takes possession of the poor victim, and his nights are sleepless or broken by starting dreams,—^this state bordering on delirium; a dull heavy pain caps the head and oppresses the temples, light is intolerable, and the slightest noise jars the whole frame; pains occur in various parts of the body, and a feeling of constriction about the throat, with a difiiculty in swallowing, especially liquids, and a distressing hickuppy catch in the breathing, sighing or sobbing. In the course of from four to six days, possibly only a day or two, the most remarkable symptom of true hydrophobia supervenes,— an indescribahle dread of fluids; any attempt to drink—even the sight or sound of water, the thought of it, or any- thing associated therewith, as the noise of teacups, or of a pump— immediately excites a convulsive paroxysm, threatening suffocation. In some cases the slightest breath of air, a fly settHug on the face, or a318 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. briglat light, has the same effect. From the commencement of the disease, the temperature rises, and even as high as 105° or 106° P. The convulsive attacks are imroxysmal, with complete intermissions. A viscid mucus accumulating in the mouth occasions incessant adion of the lower jaw to extricate it. The pains now piercing the epigastric and pra3Cordial regions, more particularly, the general sensibility becoming more and more acute, and the convulsive paroxysms more frequent, desperate, and protracted, soon exhaust the patient's bodily power, while his mind is hurried on to furmis mania; and thus, when fighting for_ breath, or utterly worn out, the sufferer expires. The second or third day usually brings this happy release. It may be post- poned to the fifth or sixth day. Age makes some difference, for children endure not longer than twenty-four hours generally. Diagnosis.—I have italicized those symptoms which, contrasting with the phenomena of tetanus,, serve to distinguish hydrophobia. To these characteristics may be added two more — the early period of death from hydrophobia as compared with tetanus, and its longer pei-iod of latency. On this point, however, considerable extremes are recorded. Period of Latency.—In 131 cases, none of the patients became ill before the eleventh day after the bite, and only thi'ce before the eighteenth day. In 222 cases, the disease showed itself eleven times before the tenth day; twenty-one, between the tenth and twentieth day; twenty, from three to six weeks; eighty-nine, from seven weeks to seven months; eighty-nine, from seven months to twenty-seven months; one, after four years; one, after five and a half years. In Hamilton's table, it occurred in seventeen cases, between eighteen and thirty days; in sixty-three, between thirty and sixty days; in thii-teen, between three and six months; in seventeen, between six and twelve months ; in four, from ten to twenty months. In both these series the period of incubation extended to between the third and eighth week. The extreme periods, as determined by Dr. J. Hunter, were thirty-one days and eighteen months. The most extensive and authentic observations accord about forty days as the mean period of latency in the human subject. Here, then, is a season during which i^reventive measures can be employed with the prospect of success. Treatment.—Prompt removal of the hydrophobic virus by the cup- j)ing-glass, and free excision of the bitten part, constitute the most effectual preventative. In a part so situated that excision is im- practicable, free cauterization may be resorted to, either by the actual cautery, or with strong nitric acid, jDotassa fusa, or nitrate of silver. It is impossible to say how late, in the period of incubation, these means would prove successful; for, if not employed in any given instance, some constitutional peculiarity might itself avert the super- vention of hydrophobia. There is just this poor chance of safety. But, considering the very large proportion of cases in which the disease does inevitably arise, no time should be lost. Excision, therefore, should be practised at the earliest opportunity, and not postponed, however long it may have been neglected; provided, of course, that in either case there be sufficient reason for behoving or suspecting that the bite was inflicted by a rabid animal. Before, then, resorting to a measure which entails pennanent muti- lation, more or less, the state of the aniimVs health in question should319 nYDKOPHOBLi. at once, if possible, be inquired into. The dog and cat chiefly concern us in this country. Rarely is the rabid state any approach to tho popular notion of a "mad" dog. No wild excitement appears, no savage tendency to bite, and certainly no dread of water, so remark- able in tho human subject. Rather will suspicion be aroused on ascer- taining that the animal evinces only some strange departure from its usual habits and manner. In very many instances this peculiarity is a disposition to jjick tip straw, bits of paper, rag, thread, or any small object in the way. The animal laps water greedily. A disposition to lick is noticed in some cases, and particularly to lick anything cold— cold stones, or the cold nose of another dog; great aversion, however, to strange dogs and cats, especially to the latter, is very commonly observed at an early period. Some such unusual propensity is soon followed by an ■hritahle, peevish manner. The animal snaps at those about it, and resolutely fights if the least provoked, or vents its rage in peculiar howling or barking, the voice being husky and jerking. This state is known as furious rabies. When thus obviously dangerous, it is forthwith destroyed. Tet a dog dangerously rabid may be perfectly quiet and natural, save in respect of some unsuspicious, because unobtrusive, symptom. Allowed to run about, patted and played with as usual, it bites in an unguarded moment. In this state, therefore, although not manifestly rabid, the animal should be at once chained up. Instead of being kiUed, it can then be watched, to ascer- tain the real nature of its indisposition; thereby determining the necessity for excision in the case of any person who has been bitten. If the animal be affected with rabies, it will probably die in a few days; and this operation is imperatively demanded. The safe custody of the rabid animal will also effectually prevent further mischief being done during his short period of probation. Two other forms of rabies in the dog may be mentioned. But, in both conditions, the animal is not aggressive, and in one there is a manifest inability to bite. Thus, observes Fleming, in cZitmS-madness, the lower jaw is paralyzed and drops, leaving the mouth open, and showing the tongue flaccid or swollen, covered with a brownish mattei', and a glutinous, stringy saliva lying between it and the lower lip, and coating the fauces, which sometimes appear inflamed. Slavering is almost peculiar to this form of rabies, but the animal is ordinarily helpless and not aggressive; it can neither bark nor bite, nor eat nor drink. In tranqidl rabies, the dog lies rolled up, as if comatose, and indifferent to everything; it cannot be provoked to bite, and dies quietly in aboiit fifteen days from the commencement of these symptoms of the disease. Supposing an animal, not itself rabid, or bordering on that con- dition, to have been bitten—a healthy dog, bitten by another dog, decidedly rabid. The latter will, of course, be killed; but when may the former apparently healthy dog be allowed to go free ? The question turns on the period of latency among animals. In the dog it is considered to terminate about the end of the sixth week. At the Veterinary School, Alfort, when a dog is bitten, it is chained up for fifty days, and, if healthy at the end of that period, is restored to its master. Mr. Samuel Cooper used to mention in his lectures, at University College, an instance of a more extended period than that which regulates the preventive measure adopted at Alfort. A lai'ge Newfoundland dog, having been bitten by another dog, did not becomeGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 320 rabid until seventy days had elapsed; information the more valuable, since Mr. Cooper bimself watched the case from beginning to end. In Lord Fitzwilliam's pack the disease appeared at various intervals, from six weeks to six months. We may therefore conclude, that an animal bitten by another in a rabid state should be chained up for a longer period than the experience at Alfort would suggest as an adequate preventive_ in junction—imprisonment for six weeks. Preliminary to ^ this question is another—the commwiicability of hydrophobia or rabies among animals and man,—a consideration essen- tially relating both to its propagation and prevention. Many facts tend to show that the communicability of this disease depends on the inherent capability of the animal affected to engender it spontaneously; failing which, he may bite in vain. The dog can generate rabies, and therefore can communicate it to another animal, or to man, in the shape of hydrophobia. Sheep, horses—^the herbivora—and man cannot generate the disease, and therefore cannot communicate it. Thus, rabies in a flock of sheep, consequent on the bite of a rabid dog, is not communicated from one sheep to another, although the sound are often bitten by the diseased, and in parts stripped of wool (Dupuy). At the Alfort Veterinary School three sound sheep, two dogs, and a horse were inoculated with the saliva of a rabid horse; not one of them became affected. In keeping with this view, man cannot communicate hydrophobia. By the experiments of Vaughan and Babington, animals were inoculated with the saliva of hydrophobic patients, but without any effect. In an exceptional experiment by Magendie and Breschet, one dog of two thus inoculated became affected; but this animal might have been previously diseased, especially as rabies was rife at the time. Paroisse inoculated three dogs with the saliva of a man in hydrophobia; the animals were kept and watched for nearly four months afterwards, during all which time they remained quite unaf- fected. Similar experiments were conducted by Gauthier, Giraud, Girard, and Bezard, with the same negative results. Lastly, there is no instance of one human being acquiring hydrophobia from another labouring under this disease, although in many instances attendants have been bitten by such persons. In conclusion, the general inference to be drawn from these facts is this—that in estimating the danger to human life incurred by the liberty of rabid animals, those only which can generate rabies, e.c/., the dog, are dangerous; and the disease acquired by inoculation, from one animal to another, as by the bite of a dog to a cat, is transferred with its original intensity. The human species affected with hydro- phobia is harmless, should there be any tendency to bite. Such considerations, coupled with a due knowledge of the duration of latency in different animals, particularly the dog, suggest adequate precautionary restraint; while, in the event of hydrophobic virus having been communicated to man through the bite of a rabid animal, the prevention of the disease then impending is fulfilled by free excision of the part bitten, as soon as possible, aided, if necessary, by cupping. Curative treatment will be utterly useless, although it may be possible to palliate symptoms and prolong life. This may perhaps be effected by the plan of treatment recommended by Marshall Hall and Todd. It consists in removing all causes of irritation, bodily and mental, as by placing the patient in a darkened room, cxcludiug any321 SNAICE-BITES. drauglit of cold air, all noise and conversation. Narcotics, such as opium and belladonna, have alike been tried in vain. But chlorofoi-m has often given relief. The application of an ice-bag along the whole length of the spine seems to have some influence in allaying the excitability of the cord; while stimulants and nourishment support the patient in the exhatistion consequent on the convulsive paroxysms. Snake-Bites.—Of Poisoned Wounds, in the ordinary sense, the bites of venomous snakes, happily of rare occuiTence in this country, possess much surgical interest; chiefly with the view of preventing their con- stitutional effects, rather than the more hopeless intention of curing them. The local effect of a poisoned wound is essentially cellulitis; inflammation of the subcutaneous cellular texture, announced by acute burning pain, accompanied with some, and perhaps, subsequently, enormous diffused sweUing, not at first involving the skin. In severe cases the swelling spreads rapidly, and to an almost unlimited extent, so widely may it range. The bite of the viper, occasionally found in England, and that of the rattlesnake, the cobra di capello, the whip-cord snake, the phoorsa- snake, the tobacco-pipe snake, and the puff-adder, of Eastern countries, answer to this general description. Local Condition.—A piercing pain is immediately felt, rapidly shoot- ing through the limb; swelling quickly succeeds, and a mottled livid redness, indicating that the skin is now involved. The cellular texture of the whole limb, and perhaps down the proximate side of the trunk, becomes gorged with a bloody sanious fluid ; and, as if to relieve this tense yet diffused swelling, phlyctenaB arise here and there. Very shortly the pain abates, the tension is exchanged for a flaccid softness, the Hmb is cold and benumbed; while patches of gangrenous skin announce that the work of destruction has commenced, not however disclosing the ravages already wrought beneath the skin in the sub- cellular texture, and still less the extent to which it may eventually be saciificed. Constitutional Disorder.—Rapidly as all this mischief is accomplished, the constitutional disturbance begins almost concurrently with the first introduction of the poison. Soon after the poisonous bite has been inflicted, symptoms of muddling intoxication ensue. The victim mumbles incoherently, and staggering, as if dead-drunk, is overcome with helpless prostration and oppressed breathing. Other and even peculiar symptoms are witnessed. Profuse cold sweating, bilious vomiting, and perhaps evacuations of bile ; while a yellow hue over- casts the skin. Excruciating pain about the navel is sometimes experienced. The pulse quivers irregularly, the nervous system suc- cumbs to the potent poison, and the sufferer expires. Now, in order to prevent this fatal issue, and, moreover, the for- midable antecedent systems, remember that the poison begins to operate almost immediately, varying in this respect, however, with the dose. Still its_ period of latency is short. Period of Latency.—In one case—carefully recorded by Sir E. Home—a man was bitten by a rattlesnake at half-past two p.m., and brought to St. George's Hospital, by three o'clock; during this brief period of only half an hour the constitutional disturbance had become overwhelming; and in the interval, when the man went of his own accord to a chemist's shop for relief, he was observed to stagger, and TGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. J22 appear drunk. Deatli ensued. In another instance, tlic bite of a rattlesnake began to manifest its effects within the first half-hour. Treatment.—U we assume the period of latency to be wider half an Jiour, preventive measures should be very promptly employed. The poison may be removed from the bitten part, or arrested before entering the general circulation, or neutralized. The application of a cupping- glass, or excision, is calculated to withdraw the poison; a ligature above the part affected, fulfils the second purpose ; caustics, the actual cautery included, the third purpose. These resources very much cor- respond to the plan of treatment enjoined by Dr. S. Weir Mitchell, of Philadelphia. Of these appliances,'that of cupping is most effi- cacious and practicable, if not the only one of value. Diffuse inflam- mation, consequent on the introduction of the poison, must be treated by free incisions and fomentations. Curative treatment has very little effect in overcoming the constitutional condition of utter prostration. Stimulants, such as brandy, wine, or ammonia, must be freely admin- istered. Arsenic, in large doses, has been recommended as a specific. Such is the " Tanjore pill," a famous Indian remedy. But its efficacy is doubtful and even perilous. Dr. Halford's experiments led him to suggest the injection of ammonia into the veins, as tending to prevent coagulation of the blood, and to stimulate the nervous system. The strong liquor ammonias is to be diluted with water, one part to two or three, and twenty to thirty drops are injected into one of the large veins near the bite. Three successful cases, by this method of treat- ment, are narrated in the " Brit. Med. Jour.," 1869. Insect-stings comprise the poisoned wounds or punctures inflicted by a variety of insects; bees, wasps, hornets, gnats, mosquitoes, the scorpion, tarantula. The local symptoms of irritation and inflammation excited by the virus introduced, and any constitutional febrility or nervous dei^ression induced, are seldom severe and soon subside. But the symptoms may assume a dangerous or even fatal character, in persons predisposed by a low state of health; the sting being followed, perhaps, by erysipelatous inflammation, of the part, or death taking place by syncope. Some such cases have undoubtedly occurred; as happened (July, 1872), in the person of a middle-aged lady, at Twickenham,—the sting of a bee behind the ear, was soon followed by unconsciousness, and death ensued in about an hour. A similar case, with a fatal termination in ten minutes, is noticed in the American " Journal of Medical Science;" and a bee-sting on the back of the finger soon induced vomiting, sweating, trembling, and great difficulty of breathing (Beck's " Med. Jurisprudence"). A number of stings, as when bees swarm and settle on the head of a person, may certainly give rise to alarming symptoms; and the locality of the part stung is sometimes also a source of danger, as the eye or the mouth, tongue, or pharynx, from swallowing a bee in a piece of honey-comb, or a wasp in a peach. The bite of the scorpion is less noxious than commonly credited in poetry and popular tradition, although in the East its effects may be more formidable ; the virulence also of the tarantula, in Italy, has been much exaggerated, while the " tarantismus," or nervous excitement produced, and which is said to be curatively ^affected by dancing to music, is merely a fiction of imposture and prejudice. Treatment.—The local ii-ritation of insect-stings may be subdued by323 DISSECTION-WOUND. cold, or slightly stimulant lotions; as lead lotion, or a spirit-wash, or by a solution of acetate of ammonia—spirit of mindererus—which acts apparently by neutralizing the formic acid of the virus. Protec- tion of the surface, by means of flour, chalk, or olive oil, will also allay the irritation. Usually, however, any inconvenience soon passes off. But a sting in the pharynx, attended with diffuse swelling, may im- pede respiration, or extending to the glottis, canse suffocation ; hence, the necessity for prompt interference, by means of astringent gargles, ice-cold water, scarification, or the application of leeches to the throat. Dissection-Wound.—Inoculation with decomjposing animal matter— septic matter—is a kind of poisoned wonnd, the type of which is repre- sented by a dissection-wound. The cuts and pricks received in dissecting are more or less familiar to the personal experience of every student of anatomy. Symptoms.—The effects, local and constitutional, are always the same; differing only in degree, according to the virulence of the poison introdnced, and the previous state of health; thus giving rise to the mild and the acute forms of the infection. In both, there is some local irritation or inflammation, advancing perhaps to pustular suppui'ation, with inflammation of the lymphatics; and attended with febrile disturbance, of typhoid character, resembling pytemic infection. But, in the onild form of the disease, the puncture becomes sur- rounded with a red areola, a pustule arises, and bursting, discharges an unhealthy pus, while tender rose-coloured lines—the inflamed lymphatics—spread branching up the limb, and the axillary glands become enlarged and perhaps suppurate. Low febrile disturbance, with loss of appetite, and diarrhoea, accompany these local symptoms, reducing the patient to a cachectic condition, but which .pass off in a slow recovery. All the symptoms of the attack are, however, of short duration—the local inflammation arising one or two days after the puncture, and the blood-poison running off, apparently, from the system in the course of a week or two. In the acute form of the disease, the constitutional symptoms seem almost to precede, and they certainly exceed, the local at the seat of puncture. In twelve or twenty-four hours after inoculation, by a slight prick, or scratch with the hooks, in dissecting, a severe rigor— the pysemic shudder—occurs, with great nervous depression, a rapid pulse, and marked anxiety of countenance. This seizure is accom- panied with the formation of a small, perhaps insignificant, vesicle or pustule, containing a thin, milky or puriform matter, having an in- flamed areola; a sharp, stabbing pain, fixed in the shoulder, and shooting down the chest, announces the commencement of suppuration m the axillary glands, and some red lines connect this purulent depot with the puncture-pustules. In a few days, diffuse inflammation of the arm and forearm presents a considerable, sloughy oedema of the limb; and diffuse suppuration may extend rapidly from the armpit into^ the sub-scapular and sub-pectoral regions, or down the side, involving the subcutaneous cellular texture in a sloughy mass, without much discolouration of the skin. The constitutional disorder becomes more typhoid, and low delirium or coma supervening, death ensues m two or three Aveeks. Or, abscesses continuing to form, the patient, in a hectic state, at length sinks from exhaustion. Eecovery may, mdeed, occur, leaving him the Avrcck of his former self.GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 324 JThQ post-mortem appearances are analogous to those of pyaemia, but exhibited principally by diffuse cellular suppurations. Billroth regards the infection from dissection-wound as a form of pyemia, arising from the absorption of septic animal matter, with lymphatitis, but without phlebitis. Conditions of the dead hody most infective.—Putridity must not be supposed to signify an infective state of the body; the less advanced in decomposition, the greater the risk, not unfrequently, from the inoculation of the animal matter, and a fresh subject is often the most dangerous. The bodies of persons who have died in certain diseases are specially infectious; notably in blood-diseases which were attended with diffuse inflammation, of which erysipelas is the type, and particularly puerperal peritonitis. Hence, the peril of dissection, or post-mortem examination, in such cases ; the serous effusions in the cellular texture, or into the peritoneum, being highly infectious, the slightest prick or scratch suffices for inoculation, and the merest abrasion which might otherwise escape detection, the virulent fluid will find out. Dead matter resulting from mortification, as a small spiculum of necrosed bone soaked with pus, may prove equally noxious. But, as already observed, the constitutional state of the person, thus inoculated, determines the liability of systemic infection. Treatment.—Local measures consist in the prompt removal or destruction of the animal matter introduced. The immediate appli- cation of a piece of string, tape, or other ligature around the finger, above the wound, may prevent the poison entering the circulation. Any bleeding should then be encouraged, thus to cleanse the wound; as by steeping the part in lukewarm water, or by exposing it to a stream of water. But the wound had better be well sucked, and then cauterized by a firm touch with nitrate of silver. A drop of nitric or snlphuric acid is also very efficacious. Subsequently, inflammation or suppuration should be met, as nsual, by free incision and poultice, the hand being supported in a sling. Constitutional treatment com- prises stimulants, tonics, anodynes, a nourishing diet, and fresh air., In the event of lymphatic abscesses, early incisions must be made, to prevent the buiTowing of matter. After recovery, the finger may long remain swollen and stiffened; a state of chronic inflammation or its result, which must be managed accordingly. Malignant Pustule, or Chaebon, is also communicated by contagion^ the poisonous matter being caught directly from beasts, or their re- mains ; for the disease is not propagated apparently by the human species, from one individual to another. Local Condition.—Soon after any accidental inoculation with the morbid matter, a stinging sensation is felt, and a red point appears, hardly elevated above the skin. Then, at this point, the cuticle rises into a blackish vesicle, which speedily runs into a slough, surrounded by an cedematous swelling, having a violet tinge, and spreading rapidly in all directions. Occasionally, neither vesicle nor pustule arises, only swelling. "With obvious swelling, however, a sensation of tension, rather than pain, is experienced. Should several pustules arise, the disease is proportionately more perilous, and especially if situated on the neck or face; for then the swelling may be so considerable as to threaten suffocation or congestion of the brain. Indeed, malignant pustule is not unlike carbuncle in appearance, but differs from it in325 GLANDERS. being always tlie result of contagion. And this etiological considera- tion will always determine the diagnosis. Gonstihdional Disorder.—A variable period having elapsed, the con- stitutional symptoms supervene. Fever, attended with pain over the stomach, and vomiting, is soon succeeded by delirium and prostration, as the termination of septicsemia. In this advanced stage, death always ensues. The nature of the morbid matter itself is unknown, but it is de- veloped in beasts affected with " contagious carbuncle." The poison may be imparted by any accidental inoculation, in handling the animal when alive, or during the manufacture of hides, wool, etc. Malignant pustule is consequently most rife among butchers, tanners, shepherds, and wool-beaters. It may also be produced by eating the flesh of animals thus diseased. Instances in proof of this mode of production are cited by Wagner and Turchetti. Temperature and moisture have apparently some influence, for the disease is most prevalent in damp localities, and in wet autumnal weather. The morbid matter—what- ever it be—retains its poisonous power for a long time. Billroth alludes to the possibly spontaneous origin of malignant pustule in man some- times, as it certainly does arise in cattle and other animals; but this som'ce of production is disputed. Treatment.—Preventive measures are obviously suggested in accor- dance with the known etiology of this disease, although in the pursuit of certain avocations it may be difl&cult so to protect the hands and exposed parts of the body as to escape contagion. Even then, however, the progress of malignant pustule can generally be arrested at its commencement by excision or cauterization. Glanders is another disease derived by contagion from certain animals—the horse, ass, or mule—similarly affected. In the human species, it never arises as a primary disease. Inoculation of the human species is apt to occur by handling either animal when glandered; and the constitutional disorder thence arising may be briefly described as fever, resulting in the production of many inflammatory tumours in different parts of the body, which have a great tendency to suppurate and fall into gangrene. Towards the close of glanders, in eleven of fifteen cases (Rayer), puriform mucus, mixed with blood, oozed from the nostrils; in ten of these cases, the discharge came from one nostril only; and in all cases the qtiantity was inconsiderable, sometimes scarcely appreciable. The eyelids, also, are tumified, and secrete a thick viscid mucus. Muscular pains, and diarrhcEa with prostration, or delirium and coma, lead to a fatal termination. This disease runs its course in a period varying from a few days to many months, as an acute or chronic afEection. After death, septicaemia is declared by numerous abscesses, or collections of bloody serum or puriform matter, in the cellular texture and in the muscles. The period of latency in man varies from two to eight days. Treatment.—I am not aware of any means whereby the progress of glanders can be arrested when once inoculation has taken place, how- ever early our intended preventive measures may be applied. If in this respect unlike the bite of a rabid animal, a snake-bite, nr malig- nant pustule, glanders has at least one advantage—the diaease can always be avoided.GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 826 As bearing on tlie question of prevention, tlie early and exact diag- nosis of glanders in animals is important. It is communicated to man by an animal in a state of disease so obviously characteristic that the danger cannot be overlooked. Two varieties of this disease, in the horse, ass, or mule, are re- cognized by Dr. R. Williams. In gangrenous glanders, the animal immediately loses its spirits, and staggers ; the nasal and conjunctival mucous membranes are beset with a number of red points, which at the end of twenty-four to |orty-eight hours, become livid; the nostrils now discharging a yellow matter, streaked with blood. This condition lasts two or three days ; then the nasal membrane falls into gangrene, and large ulcers form where portions have sloughed. The discharge increases and exhales a foetid gangrenous odour; oedema of the nostrils, scrotum, and legs soon supervenes : at length, the nostrils being glued together, respiration fails, and the animal dies. In imstular glanders, the same general debility and fever are observable as in gangrenous glanders. The specific inflammation of the nasal membrane is an eruption of pustules, said to resemble confluent small-pox, followed by a copious yellow viscid discharge from one or both nostrils. After two or three days, these pustules ulcerate, sometimes internally, so as to destroy the bones and cartilages of the nose. By absorption of the nasal morbid secretion, the sub-maxillary glands become swollen and tender, but only on the inflamed side of the head. Such enlargement is called the "kernels." QEdema of the nostrils, the sheath, and hind limbs succeeds, as in the gangrenous variety ; and respiration failing, death ensues on the eighth or tenth day, at latest. Glanders is often accompanied with "farcy," and farcy often ends in glanders. Button farcy is characterized by inflammation of the cellular tex- ture, forming tumours in different parts of the body; the head, neck, and extremities, particularly the hind legs. In four or flve days they soften and ulcerate. It is an inflammation of the lymphatic glands and vessels, usually beginning in the hind extremities, attended with lameness, and forming an irregular swelling of the limb, which at length ulcerates and discharges a sanious fluid. The period of latency in glanders affecting animals is generally short. Tavo asses—one about a year old, the other about a year and a half old —were inoculated by Turner. In the former the maxillary glands became tender on the second day, and the discharge from the nostrils was established on the following day. In the latter the maxillary glands enlarged on the third day, but the nasal discharge did not appear until the sixth day. In a horse inoculated with farcy matter, the disease did not appear untU the end of three months, and then pre- cisely at the points of puncture. Gerard states that he introduced the matter of the discharge every day, at difllerent times, into the nostrils of certain horses by means of a brush, and that the disease appeared on the seventh day, but in two others not until the thirty-second day. Fortunately, however, glanders is not an eminently contagiorm disease, either from one animal to another, or from this source to the human species; and its communieahility from one human being to another is very doubtful. A case once apparently occurred in St. Bartholomew's Hospital; a healthy nurse contracted disease from a glandered patient, and she died after a short illness, having every symptom of glanders.327 GLANDEBS. Assuming tliat glanders can be readily detected and distinguisTied from all other diseases, the prevention of its first propagation will consist in forthwith destroying the diseased animal, from which, as the centre of contagion, it might spread. But this precaution is not alone sufficient protection to man or beast. The disease is communicable by fomites, as well as by direct inoculation from one animal to another. In this way, some of the discharge from the nose of a glandered horse having remained about the manger, rack, or partition of a stable, may be thawed by the breath of a new horse, or introduced into the system in the act of nibbling or licking, whereby sou.nd horses have speedily become glandered when put into a stable whence a glandered one had been taken weeks or months previously ; thus reviving the disease, and with imminent peril to grooms and others in attendance. "Let, then," says Youatt, "the halters, head-gear, and bridles be burned; the clothes washed and baked; the pails newly painted; the racks and ranges thoroughly scraped, then washed well with soap and water, and after- wards with chloride of lime and water, in the proportion of a pint of the strong solution to a pail of water; let the walls be well scraped and washed with the chloride of Hme and water, then well lime-washed; the floor be first thoroughly scoured, then sluiced with the chloride: and, with all these precautionary measures, every possibility of danger will be removed."DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. CHAPTER XII. SHOCK OF INJURY.—COLLAPSE. Shock.—Symptoms, and Diagnosis.—Failure of the heart's action, or cardiac syncope, is the immediate effect of any sudden and violent impression on the nervous system. This failure of function is denoted by a thready, feeble, slow, and afterwards frequent and perhaps irregular, pulse; which is accompanied with pallidity, a cold clammy skin, with a reduction of temperature averaging one or two degrees, a haggard look, and lacklustre eye, great muscular prostration, soft sighing respiration, and, perhaps, some cerebral disturbance; symptoms which constitute the state known as Shock, or Collapse as arising from Injury. Other symptoms are exceptional and occasional only. Hickup, vomiting, relaxation of the sphincters, attended with involuntary mic- turition and defsecation; suppression of urine, convulsions, and stupor. It appears, therefore, that in this state of functional suspension, both the nervous and blood-vascular systems are overwhelmed, in- volving, possibly, all other functions; but, as the shock of Injury, the nervous system is primarily affected, and thence the vascular system; thus differing from cardiac syncope consequent on hasmorrhage. A great physiological relationship underHes the pathology of Shock;— namely, that while the action of the heart is independent of the nervous system, it is much influenced and even arrested by any impression through that system. Not unfrequently, however, with Injury, both modes of origin—nervous suppression and loss of blood—co-operate. Causes.—Injuries of all kinds—e.g., incised and lacerated Wounds, Burns, Fractures, and Dislocations—are attended with Shock; and according to their extent as involving the nervous system, and their persistence as causes in operation. A burn, superficial in itself, but extensively involving a considerable cutaneous expansion of the nervous system, will cause more extreme shock than a far deeper burn of limited nervous consequence. Unreduced Fractures and Dislocations continue to operate, by laceration and pressure, on the nervous system. But injuries of organs, abundantly supplied with nerves, or in intimate relation with the nervous system, are equally influential. Thus, crushing of the testicle, or lesion of an internal organ, may prove fatal. The part injured has an important relation to shock. Head-injuries, affecting or involving the brain, are attended with more disturbance of the cerebral functions; while injury to the peripheral nervous329 SHOCK OF INJURY.—COLLAPSE. expansion suspends the reflex functions more particularly. Thus, a stunning blow or fall on the head may cause a more intense shock, apparently; but a crushed limb, with far less cerebral disturbance, may be a more fatal injury. Injury to the lungs, or to the heart especially, is attended with great shock; but, from injuries of the abdominal viscera, according to Professor Longmore's observations, the shock is more persistent. Simple shock, without any apparent structural damage, may be equally deadly. A blow, for example, over the epigastrium; or pain, intense and prolonged; a stroke of lightning or exposure to cold. Certain poisons, probably, have an action resembling Shock; such are powerful sedatives, as tobacco, and powerful purgatives. Mental emotion may operate in like manner. Fear, or bad news, will cause the heart to sink in a moment, accompanied with the pallor of collapse; while a depressing passion, such as grief, weighs it down more per- manently. Predisposing conditions are, perhaps, very influential. Impressi- bility to the causes of Shock is, however, not an indication of its continuance ; but generally inversely proportionate. Thus, shock may be easily occasioned, yet soon pass of, as in yotith ; or not so readily occasioned, and yet persistent, as in old age. Premature age, by intem- perance or sexual excess, is peculiarly unfavourable. Sex is commonly supposed to have a predisposing relation to shock in the female con- stitution, But, under similar circumstances of health and the kind • of injury in either sex, this unfa;vourable difference seems to be overrated, or is perhaps doubtful. Prior disease may unquestionably render the individual more susceptible to shock from injury; but it would appear, as Mr. Furneaux Jordan has observed, that it is in those persons who have suifered from the diseases of organs which ai'e essential to life that such predisposition exists ; as from affections of the brain, heart, lungs, or the kidneys more particularly, and, in a lesser degree, the liver and intestines; whereas, diseases of non-vital organs, or of the extremities, which merely depress the general sum of vitality, confer a lesser degree of susceptibility to shock. Thus may be explained the anomaly that shock is often more fatal in disease, and yet that ampu- tation of the thigh for injury is more fatal than for disease. Consti- tutional susceptibility is well marked in the shock of some individuals ; but it requires all the experience and judgment which the Surgeon can bring to his aid, to foresee this peculiarity. I remember removing a great toe-naU, under the local aneesthetic influence of ice and salt; the patient being a robust, ruddy-complexioned young woman. She sat up during the operation looking at her foot, and experienced no pain then, nor much afterwards. Tet no sooner had the circulation in the toe returned, then she became blanched and cold, and fainted—alarm- ingly several times. Terminations.—(1.) Death, by cardiac syncope.—This may occur in two ways. Death may be sudden, from spasmodic contraction of the heart, not followed by relaxation; this mode of syncope occurring from some sudden and violent impression on the nervous system. ■ Or, more frequently, the fatal termination is eqtially sudden, though perhaps gradual, as the effect of the cessation of the muscular contractility of the heart. I have seen a patient with severe compound fracture just removed to bed, restlessly attempt to raise himself once or twice, andGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 330 then drop dead on tlie pillow. The hearl's action is paralyzed through the impression on the nervous system. After death, in the one condition, the heart is empty, or nearly so ; in the other, the heart is found engorged with blood, all its cavities being distended, especially the right auricle and ventricle. The venous system, generally, is similarly distended. Coagulation has taken place to some extent, but imperfectly; a considerable portion of the blood remaining fluid, while the clots are loose and dark. Sometimes the blood is altogether fluid. Eigor mortis commonly sets in, and some- times very strongly. A significant fact is the accumulation in the stomach of any food which may have been taken, and that it has undergone little or no change; thus indicating the suspension of digestion, in common with other functions which can be observed during life. I have also frequently found the intestines comparatively empty, and singularly enlarged, owing apparently to atony of their muscular coats. Beyond these ajDpearances, there is a remarkable absence of any discovei'able lesion apart from the injury itself which has occasioned the shock. Death by asthenia, from chronic shock, is an occasional result. Necrcemia, or perhaps thrombosis and embolism, in consequence of shock, as affecting the blood, are also possible modes of death. (2.) Reaction.—A natural restorative effort commonly ensues, in a period varying from a few minutes to thirty-six or forty-eight hours, or more. This reaction, as it is termed, of course implies the revival of those functions which have been temporarily suspended. The balance of the circulation is regained, the pulse acquiring force and fulness, and losing its frequency and irregularity. "With it warmth returns, the actual temperature rising two degrees, or more—from 98 to 100 or 103 degrees ; and the colour of the living body reappears. Respiration becomes more perceptible, prostration is less marked, the individual evincing some inclination to turn from the supine posture, and the cerebral obscurity clears off. Ordinarily, I think, reaction is not a continuous restorative effort; but slight retrogressions towards collapse occur, followed by reactions progressively more and more complete; and it is by these series of ebbings and flowings, that the balance of the circulation and other functions is at length regained. If revival be incomplete, a mixed state of exhaustion, vnth reaction, prevails. Traumatic Delirium—as this compound state is termed—may have either an inflammatory or a nervous character. Ivflammaiory Traumatic Delirium.—Prostration with excitement—as this state was first named by Mr. Travers—is denoted by a rapid bounding pulse, but weak and liquid. The skin is hot and the face flushed, but there is still a haggard expression. The breathing is hurried and irregular, there is much restless tossing about, and perhaps spasmodic action of the muscles, with great debility, and the mind becomes excited and bewildered. The patient now doses off, then flickers up, as it were, suddenly, with an agitated and tremulous manner, only again to wander, and again arouse. At length frenzy, possibly, subsiding in coma and re-exliaustion, with a cold clammy sweat, ends in death; or ultimately, reaction prevailing, the pulse re- gains its force, loses its frequency, and the healthy status is slowly re-established.SHOCK OP INJUEY.—COLLAPSE. 331 Nervous Trmomatic Belirkmi is similar to Delirium Tremens, "when the latter disorder occurs in persons of habitual intemperance. The symptoms are those of exhaustion rather than of excitement. Thus, the pulse is weak, rapid, and compressible, the skin bathed with a clammy sweat, and the tongue trembling, and coated with a creamy fur, or has a dry, brown appearance, and the patient labours under a depressed, muttering delirium; all these symptoms contrasting with those which are associated with the happy, triumphant, boisterous ex- citement which characterizes deliriiim tremens in a young and vigorous or less saturated drinker, and which may happen after a sudden debauch. But, in both forms of the disease, the delirium is peculiar; some one affair or person haunts the patient's mind, and of this he is always talking to himself—it is a busy, sight-seeing delirium; yet the delusion passes off for a few moments, when the patient is spoken to, and he answers rationally, although with a trembling agitation, broken speech, and a perplexed anxiety of countenance. Sleeplessness, Avith tremors, in a person of intemperate habits, portends an attack of this nervous delirium after injury; and which may soon be fatal—death taking place in a few hours or days, from cerebral effusion and coma, or from rapid exhaiistion. Maniacal delirium, or other phases of mental aberration, are occa- sionally induced in persons of temperate habits, by an injury or surgical operation unattended with shock. Hysteria, or a nervous temperament peculiar to the individual, would seem to be the predisposing condition in such cases. Remote constitutional consequences are said to ensue after the shock of injury; resulting perhaps in sudden death, some weeks or months after apparent recovery. Hodgkin and James have directed attention to these consequences ; but it is very difficult to connect them as such with the original shock. Th.Q p-orjnosis of shock, is always precarious and uncertain. It will depend very much on the causes, immediate and predisposing, already mentioned. And here individual predisposition is a highly important criterion; and especially the natural calmness and hopefulness, or the irritability and despondency, of a patient. Watchful nurses recognize these distinctions in their prognosis, as well as surgeons. The explana- tion is obvious, that mental dispositions are not only predisposing, but also persistent, and therefore maintaining causes of shock. Persistent conditions of bodily injury are likewise unfavourable. The extent of an injury indicates rather the immediate intensity of shock, than the pro- bability of its continuance, under treatment. A certain fall and rise of temjjerature may be taken as a sure ground of unfavourable or of favour- able prognosis; the less the decline, the more favourable, and a fall below 97 degrees is proportionately a more fatal omen ; while a rise of temperature to 100 or 102 degrees, during reaction, not later than the second day, is a salutary indication, a stationary temperature below 100 degrees being equally unfavourable; but a higher elevation to 105 or lOG degrees is an almost surely fatal sign. Age affects the decline of temperature in shock; the fall being least in the young, lower in the adult, and lowest in the aged. After surgical operations, as a general rule, if recovery ensue, the temperature falls about half a degree; the inaximum temperature of about 102 degrees is reached in from twenty- four to forty-eight hours, and then there is a descent, gradual and steady,GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 332 until the normal standard is regained, and wliich is maintained. In fatal cases, no fall of temperature takes place, as in cases of recovery. Chloroform seems to have little or no influence on the temperature. Although the thermometer thus supplies the most reliable indications of shock and reaction, the correspondence, observes Mr. Furneaux Jordan, between the temperature and the pulse, and especially between the pulse and the respiration, is less than in medical fevers. Treatment.—This should have reference to the cause or causes of shock. Some are slight and transient, and reaction soon follows. Others, again, are more severe and perchance persistent; whereby the shock being more intense and lasting, reaction will be delayed and imperfect. The removal of any cause still in operation is, therefore, obviously of primary, and in a measure of preventive, consequence. Hence, surgical interference—as by the reduction of fracture or disloca- tion, of strangulated hernia, and the amputation of a severely injured limb—may be of vital importance, in the treatment of shock. Remedial measures take effect according to the natural tendency to reaction, and this—even apart from the continued operation of causes—is not immediate. The patient should be placed in the recum- bent position, and stimulants administered to further aid the returning circulation. Warm tea for children, brandy or ammonia and water for adults, may be given, provided the patient can swallow; otherwise, during insensibility, any fluid is liable to pass into the larynx and cause suffocation. Watching the effect on the pulse, stimulants must be repeated from time to time as occasion requires. Volatile ammonia may be held to the nostrils occasionally, when fluids cannot be swallowed. Then also, a stimulating enema, of turpentine for example, will be an advantageous mode of stimulation. In all cases, warm blankets, hot bottles to the feet and epigastrium, and perhaps galvanism, are available and effectual resources. The possibility of over-stimulation, by any of the means employed, must not be overlooked ; remembering that sensation, for a time, is in abeyance, we should, as Professor Miller expressed it, " feel for the patient." In apparently Iwimless cases, arti- ficial respiration, patiently continued, may be resorted to with success. Opening the external jugular vein is recommended by Mr. Savory, in consideration of the engorgement of the right side of the heart and venous system. Collapse from the loss of blood by hgemorrhage from any cause, suggests the employment of " transfusion," as the special means of meeting this emergency. Nourishment also, to supply the loss of blood, is then a more immediately urgent requirement than in ordinary nervous shock. Excessive reaction must be met by opiates rather than blood-letting; the fever being nervous more than inflammatory. The substitution of light nourishing food for mere stimulants, will be found advantageous; for there is still a strange mixture of exhaustion with such reaction. Traumatic Delirium requires similar treatment. The quantity of opium borne with impunity, and eventually proving remedial, by in- ducing sleep, is often surprising. Grain doses of solid opium, or equiva- lent doses of the tincture, may be administered repeatedly, at intervals, according to the degree of excitement, with stimulants, in kind and quantities, according to the prostration or exhaustion, and the previous habits of the individual. The hypodermic injection of morphia is often a more cex^tain and speedy method of administering a narcotic, without333 TEiTANUS. any aggravation of the dyspeptic and hepatic symptoms which are commonly present. Chloral, in doses of from grs.xx. to 3 ss., may be substituted for opium, but its action is less certain. Nourishing food should, as soon as possible, assist or supersede these more immediate resources. Not unfrequently any food is almost rejected by a sort of hickuppy vomiting, a symptom which is in itself distressing to the patient. Small pieces of ice swallowed occasionally may then afford relief; and hydrocyanic acid, or creosote, are sometimes even more useful. A brisk purgative, however, to remove any source of in- testinal irritation, should be followed by small doses of blue pill, with rhubarb and hyoscyamus. The restraint of a strait-waistcoat may become necessary to prevent the patient interfering with the dressings or apparatus at the wounded part; but the increased tendency to cerebral effasion which is provoked by such resistance must not be overlooked. An ice-bag to the head will then be advisable. The question as to the performance of a Surgical operation during Shock, is determined by two considerations :—the persistence, or not, of any cause in operation, as, for example, a bad compound fracture ; and, secondly, the pathological fact, that the nervous system and cir- culation already in the state of Shock, is less susceptible of further shock than after reaction. An almost irmnediate surgical operation thus forms part of, and joins issue with, the injury for which it is per- formed. After that period of juncture, it is better to make a compro- mise with the vital powers, by waiting for incomplete reaction. GTiloroform is detrimental, in proportion as Shock prevails, and equally useless, owing to the comparative insensibility of the patient. CHAPTER Xm. TETANUS. Tetanus (reivco, to stretch) signifies a violent and involuntary contract tion of the voluntary muscles, attended with severe pain and rigidity. Symptoms, and Diagnosis.—The spasmodic contractions having com- menced, never entirely relax throughout the course of the disease ; they are to7iic, thus distinguishing them from intermittent or clonic spasms in ordinary convulsions, as in hysteria or apoplexy; and com- plete consciousness is retained to the last, this additional peculiarity distinguishing the tetanic from clonic spasms in epileptic convulsions, and from those of hydrophobia. Tetanus approaches and proceeds by the following series of spas- modic contractions, each continuing in the order of their succession. Stiffness is first experienced about the root of the tongue, which is usually retracted. Articulation therefore is imperfect. A sense of painful rigidity in the posterior muscles of the neck, and some difficulty in moving the jaw, are soon experienced. If the jaw be fixed, and tetanus proceeds no further, it is known by the name of irisrmis, or "lock-jaw." Grenerally speaking, other sets of muscles become in- volved. The facial muscles are affected; the angles of the mouth334 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. being drawn up, a peculiar expression is presented, the " tetanic grin "— rism sardonicus. Deglutition is accomplished with great difficulty, and fluids are convulsively ejected when any attempt is made to swallow them. In this particular, tetanus resembles hydrophobia. Even the sight of fluids may occasion dread,—another point of resemblance. Yet in no other respect is there any similarity between these diseases. 'No foaming at the mouth of a thick mucus, Avith constant movement of the jaw to extricate it, is ever witnessed, as in hydrophobia. Other peculiarities supervene. Pain strikes through the body from the ensiform cartilage backwards to the spine, and being accompanied with intense spasm of the diaphragm, occasions agonizing dyspnoea, which has been compared to that of hydrophobia. Yery soon the muscles of the back contract, and with such violence that the body is drawn into the form of an arch resting on the head and buttocks (opisthotonos) ; or the abdominal muscles contracting, become as hard as a table, and draw the body forward (emprosthotonos). During these spasms, the rectus muscle has been torn with the violence of its contractions. The body is sometimes bent to one side (pleurosthotonos); but I have never yet seen this distortion. Next in order, the muscles of the lower extremities are involved ; and lastly, those of the upper, excepting the fingers, which generally remain moyable to the last. The tongue also is rarely affected, although it may be thrust violently against the teeth and be much lacerated. Such is the ordinary course of events in Tetanus. They constitute one continued manifestation of spinal excito-motion, without suspension of the cerebral functions ; but, as would be expected, the tetanic spasms —violent and continuous—provoke general disturbance of the organic functions. Thus, the respiration being much embarrassed, the heart beats more quickly and forcibly, giving to the pulse similar characters; but they are eventually succeeded by feebleness and irregularity. The temperature often rises, and in a marked degree as death approaches ; but there is no true inflammatory fever, from first to last. The urine is perhaps scanty and high-coloured, and is sometimes retained or voided in small quantities, while the skin pours forth abundantly a sour-smelling sweat. Lastly, obstinate constipation is a constant and significant symptom throughout this disease; and should an evacuation occur, it is singularly offensive. "I remember," says Abernethy, " on one occasion, asking an old nurse what sort of evacuations had come from a tetanic patient, who for a week had no. relief from the bowels. 'Lord, sir,' she replied, 'they are not stools, they are sloughs.'" The diagnosis of tetanus is not always clear. I have already noticed how it differs from hydrophobia, epilepsy, apoplexy, and hysteria. But it may resemble the latter disease. Hysteria with spasm—Hysteri- cal tetanus—occurs sometimes in females, and presents a wonderful likeness. No fatal case is recorded. According to Dr. Copland, in females, trismus or subacute tetanus may assume an hysterical cha- racter, or hysterical symptoms may be associated with the tetanic, the disease being really tetanus and occasioned by any injury. Certain drugs produce spasms, resembling those of tetanus. Strychnia is thus specially deceptive. But the tetanic spasms induced by strychnia are remittent or iatermittent, and subside entirely as the poisonous influence passes off, or kill in the first onset if the dose or doses le335 TETANUS. sufiicieutly potent. All these points of distinction were observable in tbe case of Cook, and were successfully nrged against Palmer in the celebrated trial for the murder of that man. MorjpJda sometimes produces convulsions, but they are epileptiform, and long in their development. Varieties.—Sometimes trismus and general tetanic twitches super- vene on continued pi-ostration, and remaining associated with it, con- stitute a variety of '^prostration with excitement." The excitement is tetanic. Such were the phenomena I observed during the course of a severe burn, in the Royal Free Hospital. The burn extended over the toes and instep of the right foot and lower part of the leg. Its depth was to Dupuytren's fifth degree. The annular ligament was de- stroyed, the interior of the ankle joint exposed, as also were the carpal bones, and the nails were burnt away. An attempt was made to save this foot, which would, I believe, have proved successful, with the removal of portions of bone; but the patient, a middle-aged woman, was fat and flabby, and a hard drinker. Prostration continued, and in a few days partial trismus, with tetanic twitches of the arms and hands, set in. The patient's mind wandered; she frequently raised her head, uttered a few words, and then dropped on to the pillow, tui'ning her eyes right and left with restless agitation. This condition having lasted for more than a week, the woman died exhausted. In other cases of continued irritation jp?<re tetanus supervenes. A man, says Travers, died of universal tetanus in a few hours after an obHque fi-acture of the thigh-bone, which penetrating the rectus muscle, was continually playing through its belly with a see-saw motion. A man having a simple fracture of the femur, and who appeared to be doing well for four days, was seized on a sudden with lock-jaw, and died in three days of acute universal tetanus. Ex- amination showed that the upper fragment of the bone, obliquely fi-actured, had perforated and left a detached spiculum of considerable size transfixing the vastus internus muscle. Certain varieties are noticed by Mr. A. Poland. Spasms primarily attacliinrj the muscles of the part injiorecl, instead of the muscles of the jaw. Two cases are mentioned, both of which were fatal. In the one, two months elapsed before the first symptoms occurred, a neuralgic affection of the muscles of the ball of the thumb, without any appear- ance of inflammation. The injury, oinginally, was a lacerated wound of the fleshy part of the thumb, by a splinter of teak-wood, which had transfixed the part. This was withdrawn at the time, and the wound healed soundly. But, after death, two pieces of splintered teak were found to be imbedded in the abductor muscle, and resting on a branch of the radial nerve. The other case was occasioned by a blow of a schoolmaster's cane on the hand. In this instance, both pain and spasm commenced in the injured part; followed by a gradual spas- modic contraction of the flexor muscles of the hand, drawing the fingers into the palm, and subsequently extending to the arm and other parts. Absence of pain was characteristic of one case, even to the last moment of existence. The cramps were accompanied by a tmgling and agreeable sensation, with a strong tendency to laughter. Special affection of the muscles of the face and eye was noticed in three cases, simulating ptosis in two of them. The muscles of the eyo are sometimes affected; the eyeball being fixed and drawn slightly in-GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 336 wards. The pupil may be contracted or dilated. Cerebral comijlicalLuns are very rare; but delirium may supervene towards the close of tetanus. Epilepsy is another quite exceptional complication, in a patient subject to this disease. Screaming and convulsions, apparently not epilepti- form, may occur. Motor-paralysis occurred in two cases of the seventy- two, in G-uy's Hospital, from which the above results were gathered. Remission of the symptoms is extremely rare, yet it has been noticed in several instances. In one case, according to Dupuytren, tetanus subsided for twenty-eight days, and then returned after an exposure to cold. All these anomalous forms of tetanns are worthy of notice, as bear- ing on the, possibly obscure, diagnosis of this disease. Pathology.—Until recently, the pathological anatomy and interpre- tation of the functional or pathological phenomena of tetanus, were involved in great obscurity. It has been regarded as essentially and primarily a blood-disease, the nervous system being secondai'ily affected. This view was revived by Rose, and it is that to which Billroth strongly inclines. But no evidence has hitherto been adduced in proof of any blood-disease. And although the essential nature of tetanus may yet require further elucidation, and especially by a more extensive assort- ment of post-mortem examinations, the original researches of Mr. Lockhart Clarke have brought to light a series of structural changes in the spinal cord, which are of the highest importance. In six cases, these changes may be summarily stated as follow; and, apparently, in the following order of succession. No morbid deposit nor any appreciable alteration of structure takes place in the walls of the blood-vessels of the cord; but the artei'ies are frequently dilated at short intervals, and suri'ounded, sometimes to a depth of double their diameter, by granular and other exudations; beyond and amongst which, the nerve-tissue, to a gi'eater or less ex- tent, has Fig. 82. changes, softening undergone certain In the first stage, of this tissue ; secondarily, granular disin- tegi-ation, the tissue becoming softer or semifluid, and more transparent. Ultimately, the reduction of the tissue to a fluid state. This fluid, at first, is more or less granular, hold- ing in suspension the fi'ag- ments and particles of the disintegrated substances, but in many places it is perfectly pellucid. The blood-vessels also share in the disintegra- tion of the part, and com- mingle with their ensheath- ing granular exudation. Thus a general softening and dis- integration of structure has taken place. A fluid area, of considerable sizC^may occur at a single spot, and extend to the ^--undm^ insane; or at several spots, which advancing, coalesce between niegulai337 TETANUS. masses of tlic tissue, oi' porfcions separating, are left as islets iu tlie fluid. This pi-ocess of destruction affects the grey substance of the cord; perhaps its central part. (Fig. 82.) The same lesions of the cord are found in paralysis. But they are commonly unaccompanied by spasm, during life. Tetanus therefore probably differs only fi'om that disease in being associated with a morbid condition or injxiry of some of the peripheral nerves. There is generally marked congestion or inflammation of some nerve con- nected with, and leading from, a wound that has occasioned the dis- ease ; the vascularity, which may be very intense, often extending up the neurilemma to a considerable distance. In the case of a man who died from tetanus, caused by a spike-woimd of the thigh, corresponding with the anterior crural nerve to the extent of some inches, that portion of this nerve was distinctly inflamed; and my house-surgeon, Mr. Hamilton, had promptly extracted two pieces of clothing, which re- lieved the symptoms. It would therefore appear—'observes Mr. Lockharfc Clarke—that this condition or injury of the peripheral nerves is the determining cause of the phenomena, and that the spasms of tetanus depend on the conjoint operation of two separate causes. First, on an abnormally excitable state of the grey nerve-tissue of the cord, induced by the hyperaemic and morbid state of its blood- vessels, with the exudations and disintegrations resulting therefrom; This state of the cord may be either an extension of a similar state along the injured nerves from the periphery, or may result from reflex action on its blood-vessels excited by those nerves. Secondly, the spasms depend on the persistent irritation of the pervpheral nerves, by which the exalted excitability of the cord was induced. In so-called idiopatliic tetanus, arising from exposure to cold and damp, it is probable that the morbid condition of the blood-vessels of the cord results fi'om changes in the state of the peripheral nerves, which may act through reflex action or otherwise. Associated with these essential changes of structural condition in tetanus, others, which are apparently incidental, may be noticed. According to Rokitansky's observations, in cases of some days' dura- tion, a development of young connective tissue takes place in the spinal cord ; as if tetanus had resulted from inflammation of the cord, —spinal myelitis. Or, a marked vascularity of the membranes of the cord and engorgement of the veins may be found within the vertebral canal. In a case of strangulated femoral hernia, for which I operated, aU went on favourably for a week, and the incision had nearly healed; when suddenly the most violent tetanus set in, beginning with lock- jaAv, proceeding to appalling opisthotonos, and terminating fatally on the fourth day, by which time the wound had re-opened and become gangrenous. I carefully examined the cerebro-spinal axis throughout its whole extent. The intra-spinal veins were gorged with blood, but not those of the cord itself. The intestines have been found much inflamed in several cases; and in two, a yellow, waxy fluid, of a peculiar offensive odour, covered their internal surface. The pharynx and oesophagus may be much contracted, and contain a viscid reddish mucus. The muscles are usually rigid, and sometimes ruptured ; but sometimes there is no rigidity. The rise of temperature in tetanus has zgenehal pathology and surgery. 338 been attributed to the muscular contractions, as the source of increased beat; but while the experimental observations of Leyden and A. Fick, with regard to dogs, might seem to bear this interpretation, tetanus, in the human species, may be unattended with any rise of temperature, even when the disease is most acute. Causes.—Injuries of all kinds may possibly be followed by tetanus. Prom the most trifling scratch to the most terrible laceration, tetanus is liable to ensue, yet not with equal probability. But it arises most frequently from those injuries which, in point of their extent or per- sistence, by continued nervous irritation, are most conducive to the continuance of Shock. I have already noticed that variety of "prostra- tion with excitement," in which the excitement is tetanic. Bums are thus peculiarly liable to induce tetanus. Punctured, lacerated, and contused wounds, particularly in the hand or thumb, of the sole of the foot or of the toes, have a direct tetanic tendency. Unyielding fibrous textures are peculiarly revengeful in this respect. Compound fractures and dislocations, rather than the simple form of these lesions, are threatening complications ; and more so, if the fracture be oblique and playful among nerves and muscles, or if the dislocation be that of a ginglymoid joint, as the thumb. Gunshot wounds, involving possibly other forms of injury, rank high as causes. Amputation, as in the thigh, or the removal of a breast or testicle, are known causes. So also minor operations; e.g., for fistula in ano, ligature of piles, extrac- tion of a tooth, cupping, the irritation of a seton. Diseases; e.g., gangrene, ulcer of the leg, a guinea worm under the integument, caries of the tibia. In obstetric practice; abortion, retained placenta. The influence of local causes in the production of tetanus, is shown some- times by the order in which the muscles become contracted; the muscles adjoining the seat of injury being perhaps first afEected, as happened in a case of gunshot wound of the thigh under my care; and Billroth has seen tetanus confined to one limb, or even to one hand. The condition of a wound, at the time of tetanus, seems to have little relation to the disease. Thus, in one case, recorded by Hennen, cicatrization was completed on the same day that life terminated ; and Dr. Elliotson observes, that the disease has sometimes declined and ceased, although the wound daily grew worse. Period of prohation or incubation, between the local injury and the commencement of tetanus.—This period has its average limits of duration. As extremes may be mentioned a few hours, or some days,— the fifth to the fifteenth day, and up to the twenty-second day; the average being the tenth day. Tetanus arising from any of the foregoing forms of Injury, is deno- minated traumatic; as distinguished from tetanus arising from other causes, whether external or internal, unconnected with Injury, the dis- ease being then named idiopathic. But this distinction relates to origin only, and is, moreover, not always definite. Such causes include ex- posure to cold and damp, hot weather, currents of air (hot or cold), bad ventilation or atmospheric poisons, irritation of wo^-ms, sudden sup- pression of the perspiration, of the catameuial or lochial discharges, or of acute diseases, and teiTor or anxiety of mind. Predisposing causes.—The disproportion, in many cases, between the local injury and the development of tetanus, as well as the varyingTETANUS. 339 period of probation intervening, are probably due to the influence of predisposition. A scratch of the thumb by a broken plate, proved fatal in a quarter of an hour; and in other cases, a slight blow, as by a whip- lash under the eye, although the skin was unbroken, has been followed by tetanus. In such cases, some predisposing condition probably was also in operation. Age.—No period of life is exempt; but, perhaps, infancy and middle age are most subject. In infants, the disease—then named trismus nascentmvi—appears from seven to fourteen days after birth. It may terminate fatally in ten or thirty hours, or life be pro- longed to eight or nine days. Its origin is apparently traumatic; namely, from division of the umbilical cord, or irritation of the intes- tines by meconium, or worms; or it has been traced to unwholesome food, bad ventilation, or exposure to currents of air. It occurs very frequently in the Tropics, occasionally in Europe. Sex.—Males are most liable to tetanus, in a ratio of about seven to one female. Hahits of life seem to have little influence, the disease attacking equally the temperate and the intemperate. Gonstitidional suscR])tihility is not apparent; individuals of any temperament being equally liable. Climate.—The disease is more prevalent in warm climates and in marshy districts; also near the sea-coast than inland. Nevertheless, season of the year is said to have no influence on the occurrence, or the mortality, of tetanus. Course, and Terminations.—(1.) Grenerally, tetanus proceeds in a con- tinuous course of development; affecting the muscular system, in the order akeady mentioned, and terminates fatally. About the second or third day, as acute tetanus; the ninth or tenth day, as chronic tetanus. But the former is commonly fatal, the latter far less so. The mode of death is, usually, during a imroxysm affecting chiefly the muscles of the larynx; which, by complete closure of the glottis, produce almost instant suffocation. The slightest attempt to move, or to swallow, seems to excite this issue. I witnessed it in one case, during the attempt to swallow an opiate pill. A sudden jerk of the throat took place, a suffusion of the face, succeeded by deadly pallor, and all was over. Exhaustion is another, but less frequent mode of death. (2.) Recovery is preceded by a gradual subsidence of the tetanic contractions ; and this happy issue is generally granted to the few who survive the tenth day. It is also stated, that the longer the period of prolation, before the commencement of tetanus, the greater is the pro- bability of recovery. Conversely, the shorter the period of probation, as well as the more rapid the progress of the disease, the more surely fatal is the issue. But this, perhaps, general rule is exceptional in many cases of rapid progress, after the probationary period of ten days. Prognosis.—The prognosis of tetanus will be guided by a due con- sideration of the conditions which chiefly determine its tendency to a fatal issue, or to recovery. They are, principally, the traumatic or idiopathic origin of the disease, the influence of predisposition, as evinced by its speedy accession, and its acute or chronic progress. Treatment.—Preventive measures are the most, or only, effectual resources. This implies the early detection and removal of any per- sistent causes in operation ; such intervention necessarily ha,ving refer- ence to local causes, rather than to constitutional conditions, which mostly elude detection or are beyond control. Hence prevention is practicable more frequently in tetanus of trawnatic origin. Happily,GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 340 also, the intervening period of probation is available for surgical inter- ference. Wounds may be tkorougbly cleansed of foreign bodies, and the parts adjusted. Swelling, under tigbt, unyielding textures, may be relieved by incisions. Burnt surfaces may be effectually protected from tlie influence of the air. Most compound fractures and disloca- tions can be soon detected, reduced, and kept in position, ^ Are there any other causes possibly in operation besides the local injury ? Constipation is constant and significant; significant, partly because constant, and also because of the peculiar matter voided when an evacuation does occur. No purgative medicines, however,, that I know of, are specially serviceable. The foregoing preventive considerations are most important; for eveiy practical Surgeon will concur in acknowledging the hopelessness of all known medicinal treatment when the disease is fully developed ; and, in such case, the equal inutility of any surgical operation to relieve the symptoms of, much more to cure, this deadly disease. Remedies, then, there are none, at present known. The long list of medicinal and surgical resources which have been successfully tried, and have failed, Mr. Poland thus enumerates. Antiphlogistics, in- cluding blood-letting, purgatives, calomel, antimony, colchicum, etc., have been extensively used ; alteratives, as the various preparations of mercury, large doses of fixed alkalies, solutions of arsenic, etc.; diure- tics, in the form of tincture of cantharides, oil or spirits of turpentine, given in frequent and large doses, so as to irritate the urinary passages, or to occasion bloody urine; sedatives, such as digitalis, tobacco, nicotina, hydrocyanic acid, aconitina; anodynes and narcotics, as opium, morphia, belladonna, cannabis indica, ether and chloroform internally and by inhalation; stimulants and antispasmodics, including musk, ammoniacum, camphor, turpentine, assafoetida, castor, wine and other stimulants; tonics, such as quinine, bark, strychnia, iron, zinc, etc.; hygienics and dietetics, as support, milk-diet, etc.; injections into the veins of solutions of opium, stramonium, etc.; tracheotomy and laryngotomy. To which may be added, derivation from the spinal cord, by means of blistering, or the actual cautery, applied in the form of a hot iron or by moxse along the spine. This list of variously accredited remedies is at least suggestive of what to avoid, as useless, or perchance noxious, in the course of tetanus. Chloroform may relax the spasms, for a while, and thus relieve pain. It had this temporarily palliative influence in the over- whelming case, after strangulated femoral hernia, which I had reduced by operation. But death may occur under the influence of chlorofoiTQ, by recurrence of the tetanic spasms, even to the production of opistho- tonos ; as happened in a case where I was about to remove a finger which had been mangled by the bite of a horse, and tetanus had ensued.( 341 ) CHAPTER XIV. DELIRIUM TREMENS, 'No disease wliicli falls witliin the experience of the Surgeon, as well as of the purely Medical Practitioner, can compare with that which I am about to notice, in the wide range of its significance, and its interwoven association with other diseases. Not even Scrofula or Syphilis are more prevalent, in some form of constitutional affection or taint, than is that insidiously broken and degenerate state of the constitution which may be traced to habitual intemperance in the consumption of alcoholic stimulants, whether spirits, wine, or beer. But this view of the subject opens up the wide extent, and the rami- fications of the inquiry, into which we should have to enter, were I to attempt the full consideration of that "chronic alcoholism," to which, sometimes in the form of saturated sottishness, sometimes as " free living," or otherwise genteelly disguised, the people unhappily subject themselves. For here, alas ! the victim, and the sacrificing priest, are incorporated in one and the same person—^the " drinker," slain for the deity " Drink." The limits of a general work on Surgery will not allow me to do justice, if it were possible, to this theme; it must suffice to notice the incarnation of evil in its most pronounced form —" Delirium Tremens," or the Drunkard's disease. Symjjtoms.—As the name of the disease aptly implies, the leading symptoms are delirium, coupled with trembling movements, to which should be added sleeplessness, and a general depression of the nervo- muscular power; exhaustion sometimes underlying this state of wake- ful and tremulous delirium, so as to present a picture of " prostration with excitement." A person of intemperate habits has, for some days, looked dejected,—whether having the pallid, emaciated appearance commonly observed, or the florid and bloated face, with the fat and full-blown form, of other alcoholic habitues; he is restless by day, and sleepless at night; while a tremulous agitation of manner is exhibited in every movement,—particularly, perhaps, in a trepidation of speech, and a shaking unsteadiness of the hand, as in the act of writing, or buttoning the waistcoat; or even when the hand is not being used volun- tarily, yet it shakes, nor can the individual hold it steady. Then, he begins to wander in conversation, or to talk to himself ; and soon passes into that state of incoherence, that, coupled with other symptoms, no one can doubt an attack of delirium tremens has commenced. But the delirium is peculiar; it is essentially an active, or as it has been said, a "busy'' state of consciousness; in which the patient is always doing something under the spell of his own imagination. What that activity may be, seems to depend very much upon the individual's own pre- vious disposition and occupation. He may be busily engaged in some commercial transaction, or he would pursue some one against whom he has felt a grudge, or more often he is defending himself from some one who would injure him; but he never seems disposed to lay handsGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 342 on himself—tliere is no suicidal tendency. And, in all cases, this victim of self-excitement is occupied with some other person, or even a hideous animal, as the object of his intercourse, his aversion, or his fear. Then again, the delirium may be a boisterous excitement, usually in the younger and more vigorous drinker; or muttering rambling, in the old, worn-out sot. But—^unless in the last stage—the patient recognizes those about him, and can be made to understand, when spoken to. His attention being drawn away from his own imagination, the delirium passes off for a few moments. Thus, he puts ou.t his tongue, when requested; and notice, this muscular organ also trembles; or, he thrusts out his hand, when you ask to feel his pulse. Then, however, he lapses again into his previous state of wandering, busy incoherence—not unconsciousness. All the secretions point to the operation of a blood-poison. The tongue is commonly moist, and coated with a white creamy fur; it has also a flabby, sodden appearance, and may show teeth-marks along the edges. The breath is often fcBtid. Perspiration bedews the skin, which generally feels cold and clammy; but occasionally, a profuse, rank-smelling sweat breaks out, under the influence of the patient's own exertions, or from his opposition to any necessary re- straint. The pulse varies accordingly; usually frequent and feeble, loose or of low tension, it becomes sometimes more rapid, but of higher tension; yet in either case it is the pulse of prostration or of exhaustion. Other functions are perverted, although their derange- ments may be less constant. In a person who has lived more upon spirits, wine, or beer, rather than food, it is not surprising that the digestive organs should have got out of working order. Hence, the inappetency and nausea of the intemperate is often associated with a hickuppy rejection of food, and irregular action of the bowels—con- stipation, with scanty, hard, lumpy motions, alternating with a foetid diarrhoea. Probably the capricious action of the liver will account for these changes in the intestinal evacuations. In the course of a few days, the incessant, restless delirium may be exchanged for sleep; the patient dosing and awaking to dose again ; or he falls at once into a heavy slumber of some few hours' duration, from which he awakes quite a different man. No longer perhaps delirious, for the cerebral functions are so far restored, he still remains very weak; and not until digestion and nutrition are reinstated, by the reception of nourishing food, is the recovery completed. Or, instead of the attack passing off, and the penalty of intemperance being thus paid, as it may have been upon more than one previous occasion, the oblation may now be offered by the life of the victim, who, becoming weaker and weaker, sinks rapidly from sheer exhaustion ; or, still muttering to himself with lip- movements rather than any distinct articulation, he subsides into over- whelming coma, and dies. Is this the work of that cup of Lethe, so often drained to " drown trouble," for a while ; or has "the glass which cheers but not inebriates," proved an insidious foe ? After death, no lesions of the brain are discovered by anatomical examination, which can explain the clinical scene that has been wit- nessed during life. Generally, serous effusion is found to have taken place, on the surface of the brain,—under the arachnoid membrane, into the ventricles also, and throughout the substance of the organ:343 DELIRIUM TREMENS. presenting tlie well-known appearance of " wet-brain." Thus, the cerebral substance feels like wet putty in consistence, and slips about under the finger. There is perhaps no other more constant and peculiar organic condition, consequent on delirium tremens,—at least, when fatal—than this serous effusion on, and within, the brain. It may be accompanied with a congested state of the cerebral blood-vessels. ■ But this additional pathological condition is found also after death from poisoning by opium, and as a constant result; yet which may be un- attended with serosity of the brain. So far, there would appear to be a tolerably definite differential state of the brain in connection with delirium tremens. This pathological distinction, and thence the evidence derived from post-mortem examination, would be more reliable, were it possible to determine how far the cerebral congestion, as an occa- sional condition, may be due to treatment by alcoholic stimulation; the violent exertion of the patient, coupled perhaps with the effect of restraint, contributing also to the same result in delirium tremens. Probably, both the effusion and the congestion, when present, may have co-operated as the cause of death in this disease, from coma. On the other hand, examination after death demonstrates even more clearly the distinction between delirium tremens and inflammation, whether as affecting the membranes or the substance of the brain,—in the form of meningitis or encephalitis; the effusion in either such disease, having the character of lymph or purulent fluid, differs thus notably from simple serosity of the brain. The causes of delirium tremens may be further considered with relation to its treatment. The intemperate imbibition of alcoholic stimulants, in some form or other, is undoubtedly the cause of this disease ; and prolonged over-stimulation, or the habit of intemperance, is equally necessary to induce, or to predispose to, an attack. But the quantity of stimulant drank continually, varies much in different cases; a comparatively moderate quantity proving suflB.cient in some persons, who are naturally predisposed to the disease; a complete saturation being requisite in other persons. Yet, in either case, time, and thence habitual intemperance, is the essential factor in the production of delirium tremens. An attack of this disease is not the work of a day's debauch in a person previously temperate; but the product of continued alcoholism. Intoxication may, however, beget an attack of delirium in a person addicted to drinking; or, far less frequently, an attack arises, when such a person is suddenly de- prived of his accustomed stimulation. This form of the disease, delirkm ehriosum, differs ; partly in the character of such an attack; prmcipally, in the immediate cause, and the antecedent condition. But^ when a man of intemperate habits becomes sleepless and agitated, he is pretty surely on the verge of true deUrium tremens. There are many persons who live constantly in this half-and-half state of the disease,—in chronic alcoholism. Something more is required to aetermme an attack. Various circumstances may then come into operation, as the immediate or exciting causes of the delirium. In- creasing mappetency, and abstinence therefore from nourishiug food ; the drinker picking a bit now and then, or fancying only such things as hot tea and coffee, to whip up the stomach, or pickles, just to get something down. In this state of half-starvation, the disease is ever lable to set in. Or, the deprivation sometimes through penury,844 GENEEAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. coupled witli the depressing influence of mental anxiety, may lead to an attack. Again, some bodily injury, slight perhaps in itself, may be sufficient provocation. It is in its traumatio production that delirium tremens most interests the surgeon; as with relation to ^wounds, fractures, operations, or other forms of injury, and their treatment. My experience inclines me to regard traumatic delirium, in some cases, as a form of delirium tremens, excited in a person predisposed by habitual intemperance. For I have observed that, in such persons, the delirium has no relation to the severity of the injury,—that even a slight lesion, as an incised wound, especially of the scalp, may have the effect of exciting the disease; and the almost immediate commencement of an attack after such injury, would seem referable to a predisposing condition, in the state of the nervous system, from chronic alcoholism. The cowse and terminations of this disease are further considera- tions of special significance; the delirium passing off, and giving way to sleep, the patient recovers ; or a fatal issue takes place, either by coma, or from exhaustion. Onv prognosis will be guided accordingly. Treatment.—Certain general indications with regard to treatment are obvious; namely, to induce the natural mode of recovery, and to avert the tendencies to death. Sleep must be procured, as soon as possible. If this indication can be fulfilled, by one sound sleep of a few hours' duration, the patient wakes up, rational, placid, and re- freshed ; in contrast with his previous state of delusion, and restless agitation or violence, yielding only to prostration. Of all narcotics, opium is the most efiicacious. Experience cannot set any definite limit to the doses which may be administered, so great may be the tolerance of the system for the influence of this medicinal agent. But not to overstep that tolerance, in our endeavour to invite the return of Morpheus, the operation of opium in contracting the pupil, and reduc- ing the frequency of the pulse, affords the best criterion of how far its narcotic elfect can be borne with safety. The hypodermic method of administering morphia offers considerable advantages in delu'ium tremens ; the narcotic action being more certain, speedy, and effectual; without any aggravation of the dyspeptic and hepatic symptoms, com- mon in this disease. Thus, in the following case from the Report of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society, on this subject (1867), the comparative merits of subcutaneous injection are well illustrated: —A tailor's clerk, who, after giving up drinking for some time, had returned to his old habits, was suffering from severe delirium tremens. He had taken half-grain doses of the acetate of morphia at night, and twenty minims of liq. morph. hydrochloratis thrice daily, for two days, nntil the pu.pils were contracted, and yet he remained sleepless. The pupils were allowed to recover their natural state, and then only one- third of a grain Avas injected into the arm; the patient went to sleep in three-quarters of an hour, and no further opiate was required. Chloral is sometimes given in conjunction with opium; or as a substitute, when that narcotic provokes sickness, or does not prove successful, or when the drug has lost its effect, in the case of an "opium-eater." Thus, then, there are cases where chloral may be resorted to. But, as a narcotic, it is not preferable to opium. On the contrary, chloral is not equally potent; its action is capricious, and not without danger to the life of the patient. It may be administered345 DELIKIUM TEEMENS. safely, in doses of from ten to twenty grains, repeated every two or three hours, until sleep is induced, or perhaps even a hundred grains may have been thus given; watching the piilse from time to time. But further than that I do not think it judicious to try the influence of chloral. The dose has been carried to even fifty and sixty grains; and until the whole quantity taken has amounted to two hundred grains. Yet death has occm-red suddenly in the course of such heroic treatment; a second fifty-grain dose having had a fatal issue, and in the case of a regular chloral-taker, whose system had gradually become accustomed to a single dose of that quantity. But it should ever be remembered that the action of chloral is cumulative; producing narcotism, when least expected, or suddenly overwhelming the patient. Bromide of jiotassium may be had recourse to with advantage, when chloral should be regarded with suspicion, and tried only experimentally; at least, such is my experience of the relative merits of these two agents, as narcotics, yistead of opium, in the treatment of delirium tremens. But another consideration of primary importance in all cases, is the improbability of procuring sleep, while the blood remains charged with the alcoholic poison. Here the disease presents a dilemma, which has given rise to much difference of opinion, as to the proper course of treatment. Coma threatens, from serous effusion on the brain, thus siisffesting; the continued use of the accustomed stimulants to maintain the circulation; on the other hand, the state of the blood, already charged with alcohol, forbids their further administration. It has been m-ged that a person long accustomed to alcoholic stimulants, cannot suddenly discontinue them with impunity. But this objection is over- ruled by the fact—first, I believe, adduced by Dr. Peddie—that in prisons, where a large number of confirmed drunkards are admitted and immediately placed on a diet without such stimulants, dehrium tremens seldom occurs. Nevertheless, when the disease has commenced, the continuance of stimulants, in some measiire, is mostly advisable, as a precaution against coma. Thus, I would recommend a compromise between the total deprivation of stimulants, during an attack of delirium tremens, which some have advocated, and that pouring in of brandy, wine, and beer, each or all of which may be regarded as only so much additional fuel to the fire. Greater restriction also may be practised in accordance with the pathology of the disease; the com- parative absence of cerebral congestion, and that the tendency to coma arising from this cause, is much increased by any coercive restraint of the patient. When thus ai-oused to violent resistance, the turgid veins in the neck, the su.ffu.sed face and blood-shot eyes, tell too plainly of the aggravated tendency to cerebral congestion and effusion. Hence, a strait-waistcoat should not be had recourse to unnecessarily, and then only as a temporary restraint. Exhaustion can be overcome, for a time, by stimulants; permanently, only by such nourishing food as shall restore the blood, and thence the nervous system, to a healthy state. Here, perhaps, the chief difliculty m the treatment has to be encountered. Little or nothing in shape of food will settle on the irritable stomach. Blue pill, and effervescing ammoniacal salines, with, strange as it may seem, a moderate and regulated allowance of the patient's customary beverage, supply the best means of allaying the irritability of this organ. But the assimi- lation of food is probably very imperfect; and it is a far greateri>^" GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. difficulty to rectify the whole process of digestion, and also of textural assimilation m nutrition, tliau to pass the iugesta through the portal of the stomach. What diet may be most suitable, and at what intervals such food should be taken, must be left to the observation and judg- ment of the Practitioner.. CHAPTER XV. HTSTEBIA. Few diseases admit of any exact and invariable definition; chiefly because disease is not an entity,—a something superadded to the bodily organism, in conjunction with the mind; but the whole body, and per- haps the mind, in a state of disease,—although manifested in one or more parts of the body, or even when the diseased state was itself of local origin. This indefinite character is especially true of the disease termed Hysteria. Its etymological signification, as if a uterine disorder, cannot be taken as the starting-point in the clinical history of this disease,—excluding the social and hygienic circumstances of its production; for Hysteria may be fully developed without any uterine disorder, from first to last; and a disease, essentially similar, may possibly occur in the male. Perhaps, as an approximate definition, it may be said that Hysteria is a disorder of the nervous system, consisting principally of general exalted sensibility and excito-motory function, Avith an impairment of the controlling power of the will; this disorder being manifested by various nervous and muscular affections; or exhibited in functional derangements of various organs, simulating diseases of those parts, or occasionally masking and concealing their diseases; but in all of which, as forms of local hysteria, pain or other nervous symptoms are dispro- portionate to all the other symptoms, (1.) General Symjjtoms, and Diagnosis.—In the pronounced form of Hysteria, an hysteric paroxysm, or an hysterical fit, sometimes termed an "attack of hysterics," presents a combination of symptoms, wliich is easily recognized, and is familiar to common experience. The symp- toms are essentially nervous and muscular. A young woman, of sensitive and nervous temperament, is not unfrequently seized with an alarming sense of choking, as if from a ball—the globus hystericus—rising from the abdomen into the throat; this is immediately followed by panting or deep sighing respiration, with violent action of the arms, beating of the breasts, or other move- ments, as if to relieve the agony of suffocation, aggravated by dis- tressing palpitation of the heart. And the aspect of the person is peculiar. Her head is throAvn back, the face appears somewhat flushed or suffused, but without lividity and distortion of the features; the eye- lids are drooping and tremulous, half-concealing the eyes, which are bright or lustrous. She retains her consciousness, if not completely. The impulsive or uncontrollable movement of the arms, struggling as847 HYSTERIA. if for breatli, and the state of the countenance, continue for a few minutes, or sometimes a longer period; until suddenly, tlie fit terminates in bursts of screeching laughter, or in screaming, crying, or sobbing, perhaps alternating with laughter. As thus described, the hysteric fit differs from that of epilepsy; in which the person suddenly becomes ixnconscious, and falling down from loss of voluntary power, is seized with convulsive movements and contortions, affecting the body wholly or partially. This state is accompanied with strangling obstruction to the respiration, from laryngeal spasm; giving rise to turgid lividity of the face, and there is hideous distortion of the features. Protrusion of the tongue, which is often bitten and bleeding, grinding of the teeth, and foaming at the mouth, are further marks of distinction in the picture of epilepsy. Even in the partial form of this disease, the 2}etit mal, complete loss of consciousness is the essential condition; the person losing himself, if only for a few moments, perhaps in the act of conversation; and recovering, without any convulsive movement, after this temporaiy fit of apparent abstraction, but real oblivion. There is a modified form of the hysteric fit, wherein all the phe- nomena do not occur; the attack never coming to a crisis, or being " kept off," as the patient says, by a strong effort of the Avill. The fit thus suppressed, is always worse when it does come; and an attack of this kind may continue for days, the unhappy victim of hysteria seeming to be on the verge of an outburst. In such cases as I have seen, the nervous excitement is attended with a very weak state of the. circulation, as denoted by a sense of chilliness and a pallid appeai-ance, alternating with heats and flushing or mottling of the face, and an ever-ready flow of tears. The slightest emotion, or even the notice of a person when in this sensitive state, may be sufficient to swell " the fruitful river of the eye." This manifestation of hysteria nearly re- sembles hypochondriasis, which, when occurring in the male sex, has been regarded as another form of the disease. Local Hysteric Affections, and Diagnosis.—In further pursuing the clinical history of Hysteria, the description of the general symptoms of this disease, as manifested by an hysterical "fit," conveys no idea of the various local manifestations which the disease often assumes in different parts of the body. No organ or part may be exempt, but the more common seats of these local symptoms are, without specifying the order of frequency in the parts affected: the joints, particularly the knee and hip; the female breast; the spine, from the atlas to the tip of the coccyx; the side of the trunk, especially under the left lower ribs ; the abdomen; the bladder; the uterus, the ovaries, the clitoris and nymphfB; also, the nervous and muscular systems in divers situations. These organs and parts of the body, more especially, exhibit the symp- toms of local Hysteria, whether by pain of a peculiar chai-acter, or some functional disturbances. Thus, a young female may be subject to pains m the joints and breasts; spinal tenderness, and acute joain in the coccyx on pressure; or abdominal tenderness with tynipantic distension, and pain in the left side; or there may be irritability of the urinary bladder, and painfully urgent, frequent micturition, with an abundant ejection of pale, watery urine; or some form of uterine disorder, as amenorrhcea or dysmenorrhoea, is not uncommon, associated perhaps with ])ain on slight palpation over the ovaries, and a general sen- sitiveness of the external genitals; or various nervo-muscular affections348 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. are manifested, in tlie form of spasm, contraction, or sometimes of a paralytic character; and various exaltations or perversions of the special senses may perhaps bo superadded to the list, the eye being intolerant of light, the ear of sound, or the smell perverts every odour to a stench, and the taste prefers wormwood to honey. Sometimes there are strong cravings for certain things, digestible or indigestible. Thus, I have known an hysterical lady suck lemons with avidity; and other patients have been disposed to eat chalk. But the most remarkable and practically important feature in the local manifestations of Hysteria is this—that any such affection is apt to imitate and simulate or represent actual disease of the part, espe- cially^ of an inflammatory character. Under tliese circumstances, there- fore, in proceeding to the diagriosis, there is always the liability, not only of regarding structural disease as merely local hysteric, and thus of overlooking the requisite treatment; but the far more serious error may be committed—that of mistaking a local hysteric affection for structural disease, and of thence determining the treatment, as perhaps by having recourse to some surgical operation on the part which is apparently diseased. Now, the characters of hysteric fain are these :—The pain is exces- sive, and disproportionate to any other symptom of the simulated disease ; but the pain is also peculiar, in being cutaneous or superficial, rather than affecting any presumably diseased deeper structures, and it extends to perhaps far beyond the supposed seat of disease. This diffused and superficial or integumental pain is elicited on the slightest touch, and may then amount to agony ; at times, however, it may be altogether absent, or suddenly it settles in some other part, and in either case of capricious cessation, the feigned disease vanishes. A deceptive appearance sometimes accompanies and remains after this local nervous affection; the part may be somewhat swollen, and thus slightly increased in size and altered in shape. But the dispropor- tionate severity of the pain to the other symptoms of apparent disease in the j)art affected, will always attract attention; the comparative absence of other symptoms is no less remarkable; and, lastly, the absence of any constitutional disorder of local origin. Thus, in an hysteric affection of the knee-joint, as compared with inflammation, the severity of the pain, and its association with only a slight redness, or bluish discolouration, and slight puffy swelling, are sufficiently dis- tinctive, and more so when taken in connection with the absence of inflammatory fever, passing on perhaps to hectic. vSometimes an hysteric affection becomes engrafted on a previous and independent disease of the part; but even then the hysteric character is always predominant. Should the diagnosis still be doubtful, any difficulty may often be cleared up by putting the patient under the influence of chloroform ; for when pain and functional disturbance, as with relation to the knee-joint, are thus subdued, any structural disease of the part may be discovered more readily. To impress upon the Student the peculiarities of hysteric pain, and, at least, remind the Practitioner of the kind of cases Avith regard to which he will often have to exercise a critical judgment, we may briefly notice the more common forms of local Hysteria, and which come under the notice of the Surgeon. In relation to the joints, no better clinical illustration can be given349 HYSTERIA. than the dcsci-iption of an hysteric Iblp-joint by Sir B. Brodie, who, 1 believe, first drew attention to this very important subject. There is pain, says he, in the hip and knee, which is aggravated by pressure and motion of the limb, and the patient often lies fixed in one position on the bed or sofa. Ton will say, are not these indications of a diseased hip-joint ? But observe further. The pain is not, in general, fixed in any one part; it belongs to the whole limb. The patient winces, and sometimes screams, when you make pressure on the hip; but she does the same if you make pressure on the ilium, or on the side as high as the false ribs, or on the thigh, or even on the leg as low as the ankle; and everywhere the morbid sensibility is chiefly in the integu- ments. If you pinch the skin, lifting it at the same time off the subjacent parts, the patient complains more than when you forcibly squeeze the head of the thigh-bone into the socket of the acetabulum. As her attention is more directed to the examination, so the pain which she suffers from it is aggravated; but if her mind be occupied in conversation, she will scarcely complain of that which would have occasioned torture otherwise. There is no wasting of the giutgei muscles, and no flattened appearance of the nates; and the aspect of the patient is different from that which you would expect to find if the bones and cartilages of a joint were in a state of ulceration. Neither are there those peculiar and painful startings of the limb at night, attended often with frightful dreams, which mark the existence of this last disease. The pain will sometimes prevent the patient falling asleep; but, if once asleep, she sleeps soundly for many succes- sive hours. And this state of things may continue for weeks or months, or even for years, without leading to abscess, or any further ill consequences. Sometimes there is general tumefaction of the thigh and nates; or, in a few rare instances, there is a more defined and circumscribed swelling ; but without any perceptible fluctuation, and resembling a large wheal of urticaria. The limb may appear shortened, with elevation of the pelvis and bulging posterioi'ly, so as to form an acute, instead of a right angle, with the vertebral column; but this distortion is the result of disuse of the limb, and long-continued in- dulgence in an unnatural position. With regard to the Ireast, an hysteric affection may be distinguished by similar symptoms. Integumental pain or tenderness, on gentle palpation, rather than deeper-seated pain on handling the organ. And this morbid cutaneous sensibility is not Limited to the breast, but is diffused around, passing into the armpit and even down the arm. The examination is apt to excite reflex muscular movements and twitches, similar to those of chorea; and the patient either turns pale and faint, or her face becomes suffused with a rosy redness. But examine the mammary gland itself, however carefully, and no signs of inflammation can be detected; there is not even a blush of redness, and no swelling, beyond perhaps a general fulness, resulting jDrobably from continued determination of blood, and which is increased by the slightest manipulation. Nor in the substance of the organ can any distinct tumour be discovered. The sjrme is often the seat of hysteric pains, simulating the pain of spmal disease." No local manifestation of Hysteria has been more frequently mistaken for structural disease than spinal hysteria; this affection being treated as caries, afi'ectiug the bodies of the vertebrae,GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. .350 a disL-ase of scrofulous cliaracter; or regarded as chronic meningitis or myelitis, the membranes of the spinal cord, or the cord itself, seeming to be the seat of inflammatory changes, consequent on some con- tusion or wrench of the spinal column. Numerous such cases of apparent spinal disease, as resulting from railway injury, are brought into a court of law for compensation damages. Yet the usual characters of hysteric pain are generally well pronounced; and al- though the symptoms do not supply objective evidence, they may be tested so as to become almost of equal value in determining the judg- ment of an observant and experienced Practitioner as to the nature of the case. The local symptoms taken in conjunction with the general _ symptoms of Hysteria, will mostly lead to a conclusive diagnosis. A spinal case is brought for examination, or the Surgeon is requested to visit the case, the patient being " unable to be moved." On passing the finger down the spine from top to bottom, including the coccyx, with an equal, tapping pressure on each of the spinous processes, an exclamation of pain is uttered, perhaps a shriek of agony, But the pain, thus severe, is not limited usually to one portion of the spine, and notably it is superficial, aggi-avated by light percussion on the skin, rather than by deepei- pressure on the bone. Try the same mode of eliciting pain in the groove on either side of the processes, and the effect will be equally significant;—that pressure so as to reach the vertebral column, or the spinal cord, does not produce pain ; whereas, gentle digitation of the integument is more or less acutely painful. Here, then, is both a positive and a negative fact, in evidence as to the nature of the case; the one fact indicating the presence of hysteric pain, the other fact the absence of any disease of the spine or of the cord,—at least, in most cases. Sometimes the pain is found to be entirely limited to the extent of one or two vertebras,—too localized for any structural disease. And pressure on the tip of the coccyx is often specially painful. Lastly, this fictitioiTS spinal pain is apt to shift its position; from the dorsal to the lumbar region, or up to the neck. In the course of caries, the angular deformity of the spine •—the "hump-back," consequent on the falling down of the bodies of the vertebrae—leaves no doubt as to the distinction between this structural disease and a nervous affection. Spinal hysteria having been thus suspected or discovered, our diag- nosis may be aided by other concurring symptoms. There may be pains in the lower limbs, associated perhaj^s with weakness, or loss of power, amounting to paralysis ; and this paraplegia may be accompanied with difficulty of voiding the urine. Spasmodic affections of the muscles are not uncommonly witnessed. Surely, here is evidence in favour of spinal disease. But, if the case be watched from time to time, these paralytic symptoms are found to vary very much in degree, and may vanish altogether ; quite unlike the progressive and permanent character of paraplegia depending on disease of the spine, or of the cord. The constitutional condition of the patient remains unaffected, or is simply that of an hysteric person ; and is thus unlike the hectic state which ensues from caries, or the cachectic condition consequent on paralysis. On viewing the patient also, our diagnosis may be con- cluded by the consideration that here, perhaps, is a young female, fat and plump; although, possibly, pale and sickly looking, from uterine disorder—not disease—in the form of deficient menstruation.351 HYSTERIA. Hysteric jjaiii iu the left side, sometimes on the right side, is more often met with in pale, thin young women, who are subject to leucorrhcea. And it may be questionable whether the pain is not, at least in some cases, an affection sympathetic of vaginal or uterine inflammation. Tympanitic distension of the abdomen is one of the most common forms of local Hysteria. The accumulation of flatus in the intestines o-ives rise to a general distension, which might be mistaken for dropsy of the peritoneal cavity, or for ovarian dropsy. But the absence of fluctuation, and the tympanitic sound on percussion, will plainly declare that we are dealing with a collection of air, and not of water; while the general character of the distension differs also from the more one- sided form of an ovarian tumour. And—as Sir B. Brodie remarks— a patient, when thus blown-up with wind, may actually float in a bath, instead of sinking as usual. This state of abdominal distension is connected with habitual constipation; the colon especially being in a torpid state, and more or less loaded with hardened lumps of fsBces— scylalce—which reside for some time within the cells of that portion of intestine. There probably undergoing decomposition, and being a source of irritation, gas is generated; and if, by breaking wind, some of it escapes, a reaccumulation soon takes place. Under these cii'cum- stances, a partial collection of wind, and its subsidence, may form one of those " floating-tumours," the nature of which is sometimes so doubtful. Turning to the genito-urinary organs, we find them the busy scene of many hysteric affections. Retention of urine often occurs ; not from any structural obstruction to the free passage of urine through the urethra, but from some failure of the power to expel, or, at least, the disuse of voluntary power,—an illustration of hysterical jparalysis. This may almost defy detection. But the absence of any other cause of paralytic retention, and the association perhaps of other hysteric symptoms, will guide the Surgeon's judgment aright on the question of diagnosis. When the bladder has been constantly over-distended in this manner, then retention may ensue from an enlarged and actually atonic state of the organ. Incontinence of urine, or an apparently involuntary micturition, is another form of Hysteria as affecting the bladder; the urine being shot out, at intervals, in a jerking stream. Retention and incontinence of this kind are far more commonly met with among female patients. But, in. males, I have occasionally found stricture of the urethra of a spasmodic character, depending on Hysteria. Other symptoms have been present in such cases, and the passage of a bougie has provoked a distinct hysteric attack. These forms of the disease, whether vesical incontinence or urethral stricture, may be regarded as instances of hysterical spasmodic affections. Hysterical miiscular affections are often witnessed in the form of contractions, which may be associated with spasmodic movements of other muscles. And in persons predisposed, these functional derangements are often induced by very trivial causes ; some mental emotion, as fright, grief, or surprise, such as, however, would not have unnerved a person of less nervous susceptibility; or some slight injury, unimportant in itself. Thus, Sir B. Brodie relates the case of a young lady only twelve years old, whose forefinger of her left hand was pncked with the point of a pair of scissors. This little punctured352 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. wound gave rise immediately to pain in tlie course of tlic median nerve; and tlie next day, the forearm was fixed by muscular contrac- tion, at a riglit-angle with, the arm. After a few days violent cpasms affected the muscles of the hand and forearm, attended with constant vomiting. At length, the other limbs were thrown into spasmodic movements, so tliat the patient could neither walk nor stand. The diaphragm was sometimes affected, so as almost to threaten suffocation. Occasionally, lock-jaw took place, or the patient lay in a state of opisthotonos, as if tetanus were fully developed. A violent pain in the head set in from time to time, and this pain was described as having the same character as that of the pricked finger. These symptoms continued, in various alternations of predominance, until ■ultimately the patient recovered. Wry-nech sometimes arises from hysteric contraction of the stemo- mastoid muscle. This state has misled surgeons of experience in not a few cases. But the diagnosis may be determined by the absence of any thickening of the fixed and rigid muscles, as would be produced by local disease or injury, nor is there the history of any sprain or crick of the neck; on the other hand, the concurrence of various symptoms of Hysteria may present a picture which those who have seen much of this protean disease will hardly fail to recognize. Contractions of the fingers are occasionally met with, depending on hysteric affection of the flexor muscles; but looking like the prominent ridges in the palm, and the claw-like closure of the fingers, resulting from teno-synovitis, or from contraction of the processes of the palmar fascia3. This state may continne for an indefinite period, and thus more nearly resemble the permanent contraction caused by disease. But the relaxing influence of chloroform will at once dispel the illusion ; and even more readily than in other cases of functional muscular con- traction, where the deformity is less consjjicuons than in club-hand. Various forms of club-foot may also depend on .similar muscular affections of an hysteric character. A typical and suggestive case of this kind is related by the late Mr. Skey; and that the story shall not lose its effect in the telling, I will narrate the case in his own words, for what our American cousins would call "a cantion." "A young lady, sixteen years of age, had been suffering, for eight months, fi-om inversion of the left foot, which was so twisted as to bring the point of the foot to the opposite ankle,—in fact, at nearly a right-angle with the foot of the opposite side, an extreme case of talipes-varus. Her family consulted a surgeon of much experience in the treatment of distortions, and of orthopoedic notoriety. The case was considered as an example of an ordinary distortion, and the foot was placed in a very elaborately made foot-splint, by the force of which it was made to approach a parallel relation to the opposite foot; but it was an ap- proach only, for no mechanism could retain it in a perfect position, the toes yet in some degree pointing inwards. Months elapsed and the disease continued unchanged. A second orthopcsdic authority was then consulted in conjunction with the first, and as no new light was thrown on the disease by the combined opinions of the two, the same principle of treatment was recommended to be continued, and the mechanism was yet somewhat more elaborated. And thus the eight months of this young lady's life passed away, during which no con- stitutional treatment of any kind was resorted to, and loss of exercise,HYSTERIA. 353 Avith otlier attendant evils, Lad wrouglit a prejudicial infiueucc on her health. When the apparatus which she had so long worn was removed on the occasion of her first visit to me, the foot immediately resumed its twisted form. The attitude of the limb was that of complete inversion. The disease had appeared almost suddenly in a person hitherto healthy up to fifteen years of age. It could not be due to congenital deformity, and the limb gave no indication of disease. There was neither heat, nor pain, nor swelling. In this case, also, there was no catamenial derangement. I removed the apparatus from the foot, bandaged the limb, ordered a full nutritious diet, with bark and iron, and having explained the nature of the disease to the friends, sent the young lady home to the country, recommending her to rely on the kindly offices of Nature—the greatest of all doctors, orthopcedists not excepted. At the end of a month, some progress had been made. She still walked with much difficulty, but it was obvious that she was improving in health and vigour of system. At the expu'ation of six weeks, she accompanied her family to a ball, her foot, as she entered the ball-room, being not yet restored to its normal position. She was invited to dance; and under this novel excitement she stood up, and, to the astonishment of her family, she danced the whole evening, having almost suddenly recovered the healthy muscular actions of the limb ! She came to see me two days afterwards. She walked perfectly well into my room, and paced the room backwards and forwards with great delight. The actions of the limb were thoroughly restored, and all traces of the previous malady had disappeared." In briefly tracing the clinical history of Hysteria, we have noticed several manifestations of functional derangement, whether by exalted sensibility or pain, and muscular affections of a spasmodic character, or in the form of contractions; to these may be added the apparent loss of voluntary motion—paralysis. Among the many paralytic affections, as they would appear, which may be referable to hysteria, retention of urine has already been alluded to, as being sometimes due to the failure or the disuse of voluntary power, in a person perhaps otherwise subject to symptoms of the parent disease. But hysterical paralysis is not unfrequently witnessed in the more pronounced form of paraplegia or hemiplegia. Arising from some mental emotion, as fright, the loss of voluntary j^ower and sensibility in the lower limbs, or on the whole of one side of the body, more or less completely, may be referable to some slight injury, and not necessarily in any part of the spine, or the head. A sprain of the knee may as jsrobably give rise to hysterical paralysis, as a contusion in the back. But the most remarkable element in the history of this paralysis is, generally, that the loss of voluntary power, and of sensibility, in the lower limbs comes on suddenly, and as suddenly ceases, although the aj^parent paralysis may have continued for months or even for years. Under the influence of some strong emotion, the pseudo-paralytic affection may vanish, perhaps in a moment; sometimes to return, sometimes '. leaving the patient permanently recovered. Dr. C. J. B. Williams mentions the case of a lady, who for several years having lost the use of her lower limbs, was startled by a rat rnnning near her; she made an effort, and sprang upon a table; the power, however, did not remain, for she could not get down again. In like manner may be explained the supposed cures wrought by the excitement of religious 2 aGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 354 fanaticism; ihc " miracles " of Miss Fancourfc, and Prince Hohcnloc; and the more recent impostures of mesmerists, spiritualists, etc. But we live in^ an age whicli is essentially hysteric or sensational, whether in its social or religious aspects; and daily is the truth of Feuelon's philosophic judgment witnessed, that "the" inherent weakness of the human mind is exhibited, not so much by its disbelief in the things which are,_ as by its belief in that which is not." The diagnosis of hysterical paralysis will be gathered from the absence of any notable injury or disease, coupled with the history of the symptoms; and when they occur in past or present association with other symptoms of Hysteria, in perhaps the person of a young female who is thus affected, the Sui'geon should duly weigh all this concurrent evidence. Some such cases are brought forward for medico- legal inquiry, in actions against railway companies, for compensatory damages on account of some alleged injury to the spine, or the head, from accident. There may be indisputable evidence of some injury, and that paralytic symptoms have followed. But the difficulty in estimating the nature of the case, whether it be hysterical or organic, is due to the character of the symptoms, as evidence. They are not objective,—there is nothing to be seen or touched ; they are necessarily siobjective,—that of which the patient herself, or himself, complains. The Surgeon is compelled to accept the statements of the patient on trust, for the most part; she declares she cannot move her legs, and she is never seen to do so, that she cannot feel when either limb is pinched, and she never winces under any test of their insensibility. Add to this apparently hond-fide evidence of paralysis, the fact that the patient's natural disposition, in Hysteria, is to deceive other persons, as well as herself, and that she lives for some weeks or months under the mental impression that her case is one of great importance, daily attracting the solicitude of her friends, and engaging the interest of her medical attendant; under these fostering circumstances, the paralytic affection continues. It is unnecessary to impute any dishonourable motives to the victim of Hystei-ia; nor would any honourable member of the Pi'ofession so identify himself with his patient's case, as to become, as it were, the plaintiff in the action. But he may enter so thoroughly into the case, that the symptoms and their connection with the accident are gone over again and again; the hysteric patient, always apt to learn, thus rehearses her part, until she becomes perfect in her role. In this state she is taken into court, pallid, emaciated, and paralyzed, looking the very picture of a wreck from "railway injury;" perhaps she has a " fit " in the course of her examination in the witness-box, though that species of concomitant evidence is always undesirable; the judge may direct the jury, but the jury think, or rather feel, for themselves; and thence a verdict is given, with sub- stantial damages. I remember, in one such case, more particularly, where I had endeavoured to explain the true nature of the symptoms, with due regard to the plaintiff's suffering, as from the accident, no less than with fair consideration for the shareholders of a railway company, damages to the amount of £800 were awarded for the permanent in- jury the plaintiff had sustained. The following year, on one of the hottest days in July, I was sauntering up the hill at Richmond, my shoes sinking at each tread into the softened asphalte; a gentleman overtook mc, and recognized me with a smile; having di'opped the355 iHYSTERIA. cliaracter of plaiutiif, so far from being a cripijlc for life, lie was on his way to the park, to play in a cricket match ! And I believe that not a few of these railway cases get well, after the trial is over. On the other hand, there are cases of irreparable injury, with paralysis more often than any other result. The causes of Hysteria are mainly social and hygienic. As a disorder of the nervoiis system, its leading features are an undu.e general sensibility, Avith the loss or impairment of the controlling power of the will, and a corresponding exaltation of the involuntary excito-motory functions. With this disarrangement of the physiology of the nervous system, there is generally associated a feeble and suscep- tible circulation of the blood. Such persons chill and flush readily. Probably, therefore, the nerve-centres are subject to an irregular supply of blood; sometimes being in a state of hypersemia, at other times ana3mic. In conjunction with this twofold condition of the nervous and vascular systems, the digestion or primary assimilation of food is often imperfect, and it may be presumed that secondary assimilation or nutrition is also perverted. In some cases, there is a marked tendency to gout; in others, to scrofula. Now, this constitutional condition—representing what might be termed the hysteric diathesis— may either be congenital and hereditary, or acquired under the cir- cumstances peculiar to the individual. Commonly, Hysteria is en- gendered by a vicious social training in youth, and by a similar existence in after years. No one was more entitled to write with authority respecting this social product than Sir B. Brodie, and he has recorded his convictions from an unusually large and varied experience. "You can render," said he, "no more essential service to the affluent classes of society than by availing yourself of every opportunity of explaining to those among them who are parents how much the ordinary system of education tends to engender the disposi- tion to nervous affections among their female children. The boys ai'e sent at an early age to school, where a large portion of their time is passed in taking exercise in the open air; while their sisters are confined to heated rooms, taking little exercise out of doors, and often none at all, except in a carriage. Then, for the most part, the latter spend much more time in actual study than the former. The mind is over-educated at the expense of the body, and, after all, with little advantage to the mind itself; for who can doubt that the principal object of this part of education should be, not so much to fill the mind with knowledge, as to train it to a right exercise of its intellectual and moral faculties ; or that, other things being the same, this is more easily accomplished in those whose animal functions are preserved^ in an healthy state, than it is in others ? This liability to Hysteria is, in fact, among females, one of the several penalties of high civilization. It is among those who enjoy what are sujjposed to be the advantages of affluence and an easy life that we are to look for cases of this description ; not among those who, fulfilling the edict of the Deity, ' eat their bread in the sweat of their face.'" To this general description, however, must be added exceptional instances of Hystena among the poor, and labouring classes. I have seen the disease fully developed in a country girl, sent up to the Royal Free Hospital, for the euro of an apparent chronic synovitis of the knee- jomt, which was nothing but an hysteric affection. Thus, we may,356 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. occasionally, refer the disease solely to constitutional predisposition, apart from the co-operative influence of social and hygienic causes. Sometimes the disease is elicited by an injury, perhaps of slight character ; but, in such cases which have come under my notice, the constitutional tendency has been specially conducive. The relation of uterine disorder to Hysteria is twofold, occasionally being the cause, more often the effect, of the constitutional disorder. The inde- pendent dissections of Dr. Robert Lee and Dr. Snow Beck have clearly demonstrated that the uterus is abundantly supplied with nerves, by virtue of which this organ is brought -into intimate connection with the entire nervous system. It may thus excite nervous disorder, or respond to the prevailing condition of the nervous system. But the nervous excitement of hysteria emanates from the uterus less frequently than may still be generally credited; for, in many cases, the function of menstruation is only secondarily impaired; while, in other cases, that function is fulfilled regularly and sufficiently, and seldom does the organ itself present any disease or displacement. Considering, however, the high nervous endowments of the uterus, it is not sur- prising that some uterine disorder, causative or consequent, should often be associated with Hysteria, which is essentially a disorder of the nervous system. Treatment.—In considering the treatment of Hysteria, the judicious practitioner will begin by searching out these causes—physical, mental, or moral—which have produced the diathesis. Its evil origin lies often in the depths of a vicious education; an indoor life, with high-pressure schooling for accomplishments; while, in after yeara, the hysteric patient is often the victim of that ennui and mental fallowness, or moral perversion, which proceeds from the want of a daily occupation of the head and heart with something better than mere passing circum- stances, the pursuit of some object in life, worthy of a rational and responsible being. No medicinal treatment can avail under any such adverse circumstances ; but when they are corrected, then the resources of medicine and hygiene may do much to relieve, if not to cure, the symptoms of Hysteria. The nervous excitement is frequently accom- panied with general muscular debility and irritability. Tonics and acute spasmodics may, therefore, be prescribed with advantage. And in these two classes of medicine, none are so efficacious as cinchona or cascarilla bark, and sulphuric ether or the etherial compounds. But one should not overlook the benefit to be derived, sometimes, from pre- parations of valerian, the nitrate of silver, or the sulphate of zinc; and the preparations of copper or iron,—having regard to the marked ansemia, which, in some cases at least, is associated Avith Hysteria. At the same time, tui-ning our attention to the state of the digestive organs, the careful regulation of the diet is of paramount importance; for the apjjetite, although perhaps voracious, is rarely selective of digestible food; and the whole process of digestion is often imperfect, resulting in mal-assimilation, and constipation alternating with fitful diarrhoea, and lumpy foecal evacuations from the ceUs of the colon or from an impacted rectum. Hence, a dinner-pill of gentian and aloes will prevent this oft-recurring source of intestinal iiTitation; while the administration of assafoetida occasionally, in pill or mixture, proves specially beneficial in routing out the offensive foecal accumulations. Rectal constipation is perhaps best relieved by the simple lavement ofHYSTEBIA. 357 cold water, every morning, or an enema of soapsuds and castor oil, as occasion may require. Tliere may be some uterine disorder, in the way of amenorrhcea or dysmenori'hoea, to wliicli the Practitioner should direct his attention; but rarely, I believe, will it be necessary to have recourse to any local uterine treatment,—as for disease or displace- ment of the organ itself. The large collection of cases published by Dr. Eobert Lee seems to have fully demonstrated the fallacy or the impropriety of the practice which was once advocated in the treat- ment of hysterical girls—the repeated and demoralizing introduction of a vaginal speculum, to inspect what ?—" a prominent spot of varying size," "a something raised," "an abrasion or erosion." As part of the general treatment of Hysteria, the management of a patient during a fit may be noticed. But little can be done to over- come the attack; much to prolong it by sympathetic interference. The dress, especially the stays, should be loosened, to allow free play to the breathing and relieve the oppressed action of the heart. Cold water may be dashed in the face and on the chest; while a few whiffs of ammonia, applied to the nostrils, may aid in bringing the person out of the attack. However violent and seemingly uncon- trollable the struggles of the patient may be, no forcible restraint need be made; she is not likely to do any harm to herself, as in beating her breasts, and any attempt to hold her will probably aggravate the struggling. In some cases, where the hysteric attack is epileijtiform, and the patient scarcely conscious, it may be desirable to see that she do not bruise herself in the more convulsive movements of such an attack. The tongue is less apt to be protruded and bitten than in true epilepsy; and, indeed, so far as I have witnessed an hysteric attack of this kind, the jaw is drawn down, and the tongue retracted within the widely opened mouth, as the patient fights for breath to overcome what seems to be laryngeal spasm, until the expectoration of a little frothy mucus suddenly brings relief. In any case,, when an hysteric fit is over, sleep is the natural restorative from the exhaustion conse- quent on the muscular exertion. The medicinal treatment of Hysteria must be reinforced by the hygienic resources of good air, and daily exercise out of doors, with change of scene and associations ; thus to take the patient, as it were, out of herself. Bathing often proves very salutary; either in the form of the shower-bath, the hip-bath, or sea-bathing. Under this generally invigorating course of treatment, the hysteric diathesis may possibly be rectified; as an old physician used to say with regard to anaemia, he " washed the patient, ironed her, and put her out to dry." Local hysteric affections are scarcely amenable to any topical measures, apart from the constitutional regime.PART II. SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGEKY. DIVISION I. INJUEIES AND DISEASES OF TEXTUEES. SKIN AND SUBJACENT TEXTUEES. CHAPTER XVI. WOUNDS :—INCISED WOUND. WOUNDS OF ARTERIES AND VEINS. A Wound is a solution or breach of continuity of the soft tissues, sud- denly produced, in any part of the body, and by some direct external mechanical cause. Such lesion may be effected by various instruments of a cutting, tearing, or iDuncturing character. Hence, Wounds are commonly distinguished as Incised, Contused and Lacerated, and Punc- tured. Grunshot Wounds are also contused and lacei'ated. Poisoned Wound is characterized, not by the nature, and still less by the extent, of the lesion itself, which may be only a slight puncture; but, by the accompanying introduction of some poisonous matter, whereby the constitutional disturbance becomes of far greater consequence than the local lesion. Such are stings of bees, wasps^, hornets ; snake-bites ; bites of rabid animals, giving rise to hydrophobia; and dissection- wounds. Excluding, therefore, poisoned wounds; Wounds differ most signi- ficantly in their relation to the laws of Reparation. Incised wound has a natural tendency to undergo rejDair, or to heal, by primary adhesion, when its surfaces are placed in contact; all other wounds, in proportion as they are contused or lacerated, have a natural tendency to sloughing and then to undergo repair by the slower process, on an open surface, of suppurative granulation and cicatrization. Incised Wound. An Incised Wound is a solution of continuity of the soft textures ; suddenly produced, and with even division of the tissues. The former character distinguishes this lesion from a breach resulting from ulcera- tion ; the latter character defines it from a contused wound.359 INCISED WOUND. Symijioms.—Pain, of a burning or smarting kind, and licemorrliage or effusion of blood, in various degrees, accompany tbe division of nerves and blood-vessels; and the wound opens or gapes more or less, according to the elasticity, muscular contractility, and weiglit of the parts. The former symptoms are not peculiar to this, or any other kind of Injury; but absence of the latter condition, gaping of the wound, is the negative distinction of a suhciotaneous incised wound. This lesion is, moreover, not exposed to the action of the air ; a pecu- liarity of essential importance, as determining the course of a sub- cutaneous wound in respect to its more speedy reparation. Gaiise and Uffeds of Incised Wo'imd.—An incised wound is produced by the edge of any sharp cutting instrument, as a knife, chisel, or sword; not by a blunt or a pointed weapon. Its effects are essentially local, in relation to the function of the part wounded; but the lesion produces constitutional disturbance in proportion to the implication of nerves and blood-vessels, and to the functional importance of the part in the system. Hence, the Shoch of injury to the nervous system ; the Gollai^se arising from profuse or persistent hasmorrhage ; and the serious junctional disturbance arising from wound of an internal organ, as the lung or intestine. The re- duction of temperature is greater after shock, complicated by the collapse from hcemorrhage. Thus, Mr. Le Gros Clarke relates a case of cut throat, in a man aged sixty-three, where the thermometer fell to 91*2°, one hour after the injury, and rose, during reaction, only to 100'1° in twenty-four hours. Some allowance must be made, in this case, for the mental shock, in addition to the shock of injury, as the hfjemorrhage was not excessive. The patient recovered. Traumatic or Surgical fever is simply that form of inflammatory fever which arises from a wound of any kind, or a surgical operation, if only the injury be of sufficient magnitude, as a compound fracture or an amputation, thus to induce this constitutional disturbance. Like ordinary inflammatory fever, the traumatic variety is essentially a blood-infection, proceeding from the absorjotion of materials at the seat of inflammation. This inflammatory fever, of traumatic origin, begins usually within a few hoiirs after the injury or operation, and is then associated with the reaction from shock, or not until the second day or later; and it may subside in a few hours, or continue from two to seven days. In the course of wound-fever, the pulse and the tempera- ture are generally concurrent; the one increasing in freqiiency as the other rises, and declining as it falls. The maximum temperature averages 104.-9° (Billroth). But the degree of febrility does not depend on the magnitude of the injury or operation, nor on the part affected. Nor, again, does hcemorrhage, even to a considerable amount, seem to have any influence, beyond delaying the rise of temperature. On the first day, a high degree of temperature affords no indication that the fever will be of long duration. Its continuance is not in- fluenced by primary union of the wound, nor, essentially, by the age and constitution of the patient. Lastly, suppuration does not deter- mine the period of febrility. The febrile condition may return, from some cause of irritation in the wound, the inflammation of an adjoin- ing pai-t, or from the supervention of some secondary affection, as erysipelas, pyfemia, or tetanus. Iteparation.—Incised wound tends to undergo the reparative processSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 360 of healing by primaiy adhesion, rmaecomjmmed by inflammation ; when the surfaces of the wound are in contact. ]3ut an incised wound may heal by other modes of reparation, under different circumstances. It will therefore be necessary to here describe all these modes of healing, which are four in number; although the latter two will be found to pertain more especially to Contused and Lacerated, or open. Wounds. Modes of Beparation.—Wounds may heal in one or other of four different ways, first clearly distinguished by Macartney; and subject to certain modifications, the distinctions he drew are still accurate. First. Immediate union, without any intervening substance, such as blood or lymph. (Union by the first intention, and through the mediuni of blood—Hunter.) Secondly. Union by the medium of coagulable lymph, or a clot of blood—mediate by lymph or blood. (Union by adhesion, or adhesive infl.ammation—Hunter. Union by first intention, as now commonly understood. Primary adhesion—Paget.) Thirdly. Reparation by suppurative granulations. Fourthly. Healing under a scab. (1.) Immediate Pinion is effected only under certain circumstances. Incised wounds may thus unite when the cut surfaces are immediately replaced in close contact, so that no substance of any kind intervenes. The blood itself is pressed out of the wound, the divided blood-vessels and nerves are brought into perfect contact, and reunion ensues by the opposed surfaces simply growing together. This process of repair is very speedy. It will take place in two or three days ; possibly in almost as few hours. No intermediate substance exists in a Avound thus healed ; consequently no cicatrix or mark remains. Nature under- takes and may accomplish the immediate union of any incised wound, irrespective of its extent, provided only the conditions mentioned arc fulfilled. Thus, divided nerves may reunite, as manifested by the recovery of sensation or other functions peculiar to them. But such restoration is, generally, very slowly effected. In a case under my care at the Hospital, the tongue was severed by an incised wound, extending nearly through the substance of that organ, which hung by a mere shred on the left side ; dividing the gustatory and hypoglossal nerves on both sides. The divided portion having been promptly replaced and secured, in even contact with the root, complete reunion took place; the tongue slowly recovering the power of motion and the sense of taste. (2.) Primary Adhesion.—A period of reparative inactivity, jaei-haps of short duration, succeeds the injury ; during which the divided tex- tures are indisposed to unite, although placed in apposition. But this condition of apparent inactivity may partly be due to interception of the process of reparation; either by the presence of some foreign body between the cut surfaces, or from continued hfemorrhage. The process begins whenever the textures are glazed over, thus sealing the blood- vessels. This appearance of the wound denotes either the previous exudation of reparative lymph, or the coagulation of a thin layer of blood, just sufficient for adhesion. Reparation then commences. Beparative Materials.—Goagidable lymph and, possibly, llood are the materials supplied ; and their reparative power is exhibited by the organization which takes place in either of them, spontaneously. John Hunter, so far as I know, first advocated the possibility of blood under-INCISED WOUND. 361 going this change; and ifc was Avifcli liim tlie mode of " union by tlie first intention." Subsequently, tbe organizability of blood was dis- puted by Mr. Travers and otlier obser^^ers. Now, liowever, ifc is amply confirmed by tbe microscopic observations o£ Zwicky, Paget, and Dr. W. T. Gaii'dner, not to mention others. I allude to observations such as these :—the organization of blood effused in serous sacs, particularly in the arachnoid; of clots in veins being converted into fibrous cords, or having evinced less constructive powei", degenerating into phlebo- liths ; clots forming distinct tumours in the heart and arteries ; and the clot above a ligature on an artery becoming part of the fibrous cord which constitutes the impervious portion of artery. Sir James Paget thus estimates the function of blood in the repair of injuries :—1. It is neither necessary nor advantageous to any mode of healing. 2. A large clot, at all exposed to the air, irritates and is ejected. 3. In more favourable conditions, the effused blood becomes enclosed in the accumulating reparative material; and while this is organizing, the blood is absorbed. Lastly, it is probable that the blood may be organized and form part of the reparative material; but even in this case it jorobably retards the healing of the injury. Organization.—The process of organization which coagulable lymph undergoes, is briefly as follows:—Mhro-cellular or connective tissue is formed, but in either of two different ways, or by both processes of development simultaneously; and the particular mode of lymph-develop- ment is determined chiefly by the circumstance of exposure or not to the air. Lymph effused for the repair of open wounds generally de- velops itself into fibro-ceUular tissue, through nucleated cells (Fig. 83), Fig, 83.* which elongate into spindle-shape, or fusiform cells, and thence into filaments (Pig. 84); while that effused for the repair of siibcutaneous wounds as generally develops itself into this tissue, through the * Incised wound of the cornea in a rabbit; after three days. Union by emi- CBufroth ) ^^^^^^^ fibre-cells in the adjoining connective tissue. 300 diam. t Cicatrix of iuciscd wound in the lip of a rabbit; after nine days. Union by nDie-ceiis, tusitonn, resulting in connective tissue. 300 diam. (Billroth.)SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUHGERY. vessels become atrophied and much diminished m the course of a few days. / 0— 862 medium of nucleated blastema—by the nuclei developing themselves into fibres (Henlo), or by the blastema itself passing through a fibrous transformation (Paget). The same state of organization—fibro-cellu- lar tissue—is thus attained, by cither of these dilfcrent processes of self-development, or, as I have said, by the association of both in some, probably many, instances of reparation. Fibro-cellular tissue thus produced, consists of cells lengthened and attenuated into fibres. This constitutes an intervening layer of tex- tures as the permanent bond of union,—thence named connective tissue, and Avhich presents externally the appearance of a linear cicatrix, or scar. Fibres of this kind must not be confounded with the very fine filaments seen in coagtolated lymph, and which are produced apparently by the linear coalescence of molecules. The one are cell- fibres, and arranged when finished as fibro-cellular tissue, in fibres having cellular interspaces ; the other are molecular fibres, and inter- woven like felt in various directions, as seen in the clot of buffed and sizy blood, or in coagulated lymph exudation on the surface of a serous membrane. New capillary blood- vessels shoot through the connec- tive tissue (Fig. 85) ; they are formed also in coagulated lymph, and occasionally in blood-clot, as reparative materials. These ves- sels are produced by a highly interesting process of development, as described with that of Healing by Suppurative Granulation, in Contused and Lacerated Wounds. Eventually, the new tissue is fashioned off, so as outwardly to resemble the particular texture in the substance of which it is in- terposed ; but this resemblance scarcely extends to their minute structure. Reproduction of the original texture is, in fact, a rare event. Skin, with its papillas and cuticle, muscle, tendon, artery, cartilage, and bone, in the first stage of fracture-union, are severally represented by fibro-cellular tissue, moi'e or less vascular; nerve is said to be repaired in like manner, and also by the formation of new nerve fibres, which running through the connective tissue, become contiimous with those in the nerve above and below, thus reinstating its continuity. The grey matter of nerve centres would not appear to be reproducible. Inflammation may, and often does, attend the process of primary adhesion ; the healing iS effected by what John Hunter named "adhesive inflammation." The divided capillary vessels, immediately adjoining the lips of the wound, soon become plugged with coagulated blood; whereby the collateral circulation is proportionately increased. Cells, identical with the pale corpuscles of the blood, or with lymph-cells, * Cicatrix of incised wound in the tongue of a dog; after ten days. Development of looped and anastomosing vessels from adjoining sides of the wound, winch diam. (Wywodzoff.) Fig. 85.*363 INCISED WOUND. are soon producGd in abnndance, within the interstices of the con- nective tissue immediately adjoining the wound. The production o£ these cells admits of at least a twofold explanation, as in the process of Inflammation. This cell-production may be due to the emigration of pale corpuscles through the walls of the capillary blood-vessels, according to Cohnheim's observations, sti^jported by those of Strieker, Recklinghausen, and others; or, perhaps, the cells result from the proliferation of connective-tissue corpuscles in the textures under- going inflammation, as Virchow maintains. Possibly, both modes of cell-production may co-operate. The inflammatory cellular infiltration is developed into connective tissue, in the way already described; and intercellular substance is deposited, which consolidates the newly formed tissue. This interstitial substance is most probably fibrin; pro- duced, as Billroth believes, by transudation from the capillary vessels, under the influence of the wandering blood-cells. Schmidt's experi- ments point to the conclusion that a fibrogenous substance is deposited, which, by combining with the fibro-plastic substance of the blood and tissues, forms coagulated fibrin. But Thiersch maintains that this so-called iutestitial fibrin is only the connective tissue itself, in a transformed state. The external appearances which accompany, and as signs denote, this inflammatory state, are as follows :—In the course of twenty-four hours, the lips of an incised wound become red, and slightly swollen or puffed, painful or tender, and hotter than the adjoining integument; but this traumatic inflammation is restricted to the margins of the wound, in a healthy state; and reaching its height by the second or third day, the inflammatoiy reaction passes off by the fourth or fifth day, leaving the wound united at the end of a week. The cicatrix, however, appears as a red, stiffened line ; but it slowly assumes a paler tint, and softer character; and eventually it changes into a white and somewhat depressed line in the skin; although this mark remains permanently, being visible to the eye, or detected with the aid of a glass, in after years. Primary adhesion is less desirable than the immediate mode of union; the formation of lymph-cells being a process so indefinitely separated from that of pus-cells, that union thereby is much more likely to pass into suppuration than any process in which no lymph is formed ; then again, it is probably not so speedy in most cases ; and finally, if accomplished, it is not so close, a scar therefore always remaining by the organization of the new intervening substance. (3.) Siijpimrative granulation and cicatrization is that process by which all other than incised wounds are commonly healed. It will be described in connection with Contused and Lacerated Wounds. (4.) Healing under a seal ranks higher, in respect of its result, than that by suppurative granulation. Open wounds, and superficial burns, may heal in either way. The cicatrix formed under a scab more nearly resembles the natural textures, and being also less contractile, is less disfiguring. Yet the process of healing in this way is more liable to miscarry. Inflammation is apt to supervene, and discharge accumu- lating under the scab, the healing process is again and again delayed, or recommenced. No such impediment interrupts the progress of suppurative granulation, or the course of an open sore. The scab itself is formed of dried blood, lymph, or pus; but theSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 364 precise nature of the reparative process underneatli is concealed from our view. So far—observes Sir James Paget—as one can discern with the naked eye, the wounded surface forms only a thin layer of cuticle on itself; no granulations, no new fibro-cellular tissue, appear to bo formed; the raw surface merely skins over, and it seems to do so uniformly, not by the progressive formation of cuticle from the cir- cumference towards the centre, as is usual in open wounds. Healing by the " modelling process"—originally described by Macartney—is somewhat similar. It takes place under a scab or protective film. But that "natural growth" of textures proper to the part, by which it was said to be re-made or re-modelled, and which was thought to be the special and characteristic feature of the model- linff process, is probahly only the growth of granulations, without suppuration, because not exposed to the air. This mode of healing, like the last, is often witnessed in the wounds of animals. I have seen it occur in a gaping wound on the haunch of a horse. The Prognosis of incised wound—as an adhering wound—is most favourable. But the breach of continuity may be maintained by various circumstances which prevent or impede coaptation of the parts. The weight and onohility of loose and pendulous parts tend to prevent union, or to disunite them in the process of healing by primary ad- hesion ; disturbing conditions which are exemplified after removal of the breast. Muscular action, causing displacement, will have the same effect; and tension of the integuments is a similarly adverse condition, whether owing to any tightness of the jaart, or as resulting from inflammatory effusion. An amputation stump, after recent opera- tion, is often thus circumstanced ; at least, by the speedy supervention of swelling, and tension would be aggravated by scanty flaps. Any foreign body, e.g., grit, or clot of blood, intervening between the surfaces, otherwise in opposition, will prevent complete union, and induce suppuration with an open wound. But the surfaces of an in- cised wound are usually clean. Treatment.—To be effectual, in regard to this or any other lesion, surgical appliances must meet the requirements of the natural process of reparation, throughout its course ; of which the treatment will then be a continued reflection. The Indications are three:—(1) Arrest of hosmorrhage; (2) Re- moval of foreign bodies ; (3) Coaptation of the opposed surfaces. Tlmmorrhage.—Small vessels soon spontaneously cease to bleed; their cut extremities retracting and contracting. Larger-sized arteries bleed pe?* saltum, in jetting streams of florid red blood. Venous hcemor- rhage is distinguished by the even flow of purple or black blood. The treatment of haemorrhage will be described in connection with Wounds of Arteries and Veins. But the arrest of hfemori-hage, spontaneously, may be aided by exposure of the wound to cool air, or a stream of cold water squeezed from a sponge. Gentle pressure with the sponge on the cut surfaces will readily discover whether there be still any oozing from the bleeding points. Obviously, anj foreign lady, if present, should be at once removed. Not roughly, however. The same application of water, as for hcemor- rhage, will gradually suffice to dislodge and carry away grit, etc., or the particles may be lightly brushed off with a wet sponge.INCISED WOUND. 365 Coaptation.—TLo coaptation of an incised wound miglit be post- poned, until the wound has become glazed and adhesive. Then re- parative material begins to exude. This indication as to time was always observed by Mr. Listen, with regard to the amputation-wound of a limb, and all other large wounds. The deeper and more extensive the wound, the more advisable is it to wait this event; with one ex- ception,—a deep muscular wound, which retracting and gaping, non- interference would allow the muscles to become agglutinated within their sheathing fascise. But the general rule, applicable alike to small cuts, or to extensive and deep incisions, accidental or surgical, is this : haamorrhage having ceased or been arrested, and any foreign body, accidentally present, having been removed, the wound is now prepared to undergo the process of reparation. (1.) Goaptation signifies the adjustment of the opposed surfaces in even contact. This, however, implies a suitable position of the part, to relax any muscular action or tension. (2.) Retentive Appliances.—Dressing.—The maintenance of coapt- ation during the j)rocess of adhesion, also implies the same attention to position, and some kind of retentive appliance; both being necessary to insure rest'. In the selection of any such appliance, the plastic nature of the healing process would indicate that the less retentive it is, the better; provided only it be suflB.cient to maintain easy apjDosition. The Surgeon should always consider his mechanical dressings in this light; that he may the more exactly reduce them to co-operative con- formity with the course of reparation. And by clearly understanding the proper management of a typical form of Injury, which occurs so frequently in Surgical Practice, as does an incised wound, and which represents nine-tenths of surgical operations, he will be enabled to take a commanding view of his art. The appliances in question are designed to maintain the ajoposition of either the lips, or the surfaces, of the wound. Plaster, sutures, or both, fulfil the one intention; a bandage, with or without light com- presses, accomplish the other purpose. The plaster, commonly used, is the adhesive—diachylon—plaster. Isinglass plaster, introduced by Mr. Liston, is, however, preferable. It is equally adhesive, quite unirritating, and transparent, so that the progress of healing can be watched from day to day. If common adhesive plaster be used, the remark of Professor Gross is of some practical importance. It should be cut in the direction of its length, the texture in breadth being more yielding; so that if cu.t in that direction, the plaster is apt to become loosened when heated by the skin. Any blood or dirt around the wound having been washed off, the surface is lightly wiped dry with a clean soft cloth. If blood be allowed to remain, it stiffens, tightens, and irritates ; nor can it be removed subsequently without an unwarrantable degree of handling and rubbing. Thus also, any hair on the part is better cut off in the first instance. Strips of plaster, of length and breadth suitable to the size of the wound, are then applied; and most advantageously, by placing the first strip over the centre, and another on either side alternately^ leaving intervals between them wherever the edges of the wound lie in even and easy apposition. Any oozing is thus allowed to escape, the more so from a deep wound. Sutures are made of silk twist; or metallic wire, of various kinds;SPEOLVL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 366 gold, silver, iron, or lead. They are apt to induce inflammation and ulceration of the skin around each, as a centre. Silver wii-e is, perhaps, less irritating than silk, which acts as a seton, A number of such sutures are, in efL'ect, so many little setons, along the margin of a wound. Fine telegraph wire has been introduced into surgical practice by Mr. Clover. It consists of a fine copper thread, coated with gutta-percha. This is soft, flexible, tough, and perfectly unirri- tating; it admits, therefore, of ready introductioii and knotting as a suture, and it may be left in the tissues for ten or fourteen days, with- out inducing any suppuration or inflammation along its ti'ack. Sutures, of some kind, are necessary alone, or as adjuncts to strips of plaster, whenever the wounded part is liable to be disturbed; whether by muscular action, its own weight, tension, or looseness. Such parts are the lips, tongue, soft palate, checks, nose, eyelids, ears; breasts, abdominal walls, bowels, scrotum, and the integuments around joints. When used, sutures are applied hefore the retentive strips of plaster; and only to bring the margins of the wound together, here and there, form- ing the "interrupted" suture. (Fig- 86.) Commencing in the centre of the wound, in order to judge of the even adjustment of the rest of its extent, the first suture is inserted by means of a curved needle, armed with silk or wire. Then another is placed alter- nately on either side, and so on, from point to point; but only where neces- sary to secure apposition. If silk be used, each suture is tied with a reef- knot ; if wire-suture be employed, a twist or two wiU secui'e it. In either case the ends are then snipped oif short. A few sutures only, as may be requisite, should be inserted ; for, besides their irritating character, co- aptation can be efficiently maintained in the intervals between them by straps of plaster. Other forms of suture are employed in special kinds of incised wounds. The " twisted " suture is a waxed thread, twisted or coiled into a figure of eight shape around a fine needle, previously ti-ansfixed through ■ the lips of a wound in apposition. It is most serviceable for wounds in the lips, as in the operation for hare-lip, and for wounds of the abdommal walls. The " quilled " suture consists of a number of inter- rupted sutures, secured, not across the lips of the wound, but on either side, to a quill, piece of bougie, or other small cylinder, placed parallel about half an inch from the margins of the wound. Textures below the surface are thus approximated and steadily held together; an ad- vantage in respect to a deep wound, as Avell as in any movable part. Ruptured perinseum is thus secured. The " unmterrupted" suture, or Glover's stitch, is seldom used, excepting for wounds of the mtes- tine, which are stitched close so as, if possible, to'prevent the escapeINCISED WOUND. 367 of fa3cal matter. The " button " sutuve of Bozeman, the " clamp," and the "serrefine," of M. Vidal, may be here mentioned. A hanclage or roller, and comi^resscs or light pads of lint, may be required to maintain the surfaces of a wound in contact. This, more especially, if the parts are muscular and liable to retraction, or bulky and apt to fall asunder. Deep or excavated wounds, therefore, mostly need this extra restraint or support. But it should be applied evenly, and only with sufficient pressure to invite adhesion, by preventmg dis- placement and any oozing haamorrhage. Amputation-wounds well illus- trate the circumstances alluded to. Muscular retraction and weight of the flaps, thence recurring displacement and oozing htemorrhage, are overcome and obviated, by the additional retention of compresses and a bandage applied with even and moderate pressure. The line of incision, visible between the strips of plaster, needs only the protection of a piece of wet lint, as " water-dressing," covered with oiled silk to retard evaporation; and which maybe occasionally moistened without removing it or otherwise disturbing the healing process. Gol- lodion is sometimes used for the purpose of temporarily sealing the lips of an incised wound. AppHed with a camel's-hair brush, it should be used quickly, and in such quantity that one application of the brush may suffice; for collodion is very adhesive, dries almost immediately, and contracts. Antiseptic Dressings.—Disinfection and Deodorization have, of late years, attracted much attention, more particularly in this country; and especially in the treatment or dressing of "Wounds, whether occasioned by accident or by surgical operation. These terms, disinfection and deodorization, are not at all necessarily synonymous. Disinfection re- presents the neutralization or destruction of the infectious property, whatever that may be, in the atmosphere, or in any liquid, or solid substance, as an article of clothing—whereby a disease, itself infectious, is conununicated and propagated; Deodorization signifies only the neutralization' of an odoriferous property, and possibly, simply by masking it by some more powerful and penetrating odour. Probably, disinfection is far more frequently attended with deodorization, than the latter impHes the former. Thus, solutions of cai'bolic acid, chlorine, and chloride of zinc are Disinfectants; whereas the aroma wafted from burning spices, or the fragrant spices of the East, employed in ' times gone by, would sweeten rather than purify the sick chamber; like the camphor-bag in domestic use, or the time-honoured rue strewed about the dock of our criminal courts; all such agents more often delude the sense only—they are Deodorizers. Disinfection in relation to the treatment of Wounds, accidental or surgical, may be termed Antiseptic; the object being to prevent the putrefaction of any blood or liquor sanguinis cxtravasated, or of pus formed subsequently, and it would seem to also control the formation of the latter fluid. Thence, primary union of the wound is favoured, and the liability to purulent infection of the blood—Pyaamia—or to the decomposition of animal matter—producing Septictemia—is prevented. The principle of antiseptic treatment is twofold :— Firstly. By the exclusion of air, as the infecting agent, from the wound. Secondly. By the interposition of some positively disinfecting or antiseptic dressing, in the form of a close covering to the wound.368 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Professor Lister, who lias mainly originated antiseptic treatment, enlarges this aspect of the principle, thus:—"An antiseptic to exclude putrefaction, with a protective to exclude the antiseptic, will by their joint action keep the wound free from abnormal stimulus." This principle may he fulfilled as follows :— (1.) Exclusion of aii- from a wound may he effected by simple water-dressing, as already described; care being taken to apply the dressing so as to form a close covering, and which is enveloped in oiled silk. Or, the air may be Ts^ithdrawn by an exhausting receiver, as has been tried in France. (2.) Antiseptic dressings of various kinds have been employed; and as a process of treatment, comprising many details, apparently essential to its success as a specific method, this has been named by Professor Lister the "Antiseptic System of Treatment." (a.) The "protective" should possess several properties; it should be a material impervious to carbolic acid, and unstiniulating in its own substance; at the same time, it must be insoluble in discharges, and sufficiently supple to apply itself readily to the part. Various materials have been tried and discarded ; as a metallic plate, itself impervious, but when made of block tin, it was too rigid, and tin-foil soon wears into holes. Grutta-percha soon transmits carbolic acid. The "pro- tective " Lister now uses is oiled silk; prepared by having a thin coating, brushed over it, of a mixture consisting of one part of dextrine, two parts of powdered starch, and sixteen parts of cold watery solution of carbolic acid—1 to 20. (5.) Antiseptic " lac-plaster " is laid evenly over the protective and should extend freely beyond the wound; and over both, the part is enveloped with a cloth, to absorb any discharge Avhich may ooze from beneath the margin of the impermeable plaster, the cloth being secured in position by a roller-bandage. The plaster now used is incorporated with a soft cloth, instead of being spread upon starched calico. It is thus made more flexible and durable, but very thin; so that a double layer may be advisable, to double the store of acid in the application, when much discharge is anticipated, or when the dressing is not to be removed for some time. " The carbolic oil," and " carbolic paste or putty," formerly employed and advocated by Mr. Lister, he now seems to have almost abandoned. More recently, however, to complete the antiseptic appliances which may be requisite in the treatment of wounds, he has devised " antiseptic ligatures " of prepared catgut, for securing blood-vessels, and " antiseptic sutures," for retaining the lips and surfaces of a wound in contact. Previously to applying the solid antiseptic dressing, above described, the wound is well syringed out with "carbolic solution or lotion," as strong as it can be made ; one part of the crystals to twenty of water. The transient irritant property of this strong solution is said to be fai- less objectionable than the abiding influence of the more acrid products of putrefaction ; even although the solution be thrown into the interior of a large joint, as in the dressing of a compound dislocation of the ankle-joint. A weaker lotion, one to forty, will suffice, in dressing a recent, and surgical, wound. The shin around a wound is well washed with the lotion. Then, the protective, lac-plaster, outer cloth and bandage, are severally applied. ReaxJiMcation of the dressing may be required, or advisable, occa- sionally ; iu the intervals, the bandage and cloth may be daily mois-INCISED WOUND. 369 tened with carbolic solution, strong or weak,—one to eighty, to renew a supply of the antiseptic to the lac beneath. Great care must be taken in removing the antiseptic dressing, not to admit air into the wound, or any regurgitation of discharge. Hence two precautions; in removing the cloth, the plaster should be held down over the wound, so as not to be drawn up with it, at any part where they may have become adherent by dried discharge; then, in raising the plaster, the nozzle of a syringe is inserted beneath its margin, and a stream of carbolic solution is thrown over the wound, until a piece of calico, soaked with the same lotion, has been placed upon it, as a temporary security, pending the re-application of the plaster. " These details, while essential to success, are, happily, easy of execution." Theory of the Antisejptic Treatment.—To form an impartial judgment respecting the eflBcacy of " antiseptics," it is necessary, as in all other aspects of surgery, to draw a sharp line of distinction between observed facts, and their supposed explanation or interpretation. The non- recognition of this obviously important distinction has influenced, both favourably and unfavourably, the pi^actice of antisepticism. To pre- vent, if possible, the putrefaction of animal matter, whether as blood or discharge, in contact with wounds, is known to be most important, pathologically, as an observed fact; and that carbolic acid has some such influence, is another observed fact. But how it operates is doubtful. Opinions are divided, though not equally. The chemical theorists attribute the putrefaction observed, to the decomposition induced by the oxygen of the air, a process of oxidation. The ^er?7i-theorists attribute the putrefaction observed, to the pro- duction of living organisms developed from germs or ova floating in the atmosphere, as constituents of its dust; and not as the result of " spontaneous or equivocal generation," in the putrifying animal matter. The balance of, evidence would seem to be in favour of the latter or germ-theory. The observations of Cagniard Latour, 1836, in the dis- covery of the yeast plant, followed by those of Schwann of Berlin, in the following year, and the subsequent discovery of minute, jointed, living bodies—vibrios—in putrid matter, supplied the basis of the . germ-theory; while the well-known power of the atmosphere to carry ; and disseminate seeds or dust, completed the theory. The researches I of Pasteur seem to have brought it to actual demonstration. Hence, i antiseptic treatment would consist in excluding the atmosphere from ' wounds, and in interposing some agent which shall destroy the germs i m their introduction by any exposure to the air. Has carbolic acid, or other so-called antiseptics, any such effect ? The question is still .< sub judice. Results.—Comparing the aggregate results of amputations, in the Glasgow Eoyal Infirmary, Professor Lister finds the mortality to have been:—Before the antiseptic period, 16 deaths in 35 cases, or 1 death in every 2i cases; whereas, during the antiseptic period, it was 6 deaths in 40 cases, or 1 death in every 6| cases. This is certainly a greatly dimished mortality, and its significance is more notable from il the relative death-rate of amputations in the upper limb ; where gene- rally, neither the injuries nor the operations involve much loss of blood or shock to the system, so that if death occurs, it is commonly the result of the wound assuming an unhealthy character. There wero 2 BSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURaERY. 370 12 amputations in the upper limb, in each of the periods referred to. Of the 12 cases before the antiseptic period, 6 died; but of the 12 during tha,t period, only 1 died, and 11 recovered. The deaths were caused, principally, by pysemia, erysipelas, and hospital gangrene. Thence, it would appear, may be inferred " the effects of the antiseptic system of treatment upon the salubrity of a Surgical Hospital." * But my long experience at the Royal Free Hospital is decidedly in favour of those precautionary hygienic arrangements, with reference to cleanliness and ventilation especially, which may be denominated _pre-septicism, and which render the antagonistic measures of miti- septicism quite useless, and, indeed, unnecessary. After-dressing.—An incised wound should not be disturbed incon- siderately during the process of adhesion. Inflammation can scarcely be said to supervene. In the first instance, it starts this reparative pro- cess. Attended with a slight pouting and redness of the lips of the wound, this salutary degree of inflammation should not be repressed ; and, being transient, inflammatoiy fever is not excited, from first to last, if the wound, however extensive and deep, continues to heal by adhesion. The constitution remains calm and impassive throughout the process, taking little or no notice of the local reparation effected by the part itself. Consequently, no antiphlogistic treatment, topical or general, becomes necessary ; but the lightest dressings to maintain apposition, and the gentlest handling in applying them, are still sufficient. The first di'essing is not unfrequently the only one nature requires ; the wound healing in two or three days, possibly in twenty-four hours. But union is not then secure, nor much before the end of a week in small wounds, and a fortnight in larger incisions. Therefore, during even the shortest period requisite for sound union, the dressings must be changed occasionally; their reapplication having reference always to some obvious and important purpose. Cleanliness, rather than readjustment of the wound, is the guiding maxim for interference. The strip of lint is to be withdrawn wet, not to disturb the lips of the wound, as yet tenderly united. The strips of plaster, also moistened to facilitate their removal, are withdrawn by both ends together gently towards the line of incision, not to undo the work of nature; and each strip is replaced by a fresh one before the next is removed, not to leave any part unsupported. To moisten the dressings, a piece of lint is preferable to a sponge, which might be accidentally re-used in another dressing, or from another patient; and in cleansing the wound, a light stream of tepid water should be squeezed from the lint, to wash away, instead of wiping off, any discharge. The removal of sutures, if any, will be guided by the progress of adhesion, or by the accidental super- vention of inflammation. Within the first twenty-four hours, some, at least, may become useless, or worse,—irritating. These sutures should be picked out, wherever, from point to point, union appears safe, or the blush of inflammation is conspicuous. OtherAvise they will ulcei*ate their way through, and so peril the healing progress. In the event of considerable swelling and tension, the lips of the wound having a tightly puckered appearance at the point of each suture, and a pouting or protruding condition in their intervals, all the sutui-es must be * I gathered the foregoing description of the antiseptic treatment, and its results,/rom several monographs which Mr. Lister kmdly forwarded to me for this purpose, in the first edition of this work.371 WOUNDS OF ARTERIES AND VEINS. •withdrawn fortliwith. If thus released, the lips do not adhere; the surfaces may do so, partially or entirely. But if the parts be heavy, and pendulous, as the under-flap of a thigh-stump, yet without tension, all the sutures had better be left in this, the first dressing. The removal of any ligature or ligatures is, like their application, not necessarily part of the treatment of an incised wound; and will be considered under "Wounds of Arteries. The bandage, if any, and the compresses, if any, are no longer needed when union is sufficiently firm not to risk straining the parts, by the loss of these surface-supports. Generally, the first few days will sufiice. Swelling, however, as in amputation-wounds, may yet require the partial support of a turn or two of the bandage, until tension has subsided. Thus, one by one, the appliances of Surgery are withdrawn; one by one, these artificial props are removed; until at length, and ere long, in most cases, nature is able to consolidate the union, without further assistance. Such then is, what I would term, the "conservative" treatment of incised wounds; an example, from first to last, utterly opposed to meddlesome Surgery. "Wounds of Aeteries and Veins. These Lesions are conveniently taken next in order. "Wounds of Arteeies.—Structural Conditions.—A wound of an artery, like that of any other texture, may be incised, or lacerated; either of which lesions may be partial or complete. Fig. 87. Incision, i^artially extending through the calibre of an artery, and practically equivalent to a punctured wound, varies in direc- tion; being longitudinal, oblique, or transverse, and these are important practical distinctions (Fig. 87); so also is the varia- tion in size of an aperture, which :may be of any circumferential extent, short of comjolete division ' of the vessel. Laceration, partiathj extending through the coats of an artery, is limited to one or more of its three coats; the external, and more or less of the middle coats, may be torn through, leaving only the thin inner one entire; or, the two inner coats are severed, leaving only the thick external cellular coat untorn. This latter condition of laceration IS effected by the surgical application of a ligature. Lastly, all three coats are torn through, if the laceration be complete; but the external cellular coat and cellular sheath, being tougher than the two inner coats, are drawn out from off them, which also retract; thus forming a canal of loose cellular tissue. The Signs of any such wound of an artery are hcemorrhage, the blood haying a florid red colour, and jetting out from the vessel, per satiwn, with each beat of the heart; not escaping in a continuous stream of purple or black blood. The force and, in a degree, the rapidity ofSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 372 the jets are regulated by the size of the artery, or of the aperture in it, by its proximity to the heart, and by the heart's action; also by the presence or absence of certain conditions which retard or favour tho free flow of blood through the vessel. Thus, pressure on the proximal portion of artery retards, while a dependent position favours, th(! ha;morrhage. The blood coming from the didal portion of vessel is dark, and runs in a trickling stream, excepting from certain arteries, the palmar and plantar arches, which when wounded, jet arterial blood from either extremity of the vessel. Causes cmd Effects of Wounds of Arteries.—An artery may be incised or cut with a sharp instrument, punctured with a pointed one, contused or lacerated by a blunt one, or wounded by force of a bruising or wrenching kind. The operation of any such lesion locallij, is to produce aneurism, if the blood be imprisoned in the textures; constituting traumatic aneurism —diffused, or eventually circumscribed. Its formation will be specially described in connection with aneurism. Constitutionally regarded, whether arterial haemorrhage takes place externally, or internally, as into one of the great cavities of the body, its effects are manifested by syncope or fainting, more or less complete. And this may occur either by failure of the heart's action—cardiac syncope, and thence of the circulation, or as loss of consciousness—cerebral syncope; or both modes of process may be produced. The symptoms of syncope are further evinced by a feeble or imperceptible pulse, with palHdity and cold-clamminess of the surface, and lividity of the fingers, toes, lips, and eyes; in this condition, after a few oppressive sighs or gasps, with convulsive twitchings of the limbs, death may take place im- mediately. Or, if the hasmorrhage be less considerable and sudden, the symptoms of syncope are less marked; the patient turns pale and chilly, faint and sick, but soon becomes restless, and tormented with a raging thirst. These constitutional effects and the probability of death resulting, are proportionate to the quantity of blood lost; not neces- sarily by its escape from the body, but even when lost to the body as blood in circulation. Providentially, however, the imminent peril of continued hEemori-hage is lessened by cardiac syncope; suspension of the circulation tends to arrest the escape of blood from the artery, and by thus favouring the formation of an occluding clot, it tends also to arrest the hcemorrhage. Reaction after loss of blood signifies the return of the heart's action and the circulation. This state is denoted by symptoms of vascular and nervous excitement, which, after considerable loss of blood, constitute hcemorrhagic fever. The pulse becomes rapid, but feeble or jerking, and irregular, loose or thready also in proportion to the anaemic condition of the blood-vessels. With returning warmth of surface, the face flushes, and the eyes acquire a lustrous brilliancy, while a restless excitement supervenes, bordering on delirium, and which perhaps terminates in death by coma and convulsions. Or the reaction may be intermittent; pallidity and syncope recurring, followed by some return of the circulation. Age much affects the issue. In youth, the rallying power is greater, though the tolerance of ha<mor- rhage is less, the loss of a small quantity of blood, as from a leech-bite, sometimes proving fatal to an infant; in advanced life, reaction is less vigorous, and as the reproduction of blood is also less active, recovery373 WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. will he more and more doubtful, deatli perhaps ultimately taking place from exhaustion, or from some secondary alfection of a typhoid cha- racter. Arterial ho9morrhage is of greater consequence than venous. After death, the appearances presented are remarkably anemic; the surface generally blanched, of a yellowish white, semi-transparent cast, but the finger-nails, toes, and lips are congested and livid. Secondary haemorrhage is so named' where the bleeding occurs, or recurs, after an interval of a few hours, more or less, subsequent to the vascular lesion. (See Amputations—Stwmjj.} The Ha'morrhagie Diathesis signifies a constitutional predisposition, whereby the slightest breach of surface—a scratch or a prick—is attended with a persistent oozing of blood the blood-vessels apparently possess- ing no contractility, and the blood no power of coagulation. From "Wachsmuth's observations, it would seem that an exalted vitality of the blood, and a delicate organization of the capillaries, are the essential causative conditions. This diathesis is usually congenital, and perhaps hereditary, but it may be declared for the first time in adult life. Privations seem to induce the hjemorrhagic tendency, but it is often manifested in otherwise healthy constitutions, and apart from any adverse hygienic circumstances. Both sexes are equally liable, although in male children the haemorrhages begin earlier and are more fatal. Marriage on the male side does not appear to transmit the diathesis. If the bleeding be spontaneous, as often in epistaxis, it may be periodic. Ecchymoses in various parts of the body, and internal extravasations of blood, are apt to occur. Joint-affections also are not uncommon, simulating rheumatism, and which, temporarily control the tendency to hfemorrhage. Reparation.—If the artery be healthy, any lesion is uniformly dis- posed to heal by coagulation of the blood and the formation of a clot or clots so placed as to arrest the hasmorrhage; a temporary provision, followed by primary adhesion, or, possibly, adhesive inflammation, whereby the vessel is permanently secured and obstructed. But this process of coagulation and adhesion is modified chiefl.y according to the structural kind of wound—incised or lacerated, either of which may also be a partial or complete division of the artery. Then, again, the direction of the wound more particularly modifies the process of healing. (1.) An incised andpartial division, or di,punctured wound, of an artery is the simplest instance. (See Fig. 87.), If the direction of the cut be longitudinal or oblique, it will close more readily than a transverse incision, the edges of which gape and do not fall into apposition. The elasticity of arterial tissue longitudinally makes all the difference,, and in favour of that direction, aided also, in this case, by the circular contractility of the artery. The line of incision remains, closed; blood escaping coagulates betwixt the vessel and its sheath, forming a com-- press, assisted by any corresponding coagulum which may have formed outside the sheath. The relative positions of the apertures in the artery and its sheath are displaced somewhat by the formation of the intervening portion of clot-compress, thus further tending to arrest haemorrhage. But this clot-compress is a temporary provision only. Adhesion soon follows in the line of incision, the edges being in contact. A transverse cut, partly through the circumference of an artery, opens, the_ vessel contracting longitudinally by virtue of its elasticity. Ad- hesion cannot ensue. The aperture is closed by the effusion andSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 374 Fig. 88. if organization of lymph within the artery, which thus becomes impervious and obliterated. Lost, however, for ever as a blood-conveying tube, hsamorrhage of perhaps fatal character is ai-rested. Nature is still victorious. The size of the vessel will somewhat afEect the issue, which is otherwise in favour of a longitudinal incision. An artery like the temporal, with a longitudinal slit, heals without obliteration. An artery of larger calibre, and similarly wounded, becomes impervious and ob- literated. And the ultimate success of Nature's effort is apt to be marred, even when the wounded vessel remains pervious; for the internal and middle coats not adhering firmly, this defect predisposes to aneurism. (2.) Comiylete division of an artery by incision is healed by a modi- fication of the same process—clot-formation, but not as a compress, being the temporary provision, and lymph-effusion permanently plugging up the vessel. Immediately after its division the artery retracts by its elasticity—longitudinally into its sheath, which thus projects loosely; and the mouth of the vessel contracts, even to a pinhole open- ing, owing to its muscular contractility —circularly. The retracted portion thus contracted has a conical shape, like that of a Florence oil-flask or French claret- bottle. (Fig. 88.) Contractility may be sufficient to close the vessel and prevent further hemorrhage. In this way small arterial branches spontaneously cease to bleed in an open wound exposed to the air, or the action of cold water; but the artery having retracted, coagulation is induced within the loosely projecting filamentous sheath, which entangles the blood as it flows; and this event may be aided by cessation of the stream, owing to failure of the heart's action —cardiac syncope—another resource of Nature for the temporary arrest of haemorrhage. Coagulation pro- ceeds concentrically. The clot, at first pervious and transnaitting a small central stream of blood, soon forms a solid mass, which, still enlarging, passes up the bore of the artery for a short distance in the shape of a small cone. This portion—internal coagulum or houchon—and that in the sheath—external coagulum or couvercle—together form a clot, in shape like a glass stopper fitted into a decanter, to which the wholo is compared by Professor Gross. The shape of Nature's product is not quite so finished off, for a small poi-tion of the clot is insinuated between the sheath and artery beyond the point of retraction, thereby compressing the arterial aperture, while a still larger portion of an irregular shape projects beyond the aperture of the sheath. The whole clot is however, continuous, and with these little offsets still bears the resemblance suggested. (Fig. 88.) The permanent closure of the vessel is effected by the effusion of plastic lymph. Like coagulated fibrin, its organization consists, essentially, of fibrils; but those of plastic lymph result from the elongation and attenuation of cells into fibres, in various stages of development. Corresponding m situation to the clot, i.e., at the aperture, around it slightly, and extending into i375. WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. the vessel, tlie lympli intervenes between it and the clot, whicli it gradually replaces. Daring this change the clot varies in appearance, Tbeing partly lymph, and partly ordinary coagulum. The lower end of a divided artery is closed up much in the same way. According to Gruthrie's observations, it retracts and contracts less than the cardiac end; and the internal coagu.lum is altogether absent, or very imperfectly formed in many instances. (3.) A lacerated wound of an artery, ii jjartial, may extend through the external and middle coats, leaving only a thin undivided inner membrane, which still continues the channel of communication. Hgemorrhage is imminent. Or the laceration may extend through the inner and middle coats, leaving the outer cellular coat entire. Haemor- rhage threatens, or gangrene may supervene. But if the two inner coats be cut rather than torn, reparation generally takes place and secures the vessel. Such is the kind of injury purposely inflicted by the Surgical application of a ligature, which leaves the external coat undivided; and although itself noxious, as a foreign body in the very pathway of reparation, the artery becomes sealed with plastic lymph, plugged up also with coagulum, and obliterated. The details of this process, thus artificially induced by Surgical interference, will be de- scribed in connection with the treatment of haemorrhage. (4.) Complete laceration of an artery—all the coats being torn through—heals without haemorrhage, or scarcely ■any. The process is the same as that which takes Fig. 89. place after division of an artery by incision. But the cellular sheath and outer cellular coat are drawn off the two inner coats, which retract. Consequently the clot that forms in the project- ing portion of loose sheath is larger than when the vessel is simply cut across; presenting a bulb- shaped extremity, which may extend to half an inch or an inch in length. This appearance is well shown in Fig. 89, which represents a popliteal artery and vein in a remarkable case, both vessels having been ruptured by a violent twist of the knee-joint. Grangrene of the leg ensued, for which I amputated above the knee; with, how- ever, a fatal result. Treatment.—Arrest of hgemorrhage is the first indication of treatment. Small arterial vessels spontaneously cease to bleed, almost immediately. Thus, if the vessels be divided entirely across— complete incision—as in most wounds, their cut extremities retracting and contracting soon offer adequate resistance to the escape of blood. This natural provision will be insured by exposure of the wound to cool air, or a stream of cold water squeezed from a sponge. Gentle pressure with the sponge will readily discover whether there be still any oozing from the bleeding points. Larger-sized arteries bleed in jetting streams of florid blood, and the further resources of Surgical treatment are forthwith necessary to meet such htemorrhage. They comprise:—(1) Astringents, including Cold, and Styptics; (2) Cauterization; (3) Compression; (4) Ligature; (5) Acupressure; (6) Torsion.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 376 (1.) Astringents.—Oold may be applied in various ways; in tlie form of a stream of cold water, or by exposure to cool air, or by means of an ice-bag, or as ice-water. Cold applications arc most eligible for the arrest of general bleeding from a large surface, or in the event of per- sistent oozing hasmorrhage; and where the bleeding proceeds from an internal cavity, as the mouth, rectum, or vagina, when it may be ar- rested by the injection of ice-water. After a wound has been closed and dressed, the recurrence of ha3morrhage can often be stopped, either by a continued or a dropping stream of cold water by means of irrigation, or by the application of an ice-bag. Styptics are various astringent agents ; such as styptic colloid, tincture of the perchloride of iron, Ruspini's styptic, oil of turpentine, solution of alum, tincture or infusion of matico. These agents are used by means of a brush or a fold of lint soaked in the styptic, and applied to the bleeding surface. Other styptics may be ,admimstered internally; as gallic or tannic acids, lead, opium, or turpentine. All such agents are appropriate Tinder similar circumstances of haemorrhage to those for the employ- ment of cold. But external styptics are apt to induce a thin layer of slough, and thus prevent or intercept primary union. And internal styptics are hardly prompt enough in their action. Solid opium, given in a full dose, is accredited with the virtue of arresting any oozing of blood from a number of small vessels, after wound or operation. The hemorrhagic diathesis also may perhaps be controlled by. oil of tur- pentine. (2.) Cauterization may be effected by the actual cautery, or hot iron —the most ancient resource in surgical hemorrhage, or by theiwtential cautery, in the form of potassa fusa or nitrate of silver. The actual cautery usually consists of an iron rod, having a conical-shaped or button extremity, the other end being set in a wooden handle. The iron is heated in the fire to a black heat, rather than made red-hot, and the point is then applied, almost momentarily, to the bleeding vessel, which causes a hissing sound, and produces an eschar, or slough, of the burnt textures. Other forms of actual cautery are sometimes employed; a porcelain instrument heated by gas, or platinum heated by means of the galvanic battery, the galvanic cautery. Cauterization is most serviceable when the haemorrhage proceeds from one or more arterial points, and in an otherwise inaccessible situation. But on the detachment of the eschar, in about a week, bleeding is liable to return. (3.) Compression—mediate, as it is sometimes termed, when not directly applied to the bleeding vessel—may be effected either by the finger or a tourniquet, placed over the parent artery, at the most eligible spot betwixt the wound and the heart. Pressure thus applied is only a temporary resource. Immediate compression is effected by pressure directly applied over, or to, the bleeding vessels. Direct pressure may be made over the seat of the bleeding vessels by a pad of dry lint or other material, secured in position with sufficient firmness by a roller-bandage. A wound having been thoroughly cleansed and closed, haemorrhage can thus be arrested; and after amputation, the flaps of the stump can be compressed with a broad pad above and below, retained by the turns of a bandage. Cavities admit of being plugged with a pledget of lint or piece of sponge, saturated perhaps with some B typtic solution; as in bleeding from the nares, rectum, or vagina, or fromWOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 377 tlie orbit after removal of the eyeball, or from the socket of a tootb, in the rare case of continued bleeding after tooth extraction. Direct pressure can be brought to bear, even more effectually, by means of a grachtated compress, applied to the bleeding vessel. This form of compress consists of a series of pads of dry lint, from the smallest pledget which is placed on the bleeding point, over which another is laid down, and as many more, each of increasing size, as will reach above the level of the surface ; thus making a conical-shaped compress, the apex resting upon the wound in the vessel, and the whole being secured by a bandage. In applying the first plug of lint, the cavity must be well sponged out, while the main artery is commanded above, that the bleeding vessel may be faiiiy seen, before laying down the compress. It represents the clot-compress of nature. The graduated compress should be allowed to remain until the wounded vessel has become closed without the risk of hsemorrhage recurring; the requisite period varying from about a week to a fortnight. This mode of direct compression is specially applicfe-ble to the wound of a single artery, and which cannot be secured otherwise ; but direct com- pression, in either of the ways described, is suitable only, or chiefly, for the control of small arteries, and where the support of bone affords counter-pressure. (4.) Ligature.—The ligature is a Surgical appliance in imitation of a lacerated wound, partially extending through the coats of an artery, i.e., through its two inner coats, which are thin and fragile, leaving the thicker and tougher outer coat and cellular sheath untorn. The effectual operation of this appliance is compression of the vessel to induce coagulation of the blood stagnant above and below the ligature, and the effasion of plastic lymph, from the divided coats, to perma- nently occlude the vessel in both directions; sloughing of the included ring of outer coat and cellular sheath being rendered necessary to detach the ligature. The details of this reparative process, thus in- duced artificially, are these:— The included portion of external cellular Fig. 90. coat and sheath, having undergone continued compression, sloughs, and is detached with the thread, in a period varying from twenty- ; four hours or so to about three or four • weeks, chiefly according to the size of artery, . Haemorrhage would then be inevitable; but, ] pending the detachment of this slough-ring, i effusion of plastic lymph, from the vasa 1 vasorum, takes place, whereby the two inner c coats, divided, become adherent across the « area of the vessel, just above and below the ligature. At these points they curl inwards V when divided, and, converging, meet together. This condition was well seen in a femoral artery and vein (Pig. 90), which I examined .. five days only after it had been ligatured •when the thigh was amputated. A process of organization, therefore, above and below the hgature, accompanies the destruction and detachment of the ring of external coat embraced by the thread. Thus878 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUROERY. the artery ib securely sealed. Accessory, but incidental only, to the pre- vention of hjemorrhage, are certain changes whereby either portion of the artery adjoining the ligature is obhterated. The vessel having ceased to convey blood when the ligature was applied, the blood stagnant above and below, to the nearest collateral branch, has gradually under- gone coagulation in the shape of two conical clots, the bases of which accurately plug the artery on either side of the thread. The apex of the clot on the cardiac side tails off, usually opposite the first collateral branch above, through which the stream of blood, now diverted from its course, is carried off from the main. The distal clot is always less defined. At first either clot has the appearance of ordinary coagu- lum, subsequently it becomes mottled with paler spots, and its sub- stance porous, and ultimately acquires a buff colour, firm consistence, and fibrous texture. Blood-vessels, proceeding from the lymph imme- diately above and below the ligature, shoot into the base of either clot, and gi'adually extend towards its apex. Finally, these organized fibrous clots are incorporated with the lymph adjoining, which has acquired a similar structure; the coats of the unused portions of artery degene- rating, also assume a fibrous character; and the whole is converted into a small, firm, impervious, fibrous cord, extending usually to the first collateral branch above and below. Nature having safely severed the artery, under compression by the ligature, and securely sealed either end, has now obliterated the portions useless as a blood-conveying tube. Certain advantages, and disadvantages, attend the use of the ligature. Appropnate for the arrest of hemorrhage which would otherwise be persistent or recurring and perilous, the objections to ligature are:— the production of a slough or sloughs of arterial texture, according to the number of vessels ligatured—and thence the liability of secondary hjEmorrhage; the introduction of a foreign body, or as many foreign bodies, into the flesh-wound—a condition which, in conjunction with that of the arterial slough-rings, is antagonistic to the process of healing by primary adhesion; and that suppuration consequently, and the sloughs, are provocative of pyaemia. The efficacy of ligature in the treatment of haemorrhage from wounds of arteries, of flesh-wounds, and in relation to pyaemia, is to be estimated by all these considerations; and thence the value of this method of treatment as compared with that of "acupressure," proposed to supei'sede it. Certain particulars are of great moment in the application of a ligature ; the observance of which a due knowledge of the process which is thus induced for the arrest of htemorrhage, can alone insure. It is in this light that I specially here advert to them. But they have reference also to the value of ligature, as a method of treatment; for they determine the probability of haemorrhage recurring or super- vening, and also of the healing of a flesh-wound by primaiy adhesion when an artery or arteries are thus secured. The practical particulars having this twofold significance are these: —A ligature should be applied so as to cut through the two inner coats of the artery, leaving only the outer more-resisting cellular coat and sheath. Hence the ligature must be a small, round, and strong thread, fine silk twist waxed being found to answer best. Applied with sufficient tightness for this purpose; and also to induce sloughing of the outer coat by stra^igulating compression. Applied tran.wcrseh/ across the diameter of the vessel, observing to pi-css the loop down879 WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. ■well upon the vessel, with each forefinger, so as not to include the point of the forceps; and then, in tightening the loop, to press the threads in like manner, downwards, adjoining the loop, that its hold may be retained; tying them with a reef-lmot. (Fig. 91.) Failing these precautions, with regard to the vessel, the ligature may shift its position, and loosen- ing, haemorrhage recurs or supervenes when adhesion is not yet stifficiently advanced to safely seal the vessel. For the same reason, a ligature should be applied so as not to include any extraneous texture —a bit of muscle, a vein, or nerve; for then the twofold effect on the artery enclosed may not be produced, or sloughing may proceed more speedily in the extraneous texture than in the arterial coat, the lio-ature become loosened, and haemorrhage occur. Inclusion of a nerve-filament causes also great pain at the time, and for a considerable period in some cases. An imbedded artery may be inaccessible with- out including some other texture. In the most inaccessible situations' ■—as when, by amputation, the anterior tibial artery is divided at its origin and deep in the muscles between the heads of the tibia and fibula —it is absolutely necessary to " dip " for an artery so placed. A curved needle armed with a ligature is in this way carried round the vessel, and the thread tied as usual, but including as small a quantity of extraneous texture as possible. On the other hand, the ligature should not be applied to any projecting portion of the artery; the vessel being there denuded of its own nutrient vessels (vasa vasorum), plastic lymph is not effused, and when the slough-ring separates, haemorrhage is inevitable. Regarded as a foreign body, antagonistic to healing by primary adhesion, one end of the ligature is usually cut off close to the knot on the artery, leaving only the other end to command the noose, and thus reducing the quantity of foreign body in the wound by one half. The ligature or ligatures may be brought to one or other angle of the wound, and there fixed by a small piece of plaster, thus also limiting any defective adhesion to the narrow track occupied by the thread or threads. Duly observing all these suggestions of pathology, the constructive part of the process—adhesion—will generally accompany the destruc- tive—-sloughing—with even progress ; permanent closure of the vessel accompanying the separation of a ring of slough with the ligature. The security of the vessel is safely ascertained by gently twirling the thread between the thumb and finger. A yielding sensation shows that Nature has done her work, and that the ligature detached can bo withdrawn without the risk of haemorrhage. This, however, cannot be expected, nor should the experiment be tried, before sufficient time has elapsed—the j^en'ocZ varying from twenty-four hours to as many days or more, chiefly according to the size of the artery.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 880 Ligature of an artery ia its continuity, is fully described under Ligature of Arteries. (5.) Acupressim-G has been proposed by Sir James Simpson as a substitute for ligature. It is essentially the " temporary metallic com- pression " of an artery, and it may be accomplished in either of three ways :—(1.) By passing a long needle twice through the flaps or sides of a wound, so as to cross over and compress the mouth of the bleed- ing vessel or its tube; just as in fastening a flower in the lapel of our coat we cross over and compress the stalk with the pin which fixes it, and therefore pass the pin twice through the lapel. In this method a long needle is introduced from the cutaneous surface, and its extremi- ties left out externally. -In both the other methods a common sewing- needle, threaded with iron wire, is used. The needle is introduced on the raw surface of the wound, and is therefore placed altogether internally or between the lips of the wound. The wire is only for the purpose of withdrawing the needle when no longer required. (2.) In one of the methods referred to, the needle is dipped down into the textures a little to one side of the vessel, then raised up and bridged over the artery, and finally dipped down again irit& the textures on the other side. This method, therefore, is the same as the first, but that the needle is applied altogether on the raw surface of the wound and over the artery, which it compresses. (3.) The third method consists in passing a needle tmder the vessel, transfixing the textures once. A Fig. 92.* loop of wire is passed over the point, and fastened round the eye end by a single twist, thus compressing the artery and some surrounding tissue between the needle and the wire. This method Sir James Simpson believes to be the one which will probably be most frequently practised. (Fig. 92.) In one form or other, acupressure is said to be superior to ligature, both with regard to the improbability of secondary Immon-Jiage, the * Occlusion of Arteries; the femoral arteries, after Acupressure, and Ligature —in double amputation—each twenty-four hours. (Author.)WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 381 probability of healing hy adhesion, and tbe improbability of purulent, or other septic infection of the blood—pycemia. (a.) Respecting hcemorrhage after amputations, in eleven cases of acupressure only one was followed by secondary hteraorrhage; whereas in eleven cases of ligature, four of secondary bjemorrhage occuri'ed, of which two were fatal. Such were the comparative results after ampu- tations at the Carlisle Hospital (Hamilton's Report). In other words, in that institution, secondary haemorrhage from ligature and from acupressure was as four to one in eleven cases. Other favourable results might be added. The most recent report is that of Professor Pirrie, who, with Dr. Keith and Dr. Fiddes, has more especially practised and advocated this mode of _ arresting arterial haemorrhage. The former enumerates his experience in important cases, of which records have been kept, as comprising the following operations:—Eleven cases of amputation of thigh, four of amputation of leg, two of ampu- tation of arm at the upper part of the surgical neck of the humerus, one of amputation at ankle-joint, one of Chopart's amputation, two of amputation of the whole of great toe, twelve of excision of mamma, six of excision of elbow-joint, one of excision of knee-joint, one of excision" of an erectile tumour, one of excision of tumour on chest, one of ex- cision of tumour on thigh (wound eight inches long), one of excision of head of fibula, three of excision of testicle, one of hEemorrhage from sloughing of hand, one of wound of hand, one of wound of upper part of forearm with great haemorrhage, one of wound of radial artery, and one of wound of hand attended with great hgemorrhage; in all fifty- one cases, and in which he has acupressed 185 vessels. But experience has not yet sufficiently accumulated to determine the relative value of these two kinds of treatment with reference to the improbability of htemorrhage supervening. Nor has pathology hitherto determined this question. " We want," acknowledged Sir James Simpson, " a series of proper experiments and observations as to the actxial pathological mechanism by which acupressure occludes the mouths and tubes of arteries, before we can attain fixed ideas as to its progress and completion." Accordingly, in the year 1867, I endeavoured to supply this desideratum by post-mortem examination of the process of occlusion in arteries, after acupressure, and its relation to the treatment of surgical hsemorrhage, compared also with ligature and torsion. The results of my observations were communicated in a Paper to the Clinical Society, in 1871. Previously, the observations of Mr. H. Lee and Mr. J. W. West, respectively, relative to acupressure were brought before the same Society. The practical object of my inquiry was, by a due knowledge of the process of occlusion, to determine the proper period for the safe withdrawal of the needle from a main artery, as the femoral, and the various periods in respect to different-sized arteries; rather than having recourse to the perilous mode of investigation, by tentative experience on living patients, in the treatment of haemorrhage by acupressure. Thus would be determined the hability of secondary haemorrhage occurring in this mode of treatment. Occlusion, after acupressure, consists, essentially, in the formation of a conical clot, adjoining the transverse line of acupressure, or needle; this clot increases in length, extending up probably to the first colla- teral branch of artery, and it increases also in calibre, so as to com- ] pletely occupy the bore of the vessel at, and for some distance adjoining,882 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. (Author.) Fig. 93* the line of acupressure. Thus the artery is plugged. (Fig. 93.) This clot soon undergoes stinictural changes; becoming fibrinous in its distal portion, partly fibrinous, eventually perhaps entirely so, in its proximal portion, and there adherent to the interior of the artery. Further changes I have not yet traced. But it would seem highly probable that the occluded portion of artery atrophies, and degene- rating into a fibro-cellular cord, as after ligature, thus becomes permanently obliterated. In conjunction with this series of changes, as affecting the blood in the artery, and eventually the vessel itself, there are, however, no changes at the seat of acupressure—no division of the inner and middle coats of the artery, and their inversion or reduplica- tion, and no subsequent deposition of lymph with adhesion of the divided coats of the vessel; the integrity of the artery remains unaffected by the compression of acupressure, temporarily applied, the needle serving the purpose merely of preventing the escape of blood as primary haemorrhage, while, by arrest of the passage of blood, coagulation may be induced, and thus secondary heemor- rhage prevented when the needle is ■withdrawn. A firm, fibrinous, and ad- herent clot was found to have formed within five days, and in a main artery— the femoral. In treatment by acupressure, there- fore, the proper period for the safe with- drawal of the needle may be inferred to be at that period, if not earlier; without liability to the occurrence of secondary hemorrhage. (b.) Respecting the probability of adhesion taking place between the sur- faces of a wound, the ai'teries of which are secured by acupressure; it is alleged that the needles are, as foreign bodies, merely temporary, while their material is less irritating than that of ligatures; and that they are not intended or allowed to produce sloughing of the com- pressed arteries, whereby foreign bodies of worse character, in the shape of slough-rings of the cellular coats of these vessels, are produced and remain between the raw surfaces—with, moreover, suppuration, (c.) Hence, also, the greater probability, apparently, of jjya'.mic infec- tion supervening after ligature. And certainly the observations of Professor Pirrie are here to the point, not a single instance of pyemia having occurred in his experience where acupressure has been employed by himself or his Hospital colleagues at the Aberdeen Hospital. (6.) Torsion of cut arteries is another method of arresting haemor- rhage, which may be regarded as an imitation of another natural process * Occlusion of femoral artery after Acupressure—in amputation—five days.383 WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. Fig. 94.* Fig. 95. . of cure. Torsion is eiYectual by laceration of the two inner coats of the cut end of a bleeding artery, the outer coat remaining as a loose filamentous sheath, which, entangling the blood and forming a peg, is equivalent to an accidentally complete laceration. This procedure, originally noticed by Galen, was revived about 1828 ; in France, by Amussat, Velpeau, and Thierry; and in Germany, by Fricke. In this country, recently, torsion has been practised more generally, and it seems to be attracting increasing attention. Arteries of small size had long since, occasionally, been commanded by a pinch and twist with the forceps ; but large arteries, as the femoral, brachial, ulnar, and radial, have been effectually secured by torsion, in ampu- tations of the thigh, arm, and forearm, as previously practised by Amussat and Velpeau. Occlusion by Torsion has been specially investigated by Mr. Cooper Forster, whose observations are published in the Trans. Clin. Society, 1870. My own observations in one case, death taking place in thirty- six hours, were communicated to the same Society, in 1871. Occlusion consists in the following changes:—At the seat of torsion, the two inner coats of the artery are torn across, and reduplicated up the vessel, perhaps in the form of a complete funicular sheath, one-fifth of an inch in length; and at the upper or smaller opening of this reduplication, or funnel, a conical blood-clot forms, oc- cupying the bore and extend- ing up the vessel. (Fig. 94) The twisted condition of the artery, itself usually a per- sistent change, and the re- duplicated sheath of the two inner coats, above, acting as a valve, are quite sufficient provision against the recur- rence of haemorrhage at the time of operation and subse- quently ; but there is also the supervention of clot-forma- tion from this sheath, and extending further up the bore of the vessel. Different modes of torsion have been recommended, and are practised. The artery may be drawn out for about half an inch by one pair of serrated forceps, and its attachment seized by another pair of serrated forceps; the free portion is then twisted off by about a dozen turns of the former instrument, the method of Amussat. (Fig. 95.) Or, the end of the vessel may be simply twisted several times, without detaching it, as recommended by Velpeau and Fricke. This is the method I ordinarily practise, scarcely ever employing ligature to any * Occlusion of brachial artery after Torsion—in amputation—thirty-six hours. (Author.)SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 384 artery, of wliatever size, and it is, I believe, generally preferred. Tor- sion-forceps are now in general use; an instrument furnished with transversely serrated points, and closed by a slide when the end of tlie vessel has been seized. (Fig. 95.) Comparison of Ligature, Acupressure, and Torsion.—The occlusive process, in the changes which the artery and contained blood undergo by ligature, acupressure, and torsion, may be thus summarily stated :— Firstly, in all three, conical clot-formation and plugging of the vessel, adjoining the line of compression, or of twist; and, in acupressure, this is the only provision against tbe supervention of haemorrhage, when tbo surgical appliance, the needle, is withdrawn. Secondly, in both ligature and torsion, division of tlie inner and middle coats of the artery, transversely, at the line of operation ; followed by lymph-deposi- tion and sealing of the vessel. This is the only additional provision against the supervention of hasmorrhage, when the ligature separates: but in torsion, the twist of the vessel is persistent, and reduplication of the divided coats, probably in a funicular form, acts also mechanically as a valve, against the occurrence of htemorrhage. In relation to the treatment of hcemorrhage, the formation of a clot-plug might seem an insufficient provision to prevent its recurrence, when the needle is with- drawn after acupressure, so that secondary hemorrhage would then take place; yet the results of experience, already referred to (p. 381), have shown that this single provision is sufficient, without the additional security of lymph-deposit and sealing of the vessel, as at the line of ligature or of twist; or the exti-a and mechanical security afforded by the persistency of the twist, and the funicular valve of lining membrane. But assuming the liability to the occurrence of secondary haemorrhage to be about equal after either of the three methods of surgical treatment, the tendeiacj to primary v/iiion of the flesh-wound, and the prevention of pycemic infection of the system, must be very different. Torsion has decidedly the advantage over either ligature or acupressure, in regard to both these very important considerations. The twisted portion of an artery not being killed, as its subsequent adhesion shows, no sloughing of the end of the vessel ensues—when this portion is allowed to remain in the wound ; yet this event neces- sarily and intentionally ensues after the application of ligature, or accidentally by prolonged acupressure; and no other foreign body is allowed to remain in the wound, for however short a period, to possibly prQvoke suppuration, as after both these methods of treatment. "Wounds of Veins.—The same forms of injury may occur as those to which arteries are liable, and they having been already sufficiently described, need not be repeated. The Signs of any such wound are venous haemorrhage; the blood of a purple or black colour, and flowing in a continuous stream, unlike the jetting of florid red blood from an artery. The size of the stream soon diminishes, and hsemorrhage may be arrested, by collapse of the thin walls of the veins ; while any return flow fi-om the cardiac end of the vessel is stopped by the valves, unless when the bleeding proceeds from valveless veins, as those of the portal system. Veins of the largest calibre, as the internal jugular, subclavian, axillary, and femoral, con- tinue to bleed copiously ; but the stream is intermittent during inspira- tion, and accelerated by expiration. The force and, in some degree, the rapidity of the stream are regulated by the size of the vein, or ofWOUNDS OF VEINS. 38^ the aperture in it, by tlie heart's action, and its effect on the flow of venous blood; and by the presence or absence of certain conditions which favour or retard the free flow of blood through the vessel. Thus, pressure on the vein between the aperture and the heart, a dependent position of the part, and muscular action in the course of the cui'rent, favour the haemorrhage; while the opposite conditions retard it. Causes, and Effects of Wounds of Veins.—Like an artery, a vein may be incised or cut with a sharp instrument, punctured with a pointed one, contused or lacerated by a blunt one, or injured by foi'ce of a bruising or wrenching kind. The operation of this lesion, locally, is to induce diffuse inflammation of the vein—diffuse phlebitis, if the wound be an open one, or to pi'oduce a collection of venous blood— blood-tumour, if the fluid be imprisoned in the textures. This con- dition will be described under Contusion. Constitutionally, whether venous hjemorrhage takes place externally, or internally into one of the great cavities of the body, its effects are manifested by syncope; either by failure of the heart's action—cardiac syncope, and thence of the circulation, or by loss of consciousness—-cerebral syncope ; or by both these effects, and their fatal termination if the hasmorrhage be sufliciently prolonged. These constitutional effects, and the probability of death resulting, are proportionate to the quantity of blood lost; not necessarily by its escape from the body, but even when lost to the body as blood in circulation. Such consequences are less apt to ensue from venous than from arterial haemorrhage; but another constitutional disturbance is specially liable to occur from an open wound of a vein, and more so, the larger the vessel. Air is apt to enter the circulation, attended with a whirling, bubbhng, sucking, or lapping sound; the individual feels death-struck, he moans and breathes heavily, becomes very faint, and probably dies, in a few minutes, or, at the most, in a few hours. Reparation.—Wounds of Veins heal by processes apparently analo- gous to those whereby similar Wounds of Arteries are repaired. Treatment.—The arrest of venous haemorrhage may be accomplished, by an elevated position of the part, and the pressure of a compress secured by a few turns of a roller. Cold or astringent lotions are also of some service. Ligature should be avoided, as being apt to induce phlebitis. But this resource may be necessary in the case of a large vein, or if the vessel be so situated that pressure cannot be applied. The treatment of diffuse inflammation of a wounded vein will be considered under the head of Phlebitis ; and the remedial measures appropriate to the formation of a blood-tumonr, in connection with Contusion. Constitutional Teeatment of H^morehage.—Arterial or Venous.— After the loss of any considerable quantity of blood, whether by acci- dent or surgical operation, the patient should be laid in the recum- bent position, to prevent syncope ; and afterwards, rest in this position wdl be favourable to the weak circulation. The circulation should be restored, in the first instance, by the judicious administration of stimulants and warmth, as in the case of Shock ; but subsequently, nourishing food will be required, especially in the liquid form, to regain the blood lost, and the bulk of the circulating fluid. In the chronic anaemia resulting from severe htemorrhage, iron and quinine 2 c386 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. lend tlieir aid, as the most effectual tonics; thongli this condition often lasts perhaps for life, as an incurable cachexia. Transfusion of Blood.—This operative procedure offers an ultimate resource, justifiable only in extreme haemorrhage; not, however, to be delayed until the patient is dying, nor declined on that account, re- coveries haying occurred when the patient was lying in articulo mortis. The operation consists in the injection into a large-sized vein, at the bend of the arm or instep, of a variable quantity of blood—six to six- teen ounces—freshly drawn from the vein of a healthy man or woman. Blundell's transfusion apparatus, or Dr. Roussel's instrument, is perhaps the safest and most convenient; but transfusion may be effected by means of an ordinary glass syringe, fitted with a stop-cock, and a, cannula. A clean glass vessel is used to receive the blood, this vessel being rather deep to retard coagulation; and both it and the injecting syringe are warmed up to blood temperature, 98°. The patient's vein having been opened by an incision just large enough to admit the cannula, and the blood having been drawn from the arm of another person into the vessel, the injecting syringe is then filled with blood, and the nozzle being inserted into the cannula, the vital fluid is passed into the circulation, in a slow and equable stream. In this procedure, three other particulars must also be observed :—that the blood injected does not approach to coagulation; that no bubbles of air be thrown in ; and that the vein be not injured by the cannula. If Wood cannot be procured, warm water may be injected. The results of transfusion have been siiccessful, occasionally, in saving life, for a time, at least, or even to complete recovery. First practised by Dr. Blundell in cases of flooding after child-birth, this method of restora- tion has since been resorted to in extreme surgical haemorrhage; notably in a case by Mr. Lane, where a boy was thus rescued, and who after an hour or two sat up in bed with no return of the bleeding. Dr. Roussel, of Geneva, has more recently practised transfusion with much success. Entrance of Aib into Veins.—The fatal result or the extremely perilous symptoms arising from the forcible introduction of air into the veins of animals, had long been known; and was at length made the subject of experimental observation by Morgagni, Valsalva, Bichat, and Nysten. But, in Surgical Practice, the accident first occurred in the experience of M. Beauchesne in 1811, during an operation for the removal of a tumour from the lower part of the neck. It was necessary to disarticulate and raise the clavicle; and while this was being done, the patient became faint, exclaimed, " I am dying," and expired in less than a quarter of an hour. Dissection revealed a small wound in the internal jugular vein, at its junction with the subclavian, and the entrance of air through that wound caused the fatal result. The accident has since happened in the practice of Mirault, Clemot, Roux, Majendie, Castara, Dupuytren, Delpech, Begin, B. Cooper, Warren, Mott, Stevens, and other Sm-geons, both in Europe and America. A Commission of the French Academy was appointed to investigate the subject; and the names of Majendie, Amussat, Wattraann, and Cormack, are distinguished for the light their labours have thrown on the pathology of the entrance of air into veins. Symptoms.—The local phenomena consist in a peculiar sound, of a i hissing, gurgling, lapping, or sucking character, produced by theWOUNDS OF VEINS. 887 entrance of air, witli the appearance of bubbles about tbe wound in the vein. The constitutional elfects are equally remarkable; the patient is suddenly seized with great oppression in breathing, and extreme faintness, convulsive struggling, and a horrible feeling of terror and impending danger, inducing him to exclaim that he is dying. A churning noise is heard in the heart, synchronous vfith the ventricular systole; and the hand applied to the chest, perceives a peculiar bub- bling, thrilling, rasping sensation, produced by the air and blood being whipped together within the ventricle. The heart's action becomes extremely feeble, and the pulse almost imperceptible. When only a small quantity of air has entered the circulation, the symptoms may pass off and the patient rally. A larger admission of air speedily causes death, during the convulsive struggling, or without convulsions, as if by simple syncope. The period at which death occurs varies, from a few moments or minutes, to several hours. When the patient sur- vives, some hours elapse usually before consciousness and strength are restored. In some cases, after recovery from the immediate effects of the accident, death has ensued from pneumonia. The mode of death seems to be essentially asphyxia, by the impaction of air-bubbles in the capillaries of the lungs, mechanically obstructing the pulmonary circulation; thence arresting the systemic circulation, and the supply of arterial blood to the brain, followed by syncope. But the heart's action continues, after respiration has ceased; and at last failing from want of its necessary stimulus, arterial blood, this organ is the ultimmn moriens. Cause.—Air is liable to enter the veins only during each act of in- : spiration; and in consequence of a tendency to the formation of a vacuum within the thorax, more particularly in the pericardium, during in- ; spiration. Thence a sucking action, or " venous inspiration," in the ■ veins within and near the thoracic cavity; extending to where the 1 coats of the veins collapse. This area is limited to that part of the ; root of the neck and axilla where the venous flux and reflux of blood are perceptible, and the space in which it occurs has been called ■ " the dangerous region." Various circumstances favour the admission of air into an open ^ vein:—1. The site of the wounded vein being in the dangerous region. ; 2. Canalization of a vein; owing to its coats having become thickened \ by morbid deposit, or adherent to condensed, consolidated surround- i ing textures, or by the spasmodic contraction of muscles; either of t these three conditions having the effect of converting a vein into a ■ rigid, uucollapsing tube. 3. Traction on the vein. 4. A stretched position of the part operated on. 6. The form of the wound. 6. The ji position of the vein in the wound ; a vein cut in the corner of a wound b being apt to gape, as Dupuytren's case demonstrated. 7. Deep in- spiration. I" Treatment.—Preventive measures consist in making pressure on the cardiac side of the wound, during operation in dangerous localities; and keeping the part in a relaxed position, thus to prevent the veins being drawn open. Any vein of considerable size, and especially in which the venous pulse is perceptible, should be avoided as much as pos- sible. Feeble inspiration is desirable, and this is best secured by the influence of chloroform; tightly bandaging the chest to prevent deep inspiration, as some have recommended, is a perilous precaution.388 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Owrative treatment comprises the fulfilment of the following indica- tions :—1. To maintain an adequate supply of blood to the brain, for the prevention of death by syncope. The patient should be placed recumbent, with the head low, and pressure should be made on the axillary and femoral arteries, so as to direct the circulation towards the brain. 2. To maintain the action of the heart by artificial res- piration, and friction at the prascordial region. 3. To promote the removal of obstruction in the pulmonic capillaries, also by artificial respiration. 4. After recovery, to treat the tendency to inflammation of the lungs. CHAPTER XVII. CONTUSION.—CONTUSED AND LACERATED "WOUNDS.—PUNCTURED WOUNDS. Contusion.—Structwral Condition.—Contusion is a laceration of the soft textures, subcutaneoudy, the skin remaining unbroken; whereby the textures, thus injured, are protected from the action of the air. This kind of lesion, therefore, is the connecting link between other subcutaneous lesions, by laceration, as simple fracture and dislocation, and openly lacerated, or contused wounds, compound fracture and similar dislocation; the turning point being exclusion from, or ex- posure to, the action of the air. Subcutaneous laceration of the soft textures is necessarily attended with some haemorrhage, also beneath the skin, but which extends inwards according to the depth of the contusion. The degree of laceration is proportionate to the force applied externally, and to the molecular cohesion of the textures affected; the quantity of blood effused is regulated, partly by these circumstances, but chiefly by the vascularity of the textures; while the effusion is finally determined by the resistance offered by the textures which, with the blood accumulated, together act as a compress upon the lacerated vessels. The vessels become more or less occluded with fibrinous clots; or this state of thrombosis may perhaps be in- duced by contusion of the walls of the vessels, Briicke having shown the influence of a healthy state of the walls in. maintaining the fluidity of the blood within the vessels. Signs.—The blood, diffused into the textures interstitially, and especially into the cellular tissue, is said to be extravasated; instead of being discharged out of the body as in ordinary hasmorrhage. Any portion of the blood which has accumulated in the cellular tissue under the skin, is made visible through the integument; and hence the ap- pearance of a livid or black discolouration, the ordinary appearance of bruise, as seen in the fii'st instance, accompanied with more or less swelling ; presenting the characters of the " black eye " produced by a blow. If only a small quantity of blood be exti*avasated, the appear- ance is designated ecchymosis. The pain of contusion is of a dull, heavy, aching character; or a vibrating sensation, extending perhaps far beyond the part, when a large nerve is more especially affected; as389 CONTUSION. the ulnar nerve at the elbow. Blood extravasated in considerable quantity may still present the appearance of bruise, but have also the fluid and fluctuating character of an abscess. A hard circumscribed boundary can also perhaps be felt. Puncture with a grooved needle will determine a doubtful diagnosis. The discolouration of contusion bears a general resemblance to gangrene, but the temperature and sensibility of the part are retained, at least in a higher degree than in that condition. When extravasation of blood has taken place, deeply, and possibly into internal organs, it is declared by functional clisturh- ances of a less definite character, and which of course vary with the part to which the contusion extends. Compression of the brain, for example, may arise from cerebral contusion and extravasation. Causes of Contusion.—External force, in the shape of crushing pres- sure or a blow, may directly- produce contusion; or the force may be applied indirectly, at some distance from the part affected, as by a fall on the feet, bruising the legs. But the state of the textures very much. predisposes to this kind of lesion. The elastic firmness and comparatively bloodless condition of the flesh of a prize-fighter, who has undergone " training," contrasts favourably with the flabby, bloated face of one who is "out of condition,"as that of the intemperate debauchee, which is ever bordering on ecchymosis. Concussion often accompanies contusion; parts distant being shaken, as well as the part at the immediate seat of injury being crushed, by the violence of the force applied. Hence, concussion is-, more often, produced in contusion from indirect violence. Thus, the minute vessels may be concussed or shaken far beyond the range to which actual contusion extends. A fall from a height on the feet, causing contusion, may be attended also with concussion- of the vessels, even up to the trunk ; as denoted by interstitial spots of extravasated blood, in a case recorded by Sir B. Brodie.. Concussion of the nerves, apart from actual contusion, is also an important distinction, which Billroth notices, in relation to parts distant from the immediate seat of injury. For example, dangerous symptoms may be produced simply by con- cussion of the cardiac and pulmonary plexuses of nerves, in connection with contusion of the thorax. And reflex actions of the concussed nerves may possibly have their additional effects; as witnessed in the syncope or faintness induced by a blow on the epigastric region of the abdomen. The consequences of concussion, rather than contusion, affecting the nerves, are uncertain; resulting in various forms of paralysis, both motor and' sensory, with atrophy and degeneration of the muscles involved. The operation of contusion localhj is identified with the course of this lesion; while its effects constitutionally are those which arise from other forms of Injury, and Hsemorrhage ; but the syncope arising from contusion is due more to the injury, itself possibly extensive and severe, than to the extravasation of blood. Therefore, the shock of injury, i as manifested by the nervous system, predominates, rather than collapse; or tetanus may supervene. Course.—The natural course of Contusion is twofold; inclining, on the one hand, to suhcutaneovjs reparation; on the other, to sloughing, the formation of an open wound, and repair by the process of suppura- tive granulation. Thus, no perceptible alteration may take place in a contused part, the bruised appearance remaining, for a variable period;SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 390 bat absorption supervenes, and the originally purple or livid discolora- tion oi a bruise gradually fades away into a brown, and thence into a greenish or yellowish hue, the latter often continuing for weeks or months. Blood extravasated in considerable quantity may also remain stationary for a while, as a bag of fluid. Over prominent parts, as the crest of the ilium and the great trochanter, I have seen large tumours of this kind produced by heavy falls. Generally, however, any such collection of blood undergoes changes of consistence; becoming thin and serous, and enclosed in a fibrous cyst; or thick and dark like treacle, constituting a sanguineous tumour—hsematoma ; or with coagulation, organization of the clot may result, by the development of new blood-vessels. In either of these reparative alterations, the blood corpuscles disintegrate to some extent; and hence, apparently, the changes of colour, followed by absorption; and it can scarcely be doubted that the damaged structural condition of the tex- tures is more or less reinstated. But the intimate nature of all these reparative alterations, after contusion, requires further investi- gation. Lastly, the most obvious change may be destruction, prevail- ing over any reparative effort; the blood, acting as a foreign body, induces inflammation, the products of which, commingling, form a bloody purulent fluid, extravasated amid the disintegrated textures. Gangrene is imminent, an event the more apt to ensue according to the severity and extent of contusion ; and gangi^nous disintegration of the textures may appear in the form of sloughing, or as traumatic gangrene, thus converting the subcutaneous lesion into an open, lacerated wound. Sometimes, the extravasated blood rapidly passes into decomposition, accompanied with the symptoms of pya3mic infec- tion. HaBmorrhage, superadded to the blood originally extravasated, is another adverse issue, but even less common, unless in internal organs. Reparation by the process of suppurative granulation wiU be de- scribed in tracing the course of a contused or lacerated wound. Treatment.—The earliest occasion for interference is determined, not by the presence of contusion, which is naturally disposed to undergo reparation; but it depends on the degree of contusion and the quantity of blood extravasated. A slight ecchymosis disappears spontaneously; a more severe bruise may need help. The indications are, in the first instance, to stop any further ex- travasation, and then to promote absorption, without any breach of the integument. Compression, by the application of a bandage, may per- haps, therefore, have a doubly good effect. Various topical applications have reputed efficacy. Arnica, I think, possesses some virtue. The tincture diluted, in the proportion of an ounce to half a pint of water, is perhaps more efficacious than spirit lotion, or any other cold evapo- rating fluid. Leeches are not merely useless to withdraw the blood, congealed and infiltrated; but by admitting air, and thus inducing decomposition, they are positively noxious. Moreover, they are apt to excite sloughing of the skin. When the blood is in a fluid state, it may be drawn off by )?ieans of the aspirator; but the cavity is apt to refill again and again; as in a case of extensive contusion of tli. back, fi'om which I thus removed ten to fifteen ounces of sanguineous fluid several times. Should suppuration or gangi-ene threaten,—whether from the blood acting as a foreign body, from the severity and extent of the contusion, or from both these conditions co-operating,—then.CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS. 391 indeed, incisions, early and free, are imperative, to give vent to blood and pus, which, would otherwise rapidly putrify, and to prevent sloughing, or its progress. In sbort, any attempt to aid absorption would now be inappi'opriate, and the rule of treatment should be to anticipate if possible, or at least accompany, tbe work of destruction, and forthwith remove its results. Accordingly, in tbe event of ti'au- matic gangrene, amputation may become justifiable, as an extreme' and rare resource. Contused and Lacerated Wounds.—Structural Condition.—These forms of Injury, although nominally distinct, in regard to the kind of force by which they are produced, are essentially the same. A con- tused or a lacerated Wound is a sudden disintegration of tbe soft textures, with exposure to the action of tbe air. In the latter respect, wounds of this kind differ from contusion—a subcutaneous lesion ; and in virtue of the former particular; they diffisr from compound fracture and compound dislocation, wherein tbe lesion itself is not ex- clusively laceration of the soft textures, these parts being involved only by the injury. The characters of a lacerated wound are peculiar. It presents a torn, iiTegular surface or cavity, with more or less surrounding swelling and discolouration, owing to effusion of blood beneath the skin, or ecchymosis. Hgemorrhage from the wound itself is inconsiderable, the vessels being lacerated. With tbese external appearances, tbe degree of pain experienced would seem to be inversely proportionate to the extent and deptb of the laceration; for this kind of injury implies a ■ corresponding destruction and death of the textures. The pain is ' heavy and aching. The structural alterations produced by laceration, i and thence the characters of a lacerated wound, are somewhat modified by the extensibility, elasticity, contractility, and other properties of the 1 textures. The resulting appearances are most conspicuous when a ■ limb is drawn off, as by machinery; or abruptly struck off, as by gun- : shot injury. Some textures are comparatively unyielding, and their : torn extremities hang out of the stump ; others break off short within ; the general mass. Thus, the skin being tough and elastic, it either • yields higher than the included textures, or it retractsj exposing them ; the muscles protrude and are everted ; the tendons resisting with . greater tenacity, they hang out of the stump, or giving way higher up, they are pulled out of their sheaths ; nerves, for the most part, break off at the surface; the vessels, especially arteries, possessing consider- able elasticity, are drawn out to some length, their inner and middle coats yielding, while the external coat is prolonged over them; and as- their torn ends retract, they become less pendent and exposed than any other part of the stump ; lastly, the bone having broken off abruptly,, it forms the most prominent point. The stump, therefore, presents an irregular conical form, with the truncated bone as its apex. Causes of Lacerated Wound.—The force applied may be chiefly > lacerating, as when a leg is crushed by a railway carriage passing over the limb, or an arm is torn between two revolving cog-wheels ; or the violence may be chiefly contusing, as the kick of a horse, or the action ■ of a cannon-ball or other projectile. In either case the part is damaged ' beyond, and perhaps far beyond, the apparent extent of injury. The constitutional effects of the contused or lacerated wound are those already noticed with reference to other forms of Injury, andSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 392 Hsemorrhage; bat the syncope arising from such lesion is due more to the injury, itself possibly extensive and severe, than to the ex- travasation of blood. The shock of injury is always severe, some- times overwhelming ; tetanus also is apt to supervene, especially after any such wound of the hand or thumb, of the sole of the foot or of the toes. Locally—the textures, disintegrated by violence, inevitably die to a greater or less extent. This event, which is strictly speaking traumatic gangrene, on however small a scale, takes place in one of two ways, or both may co-operate. Severe contusion or laceration kills the part out- right; or it does so indirectly, by damaging the blood-vessels some distance off, in which case mortification is occasioned by a deficient supply of blood to the part. In both cases, gangrene is immediate, or at least immediately commences; it evinces no tendency to spread beyond the seat of injury, and, in due time, is defined by sloughing, or by "a line of demarcation " when the injury is more extensive. The appearances and textural changes may be gathered from Billroth's observations. Completely crushed skin presents a dark- blue violet appearance, and feels cold; or, at first there may be no alteration, but in a few days it becomes white and insensible, later it assumes a grayish hue, or when quite dry, a brownish-black colour. The healthy skin is bordered by a rose-red line, which shades off into diffuse rediiess ; this is the reaction redness about the wound, marking the line of the living skin, which only begins where the blood still flows through the capillary vessels. In muscles, fascias, and tendons, this appearance is far less pronounced at first; and how far they will be detached is uncertain. The process of separation comprises the following textural changes:—At the line of junction of the dead with the living tissue, the cir- FiG. 96.* culation is arrested by coagulation of the blood in the adjoining capil- laries, and nutrition ceases ; cell-infiltration and the formation of vas- cular loops lead to the development of granu- lation tissue, from the surface of the living tissue below; and then, by the solution of the granulation tissue into pus, its cohesion and continuity with the dead tissue ceases, and the parts are detached. (Fig. 96.) This suppurative separation in con- nective tissue takes place in all other tissues, bone not excepted. But more often the gangrene of a contused wound is of an inflam- matory character, and occurs at a somewhat later period—in the course of a few days—as follows :— Course.—Gangrenoihs inflammation supervening, in the progress of * Diagram of the process of detachment of dead connective tissue in a contused wmd. Upper, or contused, dead portion, showing blood-vessels occluded by coagu- lation ; lower portion, the living tissue, is the scat of cell-mfiltration, principally at the junction of the living with the dead tissue. 300 diam. (Bilhoth.)393 CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS. a contused wound, the textures or a part wMcb. may not have been killed more immediately by the injury, die subsequently. Yet here, also, the gangrene is limited to the seat of injury, and is defined by sloughing. Gangrene may, indeed, supervene on a contused or lacerated wound, without any apparent or notable inflammation, and extend far beyond the seat of injury ; a whole limb speedily falling into gangrene, which spreads rapidly and is not determined by a line of demarcation. This, which has been named spreading traumatic gangrene, is traumatic only in having arisen from injury as the immediate or exciting cause; but its spreading and unlimited character points to some blood-condition, in operation, as the essential cause. In fact, this gangrene is the local manifestation of a con- stitutional condition, rather than the consequence of a local cause in operation. Its pathological significance is corroborated by two facts— that the contusion or laceration is quite subordinate in extent to the supervening gangrene; and that it occurs in those persons especially who have albuminuria, a state of urine indicative of the retention of excrementitious matters, chiefly urea, in the blood. Either form of gangrene—traumatic or inflammatory—is always humid or moist, unlike the dry species of which senile gangrene is the representative. When a part is killed immediately, the appearances are those of the most severe contusion or bruise; when less immediately completed, as by injury to the blood-vessels, the symptoms are the same, but proportionately more gradual; and when gangrenous in- flammation supervenes, the symptoms are those of inflammation rapidly passing into gangrene. But when spreading traumatic gan- grene takes place, the phenomena are those of a severely poisoned wound. Gangrene is announced by great tension and livid or purplish-black discolouration, which although most conspicious about the seat of injury, extends rapidly upwards and downwards; its progress being preceded by a slighter oedematous swelling and greenish-yellow discolouration. This in advance, is a dying part; that in the rear, is already dead. Emphysematous crackling, under pressure with the finger, soon leaves no doubt that death and decom- position go hand in hand. The accompanying constitutional symptoms are those of typhoid blood-poisoning; and the disease generally termi- nates fatally in a very few days, or not later than whenever the gan- grene shall have spread to the trunk. Reparation.—In favourable contrast with any tendency to death, the wound may evince a disposition to heal by primary adhesion ; or, any irrecoverable part having sloughed and separated, the exposed surface heals by swi^purative granulation. But the process of reparation is best seen on the clean surface of an open or gaping incised wound. This process is then as follows:—The local circulation is temporarily suspended, and the blood in the superficial vessels becomes stagnant, and coagulated up to the nearest branches. Any oozing hasmorrhage IS thus stopped. During the first day or two, a reddish-yellow serous fluid exudes from the surface of the wound, which, containing pale blood-cells and a fibrinous matter, sets into a thin, yellowish-white or greyish film, rendering the appearances of the subjacent tissues ^ * •''fl T^^^ whole surface becomes glazed over. Symptoms or inflammation may, perhaps, precede and accompany this exudation ; some redness, puffy swelling, heat and tenderness, just around the894 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. margins of the wound. But, in a healthy state, this inflammatory character passes oE. A period of inactivity or calm succeeds, lasting from one day to ten or more, but which varies with each particular texture in the wound; fat being tardy in its revival, as compared with the more vascular skin, or muscular texture, and bone, especially the compact portion, remaining longest dormant. Some further oozing of the serous fluid may, however, continue during this period of incubation,—in which, as the brooding time for good or evil, observes Sir James Paget, the mode of healing will be determined, and the mutual influence of the injury and the patient's constitution are often manifested. At length, a distinct afflux of blood takes place, but with sluggish circulation, in the margins and surface of the wound. Eepara- tive^ lymph begins to flow, abounding with emigrated white blood-cells, which mingles with or displaces the film which had hitherto glazed the wound. This lymph undergoes the same process of organization as in healing by primary adhesion, namely, self-development into fibro- cellular tissue ; but in the form of granulations. Numerous minute bright-red points, or nodules, spring up from the surface of the wound, as seen on an open amputation stump ; appearing first on the margin of the skin and the general muscular surface, while the bone-end or its compact disc remains yet covered only with the yellowish-white lymph-film. These rosy nodules or granules are young granulations. The deepest granulation-cells are most advanced; they are spindle- shaped, or elongated nearly into fibres. (Fig. 97. Bennett). The Fig. 97. superficial ones remain in a rudimental state, and at length acquire the character of epithelial cells. Capillary blood-vessels spring from below, forming loops—as also seen in the figure. Each new vessel is constructed by he outgrowth of two pouches from a parent vessel. The pouches, crammed with blood-corpuscles, shoot upwards, and curving inwards, never fail to meet exactly in apposition, neither segment overshooting. They coalesce by absorption of the partition at the junction of their closed ends, thus completing a vascular loop ; through which the blood, diverging from the main current and rejoining it, is continuously pro- pelled. If, in the construction of any such vascular arch, the pouches burst, the process is then completed by the propulsion of the blood- corpuscles, the current of blood from the parent vessel bcmg directed895 CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS. so skilfully as to channel a curved passage through, the fibro-cellular tissue. Nerves and lymphatics do not apparently enter the substance of granulations. The process of development having finished, healthy granulations are seen in the shape of small conical papillfe, of a glistening red colour when free from pus. The ims-cells in suppurative granulations are either degenerate or immature granulation-cells. If the former, pus represents the s^qjerficial portion of organized granulation material, which, having lived its time, passes off, just as epithelial cells are de- tached. If immature granulation-cells, pus represents the superfluous portion of organizable material, which never reaches maturity. This is the more probable interpretation, considering the structural similarity or identity of pus-cells. As immature granulation-cells, pus ceases to be secreted when the granulations come to the level of the skin, for then, the wound or chasm being filled up, no more organizable mateiial is needed. Sometimes during the granulating process, granulations from op- posed surfaces meet together. They may then unite; this conjunc- tion being designated " secondary " adhesion, to distinguisli it from ad- hesion primarily, as between the surfaces of an incised wound. But it takes place in the same way, by the development of fibres out of nucleated cells and the interchange of capillary blood-vessels through this medium of commuication. The contractUe force of granulations is supplemental to reparation in bringing down the marginal skin to their own level and diminishing the area of the wound. Thus, then, by their actual growth and possible coalescence, aided by their contrac- tion, granulations and skin at length become even. Cicatrization commences, its purpose being to cover the granulations with skin. At the margin of the wound or ulcer, the granulations become flattened, and cease to secrete pus; appearing as a red, dry, smooth border, about half a line in breadth ; this is followed by a translucent, bluish-white border, in advance of the opaque-white true skin. Converging at the rate of about half a line daily, the surface gradually gets covered. Sometimes little islands of cuticle form, here and there, on the granulation surface, which coalesce, and thus shorten the process of marginal cicatrization. But these isolated centres or patches of epidermis apjDcar only where corresponding portions of the cutis with rete malpighii have remained undestroyed, on the surface of the wound or sore. (Billroth.) Newly formed and healthy c^'caifria; IS thin and red, with a stretched, shining aspect, and not so supple and elastic as true skin; somewhat depressed, sometimes elevated, but always attached more or less firmly to the subjacent tissue. It con- tracts for a long while, and perhaps with considerable force, especially after burns, thus becoming smaller in area, particularly if the sur- rounding skin be loose or redundant. In the course of months or years, the cicatrix acquires a pearly white colour, and becomes more supple, elastic, and movable as part of the integument. Nature has healed, and almost effaced the wound. But a cicatrix always remains perma- nently, being more or less visible for life ; it never wears out altogether. It is less vascular, and less sensitive than the adjoining skin. Re- sembling true skin in its fibro-cellular structure, cicatrix never acquires its glandular elements, neither in the form of sweat glands or sebaceous follicles; and it remains destitute of hairs.SPECIAL PATHOLOQY AND SURGERY. 396 ^ Accidental complications—both local and constitutional—may occur m the course of a contused or lacerated wound. Scconda/ry hasmor- rhage is apt to happen when the sloughs or gangrenous portion separate ; and when, occasionally, a large-sized artery is thus laid open, m about a week or ten days, or from the suppuration of a thrombus or fibrinous plug, at a later period, the loss of blood may be of serious consequence. Bleeding granulations sometimes prove troublesome. Progressive sui^puration may take place from a contused or lacerated wound; the pus undermining the integument, extending along the sheaths of tendons, and burrowing deeply between the muscles. The part becomes swollen and sodden, and the granulations pale and oedematous; the pus also has a sanious, foetid character, and is exuded through fistulous openings. This state of the part is more often met with when the hand or foot,, or a large joint, was the starting-point of the suppuration, in a lacerated wound of either such part. The con- stitutional condition is no longer that of traumatic febrile disturbance, as in connection with the original wound, nor of the typhoidal character with gangrene, nor the collapse from secondary haemorrhage; but hectic emaciation ensues, and exhaustion. Various secondary inflammations' may proceed from a contused or lacerated wound. Lymphatitis, phlebitis, erysipelatous inflammation, and sometimes hospital gangrene, thus arising, offer no special pecu- liarities of practical importance. IchorrhaBmia or- pysemic infection may also be noticed as occasional consequences. The Prognosis of Contused and Lacerated Wounds maybe gathered, as with regard to other injuries, from a due consideration of their nature and course. It is less favourable than that of an Incised Wound, owing to the kind of structural disorganization in contusion or laceration. For gangrenous disintegration of the textures, in a greater or less degree, is inevitable; or gangrenous inflammation, with slough- ing and suppuration. The extent of the lesion will, therefore, much affect the issue. Spreading gangrene is an adventitious condition, but it is the most unfavourable consequence of contusion or laceration, as implying the co-operation of a constitutional cause. Healing by primary adhesion is exchanged for the slower and perhaps less effectual process of suppurative granulation ; yet the latter being another mode of Re- paration, it must be regarded as an eventually favourable element in the prognosis of the lesion under consideration. Treatment.—In all superficial wounds—contused or lacerated—and especially of vascular parts, as the scalp, the chance of primary adhesion taking place, to some extent, is not improbable, and it may be solicited with good prospect of success. In the first instance, therefore, the treatment should be the same as for an incised wound. Foreign bodies, such as grit or portions of clothing, having been removed by a wet sponge or stream of water, replacement of the torn textures, and their retention in position by the usual surgical appliances, are the immediate rules of treatment to be observed. The prevention of decomposition is a consideration of primary consequence, Isoth with regard to healing of the damaged textures, and to any liability of systemic infection. Ac- cordingly, an important principle of treatment consists in the exclusion of air, and the continued application of cold. This may be carried out in various ways ; by immersion of the pa rt in cold water, by irrigation, or by wrapping the part in lint, and applying an ice-bag. These pre-CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS. 397 ventire measures have been practised chiefly in Grermany; Professor Baum, of Gottingen, having used the bath, and with excellent effect in some cases, while Professor Billroth often employs it, though he does not regard this or the other such methods as surely prophylactic of decomposition. In Prance, irrigation is especially approved by some Burgeons. I have also used it with complete success; particularly in the case of a smashed hand, which seemed hopelessly lost. The tem- perature of the water-bath should be moderated according to the feelings of the patient; and this mode of treatment may be continued for a week or ten days, the part being cleansed from pus, which does not itself freely escape, and the water being changed so as to keep it quite fresh. If the cuticle of the part be thick and unyielding, as in the hand of a labourer, any continued soddening will, perhaps, be at- tended with, a tense, burning sensation, quite unendurable. Lubrication with oil, or the addition of a handful of salt to the water, is said to afford protection against this contingency. The healing by granulation is slower in a wound under water and the influence of cold; but when the treatment is discontinued, in time, the pale and infiltrated granulations, cedematous with the water, become ruddy and firm, and the wound soon begins to contract and cicatrize. Grenerally, however, carbolic acid dressings and syringing seem to have the advantage over cold water treatment, in being equally protective against atmospheric influence, without further endangering the vitality of the already disorganized part, by the prolonged application of cold. But the disintegrated textures inevitably die, to a greater or less extent. Hence, in the event of primary adhesion having failed entirely, and in all deep and extensively contused wounds, it becomes necessary to actually encourage and aid the process of sloughing, in order to bring into operation that of healing by granulation. The separation of sloughs will be favoured by warmth and moisture, in the shape of a light poultice or spongio-piline epithem. At this time secondary haemorrhage is liable to occur, if an artery of any considerable size was involved in the contusion or laceration. Any collection of matter should be let out, or a free vent may be given by a counter-opening, and discharge facilitated by the temporary introduction of a drainage- tube. Otherwise the reparative process needs little assistance; posi- tion, rest, and protection from the action of the air by carbolic acid dressing, will suffice for the granulating of any healthy wound. Deep and extensively contused or lacerated wounds of either Umh are conditions which, in relation to profuse suppuration or gangrene, must be considered both with regard to the preservation of the limb and the life. Amputation.—The propriety of amputation has regard to both these issues, which will be more advantageously considered in con- nection with compound fracture and dislocation. If gangrene be allowed to supervene, life is endangered; if the Umh be removed before the supervention of gangrene, it may have been sacrificed by such untimely interference. The compromise of these two considerations is better determined by pathology than by empirical experience :— (1.) If iheiuhole substance of a limb be involved by the injury, gan- grene is inevitable; amputation, therefore, is imperative to intercept this event, and thus preserve life. (2.) If, however, the injury be less398 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGKRY. extensive, and gangrene not inevitable; what then ? Various patho- logico-anatomical conditions—Zess than the whole substance of a limb being involved—are defined in surgical works; respecting which forms of injury experience is said to justify amputation, in the first instance, considering the probable supervention of gangrene. But this event can never be foretold with absolute certainty in different conditions of injury; the resources of reparation and the reserve constitutional power of different individuals being unknown. Having regard, there- fore, to the preservation of the limb—in cases short of its irreparable destruction—the actual supervention of gangrene is the only ground of assurance as to the urgent necessity for amputation. This compromise between limb and life may be thus stated:— whenever a limb is destroyed, by injury, and life would be perilled by the inevitable supei'vention of gangrene, (primary) amputation is im- perative ; whenever a limb is not entirely destroyed, the rule should be, to give the limb its chance of recovery, by waiting for gangrene; but in that event (secondary) amputation becomes necessary, and further delay would peril life, without the compensating probability or pos- sibility of preserving the limb. Duly weighing both these conditions, the Surgeon will ever be prepared to estimate the urgency of amputa- tation in any particular form of contused or lacerated wound—other- wise than when destructive of the whole substance of a limb. The time also, as well as the conditions, for the performance of amputation is a very important consideration. Amputation for injury, in general, is commonly divided into Primary and Secondary; the primary being that which is performed during the first twenty-four or thirty-six hours,—before inflammation has commenced; the secondary being amputation performed after that period,—after the supervention of inflammation, and, at a later period, suppuration. Amputations performed in the intervening period, between twenty-four hours and inflammation, are sometimes designated intermediate. With regard to contused and lacerated wounds, the proper time for amputation under different circumstances, as expressed by the terms primary and secondary, has reference to the performance of the operation before or after the occurrence of gangrene; in accordance with the rules already laid down. Part for Amimtation.—In the event of gangrene, the seat of amputa- tion, or the portion of limb to be removed, should not be determined by waiting for the formation of the line of demarcation between the living and dead parts. Amputation must be performed at once, and sufficiently high above the seat of injury to prevent the recurrence of gangrene in the stump. The foregoing considerations relate ex- clusively to purely traumatic gangrene. Spreading traumatic gangrene being the local manifestation of some morbid condition of the blood, its supervention is so far less likely to be intercepted by the primary amputation of the injured part. On the other hand, gangrene appear- ing in the stump, would frustrate the intention of the operation with regard to the preservation of life. When spreading gangrene has supervened, the Surgeon is placed in this dilemma in regard to the part for amputation:—if the operation be performed without waiting for the line of demarcation, gangrene will probably reappear in the stump, and death ensue; if the operation be postponed, for this pur- pose, the gangrene spreads rapidly up to the trunk, and then death is•i PUNCTURED WOUNDS. 399 | i inevitable. Considering tbat tbe injury is tbe exciting cause of this , gangrene, amputation bad better be performed at once, and at some i height above the apparent seajt of injury. But, in selecting a sound part ■ of the limb, and not merely that wlaich may recover itself as a stump, I it must ever be remembered, that while the damage done by contusion j or laceration is more extensive than may appear on the surface, the I destruction wrought by spreading gangrene, especially in the cellular ] texture, has even a wider range up the limb, than as declared by any discolouration of the skin. The safest parts for amputation are, pro- bably, at the shoulder-joint, when the arm is involved; and in the | upper third of the thigh, when the leg is affected as far as the knee. j The after or constitutional treatment is fully considered in connec- i tion with the general pathology of Gangrene. j Punctured Wounds.—Structural Gondiiion.—A Punctured Wound | is a more or less contused and lacerated wound; varying in depth, but of greater extent in this direction than superficially. Structures may thus be injured far beyond what appears to be the extent of injury, by the aperture in the integuments. Other kinds of Wound—the incised ; and the purely contused or lacerated—may indeed be complicated by their depth; a punctured wound is characterized by this additional | element. Thus, penetration of an artery and the formation of trau- ( matic aneurism may complicate a punctured wound in any part. | Penetration of the brain complicates a punctured wound of the skull; i and similar injury of the lung or heart, or of one or more of the ] abdominal viscera, may complicate a punctured wound of the thoracic j or abdominal cavities respectively. ' The external characters of a punctured wound are comparatively un- important, and not characteristic. Varying in size, from a pin's point to a bayonet-thrust or an aperture of larger size, its shape differs with i the form of the penetrating instrument; the margin of the aperture is ' !: irregular and the surrounding integument bruised, if the wound was ' I ] produced by the penetration of a blunt-pointed instrument; and this ! 1 laceration and contusion are the more conspicuous if the weapon was , ( of increasing size from the point upwards, as a bayonet. The hsemor- II rhage cannot be estimated by the quantity of blood which escapes J f externally. The narrow track of a punctured wound and laceration j (of the textures, rather impede the escape of blood, and are favourable ' t to the formation of traumatic aneurism. If the wound extend into an i internal cavity, as the thorax, hemorrhage may take place yet more abundantly without a corresponding escape of blood from the aperture ', externally. The Symptoms connected with the penetration of particular parts, '■perchance the viscera, are specially significant, in virtue of the function of the part which is thus involved; but, as not pertaining to the general | pathology of Punctured Wound, such symptoms are here omitted. Each successive injury, in depth, is less open to detection, owing to the narrow track of the wound. The diagnosis, therefore, must be ! I determined hj functional symptoms; and it will be remembered that ^ ■ structures of vital importance, possibly, may be implicated, beyond the I :otherwise apparently simple puncture, viewed externally. m Causes, and Effects of Punctiired Wound.—Any pointed instrament, fcbeharp or blunt-pointed—e.g., a pin or needle, a thorn or splinter of Bf'Wood, an old rusty nail, a pen-knife, or a bayonet—represents the iSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 400 whole class of causative agents. Contusion and laceration are pro- portionate to tlie bluntness of the penetrating instrument. The con- stitutional effect of a punctured wound consists, partly, of syncope due to ha3niorrhage; partly and perhaps principally, of shock to the nervous system; and here, again, both are generally disproportionate to the apparent importance of the local lesion, which by its depth rnay involve large blood-vessels and nerves, and possibly implicate a vital organ. Tetanus is another constitutional condition not unlikely to occur. Course.—Sloughing ensues, more or less in extent, along the track of the wound, accompanied with suppurative discharge ; but eventually it heals by granulation. If the textures are not much contused nor lacerated, the wound may heal by primary adhesion; and this, although the depth of penetration may have been considerable, extending even into a great cavity and involving an important organ. Thus, in one case under my observation, after a stab in the back with a fork, which entered the lung, union of the flesh-wound speedily ensued, and the lung-symptoms also subsided. In another case, after a similar stab in the loins, penetrating the kidney, this mode of healing occurred, and the hematuria disappeared. Apart from this general vital history, a punctured wound extending into any internal organ, exhibits a series of phenomena peculiar to the particular organ implicated ; and thence the completion of the vital history of this form of injury, as occurring in different parts of the body, belongs to Special Pathology. Prognosis.—The prognosis of Punctured Wound is partly analogous to that of any other contused or lacerated wound. It is unfavourable in so far as the kind of structural disorganization is that of contusion or laceration. Sloughing and suppuration to some extent are almost inevitable. The presence of any foreign body in the wound has a simi- lar influence. But the prognosis is specially unfavourable according to the depth of the wound—or the number and functional importance of the parts implicated, as complications of the wound. Injury to large blood-vessels, nerves, or an internal organ, are thus, severally, unfavourable conditions; and according to the importance of the functional disturbances thence arising. The subsequent course of a punctured wound, in its undergoing reparation by suppurative granulation, is an eventually favourable ground of prognosis. Treatment.—The first indication is to arrest haemorrhage, which obviously claims immediate attention when it occurs in any considerable quantity. Pressure, by means of a compress, will generally prove suSicient, unless a large artery be punctured, when it will be necessary to ligature the vessel above and below the aperture, by cutting down in the track of the wound, if it can possibly be thus secured. The removal of any foreign body is another obvious indication, whenever it can be safely fulfilled. A portion of clothing may have been thrust so deeply into the wound, and possibly into some internal organ, that its presence cannot be ascertained with certainty, nor its removal effected with safety, and without unwarrantable mutilation. Guided by the processes of reparation, healing by primary adhesion should be attempted in all cases; but the prospect of success will depend on the comparatively simple character of the wound, by the less cir- cumferential contusion, the absence or removal of any foreign body,GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 401 and the arrest of hasmorrhage. Failing in most cases to induce ad- hesion, the process of suppurative granulation is the alternative to be solicited, as in the usual treatment of a contused or lacerated wound. A weecZZe-punctured wound, although trivial in itself, is apt to pre- sent some difficulty in the extraction of the foreign body ; the needle being driven in entirely, or having broken off, leaving a portion embedded. This complication may be increased by the locality of the needle; when near to large vessels and nerves, as in the axilla, and movable in cellular texture; or impacted in a large joint, as the knee; or thrust into or under the sheaths of tendons, as in the fingers and toes. I have experienced more or less difficulty in removing a needle from either of these situations. The point, or the end of the broken portion, may perhaps be near the puncture-wound, and it can some- times be detected by the pain produced on slight pressure over the spot, or a pointed projection under the integument may be felt; but the needle easily shifts its position, and thus evades seizure with a fine pair of forceps. Careful dissection, with light sponging, will at length expose a black point, which when seized with the forceps is found to be metallic, and then the foreign body is readily extracted. Needles which have been swallowed, migrate through the coats of the stomach or intestine, and work their way into all parts of the body, at last perchance coming to the surface in some quite unsuspected situation. Under any circumstances of doubt, if a needle be impacted, or have come to the surface, its presence may be declared by the magnetic method, devised by Mr. John Marshall; the suspected part is brought. under the influence of a powerful magnet for a quarter of an hour, then, on suspending over it a polarized needle, some deflection would indicate the presence of iron. CHAPTER XVIII. GUNSHOT WOUNDS. Gunshot "Wounds.—Strttctural Condition.—Oi Complicated Injuries, none are more interesting and important than Gunshot Wounds. But they chiefly concern the Military Surgeon, although the general Surgeon is occasionally called upon to undertake the charge of such injuries in civil practice. It will, therefore, be doubly necessary to fully consider the guiding elements of their pathology and treatment. Gunshot wound is, essentially, a contused and lacerated wound; but varying in extent and depth. The latter element is always a critical consideration. Other kinds of wound—the incised, and the purely contused or lacerated—may, indeed, be thus complicated; but a gun- shot wound is usually characterized by one or other of these additional elements. Structures may thus be injured far beyond what appears to be the extent of injury, in connection with the aperture or apertures in the integuments. If any part, as a limb, be shot away entirely, as by a cannon-ball, the extent of injury is more openly declared. Thus 2 D402 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. also, penetration of an artery, with the formation of traumatic aneurism, may complicate a gunshot wound in any part. Penetration of ^ the brain complicates a gunshot wound of the skull; and similar injury of the lung or heart, or of one or more of the abdominal viscera, complicates a gunshot wound of the thoracic or abdominal cavities in either such case. Compound Fracture or Compound Dislocation not unfrequently complicate the more severe forms of gunshot injury. The course of a ball in the body is determined by its shape and velocity. The round musket-ball—formerly in use and propelled with a velocity which scarcely reached eighty yards, revolving, also, on its axis, at right-angles to its transit—was turned aside by the slightest obstacle. On striking the body, the resistance offered by clothing, or, on penetrating the skin, by a bone, and, indeed, the different resisting media of different structures, would deflect the ball from its course, and make it assume a circuitous and perchance most extraordinary route; ultimately lodging in the body in many cases. Now-a-days, the cylindro-conoidal rifle-bullet, generally nsed, and pro- pelled with a velocity true at 1000 yards or more, pursues its course straight through the body, and out again, in most cases. An apparent deviation is sometimes due to the Surgeon omitting to view the patient in the position he was when the ball entered; and occasionally, though rarely, a real deviation, possibly a circuitous course, is caused by an accidental concurrence of circumstances, especially when the velocity of a conoidal bullet has become diminished. Of the various textures, none suffer so much damage as bone by the penetration of a conoidal bullet. Piercing and passing through the soft parts, it splits and comminutes any bone in its way, producing fissures which extend into neighbouring joints ; the gi^eater destructiveness of this shaped projectile resulting from its wedge-like action, and the peculiar resistance offered by the osseous texture. The bullet itself becomes somewhat changed in shape; its apex being flattened and reverted, if it strikes point-blank; or planed from its apex towards its base, when it strikes parallel to its line of flight. Foreign bodies, of various kinds, are often lodged in a gunshot wound, and not unfrequently lie deeply buried; thus constituting another complication. The lodgment of any foreign body is determined by its shape and velocity, chiefly by the latter circumstance. A conoidal ball, with a considerably reduced speed before entering the body, will lodge, more or less deeply; while a round ball, although at full speed, having taken a circuitous route in the body, may become expended, and thus effect a lodgment. Bullets scattered from canister or spherical case, are liable to lodge ; owing apparently to distux-bance of their course in the primary discharge, and secondarily, by explosion of their containing case. Grape-shot lodge occasionally, and possibly after a very devious course in the body. More rarely, a cannon-ball lodges, and remains concealed. A ball weighing 8 lbs. was buried in the thigh, and dis- covered only by amputation. (Gruthrie.) In another case, a ball weighing 5 lbs. was found also in the thigh by amputation. (Larrey.) Penetrating fragments of shell, if projected edgeways, almost invariably lodge, and are frequently concealed; of which some remarkable in- stances are mentioned by Mr. Longmore. In exceptional cases, a small scale may be detached from a leaden403 GUNSHOT WONNDS. bullet, and this lodges in the wound. Sucli portions may occur, irrespective of the shape of the bullet, from a cylindro-conical as well as from a round bullet; and instances of either kind came within the experience of the last-named authority during the Crimean war. In gunshot wounds of the skull, a ball impinging obliquely is especially liable to be split; one fragment penetrating the cranial cavity, and the other lodging under the scalp, or flying oif. Cases of this kind are mentioned by Lany, Hennen, and Gruthrie; and some half-dozen in- stances are recorded in that most valuable repertoire of American 1 experience, " The Medical and Surgical History of the "War of the Rebellion," by Assistant-Surgeon George A. Otis, under the direction of the Surgeon-Greneral, Joseph K. Barnes. 1870. (Part I. vol. ii.) Other hinds of foreign bodies, and of various shape, as gravel, bits of wood, portions of clothing, etc., are not unfrequently found, or remain deep in a gunshot wound; any such substance being additional • to the projectile, or the only extraneous substance. In the discharge ' of fire-arms, or of cannon, certain substances are apt to be thrown off ; accidentally, and may be found imbedded in a wound thus produced; ; as when a fragment of a copper cap is blown off, or a piece of fuse. Gunpowder is sometimes driven into the skin, as by explosions in blasting or the discharge of blank cartridges; and, in civil practice, I similar accidents occur, from the explosion of a powder-flask, or of a . gun in the act of loading. A portion of the body of another individual close at hand, may be I struck ofi by gunshot injury and driven into the one who is the subject ■ of examination. Any such fragment is thus introduced by indirect participation in the gunshot injury. A double tooth, belonging to a ' comrade, was found imbedded in the eyeball, in one case; a portion of the jaw of a companion was driven into the palate in another case; while, in a third case, a piece of the skull was found impacted between the eyelids, the fragment having been shot of£ the skull of a soldier close by. And, generally speaking, the fragment comes from a cor- responding region of the body struck by the shot. Signs.—The external appearances produced by gunshot wound will depend on the size of the projectile and its velocity. Nimiber of Apertures.—A small penetrating body, as a bullet, pro- duces—(a.) An aperture of entrance, and, if the ball lodges, this is the only aperture. But the ball may have passed round and out at this aperture ; or it may have rebounded, owing to the elasticity of the part struck, as the cartilages of the ribs; or, having lodged tem- porarily, it may have been withdrawn in a pouch of clothing. There being only one aperture is, therefore, no sure sign that the ball has lodged. (&.) Two openings—one of entrance, another of exit—are pro- duced if the ball penetrates with sufiicient velocity to pass through the limb or body, (c.) More than one, perhaps several openings of entrance are produced occasionally. Thus, a bullet having first struck any hard resisting object, and split into pieces, two or more portions may recoil and wound a bystander; producing as many entrance-apertures. In one such instance, a ball split into five pieces by first striking : agamstarock; and all five portions entered the body of a soldier a few paces off. But the number of openings are not necessarily the same as that of the balls which penetrate. For example, of three balls, two may have the same aperture of entrance, and of exit also. This404 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. coincidence happened in tlie case of a youth who was shot through the abdomen; " that three balls went through him was evident, for they afterwards made three holes in the wainscot behind, but two very near each other." (Hunter.) (d.) More than one, perhaps several openings of exit are formed in some cases. Thus, a bullet having struck a ridge of bone and split into pieces, two or more portions may pass through ; producing as many exit-apertures. In one instance, a ball having split into two pieces by striking against the sharp crest of the right tibia, both portions passed through the calf of that limb, forming two openings ^ of exit, and then each entering the other calf, produced five openings altogether. A portion or portions of a sj/lit ball may lodge. Instances of this kind are recorded, where the ball had struck the edge of the patella, or the spine of the scapula. In like manner, •when several halls, say three, have entered, one or more may lodge. There being an aperture of exit is, therefore, no sure indication that one or more balls, or a portion of one, has not lodged; unless, in the latter case, the entire ball can be found. And, moreover, the number of exit-apertures are not necessarily the same as that of the balls which entered, or of the' portions into which any one ball may have split, (e.) Several openings, both of entrance and of exit, may be produced, and by a single ball. In one case, a ball passed through the hand, then the skin of the groin, and next the left buttock ; thus causing six open- ings. In another case, six openings also were caused by a single ball having passed through both thighs and the scrotum. (Gruthrie.) Appearances of the Entrance and Exit Apertures respectively.—They are tolerably distinctive, (Fig. 98.) The aperture of entrance is a small, nearly circular opening, or, as produced by a conical ball, it FiQ. 98. may be linear or crucial, or variously shaped; its margin is inverted., slightly torn, and surrounded with an areola of purple ecchymosis. The aperture of exit is larger and more irregular, its margin everted and more lacerated, showing the subcutaneous fat, and with less sur- rounding ecchymosis. Not unfrequently, there is no actual aperture,405 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. but a reddist discolouration of tlie integument, the tougli and elastic nature of the skin having offered suflB.cient resistance to prevent the formation of a second opening; in v?hich case, the ball can be felt lying under the skin, at a point about opposite to the entrance-aperture. These differential characters depend chiefly on the diminished velocity of the ball after its passage through the substance of a limb or the body. Consequently, the appearances of the entrance-opening vary somewhat in different cases, chiefly according to the speed of the ball; and its features may resemble those of the exit-aperture. A larger penetrating body than a bullet, and one of an irregular form, as a small piece of shell, produces an opening similar to that of a bullet; but it is more lacei'ated and less circular, of small size also as compared with the fi-agment, this peculiarity resulting from the slanting direction in which it penetrates. Generally there is no exit-aperture; such a pro- jectile lodges, owing to its comparatively less momentam. A still larger penetrating body and of an irregular shape, as a larger fragment of shell, produces an aperture yet more lacerated, and of even smaller size as compared with the fragment. It also not unfrequently lodges. A large-sized projectile, as a cannon-hall, may penetrate and pass through the body, producing an entrance and an exit aperture, which resemble those caused by a smaller projectile, as a bullet; only that the characters of either aperture are presented on a much larger scale. If, however, such a projectile as a cannon-ball strikes one of the extremities, it carries away the entire limb, as if transversely amputated j leaving a contused stump, purple and pulpified. The stump is less abruptly truncated and more lacerated^ if the ball impinge with diminished velocity, as when bounding along the ground it strikes off a limb. In both these forms of cannon-shot injury, the ball im- pinges in a direct line. If a cannon-ball strikes the body in a slanting direction, thus brushing the surface, and especially if, when moving with a greatly diminished velocity, it rolls over the part; in either case, the skin may not be broken, its elasticity apparently preserving that texture entire, and scarcely any discolouration marks the course of the ball. But the gravest subcutaneous disorganization of other textures is produced; even to the pounding of muscles, vessels, nerves, and bone, or of the viscera. Such internal lesions, unaccom- panied by any corresponding external signs, were formerly known as "wind-contusions," and attributed by French authors to the "vent de boulet." Hcemorrhage of an arterial character may attend a gunshot wound; and sometimes proves fatal almost instantaneously. A gush of arterial blood is seen, and then and there a pallid corpse. Generally, however, the accompanying laceration secures the vessels, as already described (Chapter XVI.), and prevents the escape of any considerable quantity of blood, at the time of injury. The shape of the projectile will modify in some degree the amount of laceration, a sharp-pointed or angular missile cutting rather than tearing the textures ; but the velocity of the missile is more effective; for a ball moving with great rapidity is more cleanly incisive, whereas a slow-moving ball lacerates and closes the vessels in its course. Haemorrhage will be more or less free, accord- ingly. Partial division of an artery is attended with profuse bleeding, as retraction cannot take place. Puncture by a spiculum of bone, occasionally, will cause primary heemorrhage; but a buUet may passSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 406 between an artery and vein in contact, as tte femoral vessels, -mtliOut opening either vessel, their elasticity apparently preserving them intact. The pain of a gunshot wound is worthy of notice as a symptom. In the first instance, it is either like the sharp stroke of a cane, or a dull heavy blow ; differences due, perhaps, to the degree of contusion. The pain may be referred to a part remote, more or less, from the seat of injury. This want of localization, coupled with the inconstant and in- definite character of the pain itself, evinces its inferior diagnostic value as a symptom, compared with the signs already described. For a short time after the injury, the sensibility of the part is numbed; pain succeeding, and with increasing intensity as inflammation and tension supervene. The symptoms connected with the penetration of particular parts— perchance the viscera—are specially significant, in virtue of the function of the part, which is thus injured ; but as not pertaining to the general pathology of gunshot wounds, they are here omitted. Causes; or Kinds of Projectiles in Ghmshot Wounds, and the Effects of these Injuries.—The shape of projectiles used in warfare presents several varieties, the chief of which are spherical, as cannon-balls, grape, musket-shot, and shell; cylindro-conoidal, as balls belonging to rifled cannon and rifled muskets ; irregular, but generally bounded by linear and jagged edges, as fragments of shells and splinters, chain and bar shot. In point of size, projectiles vary from a rifle bullet to the largest sized cannon-ball or shell. The shot used in civil life are usually of smaller size ; as the bullet of a fowling-piece, or of a revolver or pistol; and game-shot of various sizes. The material and density of projectiles are less various; being either lead, as the common bullet, glass, as some hand-grenades, or cast iron, as cannon-ball or shell and all other missiles. The momentum of a projectile is represented by its weight and velocity. The velocity of different kinds of projectiles varies consider- ably. According to a table published in 1851, the common musket bullet moves at the rate of 850 miles per hour, the rifle-ball of that date at 1000, and the 24 lb. cannon-ball at 1600 miles per hour. But the musket-ball then could not be depended on to hit an object beyond 80 yards, and the rifle not further than 200 to 250 yards; while, at a later period, the Enfield rifle was sighted to 900 yards, and the short Enfield to 1100 yards; and now, the Snider and Martini-Henry breech-loaders are true at certainly 1000 yards. The Jcind of motion imparted to different projectiles, and thence their course through the air, is a difficult question, which can only be analyzed and determined mathematically, and is, in fact, a very im- portant branch of dynamics. Different kinds of motion have to be considered in combination, and as resulting from the propulsive force, subject also to the law of gravity. A ball discharged from the old smooth-bore musket has a double motion; it revolves on its axis at a right-angle to the line of flght. A ball discharged from a rifle-bored musket or rifle has also a double motion, but of a different kind; it revolves on its axis in the line of flight. The angle at which a pro- jectile strikes may be said to be accidental in many or most cases, and unconnected with the missile itself or its motion. Striking frequently at or nearly a right-angle, one kind of missile—the shell—explodingGUNSHOT WOUNDS. 407 on the ground, scatters its fragments upwards, and thua any such fragment will strike probably at an acute or obtuse angle. The penetrating: power of a projectile is determined mainly by its shape and velocity. The cylindro-conoidal form is. very pene- trating, in virtue of ita mechanical advantage as a wedge. Thus, supposing one of the old musket bullets to strike a limb- at 80 yards, and an Enfield rifle conical bullet of the same weight at 800 yards;. the rate of velocity being equal in either case, the injury from the latter shaped ball may be expected to be much greater than that from the former. The influence of velocity is well known, and shown by the- diffei"ent effects of the same kind of missile according to its speed. A spent cannon-ball, rolling or bounding along the ground—ricochetting —may carry away a limb; whereas the same ball at full speed would level a line of men. But the former injury, occurring possibly when the cannon-ball is rolling along so slowly, as apparently to have no more force than a cricket-ball, shows also the influence of weight as an element of the momentum. De^isity is an important consideration respecting the power of penetration. For example, the projectiles and charges being of the same weight, when lead is used, the penetration at 800 yards is one-third greater from the Whitworth than the Enfield ri&e; but, if a less yielding material be used, as when lead is mixed with tin, its penetration is as 17 to 4, at 800 yards. (Longmore.) The hind of motion has certainly some relation to the penetrating power of any projectile. If spinning, like a top, at a right-angle to the line of flight, as a bullet discharged from the old smooth-bored musket, the projectile is easily turned aside from its course; whereas the screw- motion of a ball discharged from a rifle-bored tube, coinciding with the line of flight, is very penetrating. Lastly, the angle at which a projectile strikes must affect its penetration. A right-angle will be more effectual than an acute or obtuse angle, the impinging body having a tendency to glance off in striking at the latter angle. Small shot, such as are used in civil life, seldom penetrate deeply; unless when discharged at a short distance, and entering in a mass, they thus resemble a bullet, or even a larger ball, according to the charge; When scattered and spent by a longer range, shot of small size are often found to have entered only skin-deep ; but to have been deflected, probably, in all directions. Other bodies are sometimes associated with projectiles as indirectly causing wounds, additional, perhaps, to gunshot injury. Such missiles may be stones, splinters of wood or bits of iron from gun-carriages, portions of clothing or coins, and fragments of bone from a wounded comrade. Having borrowed their motion from the projectile itself, of whatever kind—perhaps a ball already spent—any such body strikes with a proportionately diminished impetus, and with different degrees of effect under various circum- stances affecting its own displacement, shape, and so forth. The effects of a gunshot wound, locally and constitutionally, are quite analagous to those of a punctured wound, or of any contused and lacerated wound. Parts are damaged far beyond the apparent extent of injury. Thus, the textures are killed to a greater or less extent along the track of the wound, and a corresponding tubular slough is eventually formed. Shock, rather than syncope from sudden hsemor- rhage, is the primary constitutional disturbance. This sloughing is more extensive, and the shock more overwhelming and prolonged,SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 408 when caused by projectiles of modern design; their more deadly cha- racter bomg due to their greater power of penetration. Considerable importance has been attached to shock, in the sense of concussion of the whole body, by a heavy projectile, as a cannon-ball. But this can happen only when the velocity of any such projectile is so much reduced as to give time, in striking, to overcome the inertia of rest in the body. A cannon-ball at full speed may carry away a limb without knocking down the individual, who falls simply by the sudden shock of injury to the nervous system. Tetanus is of common occur- rence. But its frequency has varied much in different campaigns, and under different climatic influences. In the Peninsular War, it was estimated to occur in about 1 case in every 200 wounded; in the Schleswig-Holstein War, 1 in about 350 cases. In the Crimea, tetanus appears to have been a rare event. Alcock's estimate of 1 case in every <9 wounded is too high. After naval engagements, the mortality has often been high. Sir G. Blane states that, after Rodney's action, out of 810 wounded 20 were attacked with tetanus, being 1 in 40. But sudden change from heat to cold is the most frequent cause of tetanus among the wounded. This was observed after the battles of Moskowa, Bautzen, Dresden, Chilianwallah, and Ferozepore. The above statistics include the proportion of cases of tetanus arising from all kinds of wounds, besides gunshot. Course.—The vital career of a gunshot wound is analagous to that of a punctured wound, or of any contused and lacerated wound. Gan- grenous inflammation invariably supervenes, perhaps extensively, along the track of the wound ; and thus textures which may not have been killed more immediately, die subsequently. The total result is repre- sented by the slough which forms. About the fifth day of a gunshot wound, this slough begins to loosen from the margin of either aper- ture, if two exist, and the line of demarcation between the living and dead tissues is clearly visible; about the tenth day, the slough or sloughs may be seen hanging out of the openings, and come away in the dressings. A tubular casting of slough had hitherto intervened between the living tissues surrounding the track of the wound, and prevented its union by adhesion. Suppurative granulations supervene, and the wound heals, or should heal, from within outwards. Pending this process of reparation, tension is often extreme and extensive, and suppuration equally profuse and diffused. Secondary haemorrhage is not an uncommon event. It occurs most frequently on the sixth day. (Baudens.) Arteries which did not bleed primarily, or which were only slightly grazed, may now burst forth. Or a spiculum of dead bone, during the course of suppuration, is occasionally the cause, by penetration of an artery. Any secondary hemorrhage, if not suddenly fatal, may be uncontrollable, from its depth or in a disorganized part, or ultimately fatal in an individual already reduced by suppura- tive discharge. An unextracted hall plays a singular part in the subsequent history of a gunshot wound. Constant suppuration, and exfoliation if the ball be lodged in bone, are consequences which might be expected. But the ball may move from its first lodgment and travel to some distance, in a devious course, and ultimately find an exit or still remain in the body. Various functional disturbances arise during these peregrina- tions. Again, the ball may become encysted in dense fibro-cellularGUNSHOT WOUNDS. 409 tissue, and then being stationary and isola.ted in a sac, it occasions little or no inconvenience. Or, a long canal-like cyst may form, in which the ball, although imprisoned, moves freely up and down. Apart from this general vital history, a gunshot wound extending into any internal organ, exhibits a series of phenomena peculiar to the particular organ implicated; and thence the completion of the vital history of this form of injury, as occurring in different parts of the body, belongs to Special Pathology. Prognosis.—The prognosis of Gunshot Wound is partly analogous to that of any other contused or lacerated wound. The kind of structural disorganization is significant, as leading inevitably to slough- ing and suppuration. The presence of Sbnj foreign body in the wound has a similar import. But the extent and the depth of a gunshot wound will much affect the issue. The prognosis is specially un- favourable according to the number and functional importance of the parts injured, as complications of the wound. Injury to large blood- vessels, nerves, or an internal organ, are thus, severally, unfavourable conditions; and proportionately to the functional disturbances thence arising. Compound Fracture and Compound Dislocation are obviously most serious complications of gunshot injury. The subsequent course of the wound in its undergoing reparation by suppurative granulation, is an eventually faoourable ground of prognosis. Treatment.—Immediately after a gunshot wound, certain require- ments demand instant attention, as to hsemorrhage, position, and shock. (1.) Arterial hcemorrhage, whether in the form of a jetting stream or a rapid dripping of blood, must be arrested forthwith. Abundant venous hasmorrhage is scarcely less perilous. If a limb be the seat of injury, a tourniquet should be apphed, so as to command the main vessels. The same rule holds good when the limb is struck off, as by a cannon-ball; a tourniquet should be applied above the stump. A convenient form of ^leZcZ-tour- niquet is here represented. (Fig. 99.) In the absence of this instrument, a substitute may be readily made, by means of a stone about the size of an egg, rolled in the middle of a pocket-handkerchief and placed over the main artery; the ends of the handkerchief being drawn around the limb and secured in a knot, and then twisted up tightly with a piece of stick or the hilt of a sword passed under it. A compress and an elevated position of the limb are more suitable when the haemorrhage is purely venous. The part may be covered with cold wet lint, as a soothing application. If the head or neck be wounded, hasmorrhage, whether arterial or venous, must be arrested by pressure; and cold applied. (2.) Attention to position is important. A limb should be laid in an easy position; and fixed during the removal of the wounded person to Hospital, in order to prevent any disturbance of the injured part from shaking or from spasmodic action of the muscles. This precaution will be the more necessary when compound fracture or dislocation com- FiQ. 99.410 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. plicates the injury. If the chest be shot through, the patient should be laid on the injured side and cold applied. If emphysema occur, or if air escape freely through the wound, a broad rib-roller should bo applied. If the abdomen be wounded, the patient should be laid on the injured side ; or, if the wound be central, on his back, with the knees drawn np over a pillow or knapsack. Any portion of protruding intestine or other viscera must be gently cleansed with water and at once returned. (3.) Shoclc, or sometimes hcemorrhagic collajyse, may be most peri- Ions; and brandy, wine, or other stimulant must be administered to preserve life. Cold water may be given freely to allay the parching thirst which speedily ensues from loss of blood. The subsequent indications of treatment comprise—^the permanent arrest of ^ hemorrhage; extraction of foreign bodies; the manage- ment of inflammation, and sloughing; and the conditions requiring ampntation. (4.) Hceinorrhage.—The permanent arrest of hasmorrhage may first demand attention. If arterial, the application of a double ligature to the wounded vessel may be necessary; the wound being sufficiently enlarged perhaps by an incision for this purpose, and the vessel secured at not less than half an inch outside the course of the wound, that it shall be unaffected by sloughing of the textures, which would lead to secondary haemorrhage. Whenever, therefore, the bleeding artery cannot be tied, with this precaution, owing to the depth of the wound, the main trunk must be ligatured. Yet this procedure should not be lightly entertained, considering the liability of thus inducing gangrene in a limb otherwise injured; as by ligature of the subclavian, or of the femoral artery. And, moreover, secondary hgemorrhage not unfre- quently occurs. But it is seldom requisite to have recourse to ligature of even the wounded artery for primary ha3morrhage after gunshot injury. When a limb is torn off, leaving a stump, the lacerated vessels soon cease to bleed. Venous h£emorrhage must still be arrested by pressure, and elevation of the limb. The application of a roUer- bandage is advocated by Hamilton as a very effectual means of pre- venting extravasation of blood and serous effusion. Bat it should not be continued after inflammation has set in—say, not beyond the first twelve or twenty-four hours. Other indications for interference with the wound are best de- termined by examining the patient in the position, as nearly as it can be ascertained, in which he was relatively to the projectile that struck him. In any other posture, the apparent course of the ball in the body, and thence also the probable extent of injury or the parts implicated, would be modified by muscular action and by the various degrees of elastic retraction of the wounded textures. The relative situations of the rent in the clothing and the entrance-opening in the flesh, should also be compared. (5.) Foreign Bodies.—To detect any such substance, the finger is the best searcher or probe. Various forms of gunshot probe have been devised; an instrument provided with a bulb-end being Uie most serviceable. In case of doubt or difficulty of examination as to the lodgment of a leaden bullet, N61aton's probe, having a bulb of un- glazed porcelain, should be introduced; and if, in firmly touching the foreign body, its point receives a metallic mark, as shown whenGUNSHOT WOUNDS. 411 Fig. 100.* the probe is withdrawn, this instrument will thus offer the requisite facility and certainty of diagnosis. In the well-known instance of Garibaldi, it will be remembered that a ball was detected with this instrument by Nelaton, after search had been otherwise made, repeatedly in vain. A probe should be introduced lightly, or dropped into the wound, not to miss the track of the ball; any thrust of the instrument might make a false passage ; but if in the right course, the probe can be advanced almost by its own weight towards the ball, while the Surgeon endeavours to overcome any hitch, by adapting the position of the part so as to restore the track. The finger or a probe will glide most readily in the course which the missile has taken; the tissues having been thrown down in this direction, as grass falls before the wind. Enlargement of the Untrance-Aferture.—A slight incision is some- times absolutely necessary for the removal of a bullet or other foreign body; but the rule of practice which formerly prevailed of invariably enlarging the aperture by incision and to some considerable extent was an error; suggested by the false pathology of thus converting a supposed " poisoned" wound into a simple incised wound, and of giving free vent to the noxious discharge. Any foreign body, of irregular shape, e.g., a fragment of shell, more generally needs release to effect its dislodgment and ex- traction ; the circumstances in this case at once showing the necessity, and regulating the extent, of incision. ]3ut unless for an obvious purpose, the rule should be to avoid making any enlargement of a gunshot wound, as being an extension of the original injury. To remove a hullet some form of bullet- extractor is generally requisite or advan- tageous. The most convenient form is here i^epresented. (Fig. 100.) The sharp points of this instrument will readily seize a leaden bullet. Any kind of forceps is somewhat objectionable, owing to the dila- tation of the textures in using the instru- ment. A bullet lodged in bone may be extracted by an elevator, aided by gouging away any overhanging portion of bone. Any other foreign body, as a portion of clothing, which might be mistaken for some natural texture, should be searched for with the finger and removed by manipu- lation rather than with forceps, which are apt to seize both indiscriminately. Ex- amination of the dress will probably show whether a portion was carried with the shot into the wound. It should, however, be remem- bered that any such fragment may have been withdrawn in undressing ,*. Luer's bullet-extractor, which was used generally in the Franco-German War (Weiss.) • 0SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 412 the patient. Foreign bodies are eligible for removal, according to the patency of their situation, as their presence can then be ascertained with proportionate certainty; but the relation of surrounding parts will alfect the safety of an operation for extraction. Thus, when situated beneath the skin, although perhaps at some distance from the entrance-aperture, a bullet is readily detected and removed by an incision, longer than the apparent size of the ball, care being taken to steady the ball lest it slip away out of reach. The bullet is usually found to be more or less battered and misshapen, also tightly con- stricted and held fast by diverted threads of muscular, fibrous, or cellular texture; the missile, thus imprisoned, cannot be raised from its bed, and must be set free by touches with the knife, before it can be extracted, without further laceration of the textures and unneces- sary pain. A conoidal ball generally lies with its long axis sideways beneath the integument, and should be extricated in that direction. On the other hand, when the foreign body is situated deeply, and possibly already out of reach, its detection is less certain—unless it be a leaden bullet, the presence of which may be recognized by means of Nelaton's probe; and its extraction, in any case, by operation, will be less safely accomplished. The annexed form of bullet-forceps, Savigny's (Fig. 101), is specially serviceable for deep wounds. The blades unlock, and can be in- troduced separately, or used as a scoop. Cozeter's bullet-scoop (right object in Fig.) enables the Surgeon to fix the bullet by means of a screw. But when the foreign body is so placed that it cannot be distinctly localized, or should it be inaccessible surgically, the better rule of practice is to abandon any further research, as well as any attempt at operative interference. This injunction be- comes absolute in the case of a foreign body lodged in any internal organ. Sometimes a counter-opening affords a more ready access to the ball; and then, when extracted, the missile should be carefuUy examined, to ascertain whether it has been chipped, by coming in contact with bone, and that the fragment is probably left in the body ; or whether, judging from its misshapen, although unbroken appearance, the ball has struck bone, directly or obliquely, this relative direction giving a further indication as to the amount of injury which the bone has sustained. Certain difficulties attend both these questions. A conical ball is rarely split; and unless the ball retain its regular shape, or if disfigured, unless it be much reduced in size and weight, there will be great difiiculty in determining whether any portion has been knocked off. If, however, a piece has been left, bone must have been struck; and the fragment will be diverted from the course of the ball, so as perhaps to elude any further search. The misshapen appearanceGUNSHOT WOUNDS. 41S of the ball may also show that bone baa been struck; but only when it is flattened at its conical point, or deeply furrowed on one side, can the inference be warranted that the missile impinged directly, in such case producing fracture, with extensive comminution; whereas, an oblique stroke, grazing the bone, may not cause fracture, or if so, without comminution. In connection with this examination of the ball, the possibility should not be overlooked that similar alterations of size and shape may have been produced by impingement against some hard substance, before entering the body; as by striking a button, or a sword, upon the person of the wounded man. In com- minuted fracture, any loose fragments of bone should be removed. Ckinpowder grains, scattered beneath the skin, appear as black specks, and are perceptible to the touch; they may be picked out with the point of a probe, though rather firmly imbedded. If allowed to remain, these granules induce ,3ome redness and swelling, followed perhaps by suppuration and their discharge. But, usually, a pointed marking remains—^the part is tattooed. The grains can be disinterred only by incision with a sharp-pointed bistoury, and even then the stain left is never effaced. An ordinary gunshot wound, having one or two, possibly more, openings, with an intermediate line of texture about to slough, is a kind of lesion which requires little or no external dressing. The aper- tures may be protected from exposure to dirt by corresponding pieces of wet lint, or when fresh water cannot be procured, as perhaps at sea, simple cerate on lint vsdll be a sufficient substitute; but any restrictive dressings, which would preclude the escape of sloughs and the discharge of pus, are altogether at variance with the suggestions of pathology. Aja. irregular and lacerated wound, as by a piece of shell, may need such dressings, but merely so as to adjust and retain the textures in position. Or, during a journey by land, as when recently wounded men are transferred to some distant hospital, their wounds, tender and irritable, may be protected; a broad compress of cotton or other soft padding, applied over the dressing, and lightly retained by plaster, will prevent any chafing of the clothes or other injury, and also afford great comfort. (6.) The accompanying inflammation and tension with severe pain are perhaps best moderated by warm water fomentations; but the choice of warm or cold and evaporating applications, must be guided by experience and trial in each case, and especially by the sensations of the patient, rather than by any pathological consideration at present known. TJarly and free incisions may be requisite to relieve tension and thence the accompanying constitutional disturbance, and to give free vent to matter which otherwise accumulating would burrow and dis- organize the part. This relief of tension will also limit the sloughing. The irrigation of cold water has sometimes proved very beneficial, apparently in cleansing the wound of any excessive discharge, or decomposing texture, and thence also in the prevention of pyemic infection. Subsequently, the process of healing by granulation and cicatrization guides and regulates whatever slight assistance may then be necessary on behalf of reparation. Of the untoward events to which a gunshot wound, in general, is liable; secondary haemorrhage is one. It is especially apt to occur when the sloughs loosen and separate—about the fifth or sixth day;SPECIAL PATnOLOQY AND SURGERY. 414 but it may happen during a period from that time up to the twentieth or thirtieth day, when any ligatures separate, and commonly about the fourteenth day. At those times, therefore, the application of a tourniquet around the limb, in readiness to be tightened at a moment's notice, will always be a judicious precaution, but only as a temporary measure to arrest the htemorrhage. Ligature of the bleeding vessel or vessels is imperative, and without delay. This should be done in situ, if possible ; or when impracticable, then by ligaturing the main trunk; or that failing to command the haemorrhage, amputation is the only resource. A general oozing of blood, or " parenchymatous hemorrhage," maybe subdued by dilute solutions of perchloride or per- sulphate of iron, or other astringents. Any loose fragment or speculum of dead bone, as an accidental cause, should be removed; although, sometimes, not without the danger of provoking erysipelas. The probability of gangrene supervening, and thence the propriety of amputation, and the question whether it should be primary or secondary, are subject to the same or analogous considerations as with regard to contused and lacerated wound, and to compound fracture or dislocation. (7.) Amputation.—When a limb is the seat of gunshot injury, requii'ing amputation, the evil consequences of delay are vividly portrayed by Sir Charles Bell, in the following course of such cases: ■—" In twelve hours, the inflammation, pain, and tension of the whole limb, the inflamed countenance, the brilliant eyes, the sleepless and restless condition, declare the impression the injury is making on the limb and on the constitutional powers. In six days, the limb, from the groin to the toe, or from the shoulder to the finger, is swollen to half the size of the body; a violent phlegmonous inflammation, with serous effusion, has taken place in the whole limb, and abscesses are forming in the great beds of cellular texture throughout the whole extent of the extremity. In three months, if the patient have laboured through the agony, the bones are carious, the abscesses are inter- minable sinuses, the limb is undermined and everywhere unsound, and the constitutional strength ebbs to the lowest degree." Keeping in view a clinical history such as this. Surgeons are now generally agreed on the great advantage of primary, instead of secondary, amputation, in gunshot injury, an advantage which is fully borne out by statistical results; but the only question has been the kind or class of cases requiring amputation. The following conditions of gunshot injury may be enumerated, as those which justify amputation, according to the " Report of the United States Commission," 1864. (Hammond's MUitary Essays.) (1.) Cases where a limb is nearly or completely carried away, leaving a ragged stump, with laceration of the soft parts, and projection of the bone. (2.) Cases in which the soft parts of a limb are extensively lacerated or contused, the principal arterial and nervous trunks destroyed, and the bone denuded or fractured, (3.) Cases in which a similar condition exists, without either fracture or denudation of the bone. (4.) Cases of compound and comminuted fracture, particularly those involving joints. . . (5.) Cases in which the ball does not actually penetmte the joint,GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 415 but in wMch, tlie bone being struck above or below, the fracture extends into the joint. (6.) Respecting the lower limb :— Compound fractures of the middle and lower part of the thigh, occasioned by gunshot, require amputation. In the upper two-thirds of the thigh, with similar gunshot injury, the mortality following amputation has been so very great, that army sui'geons have generally abandoned the operation. On the other hand, this experience should be supplemented by the counter-fact that such injuries rarely recover. Six cases, however, in the upper third of the thigh, are reported to have occurred during the Crimean War. (Longmore.) We may therefore join issue with the Surgeon-Greneral of the United States Army, in the conclusion that such cases must be left to the judgment of the surgeon. (7.) Gunshot wounds of the knee-joint demand amputation. Ex- cision has not been attended with favourable results. The conditions of gunshot injury to the lower limb, which do not necessarily require amputation, are:— (8.) Fractures in the middle of the leg, unless the arteries are destroyed, or the injuries involve the neighbouring joints. (9.) In the case of the ankle-joint, if the posterior tibial artery and nerve have escaped injury, and if the bones be not extensively com- minuted, an attempt may be made to save the limb. (10.) Respecting the upper limb :— In gunshot injuries of the shoulder and elbow joints, provided the main blood-vessels and nerves are not involved, excision may be practised with a fair prospect of success. Thus, in 14 cases of excision of the shoulder-joint, by M. Baudens, as performed for gun- shot injury, 13 were successful. During the Crimean War also, Mr. Thornton states, that of 12 cases of shoulder-joint excision, 2 only were fatal; and in 17 of the elbow-joint, only 2; while 5 partial excisions of the joint were aU of them successful. In the Russian army, we gather from the report by Messrs. Mouat and Wyatt, that of 20 elbow- joint excisions, 15 recovered. (11.) Gunshot wounds penetrating the wrist, unless accompanied with great laceration, do not necessarily demand amputation. (12.) Gunshot wounds between the phalanges of the fingers or toes, may also be exempted. (13.) Before proceeding to any amputation on account of gunshot injury, great care should be taken to discover whether the patient may not be otherwise mortally wounded. In duly considering whether amputation should be primary or secondary—to give the limb its chance—the large proportion of un- favourable or fatal results of secondary amputation, must ever be taken into account. During the siege of Sebastopol, there were 3000 ampu- tations, among 80,000 wounded Russians. Of the primary amputations of the upper extremity, of the lower and middle third of the thigh, of the leg, and foot, about one-third recovered; but of all the secondary amputations, more than two-thirds died. These results are more than corroborated by those in previous wars. Thus, primary amputation J was successful in three-fourths of the cases, under Larrey, during the J Napoleonic Wars; whereas, of 300 secondary amputations, reported k by Faure, after the battle of Fontenoy, 30 only were successful. In416 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. the Peninsular War, the loss after secondary amputations of the upper extremity was, as compared with the primary, as 12 to 1; and of the lower extremity, the loss was three times as great. As the result of a very complete statistical inquiry. Dr. Stone, of the Bellevue Hospital, New York, arrives at two conclusions:—That, with regard to the upper extremity, primary amputations are to be preferred, both in military and civil practice, being more successful than secondary in both ; and that in the lower extremity, primary amputations are three times as successful as secondary, in mihtary practice. (N.T. " Journal of Medicine.") Comparing amputation, both primary and secondary, with no amputation—an attempt to save the limb—it would appear that the risk of failure or the relative mortality is at least equal ! This conclusion is supported by Bilguer, and by Malgaigne's experience in Poland, where—in an army of 80,000—after amputation of the lower extremitity, not one case survived. Immediate amputation—• without any delay, if possible—offers the advantage of performing the operation in the absence of shock. This favourable opportunity would appear to be due to the elation of the soldier "while in heat and mettle," as Wiseman suggested ; and the beneficial influence of this state has been recognized by Pare, Larrey, John and Charles Bell, Hennen, Guthrie, and other surgeons of experience; and which was verified by not a few instances during the Crimean campaign. Hamilton concedes the advantage of immediate amputation in some cases of severe injury to a limb ; as when there is uncontrollable or recuning haemorrhage, or if there be intense or irrelievable pain, from displaced spiculae of bone which cannot be extracted ; and that this early period of operation will always be suitable for all the smaller amputations, as of the fingers and toes. Intermediate amputation—in the period between that which is either primary or secondary—is now generally acknowledged to be the most unfavourable time ; that interval not being safer than within the first twenty-four or thirty-six hours, when shock has passed off—the period for primary amputation; but which is succeeded by congestive infiltration or acute inflammation ; and the consequences of which in suppuration and exhaustion are apt to render secondary amputation so disastrous. The seat of amputation should always be guided by the cardinal rule of preserving as much of the limb as possible, having regard to the nature and extent of the injury, not only for the formation of a more useful stump, but also in relation to the safety of life. The nearer to the trunk, the greater the danger of amputation for gun- shot injury, in common with other injuries, and especially when the lower extremity is submitted to the operation. Thus, amputation through the thigh, in its upper third, is most fatal; the death-rate rising to 86 per cent., or even higher. This was alike the experience of English, French, and Russian surgeons, during the Crimean War; and it was confirmed by the results in the American War. Amputation ., through a joint, rather than in the continuity of a long bone, has yielded more satisfactory results, both in regard to the stump, and - the comparative mortaUty. The former is certainly a more convenient, operation, where time is precious to the operator, as in service on the field. And looking at the results collected by Dr. Stephen Smith, it appears that in 86 cases of amputation at the knee-joint, 49 recovered, and 37 died, showing a mortality of only 43 per cent.; as compared I417 MORBID CICATRICES. witli 64 per cent., after amputation in tlie thigh, during the American War. The method o£ amputation—whether by the circular operation, or by flaps—is a question worthy o£ consideration, principally with reference to circumstances, relative to the operator and the patient after operation. Thus, in amputations on the field, and performed necessarily under the pressure of time, flap amputation is more expeditious ; but if time permit, and the patient is likely to be con- veyed to some distance soon after operation, circular amputation will be preferable, considering that heavy, and perhaps swollen flaps, shaken by the motion of carriage, are apt to loosen and become gan- grenous. This difficulty was experienced during the Crimean cam- paign, among the cases of amputation subjected to journey by land, and even when the patients were conveyed by sea, in the transports to Scutari. The general treatment, hygienic and medicinal, in relation to gun- shot wounds, is the same as, under similar circumstances, with regard to other contused or lacerated Wounds, Compound Fracture, and Dislo- cation. Hygienic measures are chiefly important, and they claim special attention in Military Camp Hospitals; where, owing to the contingencies of warfare, regimen, ventilation, and general cleanliness are more than usually liable to be defective. CHAPTER XIX, MORBID CICATRICES. Morbid Cicatrices are either failures of reparation in the healing of Wounds and Ulcers, or various conditions of its results, in the form of faulty cicatrices. They comprise:—(1) Deficient Cicatrix; (2) Excessive Cicatrix; (3) Painful Cicatrix ; (4) Ulceration, Grrowths, and Degenerations of Cicatrix. (1.) Deficient Cicatrix. — A thin, flat, shining, reddish, easily wrinkled and cracked scar remains, after the imperfect heaUng of a weak ulcer or scrofulous sore. Such a result depends obviously on deficient reparative power of cicatrization. Treatment.—Pencilhng with nitrate of silver, sulphate of copper, or other stimulant application, and protection of the surface from any external occasion of inflammation or injury, constitute the most probably successful topical treatment. At the same time, the general health must be improved as far as possible, thus having regard to the constitutional causative condition. (2.) Excessive, and Exuberant or Glieloid Cicatrix.—An opposite con- dition to the preceding; this form of cicatrix is thick, more or less projecting, irregular, dense, and perhaps adherent. Contraction of such a cicatrix is not an uncommon character, and the force thus exerted may be so powerful and long continued, as to produce great displace- ment and deformity. This result usually follows cicatrization after a burn, particularly if it be deep and extensive. 2 E418 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Gheloid or exuberant cicatrix is well defined, gradually rising, with a rounded border, and a smooth, level, or slightly convex, or sometimes centrally depressed surface. Its substance is always tough and firm, becoming more so as it grows older. At first, usually more vascular than even a recent healthy scar, and having a florid or purple tint; it gradually becomes paler as it becomes harder, and at length resembles healthy exuberant skin. In point of structure there is nothing peculiar; compact fibro-cellular tissue more or less completely developed or de- generate, and slightly vascular, is covered with a thin cuticle. The size of a cheloid growth is generally distinctive; rarely more than half an inch in thickness, or more than half an inch in any direction beyond the extent of scar in which it grows, the growth thus differs from a fibrous growth of skin which it nearly resembles. Exuberant cicatrLx may ai'ise from some local cause of irritation during cicatrization, or some more obscure cause of a constitutional character. The latter would appear to be the origin of this cicatrix; considering its infre- quency as compared with the frequency of wounds and scars, and that many such growths may appear in the same individual, and reappear in the scars of wounds made for their removal. It occurred as the result of confluent small-pox, in a remarkable case under my observa- tion ; the face presenting a seamed cicatrix, having a trellis-work appearance. Cheloid cicatrix may supervene on a completely formed healthy cicatrix, and even long after it has remained so ; it grows slowly, and generally, after a long duration, ceases to enlarge or diminishes, and it is liable to degeneration and ulceration. Treatment.—Strong stimulants, applied repeatedly, have some effect in dispersing an excessive cicatrix; apparently by inducing or favouring degeneration and disintegration of the already imperfectly developed fibro-cellular tissue, and thus facilitating its absorption. Further growth may at least be retarded or prevented in like manner. Iodine paint and mercurial ointments will perhaps prove the most effectual of these applications. Adhesion of the cicatrix to subjacent textures and to bone, is best overcome by subcutaneous division, as was, I believe, originally recommended by Mr. Hancock. A cicatrix, hitherto intractable, will, when thus detached, contract, and not unfrequently close in rapidly. Contraction of the cicatrix, as after a burn, is more preventable than curable. Mechanical restraint by some form of con- trivance adapted to the situation and extent of the ulcer, and applied as soon as the eschar is detached, will perhaps prevent the effects of contraction. Counter-extension, by similar means, in the dii'ection of contraction, will less surely overcome its effects. But it may be necessary to continue such resistance for weeks or months; often taxing the ingenuity of the Surgeon, and trying both his perseverance and that of his patient. In accordance with pathology, the general principles to be here observed are the following :—" That scar-tissues seem rather to adapt themselves by changes of nutrition to the external forces brought to bear on them, than to be merely stretched by them; that, in however long a time, the natural course and tendency of sears is to soften down to a greater resemblance to the natural parts in both structure and relations ; and that they are of low vital power, apt, therefore, to waste or ulcerate quickly under irritation, friction, or pressure, and are thus removable by absorption." (Paget.) Cheloid cicatrix is removable only by excision, complete extirpationMORBID CICATRICES. 419 beino" necessary, and not even then a guarantee of non-recurrence; but a recurrent growth of this kind is not more intractable than the original one. Plastic operations, planned according to the particular case, are available for the cure either of excessive or of cheloid cicatrix. The chief general rules for such operations may be thus stated:—That if the scar is to be removed, so as to bring healthy structures together for union in its place, no portion whatever of its substance should be left; that scar-tissues should not be used for the formation of flaps, or relied on for any speedy or sound union; that if the scar or part of it is to be included in any flap for sliding or transplanting, all the borders and surfaces of such flap intended for union should, if possible, be of healthy structure, and not themselves parts of the scar; and that flaps should not be dependent on scar-tissues for their supplies of blood. (3.) Painful Cicatrix.—Commonly arising from adhesion of the sub- jacent nerves to the skin or bone, and not attributable to bulbous enlargement of their cut extremities; the cicatrix of any wound may thus be painful, although most frequently that of a stump after ampu- tation. Usually, the cicatrix-tissue is sound, but the nerves are sub- ject to constant irritation or inflammation, varying with the mobility and movement of the part. Neuralgic pain, of an excruciating and paroxysmal character, is due rather to some constitutional cause affect- ing a cicatrix, still healthy in itself. This condition may supervene long after the cicatrix is completely formed, and has loosened from any subjacent adhesions in the natural course of healing. Treatment.—Free subcutaneous section is almost sure to prove re- medial, when the pain arises from adhesion of the cicatrix. It is readily accomplished by introducing a tenotomy knife from the centre of the part, which usually remains open as an intractable ulcer, and sweeping round the cicatrix, to beyond its circumference. In this way I succeeded in permanently curing a painful, adherent cicatrix ( over the projecting head of the astragalus, after Ohopart's operation, i I found it necessary, however, to remove a portion of the bone, in order 1 to bring the margins of the ulcer together; and to divide the tendo- Achillis in order to prevent retraction of the stump and tilting forward i: of the astragalus, as was the case before the operation. The result was • that the pain ceased and the ulcer healed over the stump, the tendon ' was lengthened by gradual extension of the foot after operation, and the man walked well on the flat of the stump to the ground. This result was the more noteworthy, considering that, as a crucial experi- ment, I had previously divided the tendo-Achillis without any efEect on the cicatrix. After amputation in the upper third of the leg, I have had recourse to subcutaneous section of the cicatrix, when adherent to the tibia. Neuralgic pain can only be cured, if at all, by consti- tutional treatment; chiefly by quinine, and careful regulation of the bowels. The topical application of aconitina will often temporarily allay this pain; a grain of the best preparation of the alkaloid to " drachm of lard, in the form of an ointment applied from time to time. (4.) Ulceration, (md. other morhid changes, growths {md degenerations, ■ttecting cicatrix-tissues, follow the same pathological laws as in other tractures; and are amenable to the same treatment, accordingly.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 420 CHAPTER XX. BURNS AND SCALDS. LIGHTNING. FEOST-BITES, Burns and Scalds.—Structural Conditions, cmd Diagnostic Characters.— Formerly, burns were classified according to tbeir different degrees of structural disorganization, as represented by inflammation, suppuration, slougliing, and ulceration. Fabricius Hildanus, Boyer, and Dr. J. Thomson observed only three degrees of disorganization; Heister and Callisen recognized a fourtb; but Dupuytren was dissatisfied with this ground of classification, which regarded only the intensity of the bums, while the nature of the parts affected, the textures injured or destroyed, were altogether disregarded. He therefore superadded this kind of classification, by distinguishing bams according to their various degrees of depth, from the surface inwards to deeper parts. Firstly,—Erythema, or simple reddening of the skin. Secondly.— Vesication, the cuticle being raised in blebs, filled with serum. Thirdly. —Incomplete destruction of the skin. Fourthly.—Complete destruc-' tion of the skin, extending down to and involving the subcutaneous cellular texture. Fifthly.—Conversion into eschars of muscles, nerves, vessels, and other soft tissues to within a variable distance from the bone. Sixthly.—Charring and complete disorganization of the whole substance of the burnt part. Obviously, this classification recognizes not only the various degrees of disorganization, beginning with ery- thema and ending with charring; but the various kinds of tissue, or anatomical differences, are also recognized as grounds of distinction. Thus may be enumerated burns of the skin, and those involving the cellular texture, the muscles, nerves, vessels, and so forth. The distinctions laid down by Dupuytren, although stiU generally accepted, are, I conceive, practically useless. Beep burns, to the fourth, fifth, and sixth degrees, extending successively through tissues having very different anatomical characters, are not attended with correspondingly different degrees of shock; they undergo the same process of reparation by sloughing and suppurative granulation, and with equal probability of recovery. It should also be observed that, as the textures successively destroyed by deep bums serve very different functions in the animal economy, the relative importance of such burns is not proportionate to the physiological character and importance of the parts destroyed. Nor, again, is the Surgeon concerned with the pathologico-anatomical differences of bums. He estimates not the effects of heat on the body by observing the different degrees of dis- organization produced in the various textures—that this eschar is yellow and hard, and that is black and brittle—as the geologist or mineralogist would examine specimens of igneous rocks. Superficial burns are most important, and in proportion to the extent of surface affected, but not necessarily destroyed structurally. The more superficial the burn, the more the skin alone is affected, if only extensively, the more urgent will be the constitutional disturb- ance, and the more dangerous is the burn. A negro employed at the Bains Vigicr, in Paris, wishing on one occasion to warm his limbs,BURNS AND SCALDS. 421 Avliicli were beniambed witli cold during a rigorous winter, immersed himself in a batli heated to a high temperature. In a short time he experienced a general feeling of uneasiness, with acute pain in the skin. He was immediately withdrawn and carried to the H6tel Dieu, where he expired in thirty-six hours ! It is reasonable to suppose in this case, that although the water was heated to a high temperature, yet it was not at the boiling point, and that it acted only as a general rubefacient, -without raising or destroying the cuticle; and yet here was a burn of only the first degree, but very extensive, and therefore accompanied with a shock to the nervous system, so sudden and overwhelming as soon to have proved fatal. Beep burns, when not superficially extensive, are of comparatively subordinate importance; their significance having reference generally to the remote consequences of such burns, by exhaustion from sloughing and suppurative discharge. Causes, and their Effects locaUy and constitutionally.—Heat applied to the body is necessarily the cause in all cases; but it may have been either by fire, as by the clothes catching fire, the explosion of gun- powder or other explosive compound; or by means of a hot or scalding fluid, as boiling water or molten lead. The lesions produced in the former way are commonly designated burns; in the latter way scalds. This distinction is of practical consequence; burns not unfrequently resulting from the more prolonged application of heat, are deeper lesions, but perhaps of less superficial extent; scalds resulting from the more momentary application of heat, are more superficial, but generally they affect a larger extent of integument. Any adhesive fluid, as boiling oil, is a more persistent cause, and boiling perhaps at a higher tempera- ture than water, it affects the tissues to a greater depth, as well as superficially. Some such fluids, clinging to the skin, run over a yet greater extent. Thus, then, scalds may be even more severe than burns, by the duration of the cause; the amount of lesion, super- ficially and in depth, being perhaps equal. Explosive compounds are destructive, not only as causing burns of considerable extent, but also by the mechanical violence of their ex- plosion, producing wounds which might be called burnt wounds, con- tused and lacerated. Grains of gunpowder, grit, mud, or other material may, moreover, be introduced as foreign bodies into such wounds. Wounds of this kind were well marked in the persons of the unfor- tunate victims of the " Clerkenwell Explosion," admitted under my care into the Royal Free Hospital. In all cases, the wounds were not only lacerated, and ingrained with dirt, as if portions of flesh bad been gouged out by extremely forcible splashes of mud; but the surface of these wounds and surrounding integument were appa- rently burnt and contused by the concussive atmospheric force of the explosion. All the wounds sloughed for some time, with a yellow, and freely suppurating surface; healing very slowly by granulation. The cicatrix contracted, and assumed a seamed, puckered appearance, notably in the wounds of the neck ; just like the cicatrix presented by the healing of a burn. Bums and scalds immediately induce pain and shock, both of which are more or less severe according to the superficial extent of lesion. The symptoms of shock, affecting the nervous system and circulation, are the same as those arising from any other injury. But422 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. it IS accompanied witli congestion of internal organs; tlie brain, lungs, and raucous membrane of the gastro-intestinal canal. The duration of collapse is variable, averaging about 48 hours—two days. Goiirse and Terminations.—{I.) Shock, or Gonrjestion, proves fatal in many cases within the first two days; and indeed of all the fatal cases of burn, a great majority die in this period. Mr. Erichsen collected 50 fatal cases, and Mr. T. Holmes 75 such cases of bum; the former, with a view of determining the organs most frequently affected in each degree and period ; the latter, with the special view of determining the mode and cause of death. Of the whole 125 cases, 35 died on the first or second day; but as the great majority of those who are burnt to death are not examined, the proportion is much greater than this. Thus, of 119 other cases brought to St. George's Hospital, 79 died in this period. In 16—Erichsen's proportion—of the 35 cases, the brain and its membranes were found congested, with more or less serous effusion into the ventricles or arachnoid, in 15 cases. The brain in the other case was not examined. In the remaining 19 cases, the brain was examined only in a few, but in 1 only was it healthy in respect of structure and vascularity. The thoracic viscera were congested in 8 of the 16 cases, and in 6 of the 19 cases; the congestion having passed into demonstrable inflammation in 1 of the former, and in 3 of the latter; thus making thoracic congestion in one-half the cases examined. The abdominal organs were somewhat less frequently congested; in 12 of the 16 cases, in 3 only of the 19. The mucous membrane of the pharnyx and larnyx is extremely liable to be con- gested, apparently owing to the inhalation of flame or heated air during the accident; of the 19 cases collected by Mr. Holmes, which died in. the first two days, some appearance of this kind was found in 13. The congestion in the pharnyx very generally ceases abruptly at the com- mencement of the oesophagus; in some rare cases passing down into the stomach. (2.) Beaction and Inflammation constitute the next, or second period; extending from the end of the second day to the end of the second week. During this period, 25 out of the 50 cases died; and 29 out of the 75 cases; or 54 out of 125. Tlie brain, lungs, and intestines are the viscera principally affected ; laryngeal cases usually die earlier. In the 25 cases, the brain was affected in 14; 11 being simple conges- tion, and 3 serous effusion. Of the 29 cases, the brain was not ex- amined in the great majority ; in 3 it was congested, with effusion into the ventricles or arachnoid; but there was no evidence of true inflam- mation in any case. The lungs are more frequently affected. In the 25 cases, these organs were congested in 10 cases, and inflamed in 6. Of the 29 cases, inflammation of the lungs or pleura had occurred in 7 (in one of which, however, it probably existed before the accident), and congestion was noted in 5 others. The abdominal viscera—Uver, spleen, or kidneys—are perhaps never affected as a consequence of burns, except by pytemia. But the mucous membrane of the gastro- intestinal canal is usually inflamed, and probably ulcerated; with, in some cases, evidence of peritonitis. Inflammation followed by ulcera- tion of the duodenum is a notable occurrence, in the second period of burn, to which Mr. Curling first drew attention. In the 25 cases, ulceration of this portion of intestine was found in 6; in the 29 cases, in 4 of them; making a total of 12 such cases out of 54. In 3 more ofBURNS AND SCALDS. 423 tlie latter series, enlarged glands were foand, in 1 of which cases the fflands of the whole intestinal tract were enlarged. The diwderial ^dcer is sharp-edged, and tolerably circular, as if a portion of the mucous membrane had been cut out; it is very indo- lent, and usually situated just below the pylorus. Often there are two or three close together. G-cnerally, the burn is on some part of the chest or abdomen. The earliest known period of duodenal ulceration is the fourth day; on the fifth day, it was noticed in two cases, and in one on the sixth. It usually occurs about the tenth day. This ulceration is unaccompanied by general inflammatory symptoms, or by any special symptoms. Persistent vomiting and bloody diarrhoea are the most reliable. Perforation of the bowel may ensue, and death take place suddenly from haemorrhage, or from acute peritonitis. In one case, however, after death from other causes, at the end of eight weeks, a recent cicatrix was found in the duodenum. (3.) Siqjpuration and Exhmistion, or Inflammation still prevailing, represent the third period ; extending from the end of the second week to the termination of the case. The proportion of deaths at this period was 9 in the 50 cases—less than and 27 in the 75 cases—more than f. Brain lesions are accidental, being limited to infantile convulsions and pytemia. The lungs or pleurae are far more frequently congested or inflamed, and this condition is the cause of death. Thus, in 6 out of 9 cases examined in Mr. Erichsen'^s table, lesions of the lungs and pleurae were noted. In 4 of these, the appearances were distinctly in- flammatory ; in the other 2 there was congestion with eif usion into the pleurae. Oat of 27 of Mr. Holmes's fatal cases—during this period —the lungs were aifected in 10, in 8 of which inflammation was the principal cause of death. Here, generally, the burn is situated on the chesfc. The symptoms—^physical examination being precluded—are sufficiently marked ; pain and oppression of breathing, hacking cough, and bloody expectoration. The gastro-intestinal mucous membrane is less frequently congested or inflamed, but ulcera,tion of the duodenum is still not uncommon. Out of the 27 fatal cases referred to, in 6, open ulcers were found in the duodenum; in 1 a similar ulcer had cicatrized, and in 1 the whole mucous membrane of the small intes- tines was inflamed but not ulcerated. In the other 9 cases referred to, no ulceration of the intestines was discovered. In 1 case only of Mr. Holmes's series, the jejunum and ileum were ulcerated, the duo- denum being intact. Beparation.—Burns and scalds heal by the same process of repara- tion as similar lesions otherwise caused. But some features in their career are peculiar. Erythema, produced by a burn or scald, tends to subside, like, any other simple cutaneous inflammation; resolution taking place with desquamation of the cuticle. Vesication also is resolved and terminates in like manner. Deeper burns involving, suc- cessively, the skin, subcellular tissue, and other adjacent textures, are followed by sloughing, with the formation of eschars, abundant sup- puration, and then the healing process of granulation and cicatrization. But the granulations are exuberant, and the cicatrix is contractile. At first thin, of a purplish colour, and shining, stretched appearance, it immediately begins to contract, and contraction continuing for some months, with great and increasing force, the cicatrix gradually assumes a seamed and puckered appearance ; drawing together the surrounding424 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. parts, and ultimately producing strange deformity. Thus, remarkable distortions of the face and neck (Fig. 102), or of the joints, are produced- and numerous remarkable deformities in all other parts of the body have not unf requently been met with. Tetcmus, pysemia, erysipelas, and other affections may be omitted in estimating the causes of death as from burn; they being, rather, acci- dental concomitants. Fig. 102. The period of death varies. The most fatal period is, perhaps, the first week after the accident. Erichsen found that in 50 fatal cases, 33 terminated before the eighth day ; 27 of these dying before the fourth day. Of the remaining 17 cases, 8 died in the second week, 2 in the third, 2 in the fourth, 4 in the fifth, and 1 in the sixth week. Prognosis.—The chief considerations which determine the prognosis of burns and scalds, are the more or less superficial character of the lesion and its extent, its situation, duration of the cause, and the age of the patient. The first two of these indications were sufficiently noticed in connection with diagnosis ; a superficial but extensive burn is far more unfavourable than a deeper and limited one. Hence, many scalds are more fatal than burns. These indications, however, have reference to death principally by shock or congestion, in the first period, after burn; or by reaction and inflammation, in the second period. The dejyth of a burn—as compared with a scald—is significant with reference to suppuration and exhaustion, terminating fatally, in the third period. Deep burns are also unpropitious with regard to the part affected; distortion and loss of function supervening. The situation of a burn more especially indicates the probability of visceral congestion. Thus, burns on the chest or abdomen are especially dangerous, in relation to congestion of the lungs or gastro- intestinal mucous membrane, respectively. Burns of the scalp are not425 BUEN8 AND SCALDS. so ominous of cerebral congestion ; but they are specially unfavourable as regards tbe liability to erysipelas. The duration of the burning cause is, perhaps, favourable, as to the less liability of internal conges- tion or inflammation ensuing, but unfavourable so far as it imijlies a considerable depth of burn and consequent exhaustive discharge. Age has scarcely any relation specially to the prognosis of burns. Children are peculiarly liable to the danger of (secondary) visceral affections, cerebral, thoracic, and abdominal; and more easily succumb to their influence than adults. Extreme age is, of course, always comparatively unable to resist the shock, and consequences of injury. Treatment.—(1.) Shoch and the tendency to Congestion require im- mediate attention. Wine, brandy, or ammonia are the stimulants commonly administered to induce reaction. Warm tea may be suf- ficient, if the patient be young and the burn slight. Laudanum, in favour with some Surgeons, is, I think, undesirable, as being conducive to congestion. The patient should be wrapped in a warm blanket; or immersion in a warm bath has been recommended, which also cleanses the surface of any charred portion of the clothes. (2.) Reaction, occa- sionally excessive, must be moderated by any gentle depletory measures, otherwise than by loss of blood. Mild purgatives, and the withdrawal of stimulants for a time, will generally reduce any undue reaction, as measured by the pulse and heat of the skin. It should ever be remem- bered that any temporary tendency to inflammatory symptoms readily subsides into a congestive tendency, affecting the internal organs. (3.) Suppuration and exhaustion are specially inevitable in the course of deeper burns ; although some exhaustion supervenes in all burns. The strength of the circulation should therefore be retained for this period, and maintained when it arrives. Stimulants are again required, with tonics, and the generous diet suitable in cases of profuse and prolonged suppurative discharge arising from any cause. Local Treatment.—The primary indication is to protect the surface from exposure to the action of the air. Increased and continued pain and shock will thus be prevented. For this purpose, various topical applications have been employed. The degree or depth of bum will, I think, best determine the choice. Erythema, or vesication, cannot require any application more than simply protective. Collodion, mixed with castor oil, two parts to one, may be brushed lightly over the surface ; or gutta-percha col- lodion, undiluted, may be used. Two or three coatings will perhaps be necessary. Some tingling pain, which aggravates the burning sensation, soon passes off. " Carron oil," consisting of equal parts of linseed oil and lime water, also answers admirably. Lint, dipped in this thick, yellow, pultaceous fluid, forms a covering, at once exclusive of atmospheric influence and emollient. Deeper burns, destroying the cuticle, skin, and so forth, thus presenting an exuding surface, are perhaps more advantageously covered with some absorbent material, riour, dredged over the surface, soon forms an encrusting artificial skin. This need not be removed until loosened by increasing dis- charge and separation of the eschar. The removal of this crust by the Surgeon would be attended with great pain, and damage to the surface about to heal, and would aggravate the constitutional disturb- ance. But the possibly irritating character of this kind of dressing, and the impossibility of removing it, without these evil consequences,426 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. are serious objections to any such application. Cotton wadding wrapped around the part forms a good protective covering, and aids in restoring the temperature of the part, a consideration of im- portance in proportion to the extent of surface involved; but this appliance alone is objectionable for the same reason as the flour- dressing. Carron-oil dressing, enclosed with cotton wool, will generally be found the best application. If the bum be extensive, one limb or part should be dressed at a time; while the remainder of the body is still covered up. The tdcer formed by the detachment of the eschar, must be treated agreeably to the general directions already given with regard to Ulcers. Water-dressing, or a weak solution of nitrate of silver, will then be appropriate, according to the state of the granulations. Pencilling the marginal granulations with nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper, may be necessary, to repress their exuberant growth, and favour cica- trization. No dressing, in the whole course of treatment, should be reapplied unnecessarily; its removal being attended with great pain, and much increasing the constitutional disturbance. One of my earliest recollections as a student, was that of witnessing the shriek- ing of a patient during the di^essing of a large burn over the thorax and abdomen, the muscles quivering and bleating by exposure to the air. Contraction of the cicatrix is the grand difiiculty to be prevented or overcome. In anticipation of this event, Dupuytren recommended attention to position and the application of extension by counteracting mechanical contrivances, as soon as the eschar had become detached and during cicatrization. But any such adjustment of splints and bandages or other apparatus, will generally prove effectual only for a time; the cicatrix contracting when left free, and at length presenting its usual appearance and the accompanying deformities. Billroth recommends extension, with continued pressure, by means of a compress on the cicatrix; thus promoting the natural tendency of the contractile tissue to become atrophied, as in the treatment of strictured urethra by gradual dilatation. Operations are practised with the view of overcoming contraction. Division of the cicatrix has often been tried, but with little permanent success. Complete division is necessary, both as regards the extent and depth of the cicatrix ; any subjacent bridles must also be freely divided. All contraction having been thus overcome, extension should be main- tained mechanically during granulation and cicatrization in the lines of incision. With every precaution, hoAvever, the new intervening cicatrix-tissue is apt to acquire the same evil disposition. I have had recourse to this operation in many cases, and repeatedly in the same case; but with no more successful results than in the hands of other Surgeons. Bemoval of the cicatrix offers the advantage of getting into healthy or non-contractile tissue ; but the extent of surface, or the part affected, may render this kind of operation impracticable. Thus, the cicatrix can be excised, when of limited extent, as in the form of a contracted band. Or, destruction by sloughing may sometimes be resorted to; this mode of removal being effected by means of a clam-p-instrument, and which is especially eligible when the cicatrix presents in the form of a web, thin, and perhaps extensive. In the management427 LIGHTNING. of webbed fingers, for example, the clamp is applicable. It was introduced by Brodhurst in 1861, and has since been employed by Tamplin, W. Adams, and other Surgeons with successful results. In aid of either mode of dealing with the cicatrix, tenotony may prove serviceable when tendons are involved. Another method of treatment consists in the transplantation, or perhaps the sliding, of a flap of healthy skin into the gap made by division and extension of the cicatrix, or the sui'face formed by excision. Very happy results have been attained by Teale, Mutter, and James in thus overcoming the deformity occasioned by burns of the face and neck. Eversion of the lower lip into the chin, a disfigurement attended with slobbering peculiarly revolting, may be remedied by Teale's operation. The everted lip is divided into three equal parts, by two vertical incisions, each three-quarters of an inch in length, and carried down to the bone. These incisions are so placed that the middle or intervening portion occujjies one-half of the lip. From the lower end of either incision, another is carried upwards to a point one inch above the angle of the mouth. The two flaps, thus indicated, are freely and deeply dissected up. The alveolar margin of the median 2Dortion is then pared. The lateral flaps are raised, united by twisted sutures in the middle line, and supported as on a base by the median flap, to which they are also attached by a few points of suture, leaving a triangular even surface to granulate. Gradual extension of the cicatrix from the sternum, and elevation of the chin, can be accomplished by means of a screw collar devised by Mr. James. Shin-grafting, according to the method of M. Reverdin, offers another resource—after division of the cicatrix, with extension—when the exposed surface has assumed the condition of a healthy granulating ulcer. Diseased conditions of the cicatrix have received sufficient attention in this work, among Morbid Cicatrices, in general. Erichsen notices particularly a projecting red and glazed cicatrix, looking as if com- ; posed of a mass of fungating granulations smoothed down and lightly : skinned over. This warty cicatrix—observable after burns about the ; neck and chest, more especially—resembles cheloid growth, but is re- 1 markable as being the seat of intolerable itching, not relieved by any t external application. Lai-ge doses of liquor potassae mitigate this I distressing symptom. But, if small and nan'ow, the cicatrix may be i dissected out; if large, it does not admit of removal without risk of ■ considerable hemorrhage, as the structure, though fibroid, is very vascular. Amjmtation is an operative resource unavoidable in certain external ■ cases. Complete destruction, by charring, of the whole substance of a limb leaves no alternative; or, as a secondary operation, it may become advisable under circumstances, locally and constitutionally, analogous to those resulting from other forms of injury. ^^*^ii™iNO produces effects in the direction of its course through the part struck, resembling the appearances of any ordinary burn; but the shock may suspend the functions of the nervous system, partially or generally, without any marked appearances of burn, and may thus also kill instantaneously. A stroke of lightning affecting the brain, knocks down the in- amdual with loss of consciousness; lasting from a few minutes to a ■longer period, in one case an hour and a quarter. Recovery showsSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 428 that paralysis was suddenly produced, partially or completely; and this state may continue for an indefinite period. The special senses are variously affected; loss of sight, smell, hearing, and taste; or, more rarely, exaltation or perversion of these functions have occurred. Hasmorrhage fi-om the mouth, nose, or ears sometimes happens; and abortion in some cases. A remarkable effect is said to be produced occasionally; the formation of an image, as if photographic, of neigh- bouring objects on the body, even on parts covered with clothes. Every degree of hum may be produced, and perhaps in the same person, from the shghtest singeing of the hair, reddening or blistering of the skin, to the deepest charring. The course of lightning through the body is sometimes marked by reddish-brown lines on the surface, having a starred and radiated appearance. In any case, the clothes are more or less rent and burnt. Other incidental injuries have been found, but rarely; such as wound, or-fracture, particularly of the skull. The tongue was mutilated in four out of six cases of injury recorded by M. Bondin. The prognosis, guided by the same considerations as with regard to Burns, is generally more favourable respecting the local lesion, which is often comparatively trivial, and also in respect to shock. But the subsequent paralysis or other functional disturbance may be a specially unfavourable condition, as consequent on a stroke of lightning not immediately fatal. Some persons seem to have premonitory symptoms of the approach of a thunderstorm. One such individual, within my own knowledge, a remarkably robust young man, is invariably troubled with extreme nervousness, headache, and an indescribable dread, compelling him to go to bed some hours before any apparent approach of a storm. How far this might be an unfavourable state of the nervous system is unknown. After death by lightning, certain appearances are worthy of notice. The attitude of the body may be that in which it was when struck, or the body may be thrown to some distance from the spot. Rigor mortis, occasionally absent, is commonly present, and well marked, or even to an intense degree of rigidity, resembling the condition of a person frozen to death. The blood, sometimes coagulated, is usually singularly fluid, and continues in this state. Decomposition is some- times speedy, but often delayed. The clothes are generally bui-nt or rent, even when the body is intact. The Treatment of suspended animation from a stroke of lightning consists in artificial respiration, with warmth and stimulants to restore the circulation. Frost-Bite.—Cold, intense ot long continued, produces effects analagous to those of heat. It may kill the part directly, a local destruction analagous to charring, and accompanied with depression of the nervous and vascular systems, analogous to shock; or the part dies by the speedy supervention of gangrenous inflammation, a process of destruction accompanied with inflammatory reaction as the constitu- tional disturbance. Unlike heat, cold more frequently kills by its direct operation; presenting,the condition known as frost-bite. This local effect, moreover, frequently exceeds in importance the general depression of the system. The parts most liable to be frozen are the feet and hands, or the ears and end of the nose, which are most pro- minent and exposed to cold. But the cold which can be borne with429 FROST-BITE. impunity may be many degrees below zero, wlien the air is dry and still; a cold atmosphere with moisture or the slightest wind will speedily freeze a part exposed thus to a further and sudden reduction of temperature. The symptoms of frost-bite are loss of sensation and power of motion in a muscular part; and, the circulation becoming arrested, a remarkable pallor overspreads the surface, deadening into a stone colour, with stiffness increasing to hardness, and even brittleness of the part, when quite dead. The constitutional disturbance arises principally from general ex- posure of the body to cold, under the circumstances of frost-bite. Languor, and an overpowering sleepiness, ending in stupor or coma, invariably supervene during prolonged exposure to severe cold, and may thus cause death, the part itself dying with the general failure of life. The whole body becomes frozen by more continued exposure, and thence the condition known as "frozen to death." A part frozen or frost-bitten is not irrecoverably dead. A whole limb may have become perfectly insensible and cold as ice, white and transparent like marble, incapable of being bent without breaking; and yet not absolutely dead. The combs of cocks and the ears of rabbits were frozen by Hunter, but these parts afterwards recovered. Leeches and frogs have been placed in the same state, and then restored to life. Cold-blooded animals, and parts of warm-blooded animals, when frozen, are, therefore, not dead, but asleep as it were, and can be aroused; even as a seed is ready to sprout, awaiting circumstances favourable to life. How long a frozen part may retain its susceptibiUty of life is uncertain ; but this is certain, that, unless reaction be gradual, the returning flow of blood is apt to become excessive—to pass into inflammation, speedily ending in gangrene. While, therefore, gradual and moderate elevation of temperature induces salutary reaction and restoration, sudden or immoderate accession of warmth will inevitably excite gangrenous inflammation. "When extensive, as in both feet, death may ensue from exhaustion, or from pysemic infection. Treatment.—In the dormant state of any part of the body from frost-bite, when although apparently dead the part is recoverable, pathology suggests the solicitation of reaction short of inflammation; and thence the prevention of gangrene, with loss of the part. Restorative reaction can only be accomplished by the moderate and gradual application of warmth. Friction with something of nearly the same temperature as the frozen parts, fulfils this twofold indication; and thus, rubbing the part with snow is a practice both surgical as well as popular. A tingling or burning pain, and purplish redness, announce the returning circulation and tendency to inflammation. Gangrene having supervened, the separation of the slough should be left to Nature; any unnecessary interference would give a fresh start to the process of destruction, in textures reduced to a low state of vitality. ^ Amputation may become necessary, as after a burn ; the operation being performed also in point of time and situation, after the formation of the line of demarcation and above it. Yet there may be cases where the apprehension of fatal exhaustion, or of pyaemia, would warrant amputation at an earlier period.430 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. CHAPTER XXI. CELLULITIS. CARBDNCLK, AND BOIL, Certain Blood diseases are declared by local inflammations of the sub- cutaneous cellular texture. Cellulitis.—Structural Condition.—The textural changes wrought by this inflammation are these :—Speedily an eff'usion of serum engorges the subcutaneous tissue; this being soon exchanged for a purulent, bloody, sanious fluid. The cellular membrane dies rapidly, appearing in the form of shreds and skeins, and as mats of wet tow, or like large "wads of wet shammy-leather; extending over a whole arm, a whole side, or over both successively. An immense extent, therefore, of cellular texture is sacrificed, and this widespread subcutaneous slough passes .in between the neighbouring muscles; but the fasciae are singularly spared ; thus, the tendinous septse between the ribs are seen bared in places where the muscular substance itself and other textures have disappeared. This process of destruction probably involves the skin, and to a corresponding extent. Vesicles or bullae seldom appear until the subcutaneous inflammation is veiy far advanced. These vesicles are in general solitary, sometimes remote from the cellular disease, of considerable size, and occasionally filled with bloody serum. The existence of cellulitis, as an independent disease, has been doubted. I have seen at least one well-marked case. A girl had a trifling puncture, skin-deep, on the outer side of the right knee, which soon healed ; yet inflammation of the subcutaneous cellular texture there commenced, and spread up to the hip, attended with diffuse suppuration and sloughing, so that the patient's life was in jeopardy. But the skin remained unaffected. By timely incisions, the case took a turn to slow recovery. Symptoms, and diagnosis.—Cellulitis might be mistaken for ery- sipelas. The swelling is not unlike, in both diffuse and oedematous. But the pain is at once the earliest and most distinctive symptom; it is excruciating. This, without perhaps any, even the slightest, blush of redness, is characteristic of cellulitis. And should the skin become involved, the cutaneous inflammation is always secondary, in all cases of true cellulitis; by advance from below upwards, from the cellular texture to the skin. This latter texture remains uninflamed, or is not primarily and essentially affected. Fever.—The fever which precedes and accompanies cellulitis, aids but little to establish an early and exact diagnosis. In those cases which Duncan observed, this fever had so much of the typhoid type, that it was scarcely possible to foresee which disease would be eventually declared. Nevertheless, the fever presented considerable varieties in respect of its symptoms and progress. It sometimes commenced in- sidiously, sometimes turbulently, but in most of the severe cases soon reached its height. Its chief peculiarities were the supine position with depressed shoulders, in which attitude the patient almost always lay, without turning to either side, the absence of coma, and the rare431 CARBUNCLE OR ANTHRAX. occurrence of deliritim. The respiration was often remarkably em- barrassed, owing to the inspiratory muscles—pectorals, intercostals, etc_—being the seat of cellulitis. In some cases, dyspnoea was rendered more urgent by pleurisy. In others, the respiration was itself much affected, especially when the disease began in the arm. Certain facts of apparently minor significance, because only occasional, are a peculiar cadaveroiis smell emitted from the patient's body during life, and that, in one case, a foetid and coloured sweat proved critical. Blood Origin.—Two facts at least point to the inference that cellu- litis is the local manifestation of a blood-poison. The fever being typhoid, resembles the working of some blood- poison analogous to that which is undoubtedly in operation when typhoid fever is engendered by infection; and the local manifestation itself—cellulitis being a spreading inflammation, extending continu- ously, and not confined to one spot, shows that some morbid condition of the blood disturbs the course of textural assimilation. The nature of the blood-poison demands investigation. Treatment.—Preventive measures are unknown, nor can they be discovered until the etiology of this disease is better understood. The remedial treatment, so far as art has any controlling influence, is substantially the same, both constitutionally and locally, as for phlegmonous erysipelas. Carbuncle and Boil are alike, essentially, inflammations of the subcutaneous cellular texture, which may occur in various parts of the body; but the effusion is circmnscribed and brawny, so that the im- prisoned cellular tissue invariably sloughs. Certain differences, how- evei', will be observed. Carbuncle or Anthrax.—Commencing as a hard, vesicular or pustular nodule, this soon enlarges into a flat, oval or circular, some- what spongy swelling, having a brawny circumscribed border; the whole swelling being of a dusky, reddish-brown colour, and very pain- ful,—burning, contracting, or throbbing. The size of this swelling varies from half a crown to that of a dinner-plate, and it varies also with the progresa of the inflammation. At length the skin over the flat surface yields in yellow or ash-colou.red sloughs at numerous points, forming as many small apertures, through which a greyish or yellowish, sloughy and purulent, foetid discharge oozes, or starts up on the slightest pressure around; exhibiting a cribriform appearance never to be forgotten when once seen, peculiar to carbuncle. As slough- ing of the skin advances, the apertures run together and coalesce, the cribriform surface disappears, and discloses the subjacent cellular texture, a quagmire of slough. Carbuncle is commonly situated about the shoulders or on the nape of the neck, where if large it gives a remarkable breadth to that part. Occurring sometimes on the lower part of the back or sacrum, it may form on the front of the chest or abdomen, occasionally on either extremity, and very rarely on the fore- head or face. One on the nose, seen by Sir B. Brodie, gave the most singularly hideous appearance, completely disguising any lineaments of the h uman face. Fortunately, carbuncle is usually solitary. Fever of the typhoid character precedes and accompanies the swell- ing, and it becomes more marked as sloughing ensues. But there is also a notable derangement of the liver and other digestive organs, indicated by a yellowish complexion and brown furred tongue.432 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. The Qauses of carbuncle are, as to their essential or pathological nature, obscure. It is a disease of advanced years, or it appears in those whose constitution has broken down prematurely. It is also induced by habitual free living, without exercise. It is associated, not unfrequently, with diabetes mellitus or albuminuria; and swellings of a carbuncular character are not uncommon in some infectious diseases, as typhus and typhoid fevers, and plague. Course and Terminations.—Generally, the slough of cellular texture having been thrown off or removed, the cavity, often of considerable size, slowly heals by suppurative granulation ; and the patient's health is ultimately regained, a marked improvement having taken place when the slough was detached. But the brawny induration remains for some time, and a puckered cicatrix permanently. Sometimes, however, the sloughing deepens as well as enlarging superficially; and involving important parts beneath, or overwhelming with prostration, thus proves fatal. A large carbuncle situated on the nape of the neck is especially perilous. Rarely, a carbuncle subsides suddenly, and the person rapidly sinks, death occurring apparently from septicemia. Carbuncle on the face is apt to speedily induce meningitis, attended with delirium, and death results from effusion in three or four days ; a case or two of this kind having happened in Billroth's practice. The prognosis, in different cases, will be guided by the foregoing considerations. Treatment.—Preventive measures are said to be occasionally success- ful. In the earliest stage of the disease, while yet only "a small pointed vesicle on a hard, brawny base," observes Mr. Erichsen, its further progress may often be completely arrested by opening the vesicle and rubbing its interior with a pointed stick of potassa cum calce or nitrate of silver. Later still, he has often seen the extension of a carbuncle prevented, and a cui'e effected, by covering it with a square of soap-plaster spread on thick leather, with a hole in the centre for the exit of discharge. I have had no experience of a carbuncle in this stage, nor of the preventive treatment accordingly. In con- sidering the appropriate curative treatment, the preservation of as much integument as possible, by the limitation of sloughing, with the relief of pain and constitutional disturbance, are primarily im- portant ; and the discharge of slough subsequently is equally so. Early relief of tension fulfils the former indications, an outlet fulfils the latter. Timely, free incisions fulfil both. A crucial incision, carried through the slough and the surrounding induration, as Sir B. Brodie recommended, answers admirably. The period for making this double incision must be determined by due observance of both the purposes in view; always inclining to the consideration of relieving tension. A free application oi potassa fusa, after the bistoury, was advocated by the late Professor Miller, in order to at once form an eschar and thus limit sloughing. Poulticing until the slough is discharged, with the use of carbolic, chlorinated, or other antiseptic solutions, and then dressing according to the state of the ulcer, are the only applications ordinarily required. Suhcutaneous section, as proposed by Mr. French, is another method of treatment, on the same principle; the mass being divided crucially, or in various directions, in order thus to facilitate sloughing and discharge through the openings in the integumeut. A poultice is applied for this purpose. On the433 BOIL OE FUEUNCULUS. otlaer tand, compression tas been advocated, in the direction from tlie circumference to the centre of the carbuncle; a layer of soap-plaster on leather, having a central aperture, is applied, and then cross-strips of adhesive strapping. Lastly, non-interference is recommended by some Surgeons of experience, as a general rule, and especially by Sir James Paget. In his highly suggestive " Clinical Lectures and Essays," so many valuable observations are urged, and so persuasively, to show the inutiHty or positive harm of any active treatment generally, that I should at once perhaps be converted from the error of my ways, if only I had seen as many illustrative cases. The constitutional treatment, medicinal and dietetic, much resembles that of phlegmonous erysipelas. Early recourse to stimulants, tonics^ and a generous diet; but with special attention to the state of the liver and digestive organs. Yet here we encounter the chief difficulties. Inappetency, nausea or actual sickness, and mal-assimilation, all conspire to defeat our alterative mercurials and effervescing salines, as well as our endeavours to coax the stomach with digestible and nourishing food. If any other disease, to wit, diabetes or albuminuria, be associated with cai'buncle, such complication will further embarrass the treatment. According to Sir James Paget's large experience, comprising not less than two hundred cases of carbuncle, the con- stitutional treatment requisite is very simple: no special recourse to stimulants and tonics, with a supporting diet; but principally fresh air, without confinement to bed, and opiates to procure sleep or allay pain. Cerebral symptoms, arising from facial carbuncle, must be met by the application of ice or cold lotions to the head, and mild con- stitutional measures repressive of inflammation. The mortality of ordinary carbuncle is about two per cent; a lower death-rate than in perhaps any other disease of equal extent and severity. Boil or Furunculus.—In some of its external characters, Boil con- trasts with Carbuncle. It is an inflammatory swelling, of a conical shape, softening as it maturates, but set in a hard base ; of a purplish- red colour, and exquisitely painful and sensitive. Its size is much more moderate than carbuncle, never perhaps exceeding the smallest swelling of that kind, about half a crown. Its smaller size and conical shape are diagnostic, even in an early stage. Enlarging slowly, matter forms at the apex of the cone, tipping it with a yellow colour; this point bursts and discloses a subjacent slough or core of cellular texture. But the cribriform, flat surface of carbuncle is never seen,—another diagnostic difference. Like carbuncle, a boil is commonly situated where the skin is thickest; on the back of the neck, the shoulders, or the buttock, the latter being a favourite spot of election; occasionally m the armpit, or on the thigh. They always seem to choose the most troublesome situations. To increase the torment, they seldom come singly, but are gregarious or successive. Feverishiess, generally of a more sthenic character than with car- buncle, accompanies the formation of boils. The causes also, so far as they are known, somewhat differ from those of carbuncle. Usually occurring in earlier life, boils are also connected with a plethoric state of the system; but they may denote an enfeebled condition, or they may appear in the sequel of febrile diseases. Their fitful character is often far less explicable. Active exercise by persons of sedentary habits, sea-bathing, the spring-time of 2 sSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEBY. 434 the year, or some epidemic influence, will, perhaps, severally suffice to bring out a crop of boils. The treatment is that of carbuncle on a small scale. A poultice or • warm fomentation, to promote suppuration and detachment of the slough, should be followed, if the latter does not take place, by a sufficient incision for expulsion of the core without any thumbing or squeezing. With water-dressing, the little granulating wound will then look after itself. Constitutional measures must have reference either to the plethoric or debilitated state of the system. Alterative mercurials and saline aperients, followed by liquor potasso3 and other alkaline treatment; or quina, iron, and nitro-muriatic acid, the acid-tonic treatment. At the same time, a well-regulated diet, and state of the digestive process, must not be overlooked; in weakly patients, the assimilation of nutri- tious food being promoted by a course of cod-liver oil. Chilblain.—This is a local inflammation of the skin, of an asthenic type; and subject, sometimes, to regular recurring attacks of congestion. It occurs in three degrees :—(1) Simple congestion, attended by great itching, alternating with periods of extreme tenderness to external pressure ; (2) in the form of vesication; (3) death or sloughing of the aSected portion of skin, and perhaps of the subcellular tissue, forming an ulcer of an indolent character. The Symptoms of chilblain are obvious, in connection with each of these forms of this aiJection. Congestive purplish redness, with a tingling, itching, or burning heat or pain, which comes and goes, and some degree of swelling which has a shiny appearance. Recurrence of the symptoms seems to be determined by circumstances affecting the circulation, as exposure of the part to the warmth of a fire, or of a periodic character, as the stimulant effects of daily meals. The vesicated and ulcerated forms of chilblain present appearances which are sufficiently indicated by these terms. Certain parts of the body are most commonly affected ; the feet, hands, or both ; more rarely, the lobes of the ears, or even the end of the nose. The causes of this affection may be said to be, sudden variations in the external temperature, and in connection with the predisposing con- dition of a weak circulation. Hence, chilblain is liable to occur in persons of the leucophlegmatic temperament, or of a scrofulous consti- tution. Age has decidedly some influence ; it happens most frequently in young persons or children, and of both sexes; and in adult females more often than in men. This liability generally passes off towards manhood; and chilblains are rarely met with in men over forty years of age, though in weakly women they may recur throughout life. Local causes affecting the free circulation in the part, should not be overlooked; such as tight gloves, elastic bracelets and garters, or tight shoes, and the sitting posture, long continued, in cold rooms, and with the legs pendant,—as in the mistaken discipline of many a schoolroom. Treatment.— Preventive measures will consist in promoting the general circulation; by an even temperature, particularly as regards sleeping and sitting rooms in cold weather, warm undei'-clothing, socks and o-loves, with regular exercise ; and the removal of any restraint to the circulation in the exposed parts of the body. A generous diet, with small stimulant doses of opium and quinine, may likewise prove salutary, In tlic event of any chill, affecting particularly the feetFig. 103. 435 WHITLOW OR PARONYCHIA. and hands, the circulation sliould be restored very gradually, by friction and warmtb. Ourative treatment must depend on the state of the part. When chilblains are unbroken, the congestive inflammation may be brought to resolution, by daily frictions with stimulating embrocations, as of camphor or tincture of iodine, and soap liniment. The old-fashioned remedy, brandy and salt, should not be despised. Intolerable itching sometimes admits of relief by lead-lotion, or opiate ointment. Vesicated chilblains may be protected by a coating of collodion and castor-oil varnish. Ulcerated chilblain must be treated by poulticing rendered stimulating by admixture with spirits of wine, or turpentine, until any slough separates ; and then the dressing may be resin ointment, or other topical applications, as for any other weak or indolent ulcer. Whitlow or Parontchia.—An asthenic inflammation o£ the dense fibro-cellular tissue forming the pulp of the finger or thumb ; this part becomes acutely painful, tense and hard, swollen so as to give a globular appearance to the end of the finger, and of a reddisb colour. The inflammation and swelling are always diffuse — unlike phlegmon ; and it tends also to suppuration and sloughing of the cellular texture, thus also differing in its termination. (Fig. 103.) ]S"ecrosis of the ungual phalanx is not an uncommon event, in prolonged cases. Whitlow occurs spon- taneously in persons of a naturally weak or of a debilitated constitution, affecting both young and old, and either sex. Occasionally, it seems to have an epidemic character, appearing in many persons without any trau- matic cause; and perhaps at certain seasons, as in the spring. But it arises frequently from some local irritation, as a puncture, scratch, or inoculation with some poisonous matter. Hence, it is more frequently met with in connection with certain occupations, as in cooks, washerwomen, and grooms. Whitlow, involving the slieath of the tendons, is a more severe form of this affection. It is attended with greater swelling of the whole finger, spreading to the hand, which becomes much puffed and enlarged. Violent throbbing in the finger, and shooting pain up the arm, are soon experienced; but the redness is not intense, and the end of the finger, particularly if the cuticle be thick, and the palm of the hand hardened by work, may assume a dull-white appearance— Boddeaed, perhaps, by poulticing. Some inflammation of the lym- phatics, denoted by red lines extending up the arm, not unfrequently accompanies this form of whitlow, and with much low feverishness or constitutional disturbance. Diffuse suppuration takes place in the sheath of the tendons, speedily involving the palm, and may even spread up the forearm, under the annular ligament. The swelling has an elastic character, but distinct fluctuation is obscure. Slougliing ensues, not only of the cellular texture of the finger and hand, but also of the tendons and palmar fascia. Neci'osis of the phalanges results; or a matted state of the part, with a rigid and contracted state of the finger and perhaps of the palm, rendering the hand useless.436 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUKGERY. Treatment.—An incipient whitlow may sometimes be subdued by the prompt employment of repressive measures; by leeching, poulticing, and an elevated position of the hand. In the simple form of whitlow, a crucial incision into the pointed swelling of the pulp of the finger, should be made at an early period; or even snipping the vesicated summit will give great relief. In the tendinous form of whitlow, an early and free longitudinal incision, in the middle line of the finger, must be had recourse to, for the relief of tension and swelling. The digital arteries and nerves are thus avoided, and the sheaths of the tendons should not be opened extensively, thus to prevent sloughing and consequent rigidity of the finger. Suppuration or abscess in the palm must also be relieved by timely incision, observing not to wound the superficial palmar arch, which about corresponds with the middle indentation across the skin of the palm. Then well soak the finger and hand in warm water, and envelop the whole with a poultice. The nail, growing and elongating, appears large; it often loosens, and should then be removed by evulsion with a small pair of sequestrum- forceps, or with Hilton's nail-forceps, which holds more firmly and with less damage to the matrix. As a foreign body, the nail would be a source of continued irritation. Any adherent portion need not be removed, but may be pared and scraped to relieve tension. A new nail will form, if the mata-ix be healthy; probably taking a period of five or six months before it is completely restored. In tendinous whitlow, when the inflammation has subsided, a pasteboard splint will be advisable, to prevent contraction. Necrosis of the ungual phalanx necessitates the extraction of this •dead portion of bone; leaving the pulp end of the finger and nail, which eventually form a somewhat hooked extremity, tolerably sensi- tive and useful, and not so unsightly as a truncated end. Amputation will be unavoidable, in the event of more extensive destruction, in- volving the middle or the first phalanx. And it is better to operate rather, apparently, too high, than too low for the sake of preserving the *■ useless remnant of a finger ; any portion of the thumb, however, will be most. useful. The general health must be renovated by tonics and diet. Onychia is a form of ulceration, which com- mences about the matrix of the finger-nails. It usually arises from a pinch or crush of the finger end, bruising the matrix or loosening the attachment of the nail. Shortly after this injury, the finger-end swells, and fluid is effused beneath, the nail, which loses its natural colour, and be- comes thin and flattened at the end, or more rarely curled up laterally. . As the nail continues to grow, it turns upward, and exposes beneath it a very foul, foetid, and painful ulcer; while the finger-end becomes enlarged and bulbous, the integument hardened, shining, and of a livid red colour. (Fig. 104.) This affection occurs mostly, according to Mr. Thomas Smith's ob- servations, in children under ten yeai's of age; but is by no means common. It is little prone to spontaneous recovery; proceeding, perhaps, to necrosis of the ungual phalanx. Fig. Wi.437 IN-GBOWN TOE-NAIL. The disease is sometimes named onychia maligna, as a s^eoific ulceration. Treatment is, firstly, evulsion of the nail; and this is accomplished either by tearing it olf as a whole, by seizing it with a strong, narrow- bladed pair of sequestrum-forceps, or with Hilton's instrument; or, by dividing the nail with a nari'ow-bladed pair of scissors, run up to the root of the nail, and then everting each half with the forceps. Both scissors and forceps must be applied with a firm hand. Local antes- thesia will sufiice to completely deaden sensibility, the pain otherwise being excruciating. Pounded ice and salt mixed in a bladder is con- venient for this purpose, or Dr. Richardson's ether spray answers equally well. Water-dressing or carbolic lotion may then be followed by arsenical solution, one or two drachms of the liquor potassse arseni- caHs to an ounce of water. Chlorate of potash and tonics, especially bark, complete the treatment. Syphilitic onychia, as a secondary affection, has already been noticed. In-grown Toe-nail.—This, is a not uncommon condition, among especially the working-classes ; it may occur on either side of the great toe-nail, but more frequently on the outer side. It is attended with considerable pain in walking, and gives rise to fungoid and sensitive granulations, overspreading and concealing the in-growth, accompanied with a thin, foetid discharge. This condition is caused, apparently, either by overcrowding the toes in a narrow, hard boot, thereby thrust- ing the adjoining integuments over the side of the nail; or, by the toe-nail having been pared away too deeply at the side, thus allowing the integument to overlap ; in either way the nail grows into and includes itself in the overhanging fold of integument. Treatment con- sists in removing any cause of press-ure, as a tight or hard-toed boot, and then endeavouring to correct the faulty growth of the nail. The pressure of the integument on the nail may be relieved by neatly inserting shreds of oiled cotton wool into the cleft by means of a probe or the back of a scalpel-blade. Then, when suflGLciently separated, in the course of some days, the margin of the nail can be gradually raised in like manner, until the natural state of the part is restored. Scraping the edge of the nail very thin sometimes affords sufficient relief; or, by notching the free edge down to the matrix, the strip of nail as it grows, may gradually overlap the body of the nail, and thus bring relief. An obstinate or deep in-growth can only be cured by evulsion of the nail, as in the treatment of onychia. After any such mode of cure, the fungoid granulations subside, or they may be repressed by pencilling with nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper. Zinc ointment may be applied during the healing. Corns.—Local hypertrophy of the cuticle forms the common corn ; a flattened or conical swelling, hard or soft, often acutely painful— varying in this respect, according to pressure on the part, the state of the health, and even the weather. Such cuticular out-growths occur commonly on the feet, usually on th© outer aspect of the end of the little toe; or between the toes, and then always as a soft corn, ap- parently from maceration of the cuticle by warmth and moisture. Occasionally, corns form on the hands, and more rarely over the pro- mmences of the elbows or knees. They are produced by intermittent pressure or friction on some naturally prominent part, as on the little toe, by wearing a tight, hard boot. Eventually, beneath an old corn,SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND STJIiaEIlY. 438 a bursa is apt to form, which, becoming inflamed from tiine to time by pressure, greatly aggravates the pain and inconvenience in walking. Suppuration is liable to ensue. Treatment.—Rcliei is obtained by simply removing the cause of, pressure—wearing a loose shoe or slipper, or protecting the corn by means of a circular plaster of thick leather, having a hole in the centre over the corn. The common " corn-plasters " are thus used. Pencil- ling with nitrate of silver induces desquamation, and thus thins down the corn. Paring or scraping down the corn, previously macerated in warm water, will also ease the pain, as occasion requires. Extraction of the centre or core of the corn is the ordinary practice of chiropodists. But the full -grown corn often returns. Inflammation and suppuration must be treated on ordinary principles. Horns.—Remarkable forms of out-growth, consisting of fibrous or fibro-cellular texture, have been known to occur on various parts of the body, particularly the head or face ; and springing from the various sebaceous cysts, unruptured, or ruptured spontaneously or by accident. Such a homy excrescence has a crooked, tapering form, and a yellowish- brown colour. It may be met with in middle age or advanced life, though very rarely. Similar kinds of out-growth may arise from the matrix of one of the toe-nails, especially the great toe ; extending from one to four inches in length, tapering at the point, and curved spirally like a ram's horn. This is simply a vertical elevation of the epithelial layers forming the nail. Excision completely from the base of the horn is the only cure. Warts or Veerdcj; are collections of overgrown cutaneous papillge, either completely ensheathed by an excessive production of scaly epithe- lium, or with the papillas isolated, each having only its own natural cuticular sheath. They may form in various parts of the body, a common situation being the hand and fingers. Warts may arise spontaneously, apparently, or be congenital, or perhaps hereditary; but usually they proceed from some source of local irritation, as dirt or discharge, or from the handling of animal matter, in cooking or dissec- tion. They occur more often in children, and in girls who have the evil habit of masturbation, though the presence of warts on the hands should not alone beget an unworthy suspicion of such practice. Venereal warts, excrescences, or vegetations well illustrate the origin of warty growths from ii-ritative discharge. Such and similar warts are undoubtedly contagious. Common warts come and go, sometimes, in an unaccountable manner. Treatment.—Escharotics may succeed in removing these often ob- stinate out-growths. The strong acetic acid, applied by means of a glass-brush, or rod, is the most efficacious. Excision with the knife or curved scissors, is the only other mode of cure. MoEBiD Growths.—Besides Warts and the other cutaneous out- growths already referred to, the skin may be the seat of tumours or morbid growths—e.g., painful subcutaneous tubercle, nasvus, epithelial cancer. (See Ch. II.) Ulcers. (See Ch. IV.)439 KUPTURE OF MUSCLE AND TENDON. MUSCLES AND TENDONS. CHAPTER XXII. SPRAIN.—RUPTURE.—TUMOURS. Sprains or Strains.—Structural Condition, and Symptoms.—Muscular and tendinous structures are liable to be suddenly stretcbed by violence, without any actual or perceptible rupture of fibre. This lesion com- monly takes place in those muscles which are most apt to be brought into action by any sudden and violent exertion, as in running, leaping, dancing, or lifting a weight. Immediate pain and inability to use the jDart, followed by stiffness, are conclusive symptoms. Any degenerative change, or softening of the structure, vrill predispose to this kind of injury. It may be succeeded by atrophy and partial paralysis. Treatment.—Rest is necessary for reparation, and this requisite is secured by the renewal of pain from any attempt to use the damaged muscle or tendon. Subsequently, friction and stimulant embrocations aid in overcoming the stiffness and removing any remaining thickening. Rupture of Muscle and Tendon.—This lesion may be regarded as only a further degree of Sprain, bnt it presents certain additional particulars of importance. The part of the muscle or tendon ruptured is in the muscular sub- stance, or at the junction of the muscle and tendon, in the tendon, or at the junction of the tendon and bone. In twenty-one cases Sedillot found the rupture had occurred at the junction of the muscle and tendon in thirteen, but through the muscle in eight only. Occasionally, the sheath of the muscle or tendon is ruptured; a protrusion taking place through the aperture. This more frequently happens to the long head of the biceps muscle, or the extensor tendons of the fiugers. The muscles most liable to sprain are also subject to rupture, by sudden and violent exertion. Hence the gastrocnemius, or its tendon ; the quadri- ceps femoris, just above the patella, of which I have seen two instances ; also the biceps or triceps of the arm, the former giving way above, in its long head, or below, at its insertion, the latter muscle or its tendon rupturing just above its insertion, into the olecranon. More rarely, the deltoid or the pectoral muscle yields, the rectus abdominis, or the muscles of the back are torn. The symptoms are generally -well marked;. sudden pain and power- lessness, with a sensation as if something had given way, and perhaps an audible snap. Pain is far less acute if a tendon be the seat of lesion. An interval may be discovered in the situation of rupture, into which the finger will fall when passed over the surface; a hard swelling above and below is also felt, if a muscle be torn, the retracted ends rising up. Subsequently, this state of the part is obscured as inflammatory swelling supervenes, or reparative lymph occupies theSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 440 interval between the ruptured ends of muscle or tendon. Some dis- colouration may accompany the former change, or any extravasation of blood incident to the injury. Causes.—Muscular contraction is the immediate cause of rupture far more frequently than external violence. Age predisposes, by re- ducing the elasticity of muscular texture in common with that of all textures. This lesion therefore, occurs most frequently in persons of middle life, and who are sometimes wont to undertake feats of sudden exertion beyond their strength, in running, jumjnng, dancing, or lifting a weight. Degenerative changes will also predispose; and thus the rectus abdominis muscle has been found to have undergone fatty degeneration in some cases of its rupture. I am not aware of such predisposing conditions having been noticed in connection with the rupture of tendons. Course, and Terminations.—(1.) Reparation ensues, and readily, in most cases. It has been traced by Paget and Adams in rabbits, and by the latter observer in the human subject. The process is the same essentially, and alike after subcutaneous division or rupture, as fol- lows :— Separation of the ruptured extremities of a tendon, e.g., tendo- Achillis, takes place to a very variable extent; in an adult, from one to two inches; in an infant, about half an inch. The upper portion is drawn upwai'ds by contraction of the muscle, and the lower portion is drawn downwards, according to the mobility of the ankle-joint and position of the foot. Similar circumstances limit the separation of the divided extremities of tendon in all cases. The separated ends still remain indirectly connected with each other through the medium of the cellular sheath of the tendon, which remains almost intact, as a tubular sheath. Blood, in very small quantity, is generally effused within the sheath, and adheres to the upper and lower extremity of the tendon, principally to the upper. But if the blood be in such quantity as to fill the sheath and infiltrate the surrounding tissues, reparation is retarded and rendered less perfect. Increased vascularity of the sheath marks the commencement of the true reparative process; this vascularity extending to the subcutaneous cellular tissue and fat. Reparative blastema is effused into the meshes of the cellular sheath, as a matrix, which thus becomes succulent, as well as vascular; the infiltration may also spread into the surrounding cellular texture, and obscure the gap in the divided tendon. This blastema is developed into fibres, through the medium of oval nuclei; unhke inflammatory lymph in open wounds, which is developed into fibres through nucleated cells, transition forms being found in the shape of elongated cell-fibres. The nucleated blastema would seem to undergo transition by elongation of the oval nuclei, and their arrangement in parallel linear series ; presenting a fibrillated, and ultimately a more distinctly fibrous ap- pearance, under the microscope. Capillary blood-vessels are formed in the connective tissue thus produced. The divided ends of the old tendon take no active part whatever in the reparative process during its earlier stage, and have but slight con- nection with the new material when first formed. A little later, their square surfaces and sharp edges become somewhat rounded, and their substance somewhat softened. Enlarging, and evincing a disposition to split, thin streaks of new material, greyish and translucent, areEUPTURE OF MUSCLE AND TENDON. 441 interposed, indicating tlie commencement of junction between the old and new tissues. The bulbous enlargement of the old tendon-ends, occasioned by the increasing interposition of new material, gradually subsides, until they regain their former appearance, and the new and old tendon become of uniform diameter. The appearance of fine dove- tailing long; remains, being distinctly traceable a year and a half, and three years, after division of the tendon. Complete and firm junction of the new with the old tendon is established; a want of definition along the deep surface of the new tendon remaining, by adhesion between this surface of the tendon and the deep fascia. The process of reparation is completed by the re-formation of a separable sheath on the surface of the new tendon. The new tendon, homogeneous rather than fibrous in appearance, is at first vascular and ruddy, but afterwards greyish and translucent; an appearance which contrasts with the old tendon, above and below, and which is retained up to the latest period of examination hitherto made in the human subject, three years after operation. Considerable tough- ness and strength are soon acquired ; in the tendo-Achillis of a rabbit, six days after its division, a weight of 201bs. was required to sever it, and after the lapse of ten days, the rupturing weight had increased to 561bs. A linear cicatrix is supposed by Mr. Tamplin, and other observers, to be the ultimate remnant of the. bond of union; but, according to Mr. Adams's observations, this appearance is deceptive, the connective tissue or new tendon re- maining as a permanent bond during life. I'ig- 105. The greatest length of new tendon formed in the human subject is apparently, as Mr. Adams states, two inches and a quarter; and this was found in the tendo-Achillis of a girl, aged nine years, a year and a half after tenotomy. Divided muscles undergo, essentially, the same process of reparation, union by a fibro-cellular bond. Treatment.—Rest is of course requisite for union to take place; but attention to position by relaxation of the muscle or tendon, and the maintenance of that posi- tion, are equally necessary, the structure being not merely strained or stretched, but divided. These indications of treat- ment are well illustrated by the treatment of rupture of the tendo-Aoldllis. The leg is flexed, and the heel drawn up, by means of a baud attached to the shoe behind, and fastened to a belt around the lower part of the thigh. (Fig. 106.) If the relaxed position be disregarded, the uniting bond will inevitably be elongated and weak. With this result, antagonistic muscles may afterwards occasion considerable de- formity by their continued and inadequately opposed contraction Talipes varus, after operation and premature removal of the splint,442 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. may tlins become slowly converted into the opposite deformity—talipes valgus. Hence also the newly united mnscle or tendon should be exer- cised very gradually and cautiously. (2.) Imiyerfect and non-union of Tendon.—Various causes lead to these results. Imperfect union of the tendo-Achillis, for example, may arise from some constitutional defect in the reparative powers of the individual, or from depressed vital power in the limb, owing to paralysis. In- judicious_ after-treatment may be followed by the same result; as from not sustaining the temperature of the limb, especially in paralytic cases during very cold weather; from too early and too rapid mechanical extension ; or too early exercise of the part. iV^on-union is specially apt to arise when tendons are situated in dense tubular sheaths ; the divided ends of tendon becoming adherent to the inner surface of the sheath, but not having any direct connec- tion with each other. Treatment.—Any of the causes of imperfect, or non-union, must be avoided or corrected. With respect to mechanical extension, after operations for deformity; Mr. Adams does not consider it necessary to make extension gradually, for the pui-pose of stretching the new tendon, the requisite length of which should be obtained during the period occupied in its formation, ordinarily two or three weeks; but gradual extension is necessary, either to overcome ligamentous resist- ance, or to prevent a too rapid and excessive separation of the divided ends, and thus regulate the length of new tendon produced. The liability to non-union may be avoided, by never dividing a tendon in its course through the denser portions of its sheath, and when the operation is performed near to such parts, extension should be con- ducted very gradually. Certain operations have been practised to induce the reparation of an ununited tendon. Paring the ends and joining them by suture will seldom prove satisfactory. Subcutaneous puncture, as for ununited fracture, has proved successful in some cases. Displacement of Tendon may occur. The tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle occasionally slips out of its groove, with instant pain and lameness. The long tendon of the biceps flexor cubiti is sometimes tilted out of its groove. Such mishaps generally rectify themselves, the tendon slipping in again; or replacement can be readily accom- plished by a little manipulation. Inflammation of Muscle.—Myositis.—Rare as an idiopathic, and a primary disease, the muscles may be involved by the extension of in- flammation from adjoining structures. Rheumatic inflammation of the muscles is probably of this kind, affecting primarily the investing aponeuroses. Syphilitic inflammatory indurations of muscle are also said to occur. Pyeemic abscesses occasionally form in the muscles. The interstitial cellular tissue is infiltrated with purulent matter, while the muscular fibres are disintegrated, and disappear, as abscess forms. I once saw a notable instance of inflammatory extension ; peritonitis had induced inflammation of the abdominal recti muscles, which, after death, presented a quagmire of slough and pus. Immediately behind the sheath of these muscles, and near the umbilicus, lay the vermiform appendix of the Cfecum, which contained a bean. It was, apparently, a grand effort of Nature to discharge this impacted foreign body.443 TUMOURS OF MUSCLE. Traumatic inflammation may involve tlie muscular texture, in common witli other tissues. When myositis subsides, it leaves tlie muscle more or less stiffened and powerless, an affection which lasts perhaps for some time; and, in the event of suppuration, contraction is apt to result, as a more intractable state. The treatment of musctilar inflammation must be conducted on general principles, having reference to the apparent causes in operation. Abscess also requires no special notice. TuMOUES OP Muscle.—Equally rare, perhaps, as primary diseases, the muscles are yet sometimes the seat of Morbid Growths. The reader is referred to the situations of Morbid Grrowths, for some such particulars. But Mr. Teevan has collected 62 cases of tumours of muscles. About one-third were cancerous; 16 fihrous; 8 cystic; 5 Imjdatid; and 5 erectile. Mr. Erichson has seen 7 cases of tumours " primarily" formed in muscles. A fibro-cystic tumour, as large as a cocoa-nut, was "developed in connection with the tensor vagina3 muscle;" a cystic tumour, the size of a foetal head, was produced in the substance of the adductor brevis of the thigh; a fihro-jjlastic tumour, the size of a child's head, formed within the sheath and in the substance of the sartorius muscle of the left thigh; another cystic tumour, about as laro^e as a aroose's e^S, arose from the flexor brevis digitorum. Enoephaloid cancer formed in the cicatrix, and springing from the muscle just named, showed the nature of the original tumour. In two cases, the tumours were hydatid; one in the deltoid, the other at the outer edge of the latissimus dorsi. In the seventh case, the tumour was an enchondroma in the tibialis anticus muscle. In one other case, enchondroma was situated in the vastus-externus; and in yet another, it was connected with the pectoral muscle. The muscles of the lower limb are most frequently the seats of tumours ; in the upper limb, according to Mr. Teevan, the muscles, usually, are the pectoralis major, deltoid, and biceps. Those of the neck and trunk are seldom diseased, excepting the rectus abdominis muscle, a frequent seab of tumours. The treatment of muscular tumours differs in no way from that of the same growths situated in other parts of the body. Excision and amputation are the only known resources. Degeneration of Muscles.—See Greneral Pathology and Treatment of Degeneration.444 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. BURSiE AND SHEATHS OF TENDONS. CHAPTER XXIII. INFLAMMATION.—GANGLION. BrRSiE Mucosae. Synovial Bues^.—The bursae are synovial sacs, re- sembling other synovial membranes, and diftering only in situation. They are interposed between the surfaces of parts which naturally move on each other. Thus, they are situated, normally, as subcu- taneous bursfB, in the cellular texture between the skin and some firm prominence—e.g., the bursa over the patella ; or deep-seated, between a muscle or its tendon and bone, or between two muscles or tendons, and not unfrequently communicating with a neighbouring joint. Subcutaneous bursse may be adventitious, resulting from enlargement of the areolaa in the cellular texture by continued friction ; as beneath corns, bunions, the prominent points of club-foot, and other exposed situations. Such bursas are, however, imperfect; spaces being thus formed in the cellular texture, rather than bounded by any true synovial membrane. Situations of Normal Bwrsce.—In the following situations, burs^ exist naturally, and are subject, therefore, to injury or disease:— behind the angle of the lower jaw, on the symphysis of the chin, on the angle of the thyroid cartilage, on the acromion, between the lower end of the scapula and the latissimus dorsi, under the deltoid, on the external and internal condyles of the humerus, the olecranon, the styloid processes of the radius and iilna, on the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, their dorsal and palmar surfaces, and on the dorsal aspect of the phalangeal articulations; on the anterior superior spine of the ilium, the great trochanter, the tuberosity of the ischium, and under the gluteus maximus, on the patella, on each condyle of the femur, the tuberosity of the tibia, in the ham, on the two malleoli of the tibia, the OS calcis, the dorsal surface of the toes, and the plantar aspect of the heads of the first and fifth metatarsal bones. (1.) Bursitis.^—Inflammation of a bursal sac may occur, with enlargement and distension of the sac with synovial secretion. Sup- puration soon follows, and the formation of abscess, which bursts externally or into the sui'rounding cellular membrane. This texture is also liable to become involved as the abscess progresses. The resulting ulcerations are singularly obstinate. (2.) Chronic enlargement of a bursa, from long-continued pressure and irritation rather than inflammation, is another condition of com- mon occurrence. The bursa becomes distended with contents of variable nature, partly fluid and solid; as an increased sero-synovial secretion of clear straw-coloured fluid, or a brownish fluid, thick and grumous, apparently due to altered blood, or adhesive and containing cholesterinc. Fibrinous matter is sometimes deposited on the interior445 BURSITIS. of the sac, gradually producing considerable thickening of the wall of the bursa. Within the sac, numerous small flattened and elongated bodies may form, resembling melon-seeds or parboiled rice ; and which result, apparently, from disintegrated fibrinous matter subjected to motion and attrition, or from the detachment of pedunculated fibrinous matter from the interior of the sac. The origin and production of these bodies are thus similar to the formation of loose cartilages in joints, and they gradually acquire a fibro-cartilaginous character. Lastly, fibrinous deposit progressing concentrically, may at length convert the bursa into a solid tumour, having a laminated structure, or leaving a small central cavity, containing a gelatinous fluid. The diagnostic characters of these varied structural conditions is tolerably obvious. Inflammation, followed by suppuration and abscess, sloughing and ulceration, will be severally attended with their usual signs and symptoms. Enlarged burste are chronic indolent tumours ; with distinct fluctu- ation, denoting fluid contents, or having a solid resisting character according to the deposition of fibrinous matter. Thickening of the sac forms a semi-solid tumour, and the production of melon-seed-like bodies yields a crackling sensation on handling the sac, while complete solidi- fication presents a hard elastic tumour. Causes.—Some local iujury, as pressure, friction, or a blow, is generally the cause, whether of inflammation or simple enlargement of a bursa. Occasionally, some constitutional tendency seems to have a predisposing, or possibly productive influence. Treatment.—Inflammation may be subdued by rest, cold or warm fomentations, and topical bleeding. Suppuration having taken place, a free opening must be made and poulticing continued until granulation is established. Chronic enlargement of a bursa yields to various methods of treatment, according to the nature of its contents. An accumulation of serous fluid in the sac may be absorbed by a stimulating application, such as iodine paint, which I prefer. By puncturing the sac and pressure, or by the injection of iodine, adhesion can sometimes be induced; or the introduction of a seton for a few days leads to sup- puration and contraction. Fibrinous matter having been deposited, thickening of the sac, and an accumulation of melon-seed bodies within its interior, may possibly be cured by a seton, inducing discharge and contraction. But this condition, or that of complete solidification, generally necessitates re- moval of the bursa surgically. When fairly dissected out, the disease can never return, and commonly no evil consequences follow this operation. In one case only, after I had thus extirpated an old en- larged bursa patellae, phagedsenic gangrene appeared in the wound, and spread to some distance above and below the knee. But this was, evidently, an accidental coincidence, and no valid objection to the method of treatment. Particular Burs^.—Bursa Patellce.—The bursa situated over the patellfE is liable to the same diseases as those common to all burs«. Inflammation and its consequences, or simple chronic enlargement, not unfrequently occur. " Housemaid's knee," as it is called, is an in- flammatory a,ffection of the bursa patellae (Fig. 106), arising from frequent pressure and irritation by kneeling on a hard surface. But the same condition may be produced in other females and in males,SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGEIIY. 44G I have known it proceed to suppuration, Fig. 106. portion of tliickened which constitute the Pig. 107. under similar circumstances, as an .acute abscess. Caries of the patella—consequent on abscess of the bursa—and possibly involving the knee-joint, seems to be the only pathological peculiarity worthy of notice in connection with this disease. The treatment is the same as that of bursal affections in general—the treatment of inflam- mation and suppuration; or, in a chronic state, stimulating applications, puncture and pressure, injection, a seton, or extirpation by careful dissection, having regard to the prox- imity of the joint to the enlarged bursa. Bunion.—Inflammatory enlargement of the bursa situated on the inner aspect of the metatarsal bone of the great toe, or of an adventitious bursa formed in that situation, is the essential element of a bunion. The sac contains an increased quantity of thin serous fluid, or perhaps a dense crystalline secretion, as observed by Sir B. Brodie and M. Boyer. Over this enlarged bursa, a corresponding and homy cuticle, a large corn forms; both of bunion. (Fig. 107.) The toe is generally dis- placed obliquely outwards, lying over or under the adjoining toes ; thus forming an angle more or less obtuse at the metatarso-phalangeal articu- lation, or root of the great toe, and considerably increasing the prominence inwards. Acute pain, redness, and heat—the symptoms of inflammation —accompany this swelling, it being partly an inflammatory enlargement of the bursa. Chronic bunion represents the result of this state, inflammation having subsided into a toler- ably painless enlargement of the bursa; but which is liable to become acute under irritation. The cause of this condition is the pressure of a tight and narrow pointed boot or shoe, habitually worn; whereby the toe gradually becomes turned outwards from its natural direction, increasing the pressure on the root of the toe projecting inwards. The formation of bunion is therefore, mostly secondary to, and the consequence of, this displacement of the toe. Continued and increasing pressure thus bear- in o- on the root of the toe, the bursa there situated enlarges, or a new one is produced, and the superimposed cuticle becomes a corn. The coit^rse of bunion is apt to be very destructive. The internal lateral lio-ament yields under the constant strain, and suppuration within the bursal sac frequently supervenes, the abscess slowly progi-essing to the surface and opening by a small circular aperture in the centre of the horny callosity; or, destroying the ligament and involvmg the joint, the cartilages are eroded, the bones become carious, and partial dislocation inwards is permanently established. Some relief of the intolerable pain and of the other inflammatory symptoms, follows any evacuation of matter; but an indolent and unhealthy sore remains, indisposed to heal.447 PARTICULAR BURS^. Treatment.—Removal of tlie cause in operation is primarily impor- tant. A large shoe should be worn, or one with a compartment for the great toe, so as to keep the toe in a line with the metatarsal bone, and thus relieve pressure. By a contrivance of Mr. Bigg's, the toe can be drawn inwards. A compress of thick soft leather, spread with soap- plaster, and cut in the form of a horse-shoe, or a circular piece with a hole in the middle, may be applied; the opening corresponding to the bunion, which is thus relieved from pressure. Inflammation is to be overcome by the usual topical applications; poulticing or cold lotions, according to the state of the bunion. Abscess forming in the bursa, an.opening should be made without delay, both to relieve the intense pain and prevent any destruction of the joint. Chronic bunion is best removed by painting it with a strong solution of nitrate of silver. A large, and perhaps painful cyst, may be de- stroyed, as recommended by Sir B. Brodie and M. Boyer, by an incision into the sac, and cauterizing its inner surface with nitrate of silver or nitric acid. It should be observed whether the sac communicates with the joint. Destruction of the internal lateral ligament, and the articu- lation, may terminate well, by fixing the toe with a gutta-percha splint; or this condition will necessitate excision of the joint or ampu- tation of the toe. I have resorted to the former operation successfally, in some cases. Sheaths of Tendons.—(1.) Tenosynovitis—acute and chronic.— Sheaths of tendons in the neighbourhood of joints, are most liable to inflammation. This is attended with the effusion of fibrinous serum. The flexor and extensor tendons of the wrist, for example, are subject to strains in various laborious occupations. To guard against any such injury, it is not uncommon for navigators, and others similarly em- ployed, to wear a band around the wrist, as a support to the tendons. Direct violence may also give rise to this inflammation ; as in the foot, from contusion of the instep, or the chafing of a tight shoe. Some- times the inflammation seems to be spontaneous or idiopathic. Puffy swelling and some pain in the course of tendons, after injury, denote inflammation of their sheaths. A peculiar creaking, jerking sensation and sound is elicited on moving the part. This latter sign differs from the true crepitus of fracture. Febrile disturbance, more or less acute, accompanies these symptoms. Tenosynovitis terminates perhaps by resolution, with slow absorption of the effusion ; but, more often, adhesions take place between the tendon and its sheath, resulting in stiffness for some time; or a glairy, gelatinous fluid remains within the sheath, presenting a persistent, painless swelling—chronic tenosynovitis. Not uncommonly, the disease proceeds to suppuration, with sloughing of the tendons, which can be pulled out in the form of yellow shreds. The neighbouring joints may become anchylosed, or the bones necrosed. The spontaneous form of the disease—although rare—commences as a diffuse inflammation, in- volving the subcutaneous cellular texture, with great swelling, and rapid suppuration. In suppurative tenosynovitis, the hectic exhaustion and wasting are remarkable. The treatment is in no way peculiar. Rest, and warm fomentations; followed by stimulant applications and pressure in tlie chronic state of inflammation. Blistering, embrocations, and a bandage are thus effica- cious ; or the emplastrum ammoniacum cum hydrargyro employed a»448 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. strapping, is both stimulating and supporting to the part affected. In the event of suppuration, incisions in the course of the tendons, and poulticing, will be necessary; when the sheaths may heal, with out- cropping granulations, leaving a stiffened hand or foot. But necrosis may yet compel the Surgeon to extract the dead bone, or to amputate the part. (2.) Ganglion.—This is a simple or barren cyst or sac, attached to, but communicating with, the sheath of a tendon. It contains a firm, transparent, whitish gelatinous matter, resembling the vitreous humour of the eye. The cyst varies in size and shape, from a pea to a filbert; and presents a corresponding tumour, smooth, elastic, movable, and subcutaneous; situated usually on the back of the wrist, occasionally on the dorsum of the foot, as in a case which came under my notice. This little tumour is itself painless, even when pressed firmly under the thumb, although the patient experiences a sense of weakness in the joint. Chronic ganglion does not so much increase in size, as the cyst attains considerable thickness and resistance. Arising from a sprain, or as it were spontaneously—unHke a subcutaneous bursa which pro- ceeds from pressure—-ganglion is usually of slow growth, but, some- times makes its appearance quite suddenly. Compound Ganglion is described by Erichsen, as a dilatation of the sheaths of the tendons; often attaining a very considerable size, and usually becoming irregular in shape, several tendons being implicated in it. The sheath becomes thickened as well as dilated, and highly vascular, being lined with a red, fringed, and velvety membrane; the contained fluid is clear and yellowish, but usually thinner than in simple ganglion; or the fluid may be dark and bloody, containing masses of buff-coloured fibrin or a lai'ge number of granular bodies, like those met in enlarged bursae. " These bodies are composed of perfectly developed granulations, in which the remains of blood-vessels are visible, probably thrown off from the inner wall of the vascular sheath." Compound ganglion is chiefly met with in the palm of the hand, and on the dorsum, sole, or inner side of the foot. This form of the disease is extremely clironic, may acquire an almost malignant appearance, and occupy a very extensive surface; in one case, the dorsum and greater part of the inner side of the foot were involved. Simple ganglion, however, in this situation is larger, flatter, and less movable than on the back of the wrist. Treatment.-^Simple ganglion is usually amenable to remedial mea- sures. In its ordinary situation, on the back of the wrist, a ganglion may be dispersed by squeezing it with the thumbs, or by a blow with the back of a book; the sac bursting and evacuating its contents under the skin. A chronic ganglion, having a thickened sac, may require considerable pressure before it yields, and the sac remaining may still give the appearance of a ganglion; deceiving both the operator and the patient, unless the sensation of bursting be noticed during the application of pressure. Often the cyst refills, and it will be necessary to continue pressure by means of a compress and roller, firmly applied. Occasionally also, other measures, as for an enlarged bursa, become requisite; puncture and pressure, a seton, or extirpation by dissection. Compoiind ganglion—distension of the sheaths of tendons—is a far more obstinate disease; especially when forming in its usual situation,449 INJURIES OF NERVES. the palm, of the hand. The sheaths of the flexor tendons are distended, containing a glairy or other fluid. The elastic tumour, thus produced beneath the palmar fascia, extends imder the tra isverse ligament into the forearm, in the form of a double swelling, constricted by the liga- ment. The fingers are contracted. Various plans of treatment may be followed. In the case of a surgeon, aged sixty-five, I made a subcutaneous small opening above the wrist, and evacuated a large number of melon-seed bodies, with a very successful result. Free in- cision of the tumour, dividing the annular ligament, and healing from ■within, as reconimended by Syme, may be advisable, although appa- rently an extreme measure. But other proceedings—the passage of a seton from above under the annular ligament into the palm, or the injection of iodine—are more hazardous, by inducing inflammation which cannot be controlled so as only to obliterate the swelling. NERVES. CHAPTER XXIV. INJURIES. NEURITIS.—NEURALGIA. Injuries.—Iserves are seldom injured alone, but in connection with other textures, the injury being shared in common with them. N^erves are, however, liable to similar lesions as other soft textures ; wounds, incised, punctured, and contused, and to contusion without breach o£ continuity. Perhaps the latter lesion is the most frequent, as when the ulnar nerve at the elbow is contused by an accidental collision, just catching the nerve in its course between the inner condyle and olecranon. The symptoms attending these forms of injury vary with the amount of injury to the nerve, and its own functional importance. Pain, tingling, or other perverted sensation, accompany contusion; complete paralysis of sensation, and of motion, in the parts supplied by the nerve, denote division. This has happened in excision of the elbow- joint ; division of the ulnar occasioning immediate loss of sensation on both sides of the little finger and inside of the ring finger, with inability also to move these fingers. Sometimes loss of temperature and failure of nutrition supervene ; owing probably to the loss of nervous influence on the circulation in the part to which the nerve is distributed, and the finger, as I have seen, may become atrophied. Fortunately, restoration after contusion, and reunion after division, not unfrequently take place; the nerve sooner or later resuming its functions. In large nerve-trunks, as the sciatic and median, the original structure is not completely reproduced. When, also, a portion of nerve has been excised, to the extent of, say, the third of an inch, the divided ends remaining apart, such portion will not be reproduced. The cut end of a nerve—as in an amputation-stump—often enlarges mto a club-shaped or bulbous extremity, consisting—Billroth observes— of convoluted nerve-filaments ; which grow from the nerve-end, as if to meet an opposite end. The cicatrix of a divided nerve is sometimes nodular, in like manner. 2 QSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 450 The treatment will, therefore, be guided by these indications of nerve-reparative power. Rest in all cases, and apposition of the ends, if the nerve be divided. Neuritis.—%m^i5oms.—Inflammation of a nerve is attended with pain, severe and continued, shooting along the nerve or nerves affected; and rendered intolerable by pressure in their course, or on attempting to move the part. Jerking of the muscles often occurs. Some heat and swelling along the course of the nerve may perhaps be detected, if the inflamed nerve be situated near the surface. Marked inflammatory fever is present in all cases. Chronic neuritis is distinguished by a subsidence of all the symptoms, leaving the nerve still sensitive, and sometimes painful; and the individual worn out by suffering and sleeplessness. Causes.—Usually arising from injury, the vai'ious lesions to which nerves are liable may induce inflammation, extending along the sheath of the injured nerve. But neuritis may also proceed from some blood- poison, of which it is the local, or one of the local, manifestations. Sciatica is probably a manifestation of this kind ; a rheumatic inflam- mation of the sciatic nerve. Treatment.—Local blood-letting and warm fomentations are most suitable in neuritis of traumatic origin; while opiates or sedatives, as hyoscj^amus or conium, may procure sleep, or relieve the otherwise incessant suffering. Rheumatic neutritis must be treated, locally and constitutionally, as acute or chronic rheumatism. Neuralgia.—Symptoms, and Diagnosis.—Pain is still the essential symptom of neuralgia, as in neuritis. It may be even more severe or excruciating, but it is paroxysmal; shooting along the course of a nerve, or diffused, but commonly relieved by firm pressure, although generally induced by the slightest superficial touch or movement of the part. Various anomalous sensations may be experienced, as creeping, tickling, or burning in the part. Spasm of the muscles is a frequent concomitant. Slight heat, pufiiness, and redness may supervene, and increased secretion, as of tears or saliva when the nerves of the eye or jaw are affected. But no fever of an inflammatory character accom- panies the attack. Its duration is usually much shorter than neuritis; lasting perhaps only a few minutes, although prolonged indefinitely in some cases. The periodical return of neuralgia, at a certain time in the day, or in certain months of the year, is also .characteristically distinctive. From structural disease of the part, neuralgia is distinguished by the absence of any special physical signs—e.g., inflammatory swelling, and of fever ; and also by the character and disproportionate severity of the pain. From hysterical pain, it differs in mostly being restricted to one part, and by the absence of general hysterical symptoms. The association of structural disease with neuralgia is sometimes most perplexing. But here—and with regard to hysteric pain—the diagnosis may be determined by the aggravation of the pain by deep pressure, rather than any marked cutaneous sensibility. The mis- taking structural disease for neuralgia would mislead the treatment; but this error is riot so seriously misleading as the mistaking neuralgic pain for structural disease. By attention to the foregoing points of distinction, the line may generally bo safely drawn between neuralgia and disease of the joints, the breast, testicle, and other parts. Certain nerves are more frequently the seat of neuralgic pain. The451 NEUKALGIA. divisions of the fifth, pair are specially liable ; and in particular the supra-orbital branch. But neuralgia may occur in perhaps any part of the body ; in the scalp, ear, nose, back of the neck, the back, chest, breasts, testicles, clitoris, abdomen, arms, ball of the thumb, legs, feet; or in the joints, especially the knee and hip. The ends of nerves in amputation-stumps are not unfrequently affected; but more often when they present bulbous enlargement, and are adherent to the cicatrix. Causes.—Constitutional conditions, mostly of an obscure character, seem to be the essential cause of all this suffering. A generally de- pressed state of the nervous system, and circulation of the blood, may be said to represent the constitutionally causative condition, usually apparent. Thus, constant exposure to wet and cold, the climatic in- fluence of damp localities, or periods of the year, depressing passions, not unfrequently induce neuralgic attacks in persons previously healthy. Certain blood-poisons are less obvious, but not less potent. The malarious poison of marshy districts is thus sometimes the source of the most severe and persistent neuralgia. Chlorosis from amenorrhoea is another such, cause. The influence of blood-conditions may be even more frequent in albuminuria; a disease in the course of which I have mtnessed neuralgic attacks of more intense agony, than in any other disease. It was a sagacious remark by Romberg, I believe, that neuralgia is "the prayer of a nerve for healthy blood." Local irrita- tion is often the immediate and exciting cause. A carious tooth, or piece of dead bone elsewhere, the accumulation of scybalous matter in the intestinal canal, or other sources of irritation, centric or eccentric, are causes of this kind. The pressux-e of a tumour in the course of a nerve, or a neuromatous tumour itself, would sometimes appear to be causes of neuralgia; but any injury to, or disease of, the nervous system is in this sense causative. Dr. Pemberton suffered for many years from excruciating pains in his face, to relieve which Sir A. Cooper severed the three divisions of the fifth nerve, on different occasions, without avail. Driven from practice, and worn out by protracted suffering, at length death brought that release which art had failed to give. A tumour was then found in the bi'ain; and thence the origin and persistency of the pain endured during life. Course and Terminations.—Neuralgia is as uncertain in its subse- quent history, as its pathology and etiology are obscure. The attacks may cease suddenly, leaving the individual in apparently good health, or soon to recover from the temporary exhaustion consequent on pain and sleeplessness. Or the sufferer at length succumbs, dying from sheer exhaustion. Treatment.—For the treatment of neuralgia, only certain general directions can here be given. The cause or causes in operation must be diligently sought for, in each case. It will be useless, however tempt- ing, to remove a merely local cause, when the constitutional condition IS still in operation. A change of residence from a damp or malarious locality may thus be necessary. Other depressing circumstances, already noticed, are less under control. Medicinal treatment may, however, do something, preventive or curative. Quinine, in large doses —two, three, five grains, or more—will sometimes ward off an attack, or cut it short. Quinine treatment, continued in smaller doses, sometimes proves curative. Preparations of iron, the sulphate in particular, are more effectual in neuralgia of malarious origin. In albuminuria452 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. the blood-restorative action of iron is counteracted by the constant retention of urea and other excrementitious matters in the blood. Disordered menstruation may perhaps be remedied by the administra- tion of emenagogues—e.g., galbanum, myrrh, etc.—in conjunction with tonic treatment. Constipation or irregular action of the bowels must be overcome by aperients, chosen according to the occasion. Thus, aloetic purgatives, rhubarb, mercurials, and salines, are all useful, in difPerent cases. Any local cause of irritation should not be overlooked, but its removal will seldom overcome a true neuralgic tendency. The ex- traction of a carious tooth, for example, seems only to divert the recurrence of pain to another, and possibly sounder tooth. Local applications, sedative or counter-irritant, are comparatively useless. Belladonna, opium, aconitina, and otter powerful sedatives have been tried in vain. The hypodermic injection of morphia is perhaps more promising. Blistering, or stimulant embrocations, will rarely be tolerated by the patient. Section of the nerve is a last resource. It cannot succeed in cases of neuralgic pain depending on pressure in the course of a nerve, unless the occasion of pressure can be detected, and the operation be performed above that part. It was thus unavailing in the case of Dr. Pemberton. When appropriate, the section must be an excision of a portion of the nerve, the simply divided ends otherwise regaining their continuity. Neuromatous Tumour.—See Morbid Growths. AETERIES. CHAPTER XXV. injuries of AETERIES. ANEURISM. Wounds—and of Special Arteries.—These Injuries are conveniently associated, respectively, with Wounds in general (Ch. XVI.) and with Traumatic Aneurisms in various parts of the body. (Ch. XXVI.) Aneurism. — Structural Condi- tions.—Aneurism maybe generally defined to be a collection of arterial blood communicating with an artery, from which it has arisen. (Fig. 108.) This collection of blood may be circumscrihed, commonly, by en- closure within a dilated portion of the artery, as a sac, forming true aneurism ; or possibly within a sacculated dilatation of its external cellular coat alone, the internal * Tnio saccular aneurism, in arch of aorta; with laminated clot-formation. (After Hodgson, sHghtly modified.)453 ANEURISM. and middle coats having become ruiptured—mixed aneurism; or the Wood may become enclosed within condensed cellular textui;e of the mrt external to but adjoining that of the artery, thus forming a sac pnclosino- blood, and constituting circumscribed false aneurism ; or, the blood having escaped from the artery into the adjoining cellu ar texture may remain diffused therein, constituting choused _Mse nneiirism Whether this condition shall remain, or form a arcum- Zibed false aneurism, will depend chiefly on the degree of looseness Fig. 109. Fig. llO.t or density of the surrounding cellular texture, on the size of the artery, and the direction of the opening in it; and, moreover, is regulated by the force and rapidity of the current, of blood passing through the vessel. The accompanying figure represents a diffused aneurism becoming circumscribed. (Fig. 109.) Other forms of Aneurism are recognized by Surgical Authors. Fusiform or Tubidar Aneurism is a dilatation of all the coats of an artery, extending throughout the entire circumference of the vessel, * Double-sacced aneurism. The first sac had burst, and the tumour became diffused; but. a second sac of surrounding textures again formed a circumscribed aneurism. (From Sir Charles Bell.) t Dissecting aneurism of aorta,—between the external and middle coats, and extending from the left subclavian artery down to the bifurcation of the abdominal aorta. The tube of the aorta was quite pervious, although compressed by a large firm clot, at the bifurcation ; but tlio left common iliac was obliterated to a fibrous cord. (Path. Trans, vol. vii., case by Dr. Latham, ^?-o Dr. Swaine.)454 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. and not forming a sac. It commonly occurs in the arcli of the aorta. Dissecting aneurism is sacculated, but the sac is formed between the coats of the artery, and generally between the internal and middle coats, which have become separated or dissected up by the force of the blood, the inner coat having given way. Or, the sac may form between the external and middle coats of the vessel. (Fig. 110.) The sac thus situated may extend a considerable distance along the vessel. Dis- secting aneurism was first described by Shekelton. Signs.—The physical signs of aneurism vary with its condition. True aneurism at first presents a small, soft, circumscribed tumour (Pig. 112), pulsating -with an expansive movement to the touch, to the eye, and to the ear,—as a rasping or sawing sound or bruit,—in unison with each beat of the heart. These characters may be rendered more perceptible by arresting the current of blood with the finger on the artery, below the aneurism. The pulsation ceases and the tumour itself subsides, if the current of blood through the aneurismal sac be arrested by compressing the artery above the aneurism; but on allowing the blood again to flow, the tumour refills, with a sudden and expansive impulse. And, at this early period, the sac can be emptied by pressure, and the blood thus returned into the artery. Mixed, and circumscribed false aneurism, respectively, are not characterized by any peculiar signs; either of these forms of aneurism presenting a circumscribed tumour, and in its early stage beating and thrilling under the finger, yet being also reducible. Seeing then that the signs of these three forms of aneurism are indistinguishable, their distinctive names are, in my opinion, practically useless. In the course of time, the aneurismal sac, enlarging and borrowing more and more fibrine from the passing stream of blood, becomes partially consolidated. The tumour, as felt externally, is, therefore, no longer soft, although still circumscribed; its pulsations are fainter and less expansive, and the swelling cannot be reduced by compressing the vessel above, nor by direct pi'essure without such force as would break up the clot. The sound or h7-uit also, produced by the pulse-wave of blood through the aneurism, may now be absent; as when the neck of the sac is too narrow to readily admit the cur- rent of blood into the sac, or if the sac be consolidated with coagulum. Hence, the characteristic signs of aneurism are modified or absent. Diffused false aneurism, in virtue of its essentially distinctive con- dition from that of any circumscribed aneurism, might be designated simply,—Diffused Aneurism. The tumour is generally of much larger size than a circumscribed aneurism; its outline is no longer defined, the pulsations are fainter and more indistinct or quite imperceptible ; and the blood, being infiltrated, cannot be returned into the aneurismal artery. The swelling resembles a large ecchymosis, the superjacent integuments being discoloured like an extensive bruise. The limb or part dependent on the artery for a due supply of arterial blood, becomes cold and oedematous, threatening gangrene. If the diffused form be consequent on circumscribed aneurism, the individual will have felt something give way suddenly, followed immediately by notable enlarge- ment of the aneurismal swelling, accompanied with intense pain and faintness. The former symptom—sudden accession of intense pain, is due to tension from the diffusion of blood among the textures and possibly under unyielding fasciro; the latter symptom — faintness,455 ANEURISM. arises partly from shock, by the pain of tension, and partly from the loss of blood in circulation, by its extravasation. The functional symptoms of aneurism are pain, loss of muscular power, and venous congestion; or there may be special functional disturbances in connection with internal aneurisms. These do not occur until a rather late period of aneurism, and do not accompany it throughout its career. Diagnosis.—The physical signs of aneurism, already described, may themselves be absent; as when consolidation in the sac has taken place. Or, if these signs be present, they may arise from other causes, other pulsating tumours. Such are vascular or erectile tumours, and certain tumours of a highly vascular character, as encephaloid cancer. The diagnosis will be determined by comparing the signs of these tumours with those of aneurism. Then, again, a tumour or an abscess seated on an artery pulsates, and thus Fig. 111.* simulates aneurism. (Fig. 111.) In the instructive specimen here represented, a firm tumour encloses the left common carotid artery; and in which, the internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve are embedded and compressed. Thrombosis had taken place within the vein, thus further obliterating this vessel. But the pulsation of any superimposed mass is not expansive and uniform over its whole surface; the tumour does not subside if pressure be made on the artery above, although the pulsation ceases ; and it cannot be emptied by direct pressure. It should, however, be remembered that these negative signs are equally true of aneurism which has under- gone consolidation. In some doubtful cases, the tumour can be lifted off the artery; thus plainly declaring its inde- pendence. There are also frequently present the characteristic signs of the particular kind of tumour or swelling. But an abscess may have communicated with, an artery, by an ulcerative opening in the walls of the vessel; thus converting the abscess into an aneurismal sac, as in the well-known case of pseudo-cai'otid aneurism which Listou opened for an abscess, by an error of diagnosis. From the pain of rheumatism, aneurismal pain may be distinguished by its intermittent character, and the presence of playsical signs ; coupled, generally, with, the number of parts affected in the ■ case of rheumatism. Neuralgic pain has also its differential, althougb less distinctive, characters. Diffused aneurism is far less likely to be equivocal, its signs being more peculiar. The history of aneurism will further aid in determining its diagnosis. If the tumour be circumscribed, by conversion from diffused aneurism, there will be the antecedent transition changes from that condition. If diffused, by conversion from circumscribed aneurism, there will be antecedent transition changes from that condition ; if originally dif- fused, there will be the antecedent fact of traumatic origin. Causes, Effects, and Course of Aneurism.—Aneurism commonly arises from anm^emaZ cause; namely, a diseased or atheromatous condi- tion of the artery, by fatty degeneration into oil-particles, with crystals of cholesterine, and subsequently calcareous degeneration; affecting the * Royal Coll. Surg. Mus., 1741. (Hunterian.)SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 456 middle or muscular coat of the vessel. In the fatty or atheromatous stage of dcgoueration, the inner aspect of the artery presents slightly elevated patches, yellowish and opaque, underneath the thin inner membranous coat; in the calcareous stage, it becomes inelastic and brittle, and the patches assume the character of bony plates, consisting of mineral salts, the phosphate and carbonate of lime,>but having little or no osseous structure ; lastly, the inner coat or lining membrane gives way, or disappears. The degenerated portion of artery having lost its elasticity, and perhaps being partially ruptured, is disposed to yield to the pulsating action of the arterial wave-current, and expand into an aneurismal sac. Hence, the formation of idiopathic Aneurism, which is primarily circumscribed, and secondarily only becomes diffused, by rupture ; or eventually perhaps again circumscribed, by fibrinous con- solidation. Billroth notices inflammatory softening of an artery as a rare cause of aneurismal enlargement; thus far regarding aneurism as an occasional consequence of arteritis, and when of an acute and idio- pathic character. The numher of aneurisms which are liable to form, simultaneously or successively, in the same individual, is mainly determined by the nature of the internal cause in operation. Fatty and calcareous de- generation not unfrequently affects a large extent of an artery, as the aorta, or many arteries, as both po^jliteals and other vessels. Thence the production of more than one, and even numerous aneurisms, in the same person. Sixty-three, for example, were found in one individual, whose body was examined by Pelletan. Predisposing Causes vary in their nature and degree of influence. Age is important, but apparently only as connected with those degenera- tive changes which the arteries, in common with many other textures, undergo as age approaches. Thus, according to the observations of Sir A. Cooper and Lisfranc, aneurism is most frequent about the middle period of life, or between the ages of thirty and fifty; whereas ten years on either side of these ages makes a very favourable difference —under twenty, and after sixty, the disease being exceedingly rare. Certain hlood-diseases seem to have some predisposing influence. Syphilis, gout, and rheumatism have this reputation. Climate appears to possess an inexplicable predisposition ; aneurism being far more common in cold than in hot countries. The immunity of the East Indies contrasts favourably with the climate of Great Britain and Ireland. Occupation has an unquestionably important influence, and especially in connection with previous habits of life. Thus, any violent exertion, and by persons who are habitually sedentary, is conductive to aneurism. Hunting, pedestrianism, rowing and other athletic sports, may therefore have this tendency. Such pursuits seem to favour the production of aneurism, by repeatedly exciting a powerful action of the heart and compression of the arteries, in muscular exertion. Sex is thus associated with predisposing causes; aneurism occurring more frequently in men than women, in about the proportion of 8 to 1, according to Hodgson's table; or nearly 11 to 1, in the cases of surgical aneurism, 154, collected by Lisfranc. The liability of different arteri, ^ to aneurism has been shown by Lisfranc to vary in the following order of frequency, as gathered from 179 cases, all spontaneous, but exclud- ing those of the aorta :—Popliteal artery, 59 ; femoral, in the groin 26, at other points 18; carotid, 17; subclavian, 16; axillary, 14; externalANEUEISM. 457 iliac, 5 ; brachio-cephalic, 4 ; brachial, cominon iliac, anterior tibial, of each, 3 ; gluteal, internal iliac, temporal, of each, 2; internal carotid, ulnar, peroneal, radial, palmar arch, of each, 1. The external causes of aneurism relate to injuries of various kinds affecting the arteries, as an external wound, a fracture or dislocation, opening an artery; or, a strain, blow, or bruise, inducing sloughing of the vessel. Hence the formation of traumcdic Aneurism; which is primarily diiiused, and secondarily only becomes circumscribed, in favourable cases. The relations of origin and structural condition, in respect to Aneurism, are clearly represented in the following Table :— Aneurism. Origin. j Idiopathic I Traumatic Circumscribed—primarily. Diffused—secondarily. Diffused—primarily. Circumscribed—secondarily. The mode of origin in no way afiects the signs and the diagnosis of Aneurism—there the structural conditions, circumscribed and diffused, are the grounds of distinction ; but the etiology of Aneurism affords the most significant indications as to treatment. This will appear presently. While, therefore, I recognize the perceptible distinctions, circumscribed and diffused Aneurism; I would supplement this diag- nosis, by associating therewith that condition of the artery, whether of disease or injury, which is suggested by the origin of the aneurism, as idiopathic or traumatic. Fig. 112. The effects and the course of Aneurism have both local and constitutional relations. Locally, circumscribed Aneurism produces pressure-effects. The sac of blood, fluid or semi- solid, pulsating and gradually enlarging, exerts a constant, ex- pansive, and increas- ing circumferential pressure; producing various functional dis- turbances and altera- tions of structure in surrounding parts, as exhibited by the pres- sure-effects of pop- liteal aneurism. (Fig. 112.) The current of blood, thi'ough the artery, being more and more obstructed, or altogether intercepted, the veins become turgid, and oedema super- venes. The nerves become flattened into ribands, occasioning intense pain, or eventually, partial paralysis; the muscles waste, and the * From Sir A. Cooper. t Aneurism of abdominal aorta, at bifurcation. Destruction of bodies of vcrtebrse, leaving inter-vertebral fibro-cartilaKes. Univ. Coll. Mus., 2741.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 458 bones erode, -without, however, tlio accompanying formation of pus, as ill caries. (Fig. 113.) The bursting of circumscribed aneurism, and its conversion into the diffused condition, takes place in two ways. By sloughing and rupture of the skin, or of the mucous membrane in certain internal aneurisms ; or by fissure of a serous membrane, if the aneurism burst into the peritoneum, the pleura, or pericardium. The haemorrhage, taking place externally or internally, is sometimes suddenly fatal, or it recurs again and again, and thus at length proves fatal. Various special functional disturbances may be produced, according to the particular seat of aneurism. Thus, aneurisms of the aortic arch give rise to aphonia and cough, by pressure on the left recurrent laryngeal nerve; or to dyspnoja and dysphagia, when the trachea and oesophagus are compressed. With diffused Aneurism, the functional disturbances—consequent on the circumscribed condition— may persist, or be relieved, temporarily or permanently. Yet with pro- gressive enlargement of the diifused tumour, other functional disturb- ance and alterations of suirounding parts supervene. Constitutionally, the influence of Aneurism varies with its structural condition. If cir- cumscribed, the tumour may induce some degree of inflammatory or sympathetic fever, arising from the local irritation; but this is suc- ceeded by exhaustion, from prolonged pain and sleeplessness. If the aneurism be diffused, the same constitutional disturbances ensue; and, when circumscribed aneurism becomes diffused, this alteration of structural condition is accompanied, as already stated, by more or less shock, which is due both to the sudden and severe pain, and to the equally sudden hfemorrhage or loss of blood in circulation. Teeminations.—Aneurism may undergo reparation, or spontaneous cure, as it is termed; or burst, and eventually prove fatal by hsemor- rhage, externally, internally, or in both directions. Death may, how- ever, result from functional disturbance, induced by pressure, involving some important organ; as in aortic, and other internal aneurisms. (1.) Spontaneous Cure.—Circumscrihed Aneurism is naturally dis- posed to undergo spontaneous cure. The essential nature of this process is coagulation of the blood within the aneurismal sac; for although coagulation therein may occur natui'ally under four or five different contingent circumstances, as modes of cure, they alike tend to thus obliterate the aneurism. The principle of cure will be readily understood. Aneurism arises whenever the force and velocity, or the impetus of the blood's motion through any given artery, or is no longer counterbalanced by the elasticity and contractile force, or the resisting strength of the walls of that vessel. Coagulation of the blood within the aneurismal sac tends to restore this resisting strength, and is there- fore proportionately conducive to the cure of aneurism. The details of this process are briefly these :—The blood continuing to flow through the aneurism, leaves upon the interior of the sac a thin layer of coagulum, upon which another is superimposed, and so on, forming a laminated coagulum; the outermost portion of which, attached to the sac, acquires considerable firmness and resisting strength. This consists of distinctly laminated fibrine. (See Fig. 108.) It eventually becomes somewhat friable, and resembles boiled beef in colour. The portion of coagulum next in order has the consistence and appearance of damson cheese; while the innermost portion, in contact with the flowing blood, is semi-fluid, like currant jelly. By this successiveANEUKISM. 459 deposition of coagulum tlie sac is gradually filled up to the level of the artery, which still remaining pervious, the surface of coagulum exposed to the cui'rent of blood acquires a smooth and membranous appearance. In a large artery, through which the blood flows with most force, coagulation within the sac alone may be the whole extent of spontaneous cure. Its external signs are :—gradual solidification of the aneurism; less and less forcible expansion; the pulsation becomes that of a solid tumour; and, lastly, the swelling cannot be reduced by pressure applied to the artery above, or by compressing the aneurism. In aneurism of an artery of the second or third magnitude, thi'ough which the current of blood flows less forcibly, coagulation advances from the sac into the vessel, which gradually becomes plugged up, above and below, with a coagulum, extending to the next important branch above and below the aneurism. This advance of coagulation is accompanied with the cessation of pulsation. Eventually the aneurism contracts and dwindles into a comparatively small solid swelling; while the artery, to some extent, above and below it, is converted into an impervious fibroiis cord. During this process of obliteration, compensation has been gradually made for the loss of the original supply of blood through the artery. The collateral branches above the unobliterated portion of artery enlarge with the additional flow of blood through them, and becoming equal to their extra duty, at length convey as much, of even more, blood than the aneurismal artery formerly supplied. The circulation is adequately restored, and nutrition efficiently sustained, by this com- pensatory supply of blood. Eemembering the internal cause of idiopathic aneurism, the in- elastic or partially ruptured condition of a degenerated portion of artery, as already explained, and also the physiological fact that the coagulation of blood is favoured by rest, we at once perceive how any- thing which retards the flow of blood through an aneurismal sac tends to restore its resisting strength, and is therefore proportionately conducive to the cure of aneurism. The same effect is produced by anything which ofZierwzse favours coagulation of the blood within the sac. Firstly. The flow of blood may be retarded by a less forcible pro- pulsive power of the heart; in which case coagulation is possibly induced without any co-operative condition incidental to the aneurism itself. The sac is gradually filled up to its brim; then, possibly, the artery is plugged, and finally obliterated. This is the usual mode of spontaneous cure. Secondly. The flow of blood through an aneurismal sac may be retarded by a piece of clot dislodged from the sac, and washed into the mouth of the distal portion of artery, or impacted within it some distance off; embolism thus taking place. This condition may be followed by gangrene, from sudden occlusion of the artery, without the simultaneous provision of a collateral circulation. Thus for aneurism by a natural mode of cure, another evil would be substituted. Thirdly. A piece of clot may be floated down to the aneurism from one higher up, or the retarded flow of blood above may induce coagula- tion in the lower sac. Fourthly. The flow of blood may bo retarded by the aneurism over- lapping and compressing the portion of artery immediately above or below itself.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 460 Fiftlilj. Coagulation of the blood within an aneurismal sac may be induced otherwise than by any occasion of a retarded flow of blood. Adhesive inflammation possibly, and certainly sloughing, obliterates the sac, and leaves the artery impervious. Several remarkable instances of spontaneous cure by closure of the sac alone are recorded in Mr. Hodgson's work. Not only aneurisms of the aorta, but also those of smaller arteries, e.g., the brachial and anterior cerebral, were thus eifectually closed, without any obliteration of the aneurismal artery. For similar instances, where the aneurisms were due to unskilful blood-letting, the reader is referred to the Avorks of Scarpa, Petit, Foubevt, and Saviard. In an aneurismal dilatation of the wliole circumference of an artery ■—Fusiform or Tubular Aneurism—the cure by coagulation is just possible, only modified in a remarkable manner to meet the exigencies of the case. In one case, recorded by Sir A. Cooper, the femoral artery, from its origin to the extent of more than three inches, was dilated into a sac, which was lined throughout with very firm layers of coagulum, having a fleshy appearance. But this deposition did not completely obstruct the passage through the sac ; for an irregular canal, in some places larger than the natural boie of the artery, still remained through its centre. The coagulum that formed the imme- diate boundary of this canal was more condensed than any other portion of the whole, and had a membranous appearance. Here, then, while coagulation had effectually strengthened this important artery, its contimdty was preserved by an adequate channel through the coagulum. Only so much, and no more, coagulum had formed as was absolutely necessary to accomplish this twofold purpose. Aneurism sometimes terminates safely in another way; but, not implying the favourable course and tendency of this disease, it must be regarded rather as an accidental mode of recovery, by an evil occur- rence, than as a mode of natural cure, although no assistance is given by art. I allude to the bursting of an aneurism under a tight fascia, or other resisting structure, and compression of the sac and artery, even to obliteration, by the extravasated blood. One example of this kind is related by Sir A. Cooper. An aneurism of the femoral artery, just below Poupart's ligament, having burst, the thigh became enor- mously swollen. For three days afterwards, pulsation was perceptible over the aneurism. Then, however, it ceased, and the size of the limb began to diminish. At the end of four months, the aneurismal swell- ing had considerably subsided ; the patient could use his limb, and m less than six months he quitted the hospital. Subsequently he died from the rupture of an abdominal aneurism, and post-viortem examina- tion showed that the femoral artery was obliterated by the pressure of the large quantity of blood effused. Another mode of accidental recovery through a circumstance itself morbid, is by the pressure of an aneurism of a neighbouring artery, or by that of a tumour not aneurismal. Listen mentions the instance of a subclavian aneurism, which on dissection was found solidified by tlie compression of another aneurism springing from the innominate artery. (2.) Diffused Aneuri-sm, when it remains in this condition, runs the course already indicated by its operation as an internal cause of local and constitutional disturbances. The tumour progressively enlargmg even to an enormous size, and ultimately bursting, externally, inter-ANEURISM. 461 nally, or in both directions, tlie career o£ such aneurism tends inevitably to further and fatal haemorrhage. Duration of Aneurism.—This would seem to be regulated chiefly by the force of the circulation, the proximity of the aneurism, to the heart, the size of the neck of the sac, and its direction relatively to the current of blood, and by the coagulating power of. the blood. Rest, and the mode of treatment, will further affect the duration of aneurism. But the course of all aneurisms is generally slow; extending to a few months, a year, or possibly several yeai's. In one extreme case of femoral aneurism recorded by Hodgson, the period of its duration was twenty years. Prognosis. — The prognosis of Aneurism should be determined mainly by a due consideration of the persistency, or otherwise, of its causes. Degeneration of structure, affecting the coats of an artery, implies the loss of that adequate resistance and resiliency to the current of blood, which having given rise to Aneurism will also perpetuate it. The extent to which degeneration usually affects the arterial system, more than one artery being the seat of this destructive change, is an additionally unfavourable consideration. Hence, a single idio- pathic aneurism always suggests a suspicious prognosis. Traumatic Aneurism suggests an unfavourable prognosis, only in proportion as the aneurismal swelling is progressive. The conditions which mainly regulate the duration of aneurism are obviously important, as persistent causes in regulating its dilatation and progress. In so far as these conditions are discoverable during life, their consideration will com- plete the prognosis. Special aneurisms are subject to particular conditions which determine the Surgeon's judgment respecting their course and issue, as in the case of internal aneurisms. Treatment.—Remedial measures—hygienic, medicinal, and opera- tive—should be entirely responsive to the natural or spontaneous cure of aneurism. The ordinary mode in which natural cure takes place is by retardation of the current of blood through the aneurismal artery, sufficiently to induce coagulation and the deposition of lami- nated fibrine within the sac. i. As conducive to this end, the primary indication of treatment is rest, prolonged rest, of mind and body. Position is an important adjunct, by taking off the force of the arterial current. The recumbent position will be most suitable for aneurism in any part of the body, the patient not being allowed to raise himself once from the bed during a course of many weeks. Gradual starvation and depletion, to diminish the quantity of blood in circulation, and to reduce the force of the heart's action, have some remedial influence ; but only within judicious hmitations. The pulse should be maintained a little above 60, and at an equable rate. Farinaceous, rather than animal food, a sparing proportion of liquids to the smallest quantity which can be tolerated, and total abstinence, if possible, from stimulants ; such are the chief features of the diet to be observed. That which was recommended by BelUngham answers to this description. It consisted of two ounces of bread-and-butter for breakfast, two ounces of bread and the same quantity of meat for dinner, and two ounces of bread for supper, with a -little milk and water, occasionally, sipped in small quantities. Depletion by watery purgatives is preferable to blood-letting ; and should the latter be resorted to, it is, in Sir Thomas Watson's iudo-.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUKGERY. 462 ment, remedial only so far as it reduces any excessive force of the circulation. The small and repeated bleedings practised by Valsalva, may be beneHcial in some cases ; but certainly not when pushed to the extreme he recommended; syncope, when the patient attempted to stand, or even on rising in bed. Laxative aperients have also the advantage of preventing any straining effort in defecation. Respecting medicinal measures for controlling the heart's action, I have no authentic information to offer. The therapeutical results of medi- cines having reputed efficacy in relation to aneurism are vague and unsatisfactory. Narcotics may be administered to relieve pain and procure sleep, and thus maintain a tranquil state of the patient. Having succeeded in lessening the force of the circulation, suffi- ciently to diminish the expansive pulsation of the aneurism, are there any known means of directly favouring the coagulation of blood, and the deposition of laminated tibrine, within the sac ? By increasing the quantity of fibrine in the blood and its tendency to coagulate—in short, by improving the plasticity of the blood itself, this indication may be fulfilled. Animal food, therefore, should now be substituted for fari- naceous, and in larger quantity; but the same restriction, or nearly so, should be observed with regard to liquids, and particularly stimulants. This combination of measures, for lessening the force of the general circulation, and then supplying the fibrinous material for coagulation, constitutes the regime originally proposed by Valsalva, and known also as the internal method of treatment. Pathologically correct in itself, it was wrong only in the extreme degree to which he carried it in practice ; but recently, the same method has been rectified and ably advocated by Mr. Jolliffe Tufnell,* and is specially commended by ^Ir. Holmes.t I have practised it, in conjunction with the treatment of external aneurism by compression, in cases of popliteal aneurism. Certain local applications externally are said to aid the coagulation of blood within the sac, but their efficacy is doubtful. Ice enjoys the repute of being thus beneficial; its constant or repeated application is, however, apt to endanger sloughing of the integuments. Its occasional use may relieve pain. But, for this pui'pose, the belladonna plaster, or an embrocation composed of equal parts of oil and of the strong tincture of aconite, form topical appliances which, according to Mr. Erichsen's experience, afford much relief. ii. Mechanical, Q,xidi Operative, resources; obediently to the ^rs^ mode of natural cure. In the event of an endeavour to reduce the force of the general circulation, and thus to favour coagulation in the sac, having proved unsuccessful; recourse must be had, without further delay, to such local measures as may retard the force of the arterial current through the aneurismal artery, exclusively. Mechanical appliances for this pur- pose favourably contrast with any cutting operation. The former mode of treatment anticipates the necessity for obliterating the aneu- rismal artery, and avoids also the danger consequent on any operative procedure for securing the vessel. (1.) Compression of the artery above the aneurism. This plan of mechanical treatment should be guided by two principles. It is un- * " The Successful Treatment of Internal Aneurism." 1864. t " Lectures on the Surgical Treatment of Aneurism." Royal College of Surgeons. Pub. in Lancet, 1S72.463 ANEUEISM. necessary to entirely arrest the stream of blood through the artery above the aneurism, and therefore unnecessary to obliterate the vessel by inflammation, in order to effect a cure. It is only requisite to lessen the force of the stream, and temporarily; in order to give a fair start to the deposition of laminated fibrine, and so at length regain the balance of resistance naturally offered by the artery to the pulse-wave of blood passing through it. A degree of compression just suflScient for this purpose, and applied intermittently for a few Piq, 114, hours daily, will represent the kind and amount of assistance necessary; instead of complete occlusion and by continuous pressure, which might lead to obliteration of the artery. This, the old method of compression, as employed by Dubois and Pelletan, has been judiciously superseded by the more conservative modifica- tion introduced by the Dublin school, and with which the names of Bellingham, Hutton, Tufnell, and Carte are principally associated. Compression is the means employed in either case ; but the old method was simply blind empiricism, the modern one is a strict imitation of the mode of natural cure. Instrumental Compression.—Various forms of Instruments have been devised for compress- ing an artery, above the seat of aneurism. The ^i®- compressor used may be in the shape of the horse- shoe or Signoroni's tourniquet (Fig, 114); or that invented by Carte (Fig. 115), the advantage of which is that it pro- vides an elastic and yielding pressure, in- stead of the unyielding force of the screw. Be- fore applying this or any compressor, the limb should be evenly ban- daged, to prevent con- gestion of the vessels, as much as possible; and the irritation occasioned by the pad of the instru- ment may be much pre- vented, by shaving and powdering the integu- ments of the part. The degree of compressing force appropriate should be estimated by its effect in controlling the pulsations in the aneurism ; it being only necessary to suspend them without entirely arresting the transmission of blood. The total dwra-SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 464 tion of intermittent compression requisite, may be determined by its efEect in promoting coagulation and consolidation of the tumour ; the period necessary for this purpose varying considerably, from a few days to some months. In 26 successful cases, collected by Mr. J. Hutchin- son, this period ranged between 60 hours and eight months; its average duration being 19 days. I have failed in arresting the en- largement of poplitial aneurism by compression, after a trial for two months ; and then having had recourse to ligature of the femoral artery, an uninterrupted recovery has ensued in three weeks. No medicinal treatment is indispensable to the completion of the process of cure, when thus induced by compression. If, notwithstand- ing the precaution of shaving and powdering the part, pain be occa- sioned by the pad- in such, degree as to disturb sleep, then indeed opiates may be administered; but, in most cases, this inconvenience will be anticipated by proper management of the instrument. It is well to try it on gently at first, and augment the pressure by little instalments ; also to shift the pad from place to place in the course of the artery; and, as Tufnell suggested, to lighten it slightly, so that when the patient has fallen asleep, the pressure may be renewed without awakening him. This plan of treatment being a faithful imitation of the process of natural cure by retardation of the passage of blood through an aneurism, it is not surprising to find that the anatomical condition induced is the same as that resulting from the unaided process. In both cases, the aneurism is solidified and partly absorbed, leaving the artery pervious; while collateral branches proceeding from the parent trunk are enlarged, thereby contributing to maintain the circulation and nourishment of the limb below the seat of aneurism. Thus, during compression of the femoral artery, for popliteal aneurism, three arteries are observed to undergo enlarge- ment ; one passing over the centre of the tumour, another externally, over the head of the fibula, and a third internally, along the inner margin of the patella. This observation, originally due to Tufnell, is corroborated by Mr. Erichsen. The statistical results which, appear most worthy of credit, with respect to compression as practised in England, are those collated by Mr. Hutchinson from the Metropolitan and Provincial Hospitals. Of 70 cases, 46 were popliteal aneurism, and in 24 of them this treatment was successful. The remaining 22 cases had reference to the treatment by ligature of the femoral artery, as compared with compression. The experience of the Dublin Schools is far more favourable. Of 25 cases collated by Bellingham, in 1 only was the ligature subsequently resorted to. The only disqualification of instrumental compression for the treat- ment of aneurism is its impracticability in certain parts of the body. It is almost necessarily restricted to the treatment of femoral and popliteal aneurisms. Direct compression of the aneurism was formerly practised, with tbe view of opposing the expansive force of the current of blood and consequent enlargement of the sac. But pressure thus applied, not being designed to check tlie force of the current through the aneurismal portion of artery, was an unpathological mode of treatment; and, more- over, it was apt to cause inflammation and sloughing of the sac. This modification, therefore, which was first employed by Bourdelot, and465 ANEUEISM. adopted by Guattani, Heister, and other Surgeons, not unsuccessfully, at length gave way to compression on the cardiac side of the artery. Diijital compression, or pressure with the fingers, may be con- veniently applied to aneurisms in situations ineligible for instrumental compression. They are chiefly those of the axillary, subclavian, and cai'otid arteries. In these situations, pressure with the fingers on the cardiac portion of the aneurismal artery, will a^d the natural process of cure by retarding the flow of blood through the sac. The requisite continuance of compression is provided fox*, by having a sufficient number of assistants; each, in turn, taking charge of the vessel before the previous one withdraws his finger, and observing to apply only that degree of pressure which controls the pulsations in the aneurism. Having maintained compression, in this way, for a few hours, the patient may be advantageously allowed a period of intermission, followed by its reapplication, and so on alternately. The total duration of these periods necessary to complete the cure, varies of course in different cases. In 19 cases successfully treated by digital pressure, the average number of hours was not more than 4il^; spread, how- ever, over a variable period, of time, owing to intermissions of the pressure. Whereas, according to the most favourable reports of those who are greatly interested in the treatment by instrumental compression, the average duration of treatment by that method was 20j days in each case. Digital compression, for the cure of aneurism, is of quite recent date as compared with instrumental compression. In 1846, Professor Vanzetti first attempted it for the cure of a popliteal aneurism, at the Hospital of Karkof, in Russia. The case was deemed unsuccessful after only two days' treatment, and forthwith a ligature was resorted to. The particulars were not published until 1858. Meanwhile, in 1848, Dr. Knight, of Newhaven, United States, for the first time, successfully employed digital compression, as the sole means of cure, in a case of popliteal aneurism, and which had resisted compression by every kind of instrument. At the end of 48 hours' pressure, thus applied to the femoral artery, the tamour in the ham had become one- third smaller, hard, and pulseless. The treatment was then discon- tinued, and four months subsequently the tumour could scarcely be felt. Encouraged by this and similar cases, digital compression has since been on its trial, and this method now bids fair to rival instru- mental compression. It is more simple, comparatively painless, a more speedy cure, equally effectual, and as permanently so. Compression by flexion is another, and even yet more simple, method of pressure; but limited in its applicability to aneurism situated in the flexure of a joint. Thus, the cure of popliteal aneurism may be effected, simply by flexing the Ipg on the thigh and securing it m that position by a bandage, previously rolled round the limb from the toes upwards to prevent congestion. The degree of flexion requisite is an acute angle in the first instance; or better, a right angle only, at first, and gradually diminished. The dui'ation of genuflexion necessary can scarcely yet be averaged. In the first successful case on record, that by Mr. Ernest Hart, the cure was considerably advanced after the first day, and complete on the fourth; on the seventh day the patient was moving about. In a case by Mr. Shaw, the cure was far more protracted, the cessation of pulsation not having been observed 2 HSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 466 until the thirtieth day; but in this instance the tumour was of larger size. Many cases also are reported in which flexion has been success- fully used in combination with pressure; one by Mr. Pemberton, another by Mr. A. Pritchard. (2.) Ligature.—(a.) Ligature of the aneurismal artery on the cardiac side, and at soine distance from the sac, in a sound portion of artery. This is the Hunterian operation Fig. IIG. for Aneurism. (Fig. 116, middle application of a for Aneurism, figure.) The ligature to any part of an aneu- rismal artery, divides the vessel when the ligature separates; thus permanently intercepting the trans- mission of blood through the artery, itself perhaps a main trunk. This treatment, therefore, should be an ulterior resource to tem- porary compression, in any form ; obliteration of the vessel not be- coming necessary until after tem- porary compression—])receded by hygienic (and medicinal) measures, for retarding the general circula- tion—has failed. Ligature on the cardiac side of an aneurismal artery, as a surgical procedure, is another illustration of treatment in accordance with the mode of natui-al cure by retardation of the current through the aneu- rismal artery ; but it is a further concession of such assistance. I have, therefore, postponed the consideration—as in pi-actice, the application—- of compression by ligature, until after that of other handy modes, without any surgical operation, have been tried and found wanting. Then, if the heart be competent to withstand the obstruction to the circulation consequent on the operation, and no internal aneurism complicate the case,—under these favourable circumstances, obliteration of the aneurismal artery, by ligature, is a justifiable resource. There are, however, certain unfavourable, if not positively contra- indicating, circumstances with respect to this ulterior measure. Ossification of the artery at the seat of ligature would be a decidedly adverse condition. But this can scarcely be discovered prior to opera- tion. A rapidly enlarging aneurism is unfavourable, as evincing an indisposition to the deposition of laminated fibrine. Then again, a very large aneurism is unpropitious, as threatening gangrene of the limb; an event almost inevitable, if the circulation were suddenly cut off by ligaturing the artery. Inflammation of the sac will be unfavourable, by possibly proceeding to suppuration; and suppuration itself would be a positively forbidding condition, by rendering the result of ligature abortive. The Hunterian operation, first performed in December, 1785, con- sists in applying a ligature, on the cardiac side of the aneurism, to a sound portion of the artery; and therefore at some distance above the aneurism. For popliteal aneurism, the superficial femoral artery is ligatured, where this vessel is crossed by the sartorius muscle, in the middle third of the thigh. The force of the current of blood havingANEUKISM. 467 been thus reduced, coagulation within the sac is promoted, yet without cutting off the supply of blood entirely. A sufl&cient quantity is transmitted for the process of coagulation, by collateral branches issuing from the artery above the ligature and com- municating with the vessel below, but above the aneurismal sac ; while there is also a sufl&cient quantity of blood transmitted onwards, and by collateral branches which become adequately enlarged, for the maintenance of the limb below. (Fig. 117.) Mean- while, coagulation and the deposition of laminated fibrine is proceeding in the aneurismal sac, and it extends into the artery as high, perhaps, as the liga- ture ; both the sac and this portion of the artery thus become consolidated ; the ligature separates, in the usual manner, by sloughing of the ring of artery within the noose, and the divided ends of the vessel are simultaneously sealed with plastic lymph. This takes place in a period ranging from ten days to a month; but varying chiefly according to the size of the artery, and the plastic power of the individual. Of 54 cases recorded by Crisp, in which the femoral artery was ligatured, the average period for the separation of the ligature was 18 days. Finally, the consolidated aneui'ism and artery are partially absorbed, so that the latter withers and degenerates into a fibrous cord. The limb, nourished by the collateral circulation, may nevertheless become some- what atrophied. (&.) Anel's operation, 1710, contrasts with the Hunterian, in its ultimate jpurpose, more than as an operative procedure. The operation proposed by Anel was to ligature the aneurismal artery, on the cardiac side, but close to the aneurism. (See Fig. 116, left figure.) The aneurismal blood escaping through the distal portion of artery, the sac would, it was thought, collapse, and thus the tumour disajapear. For this purpose, the blood must remain fluid in the aneurism, instead of undergoing coagulation and the deposition of laminated fibrine, with occlusion of the sac, followed by the absorption of both, the tumour disappearing in that way. Although, then, these two operations are somewhat similar, they differ widely in their ultimate purpose as to their modes of cure. Moreover, Anel having performed his operation once only, and for traumatic aneurism of the brachial artery at the head of the elbow, he never himself repeated it, nor advocated its repetition, in similar cases. He apparently regarded his operation as applicable only in that particular case ; unlike Hunter, as a conception ruling the treatment of a large class of cases. It is, however, with reference to idiopathic aneurism—as implying a diseased state of the artery—that the operations of Anel and Hunter notably contrast, and when compared with the old operation which had been designed for the cure of such aneurism. ♦ From Listen.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERy. 4G8 The old operation, or tliat of Antyllus, consisted in extirpating the aneurism. An incision was made throughout the whole extent of the aneurismal sac, in order to scoop out the coagulum and expose the two orifices of the artery leading into the sac; immediately above and below those points a ligature was passed round the vessel, securing it in both directions. But an unsound portion of artery was thus selected —that immediately above and below the sac, which participated in the degenerative change of structure that originally gave rise to the aneurism. Hence, secondary hremorrhage, perilous or perhaps fatal, generally occurred when either ligature separated, and as often necessi- tated amputation 5 while invariably, the large wound of the aneurismal operation healed tediously and often precariously to life by exhausting suppurative discharge. In Hunter's operation, a sound portion of artery was selected, thus avoiding these evil consequences. This operation, therefore, at once superseded that of Antyllus, and Anel's also—the ligature having been applied equally close to the aneurism in that operation. But the principle of Hunter's operation, in relation to the natural cure of aneurism, differed even more essentially from both these operations ; in the assumption that it was necessary only to reduce the force of the circulation by applying the ligature at some distance from the aneurism, for the process of natural cure to super- vene, instead of entirely arresting the current of blood through the aneurism by ligaturing the adjoining portion of artery. Signs after Ligature, by Hunter's Operation.—Certain alterations in the signs of aneurism attend or follow the Hunterian operation of ligature. The aneurism ceases to pulsate and partially subsides. These changes taking place immediately the ligature is drawn tight, are valuable signs of its successful application. The circulation of blood being proportionately arrested in the limb, it becomes numb and cold, and its muscular power is diminished. As the collateral circula- tion is established, these immediate effects disappear, and the temj^era- ture of the limb may rise above that of its fellow. After-treatment.—The treatment after this operation should be directed to avert the temporary tendency to gangrene, pending the establishment of an adequate collateral circulation. Hence, the circu- lation and temperature of the limb must be maintained. A thick wrapper of carded wool answers most effectually, aided by a suitable elevation of the limb to relieve congestion. The diet should be moderately nourishing and stimulant, which, with the judicious ad- ministration of opium, will tend to sustain the process of cure. CofLsequences.—Certain unfavourahle consequences and evil results are liable to ensue from this application of the ligature for aneurism. (1.) Pulsation may continue or return in the aneurismal sac. The small stream of blood conveyed by collateral branches into the artery below the ligature, and thence into the sac, depositing the laminated fibrine, is not a pulsatory cm'reut. If, however, these feeding vessels are larger than sufficient for this purpose, pulsation continues, or soon returns ; if they enlarge immoderately, then also pulsation returns. Any regurgitation of blood into the sac, from below, and therefore in opposition to the current, need scarcely be taken into account. If it occur, it will cause gradual enlargement of the aneurism without pulsation; simulating the gradual increase of a malignant tumour, liarer causes are these :—Any condition of the blood which, delaying or469 ANEUKISM. hindering coagulation, disposes it to remain fluid in the sac, will favour the continuance of pulsation. A vas aberrans may exist, which com- municating directly, or indirectly, with the aneurism, thus continues its pulsation. An instance of this kind occurred to Sir Charles Bell. He ligatured the femoral artery for popliteal aneurism. The patient died a week afterwards from erysipelas ; and it was then discovered that the femoral artery was double, and that the vas aberrans had continued to supply blood to the aneurism in the ham, after the operation. Tet in this case, the sac had become completely consoli- dated with coagulum, and in the short period of one week. The preparation is in the museum of University Col- lege, London; and the instructive lesson it con- ^^S- US., veys will be further impressed by the engraving. (Fig. 118.) Other contingencies, by which the pulsation of an aneurism continues after the appli- cation of a ligature, relate to the operation. The ligature may not have been applied to the aneu- rismal artery ; or having been applied thereto, the noose may have been tied obliquely, instead of transversely, then shifting its place and loosening its hold, the pulsation continues, or' returns, soon after the operation. Of all these causes of pulsation after the Hunterian operation for aneurism, that arising from an undue collateral circulation, as explained,, is by far the most common. But it occurs with different degres of frequency in different arteries. In carotid aneurisms it is most frequent. Of 3^1 cases, in which the carotid artery was ligatured for aneurism, pulsation continued or returned in nine ; whereas of 92 cases of inguinal aneurism, in which the external iliac artery was ligatured, pul- sation returned in six cases only. In axillary and popliteal aneurisms, respectively, recurrence of pulsation is an exceptional event.. It should be remembered that a slight thrill may very frequently be felt in an aneurism, on the second or third day, after the application of a ligature by the Hunterian method. This, how- ever-, is a favourable occurrence, as it bespeaks a feeding stream of blood for coagulation in the sac; and it supervenes with about equal fre- quency in all aneurisms, irrespective of any particular portions of the arterial system, and the distribution of vessels accordingly. The thrill, thus arising, soon subsides—with consolidation of the sac. Returning pulsation, on the other hand, if it occurs, usually begins at a much later period, not until a month or six weeks have elapsed, and continues for some- time. Returning pulsation is seldom persistent, and rarely terminates, fatally. Of 26 cases in which pulsation returned, three only were fatal and then not owing to this event, but by sloughing of the sac. (2.) ;SeconfZcw2/Aneurism, or aneurism reappearing hj redilatation ofSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 470 an aneurismal sac, whicli had previously undergone consolidation and absorption, is an extremely rare event. This must not be confounded with returning pulsation. Mr. Erichsen believes there are only two unequivocal instances on record, both of which were in the ham; the original tumour having disappeared entirely, this secondary disease made its appeai'ance after the lapse of six months in one case, and after four years in the other instance. Secondary Aneurism, in the sense of another didlnct aneurism arising close to the former oue— double aneurism, in fact—is quite another matter. Treatment of Pulsation, Continuous or Returning.—This, of course, must have reference to the cause or causes of the pulsation. Arising, in most instances, from an undue collateral circulation communicating, directly or indirectly, with the sac, the pulsation will cease as the deposition of laminated fibrine proceeds therein. The process of natural cure rights itself. Failing this result, the balance between the deposi- tion of fibrine and the supply of blood may be slowly gained, or regained by sufficiently elevating the limb; while the pulsation can be directly restrained by moderate pressure on the aneurism, with a compress and roller, evenly applied. These resources not proving effectual, the coagu- lating power of the blood deserves consideration; but our knowledge respecting its operation within the body is at present very limited. Here then pathology fails to guide the treatment. The presence of a vas aberrans is discovered at the time of operation, by ascertaining whether the ligature entirely controls the pulsation of the aneurism. If not, the tributary vessel should be sought. It will not be far off, and it must be secured by another ligature. In like manner, the aneurismal artery is identified by trying the pulsations of the sac, when the supposed aneurismal vessel is commanded above ; but this should be done before the ligature is applied. Lastly, application of the ligature transversely round the artery will avoid any chance of pulsa- tion continuing or returning, as occasioned by shifting of the noose. Extreme cases, which baffle all these resources and precautions, necessitate further operative proceedings. Beaijplication of the ligature may have to be resorted to ; either lower down the artery—nearer the sac, as an approach to Anel's operation—or by opening the sac, turning out the clots, and tying the artery immediately above and below—the old operation of Antyllus. I know of no data for determining the Surgeon's choice, but the latter operation, whereby Nature's work of coagulation and consolidation is undone, should be resorted to reluct- antly. Amputation is the very last resource. (3.) Gangrene of the limb proceeds from causes of an opposite character to those which induce pulsation in the aneurism, after the Hunterian operation. The latter are conditions which favour an undue collateral circulation through the sac; the conditions to which I now allude retard any collateral circulation. Firstly, an aneurism itself retards the current of blood through the artery, and operates also by compressing the neighbouring vessels; thus preventing the transmission of arterial blood, and the return of venous blood. Gangrene threatens; The application of a ligature to the aneurismal artety is an additional obstruction, rendering the condition more perilous; and if the collateral circulation be interrupted by the large size of the aneurism compressing the neighbouring vessels, then gangrene ensues. Secondly, surgical mismanagement of the limb.471 ANEUEISM, after operation, by inattention to position and temperature, or tbe pi'esence of any morbid condition which lowers the vitality of the limb, will severally tend to induce gangrene. It supervenes in a period varying from the third to the tenth day; but in rare cases, not until the thii-d week. (Porter.) Treatment.—So far as gangrene is due to the ligature, it cannot be prevented; but if due principally to interruption of the collateral circulation by pressure of the sac, this source of obstruction can be removed by the old operation of cutting down upon the sac, laying it freely open, and turning out the clot. At least two such successful cases, both of popliteal aneurism, are on recoi-d ; one by Lawrence, another by Benza. Other preventive measures, topical, dietetic, and medicinal, have already been noticed in refei'ence to the appropriate treatment after ligature. "With gangrene, as with recurring pulsation, amputation of the limb is our last resource ; and the operation must be performed above the situation of the ligature. (4.) Suppuration and sloughing of the sac is attended with the usual symptoms of inflammation—heat, pain, and throbbing. At length the integuments give way, and portions of clot escape, having various deo-rees of consistence and shades of blood-red colour. Then htemorrhage of fluid arterial blood occurs, either with a fatal gush, or recurring in small but increasing quantities. Which form of haemorrhage shall take place is apparently determined by the degree to which consolidation of the aneurism has advanced; and therefore, in a measure, by the time of its occurrence after ligature. The amount of hgemorrhage is regulated in like manner, it being most free and uninterrupted in the event of pulsation continuing or returning. The causes of suppuration and sloughing of the sac, and of hemor- rhage thence arising, in the course of aneurism, are any conditions unfavourable to the vitality of the sac. Hence, the large and increasing size of an aneurism, and the imperfect coagulating power of the blood therein, have this tendency. So also any external injury to, or irritation of, the sac. Considering these and other similar accidental circumstances, the period after ligature when suppuration may supervene is, obviously, very uncertain. It may happen at any time in the subsequent course of the aneurism. The average time is, perhaps, between the third and eighth weeks, but in a case of carotid aneurism recorded by Sir A. Cooper, suppuration occurred at the eighth month after operation. Comparatively few cases terminate fatally; probably not more than one in four, and then, generally, by haemorrhage. Treatment.—This will be guided by the state and result of suppura- tion. In the first instance, the sac should be treated as an ordinary abscess; only that when an incision is made, it should be free enough to turn out the whole of the clot. I did this with a successful result m the case of a popliteal aneurism, the sac having suppurated after ligature of the femoral. Any remaining portion of coagulumis likely to putrify and become a fojtid, purulent discharge; but when removed entirely, the sac is in a condition to heal from the bottom by granula- tion. Hcemorrhage, of course, is imminent. A tourniquet, therefore, loosely applied to the limb above, will be a judicious precaution which can be brought into use at any moment. In the event of hfemorrhao-e, lows of blood may be liuiiporarily stayed by a compress of sponge well472 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. placed at the bottom of the sac, over its mouth; and of sufficient size to be secured in position bj a roller, evenly applied. Then comes the question of how to permanently arrest the hasmorrhage ? The diseased state of the artery immediately above and below the sac, in idiopathic aneurism, forbids the application of a double ligature in situ, as by the old operation. Ligature of the artery higher up than was performed prior to suppuration, would probably be the turning-point for the commencement of gangrene. In this dilemma, the Surgeon may advantageously wait and see what Nature can accomplish, as the healing process of granulation closes over the arterial aperture in the sac; guarded always by the compress, and during its reapplication occasionally, by tightening the tourniquet. This faithful following up of Nature's operation having failed, our only resource is amputation. 5. Secondary hcemorrhage from the operation-wound, after ligature by the Hunterian method, is an event unconnected with the course of Aneui'ism. It is a failure of the operation; and, as it arises from sloughing of the included portion of artery before the preparatory closure of either or both ends of the vessel has taken place, the haemorrhage occurs whenever the ligature separates. The average time was the eighteenth day, in 54 cases, recorded by Dr. Crisp, of ligature applied to the femoral artery. It is more likely to occur, the nearer the artery is to the heart, the central force of the circulation. The treatment in this case is not presumed to be restricted by any diseased state of the artery, at the seat of ligature. Consequently, the reapplication of tvto ligatures, one to each end of the artery at the point of division, will most probably prove effectual; the former operation-wound having been just sufficiently reopened for this purpose. Temporarily, the heemorrhage may be arrested or checked by plugging with sponge or lint. Statistical Results.—Ligature for Aneurism shows a considerable mortality. In 256 cases of this operation on the larger arteries, the deaths were about 22 per cent. This was shown by Dr. Crisp's tables. The result of investigations by Porta is even more startling. In 600 cases of ligature for diseases and injuries indiscriminately, the mortality rose to 27 per cent. Then again, as compared with com- fression, the balance is decidedly in favour of the latter mode of treatment. Thus, according to Norris, of 188 cases of ligature for femoral and popliteal aneurisms, 142 were cured, 46 died, 6 limbs were amputated; in 10 suppuration of the sac supervened, and in 2 gangrene of the foot; giving a total of deaths about 1 to 4, and failures 1 to 3. Whereas of 32 compression cases, also of femoral and popliteal aneurisms, collected by Bellingham, 26 were cured, in 1 liga- ture was resorted to after compression had failed, in 2 amputation became necessary, in 1 death occurred from erysipelas, in 1 from chest-disease, and in 1 instance the pressure was discontinued. The failures of compression were, therefore, only as 1 to 5-3; and the deaths only as 1 to 16. Even where compression itself fails, it most advantageously prepares the way for success by ligature. Thus, ac- cording to Mr. Hutchinson's Report, in 22 cases of ligature of the femoral artery, previously treated by compression,. 2 only died of gangrene; whereas, in only 10 such cases, without preparatory com- pression, 3 deaths occurred from this cause.ANEURISM. 473 Ohliteration of an Artery without Division.—Since the period of Jolin Hunter, whose method of operation, on the femoral artery for the cure of popliteal aneurism, originally consisted in the compressing applica- tion of a ligature, or ligatures, without any division of the coats of the vessel, this principle of treatment has, from time to time, attracted attention ; the object being the consequent preservation of the con- tinuity of the artery, thus to prevent the risk of secondary haemorrhage. Various procedures and contrivances have been devised for this pur- pose. Thus, temporary compression of the exposed artery, as by means of Assalini's compressor, Crampton's presse-artere, or Porter's wire-compressor, impi'oved by Stokes, an instrument whereby acu- pressure is effected; or ligature has been used, but made of silver wire, or consisting of some animal substance, such as chamois leather, introduced by Dr. Physick, of Philadelphia; buck-skin thread, employed by Dr. Jamieson, of Baltimore; or moistened catgut, which was the material, as first suggested by Sir A. Cooper, and subsequently pre- ferred in Porta's practice. Animal ligatures are cut off short, and left in the wound, which heals over them ; any such ligature is better tolerated as a foreign body, and it may possibly become absorbed, leaving the external coat of the artery undivided, but the vessel oblite- rated. Garholised catgut—a more recent appliance, in accordance with Lister's antiseptic principle of treatment—seems to answer even better ; the wound almost always healing by primary union, and burying the ligature. Arteries of the largest size, as the common iliac, external iliac, femoral, common carotid, and brachial arteries, have been deli- - gated with animal ligatures ; as by Porta and Bickersteth, both of whom used catgut. The results of this method of treatment, by ligature, have been encouraging ; that—as Mr. T. Holmes has shown-—arteries may be tied and obliterated, but without their continuity being interrupted, thereby alJording much security against secondary haemorrhage; while the wound heals by primary union. On the other hand, failures in both respects must not be overlooked ; the artery becoming divided, as after ordinary ligature, and the wound opening up with abscess and dis- charge. iii. Manipulative and Operative resources, corresponding to the second mode of natural cure—i.e., retardation of the passage of blood, through the aneurism, by obstruction of the distal portion of artery; a piece of clot being dislodged from the sac and washed into the mouth of the distal portion, or becoming impacted within it, some distance off. (1.) Manipulation.—This plan of treatment was introduced by Sir W. Fergusson. It consists in so thumbing the aneurism as to dislodge a piece of clot into the distal portion of artery. The manipulative pro- cedure designed for this purpose is thus described : " The patient was seated in a chair, and I placed the flat end of my thumb on the aneu- risma.1 tumour so as to cover the prominence. I then pi'essed, until all the fluid blood had passed from the sac, and I could feel that the upper side of the aneurism was pressed against the lower. I now gave a rubbing motion to the thumb, and felt a friction of surfaces within the flattened mass. The movements were little more than momentary, but they were such, as I had preconceived." Two cases of subclavian aneurism were subjected to this treatment; neither was unequivocally successful, and both were attended with very alarming symptoms at474 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. the time of manipulation. In tbe first case, the aneurism never ceased to pulsate, and, after eight months, terminated fatally by rupture of the lower and back part of the sac. The axillary artery was found to be firmly plugged with fibrine. In the second case also, the aneurism continued, but the pulse ceased at the wrist. At the end of two years, and after hard work as a sailor, the aneurism itself had disappeared. In both cases, giddiness and faintness were immediately produced by the manipulation; and in the second case, these symptoms were succeeded by hemiplegic paralysis of the left side, from which, however, the patient recovered in two months. So far the results of ti'eafcment by manipulation were not very en- couraging. More disastrous cases occurred in the hands of Esmarch and Teale, of Leeds. Both were carotid aneurisms. On the other hand, an aneurism of the right subclavian artery, thus treated by Mr. R. Little, proved quite successful, although not without the disadvan- tage of temporary paralysis of the arm. Two successful cases in aneurism of the lower extremity, one of the femoral artery, treated by Dr. G-. E. Blackman, of Cincinnati, and the other of the popliteal artery, by Mr. Teale, are, I believe, the only additional results, at pre- sent, in favour of this method of treatment. (2.) Gomprefision, or Ligature, of the distal portion of an aneurismal artery represents other methods of imitating the second mode of natural cure ; although the obstruction, as thus eif ected, is not by the impaction of a piece of clot in that portion of the vessel. The operation by liga- ture of the distal portion is principally associated with the names of Brasdor and Wardrop. (See Fig. 116, right figure.) Whether the arterial current be obstructed by ligature, or simply by compression of the artery, at that part of its course, in either case the principle is to retard the stream of blood throtigli the aneurism, and thus induce the deposition of laminated fibrine with consolidation of the sac. For this purpose, it is necessary that there shall be no arterial branch between the aneurismal sac and the ligature, which would lessen the obstruction offered to the current of blood on the distal side of the sac. Carotid aneurism alone fulfils this requisite condition for the success of distal ligature or compression. The immediate effect of distal obstruction is to turn the full force of the arterial current into the sac; which being distended, may at once yield and burst with fatal hsamorrhage. Should this issue not occur, the collateral branches of artery from the main trunk above the aneurism, will probably have time to enlarge sufficiently to carry on the circulation for tlie maintenance of the limb; a small feeding stream of blood passing down also to the sac, which becomes solidified and obliterated by the process of natural cure. But this happy issue is very precarious and doubtful. According to the results of 27 cases collected by Mr. Erichsen, 20 terminated fatally soon after the opera- tion, and in the other 7 cases, although the patients survived the effects of ligature, the disease remained uncured.^ iv. Certain Operatioe procedures, of a ^j/iys/caZ or chemical cha- racter, correspond to, if they do not imitate, the fifth mode of natural cure; that by inflammation of the sac, and its consequences. Galvano- pnncture has been practised for the purpose of inducing coagulation of the blood, en masse, within the sac. Two needles, insulated by gutta percha coating, and connected with the wires of a galvanic battery, are475 ANEURISM. introduced into tlie sac, in opposite directions, nntil tliey toucTi, and fibrine becomes deposited around one of the poles, or needles. The action of the batteiy should be continued for about ten minutes, and repeated sevei'al times. Under this galvanic influence, a soft clot may form -which, partially fills the sac; but acting as a nucleus it may induce the deposition of laminated fibrine, and at length occupy the whole sac. Or, a large but loose clot having formed, in the first instance, it may settle down, and thus the sac become consolidated. Or lastly, the current of electricity excites inflammation of the sac, rather than coagulation of its contents; and this may be followed by coagulation, or by suppu- ration with sloughine: of the sac and its obliteration. These are successful issues. But there are cases, and not a few, of an opposite kind. The clot liquifies, pulsation is re-established, and the disease resumes its course. This relapse, after galvano-puncture, is probably due to the mode of coagulation thereby effected ; the mass of blood setting suddenly into a semi-solid state, instead of consolidating by the gradual deposition of laminated fibrine. Then again, in the event of inflammation supervening, sloughing is mostly accompanied with heemorrhage which may be fatal to the patient's limb or life. Apart from any adverse issue, the pain occasioned by galvano-puncture is always hard to bear, in some cases intolerable; and the administration of chloroform would probably be injudicious. Galvano-puncture is of comparatively recent date. First introduced by Mr. B. Pliillips, in the year 1832, it was subsequently followed up by Listen, G-erard, and Keate; but with so little success that it fell into disuse. A few years later, however, this proceeding was practised by Petrequin and Burci with more success, and thence its revival as an occasional expedient. It is justifiable only, or chiefly, in cases of internal aneurism, or of aneurism at the root of the neck ; in fact, where compression, ligature, or any other method of treatment has failed, or is impracticable. The statistical results hitherto recorded are very unfavourable. According to Bonnet, up to July, 1851, 23 cases of aneurism had been subjected to this treatment; 8 were of the brachial artery, 7 of the popliteal, 2 of the subclavian; 1 of each of the following arteries— ophthalmic, temporal, carotid, thoracic aorta, ulnar; and 1 unknown. Of these, 13 cases were unsuccessful, and although 9 were reported as successful, 7 of them were due rather to compression and the appli- cation of ice, or to inflammation and suppuration of the sac, than to galvano-puncture. It failed, therefore, in no less than 20 cases out of 23 ; leaving only 2 favourable results, excluding the unknown case. Subsequently, out of 50 cases collected by Ciniselli, 23 were cured, 20 were not cured, and 7 were fatal. I have resorted to galvano- puncture in a case of subclavian aneurism, to which I shall again refer ; but the effect produced was slight and only temporary. Mr. Holmes concludes, respecting this method of treatment, that " its use is not so dangerous as to render further trials of it inexpedient," and he antici- pates that it may be so far perfected as to become " a safe and regular plan for th& treatment of thoracic, subclavian, and other forms of aneurism." The injection of coagulating agents has been practised, like galvano- puncture, with the view of inducing coagulation, en masse, within theSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 476 Fig. 119. sac. Various sucli agents have been tried. The least hazardous, and the most efficacious, appears to be a weak solution of perchloride of iron, used in small quantity. A solution of 20° Beaume, is the highest degree of strength recommended by Valette; and tvventy drops only to every 100th of a pint of the blood in the sac is the quantity permitted by Broca. The safest instrument for injecting is a small glass syringe, furnished with a screw-piston, and a fine-pointed nozzle— the hypodermic syringe. This instrument may be gradu- H ated, so as thus to regulate the quantity of fluid injected by means of a sliding piston; but a screw-acting piston / \ answers the purpose more exactly, one turn of the screw corresponding to a minim of the solution. Before intro- ducing it, the circulation through the artery should be suspended by compressing the vessel carefully on either side of the aneurism. Then the point should be thrust perpendicularly into the aneurism, until a drop or two of arterial blood escaping, shows that it has penetrated. The instrument may be directed to different points within the sac, and a drop or two deposited successfully, forming as many centres of coagulation. On -ndthdrawing the instru- ment, a turn of the piston, backwards, will prevent any of the solution escaping under the integument. Taking all these precautious, as to strength and quantity of the solution, and its injection into the sac alone, coagulation may proceed to consolidation and cure. But the process may stop short of this issue; or inflam- mation be excited in the sac, which, owing to the highly irritating character of the solution, will probably result in suppura- tion and sloughing, with fatal haemorrhage, or by extending to the surrounding integuments, may end in gangrene of the limb. Thus, then, the probable consequences of this treatment restrict its eligibility; while the kind of coagulation induced, e?i masse, disqualifies it propor- tionately, for the cure of aneurism. Then, again, the requisite com- pression of the artery on the cardiac and distal side limits the appli- cability of injection to aneiirism in certain situations only. Internal aneurisms are excluded; and external aneurisms — those of the extremities—are open to far preferable methods of treatment—com- pression or ligature. Injection seems to have been practised indiscriminately, or at least without regard to the situation of the aneurism. Originally suggested by Monteggia, injection was tried, with different coagulating agents, by Yilardebo, Wardrop, Leroy d'Etiolles, Pravaz, and Petrequin. Aneurisms in every part of the body have been subjected to this treat- ment ; those of the innominate artery by Barrier; of the subclavian by Petrequin ; of the carotid by Dufour; and of the popliteal artery by Wiepce, Minor, Isaacs, and Lenoir. Aneurism of all-sized arteries has been injected, from that of the supra-orbital artery, by Raoult and Deslongchamps, to the aorta itself, by Syme. The sum total at present exceeds thirty cases. But their results have not been sufiiciently analyzed to draw any numerical conclusion for, or against, this kind of treatment. Injection succeeds in so far as it induces coagulation, rather than excites inflammation and its consequences. Such ahso is the favourable modus operandi of galvano-puucture.477 ANEURISM. Treatment of Traumatic Aneurism.—The requisite operative pro- cedures here also are governed by the pathology of this lesion. In the first instance, traumatic aneurism is always a diffused and more or less pulsating collection of blood, communicating with an artery; this escape of blood having taken place, by a puncture or laceration, more or less complete, of the vessel; and with, or without, an external wound of the integuments. Such being the essential con- dition of traumatic aneurism, if the tumour be also enlarging, if it be diffused and diffusing, the immediate and total arrest of the heemor- rhage is necessary. For this purpose, no partial arrest of the current through the wounded artery, no mere retardation of the passage of blood, will suffice, as for idiopathic aneurism, in its early or circum- scribed state. The whole force of the circulation through the artery must be taken off, ere the haemorrhage will cease, and the diffused aneurismal tumour cease to spread. Ligature, therefore, of the artery above and helow its wounded point is the treatment indicated. This, however, is easier said than done, in most cases. A free incision into the tumour will expose the half- coagulated blood and commingled textures, when the mass can be readily tui'ned out; the recurrence of hsemori-hage during this pro- cedure being guarded against, by an assistant compressing the artery on its cardiac side, and as near the tumour as is practicable. Having sponged the bottom of the cavity thns made, the bleeding orifice may be seen at once, or it will be discovered by a spirt of blood, when com- pression on the artery above is slightly, and momentarily, relaxed. This is the point for which the Surgeon seeks. The vessel must then be secured, by tying it on either side of the aperture ; or if divided, by tying both ends. Here especially, difficulty is encountered; owing perhaps to the locality of the artery, and also to its disorganized, although not degenerate state, as in idiopathic aneurism. Tailing to effectually control the haemorrhage, plugging of the cavity, from the bleeding aperture outwards, will be necessary to completely arrest it. And this additional safeguard is unobjectionable, as the wound can only heal, for the most part, by granulating from the bottom. If a traumatic aneurism has become cirmmscrihed, thereby evincing a decided tendency to natural cure, then indeed the lesion so far resembling an idiopathic aneurism, it may be treated accord- ingly, by merely retarding the force of the circulation through the aneurismal artery. Compression, therefore, of the artery above the aneurism, or perhaps direct compression ; and ligature on the cardiac side only, and at some distance from the tumour—i.e., the Hunterian operation—are both eligible resources. If the circumscribed aneurism be of small size, compression alone may prove sufficient to retard the passage of blood; or that failing, the Hunterian operation will probably be an effectual check. This operation is often far more conveniently performed than any application of a ligature near the tumour. Thus, in the palm of the hand, where it would be difficult and hazardous to apply a ligature on either side of an aneurismal tumour, the brachial artery has been ligatured for a small circumscribed traumatic aneurism over the ball of the thumb, and cure was accomplished. The application of a ligature, still on the cardiac side alone, but near the aneurism, is not forbidden by any structural condition of the artery. This jjroccdure—Anel's operation—is appropriate, providedSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 478 only that the force of the circulation through the aneurism can thus be sufficiently retarded. But if the aneurism be, or become, of large size, although circumscribed, the force of the current preponderates over the arterial resistance, and the balance cannot be sufficiently- restored by a ligature at any part of the artery, on its cardiac side alone. The treatment accordingly is again restricted to double ligature ■—one on either side of the bleeding aperture—by the operation already described; the old operation of Antyllus, as for diffused traumatic aneurism. The treatment of traumatic aneurism unaccompanied by an ex- ternal wound, will be considered in connection with Complicated Fracture and Dislocation, respectively. Aneurismal Varix and Varicose Aneurism.—Structural Conditions. —An opening between an artery and a vein, in contact, whereby a direct communication of the two vessels is established, constitutes Aneurismal Vai'ix. (Fig. 120.) Through this opening, the current of arterial blood, being the more forcible, passes, in part at least, into the opposing current of venous blood. Under favourable circumstances— to be presently explained—an indirect communication is established, by the formation of an intervening circumscribed false aneurism ; this condition constituting Varicose Aneurism. (Fig. 121.) It is so named from the varicose condition of the vein, with which the artery thence communicates. But the vein is varicose also in Aneurismal Varix. Fig. 120.* Signs.—The same signs accompany either of these lesions, and they are very significant. Take, for example, a communication of the brachial artery and median basilic vein, occasioned by unskilful vene- section ; whereby both these vessels are punctured, as they cross at the bend of the elbow. The superficial aperture in the vein and skin may soon be healed, but the deeper aperture in the vein and that in the artery remain open. The current of arterial blood, being partly diverted from its course, is less forcible below the seat of injury, reducing the pulsation at the wrist to a feeble thread; and as the ♦ From Listen. t From Listou.479 ANEURISMAL VARIX AND VARICOSE ANEURISM. jetting stream passes throngli tlie median basilic vein into the veins of the forearm and arm, they become distended and tortuous, or varicose; The median vein, more especially, assumes an eel-like appearance down the forearm; while the median basilic and median cephalic, the radial and ulnar veins, with the basilic and cephalic veins at the bend of the elbow, also exhibit in various degrees the force of the arterial current; they all become enlarged and varicose. Aneurismal Varis simply, is formed as the result of the puncture of both vein and artery; or, the jet of arterial blood passing into the vein, may burrow for itself a cavity in the intervening cellular tissue ; forming a circum- scribed false aneurism, as the medium of an indirect communication between the two vessels, and constituting Varicose Aneurism. In either condition, the varicose state of the neighbouring veins con- nected therewith, is the earliest and most characteristic appeai-ance. The aneurismal swelling is wholly, or partly, formed, as the case may be, of enlai'ged and tortuous veins. And these veins, with or without the circumscribed aneurism, pulsate in unison mth the arterial 23ulse; their pulsation being distinctly visible, perceptible also as a tremulous thrill, and audible as a soft, burring sound. Moreover, the whole swelhng can be emptied by pressure upwards in the course of the veins, or it subsides and regains its former dimensions, when pressure is made on the artery. An elevated position of the limb will have the same effect. In the event of a circumscribed aneurism having formed, between the aperture in the artery and that in the vein, this portion of the swelling is at first soft and compressible, but it acquires a firmer and less elastic consistence, by the gradual deposition and consolidation of fibrine within the sac. If allowed to progressively enlarge, the skin shows the tint of venous obstruction, by assuming a livid hue; while the whole limb, downwards from the seat of injury, becomes swollen, oedematous, feeble, numb, and cold, even threatening gangrene. Causes.—The communication between an artery and a vein is com- monly of traumatic origin ; as that produced by puncture in unskilful venesection at the bend of the elbow, or a lesion from the thrust of a sharp instrument, or a ball in gunshot wound, passing, between an adjoining artery and vein. But an opening may result from a diseased condition of the vessels, the lesion having an idiopathic origin; as in the bursting of an ordinary aneurism occasionally into a neighbouring vein. The determining cause of Aneurismal Varix simply, or the formation of Varicose Aneurism, has reference to the anatomical re- lation of the artery and vein. Whenever the two vessels are in contact, a direct communication may be produced—giving rise to Aneurismal Varix; whenever the vessels are not in contact or in apposition, an indirect communication is established, by the formation of an inter- vening circumscribed false aneurism—constituting Varicose Aneurism. The latter is an additional condition. Aneurismal varix, or, perchance, plus the intervening aneurism, may be produced in various parts of the body; wherever a direct, or an indii'ect, communication can be established between an artery and vein of tolerable size. Therefore, with respect to the thigh, the ham, the neck, the arm, and in other situations, there are cases recorded. But the bend of the elbow, as already described, is the more common seat of these lesions, or it was so in the days of venesection.480 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Oourse, and Consequences.—Whether simply as Aneurismal Varix, or as Varicose Aneurism, the vascular condition may remain stationary for years. There are cases of varix on record, which remained without farther inconvenience for fourteen, twenty, and thirty-five years. But in all cases, the tendency is to gangrene of the limb or part below the seat of communication between the artery and vein. ^ Treatment.—The more simple condition—Aneurismal Varix—re- quires treatment only in proportion to its progressive enlargement. In most cases remaining stationary for months or even years, and without any notable inconvenience, no remedial interference will bo necessary. The prevention of any further enlargement of the already aneurism- ally enlarged and tortuous veins should be the first consideration. Moderate pressure, applied over the aperture of communication between the artery and vein, will, generally, be a sufficient restraint to counter- act any such tendency. A suitable compress should be worn, with an elastic bandage to support the veins below the aperture. In exceptional cases, aneurismal varix undergoes progressive enlarge- ment; at length attaining such a size as to endanger the limb by gangrene, or the patient's life by hsemorrhage. Then indeed it becomes necessary to entirely stop the transmission of blood from the artery into the vein. No partial arrest, no mere retardation of the arterial current, will avail. Compression, whether applied directly over the aperture, or indirectly to the artery above the varix, or the Hunterian ligature applied higher up, would, therefore, alike be useless. The transmission of blood can be entirely precluded only by cutting off all communication between the two vessels ; namely, from above and below. Hence, the operation by double ligature of the artery, on either side of the aperture, is the only safeguard; the same as for a punctured wound of the vessel. In the event of Varicose Aneurism having formed, this indication of treatment is the more imperative. A circumscribed false aneurism co-exists with the varix, and the sac has two apertui-es, placed also on opposite sides ; thus freely transmitting a stream of blood continuously through the sac, and completely frustrating any tendency to the deposition of fibrine and spontaneous cure. Gangrene and haemorrhage are both more imminent than in aneurismal varix. Operation.—The application of double ligature under the circum- stances of aneurismal varix, and of varicose aneurism especially, is attended with some difficulty. In either case, the considerable vari- cose enlargement of the vein, forming a fusiform pouch over the aperture in the artery, with tortuous eel-like communicating branches of vein above and below, and the dilatation of the artery itself above the apeiiiiTre, together constitute a pathological condition which well- nigh effaces the mere surgical anatomy of, say, the bend of the elbow, in a case of aneurismal varix resulting from unskilful venesection. If an intervening aneurism be superadded, as between the brachial artery and median basilic vein, in the case supposed; if, in fact, there be a varicose aneiuism, this pathological complication still further transforms the purely anatomical relations of the part. Thus, in performing the operation for double ligature, the first incision through the skin, and which lays open the venous pouch, brings into view a cavity, at the bottom of which an aperture is seen. But this is not the aperture forANEURISM. 481 ligature; it leads into another cavity, the intervening aneurism, which must now, in its turn, be laid open, at the bottom of which there is another aperture, opposite to the former one; and that aperture, lead- ing into the artery, is the one, on either side of which the vessel must be secured The application of the ligature is often a proceeding of some diflBculty also; owing to the dilatation of the artery on the cardiac side, and its equally contracted state below the aneurismal aperture. In an aneurismal varix from wound of the femoral artery and vein. Professor Pirrie found the former vessel enlarged to the size of a portion of small intestine. Considering the difficulties of this apparently simple operation, it has been proposed, by Roux and Fergusson, to apply the ligatures without opening the sac. The objection to any operation by double ligature is the risk that, in curing the lesion itself, gangrene or hgemoi'rhage will more probably super v^ene than when it is allowed to take its natural course. Other kinds of treatment have been proposed, but less in accordance with pathology, and practised, therefore, with less success. Thus, galvano-imiicture has proved effectual; in one case by Bosse, in another by Capeletti, but through suppuration; and a third instance of cure is recorded by Debout. The perchloride of iron injection was tried by Serres d'Alais, Jobert, Yallette, and Valpeau; in two cases only with complete success; in a third suppui'ation effected a cure ; and a fourth case was altogether unsuccessful. CHAPTER XXVI. ANEURISM, IDIOPATHIC AND TRAUMATIC, OF SPECIAL ARTERIES. Arch or Aorta. Aneurism.—Symftoms.—In the early stage of aneurism affecting any portion of the thoracic Arch of the Aorta, the symptoms are singularly absent or equivocal. A bellows murmur, or an extension of the second sound of the heart over a * certain area, with some dul- ness on percussion, may be the only discoverable symp- toms to arouse suspicion. Any tumour or pulsation externally is quite imper- ceptible, excepting with reference to three portions of the arch. (1.) The anterior aspect of the ascending aorta.— Pulsation maybe perceptible by pressure between the in- ^ tercostal spaces on the right side of the ster num, simulating the cardiac impulse, in addition and opposite to the seat of the true beat of the heart. As the aneurism increases, a tumour presents externally. (Fig. 122.) * Eoyal College of Surgeons, Eng., Mus., 1658a. (John Gay.)SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 482 (2.) The summit of the arch.—A pulsating tumour appears behind Fig. 123.* margin of the sternum (Fig. 123), and rising into the neck, commonly towards the right side, may simulate aneurism of the brachio-cephalic or carotid arteries. But the tumour has no defined lower boundary, being continued downwards into the thorax; and impulse, with dulness on percussion and a bellows or whirring sound, are felt and heard there. I shall have occasion to again notice the diagnostic significance of these cervical aneurismal loculi or saccu- lations of the thoracic arch, in connection with aneurisms of the innominate and carotid arteries springing from the arch, at the root of the neck. (3.) The posterior wall of the descending aorta.—A pulsating tumour appears poste- riorly, to one side of the spine or under the scapula, commonly on the left side, and attains the size perhaps of a man's head, ere it bursts. (Fig. 124.) Apart from these three situations of aortic thoracic aneurism, other aspects of the aorta, as, for example, within the peri- cardium or the concavity of the aorta, are so placed with relation to adjoining parts, that aneurism proves fatal before any pulsating tumour becomes perceptible. Presstire-effects vary with the particular situation of the aneurism, in its relation to surrounding parts, and according to its progressive size. (1.) At the root of the aorta, and par- ticularly in the intra-pericardial portion, an aneurism can scarcely attain any size before death occurs, by rupture into the peri- cardium. (2.) At the termination of the arch, or the descending aorta, aneurism often attains considerable size without any particular pressure-effects. Dysphagia is, however. Fig. 124.t * Eoyal College of Surgeons, Eng., Mus., 1664. In this case the aneurismal sac springs, by a narrow neck, from the posterior and upper part of the transverse portion of the aortic arch, just below the innominate artery. Tlie sac assumed a flattened, transversely ovoid form, and was about four inches in its chief diameter; lying across the lower and front part of the neck, it pressed backwards upon tlie trachea, narrowing the canal, and ultimately bursting into the trachea with a small irregular opening in its anterior wall, immediately above the bifurcation. Owing to the symptoms of laryngeal obstruction, laryngotomy was performed in the crico-thyroid space. The arch of the aorta had undergone atheromatous degeneration on the cardiac side of the aneurism, but on the distal side the artery was healthy, and is not dilated. The heart is slightly enlarged. t Ibid., Mus., leV.'iA. (Dr. J. Thurnam.)483 ANEUEISM. the special symptom, tlie oesoptiagus lying immediately to the right of the tumour. (3.) In the concavity of the arch, aneurism is beset with obstacles to its progress; notably, the bifurcation of the trachea, and either bronchus right or left, according to the inclining direction of the aneurismal enlargement. Dyspnoea is the ui-gent symptom, owing to the mechanical effect of pressure on the air tubes or pulmonary veins, or its influence on the left recurrent laryngeal nerve in its course round this portion of the aorta. (4.) On the posterior aspect of the arch, aneurism soon occasions dyspnoea, with, subsequently, dysphagia; the concurrence of these two symptoms, therefore, has diagnostic significance. (5.) At the upper iorder, or convexity of the arch, aneurism is at- tended with peculiar symptoms; cerebral disturbances, owing to interruption of the circulation through the carotid arteries. (6.) On the anterior aspect of the arch, aneurism is less productive of pressure-eifects than in any other part; oedema, only, slowly super- vening by compression of the innominate veins. Pain is a symptom common to all these aneurisms, as it is to aneurism in general. While, therefore, it cannot be reckoned a special symptom, its character is in some respects peculiar. The pain may be piercing and intermittent or neuralgic ; arising frbm pressure on the nerves—spinal or sympathetic. Affecting principally the left side, it darts up the side of the head and face, radiating down the arm to the elbow, through the chest, or piercing to the scapula. Or the pain may be grinding, burning, and continuous ; owing to excavation of the tissues and bones. This kind of pain affects chiefly the right side of the chest. In every case, pain is a very early symptom, as compared with symptoms more special and characteristic. Diagnosis.—The special symptoms thus indicated by the anatomical relation of these aneurisms, are variously combined; and, indeed, this sort of diagrammatic view of the aneurismal aortic arch is often modified so as to present the most perplexing cases of diagnosis; either as to the existence of aneurism, or the particular portion of the arch which may be affected. The former question can only be deter- mined by the presence of a tiimour, pulsating as an aneurism; and, therefore, with reference only to either of the three first-named portions of the arch, the part also being thus indicated. Presuming the existence of aneurismal tumour, the second question—as to its situa- tion—may perhaps be solved by due consideration of the special symptoms of functional disturbance referable to the several aspects of the aortic arch, which, although less favourably circumstanced for physical diagnosis, are more conducive to the manifestations of func- tional disturbance. Fortunately, this differential diagnosis as to the part affected, guides the special prognosis more than it modifies the treatment of these Aortic Aneurisms. Treatment.—The same principles which guide the treatment of aneurism in general are here applicable, for the arrest, if possible, of thoracic aneurism in any part of the aortic arch ; but any operative proceeding on the arch will obviously be out of the question. Trache- otomy may become justifiable, for the relief of urgent dyspnoea; but, as Professor Spence observes, only when dependent on laryno-eal spasm from pressure of the aneurismal tumour on the recurrent484 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. larnygeal nerve ; when the urgency is due to pressure on the trachera, and necessarily below the seat of operation, such interference would be useless for affording even temporary relief. The proximity of the sac must be remembered, in using the knife or in entering the tube. Aneurisms at the Root op the Neck.—Diagnosis.—These aneurisms are associated in virtue of their pathology, and their diagnosis. They are aneurisms of (1) the innominate artery, and (2) of the commencement of the right common carotid and subclavian arteries, respectively. Aneurism of the tlioracic portion of the left common carotid or sub- clavian arteries is unknown. In the diagnosis of the aneurisms referred to, at the root of the neck, on the right side, the special symptoms of aneurisms of the aortic arch must be duly considered; but the difficulty will be to determine which of the three arteries is the seat of aneurism. The observations of my colleague. Dr. Cockle—in his valuable con- tribution to our diagnostic knowledge of these aneurisms—are here to the purpose. "Whenever," says he, "a pulsating tumour which in- volves the root of the neck to any extent is first submitted to observa- tion, and is unaccompanied by a sufficiently accurate previous history, there is generally a felt difficulty of diagnosis, whatever the actual position of the tumour may be. Such difficulty may occasionally arise from an inability to determine the real nature of the tumour, but most frequently (an aneurismal character being assumed) it consists in isolating the vessel engaged. The general rules laid down for guidance in this latter particular are based almost mainly upon the position of the tumour, and the relative state of the circulation in the corresponding arteries of the arm and neck." The rules, as laid down by Mr. Wardrop, are as follow:—Aneurism at the root of the carotid artery presents itself first in the small triangular space between the heads of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Aneurism of the subclavian presents on the outer or cervical side; and of the innominate, on the inner or tracheal side of that muscle. Then again, the pulse in the radial or brachial artery, or in the carotid or temporal, is less on the aneurismal side of the body. Diminished pulsation in the neck may indicate aneurism of the carotid trunk; in the arm, that of the subclavian; while diminished pulsation in both situations may indicate aneurism of the innominate artery. But there are many exceptions to these general rules. Thus, the pulsating tumour of aortic aneurism may rise in the form of secondary sacculations ascending the neck, in the ordinary situation of innominate or carotid aneurism; and induce modifications in the circulation and sensibility of the right upper extremity. Or, instead of rising, an aortic aneurism may find its way amid the loose cellular texture of the thoracic mediastinum; but by compressing the innominate, carotid, or subclavian arteries, it will affect the pulse in the same situations as aneurism of these vessels. Respecting innominate aneurism in particular, the differential diag- nosis, observes Dr. Cockle, is attended with difficulties in tolerably direct proportion to ihe part of the trunk affected. " When the origin of the vessel is alone involved, it is"—in his experience—"invariably combined with aneurism, either true or false, of the ascending aorta. This form of innominate aneurism thus loses all individuality, and merges into the general pathology of aortic aneurism. It has abso-ANEURISMS AT THE ROOT OF THE NECK. 485 lutely no clinical history of its own. If, as at times, though with extraordinary rarity, an aneurism should limit itself to the mid-portion of the trunk and anterior wall (Fig. 125), it may remain for a time, or even through its entire course, intra-thoracic, descending and moulding itself upon the aorta, evoking all the physical phenomena and symptoms of aneurism of the ascending and transverse aorta, or it may additionally, by one or more loculi, ascend the neck either on the tracheal or acro- mial side of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Should, therefore, a pulsating- tumour, with or without cervical extensions, occupy the space corre- sponding to the second and third costal carti- lages of the right side and upper portion of the sternum, and present the ordinary symptoms of aneurism; though we may be practically safe in locating th'C disease in the aorta, it is not from any inherent dilference of signs or symptoms, but from the rarity of intra-thoracic innominate aneurism. " It is only when the distal end of the trunk becomes the seat of aneurism, that accuracy of diagnosis is attainable, though, in such case, the origins of the carotid and subclavian arteries often share the dilata- tion. Certain signs and symptoms are ascribed to innominate aneurism. Their value is high, in proportion as intra-tho3?acic disease can be eliminated; but extremely small, as the evidence for such disease increases. This is by far the most important point in diagnosis. The only possible source of error is the rare fact of an aortic sac arising from the convex wall of the arch, and mounting up the neck. Valuable aid is afforded by the knowledge of some antecedent local injury or violent and unusual effort; very many such cases being traumatic. These points determined; should severe pain of the right shoulder, clavicle, right side of the head, neck, and arm, with local venous congestion or oedema, precede the appearance of a pulsating tumour, which emerging from beneath the right sterno-clavicular articulation, and often dis- placing the head of the clavicle during its ascent, distends the space between the ieads of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and fills the epi- sternal notch—should there be marked weakening of pulsation in the right radial and carotid arteries, pressure upon one or other artery loosening the impulse on the tumour—should a murmur, loudest over the tumour and at the sterno-clavicular articulation, diminish down- wards, yet ascend the arteries on the right side, if pervious, such murmur being absent upon the left side; then, an aneurism of the terminal portion of the innominate artery may, with tolerable certainty, be diagnosed." * Eoyal College of Surgeons, Eng., Mus., 1680a. In this case, an innominate aneurism springs from the anterior and inner wall of the artery, in nearly its whole extent; attaining to a large size, and pressing forwards and inwards, it has slightly displaced the trachea. The sac contained some coagulum, but is filled with wool. The arch of the aorta just below is the seat of atheromatous and calcareous degene- ration ; and the first and second portions of the arch are slightly dilated, and slightly sacculated in parts. The carotid and subclavian arteries were healthy.486 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERr. Fig. 126.* On the left side, at the root of the neck, aneurism of the aortic arch may simulate aneurism of the vntra-thoracic portions of the common carotid or subclavian arteries, which are not themselves subject to aneurismal dilatation in this portion of their extent. I have met with only one intra-thoracic aneurism of this kind, as verified by dissection. (Fig. 126.) Pressure-effects.—Aneurisms of the innominate artery, and of the commence- ment of the carotid and subclavian arteries, produce the same pressure- effects—varying in degree—owing to their similar relations, for the most part, to surrounding structures. These effects have also a general resemblance to those produced by aneurisms of the aortic arch. They are—dyspnoea, dysphagia, en- largement of the veins of the neck and right arm, with oedema and pain. Dyspnoea arises from the mechanical effect of pressure on the trachea, and in the case of innominate aneurism, pos- sibly on the right bronchus; or from pressure on the right recurrent laryngeal nerve. The latter occasion of dyspnoea is accompanied with some husky modification of the voice, or loss of voice, paroxysmal cough, and slight mucous expectoration. Dysphagia may be more or less complete. Venous obstruction is evinced by enlargement of the external jugular vein, the veins of the arm, and those below the clavicle in front of the right side of the chest. CEdema supervenes in the right eyelids, face, and head, and in the hand and arm. The fmin has the usual heavy excavating character, in connection with the tumour, and acute inter- mittent character from varying pressure on the cervical and brachial plexus of nerves; this pain shooting up the right side of the neck, head, and face, spans the shoulder and front of the chest, and radiates down the arm to the hand. Some loss of muscular power in the right arm commonly supervenes. The diagnosis from Tumours—not aneurismal—at the root of the neck, must be guided by the differential characters already described in connection with Aneurism. * Eoyal College of Surgeons Mus., 1669. The specimen, in this case, exhibits an aneurism situated immediately beyond the origin of the left subclavian artery ; the upper wall of the aortic arch being there dilated into an aneurismal sac of an oval shape, flattened before and behind, and about three inches in its principal diameter. The sac was formed of all the coats of the artery, but the walls were very thin, and the mouth of the sac was as large as the canal of the aorta. No coagulum had been deposited. The position of the sac must have allowed the current of blood to have passed from the transverse portion of the arch, strnight into the sac. Thus, the sac being constantly pressed towards the left, backwards, and somewhat downwards, its lower margin overlaid the lower part of the aortic arch, about an inch beyond the origin of the sac; and by this pressure, the aorta beciimo bent at and near the part to which the ductus arteriosus is attached. The remaining portion of the aorta and the heart are of their normal size.ANEURISMS AT THE ROOT OP THE NECK. 487 The Pulse in Aneurism of Aorta, and Vessels at Boot of the Neclc.— I am indebted to Dr. Mahomed for the following valuable description of the Pulse in connection with the diagnosis of Aortic and Cervical Aneurisms.—" If an aneurism occurs directly in the course of the blood stream passing to either radial, it will usually so far interfere with its flow as to impart to the pulse certain characters, recognizable in some measm-e by the finger, and still more accurately by the sphy- gmograph. These characters will be most marked if the aneurism be on some large vessel taking origin from the aorta, less, so and perhaps altogether absent if the aneurism be of the aorta itself and not in- volving either of its branches. The characters imparted to the pulse- wave are produced by its passage through the more or less elastic sac, which acts in some measure as a buffer, does away with the sudden- ness of the impulse, and diminishes the volume of the wave. The chief characters of the aneurismal pulse recognizable by the finger are— (1) delay; (2) diminution in volume; (3) diminution in force(4)> persistency; (5) thrill. The latter, however, is only occasionally present, requiring certain peculiar conditions for its development. " The characters of the sphymographic tracing in aneurism, together with the corresponding sensations imparted to the finger are as follows— (1) a sloping upstroke = delay; (2) diminished volume of wave; (3) impairment of percussion = diminution in force; (4) obliteration of secondary waves ; (5) inequality of pressure employed on two sides; (6) occasionally vibratile waves = thrill. " All these signs are well shown in Fig. 1276^ obtained from a case of aneurism of the aorta, involving the origin and first part of left subclavian; the right pulse in this case (Fig. 127a.) must not be con- sidered a type of the normal pulse-wave. " The presence of these signs more or less developed in one or both Fig. 127.—Aneurism of Aorta, involving first part of Left Subclavian. (a.) Eight. Pr. 3 oz. (b.) Left. Pr. 2 oz. radial pulses may therefore afford important indications for the diagnosis and localization of an aneurism of the aorta. Thus their presence in the pulse at both wrists would indicate an aneurism of the ascending arch ; but this rarely affects the pulse sufficiently to afford any indications other than such as might be produced by other con- ditions. If the right pulse be affected more than the left, the aneurism must involve the innominate; if the left more than the right, the aneurism is of the transverse arch beyond the innominate. An example488 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. J 1^00^**^°^ condition is seen in the tracings represented by Figs 128a and 128&. In this case the origin of the left subclavian was not involved' Ihese tracings afford an illustration of another indication to be obtained by the sphygmograph, namely, the amount of general arterial disease and cardiac hypertrophy; Fig. 128a is a tracing characteristic of extensive disease of the heart and aorta, an observation which was confirmed by Fia. 128.—Aneurism of Transverse Aorta, not involving Left Subclavian. (a.) Eight. Pr. S oz. (6.) Left. Pr. 1 oz. the post-mortem examination. The pulse tracings are also of value in these cases as a gauge of arterial tension, and the results of treatment, both on the general arterial tension and also on the local conditions; as consolidation takes place in the sac, the pulse previously affected loses its aneurismal characters. " Certain sources of fallacy exist, some of which it is impossible to guard against; thus aneurismal characters may be imparted to the pulse by pressure of an aneurismal sac upon an adjacent vessel; by pressure of a tumour other than aneurism upon a vessel; partial occlusion of a vessel by endarteritis or by an embolism; by vaso-motor paralysis, or irritation, relaxing or contracting the vessels on one side ; by anatomical abnomalities; lastly, by inaccuracy of observation. Most of these errors, however, would be corrected by the general physical examination, which of course the sphygmograph is only in- tended to supplement, not to replace." Causes.—Aneurisms at the foot of the neck are frequently traumatic; resulting from some violence, a blow, or strain in muscular exertion. Disease of the artery affected predisposes, how- ever, to the occurrence of such aneurism. Terminations.—These aneurisms are almost invariably fatal, although in a variable period. The probable duration will depend on the par- ticular direction the aneurism takes with relation to adjacent parts; and death occurs usually by asphyxia, occasionally by rupture and repeated hasmorrhage. As a very rai'e event, the spontaneous cure of innominate aneurism may occur, as ia the following case. (Fig. 129.) Tt will be observed that in the specimen here represented, there was a double aneurism—aortic and innominate; yet in both, the sacsFig. 129.* ANEURISMS AT THE ROOT OF THE NECK. 489 are completely filled with firm laminated coagnlnm. An instance of spontaneous cure, under circumstances thus apparently hopeless, should be considered in relation to the prob- ability of cure by surgical interference. Treatment.— Constitutional treat- ment—hygenic and medicinal as for Aneurism in general—is said to have proved successful in several instances. But such resources having failed, the naturally fatal character of these aneu- risms renders the alternative consider- ation of operative proceedings unavoid- able. Hence, the primary importance of a corrected diagnosis of the peculiar vessel affected; either of the three vessels at the root of the neck being, possibly, the seat of aneurism. Trache- otomy may also be had recourse to, under similar circumstances, and with the same precaution in performing the operation, as with regard to aortic aneurisms. To avoid injuring the sac, the trachea might be entered, as Mr. Spence suggests, above the isthmus of the thyroid, which should be drawn down so as to expose the upper rings of the trachea. (1.) Innominate Aneurism.—Ligature, on the distal side, may be resorted to; (a) of the subclavian artery alone ; (b) of the carotid artery alone; (c) of both arteries. Neither of these medications of Brasdor's operation for Aneurism has been followed by any notably successful results. Distal ligature of the subclavian alone has been practised in four cases, by Dupuytren, Wardrop, Laugier, and Broca. All were fatal, more immediately or remotely after operation. In the first case, death took place on the ninth day, from secondary hemorrhage; in the second, two years after operation, from exhaustion; in the third, at the end of a month, from asphyxia; in the fourth, at the end of six months, from gangrene of the lung. The sac, in the first case, became smaller, the tumour diminishing, but its pulsations continued; in the second, the size and pulsation of the tumour diminished, but pulsation returned in the right carotid on the ninth day, thus apparently saving the life of the patient for two years; in the thii"d, the aorta was dilated, but the right carotid obliterated by pressure of the tumour; in the fourth, the tumour became firmer, but not much diminished m size, and afterwards increased. In any case, ligature beyond the scaleni allows that portion of the current of blood through the aneurism to continue, which supplied the branches of the sub- clavian; namely, the superior intercostal, and internal mammary, the vertebral, and the thyroid axis. This direct transmission of blood in considerable quantity, not to mention that which passes off indirectly by the carotid artery, renders the probability of consolidation taking place in the sac all but hopeless. * Eoy. Coll. Surg. Mu3., 1G81a. (Dr. Dowse.)SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND 8UKGERY. 490 Distal ligature of the carotid alone is not liable to this source of failure ; no branch being given off from the parent trunk. The operation, as performed in nine cases of innominate aneurism, gave the following results. In eight, a fatal result ensued in periods varying from a few hours to a few days, or some months, even 20 months. Secondary haemorrhage, asphyxia, and exhaustion were apparently the causes of death consequent on the operation, excepting in two of the cases ; one dying—a few hours after operation—from insufficient supply of blood to the brain ; the other—on the sixtieth day—from hemiplegia. The only successful case, by Evans, lived 39 years, and possibly longer. The sac, in these cases, underwent consolidation in various degrees, the tumour and its pulsation diminishing accord- ^iigly; but this reparative change seemed to have no proportionate relation to the period after ligature. Thus, in one dying on the seventh day, the tumour was nearly filled with firm laminated coagu- lum; whereas, in another, on the 115th day, no alteration in the tumour had taken place. Suppuration in, and rupture of, the sac occurred in one case ; and also in the only case of recovery. Distal ligature of hoth the carotid and subclavian arteries, for innominate aneurism, has been practised in four cases, by Feam, Wickham, Malgaigne, and Rossi, with the following comparative results. In the first three, the vessels were ligatured successively ; an interval of two years, or of two months, or six months, elapsing between the operations. In the fourth case, the vessels were ligatured simultaneously. All were fatal; the first dying in three months after the second operation, from pleurisy ; the second, two and a half months after bursting of the sac. The third and fourth cases were fatal, in three weeks after the second operation, from erysipelas, and in six days after simultaneous ligature ; but the latter of these two cases was remarkable for having survived that time, the supply of blood to the brain being wholly cut off by occlusion of the left carotid and right vertebral arteries, so that the cerebral circulation was carried on solely through the left vertebral artery. The sac in the first of these four cases, i.e., after two years, was found filled with dense organized coagulum ; leaving a channel of the size of the artery, for the passage oi blood. In the second case the tumour diminished after ligature of the carotid, but increased after ligature of the subclavian had temporarily relieved recurring symptoms. The following table of cases collected by Mr. T. Holmes includes the cases of operation for Aortic Aneurism :— Distal Ligature m Aortic and Innominate Aneurisms. Surgeon. Artery affected. Date. Result. Remarks. I. Double Coksecutive Ligature. Feam. Wickham. 3. Malgaigne. 4. Bickersteth. Innominate. Ditto. Ditto. Aorta and In- nominate. 1836—1838. Sept.—Dec, 1839. Apr.—Oct., 1815. May—June, 'l8(jl. Cured. Died. Secondary liajmorrbage. Died. Erysipelas. Died. Suffoca- tion. Preparation.ANEURISMS AT THE ROOT OF THE NECK. 491 Surgeon. Artery affected. Date. Result. Remarks. 5. Hobart. 6. Eossi. 7. Heath. 8. Maunder. 9. Sands. 10. Durham. 11. J. Lane. 12. Holnaes. II. Double Aorta. Innominate. Aorta. Ditto. Ditto. Uncertain. Aorta and In- nominate. SiMULTANEOl 1839. 18i3. 1865. 1867. 1868. 1871. 1871. JS LiGATDRE. Died. Secondary hemorrhage. Died. Operation. Kecovered, and lived 4 years. Died. Operation. Eecovered. Recovered. Opera- tion. Ditto. Subclavian, 1st part. Subclavian, Ist part. (?) Preparation. No benefit. Ditto. Ditto. III. Gabotid only. 13. A. Key. Innominate. 1830. Died. Operation. 14. Neumeister. Ditto. 1830. Died. Hemiplegia. 15. Scott. Ditto. — Died. Eupture. 16. Dohlkoff. Ditto. 1837. Died. Paralysis. 17. Hutton. Ditto. 1846. Died. Suppura- tion of sac. 18. Wright. Ditto. 1855. Died. Cerebral Aneurism con- abscess. solidated. 19. Ordile. Ditto. 1859. (?) Died. No particulars. 20. Broadbent. Ditto. 1861. Died. Secondary No permanent haemorrhage. benefit. 21. Hewson. Ditto. 1867. Died. Operation. 22. Nussbaum. Ditto. — Died. Eupture. 23. Nussbaum. Ditto. — Ditto. 24. Evans. Innominate and 1828. Cured. Lived thirty- carotid. nine years. 25. Morrison. Ditto. 1832. Cured. Lived twenty months. 26. Vilardebo or Ditto. 1844. Died. Secondary Eompani. hemorrhage. 27. Pirogoff. Ditto. (?) Eecovered. Imperfect. 28. Mott. Innominate and 1829. Eecovered. Lived seven subclavian. months. 29. Pergusson. Ditto. 1841. Died. Pneumonia. Preparation. 30. Porta. Ditto. 1842. Died. Erysipelas. No aneurism. 31. O'Shaugh- Aorta. 1843. Died. Galvano- nessy. puncture. 32. Campbell. Aorta and in- 1845. Died. Suffocation. nominate. 33. Knowles. Aorta. 1867. Died. Apoplexy. 34. Hutchinson, Aorta and In- Died. Suffocation. Double ligature of Brooklyn. nominate. attempted. • 35. Rigen. Aorta. 1829. Recovered. Left carotid tied. : 36. Tillanus. Ditto. Eecovered. Ditto, ' 37. Montgomery. Ditto. Died. Suppura- Ditto. tion of sac. ' 38. S. Lane. Left carotid and 1852. Died. Eupture Ditto. ; 39. Pirogoff. Aorta. into lung. Ditto. (?) Eecovered. Ditto. < 40. Pirogoff. Aorta and in- Died. Hemiplegia. Ditto. 41. Heath. nominate. Aorta. 1872. Recovered. Much Ditto. benefit.492 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Surgeon. 42. Wardrop. 48. Broca. Artery affected. Date. Result. IV. Subclavian only. Innominate. Ditto. 1827. 1862. Recovered. Much benefit. Eecovered. Much benefit. Remarks. Lived two years. Lived seven months. (2.) Aneurisms of right carotid, and stibclavian, arteries, at their origin—the root of the neck.—Ligature of tlie innominate artery. This operation, in principle applicable to either of these aneurisms, is impracticable in some cases ; and has been fatal in its result with regard to all the cases in which it has hitherto been practised, except in one instance. Eleiven such cases have been collected by Mr. Erichsen, the operation having been commenced but' not completed in four other cases. Ten of the cases were fatal. Of these, eight were cases of subclavian aneurism, the remaining two aneurism of both the subclavian and carotid arteries. In the former cases, death took place in periods varying from the fifth day to the sixty-seventh day; and, with scarcely an exception, from secondary hgemorrhage. In one case only, on the eighth day, death resulted from iiLflammation of the aneurismal sac, luug, and pleura. In the two cases of double aneurism, death occurred on the ninth and thirty-fourth days, but in both from accidental causes. The eleventh, and only successful case, was by Dr. Smith, of New Orleans, for a subclavian aneurism. In the four incompleted cases, the operation-difficulties were apparently the large size of the aneurism, or the diseased state of the innominate. Carotid aneurism alone, at root of the neck.—Distal ligature of the artery. Six cases are recorded by Norris, in four of which the result was successful. This proportion is suflB.cient to justify a repetition of the operation, under favourable circumstances. In one case of traumatic aneurism of the carotid—at the root of the neck— arising from a stab in that situation, Mr. Syme performed the old operation for Aneurism ; that of puncturing the sac, feeling with the finger in the sac for the aperture which controlled pulsation, then turning out the coagulum from the sac laid freely open, and securing the vessel by ligature above and below the aperture. Subclavian aneurism alone, at the root of the neck—i.e., situated either internal to, or between, the scaleni.—Distal ligature of the artery, in the third part of its course. This operation has been pro- posed, but I am not aware that it has ever been practised. The axillary artery below the clavicle, under the pectoral muscles, was ligatured by Dupuytren for subclavian aneurism; and this distal operation proved fatal, on the ninth day, from hasmorrhage. Amputation at the shoulder-joint, with, therefore, distal ligature of the artery, was suggested by Sir William Fergusson; the presumed advantage being, that the tumour might then be much more under the control of pressure, as the supply of blood below would no longer be requisite. This suggestion has not yet been tried; except in a case by Mr. Spence, of Edinburgh, and with a temporarily favourable result.493 ANEURISM OF CAROTID ARTERY. Fig. 130* Carotid Artery. Aneurism. — Syonptoms. — The usual symptoms of an aneurismal tumour are present, and well-marked, owing to tlie situation of carotid aneurism. (Pig. 130.) The pressure-effects are similar to those of carotid, subclavian, and innominate aneurisms, at the root of the neck, and those also of aneu- risms of the aortic arch; so far as their anatomical rela- tions are similar. Thus, the contiguity of the tumour to the trachea and oesophagus gives rise to increasing dysp- noea and dysphagia; com- pression of the recurrent laryngeal nerve occasions hoarseness or loss of voice; pressure on the cervical plexus is accompanied with some pain or loss of sensibility in the parts thence supplied; and there may be some giddiness or other cerebral disturbance, owing to interruption of the circulation through the aneurismal artery. Aneurism of the external carotid arises higher up in the neck, behind the angle of the jaw ; and as the sac enlarges, the pressure-effects of the tumour vary- ing according to its anatomical relations, the symptoms may be so far differential. (Pig. 131.) The diagnosis of carotid aneurism must have regard to the various kinds of pulsating tumour which are liable to occur in connection with the carotid artery. Enlarged lymphatic glands, and tumours, * Royal College of Surgeons, Eng., Mus., 1686. In the case here represented, the sac is of spheroidal shape, and has attained to a large size,—measuring between four and five inches in its chief diameter. The mouth of the sac, about one inch in diameter, oval, and smoothly bordered, is situated an inch below the bifurca- tion of the artery. All the adjacent parts are adherent to the sac, which com- pressed the larynx and trachea. But the sac is nearly filled with laminated coagulum, almost amounting to a natural cure. On the other hand, the carotid artery, both below and above the aneurism, is thickened and indurated, and the aorta also is the seat of degeneration. The other large arteries and the heart •were apparently healthy. t Roy. Coll. Surg., Mus., 1G90. In the rare specimen from which the figure is taken, an aneurism springs from the external carotid artery close by its origin. The tumour was well-defined. The sac communicates witli the vessel bv a small Fig. ISl.tSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 494 cysts, and abscess, situated on or communicating with the artery, may severally simulate aneurism. They are all pulsating swellings ; but differing in the less expansive character of the pulsation, and the incompressibility, possibly, of the supposed aneurism. The history of the case will aid the diagnosis, as in that of abscess. The fluid, as vi^ell as the pulsating, character of any superimposed cyst or abscess, or when communicating with the artery, and virtually forming au aneurism, are the two conditions which require the utmost caution in diagnosis. Mr. Listen once inadvertently punctured a cervical abscess, which, having opened into the carotid artery, had thus become converted into aneurism. Pulsative tumours present even more per- plexing difficulty. Pulsative enlargement of the thyroid body differs from a supposed aneurism, in its situation, and more particularly in the tumour moving up with the trachea in the act of deglutition. Any tumour, not communicating with the carotid artery, can be raised from the vessel, when the aneurismal symptoms will be found to cease; excepting the thrill of a pulsative tumour. Aneurismal varix of the internal jugular vein is an occasional question of diagnosis. In addition to the ordinary signs of varix, the notable diminution of the tumour during a deep inspiration will perhaps distinguish this condition. Causes.—Carotid aneurism—unlike the aneurisms hitherto noticed, and in particular innominate aneurism—is rarely traumatic. Hence, probably, the fact that it occurs more frequently in the female than any other external aneurism. In 25 cases, 12 were in women. But the comparatively early age at which it may occur is remarkable; in one instance a girl of ten years, in another of eighteen. The right carotid is more commonly affected than the left, and the upper portion of the vessel than the lower; the bifurcation being the chosen seat of carotid aneurism. Course and Terminations; and Prognosis.—An unfavourable career may generally be predicated, owing to the proximity of carotid aneurism to the central force of circulation—the heart—and also its important anatomical relations in the neck. Rupture, with recurring haemorrhage, is one mode of termination; the tumour bursting externally, or into the pharynx or oesophagus. Asphyxia, by pressure on the larynx and recurrent nerve, is another termination. Starvation, by compression of the oesophagus, is yet a third issue, but not so imminent as either of the others. The particular part of the artery affected will materially modify the issue, and the duration of the case. It may be said generally, that the more distant the aneurism from the root of the neck, the less perilous are its pressure-effects, and the less imminent is any mode of fatal termination. Aneurism at the bifurcation of the carotid, below the angle of the jaw, may thus continue for years. At last, however, further want of space renders the contiguity of important parts increasingly perilous. narrow, oval mouth, about one third of an inch in length, and having almost a vertical direction. A piece of whale-bone (represented in the figure) projects from either end of the artery; and the common carotid is similarly indicated. Tlie walls of the sac were a quarter of an inch in thickness, formed of dense tissue, and not apparently by the coats of the vessel. Firm laminated coagnlum has nearly obliterated the cavity. By pressure of the sac, the larynx is displaced, and the mucous membrane was very CRdematous. The common and internal carotid arteries, as well as the continued trnnk of the aneurismal external carotid, even to the borders of the mouth of the sac, are perfectly healthy. (Hunterian.)ANEURISM OP CAROTID ARTERY. 495 Treatment.—Digital compression has been tried in five cases, and with successful results. Thus, by M. Rouge, of Lausanne, in the case of a man, aged sixty-eight, compression was effected laterally, the thumb being placed against the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid, with the next three fingers under the posterior edge, so as to seize and compress the artery between them. In this way, pressure on the pneumogastric, which occurs when the carotid is compressed from the front against the sixth vertebra, was avoided; that mode of compression, if continued, being attended with great pain, which has proved to be the main cause of failure. The digital compression, as described, was continued for seventeen days, with periods of intermis- sion, for an average of seven or eight hours each day, when a successful result was obtained. Ligature on the cardiac side of the artery. This operation has certain important consequences relating to the brain, the lungs, and the aneurism. In 149 cases—tabulated by Dr. Norris—54, or more than one-third, died. Of these, secondary haemorrhage was the cause of death in 15 cases; gangrenous softening of the brain, with various disturbances of the cerebral functions, in 12 cases. The latter consequences evidently depend on the seriously diminished supply of blood to the brain by ligature of the common carotid trunk, leaving only the vertebral artery to carry on the circulation in the same half of the brain. The free anastomosis of arteries at the base of the brain, constituting the circle of Willis, does not seem to sufficiently compensate for this deficiency. But the consequences will of course be doubly perilous, if both common carotids be ligatured. The symptoms of cerebral disturbance are giddi- ness, paralysis, blindness, deafness, and convulsive movements ; followed by stupor, coma, and death. Inflammatory symptoms sometimes follow the operation. Softening of the brain ensues from mal-nutrition depending on defective circulation. The frequency of cerebral symptoms is attested by the statistics of Ehrmann. Of 187 cases, in which one carotid was tied, 42 were followed by some kind of cerebral disturbance. In 213 cases—including ligature of both carotids, and • those of the innominate artery—cerebral symptoms ensued in 47, or i about 22 per cent. The following conclusions, according to Mr. Erichsen, seem to be t established:—(1.) Ligature of one carotid artery is followed by cerebral t disturbance in about one-fifth of the cases, more than one-half of which « are fatal. (2.) Ligature of both carotids simultaneously, has always ] proved fatal; as in the two cases in which Mott and Langenbeck 1 ligatured these vessels, an interval of only a few minutes elapsing \ between each operation. (3.) Ligature of both carotids, an interval of some days or weeks elapsing, is not more frequently followed by cerebral disturbance than when only one is tied. (4.) Obliteration of t the vessels taking place gradually and successively, the patient may live; although one carotid and one of the vertebrals have been occluded ^'y disease, and the other carotid ligatured, as in the case related by Hossi. (5.) Occlusion of both carotids and both vertebrals may yet allow life to continue for a considerable period, as in a case recorded Dr. Davy, the cerebral circulation being maintained through the mediam of the anastomoses of the intercostals and internal mammary arteries.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 49G Fig, Congestion and inflammation of tlie lungs is another affection not unfrequently consequent on ligature of the carotid. The explanation ot this condition is dilficult. It may arise from deficient influence of the bram or medulla oblongata in its relation to the respiratory move- ments. Suppuration of the sac is apt to occur, as with other aneurisms, and even some weeks or months after the application of the ligature! Secondary haemorrhage is another untoward event. Recurrence of pulsation in the sac, soon after the ligature of the common trunk—on the cardiac side—is not an uncommon nor un- favourable event. It would appear to depend on the free communica- tion of the arteries from the opposite side of the brain, returning blood through the branches of the internal carotid above the sac. A collateral circulation, however, becomes established through branches of the subclavian on the same side. Thus, in a case related by Porter, after ligature of the right carotid, the subclavian and vertebral arteries were enlarged to double their normal diameters ; the latter artery supplying the function of the internal carotid, and the inferior thyroid communicating freely with the superior thyroid artery. Wounds, and Traumatic Aneueism, of the Carotid Artery.—Ligature, im- mediately above and below the seat of wound, is the appropriate operative procedure, as in wounds of other arteries. Aneurismal Vartx of the Carotid Artery and Jugular Vein.—Resulting from punctured wounds in the neck implicating both these vessels, in one instance, related by ]\Ir. Macmurdo, aneurismal varix was consequent on disease. The only specimen with which I am acquainted exhibits a varix of the internal jugular vein, im- mediately above the junction with the innominate vein. This varix ascended and almost surrounded the common carotid artery, enlarging to the size and shape of a goose's egg. (Fig. 132.) The external carotid passes through the varix, being isolated to about half an inch in extent, and the internal carotid lies along the cavity behind. Internal Carotid. Extra-cranial Aneurism.—Stjmptoms.—The internal carotid, before its entrance into the carotid canal, may be the seat of aneurism. In situation, therefore, it nearly corresponds with aneurism of the common carotid at its bifurcation: but that of the internal carotid is situated under, or more immediately below, the angle of the jaw. The symptoms, also, are similar to those of common carotid aneurism, but there is » St. Thom. IIosp. Mas., Y. 155.497 ANEURISM OF INTERNAL CAROTID. a Greater tendency to extension of the tumour inwards towards the pharynx, the direction of least resistance. Diagnosis.—Internal carotid aneurism may thus simulate abscess of the tonsil. The marked pulsation of the tumour in its pharyngeal aspect, which can be both seen and felt expanding with each beat into the mouth, will principally determine the diagnosis. Treatment.—Digital pressure on the common carotid should be tried in the first instance. Ligatiore of that artery is the only available operative procedure, subsequently. Its results are uncertain. Intka-ceanial Anettbism.—Symptoms.—Within the cranium, aneu- rismal dilatation of the internal carotid may occur in either of the three parts of its course ; I'ig. 133.* (1) in the carotid canal; (2) in the cavernous sinus ; (3) in relation to the brain. (Fig. 133.) Aneurisms of the other cerebral arteries are conveniently associated with that of the carotid in the latter situation. Of 62 cases noticed by Sir William Gull, the vertebral arteries and their branches were the seat of aneurism in 28, and the carotids and their branches in 34. The basilar artery was affected in 20 cases, and the middle cerebral in 15. In 8 cases, the internal carotid vrithin the cavernous sinus was affected, and in 6 others the anterior cerebral artery. (1.) In the cavernous sinus the symptoms are mainly those of aneurism, of pressure on the orbital nerves, and of disturbance of the cerebral circulation. Thus, arising, probably, from a blow or other injury, the person who is the subject of cavernous carotid aneurism, hears a sharp crack, followed by a sawing or rasping noise, which may also be heard by the stethoscope applied to the head or neck; but this sound ceases when pressure is made on the common carotid of the side affected. No tumour can be discovered externally. Pressure 1 on the orbital nerves is announced, either by internal strabismus from paralysis of the sixth nerve, or by ptosis with external strabismus and dilated pupil from pressure on the third nerve, or by loss of sensation in the parts supplied by the supra-orbital nerve. The sense of vision usually remains unimpaired, or there may be double vision or other defect of sight. These affections of the orbital nerves exist singly or in combination. Cerebral disturbance is evinced by giddiness, head- ache, a sensation of fulness on stooping, and sleeplessness or disturbed sleep. Diagnosis.—Similar symptoms may arise from any occasion of pressure on the artery in the sinus; as by coagula formed in the ophthalmic vein, the cavernous, circular, transverse, and superior petrosal sinuses. Otlierwise the diagnosis of cavernous carotid aneu- rism can be made with tolerable certainty. Intra-orbital aneurism is associated in point of situation and origin; the aneurism springing from the carotid artery, or, in some cases, from the ophthalmic branch. Anastomotic aneurism, or erectile tumour within the orbit, is an independent formation, and occurs more * Univ. Coll. MuB. 287. 2 K498 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY ANP SURGERY. rarely ; thus differing in its pathology from that of intra-orbital aneu- rism, which was formerly regarded as an erectile growth. Mr. Busk has shown that many of these true aneurisms are traumatic ; and Mr. Nunneley maintains that all are ordinary spontaneous or traumatic aneurisms, except those which have spread into the orbit from a nsevtiB of the face. ^ Diagnosis.—The following general distinctions are adduced in evidence of this view : Aneurism by anastomosis comes on gradually, mostly in early life, as the result of the growth of a congenital naevus; aneurism of the orbit very suddenly, often as the result of a blow, and almost always in advanced life; aneurism by anastomosis occurs in the subcutaneous tissues; aneurism of the orbit generally in the deepest part of the cavity; aneurism by anastomosis involves all the neighbour- ing vessels, arteries, and veins, in active disease; aneurism of the orbit is generally limited to a single part, or if the neighbouring vessels are dilated, they seem only enlarged from obstruction ; ligature 6i the trunk of a vessel leading to an undoubted aneurism by anastomosis is an. extremely unsuccessful operation, in aneurism of the orbit a very successful one ; lastly, the cases dissected have turned out to be common aneurism. The diagnosis of anastomotic aneurism may perhaps be determined—as in Travers' and Dalrymjile's cases—by the presence of soft, compressible, thrilling tumours in various parts of the eyelids; collections of veins apparently, transmitting pulsation from the sub- jacent aneurism. (2.) At the base, or in the substance of the hrain, aneurism of the cerebral branches of the internal carotid, or of the cerebrellar arteries, is liable to occur. The symptoms, if any, are very equivocal; pressure arising possibly from other causes than cerebral aneurism, and the diagnosis, therefore, is equally obscure. The sensation of a sawing or rasping noise in the head, varying with the circulation, and which probably has supervened shortly after some injury, may be suggestive of aneurism ; a suspicion corroborated, perhaps, by careful auscultation of the head, leading to the detection of a bruit. Diagnosis.—Symptoms referable to pressure may arise from any other tumour ; and similar symptoms ensue from softening of the brain. Hence, general or partial paralysis, blindness, deafness, or other affec- tions of the special senses, are symptoms of an equivocal character. Causes.—A blow, a fall, or other traumatic mode of origin can be traced, in some cases ; in others, the symptoms seem to arise sponta- neously, without any previous ill-health. The cerebral arteries are said to be healthy, in most cases ; but this is improbable. Age notably affects the liability to intra-cranial aneurism ; the tendency increasing as life advances. Of 58 cases, in 12 only this condition occurred under twenty-five years of age, 6 of whom were under twenty: but of the remaining 46 cases, 13 occurred in persons under forty, 29 between forty and sixty, and 4 in persons above sixty. Sex seems to be pre- disposing, proi)ably in connection with occupation. Of the 58 cases, 35 were males, 23 females. Course and Terminations.—The pressure of an intra-cranial aneu- rism is followed by softening of the portion of brain, or cranial nerve, in contact; and, possibly, absorption of any opposing portion of bone. Symptoms of paralysis suj ervene. Death ensues by hemiplegia, or from a])oi)lexy by rupture of the aneurismal sac; the latter mode of499 ANEURISM or SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. death occurring more frequently in earlier life. According to Sir W. Gull's table, in 20 cases of persons under thirty-five years of age, 16, or 80 per cent., died from rupture of the sac ; while in 37 cases above thirty-five years, 14, or 38 per cent, only, terminated fatally in this way. After death, much of the pathology of these aneurisms is made known by internal examination which could not be discovered during life, clinical]y, and which, therefore, cannot be applied in diagnosis. Generally, the aneurism is found to be a dilatation of the whole cir- cumference of the artery, rather than a truly sacculated portion. Coagulation and the deposition of laminated fibrine may have pro- ceeded to the almost spontaneous cure of the aneurism. Usually not larger in size than a pea or Barcelona nut, the aneurism is sometimes much larger, having attained the size of a walnut or hen's egg. Rupture may have occurred in quite the smaller-sized aneurism. A single aneurism only is found, rarely more. Thus, in one case, both carotids were dilated into bulbs occupying the hollow on each , side of the sella Turcica, and which were filled with laminated coagulum. The preparation is in the Museum of the College of Surgeons. Treatment.—Digital pressure on the common carotid artery may be sufficient to overcome the symptoms wherever intra-cranial aneurism is situated; and it has also proved successful in intra-orbital aneurism, under the care of Gioppi and Vanzetti. When this method of treat- ment has failed, ligature of the common carotid is the only known resource. It was signally successful in the case of a woman aged fifty-five, under Mr. Coe, of Bristol. After ligature of the left carotid, the cranial bruit ceased, a gentle continuous murmur followed, due apparently to the flow of blood through the tumour from the anas- tomosing branches; this subsided in about five hours, and all the symptoms ceased permanently. Great success has attended this opera- tion in intra-orbital aneurism. Out of 20 cases, 14 were successful, 2 partially so, in 1 the pulsation continued, and 3 died. In other 13 cases, by English surgeons, 12 were cured. Digital pressure would seem to be at least advantageous in any case, as preparatory to ligature ; dilatation of the collateral arteries preventing the otherwise untoward symptoms which are apt to follow the latter procedure. Wounds, and Traumatic Aneurism, of the Internal or JExternal Carotid and their hranches.—Ligature above and below the seat of wound may, perhaps, be impracticable, owing to the situation of the wounded vessel; or having failed to permanently arrest the hoemor- rhage, the common carotid must be tied. The latter operation has certainly been successful in some cases. Traumatic aneurism having formed, ligature in situ will be more diSicult; but even here the branches of either carotid, which are situated superficially, may be thus secured. The temporal artery, for example, has been wounded in cupping on the temple, and given rise to traumatic aneurism ; but as a branch of the external carotid and readily accessible, the tumour can be laid open, its contents turned out, and the vessel tied on either side of the aperture. Subclavian Artery. Aneurism.—Symptoms.—Aneurism of the subclavian artery pre- sents a pulsating tumour situated immediately above the clavicle, and500 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 134. commonly external to the margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the third part of the subclavian usually being affected. Its apparent size varies with the position of the shoulder, for the tumour disappears partly below the clavicle when the shoulder is raised. The annexed tigure shows the swftclavicular tumour which was presented in a case that came under my care in the Royal Free Hospital (June, 1877). (Fig. 134.) Pressure on the brachial plexus is accompanied with pain, and numbness down the arm even to the fingers; and the phrenic nerve also sometimes becoming disturbed, there may be spasmodic action of the diaphragm—hiccup —as an occasional symptom. The external jugular and subclavian veins suffering compression,oedema, particularly of the hand and arm, will be conspicuous in most cases. Diagnosis.—Other tumours may occasion similar symptoms; their differential characters, compared with those of aneurism, should therefore be remembered in consider- ing the diagnosis. (See Tumours in the Neck.) As possibly simu- lating subclavian aneurism, I may mention an instance of aneurism springing from the transversalis colli artery, the preparation of which exists in the Museum of St. George's Hospital, vi. 113a. Causes.—A traumatic origin can, generally, be traced—e.g., a blow, fall on the shoulder, or violent muscular exertion of the arm. Hence, the more frequent occurrence of subclavian aneurism on the right side, and, perhaps, in connection with an occupation requiring constant use of the right arm; and, certainly, the far greater liability of males than females. In 32 cases, 2 only occurred in females, and both from injury. Course and Terminations.—Slowly increasing in size, the tumour ultimately attains large dimensions ; occupying the space between the clavicle and trapezius muscle. Never passing inwards, the trachea and oesophagus escape pressure; neither dyspnoea nor dysphagia supervene. But the tumour may extend somewhat downwards, and thus encroach on the apex of the lung. Extending yet further, upwards or down- wards, the aneurism bursts externally, or internally with hgemorrhage into the pleura. Rarely, subclavian aneurism undergoes a spontaneous cure ; the sac becoming consolidated with laminated fibrine. Treatment.—Ligature of the subclavian, on the cardiac side, in the first part of its course. This operation has been practised for the cure of subclavian aneurism—in the third part of the vessel—i.e., beyond the scaleni, and when situated between these muscles—the second part. In the eleven cases recorded, all were fatal, in periods varying from the fourth to the thirteenth, twenty-second, and thirty-sixth day; and uniformly from hoemorrhage, excepting in one case, where death occurred from pericarditis and pleurisy. In my own case of aneurism, which was partly axillary, the patient, a man aged forty-two, first noticed a lump under the rightANEUEISM OF SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 501 clavicle, atout ten months before admission to the Royal Free Hospital. Three months previously, he -was under treatment in the Newport Infii-mary, where compression of the subclavian, in the third part of its course, had been tried on three occasions, without any marked effect. When first I saw the man, in consultation with my colleague, Dr. Cockle, a careful examination of the chest led to the conclusion that the heart was much diseased,—notably by dilatation of the right ventricle, and a loud regurgitant murmur at the base; this con- dition, being coupled with dilatation of the aorta, indicated the pro- bability that the subclavian artery had undergone atheroma,tous and perhaps calcareous degeneration. There was also some occasional hfemoptysis. The pulsation of the tumour extended above as well as below the clavicle; and in the latter situation, the uniform surface and expansion of the swelling showed that the ribs had yielded. But the pulsation could be entirely stopped by compression of the artery above the clavicle, in the third part of the vessel, and just under the scalenus anticus muscle. Accordingly, having regard to the probably unsound state of the artery in that part, and the previous trial of compression, I resorted to pressure on the distal side of the aneurism, by means of a tourniquet on the axillary artery, the arm being bandaged from the fingers. This was continued for two or three hours, or as long as the patient could bear the pain, chloroform being unadvisable owing to the heart disease. But a repetition of this treatment, two or three times, having proved unsuccessful, I gave a final trial to compression on the cardiac side of the aneurism; digital pressure being applied, and continued by relays of assistants, on two occasions, for fourteen hours and eight hours; but without any perceptible result. I then resorted to galvano-puncture, using three insulated needles attached to a Foveaux's battery of eighteen cells. After one hour and a half, the tumour had considerably increased in size, but it felt more solid, and the pulsation less expansive. The influence of the current was therefore discontinued; and indeed the pain in the arm, bandaged from the fingers, had become almost unendurable; and the patient not being under chloroform, there seemed some risk that fatal syncope might occur. On leaving London (August 14th) for a fortnight, the case remained under the care of my colleague, Mr. William Rose; and as, in the course of a few days, the tumour rapidly enlarged and threatened to burst, he deemed it advisable, as a last resource, to ligature the subclavian. This was done in the third part of the artery. After four days, however, secondary haemorrhage occurred, and the vessel was re-ligatured a quarter of an inch higher up. In the course of a week, haemorrhage returned, and again the vessel was ligatured, yet higher up, beneath the scalenus. The pulsation in the aneurism, and in the radial artery at the wrist, was completely stopped by the first operation of ligature; but the patient rapidly sank, and died from exhaustion, with symptoms of pneumonia. Unfortunately, no post-mortem examination could be made, owing to the remarkably speedy decomposition which took place in a few hours; the body turning to a greenish-black colour, with general putrefactive emphysema. (From Report by Mr. Hamilton, Sen. Res. Medical Officer.) Ligature of the innominate artery has also been fatal, almost beyond hope. The results of the eleven cases in which this operation was per-502 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 135. formed, have already been noticed. Ten of the patients died Nine were cases of subclavian aneurism; the remaining two, aneurism of both the subclavian and carotid arteries. The single successful case was a subclavian aneurism. (See Aneurisms at the root of the Neck ) In the following case by Mr. E; R. Bickersteth, of the Liverpool Royal Infirmary, the result was unsuccessful, death having taken place from haemorrhage on the fourteenth day after operation; but the state of the artery, and of the aneurism, as found on dissection, showed a tendency to recovery, which is so far encouraging. (Fig. 135.) The innominate, from its origin to the point of ligature, being filled with a firm closely fitting plug of fibrine, was thus most satis- factorily occluded. Above the ligature, the vessel was empty ; and in the aneurism, laminated clot-formation had completely closed up the sac. On the other hand, the distal portion of the subclavian, and first part of the axillary artery, were occluded. Two ligatures had been applied to the innominate, but very close together, leaving a linear interval, where the vessel had been compressed by a wire beneath and a me- tallic bar above. Both li^a- tures were found still in situ, and the haemorrhage had pro- ceeded from the distal side of the upper ligature, where the vessel had become par- tially severed. The wound was tolerably healthy. In connection with this case, it may be added that the heart was healthy, but the aorta exhibited atheromatous degeneration. All the other viscera were quite normal. The patient, a man aged forty, had been of strong muscular development, occupied as a dock porter; and by a strain the aneurism seems to have been produced, only three weeks before admission to the infirmary. (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. Ivi.) Aneurism of the subclavian, in the first part of the artery,—internal to the scaleni—might admit of compression, or of ligature, on the distal side of the tumour; but with what success remains to be shown. Wounds, and Traumatic Aneurism, of the Subclavian.—Punctured wounds are occasionally met with, as a sword-thrust, or stab with a knife. Such a wound of the subclavian artery is usually fatal, before suflficient time has elapsed for traumatic aneurism to arise. Aneurismal Varix of the subclavian artery and vein has been known, to occur, in like manner.ANEURISM OF AXILLARY ARTERY. 503 Axillary Artery. Aneurfsm'.—Symptoms.—The situation of fhe pulsating tumour of Axillary Aneurism is characteristic. It rises immediately below the clavicle, under the great pectoral muscle, or under the anterior fold of the axilla, if the second, or third, portion of the artery be the seat of aneurism. Pressure on the brachial plexus occasions pain and numb- ness, extending down the arm and hand ; oedema of the upper extremity also occurs from pressure on the axillary vein. But the situation of the tumour distinguishes it from subclavian aneurism, a very important distinction as to the portion of artery eligible for ligature. Diagnosis.—0 ther tumours may be recognized by their differential characters. An abscess pulsating over the subjacent artery resembles aneurism in situation, but differs in the antecedent symptoms of in- flammation. Pulsating tumour of the head of the humerus resembles aneurism in symptoms varying only in degree, but differs in situation, for it presents on the front of the shoulder. Causes.—A blow or fall on the shoulder, violent movement, or other injury to the joint, is the mode of origin traceable in most cases. Forcible extension in the endeavour to reduce old-standing dislocations of the shoulder has furnished some instances of axillary aneurism, by rupture of the artery with the adhesions betwixt it and the bone. The traumatic origin of the aneurism renders its occurrence more frequent on the right, than the left, side; and more common in men than women. Of thirty-seven cases, three only happened in females. Course and Terminations.—Enlarging rapidly in the loose cellular texture of the axilla, the aneurism extends downwards and forwards; occupying the whole axillary' space, and thus acquiring a larger size than aneurism in most other situations. Or it may take an upward direction, elevating the shoulder, or projecting above the clavicle into the' angular space between it and the trapezius muscle. At length rupture takes place, externally, or internally into the pleura or lung. Spontaneous cure has never been known to occur. Treatment.—Compression of the subclavian, in the third part of its course, may be either impracticable, owing to elevation of the shoulder or the projection upwards of the tumour, or it will be unendurable, owing to the unavoidable compression of the brachial pleux. Ligature of the subclavian, in the third part of its course. This operation is the only resource, but its results have been most disastrous. In 48 cases of axillary aneurism, unconnected with any external wound, Hgature of the third part of the subclavian terminated fatally in 25, while 23 were cured, a nearly equal proportion, or only 1 in 2. The causes of death consequent on the operation were, in some respects, peculiar; as shown by Mr. Erichsen's analysis of results. Inflammation Within the chest in 10 cases; suppuration of the sac in 6 ; hasmorrhage in 3; suppurative phlebitis, 1 ; gangrene of hand and arm, 1; general gangrene, 1; not stated, 3. If we extend the statistics of this opera- tion to all cases, including ligature for aneurism, the results are equally discouraging. Of 69 cases, tabulated by Norris, 33, against 36, died,' about the same proportion as after the operation for aneurism. In 6 cases, more recently operated on in London, 2 only recovered. Porta's table of 74 cases is slightly more favourable than the returns of the same cases by Norris, minus the few additions. But the average504 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. mortality of ligature of the subclavian in the third part, in all cases taken indiscriminately, would appear to be considerably above 40 per cent. ! In the following remarkable case of axillary aneurism, the patient was a man forty-three years old. The aneurism was referable apparently to a fall on the ice, when the arm was extended. Six months elasped before any perceptible swelling was noticed ; and then, after increasing for three months, the man came under the care of Mr. Listen. At that time the aneurismal tumour was nearly twice the size to which it afterwards became reduced; the arm was enormously swollen, the upper part being indurated; the lower part, as well as the compressed and flattened side of the chest, soft and oedematous. In this state, the arm retained its natural temperature, but it was insensible and motionless, and the pulse of the radial artery could not be felt at the wrist. Mr. Listen ligatured the subclavian artery ; and, for security, a second strong ligature was applied three-fourths of an inch nearer to the heart, close to the edge of the anterior scalenus muscle. At that part the artery was dilated, and its coats felt soft and thickened. After the operation, the case went on well for some days ; but on the fifth day, there was increased pain in the tumour and down the arm, with much constitutional excitement. The patient was bled to eight ounces, and an anodyne was given, which afforded much relief. On the thirteenth day, oozing of blood began, and the following day the wound discharged dark, putrid blood. Compression succeeded in arresting this haemorrhage, but the next day—the fifteenth after operation—the patient died fi'om exhaustion. Then the wound was found full of coagulated blood ; the upper ligature lay loose among the coagula, detached from the artery and enclosing a slough; the lower ligature was still attached, although the vessel was there extensively ulcerated. It appeared that the hgemorrhage had proceeded from this part. At the seat of the upper ligature the vessel was contracted, and contained a coagulum. The axillary artery passed over the inner part of the sac, adhered firmly to it, and had become obliterated three inches below the clavicle. Below the aneurism, the brachial artery had contracted to a small size, and coagulation had taken place in the vessel. All the anastomosing vessels were much enlarged to carry on a collateral circulation. The dissection in this case^ showed an enoi'mous aneurism of the axillary artery, which occupied the whole axilla, elevating the shoulder, and pressing in the side of the chest; a portion of the sao extends downwards for two inches on the inner side of the biceps muscle. (Fig. 136.) The brachial plexus of nerves is stretched over and closely united to the sac, at its upper and anterior surface. The sac has a globular or ovoid form, and measures from six to eight inches in * Eoy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 1695 ; and Edin. Med. Journal, 1827, vol. xxvii. p. 4. Fig. 136.*ANEURISM OF BRACHIAL, RADIAL, AND ULNAR ARTERIES. 505 its several diameters; the prolongation downwards by the biceps is cyliudriform, and about one inch and a half in diameter. The right subclavian artery is enlarged to twice its natural size from its origin to within an inch of the part where the two ligatures have been applied. Between the upper ligature and the dilated portion, the trunk of the artery is much contracted. The innominate, carotid, and the left subclavian arteries were little dilated; but the aorta was enlarged to about half more than its natural size. Wounds, and Traumatic Aneueism, of fJie Axillary Artery.—Liga- ture above and below the puncture in, or division of, the vessel is the appropriate operation. It was performed by Mr. Syme in a case of ruptured axillary artery. Ligature of the artery below the clavicle, or of the subclavian above, must be had recourse to in cases where the previous operation is impracticable, owing to the great depth of the artery or other operative diiEculty, or in the event of secondary heemor- rhage. Of 15 cases in which a ligature was applied below, or above, the clavicle, 9 were successful, and 6 died. The innominate was liga- tured by Hutin, after operation on the subclavian had failed, from secondary hemorrhage by the axillary wound, but with a fatal result in twelve hours. Beachial, Eadial, and Ulnae Aeteribs. Aneurism.—The axilla is the limit below which spontaneous aneu- rism rarely occurs in the upper extremity. But it has been met with in the brachial artery, and in this vessel at the bend of the elbow ; in . the radial and ulnar arteries, and as low down as the ball of the thumb. Aneurism in any such situation is readily recognized by the ordinary symptoms, and can scarcely be mistaken for anything else. Causes.—Some injury is usually the immediate cause, but the vessel, probably, was previously diseased. This was the condition in an. aneurism of the upper part of the ulnar artery, under the care of Mr. De Morgan, at the Middlesex Hospital. (Medical Times and Gazette, Nov. 22,1862.) The tranmatic origin of these aneurisms can generally he discovered in their history. An old ship carpenter, whilst at work, felt as if something had snapped in his arm. Mr. Listen ligatured the brachial artery. Aneurism of the radial artery at the ball of the thumb has followed an attempted reduction of dislocation. Course and Termination.—These aneurisms rarely attain any con- siderable size, and may nndergo a spontaneous cure. An aneurism of the radial artery, in a patient nnder Mr. De Morgan, recovered spon- taneously. Treatment.—Compression of the artery above the aneurism is avail- able wherever the situation offers ready resistance, and it can be borne. As regards the brachial artery, the round form of the humerus, and the nerves of the brachial plexus, forbid compression. Digital pressure may be available ; and in the aneurism referred to, of the ulnar artery, this mode of compression, maintained by the patient himself as long as he was able .for several days, much reduced the size and pulsation of the tumour. On all these aneurisms, compression tells more effectu- ally than in those of larger-sized arteries. Ligature of the artery, above the aneurism. Thus, the brachial may be tied for aneurism at the bend of the elbow ; the ulnar or radial for aneurism of these arteries ; and the latter, if the aneurism be506 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEEY. Situated at the ball of the thumb. Ligature of the brachial artery is usually very successful as regards the issue of the operation itself. lu .68 cases tabulated by Porta, 10 died after the operation, but whether in consequence of it is uncertain. Wounds, and Traumatic Aneurism, of these Arteries.—These lesions are as common as spontaneous aneurism of the same vessels is rare. The Treatment is the same as for similar lesions of other arteries. Double ligature of the vessel at the seat of injury; or that failing, ligature of the artery alove. Thus, in a case where the radial artery- was almost divided by a scale off an iron bolt which had been thrust up the arm, I enlarged the track of the wound, turned out the coagula, and distinctly seeing the opening in the vessel, a ligature was applied above and below. To render this procedure bloodless, as in other cases, an Esmarch's elastic coil was applied over the brachial artery in the arm, the limb having been previously emptied of blood by the elastic bandage. After the operation, the profuse hsemorrhage at once ceased; the ligatures came away on the sixth day, without any return of the bleeding, and the wound healed. Gompressio7i, by means of a graduated compress, applied in the seat of wound, or above, if an aneurism have formed, might be tried in the first instance ; but it will rarely prove sufficient to permanently arrest the haemorrhage. This method of treatment is most successful in wounds of the palmar arch, there being a steady resistance to the compress by the metacarpal bones. But it may become necessary to tie the radial and ulnar arteries, and subsequently even to ligature the brachial. Aneurismal Varix, and Varicose Aneurism. — These conditions mostly occur at the bend of the elbow ; the brachial artery and median basilic vein communicating, by puncture in unskilful venesection. Seldom met with, therefore, in these days of almost abandoned general blood-letting, the rules of treatment should still be remembered in the event of any such accident happening. Compression, with an accurately applied compress and roller, over the puncture, will generally succeed in restraining aneurismal varix. But, after considerable enlargement of the vein—varix being estab- lished, or the formation of an intervening sac—varicose aneurism, it will be necessary to completely cut off the current of arterial blood, by ligature of the artery on either side of the aperture of communication. Any other operative proceeding would be ligature of the arterial trunk above; an alternative rendered necessary only when the opera- tion in situ is impracticable, but which is not so directly effectual. Abdominal Aorta; and Iliac Arteries, Common, Internal, and External. Aneurism.—Symptoms.—The symptoms of abdominal or pelvic aneurism are similar to those of aneurism in other situations. A tumour, the pulsations of which can be felt, heard, and perhaps seen externally ; compressible, and subsiding if pressure can be made on the arterial trunk above. The pressure-effects are various, according to the relations of the tumour to adjacent viscera; pain also and oedema supervene as the nerves and venous trunks suffer compression. Thus, in parts supplied by the lumbar plexus, pain is experienced—e.^., down the thigh and leg, if the anterior crural nerve bo stretched over the.ANEURISM OP ABDOMINAli AORTA AND ILIAC ARTERIES. 507 tumour; while oedema of the limb is occasioned by pressure on the vena cava, common or external iliac vein. Diagnosis.—Other tumours may give rise to apalogous symptoms. Internal abscess, pulsating perhaps in connection with the aorta or iliac arteries, must be remembered as an occasional source of serious error in diagnosis. The distinction between abdominal or pelvic aneurism and pulsatile tumours of hone is most difficult. The following characters seem to be generally distinctive, though, seldom or never present collectively. In pulsatile tumours of bone : (I) the bruit is less marked or absent; (2) the pulsation is more sudden, less heaving and expansive, and equally forcible whether the tumour be large or small; while in aneurism, the force of pulsation is proportionate to the size of the tumour; (3) the bone connected with a pulsatile tumour is expanded, thus presenting a considerable osseous enlargement around the seat of disease—e.g., the ilium on either side of a tumour developed in it; an aneurism simply eating an aperture, the margin of which may be felt if the tumour can be made to collapse. Osseous swelling determined the diagnosis of a pulsatile tumonr of the ilium, in St. George's Hospital; the tumour projecting at the sacro- sciatic foramen and simulating aneurism of the gluteal artery. (Mus. II. 23). In a case recorded by Mr. Stanley, a plate of bone was found in the walls of the tumour. (4) Pulsatile tumour of bone is very commonly cancerous, and accompanied therefore with other evidence of this disease. The seat of abdominal or pelvic aneurism—i.e., the particular artery affected—will obviously be an important consideration in relation to treatment by any operative proceeding. Treatment.—Compression of the artery above the anenrism is prac- ticable only in very thin persons, and those who can bear prolonged compression of the aorta against the vertebral column. It can be effected, instrumentaUy, by means of a pad-compressor, or by digital pressure. Ligature of the Abdominal Aorta.—This desperate operation has been practised in seven cases. By Sir A. Cooper, in 1817; and subse- quently by James, of Exeter; by Murray, at the Cape of Good Hope; by Monteiro, at Rio Janeiro ; by South; by Stokes, of Dublin, 1869; and by P. H. Watson, of Edinburgh, 1869. In Mr. Stokes's case, temporary deligation or modified acupressure was applied, by means of Mr. Porter's instrument. In the last case, by Dr. Watson, the common iliac artery had been tied, nine weeks previously, with an antiseptic ' catgut ligature. Secondary hgemorrhage ensued, the arteries being * diseased, and the aorta was ligatured with a common silk ligature, about half an inch above the bifurcation. The external and internal iliacs on the affected side were also tied. All the cases were fatal, and i as the result of the operation; the first case dying in 40 hours; the : second, in the evening of the operation day ; the third, in 23 hours ; j the fourth, on the tenth day ; the fifth, in 43 hours; the sixth, in 12 I hours ; and the seventh, in 65 hours. Such having been the unexceptional fatality of this operation, the I particulars of the cases themselves are comparatively unimportant. Sir • A. Cooper's case was an aneurism of the left common iliac artery and ' some portion of the vessel below. Mr. James's case was inguinal 1 aneurism, for which he had previously performed the distal operation.SrECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 508 Monteiro's case was a large false aneurism in the lower and right side of the abdomen ; the patient dying—on the tenth day—from secondary haemorrhage. Ligature of the Common Iliac.—This operation has not been uni- formly fatal in its results. In 32 cases, collected by Dr. Stephen Smith, of ISTew York, 25 died, 7 only recovered. But this list comprised ligature of the artery for all causes, including aneurism. Thus, (1) for arrest of haBmorrhage in wounds, or in surgical operations, 11 cases, 10 deaths; (2) for aneurism, 15 cases, 10 deaths; (3) for pulsating tumour mistaken for aneurism, 4 cases, 1 recovery; (4) to obviate haemorrhage in an operation in one case, and in an aneurism by anas- tomosis in another, making 2 cases, both of which died. The causes of death were noted in 19 cases; gangrene in only 3, exhaustion 8, haemorrhage 6, and peritonitis 2. Seven more cases may be added to Dr. Smith's table; 5 of which were fatal, and 2 successful—one by Bickersteth, of Liverpool, the other by Syme, in which he laid open the sac of an iliac aneurism, and tied the common, external, and internal iliac arteries opening into it. Out of the total number of cases of ligature of the common iliac, 39, 29 have died, and 10 only recovered; in 9 the peritoneum was wounded, and of these 8 were fatal. Aneurismal Varix of the Abdominal Aorta and Vena Cava.—Among the uncommon situations of Aneurismal Varix, that in which the abdominal aorta and vena cava are engaged is most rare. One such case is recorded by Mr. Syme, as having Fig. 137.* occurred spontaneously at the bifurcation of the aorta, I am enabled to verify this pathological condition by an allied specimen from the rich collection in St. Thomas's Hos- pital. (Fig. 137.) An aneurism the size of a hen's egg, and lined by a thin layer of fibrine, is situated at the point of bifurca- cation of the abdominal aorta. The left common iliac vein, which is greatly dilated, opens directly into it, and has no dii'ect communication with the inferior cava. The superior mesenteric artery is completely obliterated for a considerable length, where it, with the mesentery, is converted into an inseparable) brawny mass. From a soldier, fetat. thirty-eight, whose left leg was crushed by a horse about three years before admis- sion. He appeared to have quite recovered from the injury. Nine months before his death he complained of pain in his loins ; a' week subsequently, pain and enlargement of the leg, commencing in the foot, followed bathing. The veins of the leg and scrotum commenced dilating about, four months before death, when they were very large. A tourniquet was applied to the abdominal aorta for seventeen hours, with an interval of half an hour ; he did not complain of much discomfort, but sickness and hiccup ensued. Death occurred apparently from exhaustion. The * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., Y. 156.ANEURISM OF GLUTEAL, SCIATIC, AND PUDIC ARTERIES. 509 mucous membrane tlirougliorit nearly tlie whole of tlie small and large intestines was of a yellow colour and dead ; this condition being most marked over the valculse conniventes, in places it involved all the coats. The intervening parts of the intestine were intensely congested. Gluteal, Sciatic, and Pudic Aeteries. Aneuetsm.—Symptoms.—The three chief branches of the internal iliac artery are, each, liable to spontaneous aneurism; but the sciatic and pudic arteries are very rarely affected. An aneurism of the pudic artery is preserved in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons (specimen 1701). It is about the size of a walnut, and contains laminated fibrine. The gluteal artery is more liable to aneurism. Its symptoms are not peculiar ; but the situation of the pulsating tumour is the posterior part of the buttock, where the gluteal artery emerges from the sacro- sciatic notch of the ilium. (Royal Coll. Surg. Mus.) As compared with pulsatile tumour of the ilium, the diagnosis must be guided by the distinctions already noticed. Encephaloid cancer may simulate aneurism, as happened in a case under the care of Mr. Guthrie, who ligatured the common iliac artery. Treatment.—Ligature of the Internal Iliac.—This operation, first performed in 1812, by Dr. Stevens, has since been repeated in other cases. Of these five were unsuccessful, four successful, including one wherein the peritoneum was accidentally wounded. Wounds, and Traumatic Aneurism, of the Gluteal Artery.—Diffused aneurism of enormous size may follow a wound of the gluteal artery. The famous case of punctured wound of this vessel, as related by John Bell, well illustrates the form of aneurism thence arising over the buttock. Treatment.—Double ligature of the vessel at the seat of injury. This operation proved thoroughly successful in the above case. The incision over the tumour was two feet in length, and eight pounds of blood were turned out of the sac; but the man ultimately " walked stoutly," and regained good health. In a case operated on by Mr. Syme, the base of the tumour had attained the size of a man's head, it occupied the whole hip, and rose into a blunt cone. The result was successful. Common Femoral Arteet. Aneurism.—Symptoms.—The pulsating tumour of aneurism of the common femoral trunk arises in the groin, but it may pass partly up- wards into the abdomen. Situated, otherwise, external to the pelvis (Fig. 138), the characters of aneurism are more readily perceptible than when the tumour is internal. Its pressure-effects are evinced by pain in the groin and down the thigh, the genito-crural and branches of the anterior crural nerves being affected ; and oedema of the leg supervenes, owing to compression of the femoral and saphena veins. The diagnosis must still have regard to the possibility of abscess or a cyst pulsating in connection with the artery; and that of a pulsating tumour of tlie ilium. Inguinal aneurism has been punctured by mistake for abscess; and cases of pulsating tumour simulating aneu- rism in the groin have occurred to both Mr. Stanley and Mr. Syme. But the pulse below an aneurism, as compared with the pulse in the610 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. FiQ. 138.* other limb, is reduced ; and this distinction will aid in determining the diagnosis of a pulsating tumour. Causes.—A blow, strain, or other injury has seemed to be the im- mediate cause of inguinal aneurism, in some cases. Course and Terminations.—Restrained by the fascia lata, in the thigh, and by the pelvic fascia above, the tumour enlarges slowly, but may ultimately attain a large size. It is said never to become diffused, the fascia effectually circumscribing the aneurism; but it acquires a lobulated character under the unequal resistance thus offered to the increasing tumour. A spontaneous cure has been known to take place in a few instances. Treatment.—Compression on the External TLiac.—This proceeding is practicable in persons not too stout, and has proved suflHciently successful to encourage a repe- tition. Digital compression was effectual in a case under Mr. Fox, of the Pennsyl- vania Hospital ; the want of assistants, however, prevented him from thus com- pleting the cure. Another case—in St. George's Hospital—was entirely cured by mixed digital and mechanical compression. Distal compression succeeded in a case of fusiform ilio-inguinal aneurism under my care; the patient being a man seventy-five years of age, with a sonorous aortic cardiac murmur. Carte's tourniquet was used, just below the groin, and con- tinued for a period of some weeks ; when the aneurism had become consolidated so far as to transmit only the normal current of blood through the common femoral artery. Ligature of the External Iliac.—First performed by Abemethy, in 1796, this operation has since been practised in at least 100 oases, ac- cording to Norris's table. Of these, 73 were cured, and 27 died. In. 92 cases, the aneui-ism was seated entirely in the groin; and of these, 70 were cured, and 22 died. The causes of death were partly referable to the operation; namely, gangrene of the limb, in 8; secondary haemorrhage, in 4; sloughing of the sac, in 3 ; from tetanus, 3; and from more general causes, 4. Inguinal with popliteal aneurism of the same side co-existed in a few of these cases. This complication does not appear to lessen the efficacy of the operation. Of 4 such cases, liigature of the external iliac was successful in 3 ; the other one dying of gangrene, but the popliteal aneurism, in that case, was about to burst at the time of operation. In 118 cases of ligature for all pur- poses, including aneurism, 33 died; and in 30 of these, 13 died of gangrene, 6 of secondary hajmorrhage, 3 of sloughing of the sac, 2 of tetanus, 2 of prostration, 2 of peritonitis, 1 of diffuse inflammation, * St. Thorn. Hosp. Mus., Y. 96. Aneurism of the common femoral artery, right limb. Situated immediately below Poupart's ligament, the sac has a globidar form, and was about the size of a large wuluiit. On the posterior aspect—not shown— the sac is lai<l open ; the walls consist of an expansion of all the coats of the artery, with cartilaginous thickening in parts.ANEUEISM OF COMMON FEMORAL ARTERY. 511 * St. George's Hosp. Mus. vi. 119. and 1 of delirium tremens. Of tlie remaining 2 out of 33, one deatb was unconnected with the operation, and in the other case the cause is not specified. Pulsation returned in the sac in six of the Fig. 139. * aneurismal cases ; several weeks after the opera- tion in some cases, and followed by death in only one case. In two of the three successful cases after ligature for double aneurism on the same side, pulsation returned in the inguinal aneu- rism ; but it ceased, after a while, in both. In the following case, ligature of the external iliac (Fig. 139) had a successful result with regard to the aneurism. The sac is quite full of clot, mostly colourless; and the artery also is plugged with coagulum, between the sac and the ligature, and at a part two and three inches above it. Below the sac, the artery is free from clot. Death occurred fifteen days after the operation, from " secondary deposits" in the lung. Ligature of the common iliac must be had recourse to, if the aneurism extends beneath. Poupart's ligament into the pelvis, or partially involves the external iliac. Wounds, and Traumatic Anetjrism, of tJie Common Femoral Artery.— Doiible ligature of the vessel at the seat of the injury is the rule of treatment established by Gruthrie's observations in this, as in all similar cases. The artery being wounded so near to Poupart's liga- ment, haemorrhage will of course be more perilous, owing to the great difficulty of compressing the vessel above, in applying the ligatures. Secondary hgemorrhage also and gangrene are both imminent sub- sequently. Amputation is the only resource in either of these events; ligature of the external iliac has invariably failed to prevent the recurrence of secondary haemorrhage. Aneurismal Vabix, and Varicose Aneurism, in the Groin.—Double ligature; the tumour having been laid open, and the aperture of com- munication between the vessels sought. This operative proceeding ia recommended by Guthrie, as for varix and varicose aneurism occurring in other situations. But the unavoidably perilous haemorrhage, in • seeking the aperture of communication between the femoral artery and vein, will always be a most serious consideration; for it will be found : impossible to safely control the hgemorrhage during the operation, by I compressing the artery above. Ligature of the external iliac—the alternative operation—has, on the ' other hand, failed entirely. In the four cases recorded, a fatal termina- I tion was referable to the operation; two dying of secondary hsemor- 1 rhage, and two of gangrene.512 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Femoral Artery—Deep, and Superficial. Aneurism.—Symptoms.—The deep femoral artery is very rarely the seat of aneurism. Two cases only can 1 find, recorded; one by Mr. Bryant, in a patient of Mr. Cock's, at Guy's Hospital; the other under the care of Dr. Garrod, at University College Hospital. (Fig. 140.) In the former case, the aneurism was at the origin of the deep femoral; in the latter, lower down. The symptoms of aneurism thus situated, are necessarily somewhat obscured by the depth of the artery. The superficial femoral artery is rarely the seat of aneurism, but far more frequently than the deep femoral; and as affecting this artery, it is known as Femoral Aneurism. The symptoms are more perceptible—the tumour being more superficial; particularly if situated in Scarpa's triangle, the usual situation. Aneurism springing from this—the first portion of the femoral—is unsupported by muscles immediately behind it; thus forming more readily and rapidly, it presents a pulsating tumour, having the characters of aneurism well defined. They are obscured only by the fascia lata, superficial fascia, and in- tegument. Aneurism arising from the second portion of the femoral— within Hunter's canal—is not only more deeply placed, but is supported by the adductor muscles, and resisted by the aponeurotic covering of the canal, and the superimposed sartorius muscle ; as well as by the fascia lata, superficial fascia, and integument. The pulsating tumour, therefore, has characters less distinctly aneurismal. The Pressure-effects of femoral aneurism—whichever portion of the artery be aiSected—will consist in the pain and oedema produced by compression of branches of the anterior crural nerve, and of the femoral and saphena veins. In Hunter's canal, the internal saphenous nerve— a branch of the anterior crural—and the femoral vein, are here peculiarly subject to pressure. Treatment.—Compression oi the common femx)ral, in the groin, should always be tried in the first instance. It has been known to succeed, even when the aneurism has burst and become diffused. If the tumour continue to increase, the establishment of a tolerably free collateral circulation will prepare the way for the next resource. Ligature of the common femoral, in the groin.—The results of this operation are decidedly unfavourable. Secondary h£emorrhage is apt to follow, owing apparently to the contiguity of arterial branches—the circumflex ilii above and the deep femoral below the ligature ; the fi'ee communication of which vessels is, however, requisite for the collateral circulation. Gangrene, on the other hand, is apt to ensue, in the event of the arterial trunk becoming occluded below the ligature, thus shutting off the supply of blood through the deep femoral, as well as through the superficial femoral leading to the aneurism. Of 12 cases, in which the common femoral had been ligatured, secondary hsemor- * Univ. Coll. Mu8., 290.513 ANEURISM OF POPLITEAL ARTERY. rliage occurred in 9, 3 of wHch were fatal, and 6 were saved only by ligature of the external iliac; the remaining 3 were successful. Ligature of the superficial f&moral will be practicable only in cases where the portion of this artery, between the sac below and origin of the deep femoral above, is of sufficient length for the application of a ligature. But this operation avoids both the sources of danger conse- quent on ligature of the common femoral. Ligature of the superficial femoral, in the part referred to, may be eligible for aneurism situated in the apex of Scarpa's triangle, and would certainly be appropriate for aneurism in Hunter's canal. Wounds, and Traumatic Aneurism, of the Femoral Artery.—These lesions are liable to happen by puncture with some sharp instrament, or by rupture, or penetration of the artery, with or by fracture of the femur. Cases of this description are not very uncommon. The following instance well illustrates the symptoms. The femoral artery of a young man was wounded with a penknife. On the following day—observes John Bell—aneurism began to form, but as yet the wounded artery was not so far removed from the fascia and surface of the thigh but that pure blood found its way out through the integuments, and he lost at a few strokes of the heart no less than three pounds of blood; on the third day, however, the coagula were so firm, the wounded artery was so deeply buried under the coagulating blood, and the external wound so steadily compressed, that it healed. Then, the aneurism assumed its proper form of a great pulsating tumour, but circum- scribed, and limited to the upper and fore part of the thigh; very little swelling of the limb had supervened after the lapse of three weeks. In another case, a man was sitting in a careless way cutting a rag or flaw from the root of his nail, and the scissors, which were very sharp-pointed, dropping betwixt his thighs, he suddenly clapped his knees together to catch them, and struck the points into his thigh, wounding the femoral. The blood instantly spurted out, was soon stopped, and the external wound healed in a few days; then aneurism be^fan to form. The Treatment presents nothing peculiar;—double ligature of the artery at the seat of the wound ; or, if secondary haemorrhage occurs, ligature of the trunlc above must be had recourse to. Aneurismal Yarix, and Varicose Aneurism, in the Thigh.—In the event of either such possible mode of communication between the femoral artery and vein, the treatment would be analogous to that for similar conditions of the common femoral artery and vein in the groin. Popliteal Artert. Aneurism.—Symptoms.—Popliteal Aneurism is declared by a pul- sating tumour, which forms in the popliteal space, or ham. (Fig. 141.) At first small, circumscribed and of roundish shape, soft and coinpressible, it subsides also by ])ressure on the femoral trunk. This latter symptom, as Sir A. Cooper observed, may be more readily perceived by looking at the tumour from the level of the limb. The pulsation, like that of other external aneurisms, can be seen and lelt, as well as heard, transmitting a brrdt. But the character of the pulsation is modified by the aspect of the artery, whence the aneurism 2 L614 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUKGERY. springs. When it arises from tte posterior aspect of the vessel, towards the skin, popliteal aneurism has the usual heaving and expansive character; arising from the anterior aspect towards the joint, the aneurism raises the vessel more to the surface, and the pulsation is thrilling, the beat of the vessel also, in its course, being, perhaps, felt distinctly separate. Such was the case in a typical instance which I found in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons—a Hunterian specimen marked 1703, and which is here represented. (Fig. 142.) Fig. 141.* Fig. 142.t The pressure-effects of popliteal aneurism are, as with other aneu- risms, pain and oedema, preceded by some stillness of the knee-joint, and a semi-flexed position of the limb. Lameness is, indeed, often one of the earliest symptoms of the disease. The diagnosis is usually unequivocal. But the pain and inability to use the joint may be mistaken for rlaeumatism; and other tumours in connection with the popliteal artery have a pulsatile character trans- mitted to them—e.g., chronic abscess, a cyst, or solid tumour, in the popliteal space. The pulsation, however, is less expansive, the tumour incompressible, and it does not subside on pressure of the femoral trunk. Tbese differences disappear in the event of aneurism having * Case of large popliteal aneurism. (Author, Eoyal Free Hospital.) t In this aneurism of the popliteal artery, the figure exhibits a vertical section of the sac, and of the femur and tibia in the knee-joint; showing that the sac springs from the anterior side of the artery, and lies between the vessel and the back of the joint. The sac, now empty, was filled with coagulated blood. The course of the artery above and below is indicated by a piece of whale-bone withia the vessel; and thus the entrance and exit portions of artery are seen not to be opposite each other. Above, the artery is very much contracted, especially at the aneurismal orifice ; below, the artery would seem not to have transmitted blood into the posterior tibial, as a fine-glue injection did not pass out. Tlie inner coat of the artery was the seat of fatty degeneration; limited, however, to the portion of the vessel just above the aneurism, and extending into the interior of the sac, where the inner coat is similarly diseased. Below the sac, the artery appeared to be nearly in a healthy state. (Hunterian.)615 ANEUKISM OF POPLITEAL ABTERY. undergone consolidation; tlius so far resembling a solid tumour. But any independent tumour can, perhaps, be lifted off, and isolated from the artery, when its pulsatile and apparently aneurismal character ceases. TIae history of the case will aid in determining the diagnosis; as, for example, with regard to chronic abscess. Causes.—Some strain in flexion or extension of the joint seems to be the usual mode of origin. Hence, popliteal aneurism occurs more fre- quently in persons accustonied to the athletic exercises of running or jumping, or who ride hard on horseback. Sailors, according to Dr. Crisp, would appear to be more subject to the disease than any other class. Men, generally, are far moi'e liable than females. Of 155 cases, in Norris's table, five only were females. The period of life most liable is between thirty and fifty. As compared with other aneurisms, popliteal aneurism is far less frequently associated with a diseased state of the arterial system, and with aneurism, consequently, in other parts of the body. Both popliteal arteries are affected with equal frequency, and occasionally at the same time. On the other hand, compared with other arteries, the popliteal is prone to aneurism. Thus, of 551 cases of aneurism collected by Dr. Crisp, 137 were popliteal, and only 66 femoral. Course and Terminations.—Enlarging usually with tolerable rapidity, the aspect of the artery from which the aneurism arises, regulates the rate of its progi'ess. On the anterior aspect of the vessel, aneurism is resisted by the joint or the lower end of the femur, and increases slowly. Constant pressure on these parts is followed by synovitis or caries, and the tumour ultimately bursts into the joint. On the posterior aspect of the vessel, aneurism being supported by the hamstring muscles on either side, but restrained only by the integuments, it enlarges rapidly. Becoming diffused, it may burst upwards into the cellular texture of the thigh; or backwards, under the integuments of the popliteal space; or downwards, under the fascia overlying the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. Rupture of the sac terminates the previous aneurismal symptoms. Treatment.—Genuflexion was originally practised by Dr. Mannoir, of Greneva, and, in this country, by Mr. Ernest Hart. It should be tried, in the first instance. If bending the knee back on the thigh stops the pulsation in the tumour, this treatment may be continued. The limb having been bandaged from the toes nearly to the knee, the roller should be turned round the thi^h, the leg: beins: flexed at an acute angle; the thigh is then bent upon the pelvis, and the knee rested against a pillow. In the course of from two days to a week, cure may be completed. This method of treatmeVi.! proved successful in thirty- five cases, two of which had resisted compression of the femoral artery. But from my own experience, I would stt-nngly urge the propriety of restricting flexion to cases in which the aneurism is of small size, otherwise the sac tends to burst; and'where the leg is not tensely swollen, or gangrene may speedily supervene. In Mr. Hart's case, the cure had made consideralDle advance after the first day of flexion, and was complete on the fourth day; on the seventh the patient was moving about. Other successful cases have since been recorded. Flexion is in fact a mode of compression; this being the next resource when that has failed, or is ineligible owing to the large size of the aneurism.516 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Compression of the Femoral Artery.—Instrumental or digital com- pression may be readily effected ; care being taken that the pressure be directed rather outwards against the femur, as the vessel winds to the inner side of the bone in its course down the thigh to become popliteal. But this kind of treatment may be unbearable. Or, the tumour still enlarging, compression will no longer prove sufficient to induce consolidation of the aneurism, and still less so, if the sac has burst, and diffused aneurism being established, gangrene is imminent. Ligature of the Superficial Femoral.—This operative proceeding be- comes necessary under the circumstances adverse to compression, or its continuance. Ligature of the superficial femoral has been attended •with more successful results than that of any other main artery. The vessel is usually secured at the apex of Scarpa's triangle, just as it passes under the sartorius muscle. In 110 cases collected by Dr. Crisp, 12 only had a fatal issue ; by secondary haemorrhage, 4; by gangrene, 3; and the remainder dying of phlebitis, tetanus, etc. Of 33 cases operated on in London, Hut- chinson shows that 10 were fatal; 5 dying from gangrene. This •would seem to be the chief cause of death after ligature of the femoral for all purposes, including popliteal aneurism. Thus, of 204 such operations in Norris's tables, 50 died. Of these, the cause of death is omitted in 4 ; but of the remaining 46, 23 or one-half died from gangrene, and 8 only from haemorrhage; 5 of phlebitis; 1 from sloughing of the sac, and the residue from accidental causes common to all operations, as tetanus, pyaemia, etc. Return of pulsation in the sac sometimes occurs, but it rarely is of much consequence. Com- pression of the artery above will, mostly, control any such unfavoui'- able tendency. Secondary haemorrhage should be met by ligature of the artery above—i.e., the common femoral, or the external iliac; pressure with a graduated compress fixed over the bleeding aperture wiU be insufficient, and double ligature of the vessel in situ impracticable ; and, in extreme cases, amputation is the only resource. Amputation of the Limb.—This operation must be resorted to in the event of gangrene, consequent on the aneurism, or its having become diffused, or after ligature of the superficial femoral. Persistent secondary hoemorrhage will also render amputation unavoidable. Limited gangrene may allow the preservation of the limb. Amputation has proved tolerably successful in its results, more so than ligature of the femoral, taking either operation in all cases indiscriminately. Of 60 cases of ligature collected by Mr. Hutchinson from the practice of the metropolitan hospitals, 16 died, or say one- third ; whereas, amputation of the thigh—in all the cases collected by Mr. Bryant from Guy's Hospital, and by Mr. Holmes from St. George's Hospital—shows a mortality considerably below one-third. Double Popliteal Aneurism.—Compression of the femoral seems specially appropriate in double popliteal aneurism, as thus to avoid that disturbance of the balance of the circulation which is certain to ensue when one vessel is ligatured, and which may act injuriously upon the opposite aneurism. In a case where an interval of some months elapsed between the two aneurisms, I succeeded in curing the first by instrumental compression, and the second, in the opposite517 ANEURISM OF TIBIAL ARTEEIES. ham, became consolidated, but I learnt that subsequently this aneurism returned. Ligature of the artery has occasionally been practised with advan- tage on both sides; either simultaneously, or, with more safety, con- secutively. Wounds, and Traumatic Aneurism, of the Popliteal Artery.—Should either of these lesions occur, they would present nothing peculiar as to symptoms of treatment. Rupture of the artery, subcutaneously, has been met with. In one case, double ligature of the vessel was performed by Mr. Poland, with an unsuccessful result, gangrene having supervened on the third day, followed by amputation and death. But no difficulty was experienced in the operation. The only two other cases wherein double Hgature of the popliteal has been attempted, failed in the operation. Ligature of the femoral has been tried in two cases, both of which terminated fatally by gangrene. In one case, accompanied with rupture of the popliteal vein, which occurred in my own practice, gangrene ensued, for which amputation was performed above the knee, with, however, a fatal result (page 375). The following case is probably unique, but it will prepare the Surgeon for that which may happen again. (Fig. 143.) A popliteal artery, vein, and nerve, showing an arterio-venous aneurism, and in which the sac consists of an expansion of the nerve-fihres, some of them traversing the cavity of the sac, and the whole then reunite in the nerve. In its minute structure, the sac is composed of an external fibrous investment, continuous with the nerve-sheath or neurilemma, and of an internal delicate lining membrane. Two Fig- 143.* vessels open into the small vein and a small artery. The patient, a woman aged thirty-two, had received a blow in the left ham, from a rotating pump-handle. Four- teen days afterwards, a swelling formed the size of a nut, and in six months attained to its present size, that of a small orange. It did not pulsate, but was the seat of stabbing pain, which extended down to the sole of the foot. It was twice punctured, and gave vent to venous blood. Afterwards an incision was made, and the tumour was found to contain venous blood, and blood had ex- travasated into the surrounding cellular re- cesses of the knee. Amputation was then resorted to, and the patient recovered. (See also Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xlix.) (C. H. Moore.) Tibial Arteries—Anterior and Posterior. Aneurism.—Symptoons.—Very rarely, spontaneous aneurism occurs below the knee, in connection with either of the tibial arteries. A small aneurism of the posterior tibial is preserved as a preparation in the Museum of St. George's Hospital. The symptoms will probably be obscure, owing to the smaU size of any such aneurism, and its depth * Middlesex Hosp. Mus., S. v. 76.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 518 from the surface; especially as connected with the posterior tibial, throughout the greater portion of the course of that vessel. The Treatment must be conducted on. the same principles as for aneurism in other situations; compression above the tumour, when practicable; or, that having failed, ligature of the femoral should be duly considered, with reference to the probability of curing the aneu- rism and also the consequent perijs of this operation. Wounds and Traumatic Aneurism.—Double ligature of the vessel, at the seat of wound, or the resulting aneurism, is unquestionably, as in all similar cases, the appropriate rule of treatment. But this operative procedure may be rendered impracticable by the depth of the vessel, especially in a muscular limb, and increased by the infiltration of blood. Under these circumstances, other procedures have, occasionally, been resorted to ; and, in the event of secondary haemorrhage, they must be taken into consideration. Ligature of the popliteal or femoral artery has thus proved success- ful in arresting hemorrhage. Wound of the posterior tibial, with secondary haemorrhage, warranted ligature of the popliteal artery, in a case under the care of Samuel Cooper ; and diffused traumatic aneu- rism of the same vessel seemed to justify ligature of the femoral, in a case under Dupuytren. Amputation should always be the last resource. Aneurismal Varix, and Varicose Aneurism.—The latter condition has occurred in the posterior tibial artery and one of the venae comites, just above the internal annular ligament at the ankle-joint. The two vessels communicated through a small circumscribed aneurism inter- vening between them. No history, I believe, could be ascertained; this varicose aneurism having been discovered by Mr. Cadge in the dis- secting room of University College, when he was Demonstrator of Anatomy in that Institution; and I well remember he showed me the specimen, which is, I believe, unique. CHAPTER XXYII. LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. Operations for the Ligature of Arteries are more conveniently and instructively described apart from the various Aneurisms to which these Operations pertain. By viewing the Arterial System thus Surgically as a whole, the similarity of anatomical relations in contiguous portions of the same artery will save much unnecessary repetition, which would otherwise be unavoidable, in describing the operations for their ligature. Certain general directions are applicable to the ligature of all arteries; and they relate either to the operation as performed on an artery in its continuity, or at the seat of a wound involving an artery. Ligature of an Artery in its Continuity.—This operation consists in dividing the textures down to the artery, and then applying a ligature around the vessel. A muscle or tendon, or perhaps a bone, is observed as the recognized guide for the incision. Thus, the inner519 LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. border of the biceps muscle guides to the brachial artery, the tendon of the supinator longus leads to the radial, and the upper margin o£ the clavicle, in its outer third, is the line of incision leading to the subclavian in the third part of its course. In the absence of any such anatomical "directing line," a line can, mostly, be drawn corre- sponding to the course of the artery. For example, midway between the anterior superior spinous pi'ocess of the ilium and symphysis of the pubes, a line commencing and terminating on the inner side of the patella nearly indicates the course of the femoral artery. The incision may be made in the line thus indicated naturally or artificially, or obhquely across that line ; the latter direction guiding to the artery which it .^iq. 144.. bisects in some point of its course, and leading more clearly to the parts adjacent on either side of the vessel. The length of incision should be pro- portionate to the depth of the artery which has to be reached, thence varying from one to three inches or more; but generally the skin alone should be first divided, the integument being gently stretched, without displacement, by the fingers of the left hand. (Fig. 144.) Then, the subjacent fascia, its superficial and deep layers, and muscle in some cases, must be carefully divided, in succession; any known veins or arterial branches being avoided, if possible, or hemorrhage from them commanded by pressure, torsion, or ligature. Adjoining the artery, a nerve may be found, lying by the side of the vessel, but outside its sheath—e.g., the ulnar nerve in collateral relation to the ulnar artery; or several nerves may surround the vessel, as the brachial plexus in relation to the brachial artery. Any such superficial vessels, the border of a muscle or tendon, and nerves, are conveniently drawn to one side and protected, and the wound made more open, by curved metallic spatula or retractors; wherewith re- traction can be gently main- tained by an assistant, as the textures are successively di- vided, and also during the passage of the ligature-needle around the artery. The sheath of the artery having been reached — as denoted by its dense cellular character, and the pulsation of the enclosed vessel, im- mediately beneath the finger —that structure should be slightly raised with the forceps, into a small cone off the artery, and the knife being laid flat under the pinch of the forceps, a small520 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 146. aperture is cut in this portion of the sheath. (Fig. 145.) The artery thus exposed through the aperture will be recog. nized by its whitish-yellow or fawn colour. Enclosed within the sheath, by the side of the artery, lies the small companion vein, or two such veins, vence comites, one on either side, in relation to a second-sized artery. It, or they, have a dark-blue colour, contrast- ing with the colour of the artery ; but an enclosed vein may be only partially visible through the small aperture in the sheath. A nerve also is sometimes enclosed, as the pneumogastric within the sheath of the carotid, but it has less immediate relation to the artery; while external to the sheath, the collateral nerve or nerves already referred to will be seen, in immediate relation to the artery. An aneurism-needle, armed with a waxed silk ligature (Fig. 146), is introduced through the aperture in the sheath, between the vein and artery, and tui'ned round the latter (Fig. 147) ; their cel- lular connection having, previously, been gently separated, if necessary, by scratching with the point of the needle. The ligature is drawn out from the eye of the needle, and the needle itself withdrawn ; leaving one end of the thread on either side of the artery. Special care should be observed not to slide the ligature up and down the artery, nor to lift up the vessel much from its bed; whereby, in either Fig. 147. way, the nutrient vasa vasorum would be cut or torn off, endangering sloughing of the vessel and secondary haemorrhage. The ligature should be tied transversely round the artery (Fig. 148), as an oblique direction of the noose would be liable to loosen ; the ends of the thread must be drawn moderately tight, so as to divide the two inner coats of the vessel, and then the thread tied again, foi-ming a reef-knot. (Fig. 149.) It must be observed in these proceedings, that the vein be not wounded or transfixed, nor any adjacent nerve included in the hgature521 LIGATURE OF INNOMINATE ARTERY. loith the artery. But care should also be taken not to ligature any- extraneous structure instead of the vessel; as a nerve, or portion of the sheath. The finger placed on the distal side of the artery will at once Fig. H8. discover whether pulsation is stopped, and the vessel secured. One end of the ligature is then to be snipped off close to the knot on the vessel, and the other end left hanging out of the wound, guarded by a small strip of adhesive plaster; and, lastly, a piece of wet lint is placed over the incision, which may be partly closed by a few points of suture. Ligature of an Artery at the seat of a Wound, involving the Vessel.—The wound is here used as the incision, leading down to the artery. It may require to be enlarged, as in the case of a punctured or other narrow wound; and much difficulty may be experienced in finding the vessel, owing to the infiltration of surrounding textures with blood. The artery may be found punctured, or completely divided. In either case, the rule of treatment for securing it and arresting hfemorrhage is the same. A ligature must be applied on either side of the aperture, or to either cut extremity; this doiible ligature being necessary to stop the haemorrhage from the distal, as well as the cardiac, end of the artery—which would otherwise continue to bleed by the anastomotic supply of blood from above the upper ligature. In this procedure, a tourniquet is placed on the limb above, to control the main trunk. Puncture, or division, of an arterial branch dose to the trwtih whence it springs, is equivalent to an aperture in that vessel of equal size to the branch or the puncture in it. The same treatment therefore will be requisite; ligature of the trunk above and below the branch. Ligature of an artery, on the surface of a wound—e.g., a stump after amputation—has been described in connection with Incised Wound. The Ligature of Arteries will now be described severally, and in consecutive order from the commencement of the Arterial System to the Extremities; and with each such Operation I think it desirable to associate a preparatory summaiy of the Surgical Anatomy of the Artery. Ligature op the Innominate or Brachio-cephalic Artery.— Surgical Anaiomy.—This artery arises from the commencement of the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, and ascends obliquely toSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 622 the right, as high as the sterno-clavicular articulation ; where it divides into right subclavian and right carotid arteries. Its lenr/th is, usually, an inch and a half to two inches. Situated within the thorax, behind the first piece of the sternum, the vessel is immediately overlaid— from below upwards—by the left innominate vein, crossing its root, the sterno-hyoid and stcrno-thyroid muscles; and above it passes between and behind the cellular interval of the sternal and clavicular portions of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Posterior to the artery is the trachea, on which it lies obliquely; on its left side is the left carotid artery, but as the innominate ascends to the right, a considerable interval separates the two vessels, in which appears the trachea, with some remains of the thymus gland; on the right side is the right innominate vein. Nearly parallel with the artery, and along the outer side of the vein, is the phrenic nerve and the pleura. The pneumo- gastric nerve, entering the thorax, between the subclavian artery and innominate vein, gives oii its recurrent branch around that artery, and then dips backwards by the side of the trachea, to lie in the interval between that tube and the oesophagus. This nerve, therefore, has no immediate relation to the innominate artery, otherwise than just as the nerve enters the thorax behind the vein and to the right of the artery, here lying on the right side of the trachea. Operation.—The innominate may be reached from above the ster- num. The patient being placed in the recumbent position, and the head thrown well back, exposing the root of the neck, an incision is commenced in the epi-sternal notch near the right sterno-clavicular articulation, and carried upwards to the left, for about three inches, near the inner side of the left sterno-mastoid muscle. (Fig. 150.) A second incision, if necessary, may be made from over the sternal origin of the right sterno-mastoid muscle, meeting the lower end of the first incision at nearly a right angle. The skin and superficial fascia are thus divided, and if a flap of integu- ment has been formed by the second incision, it is turned up; the deep fascia is cautiously divided, and the finger passed down the trachea to the artery; or, if a flap be made, the sternal origin of the right sterno- mastoid muscle and a few fibres of the sterno-thyroid and hyoid muscles may also be divided, and the root of the carotid thus exposed is followed down to the innominate. A I'ound curved aneurism-needle, armed with a ligature, is then passed around the" vessel, and the ligature secured, with all the skill the Surofeon can command.' A needle having a point which can be detached, when felt under the vessel, may help to facilitate this critical part of the operation. The innominate has been reached anteriorhj, by removing a piece of the sternum and sternal end of the clavicle. This was done by Cooper, of San Francisco, in a case where the upper end of the in- nominate artery itself was diseased, and the aneurism affected the Fig. 150.LIGATURE OF THE COMMON CAEOTID. 523 root of the subclavian and carotid arteries. But it is only for the cure of aneurisms in that situation that ligature of the innominate would ever be contemplated; and disease of any portion of this vessel —the seat of operation—would be a positively forbidden condition. In the case referred to, and in all instances of the less formidable operation above the sternum, the result has been fatal. Ligature of the Internal Mammary Artery.—G-oyraud, by whom this operation was first performed, gives the following directions for reaching the inteimal mammary artery:—"An incision, two inches in length, is to be made near the edge of the sternum, obliquely from above downward and from without inward, forming with the axis of the body an angle of forty-five degrees. The middle part of this incision should be three or four lines distant from the margin of the sternum, and in the centre of the sternal end of the intercostal space. (See Fig. 156.) Dividing successively the skin and sub-cellular adipose tissue, and then the great pectoral muscle, the intercostal space is exposed. An incision is then made in the same direction and over the entire width of the space of the aponeurotic layer, which continues the external intercostal muscle and the superficial fibres of the internal intercostal. With a grooved director, the fibres of the latter muscle are to be separated and torn through, and the artery and its two venae comites are laid bare at three Knes from the edge of the sternum, which separates these fibres from the pleura. Then, nothing is easier than to isolate the artery and to slide beneath it the curved end of an aneurism-needle, for passing the thread." But, with regard to this procedure, it should be observed that, simple as it may be on the dead subject and when the artery is injected, the circumstances under which the operation may be requisite, or deemed advisable, render it one of the most difficult in the practice of Surgery. Thus, in gunshot wound of the stei'uum, attended with profuse haemorrhage, apparently from the internal mammary artery, forming a large bloody swelling, with an accumulation of clots in the mediastinum,—then, indeed, the depth and relations of the vessel are altogether changed, although the peril to life may justify immediate interference. The case is similar to a false aneurism, as arising from. puncture of the gluteal artery just where this vessel emerges from the pelvis—the occasion for double ligature which suggested John Bell's famous procedure. But haemorrhage from the internal mammary artery may be more readily controlled by compression, as in the case of an intei*- costal artery ; a small bag being introduced over the wound, and then stuffed with lint, the bag is withdrawn so as to effectually compress the vessel against the posterior aspect of the sternum. Ligature of the Common Carotid.—Surgical Anatomy.—The right and left common carotid arteries differ only in part of their course; that portion of the latter vessel which extends from its origin on the arch of the aorta to the left sterno-clavicular articulation, or the thoracic portion of the left common carotid. But this part of the left carotid artery is never selected for ligature. The common carotid on the right side, and the cervical portion of the left common carotid, extends from behind the sterno-clavicular articulation to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage; whore it divides into external and internal carotid arteries. (Fig. 151.) The artery has an oblique direction upwards and outwards; corresponding624 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. to a line drawn from the stemo-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process of the temporal bone. It seems to have an inclination backwards, superiorly owing to the projection forward of the larynx, in that situation. The artery with the internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve are enclosed in a common membranous sheath, continuous with the deep cervical fascia. The vein, within this sheath, is situated along the outside of the artery, a thin cellular partition only intervenino-; the nerve lies behind and between the two vessels. Thus so far isolated, Fig. 151.» the artery is deeply placed at the lower part of the neck, and more superficial above. Below, the sheath is covered by the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, and crossed by the omo- hyoid muscle obliquely upwards just below the cricoid cartilage. Superficial to these muscles is the skin and superficial fascia, and a small portion of the platysma myoides as it passes upwards from the clavicle to the lower jaw ; the deep cervical fascia ensheathing the muscles and passing down behind them, continuous with the sheath of the vessels, into the thorax. Crossing the sheath is the middle thyroid vein. Above the cricoid cartilage, the artery is covered only by the skin and superficial fascia, platysma and deep fascia. Crossing the sheath here are the superior thyroid veins, which sometimes form a plexus in this situation. The descendens noni, a branch of the hypo- glossal nerve, lies on the sheath of the vessels from above downwards, inclining from the outer to the inner side. Occasionally, this nerve rans within the sheath, and between the artery and vein. Posteriorly,. the artery throughout its course is supported by the transverse pro- * Common Carotid Artery, and its Branches.—a, common carotid; h, internal ju^ilar vein; c, internal carotid ; d, external carotid; e, upper thyroid branch; /, lingual; g, facial; h, internal maxillary. (From Quain, "Anatomy of the Arteries," part view, reduced.)LIGATURE OF THE CAROTID ARTERIES. 525 cesses of tlie cervical vertebra; a tbin stratum of muscle intervening, consisting of the longus colli and scalenus anticus. The sympathetic and recurrent laryngeal nerves, and inferior thyroid artery, are also in. relation with the posterior aspect of the artery. On the inner side of the artery, below, lie the trachea with the thyroid body, which often overlays the vessel; above, the larynx and the pharynx. On the outer side is a chain of lymphatic glands, between the sheath and the inner border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, which corresponds to the artery in the upper part of its course. Within the sheath, the large internal jugular vein is in im- mediate relation, on the outer side of the vessel. Operation.—The patient should be placed in the recumbent position, with the head thrown back, and the face turned a Httle from the side of opera- tion; thus exposing the side of the neck. The apex of the carotid triangle, where the omo-hyoid muscle crosses the artery, is selected, if possible, as the seat of ligature ; the inner margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle being the guide to the artery. An incision, from two to three inches long, on the inner edge of this muscle, should be so placed that the centre about corresponds to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. (Fig. 152.) The skin, superficial fascia, and platysma are thus divided. Turning the head a little so as to relax the sterno-mastoid, the deep fascia must be cautiously divided, and the sheath of the vessels exposed, with the omo-hyoid crossing it. The thyroid veins, turgid with blood, passing across the sheath of the vessels, and the descendens noni lying in front of the sheath, are drawn to either side of the wound with retractors by an assistant. The operator introducing his finger into the wound, feels the artery beating between the trachea and sterno-mastoid muscle. The sheath is now opened in the usual way, by a pinch up with the forceps and lateral application of the knife; the aneurism-needle should be gently insinuated, on the outer side of the artery, between it and the vein, taking care not to include the pneumogastric nerve in dipping the needle round the vessel; the ligature is then drawn through and secured, without disturbing the vessel. The operation lower down in the neck necessitates the division of the sternal portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles may be drawn to the outer side. Any thyroid veins and the internal jugular, which, on the left side, inclines to the front of the artery, will also thus be avoided; and the ligature is then passed as above. Ligature of the External, and Internal, Carotid. — Surgical Anatomy.—(1.) The external carotid arising from the bifurcation of the common carotid, opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, extends upwards to the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, between it and the mastoid process; there dividing into two branches, the temporal and internal maxillary arteries. (See Fig. 151.) In this526 Si^CIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. course, it lies, at first, on the inner side of the internal carotid and then superficial to that vessel. But its depth varies below and above the digastric muscle, or a line drawn from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone. Below that muscle or line, the external carotid is covered only by the skin and superficial fascia, the platysma, and deep fascia; then, passing beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles and hypoglossal nerve, which cross obliquely, the artery enters the substance of the parotid gland, beneath the facial nerve and the external jugular vein. Here then the artery is deepest, and inaccessible. Posteriorly, the artery rests on the pharynx and the superior laryngeal nerve; and above the angle of the jaw, on the styloid process and glosso- pharygneal nerve, which separates it from the internal carotid. To the inner side is the pharynx, and above, the ramus of the jaw" and stylo-maxillary ligament. On the outer side, the internal carotid lies parallel with the external carotid, at the origin of the two vessels; but this relationship is soon lost, as the external vessel becomes more superficial in passing to its destination. More externally, the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle corresponds to the artery. (2.) The internal carotid, arising from the bifurcation of the common trunk (see Fig. 151), extends upwards to the carotid foramen in the temporal bone ; and there, passing through the carotid canal in that bone, it enters the cranimn. The cervical portion, limited by the carotid foramen, varies in depth—like the external carotid—with its relation to the digastric muscle. Below that muscle, the artery is covered only by the skin and superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia; then passing beneath the external carotid, separated by the styloid process and glosso-pharyngeal nerve—at the angle of the jaw— it lies under the deep surface of the parotid gland, until it enters the carotid foramen. Posteriorly, the artery rests on the transverse pro- cesses of the upper cervical vertebrse ; the rectus anticus major muscle, sympathetic and superior laryngeal nerves, intervening. Internally, the pharynx and tonsil are in contact; and the ascending pharyngeal artery runs up, on the pharynx, between the vessel and the external carotid. Bxternally, the internal jugular vein runs side by side with the artery, and the pneumogastric nerve behind and between the two ; these structures having the same relation as to the common carotid, of which the internal carotid seems to be the continuation. The hypoglossal nerve comes forward between the vein and artery, and passes inwards over the latter to gain the lower border of the digastric muscle, over the external carotid; thus crossing both arteries superficially. The inner margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle corresponds to the artery, externally. Operation.—The neck must be well exposed, as for the ligature of the common carotid. Guided by the sterno-mastoid, an incision along its inner margin—from the angle of the jaw to just above the level of the thyroid cartilage—will lead down to the internal carotid (see Fig. 1.52) ; and a little more internally, to the external carotid (see Fig. 152). The digastric muscle and hypoglossal nerve crossing the latter near the upper angle of the incision, identify this artery. A small aperture is made in the sheath of the vessel to be ligatured, and an aneurism- needle passed betwixt it and the vein; as in the operation on the common carotid.627 LiaATURE OF THE LINGUAL ARTERY. Ligature of the Lingual Artery.—Surgical Anatomy.—Arising from the inner aspect of the external carotid, between the superior thyroid and facial branches, the lingual passes slightly upwards and inwards to the great cornu of the hyoid bone; and above it, continues forwards beneath the hyoglossus muscle, at the interior border of which it gives a branch—sublingual—to the sublingual gland; and then terminates as the ranine branch, along the outer side of the genio- hyoglossus, extending to the tip of the tongue. Having this somewhat tortuous direction, the artery is comparatively superficial below and above the great cornu of the hyoid bone, in this part of its conrse being covered only by the skin, platysma, and fascia; but it is then, crossed by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles passing to the body of the hyoid bone, and the artery enters deeply beneath the muscles ; it is-concealed entii'ely by the mylo-hyoid, as well as overlaid in part by the hyoglossus. Besting on the middle constrictor of the pharynx, the vessel afterwards lies on the genio-hyoglossus muscle, beneath the hyoglossus, and in its course as the ranine artery under the tongue. The hypoglossal nerve, winding round the lower border of the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, passes upwards beneath it, and approach- ing the posterior margin of the hyoglossus muscle, the nerve is there situated above the lingual artery; continued over that muscle to its anterior margin, the nerve has become inferior, and there sinks into the fibres of the genio-hyoglossus muscle, the artery-ranine lying on the muscle. Operation.—The lingual artery can be more readily reached, if necessary, in the superficial part of its course; and the upper border of the great cornu of the hyoid bone will guide to the artery in an accessible situation. Having placed the head so as to expose the digastric triangle under the jaw, an oblique incision should be made from below the symphysis of the jaw, over the cornu of the hyoid bone, to the border of the sterno-mastoid. (See Fig. 152.) Dividing the skin, platysma, and fascia, any veins in the way and the tendon of the digastric may be drawn upwards, and the artery sought, above the cornu and below the nerve. Care must be taken not to penetrate the pharnyx—superior constrictor, on which the vessel here rests; and such caution is especially necessary, as the thin pharyngeal bag rises and subsides under the knife. Application of the ligature presents no special difficulty. Ligature of the Subclavian.—Surgical Anatomy.—The right and left subclavian arteries diifer only iii part of their course ; that portion of the latter vessel which extends from the arch of the aorta to the inner margin of the first rib at the root of the neek, or the thoracic portion of the left subclavian. But this part of the left subclavian artery is never selected for ligature. The subclavian on the right side extends from behind the sterno- clavicular articulation, and the cervical portion of the left subclavian from the first rib, outwards to the lower margin of the first rib; arching, in its course, over the apex of the lung and pleura, and passing between the Rcaleni muscles. Either artery, in this course, may be divided into three portions, for the convenience of description, surgically as well as anatomically. The first portion extends from the sterno-clavicular articulation—or first rib, on the left side—to the inner border of the anterior scalenus;SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 528 tlie second portion, beneath the scalenus; and the third, from the outer border of that muscle to the lower margin of the first rib. The anterior scalenus muscle is thus the boundary between the inner and outer portions of the subclavian artery, and of the middle portion beneath that muscle. (1.) Internal to the anterior scalenus, the artery ascends slightly outwards, and is deeply placed. (Fig. 153.) Covered by the skin, platysma, and fascia, it is also concealed by the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid and by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles Fig. 153.* Deeper still, and immediately in front of the artery crossing it from above downwards, are the pneumogastric nerve and the internal jugular vein; the latter having inclined outwards from the common carotid in the lower part of the neck, leaves a triangular interval between these two vessels. Along the base of this interval lies the subclavian artery; the pneumogastric descends vertically over it, and sends off its re- current laryngeal branch, which hooks up behind the vessel. Posteriorly, the artery is opposite to the transverse processes of the vertebrae, and longus colli muscle, but separated by a cellular interval; in which the trunk of the sympathetic and recurrent laryngeal nerve are in more immediate relation, the latter having hooked round the artery. la- feriorhj, the artery lies on the pleura; and lower down, the corre- sponding portion of the subclavian vein runs transversely inwards to join the internal jugular, in forming the innominate vein, behind the sterno-clavicular articulation. * Subclavian Artery and Nerves.—a, subclavian trunk, giving off its branches, vertebral (ascending), internal mammary (desceiuliug), and the thyroid axis, show- ing two of its branches—the supra-scapular and transverse cervical—cut; h, common carotid; c, external camtid. Nerves : ti, pneumogastric, with recurrent branch passing round the subclavian artery; c, hypoglossal; /, superior laryngeal branch of the pneumogastric; (/, thyroid-hyoid brancli of the hypoglossal; 7t, descendens noni branch, cut; i, phrenic nerve, on the anterior scalenus muscle; k, brachial plexus. (Ellis, " Illustrations of Dissections," reduced.).529 LIGATURE OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. Three tranches arise from the subclavian, in this part of its course : tthe vertebral, ascending to the head through the foramina in the trans- 1 verse processes of the cervical vertebrcs; the internal mammary, de- rscendino- to the chest; and the thyroid axis, a short thick trunk arising ifrom the front of the artery, and dividing into the inferior thyroid, the : supra-scapular, and transverse cervical branches. The first part of the left subclavian is more vertical, the internal jugular and pneumogasfcric incline inwards over the common carotid, I the recurrent branch is given ofE round the arch of the aorta; and thus 1 the artery may be somewhat more free than on the right side. (2.) Beneath the scalenus, the subclavian reaches its highest point ; above the clavicle, is transverse and curved in direction, and placed less deeply than in the first part of its course. Covered by the skin, platysma, and fascia, it has also in front of it the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, and the anterior scalenus muscles ; the latter being ; attached by a flat narrow tendon to the inner border and upper surface of the first rib. (See Pig. 163.) Between the two muscles, the phrenic nerve descends obliquely inwards, lying on the scalenus. Posteriorly, the artery rests on the posterior scalenus muscle; thus passing between the scaleni. Above the artery, in this interval, are the large trunks of the lower cervical nerves which form the brachial plexus. Below, the artery curves over the apex of the lung and pleura. The sub- clavian vein runs transversely inwards, below the level of the artery; the anterior scalenus muscle intervening between the two vessels. One branch only arises from this part of the subclavian, namely, the superior intercostal artery from its posterior aspect, which turns downwards over the neck of the first rib to supply the first two inter- costal spaces. On the left side, this branch springs, commonly, from the first portion of the subclavian; thus making four, or all the branches of this artery, to arise from that part of the vessel. (3.) Beyond the scalenus, the subclavian descends to, the loioer margin of the first rib, and is more superficial than in either of the previous portions of its course. It is situated in the lower or clavicular part of the posterior triangular space of the side of the neck; behind and partly below the middle third of the clavicle. But the depth of the artery below this bone will vary with the elevation of the shoulder, vphereby it may sink altogether below that level. It Ues in a small triangular space, bounded internally by the outer border of the sterno-mastoid concealing the anterior scalenus ; supe- riorily, by the omo-hyoid muscle passing slantingly upwards and inwards to the sterno-mastoid and then beneath it; and inferiorly, by the clavicle. (Fig. 154.) This small space is commonly not more than one inch and a half in extent, from the sterno-mastoid outwards, and about the same from above downwards along that muscle. But these dimensions will vary with the length of the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, and the clavicular attachment of the trapezius. Usually attached, respectively, to the inner and outer third of the clavicle, the muscles in some persons may nearly meet along the whole length of this bone. Then again, the height to which the omohyoid rises above the clavicle considerably affects the vertical length of the space. Its depth varies naturally with the thickness of the neck, and is altered by the position of the shoulder. This portion of the subclavian is covered only by the skin, platysma, 2 It630 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. and fascia, witli some of the superficial descending branches of the cervical plexus; but below, the artery is under cover of the clavicle, and crossed, beneath this bone, by the supra-scapular branch from the thyroid axis. The transverse-cervical branch traverses the upper ' angle, at the junction of Fig. 154.* the omo-hyoid and sterno- mastoid muscles. Here also, the external jugular vein coming downwards over the last-named mus- cle, enters the space to open into the subclavian vein. The artery rests on the pleura and upper surface of the first rib; on which, between the vessel and the tendon of the scalenus, a tubercle may be felt—the guide to the artery. Above is the brachial plexus, consist- ing of three nervous cords, supported by the posterior scalenus muscle; below lies the subclavian vein. No branch arises from this, the third portion of the ai'tery. Operation.—Internal to the scalenus.—Ati'ansverse incision over the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid leads down to the vessel in this part of its course. (See Fig. 162.) But a vertical incision also along the inner border of the muscle may be added, if necessary, for space; and the V-shaped flap of integument raised, with the platysma and fascia. The clavicular portion of the muscle and the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles beneath, are then to be divided transversely, just above the clavicle, and the vessel exposed. The internal jugular vein may be drawn outwards and guarded with a retractor, and the pneumogastric nerve being avoided, the aneurism-needle armed with a ligature should be passed around the artery from below upwards. Beneath the scalenus.—A V-shaped incision should be made, but with the angle looking inwards. (See Fig. 152.) Thus, a transverse incision over the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, from two to three inches in length, is met by a vertical incision about two inches long, rather external to the outer border of the sterno-mastoid; and the flap of skin, platysma, and fascia is raised upwards and inwards. The external jugular vein may be conveniently drawn outwards. The clavicular portion of the sterno-mastoid must then be divided inwards as far as may be necessary to expose the anterior scalenus cleai-ly. The phrenic nerve lying on that muscle, and the internal jugular vein * Posterior Triangle of the Neck, lower portion. 1. Sterno-mastoid muscle. 2. Trapezius. 3. Posterior belly of the omo-hyoid. 4. Anterior scalenus. 5. Middle scalenus. 6. Upper boundary, beyond the subclavian triangle. 7. Subclavian artery—its third part. 8. External jugular vein, joining the subclavian below. !). Nerves of brachial plexus. (Blandin, " Surgical Anatomy," part view, reduced.)531 LIGATURE OP THE AXILLARY ARTERY. isilong its inner border, are to be drawn inwards, and guarded with, a retractor. By partially dividing the muscle with caution, from without inwards, the artery comes into view. The aneurism-needle should be passed from below upwards. Beyond the scalenus.—The shoulder being depressed as low as possible, and the skin of the neck drawn down over the clavicle, a transverse incision is made along the clavicle, extending from the border of the sterno-mastoid outwards to the trapezius muscle, and in depth down to the bone. (See Fig. 152.) The skin, platysma, and fascia are thus divided. On allowing the integuments to resume their place, the incision will rise to just above and parallel to the clavicle. If there be reason, as already explained, to suppose that the artery lies deeply, a vertical incision may be added, as in figure, along the outer border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and meeting the transverse one below at a right angle. The sterno-mastoid or trapezius approaching each other along the clavicle in some cases, either or both these muscles may be here divided sufficiently to reach the artery on the first rib. The external jugular vein should be drawn inwards, and the deep cervical fascia cautiously divided to expose the artery. The supra- scapular artery running outwards nearly nnder the clavicle, must be drawn down, and the omo-hyoid muscle upwards and outwards, thus also guarding the transverse cervical artery at about the junction of the omo-hyoid and sterno-mastoid muscles—the upper angle of the triangular space in which the subclavian lies. This vessel, fawn- coloured, will now be fairly seen; with the three white cords of the brachial plexus above, and the large, turgid, blue subclavian vein below. On passing the finger down the anterior scalenus, the tubercle on the upper surface of the rib can be felt, and thus the situation of the artery ascertained; lying, as it does, on the outer side of the tubercle. Avoiding the subclavian vein, the aneurism-needle should be insinuated between it and the artery, but care must also be taken not to include the lowest of the three nervous cords, as the point of the needle emerges on the opposite side. The depth and narrowness of the space, in some cases, may render this proceeding perplexing, and considerable difficulty may be experienced in fixing the ligature, it being perhaps impossible to reach the vessel with both forefingers. As a substitute. Listen recommended a serre noeud to be nsed—a strong wire, perforated or notched at one end. One only, or two, may be employed, or a double one, according to the judgment of the Surgeon. Of course, the effect on the pulsation below should be ascertained before tightening the ligature. A suture or two having been inserted to bring the edges of the wound together, the limb must be elevated a.nd wrapped in cotton wool to maintain the circulation, as after the ligature of any other main artery. Ligature op the Axillary Artebt.—Surgical Anatomrj. — This vessel—the continuation of the subclavian—extends from the lower border of the first rib, through the axilla, to the lower border of the conjoined tendon of the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles, at its insertion into the inner edge of the bicipital groove of the humerus. (Fig. 1.55.) Curved in its direction, the convexity of the curve looks upwards as the arm lies by the side of the body ; but the artery becomes straight when the limb is raised to a right-angle with the chest. The axillary artery may be divided, for the convenience of descrip-532 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. tion, into three parts : the first above, the second beneath, and the tJiird below the small pectoral muscle. The two first portions are more deeply placed than the third portion of this vessel, which becomes superficial below the great pectoral muscle. Pig. 155.* Posteriorly, the artery lies above, on the first intercostal space and first digitation of the serratus magnus muscle, also the nerve to that muscle—the posterior thoracic or external respiratory of Bell—which, entering the apex of the axilla from the posterior scalenus, crosses underneath the artery. Beneath the small pectoral, the artery is opposite to, but not in contact with, the upper portion of the subscapu- laris muscle; helow that boundary, the vessel lies on the lower part of the subscapularis, and then on the tendons of the latissimus and teres major muscles. Anteriorly^ the artery is covered throughout its course by the skin and fascia; and above, by the clavicular portion of the great pectoral muscle, under which is a prolongation from the costo- coracoid membrane to the sheath of the vessels. The cephalic vein, lying in the interval between the deltoid and great pectoral muscles in front of the shoulder, sinks near the clavicle under the latter muscle, and crosses the axillary artery to open into the axillary vein. It thus penetrates the costo-coracoid membrane, which is also perforated by the acromial thoracic artery—a short trunk from the front of the axillary, and by the outer of th-e two anterior thoracic nerves—a small branch from the outer cord of the plexus, and which crosses inwards over the axillary artery to enter the under surface of the great pectoral muscle. The inner anterior thoracic nerve—a small branch from the inner cord—turns upwards between the artery and vein to enter the under surface of the small pectoral muscle. Beneath the small pectoral, the artery is covered by that muscle and the superimposed part of the pectoralis major. The portion of artery below the small pectoral is overlaid by the lower border of the great pectoral muscle, and then only by the skin and fascia, superficial * Axillary and brachial arteries. — 1. Axillary artery. 2. Long thoracic branch. 3. Subscapular branch 4. Brachial artery. 5. Superior profunda branch. 6 Inferior profunda branch. 7. Anastomotic branch. 8. Biceps muscle. 9. Triceps nerves-median crossiug the artery; ulnar, below. (Quain, " Arteries," reduced.)533 LIGATURE OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. and deep. On the outer side, the coraco-brachialis muscle lies along this portion of the artery, thus completing its muscular relations. Enclosed in a common sheath with the artery are—the axillary vein to its inner side, and the two cords of the brachial plexus, lying to the outer side of the artery above the small pectoral. Beneath that muscle they assume a new arrangement. The lowest, or inner nervous cord, passes to the inner side of the artery, separating it from the vein ; and either cord furnishes a fasciculus, which uniting form a third cord behind the vessel. Near the lower border of the small pectoral, a fasci- culus from either primitive cord, 07iter and inkier, form the median nerve which passes to the outer side of the artery, the fasciculus from the inner cord having crossed over the vessel to join that from the outer cord. Thus the artery is surrounded with nerves in this the second portion of its course, or beneath the small pectoral muscle. Below this muscle, the vessel is even more entirely surrounded with nerves. On the outer side lie the external cutaneous as well as the larger-sized median nerve, both derived from the outer cord; on the inner side, between the artery and vein are the ulnar, internal cutaneous, and nerve of Wrisberg, all derived from the inner cord; and behind the artery are the musculo-spiral and circumflex nerves, both derived from the posterior cord. Three subscapular nerves are also derived from the posterior cord, but these muscular branches have no immediate relation to the artery. Six branches are given off by the axillary artery: the superior thoracic, opposite the first intercostal space; the acromial thoracic to the pectoral and deltoid muscles; the alar thoracic, an inconstant branch to the axillary glands ; the long thoracic under the lower border of the great pectoral muscle to about the sixth intercostal space ; the subscapular branch along the lower border of the muscle so named; and the circumflex branches anterior and posterior, the latter being the larger, encircling the neck of the humerus. Operation.—Above the small pectoral muscle. An incision is made just under the clavicle, extending from near its sternal end to the interval between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, on the inner side of the acromion. (Fig. 156.) The pectoral muscle is next divided to this extent, and the costo-coracoid sheath cautiously opened; then the cephalic vein being drawn to the outer side, thus also protecting the cords of the brachial plexus more deeply placed, the axillary vein is drawn towards the chest, and the ligature-needle passed under the artery from within out- wards. If the trunk of the acromial thoracic artery be wounded, it will bleed almost as profusely as an aperture in the axillary trunk; and the inclusion of either anterior thoracic nerve should be avoided in passing the ligature. Beneath the small pectoral muscle, the artery should not be selected534 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. for operation, owing to its greater depth in that part of its course, and rtiore intimate relation to the cords of the brachial plexus. But the lino of incision is indicated in the figure. Below the small pectoral, the artery is most superficial and acces- sible, particularly beyond the great pectoral muscle. Abducting the arm and bending the forearm will bring the vessel even more to the surface, and also relax the nervous cords surrounding it. An incision about three inches long may be made from the lower border of the great pectoral muscle, downwards over the course of the artery, along the border of the coraco- brachialis muscle, dividing the skin and fascia. (Fig. 157.) The deep or aponeurotic fascia must then be divided. By draw- ing the median nerve to the outside, and the vein to the inside of the wound, the artery can readily be discovered, and separated so as to pass the ligature-needle without including either of the adjoining nerves which lie around the vessel. Ligature of the Brachial Artery.—Stirgical Anatomy.—In con- tinuation of the axillary, the brachial artery commences at the Imver border of the tendon of the latissimus and teres major muscles, and terminates just below the bend of the elbow, opposite the neck of the radius ; where it divides into the radial and ulnar branches. (See Fig. 156.) In direation, this artery winds round the humerus, from above at its internal aspect, to below in front of that bone and the elbow-joint. Throughout its extent, the vessel is superficial; except at the elbow, where it sinks into the flexure of the joint. Covered throughout its course by the skin, superficial and deep fascia, at the elbow the brachial artery is also overlaid by a pro- longation from the tendon of the biceps muscle, and by the median basilic vein horizontally crossing the line of the artery. Behind, from above downwards, it has the following relations. As the vessel lies inside the humerus, it rests on the long head of the triceps muscle and then on its inner head ; inclining to the front, it rests on the insertion of the coraco-brachialis and then on the brachialis anticus muscle, to the bend of the elbow. Thus the artery is supported by muscles throughout its course. At the outer side, the brachial corresponds, above, to the coraco-brachialis, overlaid by the biceps, to about the middle of the arm, or opposite the insertion of the deltoid externally ; and in the remainder of its extent, to the biceps only, as the vessel lies on the brachialis anticus. In the bend of the elbow, the tendon of the biceps passes down, on the outer side of the vessel. In immediate re- lation are two vence comites, one on either side of the artery, and which encircle it with communicating branches; these veins taking the place of the single large axillary vein above, on the inner side of the axillary artery. A superficial vein—the basilic—overlies the bra- chial, separated by the deep aponeurotic fascia, to about the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, or the middle of the arm; there penetrating the fascia, this vein becomes continuous with the axillary. Fig. 157.LIGATURE OP THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. 535 Certain nerves grouped around the axillary artery, in its course beyond the small pectoral muscle, still remain in immediate relation ■with the brachial, and are thus disposed of. The median nerve, lying to the outer side as low as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle, then descends over, or under, the artery, to gain its inner side about two inches above the elbow ; and in the bend of the joint, it is placed on the inner side, about half an inch apart, as the vessel incUnes out- wards to the neck of the radius. This nerve is, otherwise, in contact with the artery throughout its course. The ulnar nerve continues close to the inner side of the brachial artery as low as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis; but there inclining inwards, it passes through the inner intermuscular septum, and, imbedded in the triceps musclcj reaches the interval between the olecranon and inner condyle, thus, losing all relation to the artery. The internal cutaneous is also to the inner side at first, it then lies over and on the artery as far as about the middle of the arm; there, perforating the deep fascia, it loses this intimate relation; its anterior branch, with the basilic vein^ still, however, overlaying the artery. The musculo-spiral nerve remains posterior for about two inches only; then passing backwards and out- wards between the inner and outer heads of the triceps, it winds round the humerus and ceases to have any relation to the artery. Three named biranches are given off from the inner side of the- brachial: the superior profunda, arising near the lower border of the teres major tendon, winds backwards and accompanies the musculo- spiral nerve ; the inferior profunda passes off opposite the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, with the ulnar nerve to the interval between the olecranon and inner condyle ; and the anastomotic, which arises an inch or two above the elbow, has the same destination. Operation.—The brachial artery may be ligatured in either part of its course. In the first portion, or that which corresponds to the coraco- brachialis muscle, the artery is reached as in the thix-d portion of the axillary, and the brachial being less encompassed with nerves, it is more accessible. An incision along the border of the muscle (see Pig. 157), and dividing the skin and fascia, leads down to the vessel. The deep or aponeurotic fascia is then divided, and on drawing the median nerve to the outer side^ the artery, with its vense comites, is exposed, with the internal cutaneous nerve to the inner side or in front of the vessel. Separating this nerve, the aneurism-needle may be passed round the artery from either side most convenient to the ope- rator, avoiding, perhaps, the ven« comites. But I have frequently mcluded one or both such veins in ligaturing a second-sized artery, and without any evil consequence. The second portion of the brachial— that in relation to the biceps— is ligatured in a similar manner. An incision, from two to three inches, long, is made on the iuner border of this muscle (Fig. 157), avoiding the basilic vein ; having reached the artery, the median nerve, crossing it obliquely or at the inner side, may be drawn to that side, with the vein. The artery, with its venae comites, will thus be exposed, and the needle readily passed. The third portion of the brachial—that in the bend of the elbow— requires ligature only for wound of the artery in this situation. The external wound will guide to the aperture in, or the division of, the536 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 158 * vessel; itself lying on the inner side of tlie biceps tendon with the median nerve more internal, by about half an inch. Aneurismal varix and varicose aneurism at the bend of the elbow, owing to communication of the brachial artery and median basilic vein', are both analogous conditions as to the operation for ligature in situ; but they present certain difficulties not met with when the artery alone is wounded. These complications have already been noticed— Aneurismal Varix. Ligature of the Eadtal Artery.—Surgical Anatomy.—The radial artery extends from the bifurcation of the brachial, opposite the neck of the radius, to the eiLd of this bone ; and thence posteriorly through the first in- terosseous space to the palm of the hand. It is thus found in the forearm, the back of the wrist, and palm. In direction, the continuation of the brachial, a line drawn from the centre of the bend of the elbow to the styloid process of the radius, will indicate the course of the radial in the fore- arm. More deeply placed above, between muscles, it becomes quite superficial below as it approaches the wrist. At first on the inner side of the radius, it soon lies over that bone, resting on the following muscles, in order, from above downwards: supin- ator brevis, tendon of pronator radii teres, radial origin of flexor sublimis, flexor longus pollicis, pronator quadratus; and on the end of the radius, above the wrist. In the upper half of this course, the artery runs between the fleshy bellies of the supinator longus externally, and the pronator teres internally, being slightly overlaid by the former muscle; in the lower half, it is between the tendons of the supinator longus and flexor carpi radialis. (Fig. 158.) The radial nerve—a terminal branch of the musculo-spiral in front of the external condyle of the humerus—passes down under cover of the supinator to the outer side of, but not in contact with, the artery as far as the insertion of the pro- nator teres; then lying by the side of the vessel, the nerve passes backwards under the tendon of the supinator and becomes cutaneous, thus losing any immediate relation to the vessel. Throughout its course in the forearm, the artery is covered only by the skin, superficial fascia, and the deep or aponeurotic fascia. The named branches are three. The radial re- current, a branch of some size, is given oi¥ trans- versely under cover of the supinator longus muscle; it supplies the muscles on "the outer side of the forearm, and sends an * Eadial and Ulnar Arteries.—1. Kadial artery, and nerve external. 2. Ulnar artery, and nerve internal. 3. Pronator radii teres muscle. 4. Flexor carpi radialis. 5. Palmaris longus. 6. Flexor sublimis. 7. Flexor carpi ulnaris. 8. Supinator longus. 9. Biceps. 10. Palmar portion of ulnar artery. 11. Continued as super- ficial palmar arch, (Qnain, " Arteries," reduced.) 710537 LIGATURE OF THE RADIAL AND ULNAR ARTERIES. offset upwards to anastomose with the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. The superficial volar, and the anterior carpal branches, arise just above the wrist. Neither of these branches is important in the yig. 159. operation of applying a ligature to the radial trunk, except the first. Operation.—In the ?tj:»pej- or deeper part—an incision along the inner or ulnar margin of the supinator longus (Fig. 159), and through the deep fascia, will lead down to the artery, which is some- what overlaid by that muscle; its fibres being dis- tinguished by their vertical direction from those of the pronator teres, obliquely crossing the line of incision. Drawing the supinator, and with it the radial nerve, outwards, the artery is seen with its vense comites, one of which commonly lies in front. In passing the needle, it is unimportant whether it be included and ligatured. Lower doivn and superficial towards the wrist, an incision on the outer or radial side of the flexor carpi radialis tendon (see Fig. 159) leads to the vessel, under the deep fascia; lying about midway between this tendon and that of the supinator longus. The radial nerve is here quite out of the way, and the ven^ comites are unimportant. On the back of the wrist, and in the palm, the radial is tied only for Wound, and at the wounded point. In the former situation, as the artery passes from the end of the radius to the apex of the first interosseous space, it is crossed by the tendons of the three extensors of the thumb, suc- cessively ; the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and the extensors, primi and secundi internodii pollicis. Either of these tendons may guide to the wounded artery. Ligature of the Ulnar Artery.—Surgical Anatomy.—The ulnar artery extends from the hifurcation of the brachial, opposite the nech of the radms, to the end of the ulna; thence into the palm, to join with the radial in forming the palmar arches, superficial and deep. In direction (Fig. 160), it arches from its commencement, inwards towards the ulna, and then downwards; thus not appearing to be the con- tinuation of the brachial, although the ulnar is of larger size than the radial branch. More deeply placed above between muscles, it becomes quite superficial below as it approaches the wrist. At first, it rests on the insertion of the brachialis anticus into the coronoid process of the ulna; curving inwards and downwards, it lies on the flexor pro- fundus. In the upper half this course, the artery passes hetioeen the flexor profundus and four, of the five, muscles arising from the inner condyle of the humerus, which overlay and cross the vessel in their direction from within outwards; namely, the pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and, beneath these three, the flexor digitorum sublimis. Then passing between the flexor carpi ulnaris and digitorum sublimis, and overlaid by the former muscle, in its lower half the artery is between the tendons of the flexor ulnaris and sublimis, the former tendon somewhat overlaying it. The ulnar nerve (seeSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 538 Fig. IGO.* Fig. 160), entering the forearm between tbe attachments of the flexor ulaaris to the inner condyle and olecranon, approaches the artery under cover of tbat muscle, and from about the middle of tbe forearm, continues down on the inner side of the vessel to the wrist; the nerve being even more concealed by the flexor ulnaris tendon. A small brancb of this nerve descends in front of the lower part of tbe artery, to tbe skin of the palm; both artery and nerve passing over the annular ligament to the hand. The median nerve, to the inner side of the vessel at its commencement, crosses over to tbe outer side, and loses all relation to the artery. Throughout its course, the ulnar artery is covered by the skin, super- ficial and deep fascia, as well as by the superficial layer of muscles, above; below, only by the integuments. The named branches of this artery are five: anterior ulnar recurrent, and posterior ulnar recurrent, both arising close to the elbow-joint and passing upwards to com- plete the anastomosis around the joint; the interosseous trunk, the largest brancb given off, passes backwards to the interosseous membrane, there dividing into anterior and posterior branches; the metacarpal brancb, arising near the wrist; and carpal branches, anterior and posterior, anastomosing with corresponding offsets of the radial, across the front and back of the wrist. Neither of these branches is important in the operation of applying a ligature to the ulnar trunk, except the third or interos- seous. Operation.—In the uijper or deeper part, an incision along the radial border of the flexor carpi ulnaris will lead down to the vessel as it lies between this muscle and the flexor digitorum sublimis (see Fig. 159) ; the fibres of the former muscle being distinguished by their more vertical direc- tion from those of the sublimis, obliquely crossing the line of incision. Separating these muscles, the ulnar nerve will probably be out of tbe way, internally; the artery is seen and the ligature passed. More difiiculty, however, may be experienced in a * Deep view of Arteries in the Forearm.—a, pronator radii teres muscle, n flexor longiis pollicis; c, flexor digitorum profundus; e, flexor carpi ulnaris; F, supinator longus; a, radial artery; h, cutaneous palmar branch; G, artery; d, recurrent branch; e, anterior interosseous artery; /, branch with median nerve; g, brachial trunk. 1. Median Cutaneous palmar branch. 4. Ulnar nerve. " Illustrations of Dissections.") nerve. 2. Anterior interosseous. 3. 5. Cutaneous palmar branch. (Ellis,LIGATURE OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA, AND ILIAC ARTERIES. 539 muscular arm, than with the corresponding portion of the radial arterj. Loiver doion and superficial towards the wrist, an incision (see Fig. 159) along the radial side of the flexor carpi ulnaris tendon leads to the vessel, under the deep fascia, and perhaps somewhat overlaid by the tendon. The ulnar nerve, more under cover, is drawn inwards, and the ligature passed between it and the artery. On the annular ligament of the wrist,and in thepahn,the operation in performed only for Wound, and at the wounded point. Ligature of the Abdominal Aorta; and of the Iliac Arteries, Common, External, and Internal. — Surgical Anatomy. — The ab- dominal aorta, lying on the bodies of the lumbar vertebras, inclines downwards to the left, and divides opposite the left side of the fourth lumbar vertebra, into two common iliac arteries, a right and a left. Either common iliac extends from the bifurcation of the aorta at this point, to opposite the intervertebral cartilage between the fifth or last lumbar vertebra and base of the sacrum—about two inches in length. (Eig. 161.) It there divides into two trunks or branches, external and internal iliacs: the external extending from this point, along the psoas muscle internally, to the lower border of Poupart's ligament; the internal extending from the same point, downwards and outwards on the pyriform muscle, to the sacro-sciatic foramen, about one inch and a half only in length, and smaller in size than the external iliac. The relation of the companion veins of these arteries is primarily important in their Surgical Anatomy. Eor the convenience of descrip- tion the companion veins may be taken from above downwards. The vena cava inferior, lying on the vertebral column to the right of the abdominal aorta, is situated also to the outer side of the right common iliac artery at its commencement; dividing into two common iliac veins, the right continues on the outer side of the corresponding common iliac artery, and then passes beneath it, the left common iliac vein also passing beneath that artery above. Thus, the right common iliac artery lies on both these veins. The left com- mon iliac vein, emerging from beneath the right artery, near the bifurcation of the aorta into both common iliacs, proceeds to the right or inner side of the left common iliac artery. The common iliac veins dividing at, or near, the bifurcation of the common iliac arteries ; the right external iliac vein passes beneath the right external iliac artery to the left or inner side, where it is found at Poupart's ligament; the left external iliac vein lies entirely on the right or * B, Vena cava, inferior; c, abdominal aorta, dividing into common iliac arteries; I, external iliac vein, with external iliac artery; m, internal iliac vein and artery; o, Inmbar veins ; p and g, spermatic veins. In the Thigh, 7c, femoral vein; joined by i, internal sapheuous vein.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 640 inner side of the loft external iliac artery; and hoih the internal iliac veins are posterior to the corresponding internal iliac arteries, the right being somewhat external to its artery. The muscles in relation to these arteries are:—the psoas, on the oater side of the common iliac, at its termination; and then along the outer side of the external iUac to its termination, where the artery lies on the muscle at Poupart's ligament; this muscle is also near the internal iliac at its commencement, the external iliac intervening, while the pyriforvi muscle is behind this artery, on which it rests and on the lumbo-sacral nerve. In front, the j3enio?iewm overspreads these three arteries, the internal iliac being contained in the fold that forms the posterior ligament of the bladder. Branches of the sympathetic nerve, proceeding from the aortic plexus in front of the lower part of the aorta, descend over the common iliac to the hypogastric plexus in the upper part of the concavity of the sacrum. The inferior mesenteric artery crosses the left common iliac. The ureter crosses sometimes the common iliac of its side, but generally the external and internal iliac, the former at its commencement, the latter lower down. The external iliac, near Poupart's ligament, is overlaid by the spermatic vessels and genital branch of the gejiito-crural nerve, proceeding obliquely inwards to the internal abdominal ring; it is crossed out- wards by the circumflex iliac vein, and inwards, just above the ligament, by the vas deferens turning down on the inner side of the artery. The abdominal parietes are interposed between the aorta and iliac arteries and any operations on these vessels. They consist of the skin and superficial fascia; the tendon of the external oblique muscle, the internal oblique and transversalis muscles; the transversalis fascia, and peritoneum, which are loosely connected about the situation of the internal abdominal ring, where the spermatic cord passes through the abdominal walls. Operation.—The iliac arteries, external, internal, and common, and even the aorta, may be reached by Pig. 162. the same line of incision ; com- mencing a little above the middle of Poupart's ligament—where the cord passes through, and carried outwards and upwards, nearly parallel with the ligament, to about the anterior superior spine of the ilium, or as far higher as may be necessary. (1.) To reach the external iliac, this incision may terminate near the anterior superior spine. (Fig. 162.) The skin and superficial fascia only are first divided. The bluish-white tendon of the ex- ternal oblique is next carefully, divided to the same extent; ex- posing the spermatic cord as it passes under the lower margin of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, in the lower angle of the incision. These muscles should now be divided with great caution, and the dull wlute transversalis fasciaLIGATURE OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. 641 recognized beneath. Raising this fascia with the forceps, at its thinnest and loosest part, near where the cord passes, an aperture is made, nsing the knife laterally ; the finger should then be gently introduced between the fascia and peritoneum, and the former divided to the full extent of the external wound. The peritoneum, thus exposed, can then be detached with the fingers from its loose cellular connection in the iliac fossa, and drawn to the middle line, without damaging this membrane. Retractors are of use in retaining it there, or the fingers of an assistant may be preferable. The fawn-coloured artery is seen on the inner border of the psoas muscle, crossed generally by the white tape-like ureter above ; unless the peritoneum be raised to a higher point, when the ureter, adhering to that membrane, will be raised with it. Lower down, the artery is crossed obliquely inwards by the spermatic vessels, and genital branch of the genito-crural nerve. Between these two points, the aneurism-needle can be passed most readily, with the usual precaution of introducing it between the artery and vein, here below. (2.) The internal iliac is reached by the same incision, carried a little further upwards and inwards, above the dotted line. (See Fig. 162.) This artery also is crossed by the ureter, which may be raised with the peritoneum ; the companion vein is somewhat posterior, and the external iliac vein outside, at the commencement of the vessel. (3.) The common iliac can be reached by prolonging the incision upwards, and curving it inwards, to the extent of six inches (see Fig. 162); and there is always an advantage in having the incision below near the middle of Poupart's ligament—the loose connection of the transversalis fascia with the peritoneum, in that situation, facilitating the detachment of the latter membrane and raising it from the artery, Avhich is the most critical part of the operation. The common iliac artery will be found by tracing up the external iliac along the border of the psoas muscle. But high up the trunk ceases to have this immediate relation to the muscle, and is most intimately related to venous trunks ; on the right side, the common iliac vein lying exter- nally, and both it and the left common vein passing behind the artery ; while on the left side, the vein lies immediately internal to the artery. Their dark blue colour and large size contrast with the smaller, fawn- coloured artery. The ureter, like a white band, may perhaps cross the artery on either side ; and the inferior mesenteric artery is always in front, on the left side ; but generally both it and the ureter are out of the way. (4.) The aldoviinal aorta may be reached in the middle line, as by the operation devised and performed by Sir A. Cooper. Taking the precaution of having the bowels well emptied, an incision was made through the linea alba, three inches in length, its centre corresponding to the umbilicus (see Fig. 162) ; the peritoneum was then opened to about the same extent—the intestines, having been emptied, did not protrude. Passing the finger down between their convolutions on to the spine, the aorta was felt beating strongly. The peritoneum was scratched through with the finger-nail, and the finger being insinuated under the aorta, an aneurism-needle was conveyed round it, and the ligature tied. Ligature of the Femoral Artery, Common and Superficial.— Snrr/ical Anatomy.—The femoral artery, a continuation of the external iliac, extends from the lower border of Poujmo-t's ligament to the apertureSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 542 Fig. 1G3.* in the adductor mar/nus muscle, at the junction of the middle and lower third of the femur, internally. In the upper third of the thigh, the artery lies somewhat internal to the head of the femur; in the middle third, the remaining portion of the vessel in- clines to the inner side of the shaft of the femur. In point of depth also, the first part is superficial and un- covered by muscle; the second part is deep and covered by muscle—the sartorius. In the upper third of the thigh, the femoral artery is contained in Scarpa's triangular space. (Fig. 163.) This space is bounded above by Poupart's ligament, forming the base; and laterally by the sartorius muscle on the outer side, and the adductor longus on the inner, meet- ing below in the apex. The artery passes down through the middle of this space, from mid-base to apes. But the length of the space, and con- sequently of this portion of the femoral, varies with the height at which the sartorius muscle inclines inwards and the breadth of that muscle. The artery lies on the psoas muscle, slightly tilted to its inner side under Poupart's ligament, then over the pectineus muscle separated by the profunda artery and vein in cellular tissue, and then on the femoral or companion vein, whicb intervenes between the femoral artery and adductor longus muscle at the apex of the space. Entering Hunter's canal, the artery—in this the middle third of the thigh—lies on the adductor longus, and lastly, on the adductor magnus, to the aperture of exit in that muscle. (Fig. 164.) The artery is thus slung as it were, close to the femur, on the insertions of these two muscles into the linea aspera; and it is bounded ex:ternally by the vastus internus muscle, wrapping round the inner surface of the femur to the linea aspera. Covered in the iipper third of the thigh—Scarpa's triangle, only by the skin and superficial fascia, the deep fascia or fascia lata, and by the inguinal glands; in the middle third—corresponding to Hunter's canal, the artery is also covered by the sartorius muscle, lying vertically over its course, and by an aponeurotic covering under this muscle, stretching across between the vastus internus and the tendons of the two * Scarpa's triangle.—A, sartorius muscle; b, iliacus; c, tensor fascifc latse; I), rectus fcmoris; E, pectineus; F, adductor longus; g, gracilis, a, Femoral Artery; superficial circumflex iliac (the superficial epigastric and the deep cir- cumflex iliac brandies are adjoining); c, deep epigastric; e, superficial pudic. inferior; 7; saphenous vein. Nerves: anterior crural, outside the artcrj'. 2. Branch to pectineus. .3. Middle cutaneous. 4. Internal cutaneous, f). Genito-crural. 6. External cutaneous. (Ellis, " Illustrations of Dissections.")LIGATUBE OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. 543 aforesaid adductor muscles, thus completing the canal through which the artery passes. The femoral artery and vein, the latter lying to the inner side under Poupart's ligament, are enclosed in a loose tubular sheath, formed by a prolongation in front from the transversalis fascia of the abdominal wall, and behind, from the fascia iliaca; narrowing downwards around the femoral vessels, to about two inches in extent below the ligament, this sheath becomes continuous with the common cellular sheath which also invests the vessels within the special or crural sheath. The outer border of this sheath is straight, the inner oblique ; and, from about half an inch below Poupart's liga- ment, the inner border corresponds to the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, itself about one inch and a half in length. The curved falciform process of Burns—bound- ing the outer margin of this open- ing—is that portion of the iliac part of the fascia lata which over- lays the sheath of the femoral vessels ; and the upper cornu of this process stretches inwards to join the base of Ginibernafs ligament— thus giving the outer margin of the saphenous opening a direction downwards and inwards. Behind the sheath of the femoral vessels, the pubic or inner portion of the fascia lata passes outwards over the pectineus muscle. Enclosed within the sheath, the femoral vessels are separated by a cellular septum; and another septum to the inner side of the vein, forms a third or inner compartment—the crural canal, which is unoccupied otherwise than by a lymphatic gland, excepting when a femoral hernia descends through it to the saphenous opening. The crural branch of the genito-crural nerve perforates the outer side of the sheath in fivnt of the artery, and then pierces the fascia lata near Poupart's ligament to become subcutaneous. A small branch from the anterior crural nerve, above Poupart's ligament, descends on the artery. The long, * Deep part of the Femoral Artery.—a, femoral artery; b, profunda, or deep femoral branch; c, internal circumflex, its commencement, passing baclvwards; d, f^xternal circumflex; e, superficial circumflex iliac; f, external pudic—inferior branch, superior branch above; g, aponeurosis over the lower part of the femoral artery ; H, anterior crural nerve; i. pectineus muscle; J, adductor longus ; K, gracilis; I-, vastus internus; m, rectus femoris; n, sartorius, cut. (Quain, " Arteries." reduced.)544 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. internal, saphenous vein on the inner aspect oi the thigh, enters the saphenous opening to join the femoral vein; and some superficial lymphatic vessels also enter this opening to pass through the crural canal to the abdomen, _ Continuing the course of the femoral vessels downwards in the thigh helow the sheath, the vein still lies to the inner side of the artery, hut winding behind it is then found on the outer side, at the upper border of the adductor longns ; passing out of Scarpa's triangle, and -«*ith the artery entering Hunter's canal, the vein is still to the outer side, and it so passes through the opening in the adductor magnus. The anterior crural nerve, under Poupart's ligament, lies on the outer side of the femoral vessels, but not enclosed in their sheath ; being about half an inch distant, and separated by the tendon of the psoas muscle, on the inner side of which is the artery. The nerve lying in the groove between that muscle and the iliacus externally, it appears as a large, white, flat band, which soon divides into a superficial or cutaneous and a deep or muscular part. The superficial part gives off the middle and internal cutaneous nerves of the thigh, and the internal saphenous nerve. The middle cutaneous pierces the fascia about three inches below P'oupart's liga- ment, and dividing into two cutaneous branches which descend on the front of the thigh, it thus loses all relation to the artery. The internal cutaneous inclines obliquely inwards over the femoral artery, and divides into two branches : the anterior, descending on the sartorius muscle to the middle of the thigh, and there piercing the fascia lata; the intex'nal, descending along the inner border of that muscle to pierce the fascia on the inner side of the knee. The internal or long saphenous nerve—the largest of the three superficial branches—descends on the outer side of the femoral artery; entering Hunter's canal under the vertical portion of the sartorius, it lies with the femoral vein still to the outer side of the artery, but somewhat posterior to the vein, and external to the cellular sheath containing it and the artery. At the opening in the adductor magnus, the saphenous nerve leaves the femoral vessels on their becoming popliteal; it is continued beneath the sartorius muscle to the inner side of the knee, there to pierce the fascia between the tendons of the sartorius and gracilis muscles. About the middle of the thigh, a communicating branch ci'osses in- wards beneath the sartorius to join an offset of the internal branch of the internal cutaneous, and another from the anterior division of the obturator comes down in front of the abductor brevis to the lower border of the abductor longus. These three offsets here form a sort of plexus, beneath the fascia lata. The deep or muscular part of the anterior crural nerve (see Fig. 164) divides into a brush of branches, which have more or less relation to the artery externally, towards the apex of Scarpa's triangle. Disap- pearing under the sartorius to enter the muscles, they supply that muscle, the rectus femoris, the vastus exteimus, and vastus internus— the branch to this muscle descending near the internal saphenous nerve, which it nearly equals in size; a small branch or two also crosses inwards behind the femoral vessels to the pectineus muscle. Branches of the Femoral Artery.—The external pudic—two branches, an upper and a lower—pass inwards over the pectineus muscle, but under the fascia lata, to the skin of the penis, and the545 LIGATUBE OF THE FEMOBAL AETEBY. scrotum or the labium pudendi; tlie superficial epigastric and super- ficial circumflex iliac pass, the one forwards through the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, and then upwards in the superficial fascia on the lower part of the abdomen, the other branch outwards across the psoas and iliacus muscles, under the fascia lata, towards the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The deep femoral branch or the profunda is nearly equal in size to the continuation of the femoral artery after giving off this, the largest branch. Hence the femoral trunk is spoken of as the common femoral artery, this large deep branch as the deep femoral, and the continuation of the common trunk as the superficial femoral artery. The deep femoral arises from the outer and posterior part of the common femoral artery, from an inch to two inches below Poupart's ligament. Inclining outwards over the iliacus muscle—and there giving from its outer side the external circumflex branch, and near it, the internal circumflex branch from the inner and back part of the vessel—the artery curves inwards and downwards over the pectineus, behind the femoral vessels, to gain their inner side; and passing behind the adductor longus, this deep artery continues down between that muscle and the short and great adductors ; there dividing into three perforating branches, which penetrate these muscles close to the linea aspera, to reach the muscles at the back of the thigh. The profunda lies, successively, in front of the iliacus and pectineus, the adductor brevis and adductor magnus, muscles. ■ Placed at first to the outside, and crossing inwards behind the superficial femoral, it then runs parallel to it, but deeper by the thickness of the adductor longus muscle beneath what it passes. (See Pig. 164.) The deep femoral vein accompanies the course of the artery, but superficial to it; thus being interposed between the deep and superficial femoral arteries. And where the deep artery crosses inwards behind the super- ficial artery, the superficial femoral vein passes outwards between these vessels ; thus making both femoral veins between the two arteries at that point—about the apex of Scarpa's triangle; just below which, the long adductor muscle Fig. 165. separates the arteries and their accompanying veins. The anastomotic branch, the last-named branch of the (superficial) femoral, passes off near the opening in the adductor magnus; it gives a superficial offset with the saphenous nerve, and a deep articular one in front of the tendon of the adductor, which arches outwards across the front of the lower end of the femur. Operation.—(1.) The common femoral artery may be ligatured, by an incision over its course, between the inferior margin of Poupart's liga- ment and the origin of the deep femoral— about one to two inches below. (Fig- 165.) But the results of this operation have been most unsuccessful, owing to the shortness of the trunk in this situation, and consequent freedom of the collateral circulation. (2.) The superficial femoral is easily reached as it passes out of Scarpa's triangle, under the inner border of the sartorius muscle. If 2 N646 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. the limb be rotated outwards, a line drawn from midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior spine of the ilium, down- wards to the inner side of the patella, will about indicate the direction of the vessel. An incision, in this line, three or four inches long and passing over the sartorius, leads to the artery in some part of the incision where that muscle crosses the artery. (See Fig. 165.) If the outline of the sartorius be perceptible, as in a thin person, the inner border of the muscle will be the best guide; along which the incision may be made. Dividing the skin and superficial fascia, and avoiding any large branch of the saphcna vein, the thin blui.sh-white fascia lata should then be cautiously divided or sHt up on a director to the same extent. A branch of the internal cutaneous nerve may now be seen, and avoided, lying on the sheath of the vessels. The artery, with the vein inclining from the inner side behind it—to gain the outer side—are to be gently separated; and the needle introduced between them. Proper care must be taken to avoid wounding the vein or including it in the ligature; and the usual precaution observed of testing the aneurismal pulsation, by compression with the finger on the presumed artery, before tightening the ligature. In Hunter's canal, the superficial femoral was originally ligatured by John Hunter for popliteal aneurism, in the operation which he introduced (see Pig. 165) ; but it is not practised now-a-days, on account of the difl&culty of reaching the artery in this the deep part of its course, compared with the facility of applying a ligature in Scarpa's triangle. Ligature of the Popliteal Artert.—Surgical Anatomy.—In con- tinuation of the superficial femoral, the pop- FiG. 166.* liteal artery extends from the opening in the adductor magnus, over the back of the lower third of the femur and knee-joint, to the lower horder oi the j)opliteus muscle; where it bifurcates into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. It thus passes through the popliteal space or ham. (Fig- 166.) In direction, this artery inclines from the inner side of the thisrh—itS' lower third—to the middle of the knee-joint, posteriorly, and thence descends vertically to its termination. The depth of the vessel is greatest above the joint, and comparatively superficial over it, but deeper beneath the heads of the gastroc- nemius muscle, to the lower border of the popliteus. The popliteal artery lies at first opposite to, but not in contact with, the lower third of the posterior surface of the femur, which curving forwards occasions the interval; then, the posterior ligament of the knee- joint; and lastly, beneath the gastrocnemius, on the popliteus muscle, * Popliteal space—1. Popliteal vessels. 2. Internal popliteal nerve. 3. Ex- ternal popliteal. 4. Semi membranosus muscle. 5. Semi-tendinosus. 6. Biceps. 7 and 8. Heads of the gastrocnemius; short saphenous vein between, entering the popliteal vein. (Quain, " Arteries," reduced.)LIGATUEE OF THE POPLITEAL AETERY. 547 The lateral relations of the artery are the mnscles bounding the pop- liteal space. (See Fig. 166.) This space is formed by an interval between the attachments of the muscles, behind the knee, to the condyles of the femur. The popliteal space is lozenge-shaped when the muscular boundaries are allowed to fall aside, by removal of the ensheathing fascia lata. The flexor or hamstring muscles of the thigh diverge over the lower third of the back of the femur to their insertion ; namely, the biceps, externally to the head of the fibula; the semi-tendinosus and semi-' membranosus muscles, internally, to the tibia, the sartorius and gracilis muscles also intervening between them and the femur; below, the fleshy heads of the gastrocnemius converge from their origin above the outer and inner condyles of the femur, and unite just below the joint,—but above the lower border of the popliteus muscle. The plantaris muscle also, arising from the line above the outer condyle under cover of the gastrocnemius, forms an additional lateral boundary to the popliteal space, externally. The popliteal artery extends through the popliteal space, and a little way lower down than its inferior boundary—the united heads of the gastrocnemius, for the artery terminates at the lower border of the popliteus muscle. A small branch of the obturator nerve, from the plexus in the middle of the thigh, descends upon the femoral artery, and into the popliteal space, on the popliteal artery. The popliteal vein and internal popliteal nerve—one of the divisions of the great sciatic—accompany the artery through this space, and beyond it; having the same extent as that vessel, or to the lower border of the popliteus. The vein is superficial to, and in contact with, the artery. Above the joint, it lies somewhat to the outer side of the artery; over the joint, it overlays and conceals the artery between the heads of the gastrocnemius; and under that muscle, it inclines across the artery lying to its inner side at the lower border of popliteus. The nerve, superficial to the vein, has the same relations to it, and thence to the artery beneath the vein. Thus above, the nerve lies to the outer side of the vein; over the joint, on the vein between the heads of the gastrocnemius ; and under that muscle, it crosses the vein—and artery beneath—lying to its inner side at the lower border of the popliteus. The external popliteal nerve—the other division of the great sciatic—descends obliquely outwards along the outer side of the space close to the biceps muscle, to just below the head of the fibula; having, therefore, no relation to the artery. Overlapped above by the muscles, bounding the space, especially by the semi-membranosus, the popliteal artery is thus concealed, as well as partly by the vein and nerve, and also by a quantity of fat, in which are embedded a few small lymphatic glands around the artery; over the joint, the artery—with the vein and nerve—is covered only by the skin, superficial fascia, and fascia lata; but below the joint, by the gastrocnemius also, beneath which the small fleshy belly of the plantaris muscle crosses inwards over the popliteal vessels and nerve. The fascia lata, ensheathing the limb, holds the muscles together, and con- ceals the popliteal space; the line of separation between the muscles bounding the space, being indicated only by a slis^ht vcrHcal depression on the fascia lata, in the middle line. The small sciatic nerve descend-SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 548 Fig. 167. mg along the back of the tHgh, beneath the fascia, nearly corresponds with this depression ; and a little below the knee it perforates the fascia to become subcutaneous. The external or short saphenous nerve, a branch of the internal popliteal, descends, beneath the fascia, between the heads of the_ gastrocnemius to the middle of the leg; perforating the fascia, it is joined by a communicating branch from the external popliteal, and accompanies the external saphenous vein. The external OT short saphenous vein coursing up the back of the leg, in the super- ficial fascia, passes between the heads of the gastrocnemius, and perforates the fascia there, or lower down, to enter the popliteal vein. It thus lies over the course of the short saphenous nerve, separated by the fascia lata. The Branches of the popliteal artery are not of much importance, surgically. Supplying the muscle, and the joint, the latter branches are the superior articular—^inner and outer; the inferior articular— inner and outer; and the azygos, which enters the back of the joint through the posterior ligament. Operation.—The popliteal arteiy is reached by a vertical incision, in the middle line, from about three inches above the centre of the popliteal space and carried down to the extent of four inches. (Fig. 167.) Dividing the skin, superficial fascia, and fascia lata, the tendon of the semi-tendinosus is exposed internally, and the incision continued cautiously along its outer border. The internal popliteal nerve and the pop- liteal vein are seen, particularly the latter, lying superficial to, and somewhat to the outer side of the artery. Slightly flexing the joint, the semi-tendin- osus and semi-membranosus muscles are drawn inwards with a curved retractor; the vein being gently separated from the artery, it is protected in like manner externally, thus bringing the vessel more clearly into view; and the aneurism-needle should then be passed from without inwards, be- tween the vessels. LlGATTJEE OF THE ANTERIOR TiBiAL Artert.—Surgical Anatomy.— The anterior tibial artery extends from the bifurcation of the popliteal, at the lower border of the popliteus muscle, to the front of the ankle- joint; thence to the posterior part of the first interosseous space, it is named the dorsal artery ot the foot. Directed, at first forwards, through the aperture above the interosseous membrane, the anterior tibial passes downwards and forwards to the foot. (Fig. 168.) Situated ex- ternally to the shaft of the tibia, in the upper two-thirds of its extent, the artery inclines in front of the tibia, in the lower third. Deeply placed above, between the muscles, in the upper two-thirds of its course, it becomes superficial below, between their tendons, and in front of the tibia and ankle-joint. The anterior tibial artery rests on the interosseous membrane, and then on front of the tibia and ankle-joint. It lies between the muscles above; first, between the tibialis anticus internally, and the extensor longus digitorum externally, in the upper third of its course ; and then between the same muscle internally, and the extensor proprius pollicis externally; but beneath the anterior annular ligament, the tendon of649 LIGATURE OF THE ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. the latter nmscle crosses over the vessel to the inner side. The vencB coinites surround the artery with cross branches, particularly above. The anterior tibial nerve—a division of the external popliteal—winds round from below the head of the fibula between it and the peroneus longus muscle, then inwards beneath the extensor longus digitorum, and, between the tibialis anticus and ex- tensor longus, it inclines downwards to Fig. 1C8.* the artery about the middle of the leg; crossing the vessel once or twice in its course, the nerve is still external at the ankle-joint. Overlapped laterally by the fleshy bellies of the three muscles between which it lies, the artery is covered only by the skin, superficial fascia, and apo- neurotic fascia ; but beneath the anterior annular ligament, it is crossed by the tendon of the extensor pollicis from without inwards. The aponeurotic fascia is attached to the crest or spine of the tibia and to the outer margin of the shaft of the fibula; thus binding dovm the muscles in their relative position. Intermuscular septa, indicated by white vertical lines, pass in between the muscles, dividing them into three groups: an anterior extensor group of three, between the shafts of the tibia and fibula; an external or peroneal division of two, on the outer surface of the fibula; and the flexor muscles, on the back of the leg. The extensor muscles are separated by an intermuscular septum between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digi- torum. This septum can be readily recognized through the integuments when the foot is extended, the fleshy bellies of the muscles above rising up, and thus indicating the line of the septum. The anterior annular ligament of the ankle, a thickened portion of the aponeurotic fascia, consists of an upper and lower portion; in the latter there are three sheaths for the tendons of the extensor muscles—an inner one for the tibialis anticus, an outer for the extensor longus digitorum, and a middle intermediate sheath for the extensor pollicis. The artery behind the latter tendon is separated from it by the sheath. The tranches of the anterior tibial artery are muscular offsets and named branches: the recurrent, ascending in the tibialis anticus to the * Anterior Tibial Artery.—1. Tibialis anticus muscle. 2. Extensor pollicis and extensor longus digitorum muscles drawn outwards. 3. Part of the anterior annular ligament. 4. Anterior tibial artery; anterior tibial nerve external. (Quain, " Arteries," reduced.)OOt) SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. knee-joint; and malleolar, internal and external, wliicli pass horizoa- tally over the ends of the tibia and fibula. The dorsal artery of the foot, continuing the anterior tibial from the front of the ankle-joint to the posterior part of the first interosseous space, sinks into the sole of the foot to communicate with and coin- pleto the plantar arch. In its course, the artery res^s on the astragalus, scaphoid, and internal cuneiform bones ; it lies between the tendon of the extensor pollicis internally, and the inner tendon of the extensor brevia digitorum externally, as far as about half an inch before the artery sinks into the sole, where this tendon crosses obliquely over to the inner side; the vessel is covered, otherwise, only by the skin, super- ficial and aponeurotic fascia, here a very thin membrane. Two vence comites accompany the vessel, also the anterior tibial nerve, which still lies external; becoming cutaneous in the first interosseous space, to supply the opposed sides of the great toe and the next. The branches are—a tarsal branch, which arises opposite the scaphoid bone, and passes under the extensor brevis to the outside of the foot; and a metatarsal branch, which forms an arch across the foot, under the extensor, near the bases of the metatarsal bones. Operation.—The intermuscular septum is the best guide to the anterior tibial, between the fleshy bellies of the tibialis anticus and extensor communis, and continued down between the former muscle and the extensor pollicis. Or, a line drawn from the inner side of the head of the fibula to the centre of the ankle, Fig. 169. vrill indicate the vessel, throughout its course. Tn the upper third of the leg, an incision from two to three inches in length, between the extensor communis and tibialis (Fig. 169), leads down to the artery, deeply placed under cover of the latter muscle. The anterior tibial nerve, distant to the outer side, is here out of the way. On drawing the tibialis muscle inward, the artery is seen with its venfB comites, and the ligature may be passed from either side of the vessel. In the lower two-thirds of the leg, an incision, less in length and depth, will find the artery between the less fleshy portions, or between the tendons, of the extensor pollicis and tibialis anticus (see Fig. 169) ; but in the lower third, the artery inclines in front of the tibia, with the tendon of the former muscle approaching to cross over it. The anterior tibial nerve, from about the middle of the leg, may be seen accompanying the artery and its venae comites. Drawing the tendons aside, with the nerve, the vessel is easily ligatured from either side. The dorsal arterij of the foot can be readily reached by an incision along the outer side of the tendon of the extensor pollicis (see Fig. 169), dividing only the skin, supei-ficial fascia, and aponeurosis. The artery is seen between this tendon and the inner tendon of theLIGATURE OF THE POSTERIOR TIBIAL ABTERY. 651 extensor brevis digitorum, externally, or wliicli may pass over it to tbe great toe Ligature of the Posterior Tibial Artbrt.—Surgical Anatomy.— Continuing the popliteal artery from its bifurcation at the lower border of the popliteus muscle, the posterior tibial thence extends to the lower border of the internal annular ligament; there terminating in two plantar arteries for the sole of the foot. Its direction, at first, is vertical midway between the tibia and fibula, but inclining inwards it descends over the lower end of the tibia, posteriorly, and then in the middle of Very deeply placed 170* /a B the hollow between the inner ankle and heel, above, under the muscles of the calf, it becomes more superficial, behind the tibia and inner malleolus. The posterior tibial artery lies at first on the tibialis posticus muscle, but passing inwards, on the flexor longus digitorum and lower end of the tibia and ankle-joint. In the upper half of its course, the artery lies hetiueen the tibialis posticus and the fleshy bellies of the gastroc- nemius and soleus muscles, which conceal it; in the lower half, it lies between the tendo Achillis and inner margin of the tibia. (Fig. 170.) Behind the inner malleolus, the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis is external, and the tendons of the tibialis and flexor longus digi- torum are between the artery and the malleolus. Two vencB comites surround the artery with cross communicating branches. The posterior tibial nerve (Fig. ] 71), a continuation of the internal popliteal at the lower border of the popliteus muscle, lies internal to the artery for about one inch and a half; but crossing to its outer side, it continues to have that relative position down the leg to the interval between the malleolus and heel, there lying immediately to the outer side of the vessel, between it and the tendon of the flexor pollicis. Covered by the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, as far as the middle of the leg (Fig, 170), the artery below is covered only by the skin, superficial and aponeurotic fascia. The annular ligament—a thickened band of the aponeurosis—stretches across between the inner malleolus and os calcis. It sends inwards three sheaths for the tendons of the flexor muscles; an inner one for the tibialis posticus, behind which is another for the flexor longus, and ex- ternally, near the os calcis, is a third for the flexor pollicis. * Muscles of the calf of the Leg; Vessels and Nerves.—A, gastrocnemius, cut; B, soleus; o, plantaris ; d, somi-membranosus ; ic, somi-tendinosus ; f, tendo Achillis; a, popliteal artery; h and e, articular branches; d, internal saphenous vein; c, external saphenous. 1. External popliteal nerve. 2. Internal popliteal. 3. Short saphenous, out. (Ellis, " Illustrations of Dissections.")SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. 552 _ Branches-The peroneal, almost equal in size to the posterior tibial arises about one inch and a half below the border of the poplitens Fig. 171 * muscle, where the posterior tibial nerve crosses the artery to the outer side ; passing onwards between the muscles to the fibula, it descends somewhat under cover of that bone and in the fibres of the flexor pollicis, to the aperture below the interosseous membrane; there send- ing a branch forwards, and another between the tibia and fibula to the outer side of the foot. Other branches of the posterior tibial are of smaller size; some are muscular in the course of the artery, and an anastomotic Fig. 172. communicating brancli passes outwards across the lower end of the tibia. Operation.—High up, under cover of the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, the posterior tibial may be reached by a free incision between the margin of the tibia and the gastrocnemius. (Fig. 172.) This incision must be continued down to the tibial origin of the soleus, which is then to be divided; both these muscles are drawn back, aided by flexure of the leg and extension of the foot to relax the muscles; the artery with its vense comites will thus be found, and the nerve to * Posterior Tibial Artery.—A, popliteus muscle; B, outer portion of soleus, cut ; c, inner portion, cut; d, tibialis posticus ; e, flexor digitorum ; f, flexor pollicis ; G, peroneus longus; h, peroneus brevis ; i, tendo Achillis ; a, popliteal artery; band' c, articular branches; d, anterior tibial artery; e, posterior tibial artery, and /, its communicating branch to the peroneal artery; g, peroneal; h, continuation of the peroneal to the outside of the foot. 1. Internal popliteal nerve. 2. Muscular branch of posterior tibial. 3. Posterior tibial nerve. 4. Cutaneous plantar. (Ellis, " Illus- trations of Dissections.")553 DISEASES OP ABTERIES. the outer side or crossing to that position. The introduction of an aneurism-needle and securing the ligature may prove very difficult, owing to the depth of the vessel. This operation was condemned by Mr. G-uthrie, as "difficult, tedious, bloody, and dangerous;" and he proposed a substitute, which was practised by Mr. Ai'nott in a case where he ligatured the posterior tibial artery for a wound of that vessel, high up. Having applied a tourniquet to the femoral or popliteal, an incision, six or seven inches long, is made down the middle of the calf of the leg, over the skin-wound, as nearly as possible, or leading down to the artery at its wounded point. The gastrocnemius and soleus muscles must be divided freely, their opposed surfaces being recognized suc- cessively as tendinous expansions ; the under surface of the soleus having been reached, the muscles are held aside with curved retractors, and a thin bluish-white aponeurotic septum, between the muscles of the calf and the tibialis posticus, comes into view. Immediately beneath, this septum the posterior tibial vessels and nerve will be found, lying on that muscle. But, as in the arm, the horizontal 'process of the aponeurotic fascia which thus separates the superficial and deep layer of muscles, is commonly very indistinct and indeed merely cellular in the upper part of the leg. Scraping away this thin membrane, the artery is ligatured above and below the wounded point, including, probably, the yense comites and some surrounding muscular tissue. Lotv down, behind the inner malleolus, the artery can be readily secured by an incision midway between the malleolus and the tendo Achillis. (See Fig. 172.) Dividing only the skin, superficial fascia, and aponeurosis, the artery is found with the nerve to its outer side. By extending the foot, and turning it slightly inwards, to relax the flexor and tibial muscles, the ligature can be at once passed and tied. The i^eroneal artery may be reached by an incision along the enter border of the fibula, between it and the gastrocnemius. The flexor longus poUicis must then be either partly divided or drawn outwards, when the artery will be found in the fibres of that muscle and running close under the fibula. The ligature must be passed as best the Surgeon may be able. This operation, like that on the posterior tibial higher up, is more easily described than done. CHAPTER XXYIII. DISEASES OF ARTERIES. Arteritis.—Structural Conditions.—Inflammation of any portion of the ai'terial system produces structural alterations in the coats of the vessel, similar to those resulting from inflammation of any other texture. Increased vascalarity, and interstitial exudation of fibrinous matter, renders the coats of a bright red colour, thickened and pulpy; theSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 554 interior of tlie artery, in particular, has a crimson line, as thougli some irritating fluid had been injected into the vessel, and it is lined with a slight lamella of lymph here and there, whereby the coats becoming fused, the vessel loses its elasticity. The blood within the vessel coagulates and forms a plug, which more or less completely blocks up the vessel, thus rendering it impervious as a blood-conveying tube, and below which the calibre of the artery is somewhat contracted. This plug, conical in shape, consists partly of a yellowish fibrinous exudation, occupying its base and adhering to the interior of the vessel, and partly of ordinary black coagulum, which forms apparently on this inflammatory portion, and, tailing off to some distance, is not adherent to the vessel. This condition is denominated Adhesive Arteritis. In- flammation, with the apparent secretion of pus, instead of fibrine, from the interior of the vessel, may perhaps occur sometimes, and it is probably of a spreading character; but whether this puriform matter be true pus, or disintegrated fibrine, remains, I think, to be determined by further observation. This condition constitutes the Suppurative and Diffuse Arteritis of some authors. The Symptoms of Arteritis are referable both to the vessel affected, and to the part which it supplies with blood. Induration, and a cord- like feeling of the vessel when passed under the finger, arises from the thickening of its coats, and coagulation within the tube. Pain of a twofold character is experienced; a superficial sensitiveness of the skin over the artery, and a deep burning or lancinating pain in the course of the vessel, and striking through the limb. But any redness or heat in the inflamed part will scarcely be perceptible. The pulsation is pecuharly thrilling or jerking, but it diminishes gradually, and at length ceases. Below the part supplied by the vessel, the temperature declines, accompanied with a sensation of weight and fulness, and a loss of voluntary power. Grangreneis imminent. The general symptoms are those of inflammatory fever, speedily subsiding into prostration. Oauses.—Arising usually from some form of injury—a blow, a strain, a wound, or the application of a ligature—arteritis may also proceed from some constitutional condition of obscure nature. Some blood- condition, probably, representing what is termed a broken constitution, seems to be the cause of the diffuse form of arteritis. The traumatic and constitutional modes of origin may co-operate. Course and Terminations.—(1.) Absorption of the coagulum may take place, the artery regain its natural calibre, and the circulation be fully restored. (2.) Or the coagulum remaining and extending, gan- grene, in the dry form of mortification, supervenes, the arteiy be- coming contracted and obliterated as a fibro-cellular cord. Grangrene may be prognosticated, in proportion to the degree of occlusion, its suddenness, and the size of the arterial trunk. Absorption, or rather, transmission of the fibrinous exudation in a state of disintegration, or of pus if secreted, would seem to occur in some cases, and give rise to the symptoms of Pycemia. This event is, perhaps, more especially incident to diffuse arteritis. Treatment.—Local blood-letting, by means of leeches applied in the course of the vessel, and warm fomentations should be followed by calomel and opium, to prevent fibrinous exudation, and alkaline salines to promote disintegrative solution of the coagulum. But certain measures, remedial in relation to inflammation or its consequences m555 DISEASES OF AETEEIES. other textures, are here inappropriate; the arterial system, in part at least of its extent, being- itself the seat of inflammation. Thus, stimu- lants, in their beneficial influence on the general circulation, might increase the exudation of fibrinous matter within the vessel inflamed, and induce gangrene. Stimulating applications also, as mercurial inunction, to promote absorption of the exudation would be similarly- hazardous. The treatment of gangrene, medicinally, and with reference to amputation, and also of any pysemic symptoms, presents nothing peculiar. ' Degenerations op Arteries.—In the course of life, the arterial system, more especially, undergoes certain degenerations of structure, which, apart from their intrinsic pathological interest, have great practical importance; both with regard to the diseases of organs and textures generally, and with reference to the consequences of such changes in the vessels themselves. But these degenerations of arterial texture relate primarily, and almost entirely, to the inner and middle coats of the vessels, the external or cellular coat remaining unaffected, or even passing through changes of an opposite character; this difference being due to the vascularity, and therefore higher nutrition, of the external coat. Degeneration leads to destruction of the inner and middle coats of an artery; hyper-nutrition of the external coat sup- plies a compensatory, albeit at length ineffectual, provision for the preservation of the continuity of the vessel. The degenerations to which arteries are subject are of three kinds: cartilaginous, atheromatous, and ossification. These deteriorative altera- tions of structure differ in, at least, five important particulars: the kind of matter deposited; its seat, with regard to the arterial coats; and the appearances presented; the changes which take place in the deposit, and in the arterial coats, with corresponding alterations of appearance; the vessels which are principally affected in the arterial system. (1.) Cartilaginous degeneration.—Cartilaginous patches are apt to form on the free surface of the inner or membranous coat, lining the arteries; partly in the aorta and large vessels, especially at the offset of branches, but principally in the smaller arteries, where these patches are more frequent and numerous. Commencing in the form of a substance having a semi-fluid or gelatinous consistence, and a pale yellow or reddish colour, this exudation from the membrane, or perhaps deposit from the blood-stream, appears as a layer of greater or less extent, upon the inner surface of the artery. With any such gelatinous layer may be associated other deposits, in which the sub- stance is more consistent, white and opaque, like boiled white of egg; and others, again, which present the appearance of cartilaginous patches. There seems, then, to be a gradual transition from the former to the latter or more complete condition of this degeneration. The lining membrane of the artery becomes so adherent to, or identified with, these patches, that they may be said to lie in contact with the middle coat. Certain changes may take place in connection with the cartilaginous plates. "When several such plates are grouped together, they become overlaid with a thin, pellucid membi^ane, as if a layer of the inner membranous coat was continued over them. The walls of the artery are thickened, and less elastic; and the inner surface of the556 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. vessel, retaining its polished appearance, is finely puckered. Occa- sionally, a cartilaginous plate may become partly detached, and thus approach to the formation of a breach of surface—an ulcer; while the projecting eminence within the artery offers a nucleus for the gather- ing around of fibrinous deposit from the retarded blood-stream. But the cartilaginous patches are never subject to any intrinsic change, by softening or ossification. Such, at least, is the result of Hasse's obser- vations ; Audral and other pathologists have recognized the change of ossific transformation. Atheromatous, or Fatty Degeneration.—Atheromatous matter is ori- ginally seated between the internal and middle coats of the artery affected, or partly between the muscular fibres of the latter tunic; appearing in the form of patches, of a yellowish.-white colour, and opaque, flattened or slightly elevated, and fairly defined in outline; thus presenting a diJferent aspect from the inner surface of the artery in other portions of its extent. Even so abundant may be the athero- matous substance as to form lumpy protuberances within the artery. The aorta and large-sized arteries are mostly subject to this kind of degeneration. As age advances from mid-life, or earlier, some such atheromatous patches may be found after death from any cause. The atheromatous matter consists of fat-particles, with scales of chole- sterine and amorphous granules; baving a variable consistence, from that of firm putty to pultaceous or puriform matter. This fatty deposit, or educt of degeneration, is very liable to either of two changes of opposite character: softening and liquefaction, or hardening into an ossific deposit. Disintegration of the middle and internal coats of the artery accompany either of these two transformations. Softening of the atheromatous matter is attended with disinte- gration of the middle coat of the artery, which gradually loses its fibrous texture, becoming friable, and of a yellowish colour; then, the inner membrane of the vessel disintegrates, cracks, and at last dis- appears, forming an ulcer, corresponding to the former atheromatous patch. The ulcer which results from these destructive changes is set in the artery, its base being the external cellular coat, with any remains of the middle tunic; it has thus an uneven surface, while the edges are flattened and ragged. The softened atheromatous sub- stance having escaped, and been washed away by the blood-stream, the artery, attenuated at the spot of ulcei'ation, is exposed to the force of the current, beating on the bare external coat. Aneurismal dilata- tion would invariably ensue, or perforation of the artery, with sudden, and perhaps fatal, internal haemorrhage. But the external coat, always vascular, acquires even greater vascularity, and becomes thicker and stronger, offering a more resisting support, as the athero- matous degeneration pursues its destructive com-se. The other two coats do not share in this compensatory adjustment to the impinging force of the blood-current. No vascular development, in these mem- branes, besets the ulcer; its margins and base acquire a deep grey or blackish colour; while around the circumference, small fibrinous clots are gathered from the blood, and disposed sometimes in stratified layers, accumulating yet more and more. Rarely, an atheromatous ulcer heals; the inner surface of the artery is then marked with a black depression, in a puckered cicatrix ; leaving the artery, however, weak at that spot. Ulceration occurs more commonly in the aorta,DISEASES OF AETERIES. 657 particularly in its abdominal portion; rarely in the second and third sized arteries. . ^ , , • Ossification or Calcareous Degeneration.—Calcification, Lretvfication. ipiiig ]jind of degeneration may be consequent on the atheromatous, or it may occur independently, {a.) As a sequel of atherornatous deo-eneration, ossific transformation of the arterial texture, consists of thin scales, having a brittle consistence and pale yellow colour. They are seated between the inner and middle coats of the artery; and lying immediately beneath the inner membrane, these scales look what, indeed, they are—ossified atheromatous patches, and can be readily felt in' the walls of the vessel, between the thumb and finger, giving a thickness and rigidity to the Tig. 173.* substance of the artery. In this form the _ degene- ration is sometimes named laminar ossification. (Pig. 173.) But the deposit is not truly ossific, in the sense of having the structure of bone; that would imply a development, and to a high degree of structural formation, quite opposed to the nature of structural degeneration. The quasi-ossific de- posit consists—as Valentine and others have shown —of earthy particles, having a round, annular, or irregular shape, with radiating prolongations; this earthy or cretaceous matter being set within a pel- lucid, somewhat laminated, and finely granular organic texture. The scales, thus constituted, thicken and extend, with disintegration and disappearance of the fibres of the middle coat; while the inner membrane, adherent to the scale, cracks at the centre, and perhaps, at last, wastes away, thus approaching to the state of atheromatous ulceration within the artery. The bony scale becomes loosened, and partly detached from the remnant middle coat; in this state, or perhaps enlarged to a rough eminence, it may project within the vessel, more or less obstructing the canal, and gathering fibrinous coagula from the impeded blood-current. In this way an artery becomes partly occluded, as well as contracted or narrowed by increasing thickness of the adjoining parietal deposit; forming a more or less rigid and inelastic tube. Thence, probably, the origin of a general or circumferential dilatation of an artery, under the constantly expansive force of the blood-stroke; as in the aortic arch. But ^ at any spot weakened by an upturned bony scale within the vessel, there the artery is liable to true aneurismal dilatation into a sac, or there spontaneous rupture may occur. (6.) Ossification taking place independently of previous athero- matous deposit, differs in some particulars from that already described. This second form of the degeneration was clearly defined by the ob- servations of Audral and Lobstein. The ossific or cretaceous matter, consisting of phosphate and carbonate of lime-granules, is still deposited betwixt the inner and middle coats of the artery, but invading the latter tunic, which has lost its fibrous texture, owing to disintegration and atrophy. The inner surface of the vessel, therefore, assumes a dotted and rough granular appearance; while the walls feel somewhat rigid and inelastic. Arteries of the second and third size are chiefly affected with this form of ossification. The changes which the deposit • Middlesex Hosp. Mus,558 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 174. passes througli are also peculiar. The inner membrane of the artery rarely becomes involved. But the granular matter may be disposed in transverse streaks, at length forming complete rings around the interior of the vessel; sometimes named annular calcifica- tion. (Fig. 174.) Then the artery may acquire an alter- nately constricted and dilated condition ; the enlargements corresponding to the intervals between the rings, and where the walls are thinned by the atrophic disintegration of the middle coat, without the support of the substituted ossific deposit. Sometimes, by coalescence of closely arranged adjoining rings, the artery becomes converted into a rigid, inelastic tube ; as may also occur more often, from the conjunction of bony scales, in the other form of ossific degeneration; and this change of appearance has been named tubular calcification. Another, and very rare, form of the deposit is described by Bizot, in which the calcareous granules are disposed in linear direction upon the inner membrane of the artery; primarily, in elliptical groups, afterwards having the shape of irregular scales. They seem to originate in transverse cracks of the inner coat, which gather the cretaceous granules around their edges. The different kinds of degeneration — the cartilaginous and the atheromatous—are not unfrequently found associated, and in the same artery; and with atheroma, or where softening is taking place in one patch, there may be ossification co-existing in another and neighbour- ing patch. Hence the varied appearances which an artery or the arterial system may exhibit, when examined in states of degeneration. The relative frequency of degeneration, in its diiferent forms, varies, however, in different arteries. This diversity has already been noticed. Commencing with the aorta, this parent trunk is the chosen scene of these deteriorative and destructive changes in the arterial system. Chiefly affecting the posterior surface of the aorta, and where branches are given off, degeneration extends downwards, through the thoracic and abdominal portions of the artery. Ossification, as affecting different arteries, proceeds in the following order of frequency, according to Lobstein's arrangement:—" Arch of the aorta, end of the common iliac artery, thoracic aorta, splenic artery, abdominal aorta, femoral artery and its branches, spermatic artery, hypogastric and its branqhes, coronary arteries of the heart, branches of the subclavian, bifurcation of the common carotid, the cerebral carotid, branches of the external carotid, arteries of the thoracic and abdominal walls, brachial artery and its branches, twigs of the umbilical, arteries of the substance of the brain, pulmonary artery." If this order of procedure be taken as an approximation to the truth, it will at least tend to correct the apparently arbitrary selection which is sometimes assigned with regard to different arteries, respecting their liability to ossific degeneration. The symm.etrical distribution of arterial degeneration, on both sides of the body, may be accepted as an almost invariable law, as shown by Bizot. Causes.—The originating cause of degeneration, as affecting the arterial system, is obscure, and cannot be discussed here with much practical advantage. In whatever form degeneration may appear, itDISEASES OF ARTERIES. 559 is a manifestation of declining nutrition, witli disintegration and atroplij of the natural texture-elements, and the substitution of a new material, of a lower organization, or perhaps merely inorganic; thus resulting in a transfoi'mation, which is incident to advancing life, or which may occur prematurely. Age, therefore, implies a natural pre- disposition to degeneration. This change becomes more frequent and extensive, and the various retrogressive transformations become more complete, in proportion to the age of the individual, from mid-life downwards. Yet, on either side of life's zenith, there are exceptions ; premature ossification of the arteries having occurred in some rare cases at the early period of a year and three months, and at only 3, 8, 18, and 24 years; while, on the other hand, in quite old age, some persons are exempt from any arterial degeneration. Such exceptions, however, only verify the rule, and this—^with regard to ossific de- generation of the arteries—is supported by the results of chemical analysis respecting the proportionate amount of earthy matter in healthy arteries, at successive periods of life. Thus, Gmelin found that the amount of earthy matter in the coats of the arteries progres- sively increases as life advances ; that in a newly born infant, the ash of these vessels yields only 0"86 per cent, of phosphate of lime; in the adult, 125 ; in an old man, 2"77; and in an aged man, 4"01 per cent, of earthy matter. Bat constitutional predisposition is evinced by the marked tendency to arterial degeneration in persons under the influence of certain blood-poisons or diseases; notably, in connection with albu- minuria from chronic kidney-disease, in chronic rheumatism and gout, in constitutional syphilis, and in phthisis. How the morbid blood- conditions in these diseases impair nutrition is doubtful; perhaps sometimes by inducing an inflammatory process, the products of which may pass into the retrograde states of atheromatous and cretaceous matter. Sex does not seem to have any special influence on arterial degeneration ; males and females, of the same age, being about equally often affected; or women somewhat less frequently, and at a later period of life. But, in the two sexes, different arteries are more especially liable to degeneration ; according to Bizot, the arteries of the upper limbs,- in women ; those of the lower limbs, and the coronary arteries of the heart, in men. Consequences.—Arteries which have structurally retrograded into the various states of cartilaginous, atheromatoas, and ossific trans- formation, have thus more or less lost their elasticity and resiliency, whereby the blood-streams through such vessels are misdirected ; or the vessels being converted perhaps into rigid tubes, they are unfitted to transmit a varying quantity of blood ; or having become narrowed, and partially occluded, they transmit less blood than may be required. Consequently, in the organs or parts depending on a due supply of blood for their nutrition and functions, degeneration of their arteries is not only attended with various functional disturbances, but structural alterations or diseases of the organs ensue, in various forms of mal- nutrition, and which have fatal tendencies or terminations. The principal effects and consequences of arterial degeneration are as follows :—Symptoms of defective or deficient circulation, as manifested by coldness in the extremities, spasmodic and neuralgic affections ; atrophy and degeneration of organs, as of the heart, when the coronary arteries are diseased, causing angina pectoris and sudden death;SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. 560 softening, as of the brain, when the cerebral arteries are affected; hcBmorrhage, from rupture of a degenerated vessel; secondary hiBmor-' rhage, after ligature; aneurism, from partial rupture, or dilatation, from general expansion of the artery ; gangrene, as in the leg, from' contraction and partial occlusion of the main arteries in the limb. Ossification of Arteries and Senile Gangrene.—Ossification or calcareous degeneration of the coats of arteries — relating to the principal arteries of the leg—was noticed by Thomson and Hodgson, in connection with the dry form of mortification or mummification of the toes and feet; and which being incident to old age, is known as Senile Gangrene. Sir B. Brodie more particularly investigated the pathology of this disease, and according to his observations the structural changes are summarily these:—In the leg, calcareous degeneration of the larger arteries, and fibrous thickening of the smaller ones, are accompanied with a more or less inelastic and con- tracted state of the vessels, and perhaps the coagulation of fibrine within them; conditions which, together, produce a partial or complete obliteration of the channels through which arterial blood should be supplied. Symptoms.—In either or both legs, numbness, coldness, and weak- ness are experienced from a defective supply of arterial blood; these symptoms come and go, being present whenever circumstances demand a more active circulation, which the unyielding arteries can- not allow ; absent when a sluggish circulation is sufficient. Thus, rest, posture, and warmth may maintain this sufficiency; while active exercise, and any posture or pressure that further impedes the circulation, is soon attended with a sense of weakness in the limb, numbness, and coldness. Flying pains in the limb, or fixed pain in a spot, are sometimes ex- perienced. Under these functional symptoms, as affecting one or both legs, gangrene is always more or less imminent. Senile Gangrene.—Qommencixig, generally, on the pnlpy portion of one or more of the toes, a port-wine red colour or a black discolouration appears, preceded by inflammation, or by a stinging sensation, or by numbness and coldness, &s premonitory symptoms; but frequently without any such precursory local symptom. Soon a vesicle arises over this discoloured spot, or more than one vesicle. The vesicle or vesicles burst, disclosing the true skin in the blackened state of sphacelus. It is encircled with a dusky red hue. This death-warrant advances, perhaps slowly, extends over the toes and back of the foot, uniformly and symmetrically, followed up by the black shade of sphacelus. The accompanying pain is usually severe, though intermittent. Spreading up to the instep, senile gangrene presents the appearance as if the foot were thrust into a black slipper trodden down towards the heel. The dead part is black, shrunken, and mummified—the very type of dry gangrene. If both feet be effected, a pair of black hoofs is presented. (See Fig. 77.) It spreads to a variable extent; gaining the ankle, life usually succumbs to the consequent constitutional depression; occa- sionally, it may extend as high as the knee, or even to the thigh. But the limitation cannot be predicated, the causative condition of the arteries being undeterminable in its extent. Nature alone decides the "line of demarcation" betwixt the living and dying parts. The accompanying constitutional disturbance or fever is of the typhoid type. Rarely, senile gangrene may occur in the fingers, a case having been seen by Billroth.561 DISEASES OF ARTERIES. Causes.—The inelastic, and contracted or obliterated state of the arteries, is frequently a lyredisijosing condition only, althongli maintain- ing the gangrene when established. Some slight injury to the foot— an abrasion, scratch, or wound—is commonly the immediate cause, the gangrene being so far traiomatic. Sir B. Brodie offers a reasonable explanation. Daring inflammation, an increased supply of arterial blood is reqiiired, and the arterial trunks leading to the inflamed part become dilated so as to permit this extra quantity; but, when these vessels are ossified, they lose their dilatability and power of accom- modation, the greater supply of blood demanded by inflammation is withheld, and the part perishes. Age is certainly a predisposing cause, in virtue of the degenerative changes which the arteries, in common with other textures and organs, undergo as life advances. Hence, ossific degeneration of the arteries is liable to occur in persons past the middle period of life, say fifty years of age; those who are old in years, or in those who are prematurely old for their years. Either sex is liable to this degenerative change, though perhaps not equally so. The duration of senile gangrene is uncertain. It may continue for a few weeks or months, even a year, and terminate fatally. Or, if limited to a toe or two, the part may be detached naturally, by the formation of a line of demarcation and ulcerative severation, or be removed surgically ; and in either case the patient recover. Treatment.—Preventive measures—in those who have had, from time to time, premonitory symptoms—will consist in the avoidance of the circumstances which, disturbing the circulation, are the immediate causes of senile gangrene. Hence, attention to rest, posture, and uniform warmth of the legs by clothing must always be primarily important; for this gangrene commences usually after a walk, long standing, or exposure to cold. Then again, the Surgeon should avoid the slightest operation, even the laying open of a sinus on the foot, if the patient has been subject to premonitory symptoms. Sir B. Brodie relates a case in his early practice, where such an operation—trifling in itself—gave rise to inflammation, gangrene of the whole foot on the following day; and in two days more death ensued. The treatment of senile gangrene is both local and constitutional. The local indication is this: to solicit the formation of a line of demar- cation or limitation of the gangrene, and thus also restrict the extent to which it might otherwise have spread. Consequently, means must be taken to maintain the temperature of the foot or feet, in order to difliuse the local circulation and sustain the vitality of the part; a con- dition necessary for nature to declare the line of severation between the living and dead portions. Cotton wadding or carded wool, in the form of a padding, deeply enveloping the limb, answers most effectually. This appliance was originally used by Mr. Vance, of Grreenwich Hospital. The casement may be lightly retained in a silk handkerchief, sewn up. It need not be reapplied for some days; the gangrenous part being previously covered with lint soaked in chlorinated, carbolic, or other antiseptic lotion; or an ointment, which is less apt to dry, may be used, consisting of resin ointment with creosote. During the process of separation, reparative closure of the vessels, by adhesive inflamma- tion, should be promoted by poulticing or an epithem of spongio-piline soaked in warm water. When the soft textures are detached, the bones may be sawn through, and the otherwise natural amputation 2 0SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 562 aided by this amount of surgical interference. Any earlier or more actual amputation -would occasion some haemorrhage, or might excite inflammation, and thus perhaps start the gangrene afresh. The ulcer left by the part removed, is a simple or healthy, healing sore. There- fore, during gi-auulation and cicatrization, water-dressing may suffice, or a slightly stimulant lotion, as balsam of Peru, pure or diluted, with an equal part of yolk of egg. Subsequently, the internal cause of gangrene—ossification of the arteries—still being persistent, exposure to cold must ever be avoided, and the circulation cherished by the patient wearing thick woollen socks and flannel drawers. Constitutional treatment will depend on the stage of the disease. During the typlioidal fever consequent on gangrene, prior to closure of the vessels, supporting measures are indicated; an easily assimilated diet of principally animal food, with malt liquor, and wine or alcoholic stimulants. Bark, ammonia, and chlorate of potash should be re- garded as accessory only, in the form of a medicinal tonic and stimu- lant ; a judicious restriction, which Sir B. Brodie more particularly inculcated. Opium is peculiarly eflficacious; the tincture being given in small but repeated doses, to the amount of two to four grains in the twenty-four hours, and increased as the system is brought under its influence. The value of opium in senile gangrene was, I believe, originally advocated by Pott, and it is confirmed by the experience of Dupuytren, and of most modern Surgeons. But the supervention of headache or any disturbance of the digestive organs would suggest its discontinuance ; even then, the hypodermic injection of morphia offers an advantageous substitute for its internal administration. During the inflammatory fever which accompanies occlusion of the vessels, in the separation of the gangrenous part, or when such febrile commotion may be otherwise present, opium should still be adminstered, to supjDress the nervous excitement, while it sustains adhesive inflam- mation, and the general circulation and strength be supported by moderate diet, with a mild tonic and stimulant plan of treatment. Topical measures to regulate the inflammation would probably provoke gangrene. VEINS. CHAPTER XXIX. INJURIES. VARICOSE VEINS.—PHLEBITIS. Wounds oe Veins.—See Wounds, Ch. XVI. Aneurismal Varix, and Varicose Aneurism,—See Aneurism, Ch. XXV. Varicose Veins, or Varix.—Structural Conditions and Diagnosfie Characters.—Varix signifies an enlarged, elongated, knotty, and tortu-VARICOSE VEINS, OR VARIX. 663 ous condition of the veins of a part; the knotty enlargements corre- sponding to the sinuses behind the valves in these vessels. Thickening or thinning of the coats of the veins, at different points, and destruction, wholly or partially, of the valves, accompany these more perceptible changes of size and outline. Certain more mimde changes in the coats and valves of varicose veins are thus described by Hasse ; changes which constitute different forms of varix, and represent the order of their occurrence :— " In persons affected with a morbid preponderance of the venous system, we first of all observe an undue prominence of the veins of the skin. These appear in dense nets of branches, remarkable for their diffuse distribution, and are generally turgid with blood, or liable to become so from the slightest mechanical or dynamical causes—like what, under ordinary circumstances, would be the effect of violent and prolonged muscular exertion. In this condition of the veins, their coats have not undergone any absolute change, being eveiywhere pro- portionate to the width of the calibre; the vessels are not more than usually tortuous, and cannot as yet be called morbidly altered. "After a while, however, the veins become permanently dilated, and more distinctly prominent (JFig. 175), an oc- currence more frequent in elderly than in young persons. This is brought about by a reinforce- ment of the fibrinous texture of their external coat, in the shape of an accession of conspicuous trans- verse fibres. Meanwhile the internal membrane remains unchanged in structure, merely displaying numerous lines or superficial furrows running lengthwise, and the vessel still maintains its natural course, not assuming a more sinuous, but rather a straighter direction. It does not collapse on section, but remains patent, and is distinguishable from the arteries by its colour, which is of the same pale red as the fibro-felt texture constituting the normal external membrane of a vein. The valves remain unaltered. In this condition the saphena is frequently found in old persons, so also are certain branches of the vesical plexus, while other branches manifest still further changes. " In the greater number of instances, however, the external membrane of the vein is not thickened, but, along with the other membrane, presents considerable attenuation, in proportion as the vein becomes more and more dilated. Conformably with their irregular disposition, the intermediate fibres give way unequally, allowing the internal membrane to jut out in sac-like 'protrusions, and to establish so many irregular, constricted, pear-shaped, and often in appearance, pedicu- lated tumours. At the commencement of some of the smaller branches, the membrane thus forma pouch-like dilatations, or forces itself be- tween the longitudinal fibres of the external membrane in lengthy protuberances, which exceed in circumference that of the vein in its natural state; or it may, perhaps, distend cylindrically and pretty equably for a considerable length the intermediate fibres before alluded * Saphena vein; showing enlargement,, anrl varicoBe state, as seen under the integument. Royal Coll. Surg. Mu.s., ITJ'Ja.SPECIAL- PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 564 to. Meanwhile the valves become attenuated, and pulled asunder transversely, so as to be useless; in many instances they become partially or wholly obliterated, or are torn into shreds, or destroyed as far as their free border, which then runs across the diameter of the vessel like a filament or band, attached by the two extremities to the internal membrane. The veins now appear elongated, and their course very tortuous:' (Fig. 175.) The Mood, at first fluid, is liable to coagulation, occluding the channel of a varicose vein. A sensation of weight, fulness, and even pain, accompanies this double obstruction to the venous circulation—varicosity of, and coagulation within, the veins. But the symptoms referred to are not peculiar to this con- dition ; and they are increased by exercise and the erect posture. The veins most liable to become varicose are the subcutaneous and submucous. The internal saphena, and less so, the external saphena, are peculiarly liable; and form the varicose veins commonly seen. Less commonly affected are the veins of the arms, abdominal parietes, th.e chest, external jugular in the neck, and the superficial veins of the head. The lower hsemorrhoidal veins around the anus, and the lower portion of the rectal mucous membrane, are frequently varicose ; form- ing hEemorrhoids or piles, external or internal. The spermatic veins, around the cord in the scrotum, are not unfrequently affected, when the disease is named varicocele. Sometimes the veins connected witli the pudic vein, as in the scrotum, or the nymphee. Of deep-seated veins, those most liable to become varicose are the prostatic veins, the internal jugular, and the vena azygos. Causes.—Any occasion of pressure on a venous trunk, or any cardiac obstruction to the free return of venous blood, or want of pro- pulsive power of the heart, will induce varix. The veins of the lower extremities are so commonly the seat of this condition, owing to their distance from the heart, and the influence of gravitation. Habitually excessive walking exercise, or a standing occupation, operate in like manner. Wearing a tight garter below the knee, and the enlargement of the uterus during pregnancy, well illustrate the production of varicose veins by pressure on the saphena or iliac veins. Disease of the liver and rectal constipation have a similar relation to hfEmor- rhoids. Certain predisfosing causes may be noticed. The want of support by surrounding textures predisposes superficial veins to become varicose. It is said that some degenerative change in the coats of veins, as in the arteries, may also be a provocative condition. Age has certainly a notable influence; the disease being rare in early life and increasing as years advance. Sex seems to have some in- fluence ; for a varicose state of the veins is produced more frequently in women; probably, chiefly, in connection with the uterine conditions of pregnancy or the formation of a tumour. Disorders of menstruation have, apparently, some causative relation to venous varicosity in the lower limbs ; the saphena veins becoming distended and painful at each period, or the seat of vicai'ious hismorrhage. Of thirty-four cases of crural varicosity, taken in succession, Mr. Gay found the disease to be clearly associated with catamenial disorder in fourteen; and similar observations had been made by Frankenau and Briguet. Hereditary tendency appears to have a marked influence in some cases. Lastly, injuries, such as fractures, laceration, burns, are not unfre- quently followed by obstruction of the neighbouring venous trunks,565 VAEICOSE VEINS, OR VARIX, either from direct pi'essure, or from thrombosis; resulting in a varicose state of the veins which span over the interspace within which the injury occurs. Thus, observes Mr. Gay, when the thigh is broken high up, the veins between the saphena below and the superficial pubic and epigastric veins become varicose; whilst, when the leg is broken, the dorsal veins become similarly affected. Course and, Terminations.—(1.) Inflammation of the vein is very apt to supervene, and by increasing the liability to coagulation within the vessel, lead to further consequences; persistent oedema of the sub- cellular tissue, and ulceration, forming the varicose ulcer. (2.) Venous hcemorrhage may ensue, sometimes of an alarming character, in the event of ulceration extending into the vein, or some large branch. Similar hfemorrhage may proceed from attenuation and bursting of a varicose vein. Treatment.—The removal of any cause in operation, as any occasion of pressure or obstruction, will, of course, be the primary rule to be observed. But this may not be possible, and treatment of the varicose condition of the veins affected may therefore prova useless ; the sup- pression of varicosity in one set of veins being followed by a corre- sponding enlargement of other veins, as a compensatory provision for the circulation. Palliative measures consist in rest, elevation of the part, and mode- rately firm, even, and continued compression of the veins, by means of bandaging with an Fig- 176. elastic roller. (Fig. 176.) This figure shows the mode of applying a roller-bandage to the leg. Commencing from the toes, each turn of the roller is made to overlay the preceding- one, so that no intervals are left between the turns, through which the integument would become swollen ; the turns are made with moderate, but even firmness, by a slight pull in completing each circle; and cross-ttirns are made as the roller is carried up the leg, in order to adapt the bandage evenly to the in., creasing circumference of the leg—this mani- pulation being effected over the tibia by just fixing the bandage with the thumb of the left hand, as the cross-turn clowmuards is made, in carrying the roller around the leg. Or an elastic stocking may be worn, as another mode of affording support to the enlarged and weakened veins. These ap- pliances relate specially to varicose veins of the lower extremities; but a similar mode of treatment is applicable generally. The treat- ment of a varicose ulcer, which often co-exists with varicose veins of the leg, is described in connection with Ulcers. Varicocele and Hemorrhoids are specially noticed in connection with Diseases of the Scrotum and Rectum, respectively. Radical or Curative Treatment consists in obliteration of the Vein or Veins, by various operative procedures. They are none of them more than occasionally successful, and some are hazardous rather than curative.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. 566 Fig. 177. The hvisted sidure may be applied at intervals along the course of the vessel; with subcutaneous section of the portion of vein included between any two such sutures, placed about one inch apart. (Fig. 178.) The subcutaneous section is made with a fine narrow-bladed tenotomy knife—straight or curved, as may be convenient. (Fig. 177.) The point of the knife is entered under the vein, and carried to the opposite side to just beneath the skin; then, by drawing the blade outwards, Fig. 178. n so that the point traverses a semicircle under the integu- ment, as felt by the forefinger of the other hand, the vein is thus divided, its thickened structure cutting with a leathery resistance. This operation has already been described in the treatment of Varicose Ulcer. It is the most successful and least objectionable mode of obliterating varicose veins. In no case, but one, have I seen any untoward event— sloughing, phlebitis, or pysemia; and in some cases the cure has been permanent. It is the only mode of obliteration which I have recourse to. The suture part of this proceeding originated, I believe, with Velpeau-; the subcutaneous section additionally, is due to Mr. Lee. Subcutaneous section of the vein, without placing a suture-barrier on either side of the divided portion to guard either aperture, is always perilous : owing to the I'isk of pyasmic infection consequent on any phlebitis which may thus be excited. Excision of a small portion of the vessel is equally hazardous, as attested by Sir B. Brodie. Cauterization, to excite inflammation of the vein, may be affected by the application of caustic potash, or chloride of zinc, so as to produce eschars in the course of the vessel; the phlebitis advancing to adhesion, and stopping short of suppuration, within the vessel. But thence the risk of pyemic infection. Tet this mode of inducing obliteration has been recommended by Mayo, Seutin, Bonnet, and other Surgeons; and is particularly advocated by Mr. Skey, within certain limitations.' He recommends the application of Vienna paste; potash in the propor- tion of two parts with three of lime, and spirits of wine being added to form a paste. The eschars should not exceed the size of a split pea, and their number be regulated by the extent of the varicose vein. Thus produced and restricted, they are said to be free from danger. Injection of a few drops of the perchloride of iron, and the influence of rjaioanism transmitted through needles introduced into the vein, are modes of obliteration so questionable as to their efiicacy, or their safety, that they need only be mentioned. Venous hmnorrjiage occurring in the course of varicose veins, the bleeding may be arrested, temporarily, by digital compression, slightPHLEBITIS. 567 pressure with the point of the finger being quite sufficient; and per- manently arrested by a compress of lint, secured by a bandage, over the aperture in the vein, with elevation of the limb. PHLEBiTrs.—Structural Conditions.—Inflammation of any portion of the venous system produces structural alterations in the coats of the vessels similar to those resulting from inflammation of an artery. It is said to be Adhesive or Stippurative, but more commonly the latter ; and both forms of Phlebitis are far more common than Arteritis. The coats of an inflamed vein have a dark red colour, and have be- come thickened and pulpy, owing to an interstitial fibrinous exudation; the inner coat, in particular, presents this hue—partly due to the imbi- bition of colouring matter from the blood, and a lamella of lymph is adherent to the surface. The blood within the vessel has undergone coagulation, more or less perfectly, forming a hard or soft blackish coagulum, mingled with the fibrinous exudation. Thus far phlebitis is adhesive. But pus being readily secreted within the vessel, suppura- tive phlebitis may soon be established. If limited within the boundary of the coagulum and fibrinous exudation, above and below—the pus lying between the coats of the vessel and the cqagulum, and between interrupted portions of the coagulum—this circumscribed form of suppuration has been named limited suppurative phlebitis. And, as the matter thus occluded or imprisoned cannot be transmitted into the general circulation, this condition is not productive of pyeemic infection. But if the plastic lymph-barriers within the vessel, above and below these collections of pus, give way, diffuse suppurative phlebitis ensues, and pycemia will be inevitable. This interpretation of systemic infection may, however, perhaps be abandoned in favour of more recent views relative to the pathology of Pytemia. Diffuse phlebitis signifies a spreading form of the disease, but as this character is probably never unaccompanied by suppuration, the distinction seems unnecessary. The Symptoms of Phlebitis are referable both to the vessel or vessels affected, and to the circulation in the part below. An inflamed vein is hard, cord-like, and knotted under the finger, painful or tender on pressure; and a purplish redness, with some degree of heat, may be preceptible in the course of the vessel. If the vein be varicose—a pre- existing condition not uncommon—these symptoms will be even more marked, and those of varix are superadded. The supervention of suppuration is denoted, in the limited or circumscribed form, by the symptoms of abscess in exchange for those of purely adhesive phlebitis. One or more small fluctuating swellings appear in the course of the vein; instead of its previously uniformly hard, cord-like character, which thus becomes more knotty—hard here, and softened there. In the diffuse form of suppuration, the whole tract of the vessel softens down uniformly ; fibrine, coagula, and pus commingling. Obstruction to the venous circulation, from the fibz-inous exudation and coagulation within the vessel, produces some oedema in the part below, or general swelling of a whole limb, if a large venous trunk be the seat of obstruction. In adhesive phlebitis this swelling will be most conspicuous. No blood passes through the femoral vein, for ex- ample, in this condition of phlegmasia dolens; an ari'est of circulation which soon tells on all the tributary veins throughout the limb. Its cellular texture becoming gorged with serum, the whole limb isSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 568 swollen, tense, and hard; of a polished, pearly white colour, or mottled, cold and insensible—a marble limb, and much larger than its fellow! The general symptoms are those of inflammatory fever, very shortly subsiding into prostration; and pyeemia, as a consequence of diffuse suppurative phlebitis. Causes.—Some form of injury is, commonly, the immediate cause of phlebitis; a wound, as in operations involving the veins, phlebotomy, or the application of a ligature. But some constitutional or blood- condition probably predisposes, or may be the predominant cause, in most cases. This causative condition is apparently akin to that of erysipelas. Having regard to its etiology, phlebitis is thus also distinguished as traumatic and idiopathic. Course and Terminations.—(1.) Absorption seems to prevail in some cases; the coagulum becoming centrally pervious, and a channel thus forming, through which the venous circulation is re-established. (2.) Or, obstruction continuing, the vessel becomes impervious, and, shrivelling into a fibrous cord, is obliterated; gangrene threatens; in proportion to the degree of occlusion, its suddenness, and the size of the venous trunk. Such are the consequences of Adhesive phlebitis, more especially. Sup2^''<''>'C't'>''>^^ phlebitis often proceeds to further con- sequences, local and constitutional:—(3.) Rupture of the vein, with the formation of abscess in the surrounding cellular texture, and sloughing. (4.) Pyasmia is announced by rigors, great prostration, rapidity of pulse, with other symptoms of purulent infection; followed frequently by a fatal issue. Treatment.—Local blood-letting, by means of leeches applied along the course of the vessel, and warm fomentations may prevent adhesive plilebitis, by promoting resolution of the inflammation before fibrinous exudation and coagulation have supervened. Subsequently, alkaline salines seem to induce disintegration and absorption of materials occluding the vessel. But the administration of calomel and opium is of doubtful efiicacy. Fibrinous exudation may, indeed, be thus prevented, in some measure; but the peril of diffuse suppuration will be facilitated. Abscess arising, it must be opened forthwith; and chronic oedema may be restrained by bandaging, or removed by blisters. Stimulants are more needed, and earlier, than in Arteritis; and they are less objectionable with relation to gangrene, which is rather a tendency only of the disease, than actually resulting from venous obstruction. Pyeemia cannot be overcome by any known remedial measures. Besides the treatment by opium, wine, or brandy and egg mixture, freely administered, Pime recommends the tincture of the muriate of iron, in doses of 26 drops every four hours. Thrombus—Thrombosis or Thromballosis.—The term Thromhcs, literally signifying a blood-clot, is applied to the formation of a clot within a blood-vessel,—whether an artery or a vein ; thus giving rise to arterial thrombus (Fig. 179), as after the ligature of an artery, or to venous thrombus, as after the wound of a vein, for instance, by venesection. But venous thrombi are more common in connection with disease, and have a wider pathological significance. Venous thrombosis, or the coagulation of the blood within a vein, may certainly arise independently of inflammation of the vessels; and it may be doubtful whether phlebitis is ever attended with coagu- lation of the blood within the vessel. Virchow's observations andTHROMBUS. 669 experiments have, perhaps, shown that phlebitis is an inflammation ■which aflPects the walls, and not the contents, of a vein; for when the blood is excluded from the vessel, no exuda- tion is deposited within the cavity, yet the walls become thickened; when again the blood flows through the vein, no coagulation takes place, even although suppuration may have ensued in the wall of the vessel, and abscesses, like variolous pustules, bulge into its interior. The so-called adhesive, or clot- forming, phlebitis may therefore be regarded as simply thrombosis, without inflammation of the vein ; while, as one of the transforma- tions of a thrombus, the softening and dis- integration to which the blood-clot is liable, will give rise to the ordinary so-called s^tppiorative phlebitis. Causes of Thrombus. — Clot-formation ■within a vein,—when not occurring to a limited extent, as for the repair of wounds —seems to proceed from some blood-con- dition, in which there may be an increased proportion of fibrine in the blood, or certainly a hyper-tendency of the fibrine to coagulate. Then an intra-venous clot is apt to form, plugging the vessel, and extend into continuous veins. Usually, a venous thrombus extends up to the next larger-sized vein; there tailing off with a pointed extremity. But it may pass beyond the mouth of the branch into the trunk, enlarging and continuing in the shape of a thick cylinder, in the direction of the current of blood. (See Fig. 80.) This prolonged thrombus may be as big as the thumb, the original (autochthonous) thrombus not thicker than a knitting-needle; as when, from a lumbar vein, a plug extends into the vena cava. The morbid blood-conditions which may give rise to the production of thrombus depend apparently on some con- stitutional predisposition connected with the blood-elaborating pro- cesses, as in phthisis and cancer; in both of which diseases Bouilland states that thrombosis often occurs. But exciting causes bring this blood-condition into operation. Thus, a feeble circulation of the blood, whether referable to a weak heart or to weak, inelastic vessels, may be partly a predisposing, partly an exciting cause of clot-formation ; by favouring the coagulation of fibrine from the sluggish blood-streams in the veins. A more immediate causative influence may, however, be brought to bear, by pressure on the veins, as by a tumour, or the contraction of inflammatory deposit, as iu the cellular texture around a wound. On the other hand, the dilatation of veins may have a similar effect, as witnessed in the plugging of varicose veins, and varicose aneurism. Laceration of the vessels is another fertile cause of thrombus, as in the uterine veins after expulsion of the placenta from the uterus, or from other occasions * Middlesex Hosp. Miis., S. vi. 104. Thrombosis of the abdominal aorta and iliac arteries, showing firm cylinders of fibrine, plugging these vessels. Prom a woman, who died after amputation of the leg for gangrene. The cause of the thrombosis was pressure on the aorta, produced by a large uterine fibrous tumour.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 670 Pig. 180.* nt'^TonN °^,^°"*"sion; giving rise to primary traumatic thrombi, (i^ig 180). Any roughness or projections within the veins, as from phlebitis, will mvite the disposition of fibrine; and inflammation aftect- mg the cellular texture around the veins, naay induce thrombosis and plugging within them, as at the base of an extending ulcer. Symptoms.—The symptoms of venous obstruction, coincident with intra-clot pro- duction, or thrombosis, are just those of adhesive phlebitis : induration, in the form of knotted cords, when the veins are felt under the finger, with some tenderness, purplish redness, and heat in the course of the vessels. These symptoms are more per- ceptible if the veins be superficial; as from thrombus of the median, the cephalic, and basilic veins, sometimes, after venesection. Obstruction in the deep veins will be indi- cated by oedema, afi^ecting perhaps the whole limb, which feels hot and dry, is usually flexed, and extension occasions great pain. These symptoms are generally referable to some accomjDanying injury ; a contusion, wound, or fracture. Similar symptoms may arise from inflammatory condensation of the cellular tissue around a vein, forming a tubular thickening, enclosing the vessel, but which is itself free of coagulum; and thus the diacjnosis between peri-venous condensation, and intra-venous clot or thrombus, may be difficult or impossible. Transformations of Thrombus.—An intra-venous clot is liable to either of two transformations. It may possibly become organized, by the formation of connective tissue, apparently tlirough elongation and attenuation of the white blood-cells into filaments (Fig. 181), with the development of capillary blood-vessels passing from the walls of the vein, as in the repair of a wounded vein. But, generally, the clot tends to become softened, the fibrine undergoing a disintegrative trans- formation into a thick yellow fluid, puriform, or resembling pus in appearance, yet consisting of fluid fibrinous detritus or molecular matter, without pus-corpuscles or a vestige of any cellular element. The softened thrombus thus having assumed the consistence of puru- lent matter, now presents the symptoms of " suppurative phlebitis." This change begins usually in the coagulum first deposited, the oldest * Middlesex Hosp. Mus., S. vi. 111a. Thrombosis, with ulceration, of vena cava and iliac veins, from the entrance of two needles into the cava. The patient, an hysterical woman, aged twenty-one, had swallowed the needles. This was followed by remarkable alternations of temperature,—rising to 105-6° and falling to 90 6', thus showing a range of 9°. CEdema of the lower extremities appeared, with conspicuous enlargement of the superficial veins; this occurred in the left limb on the fifteenth day, and in the right limb on the forty-fifth day. This state was persistent. Signs and symptoms closely resembling those of pericarditis wi-re developed on the day when the left limb thus became alfected. Aching pains m various regions of the spine, accompanied by faintness or syncope, were sometimes attended with rigors or with a high degree of pyrexia. Abdominal pam and diarrhoea, delirium, or a state of unconsciousness supervened, and death took place on the fifty-ninth day. Thompson.) (See also Trans. Clin. Soc, vol. viii.) (Dr. Ileuryinto connective tissue, so 571 Fig. 181.* THROMBUS. part in the thrombus, althougli sometimes the softening may commence in the coagulum last formed. An apj^areiit suppurative phlebitis may, therefore, arise from the softened ti'ansformation of a thrombus, without any inflammation of the vessel, according to the interpretation which Virchow originally advanced ; but Billroth affirms also the possible conversion of a thrombus into pus—that if the blood-cells in a thrombus have the power of changing may pus be formed from them, just as from cells wandering out of the vessels. This purulent, not puriform, transmutation of a thrombus induces inflam- mation of the vessels, the walls becoming thickened, and thus a real suppurative phlebitis is established. The same eminent pathologist is led by his observations to refer the origin of most venous thrombi to very acute inflammation of cel- lular tissue, and in his experience the changes which the clot within the vessel undergoes, are the same as of the inflammatory new formation. If the latter becomes organized into tissue, so also is the clot developed into connective tissue ; but when the infl.ammation issues in suppuration, the thrombus also softens and suppurates. We proceed to trace the yet further history of Thrombus from Virchow's view of softening by fibrinous disintegration. Embolism.—The friable thrombus which results from softening of a blood-clot within a vein, is ready for disintegration or disruption into fragments of variable size, any one or more of which shall be transmitted by the blood-stream through other veins into parts perhaps remote, until reaching vessels too small for their onward passage, the fibrinous fragments there become impacted; this process of fibrine- transference and impacted state of the vessels is known as embolism, and the impacted fragment is named an embolus or embolon. These terms are, however, applicable also to the similar history of a thrombus- fragment in the arteries, which are thus subject to embolism (Fig. 182) ; and an embolus may be any other foreign body, as a bit of atheromatous or calcareous matter. But it is only under certain cir- cumstances that embolism from the disintegration of a thrombus seems likely to arise. The thrombosed vessel itself is occluded, so that no fragment of the clot can be carried thence by the blood-stream into the circulation. But when the thrombus is prolonged into * Transverse section of an artery, closed with a thrombus, six days old, showing ■white blood-cells, mostly round and greatly increased in number, the rod blood-cells having disappeared; also ccll-infdtration in the outer coat of the vessel and sur- rounding connective tissue. 300 diam. (Billroth.)572 Fig. 182.* SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. another vein, and thus exposed to the force of the current, there a portion may be torn o£E, or a fragment dislodged and carried away. (See Fig. 80.) It would appear also that the fragments must be of suffi- cient size, in order to plug up the vessels, or at least the capillaries, in the parts to which they are borne; molecular matter washed off the thrombus by the blood-stream may hardly have any embolic effect. Embolism, therefore, is in no way necessarily, and invariably, conse- quent on thrombus softening. When, however, fragments of fibrinous coagula are once launched into the systemic venous circulation, they are generally transported through the larger veins and vena cava, into the right cavities of the heart, passing thence through the pulmonary artery into the lungs, but lodging at some point of bifurcation in the branches of the artery, or reaching the pulmonic capil- lary vessels. Here they constitute red infarctions, hsemorrhagic possibly, from rujjture of the vessels im- pacted. In whatever portion of the pulmonary circulation the vessels are thus suddenly blocked up, the depriva- tion of blood is attended with more or less urgent dyspnoea and a fit of cough- ing, as the immediate symptoms of pulmonic embolism. In other organs or parts, an impacted embolus gives rise to different symptoms, accord- ing to the functional disturbances induced; in a limb, for example, sudden pain or numbness will be experienced, and the part becomes cold and enlarged with oedematous swelling, below the seat of venous obstruction. Red embolic infarctions are subject to various changes. A healthy fibi-inous clot induces slight thickening of the wall of the vessel in which it is lodged, apparently as the result of mechanical irritation; but the intrinsic changes of the clot appear to depend on the size of the embolus, and the freedom of the collatei-al circulation, or a throm- bosed state of the adjoining vessels. "When the clot is small, and well supplied with blood, it may possibly disappear; or, gathering perhaps some fresh deposition of fibrine around itself, the clot may become organized into connective tissue. But when the embolus is deprived of blood, by thrombosis extending around it, the clot disintegrates, and is transformed into a granular yellow dry mass, forming the yellow dry infarction; which becomes encysted, and may pass into calcareons degeneration. Embolic deposits of fibrinous matter in the capillary vessels may give rise to metastatic abscesses, e.g., in the lungs (see Fig. 81) and other organs; preceded by, _ and accompanied with, the symptoms of pyremia, or purulent infection of the blood. Yet it should be remembered that f yoemic infection, so called, is only one of the possible events in the vital career of Thrombus. * St. Thomas's IIosp. Mus., N. 62^. Embolism of the posterior branch of the right middle cerebral artery. The embolus is about the size of a small pea. The aortic valves are shown in the same preparation; they arc extensively diseased, and from them the embolus was probably derived.673 LYMPHATITIS. The treatment of Thrombosis and Embolism will, of course, be as widespread as their pathology, chiefly in connection with wounds of arteries and veins, and of arteritis and phlebitis, so named. Phleboltths, OB VEm-STONES.—Concretions are not unfrequently formed within various veins, more particularly in the iliac and its branches. Consisting of fibrine, which at length calcifying form concretions, these bodies are of a roundish shape, and the size of a pea or bean; they are either free, or attached to the interior of the vessels, cropping in and gathering more fibrine around themselves as the stream of blood eddies slowly by. One such body, situated in a principal vein, as either common iliac, might become a cause of serious obstruction to the return of blood from the whole lower extremity. The diagnosis would be dilficult or impossible, the occluding con- cretion being discovered only after death. Fortunately, however, when venous obstruction is gradually established, an adequate compensation is provided by the simultaneous enlargement of other veins, as collateral channels, for the return of blood. The obscurity of diagnosis, and this compensatory circiilation, render vein-stones of little practical interest. LYMPHATICS AFD GLANDS. CHAPTER XXX. ltmphatitis.—tumours. Ltmphatitis.—Inflammation op the Lymphatics, Lymphangitis, ok Angeioleucitis.—Stmciural Conditions.—The walls of the lymphatic vessels, when inflamed, are thickened and softened, the surroiinding cellular tissue is infiltrated with fibrinous exudation, and the capillaries are injected. Similar exudation mingling with the lymph within the vessels, forms a rosy clot, obstructing their interior. Stqjpuratio7b often ensues, limited as an abscess, or a chain of abscesses along the course of the vessel; or as diffuse infiltration. The Symptoms are referable both to the vessels aifected, and to the part. Inflamed lymphatics present purplish-red linear streaks, tortuous and intersecting, forming an arborescent appearance, not necessarily continuous with the source of inflammation, but running up to the neighbouring lymphatic glands, which also become involved. I'jrysipelatous patches frequently appear, having the same distribution, and render the islets of unaffected skin between the lymphatics more conspicuous. These red lines are hard and cord-like under the finger, and beset with a spongy swelling—the surrounding infiltration. A hot, burning pain, and tenderness on pressure, also corresponds with574 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. the course of the vessels. These symptoms are more marked when the superficial lymphatics are affected, and may be scarcely perceptible when the deeper lymphatics are principally the seat of inflammation. In the limbs, the superficial lymphatics on the flexor aspect are most affected; the vessels being seen coursing up the front of the forearm a,nd inner side of the arm to the axillary glands, or along the inner side of the leg and up the thigh to the inguinal glands. Beyond these glands, lymphatitis rarely extends, in the limbs. Suppuration is made known by the usual symptoms of abscess, or by those of diffuse suppuration, in the event of this condition prevailing. Considerable oedema of the part—possibly a whole limb—supervenes, as the vessels become occluded; and this symptomatic condition is more intense with inflammation of the deeper lymphatics. The general symptoms will be those of inflammatory fever, soon exchanged for prostration, or sinking into the collapse of pysemic infection. Causes.—Usually arising from some form of injury—a wound, or friction, or from the absorption of some poisonous matter, as by a dissection wound—the external and local cause of lymphatitis is fre- quently a trifling lesion. Some constitutional condition would appear to prevail in most cases; and this, probably, is of the erysipelatous nature. In persons of a broken constitution, and those who are in a low state of health, inflammation of the lymphatics readily occurs, and often from scarcely perceptible external causes; the pressure of a tight boot, inducing a few reddish streaks on the inner side of the leg and thigh, with swelling and tenderness of the inguinal glands; or a slight abrasion on the hand being followed by similar inflam- mation of the lymphatics along the inner side of the arm, extending to the axillary glands. Course and Terminations.—(1.) Resolution takes place not unfre- quently, even in those who seem most susceptible of the disease. The reddish streaks fade away, and the oedema subsides. (2.) Or, in- flammation having ceased, the indurated cords may remain, with brawny swelling, for some time. (3.) Suppurative lymphatitis often leads to the formation of abscesses in the sun*ounding cellular texture, and possibly sloughing. (4.) Pyaemic infection is a frequent conse- quence, proceeding, probably, from the direct transmission of pus from the interior of the vessels. Treatment.—The application of a few leeches, along the course of the vessels, may be appropriate in the absence of an erysipelatous | tendency; but warm fomentations, elevation of the limb, and rest will always be suitable, and generally prove sufiicient to reduce the inflammation. Alkaline salines and other mild depletory measures are auxiliary at an early period. Abscesses should be opened without delay, and chronic oedema is best overcome by careful bandaging and blistering, or the application of mercurial ointment. Stimiilants will soon become requisite in the course of this disease. Wine, brandy, and ammonia must be freely administered; the latter, I think, has a depressing influence, when continued for any length of time; and any stimulant supplies only a prop, to be withdrawn in proportion as nourishing food can be taken and assimilated. The treatment of pysemia, as a consequence of lym- phatitis, presents nothing peculiar. I575 INFLAMMATION OP LYMPHATIC GLANDS. Inflammation of Lymphatic Glands.—Adenitis.—Structural Con- ditions.—Inflammation of the lymphatic glands differs in no important particular froaa that of the lymphatic vessels. Their structural re- semblance explains this pathological affinity, for these glands each consist of lymphatic vessels in the form of a network, connected by cellular tissue into a dense mass, enclosed in a cellular capsule. The lymphatics, entering a gland and forming the network, are again collected into lymphatic trunks issuing from the gland. Capillary blood-vessels ramify on this network of lymphatics, and are thus brouo-ht into an intimate relation with them, anatomically and physio- loo-ically. Infl.ammation of the lymphatic glands is attended with some thickening of the conglomerated vessels, and infiltration of the interstitial cellular tissue with fibrinous exudation and cells, but seldom with any permanent obsti'uction of the interior of the vessels. Sup- puration not unfrequently takes place, forming an abscess, either centrally in the substance of the gland, or in the external and sur- rounding cellular texture. The symptoms are simply those of ordinary inflammation; the gland becomes swollen, hard, and painful, with, perhaps, a blush of redness and heat in the superimposed integument. Induration is less notable, owing to the naturally firm consistence of the lymphatic glands; but they may acquire even a bullety hardness, as the inguinal glands in connection with an indurated syphilitic sore. Softening often suc- ceeds in ordinary adenitis; and with suppuration, the usual symptoms of abscess supervene. (Edema commonly occurs in the part below, and proportionately as absorption becomes obstructed. The consti- tutional disturbance is the inflammatory type of fever, and often more acute than with inflammation of the lymphatic vessels. Causes.—Usually ensuing as a continuation of inflammation along the lymphatics, adenitis sometimes arises independently, from an injury, or from absorption of noxious matter, not affecting the inter- mediate vessels. A sprain or an ulcer may thus induce inflammation of the glands distant from the seat of either; as the inguinal glands, when the foot or shin is the source, the intervening lymphatic vessels remaining unaffected. Course and Terminations.—(1.) Resolution occurs in many cases of ordinary inflammation. (2.) Chronic enlargement and induration is not uncommon. (3.) Suppuration may be followed by sloughing, and exposure of the glands, as reddish-grey, fleshy masses, notwithstanding the destruction around them. Treatment.—Leeches are seldom necessary; fomentation, rest, and relaxation by position generally being sufficient to resolve the infl.am- mation, aided by mild depletory measures medicinally. Suppuration threatening, the same treatment should be continued, and warm spongio-piline fermentations or poulticing having been assiduously employed for a few days, a bistoury should at once be introduced, and any matter set free ere burrowing has taken place. Fistulous tracks are more apt to form with suppuration around the gland; and stimu- lating injections or solid nitrate of silver will then, perhaps, succeed in exciting healthy granulation so as to close these passages ; failing which, they must be slit up and healed from the bottom. Chronic induration of the lymphatic glands is best dispersed by the occasional application of iodine paint; but if suppuration has taken place, and perhaps576 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. circumferentially, with fistulous openings through which portions of the glandular mass protrude, it will be requisite to destroy such a mass by introducing a stick of caustic potash into its substance and turiiinc it freely about.^ Thus also any induration may be dissolved. A stimu- lant and tonic plan of treatment must take the place of any depletory measures, during suppuration or in chronic induration ; and removal of the latter may, perhaps, be aided by iodide of potassium in conjunc- tion with this treatment. Extirpation of the lymphatic glands in a state of chronic induration becomes necessary as a last resource. I have removed such glands ; in particular, a conglomerate bunch of axillary glands, which was found to consist of degenerate gland-tissue, enclosing spots of yellow, curdy pus, and cretaceous matter. Fistulous openings afterwards proved troublesome, but these closed under stimulating injections. Enlargements, and Tumours of Lymphatic Glands.—Lymplioma.— The term Lymphoma is applied to a class of tumours which in structure resemble that of the lymphatic glands. Commonly, this form of growth consists of a chronic enlargement or hypertroph}^ of the lymphatic glands themselves; but, associated with this con- dition, there are often a number of similar growths, in the form of distinct tumours,—beyond the normal number of enlarged glands, yet having the lymphatic structure. Lymphomatous tumours may also occur in parts of the body unconnected with the absorbent glands. The characters of lymphoma are similar to those of scrofulous enlargement of these glands,—as already noticed among the numerous local manifestations of scrofula; but for accuracy of description I shall follow Billroth's account of lymphoma. For a long time the glands preserve their kidney shape, and remain isolated, althougli clustered. Continuing to enlarge, these glandular tumours unite and form a lobulated mass, of a firm and elastic consistence; tender perhaps, but scarcely painful. The growth may then be arrested, and the conglomerate mass remain; causing only more or less com- pression and functional derangement of Fig. 183. the adjoining parts; or the tumour may slowly pass into caseous degexieratiou, with ulceration of the integument. All the lymphatic glands are not equally disposed to this disease; usually the cervical, less frequently the axillary and inguinal, most rarely the abdominal and bronchial. As forming in the axilla, the appearances were well marked in a case under Mr. De Morgan in the Middlesex Hospital. (Fig. 183.) The tumour oc- curred iu the person of a man, aged forty-five, of apparently healthy con- stitution. It had been growing for about four years ; was firm and elastic,' but fluctuation could be felt at the most prominent part towards the outer side; the skin was there getting thin and bluish red, and adherent. The veins over the surface were enlarged. No pain or tenderness. The axillary artery could be felt above the tumour, and separate from it. After removal, theFig. 184.* 577 LYMPHOMA. mass weighed 4| lbs. On section, it was cystic, but bad the cbaracters of a fibrous tumour. Under tbe microscope, it sbowed tbe structure represented in Fig. 184; a fine alveolar fibroid stroma, containing lymph-corpuscles, like white blood-corpuscles, in abundance; curdy and fatty matter from degeneration was found in parts. Large cells, and of diverse form, here and there, like large granulation-cells, in other parts of the tumour seemed to indicate a transition to a sarcomatous growth. On removing a lymphomatous mass, the constituent tumours are kidney-shaped or ovoid ; and on section exhibit a greyish yellow colour, which by exposure assumes a reddish hue. The minute structure of these glandular tumours consists of an accumulation of lymph-cells, which have undergone proliferating de- velopment ; with atrophy and rare- faction of the enclosing capsule and trabecular structure, which, in the form of a fine open fibrous network, contains the lymph-cells. (Fig. 184.) The blood-vessels remain, but their walls are much thickened. Thus the proper structure of the gland is destroyed. The cellular infiltration may be so considerable, as to resemble a gliomatous tumour. The origin of lymphoma is hardly ever congenital; but the tumour may occur from the first to the sixtieth year; usually, however, between eight and twenty years of age, and rarely after thirty. Some connection may be traced between lymphoma and leucocythemia, or an excessive development of white-corpuscles in the blood,—white- celled blood. Virchow refers leucocythemia, in such cases, to the excess of white-cells supplied by the hyper-plastic lymphatic glands. Billroth differs from this explanation; for with extensive tumours of the lymphatic glands, leucocythemia rarely occurs; and the glands being more or less completely destroyed, it is improbable that their functional activity should thus be increased. Another form of lymphoma is also recognized by some pathologists, in which, with the same essential structure, the growth proliferates rapidly, and infiltrates the surrounding textures ; the tumour appearing as a fungoid mass, and having a malignant character. These medullary lymphomatous tumours always recur after removal, and are almost always fatal. The treatment of lymphoma in its ordinary benign form is much the same as for scrofulous enlargement of the lymphatic glands. Constitutional measures are more efficacious than topical applications. The patient's general health must be brought under the influence of iron and quinine, cod-liver oil, and a nutritious diet; reinforced by the hygienic regime of good air, such exercise as the strength can bear, and other invigorating resources. Iodine, of more remedial value when used externally, may be applied, as iodine paint or oint- ment, with some hope of thus reducing the size of a lymphomatous tumour. Its removal by operation will scarcely ever be advisable, ♦ Lymphoma, or Lymphadenoma—Mr. Do Morgan's case, examined by Mr. Henry Arnott. (Trans. Path. Soc., vol. xxii.)678 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEKY. ■whether on account of the extent and ill-defined nature of the mass, or the situation in which it may be placed; as occupying one or both sides of the neck, or the armpit and side of the chest. Sometimes the tumours may be shelled out or enucleated with the fingers; in other cases, where the mass is conglomerate and softened, a consider- able dissection will hardly succeed in extirpating the whole. Here, also, the growths are apt to return ; and thus even the apparent success of the operation may ultimately be defeated. BONES. CHAPTER XXXI. FRACTURE. Fig. 185.* Fracture.—Structural Conditions.—Fracture is a solution of continuity of the osseous texture, suddenly produced, and by some degree of external violence, or j)erhaps muscular action; the broken ends of bone being more or less contused or lacerated by the act of breaking. Fractures differ essentially in regard to the mode of their reparation, according as they are unaccompanied, or attended, by an open wound communicating with the fracture; the one being termed Simple, the other Compound. Complicated Fracture is also a recognized distinction; when the injury to the bone is accompanied with injury to other parts, as important blood-vessels or nerves, an internal organ, or extends into a joint, or is accompanied with dislocation. But any such additional injury is not an essential condition,'. as pertaining to the pathology of Fi'acture. In its extent, a fracture generally passes com- pletely through the bone—complete fracture; oc- casionally, it is limited to part only of the whole thickness of a bone—incomplete or, as it is some- times aptly termed, " green-stick " fracture. (Fig. 185.) In direction, the line of fracture may be transverse, ohlique (a), or longittidinal {b), as com- pared with the axis of a long bone. (Fig. 186.) If there be more than two, perhaps several, fragments, the fracture is comminuted. Impacted fracture is that * St. George's Hosp. Mus., 1,124. Incomplete fracture of the right tibia, in a man aged thirty-six years. Death from pyajmia, consequent on abscess in the joint, from other injuries. Another almost unique case of green-stick fracture may be here mentioned. An incomplete fracture of the clavicle ; the bone being broken on one side, and bent on the other, in its outer curve. This injury occurred in the person of a boy who, in consequence of severe injury to the brain, died thirty hours after tue accident. (St. George's Hospital Mus., 1, 75. B. C. Brodie.) Yet another incomplete fracture of the clavicle (1,7G) -was found in the body ot a579 FBACTUBE. Fig. 186. I Fig. 187. condition wlierein one fragment is wedged into another, the compact structure being driven into the cancellous textui'e. (Fig- 187.) An aperture made through a bone, as by a ball in gunshot wound, is sometimes named a perforated fracture. Generally, displacement of the fragments, in some degree, occurs with fracture; or subsequently, by mum muscular action or the weight ffliU limb. Displacement may iJiii be transverse, oblique, longitu- dinal, angular, or rotatory, as compared with the axis of a long bone; or a depression, in the flat bones of the skull. With fracture, the medullary web—endosteum—is torn, and completely across in most instances; the periosteum is rarely much damaged. Ac- cording to Paget's observations, the latter membrane is seldom stripped off the broken ends. Commonly, it is cleanly rent across at the same level as the fracture, and maintains its close union, having only its fibres somewhat frayed or pulled from their natural direction. Sometimes it remains entire, even with extensive fracture; and in this case, thickening, it contributes to the security of the repair of the injury. Any damage done to the surrounding soft textures, and the tempo- rary extravasation of blood, are concomitants of fracture, not pertaining to the lesion itself. Separation of the epiphysis is liable to occur, at the extremities of long bones, as the ends of the humerus, and the lower end of the femur, and tibia; or the various epiphysial processes, as the olecranon and the acromion, may be detached. Fracture of this kind takes place at the line of junction between the epiphysis and the shaft, or the body of the bone. Hence its direction is transverse. Such fracture is possible only before the completion of ossification, and perfect continuity of the bone ; during, therefore, infancy or youth, or probably not later than about twenty-one years of age. Signs.—Fracture is attended with motility of the broken portions of bone, and crepitation, su rough grating sensation, felt and heard, when the broken surfaces are gently moved in contact. Usually, the normal outline of the limb is altered, by the displacement of fracture and the speedy supervention of swelling, a disfigurement of contour which the experienced eye will frequently recognize at a glance; and there is more or less elevation or depression, also by the displacement and swelling at the irmiediate seat of fracture. Here also there may be more or less bruised discoloration of the integument, owing to ex- child, aged five years. The under surface of the bone is fractured, but the upper surface remaina and is bent outwards. An incomplete fracture of the shaft of the radius -will be found in the Museum of King's College, 1143-4; and an equally remarkable instance of such fracture in the ulna of a child, in St. Mary's Hosp. Mue.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 580 travasation of blood, especially in fracture from direct violence • or some inflammatory redness may have supervened. Shortening of the Itmb, m some degree, takes place wlien one of the long bones, as in either limb, is broken (Fig. 188); and this resulting from the involuntary contraction of the muscles acting on the lower fragment, it takes place invariably, excepting under circumstances to be presently mentioned. The direction in which the lower fragment is thus drawn is more or less upwards, and hence the shortening of the limb; but the dis- placement is determined by the linear action of the muscles; either in the resultant _ direction of their combined action in different lines, or m the direction of the stronger force of two antagonistic orders of muscles—the flexor muscles overcoming the extensors in either limb. Thus, in fracture of the humerus, betwixt Fig. 188.* its head and the insertion of the pectoralis major; this muscle chiefly, with the latis- simus dorsi and teres major muscles, draws the lower portion of bone upwards, and inwards towards the thorax. With frac- ture of the femur in its middle third, the adductor muscles draw the lower portion upwards, and inwards behind the upper third of the femur; the approximation of the attachments of the adductors pro- ducing a certain fulness in the appearance of the upper part of the thigh, and which is more conspicuous by the shortening of the limb as compared with its fellow. When both bones of the leg are broken, the lower portions of the tibia and fibula are drawn upwards, and behind the upper fragments, by the action of the gastroc- nemius and soleus as flexor muscles. Shortening of the forearm, in the opposite direction, may occur, but in a lesser de- gree, with fracture of the radius and ulna. Pain, and inability to use the limb, or broken bone, are functional symptoms of Fracture; but of equivocal value in aid of diagnosis. Diagnosis.—The pain may be insignifi- cant at first, before swelling supervenes;. and the power of motion be retained in the case of impacted fracture, or where one only of two companion bones is broken, the other acting as a splint. With fracture of the- radius, in the forearm; or of the fibula, in the leg; the ulna or the tibia thus preserves some of the motions of the limb; although the- special functions of either bone may be lost. But if the functional sjonptoms of pain and loss of voluntary power be well marked, they may each arise from other causes than fracture ; as from dislocation, a bruise, or an attack of rheumatism, which thus far severally simulate- fracture. The physical signs of Fracture may, severally, be absent. Mobility, in the case of impacted fracture; crepitation, if there be- * From"Listen.581 FBACTUEE. mucli displacement, or if soft tissue of any kind intervene between the fragments, or if some days laave elapsed since the accident. In young children also, I have noticed that crepitus is less perceptible. The deformity of the limb, and the elevation or depression at the immediate seat of the injury, may be absent; as in impacted fracture, and in fracture without displacement; and these signs are less pro- nounced than usual, when one only of two companion bones is broken, I the other resisting and supporting as a splint. Shortening also is absent in the latter two conditions, and takes place to a much less degree with impaction. The most difficult case is this : a fracture of I one of two companion bones in the leg or forearm, and in a muscular subject, and when considerable swelling has supervened. There is no shortening and no angular deformity, no crepitation can be felt, and mobility of the broken portions is obscured by the swollen cushion of soft tissues surrounding the seat of fracture. But if the signs of fracture be j^reseii^, they may, severally, arise from other causes; with one exception, namely, mobility in the continuity of a bone. This can arise only from fracture. Crepitation may attend the play of the tendons in their sheaths, in connection with inflamma- tion ; but the creaking, jerking crepitation thus produced, differs from the rough grating of broken bone. The altered contour of the limb, and of the part at the seat of supposed fracture, and the shortening of the limb may arise from a previous fracture, interstitial absorption, or other disease of the bone, or from deformity, congenital or acquired, as rickets or moUities ossium. In the proximity of a joint, these signs may be due to dislocation; but the absence of crepitation and of mo- bility, or the fact of immobility, are the turning points of the diagnosis. It appears, then, that no physical sign taken singly, except one— mobility—is pathognomonic of fracture, and that any one sign may be absent; but all these signs taken collectively, determine the diagnosis. Functional symptoms, singly or combined, are insufficient; yet their concurrence further establishes the diagnosis. Separation of an epiphysis at the extremity of a long bone simulates dislocation, in regard to the deformity of, or closely adjoining, the articulation; but mobility and crepitation are distinctive. The age will also be suggestive. Causes, external and internal; and effects of Fracture.—Fracture is produced, in general, by external force, suddenly applied, either directly to the part, or indirectly at a distance; but occasionally, it is the result of the sudden and powerful action of muscles, as in fracture of the patella, not unfrequently. Predisposing causes are numerous and very influential. Some relate to the functional uses of the bone ; thus, the radius is liable to fracture in the manifold use of the hand ; others are anatomical predisposing conditions, as the exposed position of a bone—the tibia, for example—and brittleness of the osseous texture, as a condition consequent on age. Separation of an epiphysis, as at the lower end of the humerus, is a species of fracture incident to youth. Certain blood-diseases also apparently have some predisposing influence in the production of fracture; rickets, syphilis, cancer, scrofula, and scurvy. Fracture is attended with shock, in a greater or less degree, followed by reaction ; or, if the latter be accompanied with exhaustion, a mixed state of prostration with excitement supervenes, constituting traumatic LSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 582 delirium; which, may be succeeded by tetanus. But these extreme consequciaces are uncommon; and usually the immediate shock of injury passes off, when the fracture is reduced. Reparation.—Fracture is disposed to unite by a modification of the process of primary adhesion, namely, by osseous consolidation of the bond of union, unaccompanied by inflammation, as follows:—Inflam- matory lymph, in small quantity, is first exuded round about the seat of fracture, rendering the cellular texture more succulent, and thus producing a swelling, which, however, is partly or principally due to the blood extravasated by the injury. This mix^d swelling gradually subsides ; the exudation of lymph not continuing later, in most cases, than the second or third day. A period of inactivity—"brooding time"—succeeds, of uncertain duration, but which, in the adult, is rarely less than one week or more than two. Then the proper reparative Fig. 189. Fig. 190. or osaif ving lymph begins to flow. A layer of this lymph is deposited between the fractured ends of bone, which, undergoing development into fibro-cellular tissue, or perchance into cartilage, and thence, in either case, into bone, restores the continuity of the fragments; forming an intermediately connecting layer of bone—an " intermediated callus." This is the only callus, whether the fragments be in even apposition (Fig. 189) or overlap (Fig. 190). The full sufficiency of an intermediate callus is beautifully illustrated in both the specimen* figured ; oblique fractures of the humerus—the one a fracture through the great tuberosity and part of the shaft (Museum Roy. Free Hosp.) r the other, a double fracture through the shaft (Sir A. Cooper). Neither an "external" nor an "internal" callus, therefore, is pro- duced in the human subject, as was formerly supposed, excepting when the fractured limb or part is subjected to unusual motion during the- process of repair, or when the original bone is diseased. Then, indeed^FRACTUEE. 583 lympli-forming callus may be thrown out around the seat of fracture, ensheathing the fragments as with a bony clasp (Fig. 191), and formed also as a peg witliinthe medullary canal. The lymph deposited in either of these situations speedily ossifies. The walls of the frac- tured ends of bone remain still longer disunited. Either callus thus placed is foi'med some time before the intermediate lymph begins to ossify. As to the long-mooted question respecting the source of callus, in the repair of fracture; the adjoining hone is the principal source of the new bone, callus being an outgrowth, in fact, from it; e.g., between the adjoining ends of a broken tibia. (Fig. 192.) The histological process by which caUus is produced, and becomes ossified, may be thus gathered from Billroth's observations. The ossific lymph at first consists of small round cells, which, as white blood-cells, have emigrated from the blood-vessels, along the course of the Haversian canals, within the fractured ends of bone, thus infiltrating them and overflowiug between them, to form an intermediate callus; and, as the con- nective tissue in the osseous canals is continuous both with the periosteum and medulla, the wandering cell-infiltration vsdthin the bone is also continuous there- with, in the production of an external and an internal callus. Even beyond the periosteum, cell-infiltration may extend into the adjoining soft textures —muscles and tendons. The cell-formation may now undergo direct ossification, without previous development into connective tissue, or be transformed into cartilage, and thence ossifying, become bone. In adults, direct ossification usually takes place; in children, this change proceeds indirectly, through the medium of cartilage. Coincident with the cell-production in the fractured bone, the Haversian canals themselves exhibit certain changes: the walls of these osseous canals are gradually absorbed, but unevenly, as if gnawed out, and the canals thus become enlarged; the cells fill them, occupying the interstices of the connective tissue within the canals, and the enclosed blood-vessels increase by forming loops. If the canals were so entirely filled, or choked up, with cells, as to compress the blood-vessels, the bone might die; reparation thus proving abortive, and necrosis of the fractured end resulting. In what way the bone becomes atrophied, in the walls of the Haversian canals—concurrently with the production of callus—is unknown. Billroth suggests that the lime-salts may be dissolved by the production of lactic acid, whereby the carbonates and phosphates are changed into soluble lactate of lime; or, that the organic fibrous basis of the bone * Incomplete transverse section of the tibia of a dog; immediately adjoining a fracture, eight days old, artificially injected.—a, internal callus; b, external callus; c, cortical layer of the bone. 20 diam. (Billroth.)SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 584 maj7 bo dissolved by the cell-formation, thereby setting free and disintegrating the inorganic matter. The normal result in the fractured bone is, that the osseous texture becomes porous, from enlargement of the Haversian canals; after maceration, therefore, the dry bone appears rough, while young bone is deposited around the end, and in the medulla. The periosteum is used up, and dis- appears, in an ossifying external callus; this membrane, therefore, plays only a secondary part, instead of being principally productive, as was formerly supposed, in the formation of callus. If external callus proceeded alone from the periosteum, the portions of bone free of this membrane, as where tendons are attached to the bone, could produce no callus. The new bone, wherever placed—between, around, or within—is true bone, and appears soon to acquire its proper miscroscopic characters. A new periosteum also is produced. At first firm, thin, and distinctly lamellar, it gradually acquires toughness and compact- ness of textui'e. But the external and internal callus, when present, &ve provisional and temporary. They serve the purpose of two natural splints to retain the fractured ends in apposition while the intermediate or permanent callus is forming. When no longer requisite for this purpose, they are gradually withdrawn, the bone being fashioned off by absorption, and finally restored to nearly its original symmetry of outline. Little remains in after years to mark the scene of former injury, as if Nature, ever seeking to show her perfect work, were unwilling that any evidence of past imperfection should permanently remain on record. In several cases of transverse fracture of the tibia, through the middle of the shaft, which I have had under my care, the line of union could scarcely be Fig. 193. seen or felt in the shin. Thus, then, by a modifica- ^ tion of the reparative process n of adhesion, as in an incised li wound, a simple fracture is reunited, and without regard to the particular direction of this lesion—transverse, oblique, or Jw >\ longitudinal,— or the position /g °^ fragments—in even ap- it >Sl position or overlaying; aua- ji yjk tomical conditions or contin- 11 i| gencies of minor consideration, If i| pathologically and practically. [I I It is, indeed, most interest- I I ing to observe, in corroboration I I of the provisional character of I wp callus, externally aud intei'n- £q ally, that no such callus may be ^ formed, even when the frag- ments are constantly subject to motion, as in animals. Fracture of the furculum or collar-bone in the common fowl may thus unite, as shown by a specimen m my possession. (Fig. 193.) Union of a fracture of the thigh-bone mFRACTURE. 585 tlie same species o£ bird is also represented iaa tlie figure. Much thickening of the bone has occurred at the seat of fracture in this case, but no external callus; the sharp margin of the original fracture—an oblique one—being plainly seen at the line of junction by an inter- mediate callus, as the only bond of union. Separation of an epiphysis readily undergoes reparation by osseous union. Ligamentous union only takes place where, apparently, the vascular supply is insttflS.cient for osseous repair ; e.g., in fracture of processes of bone, as the olecranon, and coronoid process of the ulna; or within a joint, as intracapsular fracture of the neck of the femur; or where the fragments are not retained in apjDosition, as in transverse frac- ture of the patella. Exceptional instances of ossific union may be met with in some such cases ; as in an intra-condyloid fracture of the femur. (Mus. St. George's Hosp.) The period for the completion of fracture-union is uncertain. The average period for the production of firm, and therefore apparently ossific, union may be said to vary from six to eight weeks ; soft union taking place in a shorter period, and during childhood in perhaps a week or ten days. At the former time, I have known fracture of the clavicle united by soft callus. Grenerally, the process of repair is more speedy in the upper extremity than in the lower limb. Various adverse conditions, of a persistent character, may severally tend to retard or arrest the formation of callus. Causes predisposing to fracture have this additional efEect. Such, perhaps, are age, and certain blood-diseases; e.g., rickets and mollities ossium, syphilis, cancer, scrofula, and scurvy. Exception may, I think, be taken to the alleged mal-influence of rickets. In one case, especially, a very rickety child, four years of age, having met with fracture of the right femur; fiirm union, il found, had formed on the twenty-third day. Other causes, not predisposing to fracture, have, perhaps, the same tendency to prevent union. Such are febrile disturbances, erysipelas, starvation, pregnancy, and certain local conditions ; as muscular action, frequent movement of a fractured limb, the direction of fracture as facilitating the recurrence of displacement, and the intervention of a piece of muscle, or dead bone, loetween the fragments. The Prognosis of Fracture, as a lesion healing by a modification of the process of primary adhesion, is favourable. Otherwise, it will be determined by a due consideration of all those internal causes, which in their operation of retarding or arresting the formation of callus, thus perpetuate the injury. Sometimes the shaft of a bone becomes atrophied, when the nutritious artery is implicated by the fracture. Treatment.—Immediately after Fracture, the occasion for Surgical interference is urgent. The hard and rough portions of bone, subject to the action of muscles, or other movement, are apt to lacerate and bruise the surrounding textures. This state of the part is more pro- voked by fracture accompanied with displacement, and when the "broken ends of bone are pointed, as in oblique fracture. Hence arises increased and continued pain, spasm of the muscles, haemorrhage and tension; or inflammation, advancing so far as to prevent the formation of reparative lymph at a subsequent period. Compound fracture may be produced, by either fragment piercing the skin. Sbock also, which would have been slight and transient, is perpetuated. The rule ofSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. 586 treatment as to time was, and is still, I believe, with some Surgeons, to postpone any attempt to set the fracture at rest, until after tlio swelling itself—resulting from the injury—has subsided or been subdued by topical antiphlogistic measures. Some hours or even days, it is alleged,* as a general rule, should be allowed to elapse for the realization of this purpose. The utter fallacy of this injunction is obvious, the cause of increasing swelling still remaining in operation. After Fracture, the subject of the accident should not be moved unnecessarily. If a lower limb be the seat of fracture, it is important to wait until a suitable conveyance can be procured. A Htter is best fitted to carry the person, without any jerking movement, which would inevitalDly damage still more the already injured soft parts. This consideration will be the more important, according to the oblique direction of the fracture, and the amount of displacement. The pro- duction of compound fracture may thus be prevented. Hence, also, the limb should be properly secured, by tying it to its fellow, during the journey, however short, to an hospital or to home. The dress must be cautiously removed, and particularly from off the fractured limb, by ripping up the clothes. It may be advisable to aid the vital powers in recovering from the shock of injury, by the administration of stimulants ; wine, brandy, or ammonia. The pathological analogy of simple Fracture to an incised Wound, as a solution of textural continuity, and the natural mode of healing in both these lesions, by a process of reparation essentially the same, namely, primary adhesion, at once suggests the two Rules of Treatment. (1.) deduction and Coaptation, or the adjusted apposition of the fractured ends of bone. This condition implies a suitable position of the limb, to relax, as far as possible, any antagonistic muscles, which, by their spasmodic action, retain the fragments in a displaced position. It also implies some extension of the limb, with counter-extension or passive resistance, sufficient only to bring the fi'actured ends of bone parallel, end to end; a procedure which is designated the "reduction" of Fracture. Coaptation or " setting " is then readily effected. (2.) Maintenance of Coaptation during the process of reparation, including the solidification of the callus. This still presupposes a suitable position to prevent re-displacement by the spasmodic action of any antagonistic muscles. But it also implies the employment of suitable retentive appliances, or retentive apparatus; and botli^ to insure rest. This is, obviously, only the continued fulfilment, and completion, of the former rule of treatment. Certain exceptions to both the foregoing rules of treatment are tO' be observed. Considering the purpose of reduction, it can be necessary only in cases of fracture with displacement. Fracture without dis- placement, as when the lesion is transverse, and the ends of bone are broad and remain in contact, cannot require reduction. Such is some- times the case in fracture of the lower part of the shaft of the femur. Then again, if one only of two companion bones, articulated: together at either end, be broken, the remaining one renders any adjustment by extension and counter-extension impossible. In fi'ac- ture of the fibula, especially if high up, the tibia has this restraining- * Chelius, by South.FRACTUBE. 587 effect. Witli fracture of tlie vertebrae, displacement cannot, and ouglit not to, be reduced. In all otber cases, the reduction of Fracture is our first consideration in its Treatment. With displacement, angular or rotatory, the kind of reduction is obvious. With shortening, extension and counter-extension are required. Reduction.—The limb should be placed in a suitable position, not with the view of relaxing all the muscles, for that is impossible. No position can possibly relax "the whole set of muscles belonging to, or in connection with, the broken bone;" as was recommended by Pott. On the other hand, the alleged unimportance of relaxing those muscles which resist the reduction, as taught by Desault, would be a serious error. The principle inculcated by Sharp and Pott will ever guide the treatment of Fracture, in this respect. The limbs should be semi- flexed, or placed in that position which is natural to the part in a state of perfect repose. In sleep, the limbs are partly flexed, obviously, to relax the flexor muscles, which naturally overbalance the action of the extensors. By this attitude of the limb, if complete reduction cannot be accomplished in the first instance, the fracture may be partially reduced, and the ends of bone placed at rest; and thus in a position less hurtful to the surrounding soft textures. Indeed, in some cases, when the muscles which resist reduction become relaxed, the ends of bone almost fall into easy apposition. They coapt, or adjust themselves into contact. Extension and coimter-extension are necessary only in so far as a suitable position is not of itself sufficient to effect reduction. So co- operative, however, is the relaxation of any resisting muscular action, that it has been, and I believe still continues, an open question with some Surgeons, to what part of the limb the forces of extension and counter-extension should be applied ? Boyer advocated the application of extension to the limb heloio the articulation with the lower fragment, and counter-extension ahove the articulation with the upper fragment. Thus, that in fracture of the leg extension should be applied to the foot, while counter-extension fixes the thigh; in fracture of the thigh, ex- tension should act on the leg, while counter-extension fixes the pelvis. For it is alleged that were these opposite forces applied directly to the broken bone, the pressure of grasping the limb so near the fracture would excite the muscles to spasmodic resistance. But the English School has, ever since the time of Pott, urged the superior importance of flexing the limb; a position which necessitates the application of extension and counter-extension directly to the broken bone ; if in the leg, to the leg; if in the thigh, to the thigh. The extending force should not be forcible, but moderate, and moderated according to muscular resistance; equable, not jerking; and gradually increasing. Applied also, at first, in the direction of the lower fragment, the natural position of the bone is to be thus gradually regained, care being taken to restore the natural length and shape of the limb. Duly observing any deformity of the other limb, congenital or acquired, advantage may be taken of this opportunity to reduce the fractured limb to a corresponding condition, whether of length, shape, or both. Extension cannot prove effectual unless accompanied with counter-extension, equal and opposite. If the fracture be incomplete and the bone only bent, as happens sometimes in young children, reduction should not be accomplished all588 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. at once, but by degrees ; each adjustment being secured by a suit- able retentive appliance, placed so as to oppose the re-curving of tlie bone. In all other cases, reduction may be accomplished according to the directions just given. Coaptation of the fractured ends of bone is effected by the act of reduction in some cases. Muscular resistance having been overcome, aided by a proper position of the limb, the ends of bone readily come together, or they are easily adjusted by a little gentle manipulation. Any rough handling would further damage the soft textures round about the fracture. The ends of bone being brought parallel, their contact is announced by crepitation. This sensation and audible sign also assures the Surgeon that no portion of soft texture, as muscle, intervenes between the fragments; a condition which would impede or prevent their union. Adequate extension and counter-extension must, of course, be continued, during the application of any retentive measures ; and in some cases subsequently, as will presently appear. To maintain Goajytation—to retain the fractured ends of bone in adjusted contact—position must still be observed for the relaxation of any antagonistic muscles which would cause re-displacement. Flexure of the limb, in various degrees, according to circumstances, is generally most suitable; especially in fracture near a joint, where anchylosis appears inevitable. Splints of wood, pasteboard, leather, gutta-percha, or iron, and bandages, constitute the retentive appliances generally employed. Splints, made of wood, are suitable in fractures of the lower extre- mities, where more strength of material is requii-ed, as in the long splint of Desault, modified by Liston, for fractures of the thigh; and the tin trough, or Listen's modification of Mclntyre's splint, is well adapted for fracture of the leg. Bauer's wire-splints offer some advantage, in their capability of adaptation to the limb. Pasteboard, leather, or gutta-percha splints are suitable for fractures of the upper extremities. Splints are not always indispensable. In one or two fractures, coap- tation can be maintained effectually by position and bandages alone; for example, fracture of the clavicle. Two companion splints are generally requisite, one on either side of the fractured limb. Each should be broad enough to cover and protect the whole depth of the limb, but not to double over it. If too narrow, or too broad, the ban- dage applied will either exercise undue pressure, or not supjaort the unprotected soft textures, between the splints. In point of length, the splints should extend over and beyond the joint at either extremity of the broken bone; so as to fix it steadily, not by pressure on the seat of fracture, but by securing both these joints. With fracture of the thigh, the hip and knee; with fracture of the leg, the knee and ankle, are to be thus secured. " The true and proper use of splints," observes Pott, " is to preserve steadiness in the ivliole limb, without compressing the fracture at all." Hence the above rule of practice, and which he first inculcated. Splints should be comfortably padded with some light yielding material, as tow, or cotton wadding; and more particularly over prominences of bone, to prevent sloughing. Over the seat of fracture, any pressure is especially apt to peril the intervening soft textures, already damaged; while to forcibly subdue a rising end of bone by pressure, will surely induce sloughing, and rarely prove mechanically successful. Its replacement is best effected by removing the cause of589 FRACTURE. such projection. Alteration of position, therefore, will be necessary to relax the muscles which are acting on the upper fragment, while the lower one should be adequately supported underneath. In certain fractures, this rising of either fragment is only apparent, and really due to the natural shape of the bone, as the arching forward of the clavicle ; or it may be an acquired deformity, as convexity of the tibia, from rickets. The splints having been well adjusted, they are secured in position by a bandage, evenly applied round the limb from below upwards, and with just sufficient pressure for this purpose. ISTo further restraint is required, excepting in the case of a maniac or a delirious person. If the fracture be subcutaneous, and either fragment threaten to protrude through the integuments, that portion of the limb may be left un- covered, or the splints lightly retained by a separate roller, which can be readily removed without unbandaging the limb. 'No bandage need be applied underneath the splints, as was formerly practised, and is even now-a-days advocated by some Surgeons, with the view of preventing oedema. A bandage so placed becomes tense, as swelling inevitably ensues, and is thus apt to cause strangulation and gangrene. This result may, indeed, occur imperceptibly, and gangrene overspread the whole limb without any notable constitutional disturbance to arouse suspicion. Hence, also, in applying the bandage around the splints, in the first instance, some degree of yielding should be allowed for the supervention of swelling, the splints being bound with sufficient firm- ness only to prevent displacement of the fracture. The ■?'oZZe?--bandage is commonly used, and it is available in all cases where the limb can be moved without displacing the fracture. But rather than risk dis- placement, the toi'ZecZ-bandage of Scultetus is a convenient substitute. It consists of a series of short strips of bandage laid transversely under the Hmb. Commencing below, each strip is drawn round the limb, so as to partially overlay and seciire the next in succession. This con- trivance forms an adequately firm bandage, like the common roller, extending uninterruptedly along the limb ; but neither allow of tighten- ing and relaxation, here and there, as occasion may require. The Zoo^ecZ-bandage is specially adapted for this purpose, and without moving the limb. Double strips of bandage are placed transversely under the limb, at short intervals apart. One end of each is j^assed through the looped extremity, and, being drawn sufficiently tight, is secured by tying it to the other free end. The splints are thus fixed by a series of ligatures, any one of which can be braced or loosened at pleasure, without altering the whole. Extension must be maintained, in some cases, after the application of retentive appliances ; and this, perhaps, cannot be accomplished without some si^ecial mechanical contrivance in the splints, or other- wise. In fracture of the femur, displacement is apt to recur. Desault's or Liston's long extending splint, with a straight position of the limb, overcomes any such tendency; extension being effected by that jjortion of the bandage which passes round the foot-end of the splint, and counter-extension by a perineal band. Extension may be maintained by a weight slung from the extremity of the limb ; as from the foot, in fracture of the femur attended with unusual tendency to displacement. But a heavy weight is unnecessary; three, four, or five pounds weight will suffice to tire the muscles and overcome their resistance. In certainSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 590 instances of fracture,'extension is maintained by means of an adjoining hone, used as a lever. In fractured clavicle, the humerus is utilized ; an axillary pad being the fulcrum. Counter-extension is also secured] occasionally, by means of an adjoining bone as the resting point. In fractured fibula, the head of the tibia is made the fixed point for Dupuytren's splint. A suitable, yet simple, retentive apparatus, of splints and bandages, having been adjusted, the Hmb is rested and supported in a moderately elevated position to relieve any tendency to congestion, provided such elevation be compatible with that position whereby the muscles are most relaxed. In fractures of the lower extremity, where the patient remains in bed, a firm mattress is required to support the limb evenly and equably throughout its extent. If the fractured fart be un- supported, it bends somewhat by its own weight, and displacement with eventual deformity will ensue. If either end of the limb be allowed to sink, there is the same tendency. Moreover, an even support to the whole limb is the best safeguard against sloughing from undue pressure on any one point. The weight of bed-clothes, if tending to disturb the fracture, may be removed by a cradle. Spasmodic action of the muscles continues, in most cases, only for the first few days after the fracture has been set, during which period, therefore, displacement is most apt to recur; but as the process of reparation scarcely begins before ten days or more—the " brooding-time "—has elapsed, the final adjustment of any displacement is comparatively unimportant until then. The reparative lymph forms a soft callus, fibro-cellular or carti- laginous, which remains pliant for some days or weeks; and, as proceeding from the living bone, it is self-constructive, and adapting in its supply; differing in all these provisions from the sudden and passive setting of any inorganic concrete or cement, and Vhich is without increment, in any artificial mode of adhesion. During the process of reparation, therefore, the pathological Surgeon is ever watchful, never meddlesome, in his regard to the correct coaptation of the fragments, and the consequent length and shape of the limb. Absolute rest of the fractured part is not essential to union without displacement; and this suggestion of pathology regulates the degree of security requisite in any form of artificially retentive apparatus. Every trivial displacement, also, of the splints and bandages need not be readjusted. If, however, the bandages slacken, they must be reap- plied; if the retentive appliances get disarranged, they must be replaced. On the other hand, if pressure has become undue at any part, whether by swelling of the flesh or setting of the padding, that part should forthwith be relieved—perhaps by snipping the bandage, here or there, with fine-pointed scissors—ever remembering that the Surgical purpose of any " retentive apparatus " is not to fix the limb in a vice ; but only so as, by securing rest, to gain time for the injured part to itself undergo the process of reparation. If, therefore, spasmodic muscular action still recurs, from time to time, and threatens to frustrate the healing operation of Nature, the rebellious muscles should be coaxed, if possible—not coerced—by any acceptable alteration of position; and quieted by the administration of sedative medicines, of which opium and the tincture of digitalis are, perhapsjthe most antispasmodic. Tenotomy has been proposed, as a last591 FRACTURE. xesource, in the most obstinate cases; and division of the tendo-Achillis has been practised with success, in fractui'es of the leg. At length the proper time arrives, when splints and bandages may be exchanged for an "immovable apparatus." "When all chance of swelling has passed, spasm has ceased, and soft union is established, then only is the "starched" bandage safe and advantageous. At an ■earlier period, the unyielding nature of a solid casement would not allow for any alteration whatever in the size of the limb. As swelling inevitably supervenes, the immovable apparatus tightens, even to strangulation, and when the limb shrinks, it becomes as much loosened; thus entailing an almost daily entire reapplication of the apparatus, at that period of fracture. The unyielding nature of the starched bandage is oSensive also to the muscles about the fracture, at a time when they are most irritable and susceptible of spasm. Professor Erichsen, I observe, advocates the use of a starched bandage at almost the earliest possible period after fracture, urging its safety and advantage, chiefly on these grounds: that it takes the shape of the limb " accurately and readily," and retains this shape by virtue of its "solidity." But these very characters of the starched bandage are, in my opinion, the most obvious and valid objections to its application at that time. I am accustomed thus to fix the limb immovably, only when it no longer needs watchful supervision; and such apparently was Brichsen's rule of practice formerly. The construction of the starched bandage, and other kinds of im- movable apparatus, for fracture, should be well understood. By no means a recent invention; albumen and flour, mixed, were used by Cowper, to stiffen fracture-bandages. Powdered chalk was preferred by Lawrence; dextrine, by Yelpeau. Grum arable, with whiting, is ihe mixture recommended by Smee. Grum-shellac, with glue, has also been employed. Plaster-of-Paris, by Mathieson and Van der Loo, of Holland; also by Kluge, of Berlin, and PirogofE, of St. Petersburg. Starch was introduced by Baron Seutin, in 1834. A layer of cotton wool having Fig. 194. been wrapped round the limb, and more thickly over bony prominences, short splints of softened pasteboard are adjusted around the seat of fracture ; and, over all, a roller is applied in the ordinary manner, beginning from below upwards. A second roller is then applied, and the whole limb, thus encased, is smeared over with thick starch, which is worked in with the hands. A third roller may be used, if necessary, as additional security. The casement formed, dries firmly in a day or two. (Fig. 194.) Plaster-of-Paris has only one mechanical advantage; it dries, and sets in a few minutes. This forms the most rigidly immovable apparatus, and is espe- cially serviceable when the patient must undergo a journey. But it is much heavier, and apt to crack behind a joint, as the knee. Supported by a starched bandage, the patient can move592 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. about at a much earlier period than otherwise; a great advantage in relation to the general health, as compared with the prolonged "con- finement endured in the treatment of Fracture formerly. No medicinal treatment or scarcely any of a constitutional character is,_ usually, required in the course of simple Fracture, The shock of injury having passed off, the healing process goes on without appa- rently troubling the general functions of the body; and they, in turn, take little or no notice of the local process. If all the local circum- stances of the part itself be conducive to healing, and the individual be in good constitutional health at the time of the accident, it is then as natural for a fractured bone to heal and restore itself, as to maintain its own healthy integrity of structure by nutrition. Diet should be adapted to the altered hygienic condition of the individual, now disabled for business or pleasure; and, more particularly, it should be propor- tioned to the wants of reparation. At first, therefore, moderate and comparatively innutritions, the diet must soon be more liberal and nutritious. Mild aperients, just to regulate the bowels, are needed not unfrequently, when the patient is confined to bed ; but active purga- tives are, by their action, apt to occasion disturbance of the fractured part, and so peril the process of union. In due time—a period varying considerably, according to the age and health of the individual—any retentive appliance may be finally removed with safety. The fracture must then be gently tried, to test its solidity, by passive motion of the limb. If firm union has taken place, the functions of the limb should be as tentatively resumed. In fracture of the lower extremity, this trial of power should be made venj gradually; for, if worked too soon, the limb shortens under the weight of the body, and permanent crippling is the result. Oedema, in some degree, is inevitable, when first the limb is allowed to be free and pendant. Gentle frictions will aid in restoring the circulation j and a lightly applied bandage gives support to the flesL, as yet flabby. Prolonged confinement, however, would tend to permanently waste and weaken the limb. Thus—as in the management of an incised wound—the artificial support of a fracture is gradually withdrawn, and the limb allowed to resume its functions as gi'adually; until at length unaided Nature can stand alone. Compound Feactdre.—Structural Condition, and Diagnostic Charac- ters.—Compound Fracture is, essentially, Fracture, with a wound in the skin communicating; thus exposing the seat of fracture, however indirectly, to the action cf the air. (See Fig. 197.) The structural dis- organization, as regards the state of the bone, is the same as in simple fracture; but compound fracture is usually accompanied with more severe contusion or laceration of the surrounding soft textures. This condition, coupled with that of the aperture externally, whicli is also contused or lacerated, together form a Contused or Lacerated "Wound, connected with, and around, a Fracture. The Signs of this injury are the same as those of simple fracture, with the additional and distinctive character of an external irregular wound. Therefore, both the condition and characters are those of simple Fracture, plus those of contused or lacerated Wound. Caiises, and Effects of Compound Fracture.—B-ere again, the patho- logical history is that of simple fracture, vnth certain peculiarities super-COMPOUND FRACTURE. 593 added. External violence is generally the cause of the wound in the skin and subjacent soft parts, as well as of the connected fractui'e; which may then be regarded as produced by an extension of the injury from without. Or the fractured bone may itself penetrate to the surface and through the skin; the wound then being an extension of the injury from ivitldn. In the one case, the force is applied directly to the seat of fracture, and the injuiy is more a contusion ; in the other case, the force is applied indirectly, to the bone at some distance off, and the injuiy is more a laceration, and less extensive. In both cases, the con- tused or lacerated textures are damaged beyond the apparent extent of injury; and the shock to the nervous system is more severe than with simple fracture, owing to the greater damage to the soft parts, in- cluding nerves. Tetanus is, perhaps, more apt to supervene than after a contused or lacerated wound alone, and especially if the compound fracture be oblique, and movable among nerves and muscles. The textures injured, being in a state of disintegration, die, at least to some extent around; if the wound be allowed to remain open. This pui^ely trmimatic gangrene is the same as that caused by a contused or lace- rated wound. Limited, therefore, to the part injured, and defined, eventually, by sloughing, or by a line of demarcation between the living and dead textures, the gangrene is immediate also, if the injury itself be severe. Course, and Termination.—Inflammation supervenes, followed by suppuration, perhaps profuse, and partial sloughing ; or by gangrene, on a larger scale. Either degree of mortification, arising from inflam- mation, is limited to the seat of injury. By this process, however, a fracture, which originally was simple, may become compound in some cases. Spreading gangrene—due to some morbid condition of the blood—supervenes on compound fracture, only as an occasional con- tingency; and its phenomena have been already described in connection with the course of contused and lacerated wounds. But the tendency of compound fracture, when reduced, is to undergo reparation; union of the fragments taking place, either through the medium of dense connective or fibrous tissue—an imper- fect support, or through a bony callus, with firm consoHdation, as in simple fracture. The wound in the soft textures closes up and heals by suppurative granulation and cicatrization. Under other circum- stances, union of the fracture is effected by ossifying granulations. Thus, if the bone, when reduced, be exposed, in an open suppurating wound—say, the fractured ends of the tibia—granulations may form on either end, and meeting together, coalesce, constituting a soft callus, which becomes ossified. When a portion of the bone dies, whether as the result of contusion or comminution, or having been laid bare by sloughing, or isolated by burrowing suppuration around the bone, the dead portion is slowly detached, by the process described in connection with Necrosis,—the detached piece being named an exfoliation, or a sequestrum ; then, the subjacent granulations springing up more freely, form the callus, which is transformed into new bone. (Fig. 195.) The histological process by which bone produces granulations, consists of the following changes, as demonstrated on or in a denuded portion of bone, e.g., the tibia. At about the end of ten days the bone, which had hitherto a yellowish colour, assumes a bright red tint, haying be- come more vascular. The surface is beset with a number of red 2qSPECIAL, PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 594 points, or littlo streaks; tLey are tlio young granulations, which rapidly growing in height and breadth, spread and coalesce, so as to present a mamillated granulating surface, continuous with the granu- lations of the surrounding soft textures. Thus far the process may he traced by the eye, aided only by a lens, in the early stage of vascular pointing. But an injected specimen of such bone, deprived of its inorganic matter, shows certain changes in the osseous texture, which are disclosed by microscopic examination. (Fig. 196.) The Haversian canals are crowded Fig. 19G.t Fig. 195.* with small round cells—apparently emigrated white blood-cells— which infiltrate the connective tissue along the walls of the canals, and the included blood-vessels have developed into vascular loops; this infiltrated tissue, together with the looped vessels, growing to the surface of the bone, sprout out of the open ends of the osseous canals, in the minutely punctiform appearance of the young granu- lations. The canals themselves at first become atrophied and enlarged, by absorption of their walls, to make room for the cell-infiltration, and thus the granulating bone appears porous, when macerated to remove the out-cropping granulations. Ossification of the granula- tion-tissue proceeds rapidly within the bone, so that the osseous texture soon loses its porous character, and becomes denser and harder from the interstitial deposit of new bone. Between the fi-actured ends, ossi- fication takes place far more slowly, leaving the callus a soft, fibrous connective-tissue bond of union, for perhaps a long period; while, on the surface of a bone, granulations acquire only the character of a con- densed texture, in a cicatrix which, although continuous with the surrounding skin, is firmly attached to the subjacent bone. Diftise suppurative periostitis and osteomyelitis, or diffuse suppuration within the medullary canal and cancellated structure of a long bone, may both * Diagram showing fracture of a long bone with external wound, i.e., compound fracture, in a longitudinal section.—o, necrosed ends of bone;, h, internal callus ; c, external callus; the darkly shaded granulations are continuous with the extcrual wound, d; e, ends of bone, displaced; /, surrounding soft parts. Natural size. (Billroth.) , . , ., . t Diagram showing detachment of a necrosed portion of bone; smnlar to Bloughing in a contused wound. The upper or dead portion is detached from tiie lower or living portion of bono, by cell-infiltration between the two portions and into the adjoining Haversian canals. 300 diam. (Billroth.)COMPOUND FRACTURE. 596 "be mentioned as causes o£ necrosis in compound fracture. But the necrosis will probably then be so extensive—the whole shaft of the bone perhaps perishing—that these diseased conditions have no practical relation to the union of compound fracture. The average ]}eriocl for union in compound fracture is about twice as long as in simple fracture. Thus, with regard to a long bone, and in the lower extremity, as the tibia, three or four months may elapse ere the same degree of firm ossific-union is produced. In the event of union being effected by granulation, the process is more prolonged; just as in the soft textures, this mode of healing is slower than primary adhesion; and osseous granulations are produced even more slowly than granulations in the soft textures. When the process is compli- cated by necrosis, the previous detachment of the dead portion of bone delays the union to the longest period. Ununited fracture, and false-joint, will be hereafter considered. The Prognosis of compound fracture, as gathered from a due con- sideration of the natural course and tendency of this lesion, is far less favourable than that of simple fracture. An open wound, communi- cating with the seat of fracture, as compared with subcutaneous lace- ration of the soft parts, is one unfavourable ground of prognostic distinction. Scarcely less so is the greater extent of their laceration, usually in compound fracture; especially if produced by direct violence. Consequently, the chequered histories of haemorrhage, shock, and tetanus; traumatic gangrene, inflammation, and its consequences, in suppuration and sloughing; necrosis ; erysipelas, and pyemia; have each and all to be taken into account, as being more or less prob- able contingencies in considering our prognosis of compound fracture. Spreading gangrene is an adventitious condition, yet a most unfavour- able one, as implying the co-operation of a constitutional cause. The following results of compound fracture are practically inte- resting and important for reference, as exhibiting the relative fre- qiiency of such fracture in either limb, and in different parts, their comparative mortality, and the causes of death; according to Mr. Bryant's analysis of 302 cases in Guy's Hospital, during a period of twenty years. (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xliv.) Of the whole number—302 cases— 17, or o"6 per cent., were of the thigh. 193, or 63-9 „ „ leg. 35, or 11"5 „ „ arm. 57, or 18"8 ,, „ forearm. In the tliigh, 11 of the 17 cases were fatal, or 647 per cent.; in the leg, 74 of the 193 cases were fatal, or 38'3 per cent.; in the arm, 4 of the 35 cases died, or 11'4 per cent. ; in th.e forearm, 7 of the 67 cases died, or 12-2 per cent. In the ivliole number of 302 cases, 96 were fatal, or 31*7 per cent. The causes of death were—exhaustion, gangrene, pyaemia, delirium tremens, bronchitis, tetanus, secondary hcemorrhage, internal compli- cations,^ erysipelas. As to the relative frequency of these various causes, it would appear that the two first named, exhaustion and gangrene, were the most common,—amounting respectively to 40'6 per cent., and 11-4 per cent. PyEemia amounted to 21-8 per cent., but this high mortality depended on amputation; pysemia being twice as fatal in those subjected to operation, i.e., 277 per cent., against 14-2 withoutSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 596 amputation. Ou the other hand, in attempting to save the Hmb, delirium tremens and tetanus were the common causes of a fatal result. Accidental causes, such as bronchitis, need not be taken into account. Treatment.—The same rules of treatment are applicable as for simple fracture; but certain particulars, having reference to the special pathology of compound fracture, are peculiar to its treatment. Beduction of the displacement may present special diflSculties. Thus, if one or both ends of bone protrude—whether this condition was pro- duced by the original force of the fracture, or by the sheer weight and position of the limb, or possibly by rough handling—the displacement can be reduced by suflficient extension of the limb. When, however, such displacement is due rather to muscular contraction, and spasm, acting especially on the lower fragment, which is thus drawn upward ; enlargement of the wound, by incision, will be preferable to forcible extension ; and this proceeding is the more urgent also, in proportion to the circumferential swelling, fi'om haemorrhage or serous effusion. With increasing tension, the protruded portion of bone becomes tightly embraced by the aperture in the integuments, through which it has passed ; a condition not unfrequently witnessed in compound fracture of the tibia, and which obviously suggests the propriety of enlarging the aperture to free the bone. Exceptional cases sometimes occur. When protrusion arises from deformity of the bone, as in rickets, ex- cision of a portion of the bone may then be necessary to reduce the displacement. Union, firm and permanent union, will probably take place, with, or without, the reproduction of new bone as an inter- mediate callus. The limb is ultimately restored to its original length, or remains proportionately shorter than its fellow. In one such case, where the tibia was arched forward, in consequence of rickets, I removed two inches of that bone, an inch from either fractured end ; and the result was highly satisfactory. When, more rarely, the pro- truded portion, although reduced, cannot be kept in place ; it may then be advisable to excise that portion to a sufficient extent for this purpose. But the difficulty can generally be overcome by an altered position of the limb, or by tenotomy; as when the lower end of the tibia is tilted forward by traction on the tendo-Achillis. Sj^Unters of bone have special significance in relation to the treatment of compound fracture, there being an open wound communicating. If only partially detached, any such portion of bono may retain its vitality and regain its connection. But if completely detached, the fragment is obviously a foreign body, and should be removed; a proceeding the more im- perative, when any such fragment intervenes between the fractured ends of laone; thus opposing their reduction and intercepting their sub- sequent apposition, and the process of reparative union. In any case, where a considerable portion of bone is removed in compound fracture, whether owing to protrusion, deformity, or splintering, care should be taken, in maintaining reduction, that the interval between the ends of bone be not equal to the portion removed; lest, an inadequate length of callus being produced, imperfect union should be the result. The Wound.—Keduction-difficulties having been overcome, and the limb retained in position by suitable splints, well padded and protected by oiled-silk from the soaking of any discharge issuing from the wound : then comes the treatment of the wound itself, and state of the soft parts involved. The primary indication is to close the wound, with the viewCOMPOUND FRACTURE. 59l7 o£ soliciting its Tinion by adhesion, and fhus convert the fracture into a simple one. For this purpose, a pad o£ wet lint, or soaked in carbolic-acid solution, should be applied over and around the wound, so as entirely to exclude the air. Considering the great difference, in safety and time, between primary adhesion and the process of suppurative granulation, assuredly the former mode of reparation should be first solicited in all cases. In some compound fractures, with comparatively little laceration of the soft textures and of the aperture externally, as when produced in- directly, by protrusion of the bone, the wound being closed and pro- tected from the air, heals by adhesion in a few days, and the subsequent progress of the case is that of simple fracture. In other cases, with contusion of the wound and subjacent textures, this mode of healing may be tried, in the first instance; but it should be abandoned imme- diately effusion and tension supervene in any such degree as clearly indicates the necessity for a free discharge of clots, and of matter during the course of suppuration. Early solicitation of primary ad- hesion, and timely abandonment of the attem]Dt, in favour of suppura- tion, as soon as this event occurs or is inevitable, constitute a compro- mise, which overrules any objection as to the prohahle failure of the one and the supervention of the other. If the attempt prove successful, the advantage is gained of then having to deal with only a simple fracture. Displacement, occurring during the healing of the wound, might tempt the Surgeon to rectify it; but the safer practice will be, to wait until this can be done without destroying the granulations, whereby probably the most intense inflammation would be provoked, and the fracture be made, or become, again compound. Sujjpuraiion, or Gangrene, having supervened, the treatment should respond to these consequences of Inflammation. Firstly, as regards local measures. With progressive suppuration, pus may be diffused and accumulate, without much, if any, tendency to point; then, early, free, and dependent incisiSks are necessary, for the easy vent of matter as it forms, and to relieve tension. Otherwise, the pent-up matter, working its way about the seat of fracture and among the textures around, dis- sects and detaches the bone, periosteum, muscles, nerves, and vessels ; and thus destroying their continuity, the fracture remains unuuited, and the parts around become saturated and soddened; in short, an irreparably disorganized Hmb is the result. Consequently, at a later period, incision may be necessary to remove any portion of dead bone, whether as an exfoliation or a sequestrum. Comj)resses of lint, properly appUed, will do much to prevent the burrowing of matter; and the pad of wet lint, which closed the wound in the first instance, may now be advantageously exchanged for a poultice, or piece of wet spongio-piline, as a cleaner application, to promote the discharge, for a time. But this should be succeeded by light water-dressing, or with carbolic-acid solution, when the continuance of warmth with moisture would only sodden and relax, and when the wound is granulating. Hectic fever and exhaustion, consequent on prolonged and perchance profuse suppurative discharge, are best relieved by a diet, consisting principally of animal food, in which albuminoid matters prevail, with wine, beer, or spirits, according to the patient's previous habits. In short, what is termed a nourishing and stimulating diet is most «£B.cacious; the quantity of food being regulated by the digestiveSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. 598 power of the individual, and the stimulants proportionate to his previous habits and present exhaustion. Tonics, in the shape of quinine and the diluted nitro-muriatic acid, or other mineral acid, are to be regarded only as serviceable adjuncts. Sleep must be procured by an opiate nightly, when necessary; and restlessness allayed by maintaining the influence of opium, slightly, day by day, until the strength is somewhat restored. Careful regulation of the alvino evacuations is a most important injunction thi'oughout the course of hectic fever; any approach to constipation increasing the general irritabihty. It may, however, often become necessary to check, if possible, the tendency eventually to diarrhoea. The hygienic and medical treatment for the tijj^hoicl fever arising from gangrene or sloughing, is substantially the same as that for hectic fever. Amputation.—The question of amputation in compound fracture Fig. 197. turns upon the probability as to the supervention of traumatic gan- grene, or of profuse suppuration, with perhaps necrosis; m either way, the limb will be irreparably disorganized, and life thereby endangered. (1 ) When the ivhole substance of a limb is mvolved by the mjury ot compound fracture, either or both results are inevitabU ; and there is no alternative but primary, or immediate, amputation. . . t Such was the condition in a case of compound and comminuted fracture of the tibia, just below the anterior tubercle^ with /rac/Hr« ot the fibula, one inch below the head of that bone. (Fig. 19/, showmg^COaiPOTJND FKACTURE. 599 appearances on removal of integuments.) But there was also (as represented) extensive laceration of the muscles, particularly of the tibiahs anticus muscle, which was torn aci'oss and thrown inwards over the tibia; the anterior tibial artery was torn through (as indicated by the lower pin in the figure), but the corresponding nerve and the musculo-cutaneous nerve (seen above) were entire. Here, then, in addition to the worst kind of fractiire of both bones, the conditions were present of inevitably profuse suppuration, by extensive laceration of the muscles, and of impending gangrene, by rupture of the anterior main artery. This injury was caused by contusion of the leg between a brewer's dray and a post, and I may add, therefore, another lesion had occurred—extensive detachment of the shin from the deep fascia of the limb, the superficial, cellular, or subcutaneous fascia being infiltrated Avith blood. It corresponded to the large sheath of integument thrown back in the figure. This condition I have found also in the dissection of many other limbs severely injured by direct violence. It may be present without any wound in the skin, or dis- colouration at first, and it may exist far beyond the apparent seat of injury, thus misleading the Surgeon as to the jjar^ proper for ampu- tation. The characteristic external appearance of this tyincal example of bad compound fracture is represented in the adjoining figure of the limb, as seen within a quarter of an hour after the accident. The swelling, of considerable size, corresponded to the lacerated and blood- engorged extensor muscles, and their displacement inwards over the tibia. Four apertures in the skin, the two upper communicating directly with the fracture, complete the picture. (2.) "When, however, the extent of damage is itself jiartial, the supervention of gangrene or of profuse suppuration is huiproportion- ately prolahle; the limb is not inevitably lost, nor the life surely perilled. Accordingly, the postponement of amputation until the actual supervention of either or both these local conditions—in other words, secondary amputation—should be the rule observed, in order to give the limb its chance of preservation; the safety of life being pro- vided for by timely amputation, under these circumstances. The question of amputation, and as primarily or secondarily, is determined by these pathological considerations. Certain rules, however, as to the urgency of amputation are laid down in surgical works, according to the extent of injury to the vessels, nerves, etc. Any such pathologico-anatomical conditions have signifi- cance only in proportion to the certainty or probability of gangrene or profuse suppuration supervening. I here omit the probabilities of secondary htemorrhage, exhaustion from shock, the occurrence of tetanus, erysipelas, or pytemia, as being contingencies which cannot be foretold, and some of which are preventible. >But observations of the course and tendency of compound fracture, in different doubtful cases of the other class, have not hitherto been sufficiently accurate and ample, to establish any such absolute rules of practice with respect to amputation; and less so when the necessarily unknown capabilities of the reparative power in different individuals are also taken into account. No Surgeon can positively determine whether amputation should be performed in a doubtful case; guided by this or that particular extent of injury, and in this or that individual; at diffei'ent periods of life also, from youth to age; and as subject to the modifying600 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 198.* influence of previous habits. Misled by .1 priori considerations suggested by t^e patbologico-anatomical conditions of compound fracture, clinical observation is precluded; and thus many limbs are probably sacrificed surgically, which otherwise might be saved, if the treatment were determined by watching the actual course and tendency of the case; in other words, by observing the vital career of the particular form of injury, and as subject to the reparative power of the individual. Not one of the con- ditions of compound fracture, alluded to, are found to be invariably fol- lowed by profuse suppuration or gangrene ; not one of the considera- tions commonly urged in surgical works, as to the necessity for primary amputation, are infallible. If, then, exceptional cases are discovered by the advancing study of living con- ditions, in how many more cases might limbs, hitherto sacrificed sur- gically, have been saved, and be preserved in future ? Spreading traumatic gangrene, arising from compound fracture, has the same relation to amputation, as in the case of contused or lacerated wound. The rule of treatment should be : removal of the exciting cause by amputation of the limb, without delay, and at some height above the seat of fracture—no line of demarcation forming in spreading gangrene, to indicate the time and part for amjautatiou. CoMPLrcATED FRACTURES.—These injuries follow naturally in the order of description after compound Fractures, which is a complication relatively to the simple form of this injury. But the complications liere referred to are any additional injury or injuries which may be received simultaneously with Fracture, whether itself simple or com- pound ; and any morbid condition, local or constitutional, which may be * St. Bartholomew's Hospital, C. 79. In the valuable specimen from which the drawing for this figure was taken, the head of the humerus was dislocated ujjwards and backwards upon the dorsum of the scapula,—a rare form of dislo- cation ; but, being imreduccd, the formation of a new joint is even more peculiar. The margin of the head rested, in a hollow, against the inferior surface and the outer edge of the spine of the scapula; while the neck of the humerus moving upon and across the inferior half of the glenoid cavity and the adjoining part of the lower border of the scapula, this part of that bone has become broad and convex, and that of the humerus is deeply grooved for its reception. The surfaces of the bones in the new joint are accurately adapted, and highly polished. A fracture through the middle of the shaft of the humerus is firmly united, but with Bome angular deformitv.601 COMPLICATED FBACTUEES. Fracture syphilis, Fig. 199, Fig. 200. •connected with either lesion as predisposing to its recurrence, or as afEecting the process of its repair. Fracture may be complicated by association with injury to a large artery or nerve, by extensive laceration of the muscles, by extending into a joint, or by an accompanying dislocation. (Fig. 198.) It may be associated also with injury to some special part or internal organ; as fracture of the pelvis implicating the bladder, of the ribs wounding the lung or pericardium, or of the skull injuring the brain. Then again. Fracture may be complicated by association with some morhid condition, local or constitutional. Thus, certain blood-diseases predispose to and retard or arrest the formation of callus. Rickets, cancer, scrofula, and scurvy, have severally this twofold effect; while febrile disturbance, erysipelas, starv- ation, and jjerhaps pregnancy, severely tend to prevent union. Treatment.—Two pathological considerations are of general practical importance and applicability, in relation to the treatment of the various complica- tions of Fracture—simple or compound. Istly, Is the complication any mor- bid condition or conditions in operation, locally or con- stitutionally, which affect unfavourably the natural jDrocess of repair ? In this case, the treatment must be entirely subject to such one or more conditions. 2ndly, Is the complication any injury or injuries, additional to Fracture ? In this case, the treatment of the fracture may be of entire subordinate import- ance, even although it be, as in many such cases, severely compound. Diseased Callus, and Deformed Unioit.—These conditions represent the unfavourable terminations of United Fracture. The whole pathology of Diseased Callus is that of Diseases of Bone in general; but they may severally be associated with Deformed Union after Fracture. Structural Conditions.—Deformed Union of Fracture appears in •various shapes, according to the relative position, of the fragments, (a.) Union with displacement; angular, rotatory, or transverse, with over- lapping of the fragments; and oblique or longitudinal displacements. (Fig. 199.) The most singular and extreme degree of deformity resulting from the union of fracture I ever met with, is here shown. (Fig. 200.) The shaft of the femur is united at an angle of 75°. In the other thigh of the same person, a fracture had united at the same angle. Both specimens arc in the rich collection of the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, (h.) Union of two adjoining parallel602 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. bones, as the radius and ulna, the tibia and fibula, or two adjacent ribs. Diar/nostic Signs.—These various conditions of deformed union present obviously characteristic appearances ; but they resemble the appearances produced by corresponding displacements in Fracture ■without union. Absence of mobility will always be distinctive of deformed %inion. _ Causes, and Effects of Deformity.—The external canses of deformed union after Fracture may be any circumstances which occasion dis- placement of the fragments. Thus, unsuitable retentive appliances, or their unsuitable application, will have this effect; so also, rough handling of the part, during the process of repair. Internal causes comprise muscular action displacing the fragments, and diseased conditions of the callus ; as exuberant callus, resulting from inflammation affecting it during, or after, its formation. The effects of deformed union of Fractm-e are mechanical. If occurring in the neighbourhood of a joint, its action will be impaired. If in the shaft of a long bone, as the femur, ineffectual power is experienced, and in various ways, according to the direction of dis- placement. Thus, shortening of the limb occasions lameness. If two companion bones are conjoined, serious loss of function may be the result ; as loss of pi'onation and supination of the forearm by union of the radius and ulna. Or such union may be unimportant; as in the case of the tibia and fibula. Terminations.—In respect to the process of union, the vital history of deformed union presents nothing peculiar. The recognition of two stages in the process is, however, of practical importance; recent or incomplete ossification of the callus, and old-standing or comijlete- union. Treatment.—(a.) Recent union, with displacement, suggests the pro- priety of endeavouring to rectify the deformity gradually. Infraction, by extension or bending, and compression, may be applied; either by manipulation, from time to time, and the interim application of a suitable retentive apparatus, or by means of some contrivance to slowly reduce the displacement. Either should be worn as long as occasion requires; say, from 3 to 5 weeks. Successful results have been obtained in numerous fractures after union of some duration; as 25, 29, 59 days ; and, possibly, after 4 or 5 months. Thus, I succeeded in straightening the forearm by manipulation, in the case of a child, where fracture of both bones had joined at an angle backwards; a tolerably firm callus having formed. The arm became completely useful, in all its movements. In the event of a more unyielding callus, although still of recent formation, refract^ire becomes necessary; but this must be done cautiously. It may be accomplished in like manner —by manipulation, or by the application of a screw-press; in either way, the object being to break the callus, under the influence o£ chloroform, and to reset the bone in its natural axis and position. The extreme period of union when this procedure can bo_ safely resorted to, is determined principally by the degree of consolidatioa which may have taken place. Experience has sanctioned different periods of limitation. Thus, the twenty-fourth week is the extreme- limit advisable, according to Osterlen. A little longer was conceded by Bosch, perhaps 6 or 6| months. Mr. Skey, however, m one caseUNUNITED FRACTURE AND FALSE-JOINT. 603 refractured tlic leg of a boy, cetat. fifteen, 13 months after tlie original fracture. (&.) Gomjylete osseous-union can only be overcome by a cutting ope- ration. The caUus having been laid bare, it may be divided—the operation of section—by a small saw or bone-forceps ; or excision of the callus may be necessary, particularly if it be exuberant. The ends of bone are then to be readjusted aright, and the case treated as comjjound fracture. But the very fact of this condition resulting from the operation, coupled with the inherent peril of the operation itself, renders it one not lightly to be entertained. To say that by an incision the callus is reached, does not convey a true idea of the operative difficulties then experienced, owing to various pathological conditions of the callus, and of the parts around. For the inter-union of two contiguous bones, accompanied with serious loss of functional utility, as pronation and supination in the forearm, division of the callus is more imperatively necessary, if refracture cannot be accomplished. But with union of the tibia and fibula, either, and indeed any, operative proceeding is generally un- important ; and, as regards the junction of two ribs, is obviously impracticable. Ununited Fracture, and False-joint.—Disunited Fracture.— Structural Conditions.—Four varieties of Ununited Fracture are recognized; two of which may be regarded as stages of non-union, and two of false-joint; in either case, proceeding from incomplete to complete. They thus form a contimied series of structural conditions, from imperfect union to perfect articulation, (a.) Tlie fractured ends Fig. 201.' of a bone may be united by an ensheathing cartilaginous callus; which, however, fails to undergo ossification. This condition is known by partial mobility of the part when handled, and the limb is proportionately useless. (&.) Total non-union may occur, there being no kind of connecting medium between the fractured ends, which are also apparently diminished in size. They are freely movable, and the limb is altogether useless and wasted, (c.) Most commonly, in both fragments, the medullary canal is obliterated, the ends are rounded and pointed Iby absorption, and covered in by the for- mation of a tissue resembling periosteum ; they are connected together by a strong ligamentous hand, or by several nari'ow bands, fii-mly attached to^ the bones. This new material is very pliable, and the incomplete joint thus constructed is movable according to the length and laxity of such ligamentous connection. (Pig. 201.) (d.) Lastly, * Ligamentous union of both bones in forearm, after fracture; seven years date- the patient a man aged SO. lloyal Free Hos pital.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 604 and rarely, a dense caimilar ligament may be formed, and contain a fluid like synovia; the ends of bono have become smooth and polished, possibly eburnated, or covered with points—possibly thin plates—of cartilage, and a synovial membrane similar to that of a natural articu- lation. Thus, then, a complete false-joint is Fig. 202.* constructed. (Fig. 202.) The fractured ends, instead of being partially consolidated, as in the first condition, are freely movable; but they have not the useless mobility of total non-union, nor the irregular action allowed by a loose band or bands of ligament with intervals between them and which less entirely surround the ends of bone. They are retained in situ by a dense and complete capsule, and cannot be displaced unless subjected to con- siderable force. The limb is proportionately useful. Some Surgeons, such as CheUus and Hewson, supporting the assertion originally made by Boyer, have disputed the existence of this complete condition of false-joint. Several authentic cases are, however, recorded by Norris. Key saw an instance in the spinous process of a vertebra; Brodie, in a rib; Kuhnholtz, in the femur; Home, Cruveilhier, and Howship, in the humerus. Breschet readily produced complete false-joint, in his experiments on animals, in which it seems to be the most common form of union. Causes and Effects of Ummited Fracture.—The external causes of non-union after Fracture may be any circumstances which occasion motion of the fragments, beyond that degree which is compatible with the formation of callus and its ossific consolidation. Unsuitable reten- tive appliances will have this effect, or their unsuitable application ; so also, handling the part daily or even more than occasionally, during the process of repair. Hence the practice sometimes witnessed, of fre- quently readjusting the limb, is as obnoxious as that which formerly prevailed, of close imprisonment and unalterably fixed position. In- ternal causes comprise—muscular action separating the fragments and thereby preventing union, as in fracture of the patella, and in that of the olecranon; or the interposition of any foreign body, whereby union may be intercepted. A portion of muscle, tendon, or a clot of blood intervening, is thus obstructive; of which two instances, by a piece of muscle, were seen by Mr. S. Cooper. A fractured clavicle, however, has been known to unite by two pieces of bone which enclosed an ossified subclavius muscle. (Berard.) A piece of dead bone, in another case, retarded the process of repair for eight months; when the sequestrum being removed, union ensued in three or four weeks. (Schmucker.) Other local internal causes—not acting mechanically as impediments to nnion—pertain to the function of nutrition, at the seat of fracture. They are, chiefly, a deficient supply of blood to one of the fragments, as to the head of the femur, or of the humerus, in intra-capsular fracture of either of these bones; or both fragments may be ill-nourished, as after the main artery of a limb has been ligatured; any obstruction to the circulation, producing local ana;mia, as by * False-joint in the tibia. King's Coll. Hosp. Mus., 1181.UNUNITED FRACTURE AND FALSE-JOINT. 605 early, tiglit, or prolonged bandaging, or by an immovable apjDaratus; wefc, and especially refrigerant applications; or, on the other hand, inflammation, an abscess, or nicer; paralysis, or any occasion of pres- sure on the nerves distributed to the seat of fracture; and lastly, disease of the bone itself. But the latter causative condition is not unfrequently a local manifestation of some blood-disease as a consti- tutional cause, and affecting the qualitt/ of the blood supplied to the part. The influence of hlood-diseases in preventing or retarding the forma- tion of callus, has already been noticed among the complications of Fracture. The diseases alluded to are, chiefly, rickets, syphilis, cancer, scrofula, scurvy, fever, erysipelas, and the conditions of blood conse- quent on starvation and pregnancy. But opinions are, as I have said, divided respecting the alleged mal-influence of these diseases. The same advei'se character is attributed also to habitual intemperance, copious haemorrhage, or other discharges; and, in short, whatever induces genei'al enervation of the vascular and nervous systems with failure of nutrition. One or more of such caiises may, however, exist withoLit preventing or retarding the process of osseotis union and firm consolidation. The effects of ununited fracture are entirely local and mechanical, by impairing the action of the muscles and the use of the part. The limb becomes wasted, powerless, and useless; and the more so as non- union is complete and permanent. Terminations.—Ununited Fracture frequently proceeds to a natural cure. In case (a), this takes place by ossification of the cartilaginous callus, already foi'med, which then becomes an instance merely of retarded or delayed imion. The line of distinction between arrest and delay, in the transformation of a cartilaginous into an ossific callus, is imperceptible, and therefore doubtful, in all cases. Experience shows that not until after four, six, or even eight months have elapsed, is firm union by unaided Nature eventually improbable. In case (&)—that of total non-union—the process of natural cure may supervene by the formation of a uniting medium, and its ossific consolidation. But Ununited Fracture may remain in a stationary condition ; the process of union being arrested, in either of the cases, (a) or (&). Lastly, the Fracture may become more movahle by the formation of a false- joint; incompletely (c), or completely as a diarthrodial false- joint. In estimating the probability of either of the latter issues, sta- tistical results are at least trustworthy to show the comparative infre- quency of non-union, in any form, as the final issue of Fracture. Amesbury seems to have believed in the frequency of non-union. His experience extended to 90 cases. But Walker, of Oxford, aifirms that of not less than 1000 fractures which came under his treatment at some period of the repair, he does not recollect more than 6 or 8 instances. According to Lonsdale, not more than 5 or 6 cases of false-joint, excepting those within a capsule, occurred in nearly 4000 fractures treated at the Middlesex Hospital. In a table of 367 cases, collected and arranged by Mr. W. Morland from the books of the Massachusetts Greneral Hospital, extending through a period of nine- teen years, only one instance of false-joint is recorded; and as onlyGOG SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUPvGERY. soventy-fotir days had elapsed when this patient was discharged, it is doubtful whether this might not have proved to be a case of delayed ■union simply. Of 04G cases of recent fracture in the Pennsylvania Hospital, between the years 1830 and 1840, no instance of false union followed the treatment pursued. Sir Stephen Hammick, Listen, and Malgaigne bear testimony also to the infrequency of these accidents in the cases w^hich have come under their care. Hamilton has seen a considerable number of examples of non-union, but in not one of his own cases, whether in Hospital or private practice, has the bone refused finally to unite ; and his opinion is that, in proportion to the total number of fractures which occur, such cases are very rare, perhaps not more than 1 in 500. In my own experience, I may add, 6 cases only have come under my observation or treatment; as compared with many hundreds of fractures, during a period of nearly twenty-five years. Two were fractures of the humerus, at the junction of the middle and upper third; and two were fractures of the femur; one at about the junction of the middle and lower third, and the other at the junction of the middle and upper third. A compound and commi- nuted fracture of the tibia, about the middle of the shaft, was followed by the separation of portions of dead bone and incomplete or cartila- ginous union. Lastly, the case of the forearm figured at p. 603. Treatment.—Tjarliest occasion for interference. — Guided by the natural course and tendency of Ununited Fracture, not until the lapse of 4, 6, or even 8 months, is the Surgeon justified in concluding that union will not take place. During, however, the latter portion of this period, and even befoi'e the expiration of the first-named period, 4 months, he will begin to suspect the wvprobahility of union ensuing; .this improbability increasing according to the lapse of time, without the process of repair supervening, or adequately progressing. Con- sequently, ihe earliest occasion, or period for interference, is some months before the fracture assumes the condition of false-joint. Indications of Treatment.—Taking the structural conditions in the order already mentioned, the indications of treatment have reference primarily to non-union, in each of the two states described. (rt..) With incomplete union, the general indication of local treatment is to encourage, or excite, the process of ossification in the cartila- ginous callus, so as to complete the reparation. The fulfilment of this indication consists in the continued treatment of the case as one of fracture; namely, by the reapplication of retentive apparatus, observ- ing to correct any error in its construction or adjustment, which allowed of undue mobility, obstructed the circulation of blood, or the supply of nervous influence. By thus insuring rest to the part, and the other local conditions that are essential for reparative nutrition, ossification may ensue. Hence, also, any topical application previously in use, which may have reduced the nutritive vitality of the part, must be discontinued. Inflammation, and its consequences, suggest indica- tions of local treatment. Another general indication is to supply, if possible, any defective quality of blood referable to any of the Blood- diseases, which, are severally known to exercise some degree of preju- dicial influence on the ossification of callus. Phosphate of lime has been administered, or lime-water drank, for some weeks, but with little or no effect in promoting ossific deposit. Experience shows that a liberal proportion of animal food, with wine, beer, or spirits, according607 UNUNITED FRACTURE AND FALSE-JOINT. Fig. 203. to the patient's previous habits and present condition, constitute an efficacious diet; and that exercise daily in the open air proves specially beneficial. If the limb be encased in a starched bandage, and slung from the "shoulder, the patient will be enabled to move about without interrupting the consolidation of the callus. These precautionary and soliciting measures having failed, there is no alternative but to have recourse to some operative procedure. Various other manipulative proceedings have been proposed—e.g., friction, or with stimulating embroca- tions, and the application of galvanism by electro- puncture of the soft callus; but no such measure has any known direct relation to the process of ossification; nor are their results sufficiently successful to justify the further postponement of operation. The only question, therefore, is the hind of operation ■which may now be requisite. It should be remembered that a callus already exists, only in an unossified state. It would be unsurgical to undo what Nature has already so far accomplished, by any procedure of a destructive character. Acuimneture, or s-ulcutaneous section, of the carti- laginous callus has often had the desired effect of in- ducing ossification. Either operation is easily performed. The one by puncturing the callus in two or three places, with the view of starting as many centres of ossifica- tion ; for which purpose Brainard's perforator, or the Archimedean drill (Fig. 203), being more handy, may be used. The instrument is introduced through the skin and subjacent integuments, and, having pierced the callus at . one point, is reajjplied at another point, and so on, without withdrawing it from the skin. The other operation is accomplished by dividing, or at least incising, the callus, subcutaneously, with a tenotomy bistoury, or a long narrow-bladed knife. In either proceeding, care must be taken, if possible, to avoid wounding any nerve or vessel of magnitude, adjacent to the callus, and to which it may be attached; and to at once close up the puncture, or the aperture, lest the fracture become permanently compound. Obviously, however, in proportion as either operation may have this tendency, or that liabiHty, its propriety will be questionable. The late Professor Miller reported five cases of ununited fracture thus treated successfully. The operation appears to have been a com- promise between division and puncture ; the callus having been freely irritated at several points with a small tenotomy bistoury. This prac- tice was successfully imitated by Mr. G. F. Sandford, of Davenport, Iowa, in two cases; and others might be cited. (6.) Complete non-union suggests the same treatment—local and general; and also the removal of any other local cause. Thus, an inter- vening piece of dead bone, or other mechanical impediment to union, may be removed. These remedial measures not succeeding, it will bo advisable to remove the nearly lifeless and altogether ununited ends of bone. Excision is preferable to scra]ping or rasping, which, leaving the608 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. ends m a somewliat contused state, is less favourable to healin<> Both modes of operation convert the fracture into compound. Ex- cision was first practised by White, of Manchester, in 1760, and it has since been attended with variable success in the hands of diiferent Surgeons. Of 39 cases collected bj Norris, in which the ends of bone were excised or rasped, 24 were successful, 7 remained ununited and 6 were fatal. ' Excision is, in my opinion, peculiarly appropriate where the ends of bone cannot bo retained in apposition, owing to an oblique direction of the ununited fracture—a comparatively rare case; or to deformity of the bone, as from rickets. A successful case of this kind, in which I excised an inch of either end of bone, has already been referred to. In fracture, from, or with, locally diseased bone ; in compound fracture, with protrusion and contusion of the fragments ; and in all cases of fracture completely and persistently ununited; excision is specially indicated, and may be practised successfully. Suhcutaneotis or super- ficial bones are peculiarly eligible for the opei-ation. Its performance should be guided by two most important rules: the one negative —not to disturb the ends of bone from their bed, more than is neces- sary for excision; the other a positive injunction—to remove as much bone as may be requisite, thin slice after thin slice, if necessary, to expose a healthy surface of bone at either end. Their apposition, or, at the most, easy contact, is then the only local condition essential to union. Primary union should be solicited by closing the aperture, thus endeavouring to reduce the fracture to the simple condition. Other operations have been proposed and practised, to excite reparation. The passing a seton hetioeen the ends, as was fii"st success- fully applied by Dr. Physick, of Philadelphia, in 1802 ; or, when this proceeding is impracticable, passing a seton around each end, as was suggested by Oppenheim. But, either way, this operation does not remove the inert ends of bone, nor can the fracture possibly be reduced to a simple condition. The seton should not be allowed to remain longer than to induce inflammation, without much suppuration. This may take place in a week or ten days; or by that time the ends of bone may be in a well of pus. Success has followed this operation, in fracture of the lower jaw, the clavicle, bones of the forearm, and the humerus ; while in the other chosen seat of ununited fracture, the femur, it has been nearly a total failure. A loop of silver wire around either fragment, has been substituted for the seton; whereby also the ends have been tied together, or the wire has been tightened from time to time, until it has cut its way out. Both these modifications of the metallic ligature are equally objectionable, essentially, although not equally, provocative of profuse suppuration. Metallic ligatures have proved successful in the hands of Horeau; J. K. Eodgers, Mott, and Cheeseman, of New York ; N. R. Smith, and Flaubert. _ But Norris saw an instance of ununited fractured patella, in which this treat- ment was fatal on the fourth day. (c.) False-joint—incomplete—presents a different structural con- dition, yet a further consequence of ununited fracture. Any operation of a destructive character, as by the removal of the ends of bone-— although partially absorbed and indisposed, therefore, to unite—is overruled by the fact that a connecting medium, in the shape of a baud or bands of ligamentous tissue, already exists, which may be induced to609 UNUNITED FRACTUEE AND FALSE-JOINT. become tlae matrix of ossification. Hence, in this case, the introduction of foreign body here and there, around the false-joint, may have this result. The operation, originally proposed by Dieffenbach, can be readily accomplished, by cutting carefully down to the seat of fracture, and drilling holes in the fragments with Brainard's perforator or the Archimedean drill, taking care that the point does not slip to either side of the bone, into perhaps a large artery or nerve ; then introducing ivory pegs, foui*, five, six, or more, and driving them home with a mallet. The fracture, thus made compound, is reconverted into simple, by at once closing the incision with sutures, and lint-dressing. It may remain simple, but generally the wound reopens, with immense swelling around the part and profuse suppuration. Thence the peril, to limb and life, of this operation. The pegs must be forthwith extracted, leaving the fracture in a worse state than before ; thus rendering amputation perhaps unavoidable, and even sacrificing the life by the severe constitutional disturbance. If the wound remains tolerably quiescent, and consolidation of the fracture is found to have taken place after the lapse of a month or six weeks, the line of incision must be reopened by an incision and the pegs withdrawn, their ex- traction being very easily accomplished, owing to partial absorption or disintegration of the portions impacted in the bone. The wound may possibly again heal by primary union; or now run the course of granulation and free suppuration tediously to recovery, and with considerable impairment of the general health, consequent on the double operation and protracted process from first to last. Various authors bear testimony to "several" and "numerous" instances of perfectly successful results in their practice; but I am unable to find the particulars of such cases. For my own part, I have not hitherto experienced, nor witnessed, much of a satisfactory character in the results of this operation. In one case of false-joint of the humerus, at about the insertion of the deltoid muscle, I intro- duced four ivory pegs. That operation failed. I repeated it, and it caused such swelling and tension of the arm as to compel me to withdraw the pegs ; but the false joint remained nearly as movable as before this twice-performed operation. In another case, a false joint of the femur, about the junction of the lower and middle thirds, I saw the same operation performed; but it was not repeated, and the result was not moi'e efiiectual. (fZ) Complete false joint—the most irrecoverable structural con- dition—suggests the same operation as for the incomplete condition ; the introduction of ivory pegs, as foreign bodies, to induce ossification in the capsular ligament already existing as a matrix. But it should be thoroughly considered, whether the uncertainty of such reparation taking place, and the peril of the operation, are not advantageously counterbalanced by a condition of structure, which, although not that of united fracture, is yet a firm connection, and with which the limb is proportionately useful. Under these circumstances, it may be letter "to let well alone." Some form of supporting contrivance might perhaps be worn with advantage, in this and other conditions of Ununited Fracture, where other procedures have failed; or rather than run the risk of almost any operation. Disunited Fractuke is a parallel condition to Ununited Fracture. Union having taken place, and with firm osseous consolidation, a 2 RSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fracture may again become disunited, loose and movable. TIjc causes of disruption may be local; as mechanical violence, occasioning immediate destruction of the callus, or inflammation aifecting it, and opcratmg more slowly; or possibly some constitutional causative con- dition, as scurvy. The treatment accordingly must have reference to the nature of such causes. CHAPTER XXXII. SPECIAL FKACTUEES. Fractures of the Cranium.—These Fractures are so intimately related to Injuries of the Brain, that they are more conveniently considered with those lesions.—See Head-Injuries. Fractures of the Spine.—See Spine. Fractures of the Facial Bones. (1.) Fracture of the Nasal Bones.—Structural Condition.—Dis- placement of the bones may be slight; or the bridge of the nose flattened or sunk ; witb more or less contusion of the integuments, extending even to the cheeks. The lachrymal bone, sometimes, participates in the injury, with rupture of the lachrymal sac, or of the nasal duct. The cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone has, it is said, been found driven up into the brain, thus occasioning serious or fatal injury to that organ. Sig7is.—Haemorrhage from the nose is often profuse and per- sistent. In one case in the Hospital, a policeman, whose nose had been broken on several occasions of conflict with ruffians, nearly bled to death. The avpearance of the nose before the supervention of swelling is characteristic, if there be much displacement; and then, the loose mobility of the fi-agments, and their crepitation in the spongy swelling, when lightly handled with the fingers—feeling sometimes like a bag of fragments—will at once suffice to detect the nature of the in- jury. The discharge of tears over the face, with emphysema of the eyelids and forehead, denote an extension of the fracture laterally to the lachrymal bone. Some symptoms of concussion of the brain may accompany the fracture; or those 'of compression, owing probably to an extension of the fracture to the ethmoid plate. Causes.—Direct violence is the only mode of fracture of the nasal bones. And such force must, usually, be considerable, to break down the articulations of these bones with the frontal and superior maxillary bones. A severe blow or fall are the ordinary causes of this injury. Course and Terminations.—Union takes place, and with tolerable readiness, not perhaps more than a week elapsing, in most cases. There is a notable absence of provisional callus around the bones, accordmg to the observations of both ]\Ialgaigne and Hamilton. Deformity in611 FRACTUKES OF THE FACIAL BONES. •some degree, however, usually results, eitlier from the fracture having been overlooked, or owing to the difficulty of maintaining adjustment. But exfoliation of portions of the bones, with a foetid discharge, may prolong the recovery for some time. In one such case, under my care, the patient having broken his nose by a fall, he subsequently received some further damage from the brim of his hat being accidentally thrust over his brow in getting out of an omnibus. The angular depression, where the formerly prominent bridge of his nose had been, and the upturned or snubbed extremity of the nose, gave him an unhappily conspicuous appearance. Shortly, a foetid discharge commenced, and continued so profusely, as to run downwards into his throat when he lay down, or from the nostrils when he sat up. This offensive condition, with a clasping, bewildering pain across the forehead, and constant sleeplessness or horrid dreams, made his life miserable. Exfoliation of portions of bone, from time to time, gave him occasional relief. Treatment.—Without displacement of the bones, cold lotions or other applications, to subdue the inflammatory swelling, will be the only interference requisite. With displacement, the bones must be ad- justed by a little manipulation externally, and within the nostrils by means of a director or other such instrument. Compresses should then be applied to retain the bones in position. Persistent licemorrliage can be arrested only by plugging the nares, posteriorly and anteriorly, irrespective of any immediate consideration for the fracture. This proved effectual in the severe case of the policeman. The fracture may be adjusted in the course of a few days. JUxfoliation of the bones, and discharge, must be treated according to circumstances. Alum injec- tions, and the administration of iodide of potassium, proved signally beneficial in the case above referred to; although the history of the gentleman—a married man, and beyond middle life—gave no evidence of any syphilitic antecedents. Union, with malposition, whether by lateral displacement or depression, as a " broken nose," is very unsightly. But this deformity can sometimes be overcome by Mr. W. Adam's procedure—the forcible straightening of the displaced nasal bones, septum, or cartilage with a strong pair of forceps. The parts should then be retained in position, by the patient wearing a steel screw-com- pressor, applied so as to support the septum; one blade being placed in each nostril, and the screw tightened just enough to hold the blades in contact with the septum, but without pressure upon it. This apparatus is removed after two or three days, and replaced by ivory plugs, to maintain some distension of the nostrils and support the septum. These plugs can be readily used by the patient. To support the nasal hones, nothing can be worn within the nostril, high up, owing to the small size of the cavity and the sensitive nature of the lining membrane, at that part. The retentive apparatus, externally, consists of a pad adjusted by cog-wheels, attached to a steel head-band ; form- ing a nose-truss. Successful results of replacement have been obtained after deformity of months' or even of years' duration. (2.) Fractuee of the Septum Narium—occurring in connection with, fracture of the nasal bones—may also happen, separately. The fracture generally takes place in the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, adjoining to the vomer, and is produced by a blow or fallen the nose,insufficient to break the nasal bones. Displacement of the cartilaginous portion of the septum is, however, the more frequent form of lesion; the septalSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 612 cartilage being dislodged to one side, usually at its articulation with the osseous septum, although I have seen a similar displacement at the junction with the alar cartilage, just within the nostril. It was pro- duced by a fall on the nose, and the subject, a little girl, looked much disfigured by the broken-nosed appearance. Examination within the nostril will at once disclose the nature of the injury; the plate of bone, or the cartilage, can be seen and felt projecting to one side ; and in the latter case, the whitish aspect of the cartilage appears plainly through the thin, tense mucous membrane. The fracture or displacement may be more or less readily reduced by manipulation within the nostril; but to maintain the parts in position, by the application of compresses, will tax the Surgeon's ingenuity. (3.) Fracture of the Malar Bone.—Comminuted in most cases, displacement of the fragments is inconsiderable, although spicule may be driven into the temporal muscle. The mobility and. crepitation of the broken jjortions ai'e scarcely rendered imperceptible by the swelling, which, however, is often most conspicuous. Fracture of other facial bones usually co-exists. As a very rare form of injury, the bone may be driven in, and perhaps also the antrum of the superior maxilla, thus causing a marked flattening of the cheek, and irregularity in the line of the teeth. This double displacement and impaction occurred in a patient of mine, who was thrown from a carriage, on to his face, sustaining at the same time a compound fracture of the external table of the frontal bone. He recovered from this injury, but the dis- figurement remained. Direct violence is the only cause, and the violence must be very great, as the bone, thick and solid, and supported by its surrounding articulations, offers great resistance. Hence, fracture rarely happens, compared with that of the nasal bones, although the malar is equally exposed. A heavy blow on the malar bone produces a starred and radiated fracture, just as a thick plate of glass, in a frame, is broken by a stone. Treatment.—Cdidi lotions may be applied in the first instance. Adjustment of the fragments will hardly be necessary, or may be accomplished by manipulation, partly,'within the mouth ; they are then retained in position by compresses suitably placed. The pain insures rest, any attempt to masticate or speak being intolerable. Fragments driven into the temporal muscle should be removed. (4.) Fracture of the Zygoma is liable to occur with, or without, frac- ture of the malar bone. Some displacement inwards or outwards—a depression or projection—may be felt, but can scarcely be seen, as swelling soon supervenes; rendering also any mobility or creiutation, perhaps, imperceptible. A certain stiffness is sometimes experienced in opening and closing the mouth, owing to impaction of the fragments in the tendon of the temporal muscle. In one case, I found the articu- lation of the zygomatic process of the temporal bone with the malar severed, unaccompanied by any fracture. The broken or disarticulated ends of bone must be kept in apposi- tion secundum artem. (5.) Fracture of the Upper Jaw.—'Yhe nasal process of thesupenor maxilla is liable to fracture with the nasal bones; and this must613 FRACTURES OF THE FACIAL BONES. occur if the fracture extends outwards to the lachrymal bone, across the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. The nostril is more or less closed by displacement of the fragments inwards. The alveolar process also, a much thicker portion of this bone, is occasionally broken, thus displacing the line of the teeth. The malar eminence, externally, may participate in fracture of the malar bone with which it articulates ; and the antrum of Highmore is, sometimes, crushed. Direct violence only can occasion these severe injuries. Gunshot wound, or the handle of a crane revolving and striking the face, thus produces fi'acture; involving, possibly, all the bones of the face in one common smash, or disjunction, with pulpifaction of the integuments. The face " feels like beans in a bag." I have seen two such facial bags; the one resulting from machinery, the other from the compression of a cart wheel passing over the face. Treatment.—The contusion, which accompanies fracture of any por- tion of the upper jaw, always requires the application of cold lotions or the usual means to subdue inflammatory swelling. Adjustment of the fragments must be accomplished by proper manipulation within the mouth, and retained by any suitable contrivance. ISTone of the fragments should ever be removed, this con- servative principle in the treatment being strongly urged by Malgaigne, Larrey, and other Surgeons, as union will be found to take place very readily. (6.) Fracture of the Lower Jaw. —Stractural Conditions.—This bone may be broken in any part; the hody, and particularly hetioeen the symphysis and insertion of the masseter muscle (Fig. 204) ; rarely at the symphysis, in the rami, or the processes. Commonly, fracture is limited to one side of the bone. Its direction may be trans- verse, or obHque ; and in the latter form of fracture, the pointed end of the anterior poi'tion is apt to pierce the mucous membrane of the mouth, or to be tilted upwards by the depressing action of the genio-hyoid muscles ; thus, in either way, rendering the fracture compoimd. This condition of fracture in the lower jaw has, I believe, been questioned; but I distinctly found it in one instance of fracture of the body on the left side, which had become compound, in the course of a few days, by the tilting effect of the depressor muscles; the nature of the injury having been overlooked and no retentive apparatus applied. The Signs are some unevenness along the base of the jaw, and irre- gularity of the teeth, with mobility and crepitus when the parts are handled. The patient even experiences a harsh grating sound, con- veyed through the temporal bone, as well as pain, on moving the jaw. The anterior portion is drawn downwards by the genio-hyoid muscles, and particularly if the fracture be in front of, and therefore un- resisted by, the masseter muscle. Fracture on either side of the symphysis allows the middle, intervening portion of bone to be drawn more downwards. In any case there is also a dribbling of the saliva; which, at first, has a bloody tinge, from laceration of the gums, especially if the fracture be compound. Fracture of the processes is * St. George's Hosp. Mus., 1, 38.614 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. less easily recognized. The condyloid process, when detached, will be drawn forwards by the external pterygoid muscle. Direct violence is always the cause of fracture in the lower, as well as in the upper, jaw ; and such force must be considerable, as the bone is very thick, and readily moves from side to side. Treatment.—The fragments can be easily adjusted, but less easily retained. Yery many contrivances have been devised, which may be comprised under the names of ligatures,—such as silver or platinum wire, or strong silk thread; splints; bandages; and various forms of apparatus. It will suffice to notice the appliances which are com- monly ehgible, and successful in their results. A pasteboard or gutta- percha splint may be moulded to the base of the jaw (Fig. 205); the upper jaw being used as a splint above. A four- tailed bandage, with a hole in the centre to . Fig. 205. receive the chin, is then applied ; two ends tied over the top of the head, and two behind the neck, thereby fastening the jaw, both ways, in position. (Fig. 206.) Fluid nourishment only is allowed, which can be sucked in between the teeth. Double fracture, and near the symphysis, with greater depression of the fragment, requires the more steady and firm support of the clamp apparatus, contrived by Lonsdale. Loose teeth may, possibly, be preserved by fastening them to the sound teeth with fine gold or silver wire. But any tooth which would prevent even apposition of the fragments, should be removed. Advantage may perhaps be taken of the opening thus made, to feed the patient through a suction tube, during the pro- cess of reparation. Union, and generally osseous, takes place usually in a month or five weeks. The resulting deformity is slight; scarcely to be seen or felt by external examination, and amounting mostly to a little irregularity in the line of the teeth, owing to some depression of the anterior fragment. Wire ligature has been employed in fractures of the jaw by American Surgeons, especially Dr. Buck and Dr. Hamilton, and in this country by Mr. Wheelhouse, of Leeds; but this mode of treatment has been brought into notice more particularly by Mr. Thomas, of Liverpool. He has devised various methods of applying the ligature to secure the fractured portions together, and instruments for drilling the bone when necessary, and for fastening the wire. Silver annealed wire is used, the thickness -^j inch, so as to be easily manipulated, and yet of sufficient strength to retain its hold. The annexed figure represents one mode of applying the ligature. (Fig. 207.) The silver wire is passed through the opening at A. Then, the tubular needle (not shown) is passed through another aperture at B, into the open end of which instrument the return end of the wire being introduced, isFRACTUKE OF THE HYOID BONE. 6J5 witlidrawn witli tlie needle. The end of tlie wire afc A is to be inserted into tlie slit of the key in figure, and twisted in three or four coils; Fig. 207. Fig. 208. and then the end of wire at b must be twisted in like manner until the fracture is firmly fixed. The wii-e will require to be tightened as it loosens, every three or four days. Or the wire may be secured around the teeth, in other cases, as here shown. (Fig. 208.) A hole was bored from without backwards and inwards across the third molar tooth A, below the enamel, this tooth being firm in the posterior portion of the fracture. The wire having been passed through this hole, from without inwards, was brought forward between the bicuspid and canine teeth A. Then, the ends of the wire were coiled with the key. After hgature, union takes place in three or four weeks, when the wire may be removed. So firmly secured are the fractured sui'faces by a skilful application of the ligature, that the patient may have to be restrained from using the jaw in mastication. And the satisfactory results which have been obtained certainly recommend this method of treatment. I have practised it with success in two or three cases. But the wire ligature must be restricted to certain cases only. In com- pound fracture of the jaw, this method is eligible; but it would not be 3,dvisable to drill the bone, and possibly convert a simple fracture into compound. Then again, in the absence of teeth or in an edentulous jaw, the application of a ligature may be difficult or impracticable, as an alternative method of treatment. Fractuee of the Hyoid Bone.—The injury occurs very rarely. The body of the bone may be broken, as in hanging; but more commonly, one of the great cornua gives way. In one instance I have seen a fracture at the junction of the great cornu with the body of the bone, on the left side. The mobility, and perhaps crepitus, with some displacement of the fragments, are sufficiently characteristic. Besides which signs, there may be a sensation of something having snapped at the time of the injury, with haemorrhage from the throat and acute pain at the root of the tongue and in moving the organ; also perhaps difiiculty in opening the mouth, or in swallowing, and loss of voice. These functional symptoms are usually associated with some amount of swelling and bruising, or more distinctive marks of violence, over the seat of injury. Direct violence would seem to be the only occasion of hyoid fracture, as by the grip of an assassin, or by a blow or fall on the front of the neck ; but it is said to have been produced also by muscular action.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. GIG Hanging, another instance o£ force compressing the hyoid bone, does not, I believe, generally produce fracture. Three cases only were thus caused out of the whole number of hyoid fractures, 10, which Hamilton has collected. In one case, having, by permission of the sheriffs, ex- amined the throat of a man after execution at the Old Bailey, I found no fracture of this bone, although the rope, producing a deep, puri^le indentation, had passed directly over the bone. ^ Hyoid fracture cannot be regarded as of vital consequence in itself, union taking place, although perhaps with some delay and deformity. Yet, in connection with the causes referred to, the fracture has often a fatal result. Treatment.—Adjustment of the fragment is easily accomplished by passing the finger of one hand into the pharynx, while coaptation is effected externally. Retention in position is far more difficult, owing to the mobility of the part, and the recurrence of deglutition. It has been proposed to embrace the neck in a firm pasteboard collar, as a splint; and thus fix the bone externally. But the liability of dis- placement in other directions, by muscular action, still remains a difficulty to be overcome. Feactuee of the Ribs, and Costal Caetilages.—Structural Con- ditions.—One or more ribs, even several, may be fractured. Seven and eight ribs I have seen broken, counting from the second downwards. The fii'st, and perhaps the second rib, are seldom fractured, they being protected by the clavicle; and the last two false ribs also escape, as being floating, or freely movable. The mid-ribs, most exposed and fixed, are, usually, the seat of fracture. Any part of a rib is liable to be broken, by direct violence; but the convexity, or near the angle, yields mostly under the force of compression. Thus the mid-ribs, somewhere in a line fi-om the axilla downward, present the fracture commonly met Avith. The line of fracture is generally ti-ansverse, sometimes oblique; rarely, there is comminution. Displacement may be outwards, or inwards; seldom upwards or downwards, the intercostal muscles apparently restraining the broken ends in either of these directions. Longitudinal displacement, in the axis of the bone, is apt to occur when several ribs are broken. The pleura and lung are specially liable to injury simultaneously; rarely, the pericardium or heart, the diaphragm, and liver. Compound fracture occurs sometimes, as by gunshot wound. The Sicjns of fracture are crepitus, and some mobility, felt on placing the hand over the seat of injury, while the patient coughs or breathes hurriedly ; and some irregularity or flattening in the course of the ribs can usually be detected, at least during such respiratory action. A catching pain, occasionally disturbing the respiration, elicits these signs more palpably. Hence the breathing is soon restrained, and becomes more abdominal. Haemoptysis, or a spitting of blood, pneumothorax, or a tympanitic accumulation of air in the pleura, and general emphysema of the subcutaneous cellular texture, may be further signs of fracture ; indicating that the injury implicates the pleura and lung, that both are penetrated by the fractured end, or ends, of bone. These additional thoracic symptoms are all-important, as the respiration will then be yet more embarrassed. But great oppression may also arise from compression of the chest by the act of fracture, without any penetration of the pleura and lung.617 FRACTURE OF THE RIBS AND COSTAL CARTILAGES. Causes.—Direct violence, as the cause of fracture, produces displace- ment inwards, with, probably, some wound of the pulmonary organs, or other viscera occasionally. Indirect violence, as compression of the chest by a wheel passing over it, produces displacement of the frac- tured ends, outwards, and contusion of the viscera. The former condition of injury will, probably, be limited; the latter more exten- sive : the one also may be fracture of any rib, at any part of its extent; the other is generally that of the mid-ribs, at their convexity. Loss of elasticity in the ribs would seem to render persons of advanced years more liable to fracture arising from any compressing force. On the other hand, in childhood, the thorax yielding with cartilaginous resistance, great compression, as by the passage of a carriage-wheel over the chest, is not necessarily attended with fracture. A similar accident to a young retriever dog, which I witnessed, caused no appreciable injury; the animal whining only for a few moments, although the wheel had left its mark plainly across the chest. Mus- cular aation has been known to cause fracture of the ribs; as by con- traction of the abdominal muscles during parturition. Course and Terminations.—Fracture unattended with any damage to the thoracic organs, proceeds favourably; union of the ribs taking place, with facility, in four or five weeks. Slight deformity only remains, as the result of some displacement, and of ensheathing or provisional callus. Between adjoining ribs, plates of bone have some- times foi"med, as a supplemental bond of union. Penetration of the pleura and lung may be followed by some inflammation of either—by pleurisy or pneumonia. Usually, however, any htemoptysis, pneumo- thorax, or general emphysema, ceases after a time ; and any inflam- matory action supervening, has not a fatal issue. Contusion of the viscera by compression may soon prove fatal; but the almost momen- tary subjection of the chest to such force, is sometimes followed by no unfavourable consequences, although there be extensive fracture of the ribs. Treatment.—Fracture, by itself, requires simply the application of a broad rib-bandage round the chest, in order to arrest thoracic respi- ration ; thus securing the ends of bone in apposition, and at rest as much as possible. Any displacement may generally be overcome by •compresses suitably applied; as over the sternum, to increase the convexity of the ribs, in the case of displacement inwards; or two compresses, one on either fractured end, in the case of projection outwards. The rib-bandage is itself secured in position, if necessaiy, by a vertical bandage over the shoulders, and abdominal strips passing round the buttocks below. These accessory restraints are useful in fat persons. A broad roll of adhesive plaster may be drawn once or twice round the chest, instead of a rib-bandage. It answers better, probably, mechanically, and is not likely to shift its position ; but it is a dirty, irritating thing, and as such I rarely use plaster, unless several ribs are broken. Medicinally, an anodyne cough mixture may be of service, to allay the pain and cough of irritation, consequent on the respiratory movements; but if the chest be well fixed, the ease experienced will be considerable. Penetration of the pleura and lung is more important than the fracture. Hajmoptysis, pneumothorax, and emphysema, alike require moderate depletory measures ; thus to reduce the general circulation,SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 618 and to relievo the embarrassment of the respiration occasioned hy compression of the lung, in pneumothorax, or of the chest, in emphy- sema. Venesection, therefore, sometimes proves singularly beneficial,, affording instant relief. In a case under my care in the HospitaC emphysema extended from the chest downwards to the iliac fossa, on the left side; attended with the usual crepitation, stuffed appear^ ance, and great oppression of the respiration. Mr. Jeaffreson, the House Surgeon, seeing the urgency in this case, at once bled the patient, taking away more than a pint of blood. The effect was. marked, and almost magical. Panting and prostrate as the man lay before losing blood, he soon sat up and breathed freely; recovering without any further unfavourable symptoms. Scarification of th& emphysematous cellular texture may sometimes be resorted to, alone, or with venesection. But the air gradually disappears spontaneously in most cases. Paracentesis, or tapping the chest, has been performed for the relief of severe pneumothorax. Inflammation of the pleura or lung, supervening, must be met bj the treatment appropriate for j^leurisy and pneumonia. Compound fracture of the ribs, resulting from gunshot wound, is similar in all respects, otherwise than relates to the treatment of Gun- shot Wounds. Fracture of the Costal Cartilages may occur in any part of their extent from the ribs to the sternum, or at their articulations with either of these bones—a dislocation, more strictly speaking. Any such injury to the cartilages takes place in connection with fracture of the ribs ; sometimes, however, independently. The pathology being analogous to that of fractured ribs, the treatment requires no special notice. And although the costal cartilages are often fractured prior to any ossification, union ensues thi'ough the medium of bone, forming an intermediate callus, an ensheathing callus also being supplied by the perichondrium. Fracture op the Sternum.— Structural Conditions.—Analagous to fracture of the ribs in most particulars, fracture of the sternum is commonly transverse, very rarely longitudinal, and usually single; but this bone may be broken into three or more pieces. Displacement seldom occurs, and then the lower portion projects forwards, and perhaps just overrides the upper; although backwai'd displacement of the same fragment has been met with. Extravasation of blood into the anterior mediastinum, injury of the pericardium and heart, or of the pleura and lung, may severally accompany fracture. Fracture of the sternum is usually accompanied with fracture of the ribs, in their convexity; the same compressing force producing both injuries simultaneously. I have never yet seen the sternum broken alone.- The ensiform cartilage may be driven backwards, and remain per- manently depressed, even Avhen in a cartilaginous state, and subject to the resiliency of its own elasticity. Compound fracture occurs sometimes, as by gunshot wound. The Signs of this fracture ai'e obvious: crepitus, and some mobility, felt on applying the hand over the sternum during coughing or the hurried respiratory movements ; while some inequality of the bone, with any displacement, will also be perceptible. The respiration is principally abdominal. Hasmoptysis and emphysema, or severe palpi- tation, are present, when the injury involves the lung or heart. Or619 FEACTUBE OF THE CLAVICLE. these organs may evince symptoms of having suffered compression, without penetration. The Causes relate to various occasions of direct violence, as the "wheel of a carriage passing over the chest, or gunshot wound; but the clastic and yielding nature of the ribs and their cartilages, and the spongy texture of the sternum, resist fracture of this bone. Hence, although much exposed, it is rarely broken. But as age advances, and the costal cartilages undergo ossification, the liability to fracture of the sternum increases. Muscular action also is said to have caused fracture; as violent contraction of the abdominal muscles during par- turition, efforts at lifting heavy weights, or a fall on the back across a beam. Treatment.—Position is of some importance, to relax the abdominal muscles more especially, and thus prevent displacement of the lower portion of bone forwards, which would result in angular deformity. If the patient be recumbent, the pelvis should be slightly raised; or sitting up, the shoulders should inchne forwards. A broad bandage, encasing and fixing the chest, is applied, as for fractured ribs. It should be secured, observes Hamilton, when the patient is making a full expiration. Peactuke of the Clavicle.—Str^ictiiral Conditions.—The clavicle may be broken in any part of its extent; commonly, in one of its two curves, and particularly, in its outer or scapular Concavity. Fig. 209.* Rarely, fracture takes place external to the coraco-clavicular ligament—in that part of the bone between it and the acro- mion. (Pig. 209.) This dis- tinction is important with regard to symptoms, causes, and treatment. Hence, fractures of the clavicle are divided into those on the sternal and those on the scapiilar side of the coraco-clavicidar liga- ment,- which is attached to the rough oblique line on the under surface of about the outer inch and a half of the bone. On the sternal side of this ligament, fracture is usually oblique, from behind forwards and inwards (Fig. 210) ; but it may be commi- nuted, from direct violence. On the scapular side also, the bone may be similarly frac- tured. Displacement, in any notable degree, occurs only with fracture on the sternal side of the ligament, in the outer curve where the bone usually yields. The outer or scapular portion is alone displaced ; the inner portion being retained in position by the costo-clavicular ligament, * St. George's Hospital, 1, 80. See also another caso by Mr. Canton. Trans Path. Soc. vol. xii. Fig. 210.SPECIAL TATHOLOGY AND SUHGERY. G20 and tlie opposed action of the stemo-mastoid and great pectoral muscles. The displaced portion is drawn downwards, forwards, and inwards ; under, perhaps, the inner portion, thus being overlapped to an extent varying from a quarter of an inch to an inch. This dis- placement is partly due to the weight of the arm, having lost its support from the sternum; but principally it results from the action of the deltoid and great pectoral muscles, the latter muscle drawing this portion of the bone forwards and inwards. Double fracture has been met with occasionally, both clavicles being broken, perhaps more often in children. Incoviplete fracture of the clavicle may be noticed, only as an almost unique rarity, in a specimen (1, 75) of the Museum of St. George's Hospital. But, in infancy and childhood, I am inclined to believe that this lesion is not uncommon; the clavicle yielding near the middle, in a transverse direction, and with no displacement more than a slight bulging forwards. Compound fracture has been known to occur, by direct violence, or as the result of a very oblique fracture protruding through the skin. Complicated fracture consists in some additional injury. The structures adjacent to the clavicle are rarely injured with, or by, the fracture. But the axillary plexus of nerves and the subclavian vein have, sevei'ally, been wounded. Both these additional injuries were present, I believe, in the fatal case of the late Sir Robert Peel, whose left clavicle was fractured, and comminuted, by a fall from his horse. The injured vein led to the formation of a " diffused false venous aneurism," as lai'ge as the hand might cover, below the fractured clavicle, and which pulsated to the touch synchi'onously with the action of the heart, or rather with the contractions of the auricle. The Signs of fractured clavicle are characteristic. When, as usual, on the sternal side of the coraco-clavicular ligament, a depression, corresponding to the displacement, is readily detected on passing the finger along the bone, crepitation also, and mobility of the outer portion, on raising and rotating the shoulder, the elbow being kept to the side. Pain is caused by this manipulation; and the patient is unable to raise his hand to his head, the support of the clavicle, necessary for this semicircular motion of the ai^m, having given way. The patient, with his other hand, holds the arm up to his chest, to relieve the powerless weight, and inclines his head to the injured side, to relax the muscles passing from the clavicle to the head. This peculiar attitude of the patient is accompanied with a marked fallmg of the shoulder inwards towards the sternum, approximating the interval between these points ; thereby declaring the nature of the injury almost at a glance. Examination, as above directed, will be conclusive. Some contusion also may be noticed on the shoulder, or over the seat of fracture, according to the part struck, in thus breaking the bone. On the scapular or outer side of the coraco-clavicular ligament, fracture is less obvious, but still easily discovered. Slight displace- ment of the fragment downwards, and drooping of the shoulder, may be observable; but this irregularity disappears on pressing the arm upwards; and crepitus, with some mobility of the fragment, are felt on raising and depressing the humerus, the hand being placed over621 FRACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE. the shoulder at the seat of fracture. The raotions of the arm are scarcely impaired, as a sufficient support in the larger portion of the clavicle remains. Causes.—Indirect violence, the more common cause, produces fracture in the usual situation—the outer curvature, and obliquely across the clavicle. The long and slender form of the bone, and its function, that of supporting the upper extremity from the trunk, render it peculiarly liable to fracture, in receiving every impulse through any of the component bones of this extremity. Thvis, falls on the hand, elbow, and shoulder especially, are common causes of fracture in the curve of the clavicle. Direct violence produces fracture in the part struck, and probably of a comminuted character. Thus, any part of the bone, on either the sternal or scapular side of the coraco-clavicular ligament, may be the seat of fracture from direct violence. The subcutaneous and exposed position of the clavicle renders it liable to be broken in this way. A heavy, crushing blow illustrates the corresponding class of causes. Muscular action, as in using a whip, has been known to break the clavicle; the fracture occurring near the middle of the bone, without displacement or only slightly forwards, and usually on the right side. Treatment.—On the sternal side of the coraco-clavicular ligament, displacement of the outer fragment,—inwards, forwards, and down- wards, must be overcome by giving the humerus an opposite direction, —outwards, backwards, and ujDwards. The first direction is accom- plished by a jpad in the axilla, and the latter two, by inclining the arm inwards across the chest and raising the elbow ; Desault's method of treatment, and which I, among most other Surgeons in this country, have usually practised. To keep the pad and arm in this position, many contrivances have been used. Before applying any such retentive bandaging or apparatus, it is well to provide against the supervention of swelHng in the arm and hand, by padding the palm with cotton wadding or other soft material, and bandaging from the fingers upwards to near the axilla. Then a good-sized pad, enclosed in a handkerchief, should be placed well up in the axilla, and the arm close to the side, so as to draw outwards the scapular portion of the clavicle to an even apposition with the sternal portion; the pad being secured in its place by tying the handkerchief at the opposite Fig- 211. side of the neck. Inclining the arm inwards across the chest, until the hand points upwards to the opposite shoulder, a few turns of a roller round the chest enclosing the arm, above the elbow, will secure this position. (Fig. 211.) The forearm should then be slung in another hand- kerchief, from the hand to the elbow ; care being taken that the elbow is w-ell supported, upwards. Any par- ticular shifting or loosening of these simple retentive appliances, subse- quently, must be corrected; but the fracture should not bo readjusted unnecessarily. Union, and of an622 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND fiURGERY. Fig. 212. Fig. 213. ossific character, will have taken place, generally, in about three weeks But there is nearly always some amount of deformity and shorteiiino^ of the bone (Fig. 212) as the result of this, or I believe any other, method of treatment. Fortunately, however, such defects are of little consequence, eventually, in the use of the arm. Other contrivances may, occa- sionally, be more suitable; and particularly in fracture of both clavicles. The shoulder can be drawn back- wards, and thus kept in position, by Q, figure-of-Q bandage across the back and front of the chest, winding under either axilla. (Fig. 213.) The other appliances are the same as those already noticed: an axillary pad, and a sling for the arm. Ex- coriation of both axillge is apt to be produced by this form of bandage. Brasdor's apparatus removes this objection to a figure-of-8 bandage. Two well-padded straps are used, one under either axilla, which are buckled to a back-piece of stoat leather, from which two perpendicu- lar straps pass down to a belt around the waist; thus retaining the whole apparatus in position. The back-piece consists of two portions, laced together according to the size of the chest. Objection has been urged, not without some reason, to the employ- ment of an axillary joad, which is liable to induce paralysis of the arm, by pressure on the brachial plexus of nerves. Dupuytren, Velpeau, Syme, and other excellent Surgeons, have concurred in condemning the application of a pad. Certain methods of treatment, of American origin, obviate the necessity for recourse to the pad, while they aim at depression of the sternal fragment by making tense the clavicular attachment of the pectoralis major muscle. Sayre's method consists in drawing the arm backwards, and the elbow well forward and inwards. This is accom- plished by the application of two broad strips of adhesive plaster, according to the following directions, as given in Hamilton's treatise:— Each strip is about three and a half inches wide, for an adult; one long enough to encircle, first the arm, and then the body completely; the other of suiEcient length to reach from the sound shoulder, over the point of the elboAv of the broken limb, and across the back obliquely to the point of starting. Maw's moleskin plaster, or some material of equal strength, should be used. The first strip is looped around the arm just below the axillaiy margin, and pinned or stitched, with the loop sufficiently open to avoid strangulation. The arm is then drawn downward and backward until the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major is put sufficiently on the stretch to overcome the sterno- mastoid muscle, and thus draw the sternal fragment of the clavicle down to apposition with the acromial fragment. The strip of plaster623 FBACTUKE OF THE CLAVICLE. is then carried completely around the thorax, and pinned or stitched to itself on the back. The second strip is now applied ; commencing on the front of the shoulder of the sound side, it is carried over the top of the shoulder, diagonally across the back, under the elbow, which must be drawn well forward and inward, thence across the front of the chest to the starting-point, where it is fastened by pins or thread. A longi- tudinal slit is made in the plaster to receive the point of the elbow. The leverage of the arm, thus brought to bear on the axillary loop of plaster, as the fulcrum, draws the shoulder outwards and backwards—completing the replacement of the acromial fragment. (Fig. 214.) _ Another method, on the same principle, has been devised by Dr. B. M. Moore, of New York. It is " the figure of 8 fro the elbow." The arm is placed in position, by resting the end of the middle finger upon the ensiform, cartilage, with the elbow pressed against the side of the body. Then a single band, two and a half yards long by eight inches wide, is applied thus : the centre being laid under the point of the elbow so as to receive it, the ex- tremity of the band from behind is carried upwards under the axilla, and over the front of the corresponding shoulder, diago- nally downwards across the back to the opposite axilla, and under to the front; the other extremity is brought from the front of the elbow upwards across the back to the sound shoulder, and forward over to the front, where it meets the extremity of the band coming from under the axilla, and the two ends are here fastened together. The forearm, flexed at an acute angle, is supported by a narrow sling under the wrist. Fracture on the scajptdar side of the coraco-clavicular ligament may be treated in the same way as on the sternal side; the axillary pad, however, being of smaller size, the arm bandaged to the side, and the forearm supported in a sling, slightly raising the elbow. In children, the clavicle may be bent, and this condition mistaken for fracture; the signs of fracture, in childhood, are also less per- ceptible, and obscured in a few days by soft union. At the end of a week, I have found such union of a clavicle, in a child two years old. The small, soft callus-swelling around the seat of fracture, which can be easily seen and felt, will at once declare the nature of the injury. Treatment is often very unmanageable, by bandaging ; and the fracture may be conveniently secured by the starched apparatus. Complicated fracture of the clavicle is best treated by the re- cumbent position, without any particular form of mechanical restraint. The injury, additional to the fracture, is generally so severe, as to render the latter of subordinate importance. This is more especially the case when the subclavian vein or the axillary plexus of nerves are implicated. In the event of pneumonia having supervened from fracture of the ribs, associated with fractured clavicle, a thoracic ban- dage would still further embarrass the oppressed respiration. In suchSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 624 case, I have removed all apparatus, and with marked benefit. Recum- bency and rest have proved sufficient for the adjustment and union of the fractures; while attention should be directed solely to the treat- ment of any complication. This method of treatment—by the re- cumbent position, without apparatus—is applicable also to simple fracture of the clavicle ; but it is unnecessary to impose the restraint of such absolute immobility, and it would bo prejudicial to the general health to confine the patient to bed. The posture-method is, however, as old as the time of Hippocrates, and it has since been recommended by Dnpuytren, Pelletan, Lizars, Lento, of New York, and other expe- rienced Surgeons. Fracture of the Scapula.—Structural Conditions.—Fracture of the Scapula is liable to occur in any part of the bone ; but in some parts commonly, in others rarely. This distinction has reference, apparently, to the more or less exposed situation of the bone, in its different parts. Thus, the inferior angle is more commonly fractured than the body ; the acromion commonly ; the coracoid jvocess, and the nech, both rarely. The glenoid cavity may be starred, but very rarely. (1.) The Inferior Angle is simply broken oii", and displaced forward, being drawn in that direction by the attached portion of the serratus magnns, and by the teres major and latissimus muscles. The Signs, therefore, are this displacement, and the mobility of the fragment apart from the body of the bone, or the stationary position of the angle when the scapula is moved. (2.) The Body may be fractured trans- FiG. 215. versely or longitudinally; in the former direction usually, and close below the spine of the scapula. (Fig. 215.) Little dis- placement can take place, the fragments being embraced by muscles; but with completely transverse fracture, the lower portion is drawn forward. The Signs are some displacement, in transverse fracture discovered more readily, as an irregularity of the posterior border of the scapula; with perhaps crepitus and mobility of the fragments, on using some degree of pressure to and fro in the direc- tion of fracture. (3.) The Acromion may be knocked off at its tip, or nearer its root (Fig. 215) ; it is drawn downwards and slightly forwards by the deltoid muscle, and the weight of the arm. The Signs are very conspicuous. Downward displacement of the fragment, "and dropping of the arm, give a marked flattening to the shoulder ; and the inequality of the spine of the scapula can be felt on passing the finger upwards in its course to the depressed fractured portion near the clavicular articulation. Crepitus and mobility of this portion of the bone are also felt on pressing upwards and rotatmg the arm, the other hand being placed over the shoulder ; and the deformity of the shoulder then disappears, but it returns when the arm is again allowed to drop. The patient feels as if the shoulder were dropping off, and experiences a great sense of weight and powerlessness mFRACTURE OF THE SCAPULA. 625 attempting to raise the arm. Bony union is rare; sometimes even a false-joint forms. (A. Cooper.) (4.) The Coracoid Process is sometimes knocked off ; it will be drawn downwards by the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles, and in- wards also by tbe pectoralis minor. (See Fig. 216.) The Signs are partly obscure ; no particular alteration in the shape of the shoulder, though the apex of the coracoid process can be felt lower than on the sound side; but mobility of the fragment, with pos- sibly crepitus, are very perceptible on fixing the scapula and moving the arm backwards and forwards. Fibrous union is not uncommon. Double fracture of the acromion and coracoid processes occurred in one remarkable case, with fracture also of the body of the scapula, passing through the spine and supra-spinous fossa, posteriorly. This extensive injury was produced by direct violence,—the wheel of a dust cart crushing the shoulder. (King's Coll. Mus., 1170-2.) See also "Path. Trans.," 1869, vol. xx., p. 270. (5.) The Neck of the scapula—beyond the root of the coracoid process—is occasionally broken off carrying with it the glenoid cavity (Fig. 215), and coracoid process, and, perhaps, the acromion, with the Fig. 216. Fig. 217. adjoining portion of the spine of the scapula (Fig. 217), which together fall downwards and inwards by the weight of the extremity. Fracture of the anatomical neck alone—exclusive of the coracoid process— perhaps never occurs ; not a single specimen of such fracture existing in the museums of the London Hospitals (South), nor in any of the American cabinets (Hamilton). The coraco-clavicular and coraco- acromial ligaments may be more or less ruptured, thus allowing of different degrees of displacement. The Siq ns are marked flattening and dropping of the shoulder, a depression under the acromion, and a tumour in the axilla; thus far simulating dislocation downwards into the axilla. But mobility, and crepitus of this apparent head of the humerus, can be readily discovered by placing the hand on the shoulder, with the forefinger resting on the coracoid process, and rotating the arm; the crepitus being transmitted through that process, which still remains uninjured in its connection with the glenoid cavity, and the process moving with the humerus, in- stead of remaining fixed on the scapula, supported by the other hand. Moreover, the deformity of the shoulder disappears, and returns, as the 2 sSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. C26 reck portion of tlie scapula is replaced and displaced, by pressing the arm upwards, and then allowing it again to drop. (6.) The glenoid cavity may be the seat of a starred or comminuted fracture, of which there is an excellent specimen in the Museum at Netley (Fig. 217); or, with fracture of the glenoid cavity, the acromion and coracoid processes may also be broken. This rare injury occurred in a case of which the specimen is preserved in the Museum of University College, 249. (Fig. 218.) The diagnostic sights of such fracture would be obscure. Comminuted fracture of the body of the scapula is even a more rare form of injury than the preceding; but 1 have found several specimens in the Museums of St. George's Hospital and University College. Cause.—Direct violence is the only cause of fracture, in any part of the scapula. The body is especially protected by a cushion of muscle, on the back and front of this portion of the bone; and the coracoid process and neck of the bone are cushioned by the deltoid muscle. Thus protected, the violence must be very considerable to produce fracture, especially when comminuted; not unfrequently, the subjacent ribs are broken simultaneously, and sevei'e contusion or laceration of the soft parts, with such additional in- jury, give rise to serious consequences. More than one fracture of the scapula may have occurred; or fracture, concurrently, of the upper end of the humerus. The occasions of dii'ect violence are various. A heavy fall on the shoulder may fracture the acromion, coracoid process, or neck of the scapula; a severe blow, as by the pole of a carriage, has fractured the coracoid process; and gunshot injury of the back may fracture the body of the scapula. Treatment.—The direction of the displace- ment indicates the proper position of the limb, and the application of retentive bandaging. Displacement forwards of the inferior angle, or a portion of the hody of the bone, will be corrected by drawing the arm inwards, and thence the scapula forward; in order thus to meet the fractured portion, which cannot easily be kept back, although a compress may be placed in front of it, as Boyer recommended. The arm must then be secured in that position, by a few turns of a roller round the chest, and the forearm rested in a sling. Displacement downwards and forwards of the acromion, or down- wards and inwards of the coracoid process, or with the neck of the scapula, may severally be rectified by elevation of the arm with an inclination inwards, in order to replace the fractured portion upwards and backwards, or upwards and outwards. In fracture of either of these portions of the bone, the downward tendency—with flattening and dropping of the shoulder—is more marked than any tendency forward, or inward. Having, therefore, secured the arm slightly in front of the chest, by a few turns of a roller, the forearm must be well supported in a sling, especially at the elbow. In fracture of theFRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. G27 Fig. 220.t neck, an axillary pad will be necessary to guard against the recurrence of displacement. Thus, the treatment of fractures of the scapula, and of the neck in particular, resembles that for fracture of the clavicle. Contusion of the soft parts, often severe, may render it impossible or improper to finally adjust the fracture, until the swelling and pain, thence arising, have partly subsided under the application of cold lotions or other appropriate measures. The union of all fractures of the scapula almost always results in some amount of deformity, owing to the tendency to displacement under the most careful treatment. Fractures op the Humerus.—Fracture of the Humerus is liable to occur in any portion of this bone; in the Upper Articular end, the Fig. 219.* Shaft, or in the Lower Articular end. (Fig. 219.) Fracture of the Upper Articular end may take place in either of three situations. (1.) Intracapsular fracture—within the capsule—or of the anatomical neck. (Fig. 220.) The head remains in the glenoid cavity, while the shaft of the bone is drawn upwards and for- wards to the front and outer side of the coracoid process. It was formei'ly a question whether this fracture ever occurred. The possibility has long since been verified by dissection. Such a case is described in Sir A. Cooper's work; and similar in- dividual specimens are recorded as having been seen by Bichafc, Delpech, Robert Smith in two cases, Pirrie, and other authors. Displacement sometimes accompanies the fracture; either as a dislocation, or by reversion of the head, the cartilaginous surface resting on the osseous sur- face of the lower fragment—a rare form of displace- ment, but of which a specimen was seen by Nelaton, in the possession of M. Dubled, and another by Dr. Robert Smith. Signs.—A projection, corresponding in situation to the end of the lower portion,—the shaft, can be felt on the outer side of the coracoid process, and some flattening loioer down may be perceptible—the deltoid being spread inwards by the shaft. But immediately below the acromion there is no hollow, the head of the bone remaining in the glenoid cavity; and this negative difference in the outline of the shoulder distinguishes fracture of the neck of the humerus from dislocation. Crepitus, and immobility of the head of the bone, may * Fractures of Humerus. Diagram showing; situations and lines of fracture; chiefly from specimens in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.—1. Anato- mical neck (St. George's Mus. 1, 89). 2. Surgical neck. 3. Upper third. 4. Middle third. 5. Lower third. 6. Above, and through condyles, into elbow-joint (Royal Free Hospital). 7. Internal condyle. 8. External condyle. (Author.) t St. George's Hospital Museum, 1, 89. Fracture of the neck of the Humerus — the " anatomical neck," in part; but for the greater part of its course, through the "surgical neck" of this bone. The patient, a young man, was carrying a heavy weight under his arm, and fell from a considerable height. Amputation at the shoulder-joint. This rare specimea of fracture was presented by Sir B. C. Brodie.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. G28 Fig. 221* also be felt on extending and rotating the humerus; if the muscular development of the deltoid and the swelling consequent on contusion do not together form a cushion of such thickness as to obscure these signs, blight shortening of the arm will be discovered by measuring as compared with the other arm, the distance between the acromion and olecranon processes. Considerable pain is experienced on moving tlie arm m examination; and it hangs powerless by the side. In the case of a female, aged 81, I was led by the signs to recognize this fracture, which, having regard to the functional symptoms, had been mistaken for a sprain. Ivvpacted fracture of the anatomical neck is attended with a notable absence, or lesser degree, of the ordinary symptoms; the shaft having been driven into the head of the bone. It more resembles dislocation of the shoulder into the axilla. (2.) Eatra-capsular fracture—beyond the capsule—and of the surgical neck (Fig. 221), which includes the portion of bone below the tuberosi- ties and above the insertions of the three muscles into the bicipital groove—the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres major muscles. Fracture in this situation is, sometimes, very oblique. The shaft of the humerus, below the fracture, is drawn inwards and upwards by the action of these three muscles; and the upper fragment outwards, by other three muscles inserted into the great tuberosity, the supra-spinatus, ' infra- spinatus, and teres minor, counteracted, however, by the sub-scapularis muscle inserted into the small tuberosity. Signs.—Deformity of the shoulder is presented, under cover of the deltoid muscle, but lower down than in fracture of the anatomical neck. And, the deformity corresponding to the displacement of the two ends of bone, it consists of a double projection, inwards of the lower end, and outwards of the upper end. Mobility of the lower end, and crepitus on extension and rotation, with some inclination of the humerus inwards, and shortening of the arm, are even more perceptible .^igns. Pain, severe during any manipulative examination, owing to irritation of the axillary plexus by the shaft- fragment, and inability to use the arm, conclude the diagnosis. Separation of the ZTjji^er Epiphysis from the shaft of the humerus may occur at the line of junction, just below the tuberosities and the commencement of the surgical neck. The signs are the same as in fracture of the surgical neck. But separation of the epiphysis happens only in childhood or youth. Impacted fracture of the surgical neck is chiefly characterized by the absence, or minor degree, of the ordinary symptoms. But the fracture is too low down to be well mistaken for dislocation into the axilla. Double fracture—namely, through the anatomical neck, and also through the surgical neck of the humerus—may be noticed, as a * After Gray.629 rRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. possible form of injury. In a specimen belonging to Dr. Pope, o£ St. Louis, the upper fragment was reversed upside down, and the lower fragment was displaced in the direction of the coracoid process; both were united by bone. (Hamilton.) (3.) Fracture of the Qreat Tuberosity is an occasional form of fracture of the upper end of the humerus. A double displacement here, also, is produced. The tuberosity is drawn outwards and up- wards by the action of the three attached rotator muscles—supra- spinatus, infra-spinatus, and teres minor—this portion of the bone being found under and outside the acromion. The head of the humerus is rotated inwards by the sub-scapularis muscle acting on the small tuberosity; it lies on the inner edge of the glenoid cavity, and under the coracoid process. Or, a partial dislocation backwards may take place, on to the dorsum of the scapula, with a splitting fracture of the acromion process (Fig. 222); this complicated injury arising from the direct violence which knocks ofi the great tuberosity of the humerus. Signs.—Deformity of the shoulder, corre- sponding to these displacements, is always con- spicuous. Marked flattening and great breadth of the shoulder, even to double its natural breadth, catch the eye at once. A double pro- jection may be felt—an outer, the tuberosity; an inner, the head of the bone; both, however, lying nearly on the same plane Jiorizontally, and with an intervening sulcus or hollow below the acromion. Thus distinguished from fracttire of the surgical neck by the position of the frag- ments, fracture of tlie great tuberosity some- what resembles dislocation of the shoulder, by its sub-acromial depression; and, indeed, partial dislocation forwards might be said to have taken place. But the presence of tiuo osseous projections is distinctive as to the nature of the injury. In the rare form of fracture with partial dislocation iach- loards, the double osseous projection would be wanting. In either case, there will be crepitus on approximating the two portions of bone, and mobility of the tuberosity. Causes.—Direct violence is, mostly, the cause of fracture of the upper end of the humerus. Thus, a heavy fall on the shoulder may occasion fracture of the anatomical or surgical neck, or of the great tuberosity. Protected, however, by the cushion of the deltoid muscle, these fractures are not common, and the first and last are rare. Age seems to favour the occurrence of fracture in the two first-named parts; the anatomical neck being broken more frequently in youth, although possibly at any period of life ; while the surgical neck giving way at the epiphysis is an accident peculiar to a period from infanay to about the twentieth year. Treatment.—These three forms of fracture of the upper end of the humerus may be treated alike, and with successful results. The fragments having been adjusted by extension of the arm, a pad should be placed in the axilla, so as to prevent any re-displacement inwards ; * Univ. Coll. Mus., 103. Fracture of great tuberosity of humerus, and of the acromion, with partial dislocation on the dorsum of the scapula.Fig. 223. 630 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. a shoiildei--splmt of gutta-perclia or pasteboard is moulded to tbe shoulder and arm, both of which are then secured to the chest by a bandage, and the forearm rested in a sling, without raising the elbow, its weight tending favourably to prevent the recurrence of displace- ment upward. (Fig. 223.) Union may not take place in fracture of the anatomical neck, or hgamentous only, or perhaps even a false-joint fonns, if the neck be detached completely within the capsule. Sometimes, the head remaining as a foreign body, it undergoes partial absorption—as shown by Gibson; or it may induce inflammation and suppuration, resulting in its extrusion, or necessitating removal surgically. Im- pacted fracture is apt to unite by bone, with the formation of an exuberant osteo- phytic deposit around the head. Compound Fracture of the Upper End of the Humerus.—Often comminuted, and with great contusion of the soft parts, this condition of injury occurs only from gun- shot wound of the shoulder, involvinsr probably the adjoining glenoid cavity, or the processes of the scapula, or the axillary vessels and plexus of nerves. Treatment. — Excision may be per- formed, when the injury is restricted to the head of the humerus, with, perhaps, splintering of the glenoid cavity or scapular processes; and the best results have followed this operation in such cases. Amputation must be resorted to in any additional injuries to the vessels and nerves. Fracture of the Shaft of the Humerus.—(1.) Below the inser- tion of the three muscles into the bicipital groove, and above the insertion of the Deltoid.—Fracture in this portion of the shaft differs only from that of the surgical neck, in the relative displacement of the two portions of bone. The upper portion is drawn inwards, by the three muscles inserted into the bicipital groove ; the loiver portion outwards and upwards, by the deltoid muscle, and in the latter direction especially if the fracture be oblique. The Signs also, thence arising, differ accordingly. Thus, deformity of the arm is presented, corresponding to these displacements, and consisting of two projections—an upper and a lower—but the upper will be felt on the inner side, the lower on the outer side, of the arm. Mobility of the fragments is very perceptible, giving a hinge-like motion to the arm on the gentlest handling, and crepitus can be readily elicited by extension and rotation; inclination of the humerus out- wards, with some shortening of the arm, are equally conspicuous; and although the pain of manipulation may be less, the powerlessness is not less complete, than in fracture of the surgical neck. In a case, recently under my care, of fracture of the shaft just above the deltoid, all these signs and symptoms were well pronounced. (2.) Below the insertion of the Deltoid.—Fracture in this portion of the shaft differs only from that above the deltoid, in the relative displacement of the two portions of bone, which are liere reversed. The loiver portion is drawn inwards and upwards, by the flexorFRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 631 muscles ; and the more so in proportion to the obliquity of tlie fracture from above diagonally across tbe bone. The u]pper fragment may be slightly everted. A projection, corresponding to the lower end, is most perceptible on the inner aspect of the arm; with an inward inclination of the humerus. The other signs and symptoms—mobility, crepitus, shortening, pain, and powerlessuess—are similar to those of fracture above the insertion of the deltoid. Causes.—Violence, directly or indirectly applied, is generally the cause of fracture in both these portions of the shaft. Powerful muscular action has, however, been known to occasion fracture, usually transverse, and without displacement. Treatment.—The ends of bone having been adjusted by gentle extension, three or four splints should be applied, so as to nearly surround the arm, and then be retained in position by a bandage. Bandaging the hand and forearm will, as usual, be a proper precaution against oedema; and a sling is used to suspend the forearm, not to elevate the elbow, which, hanging down, tends to prevent the recurrence of displacement. Lonsdale's extension-apparatus is one of the many contrivances which have been devised to maintain extension in fracture of the humerus. It consists of a shaft surmounted by a crutch for the axilla, and which is worked by a screw acting on a vertical slide, the lower end of the shaft being curved to receive the elbow. I have had no experience of the use of this instrument. Malgaigne observes that permanent extension is a resource always dangerous, often useless, and which demands in its application much caution and watchfulness. Union by bone is the common result, although both Malgaigne and Hamilton concur in the greater relative frequency of fibrous or of non-union than after fracture of the shaft of any other bone. Generally there remains slight ovei'lapping or angular deformity out- wards. This will be proportionate to the obliquity of the fracture, or when comminuted; such displacement will be inevitable, however care- ful may have been the surgical management of the injury. Fracture op the Lower Articular End op the Humerus.—(1.) Transverse Fracture of the Loiver End.—Supra-condyloid Fracttire.—In this fracture, considerable displacement of the lower or articular frag- ment backwards, carry- ing with it the forearm, is produced by the action of the triceps muscle; and a corresponding displace- ment forwards of the lower end of the shaft of the humerus. (Fig. 224.) The deformity, there- fore, consists of a projec- tion posteriorly and an- teriorly, which resembles dislocation of both bones of the forearm backwards ; bat the mobility and crepitus, on extending the forearm, and return of the displacement on relaxation, distinguish these two forms of injury—fracture of the humerus transversely, near the elbow-joint, and dislocation of both bones of the forearm backwards. Their diagnosis is obviously most important. * A. Cooper.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEBY. G32 Fracture in tbis situation happens more frequently in adults though still only occasionally. ' (2.) Separation of the Lotver Epiphysis.—The same displacement occurs, and attended with the same signs ; the diagnosis from that of dislocation of the fore- arm backwards is also similar. But the crepitus is less marked than in fracture, owing to the surfaces being cartilaginous at the line of disunion ; and thus this injury more nearly simulates disloca- tion. The mobility, however, is distinctive. This injury happens only in children, and not uncommonly. (Fig. 225.) Before ossific con- solidation has taken place, fracture can hardly occur just above the joint. (3.) Fracture of either Condyle.—The external or the internal condyle of the humerus may be fractured obliquely outwards, or inwards, and extending into the elbow-joint, thus completely separating the condyle. Or, again, a vertical fracture may extend from the joint upwards, bounded by a transverse fracture through the bone, thus separating hoth condyles, as occurred in a case of mine at the Royal Free Hospital. (Fig. 226.) Fracture of either condyle may be associated with fracture above the condyles. (Fig. 227.) With single fracture, there is not much displacement; but on taking Fig. 226. hold of the process between the thumb and finger, it can be moved backwards and forwards, with crepitation; the forearm is flexed and, perhaps, supine. With double fracture, there is more displacement, and especially when the condyles are separated by pressure in the longitudinal fracture; the condyles are freely movable, with distinct crepitation; the forearm is flexed and, generally, in a state of pronation. Contusion, with considerable pain and swelling, usually accompanies these fractures in the vicinity of the elbow ; and particularly fracture of either, or both, condyles. Causes.—Direct violence, as by a heav^y blow or fall on the elbow, • St. George's Hosp. Mus., 252. t St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mas., C. 141.633 FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. is generally tlie occasion of fracture, and of the condyles in particular. Separation of the articular epiphysis, or of either condyloid epiphysis, is liable to occur only in infancy or childhood. Muscular action has been said to produce condyloid fracture occasionally, especially of the internal condyle, to which the powerful flexor muscles are attached. Treatment.—The swelling which speedily ensues in these fractures must be subdued, by placing the arm at rest on a pillow, and applying cold lotions, or irrigation. A bottle containing ice-cold water or lotion, with a skein of cotton in the fluid, and hanging out of the neck, forms a simple and effective contrivance. Suspended over the elbow, a con- stant dropping irrigation can thus be maintained. Any displacement having been corrected, the bones are best kept in position by angular splints, which well support the lower end of the humerus, and the upper part of the forearm, itself sup- ported in a sling ; and thus the patient is allowed to move about. (Fig. 228.) At the end of a month or so, passive motion of the elbow-joint may be advis- able, as a precaution against any tendency to anchylosis. Osseous union generally takes place in all these fractures,— supra-condyloid and condyloid. After frac- ture above the condyles some amount of shortening—under an inch— and consequent deformity are apt to result, even with the most careful management. Condyloid fracture I have known to result in a twisting displacement, forwards or backwards, according to the direction of muscular action. Paralysis is apt to occur in connection with fracture of the shaft of the humerus, involving the musculo-spiral nerve as it turns in the groove, downwards and outwards on the posterior aspect of the shaft. Or, if not occurring at the time of the injury, some paralytic symp- toms may result from compression of the nerve by ensheathing callus. The extent of the paralysis will depend on the situation of the nerve- lesion, as affecting different sets of muscles supplied by the musculo- spiral. Thus, when the trunk of the nerve is injured, the forearm can be only partly supinated, and there is no power of extending the hand and fingers. The position the forearm assumes is that of pronation, with the hand pendant, or a characteristic wrist-drop. This attitude is seen also in connection with lead colic, but the cause of the paralysis will be distinctive in either case. Lower down in the course of the nerve-trunk, as at the elbow-joint, fracture of the ex- ternal condyle of the humerus may implicate the posterior interosseous branch, leaving the radial branch, as the source of supply to the long supinator and long extensor muscles of the radius and the wrist. Hence some power of supination and extension of the wrist ia retained. But the fingers remain flexed. The hand having been subjected to the tonic contraction of the flexor muscles, at last becomes cramped up and crippled, into a clnh-hand; so as to resemble the634 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. deformity resulting from tenosynovitis or from contraction of the palmar fascia. But the rigid flexor tendons or processes of the fascia, in the palm of the hand, are not found in the paralytic condition ; and the causes of those affections are also very different. In the treatment of wrist-drop, and of the paralytic club-hand, a palmar splint should be applied, to counteract the tendency to per- manent contraction and deformity ; and the restoration of nerve power may be promoted by the galvanic current. But its influence will have little effect when the nerve-lesion is nearly complete. When an exubei-ant callus can be felt anywhere in the course of the musculo- spiral nerve, a portion of the bony clasp may be removed so as to disengage the nerve ; and this operation of excision has been followed by the cure or relief of the paralytic affection, in a few instances. Peactuees of the Foeearm.—The Radius and Ulna are each, singly or conjointly, liable to fracture, in the various situations here delineated. (Fig. 229.)— 1. Fractures of the] Ulna.—(1.) The Olecranon. —Transverse fracture not unfrequently occurs, with displacement upwards by the action of the triceps muscle, and which varies in extent according to the Fig. 230.t Fig. 229.* complete or partial rupture of the tendinous ex- pansion of this muscle. (Fig. 230.) An interval between the fragments is thus presented; and the forearm being partly flexed by the unopposed action of the flexor muscles, that interval is increased. Mobility of the oleci'anon, and some crepitation, easily produced when the arm is extended, will further indicate the nature of the injury. Considerable fluid swelling over the seat of injury may, however, soon render these signs somewhat obscure. Causes.—Direct violence, as a smart blow with a stick, or a fall on the elbow, is the usual occasion of this fracture; and of the contusion which then accompanies it. But a powerful action of the triceps muscle will, sometimes, snap off the olecranon. Union by ligament ensues in most cases; the length of this band * Fractures of Kadius and Ulna. Diagram showing situations and lines of fracture; chiefly from specimens in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.— jiadius.—\. Through head, longitudinal (St. George's Mus., 1, 111). 2. Through neck, transverse (Mutter). 3. Upper third, both bones. 4. Middle third, both bones. 5. Lower third, both bones. 6. Carpal end, or Colics' fracture. 7. Ditto, comminuted into wrist-joint (St. George's Mus., IQ'd).—Vina.—I. Through ole- cranon, transverse (St.' George's Mus., 1, HI). 2. Through coronoid process, transverse (St. George's Mus., 1,111). 3, 4, 5, as lu radius. (Author.) t After Listou.FRACTURES OF THE FOREARM. 6^5 Fig. 231. varying from a line to an incli or more. Bony union may form when tlie olecranon is in perfect apposition; yet not always, even in such cases. Treatment.—The displacement is reduced by a completely extended position of the forearm; and maintained by means of a splint applied in front of the elbow-joint, passing some distance along the arm and forearm. (Fig. 231.) This posi- tion of complete extension has been employed by a large majority of English and American Surgeons, ever since Sir Astley Cooper urged its most obvious advantages. A slightly flexed position was advocated by Boyer and Desault, and is still preferred by most French Surgeons; chiefly on the ground that this attitude of the arm will be most convenient in the event of anchylosis. But the rarity of permanent anchylosis after simple fracture, properly treated, whether by the flexed or straight position, overrules this consideration; and the loss of power almost inevitably consequent on the length of ligamentous union in flexure of the joint, is a result of more serious consideration. (2.) Fracture of the Coronoid Process.—Only nine cases are on record—according to Hamilton—in which the symptoms were, apparently, referable to fracture of the coronoid process of the ulna ; and not one of these cases was established by dissection, actually demonstrating the existence of fracture, opportunity not having permitted of this conclusive evidence. Only four specimens—according to the same authority—are known, illusti'ative, apparently, of this injury; and these are of doubtful character. Fracture of the coronoid process has, generally, been supposed to- co-exist with dislocation of the ulna, or of both bones of the f orearm^ backwards ; yet there are only two examples in which I have found this fracture in connection with such dislocation of the ulna and radius. (Fig. 232.) Signs.—The signs of an injury, the pathology of which is thus obscure, must necessarily be little known with certainty. As associated with disloca- tion, the signs of that form of injury will be present; and, probably, more prominently than those of fracture. Re-dislocation is apt to take place, when extension of the forearm is discontinued; and this sign has been regarded as diagnostic. It may be so, perhaps, in fracture of the coronoid process with dis- location of the ulna alone. Pertaining to fracture, there will be some displacement of the coronoid process upwards by the action of the bi-achialis anticus, if the fracture be situated at the base of the process, or beyond the insertion of this muscle. * St. George's Hospital Museum, 1, 111. A precisely similar form of injury exists in 1, 112, which occurred in the same person, a man aged 20, who fell from a height on both elbows. Another very remarkable and perhaps uiii(]ue fracture co-e.xists with the coronoid fracture iu bulk the specimens—a fracture, lou^iLudiuaUv through the head of tlie nidius. ' o j r Fig. 232.*SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. vol. i. C3G Fracture of the tip of the process would not be attended with dis- placement. Mobility of the process, and crepitation, in the bend of the elbow, will confirm the diagnosis. Causes.—External violence is probably the only caase of this frac- ture. Direct violence, as crushing injuries of the elbow, will, of course, break the coronoid process, or any other part of the elbow- joint exposed to such force ; but indirect force, as a fall on the palm of the hand, may possibly fracture the process in conjunction with dislocation backwards. Muscular action—that of the brachialis anticus —is commonly regarded as being sometimes the occasion of fracture: but the accuracy of this received opinion is doubtful; Hamilton even alleging that there is no evidence of the coronoid process having ever been broken by muscular action. Ligamentous union seems to be the mode of reparation; and in the case dissected by Sir A. Cooper, the band was so long and flexible as io allow the fragment to move upwards and downwards in the motions of flexion and extension. Bony union may occur; but, perhaps, only in fracture at the base of the process, and if, fortunately, it be unaccom- panied with much displacement. Treatment.—Flexure of the forearm to a right-angle is the most favourable position for union. This position may be retained by means of an angular splint, and the forearm carried in a sling, for about ten days ; care being taken to prevent anchylosis by timely removal of the splint, and use of the sling alone for two or three weeks more. It has been recommended to continue the splint for a longer Fig. 233.* period ; Sir A. Cooper keeping the limb immovable for three weeks, and Velpeau extending this period to four weeks. Compound and Comminuted Fractures of the Elbow- joint.—The bones which enter into the formation of this joint are liable to fracture, severally, or in conjunction. The olecranon—exposed to external violence—is more often broken, and perhaps also the coronoid process, with the adjoining portion of the shafts of the ulna (Fig. 233); or perhaps the articular end, or the epiphysis of the humerus ; or one or both condyles. (See Figs. 226, 227.) The bones are comminuted, often extensively, and with contusion rather than laceration of the integuments. The injured joint feels like a bag of bones, crepitating under manipulation, or movements of the joint, which is singularly loose and movable. One or two trifling wounds, at the back of the elbow, or near the condyles, communicate with this disorganized state of the joint; which results from direct violence. More extensive laceration of the soft parts accompanies the fracture, when occasioned by gunshot wound. * St. George's Hospital Mus., iii. 13. Fracture of the olecranon, transversely, and of the adjoining portion of the shaft of the ulna, by comminution, detaching the coronoid process through the sigmoid cavity of the bono. These injuries were caused by direct violence—a blow from a falling beam. Amputation in the arm was followed by recovery. On examining the joint, the articular cartilages and synovial membrane were found to be diseased; the latter in the form of tufty pendulous growths, and a loose cartilage drojtpcd out, produced apparently by growth f)!" one of the tufts connected with the synovial membrane. Sec also Lancet, 1850,TRACTURKS OF THE FOREARM. 637 Treatment. Preservation of the limb, excision, or amputation, either of which operations may be performed primarily or secondarily, have severally to be considered, as indications of treatment. Compound fracture, alone, without comminution, or much laceration of the soft parts, will allow the opportunity, at least, of preservation of the limb. . ^ , ^ t • • . Commimdion to even a considerable extent, without much injury to the soft parts, permits excision of the disorganized joint; or this operative procedure may become necessary in the event of profuse suppuration or sloughing, after either of these conditions of fracture. Extensive contusion or laceration of the soft parts, in conjunction with comminution of the bones, demands amputation ; or this operation wni, in its turn, be unavoidable after failure of excision. it must be confessed, at least with regard to my own experience, that the results of treatment in these conditions of injury to the elbow- joint are seldom successful as compared with similar treatment for disease affecting this joint. With Fig. 234.* compound fracture, I have seldom Ym. 235.t fsucceeded in preserving the limb; and the failure of any attempt has been owing in this—as in similar injuries of the joints and limbs by direct violence—to the extensive subcutaneous destruction of texture, concealed probably by an almost apparently uninjured state of the integument. Pathological anatomy —as shown by dissection—has cor- rected the shortcomings of clinical observation. 2. Feacttjee of the Shafts of THE Radius and Ulna.—Commonly occurring m the middle (Fig. 234) of the forearm or below (Fig. 235), and rarely above, fractures of the forearm may be limited to either bone alone—ulna or radius, or in- volve both bones. Usually broken transversely or obliquely, and occasionally comminuted, the displace- ment generally is anterior, owing to the greater power \\\\, \\\, \ Fig. 236.t of theflexormuscles; some- times, however, posterior, lateral or angular. (Fig. 234.) Fracture of the radius alone is attended with a tilting forwards of the upper portion of the shaft by the joint action of the biceps and pronator radii teres muscles, while the lower portion is drawn inwards towards the ulna by the supinator longus and pronator quadratus. (Fig. 236.) * St. Bartholomew's IIosp., C. 128. + St. George's Hosp., 1, 92. % Gray.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 237. 3. (1.) Fracture of the Lower End of the Radius.—Known as G38 The usual Signs oi Fracture are present. Deformity at the seat of fracture, corresponding to the displacement; mobility, crepitus, shorten- ing, with some alteration in the direction of the axis of the bones, or forearm below the fracture; pain, and inability to use the hand, with some loss of pronation and supination, if the radius be broken. Causes.—Indirect violence is, mostly, the occasion of fracture; as by a fall on the band. Hence the radius yields more frequently than the ulna. Direct violence may sometimes be the cause; the middle or lower portion of the shaft being more liable to be broken than the upper portion, which is protected by a considerable thickness of muscle. Treatment—The fractured ends having been adjusted, a pad should be laid along the interosseous space, to prevent any inclination of the bones inwards; as union or ossific deposit across this space would render pronation and supination imperfect or impossible. For this reason also, the forearm should not first be bandaged under the spHnts. A long splint, extending from the bend of the elbow to the fingers, is placed on the inner aspect of the forearm and supporting the hand. A corresponding splint, on the outer side, need reach only to the wrist. Both the splints should be a little broader than the arm, so that, in bandaging, the bones may not be compressed ; a roller is then applied from the fingers upward, and the forearm rested in a sling. Inflam- mation and tense swelling often supervene, leading even to gangrene, and the bandage must be regulated accordingly ; a watchful supervision of the treatment being continued for some days. Another method has been devised, and practised with success, by Dr. X. C. Scott, of the Brooklyn City Hospital, U.S. The forearm is placed in the supine position, and retained, with sufficient extension from the wrist, by means of adhesive plaster, with elastic bands; counter-extension being made from above, with the arm at a right-angle as here represented. (Fig. 237.) In twenty-five cases successful results have been obtained. This method certainly claims two advantages: the supine position prevents the risk of union taking place between the bones, across the inter- osseous space, owing to the tendency to pronation; and by the maintenance of exten- sion, the tendency to displacement upwards, by the action of the flexor muscles, is overcome. Compound Fracture of the Forearm.—Usually arising from direct violence, there may be far more extensive disorganization subcuta- neously, than appears from the comparatively uninjured integument. The question of amputation will be guided, mainly, by this considera- tion. Otherwise, operative interference should be postponed pending the natural tendency of the injury either to recovery, or to suppurative destruction or gangrene of the limb. This latter issue is far less fre- quent than in similar injury of the leg ; and secondary amputation can then be had recourse to.639 FRACTURES OF THE FOREARM. CoUes' fracture, wlien. situated just above the articular surface, this fracture is generally transverse ; sometimes comminuted, or impacted. Displacement of both fragments occurrs. (Fig. 238.) The lower or articular fragment is displaced backwards and upwards, and slightly Fig. 238.* outwards, with some degree of similar rotation on its horizontal axis ; this fragment being drawn in these directions by the action of the two radial extensors of the wrist, the three extensors of the thumb, and by the supinator longus muscle; or similar displacement with impaction may arise from the direction of the force of fracture, when caused by a fall on the palm of the hand. The upper fragment is pronated by the pronator quadratus and teres muscles. According to Nelaton's obser- vations, the styloid process of the ulna is often broken, and the tri- angular ligament torn, in connection with this fracture of the radius. The Signs of Colles' fracture resemble those of fracture in general, but have certain characteristics in this situation. A prominence to be seen and felt at the back of the wrist, just above the joint, corresponds to the lower or articular fragment; immediately above which, a depres- 239. sion corresponds to the somewhat depressed upper end of the fracture. (Fig. 239.) The palmar aspect of the forearm, just above the wrist, presents the opposite appearances : a marked hollow underneath the articular f ragm ent; and immediately above, the prominence of the upper fragment-end, pronated b^ the pronator muscles, and bulging the tendons of the flexor muscles. These appearances are, of course, more marked on, or perhaps restricted to, the radial side of the forearm; and they are most conspicuous when the forearm is viewed laterally. The hand is prone, and drawn downwards and, pronely, inwards ; presenting a concavity on the radial side of the wrist, and a convexity on the ulnar side, the styloid process of the ulna projecting under the integument. Mobility of the radius above the fracture, the lower fragment not moving with it, and crepitus, both of which are elicited on rotating the bone ; pain, and dropping powerlessness of the * Univ. Coll. Mus., 211. t St. George's Hospital Museum, 1, 103. Comminuted fracture of the lower articular surface and extremity of the radius. The fragments are very much dis- placed, particularly at the posterior margin of the bone; but bony union has oc- curred by new osseous deposit between the contiguous edges of the fragments. The injury was produced by a fall on the hand, from a height of about 20 ft.; and death took place eleven weeks after the accident. The carpal end of the other radius was fractured in like manner; this double fracture showing that tlio weight of the body must have been received equally by both hands. ^ Fig 240.t640 SPECIAL PATIIOLOOY AND SURGERY. Fig. 241. hancI, with loss of pronation and supination; supply additional signs and symptoms, which further manifest the nature of the injury. Comminution of the lower or articular fragment (Fig. 240) will render some of these signs more perceptible; mobility and crepitus, in particular. Imimction of the upper into the lower fragment would render the two latter signs imperceptible, more or less entirely, according to the firmness of the impaction. Separation of the radial epiphysis must be a very rare form of injury. I know of only two instances in which it has been verified by dissection. One specimen— marked 1, 94 (Fig. 241)—is preserved in the collec- tion of St. George's Hospital. The other is in the Museum of St. Mary's Hospital; and this is es- pecially valuable, as showing an arrested growth of the shaft of the radius, to an inch less in length, as compared with the ulna, consequent on the loss of the epiphyseal growth of the radius. Fracture of the lower end of the ulna, with that of the radius, simalates dislocation of the wrist backwards. Mobility of the carpal fragments in connection with any movements of the hand, and crepitus, are diagnostic of this double fracture in the vicinity of the wrist-joint. Causes.—Indirect violence, by a fall on the palm of the hand, is the usual mode of fracture, thereby breaking the radius transversely within ■ an inch above its articular surface, perhaps also comminuting this frag- ment ; or allowing the upper fragment-end to be driven into, and im- pacted in it. A fall on the bach of the hand may cause a similar fracture, but throw the lower fragment forwards instead of backwards. Such a displacement is described by Robert Smith as having been met with in one case, and Hamilton has seen another case ; neither, however, were verified, as to their pathological condition, by dissection; nor is there —observes the latter authority—to be found one such specimen in any of the pathological collections in Dublin. Colles' fractui'e may also, it is said, be occasioned by direct violence. I am not acquainted with any such case. Treatment.—Reduction of the displacement often requires consider- able extension and counter-extension to effect it satisfactorily, not to say completely. Many forms Fig. 242. of splint or retentive appara- ratus have been contrived. Two splints are commonly used: a long, curved, or pistol-shaped splint (Fig. 242), extending from the elbow to the fingers, whereby the hand can be well drawn downwards to the MZ?ia?'side; and a short, straight splint, extending from the elbow only to the wrist. These splints may be applied—the one along the palmar sur- face of the forearm and hand, and the other to the dorsal surface of the forearm ; or in the opposite arrangement. Of these two plans, I prefer the former. Thus, the pistol-shapedFRACTURES OF THE FOREARM. 2 T G41 splint, applied from the bend of the elbow along the forearm, need only extend to the fingers; and bending them over a pad at the end of the splint, gives a flexed position to the hand which is easy and comfortable. A pad corresponding to the line of the radius, betwixt the splint and forearm, will further prevent any tendency to pronation of the upper fragment; while the curved shape of the lower end of the splint, inclining the hand to the ulnar side, corrects the displace- ment of the lower fragment. The short, straight splint applied to the dorsal surface of the forearm, from the elbow to the wrist, affords a counter-support; and with a pad between it and the lower fragment, directly prevents the displacement of this portion of the bone. The splints are bandaged from below ; the hand to the curved portion of the long palmar splint, and the roller being continued upwards around both splints to the elbow. The forearm is then rested in a sling. Much inflammation and swelling speedily ensue in this fracture, sug- gesting a watchful regulation of the bandage. In one case—a woman about thirty, but who had drank hard—spreading (traumatic) gan- grene speedily ensued, and passing up rapidly towards the shoulder, compelled me to amputate there. The patient made a good recovery. The opposite arrangement is Nelaton's plan of applying these splints. The pistol-sTiaped splint, placed on the dorsal surface of the forearm, extends from the elbow along the fingers ; and the open hand is thus inclined by the curved portion of the splint to the ulnar side, correcting the displacement of the lower fragment. The straight, short splint, placed on the palmar surface of the forearm, extending to the wrist or only to the end of the upper fragment, and padded along' its radial border, specially tends to prevent pronation of the upper fragment. A bandage is then applied as already described; and the forearm rested in a sling. Gordon's splint may be used with advantage, for correcting the displacement, when Colles' fracture cannot otherwise be kept reduced. This splint consists of two pieces : an anterior, which is provided with a hollow receptacle for the outer side of the hand, and a posterior splint, which reaches over the back of the wrist. The fracture having been reduced, and the hand placed in the Fig. 243. prone position, the splints applied appear thus (Fig. 243); being retained by a couple of buckling bands. Any displacement of the upper end of the radius is controlled by the anterior splint; while the hand dropping over the end of this spliut, raises the lower or carpal fragment to a level with the upper end. I have not hitherto had occasion to use Gordon's splint preferably to the ordinary pistol-shaped splint; and when I have not used the latter, a double straight splint, the posterior extending to the end of the fingers, while the anterior just catches the carpal fragment, has answered remarkably well; the resulting deformity being no more than almost invariably remains after any method of adjusting Colles' fracture. Union ensues in about a month, but rarely without some displace-642 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. ment; thickening and stiffness also remaining for a considerable period. Passive motion and friction should be resorted to, in antici- pation of this result. Some deformity remains permanently, except in rarely perfect results. Separation of the lower epiijliysis of the radius has occurred in youth ; an injury simulating fracture, and requiring the same treatment. (2.) Fracture through the Bead of the Radius, occurring alone, has, I believe, never been met with. In conjunction with fracture of the coronoid process of the ulna, and dislocation of both bones backwards, this form of injury has occurred in two instances, one of which I have represented. (See Fig. 232.) (S.) Fracture of the Neck of the Radius.—This injury, uncompli- cated with any other fracture or dislocation, must be exceedingly rare. Sir A. Cooper doubted its existence, and Hamilton adduces only one apparently certain instance—a specimen of Dr. Miitter's. As accom- panied with fracture of the coronoid process of the ulna, Velpeau and Berard have each contributed a case of this radial fracture, verified by dissection. But I allude to this form of injury, rather to guard against any error of diagnosis. The upper end of the lower fragment of the radius would probably be displaced forwards by the action of the biceps muscle, inserted into the tubercle, and extension of the arm would increase this displacement. Mobility and crepitus will be more or less perceptible, with flexion of the forearm, and loss of pronation and supination. Treatment should consist in a flexed position of the forearm upon the arm to relax the biceps, the application of a compress over the abutting lower fragment, and a dorsal splint; the whole being secured by a roller-bandage, and rested in a sling. Fractuee of the Carpal, Metacarpal Bones, and Fingers.—Simple and Compound Fractures of these bones may occur ; and with the usual signs of such Injuries. Direct violence is perhaps their most frequent cause ; but indirect force may also be the occasion of fracture, as by a blow given with, or received upon, the fist. Union generally results in some deformity, yet without much impairing the use of the part. The treatment will consist in the adjustment of the fragments, and their retention in position upon a gutta-percha or pasteboard splint, contrived according to the fracture. Compound fracture may require excision or amputation. But the removal of only the injured portion of the hand should ever guide and regulate any operative interference; the hand being a most valuable member in each of its several parts, and readily recovering from most injuries. Fractures of the Pelvis.—(1.) Fracture of the Innominate Bones. —Structural Conditions.—Commonly, the rami of the pubis and ischium are the seat of fracture (Fig. 244) ; sometimes, the line of fracture passes from above the acetabulum across the ilium; in various directions. (Fig. 244); or it may involve the acetabulum, Assuring its floor (Fig. 244), or fracturing its margin (Fig. 244). Sometimes the acetabulum is comminuted, or simply divided into its three original segments, and the head of the femur driven into the pelvic cavity (Fig. 244) ; or a portion of the margin being detached, dislocation backwards takes place. In one case, I found the pubio portion of the acetabulum nearly detached, and another fracture atFRACTURES OF THE PELVIS. CAS tlie junction of the descending ramus of the pubis with the ramus of the ischium ; thus nearly isolating the pubic bone. The preparation is in the Museum of the Hospital. Occasionally, some other; and perhajDS Fig. 244.* any portion, of these bones may be broken; as, for example, a rim-like piece of the crest of the ilium, or the twher- osity of the ischium. Both innominate bones are not unfrequently fractured, and somewhat symmetrically; as, cor- responding portions of the rami of the pubis and ischium. Separation of the symijhysis pubis, or of either sacro-iliac articulation, rarely takes place. I have, however, met with this injury to each of these three articula- tions in the same person; but only once. Little or no displacement is liable to occur, otherwise than by muscular action ; the bones being well held to- gether, and cushioned by soft parts. But the pelvic viscera are fre- quently injured; rupture of the bladder and urethra, giving rise to extravasation of urine; laceration of the rectum sometimes occurring; or of the larger blood-vessels, with intra-pelvio heemorrhage. These visceral or internal injuries are of far more serious import than the fracture in itself. Fractures of the pelvis thus have an analogous resemblance to those of the ribs and sternum, and of the cranium or vertebral column, in regard to their visceral relations. The Signs of fracture of the innominate bones are not peculiar. No irregularity of the bone at the seat of injury may be discovered ; but mobility and crepitus, on moving each half of the pelvis back- wards and forwards, will be readily perceptible; while the ischium is best examined by the finger in the rectum or vagina, with external manipulation of the tuberosity, or by then flexing or extending the thigh; pain also and inability to support the trunk are experienced by the patient on attempting to move or stand up. Inability to empty the bladder, or bloody urine, denotes some injury to this organ; and occurring with the accident, confirms the diagnosis. Caution, there- fore, should always be observed in handling the pelvis, lest any visceral injury be aggravated. Fracture of, or involving, the acetabulum is indicated by the crepitus elicitated on rotating the femur, with the other hand placed over the trochanter. Detachment of a portion of the margin, with dislocation, is characterized by the recurrence of dislocation after its reduction, the head of the femur easily slijaping out of the acetabular cavity. Separation of the symphysis, or of the sacro-iliac articulations, allows of free mobility, and an interval may even be felt in the situation of such separation. In the case to which I have alluded, I could plainly pass my finger between the symphysis, and so far as to recognize the * St. Bartholomew's Hospital, C. 40. A fracture has split the acetabulum into four portions, which are widely separated. From this centre, fractures also extend through the body and ramus of the pul)is ; through the iscliiiuu, between its spine and tuberosity; and through the ilium, vertically to its crest, and obliquely to ita anterior spine.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY, 644 fla.t surface of the body of either pubis covered with its immediate plate of libro-cartilage. The transverse or connecting fibres had given way, as well as the ligaments on each aspect of the symphysis, in- cluding the strong swi-pubic ligament. Gatt,ses.—Direct violence is almost the only cause of fracture of the pelvis. A heavy fall, or a crushing compression of the innominate bones, as by a cart-wheel passing over the pelvis, or the force of a squeeze between the buffers of two railway carriages; such, and similar accidents, are the ordinary occasions of these injuries; or they result from the equally formidable contusion of gunshot wounds. Indirect violence sometimes produces fracture of the pelvis; as of the acetaba- lum, when a person falls from a height and alights on his feet. Force applied from the back may have the same effect^ an instance of which is cited by Hamilton—a man setat. twenty-seven, on whose back a number of bricks had fallen while his right knee rested on the bank of a trench. Death ensued in a few days; and a fracture was found extending through the bottom of the right acetabulum, and about one inch and a half of the rim at its upper and posterior margin was completely detached, otherwise than as being retained by a portion of the capsular ligament. Dislocation upwards and backwards could be readily reproduced to and fro. The femur was not broken. Falls on the hip, striking the great trochanter, are perhaps the most common occasion of fractured acetabulum; the force then being transmitted more directly. Course and Terminations.—Union of the fracture takes place generally without diflBculty, resulting only in some degree of lameness. This result occurs more frequently in fracture of the acetabulum, with dislocation, owing to the nature of the injury not having been detected, or the impossibility of maintaining reduction. Permanent lameness ensues. But any visceral injuries are of more serious or fatal con- sequence. The chief difference in such cases depends on the situation of the injury; whether, or not, laceration of the bladder opens into the peritoneal cavity, with extravasation of urine internally or externally. In the one case, death is almost inevitable; in the other, urinary in- filtration behind or in front of the deep perineal fascia, will be followed by suppuration and sloughing, perilous to life. Treatment.—Any visceral injury demands immediate attention. A catheter should be introduced to discover the state of the bladder. If bloody urine or other symptoms of injury to this organ or the urethra be present, the catheter must be kept in the bladder, to prevent extra- vasation of urine. In the event of exti'avasation externally, early and free incisions into the scrotum may avert the full extent of the local mischief, and the consequent typhoid disorder. But the treat- ment of such Extravasation of Urine is described in a subsequent chapter. The fracture itself requires comparatively little surgical manipulation. The pelvis should be bound round with a broad roller, or rib-bandage, and the patient laid recumbent at rest on a flat bed or mattress, sufficiently firm to counteract any tendency to displacement. The thighs should be flexed upon the abdomen, and supported with pillows under the knees; this position preventing displacement by muscular action, and often proving also the most comfortable. Fracture of the acetabulum must be secured by means of a long splint, or a hip-splint of gutta-percha, moulded to the side of theFRACTURE OP THE SACRUM. 646 pelvis and thigli, to fix the joint. Angular extension is recommended by Dr. Bigelow, who then applies an angular splint, with the limb suspended vertically; or, he observes, if in any manoeuvre reduction is effected, the limb should be retained, if possible, in the attitude which completed the manoeuvre. (2.) Feacture of the Sacrum.—Exceedingly rare, fracture of the sacrum may, however, occur in conjunction with that of the innominate bones. The fi'acture then takes place at any part of the sacrum, and in any direction ; but it may Fig. 245. happen independently, and then generally below the sacro-iliac articulation, and transversely across the bone. In this condition, displacement is almost always the same ; the coccygeal extremity being driven forwards, without probably interfering with the rectum or anus. A slight lateral devia- tion is sometimes produced. Far more rarely, the fracture is vertical, or conjoined vnth a trans- verse fracture, of which I have found only one instance. (Fig. 245.) One line of fracture passes transversely across the junction of the first and second sacral vertebras, and communicates with other fractures which detached the upper angles of the first. Another line of fracture passes downwards from the first sacral foramen, on the left side, through the whole length of the body of the sacrum, and the first portion of the coccyx. No union has taken place. The patient, a lad aged eighteen, fell from the top of Holyrood Palace, a height of 76 feet; and in addition to the above injury, there was a compound dislocation of the ankle, with fracture of the astragalus, a dislocation of the humerus, and concussion of the brain. The only sign of the fracture of the sacrum was severe pain in the loins and back. Abscess formed over the sacrum, and communicated with a large intra-pelvic abscess.—Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 981; also the "London Medical Grazette," vol. v. p. 508. (R. Liston.) The Signs kre an angular projection backwards at the line of frac- ture, and corresponding to the displacement forwards, mobility and some crepitus; with pain, greatly aggravated in any attempt to bend or elevate the body, and especially acute in any efforts at defsecation. Causes.—Fracture of the Sacrum arises from the same causes as that of the innominate bones; and from blows or falls on the sacrum itself, in fracture transversely below the sacro-iliac articulation. Course and Termmation.—If fracture of the sacrum occur in con- junction with fracture of the innominate bones, the accompanying lesions of the pelvic viscera generally prove fatal. Fracture of the sacrum alone is usually followed by a speedy recovery, although the inward displacement cannofc often be completely overcome. Treatment.—The displacement may be corrected by passing a finger into the rectum and pressing back the coccygeal portion of the sacrum; but great difficulty will often be experienced in retaining it there. Various contrivances have been resorted to for this purpose, such as the introduction of a wooden cylinder, or other form of compress, within the bowel. Any such body must be removed every two or three646 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 246 * days, and an enema administered. The action of tbe bowels should be rather restrained by opiates, thus to prevent disturbance of the part by daily evacuation; while some accumulation of faeces in the rectum may act as an efficient compress, instead of using any artificial form of rectal plug. I prefer rectal constipation for the purpose of keeping the lower fragment of the sacrum in good position, at least after the first few days, when the impaction of f8eces will usually be sufficient to check displacement; and the continued introduction of a foreign body is less tolerable to most patients. A roller drawn firmly round the pelvis, and the support of a flat, resisting mattress, insures the rest requisite for union. This takes place in about a month, or a shorter period, according to the less frequent disturbance of the part by the act of defsecation. Thus, in a case under Bermond's management, tbe rectal plug was retained without much inconvenience nineteen days, having been only once removed during that period ; and union was then firm. Fracture of the Coccyx is an uncommon acci- dent. The structural condition, signs, causes, and treatment are the same as in fracture of the coccy- geal portion of the sacrum. The pain and incon- venience by occlusion of the rectum may be very persistent, after the injury itself is repaired. The sitting posture will then be made more tolerable or comfortable, by wearing a pad on each tuberosity of the ischium. A borseshoe-shaped air-cushion will also give great relief, as I have known in cases of coccydynia, a painful or neuralgic affection of the coccyx. Fractuees of the Femuk.—Like other long bones, fracture of the thigh-bone may occur, in its Upper Articular end, the Shaft, or the Lower Articular end. (Fig. 246.) Fractures op the Upper Articular End com- prise those of the Neck, within, or outside, the Capsule, and Trochanteric Fractures. (1.) Intra-capsular Fracture of the Neck of the Femur.—Structural Conditiom.—In direction, intra-capsular fracture of the neck of the femur is, generally, somewhat oblique—from above down- -wards and outwards, including sometimes a portion of the head ; occa- sionally, it is quite transverse. (Fig. 247.) The capsule and periosteum are generally rent asunder incompletely, but sometimes completely. Displacement of the two fragments usually occurs; the lower fragment, * Fractures of Femur. Diagram showing situations and lines of fracture; chiefly from specimens in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.—1. Intra-capsular. 2. Extra-capsular. 3. Through great trochanter. 4. Inter-trochanteric. 5. Summit of great trochanter, or epiphysis (Middlesex Hosp. Mus 111, 2). 6. Below trochanters. 7. Upper third. 8. Middle third. 9. Lower third 10. Supra and intor-rondyloid, into knee-joint (St. Bartholomew's Mus., C. 13). 11. Internal condyle. 12. External condyle. (Author.) ^2INTRA-CAPSULAB FRACTURE OF THE NECK OF THE FEMUR. 647 the shaft of the bone, is drawn upwards and to the outer or posterior side of the head of the bone, and rotated so that the fractured end is directed forwards. The upper or articular fragment remains in position; the head of the bone being in the acetabulum, and connected Fig. 247.* Fig. 248. f by the round ligament. Displace- ment of the lower fragment will be more or less complete, according to the extent of rupture of the capsule and periosteum. Impacted fracture is not very uncommon, in my experience ; the end of the lower fragment being driven into the upper. Signs.—In intra-capsular frac- ture of the neck of the femur, the limb is shortened, and everted; with the knee slightly flexed, the toes pointing outwards, and the heel drawn up and resting on the inner side of the leg above the ankle. (Fig. 248.) The hip is somewhat flattened, the "prominence of the great trochanter being less marked, and drawn upwards to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. Thus far, the injury resembles dislocation forwards upon the pubes ; ex- cepting that the limb is then abducted, and the head of the bone can generally be felt in its new position. But, with fracture, on drawing the limb downwards to its proper length, and rotating inwards, crepitus and mobility of the lower fragment will be felt, when the hand is placed over the trochanter; and this prominence of bone moves in a less regular and smaller segment of a circle than on the opposite or sound side. Pain, severe on any attempt at motion, and total powerlessness of the limb, conclude the diagnosis. Shortening, in the first instance, varies from half an inch to an inch; but it increases, perhaps, to two inches or more, as the capsular ligament yields more completely, by contraction of the muscles or by bearing on the limb, or if the fragments impacted become dislodged. But shortening of the limb may be produced by slight flexion, as an effort of the patient * St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum, C. 113. t lutra-capsular fracture of ucck of Femiu'. (Author.)■SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. G48 thus to relax the muscles whicli act upon the hip-joint, in order to relieve the pain in the hip; it may, therefore, indicate simply a sprain of the joint; or it may result from hip-joint disease, former fracture of the thigh or leg, malformation, or arrest of development. Any obliquity of the pelvis will also affect the comparative length of the two limbs. To determine whether shortening be apparent or real, the patient should be laid upon his back, with the pelvis even on either side; then the relative length of the limb can be estimated by observing whether the soles of the feet are in the same plane; but measurement with an inextensible, graduated tape will afPord the only exact and conclusive evidence—observing to draw the tape between two fixed points, the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and the lower margin of the inner malleolus of the ankle, thus to find the actual length of the limb, as compared with the other side. Possibly, no shortening may take place at first, no displace- ment having occurred, and this state may continue for a period of some hours, or even for days; on the other hand, considerable shortening may soon be induced by a rough examination of the limb. Eversion is produced, partly by the action of the external rotator muscles inserted into the great trochanter, and partly or principally as the natural position into which the lower limb falls when left to itself. Inversion sometimes occurs, but very rarely; and is owing, probably, to the action of the adductor muscles, aided by some partial rent of the capsular ligament favouring such muscular action. Thus, if the inner side of the capsule remain entire, this, it has been supposed, would facilitate inversion; but it seems to me that a rent of the inner side of this ligament would be more conducive to inward rotation of the femur. Dissection in cases of inversion is wanted to establish either opinion. An unusual position of the lower fragment, in front of the upper one, is the explanation urged by Dr. R. W. Smith. Neither aversion nor inversion of the foot may be present, according to Hamilton, in some cases; the toes pointing directly forwards. Impacted fracture is denoted by an absence or minor degree of all the signs, except shortening. Some degree of shortening of the lower limb, which cannot be extended to its original length ; un- acompanied by the other signs of fracture—or dislocation—and im- mediately consequent on some occasion of injury, is diagnostic of fracture, with impaction of the fragments,—an impacted fracture. A well-marked case of this kind, which was under my care in the Hospital, is reported in the " Medical Times and Gazette," 1866; and subsequently, I brought forward other cases at the Harveian Society. Eversion, or occasionally inversion, with impacted fracture, may be produced, partly by the causes already mentioned, but specially, perhaps, by the direction and extent of the impaction, giving a turn to the limb one way or the other. Causes.—Indirect violence, but of so slight a character, in many cases, as scarcely to exceed a stumble, will, generally, be found the only external cause to which intra-capsular fracture of the neck of the femur can be referred. A slight trip of the foot, slip, or mis-step in going down stairs, are the usual occasions of this fracture. But arje very much predisposes to the injury. It seldom happens in persons under fifty; and the predisposing condition consists of an alteration in the structure, and consequent direction of the neck of the femu/,INTRA-OAPSULAR FRACTURE OF THE NECK OF THE FEMUR. 649 tlience favouring tte occurrence of fracture in tliis portion of the bone. Its cancellous and compact texture having undergone fatty- degeneration, or disintegration and ai/ropJiy (Fig. 249), the neck Fia. 249.* Pig. 250.t Fig. 251.t Pig. 252. § Pig. 253. gradually yields to the weight of the body; the inferior border of the neck, originally the longest, thus becomes somewhat shortened, and the whole neck drops to nearly a right-angle with the shaft, (Fig. 250.) This horizontal direction, in particular, renders the neck less able to sustain the shock of any force transmitted through the femur, and which throws the weight of the trunk suddenly on this portion of the bone. It snaps instantly and easily—perhaps, almost imperceptibly. Besides the predis- position of advancing life, intra-capsular fracture of the neck of the femur is said to be more frequent in women than in men. The circum- stances of age, and the slight indirect violence, associated with the production of intra - capsular fracture, should be considered, with the signs already mentioned, in aid of the diagnosis. TJnwn by ligament ensues, as the only mode of reparation in most cases (Fig. 251), or when the upper fragment is impacted. (Fig, 252.) Or no union may take place, the portion of the neck and head, m the acetabulum, undergo absorption to some extent, while the trochanteric fragment becomes flattened and expanded, apparently as the result of constant pressure and friction; or a false ball-and- socket joint forms between the ends of the two fragments. Bony union, at one time and for many years thought never to take place, does assuredly result in some rare cases (Fig. 253); but only, it would seem, when the capsular ligament remains entire, or the fragments are impacted, whereby a due supply of blood can be speedily established The use of the limb is not restored under three or four months. * St. Bart. Hosp. Mus., 1, 206. t Ibid. C. 78. J Ibid. 3, 22, § Ibid. 3,110. II Ibid. 3, 21. «SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 650 * St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum, 3, 70. Treatment.—No bony union taking place, as a rule, in intra-capsular fracture of the neck of the femur, it will generally be useless to adjust the fracture and apply any retentive apparatus, with a view to such union; and the more so, in proportion to the years of the patient. In elderly persons, and those to whom any long confinement would be pre- judicial, their general health is of more consequence than the fracture, and which is itself irreparable in advanced life. The limb may be placed in an easy position, until pain, and the inflammatory consequences of the injury have subsided, when a splint moulded to the hip should be applied, and the limb slung from the foot by a long band passing round the neck; the patient thus being enabled to get about on crutches. Whatever reparation, and recovery from lameness, may then take place, it proceeds under the most favourable circumstances with regard to the general health, and its influence on reparation. In younger subjects, the fracture may be adjusted, and a long splint applied, as for the treatment of other fractures of the femur. Admitting the possibility of bony union, and the uncertainty of diagnosis between intra-capsular and extra-capsular fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, it is deemed advisable by some Surgeons of experience, not only to abandon Sir A. Cooper's rule of practice— that of treating all supposed intra-capsular fractures without retentive apparatus—but, conversely, to treat all alike by retention, excepting under the special circumstances of advanced age or debility. Other- wise, the Surgeon may fail to obtain bony union and a more useful limb, when he might possibly have gained this end ; or he may be misled to neglect the proper treatment, when the fracture is beyond the capsule. Impacted fracture should be treated in the same way ; but the splint is applied only for retention, as the limb cannot be extended to its original length. (2.) Extra-capsular Fracturi!) of the Neck op the Femur.— Structural Conditions.—In situation, extra-capsular fracture may occur at any part of the neck external to the capsule ; Fig. 254.* Y)vit generally at the base, corresponding very nearly with the anterior and posterior inter- trochanteric lines. (Fig. 254.) Comminution is almost invariably produced; and, probably, by the penetration of the upper fragment into the trochanteric fragment, so as to split it into two or more pieces. The direction of the fractui'e in the outer fragments is also remarkably uni- form ; the great trochanter usually being divided from near the centre of its summit, obliquely downwards and forwards towards its base, and the line of fracture terminating a little short of the small trochanter or penetrating beneath its base; one or two lines also usually traverse the great trochanter, horizontally. In more than twenty specimens, observes Hamilton, there were only two or three exceptions to these general rules. Impacted fracture is produced, when the fragment is driven into, and partly imbedded in, the trochanteric fragment; the compactEXTRA-CAPSULA.R FRACTURE OP THE NECK OF THE FEMUR, 651 * (St. liaitholomcw'B Hospital Museum, C. 'J(j. FiQ. 255. * portion of which, embraces, and fixes, the neck of the femur, thus shortened and slid down nearly to a right-angle. (See Fig. 254.) The Signs of extra-capsular are the same as those of inti*a-capsular fracture, but more marked. Thus, shortening, averaging one inch and a quarter—in 42 cases—may reach to two, three, and even four inches, Eversion is very conspicuous, but inversion not uncommon as compared with intra-capsular fracture. Flattening of the hip is also well marked, unless swelling, which is often considerable, has supervened. Crepitus and mobility are equally notable; and these three hip-signs are even more pronounced with comminuted fracture. Pain, always severe, and total inability to move the joint, will no less attract the notice of the Surgeon. Impacted fracture renders all these signs obscure or imperceptible, except shortening, which varies from half an inch to an inch. The limb cannot be extended to its original length. Gaiises.—Direct violence, as by a fall on the hip, is the usual mode of fracture; occasionally, indirect force, as by a fall upon the feet or knees. Age has less predisposing influence than with relation to intra- capsular fracture. Extra-capsular fracture is said to be most frequent between the ages of thirty and forty; but Hamilton regards the liability as proportionate to advancing life, and that age may be considered as the " grand predisposing cause." Both sexes seem equally liable. The age of the patient, and the generally direct and severe violence associated with the production of extra- capsular fracture, will aid in distinguishing it from the intra-capsular. Union by hone takes place readily, and especially with an impacted fracture. (Fig, 255.) The callus is deposited, almost in- variably, along the inter-trochanteric lines ; and also, not unfrequently, along the lines of the other fractures of the trochanter. This callus is abundant and irregular, pro- jecting as spines and tuberosities; forming a knobby and spiculated crown, which embraces the upper fragment. Osseous buttresses sometimes reach even to the ^ bones of the pelvis. The use of the limb may be restored in six or eight weeks; but lameness still continues, and with impacted fracture, the limb being shortened, this condition is permanent. Sometimes the union of extra-capsular fracture is attended with depression of the neck (see Fig. 255), resulting in a proportionate shortening of the limb. Comparing fractures of the neck of the femur, within and without the capsule, it will be seen that they differ in their structural con- ditions, in the degree of their signs, in their causes, and prognosis. Treatment.—Moderate extension and rest, by means of the long straight splint, is here the most appropriate mode of treatment. A bandage or padded belt may be applied around the pelvis, underneath the splint, to retain the trochanter, often comminuted, in position. TheSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 652 ♦ St. George's Hospital Mub , 1. 182b. Pig. 25G.» Fig. 257.» only objection I have ever experienced in the ase of this retentive apparatus, has been, not as to its thorough efficiency, but the pain occasioned by pressure over the trochanter, owing to the contused state of the integuments in most cases. This in- convenience, however, is temporary, and can be overcome by using an interrupted splint. Impacted fracture should be treated in the same way; although the splint must be applied only for retention, as the limb cannot be ex- tended to its original length. Fracture partly with- in, and partly without, the capsule, forms a structural condition which presents a combination of the signs relating to fracture of the neck of the femur, in both situations. But such cases partake more of the character of intra-capsular fracture; although, to be on the safe side in regard to treatment, retention of the limb in position, by means of the long splint, should always be the rule of practice. Fractures relating to the Trochanters are extra-capsular ; but there are four forms of such fractures, specimens of which I have met with. (3.) Extra-capsular fracture of the nech of the Femur, impacted; with fracture of hoth trochanters, which are split ofi by the neck of the bone being driven into the cancellous tissue. (Fig. 256, front view; Fig. 257, back view. The peculiar lines of fracture here indicated are omitted from the diagram- matic view of Fractures of the Femur, p. 646.) There was slight eversion and shortening of the limb. Death occurred from pneumonia in about two months. No union of the fragments had taken place. This uncommon form of fracture was produced by a fall on the hip, in the person of a man aged 81. (4.) Fracture throiigh the great tro- chanter. — The direction of fracture through the great trochanter is a line passing obliquely upwards and outwards from the lower portion of the neck, like an ordinary extra-capsular fracture, but instead of traversing the neck completely, it passes through the base of the great trochanter, thus separating the femur into two fragments : an upper, consisting of the head, neck, and + St. Bartholomew's Hospital Mus., C. 131. Bony union, seven months after injury, in a man aged 85 years. Fig. 258. tFRACTUIIE OF THE SHAFT OF THE FEMUR. t St. Bartholomew'b Hospital Mus., 0. 5. * St. George's Hospital Mus., 1, 145. C53 Fig. 260. t Fig. 259.^ ^reat trochanter; and a lower, the shaft of the femur. (Fig. 258.) This fracture is very rare, and it had been verified by dissection in only two cases; the one related by Sir Astley Cooper, the other by Mr. Stanley, but the specimen represented in the figure is an additional instance. (5.) Inter-trochanteric fracture, or between the trochanters, the line of fracture passing obliquely, from just above the small trochanter downwards and outwards, to below the great trochanter. (Fig. 259.) Bony union. The signs, causes, prognosis, and treatment of these trochanteric fractures are the same as in extra-capsul ar fracture of the neck. (6.) Fracture through summit of great trochanter.—I have found only one apparent specimen of this form of fracture, or perhaps separation of the epiphysis, as having occurred in a boy, aged fourteen, from direct violence—a fall on the hip. (See Diagram, p. 646.) Dr. Roddick, of Montreal, Canada, has, I believe, met with another instance of this form of trochanteric fracture. Compound Fracture of the nech of the Femur is a very formidable injury, resulting almost exclusively from gunshot wound. The Treatment is that for compound fracture, in general; hence, according to the condi- tion of injury, retentive appli- ances may be used, excision of the splintered portion, or amputation of the hip, resorted to. But experience has shown that any attempt to preserve the limb entire will be almost hopeless, and amputation utterly hopeless; excision, therefore, re- mains as the only justifiable resource, followed by retention of the limb in the best position for union. Fracture of the Shaft of the Femur.—Structural Conditions.—The situation of fracture is, commonly, in the middle third of the shaft, and its direction oblique downwards and inwards or outwards (Fig. 260); or downwards and forwards in the lower third; and varying in the upper third; transverse in children ; or the bone may be not unfrequently comminuted. Dis- placement of the lower fragment occurs, upwards and inwards, somewhat behind the upper fragment, and with some rotation outwards, as in the figure. This displacement is produced by the adductor muscles. The upper fragment is drawn or tilted forwards by the conjoined psoas and iliacusmuscles, inserted into the small trochanter; and outwards by the external rotators. i654 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. This relative position of the fragments, in the middle third of the bone, existed in a case which I examined within a few hours after the accident; it having then proved fatal. The preparation ia in the Museum of the Royal Free Hospital. ^ The 8ig7is of oblique fracture in the shaft are—deformity of the thigh, corresponding to the displacement, and occasioning a muscular fulness on the inner, and less so on the outer, aspect of the thigh ; mobility, and crepitus, on extending and rotating the limb; shorten- ing, to about one inch, but increasing with muscular action, and some eversion ; pain, and inability to use the limb. Transverse frac- ture, in children, is accompanied with angular deformity ; the ends of the fragments being incompletely displaced, and hitching on each other. The other signs are the same, differing only in degree from tbose of oblique fracture in the adult. These signs are usually so well marked, and especially those connected with the seat of fracture, that the nature of the injury can hardly be overlooked, and may be suspected at a glance. It is thus also that fracture in the shaft of any bone is always more readily detected than at either articular end, and where the diagnosis of the two or three fractures there liable to occur is even more difficult. Causes.—Direct violence undoubtedly may be regarded as almost the only mode of fracture in any portion of the shaft; unless it be immediately above the condyles or immediately below the small trochanter. Thus, the passage of a carriage or cart across the thigh, or the fall of a piece of timber directly on it, represent the occasions of fracture. Indirect violence, as a fall on the feet or an indirect blow, may, indeed, fracture the shaft; but, more commonly, the bone just above the condyles, or just below the small trochanter. Union by bone takes place, usually, in the course of about six weeks Fig. 261. or two months; but rarely, if ever, without some overlapping of the fragments and proportionate shortening of the limb. ^Treatment.—Many plans of treatment have been devised, and very many forms of retentive apparatus contrived, for the treatment of Fractures of the Femur. (1.) The long, straight splint will be found most effectual in all frac- tures of this bone; excepting, probably, fracture near the small trochanter above, or near the condyles below; in the former of which, the upper fragment is much tilted forwards and outwards by theFRACTURE OF THE SHAFT OF THE FEMUR. 655 conioined psoas and iliacus and by the external rotator muscles; and in the lattei", the lower fragment is much drawn backwards by the gastrocnemius. As a means of extension, the long splint must exceed the leno-th of the limb, by five or six inches beyond the sole of the foot; while, for steady retention, the splint should reach from near the axilla along the side of the chest and limb, to that point. These requisities are best combined in Lisbon's long splint; which, with a perineal band, for counter-extension, should be applied in the following manner. (Fig. 261.) The split ends of a roller are tied to the upper end of the splint, through two holes, aud well secured ; the roller is then drawn down on the inner aspect of the splint, and overlaid by a pad the breadth and length of the splint, to the foot, the pad being kept in position by a few tapes, binding it, at intervals, to the splint. Having well adjusted this padded splint from the axilla to the foot, the roller, running between, should be drawn round the foot, across the instep, and round the end of the splint, where it is received into deep notches, with an intervening point to catch the roller; then drawn round the foot again, and so on in a figure-of-8 fashion. The foot having been thus bound to the end of the splint, as the point of exten- sion, the roller is continued up the limb to below the seat of fracture in the thigh; a perineal band, consisting of a handkerchief covered with oil-silk, should now be passed from the inner side of the thigh around the buttock, drawn well up into the crutch, and the ends passed through the two holes at the top of the splint. By tightening this band, the limb can be extended from below the fracture, and its adjustment having thus been completed, as shown by the length of the limb, when compared with the other, the ends of the perineal band are then tied at the top of the splint. The roller is continued up the thigh, and around the chest and splint nearly to the axilla; further securing both fragments in position, through the medium of the unyielding splint. In compound fracture of the shaft, a long interrupted splint may be used; the bracketed portion opposite the seat of fracture allowing free access to the wound. The only difficulty likely to arise in the course of treatment by the long splint, is some excoriation occasionally, from the perineal band. A little temporary relaxation of the band, or powdering the surface with flour or chalk, will usually succeed in overcoming this difficulty. In the management of a very large number of cases of fracture of the thigh, by means of the long splint and perineal band, I have never experienced any other difficulty, nor has that ever proved insuperable; while the perfect efficiency of this plan of treatment has been attested by the most satisfactory results, in regard to the length of the limb; that generally some slight shortening remains—to about half an inch, with a compensatory obliquity of the pelvis, which renders even this difference of no functional consequence in the use of the limb. In children, owing to their tender skin and restless disposition, the management of the fracture is often more difficult, and the results of treatment are somewhat less satisfactory. It is now generally admitted by Surgeons, both in this country, in America, and on the continent, that some amount of shortening of the limb nearly always results in fracture of the shaft of the femur whether treated by the long splint, or any other form of apparatus.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 656 The measurement should always be taken with a graduated, inelastic tape. In seventy-four cases of fractare, at all ages, from three to sixty-three years, and in both sexes. Dr. Buck, of New York, found that nineteen had united without any shortening; a proportion of about one-fourth. The average shortening in the remaining fifty-five cases was a little less than three-quarters of an inch. Another method of treatment consists in using the long external splint simply to steady the limb; or coaptation is secured by the ap- plication of four short splints to the thigh, according to Dr. Gordon Buck's method ; counter-extension is maintained by the weight of the trunk, the foot of the bed being elevated on blocks to the height of a few inches, sufficiently for this purpose, and continued extension is brought to bear by means of a weight suspended over a pulley from the leg, to which it is attached by a loop of adhesive plaster. (Fig. 262.) This double arrangement obviates the risk of excoriation from the use of the perineal band ; and also the tendency to ulceration of the instep, Fig. 262. when the extending force is limited to the foot, instead of being diffused over the leg. For this latter reason, more especially, I now generally treat Fractures of the Femur by weight-extension. This is applied by passing a long, broad strip of stout adhesive plaster down one side of the leg and np the other side, leaving a loop opposite the sole of the foot. (Fig. 263.) Within this loop, a thin plate of wood is placed, adherent to the plaster, taking care that this foot-piece be sufficiently wide—say, four inches across—to keep off any pressure from the bands over the sides of the ankle, during the continued extension. These extension-bands are further secured by the turns of a roller-bandage from the Fig. 263. foot up the leg. Then a weight, from about ten to twenty pounds for an adult, is attached to the foot-piece of the loop by a small cord, and thus suspended over a pulley in a wooden upright frame or standard at the end of the bed. The full weight necessary for complete extension may not be tolerated well at first, and it must then be moderated for a few houre. Sometimes the aching pain of continued extension will be relieved by slightly flexing the knee, with a small pillow underneath the joint.FEACTUEE OF THE SHAFT OF THE FEMUE. 657 Of course, the length of the limb must be ascertained, when the fracture has thus been set, and occasionally afterwards; the extending weight being regulated accordingly, A lono- anterior splint, with suspension of the limb, may be resorted to, in cases of injury to the soft parts on the back of the limb, associated with fractared femur. This splint was devised by Dr. N. R. Smith, of Maryland, and a modification by Dr. James Palmer, of the United States Navy. In the latter contrivance, the suspension is directed obliqicely towards the foot, so as thus to more effectually maintain exten- sion while counter-extension is preserved by the weight of the trunk. Fracture of the great trochanter alone (see Pig. 246) would not require extension of the limb, which of course is not shortened. In such case, a broad hip-bandage may be applied, and will suffice to keep the fragment in position. This method of treatment was recommended by Sir A. Cooper. (Pig- 264.) But, in most cases, there is the addi- tional injury of fracture through the neck of the femur, or in the adjoining portion of the shaft below the trochanter. Practically, there- fore, the trochanteric fracture is usually associated with the treatment of these fractures. The additional support of a hip-bandage may, however, be advantageous, whenever the trochanter can be felt distinctly movable; an uncommon condition, for this rare form of fracture is obscured by the large swelling which arises from the direct violence of the injury. Fig. 264. (2.) Practure of the shaft of the femur near the small trochanter (see Pig. 246) may sometimes be adjusted more evenly by relaxation of the muscles, and the application of a splint to maintain the requisite position for that purpose ; a method of treatment proposed and prac- tised by Pott. The thigh is flexed on the abdomen, and the leg upon the thigh, and the limb laid somewhat on its outer side ; an angular splint, moulded to the hip and thigh, must then be applied, and, per- haps, a short counter-splint on the inner aspect of the thigh. Both are secured by a bandage. Malgaigne, Hamilton, and the majority of experienced surgeons prefer the straight position, with extension, in this, as in all other fractures of the femur; that method of treatment resulting in less shortening and displacement. In children, fractures of the thigh are best treated by means of two long external splints, one for either limb, with an intervening crossbar below the feet, so as to separate the legs a little. Thus the restless little patient is restrained from rolling about, and the perineum can be more readily cleansed to prevent excoriation. Hamilton particularly recommends this retentive apparatus, and I have tried it with much advantage. Practure near the condyles, in the shaft, may be conveniently associated with that of the lower articiilar end. PpvActure of the Lower Akticulak End of the Pemue. The 2 u*SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 658 direction of fracture is, generally, transverse (Fig. 265) ; or either condyle may be detached, thus resembling fractures of the Lower Articular ]^nd of the Humerus. These fractures also involve, or extend into, the knee-joint. (Fig. 266.) Displacement of the lower fragment backwards is produced by the action of the gastrocnemius muscle. Separation of the lower epiphysis has occasionally been met with, as verified by dissection. (Fig. 267.) The Signs are, usually, clearly perceptible; some deformity corre- sponding to the displacement, mobility, and crepitus ; pain, and loss of power in proportion to the displacement. Impacted fracture in this situation is liable to occur. Erichsen states that he has had several such cases xinder his care. In one, Fig. 265.* Fig. 2C7.1 Fig. 266.t the upper fragment, which was very oblique, was firmly driven into the cancellous structure of the lower one. In another case, the condyles of both thigh-bones were splintered or comminuted into a number of frag- ments, amongst which the shafts were impacted. Causes.—Indirect violence, as by a fall on the feet, may detach the epiphysis, transversely from the shaft, in childhood or youth. Direct violence, as by a fall on the knee, or kick of a horse, may fracture either condyle. * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., C. 58. Supra-condyloid fracture of the femur; osseous imion, with great displacement of the xipper end downwards into the popliteal space; also anchylosis of the patella to the femur, and of the knee-joint. t Ibid. C. 13. Supra-condyloid fractiu-e, comminuted, and involving the knee- joint. X St. George's Hosp. Mus., 1, 137. Separation of the cpipliyMs of the lower end of the femur, with displacement of the shaft inwards. Separation also of tlie epiplnjses of the tibia and iibula. This rare form of injury occurred in the person of a young man, aged eighteen, from a twist of the leg "by a rope which caughtFKACTURE OF THE LOWER ARTICULAR END OF THE FEMUR. 659 Union by bone commonly takes place; and, indeed, such was tbe result in the more severe cases above noticed. Treatment.—A flexed position of the Icnee, supported by the douhle- incUnedplane or Mclntyre splint, thus to relax the gastrocnemius, is per- haps the most effectual plan of treatment in these fractures. Inflamma- tory swelling of the knee-joint—concomitant with fracture near or into the joint—must be subdued by cold lotions or irrigation. Passive motion should be used, as soon the union will bear it, to prevent anchylosis. The starched bandage will be appropriate in the treatment of any fracture of the femur—as in all other Fractures—only when retention, without any extending force, may be sufficient. It will, therefore, be found very useful, after consolidation has taken place, to thus finish off the union, without further confinement to bed. Or, it may be employed from the commencement, in children and infants ; where the ordinary apparatus cannot well be applied or continued. In adults as well as children, for the treatment of fractures of the thigh, Mr. Erichsen extols the starched bandage, as being suitable, in most cases, from the commencement. He has tlaus treated "many fractured thighs, both in adults and children, without confinement to bed for more than three or four days, and without the slightest shortening or deformity being left." I must confess to never having been so fortunate in a single instance. In the last case where I removed the long splint, and put up the limb in a starched bandage, earlier than usual, i.e., before consolidation of the callus, the upper fragment progressively over- lapped, occasioning acute pain, and the man had to go to bed again for another month. the limb, in the act of leaping from the Chelsea pier on to a steamer. The knee- joint presented the appearance of a partial dislocation inwards of the condyloid portion of the femur, with laceration of the lateral and crucial ligaments. The patella remained in its natural position, although the ligaments were relaxed. There was also a compound fracture of the leg at its lower third, and extensive laceration of the integument in the inguinal region. The limb, from the knee downwards, was quite cold, with considerable swelling, especially about the knee, the ankle, and foot. Amputation of the thigh was performed immediately. Examination of the limb disclosed the following additional particulars:—The displacement of the shaft of the femur inwards was such that its external portion rested on the internal condyle, and projected forwards. The periosteum was stripped from the lower third of the shaft, but adherent to the upper margin of the detached epiphysis, and formed a thick fold posteriorly, which prevented the reduction of the portions of bone. The epiphyseal cartilage had separated with the condyles, thus exposing the cancellous tissue of the end of the shaft. In the knee-joint, the ligaments were entii-e, except a slight rupture at the inner part of the posterior ligament. "Within the joint, there was a large quantity of recently effused blood. Both the epiphyses of the tibia, upper and lower, were detached, partially at least, carrying with them the epiphyseal cartilages; but no displace- ment had taken place. In like manner, both the epiphyses of the fibula were detached. The fracture of the tibia was at the lower third of the bone; that of the fibula at the middle of its shaft. Within the ankle-joint also, some blood had been effused. The muscles were extensively lacerated, and the cellular texture of the limb was infiltrated with blood. The popliteal artery had undergone a rare form of partial rupture—both the inner and middle coats being torn through, for about one third of an inch, just above the bifurcation of this vessel; and thrombosis having taken place so as to obliterate the vessel for an inch above and below that point, gave rise to the symptoms of gangrene. No injury had occurred to the popliteal vein, or the nerves. Pyremia followed the operation, and tho patient died thirteen days after the accident. In connection with this mode of death, the femoral vein was found in a state of phlebitis or thrombosis as liigh as the external iliac vein; the vessel containing a large clot of semi-puriform blood. Secondary abscesses had taken place in both Inngs.660 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Compound Eracture op the Femur—often comminuted—results, usually, from direct violence, as severe contusion or gunshot injury. Treatment.—The rules of treatment for Compound Fracture in general are liere applicable; whether with regard to preservation of the limb intact, excision of splintered portions of bone, or amputation. The amount of injury to the soft parts—integument, cellular textures, muscles, vessels, and nerves—as well as the fracture itself, mainly determines these questions of treatment. ' With, the view of giving the limb its chance, the fracture having been reduced, a long splint should be applied, as for simple fracture; the sijlint, however, being " interrupted " opposite the injury, to facili- tate the application of dressings. Excision might possibly be the means of saving the limb, short of the comminuted or splintered por- tions of bone removed. But I have not met with a case as regards compound fracture of the feimir; though I have succeeded in thus pre- serving the leg in compound fracture of both the tibia and fibula. Amjputation may prove successful in the middle third of the thigh, but never at the hip-joint. If, therefore, the fracture be so high as to render it doubtful whether amputation in the former situation should be per- formed, or an attempt made to save the limb, the Surgeon must use his own judgment in steering between Scylla and Charybdis. In a recent case of this kind, I was compelled to have recourse to amputa- tion at the hip, owing to the shattered state of the limb, and the persist- ing dribbling haemorrhage in spite of tourniquet compression. The patient, as usual, died in a few hours. Compound fracture, involving the Jcnee-joint, necessitates excision ; or amputation, primarily or secondarily, when excision has failed. Fracture op the Patella.—Stnictural Conditions.—In fracture of the jsatella, the line of fracture is generally transverse, and across the Fig 268 * middle (Fig. 268), or sometimes the upper rim only of the bone. Longitudinal fracture may occur ; 'Or comminution more frequently, the bone being starred and broken into three tolerably equal pieces. More or less laceration and opening of the synovial capsule has been known to accom- pany simple fracture, as shown by a specimen in the Museum of the Royal Free Hospital. The upper fragment is drawn ujDwards, by contraction of the quadriceps extensor muscle; the lower frag- ment, fixed by the ligamentum patellae, remaining stationary. The Signs of fracture are sufficiently obvious: a depi*ession or in- terval into which the finger readily sinks, between the two fragments, and niore perceptibly when the joint is flexed; mobility of the frag- ments, and probably some crepitus, when the limb is extended. Pain may be inconsiderable, but marked inabiUty to raise the limb, in addition to the above signs, can never be overlooked. (Fig. 2G9.) Fracture of just the upper rim, without any rupture of the aponeurotic capsule of the joint, will probably render these signs obscure. In one such case, and since, a second case, the patella seemed to me of the usual shape and size; no interval could be detected, the small crest-piece of bone not being drawn upwards, but sHpping down into * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 543. Transverse fracture of patella. Incomplete osseous union.FEACTUEE OF THE PATELLA. 661 fhe concavity between the condyles of the femur, and even behind the patella, itself apparently entire; and thus the fragment could not be readily moved laterally, nor brought into contact with the rest of the bone. But there was the usual powerlessness, or nearly so, in the patient's endeavour to lift his leg. Causes.—3Iuscular action is the most frequent cause, producing transverse fracture. A person falls back- wards, the knee is bent, and the patella snaps—as the tendon of the quadriceps ex- tensor might be ruptured—by the sudden strain thrown on that muscle in the effort to regain the upright posture. But the fall is completed because the patella gives way, and the bone is not broken by falling on it. This accident happens more commonly in men, and in adult life than childhood. In like manner, after fracture of one patella, the other is more liable to be broken by muscular action; increased strain being thrown on the quadriceps muscle of the other leg, in any similar effort of self-preservation. Both patellae have been known to snap simul- taneously. Direct violence, as by a fall on the knee, is the occasion of longitudinal, and, more especially, of comminuted fracture. According to Hamilton, such force will generally produce transverse fracture; but Fig. 270.t muscular action invariably having this effect, the greater pi'oportion of, if not all, transverse fractui-es are thus pro- duced. Considerable swelling speedily ensues from effusion into and around the joint, in connection with fractured patella, whether produced by muscular action or by direct violence; and this is associated, in the latter case, with marked discolouration. The signs of fracture are thus more or less obscured. The mode of Pinion in fracture of the patella would appear to be of two kinds, ligamentous and osseous; the difference depending probably on the less or more complete contact of the fragments, during the process of union. Hence the probability as to the one or the other taking place will vary ac- cording to the direction of the line or lines of fracture, whereby the frag- ments are subjected to displacement by muscular action—that of the quadriceps extensor, or perhaps by an * After Fergusaon. t f5t. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 3, 28. Two patellto from the same person- Transvorso fracture in both, separation to the extent of five inches, and connection only by a thin fibrous membrane. Enlargement of all the fragments. Fig. 260.*SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. altered position of the limb. Lirjavientous union usually takes place in transverse fracture; witli rare exceptions, where osseous union may occur, nearly complete contact having been maintained. Union by liga- ment will form even when separation of the fragments extends to°an inch and a half; beyond this distance, thickened aponeurotic fascia serves as the only bond of connection. Thus the fragments may remain severed to an extent of four or five inches, and often become enlarged. (Fig. 270.) Osseous union, apparently, takes place more frequently in longitudinal and in comminuted fractures of the patella,, the fragments remaining in apposition. Hamilton has recorded two such cases: one of longitudinal fracture across one corner of the- patella ; and the other, a transverse fracture near the middle of the patella, with a longitudinal fracture near its inner margin, constituting a comminuted fracture. Sir A. Cooper also succeeded in obtaining bony union in some longitudinal fractures. The proof of this mode of union having occurred in these cases, and in my own experience, has rested on two facts: permanent apposition of the fragments, without any increased separation taking place eventually, as after ligamentous union ; and the absence of any mobility between them. Specimens of bony union, in fracture of the patella, would be more conclusive evi- dence ; and this is supplied by a specimen of such union after trans- verse fracture, marked E. A. (594), in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, Dublin. Incomplete ossific union had taken place in the preparation figured p. G60. Necrosis of the patella may ensue, after transverse fracture with ligamentous union; owing apparently to defi- cient vascular supply to the fragment affected. Treatment.—Position of the limb, so as, by relaxation of the quad- riceps extensor muscle, to bring the fragments into close apposition, is the guiding rule of treatment. The limb should be extended, and flexed on the abdomen, until the fragments would naturally fall into apposition, and this position maintained by a sufiiciently elevated inclined plane on which the limb rests, and which is provided with a foot-piece. Any swelling or distension of the synovial capsule—any synovitis, consequent on the injury, having subsided, aided by an evaporating lotion, the fragments can then be brought into absolute contact. When,, therefore, the swelling has diminished in the course of three or four days, during which period no reparation could have commenced, the fragments may be readily, and painlessly, retained in position by the application of a bandage immediately above and below them, encircling the limb and splint in a slightly figure-of-8 form, and tied together at the sides. This sjalinfc may be furnished with a hook above and be- low the popliteal space, to catch the turns of the bandage, and thus bring further pressure to bear upon the frag- ments. (Fig- 271.) Sometimes the addi- tional security of a compress, or a semilunar cap of gutta-percha, just above the upper fragment may be necessary, with a counter-cap below the lower frag-FRACTURE OF THE PATELLA. 663 ment, just to steady it in position. The bandage should be tigktened daily as the swelling subsides. Broad strips of plaster, overlapping each other, might be used instead of the bandage, but this retentive appliance cannot be tightened v?ithout reapjjlication and disturbance of the fragments. Various other apparatus have been contrived, but they are all alike in principle, and none of them succeed in bringing about union better than the above described. Malgaigne's hoolcs are a contrivance whereby the fragments can be forcibly drawn together, and retained, by steel claws thrust into them, or just above and below them. If there be no risk of penetrating the joint with this instrument, violent synovitis is not unfrequently in- duced. I have never thus used the clamp in my own practice ; but in one case particularly, having been asked by a surgeon to see a frac- tured patella which was subjected to its grasp, I found a huge globular knee, pierced by the claws of the instrument, and surrounded by a gutter of pus. Nor is this instrument necessary, if the position of relaxation be duly observed. Malgaigne, I learn from Mr. W". Adams, has used the hooks in only 14 cases out of a large number of fractured patellfe; exce^jtional cases attended with unusually wide separation of the fragments. The hooks will be found very serviceable, and safe, for fixing the semilunar caps of gutta-percha, instead of being thrust into the bone; my own method of employing this instrument. (Fig. 272.) Comparing the two retentive appliances, it may be fairly said that the bandage in a moderately figure-of-8 form is at least equally effica- cious, and invariably safe; whereas the hooks are unnecessary, and not unfrequently perilous. With the simple, efl&cacious, and safe plan of treatment I have de- scribed, union will be so far secure in a month or six weeks as to allow the patient to move about, guarded by a back splint and starched bandage. It is not advisable to have recourse to this sub- stitute apparatus at an earlier period; simply because the yielding ligamentous union should not be strained by any muscular action in usmg the limb, or the chance of osseous union he frustrated. Even after some six weeks have elapsed, the ligamentous band continues to yield; and in the course of as many months may present an interval between the fragments of several inches, resulting in a tottering movement of the joint forwards, whenever the patient stands or walks. For jiermanent support, I have used with advantage another simple contrivance; a laced elastic knee-cap, having a leathern receptacle to compress the patella. In one case, a gentleman, of powerful muscular development and accustomed to a sporting life, was thus enabled to go about, without any further separation of the fragments.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. C64 This apparatus should be worn until the union has become firm and unyielding, in a period from three to six months. But in thus taking care of the fracture, the tendency to anchylosis of the joint, from inflammatory effusion, must not be overlooked. Hence, passive motion should be used judiciously, in time to prevent this result. The union-results of this mode of treatment—by position and ban- dage-retention—have been, in my own practice at least, most satis- factory. In four cases, selected as having been authenticated by notes carefully taken by Mr. John B. Poster, formerly House Surgeon at the Eoyal Free Hospital, the principal points of interest and im- portance were the following :—(1.) The fracture in all four cases was transverse," and occurred in the left patella. (2.) Three of the frac- tures were caused by miiscular action, the fourth by direct violence. (3.) The ages of the patients were fifty-six, forty-nine, forty, thirty- three. (4.) The periods when union was found to be firm, and the support of a back splint in starch used only as a precaution, were ten weeks, six weeks, eight weeks, six weeks. (5.) The extent of separa- tion between the fragments, originally, and at the end of these periods, was as follows:—Original separation, in all the cases, two inches, slightly more or less. Union-separation : one-fourth of an inch, contact, one-fourth of an inch, one-eighth of an inch. Convpound fracture of the patella rarely occurs alone. It is almost necessarily comminuted, with great injury to the joint; and results from direct violence of severe character, as some crushing force, or gunshot wound. On the other hand, the joint may be opened, but not otherwise injured; as by an incised wound, Avith an axe, hatchet, or other cutting instrument; or by a lacerated or a gunshot wound. Treatment.—Special attention has been given to compound fracture of the patella, with an analysis of 69 cases collected in an elaborate paper, by Mr. Alfred Poland (Med. Chir. Trans., 1870), from which, I think, the following indications of treatment may be safely estab- lished. In compound fracture, tmcomiilicated with fracture of the articular ends of bone forming the knee-joint, i^reservation of the joint, without or with anchylosis, should always be tried, in the .first instance. The wound is to be accurately closed with sutures, and ice applied; in the event of suppuration, free incision must be made, and a drainage tube may be used. The removal of any loose fragments is always advisable; but attached fragments had better be left, to regain adhesion, perchance, or be thrown off during suppuration. Failing to save the joint in a state of useful anchy- losis, excision should be had recourse to, secondarily, that by sacri- ficing the joint the limb may still be preserved. The complication of fracture—when the articular end of the femur or of the tibia, or of both bones, are involved—must be submitted to primary excision of the joint; but extensive crushing of the bones of the joint is the only condition which renders amimtation justifiable; and, of coui'se, it is the only resource, as a secondary operation, whenever excision has failed. Bony union seems to be a not uncommon mode of repair in com- pound fracture of the patella, and especially w^hen comminuted. Besults.—Uhe total number of cases collected by Mr. Poland is 85 ; 69 being compound fractures of the patella alone, nnd the remain- ing 16, complicated with fracture of the other bones in the joint—aFRACTURES OF THE LEG. 665 Fig. 273 * Fig. 274.t distinction not observed by Dr. Gr. Boucbard, of Paris, who bad pre- viously written a valuable paper on tbis injury. Of tbe 69 unco77ipUcated fractures, tbe results were as follow:— In 8 cases of fracture, with incised wound, tbe recoveries were 5 without anchylosis, 1 with complete anchylosis; and the deaths 2, no operation having been performed. In 40 cases, with lacerated wound, the recoveries were 10 without anchylosis, 6 with partial and 11 with complete anchylosis, in 1 tbe condition was uncertain, and 4 were submitted to secondary amputation; tbe deaths were 8 without any operation, and 1 after secondary amputation. In 21 cases, with gunshot wound, the recoveries were 3 without anchy- losis, 3 with partial and 7 with complete anchylosis, in 4 the condition was uncertain, and 1 was submitted to secondary excision; the deaths were I without any operation, and 2 after primary excision, by removal of tbe shattered patella. Of tbe 16 cases of fracture, covi- plicated with fracture of the other bones of the joint, tbe recoveries were 2 without anchylosis, 2 with partial and 2 with complete anchylosis, and 1 was sub- mitted to primary excision, 2 to secondary excision—1 being the removal of a ball from tbe bead of tbe fibula—and 1 underwent primary amputa- tion ; the deaths were 1 with- out any operation, 1 after primary excision, 3 after secondary excision, and 1 after secondary amputation. Thus, in the total number of 85 cases, tbe recoveries were 65 : 20 without anchylosis ; 10 with partial, and 21 with complete anchylosis; in 5 tbe condition was uncertain; after excision, primary, 1; secon- dary, 3; after amputation, primary, 1; secondary, 4. The deaths were 20 : 12 without any operation; after excision, primary, 3; secondary, 3 ; after amputa- tion, secondary, 2. The total relative mortality was less than 1 in 4, Feactuebs of the Leg.—(1.) Peactuee of the Tibia and Pibula, oe of eithbe Bone singly.— Structural Conditions.—(Pig- 273.) The direction of fracture is usually transverse in the upper part of these bones, especially the tibia (Pig. 274); or it may be comminuted, and extend into the * Fractures of Tibia and Fibula.—Diagi-am sbowing situations and lines of frac- ture; chiefly from specimens in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.— Tibia.—1. Head, comminuted into knee-joint (St. George's Mus., 1, 199). 2. Below head (Univ. Coll. Mus., 255). 3. Upper third. 4. Middle third. 5. Lower third, and below head of fibula. G. Above ankle-joint, and the .same in fibula. 7. Internal malleolus, and lower end of fibula, or Pott's fracture. 8. Lower end of tibia, into ankle-joint (St. Bart. Mus., C. 22). Fibula.—5,0, 7, as in tibia. (Author ) t Univ. Coll. Mus., 255.666 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEKY. knee-joint (Fig. 275) ; in tho middle or lower part, the fracture is commonly oblique (Fig. 276), or transverse; or perhaps less frequently comminuted. These differences „_„ , Fig. 275.* are dependent on the causes of A'if>-276.t fracture, above and below. Dis- jdacement varies with the line of fracture. Angular displacement occurs with transverse fracture, \<t^'^^i the ends of bone remaining, partly at least, in contact. This dis- placement is produced by the flexor muscles of the calf drawing the bones backwards, aided by the weight of the leg, and per- haps the tilting forwards of the ends of the upper fragments by the quadriceps extensor, inserted into the tubercle of the tibia. Longitudinal displacement, with J \ the oblique fracture, is produced by the muscles of the calf drawing lower fragments backwards and upwards, as in the specimen figured. Rotatory dis- placement of the lower fragments may be occasioned by inversion or eversion of the foot. Fracture of the tibia or fibula, singly, is attended with less displacement; either bone acting as a splint to the other, and especially the massive tibia in rela- tion to the fibula. Signs.—The signs with fracture of both bones are most marked. Deformity is presented corresponding with displacement; an angular jDrojection forwards will be observed in transverse fracture, high up ; a depression on the subcutaneous surface of the tibia, in oblique fracture, lower down. Mobility and crepitus are easily produced on handling the fragments ; and the outline of the leg is seen to be altered, the shafts of the bones above and below the seat of fracture form- ing an angle; with some shortening also in oblique fracture. Pain, as in other fractures, is occasioned by any movement, and marked powerless- ness of the limb cannot be overlooked; the leg can be moved about loosely as a flail below the fracture, and lies helpless in any position in which it is placed. Fracture of the tibia or fibula, singly, is attended with the same signs, but less pronounced than in the case of both bones; the sound bone supporting the fractured bone. Fi'acture of the tihia presents the more obvious signs. On tracing down the bone, some irregularity will be discovered, and some mobility and crepitus of the fragments may be elicited. Fracture of the fibula in its upper two-thu-ds is obscured by * St. George's Hospital Museum, 1, 199.—Comminuted fracture of the head of the tibia, into the knee-joint. Bony union has partially taken place between the contiguous margins of the fragments, one of which is wanting. This extensive injury was produced by direct violence, in the person of a drayman, whose knee was jammed between a lamp-post and the wheel of his cart. Death ensued from suppuration and hsamorrhago. t St. Bartholomew's Hospital Mus., C. 110.rRACTURES OF THE LEG. * St. Bartholomew's Hospital Mus., C. 97. 6G7 tlie peroneal mnscles, wliicli overlay tlie bone in this portion of its extent. By following- the fibula with the finger, frona below upwards, the signs of fracture may be rendered perceptible. Causes.—Direct violence seems to be the only cause of fracture of these bones in their upper part. Any crushing compression, as by a wheel passing over the leg, or the jam between the buffers of railway carriages, may thus be the occasion of fracture; both bones being broken at the same height, and transversely or comminuted. Gunshot injury acts in like manner. Indirect violence is, probably, the more common cause of fracture lower down. A fall or leap from a height, the person alighting on his feet, breaks the tibia obliquely; and the fibula next sustaining the shock, gives way. Fracture thus seldom occurs at the same height in both bones ; either bone yields at its weakest point—the tibia about the junc- Fig. 277.* tion of its lower third, the fibula near its upper end. (See Fig. 273.) Union by bone usually takes place in about six weeks or two months; in fracture of the fibula, a shorter period, three or four weeks. Some deformity, from over-lapping and shortening, to about half an inch in extent, is apt to result, in perhaps not less than half any number of cases when carefully examined. Commonly, the upper fragment overrides the lower, and—observes Hamilton—oftener a little upon the inner than upon the outer side. The natural axis of the limb is not unfrequently changed; the lower part having fallen backwards, or inclining in- wards, occasionally outwards (see Fig. 276), or forwards. In the result here represented (Fig. 277), angular displacement inwards has taken place to an extent which shows the extreme deformity that may occur from inattention in the course of treatment. Treatment.—The fragments having been brought into apposition by moderate extension, aided by suf- ficient flexion of the knee, and of the thigh on the abdomen, the leg may be laid in Mclntyre's double- inclined plane splint, properly padded, or that ap- paratus as modified by Listen. (Fig. 278.) This position of the limb overcomes displacement of the upper and lower fragments, as arising from muscular action; but displacement of the lower fragment, owing to any dropping of the leg, is still further counteracted by supporting the foot in a short sock with a tape attached to the toe, which is wound round a brass button over the end of the foot-piece of the splint. A roller is then applied around the foot and this portion of the splint to maintain extension, and continued around the leg and splint, upwards to the lower part of the thigh, or interrupted, if the fracture be compound. Mclntyre's double-inclined plane may be fixed by screwing the end to a vertical iron support, and which is attached to a flat board, itself placed underneath the mattress of the bed on which the patient lies. A cradle is placed over the leg to raise the bed-clothes. A more comfortable arrangement, and equally efficacious, in relation to the union of fracture, is to suspend and swing the limb668 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. in a case of tin or wood, Becured by cross straps ; the limb being sus- pended by a chain from two pulley-wheels which run upon a horizontal Fig. 278. Fig. 279. bar, supported by a light iron frame. Such is Salter's cradle-swing apparatus. (Fig. 279.) A double motion is thus allowed: a lateral swing, for ease of position to the body; and a motion in the axis of the limb, for the prevention of longitu- dinal displacement of the fragments, by any down- ward shift of position telling in that direction. Various other apparatus have been designed for the adjustment of fractures of the leg. A fracture-box, consisting of three splints— a leg-rest with foot-piece, and two supporting side- pieces—may be used and swung in like manner. Or, the limb having been flexed, and the fracture reduced, a well-padded external splint, corresponding in shape to this attitude, is applied; the splint extending from just above the knee, and having a side foot-piece; a short splint is placed on the inner side of the leg, reaching from the bend of the knee to just above the inner malleolus ; the whole is then secured by a roller-bandage, and the limb laid on its outer side, with the body also inclining to that side. This method of treatment was originated by Pott, and it is strongly advo- cated by Hamilton; for the alleged reasons, that displacement, with ultimate deformity, is thereby prevented—particularly as resulting from an inclination of the lower part of the leg,backwards—and thus also a tendency to ulcei-ation of the heel. But I have never expei'ienced any difficulty or unsatisfactory result, which could be fairly attributed to Mclntyre's splint, in the treatment of ordinary fractures of the leg; and the results have been, in many cases, most satisfactory,—no deformity being perceptible to the eye, nor could any in-egularity be felt on passing the finger along the tibia. The wire side-splints— devised by Bauer—form a very simple and efficient apparatus, padded with cotton wadding. They can be readily adapted to the form of the leg, and thus keep the fragments well adjusted. But I would recom- mend the additional prolongation of both splints around the sole of the foot, forming a foot-piece. (Fig. 280.) A roller-bandage, carried upFEACTURES OF THE LEG. 660 tlie leo-, will secure the whole in position. Fracture, very oblique, or commintited, may occasion some difficulty as to the retention of the frao-ments in apposition. It is here that division of the tendo-Achillis —Laugier's proposal—seems a justifiable procedure, with the view of correcting the displacement arising from muscular contraction. This resource certainly proved effectual in one case under my care, where the tibia was broken just above the ankle-joint, attended with marked retraction of the foot, and threatened protrusion of the upper end of the fracture. Erichsen divided the tendon, apparently with less success, in two cases. (2.) Fbactures of the Lower Ends of the Tibia and Eibula, or of EITHER Bone Singly.—Structural Gonditions.—Five forms of fracture Fig. 281.* Fig. 2S2.t are liable to occur near the ankle-joint:—(1) fracture of the articular end of the tibia, obliquely from without downwards and inwards ; and of the fibula about three inches above the ankle (Fig. 281); (2) fracture of the fibula about three inches above the ankle, Avith the tip of the internal malleolus of the tibia, this double fracture constituting Pott's Fracture, a very common form (Fig. 282) ; (3) fracture of the fibula two to three inches above the external malleolus, with rupture of the internal lateral or deltoid ligament; (4) fracture of the internal mal- leolus of the tibia; (5) fracture involving the ankle-joint. (Fig. 283.) Displacement in these fractures varies: in fracture of the Tibia and Fibula, the upper fragment of the Tibia usually projects inwards, * St. Bartholomew's Hospital Mnsoum, C. 18. t Ibid. C. 137. X Ibid. C. 22.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 670 and botli fragments of the Fibula also in that direction ; in fractures of the Fibula and Tibia, or of tbe Fibula alone, tbe same displacement of its fragments occurs—i.e., inwards towards the tibia; in fracture of tbe internal malleolus of the Tibia, displacement of this fragment is still inwards. Dislocation takes place, not unfrequently, in connection with each of these fractures, and with that in particular of the inner malleolus alone ; which, I believe, seldom happens without, and from, dislocation of the tibia outwards. Eespecting fractures of the fibula, Hamilton writes: " In all the fractures which have been produced by falls on the bottom of the foot, and in all except one produced by a slip of the foot, the accident was accompanied with a dislocation of the ankle ; the foot being turned outwards." The exceptional case was doubtful. Signs.—Deformity is presented, corresponding to the displacement of one or both fragments, with, perhaps, dislocation; and mobility vsdth crepitus, discovered on handling the part. Fracture of the articular end of the tibia obliquely, and of the fibula, produces a notably increased breadth of the ankle-joint, between the malleoli, with some eversion of the foot, and obliquity of its axis, the toes being turned outwards and the heel inwards. Fracture of the lower end of the fibula, and of the internal mal- leolus, or Pott's fracture, is accompanied with a very notable eversion of the foot ; the sole being turned somewhat upwards as well as out- wards, so that the outer edge is directed upwards, and the inner side downwards, on which the patient rests. Thus, Sir A. Cooper, de- scribing his own case, observes: " I broke my right fibula by falling on my right side, whilst my right foot was confined between two pieces of ice; and I could with difficulty support myself to a neighbouring house by bearing on the inner side of the foot." Causes.—Indirect violence is certainly the more common cause of these Fractures; either by a fall or jump from a height, breaking the tibia, and fibula secondarily; or by violent eversion or inversion of the foot, breaking the fibula, with the internal malleolus, or rupturing the deltoid ligament; or snapping off the inner malleolus alone. The relative frequency of the two latter modes of indirect force has been doubted; most surgical authorities regarding violent eversion as the more frequent; but Dupuytren found inversion to be the ordinary occasion of fracture. Thus, in 200 cases of broken fibula, 120 were produced by inversion or twisting the foot inwards, and GO only by eversion or rolling of the foot outwards; the remaining 20 arising from direct violence applied to the bone itself. Union of fracture—not involving the ankle-joint—takes place readily; and without any appreciable displacement, under proper management and supervision. Treatment.—In all these Fractures, Mclntyre's double-inclined plane splint, or Liston's modification of that appai-atus, will be found a most efficient means of retaining the fragments in position ; and the more so proportionately to their mobility. The trough in which the leg rests steadies the upper fragments ; the foot-piece counteracts any tendency to twisting of the foot inwards or outwards; and the sock supports the heel. Any mai'ked tendency to eversion of the foot, as in Pott's fracture, may be more effectually restrained by Dupuytren's splint: a short,671 FBACTURES OP THE LEG. straight splint applied to the inner side of the leg, from the knee to the foot. (Pig. 284.) The pad should be doubled just opposite the inner malleolus, and a roller wound round the foot and splint in a figure-of-8 form, thereby drawing the foot inwards over the thick pad as a fulcrum, Fig. 284. Fig. 285.' and the roller is then continued upwards to the knee to steady the splint. Some tendency to anchylosis of the ankle-joint must be met by timely recourse to passive motion, and relapsing swelhng may require the support of a bandage for a considerable period. Compound Fractures of the Leg, and of the Anlcle-joint.—In the former situation, compound fracture of the Tibia and Fibula, or of the Tibia alone, happens more frequently than similar injury of any other bone. It was, therefore, selected as the typical form of such Injuries in describing Compound Fracture generally. (Ch. XXXI.) Its Pathology and Treatment are there considered. In relation to the anJcle-joint, compound fracture presents no differences of practical importance. The same considerations guide as to the preservation of the limb, excision, and amputation. Fractures of the Tarsal, Metatarsal Bones, and Toes.—These bones are liable to both Simple and Compound Fractures, and with the usual signs of such injuries. The Astragalus is very seldom frac- tured, -without fracture of other tarsal bones. The line of fracture may be transverse, orj longitudinal, or perhaps horizontal (Pig. 285), sometimes attended with comminution; and with, or without, impaction of the fragments. Usually, the injury is complicated with dislocation of the foot outwards, or inwards, and with fracture of the fibula. Generally also, the dislocation is compound. The signs will be some crepitation and mobility of the fragments on flexing and extending the foot, backwards and forwards; but there * St. George's Hospital Mus., 1, 247. Fracture of the astragahis, separating the siiperior third from the remainder of the boue. The lower fragment is partially- dislocated. All the ligaments of the aukle-joint are torn, excepting the internal lateral, Avhich is attaclied to the periosteum, as the only connection between tho bones of the leg and tho foot. This rare fracture was caused by direct violence an omnibus wheel passing over tho foot. Amputation, and recovery ("See also "Brit. Med. Journal" (18G2), part i. p. 328.) In anotlier case, Avitli fracture of the astragalus, the foot, and therefore the os calcis, was di.slocated backwards and inwards, with some rotation. (St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., B. 29.)072 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. t St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 0, 12G. may be no displacement—the bone being held in position betwixt tlie malleolar arch and the calcaneum, although sometimes the upper- fragment is driven up and wedged between the ends of the tibia and fibula. As accompanied with dislocation, the additional signs of that injury will of course bo presented. Causes.—Indirect violence seems to be the more common cause of fracture through the astragalus; in 10 cases collected by Dr. B. Monahan, 9 occurred by a fall from a height on the feet, 1 only from direct force, crushing the foot. Treatment must be guided by the amount of injury. Thus, the reduction of displacement can sometimes be accomplished, and then maintained in a Mclntyre's splint; but excision of a displaced frag- ment Avill be necessary, Avhen it cannot be reduced and kept in position;, and amputation of the foot is the only resource of treatment for a crushing injury. Compound fracture of the astragalus, with perhaps protrusion of a displaced fragment, may be produced, partly by the displacement, but principally by the violence of the injury. This condition of fracture generally admits only of amputation. Fo-achire of the as calcis presents particulars worthy of notice. The bone is broken transversely, or comminuted occasionally, with perhaps impaction; and the line of fracture may be Fig. 286.* either heJdncl the lateral ligaments, or thi^ough the hody of the bone. (Fig. 286.) In the former situation, there will be some displace- ment, the posterior fragment being drawn up- wards by the muscles of the calf; in the latter situation, this fragment is retained in position by the lateral ligaments and the strong inter- osseous ligament. The Signs of this fracture vary accordingly. Marked flattening of the heel on its plantar aspect, or even a depression upwards, and projection of the fragment posteriorly, with mobility and crepitus, denote fracture behind the lateral ligaments; of which injury I have had one well-marked case. Comparative absence of these signs, and particularly of the deformity of the heel, denotes fracture more anteriorly, or that across the body of the bone. Causes.—Direct violence is, probably, the only cause of fracture; as by a fall from a height, the person alighting on his heels, or by a cart-wheel passing over and crushing the foot. Yery rarely, the os calcis may be broken transversely, by the powerful action of the muscles of the calf, in jumping or falling on the toes. Twelve such cases are recorded; 8 having been collected by Malgaigne, 2 by South in Chelius's Surgery, and 2 by B. Cooper in his edition of Sir A. Cooper's work. Treatment consists, as usual, in the adjustment of the fragments, with relaxation of any opposing muscular action; and their retention in position. A gutta-percha or pasteboard splint must be contrived according to the fracture ; and, when necessary to place the leg in the- flexed attitude, with the heel drawn up, this position may be maintained673 OSTITIS, OR INFLAMBIATION OF BONE. by the apparatus used for rupture o£ the tendo-Acliillis. Or, the tenclency to displacement and the more severe contusion may require the support of a Mclntyre's splint, used as a double-inclined plane. In this, and other fractures of the tarsal bones, passive motion should be employed in time to prevent anchylosis. Compoioncl fracture generally allows only of excision or amputation. But—as in regard to the hand—the removal of any portion of the foot should be guided by great circumspection and judgment; having due regard to the extent of the injured part, and the preservation of this valuable member. CHAPTEE XXXIII. DISEASES OP BONE. Inflammatiok OF Bone. Bone, or the Osseoits Ussue, with its investing Periosteum, and the jEn- dosteum or Medidlary Menibrane of long bones, are, severally, subject to Inflammation. But the pathology of Inflammation as affecting each of these structures is intimately associated, and they are commonly affected simultaneously, or consequently. It will, therefore, be more natural to describe in order, first, the structural alterations pertaining to Ostitis, Periostitis, and Endostitis, and then their diagnostic characters, causes, consequences, and treatment. (1.) Ostitis, or Inflammation op Bone.—The cellulo-fibrous net- work—the organic basis of the lamell93 in the compact and cancel- lated structure of Bone, with the vascular network ramifying in the Haversian canals and cancelli, is alone the seat of inflammation; the inorganic matter, superadded to the fibrous network in the process of ossification, not being subject to any perversion of nutrition or other vital change. The blood-vessels become enlarged—as shown by Yon Bibra— giving an injected red appearance to the portion of bone undergoing inflammation; and the fibrous matrix, probably, passes into a state of fatty transformation, as in inflammation of most other textures. The inorganic or earthy matter undergoes merely a disintegrative separa- tion from the fibrous matrix with which it was intimately connected, but retains its chemical composition, and is then absorbed. Such are the earliest structural and chemical alterations in the inflammation of bone. A change of consistence—softening—accompanies this fatty liquefaction of the organic matrix and unloosening of the inorganic matter. But the Haversian canals, lacunte, and canaliculi soon become the seat of disintegration and absorption, whereby these natural cavities are rendered more conspicuous under the microscope; or, opening into neighbouring cavities, irregular spaces are formed. The compact structure thus acquires a rarefied or porous character, present- ing the appearance of cancelli; while the cancellated portion is exag- gerated, as in the neighbourhood of necrosis, or death of bone, when 2x674 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 287* consequent on inflammation. (Pig. 287.) Within these spaces the fatty matter and earthy salts—detritus of the osseous tissue—accutnu- late; and the products also of inflammation are deposited. They con- sist of plastic lymph and exuda- tion-matter, or pus ; the one kind I'ig. 288.t of deposit resulting in induration and hypertrophy of the bone (Fig. 288), the other in increased softening and disorganization. The description of these changes belongs to the conse- quences of Ostitis. Scrofulous ostitis structurally resembles simple inflammation of . bone ; the osseous substance be- I ing disintegrated and absorbed. Thence the bone is light, soft, and oily. But the rarefied cancelli or spaces in the compact texture are filled with peculiar products; a red jelly-like matter, or occasionally, a deposit of tubercle. The former is always diffused. The accompanying chemical changes—according to Dr. Black's analyses—consist in a considerable increase of fat in the diseased bone, a large diminution of the salts of lime, a diminution of the organic matrix, and an increase of the soluble salts. Associated with these destructive alterations, minute projections of bone from the walls of the cancelli evince an attempt at osseous reproduction, thus corresponding to the induration or sclerosis which results from simple inflammation of bone. Tubercle in bone may be either diffused or circumscribed; the latter form being comparatively rare. Diffused tubercle occurs commonly in the shaft of long bones. It occupies the cancelli, and appears as a nodulated, or granular, yellowish mass of soft consistence; extending frequently along the whole length of the shaft. Circumscribed tubercle is deposited most frequently on the outside of the skull, beneath the periosteum, constituting the strumous node ; and scarcely less frequently, in the cancelli of the articular end of a long bone, usually the tibia. Tubercle in bone sometimes becomes actually encysted; as well as in the lungs, in which organs I have seen cretaceous tubercle enclosed in a distinct cyst. Tubercular deposit, in either form, is prone to undergo softening; the diffused, it is said, passing into this state, less frequently and rapidly than the circumscribed. This change is always one of serious consequence. The softening of tubercular deposit induces, or is attended with, inflammation of the surrounding bone, and suppuration. An abscess thence results, and the bone around becomes condensed aiid indurated. Or Caries and Necrosis ensue, destroying the osseous * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 1, 132. Necrosis of wall of femur, near the lesser trochanter, with rarefaction of the cancellous structua-e between it and the great trochanter. t Ibid. A. 3.675 PERIOSTITIS AND ENDOSTITIS. Fig. 290.t texture. Thus, softened tubercle, a curdy, unliealtliy pus, and carious or necrosed portions of bone are commonly found associated and intermixed. The matter extending, may sometimes find its way to the surface; and a chronic abscess, communicating with the bone, remain, discharging, or with little disposition to heal. Or, the matter may find its way to a neighbouring joint, destroying the * articulation. But the comparatively limited localization of tubercle diminishes the perilous results of these destruc- tive changes. If the shaft of a long bone be affected, the articular ends are, generally, free; and if either end of the bone be the seat of tuberculous deposit, the shaft escapes. Syphilitic ostitis does not seem to be distinguished from simple inflammation of bone by any structural differences of practical importance. (2.) Peeiostitis.—Inflammation of the periosteum is usually connected with that of the bone itself—ostitis. The periosteal membrane becomes more vascular, thickened, softened, and loosened from its connection with the sub- jacent bone. These alterations may be seen, sometimes, in the bone of a stump, after amputation. Subsequently, an osseous deposit may take place between the periosteum and bone, with some enlargement and induration of that portion of bone, constituting a JiocZe. (Fig. 289.) A syphilitic node, which may be regarded as the type, arises from an effusion of lymph between the periosteum and bone; and proceeding from the former, at length involves the bone. A strumous node, on the other hand, consists of scrofulous matter between the periosteum and bone, in consequence of a carious state of that portion of bone. Suppuration will be noticed as a consequence of Periostitis. (3.) Endostitis.—Inflammation of the endos- teum, or membrane lining the medullary canal and cancelli, is, probably, of less frequent occurrence. This membrane, however, undergoes analogous changes to those of the periosteum, when inflamed —increased vascularity, and thickening. A deposit of lymph or pus ensues, in consequence of endostitis. (Fig. 290.) The section of a tibia, in this illustra- tion of endostitis, shows not only that suppuration has taken place in the medullary canal and adjoin- ing cancellous tissue, but also that the latter structure has become consolidated, in parts, by the production of new bone; thus corresponding to the result of ostitis, which has also occurred, as shown by the great thickness of the walls of the bone. Signs.—Ostitis, affecting the deeper portion of the substance of a bone, is unattended with any appreciable signs, in the first instance. A deep- seated wearing pain generally precedes any altera- * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., A. 23. f ibid. 1, 131. i mSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. 676 tion of external appearance. This pain is more severe at night, and aggravated by changes of weather ; thus resembling rheumatic pain, for which it may be mistaken. Enlargement of the bone at length becomes perceptible; with, perhaps, some redness, cedematous swelling, and tenderness of the integument. This swollen state of the integument renders any enlargement of the bone more apparent than real. Soften- ing of the bone, in some portion of its substance, may eventually be de- tected on pressure; but the diagnosis will be sufficiently obvious, Avithont subjecting the patient to the pain of such examination. Inflammatory fever, of varying intensity, accompanies these local symptoms. Scrofulous ostitis is attended with more considerable enlargement of the bone, and of an indolent character. The surrounding integuments are cedematous, white, and painless; becoming somewhat red and tender, as suppuration supervenes. The concomitant symptoms of scrofula will also determine the diagnosis. Syphilitic ostitis must be diagnosed entirely by the concurrence of present and past symptoms of Syphilis. Periostitis.—The symptoms are similar to those of ostitis, but more simultaneous and superficial. A painful, puffy swelling is presented, the pain subject to exacerbations, and the swelling acquiring a bony hardness. These diagnostic characters are well illustrated by an. ordinary syphilitic node in a subcutaneous bone, as the shin. Endostitis is not characterized by any peculiar symptoms, apart from those of Ostitis. Like the inflammation of other parts, ostitis and periostitis may be distinguished as acute or chronic, according to the more or less severe character of the symptoms, and their duration. In the latter or chronic state of osteal or periosteal inflammation, the patient, worn down by long-continued pain and sleeplessness, presents the consti- tutional symptoms of hectic. Variety of Clhronic Ostitis—" Osteitis Deformans."—Under this title. Sir James Paget has described an hypertrophy and softening of the bones, as the result apparently of chronic inflammatory change ; and the chief characters of which disease are best expressed in his own abstract of the original communication to the Royal Medical and Chirui-gical Society (1877):—This form of chronic ostitis " begins in middle age or later, is very slow in progress, may continue for many years without influence on the general health, and give no other trouble than those which are due to the changes of shape, size, and direction of the diseased bones. Even when the skull is hugely thickened, and all its bones exceedingly altered in structure, the mind remains unaffected. " The disease affects most frequently the long bones of the lower extremities and the skull, and is usually symmetrical. The bones enlarge and soften, and those bearing weight yield and become un- naturally curved and misshapen, suggesting the proposed name ' osteitis deformans.' (Fig. 291.) " The spine, whether by yielding to the weight of the overgrowTi skull or by change in its own structures, may sink and seem to shorten, with greatly increased dorsal and lumbar curves; the pelvis may become wide ; the necks of the femora may become nearly horizontal. But the limbs, however misshapen, remain strong and fit to support the trunk.677 OSTEITIS DEFOEMANS. " In its earlier periods, and sometimes tlirough all its course, the disease is attended with pains in the affected bones, pains widely- various in severity and variously described as rheu- matic, gouty, or neuralgic, not especially nocturnal or periodical. It is not attended with fever. No characteristic conditions of urine or f ^ces have been found in it. It is not associated with any consti- tutional disease, nnless it be cancer. "Thebones examined after death show the con- sequences of an inflammation afEecting, in the skull, the whole thickness, in the long bones chiefly the compact structure of their walls, and not only the walls of their shafts, but in a very characteristic manner those of their articular surfaces. " The changes of structure produ.ced in the earliest periods of the disease have not yet been observed ; but it may be believed that they are in- flammatory, for the softening is associated with enlargement, with excessive production of imper- fectly developed structures, and with increased blood-supply. "Whether inflammation, in any degree, continues to the last, or whether, after many years of progress, any reparative changes ensue, after the manner of a so-called consecutive hardening, is nncertain." Causes.—Inflammation of bone usually results from external violence or from exposure to cold or damp; but it arises under the influence of some predisposing constitutional condition of disease. These predisposing causes comprise secondary or constitutional syphi- lis, or the excessive influence of mercury—of rare occurrence now-a- days ; the scrofulous taint; rheumatism; fevers; and probably other conditions affecting nutrition. Either class of canses—the traumatic or the constitutional—may be alone sufficient to induce osseous in- flammation. The bones most liable to inflammation are, however, those most exposed to the action of external agents. Hence, the tibia, cranium, and especially the frontal bone, the clavicle, sternum, ribs, and bones of the foot and hand, are most commonly affected. Consequences.—The consequences of inflammation of bone have been incidentally noticed in describing its structural conditions, and. particularly in connection with scrofulous ostitis. They may now be more definitely stated as follow:—(1.) Absorption and rarefaction of the bone having taken place, the osseous texture may be found in this state, before the supervention of much deposit—representing the osteoporosis of Rokitansky, or a form of atropliy as affecting bone. (See Fig. 287.) (2.) Induration, or sclerosis, having taken place, an increasing deposition of plastic lymph and its ossification results in considerable thickening of the substance of the bone (see Pig. 288) and perhaps iiregular osseous deposit on its free surfaces. (Kg. 292.) Thus, a long bone becomes thickened in the diameter or substance of its shaft, and deposition proceeding within the medullary canal, its bore is narrowed; while periosteal deposit, and perhaps osseous out- * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., A. 183. Sections of Tibia and Patella.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 678 * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 1, 375. Fig. 292.* growth, at the same time enlarge the circumference of the bone—as in the analogous production of external callus, occasionally, during frac- ture-union. Elongation of a long bone is, sometimes, consequent on its inflammation. The tibia has thus be- come longer than its fellow by nearly two inches. The osseous substance, resulting from inflammatoiy indura- tion, is more solid, heavier, and harder than that of healthy bone, increasing even to the consistence of ivory; and the nutritious foramina are said to be in- creased in size. This state of hyijertrojjhy corresponds to the inflammatory solidification of parenchymatous organs. But, as regards bone, it is a termination by restoration to health, or something beyond the natural condition of healthy bone. (3.) SiqJiJuration oi hone— another consequence of inflammation, of an opposite character to induration—merits a separate notice ; also Caries, or ulceration of bone; and Necrosis, which is analogous to sloughing or mortification of the soft textures. Treatment.—In traumatic and a.cute inflammation of bone—whether in the form of Ostitis or Periostitis —the ordinary remedial measures for inflammation will usually suflice. Warm fomentations, leeches, and rest, with the administration of calomel and opium, are appropriate. Billroth strongly recommends iodine paint applied to the whole limb, continued until large vesicles form, and renewed when this vesication disappears. In constitiitional and chronic inflammation this treatment must be supplemented, or partly superseded, by the general treatment for secondary syphilitic affections, scrofula, or rheumatism. Iodide of potassium is thus often singularly efficacious in syj)hilitic or rheu- matic ostitis or j^eriostitis. Tension and insupportable pain are more readily and permanently relieved by free incisions, than by any medicinal treatment. In peri- osteal tension, these incisions should be made down to the bone; in tension resulting from ostitis, an incision may be prolonged, by means of a Hey's saw, through the bone, down to the medullary canal. Trephining the bone has been resorted to for the relief of osseous tension. Chronic thickening, unattended with much pain, may be re- moved or lessened by the application of blisters, iodine and mercurial ointments. SuppuEATiON OP Bone.—Suppuration, in connection with bone, is liable to take place in either of the three situations described with reference to inflammation, and it may be either diffused or circum- scribed ; these conditions being also, less definitely, acute or chronic suppuration, respectively. Thus we recognize—(1) Osteo-myelitis, diffuse suppuration of bone, within the meclullarij canal and cancelli; (2) Diffuse Periostitis, and Periosteal Abscess; and (3) Circumscribed abscess of Bone, within either the cancellated or compact structure. (1.) Osteo-myelitis.—This condition certainly occurs, and not un- frequently; but—as Mr. Holmes observes—it is less frequently recog- nized at the bedside than in post-mortem examinations. The results are disintegration of the cancellated structure (Fig. 293), and diffuse679 SUPPUKATION OF BONE. Fig. 291.t 1; suiDpuration, the cancelli being found loaded witla pus, wliile tlie medul- lary membrane is usually injected and often sprinkled with ecchymoses; the periosteum is often partly separated from the bone, but the compact osseous texture has not generally undergone any appreciable change. (Pig. 294.) In the typical specimen here represented, the section of a tibia, from a boy eighteen years of age, exhibits the effects of acute inflammation both in its medullary canal and in the periosteum. Lymph and pus are abundantly deposited in the cancellous tissue throughout its whole extent. Irregular ulcera- tions have extended through either end of the bone, and articular car- tilasfe into the knee and ankle- joints; suppuration has also taken place between the epiphyses and the shaft of the bone. The perios- teum, separated from the shaft in nearly its whole length, is very vascular, thick, pulpy, and velvety on its inner surface. At this stage, in the larger bones, the disease usually terminates fatally. Other- wise, the pus may penetrate into adjoining parts, probably into the nearest joint, as in the case de- scribed ; or central necrosis may ensue. In young persons, suppuration is apt to extend to the epiphysis, as in the knee-joint; affectiug the end of the femur, or the head of the tibia, as one or other bone is the seat of myelitis. The epiphysis becomes detached from the shaft. Sometimes both epiphyses, upper and lower, are involved, Bilboth having seen a double separation occur once in the tibia. The Signs—during life—are neither absolute nor _ obvious. Separation of the periosteum, with diffused pain in the bone, and diffuse inflammation of the integuments, equally the symptoms of osteo-myelitis and of diffuse periostitis, absence of effusion between the periosteum and bone is distinctive of osteo-myelitis; but this condition can scarcely be determined by external examination of the bone, and is often rendered more obscure by the superimposed oedematous swelling. With detachment of the epiphysis, there is mobility of the part, as in fracture; and dislocation may be produced by muscular action. The cause is usually some injury implicating the medullary mem- brane and cancellated structure of the bone affected. Thus, osteo- myelitis not unfrequently follows compound and comminuted fractures, gunshot wounds, amputations, and other operations exposing the medullary canal. It runs a rapid course, is commonly succeeded by pyoemic infection, and thence terminates fatally. Treatment.—Preventive measures afford the only reasonable chance of anticipating this issue; the cure of pyajmia being beyond the reach * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 1, 4. Drawing, f Ibid. 1, 195. are AnSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 680 of any known remedial agents. The ambiguous symptoms of diffused pain in a bone, with perhaps some oedematous swelling, will therefore warrant the Surgeon in ascertaining the state of the periosteum, to determine the diagnosis. Under these circumstances, an early, free incision should bo made down to the bone. If the periosteum is discovered to be separating, without any notable effusion between it and the bone, it will be justifiable to treiildne the bone, with the view of giving exit to any matter which may have formed in the deeper cancellated structure. Excision of the affected portion of bone, or amputation of the limb, must be had recourse to, as more extreme measures. (2.) Diffuse Periostitis.—This diseased condition is of rather frequent occurrence; but it has hitherto been less noticed in surgical works than its importance demands. Diffuse Periostitis—accord- ing to Mr. Holmes' observations—appears to consist in the partial separation of the periosteum from the bone ; by effusion of lymph or other products on the surface of the latter. Copious suppuration soon spreads along the bone, detaching the periosteum, often from one end of the bone to the other. (Fig. 295.) At an early period, neither the periosteum nor the surface of the bone is visibly inflamed. The latter, indeed, may look white and bloodless, or sometimes slightly worm-eaten; it yields, on pres- sure, large drops of blood from the periosteal vessels passing into it, and its superficial layers are more readily separable from the deeper osseous texture, than in health. Necrosis is soon established, the whole diaphysis of the bone usually perishing ; leaving the articular ends unaffected, and therefore not involving the neighbouring joint. Sometimes it does not escape. The long bones are more often affected than the flat or irregular bones ; and, in the great majority of cases, the femur or the tibia. Signs.—Arising insidiously, an oedematous, painful swelling is presented—diffuse cellular inflammation—resembling acute rheu- matism. But, suppuration soon following, the diagnosis is at once determined. The causes would seem to be some injury to the bone, occurring, however, in a scrofulous or weakly person. The disease is said to be met with more commonly about the age of puberty, and in boys more often than in girls. It rapidly runs its course; pyaemia frequently supervenes and proves fatal; or the matter burrowing among the muscles, forms numerous fistulous openings, exposing necrosed bone. The dead portion is detached much sooner, apparently, than in ordinary necrosis; and reparation also seems to be equally active. Treatment.—Early and free incisions are here, also, primarily important. During the process of cicatrization, injections of very dilute hydrochloric acid may be used, as highly recommended by Chassaignac, to cleanse the suppurating cavity and hasten exfoliation * St. George's Hosp. Mus. Diffuse periostitis of the Tibia, Avith necrosis and detachment of the lower epiphysis.SUPPURATION OF BONE. 681 of the dead bone. A generally stimulating and tonic plan of treat- ment will be required to support life tbrougb this trying ordeal. Ohronic periosteal abscess remaining, requires no special treatment. (3.) Circumscrihed Abscess of Bone.—Always a chronic condition, this state of suppuration differs also from diffused suppui-ation, in its limited extent, and in being distinctly circumsci-ibed. The abscess, thus defined, is seated within the substance of a bone, usually its cancellated structure; the cavity may be lined by a dis- tinct pyogenic membrane—of which there is a rare specimen in the Museum of St. Bar- tholomew's Hospital—and the surrounding bone is more vascular than ■ natural, and much indurated. The size of this cavity is never large, probably not exceeding that of a small chestnut, and contain- ing two or three drachms of pus, greenish yellow or dark coloured. Always situated in one of the long bones, the abscess is com- monly located in its upper or lower articular extremity, and very rarely within the medullary canal of the shaft. The tibia is most frequently affected, and its upper end near the knee-joint (Fig. 296); its lower end near the inner malleolus, next in order of frequency; and among other bones, the lower end of the humerus near the elbow, and the femur, have severally been found the seat of circumscribed abscess. Sir B. Brodie first discovered and described this abscess, and pointed out its appropriate treatment; since the time of his observations, it has occasionally been met with by other Surgeons; and recently, Mr. T. Carr Jackson contributed an instructive paper with three cases bearing on the subject. In contrast with abscess of bone, a central cavity may result from atrophy; the osseous texture around being rarefied, instead of having indu- rated by interstitial deposit, and with expansion of the bone. Such was the case in the bone of a stump, after amputation (Fig. 297) ; a most in- structive illustration of this distinction. Symptoms.—Pain is at once the earliest and most significant symptom. It is of a heavy, aching, and eventually throbbing character; more severe occasionally, or perhaps periodically—generally during the night, and persistent for a considerable period—being probably of some years' duration. This pain is referred to a particular part of the bone at one extremity—in, for example, the head of the tibaa; and a point of greatest intensity can be discovered by careful palpation with the finger, where the slightest jDressure produces excruciating agony. A small and slight puft'y swelling, or induration, surrounds this spot; and the skin may be adherent to the periosteum, * St. George's Hoep. Mus. f St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., C. 5. Fig. 296.* Fre. 297.t682 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. witliout presenting any discolouration. Beyond this external appear- ance, little or no enlargement of the bone accompanies the remarkable pain of which the patient complains; and there is an absence of any symptoms of joint-disease. Diagnosis.—The nature of this disease may, however, be mistaken for chronic rheumatism, or periostitis; or still more probably, for a neuralgic_ or hysterical affection. The iiersistence of the pain is the most distinctive character of circumscribed abscess of bone. Causes.—This abscess can, sometimes, apparently be refei-red to injury, or exposure to cold. The influence of tubercular disease is very uncertain. Early adult life seems to be the period most liable; but the ages in recorded cases have varied from 13 to 50. Males and females have been affected indiscriminately. Course and Terminations.—The abscess slowly enlarging, by the excavation and condensation of the surrounding bone, never attains a large size. Ultimately, it opens into the neighbouring joint, which thus becomes disorganized; and a disposition to this result is evinced by synovial distension and swelling from time to time, after exercise. Or the abscess may open externally, and discharge its contents with complete relief to the previous suffering. Cicatrization follows, the cavity filling up as in the termination of other abscesses; and the fibrous material which occupies the space, probably undergoing ossification, obhterates any remnant of the abscess. Treatment.—No topical applications or medicinal treatment have the slightest curative efficacy. But the operative proceeding proposed by Sir B. Brodie is at once simple and safe, affords immediate relief and a permanent cure. It consists in trephining the bone over the seat of abscess, and in thus giving vent to the pus. Chloroform having been administered, a crucial incision is made immediately over the painful spot externally, and extending down to the bone. A small trephine, having no projecting rim to oppose its entry, is then applied, and worked through the indurated bone; penetrating to some depth, and entering the cavity of the abscess. The circle of bone is detached and removed by an elevator or gouge, and the pus evacuated. Or a drop may appear, and the bone must be penetrated further by the gouge until the cavity is entered. Sometimes no pus is discovered on raising the circle of bone; the exposed surface should then be pierced in various directions to find a drop, and the oozing aperture freely enlarged with the gouge. Otherwise, an abscess may exist, but remain undiscovered. This misadventure happened to an experienced hospital Surgeon; the limb was amputated, and an abscess found at a small distance from the seat of perforation; showing that the removal of a small portion more of the bone would have preserved the limb. The preparation is in the Museum of St. George's Hospital. Only a small quantity of matter will issue in any case, the abscess itself being small. But the cavity having been fairly opened, the relief following the cessation of tension is instantaneous. A poultice or water-dressing will suffice during the course of reparation; which proceeding uninterruptedly, a permanent cure is established. An error of diagnosis even may be unimportant as regards the favourable result of this simple operation. For if the disease prove to be chronic ostitis—as happened in the case of one of Sir B. Brodie's patients—the removal of a piece of bone will relieve the pain, and may induce a healthier action.683 CARIES, OR ULCERATION OF BONE. Caries, or Ulceratioit op Boke.—The term Caries has been applied to different morbid conditions of Bone. By some Surgeons it has been used to denote scrofulous ulceration, exclusively ; and by others, to represent a morbid condition peculiar to bone, as distinguished from that of ulceration affecting the osseous texture. But the pathological identity of Caries and Ulceration is now generally acknowledged; and as such I use the term to signify Ulceration, modified only by the textural peculiarities of Bone. Structural Conditions.—Caries is essentially a disintegration of the osseous texture; and, like ulceration of the soft textures, it may be presented in two forms—as enlarging a pus-discharging cavity or abscess in the suhstance of Bone, and as affecting the surface of a Bone. Carious bone is softened, and easily breaks down under pressure with a gritty resistance; it is porous, and infiltrated with a reddish- brown oily fluid, and granular inorganic matter—the debris of the disintegrated texture. Small detached masses of dead bone may be found associated with the carious bone. It has a greyish, brown, or black colour, but the surrounding bone is highly vascular. Beyond and around the carious area, induration and hypertrophy may have taken place; the circumferential substance of the bone being dense, and presenting externally osseous nodules or spicula, with thickening of the periosteum. In the suhstance of bone, the appearance of Caries is more marked in the cancellated structure, which is also more especially the seat of caries. (Fig. 298.) The enlarged cancelli are filled with the detritus, and their walls are in a softened state; the whole crumbles down under pressure with the finger, or may be readily penetrated by a probe, and yields with a grating sensation. This condition is commonly found in the cancellated portion of the bones, and as the consequence of scrofulous inflammation-—ostitis. Caries usually occurs in the articular extremity of a long bone ; as that of the tibia Fig. 298.* or femur, in scrofulous disease of the knee-joint affecting either bone; but scarcely less frequently, it attacks the bodies of the verte- bra ; or the bones of the tarsus or of the carpus, in the foot or the wrist-joint. On the surface of a bone, Caries presents a drilled, worm- eaten appearance (Fig. 299.) The periosteum is loosened or de- tached, thickened, vascular and villous. The projections, thus formed, pass from the under sur- face of the periosteum into corre- sponding depressions in the bone, its compact structure having acquired more the open character of the cancellous. The textural condition of the bone is similar to that already described as pertaining to deep caries. Superficial caries perhaps, more commonly met with in the compact portion of * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 1, 103. f Ibid. 1, 221. Fig. 299. t ISSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 684 the bone, and as tlie consequence of syphilitic ostitis. Thus, moro often seen in the cranial bones, and as resulting from secondary syphilis, this form of caries attacks also the surface of the tibia, or of the ulna, affecting the subcutaneous parts of these bones. A some- what significant resemblance exists between the forms of syphilitic ulceration in bone and syphilitic eruption on the skin. Thus, Sir James Paget has described anmilar or circular, reticulated, and tuherculated ulcers of bone. But these various forms are more interesting patho- logically, than diagnostic. The Signs of Caries are the characters of carious bone, as just described. They are not declared until abscess having formed and discharged, the bone becomes exi^osed, or accessible. Superficial caries is more open to examination; but the introduction of a probe will readily discover the state of the bone, both in it and deep caries. Both forms of Caries, deep and superficial, are attended with pain, more or less deep-seated, redness and swelling of the integument; followed by suppuration and the formation of abscesses. The soft parts around then present the usual characters of increased swelling, fluctuation, and discolouration. Any such abscess bursting, discloses the carious state of the subjacent bone, or leads to a carious cavity, as discovered by a probe. Fistulous openings remain, discharging unhealthy pus mixed with the granular detritus of bone. (Fig. 300.) Large, out- cropping, abortive granulations spring up; and the surrounding integument has a congested purplish appearance. Caries evinces little disposition to any reparative changes. The Causes of Caries are those which produce inflammation of bone, especially as occurring under the influence of some constitutional con- dition. Scrofula and Syphilis Fig. 300.* thus not uncommonly affect the bones, and in the form of Caries; the disease arising often, ap- parently, without any external occasion of injury as an exciting cause. Treatment.—The removal of any cause in operation is the primary rale of treatment in this, as in all other conditions of disease. Hence the remedial measures appropriate for Con- stitutional Syphilis or Scrofiila will be requisite in most cases of Caries. Rest of the affected part is highly advantageous; but any topical appU- cations, as counter-irritation by iodine, blisters, or issues, are useless, compared with constitutional treatment. In an early stage, the disease may thus be arrested and the bone restored to a healthy state. Or,, under the influence of this treatment, disintegration proceeds only so far as to gradually remove the affected portion by a gritty discharge; recovery then taking place by granulation. Escharotics, such as the mineral acids, caustic potash, or the chloride- of zinc, have been used, or the actual cautery has been resorted to; with the view of completely destroying, and thus removing, carious bone, in order to gain a healthy surface for granulation. But littlfr * After Listen.1 CABIES, OR ULCERATION OF BONE. 685 Fig. 302. can 136 said to recommend, and mnch. to reprobate, this principle of treatment. Unless in regard to quite superficial caries, any destructive application generally fails to arrest the disease, or actually provokes yet further caries, or destruction of bone. In a chronic state, the disease is beyond the Fig 301 po'"'^^ restoration, and reparation is unable to discharge the carious portion of bone piecemeal. Operative interference, therefore, now becomes necessary. The diseased bone may be removed by excision, either of the affected portion only, or of the -whole bone ; or amputation may be un- avoidable, owing to the extent of the disease, or after excision, as the last resource. Excision of the carious portion. This should always be a patient pi-oceeding, never a "brilliant" operation. The bone having been exposed by a crucial incision, the diseased portion must be re- moved piecemeal by means of a gouge. Various forms of this instrument are used, according to circumstances. The ordinary scoop-gouge (Fig. 301) is generally'most convenient; and Marshall's rose-head osteotrite (Fig. 302) will often prove very serviceable in finishing off a carious cavity. Care should be taken, in working with a cutting- gouge, lest the instrument suddenly slip, and be driven accidentally into the soft parts. A steady, slow movement of the hand, and grasp of the instrument almost to the point, are the best pre- cautions against any such misadventure. The carious portion of bone yields to the gouge with a gritty resistance; whereas the sound bone re- mains firm, and vascular. The extent of bone to be removed may, therefore, be determined by kt)XI these characters; portions of softened, crumb- ling bone shoxild be scooped out, until the firm, rose-coloured bleeding bone is reached. The surface or cavity, having this healthy character, is then dressed or plugged lightly with wet liut, and the wound allowed to fill up and heal by gi-anulation. In this way I have removed, more or less successfully, carious bone from nearly every bone. The whole rim of the spine of the scapula having been excised in one case, the '^^ f patient—a lady of very delicate health—re- covered slowly but soundly. In another case, I removed the whole of the middle third of the shaft of the tibia, excepting a shell of bone pos- teriorly. (Fig. 303.) Granulations, healthy and abundant, sprang up, and nearly filled up the large cavity; but the patient, by the rule of tho hospital as to time, left incompletely cured, and I do not know the result. The articular end of a bone—affected by Caries—may require ex- cision, as will be fully explained in treating of Diseases of the Joints. Fig. 303.686 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Excision of the wlwle bone is rendered necessary by an extent of disease beyond the range of either of the previous partial operations, in the shaft or articular end. Amputation is justifiable only under exceptional, and perhaps extreme, circumstances; where the caries is too extensive in connected bones to admit of excision, or when constitutional exhaustion has supervened. The foot, for example, may be removed for carious disease involving the tarsal bones, with perhaps prolonged discharge. When excision has failed, amputation is necessarily the last resource. Necrosis.—The death of a portion of bone is analogous to Mortifi- cation of the soft parts; and it has the same pathological relation to Caries that Mortification has to Ulceration, Caries is molecular death or disintegration of the osseous texture; Necrosis, the death of a visible portion or mass of bone. Not unfrequently, both are associated in the same bone. Structitral Condition.—Necrosis—like Caries—may affect the stih- stance, or the surface, of a bone. In the one form of necrosis, the dead portion is named the sequestrum, a term more particularly applicable when the piece of bone is loose and enclosed by new bone; and when limited to the deepest portion of bone around the medullary caual, the necrosis is sometimes named central; while, in the other form, a super- ficial scale-like portion of dead bone is designated an exfoliation. Necrosed or dead bone is smooth or rough, hard Fig. 30i.* and white ; becoming brown or black, and softened, when exposed to the action of decomposing pus and the air, from sloughing of the integument. It is avascular, not yielding any blood when wounded, and insensible. Reparation.—The wliole sutstance of a bone, or its central portion only, may be necrosed; in point of extent also, the whole length of the shaft of a long bone may be dead, and occasionally even the epiphyses are involved. But the process of repara- tion will be typically described by reference to that form of necrosis in which the whole substance, or thickness, of the shaft of a long bone, e.g., the tibia, is necrosed ; and as consequent on acute ostitis. The periosteum, at first adherent, soon loosens its con- nection with the subjacent dead bone, and deposits ossific lymph between itself and the surface of the bone. This lymph-deposit undergoing ossification, forms a sheath of new bone over or around the dead portion, which thus becomes enclosed in an osseous case. The periosteum is the chief, but not the only, source of osseous reproduction in necrosis. The instructive specimen here represented, exhibits the periosteal pi'oduction of new bone in the tibia of a boy, after necrosis of a large extent of the whole thickness of the wall. The outer surface of the sequestrum is quite smooth, the periosteum having separated without any portions of bone being attached to it._ On the inner surface of the detached periosteum—the external dark line being * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 1,133.NECROSIS. 687 Fig. 305 * Fig. SOG.t the periosteum—a layer of new bone, lialf an incli ttick, and forming almost a complete new wall to the tibia, has been produced. (Fig. 304.) The outer surface of this new bone is covered by the old periosteum, the continuity of which with that of the articular ends is shown ; and the inner surface of the new bone is lined by a soft vascular mem- brane which was in close contact with the outer surface of the dead bone. But observation has shown that the original bone itself is an important source of new bone—by granulation—in the absence of the periosteal membrane, or in central necrosis; and that the medullary membrane may contribute its share. The articular ends, in particular, evince a remarkable ossific power, when the shaft of a long bone is removed. I have seen an inch and a half of the shaft of the tibia thus reproduced. Apart from the periosteum, when this texture is destroyed, the soft tissues around the bone may acquire the power of forming ossific deposit. The dead portion, at first con- tinuous with the healthy bone at either end, loses its connection at the line of continuity; the living bone detaching itself from the dead. Ulceration takes place in the course of that line, the purulent discharge containing 2^ per cent, of bone- earth, phosphate of lime, as shown by Mr. B. Cooper; or interstitial granulations are produced, by which a slight amount of bone is consumed, as Billroth states. A groove is thus formed around the junction of the dead portion of bone (Fig. 305) ; and this groove deepening, at length completely detaches it. Pus collects around the sequestrum, and interrupting the complete formation of the periosteal sheath of new bone, leaves apertures therein—one or two to four or five in number—the cloacce, through which sinuous tracks between the sequestrum and fistulous openings in the integument become estab- Hshed. (Fig. 306.) These orifices pout with large, abortive granula- tions. This twofold process goes on simultaneously, though not perhaps equally; constituting a separation of the living from the dead bone, and rejjaration, chiefly by the periosteal reproduction of a cylinder of new bone enclosing the dead portion. Both changes are slowly pro- gressive, extending over a period of weeks or months. But at length the seqiiestrum becomes complete, and ensheathed by the cylinder or invohicrura of new bone. (Fig. 307.) This latter is highly vascular, and of a bright red colour; although, when dried as a "pathological preparation," the new bony case is whitish brown, rough, and porous. It is perforated with apertures—the cloacw, unlike the enclosed se- questrum of dead bone; which—in a specimen—may be further recog- nized, through the cloacoB, by its white colour, smooth and firm * St. Partholome-ff's IIosp. Mus., ], 23. t Diagram from Billroth.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. G88 surface, or sometimes having a brown or blackisli appearance, and a softened or soddened consistence, from exposure to decomposing pus- maceration. The cIoaciB are formed apparently, as Troja observed, in consequence of deficient periosteal deposit, in small spaces, here and there, during the production of the new bony case. The apex-tures thus left are Nature's provision for the exit of the enclosed seques- trum of dead bone, and for the free discharge of matter. The sequestrum is of smaller size, in length and breadth, than the involu- crum of new bone, in which, therefore, it lies loose after its detachment. This dimi- nution of the dead portion in length results from ulcer- ative disintegration, or from absorption by interstitial granulations in the living bone, during the process of disjunction; and afterwards, reduction may be effected, in length and breadth, through the medium of granulations, which spring from the whole inner surface of the osteo-plastic cavity — the bone-ends and periosteal sheath ; absoi'ption being aided, perhaps, by the pres- sure also thus brought to bear upon the sequestrum. The doctrine of bone-absorption by granulations, and thence, moreover, the reduction of the sequestrum, after, as well as before, complete separation, was origin- ally maintained by John Hunter; and the results of observation by Velpeau, Lawrence, and Billroth have afforded corroborative evidence ; while Stanley, Gulliver, and Listen were led to the opposite conclusion. Rokitansky attributes any apparent absorption to ichorous corrosion and liquefactive discharge. The influence of close contact—apart from the agency of granulations—is shown by the partial disappearance of ivory pegs, when imbedded in living bone. In consequence of progressive absorption, the imprisoned or attached surface of the sequestrum at length acquires a rough, or worm-eaten, and irregular appearance, and the margins become serrated or spiculated ; resulting from the close adaptation of the encompassing granulations. Hence, any uncovered part of the sequestrum is not subject to absorption, and remains smooth ; so also, when the granulations suppurate, absorp- tion ceases, for then the surface is no longer in contact. Nature thus attempts to bring about extrusion of the sequestrum, as a foreign body. Having separated by ulcerative disintegration, or by absorption * Museum, Koyal Free Hospital.689 NECROSIS. from the living bone through interstitial granulations, the dead and detached portion of bone is reduced in size, and loosened, by absorption, through the medium of encompassing granulations, and subjected to the expul- sive compression of granulation-growfch. When removed, the sequestrum-cavity remains, (Fig. 308.) The involucrum, or sheath of new bone, is the scene of certain formative changes. It increases in thickness, the longer the enclosed sequestrum remains as a source of osteo-plastic irritation; so that, in the course of years, the bony case might become more than half an inch thick. Losing its rough and porous character, it gets smoother and more compact or stronger, yet somewhat thinner; thus altogether more nearly resembling the natural shaft of a long bone. The cloacas, having served the temporary purpose already noticed, be- come smaller; but whether they are ever entirely closed seems doubtful. When the sequestrum has been discharged, perhaps, in the natural course of necrosis, or has been extricated and removed by surgical interference—in either case, the cloacae providing apertures of exit—the osteo-plastic cavity may continue to granulate and ossify, and thus still more com- pletely restore the original substance of the shaft of bone. But whether the medullary canal be reproduced, as after the reparation, of fracture, is as yet undetermined; although, from analogy, this final result is not improbable. If, in the production of the new bone-shaft, any muscles lose their attachments, they regain new points of insertion, and are thus admirably enabled to resume their respective actions. Modifications of Necrosis.—Certain deviations from the normal course of Necrosis—which Prof. Billroth has observed—are worthy of notice; as relating to the detachment of the sequestrum, and the formation of the involucrum of new bone. In young persons, affected with acute periostitis, the epiphyseal cartilages of a long bone may undergo ossification, although rarely, at the upper and lower ends of the bone simultaneously ; but then the sequestrum will be detached very early, before t^e new bony case can have completely formed. If, therefore, the sequestrum were removed at this period, the limb would be weakened, and remain weak, owing to removal of the foreign body, which, as a source of irritation, induces osteo-plastic deposit. Suppivration of an epiphysis is also attended with early detachment of the sequestrum at that end ; and this event may lead to such dis- placement and projection, by muscular action, that perhaps the bone protrudes through the integument; instances of which have occurred, with regard to the femur, at the knee-joint, and the humerus, at the < elbow. In such cases, destruction of the joint will probably bo : inevitable. * Diagram from Billroth. 2 TSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 1,19. t Ibid, 1. 26S. G90 occur. Fig. 309.* Fig. 310.* Partial Necrosis.—V&rious forms of partial necrosis sometimes In the shaft of a long bone, necrosis may be limited to tho Avails, to a portion of bone within the walls, or to the cancellous struc- ture, as a completely central necrosis. Such cases are rare. I shall, therefore, best draw attention to their existence by referring to certain valuable specimens in the Museum'of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, and as described in the catalogue, respecting each such form of partial necrosis. (1.) Necrosis limited to the Walls of a long bone.—Sections of a Tibia (Fig. 309), of which nearly the whole length and thickness of the walls of the shaft perished, and were in process of separation from the cancellous and medullary texture, which has preserved its vitality and a nearly healthy condition. The groove formed between the dead and the living bone is filled with soft and very vascular granulations. On the in- ternal surface of the periosteum, spongy and vascular new bone is formed in a nearly uniform layer, to supply the place of that which has perished. The inner surface of this new bone is covered by vascular granulations. The walls of the bone perished after inflammation of the periosteum, produced by the application of nitric acid to a sloughing ulcer in the front of the leg. (2.) Necrosis luitliin the Walls of a long bone.—Section of a Tibia (Fig. 310), in which large portions of the wall are separated after necrosis. The separated Ijortions include only the middle laminge of the wall; the outer lamince are entire, except in so far as they are perforated anteriorly, and the inner lamince appear only somewhat thickened and less compact than is natural. The sequestraa thus lie ifii cavities between the separated internal and external lamina3 of the wall, which cavities open by four nearly round apertures through the anterior and inner wall. The patient was a feeble young woman, twenty-two years old, in whom the necrosis had existed more than a year before she died with pulmonary disease. About six months before her death, the existence of necrosis being suspected, in consequence of the large quantity of pus discharged through two minute apertures in the front of the tibia, a portion of the bone was i^emoved by the trephine, and some sequestro9' were extracted. The patient benefited by the operation for a time; but the openings into the cavities containing the other sequestra remained, and were only narrowed by the growth of new bone around them. The case is related by Mr. Stanley in his " Treatise on Diseases of the Bones," pp. 138-9. In the specimen of necrosis figured from the Museum of the Royal691 NECKOSIS. Eree Hospital, (p. 688), it will be observed that a similar partial necrosis bas occurred; a small sequestrum lying within the wall of the up]per por- tion of the Tibia. There is also a very remarkable specimen in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons: a lower jaw, with a very small seques- trum lying within the body of the bone, which at that part is greatly thickened and indurated; externally, the circular mark of a trephine shows that an attempt had been made to reach a sus- pected sequestrum or abscess, which doiibtless had been attended with prolonged suffering during the surrounding ostitis. (3.) Necrosis of the cancellous structure within the shaft of a long bone.—Section of the upper part of a Tibia (Fig. 311), in which portions of the cancellous tissue have suffered necrosis and are partially separated. Lymph and pus are diffused upon and within the dead portions of bone ; the medullary canal con- tains them alone, the rest of its osseous and fatty tissue being removed. The walls of the tibia are thickened and penetrated by several apertures into the meduUary tube. The disease is limited to the shaft of the tibia; its head is healthy. From an old man, in whom the disease had existed more than twenty years. Necrosis loitlwut Suj^imration.—Necrosis is not invariably followed by suppuration. Mr. Stanley drew attention to this fact,t and it has been confirmed by Sir James Paget, who has recorded two examples of what he proposes to term " quiet necrosis." J Mr. Morrant Baker has, however, shown that much more extensive necrosis than that to which the term quiet necrosis is applicable may occur without the formation of pus; and he has recorded a case § in which nearly the whole femur perished, and at the time of the amputation of the limb, about three months after the commencement of the disease, not a drop of pus could be discovered. Mr. Baker supposes that this apparently strange deviation from the ordinary cotirse of cases of necrosis is due to the fact that the death of the bone occurs in the course of chronic ostitis; the shaft of the bone gradually dying as its sources of blood-supply are cut off, partly by inflammatory changes within it, and partly by the formation of new bone in and beneath the periosteum and endosteum. It might be expected, under such circumstances, that suppuration would be long delayed; and he suggests that if there were more frequent opportunities of examining, by section at an early stage, bones affected by chronic ostitis, deep- seated necrosis would be not infrequently found. As it is, however, no need commonly arises for operative interference until the presence of suppuration has removed the necrosis from the list of unexpected occurrences. Mr. Morrant Baker suggests the term intra-osseous for that variety of necrosis in which the dead bone is enclosed by new bone on both its outer and inner aspects; this new bone having been * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 1, 267. t " A Treatise on Diseases of the Bones," 1849, p. 83. X " Trans, of Clinical Society," vol. iii. § " Trans. Medico-Chirurgical Society," 1877.692 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., A. 90. produced by both the periosteum and the medullary membrane, or endosteum. In ordinary cases of necrosis of the shaft of a long bone, the sequestrum is surrounded by a sheath of new bone, which has been formed by the periosteum and, it may be, other structures external to it; the medullary membrane perishing with the bone which encloses it. In cases of in tra-osseous necrosis, on the other hand, new bone is produced by the endosteum as well as the periosteum; and the sequestrum is thus often so completely "locked" as to render it& removal almost an impossibility; the difficulty being increased by the frequently long-delayed separation, under these conditions, of the dead from the living bone. Diagnosis.—Necrosis unattended with suppuration may simulate malignant disease, in the formation of a large tumour or swelling, which is hard and incompressible; spontaneous fracture also some- times takes place, and yet this event may not, for at least many weeks, be followed by suppuration. Mr. Baker relates a case of this kind, in which the femur was the seat of chronic osteal inflammation, and the swelling extended below nearly to the knee-joint and above to the trochanters. Spontaneous fracture took place, followed by deformed union. But the patient gradually lost flesh and was worn out by pain and sleeplessness. Under these circumstances, the limb was amputated at the hip-joint, and a rapid recovery ensued. Section of the femur then revealed the above condition of necrosis, not a drop of pus being found. Exfoliation, or superficial necrosis, presents the same appearances as to the state of the dead portion of bone. But it results generally from the destruction of the periosteum ; consequently, no periosteal sheath of new bone is produced. The plate of dead bone is detached —as in deep necrosis—by linear ulceration forming a groove circum- ferentially ; but the detached portion not being ensheathed by new bone, it is thrown off from the surface or exfoliated, and exposed by open abscesses or sloughing; or it can be easily removed surgically by forceps. The separation of an exfoHated portion of bone, like the detachment of a seques- trum, is always a slow process; in one case, after compound fracture of the tibia, in a healthy boy, I removed a thin scale of bone, about an inch square, on the day four months from' the time of the accident. The jaerios- teum of the cranial bones—the peri- cranium.—even when uninjured, does not seem to have the power of forming a sheath of new bone; and thence the same result ensues—exfoliation. (Fig. 312.) The dura mater is nearly equally unproductive—within the skull. The Signs of Necrosis are the characters of necrosed bone, as already described. But—as with Caries—these characters are not declared until, abscess having formed and discharged, the bone becomes exposed or accessible. The introduction of a stout probe will readily Fig. 312.*693 NECEOSIS. discover the rotigh, loose sequestrum; or, wlieu visible, it may be recognized by its dead-white appearance, or blackened by decomposing purulent discharge. Exfoliation is more open to examination. Necrosis is attended with violent and deep-seated pain, considerable redness, and Fig. 313. swelling of the surrounding soft parts. Suppuration ensues sooner or later, in •consequence of inflammation of the bone— ostitis—having led to and being connected with the necrosis, or as the result of pro- longed irritation of the sequestrum, itself a foreign body. The matter discharged through the fistulous openings is usually ■sanious, dark coloured, and fetid, although sometimes it has the thick, yellow charac- -fcer of healthy pus ; especially in necrosis arisinar from an external cause, as com- pound fracture, and with a healthy consti- tution. The extent of the sequestrum will be fairly declared by the boundary of the integumental swelling, and by the spaces between the cloacas (Fig. 313), when a probe is introduced. The fever, which had been that of inflammation, during the previous ostitis, assumes an irritative character, when bone becomes necrosed; and, suppuration, with prolonged purulent discharge, is attended with hectic and great exhaustion. Unlike caries, necrosis occurs more frequently in the shafts, than in the articular ends, of long bones; and more often in the compact, than in the cancellated structure, of any bone. This diiierence of liability is due apparently to the lower degree of vascularity, and of vitality therefore, in the com- pact osseous texture. Every bone is subject to necrosis, but certain bones are more commonly affected: the tibia, femur, humerus, ulna, radius, clavicle, lower jaw, upper jaw, scapula, and cranium. In the ■flat bones, last named, necrosis usually takes the form of exfoliation. Central necrosis is necessarily more obscure, owing to the depth of the morbid condition. The symptoms resemble those of chronic abscess in the substance of bone. Deep-seated and, perhaps, throbbing pain, with some swelling of the bone, or pufiiness over a particular spot, are the more characteristic symptoms, and their persistence is even more significant. Causes.—'External and traumatic causes seem to have a more abso- lute effect in producing necrosis, unaided by any predisposing constitu- tional influence, than in relation to caries. Any injury detaching the periosteum will probably be followed by more or less necrosis ; except- ing in the cranial bones, or others which are highly vascular. Violent contusion may so damage the osseous texture and medullary membrane as to produce necrosis. Severe cold, as in frost-bite, and deep burns are also immediate causes. Powerful irritants have a marked effect apart from any inflammatory action. Thus, the fumes of phosphorus, in lucifer-match manufactories, often produce necrosis of the lower jaw; this powerful irritant entering the bone, apparently, throughSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 694 carious teetli._ _ Any.form of inflammation of bone—ostitis, periostitis, or osteo-myelitis—may also induce necrosis. Constitutional causes are, however, very influential; sometimes pre- disposing to, or frequently producing, necrosis. Scrofula, syphilis, and formerly the excessive administration of mercury, represent this class of causes ; but necrosis occasionally results from typhoid fever, scurvy, and other exhausting diseases. Consequences.—Contimoecl suppuration accompanies necrosis, and in proportion to its extent. The matter burrows among surrounding muscles, and disorganizes the whole substance of the part; while the numerous sinuses opening externally and communicating with the bone, continue to discharge an unhealthy pus. Large, protuberant gi-anulations, springing up around the orifices of these passages, evince an abortive tendency to close up the soft parts ; but reparation of the bone, by the formation of a periosteal sheath, is far more active. Albuminuria, and amyloid degeneration of the liver, are not unfrequent constitutional consequences of prolonged suppuration. Certain accidents are, however, liable to happen in the course of repair. As, in a long bone, like the femur, the ensheathing cylinder of new bone acquires strength at about an equal rate of progress to that of the disjunction from the sequestrum, the firmness of the limb will be maintained ; but if consolidation fail, then, subject to muscular action aud the weight of the limb, fracture may take place; or, the new bone under- going some alteration of shape and direction, the limb becomes deformed and shortened. But either of these events will depend veiy much on an insufiicient length of sequestrum, within the new bony sheath, to support the limb; or on the want of suflBcient support from a side bone, as the fibula in relation to the tibia, when the shaft of this bone is neci'osed. The ulcerative detachment of the dead portion of bone, sometimes extends to a large vessel, or the point of the sequestrum may be driven into an artery in some movement of the limb ; giving rise to serious Jiceniorrliage externally, or to the formation of aneurism. But these perilous consequences are rare. The new bone Tvhich substitutes a necrosed portion of bone, may itself be attacked with necrosis; in which event, any repair will be very defective. Treatment.—The removal of any cause in operation must be the primary consideration. Traumatic causes, which have already ex- pended their force, so to speak, in producing necrosis, are obviously not under control. But, as arising from detachment of the periosteum, exfoliation may sometimes be prevented by timely replacement of this vascular membrane ; or if adhesion takes place between the bone and adjoining soft parts, or granulations spring up from the surface of the bone, a new periosteum will be gradually formed. Constitutional causes cannot be altogether overcome, but their full effect may be prevented. Hence, the medicinal treatment appropriate for scrofula, or constitutional syphilis, proves very beneficial in most cases. Suppuration and ahscess must be treated on ordinary principles, while the accompanying hectic, or the constitutional irritation arising from the presence of dead bone, should be supported by a tonic and stimulant plan of treatment with nourishing diet. Sequestrotomy.—Extraction of the sequestrum.—The dead portion of bone is a foreign body. Unless, therefore, it be thrown off by Nature,NECROSIS. 695 it must be removed by Art. Its removal is determined, botb in point of time and the extent of dead bone to be removed, by the ulcerative line of demarcation and the detachment of that portion; a process of some weeks' or months' duration, and the progress of which should be : ascertained, from time to time, by examination with the probe. The 1 sequestrum may have become completely detached from the living i bone, but yet remain fixed by adhesion to the granulations which ! closely penetrate its worm-eaten surface; so that it will perhaps be ■ necessary to ascertain whether the piece of dead bone can be made to move a little upwards or downwards, by gentle pressure alternately between two probes, introduced ■ into cloacte, at some distance apart. I A loosened sequestrum, imprisoned within a sheath of new bone, can only be extricated by surgical interference. The operation consists in cutting down upon the bone, and extracting the sequestrum, by means of serrated bone-forceps. (Fig. 314.) In making the incision, ad- vantage is taken of the course of the fistulous tracks leadinc^ to the cloacEe in the bony case; and then the latter apertures are made available for removal of the sequestrum. The cloacae are usually found at the lower part of the bony case; but they communicate with , : the cavity containing the sequestrum by osseous canals, of variable ; extent, and which have a more or less oblique direction upwards. j Narrowed internally, and expanded somewhat outwards into a funnel ^ shape, the apertures are round or fissured, and of small size—generally < not larger than would admit a small quill or a probe. Sometimes, one Fig. 314. Fig. 316. Fig. 315. Or the cloaca may be enlarged, or two such apertures thrown into one by excising the intervening portion of the bony case with. strong cutting-pliers, straight or angular bladed. (Figs, 315, 316.) The sequestrum may perhaps be pushed upwards or downwards, so that one end can be seized with the forceps, and thus the whole iSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. G96 (Fig. 317.) be ■witlidrawu. sequestrum by separately; or, be extracted, undesirable, as Or again, it may be more convenient to divide tlie the same instrument, and extract either fragment by removing a central portion, either end-piece may The removal of any portion of the bony case is the new bone is not reproduced, and the limb would remain pi-oportionately weakened; care also must be taken not to damage the interior of the sheath. The cavity of the new bone, usually single, is sometimes multilocular, and each interspace may contain a sequestrum. Htemorrhage occurs freely during this operative procedure; the blood springing from the vascular soft parts around, or welling up from the new bone. It can generally be arrested by pressure; but in this, and other operations on bone, the Surgeon will find the advantage of Esmarch's elastic ligature around the limb, previously emptied of blood by means of the elastic roller. The bottom of the wound should be lightly dressed with lint; any inflam- mation consequent on the operation must be subdued by ordinary treatment; and eventually the limb should be supported by a starched bandage until granulation is complete, and the bony case has acquired sufiicient strength to bear the weight of the body or the movements of the part. I have thus, from time to time, removed several loose sequestra from the lower half of the shaft of a femur; guided by the sinuses, and preserving the osseous case which had formed around the bone. In a compound fracture of the tibia with death of the periosteum, the end of the upper fragment, to an inch and a half in extent, separated as a sequestrum, which I removed, together with several small scaly and spiculous portions from the lower fragment. Union ensued, but imperfect consolidation ; a slight hinge-like mobility remaining for some months. An exfoliation may be thrown off naturally; but this process will be much facilitated surgically by incisions, when the dead portion has separated. Excision of the ivliole of the bone necrosed, or short of its articular end.—This operation may, occasionally, be had recourse to in extensive necrosis. Thus, the lower jaw has not unfrequently been removed for necrosis caused by the fumes of phos^jhorus. The entire shaft of the radius, leaving its articular ends, was excised by Mr. Savory, on account of necrosis ; and afterwards, the bone was reproduced from either end to such an extent, that in eight months there remained an interval of only an inch and a half, and this appeared to be gradually diminishing. The fibula also has been excised. Removal of the ungual phalanx of a finger, for necrosis from whitlow, has proved jDerfectly successful in Fig. 317. preserving the end o£ the fin2:er. These re- suits are sufficient to encourage the practice of excision in other cases of extensive ne crosis. In operations for bone-excision, in necrosis, as of the lowe jaw, a short, narrow-bladed saw will often be found very convenient. Amputation must be regarded as an extreme resource, but justifiable as a sacrifice of the limb for the preservation of life. In necrosis involving the neighbouring joints, or where the limb has become IL«wMMW^M^^^J^*m^^^^lW*»^^^^^^^697 * St. Bartholome-w's Hosp. Mus., A. 148. RACHITIS OR EICIiETS. •disoi'ganized by prolonged and profuse suppui'ation, or tbe general health undermined by hectic, amputation is unavoidable. Thus, in a case of necrosis of the femur consequent on typhoid fever in India, the whole shaft of the bone was involved, the limb enormously thickened, and the muscles were matted together. I amputated the limb close to the trochanter, and the patient made an excellent recovery, regaining his general health. And in the more rare cases, also, where a main artery is opened by ulceration, or wounded by the sequestrum, amputation will generally be preferable to ligature of the vessel, in situ, or by the main trunk. Eachitis oe Rickets.—Strudioral Condition.—This disease affects more or less the whole osseous system. The earthy matter of the bones is diminished, and the organic basis, therefore, proportionately increased ; the cancelli are enlarged and filled with a brownish-red fluid. Both the periosteal and the medullary membranes appear to be more vascular than in health, and the former membrane becomes thickened. All these changes are more marked at the epiphyseal ends of the long bones. The flat and the short bones, particularly the carpal and tarsal bones, are thickened. Some re- laxation of the ligaments accompanies the change of osseous texture. Bones in this state have acquired great softness and flexibility, thence undergoing remarkable changes of shape, in consequence of the weight of the body, or other forces to which they are subject. The bones of the limbs, in particular, become curved inwards or outwards and distorted, the pelvis collapsed and sis* twisted, the thorax contracted above and enlarged lower down by the drag- ging weight of the abdominal viscera, and the spine is often distorted by lateral or other curvatm'e. The cranium appears enlarged, owing perhaps to the imperfect development of the facial bones; presenting a large head and diminutive face. There is also a general arrest of growth and development. The Signs of rickets are some of these peculiar deformities of the osseous system. They are found often also in connection with manifestations of scro- fula. Perhaps the earliest observable deformity is a swelling of the wrist, due to enlargement of the carpal epiphyseal ends of the radius and ulna. The knee and ankles often present enlargements in like manner. Deformities of the bones soon follow, and in the order, generally, as Guerin observes, from below upwards. Under the weight of the trunk, the tibia and fibula of both legs are curved outwards and forwards, the arches of the feet yielding and turning inwards; with this excur- vation of the legs, the knees also are bowed outwards, accompanied698 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 1, 35. perliaps with some excurvation and bending forwards of the femurs, and corresponding deformities of the thighs ; thus altogether present- ing the rickety and bandy-legged appearance familiar to experience. Sometimes, the opposite curvatures take place : incurvation of the legs and of the thighs, with a knock-kneed condition, and flat feet everted. (Fig, 318.) Occasionally, the curvatures have an opposite direction in the two limbs ; a general excurvation on one side, with incurvation on the other side. When the child crawls about habitually on his hands and knees, the bones of the upper extremities are no less liable to deformities, and at an early period. The constitutional symptoms are those of general debility, evinced more especially by night-sweats, affecting the head in particular, with a remarkable tender- ness or sensitiveness of the whole cutaneous surface of the body. The Causes of this disease are obscure. It would appear to be a condition of imperfect formation of the osseous texture; rickets never arising after the bones have become fully ossified and consolidated; nor, indeed, after the age of puberty. It is a disease of childhood or infancy, and possibly commencing in foetal life; although its results remain in the adult. As arising from mal-nutrition, rickets is eminently a constitutional disease, although manifested principally in the osseous system. Thus, observes Sir W. Jerner, it is no more a disease of the bones than is typhoid fever a disease of the intestines. Consecjuences.—In an early stage, before the disease is established, rickety deformities may disappear under favourable Fig. 319.* hygienic circumstances and treatment. At a later period, the bones become strengthened by osseous deposit in the parts most requiring support; the long bones acquiring increased thickness in their small curvatures, and the deposition extending even into the interior, so as to par- tially obliterate the medullary canal. (Fig. 319.) The epiphyses become thickened at the wrist, giving the ai^pearance of a " double-joint," owing to a second depression in the skin, above the radial epiphysis. Nodular enlargements form on the anterior ends of the ribs, at the junction of the costal cartilages; and lying regularly one under another, they present the appear- ance named the "rachitic rose-garland." Unlike the tendency to periostitis and ostitis, in scrofula, rachitic periosteal and osteal thickenings never end in suppuration. Fracture, and more often incom- plete or green-stick fracture, is liable to occur; but bony union generally takes place, and in the usual period. Treatment.—The primary indication obviously is, to supply the deficient earthy matter ; and so, probably, arrest the disease. But no knovra medicinal preparation seems to have this effect. The phosphates of lime, or lime-water, have been administered; but in several instances I tried them without any perceptible result. Iron and quinine, combined with cod-liver oil, often prove mor.e beneficial. These medicinal tonics, with due regulation of the bowels, nutritious diet, pure air, sea-bathing, frictions, and other means for improving the general health, con- stitute the most effectual plan of treatment. The nitro-muriatic acid699 MOLLITIES OSSIUM. bath is mticli recommended by Sir Ranald Mai'fcin, as a valuable adjunct. Daily exercise may be taken advantageously ; but tlie bones of the lower limbs should be relieved from the weight of the body, by the patient reclining at intervals during the day, and wearing steel- supports so applied as to resist any tendency to curvature. The support should be placed on the opposite side of the limb to the direction of curvature. When applied upon the curve, observes Mr. Brodhurst, pressure should be exerted only in the horizontal position, to avoid sloughing. Many a little, rachitic child, pot-bellied and bandy-legged, may thus be reared to man's estate; when ]S"ature will complete the cure. Permanent curvatures in the long bones may remain, after the osseous texture has become strengthened by ossific deposit, and ac- quired perhaps sclerotic hardness. Any such deformity, if it interfere with the use of the limb, may resist mechanical treatment by means of properly contrived apparatus. It has, therefore, been proposed to fracture the bone subcutaneoitsly, and then set the limb straight; or, if the bone be too firm, to perform subcutaneous osteotomy, as Langen- back recommends. Successful results have been obtained by both these surgical procedures. But the probability of a natural cure taking place should ever be remembered ; that the bones will straighten in their growth, the child out-growing the deformity. MoLLiTiES OssiuM—OSTEOMALACIA—Malacosteon.—Structural Con- dition.—This diseased state of the bones is far more rare than rickets, only a few instances having been recorded; but it is also far more serious. The earthy matter is greatly diminished, but replaced by a peculiar reddish gelatinous matter, chiefly fatty, and con- taining nucleolated nuclear cells, -which have been I^'ig- 320.* described by Mr. Dalrymple. This matter occupies the cancelli, which are considerably enlarged, and cavities in the compact texture; infiltrating the whole substance of the bone, until, as Dr. Ormerod remarks, it more re- sembles fatty matter enclosed in a periosteum than a bone. Bones thus affected are soft and flexible; on section, the osseous texture yields a gritty sen- sation, and has a reddish-brown or maroon colour, exhibiting the peculiar gelatinous matter in an extremely rarefied osseous texture. (Fig. 320.) The characteristic appearances are well-marked in the section of the lower half of the femur, as repre- sented. Atrophy, by rarefaction of the cancellous texture, and thinning of the walls of the bone, is : associated with the substitution of the peculiar : gelatinous and fatty matter. The pei'iosteum and I articular cartilage are healthy. The chemical com- ; position of bone in this state, according to Dr. Leeson's analysis, is—in 100 parts, 18"75 animal 1 matter, 29-17 phosphate and carbonate of lime, and 52'08 water. Commencing, apparently, in the cancellous tissue, the compact ] portion may retain its natural consistence, as an outer shell of bone; ; and the whole length of a long bone may not be affected. But I many bones are always simultaneously diseased. Fracture, or bend- * St. Bartholome\Y's Hosp. Mus., 1, 233. Sec also Specimen 1, 120.700 SPECLVL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 321.» ing without fracture, ensues, according to the extent of the disease. When softening is limited to the interned part of the bones affected, leaving an outer shell of hard bone, fracture is liable to occur; in one case, related by Tyrrell, twenty-two fractures happened; in another, by Arnott, thirty-one fractures. When the disease in- volves the whole ihichness of the bones, they become bent in various forms, and to an extreme degree ^ presenting the most remarkable and frightful deformities. (Fig. 321.) Mollities ossium and Rickets have some structural characters in common; the marked diminution of earthy matter, and rarefaction of the osseous texture; both diseases also affect more or less the osseous system generally. But the gelati- nous matter is peculiar to molHties ossium. In respect of its fatty character, the disease has some afl&nity to fatty dcgenei-ation ; while, in virtue of the nuclear and nucle- ated cells, a few of which may be caudate-shaped, there would appear to be some alliance to the structural elements of Cancer. As compared with senile atrophy of bone, mollities ossium is distinguished by the softness of the osseous texture, as well as by the medullary canal being filled with the peculiar gelatinous substance, and which also occupies the j)lace of the compact walls of the bone, now reduced perhaps to a mere shell. Otherwise, the thin bony case resulting from senile atrophy so far resembles, and might be mistaken for, the atrophy which accompanies mollities ossium. Signs and Symptoms.—Certain premonitory symptoms usually pre- cede fracture or deformity from mollities ossium. Wandering pains in the affected bones are experienced, and of a rheumatic character, but more severe and persistent. Marked failure of the general health accompanies these osseous pains; while great exhaustion and some emaciation precede any perceptible change in the bones. Then a fracture here or there, and progressive deformity, leave scarcely any doubt as to the nature of the disease. Diagnosis.—From Rheumatism, it is at once diagnosed by these manifestations of morbid osseous condition; from Cancer, by the very general distribution of the disease, affecting more or less the whole osseous system, and by the deformity. Thus, according to Litzmaun, in 85 child-bearing women, the whole skeleton was affected in 6 cases, and all the bones except those of the head in 2; and in 4G other cases, all parts of the skeleton were diseased in 21, and all the bones except those of the head in 6. From Hickets, as well as other diseases, Mollities Ossium may be distinguished by another symptom. The state of the urine is peculiar. It contains a great abundance of earthy * " Med.-Cliir. Trans.," vol. xxvii. Mr. Solly's case.701 TUMOURS OP BONE. matter, wliicli was shown by Mr. Solly to be pbospliate of lime, removed from the bones and eliminated through the kidneys. But the urine may also contain a peculiar substance, nearly allied to albumen, and in great abundance. According to the analysis of Dx'. Beuce Jones, in Mr. Dalrymple's case, this substance is the hydrated deutoxide of albumen, and 66'97 parts were passing out of the body in every 1000 parts of urine. Here, therefore, there was as much of this albuminoxis substance in the urine, as there is of ordinary albumen in healthy blood; an ounce of urine passed was eqiiivalent to an ounce of blood lost, as regards its albumen. " The peculiar characteristic of this hydrated deutoxide of albumen was its solubility in boiling water, and the precipitate with nitric acid being dissolved by heat and reformed when cold. By this reaction a similar substance in small quantity may be detected in pus, and in the secretion from the vesiculse seminales. The reddening of the urine on the addition of nitric acid might perhaps lead to the re-discovery of this substance; when found, the presence of chlorine in the urine, of which there was a suspicion in the above case, should be a special subject of investigation, as it may lead not only to the explanation of the formation of the albuminous substance, but to the comprehension of the nature of the disease which affects the bones." Causes.—The pathological cause of mollities ossium is unknown. But the disease in no way arises from an imperfect formation of the osseous texture, and does not generally occur before the middle period of life, or subsequently; thus, also, differing from rickets. It would appear to be hereditary, in some cases. Females are more subject than males, and repeated pregnancy seems to engender a predisposing condition. Termination.—The fractured bones evince little or no tendency to the formation of callus; and as the deformity resulting from their bending increases, the patient becomes a wretched crip^sle, yet living perhaps for years. Ultimately, death ensues from sheer exhaustion; or functional disturbance, consequent on altered relations of the viscera or pressure from deformity, proves fatal. Treatment.—^No known medicinal agents have any curative efficacy. A generally tonic and nourishing plan of treatment may somewhat reheve the concomitant exhaustion of mollities ossium, and opiates : alleviate the wearing pains. Posture and mechanical contrivances : are also of some use in counteracting the progressive deformity, and rendering life more tolerable to the patienb, when bedridden. Pragilitas Ossium.—Brittleness of the bones is, pathologically, ■ the opposite condition to Rickets; implying a superabundance of 1 earthy matter in their composition. The only sjoecimen with which I am acquainted, is an upper end of the Femur in the Museum of ; St, George's Hospital. Occurring as a natural change in the bones as life advances, it may ; also, at other peiiods, be symptomatic of cancer, syphilis, scurvy ; and, ] probably, of other diseases of, or affecting, the osseous system. TuMOUES OF Bone, Exostosis.—Strxociural Conditions.—Exostosis is an out-growth of ' bone; its texture therefore resembles either the compact or the cancel- ! lated structure of bone.702 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 1,186. Fig. 322.* the the The compact variety, consisting of solid bone, is of small size, and is very hard—hence named ivory exostosis. It is generally situated on the flat bones, especially the cranium; occasionally on the scapula, ilium, or the great toe, from the ungual phalanx of which I have removed such an out-growth. This variety of exostosis, observes Sir James Paget, occurs in two forms. Some grow on the exterior of the bones of the skull, in smooth, spheroidal, or lens-shaped lumps, attached, commonly, by rather narrow bases. Others, which are usually of deeply lobed and nodular shapes, grow in the diploe, or the frontal or other sinuses, whence, as they enlarge, they project through the gradually thinned and perforated layers of bones that at first enclosed them. The former kind rarely in- crease to an inch in diameter; the latter may increase to many inches, and they commonly project into the cavity of the skull, as well as externally, or into cavities of the orbits or any other adjacent parts. The cancellous or spongy variety, consisting of open medullary texture of bone, containing marrow, and invested with a very thin layer of compact tissue, is of considerable size, and yields somewhat under pressure. It is generally situated on the shaft of a long bone ; particularly the femur, on its inner surface, just above the condyle (Fig. 322); the head of the tibia ; or phalanges of the fingers or toes. Such exostoses are outgrowths from the epiphyseal cartilages, and are thence named by Virchow " enchondrosis ossificans." Another very common situation, according to Mr. Holmes' observations, is beneath the deltoid muscle; but here I have never met with the cancellous variety of exostosis. In both conditions, the structure of exostosis usually resembles that of the bones on which they severally grow. Thus, the compact variety has a concentric lamellar arrangement, with Haversian canals; the cancellous variety, when continuous with the spongy substance of the epiphysis, is overlaid with a layer of hyaline cartilage, a line or a line and a half in thickness, and this growing in itself and from the periosteum or jDerichondrium, rapidly becomes ossified towards the centre. Mucous bursBe sometimes form on epiphyseal exostoses : these sacs contain ossifying cartilaginous growths, loose or attached, and communicate with the neighbouring joint,—such bursge being, according to Rindfleish, prolongations from the articular synovial membrane. Inflammation and suppuration of any such acquired bursa may seriously complicate an exostosis, otherwise quiescent, and lead perhaps to destruction of the joint. Exostosis generally occurs singly; but many may form, when they are usually symmetrical. This is particularly observed in the cancellous variety. A third variety of exostosis is recognized by some pathologists. It is attached to bone, although not as an out-growth, but proceeds from the ossification of tendons, f ascice, or muscles, and is consequent on chronic inflammation, induced perhaps by injury. Appearing in the form of long, spinous processes of bone, these exostoses may be found in con- siderable number, and connected with any one or more of the longTUMOUKS OF BONE. 703 bones, but affecting cliiefly their articular ends at the attachments of tendons. Associated in their nature with this anomalous kind of exostosis are certain ossific formations in the substance of muscles, and which, as arising from some muscular strain or other injury, are known as "exercise-bones." Thus, in the deltoid muscle, osseous development sometimes results from repeated pressure or contusion by the habitual use of a rifle or fowling-piece. Hence, it is occasionally met with in the shoulder of soldiers and sportsmen. Signs.—The characters of exostosis are sufficiently obvious ; a very hard, or a somewhat yielding, rather pedunculated tumour, immovable or nearly so, and attached to the bone as an out-growth. Causes.—The compact variety is attributed to syphilis, scrofula, or other diseases affecting bone, and which produce an out-growing hypertrophy of the compact osseous texture. The cancellous variety results from the ossification of an enchondromatous or cartilaginous tumour. It may, therefore, be said to be developed through cartilage ; while the ivory variety is rarely so produced. Age seems to have some causative relation to exostosis ; both varieties commencing, probably, in earliest infancy. The epiphyseal exostosis can only occur in youth, or not later than the twenty-fourth year. (Billroth.) Men are said to be more subject than women to all these exostomatous formations. Course and Terminations.—Both forms of exostosis are slow-growing, and particularly the compact variety ; but the cancellous attains a far larger size. Both may undei'go certain destructive changes ; necrosis, or sloughing away from the bone, and with ulceration of the super- imposed integument. Both also may occasion various functional dis- turbances by pressure. The situation of exostosis will very much determine these results. Thus, an ivory exostosis has projected into the orbit; or, growing from the inner table of the skull, has pressed upon the brain; or, from the pubic bone, has perforated the bladder; and cancellous exostosis, or tendinous formations, in the neighbour- hood of a joint will more or less impair motion. Treatment.—Exostoses which remain stationary, or which form in certain situations, as the orbit, or involve a joint, such as the knee, are better left alone. The danger also of exposing cancellated bone should always be considered; diffuse suppuration and pycemia being very liable to follow the operation of removal. The tendinous forma- tions will probably prohibit operative interference, by their number, and the predisposition to ossific deposits. Otherwise, an exostosis may be removed mechanically, by excision; or destroyed, by nitric acid or other strong caustic, applied to its exposed base. Compact or ivory exostosis is often very difficult of excision. Several instruments should be provided; that one failing, another may prove efficient. A trephine, saw, chisel and mallet, or cutting-pliers, are sometimes severally requisite to remove the little ivory-hard lump of bone. They all, in turn, failed in the hands of an expert operator— the late Mr. Keate—although employed perseveringly for nearly twQ hours. The exostosis having been removed down to its base, caustic may then be applied to destroy the remaining portion by exfoliation. Potassa fusa and nitric acid were thus applied successfully in Mr. Keate's case. Exostoses do not recur after removal; and, fortunately, even when the base of attachment is left, the tumour is not likely to grow again.704 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., G. 250. Fig. 323 * Enchondroma.—In connection witli bone, encliondroma or cartilat^i nons tumour has already been considered, as being the most promine°nt part ot the general pathology of this species of Morbid Growth (Ch. II.) ; for it occurs principally in con- nection with the osseous system. Enchon- droma—or, occasionally, some other kind of growth—may be contained in the centre of a bone, and surrounded by an osseous shell or bony cyst; it is then sometimes designated "bullous exostosis," especially by French Surgical authors. Treatment.—Excision or amputation will be appropriate, according to the size and relations of the tumour. Osteo-Sabcoma.—The formation of a fibrous tumour in connection with bone is far more rare than the cartilaginous tumour. It is also illustrated by epulis and fibrous nasal polypus; both of which, however, are fibrous out-groidhs. Periosteal sarcoma— having its origin in the periosteum—invades the osseous texture, as well as growing out- wards. The fibrous tissue, in the form of fasci- culi, may have a radiated arrangement from the periosteum outwards. (Fig. 323.) Externally, the tumour has a nodulated character, and its consistence may vary in different parts; being hard and fibrous, or soft and succulent. In the specimen, a portion of the morbid growth has formed also in the cancellous tissue of the femur, and. occupies the meduUary canal. The Signs of any such tumour much resemble those of enchon- droma, and their diagnosis is unimportant. The Treatment is excision or amputation. Cysts.—Two kinds of cysts have been found in bone; the serous and sanguineous. Their pathology for the most part merges in the general history of these cysts (p. 129). They are multilocular, the cavities often communicating; and they are met with in the jaws or in the long bones, their shafts or articular ends. They grow to a large size, that of a cocoa-nut or foetal head. Unilocular cysts are also described by Nelaton as containing solid matter, of a filarous or fibro-cartilaginous structure, occupying entirely the cavity of the cyst. These are found in the same situations as the last, but grow to a less size. Cysts in bone form mostly in adults. Signs.—They produce an expansion of the surrounding osseous texture, and at length being enclosed in a thin lamellar capsule of bone, yield a crackling sensation under pressure with the finger and a deeper or more obscure elasticity or semi-fluctuation. Perforation here and there taking place by progressive absorption of the lamellar capsule, the enclosed tumour becomes more clearly perceptible. The superimposed skin yields before the increasing tumour; but without discolouration or any participation in the disease, and there is little or no accompanying pain. The tumour is thus plainly non-malignant in its development.Fig. 324.* TUMOURS OF BONE. 705 the bottom with lint. Granulation will * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., C. 219. Treatment—Fluid cysts may be laid open by removing a portion of the bone, by trephining or otherwise, and the cavity dressed from then obliterate the cyst. Solid cysts must be excised, or recourse had to amputation; according to the size and relations of the cyst. Cystic Tumours.—In bone, as in other parts, tumours occur, containing cysts. Fibro-cystic tumour of bone commences, apparently, in the cancellous tissue, and growing outwards, occasions fracture. The annexed figure represents a section of an enchondroma of the scapula, show- ing cysts, formed by absorption of the cartilaginous portion in parts, leaving the fibrous stroma. (Fig. 324.) The humerus was extensively involved. (See also "Path. Soc. Trans.," vol. i. p. 344.) The Signs are those of cysts in bone: an elastic sensation or obscure fluctuation. The absence of pain, integumental discolouration, and glandular swelling distinguish this tumour and other innocent cystic tumours from Cancer. The femur was the seat of the disease in four cases, one of ^'i^- 325.t ■which is related by M. J. Adams in the " Path. Soc. Trans.," vol. v., and the remaining three, by Mr. Prescott Hewett, are appended to the report of that case. Amputation was followed by permanent recovery in the above cases. Hydatid cysts in bone are interesting chiefly in relation to the fluid cysts, above described. The entozoon has been, in all cases, the echinococcus or acephalocyst (Fig. 325); except in one case, mentioned by Mr. Stanley, where the cysticercus cellulosse was found in the interior of one of the phalanges. But hydatid cysts are very rare; eight cases only being referred to in Rokitansky's work; to which a limited number of instances might be added. These cysts may be seated in a flat bone, as the skull or ilium, or in the expanded head of one or more of the long bones. The diagnosis with reference to ordinary fluid cysts can scarcely be drawn. The cysts increasing in size, fracture takes place, as probably the first appreciable sign; and the bone remains ununited. This, however, is incident to other diseases of bone. A discharge of t Ibid. C. 230. Hydatids in bone, the medullary cavity of the humerus being filled with echinococci in various stages of development; their growth has been attended with destruction of the cancellous tissue, and thinning and expansion of the shell of bone,—eccentric atrophy. About the middle of the shaft, this state has resulted in fracture. The patient waS' a man, aged thirty-four. (Presented by Mr. Boot, of Lincoln.) 2 Z706 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 1, 12. Fig. 326 * fluid containing entozoa would determine any question of diagnosis. This may occur spontaneously, or be obtained by puncture. The treatment, also, is the same as for ordinary fluid cysts; but it will be advisable to destroy the interior of the hydatid cyst by freely applying nitrate of silver or other caustic. Recureinq Tumoues of Bone,—The Myeloid form of Enchondroma, in connection with bone, is sufficiently de- scribed in the general pathology and treat- ment of this growth. The characteristic appearances on section are here delineated. (Fig. 326.) Recurring osteoid tumour is illustrated by a series of three preparations in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, to the re- markable history of which Mr. Holmes has called attention. A hard and heavy, dry osseous substance formed around the ends of the femur and tibia, projecting into the knee- joint, extending far up the thigh and impli- cating the popliteal artery, vein, and nerve, so as to cause oedema and severe pain. (Prep. No. 3244.) Amputation was performed at the thigh. The patient remained well for five years; then another osteoid tumour formed on the stump of the femur, accom- panied with severe pain. Amputation was performed higher up. The tumour appeared to grow, not from the bone itself so much as from the periosteum, and enclosed the (Prep. No. 3245.) An interval of health again con- when another tumour formed about the stump, femoral artery, tinned for two years ; progressed upwards, out of reach of operation, and finally proved fatal, by inflammation and sloughing of its soft coverings, twenty-five years after the first appearance of the disease. The general health of the patient, a male, remained unaffected during the whole period. (Prep. No. 3245a.) Another, and very similar case, may be found in Paget's " Surgical Pathology." These cases of recurring osteoid tumours certainly bear a remark- able analogy, in their course and tendency, to the recurring fibroid and fibro-nncleated tumours—varieties of fibrous tumour. Cancer.—Each species of Cancer—encephaloid, scirrhous, colloid, and epithelial cancer—is liable to form in connection with bone; but encephaloid is the most frequent. Like other diseases of bone. Cancer may affect the substance or the surface of a bone : in the one situation, it is known as interstitial or possibly central cancer; in the other, as periosteal cancer. In the substance of bone, interstitial cancer occurs in the form of scattered nodules, having a whitish colour, and the consistence of scirrhous, or hard encephaloid cancer. The cancer-cell—so littls absolutely characteristic of cancer—may be indistinguishable or absent. These nodules coalescing, form a mass, which occupies the cancellous tissue, and extends into the medullary canal. The bone surroundingCANCER OF BONE. 707 Fig. 327* althougli the disease a further degree of Fig. 328. t such a formation is expanded and thinned or thickened; with osseous fibres traversing the substance of the tumour, radiating from its centre. It is situated most commonly in the articular ends of a long bone, or in a flat bone, as the pelvis or skull. As affecting the whole bone, this condition of the disease is some- times designated infiltrated cancer of bone. On the surface of bone, periosteal cancer forms between the bone and periosteum; rarely involving the one, while the other may sometimes be traced over the tumour. Osseous fibres radiate from the surface of the bone through the tumour; and a bony deposit, forming a coral-like mass, often spreads around it. Periosteal cancer appears, usually, in the long bones, especially affecting their articular ends. (Fig. 327.) The incrusting cartilage of the contiguous joint generally escapes, in both this and the interstitial formation of cancer; may extend to the capsule. Osteoid cancer is a term used to designate ossification than that commonly met with in interstitial and periosteal cancer-growths. This is analogous to the ossification of enchondro- matous or cartilaginous, and fibrous, tumours. Osteoid cancer is described by Mr. 0. H. Moore as being, in a well-marked case of the primary tumonr, a large mass of the hardest enamel or ivory-like bone; the glandular disease is bony, though it may be less hard; and the disease disseminated in the soft internal organs, and protruding into the blood-vessels, is also in great part osseous. The osseous fabric or skeleton of any tumour which bas undergone ossification, may thus represent an osteoid tumour or growth ; as well as when such a tumour appears in the form of a purely osseous growth or out-growth, e.g., exostosis. The characteristic appearances of the new bony- growth are seen when the soft growth, with which it is associated in the general mass of the tumour, is removed by maceration. I have here represented the skeleton of an ossified encephaloid cancer, as an osteoid tumour. (Fig. 328.) The section of a femur, showing the osseous part of such a tumour, which occupied the place of the shaft of the bone.) The osseous substance is cancellous and spiculated ; but the form of the cancellous spaces differs from those of healthy bone. The whole tumour measured thirty-six inches in circumference. It was taken from a girl aged eleven years. Any bone is liable to cancer-formation; but some are far more so than others. The femur and tibia are most subject to the disease, and particularly the articular ends of these bones at the knee-joint. 3es of cancer of the long bones of the lower limb 11 * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 1, 27. | Ibid. 1, 170 Thus, of 20SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 708 were situated near this joint. The pelvis, spine, skull, especially the antrum, and the humerus, are also seats of cancer. Signs, and Diagnosis.—(1.) Cancer in the sub- ttance of bone produces expansion and an osseous tumour; but the nature of this tumour can scarcely be recognized at first. The enclosed encephaloid cancer is much harder than when this disease affects the soft parts. At length, the enclosing shell of bone yields, and the mass declares itself at once, or very shortly, as the tumour, unrestrained, grovs^s more rapidly. The ordinary characters of an en- cephaloid tumour become apparent: its soft consist- ence, lobulated contour, and large size (Fig. 329); with purple discolouration of the skin, enlarged, ramifying veins, and pain throughout the course of the disease. Pulsation, of a thrilling or blowing character, may become perceptible, owing to enlarge- ment of the vessels in th^ tumour, as it undergoes development. Fracture often occurs at the affected part. Glandular swellings and constitutional symp- toms will confirm the diagnosis. (2.) Periosteal cancer presents a tumour of more clearly cancerous character, and it grows more rapidly, at an earlier period. The muscles attached to the bone often become extensively infiltrated with cancer-cells. Thus may Cancer in, or on, bone be recognized and distinguished from any other species of tumour. The diagnosis of malignant and non-malignant tumour of bone lies, however, principally between encephaloid cancer and enchondroma. Here the presence or absence, ultimately, of the signs which indicate an extension of the disease to the integument and neighbouring lymphatic glands, will mainly determine the question. Puncture with a grooved needle is also available as a critical method of examination, in this case, no less than in other doubtful forms of tumour. I was thus enabled to determine the nature of a tumour at the lower end of the femur, close to the knee-joint, which in point of consistence and lobulated appearance much resembled enchondroma. Amputation was performed, and the mass proved to be encephaloid. Pulsating encephaloid may be distinguished from aneurism by the expansive, heaving character of the latter, as compared with the thrill- ing vibration of the former. Treatment.—Excision will be appropriate only in cases of limited cancer-growth in, or on, bone, and when situated where the whole diseased portion can thus be removed. But under, apparently, the most favourable circumstances, the operation itself may prove most perilous. I once assisted my colleague, Mr. De Meric, in removing an apparently movable tumour, the size of a small orange, and situated over one of the mid-ribs. But this little mass sprang from the bone, the rib readily broke, and the welling up of blood from the tumour— an encephaloid cancer—was so profuse, that the patient nearly died on the spot. He sank in a few days from hosmorrhage into the pleura. Amputation must generally be resorted to. This operation should * " Trans. Path. Soc. Lond.," vol. xxii. Mr. H. Arnott's case.709 DISEASES OF PARTICULAR BONES. be performed in the earliest recognized condition of tbe disease, and certainly before any enlargement of the lymphatic glands has evinced the supervention of systemic infection. Moreover, removal by am- putation can only be effectual for the prevention of the recurrence of cancer, when the operation is performed high above the part affected, so as to be entirely free of the seat of the disease. Hence, in interstitial cancer of bone, the line of amputation should be, not in the con- tinuity of the bone, but above the next joint; and in periosteal cancer the line will be most judiciously selected even higher up, above the origin of the muscles infiltrated probably by proximity to the disease. , Pulsatile Tumour of Bone, and Osteo-aneurism.—Structural Oon- ditions.—A pulsating tumour in, or on, bone may be—(1) a tumour, not itself pulsating, but in connection with an artery which communi- cates its pulsations thereto; as an enchondromatous, fibi'ous, or other tumour, thus connected; (2) a vascular tumour; usually cancerous and, particularly, encephaloid in the course of its development (Fig. 330); (3) a vascular groivth or erectile tumour of bone, resembling aneurism by anastomosis in the soft parts, and constituting osteo- aneurism. This last condition is very rare, if it exist at all; the best authorities, such as Oruveilhier and Rokitansky, are agreed respecting the rarity of osteo-aneurism, and that most pulsating tumours of bone are highly vascular encephaloid tumours. The situation of any such tumour is generally the cancellous interior of a bone, especially of the long bones, at their articular ends; as the femur, tibia,humerus, radius ; also in the flat bones, as those of the pelvis and skull, and in the ribs. Signs, and Diagnosis.—An en- largement of the bone, with a thrilling pulsation and bruit, are symptoms common alike to a highly vascular tumour, such as advanced encephaloid cancer, or aneurism by anastomosis. And this pulsation subsides on com- pressing the main artery of the limb. But the persistence of a tumour, and its incompressibility, would be distinctive of a mass having formed independent of the blood- * St. George's Hospital, II. 231. Malignant pulsatile tumour of the ilium. The patient, a man aged fifty-one, was admitted into the hospital, October, 1855, with a small tumour in the neighbourhood near the sacro-sciatic foramen, pulsating very distinctly. This disease was referred to an accident eight months previously. The case was distinguished from aneurism of the gluteal artery—a very rare condition— by the different character of the pulsation, by the fact also that pressure in the sacro-sciatic notch did not control the pulsation, and by the absence of bruit. In November, 1856, the tumour had increased very much on the nates, and pre- sented also in the iliac fossa, where fulness and pulsation were perceptible on deep pressure. The gi'owth had now acquired a lobulated form, its consistence varied in different parts, and the softest parts of the mass were most pulsatile. There was paralysis of the sphincters of the bladder and anus, and occasional haamaturia. The patient was emaciated. CEdoma of the lower extremities, especially of the left, supervened; and death ensued in about two years from the commencement of the Fio. 330.*SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 710 vessels, a vascular twmour, and not a vascular growth or enlarged con- geries of vessels. The bony case, however, which encloses any such tumour renders this test inapplicable, until the bone yields and the mass protrudes on the surface of the bone. Or compression of a main artery may be impracticable, ovsdng to the situation of the tumour, as in the pelvic bones. Or again, the supply of blood may come from so many arterial branches, that it cannot be arrested by compression. A tumour pulsating in connection with an artery is also distinguished in like manner. Subsequently, the nature of the tumour will be still further declared by its more developed characters; encephaloid cancer, for example, enlarges rapidly, and involves the skin and lymphatic glands. Treatment.—Having due regard to the almost exclusive cancerous nature of pulsating tumour of bone, excision must have the same re- stricted applicability as with regard to cancer of bone in general. This operation has failed in cases of cranial and scapular pulsating tumours. Amputation is the only justifiable operation of removal, in other than the few exceptional cases alluded to. The more decidedly en- cephaloid the disease, the more appropriate will be this more sweeping operation. It should be performed as soon as the nature of the disease is declared, and the line of amputation be chosen above the joint nearest to the bone affected. Ligature of the main a/rtery leading to the part is said to have proved successful in some cases ; but probably not in pulsating tumour of bone having an encephaloid character. Compression might be tried previous to ligature. Diseases of Particular Bones.—Cranial Bones.—Caries and Ne- crosis of these bones are liable to occur, as one of the local manifesta- tions of Scrofula or of Syphilis. Commonly affecting the arch of the skull, and particularly the frontal bone, the ethmoid and sphenoid bones do not escape. The temporal bone seems specially prone to scrofulous caries. The structural condition and signs are both described under the general pathology of Caries as affecting the surface of Bone, and of Scrofulous and Syphilitic Ostitis, and exfoliation. The causes, most frequently constitutional, are sometimes traumatic ; as exfoliation resulting from a contused wound of the scalp, or other injuries of the head. The course of either state of disease is important with reference to the probability of cerebral complications ; meniugitis with effusion, convulsions and coma, being apt to supervene and terminate fatally. Caries of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, as a form of Scro- fulous disease, is more particularly dangerous. Earache with chronic suppuration leads to perforation of the tympanum; the ossicula disease. Post-mortem examination disclosed further particulars. A very large mass of "malignant disease" was found connected with both surfaces of the iliac bone, and section on the dorsal aspect showed a cavernous structure. The arteries communicating with these large spaces accounted for the pulsatile character of the tumour. Both the ilium and sacrum were extensively eroded, the sacro-iliac joint destroyed, and spicula of bone were found scattered about the substance of the growth. The two portions of this mass, on the opposite sides of the iliac bone, were continuous through the substance of the bone, and around the sacro-sciatic notch. In the course of the disease, the internal iliac and other veins had become infil- trated with malignant deposits, which had also taken place in the left kidney.711 WOUNDS OF JOINTS. crumble, loosen, and are washed out by a profuse foetid discbarge, exposing the dura mater continuous with the cavities of the ear. If the disease be not fatal, permanent deafness results. Treatment.—The local measures for the removal of carious or ne- crosed portions of bone by operative interference, and the constitutional treatment of Scrofula or Syphilis, are in no way peculiar to the Cranial Bones. Other Bones are less frequently liable to caries and necrosis: the sternum, ribs, scapula, and pelvic bones. 'The pathology and treatment, in such cases, present no essential peculiarities. Diseases of the Jaws will be considered, under this title, in con- nection with Diseases pertaining to the Head, Diseases of the Spine.—See Spine. JOINTS. CHAPTER XXXIV. injuries.—sprains.—WOUNDS.—DISLOCATIONS. Sprains or Strains of the Ligaments of Joints.—These lesions essen- tially resemble similar injury of Tendons (Ch. XXII.). The anhle or wrist- joint is most commonly affected. Severe pain, possibly inducing syn- cope, is soon followed by swelling around the joint; succeeded by stiff- ness, and continued inability to use the joint. A very severe sprain, or its repetition, may leave the joint in a state of permanent weakness, and liability to dislocation. Or disease of the joint may ensue, in persons predisposed by any constitutional condition, as a rheumatic or gouty diathesis. And it would seem that injury to a joint so alters its structural condition as possibly to induce disease under favourable circumstances; and perhaps after the lapse of a considerable period. Thus, Sir B. Brodie, shortly before his death, I believe, suffered from a malignant tumour of the shoulder, which was, apparently, referable to some textural disorganization consequent on dislocation of the joint some years previously. The cause of sprain is a violent and sudden twist or wrench of a joint, whereby the opposing ligaments are stretched or somewhat ruptured. Even the epiphyses of bone may thus be detached, in a young subject. The treatment consists in an easy position and rest; warm or cold applications, according to the inflammatory character of the swelling and the feelings of the patient; followed by stimulating embrocations, and the support of a bandage, strapping with broad strips of plaster, or a starched bandage. "Wounds of Joints.—A wound extending into a joint may, like other "Wounds, be incised, punctured, contused, or lacerated; and the joint, accordingly, is more or less opened, or extensively injured. But the712 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. admission of air into the joint chiefly determines the importance of any such lesion; and thus the pathological condition of these different wounds must be estimated by this consideration. The extent of the synovial membrane or the size of the joint should also be taken into account. Signs and Synvptoms.—The escape of synovia from the external aperture, or an exposure of the interior of the articulation, are the only pathognomonic or absolute signs of a wound into a joint. Synovial fluid is recognized by its translucent, viscid, albuminous chai^cter, resernbling raw white of egg; the interior of a joint presents the additional characters of glistening synovial membrane and cartilage, and the peculiar disposition of the articular surfaces. But these appearances should be discovered by inspection, or gentle introduction of the finger; an exploring instrument might penetrate the synovial membrane, and cause a wound not otherwise existing. Wound of an adjoining bursa would be attended with the discharge of a similar fluid, but examination of the interior wiU determine the diagnosis. Inflammation of the synovial capsule rapidly supervenes, presenting the usual appearance of synovitis, but distinguished by two pecu- liarities : the intense pain, and more acute constitutional disturbance. Suppuration also is almost inevitable, with hectic, and irreparable destruction of the articular surfaces constituting the joint; or pyaemia intervening at an early period, proves fatal. In two cases under my care in the Hospital, wounds of the knee-joint exposing the articulation, both terminated in this way. Treatment.—Preservation of the limb—without any operative inter- ference-—should always be attempted, in the first instance. But the probability of success will depend chiefly on the nature of the wound, and the extent of the synovial membrane or the size of the joint. A small incised wound or puncture, in a small joint, as one of the finger- joints, allows of preservation with great probability of success ; a large, open, and perhaps contused wound, in a large joint, as the knee, is almost surely fatal to limb and life. Among large joints, however, those of the upper extremity—the shoulder, elbow, and wrist—are, commonly, more favourably disposed than in the lower extremity— the hip, knee, and ankle. To save a joint, the wound must be at once closed, in order to solicit union by primary adhesion. For the closure of a small cut or puncture, collodion may be an eflScient application; for a larger wound, a pledget of lint or piece of isinglass adhesive plaster should be used; or I would try the dressing with carbolic acid paste on tinfoil, according to Mr. Lister's plan under similar circumstances. Sutures may be inserted, to bring the lips of the wound accurately together before applying any such dressing, but they should be entered only skin deep, not through the synovial mem- brane; and as matter is more apt to form, under the irritation of sutures, thus preventing primary union, and may perhaps find its way into the joint, I seldom have recourse to them. Cold evaporating lotions, or perhaps a few leeches, will aid in repressing inflammation. But the limb must be kept in a state of absolute rest by means of a splint, and in such position, therefore, as shall be most conducive to relaxation and ease. I thus succeeded in saving a knee-joint, which had been opened by the kick of a horse, and with no anchylosis resulting. Synovitis having proceeded to suppuration—the synovial cap'sule713 DISLOCATION. having become converted into an abscess, the joint should be laid freely open by incisions, as advocated by Mr. Gay; and a position of the limb secured favourable for its utility, in the event of irreparable destruction of the articulation, followed by anchylosis. Destruction of the joint without this issue must be met either by excision of the diseased bone, or by amputation of the limb. The choice of these alternatives should be determined by a due consideration of the local and constitutional conditions. Fortunately, traiimatic arthritis, as proceeding from the synovial membrane to the adjoining cartilages and bones, seldom engages these structures beyond the range of excision. But the constitutional exhaustion may be so severe, as to compel recourse to amputation, rather than peril life by the slow recovery consequent on excision. Or, amputation may become necessary—and then without an alternative—after excision. Primary amputation, it would thus appear, should not be resorted to in any case. But, in its preventive relation to pyaemia, more espe- cially, it is questionable whether this operation might not be justifiable occasionally. An open, and perhaps contused, wound of a large joint, as the knee, represents conditions which may justify immediate ampu- tation. In the two such knee-joint cases under my care, life might perhaps have been saved by at once removing the limb; although in the third such case, both limb and life were preserved without any operative interference. Fracture involving the joint, or dislocation, as complications, in similar cases of wound, mostly demand immediate amputation. Wounds of Particular Joints are to be regarded in accordance with the general pathology and treatment of this kind of injury. Dislocation. Dislocation.—Structural Conditions.—Dislocation is a displacement of the articulatory portion of a bone from the surface on which it was naturally received ; accompanied by more or less laceration of the liga- ments, of the tendons and muscles, or other surrounding structures, and with some effusion of blood around the seat of injury. As arising from external violence, Dislocations may be termed 33X. traumatic; and when consequent on destruc- tion of the joint from disease, they are named spontaneous or pathological — dislocations which take place chiefly in the hip and knee-joints. Dislocations differ essentially in regard to the mode of their reparation, according as they are unaccompanied or attended by an open wound communicating with the dislocation ; the one being termed Simple, the other Compound. Complicated Dislocation is also a recognized distinction, signifying the concurrent injury of some other part. But this is not an essential con- dition, as pertaining to Dislocation. Con- genital Dislocation arises from malformation of the joint affected. In respect to the extent of displacement; dislo- cation may be incomplete, as hinge-joint dislocations not unfrequently are; or complete, as those of orbicular joints usually are (Fig. 331); this714 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. difference being due to the particular shape of the articular surfaces. The primary displacement is made more complete, especially in orbi- cular-joint dislocations, by tonic contraction of the muscles subsequently. Signs.—Dislocation is attended with a corresponding defacement or deformity of the outline of the joint; as represented by dislocation of the shoulder-joint, downwards into the axilla. The natural prominences of bone near the articulation either disappear, or are less conspicuous, as the great trochanter at the hip-joint; or they may be more promi- nent, as the acromion, in dislocations of the shoulder. The length of the limb is altered, and especially if the dislocation be complete. Elongation, or shortening, is produced; according as the head of the displacement bone happens to be lodged below, or above, the level of the articular surface on which it naturally moves. The possibility of either, or of only the latter, alteration of length taking place is deter- mined by the form of the articulation. An orbicular joint allows of dislocation in any direction from its circumference; upwards, down- wards, forwards, backwards. Hinge joints cannot allow of displace- ment in more than three directions ; backwards, forwards, and laterally, to the right or left. The direction of the dislocated bone, and thence of the limb below, is characteristic. Certain muscles being thrown out of action, by displacement of the portion of bone to which they are attached; others, thus acquiring a mechanical advantage, preponderate. The natural balance of opposing muscles, as flexors and extensors, is lost, and the limb acquires that particular attitude to which the pre- dominant muscles direct it. To these positive signs may be added two negative ones : immobility of the limb, which gradually supervenes, in proportion to the tonic contraction of the muscles; and also the absence of crepitation. A false crepitation can sometimes be felt, owing to friction of the articular head of the bone on the torn ligaments and tendons ; unlike the rough attrition of the bone-ends in fracture. The extravasation of blood gives rise to the appearance of ecchymosis or bruise, as the blood becomes subcutaneous; but this may not take place for some days after the dislocation. Bruising will, of course, be more immediate and conspicuous where dislocation is produced by direct violence to the part, as by a fall on the shoulder. In examining a dis- location, the limb should be compared with its fellow; at least, in any doubtful case. Pain and inability to use the limb are functional sym- toms of Dislocation, but of equivocal value in aid of determining the nature of the injury. Diagnosis.—The pain may be insignificant at first, before swelling supervenes ; and in oft-recurring dislocation, where the ligaments and muscles are weakened, especially in an old feeble subject. The power of motion may be retained under similar circumstances, for the tonic contraction of the muscles is insufficient to fix the limb. But if both pain and powerlessness are present, they may each rise from other causes than dislocation ; from fracture, sprain, a bruise, or rheumatism. The physical signs of Dislocation are each, in various degrees, in- variably present, and are almost exclusively connected with Dislocation. It is only as compared with Frac-ture in the neighbourhood of a joint that Dislocation can be confounded. But, firstly, the outline of the joint is different, otherwise than in exceptional cases. Thus, dis- locations of the hip-joint may be distinguished from fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, by this sign; so also, dislocations of the715 DISLOCATION. shoulder-joint, as compared with fracture of the anatomical neck of the humerus. When fracture exists, the reduction of displacement bj extension of the limb, and the immediate return of displacement on leaving the limb to itself, will best distinguish this injury from dis- location, as a general rule. But dislocation may co-exist with fracture near the joint, as rare forms of double injury; principally in the shoulder, wrist, and hip. Then, again, as to alteration of the length of the limb; elongation is always peculiar to dislocation; shortening may, however, be due to unimpacted fracture with displacement. Fracture may, thus far, simulate dislocation upwards, in orbicular dislocations; or dislocation, forwards or backwards, in hinge-joint dislocations. But it is only in such directions of displacement that shortening of the limb can be equivocal. The direction or attitude of the limb is almost always peculiar to dislocation. Lastly, the crepita- tion and mobility of fracture are both absent with dislocation. Tonic muscular contraction, whereby an articular displacement becomes fixed, proceeds slowly; and immobility, therefore, can scarcely be regarded as an early sign of dislocation. In one case, a dislocation of the femur into the foramen ovale was examined by Sir A. Cooper, a few minutes after the accident; the limb was still very movable, and continued so for the space of nearly three hours, when it became fixed. Paralysis may be attended with such muscular relaxation as to allow of free movement, in examining a limb with dislocation. But if the physical signs of Dislocation, taken severally, are thus insufiicient; collectively, they cannot fail to establish the diagnosis of this injury. Causes, and Effects of Dislocation.—Dislocation is produced, in general, by external force, suddenly applied. Predisposing causes are, however, very influential. Some such cases are functional actions depending on anatomical conditions; as the shape of the articular surfaces allow- ing a free range of motion, laxity of the ligaments retaining them, and the powerful action of many muscles on a long lever-like bone. All these predisposing conditions are combined in the shoulder-joint, and less so in the hip. Hinge joints, being more favourably circumstanced ana- tomically, are less liable to dislocation. Other predisposing conditions are ac- quired by disease; and these also have reference to the cartilage and head of the bone, which may be destroyed by ulceration and caries ; to the ligaments, as loosened by this process (Fig. 332) ; or to those muscles which naturally aid in retaining the articular surfaces in apposition, but which may have become wasted and enfeebled, or paralyzed. Dislocation is attended with more or less shock, followed by re- action ; or the latter is sometimes accompanied with exhaustion, this ♦ St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 3, 24. Elongation of capsule of hip-joint, to the extent of from four to five inches, with a tuft of filiform processes. Cavity of the acetabulum nearly obliterated. Head of the femur partially absorbed, and the round ligament has disappeared. See also " Med. Chir. Trans.," vol. xxiv.SPECIAL PATHOLOaT AND SURGERY. 716 mixed state constituting traumatic delirium or prostration with ex- citement ; which may be succeeded by tetanus. But, in general, no such serious consequences need be apprehended; after the dislocation has been reduced, the immediate shock of the previous injury soon passes off. Beparation.—The ruptured ligaments, and tendons, if any be torn, are disposed to re-unite by primary adhesion, without inflammation. Lymph is eiiused which speedily passes into fibrous tissue, through the medium of nucleated blastema. Any superfluous reparative material, and the blood extravasated by the injury, are absorbed ; and thus the concomitant swelling subsides. The joint is ultimately re- stored to nearly its originally perfect construction. This presupposes the previous reduction of the dislocation. If the bone remain dislodged from its natural articulatory surface or cavity, then a new joint is constructed, the formation of which will be described in connection with Unreduced Dislocation. The Prognosis of reduced Dislocation is favourable, with regard to re-union of the ruptured ligaments and the tendons, if any be torn ; their reparation by adhesion being subcutaneous, and not affected by exposure to the air, as in the healing of an open wound. But the prognosis must be determined by a due consideration of all those internal causes which either aid the recurrence, or may pre- vent the original reduction, of Dislocation; and which are, moreover, persistent in their tendency to perpetuate the displacement. Causes of recurrence may be noticed first, they being among the conditions already mentioned as predisposing to Dislocation. Some of these conditions are, as we have seen, anatomical; a patulous shape of the articular surfaces, laxity of the ligaments, and a long lever-like bone, on which many muscles act. Hence dislocations of the shoulder- joint are specially apt to recur, and less so hip-joint dislocations. Hinge joints are, anatomically, less disposed to re-dislocation. Other such causes are morbid conditions; ulceration of the articular carti- lages, with perhaps caries of the adjoining bone, relaxation of the ligaments, a weakened or paralytic condition of the muscles. Of causes opposing reduction, may be mentioned the anatomical shape of the articular surfaces; as the prominent rim of the acetabulum, in hip-joint dislocations, and the cup-shaped head of the radius, which is locked in front of the humerus, in dislocation of that bone forwards. Any ligaments which may not have yielded with dislocation, seem to bind down the bone; as the first phalangeal bone of the thumb when dislocated upon its metacarpal bone. Tonic conti'action of the muscles can scarcely be regarded as an unconquerable source of opposition; but the structural change of the muscles which accompanies their permanent shortening and functional adaptation, in unreduced dis- location, is a condition of resistance, not to be overcome judiciously by- forcible reduction; and less so in proportion to the duration of this condition. The prognosis is that of unreduced dislocation, with the formation of a new or substitute joint. Treatment.—After Dislocation, especially of the orbicular joints, the muscles which favour the particular displacement draw the head of bone into its new position, and there fix it; but this displacement, and fixation, are accomplished gradually. The head of the humerus, for example, having been displaced forwards by the violence whichDISLOCATION. 717 caused dislocation, it is then dravra inwards, and eventually there fixed. But, immediately after Dislocation, the muscles are always partially paralyzed by the shock to the nervous system consequent on the injury, and for a short period they remain powerless. Subse- quently, their tonic contraction comes into operation. Therefore, at the time of dislocation, and soon after, the displacement caused by muscular action can be easily replaced ; and any resistance of this kind may be partly neutralized by a position suitable to the further relaxation of the antagonistic muscles. This, then, is the earliest con- dition of dislocation, ere the muscles complete the displacement; and this the most favourable opportunity for its reduction, when the muscles are as yet powerless. Thus, immediately after a dislocation of the femur backwards, Listen, having this opportunity, immediately reduced it, on the spot, without pulleys, or even the help of an assistant. If Dislocation be overlooked or neglected for a few hours, tbe muscles will then have become more immovably adapted to their new lines of action; subsequently, they become shortened also ; a new joint is in process of formation; the track through which the head of bone has passed is occupied with plastic lymph; if the rent in the ligaments be small, this aperture tightly embraces the neck of th.e displaced bone, which becomes adherent and more fixed; and lastly, the natural articular surface or cavity gradually undergoes oblitera- tion. Replacement is, at length, scarcely practicable, if possible, and certainly not to be accomplished without endangering many structures —muscles, nerves, vessels, and perchance the bone itself; nor without re-opening the track through which the head of bone had passed, and re-rupturing the ligaments ; and even then only to find the natural articular cavity effaced or obliterated. Delay, therefore, proportion- ately precludes replacement by any conservative surgical interference. The rules of treatment are precisely analogous to those relating to Fracture. (1.) Bednction and Coaptation, or replacement of the displaced head of bone in relation to its natural articular surface or cavity. This implies a suitable position of the limb, as far as possible; to relax the antago- nistic muscles which, by their tonic action, retain the head of bone in its new position. But coaptation also implies extension and counter- extension of the limb, sufficient only to bring the head of bone parallel to its natural articular surface or cavity; the " reduction " of dislocation. Coaptation is then readily effected. ' (2) Maintenance of Coaptation, during the reparative process of re-union of the torn ligaments, tendons, etc. This still pre-supposes a suitable position; not, however, with the view of relaxing such mus- cular contraction as maintains coaptation, but for the prevention of re-displacement by the spasmodic action of antagonistic muscles. But it also implies the employment of suitable retentive appliances; and both, to ensure rest. The Reduction of Dislocation is & process; in this respect differing from the reduction of Fracture, which is readily effected. In Disloca- tion, reduction must be accomplished by retracing the displacement which has been caused by the muscles in operation; the head of bone being conducted, through the course it has thus taken, back to the point where muscular action began. Tonic contraction of the muscles718 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. will then effect coaptation. It is in retracing the course of displacement —the performance of reduction—no less than as regards the iivieliness of Surgical intervention, that the guidance of pathology is chiefly experienced in the treatment of Dislocation. To facilitate reduction, muscular resistance is eluded, partly by undertaking reduction as soon as possible after dislocation, when the muscles are as yet inoperative ; aud partly by placing the limb in a suitable position, as far as possible, to relax the antagonistic muscles. The semi-flexed position, as nearly as it can be attained, is the happy medium generally desirable for this purpose. In hip-joint dislocations, flexion of the knee relaxes the three ham-string muscles; while, for dislocations of the knee, the gas- trocnemius muscle also is thus relaxed. For shoulder-joint dislocations, flexion of the elbow relaxes the biceps muscle. And it should be re- membered that the flexor muscles are always stronger, and therefore more resisting, than the extensors. The resources for subduing muscular resistance will be noticed presently, in speaking of the act of reduction. JUxtension and counter-extension of the limb are necessary in all cases, and more especially for the reduction of ball-and-socket dislocations. The extending force may be either manual, as exerted by the Surgeon with an assistant or more ; or mechanically applied, by pulleys. Manual extension is less steady and less enduring; and as those who are so employed become fatigued, they relax their exertions, the muscles engaged in the dislocation regain their original supremacy and draw the bone back again to its former abnormal position, reproducing the displacement, and the work of extension has to be done all over again. Extension by means of pulleys is, however, apt to become too forcible, thereby endangering muscles, nerves, vessels, and even the bone itself ; but force applied by this means can be better directed than that of personal strength. In like manner, counter-extension may be main- tained either by an assistant or more; or by mechanical resistance, a cloth or strap being secured to some fixed point, as a staple firmly fixed in a wall. The relative merits of these two means of counter-extension also should be estimated by the respective characters of the forces, which are thus applied. As a general rule, pulleys are requii'ed only to reduce hip-joint dislocations, unless manipulation prove successful. When employed, precautions should be taken that the integuments of the part to which the force is applied are not injured. Extension may, therefore, be applied to the limb through a belt, padded with soft leather. If a strong woollen cloth be used Fig. 333. instead, the noose should be fixed around the limb by the clove-hitch tie, which retains its hold securely, without tightening. (Fig. 333.) Besides this provision against strangu- lation, a damp cloth, under the noose, wiU protect the skin from friction. To what 'part of the limb should extension be applied ? On this point, opinions are divided, as with regard to fracture. Some of the most eminent French Surgeons have recommended extension to be made indirectly, from the distal extremity of the limb—from the wrist, in shoulder-joint dislocation ; from the ankle, in that of the hip-joint. It is alleged that the advantage thereby gained is twofold.DISLOCATION. 719 The muscles are not excited to spasmodic action, as tliey would be were force directly applied to the dislocated bone ; and besides this negative advantage, there is also the positive advantage of a longer lever, wherewith to act on the dislodged head of bone. The English School, represented hy Pott and Sir A. Cooper in this branch of Surgical Practice, and supported by equally distinguished Continental Surgeons, as J. L. Petit, Daverney, Malgaigne, and Callisen, have advocated extension directly, from the dislocated bone. Thus, from the arm, when the humerus is dislocated; from the thigh, when the femur is dislocated. This direct application of extending force avoids endangering the intervening joints, and tells more eifectually on the dis- placement. Certain it is, also, that a long lever is not requisite for any truly surgical purpose. If the muscles be relaxed, no such mechanical advantage can be necessary ; if not relaxed, muscular contraction can be so directed as to eventually complete the reduction without the aid of a long lever. Moreover, assuming the obvious advantage of a semi- flexed position of the proximal joint below the dislocation, this position will necessitate the application of any extending force directly to the dislocated bone. Counter-extension is most effectual when applied as directly as possible, namely, from the surface corresponding to the dislocation. Supposing counter-extension to be rightly adjusted, extension should be made first in that direction which the bone has assumed by dislocation. The head of the bone is thereby made to retrace its course, and is finally replaced without any additional laceration of the textures. Then, again, the extending force should be equable, not jerking, and gradually increased; accompanied, of course, by counter- extension, equal, and in the opposite direction. Any voltmiary muscular resistance on the part of the patient, during reduction, is subdued by diverting his attention. A question now and then, as to how the accident happened, may answer this purpose, if no other; and by inducing our patient to speak, we overcome any advantage which the muscles attached to the thorax would otherwise have, were the chest fixed, as when the breath is held. This point of practice will obviously be important in reducing dislocation of the shoulder-joint. Tonic muscular contraction is most surely overcome by the slow inhalation of chloroform ; but this should not be resorted to in the first instance. Supposing increasing-extension prove in- effectual, and that any further degree of such force would, or might, endanger-the muscles, nerves, or vessels; then only, in my opinion, is the administration of chloroform justifiable, for then only is the occa- sional peril of its action warrantable as our next resource. We thus steer clear of two risks : the former concerning the limb ; the latter, the life. But if we fail at the time of our first attempt, and followed up with the relaxing aid of chloroform; what then ? I omit the objec- tionable measures formerly resorted to; nauseating doses of tartarized antimony, and the perhaps irrecoverable loss of the vital fluid by copious venesection, in the erect position and from a large orifice to speedily induce cerebral syncope. The warm bath may prove suffi- ciently relaxing ; but this failing, we are compelled to accept the only alternative, that of waiting until the immediate consequences of exten- sion have passed off, and then to renew it; aided by the repetition of chloroform, the warm bath, or both these relaxatives, successively.720 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUKGERY. This second occasion, fairly tried, should be our last by increasing- extension ; yet it is not our last resource. Unreduced dislocations, of some duration, and not reducible by ordinary extension, prolonged even for an hour or two, have sometimes been reduced by tiring the antagonistic muscles; simply by attaching a trifling weight to the limb for a few hours. This tiring-extension is quite safe, as regards both limb and life, and would therefore, whenever practicable, be far pre- ferable to increasing-extension under the influence of chloroform; but, if it fails, the muscles will have gained considerable advantage by the further delay, and by the consolidation consequent on inflammatory effusion. While, therefore, tiring-extension might be a valuable safe- guard—probably an assistant—in the intervals of a first and second attempt at reduction by increasing-extension, aided, if necessary, by chloroform, as an extra resource it is most eligible in old dislocations, where that mode of reduction would be dangerous or useless. The younger Cline, in this way, succeeded in reducing a dislocation of the shoulder which had been out for several weeks and could not be re- placed in the ordinary way. Having fixed the shoulder, a brick, attached to the hand, was suspended over the end of the bed. On visiting his patient next day, the bone had returned to the socket. In the course of extension, and especially towards its completion, it is the practice of some Surgeons to rotate the dislocated bone, so as to forcibly clear away any adhesions in the path along which the dis- placed head of bone should return home. But this forcible detrusion of any and every obstacle is damaging and unnecessary. And if such obstacles have become established, in an old unreduced dislocation, then indeed it is very questionable whether reduction should be at- tempted, and certainly not accompanied with the rupturing force of rotation. CoajJtation, following adequate extension, is the next and final step, after reduction, which it may be said to complete. The displaced head of bone has been reduced, or brought back to that point where the muscles first began to operate, and where it was situated immediately after the displacement as effected by the violence which dislodged the bone. It stands on the brink of its natural articular surface or cavity; the one ready to regain, the other to re-establish, the articulation. This final step it is now the duty of the Surgeon to observe, or to undertake, by coaptation—a manipulation analogous to the setting of fracture. Surgical assistance is needed according to the resistance offered by the shape and attitude of the two articular surfaces to be brought together. The head of bone may only need guiding to its proper place, into which the muscles, if not too much relaxed, will draw it; or it may require to be lifted over the brink of the articular cavity, if this its margin be prominent; as that of the acetabulum, in relation to dislocation of the bead of the femur. Direct manipulation is, however, more generally necessary in the coaptation of hinge-joint dislocations; while, in ball- and-socket dislocations, the displaced bone is more usually guided into its hole, by properly directing the axis of the limb, towards the finish of extension. The ligaments scarcely ever resist. They are, in most cases, extensively torn ; the capsular ligaments especially so. But a small rent only, in a ligamentous capsule, may offer some impediment; or the aperture may be occupied by a portion of torn tendon or muscle. Any ligament peculiar to the joint is also generally torn through, as721 DISLOCATION. tlie round ligament in hip-joint dislocations; but—according to the observations of Sir A. Cooper—if one such ligament remain entire, it may occasion difficulty in the reduction, as he experienced with respect to the knee and ankle joints. In dislocations of the latter joint, it is often necessary to twist the foot, in order to relax the untorn ligament, before reduction can be effected. In dislocation of the proximal pha- lanx of the thumb on the posterior aspect of the metacarpal bone, ib may be necessary to divide, subcutaneously, one of the lateral ligaments ; the external being most easily reached. In all cases, coaptation should be guided by a due knowledge of the pathological conditions, and not effected by mechanical violence. Coaptation is announced by a snap, a jerk, or sensation of some- thing having given way; this being the signal that the muscles have done their duty by drawing the head of the bone home. If, therefore, the muscular system be paralyzed, as under the influence of chloroform, or if the particular muscles engaged be weakened by prolonged ex- tension, or extension be overpowering at the time of coaptation; in either case, the usual signal cannot be given. But the limb immedi- ately assumes its natural length and attitude, as in repose; and the natural contour of the joint is recovered. The latter sign is the one most available in practice; for the natural length and shape of the limb cannot be compared otherwise than by suspending extension, a cessation of effort which would at once undo all that had been gained, if coaptation be not accomplished. The natural mobility of the limb is immediately regained with coaptation; and this sign, coupled with the anatomical characters just mentioned, plainly declares that the natural articulation, is restored. Being thus assured of tbis event, the Surgeon need do but little more. Muscular contraction, having finally brought the bone into place, retains it there. Unlike fracture, the reduction of which is ac- complished easily, but maintained only by watchful care, dislocation is reduced only by watchful care, after which the muscles take care of the joint. To maiutain coaptation, it is necessary only to fix the limb, and in a suitable position for the relaxation of any muscles which by their action might re-dislocate the bone. This indication is easily fulfilled by securing the limb with a bandage ; the arm to the chest, the leg to its fellow. Position and immobility are the more requisite on behalf of shallow joints, and if the ligaments be naturally loose ; both of which conditions characterize the shoulder-joint. The twofold pre- caution of position and immobility is yet more necessary on behalf of any dislocation, when the muscles which usually prevent its recurrence are themselves naturally flabby and weak, or have been weakened by the dislocation, and by the extension necessary for its reduction. If, in such case, the limb be not securely fixed and supported in a suitable position, it may re-dislocate itself, not so much by the action of anta- gonistic muscles, as by the mere weight of the limb. Rest of the limb, thus retained in position, will also favour the sub- ; sidence of any inflammation which may have supervened. But, the inflammation being subcutaneous, it terminates in resolution, very : rarely in suppuration. Any so-called antiphlogistic treatment, there- ; fore, is as seldom necessary; certainly not of a constitutional character, i and locally only, by the application of a cold lotion in the first instance ; 3 ASPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 722 with subsequently friction daily to revive the dormant muscles. Ample time must be allowed for firm re-union of the ligaments or other lacerated textures; failing which, the joint will be permanently weakened and ever liable to re-dislocation. On the other hand, judi- cious exercise of the joint, by passive motion occasionally, will prevent the tendency, otherwise, to some degree of anchylosis and permanent stiffness; with the irrecoverable loss of muscular power in the limb. Thus, in ten days or a fortnight, the Surgeon may begin to put the joint gradually through its movements ; especially the more firmly secured joints, as the hip and elbow; the shoulder-joint, being naturally looser, must be handled more lightly. Some months may elapse ere . the patient regains free use of the joint and power in the limb. Compound Dislocation.—Stntdural Condition, and Diagnostic Cha- racters.—Compound Dislocation is, essentially. Dislocation with a wound in the skin communicating; thereby exposing the injured joint, however indirectly, to the action of the air. The structural disorgani- zation, as regards the state of the joint, is the same as in simple dis- cation; but compound dislocation is usually accompanied with mor ■ severe contusion or laceration of the surrounding soft textures. Thi- condition, coupled with that of the aperture externally, which is also contused or lacerated, together form a Contused or Lacerated Wound, connected with, and around, a Dislocation. The Signs of this injury are the same as those of simple dislocation, with the additional and distinctive character of an external irregular wound. In short, both the condition and characters are those of simple Dislocation, pZzis those of contused or lacerated Wound. Compound dislocation occurs most frequently in the ankle-joint, occasionally in the knee and elbow ; rarely in the shoulder and wrist: and very rarely in the hip-joint. Of the smaller joints, compound dislocations of the astragalus, and of the thumb, are most common. Causes, and Effects of Compound Dislocation.—Here also the patho- logical history is that of simple dislocation, with certain peculiarities superadded. Generally speaking, the dislocated bone having passed through the adjoining soft parts, in the direction of the displacement, and come to the surface, it protrudes through the skin; and thus the wound is an extension of the injury from loithin. But, in some cases, external violence is the cause of the wound in the skin and subjacent soft parts, as well as of the connected dislocation; which may then be regarded as produced by an extension of the injury from witliout. In the one case, the force is applied indirectly, to the bone at some dis- tance off, and the injury is more a laceration, and less extensive; in the other case, the force is applied directly to the joint, and tlie injury is more a contusion. In both cases, the lacerated or contused textures are damaged beyond the apparent extent of injury; and the shock to the nervous system is more severe than with simple dislocation, owing to the gi-eater damage to the soft parts, including nerves. Tetanus is, perhaps, more likely to ensue than after a contused or lacerated wound alone, and especially if the compound dislocation be that of a ginglymoid joint, as of the thumb. Injuries of unyielding fibrous or ligamentous textures are generally prone to induce Tetanus. The textures injured, being in a state of disintegration, die, at least to some extent around, if the wound be allowed to remain open. This purely traumatic gangrene is the same as that caused by a723 COMPOUND DISLOCATION. lacerated or contused wound. Limited, therefore, to the part injured, and defined, eventually, by a line of demarcation between the living and dead textures, the gangrene is also immediate, if the injury itself be severe. Course and Terminations.—Inflammation supervenes, followed by suppuration, often profuse, and partial sloughing; or gangrene, possibly, on a larger scale. Yet this also is limited to the seat of injury. Ulti- mately, compound dislocation, when reduced, not unfrequently under- goes reparation ; the torn ligaments and tendons becoming reconnected, and the wound closing up by the healing process of suppurative granu- lation and cicatrization. Spreading gangrene—due to some morbid condition of the blood— is only contingent, occasionally, on compound dislocation; just as it may be associated with compound fracture, and with contused and lacerated wounds. The phenomena of this species of gangrene were described under the last-named form of Injury. The Prognosis of Compound Dislocation, as gathered from the fore- going elements of its natural course and tendency, is far less favourable than that of simple Dislocation. An oj)en wound, communicating with the joint, as compared with subcutaneous laceration of the soft parts, is one unfavourable ground of pi-ognostic distinction. Scarcely less so is the greater extent of their laceration, usually, in compound Dislocation, especially if produced by direct violence. Sjpreading gangrene is an adventitious condition, but as implying the co-operation of a constitu- tional cause, it has a most unfavourable significance. Treatment.—The same rules of treatment are applicable as for simple dislocation; but certain particulars, having reference to the special pathology of compound dislocation, are peculiar to its treatment. Heduction of the displacement may present special difficulties. Thus, if the bone protrude, excision is preferable to violent efforts at reduction. In regard to the ankle, the knee, and elbow joints, removal of the ends of bone may be resorted to, with advantage and safety. The head of the astragalus has been removed, when, by dislocation forwards, it protruded and could not be returned. The practice of excision in compound dislocation, to aid reduction, is as old as the time of Celsus ; but in modern Surgery—revived by Mr. Hey, of Leeds, and advocated by Sir A. Cooper—relative to the ankle-joint, it has since been sanctioned, as an occasional expedient, by the united testimony of experienced Surgeons, English, American, and foreign. The Wound.—Reduction having been accomplished, and the limb retained in a suitable position—^to prevent the recurrence of dislocation —by appropriate bandaging or apparatus, the treatment peculiar to compound dislocation is that relating to the wound, and state of the soft parts involved. The ■primary indication is to close the wound, with the view of soliciting its union by adhesion, and thus convert the dislocation into a simple one. For this purpose, a pad .of lint—soaked in blood from the wound, as formerly practised, or better, simply wet lint, or soaked in carbolic acid solution—should be applied over and around the wound, so as entirely to exclude the air. But, watching the progress of the case, when primary adhesion becomes obviously impossible, the attempt should be forthwith discontinued, in order to give free vent to matter during the process of suppuration. JEarly solicitation of healing by primary adhesion, and timely abandonment of the attempt, in favourSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 724 of suppuration, as soon as this event occurs or is inevitable, constitutes a compromise, which overrules any objection as to the jyrohahle failure of the one and the supervention of the other. It may secure the advantage, otherwise forfeited, of thus having to deal with only a sirrqAe Dislocation. In the event of Suppuration, early, free, and dependent incisions are indicated, for the same reasons, as in compound fracture; and a poultice or spongio-piline soaked in warm water as a fomentation, is now the proper application ; to be exchanged for light water-dressing, or with carbolic acid solution, when the continuance of warmth with moisture would only sodden and relax, and when the wound is granulating. The same hygienic and meAical treatment also, as for compound fracture will prove efficacious iu sustaining the system under the hectic fever a,nd exhaustion consequent on prolonged and perchance profuse suppurative discharge, and in overcoming the typhoidal fever induced by gangrene or sloughing. Amputation.—The " question of amputation " depending upon the supervention of gangrene, or of profuse suppuration, the;pro2nieiy of this FiQ. 334.* operation is determined by pathologico-anatomical conditions parallel to those of compound fracture. (1.) Frimary amputation, only when the whole substance of a limb being involved by compound dislocation, the limb itself is already, in the first instance, virtually lost, and life as inevitably endangered. Such was the condition of compound disloca/- tion represented in Fig. 334, the integuments having been removed from the limb to display the various kinds and extent of lesion. ; Unique as a new form of elbow-joint dislocation, by dislodgment of the' radius and ulna outwards and upwards on to the extei'nal ridge of the humerus above the condyle, the forearm had thus undergone an " external latero-angular dislocation.^' The relative position of the... bones, and thence the peculiar appearance of the joint externally and configuration of the limb, I have described in the " Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Rev., January," 1866. As justifying amputation, the lesions co- existing were these. A large lacerated wound about the middle of the forearm in front, exposing the muscles and a portion of both bones, with • Koyal Free Hospital. (Autlior.)COMPOUND DISLOCATION. 725 the interosseous membrane. All the flexor muscles, superficial and deep, were torn across, partially or entirely, sparing their tendinous and aponeurotic portions, wbich appeared deep in the wound as so many shreddy strings from which the muscular substance had been raked off. All the vessels and nerves, however, excepting, of coarse, their muscular branches, had escaped rupture; the ulnar nerve, the inferior profunda artery accompanying it above the joint, and the ulnar artery in the forearm, the median nerve with its interosseous branch and the corresponding branch of artery, and lastly, the radial artery and nerve. But the skin was almost completely detached from the sheath of the muscles on the front and back of the forearm, and some way above the joint. The large tract of subcutaneous cellular texture thus dis- organized was infiltrated with blood, not discernible through the skin, which appeared unbruised. A small contused aperture just above and behind the inner condyle communicated directly with the joint, con- stituting a compound dislocation. This extensive injury was caused by severe contusion and a lacerating wrench between the buffers of two railway carriages. (2.) Secondary amputation, when the extent of damage done by the injury being itself partial, the supervention of gan- grene or of profuse suppuration is only proportionately probable, and the limb, therefore, not inevitably lost, nor the life perilled. Such post- ponement of aftiputation is justifiable to give the limb its chance of preservation by delay ; while the preservation of life is provided for by timely amputation, when the adverse circumstances, alluded to, actually supervene. The rules laid down in surgical works, with reference to the extent of injury, are not the expressions of a sufficiently accumulated pathological experience, in different doubtful cases ; and they over- look the necessarily unknown capabilities of reparation in different individuals. Cases occurring, from time to time, which have proved exceptional to any such rules, suggest the all-important consideration,— in how many more cases might limbs be saved which are thus sacrificed surgically ? No extent of injury, as to the vessels, nerves, muscles, and integu- ments—short of the whole substance of a limb being involved—in ■ connection with compound dislocation, can be said to absolutely pro- hibit the attempt to preserve the limb, in the first instance. Thus, compound dislocation of the knee-joint was pronounced by Sir A. Cooper to be a condition of disorganization which imperatively ■ demanded primary amputation. Exceptions, occasionally, have since I disproved that dictum, in this form of injury. In the case of a boy, nine years of age, at the Westminster Hospital, Mr. White succeeded in saving the limb, by sawing off the condyles of the femur and reducing the bone. In the ankle-joint, the end of the tibia may be removed and reduction accomplished ; a proceeding which I remember Mr. Listen : advocated more than thirty years ago. A person jumps out of a I carriage behind, while the horse is running away, and alighting on 1 his feet, the tibia of either leg may be driven through the integuments, i and perhaps come in contact with the earth. Eemoval of the bruised 1 portion of bone will facilitate the reduction, and has proved successful I in preserving the limb. Dislocation of the astragalus, in like manner, may be similarly treated. In two cases of compound dislocation of 1 the foot inwards, one of which was complicated with compound fracture726 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. and dislocation of the astrag:alus, the parts could be reduced after excision of the external malleolus, and the patients recovered with useful limbs. Both cases occurred in the practice of Mr. Spencer Smith. Excision, indeed, bids fair to surpass amputation in other compound Dislocations. Complicated Dislocation.—Dislocation may be complicated by association with the laceration of muscles which are put upon tlio stretch ; as the pectineus and adductor brevis, by dislocation of the thigh downwards into the thyroid foramen ; even their unyieldin-,' tendons are sometimes ruptured, as the sub-scapularis tendon, by dis'- location into the axilla. Large blood-vessels occasionally share tlio same fate, accompanied with hemorrhage and livid swelling; a viaii, nerve also may be torn asunder. Fracture of the shaft, or of the head of the bone dislocated, is another complication. This is more like' to occur in dislocation from direct violence; as by a fall on tl hip or shoulder, the neck of either bone is perilled; the olecran< ^ also may be knocked off; the bulky head of the tibia shattered; or the tarsal end of the tibia broken and bruised. Thus, then, all tlie parts around a dislocation are liable to be involved in the injnrv. But, obviously, none of those special injuries to internal organs can occur, which may complicate the Fracture of certain bones—the pelv x bones, the ribs, the bones forming the skull. Respecting morbid co. ditions; local diseases, i.e. of the joints themselves, may predispose i dislocation and thence to its recurrence, by previous disorganizaticjii of the joint affected; a parallel kind of complication to that oi: fracture from disease of the bone. So also, the diseased condition of the joint is frequently a local manifestation of some blood-disease —e.g., syphilis or scrofula, as a constitutional cause, rather than of traumatic or local origin. Whenever dislocation from disease of the joint has the former mode of origin, the reparative process is propor- tionately slow and uncertain; the more so when the constitutional disease is actually in operation. Treatment.—Both the general considerations of pathology, and the corresponding Rules of Treatment, pertaining to Complicated Fracture, are applicable also to Complicated Dislocation. Firstly,—If any morbid condition be in operation, locally or constitu- tionally, predisposing to the occurrence of Dislocation, the treatment must be entirely subject to such causative condition. Secondly,—If there be any injury additional to Dislocation, the treatment of the dislocation may be of entirely subordinate importance, even although it be, as in many such cases, severely Compound. Unreduced Dislocation and False-joint; Congenital Dislocation.— These pathological conditions may be taken consecutively : the one as the result of neglected, or possibly irreducible Dislocation; the other as being irreducible or incapable of continued reduction, owing to some congenital malformation. Both are supplementary to the pathology and treatment of ordinary Dislocation. Unreduced Dislocation and False-joint.—Structional Conditions.— The alterations of structure consequent on unreduced Dislocation are the formation of a new joint, the obliteration of the former or natural articulation, and of the track through which the head of the dislocated bone passed to its present locality. The new joint is moi-e or less perfectly constructed. If the dis-727 UNREDUCED DISLOCATION AND FALSE-JOINT. placed bone be lodged upon rmtscle, it gradually burrows for itself a convenient nest, the two surfaces become mutually adapted to each other, and a capsular ligament being formed of condensed cellular tissue, an imperfect joint is established. But should the bone have found a resting-place on hone, this, by absorption, loses its periosteum, and that its articular cartilage; a receptacle is excavated suitable to Fig. 335.* Fig. 336.t Fig. 337. t the impression of the displaced articular surface (Fig. 335) ; a bony- rim or lip is thrown up by the periosteum around the margin of this newly formed cavity; the surrounding cellular texture, moreover, becomes condensed into a capsular ligament, which further provides against any displacement; and thus a far more perfect joint is constructed. (Fig. 336.) A porcellanous deposit takes the place of cartilage, on the head or surface of the dislocated bone; or in- stead of this eburnation (Fig. 337), an imperfect fibro-serous surface or synovial capsule may be formed. The natural articular cavity—whence the bone was dislodged—loses its cartilaginous investment, and closes in. (See Fig. 335.) It is, at length, partially obliterated by a dense fibrous deposit. So also is the trade in the textures, thi'ough which the bone had passed. Associated with this articular transformation are certain accessory, but somewhat accidental changes, in relation to the ligaments, muscles, and tendons. * King's Coll. Mus., 133G, 2. t St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 3,33. Old unreduced dislocation of elbow-joint, backwards; with a new capsule embracing the articular end of tlie humerus ; there are also new capsules, for the articular surface of the ulna, uud for the head of the radius. 1 Ibid. C. 34.728 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. The ligaments perhaps become firmly adherent to the neck of the bone, thus further opposing its reduction, and if the rent be small through which the bone escaped, it may be tightly embraced. Tliis is more apt to occur in a capsular ligament. Other ligamentous con- ditions are peculiar. The orbicular ligament around the neck of the radius may have been carried away entirely by dislocation of this bone, and be firmly attached at both ends to the humerus. A specimen of thi.s kind is preserved in tlie Museum of St. George's Hospital. The muscles which act on the displaced bone become permanently shortened, ■while their lines of action get accommodated to the displacement, and help to retain the bone in its new position. Or if any tendons were partially or entirely torn across by the violence of dislocation, they may have acquired new attachments, and such as are mechanically un- adapted to the action of the muscles. A ruptured tendon sometimes forms a band of adhesion between the bones. In one instance, the tendon of the brachialis anticus muscle having been torn off the coro- noid process of the ulna, which was dislocated backwards into the olecranon fossa, this tendon became firmly united both to the trochlear surface of the humerus and to the ulna below its original attachment, forming a kind of soft anchylosis between them. A tendon having its attachment thus displaced, is unfavourable to the action of the muscle connected therewith, yet its new attachment may aid in rendering the dislocation irreducible. Bony nodules form, occasionally, in the ten- dons around the seat of dislocation. Lastly, in these general changes, should be noticed the important one of adhesion sometimes having taken place between a large artery and the capsule or periosteum of the displaced bone. All these structural alterations take place very slowly. The de- structive changes implying an irreparable sacrifice of the articular cavity, I^ature reluctantly obliterates it, and with it the opportunity for reduction, only when long disappointed by delay and weai-ied by the lapse of time. Even after a period of thirteen years, in dislocation of the hip-joint, the acetabulum may still retain its form and depth and cartilage; as shown by a specimen which Fournier has recorded. The reparative alterations—those pertaining to the formation of a new joint—are most complete in ball-and-socket dislocations, as the hip-joint; the compensatory substitute for any hinge joint is far less complete. In some such instances even, bony anchylosis is the result. The Diagnostic Signs of unreduced Dislocation, and of the con- struction of a new joint, are—the physical signs of dislocation, coupled with restoration, more or less entirely, of the functional use of the limb or part. The characteristic alterations in the form of the joint, length of the limb, and direction of its axis, still remain; while the power of using it is regained, and proportionately as the new articu- lation is perfectly finished off. Hence, this restoration of function is, at length, far more thoroughly established in unreduced Dislocation of a ball-and-socket joint, than in that of a hinge joint. Treatment.—The question of interference should be determined by the moUlitj of the new joint, (a) When freely movable, the natural articular cavity or surface is probably obliterated, the processes of construction and destruction having proceeded equally. Hence, the indication is, wA to interfere—to leave such an unred'nced dislocation729 UNREDUCED DISLOCATION AND FALSE-JOINT. alone ; any attempt at reduction being useless or worse. Under these circumstances, reduction has, indeed, been effected, but with grea,t injury to the limb, and even with a fatal result. In one such case, that of a dislocated shoulder, reduction was followed by great swelling of the ai'm; a tumour formed in the axilla, which, at the end of thirty- eight days, burst with alarming hajmorrhage. Ligature of the sub- clavian artery fortunately saved the patient's life. In other cases, suppuration in and around the joint, and gangrene of the limb, have been known to ensue. (6) When the action of a new joint is less easy, and less efficient, reduction of the dislocation may be attemjytecl, and with successful issue to limb and life. The hind and amount of extension are, however, features in the treatment worthy of special attention. Extension, gradually increased, and continued for pei'haps some hours, or renewed daily, is necessary, to overcome the resistance of the shortened muscles, any adhesions of the tendons or ligaments, and to extricate the bone from its new articular adaptations. But it should ever be remembered that, possibly, more than these mechanical obstacles to reduction exist. There is always some risk of rupturing any blood-vessels which may have become adherent. Yet this is an accident which cannot be foreseen, otherwise than by observing the general rule laid down respecting any surgical interference. Of course, reduction should be conducted under the influence of chlorofoi'm. When pain and swelling have subsided, in the course of a week or two, passive motion should be commenced. The extreme periods of unreduced Dislocation, within which limits reduction is practicable, with safety to the limb and life of the patient, can scarcely be determined by experience. Nor is this question of much practical importance, considering the functional conditions, already mentioned, which should guide the Surgeon. Successful results have been obtained at extreme periods, varying from a few days to many months, and even beyond two years! In a dislocation of the elbow, backwards, unreduced for six months, Mr. Darke con- tinued extension with pulleys during eight hours and a half, when the bones returned to their proper situation. Three other cases of this date were successful in the hands of Gorre and Gerdy. A dislocation of the shoulder, unreduced for six weeks, was overcome by Mr. Mash, in the Northampton Infirmary, by extension at intervals with pulleys, during eight hours. A dislocation of the head of the radius forwards, of twenty-five months, in a child nine years old, was reduced by Dr. Stark; extension being repeated daily for twenty-two days, consecu- tively. This is, I believe, the longest period at which extension has been successful, in unreduced dislocation of any joint in the upper extremity. Manual extension has proved sufficient in some cases. Thus, I reduced a dislocation of the radius hacJcwards, of ten weeks; the adhesions about the head of the bone audibly giving way. In the lower extremity, the periods of limitation have been much less, with regard to the hip-joint. In two instances, dislocation of the femur on the dorsum ilii has been reduced after the lapse of six months. In both, reduction was effected by " manipulation;" the one under the influence of chloroform, the other, without; but in this case the patient, a boy, was feeble and the muscles flaccid. In both, the results were successful; the limb recovering its functions and the muscles730 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. regaining their bulk and strengtli. Respecting the hip and shoulder joints ; Sir A. Cooper's large experience led him to select two months in the one case, and three months in the other, as the extreme periods at which reduction can be safely accomplished. But the impossibility cf determining the propriety of surgical interference by reference to the period of an unreduced dislocation must not be overlooked In Fouriiier's specimen of hip-joint dislocation, the acetabulum retained its original character as an articular cavity after thirteen yearg had elapsed. Any opposing tendons, ligaments, or adhesions suggest the pro- priety of a previous accessory operation; that of dividing them, sab- cutaneously. Simple as this may appear, it is not always practicable, with a fair degree of safety to the part, and even to the life of the patient. Yet there are successful results on record. Thus, in dis- location of the thumb backwards upon the metacarpal bone, reduction may be impossible, unless by subcutaneous division of the lateral ligaments. Sir Charles Bell first proposed the operation in this case, and it has since been successfully practised by Listen, Reinhardt, Gibson of Philadelphia, Parker of New York, and other Surgeons. Lizars and Syme advocate this practice in certain instances. Au un- reduced dislocation of the shoulder-joint, of two years' duration, was overcome by DiefEenbach, in like manner. In one instance also, an old dislocation of the elbow, which still resisted after division of the tendons and ligaments, was reduced by dividing the adhesions. M. Blumhardt made a longitudinal incision on either side of the joint, laid open the capsule, freely divided the adhesions, and replaced the bones. The limb is said to have recovered its natural mobility, and the patient resumed his occupation as a carpenter. In cases such as these, the periods after dislocation at wliich opera- tions have proved successful are comparatively unimportant; for the difiiculties of reduction being thus overcome, the operation itself is the only important consideration, i.e., as to its propriety and practicability. CoNQKNiTAL DISLOCATIONS.—The wholc pathology of " Dislocations existing at birth " requires further investigation, in respect to their structural conditions, causes, and vital history. Congenital Dislocations are, apparently, of three kinds: {a) Physio- logical dislocations; or those resulting from an original defect in the germ, or from an arrest of development. (If) Pathological dislocations ; or those resulting from some lesion of the nervous centres, from contraction or paralysis of the muscles, laxity of the ligaments, hydrarthrosis, or some other diseased condition of the articulation, (c) Mechanical dislocations; or those resulting from some peculiar position of the foetus in utero, violent contractions or constant pressure of the walls of the uterus, falls and blows upon the abdomen, aud unskilful manipulation of the child in delivery. These might be termed traumatic dislocations. Probably all the joints are liable to congenital Dislocation, in some form or forms; and with regard to most of the joints, this kind of lesion has already been established by dissection. Hamilton has collected many such instances; but it appears to occur most frequently in the hip and shoulder joints. The Treatment of Congenital Dislocation is generally impradicaUe. What to do may be obvious; the removal of any one, or more, of the known conditions which originally produced the dislocation; but how731 DISLOCATIONS OF THE LOWER JAW. to do this successfully may be impracticable, owing to those conditions being, generally, defective forms of structure, which, in producing, also "perpetuate the recurrence of dislocation. It is therefore mostly incurable. CHAPTER XXXV. SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. Dislocations of the Lower Jaw.—Structural Conditions.—Gomjjlete dislocation on hath sides—double or bilateral dislocation—consists in the dislodgment of both condyles from the glenoid fossaa and their displacement forwards, in front (if the anterior or transverse root of the zygoma, on either side; the coronoid processes thus being brought forward, and corresponding to the under as- pect of the malar bone, on either side. (Fig. 338.) Similar dis- placement on one side only— single or unilateral dislocation —represents the same altered articular relations of the con- dyle, on that side ; with a twist of the jaw to the opposite side. Partial dislocation, or subluxation of the jaw, is, ap- parently, a displacement in relation, to the inter-articular cartilages; the condyles slipping forwards in front of these cartilages, on both sides, or on either side alone. Bilateral dislocation occurs in about two of every three cases. Partial dislocation happens comparatively seldom. Signs.—Certain obvious and characteristic signs attend dislocation of the jaw. The mouth is open, the jaw being drawn down by the action of the genio-hyoid muscles, aided by the genio-hyoglossi, the digastric, and mylo-hyoid muscles ; and the lower teeth project in front of the line of the upper teeth. This open-mouthed appearance is more conspicuous at first, the distance between the teeth extending some- times to an inch and a half; subsequently the jaw become more closed, but the coronoid processes, hitching against the malar bones, mechanic- ally oppose any nearer approximation. Deglutition and speech are interrupted, the lips moving when the person attempts to speak and the saliva dribbling over the chin. The cheeks are stretched and flattened, and the angles of the jaw directed somewhat backwai-d towards the mastoid process of the temporal bone, on either side; a depression can be felt in front of the external auditory meatus, corresponding to the natural situation of the condyle, and an oblong prominence in the temporal fossa, with fulness of the masseter muscle. Dislocation on one side only is denoted by the same signs; but in a lesser9 732 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. degree, and one-sided, the jaw being twisted somewhat to the opposite side, though this alteration may be scarcely appreciable. A depression can always be felt in the proper situation of the condyle, and not on the other side. Partial dislocation presents similar signs, but they are still less perceptible, and perhaps recurring, the condyle slipping to and fro. Causes.—Muscular action would seem to be the usual cause, in the act of opening the mouth widely; as in laughing, gaping, violent declamation, yawning, vomiting, convulsion, or an attempt to take too large a bite. The condyles moving forward on the transverse root of the zygoma on either side, are dislocated by the action of the external pterygoid muscles and anterior portion of the masseters, the genio- hyoid and other muscles then depressing the jaw. Consequently, the temporal, internal pterygoid and masseter muscles are placed on the stretch, or even strained. External violence is an occasional cause, as in tooth-extraction, or the forcible introduction of something into the mouth. Sir A. Cooper records such a case; two boys were struggling for an apple, and the one in attempting to thrust it into his own mouth, dislocated his jaw. Age would certainly seem to have some predisposing influence; complete dislocation occurring very rarely in infancy or ad- vanced life, owing probably to peculiarities in the form of the jaw at these pei'iods. Nelaton attributes its greater frequency in middle life to the length and anterior inclination of the coronoid process. Women, also seem more liable than men; and to partial dislocation in particular, which arises probably from relaxation of the ligaments of the jaw. Unreduced dislocation of the jaw nndergoes changes, whereby the jaw becomes approximated to the upper, and its anterior projection is diminished ; some mobility and power of movement also are regained; thus restoring mastication, deglutition, and speech so far, that the person at length experiences no great inconvenience from the displacement. Treatment.—B.eduction is readily accomplished by retracing the dis- placement. The Surgeon, standing in front of his patient, introduces his thumbs—protected by a cloth—into the mouth, and applies them to the lower molar teeth on either side ; depi'essing the angles of the jaw, the chin is raised by the fingers externally at the same time, and the jaw is jerked in or returns with a snap. Chloroform may be administered, when reduction cannot be accomplished without its aid. Dislocation on one side is reduced in like manner; and so also partial dislocation, which may, however, be returned by the natural efforts to open and shut the mouth, the patient being told at the same time to make a lateral motion, or, as suggested by Professor Pirrie, to bring the jaw forward. A four-tailed bandage must then be applied, as in fracture of tlie lower jaw; and the patient fed on liquid food for some days, during reparation of the ligaments. After partial dislocation, the prevention of its recurrence may be aided by tonic treatment, and stimulant appli- cations over the articulation. Reduction has been effected after periods varying from days to several weeks ; after one month and five days, by Sir A. Cooper, in a case of double dislocation; and after ninety-eight days, Donovan succeeded in another case. Congenital Dislocation of the Lower Jaw—denied by Malgaigne, but affirmed by Guerin, R. W. Smith, and Hamilton—is, however, very rare, lu Dr. Smith's complete account of one such case, dissection showed'I DISLOCATIONS OF THE SPINE. 733 an arrest of development of the dislocated side of the face, the osseons and muscular structui'es being atrophied and imperfect. A singular deformity of the face was thus occasioned on the one side, as compared with the other; and the nsual signs of dislocation were absent or reversed,—the front teeth of the upper jaw projected beyond those of , the lower, the mouth was closed or opened voluntarily, and these move- ments of the jaw were more extensive than in the normal condition. This congenital dislocation is incurable. Dislocations of the Spine—through the inter-vertebral substance— are almost necessarily accompanied with fracture of the articular pro- cesses, or of the bodies of the vertebrfB ; excepting in the cervical region, the articular processes there being placed more obliquely than those of the other vertebrae. Any dislocation of the spine is rare, and more so without fracture. The displacement may be forwards, and more commonly in this direction ; latei'al rotation, to either side; or back- ward displacement. It is always incomplete, except perhaps in the cervical vertebrae, which may possibly undergo complete displacement, forwards (Malgaigne). The seat of dislocation varies; this injury occurring in the cervical region most frequently, and particularly at the fifth or sixth vertebra; in the dorsal region occasionally, and particularly at the eleventh or twelfth vertebra ; in the lumbar region very rarely, but perhaps at the first or second vertebra in this portion of the column. It appears, there- fore, that spinal dislocation is more often met with in the cervico-dorsal and dorso-lumbar regions; at the junctions of curvatures, and of flexible to comparatively inflexible por- tions,—the weakest parts of the column. In all dislocations of the spine, the cord is more or less involved. Detachment of the inter-vertehral snhstance, with displacement of the bodies of the vertebra, is a very uncommon form of injury. I have seen one such case in the cervical region of the spine, as shown by post-mortem examination. The Signs and Symptoms of spinal dislocation are similar to those of fracture in this region ; some irregularity or projection at the seat of dislocation (Fig. 339), and paralysis, more or less complete, of those portions of the body which receive the nervous supply from below the point at which the dislocation hns oc- curred. The^diagnosis, as compared with fracture, can hardly be * Koyal Free Hospital. A case of partial dislocation, apparently, of tlie third and fourth cervical vertebriB, of some duration; unaccompanied with any symptoms of paralysis. Fig. 339.*734 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. determined by crepitus, wliicli may be absent in fracture, and present in all the dislocations accompanied with fracture; but a peculiar rigidity of the spine in the position assumed by dislocation, the trunk inclining immovably forwards, backwards, or more commonly to one side, will generally be diagnostic. Causes.—The same as in fracture; falls on the head, feet, or back, and violent flexions of the spine backwards, or to either side. Termination.—Dislocations of the spine are, obviously, of a serious or fatal character; and—like fracture—more so, the higher in the spinal column dislocation takes place. Treatment.—Reduction of the displacement is impossible, or would be perilous; and but little can be done beyond the general treatment for fracture of the spine. Dislocations of the first two cervical vertebrae are conveniently referred to the first bone. The aflas may bo dislocated from the occipital bone; specimens of occipito-atloidean displacement having been reported by Lassus, Paletta, Bonisson, and Dariste. In each case, the displacement was incomplete ; but death speedily ensued, except in the last case, where the patient survived for more than a year, and then died from tubercle in the brain. Dislocation of the atlas from the axis—atlo-axoid displacement—has been known to occur forwards or backwards, or as a lateral rotation of one articular process forwards. The ligaments which keep the odontoid process in place may or may not be ruptured. Thus, in forward dislocation of the atlas, the odontoid process of the axis passing backwards, may rupture the transverse ligament, with its superior vertical appendage, attached to the basilar portion of the occiput, and carry down also the odontoid and suspensory ligaments connecting the process with the condyles of the occiput. Or, with similar dislocation of the atlas, the odontoid process may slip from under the transverse ligament to behind it, leaving that ligament intact, but rupturing its inferior vertical appendage, attached to the root of the process, and also carrying down the odontoid and suspensory ligaments. In both these liga- mentous lesions, the occipito-axoidean ligament—a continuation up- wards to the basilar grove, of the posterior common ligament—must also be torn. Lastly, fracture of the odontoid pi'ocess at its base may have occurred. The obvious importance of these lesions, accompanying dislocation, is their relation to the falling backwards of the odontoid process on to the spinal cord; complete compression causing instant death. This is said to be sometimes the mode of death in hanging; and it probably happened also in the sad case of the late Bishop of Winchester, who fell on his head from horseback, and died instantly. Dislocations op the Ribs have been met with, occasionally, at either their vertebral or sternal articulations. In the former situation, the head of the rib is sometimes dislocated, and always forwards; generally one of the lower ribs, including the false or floating, has been thus displaced. This injury is usually associated with fracture of the transverse or spinous processes of the corresponding vertebra, or with fracture of another rib. The signs of this dislocation will be obscure; the depression and mobility of the rib, adjoining the spine, might indicate fracture, and in such case the distinctive crepitus may bo absent, owing to displace- ment, or imperceptible, through the depth of the fragments. Either injury also may arise from a fall or blow on the back.DISLOCATIONS OF THE RIBS AND CLAVICLE. 735 The treatment, however, is the same in both, cases. It will be found impossible to replace the head of bone, but rest of the part should be secured by a roller rib-bandage, to fix the chest until any inflammatory swelling has subsided. At the sternal articulations, the vih-cartilages are liable to displace- ment forwards, in advance of the sternum, presenting one or more pi'ojections at the seat of the articulations. This displacement may be accompanied with fracture of the sternum. But, generally, it is the slow result of some habitual muscular action throwing back the shoulders, as by the use of dumb-bells "to open the chest," or of an occupation whereby, in using the a^ms, the ribs are pressed forwards, as in the act of kneading dough. I have known the dislocation to be produced in pigeon-breasted children. Reduction maybe accomplished by pressing the cartilaginous pT"ojection back into place, aided by the patient making a full inspiration at the time, or by bending the trunk laackwards. A compress and rib-bandage are then applied. Dislocations of the Clavicle.—(1.) The sternal end uf the Clavicle may be dislocated in three directions: forwards, in front of the sternum; hacliwards, behind the sternum; and njpivards, or upwards and inwards, above the sternum. (Fig. 340.) In these dislocations, the ligaments are more or less comjDletely torn, -pia 340,* according to the direction and extent of the displacement; but the bone carries with it the clavicular portion of the stei'no- mastoid muscle. Signs.—Dislocation forwards is denoted by a deformity, consisting of the sternal end of the clavicle in front of the sternum, which disappears by drawing the shoulders backwards and returns when such force is removed ; the distance between the acro- mion and middle line is diminished; the head is drawn forwards and turned from the dislocation, in order to relax the sterno-mastoid muscle ; and there is inability to raise the upper extremity. Dislocation haclcwards is denoted by the opposite appearance to the former one, a depression in the situation of the sternal end of the clavicle ; but there may be dyspnoea, dysphagia, obstructed circulation and pain, from pressure on the trachea, oesophagus, vessels and nerves, respectively. Several cases are recorded in the "London and Edinburgh Journal of Medical Science," October, 1841. Dislocation upivards is of rare occurrence ; four cases only have been collected by Malgaigne, and a fifth, an extraordinary case, by Hamilton, as described by Dr. Rochester in the "Buffalo Medical Journal." This form of dislocation presents a pro- jection above the sternum—or in the remarkable case alluded to, upon the front of the thyroid cartilage—the sternal end of the clavicle having been thrown upwards; and there is also a corresponding de- pression of the shoulder. Causes.—A fall on the shoulder, anteriorly, or throwing the shoulder * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., B. 1. Dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle, upicards and inii-cmU, with fracture of the first rib close to the sternum. The articular end of the clavicle rests upon tlie concave upper border of the sternum.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 736 backwards, may cause the dislocation forwards; compression of the shoulders, laterally, or a direct blow on the sternal end of the clavicle, may drive this portion of the bone backwards; and a fall on the shoulder externally, or a blow upon the top of the shoulder, may start the bone upwards upon the supra-sternal notch. Treatment.—Reduction of these three dislocations is accomplished by directing the shoulder so as to retrace the particular displacement. Forward dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle may be over- come by drawing the shoulder backwards and outwards; in backward dislocation, similar traction of the shoulder, to even a greater extent, will be efficient; while ujoioard dislocation may be reduced by out- ward traction of the shoulder, at the same time raising the outer and depressing the inner end of the clavicle. Pressure directly on the displaced end of bone, when accessible, as in the first and last named dislocations, has comparatively little effect in aiding reduction. Trac- tion of the shoulder is best effected by using the knee as a fulcrum in the back, while an assistant places his fist as a fulcrum in the axilla; the shoulders are then bent backwards, and the elbow brought down to the side, simultaneously. To retain the bone in position, a pad over the sternal end may have some effect in dislocation/owarcZs, but a figure-of-eight bandage applied to the shoulders will more effectually prevent the recurrence of displace- ment in either of the th-ee directions of dislocation, the arm being drawn back and fixed to the side. Some per- manent displacement and deformity are almost inevitable; the patient, however, recovering a good use of the arm. Indeed, it is a consola- tion to know that even when reduction has not been accomplished or maintained, almost the same good result has ensued. Compound dislocation occurred in one instance of dislocation backwards, by direct violence— a blow with a pick-axe. (Hamilton.) (2.) The scapular end of the Clavicle may be dislocated—upwards, upon the upper surface of the acromion (Fig. 341); or downwards, under the acromion, or under the coracoid process. The first-named dislocation is the most frequent, and indeed the most common, of all dislocations of the clavicle; the second very i^are, only three cases having been recorded of dislocation under the acromion, and six under the coracoid process. The acromio-clavlcular ligaments are torn in the dislocation upwards ; and also the coraco-clavicular and coraco-acromioii ligaments in dislocation downwards. Signs.—Dislocation upwards is easily recognized by the projection of the outer or scapular end of the clavicle, and which is more easily felt on tracing the spine of the scapula up to the acromio-clavicular articulation. Some depression and flatness of the shoulder will also be perceptible. Dislocation downwards is recognized, and distinguished, by the opposite signs; a marked depression, in particular, correspond- ing to the usual situation of the outer end of the clavicle. DoAvnward dislocation, under the coracoid process, is more particularly characterized by a corresponding projection of the acromion and coracoid process, * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., B. 2. Dislocation of the acromial end of the clavicle on the acromion or spine of the scapula, with fracture of the acromion.737 DISLOCATIONS OP THE SCAPULA. and a rapid inclination downwards and outwards of the line of the clavicle, its outer end being felt in the axilla. Inability to raise the arm to a right angle with the body, will generally be found symptomatic of either form of dislocation ; but the arm can be moved, passively, in certain directions. Thus, the range of motion is most free in the upward dislocation; whereas, in downward dislocation, under the acromion, the arm can be moved pretty freely backwards and forwards, but not outwards; and, with dislocation under the coracoid process, the arm cannot be moved inwards and upwards. Pain accompanies any opposed motion of the arm. Causes.—A fall on the shoulder would seem to be the usual occasion of these dislocations; the force being applied upon the top or back of the shoulder, in upward dislocation; and upon the clavicle, to produce dislocation downwards. Thus, in one instance of the latter displace- ment, a horse trod upon the shoulder; and in another, the accident occurred to a child, from an attempt to support a great weight upon the top of the collar-bone. But the upward displacement may be caused by force from below; in one case having been produced by a bolt thrust up from under the clavicle. Treatment.—Reduction is easily accomplished by drawing the shoulders backwards and outwards, the Surgeon placing his knee between them, as recommended by Sir A. Cooper. Considerable difiB.- culty will, however, be experienced in preventing the recurrence of dis- placement. A pad in the axilla, and the application of a bandage, as for fractured clavicle, constitute the most effectual retentive apparatus. Direct compression is available only in dislocation upwards. Many weeks should be allowed to elapse before this treatment is discontinued. Some deformity almost always remains, but with little loss of power in the movements of the arm. Dislocation of Both Ends of the Clavicle has been known to occur, simultaneously; but it must be placed among the rarities of Dislo- cations. DiSLOCATroN OF THE ScAPULA.—The lower angle of the scapula some- times projects, apparently having slipped from under the edge of the latissimus dorsi muscle, which there crosses the scapula. I have seen one such case, on the right side. Liston attributed this displacement to the arm being " suddenly raised above the head to an unusual ex- tent." The vertebral border of the shoulder- blade projects to a great extent, and its inferior angle is so loosely connected to the chest, that the fingers may be pushed up between the ribs and the bone halfway to the glenoid cavity. Some time since, Mr. Edmund Owen exhibited to the members of the Harveian Medical Society a boy who was the subject of this condition on both sides. Indeed, the shoulder-blades looked like rudi- mentary wings. This appearance was well marked in a case which Mr. Mac- Cormac met with, as here shown. (Fig. 342.) Mr. Owen refers this 3 B738 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. apparent dislocation of the scapula to paralysis of the serratus magnus muscle. The appearances come on slowly ; if they were due to a sudden slipping of the bone over the latissimus dorsi, the patient or his friends would hardly say " the shoulder-blades have been growing out for weeks or months." The serratus magnus binds the scapula in its place against the ribs, and its inferior bundles play a most im- portant part in raising the arm above the head. In the condition to •which we are alluding, the power of elevating the arm is much impaired. The affection seems occasionally to follow a fatigue of the muscle. In another case cited by the same Surgeon, the patient, a nurse, attributed the weakness and pain in the shoulder to years of attendance on an old lady, whom she used to rub for chronic pleurisy. The clinical history of "paralysis of the serratus magnus" is recorded in a case which Dr. Vivian Poore brought before the Clinical Society of London, February 12, 1875. Treatment—The treatment, observes Mr. Owen, should consist in rubbing and shampooing, and in the use of the interrupted current. One may give a more favourable opinion of the result if, on passing the current down the course of the nerve of Bell from the root of the neck to the costal attachments of the muscle, the scapula is braced up into its proper position. Bandaging the chest is futile ; and if the surgical mechanician is intrusted with the treatment of the case, he will probably supply an ingeniously constructed corset, whose expense is only equalled by its uselessness. Dislocations of the Shoulder-Joint.—These are the commonest of all Dislocations. The head of the humerus may undergo displace- ment—downwards, into the axilla, subglenoid; forwards, subcoracoid and suhclavicula.r; backwards, on the dorsum of the scapula beneath its spine, subspinous. These dislocations occur in the same order of relative frequency; the first named being by far the most common; the second, occasional; and the third, very rare. Subcoracoid dislo- cation may, however, be the most frequent; Professor Flower's investi- gations showing that of 41 specimens in the Museums of the London Hospitals, 31 are subcoracoid; and that in Fig. 343.* 50 cases known to him, 44 were of this form. Partial dislocation is said to occur; either as the subcoracoid, or a dislocation upwards —supra-glenoid—under the acromion. But the former dislocation is complete, the head of the humerus being lodged entirely out of the glenoid cavity, in the illustrative case given by Sir A. Cooper; the upward dislocation is incomplete, the head of the bone lying partly in the glenoid cavity. Structural Conditions.—(1) Dislocation downwards or subglenoid;—the head of the- humerus is lodged in the axilla, just below the glenoid cavity, and resting on the in- ferior costa of the scapula (Fig. 343), between the subscapular muscle and the long head of the triceps. The capsular ligament is torn to a * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., B. 8. Dislocation of the head of the humerus down- wards into the axilla. The capsular ligament is laid open in front, and the head of the bone rests on the inferior costa of the scapula, beneath the glenoid cavity.DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDEE-JOINT. 789 considerable extent, and generally the tendon of the subscapular muscle, near its insertion into the small tuberosity. The muscles attached to the great tuberosity are stretched or torn, particularly the supra- spinatus; and, possibly, the tuberosity itself may be detached. The axillary vessels and plexus of nerves suffer compression by the head of the bone. (2.) Dislocation forwards, and suhclavicular;—the head of the humerus lies under the pectoral muscles, on the inner side of the coracoid process, just below the clavicle (Fig. 344), and resting on the second and third ribs. The capsule may be completely separated from the neck of the bone; the lower scapular muscles much torn, namely, subscapularis detached from the smaller tuberosity, infra- spinatus and teres minor from the great tuberosity; and, possibly, Fig. 344.* Fig. 345.t this prominence of bone may itself be torn away from the head of the humerus. ^ The axillary vessels and nerves suffer compression. (3.) Dislocation hachwards, or subspinous; the head of the humerus lies just behind the glenoid cavity on the dorsum of the scapula, below its spine (Pig. 345), and between the infra-spinatus and teres minor muscles. The capsule is ruptured, and the muscles in front of the jomt are stretched or torn; namely, the subscapularis, supra-spinatus, and long head of the biceps. Partial dislocation upwards produces structural alterations, but * St. George's Hospital Museum, 1,107. Dislocation of the head of the humerus upwards and forwards, with fracture of the coracoid process. The head of the humerus—as primarily displaced—rested on the anterior margin of the clavicle, just external to the junction of the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles, quite above the level of the glenoid cavity. In the figure, as from the preparation, it has fallen to the same level as that cavity. Owing to the fracture of the coracoid process, on which the head of the humerus also partly rested, erosion of the articu- lar cartilage has taken place, producing crepitus, when the head of the bone was rotated against it. The stump of this process appears behind the humerus in the figure. Its tip, not shown, was slightly separated by the tendons inserted into it, but the ligamentous fibres attached to the coracoid process opposed further dis- placement. The long tendon of the biceps was not ruptured. The injury was caused by a fall on the elbow, from a height of about thirty feet; and the patient, a rnan aged 49 years lived for a fortnight. For any further particulars, see " Med Chir. Trans.,' vol. xli. ' t St. Mary's Hospital Museum, A. a. 8. A very rare specimen.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 740 less extensive. In two cases (see supra-glenoid dislocation) the head of the humerus was partly dislodged upwards, under the acromion ; the capsule was slightly ruptured, and the long tendon of the biceps thrown out of its groove inwards, on to the smaller tuberosity of the humerus. Signs.—Certain signs are common to all three dislocations of the shoulder. These signs are—flattening of the shoulder, externally; a depression below the Fig. 346. acromion, owing to the absence of the head of the bone, and a corre- sponding projection of the acromion above (Fig. 346); the presence of the head of the bone in an abnormal situation, downwards, forwards, or backwards; some immo- bility, and inability to use the arm, and pain, particularly when the arm is moved. But the direction of the axis of the humerus or arm, and the length of the arm, with the situation of the head of the bone, are distinctive in each form of dislocation ; thereby determining its diagnosis. Dislocation dowmvards into the axilla is accompanied with some inclination of the arm outwards, in a line with the trunk, and neither backwards nor forwards; an elongation of the arm is observable, or can be ascertained by measurement,—taking the apex of the acromion as a fixed point above the joint, and the external condyle of the humerus below. The head of the humerus can be felt in the axilla. Dislocation/orioarc^s, or subclavicular, is distinguished by a direction of the arm backivards, and somewhat outwards ; with some shortening. The head of the bone can be felt under the clavicle. Dislocation haclcwards, or subspinous, is characterized by a direction of the arm forwards, and somewhat outwards, or occasionally it hangs by the side; with some shortening. The head of the bone can be fel under the spine of the scapula. Partial dislocation upwards (see supra-glenoid dislocation) characterized, principally, by the position of the head of the bone, which appears to be drawn higher up in the glenoid cavity, and un- naturally prominent in front; abduction produces a sensation of crepi- tus, the humerus rubbing under the acromion, and becoming locked as the arm is raised; and severe pain is experienced by any action of the biceps muscle. But the detection of any form of dislocation of the shoulder-joint, downwards into the axilla more particularly, may be rendered difficult,741 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDEB-JOINT. a few hours after the accident, by the superyention of swelling, both from inflammatory effusion and extravasation of blood ; the nature of the injury becoming more perceptible as the swelling subsides. This condition might mislead the Surgeon more readily, when the dislocation was caused by direct violence, in so far resembling simply a contusion of the shoulder. The Diagnosis of shoulder-joint dislocation, as compared with frac- hires of the neck of the humerus, may be determined by the presence of the signs common to all these dislocations, and the absence of true crepitus. Atrophy of the deltoid muscle, resulting from contusion or other injury, simulates dislocation only by the flattening of the shoulder, and the overhanging acromion. Causes.—Direct violence, as a fall on the shoulder, in the direction opposite to the particular form of dislocation. Thus, a fall from a height on the top of the shoulder may occasion dislocation downwards; upon the back of the shoulder, it may cause dislocation forwards ; and a fall on the front of the shoulder has been known to produce dis- location backwards, or collision of the front of the shoulder against a tree, in the case of a person being thrown from a horse. Indirect violence applied to the arm, when itself in a position favourable to the particular form of dislocation. Thus, forcible abduction of the arm may occasion dislocation downwards; and I have known it pro- duced, as a recurring dislocation in an elderly gentleman, by merely resting the fingers on a chest of drawers, the arm being fully extended. Violent contraction of the deltoid, in lifting a heavy weight, has also tilted the head of the bone downwards, out of the glenoid cavity. A fall on the elbow, the arm being directed backwards, may occasion dislocation forwards; and dislocation backwards has been produced by pushing a person violently, with the arm elevated. Spasmodic contraction of the muscles during an epileptic fit, was the cause of the former dislocation, in a case which Hamilton met with, and of the latter dislocation, in a case examined after death by Mr. Key. The causative relation of shoulder-joint dislocations to each other is worthy of notice. Dislocation forwards—subclavicular—may result as the completion of a subcoracoid displacement, which is then re- garded as a partial dislocation forwards. Or, the subclavicular dis- location may, it is said, be consequent on dislocation downwards. Sir A. Cooper regarded the former as a primary dislocation; other eminent Surgeons—^for example, Desault, Petit, Dupuytren, Mr. Hey, and Pro- fessor Samuel Cooper—did not deny the possibility of its being primary; but they believed it to be very seldom so, and almost always secondary to dislocation downwards. Unreduced dislocation of the shoulder-joint is followed by the slow formation of a new articulation, and destruction of the glenoid cavity ; with proportionate recovery of the use of the arm. Thus, in an old dislocation downwards—described by Sir A. Cooper—the head of the bone had become flattened, and a new shallow cavity had formed for the reception of the head on the inferior costa of the scapula anteriorly, a complete capsular ligament also surrounding the head; while the glenoid cavity was entirely filled with ligamentous matter, in which were suspended small portions of bone, evidently of new formation, as no portion of the scapula or humerus was broken. Reduced dis- location is followed by good recovery of the use of the arm; some742 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. stiffness, weakness, pain, and swelling of the shoulder-joint remaining, perhaps, for a considerable period, when reduction had been delayed, or attended with much extension, or when the joint had sustained previous contusion. Under these unfavourable circumstances, there is also an increased liability to re-dislocation. Aggravated by its recurrence, the looseness of articulation ultimately may be such that dislocation takes place on the slightest occasion of force in the right direction. In the case already alluded to of an elderly gentlemen, dis- location downwards into the axilla had been overlooked by an Hospital Surgeon in attendance for three weeks ; and, after reduction by Sir William Eergusson, it recurred four times in a period of eighteen months. Upward motion of the arm was afterwards restrained by wearing a belt around the chest, attached to an arm-loop, and the dislocation has not since returned. Treatment.—Reduction may be effected in various ways :— (1.) By direct extension and counter-extension. This method is perhaps most generally applicable. The patient being seated in a chair, a sheet or jack-towel is drawn under the axilla on the dislocated side, around the chest over the opposite shoulder, and attached to some fixed, resisting object, or held by assistants. Extension is made from the arm or wrist, by means of a linen band fastened by a clove-hitch knot. The arm should be drawn out at a right angle to the chest, and extension slowly maintained, by an assistant, or by pulleys, when necessary. The Surgeon placing his knee in the axilla, and depress- ing the shoulder with one hand, while he slightly inclines the arm downwards with the other, the head Fia. 347. of the bone passes into the glenoid cavity with a jerk or snap, an- nouncing the reduction. Extension is discontinued, and the arm brought to the side should be secured by a few turns of a roller around the chest, supporting the elbow by a few turns below. An axillary pad may be advisable in dislocation downwards. Any inflammatory ; swelling about the joint will sub- i side, or can be readily subdued by | cold evaporating lotions. I have I thus reduced nearly all the dislo- ^ cations of the shoulder which have fallen to my lot. But the incon- venience of this method in private practice is the assistance requisite, despite the relaxing influence of choloroform, and its administration would necessitate having another assistant. (2.) By the Icnee in the axilla, reduction can be effected without extension; simply by drawing the arm well down over the knee, as a fulcrum, depressing the shoulder, at the same time, with the other hand. This was one of the methods recommended by Sir A. Cooper. (Pig. 347.)743 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. (3.) By the Tieel in the axilla. The patient lying recumbent, the Surgeon, sitting on the edge of the couch, plants his foot well up into the axilla, and drawing the limb well downwards, inclines it inwards across the foot as a fulcrum. This also was another method employed by Sir A. Cooper. (Fig. 348.) Instead of the heel, Skey employed a well-padded iron Icnoh, in the axilla ; this fulcrum being furnished with two iron branches, to which are attached the cords for counter-extension, while extension is made by means of pulleys from the wrist or from the arm, the Hmb lying parallel to, and in contact with, the trunk. Fig. 348. This method of reduction maybe necessary in a very muscular subject, or in unreduced dislocations of some duration. (4.) By raising the arm.—The patient lying recumbent, the Surgeon, sitting behind the shoulder and fixing it with one hand, raises the arm up perpendicularly; then bringing it down suddenly to the side, the head of the bone may snap into place. (5.) Dislocation backwards may sometimes be readily reduced by bending the arm backwards, and at the same time drawing forward the upper end of the humerus with the other hand. (6.) Reduction by manijoulation has been proposed, and practised, by Professor H. H. Smith, of Philadelphia. This method is said to be appHcable to nearly all dislocations of the shoulder-joint, but it would appear to be specially eligible in dislocation downwards into the axilla. It consists, "first, in flexing the forearm upon the arm, and at the same moment the elbow is lifted from the body; secondly, in rotating the humerus upwards and outwards, using the forearm as a lever; thirdly, in reversing this last movement by rotating the humerus downwards and inwards, while at the same moment the elbow is brought down again to the side." In dislocation/orwarf^s, this method of attempted reduction would inevitably increase the displacement,— rotation of the humerus upwards and outwards would have the effect of driving the head further forwards. Unreduced dislocations of the humerus are to be overcome by one or other of these methods; generally, by direct extension and counter-SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEaERY. 744 extension, nnder the influence of chloroform; aided, perhaps, by pulleys for making extension, which should be slowly maintained. Dr. Jarvis's " adjuster " has proved effectual when other means have failed. Its principal advantage is that during extension, the limb can be moved about freely in all directions, without relaxing the extension. The periods after dislocation when reduction has been accomplished, vary as to their extreme duration; a month, in one of my own cases ; after twenty-five weeks, by Mr. Brodhurst; after seven months, and ten months and a half, by Mr. Smith, of the United States. Dieffenbach accomphshed the reduction of a dislocation forwards after two years' duration; but not until he had cut the tendons of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, teres major and minor, and had divided the ligaments surrounding the new joint. The extreme period for the safe reduction of dislocation is probably best determined by observing the movements afforded by the new joint; and which indicate also the probable utilitij, or otherwise, of reduction, although itself practicable. Accidents, of a most serious character, are liable to happen in the reduction of old standing dis- locations ; laceration of the muscles and tendons, rupture of the axillary vessels and nerves, or fracture of the neck of the humerus. Or inflam- mation may speedily ensue, with suppuration in and around the joint. These lesions, or consequences, sometimes occur apart from any inconsiderate application of extending force. Compound dislocation of the shoulder-joint is a rare form of injury. Erichsen mentions having seen two cases, and in two directions of dislocation : inwards—subcoracoid, and downwards—subglenoid ; to which may be added one more, into the axilla, as recorded by Hamilton among his own cases; and a compound dislocation of the shoulder by Sir A. Cooper. Treatment.—Reduction was effected in both Mr. Erichsen's cases, and they did well. The question of amputation must be determined by reference to the considerations which render the sacrifice of the limb inevitable in Compound Dislocation, generally; and principally, regarding the injury to the axillary vessels and nerves. Complicated Dislocations of the Shoulder-joint.—(1.) Displacement of fhelong head of the biceps muscle, and Supra-glenoid Dislocation.—In a few instances only, the long head of the biceps has been found displaced inwards from the bicipital groove, and the head of the humerus partially dislocated upwards above the glenoid cavity,—resting under the acro- mion or the coraco-acromion ligament. This anomalous form of double displacement was first verified by dissection in a case described by Mr. John Soden, jun., of Bath, and which is recorded in the " Royal Med.-Chir. Trans.," 1841. An injury to the right shoulder-joint was produced by a fall backwards, the whole weight of the body being received on the elbow. When the intense inflammatory swelling of the shoulder had subsided, the following symptoms were presented:—A globular swelling, as if the head of the humerus beneath the acromion process of the scapula, with slight flattening of the shoulder ; and some crepitation could be felt, when the shoulder was grasped above, and the arm was raised upwards and outwards,—this sensation arising from the attrition of the head of the bone beneath the acromion; but the movement of abduction was limited, and the power of such motion was nearly lost. Thus, the man could move his arm backwards and for-DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. 745 wards, but was unable to lift tbe slightest weight; and any motion of the biceps muscle was attended with great pain. This state having continued for two years, death occurred from a compound fracture of the skull; and post-mortem exaniination dis- covered the real nature of the former injury. Fig. 349.* The capsular ligament had been slightly rent, and the long tendon of the biceps, thrown out of its groove, inwards, was lying on the smaller tuber- osity of the humerus (Fig. 349) ; with this dis- placement, the head of the bone, being no longer kept in position, was partly dislocated upwards from the glenoid cavity, lying beneath the acromion, and directed somewhat inwards toward the coracoid process. In a second case, Mr. Soden found the disloca- tion to be somewhat forwards, as well as upwards, in connection with inward displacement of the tendon, and to such an extent that it lay on the inner and posterior aspect of the joint. Prior to these observations, Mr. Stanley had called attention to this form of injury in the "Med. Grazette," vol. iii.; and in the 14th vol. of the same journal, Mr. Gregory Smith describes seven specimens met with in the dissecting-room, some of which showed the same altered relation of the bones, and in all of which the tendon was more or less injured,—in five it had been ruptured, and in two it was displaced from its groove. In one case, related by Mauget in the " Encyclopedie Methodique," the tendon appeared to be " dislodged to the outer side of the groove, for the elbow was immovably flexed." Professor Pirrie has since met with an additional instance of this double form of injury to the shoulder-joint; that case also having been verified by dissection. A case may be mentioned in which a similar inward displacement of the biceps tendon and upward dislocation of the humerus had taken place, but slowly, as the result of destructive disease of the shoulder-joint; the nodulated character of the head of the bone, from ossific deposit, plainly distinguishing this condition from the effects of injury. The preparation will be found in the Museum of St. Mary's Hospital. (2.) Dislocation, with Fracture of the Humerus in its Surgical Nech or in the Shaft. In a well-marked case of dislocation of the head of the humerus forwards and upwards under the clavicle, there was also fracture of the surgical neck of the bone. This double injury having happened to a boy at the age of nine years, it is probable that the apparent fracture was a separation of the upper epiphysis of the humerus. On examination, I found a large globular swelling in the subclavicular hollow on the right side, and externally, beneath the deltoid muscle and under the acromion, another projection; the one was plainly the head of the humerus, the other the broken end of that bone. These two projections together gave a remarkably enlarged appearance to the whole shoulder. (Fig. 350.) The arm was much shortened from the elbow, and the humerus was directed obliquely outwards from the side. On extension, the dislocated head could be readily reduced, by pressure with the fingers, into its natural position in the glenoid ♦ King's College Museum, ISil.746 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEEY. cavity, and the fracture being reduced at the same time, the shoulder regained its natural size and shape ; but on relaxation, the head of the humerus immediately became redislocated, and the fractured end of the bone passing upwards and outwards, the peculiar appearance of the shoulder was easily reproduced. In the following complication of injury to the shoulder-joint, the fracture having detached the head and smaU tuberosity of the humerus, tWs portion of bone is dislocated forwards and inwards on the ventral aspect of the scapula, half an inch below the base of the coracoid process ; the articular surface of the head looking almost directly forwards. (Fig. 351.) The subscapulars tendon remains attached to the small tuber- osity, the broken surface of which is firmly united to the anterior part of the great tuberosity. The fractured end of the shaft of the humerus and of the great tuberosity, has passed into the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and has there become fixed; and the tendons of the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatns muscles still remain attached to the great tuberosity. The treatment of these complicated injuries of the shoulder is the only peculiarity of practical importance ; as to whether the dislocation or the fracture should be reduced first ? The former manipulation can generally be accomplished without much diflficulty. Extension will hardly avail much, or indeed be necessary, in eifecting reduction of the dislocation. Pressure on the head of the bone, aided by the relaxing influence of chloroform, has proved quite sufficient. Failing in this way, the fracture may be reduced and put up firmly, thus allowing of extension, or one of the other methods for reduction of the dislocation. Failing still to reduce the dislocation, the fracture must be alone ^ regarded; and then, at the earliest period after union of the fragments, reduction of the dislocation should again be attempted. This latter was the primary rule of treatment at one time, and it led to many successful results. But it implied that which experience has since disproved, the impossibility of reducing these complicated dislocations until the fracture had united. (3.) Dislocation forwards and inwards, complicated with fracture of the scapula—the tip of the coracoid process and end of the acromion, and of the clavicle in its outer curve. (Fig. 352.) The head of the * Eoyal Free Hospital. (Author.) t Key. Coll. Surg. Mus., 875. (Sir A. P. Cooper.)DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. 747 FiQ. 352.* humerus rests against the anterior margin of the glenoid cavity, and the capsule is laid open behind; the fragment of the coracoid process is attached to the coraco-brachialis muscle. The biceps tendon is uninjured. Congenital Dislocations of the SJioulder-joint. —Three varieties are recognized by Guerin : dislocation of the head of the humerus down- wards ; downwards and inwards, the head of the bone resting against the ribs ; and sublux- ation upwards and outwards, the head of the bone sliding in this direction, favoured by a corresponding displacement of the coracoid and acromion processes. Dr. Robert Smith has met with only two forms of congenital dislocation of the humerus, subcoracoid and subacromial; of the former he has seen several examples. These dislocations, arising from either a paralytic condition of the muscles, or from developmental imperfections of the articulation, are necessarily incurable. Dislocations of the Elbow.—This joint is liable to eight recognized dislocations ; four of which relate to both bones, one to the ulna alone, and three to the radius alone. Thus, (1) dislocation of both bones backwards; (2) outwards; (3) inwards ; (4) forwards ; (5) disloca- tion of the ulna alone, backwards; (6) dislocation of the radius alone, backwards ; (7) forwards; (8) outwards. To these recognized dislo- cations may be added another ; dislocation of both bones outwards, and upwards laterally on the humerus, constituting an " external latero- angular dislocation " of the elbow-joint, as I so named this form of dislocation, in the only instance I have ever seen or can find recorded. (See Fig. 334.) Structural Conditions.—(1.) Dislocation of the radius and ulna hack- wards is the most frequent form. The head of the radius is lodged behind the external condyle, and the coronoid process of the ulna lies in the olecranon fossa; the lower end of the humerus resting on the anterior surface of the radius and ulna. (Fig. 363.) All the four ligaments are rup- tured, leaving only some of the fibres of the internal lateral one. The annular ligament remains entire. The brachialis anticus and biceps muscles are stretched or torn, the former sometimes carrying away a portion of the coronoid process; but the other muscles are relaxed, the triceps posteriorly, and all the muscles originating from either con- dyle of the humerus, excepting the supinator radii brevis. The median nerve is pressed for- wards by the humerus ; and the ulna nerve is, sometimes, painfully stretched over the projecting extremity of the ulna backwards. In the specimen represented there is an old un- reduced dislocation of both bones of the forearm backwards. The head of the radius is lodged at the back of the external condyle, where * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., B. 12. f St. George's Hosp. Mus., 1, 108. Fig. 353.tSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 748 a new articular cavity is formed for it, by the deposit of new bone, tbns allowing of some amount of motion. The coronoid process, lodged in the olecranon fossa, was almost immovable. The brachialis anticus muscle is torn away from its insertion to the coronoid process, and was adherent to the lower end of the humerus; also to Fig. 354,* the ulna, below the coronoid process. (2.) Dislocation of the radius and ulna outwards, or to the radial side (Fig. 354), is far less frequent than the foregoing, and usually incomplete ; complete dislocation having been known to occur in only 11 cases (Malgaigne), and all of which were met with in the practice of French Surgeons. Incomplete dis- location ; the nlna still articulates with the humerus, but the great sigmoid cavity is carried outwards from the trochlea, so that its central crest rests upon the depression which separates the capitellum from the trochlea. If the annular ligament remains un- broken, the radius is displaced in the same direction and to the same extent, its head resting against and directly below the outer condyle. More complete dislocation may occur, and complete dislocation, rarely ; the head of the radius being, perhaps, thrown forwards or backwards. The specimen figured exhibits an unreduced dislocation of the radius and ulna outwards, and partially backwards, with osseous union in their displaced position. The ole- cranon and coronoid process, and the greater portion of the sigmoid cavity of the ulna, are thus united to the middle of the posterior surface and margin of the external condyle of the humerus. Fracture of the external condyle seems also to have occurred. The articulation be- tween the radius and ulna is natural; and the radius, being fixed only by ligament to the humerus, may have had full freedom of motion. In a similar specimen—dislocation of the head of the radius outwards, and of the ulna backwards and outwards—a new joint is formed, in the form of a cup, partly bony, for the head of the radius. The inner condyle appears to have been fractured. (St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., B. 14. Sir A. Cooper.) A variety of this dislocation is outwards and upwards or hackioards; the olecranon process of the ulna lying above and behind the outer condyle. The NEW variety, to which I have alluded, is a complete dislocation of the radius and ulna outwards and upwards laterally; the large sigmoid cavity of the ulna embracing the outer condyle and capitellum, just behind its articular surface, at a right angle, externally, with the humerus; and the head of the radius above, being in close relation to the external ridge of the humerus, which (ridge) bisected its round cup-like cavity. The head of the radius, therefore, was neither wholly in front nor behind the humerus; it was not dislocated forwards or backwards. In outward dislocations, the ligaments are more or less completely torn; but, in the ordinary forms of such dislocation, the brachiahs anticus and anconeus are the only muscles much disturbed, the biceps and triceps traversing the articulation a little more obliquely; while the principal arteries and nerves do not suffer much, if at all. * Eoy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 878. (G. Langstaflf.)749 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. In the variety which I have described, the state of the mnscles is also fully noticed with the arteries and nerves ; of which the latter structures had singularly escaped injury* (3.) Dislocation of the raduis and ulna inwards, or to the ulnar side, is much more rare than dislocation outwards, and always incom- plete, no example of complete dislocation inwards having been recorded. The ulna is driven over the elevated inner ridge of the trochlea, and falls down on the inner condyle, Fig. 355.t or epi-trochlea, embracing it instead of the trochlea; while the head of the radius, passing inwards also, occupies the trochlea. (Fig. 355.) The head of the radius is generally in the same line with the ulna; but it may be found a little forwards or backwards. A vanety of this dislocation is inwards and upwards or bachwards; the coronoid process- of the ulna being thrust upwards above the inner condyle, and the head of the radius occupying the olecranon fossa. The ligaments and muscles suffer some injury, and the ulnar nerve is peculiarly liable to contusion between the olecranon and inner condyle. (4.) Dislocation of the radius and ulna forwards was considered impossible without a fracture of the olecranon, this opinion having been taught by Sir A. Cooper and Vidal (De Cassis) ; but Monin, Prior, Velpeau, Canton, and Denuce have each reported one example—five in number. The structural condition of this dislocation requires further elucidation. In Velpeau's case, the head of the radius rested in the coronoid fossa, and the olecranon was carried upwards and a little outwards; whereas in Mr. Canton's case, as depicted in Hamil- ton's work, the olecranon rested, apparently, on its summit against the forepart of the articular surface of the humerus, and the head of the radius was free lower down in the smaller sigmoid cavity of the ulna ; thus constituting a complete dislocation of both bones forwards. (5.) Dislocation of the ulna alone, backwards, seldom happens with- ' out some dislocation of the head of the radius ; yet it is possible that the coronoid process may pass backwards into the olecranon fossa. (A. Cooper.) In one recorded dissection of such dislocation, observes Professor Pirrie, the coronary, oblique, and part of the interosseous ligaments were torn; the brachialis muscle was stretched under the humerus, and the triceps much relaxed. (6.) Dislocation of the head of the radius alone, backwards.—This I dislocation is of rare occurrence, only twenty-eight supposed ex- I amples having been collected. One only had been verified by dissec- 1 tion, and this is reported by Sir A. Cooper. The head of the radius ■ was behind the external condyle of the humerus, and rather to the (outer side. The coronary ligament was torn through at its forepart, i and the oblique had given way. The capsular ligament was partially 1 torn, and the head would have receded much more, but it was sup- 1 ported by the aponeurotic fascia. But I may add the following ! specimen. (Pig- 356.) The bicipital tuberosity lies close to the iTinoccupied lesser sigmoid notch. The orbicular ligament still en- ♦ " British and Foreign Med.-Chir. Eeview," Jan., 1866. t Guy's Hosp. Mus., 1306.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 750 closed the neck of the radius, but its attachments to the ulna were ruptured, and it had become firmly united to the humerus on either side of the dislocated bone. Accordingly, the movements of pronation and supination could not be performed. The ulna allowed of flexion and extension through about a fourth of the natural extent of these motions. _ The outer condyle of the humerus is altered in shape, from the deposit of new bone. This dislocation had existed for about two years, and was caused by direct violence, the elbow having been struck Fig. 356.* Fis. 357.t Fig. 358.1 by a stone. Incomplete dislocation, as occasionally happens in children, may not be attended with rupture of the annular ligament. (7.) Dislocation of the head of the radius alone, forwards, is relatively more common than backward dislocation; although Boyer, Velpeau, Chelius, Gibson (of Eichmond), Va., B. Cooper, and other Surgeons of large experience maintain the contrary. The head of the radius lies in front of the humerus, and generally somewhat outwards. (Fig. 357.) The anterior and external lateral ligaments, with the annular, are usually more or less torn. Sometimes, the two former are alone broken, the annular ligament also being sufficiently stretched to allow of complete dislocation ; or, the anterior and annular having given way, the external lateral remains intact. In the specimen I have figured, dislocation of the head of the radius forwards was complicated by fracture of the ejiipliysis of the olecranon, and fracture also of the ulna below its middle. The dislocation was compound, a large lacerated wound having been caused by the passage of a carriage-wheel over the arm, in the person of a child two years old. Death occurred from pyasmia. (8.) Dislocation of the head of the radius alone, outwards, is a modification of, if not consequent on, forward dislocation, or, perhaps, backward disloca- tion. The head rests on the outer side of the external condyle. It is a very rare displacement, Denuce having collected only four examples, unaccompanied with fracture. In the annexed illustration, thenxdial dislocation outwards is associated with displacement of the ulna backwards and outwards, and fracture apparently of the inner condyle. (Fig. 358.) * St. George's Hosp. Mus., 1, 109. t IWd. 1, 110. X St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., B. 41.DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. 751 Signs.—Certain characters are common to all dislocations of the elbow, a resemblance which renders it convenient to take these in- juries consecutively, in regard to their signs, as showing more clearly their diagnosis. Dislocation of the radius and ulna laolaoards presents a projection of the elbow posteriorhj—corresponding to the extremities of both bones, and of the olecranon in particular; with another projection, the end of the humerus in front of the elbow. (Fig. 359.) There is also some shortening of the forearm, with semi-flexion at an obtuse angle, or approaching to a right angle occasionally, and semi-prona- tion; with loss of the motions of flexion and extension, pronation and supination, but an unnatural lateral motion can generally be produced. Fig. 359.» Dislocation of the radius and ulna outwards is characterized by an unnatural projection externally—the head of the radius, with a pro- minent projection internally,—the inner condyle ; while dislocation of the radius and ulna inwards is distinguished by the opposite characters —a projection internally of the olecranon, and prominence externally of the outer condyle. The forearm is shortened laterally—on its inner aspect, by inclination to that side, in outward dislocation; and on its outer aspect, by in- clination to that side, in inward dislocation—or the whole forearm is shortened longitudinally, in either of these dislocations upwards. In both, there is also semi-flexion, and semi-pronation. The speedy supervention of swelling, in these and other dislocations of the elbow- joint, will often render the nature of the injury more or less obscure. Dislocation of the radius and ulna forwards would seem to be characterized by disappearance of the olecranon posteriorly, and the detection of this process and the head of the radius in front of the elbow; with shortening of the forearm upon the arm, semi-flexion to a right angle, and marked supination. If accompanied with fracture of the olecranon, there will be some mobility and crepitus. - Dislocation of the ulna alone, backwards, would probably be re- cognized by projection of the olecranon, the head of the radius being felt to rotate in its place; by the inclination of the forearm to the ulnar side, with partial flexion, and complete pronation. If accompanied •with fracture of the coronoid process, there will be considerable mobility, the dislocation readily disappearing and recurring, with crepitus. ♦ Koyal Free Hospital. (Author.)752 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUKGERY. Fig. 360.* Dislocation of the radius alone, hacJcwards, is cliaracterized by a projection of the head of the bone behind the outer condyle, where it can be felt to rotate; while dislocation/orwarcZs is distinguished by a projection of the head of the bone in front of the humerus. In hot/, dislocations, the forearm is shortened slightly on its outer side, and inclines to that'^sule, with slight flexion, and pronation. (Pig. 360.) But the latter form of dislocation is dis- tinguished by the position of the head of the radius, and the impossibility of flexing the forearm beyond a right angle, where the head of the bone impinging on the front of the humerus brings this motion suddenly to a dead lock. This peculiarity was first shown me, when a student, by Mr. Morton, in a case many years since at the University College Hospital; and it was a well-marked sign iu another case nnder my own observation and treatment at the Royal Free Hospital. Dislocation of the head of the radius, out- wards, may be recognized chiefly by the posi- tion of the head on the outer side of the external condyle, immediately tinder the skin, where it can be felt to rotate. Causes.—Indirect violence is, probably, more commonly the cause of all these dislocations. Thus, a fall on the hand may drive both bones backwards; possibly, outwards or inwards ; the ulna alone backwards ; or the radius alone backwards or forwards. But the position of the forearm, with regard to pronation or supination, will also affect the direction of the dislocation. The former position facilitates dislocation of the radius forwards ; and a violent effort to supinate the forearm, while it is gi^asped and held firmly in a state of pronation, will occasion dislocation of the radius backwards. Twisting or wi'enching of the forearm, as by machinery, may also occasion dislocation of both bones outwards or inwards ; and less probably of either bone—the radius, in particular—backwards or forwards. The latter dislocation of this bone has been produced in children, by lifting the child suddenly from the floor by the hand, or an attempt to sustain the child when about to fall. Direct violence may also be the cause of most forms of elbow-joint dislocation. Thus, both bones may be thi'own backwards, by a blow upon the back and lower part of the humerus; or on the front and Tipper part of the forearm; or the bones are usually thrown outwards or inwards, by a blow on the side of the arm or forearm opposite to the direction of dislocation ; and, in like manner, the radius alone has been started backwards, by a blow upon the front and upper part of that bone ; or forwards, by a blow upon the back of the head of the radius. Two dislocations of the elbow I have omitted to notice, in de- scribing the etiology of these injuries. Dislocation of the radius and ulna fonvards is, however, too rare an accident to be included in any general statement. In Velpeau's case, the man was knocked down by a carriage, the wheel passing over his right arm. Dislocation of the head of the radius, outwards—the other exceptional form of injury—is a * After Liston.753 DISLOCATIONS OP THE ELBOW. modification of, or consecutive to, dislocation of that bone, forwards or backwards. Age would certainly seem to have some predisposing influence relative, at least, to dislocation of tlie radius and ulna backwards. In fifty-six cases under Hamilton's observation, tbe average age was about twenty years, and twenty-two of the wbole number occurred in children under the age of fourteen. Unreduced elbow-joint dislocations are probably no exception to the pathological law of Dislocations in general: that the bones gradually adapt themselves to the particular displacement, forming a new articu- lation ; with more or less recovery of the use of the limb. An un- reduced dislocation of both bones backwards, and of seven years' duration, is depicted in Liston's " Surgery." The movements of the hand were considerably regained. The structural conditions acquired in such cases, as shown by dissection, have been noticed in some of the cases I have figured from original specimens. Reduced dislocations of the elbow generally result in a complete recovery of the use of the joint, within a few weeks. But in one of several exceptional cases under Hamilton's observation, a dislocation of both bones backwards was easily and promptly reduced in a lad eight years old; yet, six months afterwards, the arm had become bent to a right angle, and quite stiff at the joint. Four years later, the stiffness still continued, with only slight improvement. Treatment.—Reduction of all the dislocations to which the elbow- joint is liable, can be effected by the same method—bending the elbow over the knee—but those of the I'adius are, perhaps, better accomjplished in J'ig- 361. another way. (1.) Bending the elbow over the Icnee was the method recommended by Sir A. Cooper. (Fig. 361.) The patient being seated on a low chair or stool, the Surgeon, resting one foot on the seat, places his knee in the bend of the dis- located joint; grasping the forearm,' he presses the knee against the inner side of the forearm to unlock the ulna from behind the humerus, and drawing or bending the forearm round the knee, the bones readily come forward over the articular end of the humerus, into posi- tion. The action of the muscles will, in fact, effect reduction when the bones are dislodged. This result is announced by a sudden jerk of the bones slipping into place, with a restoration of the natural confirmation of the joint, which may, however, be less perceptible owing to the surrounding swelling ; but the im- mediate mobility of the joint, so that the forearm can be bent upon the arm, even to a right angle, without pain, will be a further guarantee of reduction. Another method, which seems to be a modification of the precudixjfr764 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND BURGEEY. •was that recommended by Boyer. Extension is made from the wrist by one assistant, tbe forearm remaining at a right angle with the arm, while counter-extension is made by another assistant holding the arm ; the Surgeon, grasping the elbow with both hands, presses the olecranon process downwards and forwards. This method does not so readily unlock the bones, and extension from the wrist tells more upon the radius than the ulna, which chiefly opposes reduction. It is, therefore, preferable to grasp the middle of the forearm with both hands, and draw it forwards; no assistant being required except, perhaps, to steady the arm. In either of these methods, it may be advisable to direct the arm backwards, so as to relax the triceps muscle. Listen, who recommended this position, at the same time made extension backwards, counter-extension being made from the shoulder. (2.) Dislocations of the radius alone may be reduced by straight ex- tension gradually from the wrist, the arm being fixed; aided by pressure on the head of the bone forwards or backwards, according to the dislo- cation. In backward dislocation also, forcible supination will aid in just throwing the head of the bone forwards over the articular surface of the humerus ; while, in forward dislocation, forcible pronation will similarly jerk the head into place. But these movements are useless until the head lies on the brink of reduction, and unless while extension is still being continued. Skey applied this method of straight extension in dislocation of both bones backwards ; but, according to my own experi- ence, the ulna is thus less readily unlocked from behind the humerus. After reduction has been effected, it should be maintained by the application of a right-angled split upon the back of the arm and fore- arm, with a compress over the head of the bone—in the case of radial dislocations ; and the forearm supported in a sling. The period for removal of this retentive apparatus should be regulated by the liability to re-dislocation, and to stiiiness of the joint. Dislocation with fracture, as of the coronoid or olecranon process of the ulna, may be treated in the same way ; but retention of the bone in position must be continued for some weeks. Unreduced Dislocations of the Elbow are curable or incurable; partly according to their duration, principally however with reference to the form of dislocation. Recent dislocation of the ulna, or involving the ulna, is much more diflB.cult of reduction than that of the radius after a long period ; the difference being due to the irregular form of the head of the ulna, which opposes reduction. Dislocation of the radius alone has been reduced at periods varying fi-om a few days to weeks or months. In one instance I reduced a dislocation backwards, of ten weeks' duration, and the patient, a laundress, recovered good use of her forearm. Dislocation of the radius forwards has remained unreduced in the hands of skilful Surgeons. Sir A. Cooper failed in two recent cases ; and of the six which came under his immediate observation, only two were ever reduced. Malgaigne states that in a collection of 25 cases, efforts at reduction were ineffectual in 11, and the accident was unrecognized or neglected in 6 ; leaving only 8, of the whole number, reduced. The golden rule should be observed in t elbow-joint dislocations, as in all other such injuries, not to interfere ( when the motions of the joint are tolerably efficient. Compound Dislocations of the Elbow.—These injuries are always perilous ; both on account of their nature, the size of the joint, and asDISLOCATIONS OF THE RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATIONS. 755 Fig. 362.* Fig. 363.t being caused by considerable violence. The " external latero-angular " dislocation, wbich I bave described, was compound, and produced by a wrencb of tbe forearm between tbe buffers of two railway carriages. Treatment.—These compound injuries present nothing peculiar in relation to their treatment. The preservation of the limb, or operative interference, by excision or amputation, must be guided by similar considerations to those which relate to shoulder-joint dislocations, or to such injuries in general. Congenital dislocations of the elbow have been met with, in the form of both bones backwards, or as pertaining to the head of the radius. These imperfections are more curious pathologically, than in- teresting surgically. Dislocations of the Radio-ulnae Artictjlations.—The head of the radius in its relation to the smaller sigmoid cavity of the ulna, con- stituting the swperior radio-ulnar articulation, may undergo dislocation in the directions already described, as dislocations of the head of the radius,—backwards, forwards (Fig. 362), or outwards. The lower end or head df the ulna in its articu- lation with the lower end of the radius, is liable to dislocation, backwards or forwards. (1.) Dislocation hachwards is characterized by an unnatural prominence of bone—the head of the ulna—at the posterior and inner part of the wrist, with loss of the motions of pronation and supination. In connection with fracture of the lower end of the radius, this dislocation is not very uncom- mon ; alone, it seldom occurs, eleven or twelve cases only having been collected by Mal- gaigne; to which I may add one case from my own experience, the dislocation backwards being of four years' duration, and irreducible. (Fig. 363.) The cause would seem to be, usually, violent pronation. Thus, Desault records the case of a laundress who, in wringing a wet sheet, produced dislocation of the head of the ulna backwards. But a fall on the hand, doubling the wrist forwards, was the occasion of this displacement in the case which came under my observation. The act of lifting a child by the hand gave rise to it, in a case which Duges mentions, and the accident happened in both wrists, at different times. Treatment.—Reduction can be readily effected by forcible supination of the forearm, with pressure on the head of the ulna forwards. Gene- rally the bone remains in place without further assistance; or it may be necessary to apply a compress and splint. (2.) Dislocation forwards is denoted by a projection of the head of the ulna at the anterior and inner part of the wrist; the natural pro- minence of this portion of the bone at the back of the wrist having * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., C. 37. f Royal Free Hospital.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 756 disappeared. The motions of pronation and supination are lost. This dislocation is even more rare than the former ; nine cases only having been collected by Malgaigne, to Avhich Hamilton adds one more, as reported by Parker, of Liverpool. The CAUise is apparently, with hardly any exception, violent supina- tion of the forearm. And this mode of production throws light on the comparatively less frequent occurrence of this dislocation; the motion of supination being less extensive than that of pronation, and less likely to be excessive in any of the offices which the hand has to perform. Treatment.—Reduction is easily effected by forcible pronation of the forearm, with pressure on the head of the ulna backwards. Redislocation need not be apprehended. There was no such ten- dency in Mr. Parker's case. Dislocation of the Radio-caepal Articulation, or Wrist-joint.— Tliis articulation may undergo dislocation backwards, or forwards. Believed by Boyer, Petit, and the older Surgeons, to be a not un- common form of injury, it is probable that most of the apparent cases of wrist-joint dislocation were fractures of the carpal end of the radius, and that Dupuytren's final experience is correct—this accident is extremely rare. In my own practice I have never met with it, nor have I ever yet seen any such dislocation; but undoubted instances have been recorded by Fig. 364:.* Malgaigne, Cruveilhier, B. Coopei', Fergusson, and other Surgeons. (1.) Dislocation of the hand and carpus, baclavards, presents a large projection —the carpus—atthelsack of the wrist (Fig. 364), and another—the lower end of the radius and ulna —on the palmar aspect; with flexure and immobility of the hand. (2.) Dislocation of the hand Fig. 365.t and carpus, forwards, presents just the opposite appearances : a projection of the carpus in front of the wrist (Fig. 365), and of the radius and ulna on the dorsal aspect, with extension and im- mobility of the hand. Causes.—A fall on the hand is the usual occasion of dislocation; the back of the hand, probably, receiving the force of the shock in backward dislocation of the carpus, and the palm of the hand receiv- ing the force in forward dislocation. These dislocations are usually said to arise conversely ; but the cases described in Hamilton's work appear to clearly disprove the accepted representations in most surgical works. Treatment.—Redaction can generally be effected, in either form of dislocation, by extension and counter-extension; at the same time drawing the hand in the contrary direction to which it is inclined, * After Sir A. Cooper. t Bt. Thomas's Hosp. Jlns., B. 18. Dislocation of the hand and carpus forwards, i.e., of the radius and ulua backwards. From a woman, aged 33. No historj'.757 DISLOCATIONS OF THE CARPAL BONES. namely, backwards in tlie flexed position of backward dislocation, forwards in the more extended position of forward dislocation, and m either case aiding this leverage by pressing the carpus from behind, so as to bring it into place. Position should then be maintained by antero- posterior splints securing the hand, but allowing for the supervention of swelling. Injuries of tb Wrist allied to Dislocation.—(1.) Dislocation with fracture of the lower end of the radius, happens far more com- monly than dislocation alone. The diagnosis will turn on the presence of crepitus and mobility of the lower fragment, as determined by moving the hand, at the same time feeling whether the styloid pro- cesses of the radius and ulna move with it. Dislocation with fracture of the posterior margia of the articulating surface of the radius, is known as "Barton's fracture." Some diiEculty may be experienced in keeping the bones in place. (2.) Fracture of the lower end of the radius may be mistaken for dislocation of the wrist; but it can be distinguished in like manner. The comparative frequency of the Fig. 366.* former injury and rarity of the latter led Dupuytren to almost deny the possibility of radio-carpal dislocation; though the occurrence of this dislocation is now established beyond a doubt. (3.) Fracture with impaction of the fragments (Fig. 366) is unattended with the usual fracture signs, mobility and crepitus ; but it may be distinguished from dislocation, chiefly, by the resistance oliered to reduction. (4.) Sprain, also, simulates dislocation : here, how- ever, the swelling is single, and not well defined, Hke the bony projections of dislocation; it does not appear immediately, and gradually increases. Gompound Dislocation of the "Wrist.—This accident is of rare occur- rence. One case only has been seen by Hamilton, and one recorded by Sir. A. Cooper. As associated with fracture, the injury may happen more frequently. Always a serious injury, compound dislocation is even more so in consideration of the violence which causes it. Treatment.—The amount of damage done to the soft textures and to the bones will guide the Surgeon respecting the probability of preserving the hand, or the necessity for excision or amputation. Congenital dislocations of the wrist are described by Gruerin as possibly occurring in three forms : forwards, backwards and upwards, backwards and outwards. These dislocations are connected with, and dependent on, imperfect conditions of the radio-carpal articulation, or incomplete paralysis of the muscles of the forearm and hand. Dislocations of the Carpal Bones, among themselves.—Simple dislocations, or rather subluxations, of the carpal bones take place occasionally; but, perhaps, only in one direction—backwards. The bones thns liable to dislocation are the semilunar, cuneiform, and pisiform bones of the first row, and the os magnum of the second row, which is most frequently displaced, while, according to South, the unciform bone is also liable to displacement. All the bones of one row may be dislocated, the second row overlapping the first row, * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 3, 94.758 SPECIAL PATHOLOay AND SURGERY. backwards; as in a case which Maisonneuve verified by dissection. Pislocation of any of the carpal bones may occur, in connection with gunshot injury, or other occasions of extensive fracture of the neigh- bouring bones. The Signs will be—a bony projection at the back of the wrist, with some loss of power. The Cause is usually a fall on the back of the hand, which being thus forcibly doubled under itself, occasions one of the carpal bones to start backwards ; the os magnum, for example. The pisiform bone is said to have been detached by the action of the flexor carpi-ulnaris muscle, in cases seen by Fergusson and Erichsen. Treatment.—Pressure may easily replace the bone, but the applica- tion of a compress, and for some time, will be necessary, to guard against redislocation; the os magnum, in particular, having. a great tendency to slip out again. Dislocations of the Metacarpal Bones at thei/r Carpal Articulations. —Any such dislocation is rare, and usually limited to a single meta- carpal bone, hachwards. The thumb is most commonly dislocated, and either hachwards or forwards on the trapezium ; the former displace- ment occurring more frequently. Either may be partial or complete. The other metacarpal bones are very seldom dislocated, Malgaigne having collected only three instances, to which a few others have been added. All the metacarpal bones, except that of the thumb, had under- gone dislocation, in a probably unique case which Hamilton examined five years after the accident, by gunshot injury. The displacement backwards remained, but the motions of the fingers, except the fore and little fingers, were perfect. The Signs, in any case, are sufiiciently obvious : projection of the end, or hase, of the metacarpal bone, in the direction of displacement, and immobility. The direction of the thumb may be quite straight, or with flexion there is also some inclination of the metacarpal bone inwards towards the palm. Causes.—A fall on the thumb, bending it on itself, represents the ordinary mode of its dislocation. A blow upon the extremity and palmar aspect of the last phalanx may, however, cause dislocation ; the force then acting in the opposite direction, or from within outwards. Treatment.—Extension, with pressure on the end Fig. 367.* of the bone, will generally succeed in effecting re- duction. A splint should then be applied, and per- haps a compress to prevent any risk of redislocation. The bulky base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb sometimes obstinately resists reduction; in which case. Sir A. Cooper recommends that the dislocation should be left to acquire the compensatory motion of a new joint, rather than the Surgeon run any risk of injuring the nerves and blood-vessels, by dividing the muscles or ligaments. Dislocations of the First Phalangeal Bones— their Iletacarpo-Phalangeal Articulatmis.—These dis- locations, also, seldom happen; and usually the bone is driven hachvards, though sometimes forwards. (Fig. 367.) I have seen the phalangeal bones of the index and middle fingers partly driven * Guy's Hospital Mus., 1313.769 DISLOCATIONS OP THE FIRST PHALANGEAL BONES. Fig. 368.* back, in the left hand of a prizefighter. The first phalangeal bone of the tlmmh is most frequently dislocated, and either baolcwards or forwards (Fig. 368) ; the former displacement occurring more commonly. Hamilton has met "with the backward dislocation nine times, the forward only twice. The Signs are characteristic: a projection of the posterior extremity of the phalangeal bone, in the direction of displacement, and immobility. The tlmmh presents somewhat peculiar appear- ances. Its first phalangeal bone, having slid backwards upon the metacarpal bone, stands off from this bone at an angle ; thus allowing the head of the metacarpal bone to project prominently towards the palm of the hand; while the second or ungual phalangeal bone is flexed upon the first, and forms another angle in the thumb. The phalangeal bone is locked in its new position, and reduction may be proportionately difficult. This immediately arises either from the constriction of the neck of the bone between the lateral ligaments, as Hey believed; or between the two heads of the short flexor muscle, as affirmed by Malgaigne, Vidal (De Cassis), and others. Sir A. Cooper attributed the difficulty of reduction to the resistance offered by all the six muscles which are inserted into the two phalangeal bones of the thumb, the flexors more especially maintaining the displacement; or that the sesamoid bones oppose reduction; lastly, the difficulty may be due to the interposition of the anterior ligament, torn from its attachments and folded in between the joint, as alleged by Pailloux, Lawrie, and many others. Displace- ment of the long flexor tendon inwards or outwards, so as to impede reduction, has been found by Lisfranc, Deville, and Wadsworth. Treatment.—Reduction can sometimes be accomplished easily; by extension, inclining the finger towards the palm, with pressure on the displaced end of bone. Or, the thumb may require more powerful traction; and by first bending the dislocated phalanx backwards, so as to increase the displacement, the articular end of the phalanx will Fig. 369.t be dii'ected forwards towards the ! articular surface of the metacarpal bone, thus aiding the reduction. ' This preparatory movement was I suggested by Roser, and it has since been generally adopted with ad- vantage. Extension may then be i accomplished by means of a strong • tape fastened on the phalanx with a • clove-hitch knot (Pig. 369), care being taken to protect the skin by a piece of moist wash-leather wrapped : round the part. Or pulleys may be had recourse to, applied in like : manner. A more effectual mode of extension, occasionally, is by means ' of a large door-key; which, I beUeve, Mr. Listen originally suggested. * King's College Mus., 1344'. In this case, with dislocation of the first phalanx of tlie thumb forwards, there was also oblitiue fracture of the metacarpal bone (Joha Wood.) I After Listen.760 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Passing the ring of the key over the thumb, and hitching it against the projecting end of bone, extension and pressure can thus be brought to bear with advantage and simultaneously. Levis's extension-instru- ment (Fig. 370) enables the Surgeon to apply flexion or leverage also, in any direction. The Indian "puzzle," a cone formed of plaited ash-splittings, had long been used as an instrument of torture for the; traction of a thumb or finger, but it was first employed by Hamilton Pig. 370. to make extension in the reduction of dislocation. The thumb, for example, being introduced into the open end of this cone, on drawincr the opposite end, the greater the traction the tighter the hold becomes: yet the pressure is so equable and diffused over the whole surface, as to occasion little pain and no strangulation. When the traction is dis- continued, the cone immediately loosens and relaxes its grasp. Before applying any extending force, reduction may be facilitated by soaking the thumb for some time in warm water, in order to relax the parts as much as possible ; a very useful recommendation given by Sir A. Cooper. Suhmdaneoiis section of the opposing ligaments or tendons should be resorted to as the last resource. Originally projiosed by Sir Charles Bell, it was employed successfully by Mr. Listen in a case of recent dislocation,-—not an hour having elapsed, the patient an old man and very drunk; no resistance, apparently, to reductioa existed, and very powerful force had been applied and persevered in without avail. At last, the external lateral ligament was divided by the point of a very narrow and fine bistoury; and then replacement became immediate and easy. Some inflammation followed, but was kept within bounds, and the man regained the use of the articulation. This method has since been practised successfully by Syme and Lizars, and by Reinhardt, also by Gibson, Parker, and other American Surgeons. Dislocations of the Middle and Ungual Phalangeal Bones occur even less frequently than dislocations of the first Fig. 371.* row. Their pathology, signs (Fig. 371), and treatment are similar. Compound Dislocations of the Bones of the Hand.—Those of the thumb are most common, as they are also the most serious and important with regard to the future use of the hand. But any such dislocation is usually connected with fracture, and extensive laceration of the palm. The causes of these injuries are always some occasion of extreme •violence. The explosion of a flask of powder in the hand happens now and then, driving one or more of the bones backward, and othermso shattering the hand. I have had to deal with two such accidents. Treatment.—Eeduction can usually be effected without difficulty; tlio * St. ThoraaB'.'? TTosp. Mns., B. 20. Dislocation forwards of the second phalanx of finger, consequent on disease of tlie joint.761 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. obstacles of ligaments or tendons having already given way as part of the injury. The wound slaould then be closed, and the joint fixed, as in ordinary compound dislocations. Generally, however, the extent of injury requires some operative interference. Excision of splintered portions of bone, or amputation of one or more fingers, may therefore become unavoidable alternatives. The preservation of the thumb, and perhaps of the little finger with it, is always a consideration of para- mount importance. This remnant hand will serve the useful purpose of a hook, or of prehension by the conjunction of the thumb and finger. Congenital Dislocations of the Fingers.—The last three fingers of the left hand in a foetus examined by Chaussier, were found to be dislocated at the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation. The thighs, knees, and feet were also dislocated. The last two phalanges of the fingers are, M. Berard states, incurved backwards, occasionally, in newly born children of the female sex ; and Malgaigne has himself seen a woman in whom, fi'om birth, all the plialangettes were carried backwards to an angle of 135°, leaving the heads of the phalanges projecting forward Tinder the skin. Dislocations of the Pelvis.—(1.) The Symjohjsis-puhis and the Sacro-iliac Articulations may, severally, undergo separation and dis- placement. In one case, I found all three articulations completely I'ig- 372.* separated, in a young man whose pelvis had been subjected to severe compression. The same triple injury had occurred in the specimen here represented. (Fig. 372.) The Signs of any pelvic disar- ticulation are sufiiciently obvious : some deformity and mobility at the seat of injury. The cause of disarticulation is always some extreme violence, and generally a compressing force. Treatment,—The same as in fracture of the pelvis. (2.) The Coccyx is more frequently bent or displaced than fractured. Such dislocation may be forwards, as the result of a fall; or laclcivarcls, in consequence of pressure by the head of the child during parturition. Treatment,—The same as for fracture of the coccyx. Dislocations of the Hip-jo int.—This joint is subject to four prin- cipal dislocations, and to five anomalous dislocations; resulting from the freedom of the motion of the hip—as a ball-and-socket joint—in all directions. The number of possible dislocations may therefore be added to by increasing experience; any point in the circumference of a circle representing a direction in which dislocation of the hip. might possibly occur, from the joint as a centre. Taking the four principal dislocations of the hip in their order of liability, they are as follow :— (1) Dislocation upwards and backwards on the dorsum ilii; (2) upwards and backwards into the great ischiatic notch; (3) downwards ♦ St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., C. 42. Pelvis, shewing separation of sym- ■ physis-pubis and sacro-iliac articulations, from violence, in a boy aged fourteen. ' The condyles of the femur were also detached at the line of epiphytic union.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 762 Fig. 373.* and forwards into tlie obturator foramen; and (4) upwards and for- wards upon the piibes. To these may be added, as anomalous and occasional dislocations—(5) Dislocation diredly upivards, between the anterior superior and inferior spinous processes of the ilium, or there- abouts ; downwards and hackwards, upon the posterior part of the body of the ischium, between its tuberosity and its spine; (7) downwards and bacliwards, into the lesser or lower ischiatic notch ; (8) directly or vertically downwards, beneath the lower border of the acetabulum, between it and the tuberosity—stibcotyloid; (9) and forwards, into the perineum, upon the ramus of the ischium and pubis, or upon the body of the pubcs. The four first-named dislocations severally require special consideration ; but even their relative frequency is very different. Sir A. Cooper states that in 20 cases of hip-joint dislocation, 12 will be on the dorsum ilii, 5 into the ischiatic notch, 2 into the thyroid foramen, and 1 upon the pubic bone. This was about the proportion in Hamilton's larger collection of the same dislocations; of the whole number 104, the relative numbers were 65, 28, 13, 8. Ohelius and Samuel Cooper reverse the order of liability in regard to thyroid and pubic dislocations, placing the latter before the former in frequency. Dislocation upwards and backwards (1) on the Dorsum Ilii, and (2) INTO THE GREAT IsCHiATiC NoTCH.—Structural Conditions.—(1.) The head of the femur rests on the Dorsum Hii, or within the fibres of the deeper gluteal muscles; and it is directed back- wards, the great trochanter forwards. (Fig. 373.) The capsular ligament, and especially its posterior half, is lacerated, and the round ligament ruptured; the small external rotator muscles are stretched or rent completely asunder, and the glutgeus maximus, medius, and minimus torn up more or less in extent from the dorsum ilii; thus allowing the head of the femur to occupy its un- natural situation. The triceps adductor is put upon the stretch. The particular direction of the head backwards and trochanter forwards, has been attributed to the strong anterior portion of the capsule which proceeds to the anterior inter-trochauteric line still remaining entire, and thus resisting the action of the rotator muscles. Resistance to reduction in this, and other disloca- tions of the hip, has been ascribed either to the rent capsular hgament entangling the head and neck of the bone ; or to opposing muscles ; or to both this ligament and the muscles. * St. George's Hospital Museum, 1, 209. Dislocation of the femur o° the dor- sum ilii, with the remnaBt of the ilio-femoral lipramcn (inverted Y-sbapoc^^liganm Bigelow), the shaft of the femur being placed ver ical y to bnng into view The dissection showed that the head of the bone was lodged great sacro-sciatic foramen, the capsule having been ruptured so as f^^'^^ sufficient size to transmit the head of the bone. The pynformis muscle was partiaHy lacerated; the oth™ scles were uninjured. This dislocation was caused by a faU from a height of fifty feet.Fig. 374.* 763 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. (2.) Dislocation intotlie great Ischiatie Notch corresponds so nearly ; in its pathology with that on the dorsum ilii, so to require only a , differential description. The head of the femur lies in the great sciatic : notch, behind and a little above the acetabulum; being situated between i the upper margin of the notch above, 1 and the sacro-sciatic ligaments below, t (Fig. 374.) It rests upon the pyrifor- • mis muscle; or upon the gemelli and 5 sacro-sciatic nerve, g-s in a case dis- : sected by Mr. Syme. The attitude of I the bone, and rupture of the ligaments J and muscles, are very similar to the I condition of dorsal dislocation. With 1 reference to the tendon of the obtu- ] rator internus, the head of the femur ] passes downwards and backwards, and i then being carried upwards, it is t arrested by the tendon, or passes be- I hind it. Hence, Bigelow names this t dislocation " dorsal below the tendon." ' Ischiatie dislocation is sometimes : secondary to that on the dorsum; but ] more frequently the former, by secon- < dary displacement, is converted into i the latter. Mechanisin of Hip-joint Dislocation.—The production of the different f forms of Hip-joint dislocation seems to depend, essentially, upon the i integrity or the disruption of the ilio-femoral ligament, in the act of (dislocation. It should be remembered that this ligament is that strong I band which extends over the front of the capsule of the hip-joint, J passing obliquely downwards between the anterior inferior spinous pro- (cess of the ilium, and the anterior inter-trochanteric line bounding the meek of the femur. (See Fig. 373.) Thus attached at its extremities, t the band is closely connected also to the forepart of the capsule, which lit materially strengthens as an accessory ligament in front of the joint. ^When not rujjiured, the resistance of this ligamentous band allows of c displacement of the femoral head only in four directions, thus produc- i ing one or other of the four regular dislocations of the hip-joint; when r ruptitred, one or other of the irregular dislocations of this joint may be {produced. With regard to the regular displacements ; dorsal disloca- ttion owes its inversion to the external fasciculus of the ilio-femoral 1 ligament; in the ischiatie dislocation, the head of the femur is arrested iin extension by the tendon of the obdurator internus muscle; in thyroid c dislocation, the flexion and eversion of the limb are due to the ilio- ffemoral ligament; and in pubic dislocation, the ascent of the femoral Ihead is arrested by this ligament. Dissections instituted by Dr. Fenner cof New Orleans, Gunn of Michigan, Moore of Rochester, Busch of Bonn, sand by Roser, Weber, Gelle, and Von Pitha, led the way to the more c complete investigations by Dr. H. J. Bigelow, of Harvard University. * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., B. 23'. Dislocation of the femur on the sacro-sciatic B notch, or, rather, just behind the acetabulum. The pyriformis and gluta^us minimus B muscles are stretched over the head of the bone ; the obturator internus, with the vtom gemellus muscles (not seen), lie immediately below. (Presented by Mr. SMacCormac. See also "Eeports of the Hospital," vol. ii. p. 1.)764 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. ^ Signs.—(1.) Dislocation on the dorsum iljd presents very cliaracter- istic appearances. The limb is shortened to an extent varying from one inch and a half as the average, to three inches occasionally; the knee is slightly flexed, and the thigh upon the abdomen, thus proiectina the knee forwards; there is marked inversion of the limb, the knee being directed inwards, as well as forwards, towards the other, and ]ust above it; the foot also is inverted, so that the great toe rests on the opposite ankle. (Pig. .375.) The head of the femur in its new situan tion, with the gluteal muscles, give an unnatural prominence to the posterior aspect of the buttock, and the bone can he felt, especially on rotating the limb ; the prominence of the great trochanter is diminished and drawn upwards and turned forwards near the anterior superioi spinous process of the ilium. Immobility of the limb, at least in tht direction of eversion, abduction, and extension, will be more or les complete, and the patient has lost the power of such voluntary motion Fig. 375. Fig. 376. great pain also attends almost any movement of the limb. (2.) Dislo cation into the great sciatic notch presents similar signs, but in a lessei degree; thns fendering the characteristic appearances less marked Shortening has taken place to an extent usually of half an inch, and not exceeding an inch. Flexion and inversion are such, that the axis of the dislocated thigh points the knee less across the opposite thigh, and the end of the great toe rests on the ball of the great toe opposite (Fig. 376.) The hip appearances are less conspicuous; the head of the femur sinking into the hollow of the notch, "where, however, it can be felt in a thin subject, or by introducing the finger into the rectum oi vagina, and the great trochanter approaches less nearly to the anterioi765 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. uperior spinous process of the ilium than in dislocation upon the dor- sum ilii. The lumbar spine is arched, when the limb lies in a line with 'le trunk, but when flexed upon the pelvis, the back rests flat upon the I 'd. This arched appearance, and its subsidence, is due to the tension or .'laxation of the psoas and iliacus muscles. It is a most valuable sign, observes Mr. Syme, never being absent, nor is it ever met with in any other injury of the hip-joint, whether dislocation, fi-acture, or bruise. The diagnosis of these dislocations from other injuries is, generally, I ear. Fracktre of the neck of the femur, accompanied with inversion r the limb, is comparatively rare; and when it occurs, mobility and l epitus of the fragments will, usually, determine the diagnosis. Im- acted fracture, however, with consequently an absence of these signs, IS always an equivocal condition. Two points of distinction between I dislocation of the hip upwards and backwards, and impacted fracture, i are laid down by Erichsen : that in dislocation, the head of the bone 1 can be felt in its new situation by deep manipulation of the gluteal region; and that the trochanter is diagonal in its relative position to the anterior superior spinous process, whereas in fracture it lies nearly in a perpendicular line with it. Nelaton's "test line" affords : a ready and accurate indication of any elevation of the great trochanter having taken place. It is a hue drawn from the anterior superior spinous process of the ihum to the most prominent aspect of the tuberosity of the ischium. In the natural relation of the femur, what- ' ever the attitude of the limb may be, this line coincides with the : summit of the trochanter; but in either form of backward dislocation— dorsal or ischiatic—the trochanter rises above the line to half an inch or ; an inch higher. Disease of the hip-joint resembles dislocation upwards : and backwards, in its general characters; and particularly when advanced to the stage of shortening the limb. The antecedent history of limping lameness and pain, before any such resemblance becomes established, will sufliciently decide the diagnosis. Failing to recognize the nature of the case, instances have occurred of attempted reduction in hip-joint disease ; a sad mistake, and which would sorely aggravate the disease. Causes.—The attitude of the limb at the time of dislocation is always most influential in this, as in other such injuries. When the body is bent forward on the thigh or the thigh on the abdomen, and the thigh in a state of adduction close to the opposite thigh; * hip- dislocation upwards and backwards may then result from a fall on the foot or knee, and especially while the individual is carrying a load on the back; or from the fall of a heavy weight, as a mass of earth, upon the back of the pelvis, the body being much bent for- wards. Dislocation may thus take place either on the dorsum ilii, ^ or into the great sciatic notch; but, "to gain the latter situation, the limb must be in a position more nearly at a right angle with the trunk. Age has a remarkable relation to the frequency of hip-joint dislocation. Any such dislocation is comparatively rare in infancy and advanced life ; but it has been known to occur in an infant, six months old, as the earliest time, and at eighty-five years of age, as the latest time. The period of life during which dislocations of the hip occur more commonly, has been stated, by Sir A. Cooper, as being from twenty to fifty years; by Malgaigne, as from twenty to forty-five years; and by * The state of ahduclion may be the only causative position in all dislocations of the thigh. See "Med. Chir. Traus.," 1877. (H. Morris.)766 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Hamilton, as from fifteen to thirty, but tliat the next, and nearly I equal, order of frequency is from thirty to forty-five years. These I slight differences of statement are due to the diiferent ages at which I each series of cases commenced, and they tend to confirm the general P result. Males are more liable than females to dislocation of the hipjj owing to the more oblique direction of the neck in relation to tmm shaft of the femur, and also to the accidents, in the various occud^B tions of the former sex, which cause dislocation. '^I Unrednced dislocation of the hip backwards proceeds to the forma^ tion of a new joint; the pathology of which may be regarded as the I type of any such compensatory construction, and is, therefore, cou-B sidered in the general history of Dislocation. I Cases are on record showing the efficiency of the limb eventually, in I a state of unreduced dislocation; one—related by Hamilton—afterB nine yeai's' dislocation on the dorsum, where a young man could walk* rapidly, althotigh with a halt, yet without pain and discomfort; iaj another case, after only eight weeks' dislocation into the sciatic notch,! the limb was quite useful. Reduction of dislocation on the dorsum is, i generally, followed by speedy recovery of the use of the limb ; in the course of a few weeks or months at most, the limb becoming as useful as before. The same may be said in favour of dislocation into the sciatic notch; reduction soon restores the thorough efficiency of the limb. But, after an unusual force or prolongation of extension, I have seen a permanent muscular weakness and limping lameness result; without, however, any recurrence of dislocation. Treatment.—Chloroform should always be administered—unless specially contra-indicated—to relax the muscles. A warm bath may be substituted for the relaxing influence of chloroform, in exceptional cases. Reduction can then be efi^ected in either of two ways: by ex- tension and counter-extension of the limb, pulleys being necessary to overcome the muscular resistance and its duration, in most cases; or by flexing the limb on the thigh, and guiding it so into position, that the muscles themselves, probably, complete the reduction—constituting the method by " manipulation." (1.) Extension and Gounter-Bxtension.—The patient must be placed on his back, inclining to the side opposite to that of dislocation ; and sufficiently raised from the ground on a bed or table, that the long axis of the thigh may be in a line with the force of extension, resisted by counter-extension, which should be applied in the following manner. (Pig. 377.) A padded belt is fastened round the lower part of the thigh, having a double strap attached to it, terminating in a ring; to the latter a multiplying pair of pulleys, of three cords, is hooked, whereby extension is brought into operation; the distal pulleyDISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 767 being hooked to a ring or staple driven into the wall or some firmly fixed object, in a line with the thigh. A padded perineal hand, for connter-extension, must be secured in like manner. An apparatus of this kind, and well adapted for the purpose, is manufactured by Messrs. Weiss. The cord of the pulleys may be intrusted to an assistant, the Surgeon taking charge of the thigh and hip. Extension should be made sloroly, gradually increased, and steadily maintained. The great trochanter will be observed to descend, and to come more into position, as extension proceeds; the upper part of the thigh should then be raised with one hand or by means of a towel passed under the thigh, in order to lift the head of the femur over the prominent brim of the acetabulum; while, at the same time, the thigh is rotated out- wards with the other hand, thus to incline the head of the bone downwards and forwards; it will, generally, be felt to slip in with a jerk, rather than a snap, the muscles being worn out beyond the power of any sudden contraction. On relaxing the extension, the perceptible disappearance of the signs of dislocation, in the length of the limb, etc., announces the certainty of reduction. The limb must then be retained in position, to guard against the liability of re-dislocation. A long splint and bandage, as for fracture of the thigh, has been recommended for this purpose; but simply connecting the reduced limb with the sound limb, by means of a few turns of a bandage around the thighs side by side, I have always found to afford a suffi- cient security. The patient must remain in bed for ten days or a fortnight, during the reparation of the ligamentous and other tissues. Dislocation into the sciatic notch is reduced in like manner, but with greater difficulty, owing to the imbedded position of the head of the femur. (Fig. 378.) Extension should be made across the middle of the opposite thigh, and the head of the bone more lifted out of its bed; the patient inclining more to the opposite or sound side. To effectually raise the head of the bone, it is sometimes recommended that a towel, passed under the thigh, should be looped round the neck of an assistant, who, stooping over the pelvis and pressing downwards with both hands, raises his shoulders; thus bringing considerable power to bear in drawing the bone forwards towards its socket. Jarvis's adjuster is applicable, instead of pulleys, for the purpose of extension. This instrument offers the advantages of completeness in requiring no assistant, and no additional means for fixing the pelvis while the limb can be moved in any direction during the extension! Bat the great power which can be brought to bear must not be over- looked, lest serious damage be done by any undue force. AlthoughSPECIAL PATnOLOGY AND SURGERY. 768 * After Bigelow. a complicated apparatus—and, I may add, expensive—it may be specially serviceable in country practice, where the Surgeon is often unaided, or in the colonies. Reduction by rectangular flexion, with vertical extension—Bigelow's method—ia guided solely by the state of the ilio-femoral ligament. The thigh must be flexed to a right angle with the trunk, thus to relax this ligament; then the dislocation can be readily reduced by making extension directly upwards. Manual extension may suffice, or the pulleys can be applied, by means of a tripod placed over the limb, to the. apex of which they are hooked. Or Jarvis's adjuster may be employed instead of pulleys. In either way, counter-extension is main- tained by fixing the pelvis to the floor with a belt. Sometimes, there being only a slit in the capsule, which resists the return of the head of the femur into the acetabulum, it will be necessary to circumduct the limb, in order to tear the capsule open, before reduction can be efEected. (2.) Manipulation.—This method of reduction was known to Hip- pocrates, and has since been variously practised by Surgeons in modern times, especially in 1815, by Dr. Nathan Smith, of New Haven; but, in 1851, Dr. "W. W. Reid, of Rochester, N.T., so attracted the attention of the profession to this proceedure, as to have fairly introduced it as an established method of practice. Dr. Reid's method consists :—" In flexing the leg upon the thigh, carrying the thigh over the sound one, upwards over the pelvis as high as the umbilicus, and then abducting and rotating it outwards." Hamilton's description of the proceeding is this:—" The patient being laid on his back upon a mattress, the Surgeon—assuming that it is a dislocation on the dorsum ilii—should seize the foot with one hand and the other he should place under the knee; then, flexing the leg upon the thigh, the knee is to be carefully lifted toward the face of the patient until it meets with some resistance; it must then be moved outwards and slightly rotated in the same direction until re- sistance is again encountered, when it must be gradually brought downwards again to the bed. We do not know that the whole process could be expressed in simpler or more intelligible terms, than to say that the limb should follow constantly its own inclination." In attempting the reduction of dislocation into the ischiatic notch, by manipulation, the same author warns us of the special danger, " that the head of the bone will be thrown across into the foramen thyroideum." Bigelow's directions for manipu- lation are very similar:—To flex the thigh upon the abdomen, abduct and then rotate outwards (Fig. 379) ; or perhaps adduct and rotate slightly inwards to dislodge the femoral head from behind the acetabulum, then to abduct and extend directly upwards. Circumduction may be necessary to lacerate the capsule more entirely, be- fore reduction can be accomplished. The following summary of a paper—prepared by Dr. Hamilton Fig. 379.*DISLOCATIONS OF THK HIP-JOINT. 709 Fig. 380.* Fig. 381. with the view of dctermiuing, if possible, the relative value of the two methods—manipulation and extension—and exhibiting an analysis of 64 cases in which manipulation was employed, will enable tlie reader to form some estimate of the difficulty in which this subject is involved • and if it does not actually decide a moot point, it will at least demonstrate that the method by manipulation is not without its hazards. Of 41 cases in which the fact is stated, 28 were reduced on the first attempt, 7 on the second, 4 on the third, and 2 on the seventh In 7 examples, the head of the femur has been thrown from one position to another upon the pelvis, travelling from the dorsum ilii to the ischiatic notch, and from thence to the foramen ovale; or directly from the dorsum to the foramen, and back again ; or in other directions, according to the character of the original dislocation ; m some instances these changes being made as often as seven times in succession. In the majority of cases, no evil consequences seem to have followed upon these changes of position." Dislocation Downwards and Forwards into the Obturator Yonk- yiy,,!^—Structural Condition.—The head of the femur lies in front of the obturator foramen, lodged upon the obturator externus muscle, the ball being directed inwards and the great trochanter outwards. The capsule has given way, especially on its inner side, and the round ligament is torn from its attachment; but the constancy of the latter lesion is dis- puted. In the case here represented (Pig. 380), the capsular lig- ament is extensively ruptured, and the round ligament torn from its pit in the head of the femur. This injury occurred in a man aged twenty- eight, deformed by rickets, who had thrown himself from a window sixty feet from the ground. The dislocation was reduced, but the case being complicated by a compound and com- minuted fi'acture of the opposite thigh, death from shock ensued fifteen hours after the accident. The dislocation was then easily reproduced, so as to replace the parts in their original position. (See also " Trans. Path. Soc," vol. ix. A. Shaw.) Signs.—This dislocation, also, presents very characteristic appear- ances. The limb is lengthened from one to two inches in extent, the knee bent, and the body inclined forwards—apparently to relax the painful tension of the psoas and iliacus muscles ; and the whole limb ♦ Middlesex Hosp. Mas., S. ill. IS.J 3 D770 SPKOIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. is in advance of the other, and much abducted; the foot usually points forwards, but occasionally it is slightly everted. (Fig. 381.) The head of the femur can be felt in its new situation, particularly in a thin person; and the prominence of the great trochanter has dis- appeared entirely, presenting a marked flattening of the hip, or a depression in the situation of the trochanter. Causes.—The limb must be in a state of abduction at the moment of injury. Any force from below, or acting on the back, may then produce dislocation downwards and forwards, into the obturator foramen. Thus, a fall from a horse, with the thigh under the body of the animal, has had this effect; and Pirrie once found it caused by the person jumping in great haste out of bed, and while the left foot reached the floor, the right was entangled by the blankets in bed, thus separating the legs and thence producing dislocation into the obturator foramen. The fall of a heavy weight upon the back of the pelvis, when the body is bent forwards and the thighs are apart, will also produce the dislocation. Treatment.—(1.) The patient is laid on his back. Extension must be made upwards and outwards by a perineal girth connected with the pulleys ; and counter-extension maintained by another belt around the pelvis from the dislocated side. As the head of the bone is thus drawn towards its socket, the Surgeon, pass- ing his hand behind the sound Umb, grasps the ankle of the dislocated limb, and drawing it inwards and backwards towards the middle Une, thus throws the head of the bone outwards and upwards to the acetabu- lum ; obs'erving not to flex the thigh, lest the head of the bone should start backwards into the ischiatic notch. The limb is here used as a long lever, over the resisting perineal girth, as a fulcrum. (Fig. 382.) This is Sir A. Cooper's method of reduction. Other methods have been devised, but they do not correspond more nearly to the direction of the displacement. In the absence of pulleys, how- ever, it is well to have other resources, as follow:— (2.) Let the patient sit upon the front of the bed, astride one of the bed-posts, and grasp it; while exten- sion of the limb is made by two assistants. Then, the Surgeon crossing the limb over the sound one, and rotating it outwards, may thus succeed in reducing the dislocation. This method was proposed and practised with success by Mr. Hey, of Leeds, in one case. (3.) Manipulation seems to have succeeded in another case. Mr. Hey flexed the thigh to such an extent as to form an acute angle with the trunk, and then, by rotating it, accomplished reduction. Bigelow'sDISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 771 more precise directions are tliese:—" Mex tlic limb towards a per- pendicular, and abduct it a little to disengage tbe bead of tbe bone; then rotate tbe tbigb strongly inwards, adducting and carrying tbe knee to tbe floor." (Fig. 383.) Dislocation Upwards and Forwards upon the Pubes.—btruc- tural Gondition.—The bead of tbe femur rests on tbe anterior margin of the horizontal ramus of tbe pubic bone, with the great trochanter directed backwards. (Fig. 384.) Sometimes, tbe ball is driven up so Fig. 384.t high as to be booked into tbe pelvis. Tbe capsular and round liga- ments are ruptured. In a case dissected by Sir A. Cooper, Poupart's ligament was torn, so as to allow tbe bead and neck of tbe bone to pass underneath tbe iliacus internus and psoas muscles; the anterior crural nerve lying upon these muscles and stretched over tbe neck. The femoral vessels were to the inner side. Sigyis.—Tbe limb is shortened, generally to tbe extent of an inch; flexed slightly, decidedly abducted, and everted. (Fig. 385.) The globular head of the femur can be plainly felt on tbe pubic bone, to the outside of the femoral vessels, and made to roll under the fingers by rotating tbe limb; while tbe prominence of the great trochanter has disappeared, this portion of the bone Being drawn inwards and upwards towards the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. Im- mobility of the limb is a marked symptom, as regards rotation inwards ; * After Bigelow. t Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 881. Dislocation of the head of the femur on the outer part of the horizontal ramus of tlio puhes, iu contact with the anterior inferior spine of the ilium; the posterior surface of the neck and great trochanter rested on the lower part of the ilium and the upper border of the acetabulum, extending backwards to the ischium. This dislocation had remained unreduced for many years before death. A new joint has formed, consisting of an adaptation of the surfaces of the ilium and os pubis to the upper part of the femur, and an eleva- tion of now bone receives the neck of the femur. A strong capsule of ligamentous tissue is attached above to the ilium and os pubis, and encloses the head, neck, and trochanter of the femur. In this articulation, the head of tlie femur has lost its cartilage; but tlie surface became hardened, and has assumed a conical form. The acetabulum is obliterated by a douse ligameutous matter, occupying its cavity. (W. Lynn.)772 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. and powerlcssness equally so, with pain or numbness frequently, owing to pressure on the anterior crural nerve. _ The diagnosis irom fracture of the neck of the femur may be deter- mined by the situation of the head of the bone and immobility, with crepitus in the case of fracture; or if the fracture be i/mpaciecl, the head of the bone is still diagnostic. Causes.—When the limb is directed back- wards, and perhaps abducted, dislocation upon the pubcs may occur; either by a fall on the foot, as when a person slides down from the end of a waggon; or when walking, the foot is suddenly planted into a hole, the pelvis advances, while the upper part of the body is thrown forcibly backwards, in order to avoid a fall. A severe blow on the back of the pelvis may have the same effect in producing dislocation upon the pubic bone. Unreduced dislocation leads to the forma- tion of a tolerably complete new joint. This result was found in the case examined by Sir A. Cooper. Upon the pubes a socket was formed for the neck of the femur, the head being above the level of the pubes. Both the latter portions of bone were flattened; the trochanter also was much altered in shape, and it partly occupied the acetabulum, which was otherwise filled with osseous deposit. This specimen is still in the Museum of St. Thomas's Hospital. The specimen I have figured is another illustration of a new joint. Treatment.—(1.) The patient lying on his back, with the dislocated side near the edge of the bed, extension should be made from the lower part of the thigh, downwai'ds and back- wards, the pulleys being fixed accordingly; while counter-extension, by means of a perineal girth, is made in the opposite direction, over the body of the patient. (Fig. 38G.) This force having, as usual, been Fig. 386. applied slowly, gradually increased, and steadily maintained, the head of the bone is lifted over the brim of the acetabulum by a towel under the upper part of the thigh, and the ball dii'ectcd backwards by rotat- ing the thigh inwards.773 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. * After Bigelow. (2.) Manipulation may be employed, and according to various metliods. Thus, Dr. Fountain, of Davenport, Iowa, succeeded in two cases, as follows:—The patient lying on the floor, and under the in- fluence of chloroform, " the dislocated limb was seized by the foot and knee and rotated outwards, the leg flexed and carried over the opposite knee and thigh, the heel kept well up, and the knee pressed down. This motion was continued by carrying the thigh over the sound one as high as the up23er part of the middle third, the foot being kept firmly elevated. Then the limb was carried directly upwards by elevating the knee, while the foot was held firm and steady, at the same time making gentle oscillations by the knee, when the head of the bone suddenly dropped into its socket." These manoeuvres were executed with very little force, and occupied not longer than twenty or thirty seconds. Anomalous Dislocations of the Hip-toint.—The hip-joint is liable to several irregular dislocations, the head of the femur- being variousl}^ displaced upwards or downwards. ^ (1.) In dislocation tipwards, the head of the bone may be displaced directly upwards, and be lodged between the anterior superior and anterior inferior spinous processes of the ilium—suiyra-spinous disloca- tion ; or perhaps below the inferior spinous process, at the junction of the ilium with the pubic bone—infra-simioivs dislocation; or the dis- placement may be upwards and slightly bachward's, the head of the bone lying just behind the notch between the two anterior spinous pro- cesses—anterior ohliqite dislocation, so named from the oblique direction of the limb across the opposite thigh. (a.) Supra-spinom dislocation was attended with the following signs, in a case related by Dr. Cummins (" Gay''s Hosp. Rep." vol. iii.)i It should be observed that the head of the femur—between the anterior spinous pro- -pjQ^ 3S7.* cesses—is directed inwards towards the concavity of the ilium, the neck partly occupying the notch between the processes, and the great trochanter is turned back- wards or everted. (Fig. 387.) Consequently, the limb is shortened by two or thi*ee inches, abducted and much everted, and so fixed in its position that rotation inwards is im- possible and abduction and addaction are difiicult, although a limited flexion on the pelvis can be performed. These movements cause great pain. The head of the bone may be felt as a globular tumour, beneath the anterior superior spinous process; but the trochanter has disappeared, and the hip is flattened. Reduction.—With extension by pulleys in the axis of the dislocation, the head of the bone must be lifted out of the notch, at the same time, by means of a broad bandage around the upper part of the thigh, and slung roand the neck of the Surgeon, who specially takes this part in the reduction. Then by adducting the knee to the opposite thigh, and rotating inwards, the head of the bone may slip into the acetabulum. Or, reduction may be effected, as Bigelow observes, by a manipulative774 SPECIAL PATUOLOGY AND SURGERY. * After Bigelnw. procedure, so as to convert the displacement into a dorsal dislocation. By " circumduction of the extended limb inwards, with eversiou enough to disengage it from the edge of the pelvis," the head of the femur passes on to the dorsum; but if the outer branch of the Y ligament is Ijrukcn, the limb does not become inverted. Reduction of the dorsal dislocation may then be accomplished in the usual manner. Of these two modes of reduction, the former seems the more simple, and should certainly bo tried before resorting to the production of a second dis- location, in order to i*educe the first. (h.) J-^/ra-spinous dislocation, beneath the inferior spinous process, is similar; but the shortening of the limb is less, and it is rather adducted, even so that the heel may rest on the instep of the opposite limb, although greatly everted. The head of the bone can be felt under Poupart's ligament, but there is marked flattening of the hip from absence of the trochanter, it being turned backwards into the acetabular cavity. This form of dislocation would seem to be a variety of the Pubic. Reduction may be accomplished by extension of the limb, just to bring the head of the bone down opposite to the acetabulum, with forcible rotation inwards at the same time, to turn it into the cavity. Manual extension will be sufficient for this purpose, and then, by laying hold of the knee and foot, the limb can be used as a lever for the rotatory movement. (c.) Anterior ohlique dislocation is even more uncommon than the preceding forms of upward dislocation. The head of the femur resting on the ilium outside the notch Fig. 388.* between the two anterior spinous processes, the limb is shortened, as in supra-spinous dislocation, but it lies obliquely across the opposite thigh (Pig. 388), with some eversion, the great too pointing outwards. This pecuhar position of the limb may be produced by a modification of the ordinary dorsal dislocation. In the rc- duciion, therefore, Bigelow directs that the limb should be brought across the symphysis pubis, with a little eversion, if necessary, to disengage the head of the bone; when, by inward rotation, the dis- placement will be converted into a dislocation on the dorsum ilii. This must then be reduced. (2.) Boivmvard dislocation, in irregular directions, has been met with in three forms: downwai-ds and hmkioards, upon the posterior part of the body of the ischium, between its tuberosity and its spine; or, into the lesser or lower ischiatic notch; directly or vertically down- wards, beneath the lower border of the acetabulum, between it and the tuberosity of the ischium; or forwards, into the -perineicrti, upon tho ramus of the ischium and pubis, even as far as the body of the pubes. (a.) Dislocation dowmvards and hackioards upon the tuberosity of the ischium, or into the lesser ischiatic notch. This may be regarded as aDISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 775 * After Biffclow. variety of dislocation into the great ischiatic notch. Bat the attitude of the limb is peculiar. It is marked by great flexion and adduction, with inversion, so that the thigh lies across the opposite thigh (Fig. 389) ; and the head of the bone may be felt just above the tuberosity of the ischium, at the back part of the hip. The reduction is most readily brought about by a manipulative pro- cedure : flex the thigh to a right angle with the pelvis, abduct, rotate inwards, and then bring down the knee; thus, in fact, retracing the altered position of the limb. (h.y Vertically downwards, beneath the acetabulum. Subcotyloid dislocation will also be recognized by the peculiar position of the limb; vertical flexion of the thigh to a right angle with the pelvis, and with- FiG. 390.* Fig. 389.* out any notable adduction or abduction, inversion or eversion. (Fig. 390). This downward luxation may be considered as related to the typical form of thyroid dislocation. Two cases are recorded by Mr. Edwin Gurney (Lancet, 1845). A similar mode of manijpulation to that in the last case, will probably succeed in returning the head of the femur into the acetabulum. (c.) Forwards and downwards, upon the ramus of the ischium, or into the perineum. Another form of thyroid dislocation, the attitude J'is. 391.* of the limb differs characteristic- ally from that in the vertical dislocation. The thigh, somewhat flexed upon the pelvis, is in a state of extreme abduction and eversion ; and the ball of the femur may be felt on the ischiatic ramus, or presents a tumoar in the perineum. (Fig. 391.) An instance of this very rare form of luxation is recorded in tho "Path. Trans. Lond." vol. x. Reduction may be performed, as in tho case referred to, by exten- sion of the thigh downwards from the pelvis, with traction from thoSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 776 pennetim outwards, aided by the kjieo of the operator in the groiii. But the manijndative procedure which is adapted for a regular thyroid dislocation, will here also prove successful. Unkeduced Dislocations op the Rn\—Two mordhs wasi the period fixed by Sir A. Cooper, as the extreme period within which such dis- locations can or should be reduced. Increasing in difficulty and danger, as the opei-ation of reduction may be up to that time, it subsequently becomes extremely uncertain of accomplishment, and always perilous, owing to the liability of fracture or of abscess, from the straining injury to the soft textures. The former accident has occurred in the hands of some of the most able Surgeons ; fracture taking place usually in the neck of the femur or not far below the trochanters. Exceptional cases of successful reduction after a much longer period have more recently been recorded. Thus, two cases arc cited by Hamilton, both of six months' standing, and, it may be added, both dislocations on the dorsum ilii. At the end of ?ime months, Dr. A. W. Smith obtained a successful result, the patient having resumed his occupation as a ship- carpenter. In more rare instances, reduction has been accomplished— by Salicet, at the end of one year; by Liston, at the period of two years. The physiological consideration which, as a ride, should here, as in regard to all Dislocations, guide the Surgeon is, the degree of efficiency of the new joint; as indicating the practicability and safety of at- tempting reduction, and its utility when accomplished. After trying prolonged extension, it has been proposed, as the last resource, to attempt reduction by subcutaneous division of the capsule, or rather of the ilio-femoral ligament, followed by renewed extension or by manipu- lation. This method failed, however, in the hands of Hamilton, the only case apparently on record. Dislocation of the Hip, with Fracture of the Femur.—This complica- tion is undoubtedly possible, but very uncommon. Reduction of the dislocation would appear to be still more rare. The I'lde of irractice, however, should always be to attemjit reduction at the time of the accident. This may be accomplished, under the influence of chloro- form, simply by pressure on the head of the bone and with the requisite manipulation ; or by first setting the fractui'e and secui'ing it with lateral splints, in order to make use of the limb for extension in re- ducing the dislocation. Failing at the time of dislocation to effect reduction, union of the fracture must be allowed to take place, and then it should be again attempted. This resource proved successful in one case, a dislocation on the dorsum ilii, of five weeks' duration ; Mr. Badley being the operator. In another ease, a dislocation into the sciatic notch, reduction at the end of six weeks, as reported by Mr. Thornhill, appears to have been doubtful. It would seem that, probably, he refractured the bone; for the head of the femur is said to have resumed its place with a loud crash. Double Dislocation, i.e.,ot both hips, has been known to occur; and in different directions on the two sides, or with fracture of one femur. Congenital Dislocations of the Hip-joint have been met with, complete or incomplete. The former correspond very nearly in their directions with the regular dislocations of the hip, and with one of the anomalous varieties—upward dislocation, in which the head of the femur is placed outside the notch between the anterior spinous processes of the ilium. These dislocations seem to be more fi'cqucnt in females than in males,777 DISLOCATIONS OF THE PATELLA. * St. Bartholomew's Uosp. Mus., 3, 111. aud usually tliey are double. The causation of hip-joint dislocation, before birth, was attributed by Dupuytren to defective organization, and by Guei'in and Carnoclian to spasmodic muscular retraction ; but it would appear that such dislocation is generally produced mechanic- ally, taking place at birth, and in breech-presentation, by the traction- force applied to the thighs of the child in delivery. When arising from defective development, the joint consists of a stunted, small femoral head, and a misshapen, shallow acetabulum, provided perhaps with complete articular cartilages; but the round ligament is long, or wanting, and the capsule very large, loose, and incomplete. Con- genital dislocation of the hip-joint, commonly on the dorsum ilii, is apt to be overlooked at birth, and may not be discovered until the child begins to walk, when the peculiar loose gait attracts attention. The displacement can even then be readily reduced, but it as easily returns. The movements are painless. Subcutaneous section of the trochanteric muscles overcame this difficulty in a case on which Mr. Brodhui'st operated. But when the joint is imperfectly develoioed, the cure of congenital dislocation must be impossible. In fact, there is simply an incurable lameness. Yet, practically, it is highly important that this state should not be misunderstood, when met with either in childhood or in after life. Dislocations of the Patella are liable to occur in four directions : (1) outwards more commonly, or (2) inwards; (8) vertically, the patella turning edgewise on its axis; or lastly, (4) upwards. Both the latter forms of dislo- cation are vei*y rare. (1 and 2.) Dislocation laterally, outwards or imvards. The structural conditions in these two forms of Dislocation are analogous; the patella is displaced more or less completely in cither direction, and rests on the outer side of the external condyle (Fig. 392), or the inner side of the internal condyle, of the femur. Signs.—An unnatural swelling—the pro- jection of the patella—can be seen and felt over the outer or inner condyle, with an un- natural depression in front of the knee, owing to the absence of the bone from its proper situation. The knee is much broader than usual, slightly bent, and immovable; considerable pain also is experienced, especially aggravated by any attempt to bend the joint. Causes.—Muscular contraction of the quadriceps extensor would seem to be the usual cause of these dislocations. The outtvard displacement is particularly liable to occur in persons who are knock-kneed, or whose external condyles have not the usual degree of prominence anteriorly. Dislocation of the patella in this direction may sometimes be produced ■voluntarily. A dancing girl, who, from her earliest years, had habitually twisted herself into various attitudes, eventually became knock-kneed ; and when the rectus muscle acted upon the patella, it was thrown nearly flat upon the side of the external condyle of the femur. Sir A. Cooper— who relates this case—also found the dislocation reproduced in another instance whenever the limb was extended, displacement arising from778 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. distension of the joint with synovial fluid. Indirect violence is some- times the cause; as a sudden twist of the thigh inwards, while the weight of the body resting on the foot, keeps the leg turned outwards; or a fall with the knee turned inwards, and the foot outwards. Direct violence, as a blow upon the inner or outward margin of the patella, may sometimes produce dislocation outwards or inwards, respectively. These dislocations are very apt to recur. Treatment.—Reduction is easily accomplished. But although per- petually rccui'ring, or even remaining unreduced in a few cases, the use of the limb may be almost unimpaired. The patient lying on his back, the Surgeon raises the thigh towards the abdomen, so as to relax the quadriceps extensor muscle; and then by pressing the patella inwards, or outwards, over the condyle, it is at once drawn into place by the action of that muscle. (3.) In vertical dislocation, the patella turns on its axis and presents edgewise. One margin looks forwards; the other rests and is fixed in the groove between the condyles. This twist may be more or less complete; whereby the margin of the bone looks obliquely forwards, or turns almost completely round so that the posterior surface of the bone partly becomes anterior. The latter displacement is very rare; and, indeed, any vertical dislocation is uncommon, not more than fifteen examples having been recorded. Signs.—Vertical dislocation presents very characteristic appear- ances : the sharp projecting border of the patella can be clearly felt and seen under the skin, and the leg is forcibly extended, or some- times flexed slightly. The same causes may turn the bone vertically on its axis, which dis- place it laterally ; and—as Hamilton states—an incomplete lateral may be converted into a vertical dislocation, if the bone hitches on one margin, and the extensor muscle contracts suddenly and violently, thus raising the other margin, or even completely turning the bone on itself. Treatment.—deduction can sometimes be managed with tolerable facility, or it may be extremely difficult, and sometimes impracticable, the margin of the patella being, it would appear, mechanically fixed in the intercondyloid fossa. The same method of reduction is applicable as for lateral dislocation: relaxation of the muscles by raising the thigh, and pressure on the patella, laterally on both margins, but in opposite directions. Or, forcible flexion of the knee, with rotation of the tibia on the femur, may succeed; forcible flexion and extension alternately has also proved successful, or a violent effort by the patient to make these movements. This failing, suhcutaneous section of the tendon of quadriceps and of the ligamentum patellae has been resorted to. But, in a case related by Mr. B. Cooper, from " Rust's Magazine," in his edition of Sir A. Cooper's work, this proceeding was more than un- successful ; reduction was still impossible, and extensive suppuration followed, under which the patient sank and died. (4.) Displacement ujjwards can only result from relaxation, or rupture, of the ligamentum patellae; thus permitting the patella to glide upwards in front of the femur. I have seen this happen once, from forcible flexion of an anchylosed knee-joint. The Signs of such displacement are sufficiently obvious. The patella is drawn upwards, an interval appears below it, or a fold inwards when the leg is placed in an extended position ; there is also marked mobility779 DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. of the leg and proportionate loss of extensor power, tlio leg hanging down nearly useless and swinging to and fro like a pendulum. The Treatment is the same as for fractured patella or rupturo of tho quadriceps tendon. In the case referred to, the power of extension was but partially recovered. Dislocations of the Knee.—This joint is seldon dislocated; never- theless, the head of the tibia is liable to undergo dislocation in four principal directions, and in the following order of relative frequency : (1) inwards, (2) outwards, (3) forwards, (4<) backwards. The first two dislocations are FiQ- o93.* always incomplete, with one or two very rare exceptions; the latter two dislocations may be incomplete or complete. Velpeau has found on record thirteen examples of complete dislocation forwards, and eight backwards. Structural Conditions.—(1.) Dislocation of the tibia laterally, outwards (Fig. 393) ; the external condyle of the tibia rests upon the internal condyle of the femur, and the lateral ligaments are more or less completely ruptured. (2.) Dislocation laterally, in- icards ; the internal condyle of the tibia rests npon the external condyle of the femur, and the lateral ligaments are more or less entirely ruptured. (3.) Dislocation of the head of the tibia, forwards ; the head is situated partly, or en- tirely, in front of the condyles of the femur, according as the dislocation is incomplete or complete. The condyles of the femur project, proportionately, back- wards in the popliteal space. (Fig. 394.) Fig. 395.t Fig. 394.t * Guy's Hosp. Mus., 1345''". Dislocation of tibia outwards, resulting from disease of tho knee-joint, t Ibid. 1346"'. j St. George's Hosp. Mus., 1, 200a. Dislocation of tho tibia backwards. Tho posterior surfaces of tlio condyles of the femur arc united to tho anterior margiua of the tuberosities of tho tibia, by ijrni osseous ancliylosis. No history of liiis case.780 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. (4.) Dislocation of the head of the tibia, hacJcwards; the head is situated partly upon the posterior half of the condyles of the femur, or it passes up and rests against the posterior aspect of their articular surfaces, according as the dislocation is incomplete or complete. Tho condyles of the femur project, proportionately, forwards. (Fig. 39.5.) In both the latter dislocations, (3 and 4), it is probable that tho ligaments and surrounding structures are similarly injured. Thus, in backward dislocation, the posterior ligament of the joint is torn, the muscles of the ham are stretched, and the popliteal vessels and nerves compressed. With complete dislocation, the crucial or inter- articular ligaments are also torn. Signs.—(1.) Dislocation laterally, inwards or outwards, presents opposite appearances. In the one, an unnatural swelling—the inner condyle of the tibia—on the inner aspect of the knee ; and another swelling—the external condyle of the femur—on its outer aspect. In the other dislocation or outwards, an unnatural swelling—the outer condyle of the tibia and head of the fibula—is found on the outer aspect of the knee ; and another swelling—the internal condyle of the femur—on its inner aspect. In both forms of dislocation, the leg is slightly flexed, or sometimes extended, and inclined inwards or outwards, towards the side of dislocation, but 7iot shortened in its long axis. Immobility, with inability to use the leg and severe pain, are present, as, more or less, in all dislocations. All these signs or symptoms were marked in two lateral dislocations; one of which occurred in my Hospital practice; the other, an outward dislocation, in the case of a lady, now intimately related to me, but who, at the time of the accident, many years since, was under the able care of Mr. Pitt, of Norwich. This case is recorded in the " American Journal of Medical Sciences," vol. xxxi. ; and it is also noticed in Hamilton's work. Mr. Pitt's patient quite regained the use of her leg; similar dislocation again took place about a year afterwards, and was reduced in the act of carrying the patient upstairs, by her foot accidentally getting entangled in the bannister-rails; it happened again about three months subsequently, when the knee jerked into place spontaneously; and I am happy to say that, excepting a slight weakness of the knee, she now suffers no inconvenience. (2.) Dislocation forwards or backwards also presents opposite ap- pearances. In the one, a large swelling—the bulky head of the tibia— projecting in front of the knee, with a deep depression immediately above it and the patella ; and another large swelling—the condyles of the femur—in the popliteal region. In the backward dislocation, a large swelling—the bulky head of the tibia—can be felt in the popliteal space ; and another large swelling—the condyles of the femur—in front of the knee, with a deep depression below in the situation of the ligamentum patellae. In both these forms of dislocation, the leg is flexed; in the one case, slightly back upon the thigh; in the other, extended or bent unnaturally forwards from the line of axis of the femur ; shortening also is conspicuous, if either dislocation be comjilefe, and varying in extent from one to two inches, or more. Severe pain, and swelling of the limb, may arise from compression of the popliteal nerves and vessels. ' Causes.—All these dislocations of the knee usually arise in like manner. Indirect violence is, perhaps, the most frequent cause; as781 DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. when tlie foot is made fast in a hole, and the tibia twisted upon the femur by the body swinging around upon the knee ; or by a fall from some height, or by the individual jumping from a carriage in motion. Direct violence is represented by a blow upon the upper end of the tibia, or upon the lower end of the femur. In one remarkable case, recurring dislocation backwards was produced, as it seemed to me, by hydrops articidi. The head of the tibia passed backwards whenever the patient, a woman, bore any weight on her foot and attempted to walk. Similar dislocation, or a tendency thereto, is not an un- common result of disease of the knee-joint, with retraction of the leg, causing the end of the femur to project forwards in standing or walking. Unreduced dislocation of the worst form, or backwards, may termi- nate in the recovery of a tolerably useful limb. Three such incomplete dislocations, backwards and unreduced, have been seen by Malgaigne, and neither of the persons thus affected were very greatly maimed in consequence. One walked with crutches after three or four days, and with a cane after about five weeks. Another did not leave his bed under one month, and it was nearly one year before he could lay aside his crutches ; but both of these individuals were finally able to walk at least twelve leagues a day. In a similar case seen by Lassus, the patient was confined to bed two years, yet he finally recovered a toler- able use of his limb. Reduction, promptly effected, with sufficient rest of the limb, is followed by sound recovery or very little, if any, maiming ultimately. This issue may be hopefully anticipated even when dislocation has occurred repeatedly at distant intervals, as hap- pened in Mr. Pitt's case; although in such cases the knee remains weak. Treatment.—Reduction can be accomplished, in the same way, in each form of dislocation of the knee. Flexing the thigh towards the abdomen, and fixing it for counter-extension, extension is then applied to the leg, in the direction of the long axis of the displaced tibia; pressure being made, at the same time, on the ends of the bones in opposite directions, so as to overcome the displacement. Thus, pres- sure should be applied laterally, on the head of the tibia in particular, inwards or outwards, according to these forms of dislocation; and on the same bone, downwards and backwards, in forward dislocation ; or downwards and forwards, in backward dislocation. Splints should be employed to fix the joint, and the appropriate measures also for sub- duing inflammatory swelling, which is often considerable. At the end of two, three, or four weeks, according to circumstances, passive motion may be used gently at intervals, and the joint allowed gradu- ally to resume its functions. Manipulation will perhaps succeed in effecting reduction, when the dislocation is incomplete and recent. The leg should be carried in whatever directions it moves most readily; or, this failing, forced flexion and extension may be tried, at the same time twisting the leg a little from side to side, with pressure upon the ends of bone in. opposite directions, to bring about replacement. Internal Derangement of the Knee-joint—so named by Hey, who first described it—or subluxation of the knee, sometimes so called. This accident is not uncommon. The strttctural condition is, probably, a partial dislodgmcnt of one of the semilunar cartilages, owing to a disruption of its ligamentous'^^^ SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. connection witli the margin of the condyle ; the thick margin of the cartilage thus becoming interposed between the articulating surfaces of the opposed condyles of the femur and tibia; or, part of the cartU lage slipping before or behind the condyle, the articular surfaces are Vra qoR * brought into contact. An analogous condition, j?iG. dJb. m relation to the symptoms thence arising, may also occur, by the interposition either of a frao-. mcnt of one of the cartilages (Fig. 396), or of an hypertrophied portion of cartilage, or of a false cartilage—a new formation, moving about more or less freely within the joint. Symptoms and Causes.—Sudden inability to use the joint is felt, which becomes locked, while walking, or by striking the toe against some- thing, or by tripping the foot. Intense and nauseating pain accompanies this sudden locking of the joint, and the person falls to the ground. Any slight twist of the leg, as in bed, by the mere weight of the bed-clothes hanging upon the toes, has been known to produce the same effect. In either case, the joint is slightly flexed, and the leg perhaps somewhat rotated. Considerable swelling of the knee rapidly supervenes, and the synovial capsule becomes distended with fluid ; in short, suj3acute synovitis ensues from this injury. It is very likely to recur, again and again; thus rendering the prognosis unfavourable. Treatment.—This "internal derangement" disappears, in most cases, as easily as it was produced. Flexion, with sudden extension, and slight rotation of the leg, will generally overcome the difficulty, if indeed it should not suddenly right itself. Immediately, the motions of the joint become free and painless, so that the individual can walk about as if nothing had happened. But it is better to place the joint at rest for a while, to subdue any synovitis which may have supervened, and then support the knee for some time by means of a knee-cap, to guard against the liability of recurrence. Compound Dislocation of the Knee-joint.—This injury must be regarded as the most perilous of its kind, but fortunately it is of rare occurrence. Treatment.—An attempt to preserve the limb will scarcely ever prove successful; and, excepting in a few cases of more limited damage to the popliteal vessels, nerves, and the integuments, where excision may be sufficient, amputation is the only resource. The injunction originally given by Sir A. Cooper, to sacrifice the limb, will generally be unavoidable for the probable jireservation of life. Congenital Dislocations of the Knee.—The head of the tibia has been found, at birth, dislocated in various directions: forwards, back- wards, inwards, outwards, inwards and backwards, outwards and backwards, and simply rotated inwards. The first-named dislocation is much the most frequent; and the majority of all these congenital dislocations were incomplete. Double dislocations have been found in some instances. Thus, both tibia) were displaced backwards in an infant otherwise deformed, according to Chaussicr's observations. * Univ. Coll. Mus., 284.DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. 783 * St. Bartholomew's IIosp, Mus., C. GO, Dislocations of the Head of the Fibula.—Tho uppoi' end of the fibula may, occasionally, be dislocated forwards or backwards. Of the former dislocation, Malgaigne has collected three examples, uncon- nected with any other accident, and not apparently due to any abnormal condition of the ligaments. I have seen another, or fourth, such dis- location, which had remained unreduced. Of backward dislocation, Hamilton enumei'ates three cases on record. The Signs of these dislocations are very palpable; the projecting head of the bone, immediately under the skin, forwards or backwards, cannot fail to be observed. The Cause is almost necessarily direct violence, as a blow on the head of the fibula. But muscular action is said to have produced two, at least, of the three forward dislocations. The consequence of any such dislocation may be a laxity of the joint, with mobility of the fibula backwards and forwards upon the tibia. This was the result in one of the backward dislocations re- corded by Sanson. Treatment.—Reduction having been effected by pressure, the head of the bone must be kept in place by a compress and bandage. Dislocation of the Lower End op the Fibula.—The only instance of simple dislocation is related by Nelaton as having occurred in the practice of M. Gerdy. It was a bacJcivard dislocation, of thirty-nine days' duration, and caused by the wheel of a carriage passing obliquely across the leg so as to displace the outer malleolus, backwards. The bone was in almost direct contact with the outer margin of the tendo- Achillis; the outer face of the astragalus, abandoned by the fibula, could be plainly felt, and the position of the foot remained unaltered. The patient could walk pretty well, the bone was fixed, and reduction not attempted. Dislocations of the Ankle-joint.—The astragalus in connection with the foot may be dislocated from the articular ends of the tibia and fibula, in four directions : (1) outwards, (2) inwards, (3) forwards, and (4) backwards. They may be termed dislo- cations of the foot in these directions. Most of these displacements are accompanied with frac- ture of the fibula, the tibia, or of both bones. The description of these several forms of disloca- tion will, I think, be simplified by regarding at least some of them, conversely, as relating to the tibia. Structural Conditions.—(1.) Dislocation o^it- wards. The lower end of the tibia is displaced laterally inwards upon the astragalus ; the outer portion of the articulating surface of the tibia resting upon the inner portion of the upper articulating sui'face of the astragalus, or it may slide completely off in the same direction. Tho foot is turned outwards—everted. The internal lateral ligament is ruptured, but not perhaps completely, or the inner malleolus may be broken, or both; the fibula, also, usually gives way two or three inches above its articulation with the astragalus. (Fig. 397.) Sometimes, in additionSPECIAL PATHOLOGY. AND SURGERY. 784 Fig. 39a.t to these Injuries, there is an obIi(|ue fracture of the tibia upwards and outwards from the articulating surface, breaking oif that portion of the tibia which corresponds to the inferior tibio-fibular articulation ; this fragment remaining connected with the outer malleolus, while the'tibia carries inward with it the portion of the fibula above the fracture. Commonly, the astragalus undergoes a lateral rotation inwards, whereby its outer and upper margin glides beneath the middle of tlie lower articulating surface of the tibia; thus presenting the outer or fibular surface of the astragalus obliquely upwards, while its inner and upper margin is carried downwards towards the end of the inner malleolus. (2.) Dislocation inwards.—The lower ends of the tibia and of the fibula are displaced laterally outwai-ds (Fig. 398), and perhaps com- FiG 398* P'^^^V' ^^^^ articulating surface of the tibia entirely sliding oif the upper surface of the astragalus. The inner malleolus is broken off the tibia, but remains attached to the tarsus by the internal lateral liga- ment ; and the external lateral ligament is rup- tured, or the outer malleo- lus may be broken off the fibula, thus making a frac- ture of both malleoli. The 'g^iiii.p-^^ Jl . foo^ turned inwards— inverted. The astragalus may undergo rotation outwards, analogous to that in the outward dislocation ; here, its inner or tibial malleolar surface looks obliquely upwards. (3.) Dislocation haxlcwards.—The lower end of the tibia is displaced forwards on the astragalus, resting partly on this bone and partly on the scaphoid bone (Fig. 399) ; or completely forward, the tibia then resting on the scaphoid and internal cuneiform bones. The foot, in front of the ankle, is shortened. In the latter or complete displacement, especially, the lateral ligaments are more or less completely ruptured; generally the fibula is fractured, but on a level with the articulation ; sometimes the internal malleolus also, and, still more rarely, a fracture occurs through the posterior margin of the articular surface of the tibia. (4.) Dislocation forwards.—This injury happens even more rarely than the preceding, but Malgaigne has collected five instances. The lower end of the tibia is displaced backwards on the astragalus, resting * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., B. 25. Dislocation of the tibia outwards, ^Yiih fracture of the inner nialleohis and of the lower end of the fibula. Bony union of both fractures, and anchylosis of the tibia and fibula. (Sir A. Cooper.) t Ibid. B. 2G. Dislocation of the tibia forwards, with fracture of the inner malleolus and of the lower end of the fibula. Bony union of both fractures. (Sir A. Cooper.)785 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. partly on this bone and partly on the os calcis, behind it. The foot, in front of the ankle, is elongated. Dr. E. W. Smith believes that this dislocation is never complete, so that the tibia shall lodge entirely on tlie OS calcis. The lateral ligaments are ruptured, or one or both malleoli are broken. Signs.—Dislocation laterally, outwards or inwards, presents opposite appearances. Outward dislocation is characterized by violent eversion of the foot, its inner margin being directed downwards; the inner malleolus projects prominently under the integuments, and there is a corresponding depression above the outer malleolus, in the situation of fracture of the fibula. Crepitus may here be detected, and the foot can be moved about pretty freely by the Surgeon, but with great pain. Imoarcl dislocation is distinguished by inversion of the foot, its outer margin looking downwards ; and the outer malleolus projects strongly under the skin. Dislocation backwards and forwards also present opposite appear- ances. Backivard dislocation is attended with shortening of the foot in front of the tibia, and depression of the toes; while the heel is elongated, projecting posteriorly, and'tdrawn upwards. The extensor tendons of the toes are sharply defined, and the tendo-Achillis is curved tensely forward. The foot is immovable. These signs are even more marked with complete dislocation ; the end of the tibia can be distinctly felt projecting forwards, accompanied with an evident depression posteriorly in front of the tendo-Achillis. Forward dislocation is characterized by lengthening of the foot in front of the tibia, and elevation of the toes ; with corresponding obliteration of the -heel, which is in a line with the back of the leg, and depressed downwards. A portion of the articu- lating surface of the astragalus may be felt in front of the tibia. Causes.—Direct violence, as a severe twist or wrench of the foot outwards or inwards, represents the ordinary mode of producing either lateral dislocation; the displacement taking place, obviously, in the oi^posite direction to such force. Indirect violence, as a fall from a height upon the bottom of the foot, may have a similar effect; if the foot have a suflficient inclination to either side, to thus direct the force of the impulse in favour of dislocation to that side. Forcible flexion or extension may produce dislocation backwards or forwards, respectively. A fall on the bottom of the foot, the body inclining backwards or for- wards, tends also to produce dislocation in the oijposite direction. But a person jumping out of a carriage in rapid motion, and alighting on his feet, is liable to dislocation in the direction of the momentum. Thus, from jumping out forwards, the dislocation will be forwards; from jumping out backwards, the dislocation will, probably, be back- wards. When these two forms of dislocation are accompanied with fracture of the articular ends of the tibia and fibula, the displacement may be partly due to muscular action,—the contraction of the flexor muscles of the calf. Luxation may therefore occur at the time of the accident, or be consecutive to the fracture. Treatment.—All these dislocations are reduced in like manner. The leg should be flexed to a right angle on the thigh, to relax the con- joined gastrocnemius and soleus muscles ; extension is then made from the foot in a line with the long axis of the leg, taking care that the foot inclines midway between flexion and extension of the ankle-joint, and by drawing with one hand on the back of the foot and the other 3 E786 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. 1 hand on the heel, or making extension by means of pulleys. (Fig. 400.) Pressure on the head of the tibia, according to the direction of the dis- placement, will further aid reduction. In simply lateral rotation of the astragalus, ^vith the foot Fig. 400. turned outwards or in- wards, the Surgeon will often succeed by grasp- ing thefootwithforcible adduction or abduction, ■ thus to undo the dis- ^ placement. After re- duction in any case, lateral splints with foot- pieces may be applied; but I prefer a Mcln- tyre's trough-splint, as affording a more equable support to the whole leg. The swelling around the joint is often considerable ; it, however, subsides under the influence of rest and the usual topical applications. Compound Dislocations of the ankle-joint are probably the most common of all compound Dislocations. Among the cases recorded by Sir A. Cooper, forty-five were dislocations of this joint; and among Hamilton's cases, four were dislocations inwards, and one a partial dis- location forwards. The displacements are the same, and arise from the same causes, as in simple dislocation of the ankle; but compound dislocation derives its importance from the size of this joint, and the violence of the injury. Treatment.—Preservation of the foot—without any operative inter- ference—proves successful in a far lai^ger proportion of cases than in similar injury of the knee-joint. The wound should be closed and the leg kept at rest on a Mclntyre splint. Protrusion of the tibia, with comminution, as often happens in backward dislocation, allows of excision in most cases. But severe contusion or laceration of the soft parts, including injury to the tibial arteries—in addition to compound dislocation of the joint—imperatively demands primary amimtaiion. The usual consequences of inflammation, suppuration and sloughing, or gangrene, may render secondary amputation necessary, when an j attempt to save the foot has failed. Dislocations of the Astragalus.—This bone is sometimes displaced from under the tibia, and thrown—(1) forwards, (2) imoards, or (3)['l outwards; the two latter displacements probably being inclinations of ' the bone forwards in either of these directions, thus constituting two lateral dislocations ; and occasionally it may be displaced (4) haclcwards. It may also be simply rotated on its lateral axis, without much, if any, lateral displacement; and, lastly, it is sometimes driven upwards be- tween the tibia and fibula, tearing away the intermediate ligaments and generally fracturing one or both of these bones. (1. 2. 3.) Dislocation/onward?, and inwards or outivards,m?Ljhe com- plete or incomplete. Complete dislocation of the astragalus represents its detachment from the os calcis and scaphoid bones, and its displace- ment from under the malleolar arch forwards; the bone lying upon the scaphoid and cuneiform bones. Incomplete dislocation signifies the separation of this bone from the scaphoid only, and the ejection of itsDISLOCATIONS OF THE ASTRAGALUS. 787 head on to the external cuneiform or cuboid bones ; tbe body of the astragalus still retaining its connection with the os calcis and malleolar arch. (Fig. 401 and Fig. 402.) Fig. 402.t Fig. 401.* Fig. 403.± (4.) Dislocation backwards is a dislodg- ment of the astragalus oil to the os calcis behind the tibia, in the interval between it and the tendo-AchiUis. (Fig. 403.) Signs.—The projection of the astragalus which can be felt and seen, in each of these directions of dislocation, is alone sufficient to indicate the nature of the injury. The malleoli are nearer the sole of the foot, the tibia having fallen down upon the os calcis ; and there may be some flexion or extension of the foot. The Causes of astragaloid dislocation resemble those of ankle-joint dislocation. * St. George's Hosp. Mus., 1, 212. A dislocation of the astragalus forwards on the dorsum of the scaphoid bone. The deltoid and dorsal ligaments are ruptured. Many of the tendons round the ankle-joint were torn subcutanerously; and the integu- ment having sloughed in a few days, the head of the astragalus protruded, thus rendering the dislocation compound. Pigors followed, with pyamic infection. Am- putation tlirough the knee-joint and recovery. This rare dislocation was produced by a twist of the foot between two bricks, in descending some steps. t Ibid. 1, 213. Dislocation of the astragalus outwards, or "Dislocation of the os calcis and scaphoid bones inwards from the astragalus." The ligaments of the ankle-joint were uninjured, except the anterior portion of the external lateral liga- ment. The interosseous ligament between the astragalus and ds calcis was partly ruptured. There is eversion of the foot, the sole being turned inwards. Fracture has taken place, a small portion of the astragalus being broken, and the corresponding process of the os calcis—sustentaculum tali. These injuries were produced by a fall from a height; and, on examination, the head of the astragalus was found projecting at the outer edge of the foot, the sole being turned inwards; the tendo-Achillis was very prominent, tense, and slightly curved inwards. Reduc- tion could be effected only by (subcutaneous) division of the tendon. For any further particulars, see " Med.-Chir. Trans.," vol. xlii. X Case by Dr. llulme, of Dunedin. Excision of astragalus. Kecovery, with free motion in ankle-joint.788 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. Thus, a_ fall from a height upon the bottom of the foot, accompanied with violent abduction, adduction, and flexion; or extension, may determine a dislocation of the astragalus—forwards and inwards, or outwards; or backwards. A wrench or twist of the foot, in machinery or in the wheel of a carriage, for example, is another mode of pro- duction. A direct blow may also be the cause. Unreduced dislocation of the astragalus is a not uncommon result, reduction being often very difficult and having proved impossible. The use of the foot has been recovered so far as to enable the person to walk again, but with considerable crippling. Reduction, on the other hand, even when promptly and easily effected, has been followed by inflammation, and gangrene resulting in death. Treatment.—Reduction—when practicable—can be accomplished in the same manner as in dislocations of the ankle. Flexion of the leg to a right angle with the thigh relaxes the muscles of the calf ; and then extension from the foot, with counter-extension from the lower part of the thigh, aided by pressure on the displaced bone, will perhaps replace it. Division of the tendo-Achillis has facilitated replacement in obstinate cases. Thus, in a dislocation of the astragalus backwards on the calcaneum, the bone could not be reduced until the tendo-Achillis was divided, when I readily brought it forward into place. The probability of effecting reduction depends very much on the dislocation being incomplete; complete dislodgment of the bone will be very difficult to overcome. The tibia and os .calcis, powerfully drawn together, can hardly be separated to an extent sufficient for the return of the bulky astragalus ; itself also bound down by the extensor tendons in forward dislocation, and by the tendo-Achillis in backward dislocation. Should reduction have proved imjjossible, the integument over the projecting astragalus will probably slough and expose the bone ; antici- pating this result, it is better forthwith to proceed to excision, even if the dislocation be simple. Compound Dislocation presents no peculiarity otherwise than the more serious nature of the injury, from exposure of the bone, and as occasioned by more severe violence. I have seen one such case,—a compound dislocation of the astragalus forwards and inwards on to the scaphoid bone. Excision or amputation are the only alternatives. The result^ of the former operation have been so successful a^ to Fig. 404.* wan-ant its preference in general. Of eighteen cases, collected by Turner, wherein complete ex- cision of the astragalus was performed, fourteen recovered, and with anchylosis in only one instance. Dislocations of the other Tarsal Bones.—• Such dislocations are very rare. The Calcaneum may, however, be dislocated ontiuards from the astragalus alone, or from the cuboid bone simul- taneously, in a direction outwards and upwards. (Fig. 404) The astragalus here remains connected with the scaphoid, and has sunk nearly an inch downwards below its natural level. The external malleolus seems to have passed behind the elevated articular surface of the os calcis, as if the disloca- tion had been produced in a forcible rotation of the foot inwards; the » Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 884.789 DISLOCATIONS OF THE OTHER TARSAL BONES. point of tbo malleolus rests on the inner and posterior margin of the tuberosity of the os calcis. The astragalus is fixed in its new position by osseous union to the adjoining inner and lower surfaces of the os calcis. The peronei tendons appear to have slipped from behind the external malleolus, and to have moved in a deeply grooved channel of new bone formed by the side and in front of the lower part of the fibula. (J. Howship.) The OS calcis has also been found dislo- cated outwards from the astragalus and inwards upon the cuboid bone. But as verified by dissection, the following dislocation is worthy of notice :—" Dislocation of the os calcis and scaphoid bones hachioards from the astragalus." (Fig. 405.) This bone is tilted up, so that its head projects above the other bones of the tarsus ; the posterior part of the bone is depressed, and the articular sur- face, removed from the os calcis, corresponds with the posterior articular surface of the scaphoid bone, in which position it was firmly fixed. There is partial fracture of the external malleolus of the fibula, the fragment remaining attached to the external lateral ligament con- nected with the 03 calcis. The deltoid ligament, on the inner side of the joint, still maintains the connection between the tibia and the astragalus. These injuries were caused by a fall on the foot in at- tempting to get out of a gig; and, on examination, the dislocation was obvious, with some slight bruising of the skin over the displaced bone. Reduction was impossible; diffused inflammation followed, with slough- ing of the integument on the dorsum of the foot. Secondary amputa- tion and death. The deformity in these dislocations is sufficiently characteristic to indicate the nature of the injury, in either case. The Scaplioid and Globoid bones, together, may be dislocated from the astragalus and calcaneum upivards—the middle tarsal dislocation of Malgaigne. The foot is shortened, and the instep raised; presenting the deformity of club-foot. This injury also has arisen from a fall, -but on the ball of the foot. The cuboid bone alone may, it is said, be dislocated upwards, inwards, and downwards; but Malgaigne has found no case recorded of this displacement alone, unaccompanied with that of one or more of the other tarsal bones. The scaiylioid bone alone has been found dislocated from the cunei- form bones, its connection with the astragalus remaining undisturbed. The dislocation was compound, yet — after reduction — the wound healed rapidly, and recovery soon became established. Dislocation of the scaphoid from both the astragalus and cuneiform bones has occurred in several instances. The Guneiform bones may be partially dislocated, and without having separated from each other ; of which two or three examples are recorded. The internal cuneiform bono alone has been displaced in- wards. Sir A. Cooper saw two instances, in both of which the same » St. George's Hosp. Mus., 1, 212.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 790 appearances were presented: great projection of the bone inwards, with some elevation by the action of the tibialis anticus muscle, and the bone no longer remained in a line with the metatarsal bone of the great toe. A fall from a height produced this dislocation in the one case ; and in the other, a fall from a horse, the foot being caught between the horse and the kerb-stone. In neither case was the bone reduced ; but the subject of the first of these accidents walked with only a little halting. The Treatment of all these dislocations of the Tarsal bones is the same. Reduction may possibly be effected by pressure on the displaced bone. A compress and foot-splint will then be required to allow the - bone to regain its ligamentous connections. Gompoimd dislocation of any of these tarsal bones may occur, but perhaps only from direct violence. Thus, compound dislocation of the calcaneum has been produced by the fall of a stone on the foot (South) ; and similar instances, with regard to the scaphoid and cuneiform bones, have been met with by Burnett and Aston Key. Reduction was accomplished in all these cases, followed by recovery with only slight lameness. Otherwise, excision or amputation must be resorted to, according to the amount of crushing injury. Dislocation of the Metatarsal bones is also very rare. The metatarsal bone of the great toe has been dislocated upwards, an instance of which from direct violence was seen by Listen, and reduced. The inner three metatarsal bones were dislocated downwards and backwards, in a case recorded by Tufnell, and as resulting from a fall upon the leg by a horse rolling on its rider; Erichsen also found the oiUer three m etatarsal bones dislocated downwards, by the pressure of a " turn- table " on a railway. Dislocation of all the bones backwards has occurred in the experience of Bouchard and Meynier; downwards, as Smyly relates; outwards, in a case which Laugier met with; and inwards, in a case seen by Kirk. The signs of any single dislocation will be the particular deformity occasioned by the direction of displacement. When all the metatarsal bones are dislocated, say backwards, the dorsum of the foot is fore- shortened and presents a transverse ridge, while a corresponding depression appears on the plantar surface. The causes are usually a fall backwards or forwards, the anterior extremity of the foot being wedged under some resisting body. Various crushing accidents also sometimes occasion these dislocations. The treatment must be conducted on ordinary principles. Single dislocation can be reduced only with considerable difficulty, the bone not being accessible to extension, and it has remained unreduced in the hands of Malgaigne and other Surgeons. Multiple dislocation has proved far more easy of reduction. In each of the directions of dis- placement, involving all the metatarsal bones, it was readily accom- plished by extension, combined with pressure suitably applied. Dislocations of the Phalangeal bones of the toes resemble those of the fingers, and do not require a separate notice. In a case related by Sir A. Cooper, all the smaller toes were displaced backwards; a projection existed at their roots, and the extremity of the metatarsal bones bulged under the first phalanx of the corresponding toes. This displacement had been caused by a fall from a considerable height, upon the ends of the toes. Several months had elapsed, and reductionSYNOVITIS. 791 * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 2, '6. could not be effected. Walking was rendered more tolerable by wear- ing a piece of hollow cork at the bottom of the inner part of the shoe, to prevent the pressure of the metatarsal bones upon the nerves and blood-vessels. Congenital Dislocations oi? the Bones op the Foot.—These In- juries are associated with the various forms of Talipes or Club-foot. CHAPTER XXXVI. DISEASES OP JOINTS. Unlike Diseases of Bone—wherein the osseous texture or bone proper, the periosteum, and the medullary membrane or endosteum, are less separately and distinctly the seat of any particular morbid condition— Diseases of Joints relate to the synovial membrane, the articular ends of bone, and the articular cartilages, not to mention the ligaments, as, severally, the seats of disease; although any such morbid condition, isolated primarily, often spreads to the adjoining structures secondarily. Thus, the component structures of the joints have each an individuality in relation to Disease; and Diseases of the Joints have reference essen- tially to these component structures. This pathologically analytical view of joint-diseases, with regard to their seat and origin in joint- structures, is due to Sir B. Brodie ; Fig. 406.* prior to whose observations, both clinical and pathological, diseases of the joints were confounded under the ambiguous terms, "Arthritis" and " White SweHing." Synovitis.—Inflammation of the Synovial Membrane. — Structural Condition.—An inflamed synovial membrane is more vascular than natural, in the form of crimson spots or diffused redness, and loses its glistening appearance. The synovial secretion is increased in quantity, and thinner or serous. These are the earliest changes. As inflamma- tion proceeds, the membrane ac- quires a pulpy thickening and opacity, by interstitial exudation, and lymph is effused from its inner surface, giving it a granular or villous appearance (Fig. 406), and forming flakes in the synovial fluid, which also accumulates in quantity. Some effusion may even occur in792 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. the sub-serous cellular tissue. This represents the adhesive stage of synovitis; an event, however, which rarely supervenes, as the opposed surfaces of the interior of the synovial capsule become yet more sepa- rated by its increasing distension. Subsequently, pus may be secreted withm the capsule, which thus becomes converted into an abscess. Signs.—Amde Synovitis.—The knee-joint maybe taken for example, as it IS more commonly afFected than any other joint. Coincident with the earliest stage of inflammation, pain is experienced by tlio patient, and usually referred to a particular spot, perhaps the inner edge of the patella; afterwards extending over the whole articulation. The pain has no specially distinctive character. It is severe in pro- portion to the depth of the articulation and the unyielding nature of the ligamentous and other surrounding structures. It is also most intense in synovitis of a rheumatic or gouty origin, and as if the joint were compressed by a vice, or being violently torn open. In a period varying from two or three hours to as many days, according to the intensity of the inflammation, swelling makes its appearance. The con- sistence^ and shape of this synovial swelling are characteristic. At first fluid and fluctuating, it becomes semi-solid as lymph is effused, and again resumes its original fluidity in the event of serous collection, or of suppuration. But the shape of this swelling is even more re- markable. Throughout the course of synovitis, it corresponds to the shape of the synovial capsule; presenting that outline more clearly according to the degree of distension, aud as modified by the com- pression of surrounding ligaments and tendons. The swelling, therefore, varies in form with each articulation, and its rela- tion to the ligaments and tendons. Thus, in the knee, the swelling of synovitis is most conspicuous as a protrusion on either side of the ligamentum patellte, betwixt it and the lateral ligaments, and rising up above the patella, bulges in a uniform shape as high as the distended capsule may extend. (Fig. 407.) At the same time, the patella is floated up from between the condyles, and when depressed with the finger, it rises again. In the elbow, the swelling projects on the posterior aspect of the joint, above the olecranon, and under the extensor muscles of the forearm. In the ankle, it presents on each side, between the lateral ligaments and the anterior tendons. In other joints less superficial, as the shoulder and hip, the swelling of synovitis is less perceptible; in the one being obscured by the cushion of the deltoid muscle; in the other, however, an evident fulness of the groin, and sometimes of the nates, can be detected. The wrist-joint is far less * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 887. Synovial capsule of the knee-joint distended and thickened from chronic synovitis. A vertical section throngh the joint shows the height to which the capsule reaches —about four inches above the upper border of the patella, forming a sac between two and three inches iu depth, aud extending across the whole front of the thigh above the joint. (Hunter.) Fig. 407.*SYNOVITIS. 793 frequently subject to synovitis; but here a general fulness and some bulging between the tendons—extensors and flexors—shows a con- formity to the rule of characteristic swelling. Heat and, possibly, redness of the skin around the joint, will also be more or less evident; but these signs are not diagnostic. The attitude of the limb is more or less peculiar, or becomes so. The joint is placed in the position most easy to the patient, and usually becomes semi-flexed. Constitutional febrile disturbance, in some degree, accompanies these local symptoms. Diagnosis.—Synovitis must be distinguished from hysterical affec- tion of the joint; and this diagnosis well illustrates the differential characters of all local hysterical affections, as compared with disease of any part. Arthritic hystena simulates synovitis; but the pain is most intense and disproportionate to any other symptom of disease; it is also superficial, or cutaneous, rather than affecting deeper textures, and diffused. Thus, the pain is elicited by touching, lightly handling, or bending the joint, but not provoked by pressing or concussing the heel upwards, so as to bring the articular ends s\iddenly into contact; and this surface-pain often extends upwards on the thigh, and down the leg to the foot. Spasmodic pains in the muscles are also ex- perienced, rather than concussive startings of the limb, as when nlcera- tion of the articular cartilages has taken place. All pain may cease at times, and recur; or it migrates suddenly, and settles in some other part; and then the simulated disease vanishes. The variations of colour and temperature are also significant; the limb being perhaps pale or of a purplish hue, and cold, in the morning, and becoming warm or hot to the touch, with a reddish, shining skin, in the evening. A slight puffy swelling may supervene on the intense pain, and as this puffiness corresponds to the margins of the articular cartilages, on either side of the patella, it looks as if the joint were affected. Generally, the limb is quite extended. While, therefore, the contour of the joint possibly resembles that of articular disease, the attitude of the limb usually differs from the semi-flexed position in that condition. The globular enlargement of the joint, with a half-bent relaxation of the limb, in carious disease of the articular ends of bone, would also suflBciently distinguish that condition. But the peculiarities of hysteric pain—in its severity, its superficial, diffused, and fitful character, with the changes of colour and temperature in the part—are altogether unlike the symptoms of any joint-disease, whether affecting the cartilages or the bones. Add to which, the constitutional health remains unimpaired, as by the symptomatic fever of inflammation, or the hectic of prolonged suppuration, in the early and advanced stages of joint-disease; and this difference of constitutional condition becomes more significant in its relation to the extent of the presumed disease and its duration. Chloroform lends invaluable aid in determining the diagnosis ; under its influence, pain and functional disturbance being subdued, the presence or absence of structural disease can be more conclusively ascertained. The knee and hip joints are most frequently visited by hysteria. Causes.—Exposure to cold, or some occasion of injury, as a blow or fall, sprain or wound, may give rise to acute synovitis. The disease thus occurs in joints which are most superficial and exposed, as the knee or elbow, sometimes the ankle or hip, occasionally the wrist or shoulder joint. But these causes are usually backed by some predis-794 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. posing constitutional condition ; especially rheumatism, scrofula, con- stitutional syphilis, or formerly, by the poisonous administration of mercury. Several joints may then be affected simultaneously. In- flammation of the synovial membranes also ensues, occasionally, from gonorrhoaa or purulent ophthalmia. Such synovitis has been incor- rectly named " gonorrhoeal rheumatism," although not apparently depending on a rheumatic condition. Gonorrhoeal synovitis would bo a more correct designation. Arising after gonorrhoea of a few weeks' duration, from sudden arrest of the discharge, or after exposure to cold, it affects one or more joints—commonly the knee, and often both knees. Serum rather than lympb is effused into the joint, and the disease terminates without disorganization in a few weeks. Or it proceeds, sometimes, to ulceration of the cartilages, and continues for months or a year or two. In one such case, under my care, the knee- joint became firmly anchylosed. Pyaemia induces a low inflammation of the joints, the special character of which is its abundant sero-purulent effusion, and conse- quent swelling; unattended by pain, heat, and redness, the ordinary symptoms of inflammation. Ulceration of the cartilages ensues if the patient lives long enough. Terminations.—(1.) Resolution generally occurs; the pain, swelling, and other symptoms subsiding, and the joint regaining apparently a healthy condition. (2.) Adhesion, or complete fibrous anchylosis, sometimes results; the fluid or serous portion of the effusion being absorbed, the surfaces of the synovial membrane come together and are partially united by fibrous adhesions; thus leaving the joint much stiffened, in the state of fibrous anchylosis. (3.) Fluid remaining in the synovial capsule ; the swelling becomes persistent, with laxity and weakness of the joint; constituting chronic synovitis. An extreme degree of this condition has been named hydrarthrosis or hydrops articuli —dropsy of the joint. Some lingering vascularity and redness, with thickening of the synovial membrane, remains. The knee-joint is most commonly affected ; rarely the hip, shoulder, or elbow. (4.) Suppura- tion and abscess having occurred, the joint is distended with thick, opaque, yellow pus; the synovial membrane, very red and pulpy, is ulcerated in parts, and overspread with fibrinous purulent flakes; the articular cartilages undergo ulcerative disintegration into a whitish pulp, here and there, or the cartilage readily peels off; and the subjacent bone is very vascular, and liable to become carious—thus ending in total disorganization of the joint; or anchylosis supervenes —sometimes fibrous and stiffly movable, sometimes bony and fixed. The head of the femur and acetabulum, for example, both denuded of cartilage, may be found in a state of anchylosis—fibrous, or even osseous. Or, an articular abscess opens, attended with a temporary relief of the symptoms; but a wasting discharge ensues, and the inflammatory fever is exchanged for hectic, under which the patient would ultimately sink from exhaustion, unless the disorganized joint has been removed in time. Periarticidar abscesses may form; either in the synovial bursas adjacent to the joint, or in the subcu- taneous cellular tissue, then having more the character of a diffuse suppuration. Thus, when the knee-joint is affected with acute puru- lent synovitis, the bursa under the ligamentum patella—or tendon of the quadriceps muscle—or the bursa in the popliteal space, maySYNOVITIS. 795 suppurate in the form of an abscess; while, in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, suppuration may extend up the thigh and down the leg. These periarticular abscesses, therefore, occur independently of, although consequent on, the purulent synovitis; but they may subsequently communicate with the joint, especially the bursal abscesses. Hence, according to the nature of the fluid in the bursro, puncture of the joint might yield pus in one situation, serum only in another part.* Puru- lent synovitis may be acute or chronic, according to the severity and duration of the symptoms; as depending chiefly on local or constitu- tional causes, e.g., injury or scrofula. Treatment.—Absolute rest of the joint should be observed, as pri- marily important; the limb being placed in that position which is most easy to the patient, and most convenient in the event of any stiffness remaining. A somewhat flexed position will, generally, best answer this twofold purpose. The limb may be sufficiently steadied by laying it on a soft pillow, which thus partially envelops the joint; or a suit- able splint should be applied to insure rest. Local depletion by leeches, followed by warm fomentations, or cold lotions or irrigation will be appropriate, according to the intensity of the inflammation. Gonsti- lutional treatment has reference to the inflammatory fever, and any constitutional cause of the inflammation. Hence, saline antimonials, Avith perhaps calomel and opium, may be sufficient to subdue the febi-ile disturbance and check effusion; or the special treatment for rheumatism, constitutional syphilis, or other such causative condition, may be requisite. Gonorrhoeal synovitis is amenable to the same treatment as that arising from rheumatism. Thus, colchicum and iodide of potassium sometimes prove remedial. But the disease, in most cases, I'uns its course; or a change of climate from a cold and damp atmosphere to the southern coast, may be followed by a speedy subsidence of the symptoms. By this plan of treatment, synovitis, in an early stage, will probably terminate by resolution or shght effusion. Chronic synovitis must be treated with a view to the removal of the accumulated effusion, and consequent weakness of the joint. Counter- u-ritation in the form of blisters should be employed to overcome any persistent inflammation; followed by stimulating embrocations, and pressure to promote absorption. Two or three blisters in succession ! are certainly preferable to a single blister kept open with savine oint- : ment. The discharge produced by savine ointment soon ceases, and • the surface of the skin acquires a mammillated appearance from en- largement of its papillee. The blisters should not be applied directly < over the inflamed joint, but in the neighbourhood. Thus, in the case I of the knee, a blister applied on either side of the thigh just above the ; joint; and with regard to the hip, a blister may be placed on the groin < or nates. Of stimulating embrocations, a liniment of turpentine and ' olive oil, or the iodine paint, are perhaps most efficacious. Pressure <can be applied by means of a gutta-percha or pasteboard splint, I moulded to the joint; or the joint may be strapped with soap-plaster : spread upon leather. The emplastrum amimoniaci cum hyclrargyro con- 'veniently combines both stimulation and pressure. Injection of the * See also " Formation of Synovial Cysts in connection with Disease of the 1 Knee-Joint," by li. W. Moirant-Uaker. (St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Eeports, vol. xiii.)796 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. joint with tincture of iodine has been much employed by Velpeau, i Jobert, and Bonnet. The tincture is diluted with two or three parts J > of water. A small trocar is introduced into the joint, a portion of .fl6i the serous fluid let out, and a corresponding quantity of the iodine T solution thrown in, and after being left for a few minutes, according to the degree of pain excited, it is allowed to escape, and the puncture carefully closed with a pad of lint, secured by strips of adhesive plaster. The joint may be bandaged, but compression should be • removed, if pain be induced. After the operation, the joint fills again with serous effusion, so as to be even larger and more fluctuating than ] before, and somewhat painful; but in about a week, absorption pro- ' ceeds slowly to recovery. On the other hand, very disastrous conse- : quences have ensued: purulent synovitis, with destruction of the joint, and pyaamia; or anchyolosis, as a less unfavourable result. Considering the danger to limb and life consequent on injection, and the more harmless although persistent nature of hydrops articuli, the Surgeon may well pause before having recourse to this procedure. The precautions necessary are—a very chronic, passive state of effusion; and that no air should enter the joint, either from the syringe, .or in withdrawing the canula and closing the puncture. Constitutional treatment, by the influence of iodide of potassium and cinchona bark, cascarilla, or other tonics, will aid these local measures. In hydrops articuli, the fluid has, I believe, been removed by the aspii'ator, whether without return may be doubtful. Sujpfuration and abscess, in the interior of a joint, should be met i i promptly, by evacuation of the matter. The presence of pus having ' ; been first assuredly ascertained by puncturing the joint with a grooved needle, an opening with a bistoury should be made forthwith, freely, j ] and in a dependent situation. This proceeding was, I believe, origin- J , ally advocated by Mr. Gray, and it has been sanctioned by subsequent 1 , experience. Perfect rest of the joint must then be secured by splints, and the limb placed in the position most convenient for use, in the event of anchylosis. A suitable kind of anchylosis having been attained, fibrous or osseous, according to the use of the limb, it will . be unnecessary to have recourse to further operative interference, by ; excision or amputation. Constitutional treatinent consists in the tonic and medicinal resources and supporting regimen requisite to i sustain the exhaustion of hectic. Chronic Rheumatic Stnovitis, or Chronic Rheitmatic Arthritis.— Structural Gondition.—This inflammatory disease involves other joint- textures besides the synovial membrane; but that is the texture firet affected. Sir B. Brodie, Cruveilhier, and Dr. R. Adams alike concur . in this view of the structural origin of the above-named disease. Hence, the term synovitis seems preferable to that of arthritis, proposed by Dr. Adams; the etymological signification of the latter term including | inflammation of any or all the structures of a joint (apdpov, a joint). ^ Billroth refers the origin of the disease, generally, to the articular cartilages, which undergo a fibrous or filamentous degeneration; and Mr. Barwell locates the initial change in the bone, as a rheumatic ostitis. Chronic Rheumatic Synovitis differs only from ordinary Chronic Synovitis in certain particulars as to its pathology and treatment, which are, however, worthy of separate notice. The inflammation of the synovial membrane seems to affect the vascular fringe-like pro-797 CHRONIC RHEUMATIC SYNOVITIS. X St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., B. 62. cesses of this membrane more particularly, which, are much developed and injected; the internal surface of the capsule presenting the appearance of a villous mucous membrane. (Fig. 408.) Effusion Fig. 408.* Fia. 409. t Fig. ilO.X of fluid within the joint takes place to a moderate amount, and is eventually ab- sorbed. But the membrane itself remains thickened and fibrous; while osteophytes or osseous deposits frequently form partly in its substance, principally around the joint, connected with the periosteum and articular ends of the bones. (Fig. 409.) These ossific forma- tions are nodular, and have a denser or more compact structure; unlike the long and spiculated, stalactitic osteophytes, and of a porous or more cancellated structure, which result from either periosteal or osteal inflam- mation. Hence the term nodosity of the joints, proposed by Dr. Haygarth, as express- ing one of the most distinctive features of chronic rheumatic synovitis or arthritis. The ligaments become relaxed; the articular car- tilages undergo peculiar changes ; becoming fibrous and having a yellowish hue, nodular, and then rough, ultimately being destroyed, and presenting patches of ivory-like bony material or porcellanous deposit, white, smooth, and glistening. This acquires even a high polish under the attrition of the surfaces, and linear furrows are formed in the directions of friction by the movements of the joint. * St. Thomas's Hosp. Miis., D. 100'. Chronic rheumatic'arthritis of the Icnec- }o'mi—early stage; showing hypertrophiccl fringes of the synovial membrane, highly vascular; with denudation of the articular cartilage over the inner condyle of the femur and corresponding surface of the tibia, and a slight circumferential collar of ossific deposit. Disease, one year's duration. t Chronic rlicumatic arthritis—femur in knee-joint. Mr. Canton's case (" Trans. Path. Soc," vol. xii.).Fig. 411.* SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., C. 237". (Fig. 410.) Inter-articular ligaments and fibro-cartilages are more or less destroyed and disappear; thus, tlie round ligament in the hip-joint, and the long head of the biceps in the shoulder-joint, are removed by absorption. The sub-cartilaginous osseous structure is much condensed, and the whole articular end of the bone enlarged and deformed by the surrounding osseous growths; while the articular surfaces be- come singularly altered in shape. Thus, the globulai- heads of the femur and humerus are flattened and expanded, and their necks shortened; the corre- sponding articular cavities also being enlarged and shallow. These alterations, with the bony buttresses thrown out around the articular ends, have some- times been mistaken for fracture with bony union, in examining such pathological specimens of the neck of the femur or humerus. Multiple exostosis of the knee-joint resembles chronic rheumatic arthritis, in the advanced stage of this disease; but the exostoses are capped with cartilage (Fig. 411), and thus differ from the purely ossific deposits consequent on rheumatic arthritis. The Signs of chronic rheumatic synovitis or arthritis are distinctive :—pain, enlargement and ultimate deformity of the joint, rigidity or stiffness, and a peculiar crackling or grating noise on moving the joint. The pain is not acute, but of an aching, boring, or gnawing character, worse at night, in- creased by motion, but passing off somewhat by exercise during the day, and aggravated by cold and moisture; it is, in short, rheumatic pain. The general health may remain comparatively unaffected for years. The Causes of this disease always have reference to the constitu- tional condition of Rheumatism, and sometimes exposure to cold or injury as an exciting cause. Thus, chronic rheumatic synovitis may result from rheumatic fever or from repeated attacks of rheumatism ; or in a person predisposed, direct exposure of a joint to cold or some slight injury, as a sprain, may evoke the disease. Many joints are liable to be affected, the disease passing from joint to joint without relieving those originally attacked ; or only one joint may be affected. The larger joints, especially the hip and knee, seem to be most fre- quently attacked in males; the smaller joints, as those of the fingers, in females. But, apai't from this relative difference, both sexes would seem to be nearly equally liable to the disease. Age has no special proclivity; the disease usually occurs after mid-life, but it may also appear in young persons. Thin, bloodless, chilly persons are more often subject to chronic rheumatic arthritis. No social condition is exempt; the poorly fed and hard-worked being prone, the luxurious and indolent subject, to this disease; in the latter class, assuming the character of rheumatic gout. Course and Terminations.—Chronic rheumatic synovitis is singu- larly persistent, evincing little tendency to subsidence, or termination by resolution. The irregular enlargement and deformity of the joints, with the weakened state of the ligamentous structures, and altered799 SCROFtJLOUS SYNOVITIS. shape of tlie articular surfaces, predispose to partial dislocations and contractions of the limbs; leaving the patient stiffened and crippled in his movements, and ultimately reduce him to a helpless condition. Loose cartilages, moreover, are apt to form in the joints. Suppuration rarely, if ever, occurs; the disease—apai't from any temporary effu- sion of fluid—is essentially a dry disease of the joints. Anchylosis also is a rare event; although the increasing articular rigidity, and wasting of the disused muscles, have an equivalent result. At last, the general health declines, and the patient becomes emaciated to a shadow. Treatment.—Preventive measures, in the early stage of this disease, may succeed in averting its destructive consequences ; but any cura- tive measures for the removal of the osseous deposits or out-growths, and restoration of the disorganized state of the joints—in respect to ligaments, synovial membrane and cartilages—will have scarcely any avail. Local treatment—in the early stage—is that of synovitis. Rest of the joint, and slight topical depletion by a few leeches, may now prove efficacious. Bat, as the symptoms of inflammation subside, leaving some structural results—in thickening of the synovial mem- brane and effusion within the joint—counter-irritation, by means of blisters or iodine paint, will become advantageous. Stimulant em- brocations and friction, as by shampooing or local douches, and motion, may then succeed in recovering the use of the joints. The constitiotional treatment should be that of rheumatism. In the early stage, bicar- bonate of potash, in large doses, with wine of colchicum, may arrest the progress of the disease. Subsequently, iodide of potassium and guaiacum seem to have more controlling influence. Free action of the skin must be promoted by warm clothing and sudorific medicines, as Dover's powder and hot-air baths ; while a rigorous attention to diet will be indispensable when the disease has a gouty character, with dyspeptic symptoms, denoting a constitutional origin of that kind. Nor should hydropathic treatment be disdained, when properly conducted. Mineral waters, coupled with a due observance of dietetic precautions, sometimes prove singularly beneficial in rendering joints supple and restoring the general health, at least for a time. The waters of Bath or Buxton in this country, Vichy, Wiesbaden, Carlsbad, Ems or Aix- la-Chapelle on the Continent, are thus hopeful resorts for the victims of chronic rheumatic synovitis; and such patients should, if possible, winter abroad, out of the cold, damp, and variable atmosphere of this country, in the genial cUmate of Nice and other parts of Italy, or the south of Trance. Scrofulous Synovitis.—Structural Condition.—A pulpy or gela- tinous degeneration of the synovial membrane, resulting from inflamma- tion of a chronic character, modified by a scrofulous constitutional condition. The synovial membrane, in this state, is thickened and converted into a soft yellowish or light-brown gelatinous material; more vascular also than the healthy membrane. This change may be partial in its extent, affecting only the membrane reflected over the ligaments, or over the cartilages. Sir B. Brodie, who first described this disease, relates such cases as shown by dissection. The articular cavity be- comes diminished as the pulpy thickening of the membrane encroaches on the joint; and this taking place most freely in the loose synovial800 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. folds wLich siirroTind the cartilages, they are often concealed by the new formation. (Pig. 412.) Billroth's special observations show that the circumferential synovial folds proliferate, in the sliape of red Fig. 412.* ^po^^gy granulations, overspreading the car- tilage, and to which this fleshy layer becomes firmly adherent, by roots or processes enter- ing the substance of the cartilage. A similar pulpy material forms in the areolar texture around the outer surface of the membrane, which thus becomes infiltrated and con- densed. This gelatinous material apparently results from a failure in the process of de- velopment of the products of inflammation ; in acute and healthy synovitis, a fibrous or areolar tissue being produced; whereas in scrofulous inflammation, development does not advance beyond the first form of crude cell-structure. Many intermediate gradations, however, may be found between these two conditions. The knee-joint is most commonly afEected ; less often, the hip. Signs, and Diagnosis.—In an early stage, a sense of stiffness of the joint is experienced and tumefaction appears, on either side of the patella; beginning almost imperceptibly, but slowly and gradually increasing; with absence of pain, even on moving the joint. The child walks with a limping or dragging lameness. These early symptoms are not very characteristic. In a more advanced stage, after the lapse of a few months, a very considerable enlargement is presented, generally of an irregular shape, colourless and elastic, without any distinct fluctuation. The joint has now become tender on pressure, painful when moved, and the limb more or less bent. This disease most resembles scrofulous caries of the ai-ticjilar ends of the bone in the joint afi^ected. But the swelling is diagnostic, in its being more obviously referable to the synovial membrane than to the end of either bone. From cancerous disease of either articular end of bone, the same feature of distinction may be available for diagnosis; while the whiteness of the skin contrasts with the reddish or purplish dis- coloui'ation which sooner or later supervenes in malignant disease, as the skin becomes involved. The lymphatic glands also are not con- taminated. Course and Terminations.—As the disease progresses, the cartilages undergo ulceration in spots, where the spongy processes are imbedded; though these spots are not, necessarily, at first, in direct relation with the pulpy synovial membrane. The changes which ensue are fully described in tracing the Ulceration of Articular Cartilages. Abscess forms within the joint, or in the substance of the swollen membrane; and making its way to the surface, opens by vai'ious sinuous apertures. Hectic supervenes. Occasionally, the disease subsides. The gelatinous growth is directed inwards towards the articular cavity, which it tends to fill up; while the material itself becoming more fibrous, and contracting, * Royal Free Hospital. Scrofulous synovitis of knee-joint. Amputation. (Author.)SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF THE JOINTS. 801 still further diminishes the cavity. Anchylosis of the osseous surfaces completes this process of recovery, but leaving the limb much wasted, the muscles having undergone fatty degeneration, so that the joint appears conspicuously enlarged. Rarely, the synovial membrane itself is restored to a healthy state; ahsorption taking place, and the articu- lation remaining structurally sound. Two or three years may have been spent in any such course of natural cure. Treatment.—Remedial measures must have regard to the consti- tutional condition, and hence the treatment of Scrofula is here appropriate. Local treatment consists in absolute rest of the joint, and the observance of a suitable position in the event of anchylosis. Hence, the use of a properly adapted splint may be, or become, necessary. Counter-irritation should be applied cautiously, by means of iodine paint, or occasional blistering. The actual cautery is, how- ever, strongly urged by Mr. Barwell, when enlargement of the joint is proceeding without any notable inflammation. The iron should be white hot, and applied in lines, about an eighth of an inch broad and three inches long, parallel to the axis of the limb. Four such lines are recommended for the knee, two on each side of the patella, at least an inch apart; dry lint being then applied. This proceeding re- sembles the " firing " of a joint, as practised in veterinary surgery. The advantage of counter-irritation, by means of the actual cautery and as thus applied, is said to be not only its derivative effect, but the pressure which ensues from the contracting cicatrices. "When the swelling is reduced to a passive state, Scott's dressing may bo used as a means of counter-irritation, and the plaster affords more support. Friction and gradtial motion will then finish off the disease, and restore the use of the joint. Ulceration of the articular cartilages, with abscess and destruction- of the joint, may be followed by anchylosis, and a useful limb, under continued treatment by rest and position; but the destructive result of scrofulous synovitis will more probably necessitate the removal of the diseased part, either by excision or amputation. The latter operation may be sometimes imperative, owing to the constitutional exhaustion rather than the extent of the disease. Loss of limb will then be alter- native to the loss of life; the patient, otherwise, inevitably sinking under prolonged hectic. ScEOFULOus Disease of the Joints, or scrofulous inflammation and caries of the cancellated structure of the articular ends of Bone.— A disease of chronic character.—Structural Condition.—The alterations of the cancellous structure in this state of disease are fully described in Diseases of Bone. The changes alluded to may be summed up as inflammation and consequent caries; differing only from ordinary in- flammation of bone in the nature of the products associated with the disintegrative transformation. At first, the cancellous structure is simply more vascular than natural, then it becomes softened and porous ; while the cancelli are filled with a reddish gelatinous fluid, and ultimately an opaque, friable, tuberculous matter. (Fig. 413.) Caries appears frequently in separate points of the cancellous tissue, which, gradually extending, coalesce. At variance with this received view respecting the pathology of scrofulous caries affecting the articular ends of bone, Dr. Sayre, of New York, refers this disease to an extrava- sation of blood in the cancellous tissue immediately beneath the arti- 8 F802 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY, cnlar cartilage,* and which, inducing inflammatory softening, results in caries, followed by ulceration of the cartilages, and destruction of the joint. Hence, Dr. Sayre denies also the constitutional origin of the so-called scrofulous disease of a joint, or " white Fig. 413.t swelling," although this local condition of disease may sometimes occur in persons of an undoubtedly scrofulous diathesis, but simply as an " accidental accompaniment; " the disease arising from an intra-osseous extravasation of blood, in connection with injury to the joint, and thus being of traumatic origin. I do not find this new pathology vei*ified by any speci- mens of extravasations of blood in the articular ends of bone, coupled with clinical histories as of initial scrofulous disease of the joints thus affected. This disease is commonly situated in the articular ends of the long bones ; particularly the head of the femur, in scrofulous disease of the hip-joint; in tlie head of the tibia or lower articular end of the femur, in similar disease of the knee-joint; in the bones of the tarsus; in those of the carpus ; in connection with the elbow or shoulder joints, occa- sionally; and not unfrequently in the cancellous tissue of the bodies of the dorsal or lumber vertebras. Nor do these situations exhaust the list of bones liable to be affected by scrofulous caries. Signs.—Scrofulous caries of the knee-joint may be taken as typical of the general symptoms. The disease approaches very insidiously, being preceded by little or no pain. Some Fig. 414.t inability to use the joint—a limping lameness in walking—first attracts notice. A child, for example—the disease occurring commonly before puberty—drags his foot after him in walking. Weeks or perhaps months elapse ere pain is complained of ; and then only a trifling pain, intermittent, but fixed, and aggravated by any movement of the joint, or especially on jDercussion of the bone below, as of the foot in disease of the knee-joint. This pain increases as the disease progresses. At length a swelling of peculiar character forms around the joint, arising from infiltra- tion of the cellular texture with serum and lymph. A puffy, elastic swelling is thus pro- duced, which assumes a, globular while the skin retains its white colour, constituting the " white swelling " (Fig. 414) formerly recognized in Surgical works. This swelling becomes more conspicuous and apparently larger than it really is, owing to gradual wasting of the muscles above and below the diseased joint. Scrofulous * Orthopedic Surgery and Diseases of tlie Joints, 1876. t St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Miis., 1, 38. j Royal Free Hospital. (Author.)SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF THE JOINTS. 803 enlargement of the knee-joint, for example, thus differs notably in its characters from the swelling of Synovitis. The absence of pain in the first instance, and for a considerable period, is also diagnostic. In either disease, the limb becomes somewhat flexed, from muscular action prevailing in that direction. The general health remains comparatively undisturbed up to this period. Necrosis in the articular end of a bone might be mistaken for scro- fulous caries, as in disease of the knee-joint. But the absence of the peculiar globular swelling wiU be noticed, while the thigh becomes progressively enlarged (Fig. 415); and in a Fig. 415.* later stage, when abscess has formed and burst, a fistulous opening is seen above the joint, and Fig. 416.t by introducing a probe the sequestrum may be detected. Course and Terminations.—Scrofulous caries of a joint may subside, leaving only some oede- matous swelling and stiffness of the joint. Or, the disease progresses, both to the surface and the interior of the joint. In the one direction, as the disease advances, the periosteum becomes detached, supimration takes place around the joint, and sinus-openings form, leading down to worm-eaten carious bone, and giving' vent to a foul discharge. The textures are undermined and traversed by sinuses in various tortuous ways, according to the anatomical relations of the joint, (rig- 416.) Towards the joint, as caries extends, the nutrition of the cartilages, depending on the osteal vessels, becomes impaired. Their attachment to the bone is loosened, and they acquire a fibrous character. Ulceration commences usually on the deep or osseous sur- face of the cartilages; as a disintegration equivalent to the carious state of the bone. Portions of cartilage may be detached and lie loose within the joint. Sometimes the ulceration assumes a peculiar form, which has been named " spotted ulceration ; " there being several pits containing a curdy matter in the articular surfaces, and which corre- spond to pits in the bone, while the intervening portions of cartilage remain unaltered. Ulceration of the articular cartilage is announced by painful start- ings of the limb, occurring particularly at night. Synovitis speedily supervenes, and the formation of matter within the joint. The opposite * Royal Free Hospital. Amputation of the opposite thigh for necrosis; there was also angular curvature of the spine. (Author.) t After Liston.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 804 Fig. 417.* articular cartilage becomes affected and tbe bone exposed. The two sensitive osseous surfaces meeting together and being subject to attri- tion and pressure by spasmodic action of the muscles, the starting pains are much aggravated. The ligaments share this destructive pro- gress of the disease, and give way; the ahscess within the joint bursts through the synovial membrane, and at length finds its way to the surface, with sinuous openings around the joint. The head of the bone, altered in size and shape, and no longer restrained by ligamentous connections, undergoes dislocation, in whatever direction the disease may facihtate displacement, and subject to the action of the muscles. In the remarkable case here figured, from disease of the knee- joint, the tibia is dislocated backwards, and to a right angle with the femur. (Fig. 417.) The joint has now become irrepar- ably disorganized; but anchylosis may take place without dislocation, or an imperfect joi/nt form after dislocation, the bone remaining in its new locality. Either of these reparative terminations, in the course of nature, are rare. Constitutional disturbance of the most severe kind accompanies the destructive course of this disease ; and the patient probably sinks ulti- mately from long-continued pain and sleeplessness, purulent discharge, and the night sweats of hectic. The concurrence of scrofulous disease in other organs than the joints must not be overlooked in our prognosis. Thus, the lungs or mesenteric glands may be affected with tubercular deposit; or tuber- cular meningitis ensue, with effusion into the ventricles of the brain. And the social state of the individual should be taken into account; scrofulous disease arising and progressing far more readily in the poor and needy, than in the afiluent classes of society. Treatment.—Local appliances are of subordinate importance to con- stitutional treatment, yet they are co-operative in arresting scrofulous caries and the reparation of its destructive consequences. In the first place, absolute rest of the limb is an essential condition throughout this disease ; in the earliest stage to arrest its progress, sub- sequently to relieve pain and induce anchylosis. Due regard should also be had to the position most favourable for the future use of the limb, in the event of this issue. Such rest, and position, can only be secured by means of a suitable splint. A leather or gutta-percha splint moulded to the joint answers best, generally. But the splint mu&b be of sufiicient length to fix the limb entirely, and check any contraction of the muscles which would affect the joint. Thus, in scrofulous disease of the hip-joint, a gutta-percha splint should be applied so as to embrace one side of the pelvis and two-thirds of the circumference of the thigh, and extend from the short ribs to below the knee. The limb should be in a line with the trunk, or bent only slightly forwards. For the knee- joint, two lateral splints are preferable; supporting two-thirds of its circumference, and extending from the middle of the thigh to the middle * Guy's Hospital Mu?., 1345.805 SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF THE JOINTS. of tlie leg. A slightly flexed position will be tbe most convenient in the event of anchylosis. For the ankle, also, two lateral splints may be made to include the lower part of the leg and the sole of the foot; the patient being allowed to walk about with the knee supported by a wooden leg. Disease of the bones of the foot will require the support of a splint moulded to the sole, and turned round the inner and outer side. Over this, a large cloth boot may be worn, whereby the patient can walk about without injury to the diseased joints. In the upper extremity, scrofulous disease of the joints must be treated on a similar principle as to rest and position. For the shoulder, a splint should be moulded to the joint, and extend down the arm to the elbow; the fore- arm being suspended in a sling from the neck. A diseased elbow-joint is best supported by lateral splints; the wrist by a splint on its palmar- suT'face, extending upwards to near the elbow and downwards to the tips of the fingers, and doubled at its margins- over the sides of the hand and forearm. In an advanced stage of the disease, when painful startings of the- limb and a tendency to dislocation- have supervened, it becomes ad- visable to slightly separate the diseased articular surfaces, and counteract muscular contraction. Some extending force, moderate but constant in its operation, may be advantageously resorted to; the application and beneficial results of this plan of treatment having been more especially advocated and illustrated by Dr. Sayre.* For the hip-joint. Listen's long splint, interrupted, will accomplish this purpose. But I prefer- weight-extension from the foot, as in the treatment of fracture of the thigh. The knee-joint is, perhaps, best managed by a pulley sling- apparatus which encloses the limb in a canvas trough; while slight extension is maintained by the inclined direction of the pulleys. This apparatus—applicable also to fracture of the thigh or leg—gives great ease and comfort in advanced disease of the knee-joint. When any tendency to dislocation has been overcome, Dr. Sayre's extending- instrument may be used with advantage. For its application he gives the following directions:—" Surround the leg with strips of adhesive plaster about one inch in width, placed lengthwise, and reaching from the head of the tibia down to the ankle-joint, and secure them with a roller- bandage from the top down to the point at which the lower band of the instrument is to be applied, lea"ving four or five inches of the lower ends of the plaster loose, fastening the bandage with stitches. Then, surround the thigh with strips of adhesive plaster of about the same width, applied in the same manner, and extending lengthwise upon the thigh from the lower end of the femur, nearly its whole length. Secure these plasters with a nicely adjusted roller-bandage, from the knee upward to the point where the upper band of the instru- ment is to be applied, leaving the remaining por- tion of the plaster loose. (Fig. 418.) Place the instrument on the limb so as to bring the side-bars upon the same plane with the condyles of the femur, an assistant holding it steadily in that position. The collar embracing * Op. cit.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 806 Fig. 419. Fig. 420. the leg should be closed so as to closely engage the leg, but not to prevent a free return of blood. Now reverse the loose extremities of the strips of adhesive plaster, bring them over the collar and upon the leg, and secure by a few turns of the bandage. Press the lower collar down into the plasters which engage it, and then secure the upper band about the thigh. This can be done by taking one piece of plaster behind and another in front, at points exactly opposite upon the cir- cumference of the limb, and reversing them in such manner as to bring equal traction upon the collar posteriorly and anteriorly, which will balance it so that its edges will not come in contact with the thigh at any point,—thus to avoid pressure. The remaining strips of plaster can be reversed without causing the edges of the roller to make pressure at any point, and all are then secured with a roller-bandage. Thus, the instrument is fastened at its upper and lower ends, ready for extension and counter-extension. This is effected by means of the key and rachet on the bars of the instrument. (Fig. 419.) The amount of extension should be determined and regulated by the perfect relief from all pain in the joint, and on pressure or concussion; avoiding unnecessary tension on the lateral ligaments. This degree of extension having been obtained, the instru- ment is locked by the slide and retained there." The ankle-joint may be treated in like manner, by Sayre's extending-instrument, similarly applied by means of longitudinal slips of adhesive plaster, secured in position by a roller-bandage; and then the application of the instru- ment. (Fig. 420.) Lastly, whatever be the termina- tion of scrofulous caries, a starched landage is an exceedingly useful support. If the disease be arrested, leaving only some cedematous sv\ ell- ing of the joint, the uniform pressure of this support will aid in reducing the swelling, and the patient can get about on crutches—supposing the lower limb to be affected—with the benefit of air and exercise. If an- chylosis have ensued, or a new joint as the result of dislocation, the support of a starched bandage will be equally advantageous. The period of time necessary for the use of some support to the seat of disease is always considerable ; many months, possibly years. Other local treatment—from first to last—may be regarded as com- paratively unimportant. Scrofulous disease of a joint cannot be arrested by any depletory measures, and in proportion as they reduce the general health such measures are positively injurious. Local Uood-lctting, by a few leeches, may sometimes prove beneficial in the incipient or vas- cular stage of the disease. But the repeated loss of blood would be injurious. Counter-irritation, by blisters, setons, etc., has an equally restricted applicability. The discharge and pain they occasion more than counterbalance any good resulting from their derivative action, especially in children. If the disease subsides, with cedematous swelling.807 ULCEBATION OF AKTIOULAR CARTILAGES. stimulating applications have some beneficial influence. Hence, embro- cations, iodine paint, and douclies of sea-water, are now useful. Pressure also—as by a stai-ched bandage, or pressure with, stimulation—by Scott's strapping, may be applied with advantage. Abscess having formed around the joint—in the course of the disease—a free and dependent opening should be made in time to prevent burrowing of the matter. The starched bandage can still be used, with a trap-opening opposite the abscess, for the convenience of dressing and cleanliness. When also ulceration of the articular cartilages has taken place, and the formation of abscess within the joint, anchylosis may be obtained, by continued rest, and position suitable to a useful limb.. Failing this result, timely excision must be had recourse to, before the supervention of hectic and exhaustion, when amputation becomes the only resource. Prof. Billroth and many other German Surgeons look with something like dismay on the consequences of joint-excision, for disease in general; and the clinical picture drawn from their experience of the operation would amply justify the sacrifice of the limb by amputation. After re-section, we hare left a large wound, with two sawn edges of bone, " which will certainly continue to suppurate for weeks, possibly for months; there may be suppuration of the subcutaneous tissue, of the sheaths of the tendons, and suppurative periostitis and necrosis of the sawn edges, things which patients may live through, but which always require time and strength." * The local treatment of scrofulous caries of a joint thus generally resembles that of scrofulous synovitis, in respect to rest and position of the joint, topical applications, and the treatment of abscess. The constitutional treatment of this disease is precisely that of Scrofula. This treatment consists in a course of tonics, especially the preparations of iron and quinine, a nutritious diet, including cod-liver oil, pure air, daily exercise, and sea-bathing. The administration of medicinal tonics should be varied from time to time, and with occasional intermissions. For children, the vinum ferri seems preferable, and after a while the syrup of the iodide of iron may be given in exchange; these and other simple preparations of iron being continued for three or four weeks, and then omitted for a week or ten days. But this course of treatment must be extended over a considerable period, probably two or three years. XJlceeation of Articitlae. Cartilages.—Structwal Condition.—The articular cartilages, when fully developed, and in a healthy state, are destitute of blood-vessels (and nerves). Nutrition is effected—as in the cornea—by imbibition; the nutrient matter being drawn from the blood- vessels of the subjacent bone and vascular fringe of the synovial mem- brane around the circumference of the cartilage. As the result of in- flammation—according to the observations of Sir B. Brodie, Mayo, and Listen—blood-vessels extend into the cartilages from the subjacent bone; just as they form in extravasated lymph. Hence the nutrition of articular cartilages, in this state, depends on a supply of nutritive matter, directly from the vessels, as in other vascular textures. But this question of the vascularity or non-vascularity of cartilage, with regard to the more or less direct supply of blood, has nothing whatever to do with the nutri- * " Surgical Pathology and Therapeutics," p. 471. 4th edit., German. Trans- lated by C. E. Ilacklcy. 'SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEBY. 808 * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 2, 32. Ibid, 2. 33. tive process itself as pertaining to the elemental structures, in health and disease. In respect to ulceration of the articular cartilages, tlie researches of Goodsir and Redfem, more particularly, have shown tbat it represents a vital alteration, in the cartilaginous structure itself ; and that the influence of the neighbouring blood-vessels is only indirect or secondary. As consequent on inflammation of the synovial memhrane—synovitis, or of the ione—ostitis, ulceration of articular cartilage may be named' Inflammatory ulceration, or secondary, in its relation to the original disease. Similar ulceration may perhaps occur as an original disease of the cartilage, and is hence named primary ulceration. But this state would seem to be, usually, a degenerative disintegration. De- generation also precedes inflammatory ulceration when the disease originates in hone, and extends to the cartilage as a secondary affection. Ulceration may begin, either on the Fig. 421.* y^gg surface of articular cartilage, or on its Pig. 422.t attached surface; and at its margin, where the synovial membrane is reflected over it (Fig. 421), or in the substance of the cartilage. In the hip, it may commence close to the attachment of the round ligament; or in the knee, adjoining the crucial ligaments. Forming shallow excavations, these assume the appearance of grooves, at a greater or less distance from the margin and frequently in the central parts of the cartilage. Nearly the whole cartilage may disappear, leaving only a few isolated reddened patches. In contrast with ulceration, gouty deposit appears in the form of white patches, but raised above the level of the cartilage (Fig. 422), which might otherwise be mistaken for ulceration. Inflammatory ulceration, consequent on synovitis, presents the following alterations on the free surface of the cartilage. The colour of the cartilage is altered in spots; which either rapidly become holes, as if cut out with a chisel, or the spots assume a fibrous aspect, and becoming excavated, form pits with fringed margins. In this way, the cartilage may be extensively destroyed, and the bone laid bare. Or, and especially in scrofulous synovitis, a thick vascular membrane forms, which passes from the diseased synovial membrane over the cartilage. The cartilage is slowly transformed into a kind of granulation, between which and a similar material growing from the synovial membrane, adhesions ensue, resulting in absolute continuity. When ulceration of the cartilage has extended deeply, the bone becomesSCROFULOUS DISEASE OF THE JOINTS. 809 t After Kedfcrn. St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 2, 6. Fig. 423.* involved, and the cancellous tissue acquires undue vascularity. The articular lamella of bone—a layer of calcified cartilage—crumbles or breaks up in masses, carrying with it portions of cartilage; and the granulations springing from the exposed cancellous tissue unite with those of the synovial membrane. Ulceration consequent on disease of the subjacent hone consists in degeneration, followed usually by inflam- matory ulceration. A portion of the carti- lage, losing its nutrient supply, degenerates or perishes, and is detached with its arti- cular lamella from the inflamed surface of bone—as from the articular surface of the head of the tibia, a section of which is here shown (Fig. 423)—whilst the surrounding portions of cartilage undergo the changes described as taking place in ulceration from synovitis. The minute changes in the process of ulceration relate both to the cartilage-corpuscles and the inter-cellular or hyaline substance. The corpuscles enlarge, with an endogenous development of cell-structures, and bursting, discharge their contents into cavities in the tissue itself, or upon the free surface, mingling with the organic matters contained within the joint, and probably forming pus. (Fig. 424.) This endo- genous productiveness is greater, the nearer to the seat or focus of disease. There, instead of two or three nucleated cells, the corpuscles may contain an almost indefinite number of younger cells, resembling Fig. 424. t Fig. 425.t pus-globules. The inter-cellular or hyaline substance disintegrates, or, in more chronic ulceration, it splits into bands or fibres of varying size, in the midst of which, sometimes, are found gelatinous masses —the changed contents of the cartilage-corpuscles, as Dr. Redfern supposes. (Fig. 425.) These changes proceed more or less rapidly in proportion to the810 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. activity of tho disease; thus representing the acute and chrojiic varieties of ulceration. In one case, tlie patient having died after veaesectiou, Mr. Lawrence believed that complete destruction of the articular car- tilages of the femur and tibia took place in four days. Chronic ulcera- tion may progress very slowly, especially when of rheumatic origin. Signs and Diagnosis.—(1.) Secondanj ulceration of the articular cartilages is announced by the starting fains adverted to in connection with the progress of synovitis and scrofulous caries ; and the articular disease is preceded by the symptoms of one or other of these diseases. (2.) Primary^ ulceration, of an inflammatory character, is said to present certain special and distinctive signs, as compared with syno- vitis or caries. According to the original observations of Sir B. Brodie, 2min, fixed and intense, is the earliest symptom, and coincident with the commencement of the disease. This pain is aggravated by movement of the joint, or friction, rather than by percussion of the bones, and accompanied with startings of the limb, as muscular spasms supervene. In the course of weeks or months, slight sivelling arises, corresponding in shape to the margin of the affected cartilages, and produced by serous effusion into the cellular textui'e externally. Abscess, within the joint, follows. But my own experience has led me to doubt ■whether inflammatory ulceration of articular cartilages ever occurs as a primary affection. Repair—after ulceration of articular cartilage—takes place in different ways. Extensive destruction of the opposed cartilages, with exposure of the cancellous bone, may be followed by the formation of granulation-tissue, uniting the osseous surfaces, and resulting in anchylosis. Ulceration affecting the cartilage to a considerable depth is sometimes repaired—as Redfern describes—by the formation of a fibro-nucleated membrane from the substance of the cartilage, without the occurrence of any new exudation. Occasionally, a patch of ivory- deposit or porcellanous-encrustation occupies the place of a portion of cartilage; or a scar alone marks the seat of a former ulcer. Treatment.—The local treatment is the same as for other inflam- matory diseases of the joints. Absolute rest, and position of the joint, must be observed, and for a considerable period. Counter-irritation, by blisters, issues, or caustic potash, may be applied more advantage- ously than in scrofalous caries. Abscess must be opened forthwith, and anchylosis induced, as the only favourable termination in this advanced state of the disease. Excision or amputation are ulterior resources, which will be considered with reference to Diseases of the Joints specially. (Chapter I. Vol. II.) The constitutional treatment resembles that for rheumatism affecting the joints. Mercury, in the form of calomel, the bichloride, or blue pill, combined with opium, should be administered, and pushed to slight salivation. Mercurial inunction must be resorted to, if the internal administration disagree. This may be followed by iodide of potassium and sarsaparilla. But a gradual subsidence of the joint-symptoms will declare whether the articulation itself is preserved, or anchylosis be inevitable. Anchylosis, or Stiff Joint.—Structural Conditions.—Two states of anchylosis are recognized : fibroiis or incomplete, and the osseous or complete. Both signify the junction or union of the articidar sui'faccs of the hones, thus presupposing the partial or complete removal of the articular cartilages j unless occasionally, in fibrous anchylosis, where811 ANCHYLOSIS. bands of false membrane may be thrown across the synovial capsule, forming adhesions, or the natural folds of the synovial membrane may have become adherent, with some stiffness of the joint. Either condition of anchylosis may be extra-capsular; the fibrous consisting of a thickened and indurated state, or perhaps cicatricial contraction, of the ligamentous capsule, with adhesions around the joint; and osseous anchylosis externally, being the formation of new bone around, and on the articular surfaces of, the joint. Besides these conditions, a species of anchylosis or stiff joint may depend on partial dislocation, from destructive disease of the joint, or an unreduced partial displacement by injury. A contracted state of the muscles, or of a cicatrix, acting on a joint, may also produce stiffness of the articulation,—not, properly speaking, an anchylosis. (1.) Fibrous anchylosis is liable to happen to any joint; and the shortened and contracted state of the muscles acting on the joint gives an apparent firmness to the anchylosis, beyond that due to the joint-condition; a portion of the articu- Fig. 426.* lation generally remaining sound. (2.) Osseous anchylosis occurs most commonly in the hip, knee, or elbow (Fig. 426) ; the articular surfaces seeming to be fused together, as seen more clearly on a vertical section of the bones. Both states of anchylosis are attended with a proportionate loss of mobility in the joint; the fibrous allows of some degree of motion, more so, perhaps, under chloroform; the osseous presents a perfectly rigid and immovable joint. But firm ad- hesions, short and extensive, may simulate osseous anchylosis ; and the probability of the latter having taken place will then depend on the long duration of an immovable condition. Both anchyloses are accompanied with more or less deformity of the limh, arising from mal-position of the bones obediently to muscular contraction; unless the anchylosis has resulted under proper and effectual surgical supervision. The Causes of anchylosis have reference to inflammatory diseases of the joints ; synovitis, or caries ; and, perhaps, primary ulceration of the articular cartilages, as already described. De- struction of the cartilages, in either case, may Fig. 427.t be succeeded by reparation, in the form of anchylosis. The fibrous state represents the incomplete result of reparation; the osseous state, its completion, by the transformation of the fibrous matrix into bone. The co-exist- ence of necrosis with anchylosis is rare. But in the following case, a sequestrum of cancel- lous tissue in the head of the femur, with destruction of a central portion of the articular cartilage, is associated with yi6?-oits anchylosis of the hip-joint. (Fig. 427, vertical section.) Just in front of the anterior inter-trochan- teric line, an opening through the cancellous tissue gave vent to purulent discharge by a fistulous abscess, which * King's Coll. JIus., 1125. t St. Thomas's Hcsp. Mus., D. 49.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 812 ran behind the tendon of the rectus muscle to the outer side of the thigh. (See also "Path. Trans.," 1851-52, p. 427.) Treatment.—Preventive measures consist in the prompt and efficient treatment of the diseases leading to anchylosis; while the precaution should also be taken of securing the limb in such position as shall be most useful in the event of this result. Bemedial treatment consists in restoring, if possible, the mobility of the joint, and correcting any deformity of the limb. Or the latter may be the main object in view. Fibrous anchylosis—admitting of some motion in the joint—com- monly yields to passive motion, from time to time; thereby gradually regaining the use of the joint. Firmer union will probably have to be overcome by extension; either gradually applied by means of some mechanical apparatus, or by forcible manipulation, in the way of flexion and extension, under the influence of chloroform. The former method may have to be continued for a period of from one to three months, according to the resistance of the anchylosis, and the size of the joint, as in the case of the knee. In the latter method of extension, the joint yields with a creaking cleavage and successive snaps, which are both heard and felt. The rectification of deformity, thus gained, must be secured by the application of a properly adjusted retentive instrument or splint; passive motion also being practised occasionally. Extension- treatment will generally prove sufficient, but any resisting tendons may be divided subcutaneously, tenotomy completing the cure. In such case, the extending splint should be so adapted that, according to the rule respecting the after-treatment of tenotomy, the Limb shall remain at the same angle in which it was prior to division of the tendons, until the punctures have healed,—about the fourth day; when extension may be commenced. The knee, hip, or elbow joints, for example, can thus be restored to a fair degree of mobility, and the limb brought to a good position. A too sudden or instantaneous, as well as forcible, flexion and extension of a fibrous anchylosis, is liable to be attended with servere injury, either by fracture of the articular ends of bone, dislocation, or rupture of the adjoining blood- vessels and nerves ; or it may be followed by inflammation, suppuration, gangrene, or pyeemia. When these mechanical or manipulative and perhaps operative procedures have failed, if then the fibrous anchylosis be incompatible with a good use of the limb, as in the case of such anchylosis of the knee-joint, excision of the joint may be advantageously resoj'ted to; and the more so, in proportion to mal-position of the limb. Osseous anchylosis cannot be overcome by any justifiable force of extension. But the propriety of operative interference will depend on the comparative inutility of the limb; whether owing to the kind of anchylosis, as in regard to the elbow-joint, or mal-position of the limb, as may be the case in the knee-joint. Subcutaneous section or drilling of the anchjlosis, as an operation appropriate for osseous anchylosis of the knee, was originally proposed by Brainard, and performed successfully by Pancoast, Langenbeck, and Gross, and in this country by Mr. Stromeyer L. Little. This procedure consists simply in making a small puncture or incision opposite the junction of the articular cartilages, and the introduction of a narrow sharp- cutting gouge, or a gouge-drill, which is driven between the ends of bone in different directions, so as to weaken their connection.813 LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. and allow the limb to be straightened by gentle manual extension, aided perhaps by tenotomy of the hamstring muscles. Subcutaneous section of the bone in the vicinity of an anchylosed joint, offers another resource,.at least with regard to the hip-joint; as in Mr. W. Adams's operation—by division of the neck of the femur, subcutaneously; Dr. Rhea-Barton's and Dr. Sayre's operations—by section through the trochanters; or the operation which I proposed—section of the femur just below the trochanters. This procedure I have practised in two cases, and with successful results. Excision becomes justifiable after subcutaneous division has failed, or when that operation would be in- appropriate to correct mal-position of the limb. Thus, the removal of a wedge-shaped portion of bone, including a.n anchylosed joint, may be necessary to rectify an angular deformity of the limb, in the case of the knee-joint; a mode of excision introduced by Birch, of New York, and which I have practised with considerable success. Dr. Rhea- Barton had previously-proposed another mode of excision, under these circumstances—the removal of a wedge of bone from just above the condyles of the femur, and not quite including their entire diameter; the remaining portion of bone is then fractured by bending the limb backwards, so that the limb could be straightened. But the former angular position was retained at first by means of a corresponding splint, and the limb gradually extended before the period for bony union. Amputation will be warrantable only in the extreme case of a useless limb, and which cannot be made tolerably serviceable by excision. Loose Cartilages in Joints.—Small movable bodies occasionally form within a joint, and which may be quite free, or attached by narrow peduncles to the walls of the articular cavity. One such body sometimes exists, but not uncommonly two or three, and possibly many. In the left knee of a woman who died of apoplexy, Morgagni found twenty-five smooth and polished globular bodies. Varying in size from a barley-corn to a chestnut, they are roundish or flattened, elongated or tuberous. In consistence, colour, and structure, these bodies may be soft and of a yellowish colour, like little melon-seed masses of fibrine; or hard, whitish, and glistening, con- sisting of cartilage or fibro-cartilage; or con- verted into bone. Neither the term "cartilage" nor "loose" is, therefore, universally applicable. Any joint possibly may be the seat of these bodies ; but they occur usually in the knee, and less frequently in the elbow, shoulder, or lower jaw. They seem to arise from the vascular pro- cesses of the synovial membrane, as out-gi-owths of that membrane, projecting into the joint. (Fig. 428.) They remain connected, or be- come detached, and are liable to undergo the changes of appearances and structure above * St. George's Hospital Mus., Ill, 9. Synovial membrane of the knee-joint, exhibiting numerous excrescences, filiform or pedunculated, growing from the in- ternal surface of the membrane. These bodies are of a yelJowisli white colour and would a|)pcar to contain much fatty tissue. History of the case unknown' (B. C. Brodie, from "Heaviside's Museum.") Fig. 428.*SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 814 described. These cartilaginous bodies form most frequently as the result of chronic rheumatic synovitis; and more often in adults than at an earlier period of life. Billroth's observations point to the liga- mentous capsule as the most frequent source of these ossifying cartilages, which may enter the joint, and become free. Rarely, they form in the synovial tufts. Other modes of origin seem probable in some cases. Thus, the fibrinous concretions may, perhaps, represent exudations, or precipitations from the synovia. Portions of bone becorning detached from the articular surfaces, or resulting from ossific deposit, give rise to similar symptoms. .Symptoms.—It will be readily supposed that any such foreign body getting nipped in between the articular surfaces, must occasion some remarkable symptoms. Hence, an attached cartilaginous body may remain quiescent; a detached, or entirely loose cartilage, moving about in the synovial capsule, is more apt to slip in between the bones. Up to this time the patient may have experienced occasional twinges, as if of rheumatic character; but now a sudden, intense, and sickening pain seizes him; and the joint becoming instantly locked, the hitching or fixed inability to move the limb may throw him to the ground in the act of progression. Sudden dislodgment of the intervening cartilage is equally apt to occur, whereby the joint is immediately restored to its original state of painless mobility; leaving only perhaps a little temporary effusion. These symptoms having recurred at intervals, on the slightest movement, and sometimes during sleep, the sufferer seeks relief. On careful examination, a foreign body can usually be found, and by palpation brought perhaps to a stand-still at the edge of the patella—in the knee-joint, and there made to bulge under the skin; or the patient can, perhaps, himself make the movable body perceptible, by a jerking movement of the joint; but the little smooth cartilage easily slips away from under the finger, and again disappears. Ultimately, the joint itself sometimes become diseased; prolonged irritation inducing synovitis, with relaxation of the ligaments, which are loosened also by having been stretched by the repeated interposition of the cartilage between the articular surfaces. Treatment.—Recurrence of the attacks of pain may be prevented by limiting the motions of the joint; thus fixing the loose cartilage tempo- rarily, or perchance permanently. Hence, an elastic bandage or knee- cap should be constantly woi^n. Often the relief afforded is such that no further interference becomes requisite. Removal of the foreign body is the only other resource; but this should never be lightly entertained, considering the risk to the joint and even to life, contingent on the operation of extraction. It is justifiable only when the cartilaginous body is loose, and freely movable, of some size, and apparently single. Taking a favourable opportunity—after tlie pain and irritation of an attack have subsided—this operation may be performed, in either of three ways. It is more difficult than would appear to one who has not done it. The cartilage must first be care- fully fixed, in a steady spot, with the forefinger and thumb. In the knee, it may be made to project on one side of the patella. The skin is then to be drawn to one side, and an incision made directh/ down upon the cartilage, which is thence allowed to escape. On relaxing the skin, the valvular aperture is at once closed with a strip of plaster, and the limb should be kept at rest until any symptoms of synovitis have sub-815 TUMOURS CONNECTED WITH JOINTS. sided. In this way I removed a loose cartilage, tlie size of a shilling, hut twice as thick, from the left knee-joint of a young man. Slight synovitis only followed the operation ; this was subdued by rest, and an ice-bag, with a perfectly successful result,—the joint remaining strong and freely movable. Another mode of operation consists in introducing a tenotomy knife slantingly underneath the skin, and dividing the synovial capsule upon the fixed cartilaginous body; then, squeezing it through the synovial aperture into the external cellular texture, where it is allowed to remain, the integumental aperture is closed with a sti-ip of plaster. If the cartilage should not become absoi'bed, it is extracted from its bed by a stibmtaneoihs incision, when the synovial aperture has healed, after the lapse of some days. Both these methods of operation are hazardous ; but the subcu- taneous one is less so than the immediate mode of extraction, as would appear from a large number of cases the results of which were compared by M. Larrey. In 167 cases of removal of loose cartilages by operation, 121 were cases of the direct operation, and 98 were successful, 5 doubtful, and 28 died; whilst of 39 subcutaneous operations, 19 were successful, 15 failed, and 5 died. A modification of the subcutaneous operation has been practised by Mr. Square, of Plymouth; and by which Mr. Erichsen states that he has successfully removed in succession five loose cartilages from one knee. The capsule having been divided subcutaneously over the fixed cartilage, it is pressedmio—not through—the synovial aperture, and retained there by a compress and strips of plaster. Adhesion speedily ensues, followed by absorption of the cartilage. Mr. Syme recommends yet another method, by which, he says, he generally succeeds without risk. It consists in "making a free sub- cutaneous incision through the synovial membrane and cartilage, and applying a blister over the part where it is retained." Tumours connected with Joints.—Cancer of the Articular ends of Bone is suflB.ciently described in connection with Cancer of Bone gene- rally. " In cartilage" observes Virchow in his " Cellular Pathology," "malignant affections are so rare, that it is usually assumed to be altogether insusceptible of them." The synovial memhranes are equally indisposed to cancerous disease. Sir B. Brodie states that he had "no reason to believe that any truly malignant disease ever has its origin in the synovial membrane." For other Morbid Growths in the articular ends of Bone, see TuMouEs OF Bone. Neuralgia of Joints is specially important in relation to the diag- nosis from structural disease. See Affections of the Nerves.SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. * St. Bal•tho]o^le^y's IIosp. Mus., B. 7. t IbW-, B. 8. X Ibid. B. 10. 81G CHAPTER XXXVn. DISEASES OF PARTICULAR JOINTS. Diseases op the Hip-Joint.—The hip-joint is liable to the same inflammatory diseases as other joints, affecting its component structures: synovitis, scrofulous caries, and ulceration of the articular cartilages. The second-named disease presents characters worthy of a separate description. Scrofulous Disease of the Hip, or Morbus Coxarius.—Structural Conditions.—This disease commences in the cancellous tissue of the head of ihe femur, or of the acetabulum; possibly, in both bones simultane- ously. It may also commence in the synovial membrane, as scrofulous synovitis; or, it is said, in the round ligament. Hence the name scrofulous disease of the hip, as a general term including these different seats of origin. In scrofulous caries of the hip, the cancellous tissue undergoes the Fig. 429. Fig. 430.t structural alterations described in connection with this disease of Bone; briefly, increased vascularity, softening, deposition of a reddish fluid in the enlarged cancelli, followed by a yellowish opaque tubercular matter. Fig. 43LJ Subsequent structural alterations are as follow :—The articular cartilages become involved and disappear, more or less completely ; and abscess forms within the cavity of the joint. The affected portions of bone become re- markably changed in shape and size. The liead of the femur—bared, per- haps, of cartilage, and the open cancel- lous tissue exposed—is flattened and, expanded, mushroom-like in form onj the neck of the bone (Fig. 429) ; and the nech itself, sharing in the disease, may be so reduced as to leave nothingi more than a slight nodular vestige, ifJ any remnant, of the diseased bone pro-1 jecting from the great trochanter. (Fig. 430.) This portion of the|SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF THE HIP, OR MORBUS COXARIUS. 817 Fig. 432.* bone, and the adjoining portion of the shaft, are not unfi-equently carious; either by an extension of the joint-disease, or as the original seat of caries. The acetahular cavity, also denuded of cartilage, is enlarged in circumference, but shalbw ; the cotyloid ligament and bony rim of this cavity having been destroyed. The round ligament may have disappeared, and the capsular ligament at length giving way, the abscess bursts into the surrounding cellular texture. Thus, the joint is utterly destroyed. Terminations.—(1.) J.«c/M/Zm's rarely takes place, as a mode of repa- ration. (2.) The remnant of the articular end of the femur is drawn up by the action of the muscles into the patulous acetabulum. Thenc^ the femur has even been forced through the thin various bottom of this cavity, and entered the pelvis. (Fig. 432.) (3.) But the ill- fitting, loose articulation, from advanced disease, is mostly liable to dislocation. The femur, drawn upwards and outwards by the glutei muscles, passes over the reduced brim of the acetabular cavity, and slipping on to the dorsum ilii, lodges there. More rarely, the femur is thrust out of the acetabulum forwards, and rests on the ramus of the pubes. Abscess finds its way to the surface by burrowing sinuous tracks, and opens in various situations. The openings relate some- what to the seat of the disease. When it originates in the head of the femur, the sinas extends some way down the thigh, and opens probably near the insertion of the tens(jr vagin£e femoris muscle. Acetabular disease presents a sinus-oponing in the gluteal region, near the anterior inferior spine of the ilium. Matter may also pass down by the rectum, bursting into it, or close to the anus. If the pelvic bones be involved, a sinus-opening is presented in the pubic region, above or below Poupart's ligament; above the ligament, it leads probably to intra-pelvic abscess ; below the ligament, to disease of the rami of the pubis or ischium. Signs.—(1.) Scrofulous disease of the hip-joint approaches and pro- gresses very insidiously. Commencing generally in early life, under the age of puberty, scarcely any pain—but what the mother will call " growing pain "—is complained of in the first instance, or for weeks, possibly months, as the disease slowly progresses. The first perceptible sign is a slight limp in walking; the child shuffling, hobbling, or dragging his leg, step by step. When standing still, the whole weight of the body is thrown on the other limb, to relieve the halting member. This attitude is peculiar; the hip of the sound limb being elevated, gives an obliquity to the pelvis .downwards on the diseased side; the thigh is slightly bent on the pelvis, and the leg on the thigh, the toes touching the ground. The limb may be somewhat abducted and everted, the toes being turned outwards ; in this particular resembling dislocation on the pubes, or fracture of the neck of the femur. But in the first stage of diseased hip-joint, the limb is oppareiitly elongated. * St. EaiUinloniew'fi TIosp. Mus., B. 14. 3 OSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 818 FiQ. 433 * Fig. 434.t (Fig. 433.) This, however, is a deceptive appearance, arising from the obliquity of the pelvis downwards towards the diseased hip; measurement with a tape from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to another fixed point below the joint, the inner malleolus, will at once show that there is no elongation in reality. The limb becomes ^vasted from disuse, the gluteal muscles especially, so that the buttock is flattened and flaccid, wider than natural, and the lower fold of the nates less marked. Pain is now felt in the hip, or referred more to the inner side of the knee ; and the pain in the former situation is aggravated by any attempt to bear on the joint, by abduction or rotation of the limb, and especially by concussion of the bones, as by striking the trochanter or jerking the limb upwards from the sole of the foot. Pain on the inner aspect of the knee is a sympathetic sensation; de- pending, probably, on the nervous relation between the hip and knee, through the obturator and perhaps the anterior crural nerves. Both these nerves supply arti- cular branches to the hip, and to the inner side of the knee. (2.) Iteal sliortening of the limb—succeeding its apparent lengthening — marks the second stage, as it has been termed, of this disease. It coincides with advancement of the disease to destruction of the carti- lages and of the head of the femur, acetabulum, or both bones; whereupon the limb is drawn up by muscular action. Shorten- ing varies, therefore, in different cases, but it in- creases as the disease pro- gresses. The attitude of the limb is somewhat changed; still remaining flexed, it has now also become in- verted, with some projec- tion of the buttock backwards and upwards ; in these appearances resembling dislocation backwards on the dorsum ilii or into the ischiatic notch. Lateral inclination of the pelvis has at length produced a compensatory lateral cwvature of the spine, in tlie lumbar region ; with more or less incurvation or lordosis, owing to the uprising of the buttock. Wasting of the limb increases. This shortened, flexed, inverted, and wasted limb, with obliquity of the pelvis and twisted lordosis of the spine, presents a very characteristic appear- ance. (Fig. 434.) Pain also has become more severe, and aggravated by the attrition of the exposed surfaces of bone, subject to spasmodic muscular action, has acquired the character of starting pains. Abscess within the joint bursts into the surrounding cellular texture, * Royal Free Hospital. From a boy, aged 16. Disease of about six montlis' duration. (Author.) f Another case. (Author.^SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF THE HIP, OR MORBUS C0XARIU3. 819 Fig. 435.* and forms a swelling in connection with the hip, which up to this time has undergone no further alteration than a slight fulness in the groin, and enlargement of the inguinal glands. Abscess-swelling is rendered more conspicuous by the wasting of the thigh and buttock. When, at leno-th, the abscess opens externally, the situation of the sinus apertures den°otes, as already indicated, the probable seat of the disease ; whether in the head of the femur or acetabulum. Dislo- cation is very apt to supervene, commonly on the dorsum ilii; yet, although attended with increased shortening, the attitude of the limb, flexed and inverted, remains the same. But the head of the femur or its remnant, with the great trochanter, can be felt in its new situation, on the back of the ilium; and often very distinctly, the gluteal muscles having wasted so much that the bone seems to lie immediately under the skin. (Fig. 435.) The additional symptoms—wasting of the limb, and sinuses discharging an unhealthy pus and leading down to diseased bone—complete the local diagnostic differences of appearance from traumatic dislocation. The general health also has now become worn down by irritation and hectic ; and this constitutional condition, coupled with that of the diseased limb, form a picture which leaves little or no doubt as to the nature of the case, not to mention the previous history of its insidious origin. In order the more clearly to contrast the signs of hip-joint disease, in its first and second stages, I have here appended the following tabular view from Bauer (the second and third stages according to his description and that of Sayre ; the first stage corresponding to limping lameness) :— First Stage. Limb apparently longer. „ abducted. „ everted. „ flexed in both joints. Foot touches the ground with sole. Toes everted, as in fracture of neck. Pelvis lowered on diseased side. „ projected forward. „ angle of inclination acute. Natis low and flat. Linea inter nates inclined towards afi'ected side. Pain most intense. Diagnosis.—Scrofulous disease of the hip-joint is liable to be mis- taken for other diseases, if any one particular symptom be alone con- sidered. It may resemble traumatic dislocation on the dorsum ilii, congenital dislocation of the hip-joint, infantile paralysis with wa.sting and defective growth of the limb, sprain of the hip-joint, interstitial absorption of the neck of the femur, rheumatism, disease of the knee, * Koyal Free Plospital. (Author.) Second Stage. Limb shorter. „ adducted. ,, inverted. „ flexed in hip-joint only, possibly at knee-joint also. Foot touches with ball only. Toes inverted as in dislocation on dor- sum ilii. Pelvis raised. „ projected backwards. „ angle of inclination almost right. Natis high and round. Linea inter nates deviated from affected side. Pain greatly diminished.820 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. lateral curvature of the spine, psoas abscess, abscess near the joint, inflammation of the bursa under the psoas-iliac muscle, or of the bursa over the great trochanter, trochanteric periostitis or ostitis. But the concurrence of symptoms, and as compared with those of each'of these diseases, -will terminate the diagnosis. Thus, the distinction of hip- joint disease from dislocation of the femur on the dorsum ilii, has already been adverted to in this b'ght. If the shortening, flexed and inverted attitude of the limb, as two signs of hip-joint disease, be taken alone, it might so far resemble dorsal dislocation, apart from the concurring signs of a wasted appearance of the limb, coupled with obliquity of the pelvis, and twisted lordosis of the lumbar spine, all of which signs are absent in dislocation on the dorsum ilii. When dislocation bas taken place from disease, the additional signs of abscess, generally in the buttock, followed by sinus-openings in the situations already noticed, are diagnostic. The history of the case, as having the progressive character of disease, or as one of sudden violent injury, must always be further taken into account. In young subjects, bowever—in whom disease of the hip-joint is more commonly met vnth—congenital dislocation of this joint is more likely to be the question of diagnosis. The joint is imperfectly de- veloped ; and the loose gait of the child attracts attention, the move- ments are painless, and the dislocation is readily reduced, but it as easily returns,—tbe small, stunted femoral head slipping in and out of the shallow, misshapen acetabulum, being unsecured by a round Hga- ment, and not restrained by the large and incomplete capsule. Infantile paralysis, with wasting and defective growth of the limb, will also be recognized as a peculiar affection, in relation to the differentiation of bip-joint disease. Sprain of the hip-joint simulates disease of the joint so far as to be attended with a painful, limping lameness ; the bip is raised and the limb flexed, perhaps everted ; and in the course of time, there may be more or less wasting of the buttock and thigh ; all these symptoms arising from tbe pain provoked by any attempt to use the limb, in standing or walking. But, while the pain is more acute than that which the patient complains of in the early stage of hip-joint disease, the bip is raised, as if the limb were shortened o^ the affected side ; and in a later stage of sprain, the limb still retains its natural length,—there is no real shortening. Here, also, the ante- cedent history of an injury will enter into the. Surgeon's consideration of the case, but as a less important factor; for a sprain might give rise to disease of the hip-joint. Interstitial absorption of the neck of the femur might readily be mistaken for disease of the hip-joint. Arising from a fall on the trochanter, absorption of the neck of the bone proceeds slowly, and is attended with shortening of the limb. But the inverted position, seen in disease of the joint, is wanting to complete the resem- blance. Pathologically considered, the state of the part is very different, interstitial absorption of the neck bemg * From Listen. Fig. 436.*SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF THE HIP, OR MORBUS COXARIUS. 821 unattended with any destruction of the articular cartilage, which still caps the head of the bone. Otherwise, a section (Fig. 436) has the flattened, stunted appearance resulting from progressive destruction of the head and neck. liheiimatism of the hip-joint may be an acute or chronic affection. An acu,te attack of rheumatism will rarely settle in the hip-joint, as rheumatic synovitis, leaving other joints unaffected. The co-existence, therefore, of similar symptoms in other parts, will at once distinguish such an attack from scrofulous disease of the hip-joint. But the intense character of the pain, and tender, tense swelling in the groin, behind the great trochanter, or in both situations, are unlike the more passive state of the joint, in an early stage of caries. Chronic rheumatic arthritis or synovitis, when limited to the hip-joint, certainly bears a general resemblance to scrofulous disease of the joint, in a more advanced stage. But here, again, the character of the pain is even more distinctive; an aching, boring, gnawing pain, increased by motion, yet wearing off somewhat by exercise during the day, worse at night, and aggravated by exposure to variable climatic changes of cold and moisture. The irregular enlargement or deformity of the joint, from nodular ossific deposit, may not be so palpable as in rheumatic arthritis of other joints, as the knee ; but the peculiar rigidity or stiffness, and crackling or grating sound on moving the joint, can scarcely be overlooked in the examination. The patient's age will also be considered; although acute rheumatism may occur in child- hood, chronic rheumatic arthritis is usually a disease of mid-life. Disease of the hip-joint might be mistaken for disease of, or originating in, other parts, if the Surgeon's attention were directed exclusively to any one symptom. Thus, the pain in the inner side of the hiee might be referred to disease of that joint; unless the association of the other symptoms or signs of hip-joint disease be observed, and the absence of the characteristic swelling of synovitis, or of scrofulous caries, as affecting the knee-joint. But the possible co-existence of disease in both the hip and knee joints should not be forgotten as an occa- sional association. Lateral curvature of the spine is attended with obliquity of the pelvis, corresponding to the lumbar curve; the pelvis being raised on the side of concavity, and lowered from the opposite convexity. Yet there are no other signs of hip-joint disease. Psoas abscess presents a swelling, often of considerable size, in the groin,—an exaggerated appearance of the fulness seen in disease of the hip-joint. But this swelling can be reduced or returned into the abdomen by compression, aided by the recumbent position; and it has a marked impulse when the patient coughs or makes any straining effort; in both these respects differing from any inguinal fulness in connection with the hip-joint. Abscess near the hip-joint, but uncon- nected, ^ may be extra-pelvic or intra-pelvic ; and in either case, the diagnosis must be determined by a thorough examination around the joint, and by rectal exploration, coupled with palpation through the abdominal wall. Enlargement of the lursa under the psoas-iliac muscle forms a swelling in that situation, distinct from the capsule, when the two do not communicate; and the movements of the hip- joint are free and painless, except when the muscle is stretched by extension and rotation outwards of the thigh. More often, I think.822 SPECIAL TATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. tliere may be an enlargement of the bursa over the great trochanter; tlio painful swelling, in this case, being more plainly defined, and limited to the trochanter. Periostitis or ostitis of the great trochanter resem- bles disease of the hip-joint; excepting in the more superficial seat of pain, and which is not aggravated by any movement of the joint itself, or by V?eight-bearing pressure, or by concussion upwards from the solo of the foot, nor is there any sympathetic pain on the inner side of the knee. No shortening of the limb results, as in a more advanced stage of hip-joint disease. Trochanteric disease co-existing with that of the joint no longer offers any ground for diagnosis; and, practically, no distinction is necessary. Treatment.—The directions given with reference to scrofulous disease of the joints generally are here applicable, rendering any repe- tition of detail unnecessary. Absolute rest of the joint must be secured, and a position favourable to the future use of the limb, in the event of anchylosis. A splint moulded to the hip and extending below tlie knee, with the limb straightened, may answer this twofold purjjose. In the second stage of disease, the long, straight, extending splint may be applied with more advantage; thus to counteract muscular spasm and pain coincident with ulceration of the cartilages in contact, and tlie liability to dislocation as the disease advances. But simple weight- extension from the foot is the mode of treatment I now generally prefer; and the successful results thus obtained are undeniable. A very useful splint has been devised by Mr. Thomas, of Liverpool. It consists of a metallic bar-support, extending underneath the limb, from about the middle of the calf to the middle of the back, the leg and thigh portion being straight, while the upper portion is bent to the form of the buttock and loins. (Fig. 437.) This is fastened by straps across the thorax, and further secured by a shoulder strap. When the limb is first placed in this ssplint, it may be allowed to remain bent, as Fig. 437. from disease of the hip-joint; but gradually it yields to moderately tight bandaging from below upwards, and subsides into a straight position. This splint possesses at least two advantages: it prevents any movement of the thigh upon the pelvis, and thus fixes the joint; and the whole trunk and limb form one piece, so that the patient can even be raised from the bed, without any disturbance of the joint. Both these conditions are very desirable, especially in young patients, and who are more frequently the subjects of hip-joint disease. _ In the case I have rcjiresented, a girl, who was thus treated by me m the Royal Free Hospital, experienced great relief from pain, after the ordinary long, straight, external thigh-splint had been used for some time. Sub- sequently, however, the disease advanced to the formation of abscess.SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF THE HIP, OR MORBUS COXARIUS. 823 Fig. 439. Fig. 440. and I bad recourse to excision of the joint. The same splint was reapplied in the after-treatment; but discharge from the wound having a tendency to soak in Fig. 438. between the buttock portion of the splint, I was compelled—for the sake of cleanliness — to return to the external, interrupted thigh-splint. In the treatment, by means of Mr. Thomas's splint, weight-extension from the foot can be as readily applied. Extending appara- tus of various kinds are more or less in use for the treatment of hip - joint disease. I have not yet had any experience of the ad- vantages they are said to offer. The accompanying form of such apparatus is a combination of the leathern hip-splint advo- cated by Sir B. Brodie, with Dr. Davis's metallic lever (Fig. 438) ; but the simple manner in which it is made to control any rotative or ab- ducting movement of the hmb is peculiar. Dr. Sayre, of New York, has called our attention to two splints, a short and a long one, which he com- monly employs. These splints are here represented. (Figs. 439, 440.) They are designed to allow the patient to move about, and thus to have the benefit of exercise in the open air, for the maintenance or restoration of the general health. Such splints, therefore, are ehgible only in an early and slight stage of hip-joint disease, or during conva- lescence from the more advanced stage. The construction of these rather complicated forms of apparatus will be more readily understood by personal examination than from any description, and full particularsSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 824 as to their elaborate methods of application will bo found in Dr " l^ectures on Orthopedic Surgery and Diseases of the Joints p. 2b2. ' Contraction of the hip—as Sayre'fi " 187G, the result of joint-disease—may be counteracted by the annexed ap- paratus (Fig. 441), which success- fully combats each abnormal mal- position of the limb. The pelvic band bears two lateral uprights, upon which the armpits rest, and from which strong laced bands pass around the thorax. This instru- ment is especially adapted for cases of severe hip-contraction. Abscess should be opened to pre- vent burrowing of the matter among the muscles. The situation of point- ing is selected, usually about an inch above and behind the great trochanter. For the convenience of dressing, a long " interrupted" splint may be used. The general treatment, medicinal and hygienic, consists in a course of iron, quinine, cod-liver oil, and nutritious diet, with as much pure air as possible. I have very beneficially placed my hospital patients in bed in the quad- rangle of the hospital, for some hours daily, weather permitting. This plan of treatment must be —^ pursued for a considerable period—■ =^ some weeks or months—to solicit anchylosis; or the subsidence of the diaease, possibly, after dislocation, and a free discharge of matter with the detritus of the carious bone. Failing thus to bring the disease to a termination, and the general liealth beginning to decline, operative interference becomes imperative. This will he considered under Excision of the Hip. Chronic Rheumatic Synovitis or Arthritis.—Morbus Cox.« Senilis.—Structural Gonditimi.—This disease contrasts with scrofulous disease of the hip-joint, principally in the formation of osseous de- positions or outgrowths around the joint, and in the absence of sup- puration. Signs, and Diagnosis.—Commencing with stiffness and aching pains in the joint, both of which are somewhat relieved by exercise, at length a grating attrition, which can be both felt and heard wheu the joint is moved, affords characteristic evidence of the disease; coupled with its dry character,—the absence of suppuration in the jf)int, and its consequences,—the swelling of abscess and the dis- charging sinuses which would ensue in scrofulous disease. Shortening of the limb to some extent occurs, as destruction of the articular cartilages takes place, with expansion of the head of the bone, and IDISEASE OF THE SACRO-ILIAC JOINT. 825 lowei'ing of its neck to even below the level of the great trochanter. The limb is drawn up, the thigh and buttock are wasted; the patient stands on the other limb, and walks with a limping lameness. The disease progresses slowly, for years; clearly distinguishing it from the sudden result of fracture. Other articulations being or becoming affected, would leave no doubt as to the nature of the hip- condition. Thus, the finger-joints are often attacked, being greatly deformed with nodulated chalk-stones; while the ball of the gi-eat toe is frequently much enlarged, and the joint partially dislocated inwards. The general health is often little disturbed, the disease appearing as a local affection. Males are attacked far more often than females, and thin persons mostly. Chronic rheumatic arthritis, affecting the hip- joint, seldom occurs under the age of forty; differing in this respect from scrofulous disease of the joint, as well as in its pathology and symptoms. Treatment.—See Chronic Rheumatic Synovitis. Neuralgia of the Hip.—The diagnostic Symptoms of Neuralgia are pointed out in connection with affections of the Nerves. Neuralgia of some duration is attended with the alterations of atti- tude consequent on disease of the joint—whether scrofulous or rheu- matic. The weight of the body being habitually thrown on the sound limb to relieve the affected joint of the other side, the limb on this side becomes apparently lengthened and flexed, the toes touching the ground; the pelvis is inclined obliquely to the same side, and some compensatory lateral curvature of the lumbar spine results. But, with neuralgia, no real shortening of the limb ever ensues. Disease of the Sacro-iliac Joint.—Structural Oondiiion.—The cartilaginous lamella of the sacro-iliac articulation seems to be the seat of a disease, occasionally affecting this joint. Ulceration of the cartilage, as the Fig. 442.* primary change, involves the synovial mem- brane ; both of which structures are thus destroyed more or less completely. But the ligaments remain unaffected, or are only partially destroyed; and the adjoining osseous surfaces seldom become carious or necrosed. This disease is of very rare occurrence. It may be associated with extensive disease of the hip-joint. (Fig. 442.) In the sacro-iliac joint here shown, are two large cavities containing pieces of necrosed bone, not quite detached; and above there is a small cavity on the inner surface of the ilium, which contained scro- fulous matter. This disease occurred in a man aged twenty-three; and the symptoms of hip-joint disease were well marked. Numerous abscesses formed in various situations, and discharging very profusely, the patient died from hectic exhaustion. Signs, and Diagnosis.—Pain is one of the earliest symptoms. It is confined to the region of the joint, and increased by any movement or position whereby the weight of the body is thrown upon the sacro-iliac joint. Thus, walking, stooping, or even standing, is attended with a * St. George's Hosp. Mus., Ill, 03.826 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. sense of painful weakness in that situation, and as if the body were falling asunder. When the pelvis is at rest, or fixed in the recumbent positioii by the hand of the Surgeon, for examination, the Up may be moved in any direction without pain. It acquires a gnawing or rheu- matic character as the disease advances. Sometimes the pain extends down the limb; or in that of the opposite side, as proceeding from the pressure of an intra-pelvic abscess lying on the sacral plexus. Inability to support the weight of the body occasions an insecure, tvriggling gait, from side to side. There may be the additional symp- toms of some difficulty in micturition and defecation. Swelling makes its appearance over the joint; it is pulpy and elastic, and of an elon- gated shape in the line of the articulation. The limb is ai^parently elongated, owing to a drooping of the pelvis on the diseased side, the limb being disused to support the trunk; and this side of the pelvis is tilted forwards. Consequently, the anterior superior spine of the ilium is both on a lower level and more prominent forwards, than on the sound side. Measurement, however, from that prominence to the inner malleolus shows that the limb is not elongated; that any apparent lengthening—say, balf an inch—is not due to any change in the three large joints, or in the bones of the limb; but that it must depend on some alteration ahove the anterior superior spine. Usually, the limb is straight, and becomes wasted as the disease pro- gresses. Abscess occurs at a late period. It forms over the diseased articu- lation, but spreads in various directions. The matter may point pos- teriorly near the articulation, passing upwards perhaps to tbe loin, upon and just above the crest of the ilium, there forming a fluctuating swelling of considerable size ; or extending outwards over the buttock, it reaches forwards nearly to the trochanter, as a great gluteal abscess. In both these situations, lumbar and gluteal, the abscess is extra-pelvic. Intra-pelvic abscess, the matter accumulating within the pelvis, may pass out of the sciatic notch, and thence under the gluteal muscles; or gravitate downwards into tbe ischio-rectal fossa, and present by the side of the rectum, or vagina ; or open into the rectum and discharge per anum. Shortening of the limb takes place, in consequence of, and proportionate to, the destruction of the sacro-iliac articulation. In one case, related by Sir B. Brodie, the ilium seemed displaced and drawn upwards, so as to shorten the affected limb by two inches. The diagnosis will have to be made between this disease, and that of the hip, disease of the pelvic bones, spinal disease, neuralgia of the hip, and sciatica. As compared with disease of the hip-joint, sacro-iliac disease differs more or less notably in nearly all the symptoms: the loose, wriggling gait, rather than dragging lameness of the limb; the early accession of pain, and its situation—in the sacro-iliac joint, with the absence of pain in the hip-joint and the sympathetic sensation on the inner side of the knee. The swelling which supervenes corresponds to the articulation which is affected. Observing these signs as relating to the seat of the disease, the Surgeon will not be misled by certain features of resemblance to disease of the hip-joint—in the apparent lengthening of the limb on the affected side, accompanied with down- ward obliquity of the pelvis on that side ; but it will be noticed that the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium is not only lower—itDISEASE OF THE SACRO-ILIAC JOINT. 827 projects forwards and is more prominent, cotiscquent on a tilting of the ilium forwards on the diseased side. I would not dwell on the attitude of the limb, which is usually straight, or very slightly bent at the groin and knee, perhaps also somewhat abducted and everted— altogether looking like a useless limb, the patient resting his whole weight on the other side. Ultimately, shortening takes place, and wasting, as destruction of the sacro-iliac articulation progresses. Pelvic caries, with abscess, is distinguished from sacro-iliac disease by the different situation of the presenting swelling—in the iliac fossa, or at the tuberosity of the ischium; and there is no pelvic obliquity and prominence of the anterior superior spinous process. No shortening of the limb ensues. Sfinal caries can hardly be mistaken; for, being seated commonly in the dorsal region, the angular excurvation of the spine is removed from the sacro-iliac articulation. Neuralgia affecting the hip is unattended with all those objective signs which relate to structural disease: and the severity of the pain, its paroxysmal character, and migration perhaps to some other part of the body is very unlike the tender or fixed painful swelling of sacro-iliac disease. The age and sex of the patient will probably aid the diagnosis ; a young, hysterical female complaining of intense pain about the hip, diffused, superficial, or even cutaneous, and aggravated by the slightest handling, is not an affection likely to mislead the experienced Surgeon, who is intent upon discovering any evidence of structural disease. Sciatica also, as a painful affection, will be traced in the course of the great sciatic nerve, from the great sciatic notch downwards, external to, and lower down than, the pain of sacro-iliac disease; and which is unaccompanied with any swelling or other objective evidence of structural disease. Occurring, generally, at a more advanced period of life, and associated with a rheumatic tendency, our sciatic patient is soon recognized as a far more familiar friend than the very rare case of sacro-iliac disease we may happen to meet with. Causes.—Acute inflammation of this articulation may result directly from injury; as in a case given by Louis, a sack of corn having fallen on the loins of a man who was stooping at the time. In Sir B. Brodie's case, the symptoms seemed referable to pregnancy, foui' years previously. From the histories of fifty-eight cases collected -by Dr. C. T. Poore,* of St. Mary's Free Hospital, New York, it appears that in eleven the disease was the result of relaxation of the articulation consequent on pregnancy, or pyemic abscess. To rheumatism or gonorrhoea, one case each may be assigned. The disease has a scrofulous origin— according to Mr. Erichsen's experience; but he has never seen it in young children, only in young adults, from fourteen to thirty years old. No difference of liability can be traced to sexual predisposition, beyond the tendency arising from pregnancy ; and in the above series of cases, there were thirty males to twenty-seven females. The ages ranged from four years, as the earliest period of life, to sixty-one, as the oldest. In one case only, both articulations were affected. 1 have seen but one case of this disease, of which the history, by my notes, was briefly as follows :—F. H. H., aged eight, a weakly child from birth. The mother states that her four other children all * "American Journal of Medical Sciences," January, 1878.828 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. died of watci' on the brain. Five years ago, this child fell down a long flight of stairs. Four months subsequently, she limped from side to side, in walking, like the motion of a milk-girl in carrying her pails. Shortly afterwards, she had intermittent fever, which lasted about two months. She met with a second fall down a flight of ten steps, and afterwards the limping gait became more marked. Then, the right gluteal region was observed, by her mother, to be larger than on the left side. For two years she continued to walk on crutches. During this period, some slight curvature of the spine had taken place, in the loins, and a spine-support was put on by a Surgeon at the Orthopaedic Hospital, in Oxford Street. A swelling presented near the vagina, on the right side, and that in the gluteal region remained. In April, 18GG, she was admitted to the Royal Free Hospital. The symptoms were those of the disease in an advanced stage ; abscess occupied the whole of the buttock, and pointed near the vagina, being therefore both extra- pelvic and intra-pelvic. Shortening of the limb, to a slight extent, had occurred, above the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The Course of this disease, as already indicated, is most unfavour- able ; and thence the prognosis is equally so. Continuing for months or years, the termination is nearly always fatal. In Sir B. Brodie's case, however, although shortening had taken place, recovery ensued. Treatment.—The same treatment, local and constitutional, as for disease of the hip-joint, represents the little that can be done in disease of the sacro-iliac articulation. Removal of the diseased articular surfaces, by excision, is, of course, out of the question. CHAPTER XXXVIII. DEFORMITIES. This large branch of Surgery forms the subject of several special Treatises. An abstract only—so far as the present discordant opinions respecting much of the pathology and treatment of Deformities will fillow—can be given here: sufficient for the requirements of the general Student, and for reference, in accordance with the design of this work. Deformities may be arranged in two general classes :—1, Acquired Deformities ; 2, Congenital Deformities or Malformations. Class 1 embraces those deformities pertaining, in origin or result, to :— / (1.) The Integuments—Burn-cicatrices. (2.) Bones—Fracture-union deformity. Rachitis, and MoUities Ossium. (3.) Joints—Dislocations unreduced. Diseases of joints with Anchylosis, and Malposition of the Limb. (4.) Musculo-Nervous System. Spinal Curvature—Lateral. Deformities of Face and Neck—Wry-neck—Squint. Deformities of Arm and Hand—Contractions. Deformities of Log and Foot—Relaxations and Contractions— Knock-knee—Bow-lcg—Club-foot.829 DEFOEMITIES OF FACE AND NECK. The first three of these sub-classes are considered in connection with other Injuries and Diseases ; Deformities as Malformations also are thus associated;—e.g., with Congenital Dislocations, and with the pathology of Organs and Regions—Hare-lip, extroversion of the Bladder, etc. It remains only to here notice the affections included in the last sub-class (4) ; associating therewith, any remaining Malformations of musculo-nervous origin or character, as that of congenital club-foot. Even in this sub-class, the following Deformity is more conveniently considered elsewhere. Lateral Curvature of th-e Spine.— See Spine. Deformities of Face and Neck.—Wnj-Neck or Torticollis.—This deformity is a twist of the head and neck to one side, in the directions of action of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; the head being drawn down- wards, sideways, and rotated somewhat outwards. The ear of the affected side may be drawn down towards the clavicle. In proportion to the duration of this deformity, the face is turned askew, the features losing their symmetry. The sterno-mastoid muscle is firm, and stands out more prominently, though shortened, as compared with that on the opposite side. Other muscles apparently become involved, the anterior margin of the trapezius acquiring an outline which defines the posterior boundary of that named triangular space of the side of the neck. The cervical vertebrae slowly undergo lateral curvature with rotation. Causes.—Congenital wry-neck is the most common form of this aifection. The side of the head, neck, and shoulder which present the deformity, appears to be considerably smaller than the parts on the opposite side, the shoalder and scapula unduly raised, and the features drawn down and unsymmetrial. The sterno-mastoid muscle is re- duced . to a narrow, shortened cord, hard and tense. Curvature of the cervical spine has taken place, laterally to the opposite side, and a compensating curve in the opposite direction lower down. Spasmodic contraction of the sterno-mastoid muscle of the affected side is a very rare cause of the deformity,—then known as spasmodic wry-neck. The special accessory nerve would seem to be the source of this muscular action, and hence its extension to the trapezius muscle. The spasm is remarkably jerking, painful, and constant, excepting during broken sleep, and it continues for many years ; the sufferer ultimately sinking exhausted. This kind of wry-neck usually commences about the age of thirty, and in females not apparently hysterical, but whose families have an hereditary tendency to other cerebro-spinal affections. Some- times, however, it is a symptom of hysteria. Paralysis of one sterno- mastoid is a rare cause of paralytic wry-neck. The head is drawn to the opposite side by the healthy muscle, not being counteracted by its antagonist. Disease of the cervical vertehrce, of scrofulous or rheumatic character, occasionally gives rise to the deformity. The exciting cause would appear to be, not unfrequently, exposure to cold, or some occa- sion of local irritation or inflammation of the cervical glands, resulting in stiffness of the neck. Burns of the neck, followed by contraction of the cicatrix, occasion remarkable distortions resembling wry-neck ; but not depending on any affection of the muscles, they are thus distin- guished from wry-neck thence arising. Treatment.—Tenotomy, or the subcutaneous division of tendons andSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGKRY. 830 Fig. 443. muscles, represents a principle of treatment, applicable to a large class of conditions, for the cure or correction of deformities depending ou muscular contractions. Thilenius, of Frankfort, divided the tendo- Achillis about 1789, followed by Sartorious in 1806, and Michaelis in 1809; bat Delpech (1816) originated subcutaneous tenotomy as a method of treatment, by laying down the rules * essential to the per- formance of this operation, and Stromeyer brought the operation into practice in 1831 ; followed by Little and other Surgeons, who have established its remedial efficacy in various branches of surgical practice —constituting Orthopaedic Surgery. Division of the sterno-mastoid mvscle, subcutaneously.—This pro- cedure affords more or less complete relief of tension, when wry-neck deformity depends on contraction of the sterno-mastoid muscle. In congenital wry-neck tenotomy is most successful ; in spasmodic wry- neck less so ; while in the paralytic form, and that arising from disease of the cervical vertebras, this operation will be unnecessary or useless. The muscle should be divided close above the clavicle, the situation of least risk to subjacent parts. By introducing a narrow- bladed tenotome just above the sternum, the sternal attachment of the muscle is divided; and then the clavicular attach- ment, by repuncturing the integument in that situation. This precaution is safer than division of the muscle by one incision; as the two portions are not on the same plane, and passage of the knife to a suflBcient depth for that purpose wonld be dangerous. Com- plete division is accompanied by a very sensible crack, and some alteration in the attitude of the head. Immediately after operation. Dr. Little found the difference in length between the affected and sound muscle reduced more than one-half. The advantage gained by this opera- tion must be followed up by mechanical means, to maintain and gradually com- plete the readjustment of the head in position; otherwise, the divided portions of muscle reunite, and the deformity returns. An apparatus represented by Mr. Bigg (Fig. 443) best answers this purpose, by counteracting any ten- dency of the head downwards, sideways, and outwards, and thereby restoring it to its vertical position, and the chin to the middle line. Dr. Little highly commends cautious manipulation daily, as well as the use of a retentive apparatus. This after-treatment must be continued for a period varying from one to three or six months, when permanent cures have been accomplished. If an hysterical nffcction, wry-neck should be submitted to the * "De I'Orthomorphie," tome ii. p. 330. 1S28.DEFOEMITIES OF ARM AND HAND. 831 general treatment for hysteria, as noticed in connection witli Deformi- ties of the Arm and Hand. Paralytic wry-neck may perhaps be rectified by electricity, and other measures for the restoration of nervo-muscular action. A steel- spring cravat, or other contrivance for supporting the head, is the only mechanical resource available. Disease of the cervical vertebrae, as the cause of wry-neck, can be remedied only by the measures—medicinal, dietetic, and hygienic- appropriate for the particular constitutional condition; and by wearing a well-adjusted, supporting, and slowly rectifying apparatus. Strabismus or Squint.—A want of parallelism in the axes of the eyes, whenever both are directed to an object at the same time. This habitual malposition of the eyes results from irregular action of the internal or external rectus muscle; the one producing convergent strabismus—the eye being directed towards the nose ; the other, diver- gent strabismus—the eye being directed towards the temple. Either form of strabismus may be single; double, when both eyes converge or diverge. The latter direction is rare, and consequent on loss of sight in one eye, which has lasted for years. Causes.—Strabismus may arise from a cause remote in some distant part of the body, of which the squint is symptomatic ; or from various local conditions pertaining to the eye; but more frequently from the former class of causes. Thus, this affection arises from intestinal irritation or teething; or from disease of, or relating to, the brain, as hydrocephalus. It may be consequent on certain blood conditions, as measles or scarlatina, among the eruptive fevers. Inflammatory or other diseases of the eyeball, conjunctiva, or eyelids represent the class of local causes. Extreme shortness of sight, compelling the patient to converge both eyes in looking at near objects, may also induce strabismus; and it sometimes results from the influence of insensible imitation. Treatment.—Removal of the cause, in any case, will probably restore the regular and equal action of the recti muscles. Hence, any source of irritation in the intestinal canal or elsewhere should be sought for, and removed, if practicable. Persistent causes render this principle of treatment impracticable, and strabismus must then be rectified as an effect, by division of the contracting muscle. This operation, first introduced in 1840, has since been modified. It now consists in suh- conjunctival division of the muscle affected; commonly the internal rectus. The details of this procedure are described in the chapter on Diseases of the Eye. Deformities of Arm and Hand.—Contraction of the muscles of the upper extremity differs from those of the lower extremity, in so far as the individual muscles of their analogous parts perform functional movements, more delicate, varied, and complex. Various muscles may be affected, producing deformities which correspond to their respective functions. Thus, contraction of the biceps is accompanied with permanent flexion of the arm, or the extensors of the forearm, the flexors of the fingers, or those of the wrist, or the pronators, may be severally engaged. As affecting the fingers, muscular contractions produce forms of club-hand. Hysterical contractions are met witli, and either of a spasmodic or tonic character; but these muscular affections are distinguished by an absence of any evidence of localSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 832 disease, as tbickening or adhesion, or of any traumatic origin, ns a blow or strain. They arise spontaneously, as it were, and, after a while, as capriciously cease; and are associated with other manifesta- tions of hysteric constitutional disease. Some such cases are graphic- ally told by Mr. Skey in his Lectures on this subject. The causes of these contractions, and resulting deformities, are either spasmodic or paralytic conditions; and as depending on some injury or disease affecting the nervous system peripherally or centrally. If an hysterical affection, the search for any locally causative condition will often be in vain. Its evil origin lies deeper, as a constitutional malady, the offspring perhaps of an hereditary predisposition, or of a vicious social education. The prominent elements of hysteria—general debility and muscular irritability—are, however, not unfrequently associated with some disordered function of the uterus, or of the digestive organs; in males especially, hysteria being manifested as a rare expression of the bilious or hypochondriacal temperament. • Treatvient must have reference, primarily, to removal of the cause of contraction or paralysis, if possible. Hysterical contractions— rarely admitting of any such radically curative treatment—may per- haps be overcome by remedial measures of a medicinal and hygienic character. A course of tonics and anti-spasmodics—iron and quinine, in their various preparations; the sulphate of copper or zinc; nitrate of silver; the preparations of valerian, assafoetida, or ether, sulphuric ether in particular—may prove effectual in different cases; but any s«ch treatment must be accompanied and reinforced by the judicious exercise of body and mind, aided by the salutary influence of pure air and sea-bathing, when the latter can be borne. The uterine and digestive functions must be regulated by appropriate treatment. Topical applications, of a sedative character, to allay pain and spasm, as by opiate ointment or the hypodermic injection of morphia, the ointments of belladonna or aconite, seldom afford more than temporary relief. The inhalation of chloroform has the same effect; but its relaxative influence is of value chiefly-in the examination of the part affected, to .determine the nature of the contraction. The state of contraction, as an effect, may be overcome mechanically; liy manipulations, or by division of the contracted muscle or muscles, or their tendons—the operation of tenotomy; followed, in either case, by the use of retentive appliances. The choice of these two procedures will be determined by the kind and degree of motion to be regained in the part, and by the practicability of aiding recovery by means of any apparatus. Thus, according to Dr. Little's experience, the biceps at the bend of the elbow, the tendons of the flexor carpi radialis and ulnaris close to the wrist, and the pronator radii teres at its muscular portion, have been severally divided in different cases ; but the result- ing benefit of these procedures has been proportionate to the after- manipulations, passive exercises, and painstaking education of the enfeebled non-conti-acted extensors. The fingers derive little benefit from any limited degree of the simple movements of flexion and ex- tension, nor can they be assisted by any known form of mechanism. Contraction of the Fingers, as depending on the palmar fascia, should be distinguished from contraction of nervo-niuscular origin. The pathological condition was discovered, on dissection, by Dupnytren and Goyrand.833 DEFORMITIES OF ARM AND HAND. Fig. 444. It is said to result uot uufrequeiitly from habitual pre.ssure on the palm of the hand, as in bearing on a knob-headed walking-stick, or using an instrument which has this effect, in the exercise ot various trades; but this mode of origin is doubtful. But, without any ap- parent exciting cause, a rheumatic or gouty diathesis—and, so far, habitual intemperance—may give rise to chronic thickening or hypertrophy of the palmar fascia, in the form of projecting ridges extending towards the palm of the contracted fingers. (Fig. 444.) The little finger and the ring-finger are commonly affected first, and most severely; the middle and fore-fingers less in frequency and degree, while the thumb is rarely involved. The articulations are usually free. It is a painless affection, and progresses very slowly; thickening and contraction proceeding until the fingers may become tightly clenched, and even the nail pressed into the palm. Both hands sometimes undergo contraction, and symmetrically; or the disease may be associated with a similar hypertrophied condition of the plantar fascia in the soles of the feet. The treatment is, in principle, the same; manipulations, with mechanical extension, or subcutaneous division of any tense fascial prolongations binding down the fingers. Sometimes, owing to firm adhesion of the skin to these bands, it has been the practice of some Surgeons to make a long incision and dissect back the skin on either side; the bands must then be divided or dissected off the tendons, leaving their sheaths intact. After either operation, the fingers are to be straightened and retained in position on a splint. In the case of a clergyman, aged seventy-nine, the tendons were involved, apparently as the result of chronic rheumatic inflammation, and presented an appearance nearly like that depicted in the figure. Both hands were similarly affected. Being a man of uncommonly robust constitution, I performed tenotomy on the right hand, and then applied a palmar splint, padded so as to separate the divided ends of tendon by about half an inch, under a small lint compress; in the course of a week, gradual extension was practised, and the fingers were brought down straight, whereby the free use of the hand became quite restored. Some tendency to the recurrence of contraction was checked by wearing for a time finger stalls, with elastic extending braces, attached to a wrist-band,—a little contrivance made by Mr. Bigg. As a rule, tendons in dense sheaths are unfitted for tenotomy; suppuration taking place up the sheath, or no union of the ends of tendon. Congenital Deformities of the Fingers may be met with. Erichsen saw a case in which the fingers ap- peared as if they had undergone complete or partial amputation in utero. Some were marked by deep transverse sulci others shortened and terminating in rounded nodules, with a narrow pedicle attaching them to the proximal phalanx. 8u2>plGmentari/ fingers, or a thumb, are found in some cases. (Fig. 445.) 3 n Fig. 445,834 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. D EFOKMITIES OF Leq.—(1.) Knoclc-knee or In-knee—Genu Valgum.— This deformity is an inward yielding of tlie knee-joint, the result of weakness of the ligaments and mtiscles which support the joint in that direction. It happens not unfrequently, and usually both knees are affected; giving the person a singularly ungraceful attitude when standing, and in walking the knees knock and roll over each other with a shuffling gait. The causes of knock-knee are apparently mechanical; some occasion of undue strain on the knee. It mostly arises from trying to make a child walk too early, or it may occur in tall, rapidly growing lads from the age of twelve to eighteen ; in either case the knees yielding under the weight of the body. Habitual over-walking exercise or fatigue in standing has the same result. Hence certain occupations are causative ; and any habit of resting on one leg, or defect in the opposite limb, whereby an increased strain is thrown upon the sound limb, mav induce this deformity. But a rachitic tendency, or other constitutiono J condition of impaired nutrition, can often be traced as the predisposinc,' cause. Treatment.—Removal of the cause in operation will sometimes prove sufficient. Thus, if the attempt to make a child walk at ton early a period be discontinued, an incipient knock-knee may dis- appear. Mechanical support is the only sure means of preventing further deformity, and of restoring the limb to a proper shape, by allowing the ligamentous structures to gain suf- FiG. 446. cient strength. The patient must be placed in " irons." An iron stem, on the outside of the limb, extending from the trochanter to the outer ankle, is fixed by a pelvic band above, and into the boot below. A hinge in this rod at the knee allows of motion; while, by means of a leathern pad furnished with straps, applied on the inner side, the joint is secured to the stem above and below the hinge, and di'awn outwards by tightening the straps. (Fig. 446.) The knee must thus be fixed during a period varying fi'om three to six months; then freedom of motion may be allowed for a part of each day during a similar period ; and, lastly, perfect freedom a few months before the support is discontinued. The total average duration of treatment, in advanced childhood and bad cases, will probably extend to two years. Division of the external lateral ligaments, or of the biceps tendon, has been practised in obstinate cases ; but this, or any cutting operation, is not now considered necessary. Constitutional ti'eatment for the im- provement of nutrition will aid the mechanical cure. (2.) Bowed, or Bandied Legs—Genu Vanim—present the opposite state of deformity of the Knees. (Fig. 447.) This deformity arises from relaxation of the external lateral ligament, and not, probably, from any contraction of the biceps fcnioris muscle. The treatment will835 DEFORMITIES OF LEG. Fig. 447. Fig. 448. consist in a foi-m of apparatus to correct eycrsion of the knee. The simplest is an inner lateral splint (Pig. 41.8), as a base opposed to the convexity of the curve. In cither kind of deformity. Genu Valgum or Varum, the con- dyles and articular surfaces of the femur and tibia at length undergo changes of form, which are incurable. Hence the importance of early treatment. (3.) Oontraction of Knee-joint.—Un- connected with disease of the joint, resulting in anchylosis with malposition, simple contraction of the knee is liable to take place. The deformity may be either flexion of the leg on the thigh, at an angle of various degrees, or, com- bined with this state, some distortion laterally inwards, with rotation of the tibia outwards. Displacement backwards of the head of the tibia, the end of the femur and patella projecting forwards apparently, is associated with rather an extended position of the leg, and laxity of the joint. The cause of these deformities— apart from joint-disease—seems to be some affection of the ham-string muscles, which induces their contraction, and shortening ultimately. This may be a purely hysterical manifestation, and accompanied with other symptoms of the same constitutional disease. Fig. 449. Treatment must have reference to the apparent cause of contraction. The more fugitive state of hysterical contraction can be overcomo under the relaxing influence of choloroform; the limb is then at once brought down to a straight position, and retained by two lateral splints. Fig. 450. (Fig. 449.) Or, reduction is gradually accomplished by a regulated extending apparatus. (Figs. 450, 451.) Division of the ham-string836 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. tendons may be necessary, followed by extension. I have done this, in some cases, with entirely satisfactory results. The biceps and semi- tendinosus always require division; the semi-membranosus, seldom. Fig. 45L This renders the operation more superficial and simple than it would otherwise be. Talipes or Club-foot.—Four forms of club-foot are recognized: talipes equiims, or elevation of the heel; talipes va/rus, or inversion of the Fig. 452.* * Talipes equinus; the deformity rlcpending chiefly upon flexion of the foot upon itself from the transverse tarsal joint, in line a a, (After W. Adams.)TALIPES OR CLUB-FOOT. 837 Fig. 453.* ' W. Adams.) concavity backwards; but the Fig. 454.t foot; talifes valgus, or eversion of the foot; and talipes calcaneus, or depression of the heel with elevation of the anterior part of the foot. Varieties of club-foot consist of combinations of two of these forms, the principal of which are—equino-varus, equino-valgus, calcaneo-varus, and calcaneo-valgus. (1.) Talipes Equinus.—Structural Conditions, and Signs.—Certain bones of the tarsus—the astragalus, scaphoid bone, and calcaneum— have undergone alterations from their normal condition. Diminished in size somewhat, the astragalus, in particular, is reduced, its natural articular surfaces for the tibia and fibula are partially deprived of cartilage, and new articular relations have formed posteriorly, more or less in that direction according to the degree of the talipes. The calcaneum may even contribute to this new articulation. The head of the astragalus, dimished in size, has an unusually small articular facet in its connection with the scaphoid bone. The latter bone, also reduced in size but unaltered in shape, is drawn downwards; thus presenting the head of the astragalus prominently on the dorsum of the foot, while a considerable portion of its upper surface has slid from under the tibia. (Fig. 452.) The calcaneum, small, and perhaps articulating with the tibia, has a more limited connection with the cuboid bone; and ; as the latter bone, with the scaphoid, is drawn downwards, the anterior : and upper portion of the calcaneum also projects forwards on the ■ dorsum of the foot. The other bones of the foot, somewhat smaller • than natural, retain their normal characters ; the remaining tarsal and the metatarsal bones conform to the general curvature—an increased convexity forwards, an increased toes are usually extended hori- zontally, and from constantly bearing the weight of the body, the breadth of the fore portion of the foot becomes increased. Thus, then, the heel drawn up, in this form of talipes, brings the tarsus to nearly a vertical line under the tibia, whereby the weight is transmitted to the toes, on which the patient rests in standing or walking. (Pig. 453.) But the fore part of the foot may be completely retroverted, so that the sole forms an acute angle with the projecting heel, and the weight is borne on the dorsum (Fig. 454); the t cuticle there acquiring a thickened, horny character, as if it were on the i sole of the foot. This callosity is liable to ulcerate or slough. The liga- 1 ments are relaxed and shortened, corresponding to the altered relations * Talipes equinus, imlhout paralysis of the extensor muscles. Extension of the I toes upwards, from their metatarsal articulations, on which the foot rests. (From t Talipes equinus, with paralysis of the extensor muscles. Backward flexion < of the toes, from their metatarsal articulations, on whicli the foot rests, f From W. Adams.) ^SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 838 Fig. 455 * of the bones; which facilitates the progress of the deformity, and impedes restoi'ation of the foot to its natural position. The muscles, however, are the active agents in the production of talipes, one muscle or set of muscles overbalancing another and antagonistic muscle or muscles. In talipes equinus, the gaatrocnemius muscle is contracted. Fatty and fibrous degeneration of the muscular tissue ensues, as the result of old-standing talipes, especially when of paralytic origin. This form of talipes is usually single ; but both feet are sometimes clubbed. Causes.—The disturbed equilibrium of muscular action, in the pro- duction of club-foot, may be spasmodic, when referable to the contracted muscle; or be due to paralysis of the opponent muscle. Thus, in talipes equinus, spasmodic con- traction of the gastrocnemius may give rise to this deformity (Fig. 455); or a paralytic state of the tibialis anticus, or of it and one or more of the other extensors of the foot, be the cause in question. Either muscular affection, spasmodic or paralytic, proceeds from some disease of the nervous centres, commonly of an inflammatory character, which results in effusion or softening; or, when congenital, some defect of development in the nervous centres may be the causative condition. But spasmodic contraction is frequently a manifestation of reflex nervous action through the peripheral nervous system, from various sources of irritation; as teething, or intestinal worms. On the other hand, local irritation is more often the cause of contraction; generally local inflammation, of a rheumatic, scrofulous, or erysipelatous character, or as a Fig. 456. consequence of injury. Thus, the muscles of the calf of the leg may become affected. Talipes equinus may be ac- quired or congenital; the latter very rarely, Tamplin, Lonsdale, and other authorities never having seen such a case. Treatment. — Tenotomy is the only mode of cure, otherwise than when the deformity is slight and pliable. Subcutaneous division of the tendo-Achillis allows the heel to be brought down ; but this must be accomplished through gradual extension, the foot being retained in position by a properly con- structed extending apparatus. The operation is simple. The patient having been laid prone, the Surgeon grasps the foot and extends it forcibly tlms making the tendon tense and prominent; a tenotomy knife (iig. 45b) is intro- * Talipes equinus, with spasmodic contractiou; the toes «/^°^;f,<\ metatarsal uiticulatiouB, and flexed upon themselves, claw-like. (From W. Adams.)TALIPES OR CLUB-FOOT. 839 Fig. 457. duced, at either side of the tendon, about an inch above its insertion into the calcaneum; passing beneath the tendon to its opposite side, the knife is withdrawn through the tendon slowly, or division may be effected by pressure with the edge of the blade, the tendinous fibres yielding with a creaking resistance, while, at the same time, the fore-finger of the left hand is applied over the tendon gently, just to give warning of the approach of the blade to the surface. The foot at once comes into position, or is readily brought down by extension with the hand, as the tendon is divided. (Fig. 457.) Scarcely more than a drop or two of blood escapes externally, and the puncture is closed by a small pad of lint. The apparatus for extension is known by the name of Scarpa's shoe, or its faodification by Liston. Liston's shoe was provided with two curved levers. (Fig. 458.) The form of apparatus, or shoe, generally used for talipes equinus, is here represented. (Fig. 459.) It consists of a steel splint on the oater side of Pig. 458. Fig. 459. the leg, with a foot support; both of which are secured by padded belts around the leg and foot. At the connection of the splint and foot-board, a joint with a cog-wheel, worked by a key, regulates the extension. Stromeyer postponed extension until the puncture-wound had healed, and then applied it gradually. Both rules are still observed by Little and other authorities. A pliant splint of pasteboard or metal is applied, after the operation, to retain the foot in its former position. On the fourth day, extension may be commenced, and it should be continued gradually until completed in about a month. Union of the tendon thus becomes more perfect, and without entailing any risk of recurring deformity; the new portion of tendon being elongated to a proper length, without weakening it, while the alterations, articular and ligamentous, are slowly overcome. Walking may be resumed as soon as the movements of the foot are regained, without any tendency to relapse—in, say, six weeks or two months ; the period of rest required being, of course, much lessened by wearing the precautionary apparatus840 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY, \V. Adams.) above described. Ultimately, friction, passive motion, baths, and gal- vanism prove serviceable in completing the restoration of function. Slight talipes equinus -will perhaps yield to mechanical extension, without tenotomy. Relapse sometimes takes place after an apparent cure. This may be remedied by the judicious roapplication of extending apparatus; or a repetition of tenotomy may be necessary, followed by extension. Paralytic talipes equinus cannot be radically cured by tenotomy, nor by extension, which releases or overcomes the contracted muscles, but does not restore the action of the paralyzed antagonistic muscles. This condition depending sometimes on disease or congenital defect of the nervous centres, may be so far incurable. But, if the paralysis be incomplete, some restoration of power in the muscles affected may be gradually gained by the voluntary exercise of such muscles—^the gymnastic or " movement" method of treatment—as of the extensor muscles of the foot, in talipes equinus. The influence of electricity, as a means of exciting contractile power, offers a most valuable resource in these local paralytic affections. This method of treatment must, however, be judiciously conducted ; and is considered more particularly in works on Medical Electricity. Mechanical contrivances may also be used with advantage. The "artificial muscle," invented by Mr. Barwell, consists of an india-rubber band, adjusted so as to supply continued traction in the direction of the muscles affected. Similar principles and modes of treatment are applicable in other conditions of paralytic club-foot. (2.) Talipes Vams.—This is the ordinary form of congenital club- foot; but it also occurs, in a less severe form, as a non-congenital affection, from infantile paralysis. Fig. 460.* Fig. 461.t * Congenital talipes varus, in a child aged six months. Anterior view. Ankle-joint, and transverse tarsal joint, a a, are laid open, showing altered relations of astragalus and scaphoid bone; b, point for division of the anterior tibial tendon. (From W. Adams.) j. x j -d • f t Posterior view of the same foot, showing relative position of tendons.—a, l o.ni for division of the posterior tibial tendon, just above the inner malleolus; b, anterior tibial tendon, crossing tlie inn(^r malleolus, and inclining backwards, llic elevalu.n of tlie OB calcis, and position of its tuberosity beliind the hbula, and inclination ot tlie tendo-Achillis, towards the fibula side of the leg, are also shown, (i-romTALIPES OR CLUB-FOOT. 841 The structural condition is similar, with regard to the alterations of the bones. But the muscles contracted are principally the gastroc- nemius, with also the tibialis anticus and posticus. (Figs. 460, 461.) The articular alterations, and the accompanying signs, are more like those of equinus, in propoi'tion to the extension, and curvature of the foot, which commonly occurs ; but the foot is turned inwards, or inverted and adducted; and these are the characteristic distinctions. The patient walks on the outer side of the foot (Fig. 462); or with extreme inversion, the weight is borne on the dorsum. The catises of this deformity would appear to be those of talipes equinus ; but the varus form of talipes has been attributed to pressure (1.) Fig. 462.* (2.) of the walls of the uterus. It is certainly most frequently congenital; almost as exclusively so as the equinus form is acquired talipes. Both feet, therefore, are usually affected. When only one foot is the subject of deformity, the right is twice as often affected as the left. A certain liability due to sex is shown by the greater frequency of congenital talipes in male than in female children, the proportion being three to one. Hereditary influence is often evinced, and by descent from either parent. Thus, on the father's side. Dr. Little has traced congenital club-foot through four generations; the male infant, the father, the grandfather, and the great-grandfather. The tendency to hereditary propagation on the paternal side is, perhaps, the strongest argument against the influence of uterine pressure in the production of con- genital talipes varus. Treatment.—In slight cases, remedial measures may consist in gradual mechanical extension, aided by passive motion-manipulations. A tin splint should be applied, adapted to the calf of the leg, and jDrovided with a foot-piece jointed at the ankle, the whole being properly padded ; and this should be so adjusted and bandaged as not to foi'cibly coerce the foot, in undoing the deformity. This method of treatment having failed, or when the varus is more extreme, operative interference must be resorted to, subject to Dr. Little's test—that when the foot is held in the normal position, it springs vigorously back into the abnormal as soon as it is left to itself. The operation should not be delayed longer after birth than a month, and it has been performed within the first twenty-four hours with rapid and permanent success. Tenotomy for talipes varus consists in subcutaneous division of the * Congenital talipes varus, in adult.—(1) Anterior view; (2) posterior view- (After W. Adams.)SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 842 tendons of jiU tlie contracted muscles; both the tibial tendons, and the tcndo-Achillis. This procedure may be accomplished in one operation. But, in extreme cases, the compound deformity must be overcome by a double operation; first, section of the tibial tendons, and of any promi- nent band of plantar fascia, thus to rectify inversion, coupled with the application of mechanical eversion; then, secondly, after the lapse of a month in the case of infants, or from two to four months for adults, the tendo-Achillis is divided. The advantage gained by this two-fold procedure—first recommended by Dr. Little—is that, in the interval of the two tenotomies, the calcaneum affords a resting-point, fixed by the Achilles tendon, from which to stretch out and unfold the contracted and involuted sole of the foot. Otherwise, incomplete recovery often results; in fact, a secondary talipes calcaneus may be produced, which deformity it will be difiicult or perhaps impossible to overcome. The operation—according to Dr. Little's precise directions—^is thus performed; taking the tendons conveniently in order, as posterior tibial, anterior tibial, tendo-AchiUis. The child being laid upon its back, with the limb rotated well outwards, an assistant holds the knee securely, and the Surgeon, seating himself in front, takes the heel of the foot in his left hand, and abducting the foot with his right hand, puts the posterior tibial tendon on the stretch, and with sufficient prominence to feel it under the left thumb; or failing in this way to find the tendon, in a fat subject, the guide will be from the inner margin of the tibia, a line drawn exactly midway between the anterior and posterior borders of the leg, on its inner aspect. Then, entering a sharp-pointed tenotomy knife about a finger's breadth above the lower end of the inner malleo- lus, and close to the margin of the tibia, it is passed perpendicularly to a depth of a quarter to half an inch, and an opening made in the fascia; a probe-pointed tenotome is then introduced between the tibia and the tendon, and this is divided by a slight lever-like cutting motion with the knife, while the assistant firmly abducts and depresses the inner border of the foot. A sudden jerk more or less plainly announces the division of the tendon. The puncture is closed with a dossil of lint. This operation may be completed with one knife instead of two; but in fat children it will be safer to substitute the blunt-pointed knife in dividing the tendon, lest the posterior tibial artery be wounded, as in talipes varus the tendon lies unusually close to the vessel. This accident, however, has happened in the most experienced hands. The arterial hfemorrhage can be readily arrested by a compress and bandage, which should be continued for three weeks, before beginning extension. Velpeau divided the tendon at its insertion into the scaphoid bone, observing to insert the knife to meet the tendon about an inch below and in front of the inner malleolus, on the adult foot. In infants or children, this method would be impracticable. Next in order, the anterior tibial tendon is divided, the assistant abducting the foot, while a sharp-pointed tenotomy knife is entered flatwise, near the outer edge of the prominent tendon, opposite the inner malleolus ; passing the blade beneath the tendon, the edge is turned forward and elevated, as the skin is guarded by feeling with the finger of the left hand, until the tendon yields with a snap. A dossil of lint is placed over this puncture also. Lastly, the tendo-Achillis is divided in the manner already described. But here again the posterior tibial artery is in danger; the tendon, in some cases, being drawn inwards by the adducted state of the foot.TALIPES OR CLUB-FOOT. 843 Fig. 465.* Fig. 463. Fig. 464. The operations of tenotomy thus stated in detail, can be carried out in a few seconds each, and are bloodless. After the operation for varus, the usual rule should be observed with reo-ard to the after-treatment of club-foot; that the foot be left m its fornier position until the punctures have healed—about four days— during which time a moulded splint of paste- board or pliant metal may be applied, just to secure this position and rest the foot. Then mechanical extension should be continued gradually for a period of two weeks to a month, or even to three months, having regard to the degree of de- formity and the age of the patient. The shoe most generally used, a modification of Scarpa's, is here shown. (Fig. 463.) Aveling's talivert is a useful contrivance, combining the three de- siderata—abduction, flexion, and eversion. Dr. Langaard's well-known instrument for talipes varus is also deserving of notice. (Fig. 464.) Relapse sometimes takes place, or the con- version of the deformity into the opposite state occurs, talipes valgus succeeding. In one such case, I found it neces- sary to resort to the operation for that deformity. (3.) Talipes Valgus—or in-ankle—presents the opposite arrangement of parts to that of talipes varus, and the peronei muscles are chiefly contracted, with, perhaps, the extensor longus digitorum. The foot is turned out- wards, or everted, and abducted, possibly also extended upwards, the patient standing or walking on the inner ankle. (Pig. 465.) Thence also the knee inclines inwards, com- bining knock-knee with this form of talipes. Flat or Splay-foot presents the same characters as the above deformity; but, owing to relaxation of the ligaments in the sole of the foot, the arch sinks, and the foot is flattened. (Fig- 466.) The cautes of talipes valgus have reference to the state of the muscles (Fig. 467) concerned in its production. Thus, there may be a spasmodic contraction of the peronei, as from dental irritation in * Talipes valgus—congenital.—a, Showing depression of the inner, and eleva- tion of the outer margin of the foot; b, showing obliquity of the foot. (From W. Adams.)SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 844 Fig. 467.* childhood, or a paralytic condition of their opponent tibial musclcB as a sequel of infantile paralysis. Occasionally, valgus is the result of injury, as from the cicatricial con- traction of a burn; and sometimes it is consequent on disease of the ankle-joint. This deformity may be congenital, but far more often it is acquired. Flat-foot is said to arise, in young persons, from long-continued standing or walking. I have seen it commence in girls who have sud- denly become stout and heavy, about the age of puberty; the arch of the foot and inner ankle then giving way. The treatment of talipes valgus must be conducted on the principles already laid down in the other forms of club-foot. Tenotomy will generally be necessary; and the tendons to be divided are those of the peronei muscles, about an inch above the outer malleolus ; and possibly also the extensor communis digitorum, in front of the ankle-joint. The foot is afterwards placed in a Scarpa's shoe. The best form of instrument is that devised by Dr. Langaard, of Hamburg. (Fig. 468.) It is provided with a tangential ankle-screw. Slight deformity of this kind can sometimes be corrected by ex- tension, under the influence of chloroform; and subsequently wearing the shoe. Flat-foot is amenable to the same plan of treatment, with the addi- tion of a convex sole to restore and support the arch of the foot. Fig. 468. Fig. 469.t (4.) Talipes Calcaneus.—Marked depression of the heel, and a corresponding extension upwards of the foot, characterize this deformity. (Fig. 469.) No structural alterations have taken place, * Talipes valgus—congenital. Showing tlie elevation of the os calcis; oblique position of the astragalus; and displacoment of the scaphoid bone by transverse rotation. (From W. Adams.) t Talipes calcaneus—non-congenital, in the adult. (After W. Adams.)TALIPES OR CLUB-FOOT. 845 * Talipes calcaneus—non-congenital, in the adult. (After W. Adams.) but tlie deformity is simply symptomatic of muscular contraction; the muscles engaged being the four whose tendons pass between the two malleoli, anteriorly—the tibialis anticus, extensor pollicis, extensor longus digitorum, and peroneus tertius, a part of the last-named muscle. The lateral ligaments, in their posterior portions, are much elongated. This form of talipes is very rare, and was first described by Dr. Little, in the case of a child, four and a half years of age. It Fig. 470.* Fig. 471. Fig. 472. is congenital. Or, the heel may drop, from paralysis of the muscles of the calf of the leg —the gastrocnemius and soleus ; and the plantar arch become contracted, partly by shortening of the plantar fascia, with con- traction of the flexor muscles of the foot, which thus completes the arching of the sole downwards. (Fig. 470. ) This form of calcaneus is ac- quired, and especially when the plantar fascia is involved in producing the deformity. The treatment is much facilitated by the absence of any structural im- pediments. Reduction can be easily accomplished by flexion alone, with support of the heel, or aided by teno- tomy ; and the foot is readily retained in position. The best form of instru- ment, or shoe, for treatment mechanic- ally, in order to restore the normal position and actions of the foot, is that shown in the annexed figure. (Fig. 471. ) Bigg's apparatus is well adapted for cases of the second form, and of great severity. (Fig. 472.) Varieties of OZM6-/ooi.—Combinations of the typical forms of club- foot are met with. They have already been adverted to ; but, to simplify the descriptions given, it was desirable not to introduce these varieties in connection with their respective types.846 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Eqmno-varus, eqmno-valgus, cahaneo-vmus, and ealcnmo-vcdquR aro modifications of the typical forms of club-foot. The particular muscles contracted w, 1 be suggested hy each of these varieties of deformit^ JJut the muscles engaged are declared by the tension and prominent Fig. 473* Fig. 474.t rigidity of their tendons, as at once discovered by manipulative ex- amination of the foot, in the various attitudes it has assumed. (Fiss 473, 474.) ^ ^ ■ Practically, this knowledge guides the appropriate orthopsedic treatment; the manipulative extensions, the operations of tenotomy, and the mechanical appliances. For Fig. 475. equino-varus, to restore the foot to a normal position, Bigg's orthopede pro- mises to be a valuable instniment. (Fig. 475.) In all cases of talipes varus, or ■equino-varus—the latter class includ- ing many cases of relapsed varus, after failure of operative and mechani- cal treatment—the best practical rule is to divide the treatment into two, and in some cases three, stages. In the first stage the object is to overcome all inversion of the foot, and thus to convert the more complex de- formity into the simple form of talipes equinus. This may be accomplished in some cases by mechanical means alone, bandaging the foot for this pnrpose to a splint applied along the outer side of the leg and foot; in other cases, it is necessary to employ tenotomy, followed by the use of the outside splint, the anterior and posterior tibial tendons being divided. This stage will not occupy more than three or four weeks in infants, but may take two or three months in adults. In the secoiid stage, where talipes equinus alone remains, this may be cured by division of the tendo-Achillis, and the foot afterwards gradually brought into a natural position by the use of a Scarpa's shoe * Talipes equino-varus, with spasmodic contraction of tlie muscles. (After W. Adams.) t Tiilipes equino-varus, witli paralyiic condition of the muscles. (After W. Adams.)847 DEFORMITIES OF LEG. in children over five years of age, and in adults ; but in infa,nts it is better to use the apparatus known as a varus-splint, consisting of a metal trough for the calf, with an outer steel extending to the thigh, having a free joint at the knee : at the foot there is a metal sole-plate, movable by a single cog-wheel placed at the heel. When the Scarpa's shoe is used, two cog-wheels should be placed opposite the ankle-joint, on the inner side of the_ leg, as shown m Fig. 476, as by this arrangement we have a greatly increased power of uplifting the outer margin of the foot, whilst the leg is drawn by the straps to the steel upright on the inner side. This stage will usually occupy from six to eight weeks, except in severe cases in adults. The cases of talipes varus and equino-varus in which the treatment should be divided into three stages are those in which there is a marked degree of contraction of the plantar fascia, causing an increased pro- minence of the arch of the foot, by a movement of flexion and rotation inwards of the anterior portion of the foot, from the transverse tarsal joint. In these cases the head of the astragalus projects, sometimes conspicuously, on the instep, as this bone is partially extruded from the ankle-joint by contraction of the Achilles tendon behind; and the navicular bone is drawn downwards anteriorly, by contraction of the plantar fascia and muscles traversing the sole of the foot. When division of the treatment into three stages is thus indicated by a severe degree of contraction in the sole of the foot, the object of Vae first stage will be to overcome all inversion of the foot, and reduce the varus, or equino-varns, into simple equimis. The olject of the second stage will be to overcome the contraction in the sole of the foot, which generally necessitates a free division of the plantar fascia; and during the subsequent mechanical treatment, whilst the arch of the foot is being expanded by uplifting the metatarsal bones, the contrac- tion of the Achilles tendon is of the utmost assistance, as it holds the OS calcis rigidly fixed, and affords a point of resistance to the uplifting force exerted against the anterior portion of the foot. This stage must be fully completed before the third stage is com- menced, and will usually occupy a month in children, and from three to four months in adults. No greater mistake in treatment can be committed than to commence the third stage, the object of which is to cure the talipes equinus, by division of the tendo-Achillis before the second stage is completed, however long it may occupy. If any con- traction in the arch of the foot remains when the Achilles tendon is divided, it cannot afterwards be corrected, and this defect will remain through life, in many cases leading to a relapse of the deformity. The form of Scarpa's shoe best adapted to the treatment of these cases of equino-varus, and many cases of relapsed varus, is the modifi- cation of late years adopted by Mr. Wm. Adams, and represented in Figs. 476 and 477, in which the sole-plate is divided into two por- tions by a joint corresponding to the transverse tarsal joint, and the anterior portion can be moved in various directions by three rack-and- pinion movements in the sole-plate, as shown in Fig. 477 ; the move- ment of inversion and eversion is regulated at A, that of flexion and extension at B, and rotation at c, so that the anterior portion of the sole-plate D can be moved in any of these directions, the mechanical thus corresponding to the anatomical centres of motion in the production of the deformity. Contractions of the Toes are not uncommon, and may be eitherSPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 477. congenital or acquired, the latter being more frequent. The flexor tendons, or sometimes the digital prolongations of the plantar fascia, are implicated, resulting in the contny;. tion or doubling up of one or more of tlie toes towards the sole of the foot. The second toe is most often affected, the first phalanx being slightly- elevated, and flexion taking place at the junction of the re- mainder of the toe, with perhaps some overlap- ping of the adjoining toes. The great toe may be thrust out- wards, and extended from the metatarso- pnaiangeal articulation, so as thus to overlay the second toe. Sometimes the little toe is similarly dis- placed. Both feet are not unfrequently affected symmetrically. Any such crippled condition is attended with lameness, and the more so owing to the co-existence of corns on the prominent points of the displaced toes. In the case of the great toe turned outwards, there will be an inability to stand on tiptoe, or to walk uphill; and the frequent association of a bunion is even more crippling. These con- tractions, or perhaps extensions, of the toes, wdth lateral displacements, are mostly produced by wearing tight or ill-made and hard-leathered boots. Treatment, therefore, consists in removing any such source of pressure—the patient wearing a loose, wide-made, soft shoe, and then the deformity may be rectified by counter-pressure. Contraction can be overcome by gradual extension of the toe ; a digital whalebone splint is applied under the toe, and fixed by a narrow roller-bandage or strips of plaster. In children, this often proves sufficient. In adults, and with a more rigid state of contraction, the aid of tenotomy may be required, the flexor tendon being divided opposite the first phalanx or the process of plantar fascia, followed by the use of an extending splint. This must be worn for a few weeks to complete the cure. An extended state of the great toe will probably necessitate division of the extensor tendon; when the lateral divergence can be corrected by the patient wearing a wide shoe, having a partition between this toe and the next, so as to restore the right position. END OF VOL. I. PRINTED AT THE CAXTON PRESS, BECCLKS.20, King William Street, Strand, . Lo7idon: 1878. PUBLICATIONS BY BAILLIlfeRE, TINDALL, & COX. Our Trip to Burmah, with Notes on that Country, by Sur- geon-General Gordon, C.B., M.D., Principal Medical Officer Madras Presidency, Hon. Physician to the Queen. Illustrated with Photographs, Coloured Lithographs, and Sketches by native Artists. 2\s. Works by the same Author, Lessons in Hygiene and Surgery, from the Franco-Prussian War. Reports prepared while on Special Service, on be- half of Her Majesty's Government, with the Army in Paris. Illustrated, 10s. 6d. A. Manual of Sanitation; or. First Help in Sickness and when Wounded. A pocket companion for officers and privates of the regular and volunteer services at home and abroad, in peace and in war. Cloth, 2s. 6d.; or paper wrapper, is. Experiences of an Army Surgeon in India. A Concise Account of the Treatment of the Wounds, Injuries, and Diseases incidental to a Residence in that Country. 35-. 6d. The French and British Soldier. A Lecture on Some Points of Comparison, delivered before H.R.H. Prince Arthur and the Garrison of Dover, is. Life on the Gold Coast. Being a Full and Accurate Descrip- tion of the Inhabitants, their Modes and Habits of Life ; interspersed with amusing Anecdotes, Hints to Travellers and others in Western Africa. 2s. 6d. ITotes on the Hygiene of Cholera, for ready reference. 5 s.Publicatiom by Bailliere, lindall, and Cox. 2 A Contribution to the Medical History of our West African Campaigns, by Surgeon-Major Albert A. Gore, M.D., sanitary officer on the Staff. loj. (>d. " Dr. Gore has given ns a most interesting record of a series of stirring events in which he took an active part, and of elaborate precautions for the maintenance of health."—Medical Press. Building of a Brain (by the Author of Sex in Education). 6s. " We are much pleased with this little work, which is carefully and ele- gantly written, and full of sound physiology."—Lancet. Essays on Conservative Medicine, and kindred topics. By Austin Flint, M.D., Professor of the Principles and Practice of Medicine, and of Clinical Medicine, in Bellevue Hospital Medical Col- lege, New York. ds. The Training of the Mind for the Study of Medicine : A Lecture delivered at St. George's Hospital. By Robert Brudenell Carter, F.R.C.S., Professor of Ophthalmic Surgery in the Hospital, i f. " A remarkable address."—The Lancet. "No one can read it withoutleanringand profitingmuch "—Stud, fovrnal Bules of Medical Etiquette, by a Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians ; for vest pocket, is. cloth. Medical Men and Manners of the Nineteenth Centtiry. zs. By Ari6a,cSivtT0i. " His historical Introduction is interesting, and much of it is new, and of itself is worth perusal A brochure well known and widely read, the ^Tiore widely the better."—Medical Press. The Medical Student's Guide; on tlie best course to be pursued by those entering the Medical Profession. By W. Douglas Hemming, M.R.C.S. dd. Short Lectures on Sanitary Subjects. By Richard J. Halton, L.K.Q.C.P., L.R.C.P. Edin., L.R.C.S.I., &c., Medical Officer of Health to Kells. 5^. " A book well adapted to popular reading and replete with sound know- ledge promotive of good health and long life. "•—Sanitarian. On Vitiated Air. A Paper read before the Association of Medical Officers of Health. 6d. By C. Meymott Tidy, M.B., Lecturer on Chemistry and Professor of Medical Juris- prudence at the London Hospital.3 Publications by BaiUtere, Tindall, and Cox. ITe-w Manual of Physiology. By Professors Kuss and Duval, of Strasbourg, Translated by Professor Amory, M.D. Illustrated with 150 engravings, \os. 6d. "Prof. Kuss's work seems to us to be the best Students' Manual we have seen."—Medico- Chirurgical Revieisj. AMamialof Hygiene,Public and Private,and Compendium of Sanitary Laws, for the information and guidance of Public Health Authorities and Sanitarians generally. By Chas. a. Cameron, M.D., F.R.C.S. Professor of Hygiene, Royal College of Surgeons, Medi- cal Officer of Health and Analyst for the city of Dublin. With Illustrations, \os. 6d. "By far the most comprehensive work on Hygiene for health officers and others, which we have met with."—Pliarmaccntical Journal. On Disease Prevention. A Practical Treatise on Disinfection. By the same Author. 6d. " This little work, which is offered at the tiifling charge of sixpence, con- tains practical directions for disinfecting rooms, clothing, bedding, &c., with chapters on vaccination, water impurities, and other important sanitary matters."—T/ie Review. The Cure of Cataract and other Eye Affections. By Jabez PIogg, M.R.C.S.J Consulting Surgeon to the Royal Westminster Ophthalmic Hospital, Ophthalmic Surgeon to the Royal Masonic Institutions, &c. 2s. 6d. Impairment or Loss of Vision from Spinal Concussion or Shock. By the same Author, \s. 6d. A Parasitic or Germ Theory of Disease: the Skin, Eye, and other affections. Second Edition, same Author, 2s. 6d. On the Tonic Treatment of Gout. With Cases. By James C. Dickinson, M.R.C.S., late of H.M.'s Bengal Army. 2nd edition, y. 6d. "A thoughtful and practical work."—Public Opinion. Suppressed Gout: its Dangers and Treatment; with an Appendix on the Uses of the Vals Waters, sameAtcthor, 2s. Tropical Debility. Its Causes and Treatment. By the same Author, is. 6d. Indian Boils : their Varieties and Treatment without Dis- figurement. By the same Author, is.4 Publications by Baillih-e, Tindall, and Cox. The Throat and its Diseases. A Practical Guide to Diag- nosis and Treatment. With one hundred Typical Illus- trations in colours and fifty Wood Engravings, designed and executed by the Author, Lennox Browne, F.R.C.S. Ed., Senior Surgeon to the Central London Throat and Ear Hospital; Surgeon and Aural Surgeon to the Royal Society of Musicians, &c. Royal 8vo., i8^. Lessons in Laryngoscopy: including Rhinoscopy and the Diagnosis and Treatment of Diseases of the Throat. Illustrated with Hand-coloured Plates and Wood-cuts. By Prosser James, M.D., M.R.C.P., Lecturer on Materia Medica and Therapeutics at the London Hospital, &c. 2nd edition, 5s. 6d. The Progress of Medicine. A Lecture delivered at the London Hospital. By the same AutJior. \s. Cutaneous Medicine, and Diseases of the Skin. By Henry S. Purdon, M.D., Edin. F.R.C.S., &c.. Physician to the Belfast General Hospital, Physician to the Skin Hospital. 6j. " An extremely practical work containing many new and important fea- tures."— The Doctor. Overwork and Premature Mental Decay: its Treatment. By C. H. F. RouTH, M.D., M.R.C.P. Lond., Senior Physician to the Samaritan Hospital for Women and Children. 3rd edition, 2s. 6d. On Fibrous Tumours of the ■Womb: Points connected with their Pathology, Diagnosis, and Treatment. Being the Lettsomian Lectures delivered before the Medical Society of London. By the same Author. 3^. 6^/. Some Observations on the Prevention and Treatment of Scarlet Fever. By the same Author. \s. rood; its Varieties, Chemical Composition, Ifutritivo Value, Comparative Digestibility, Physical Functions and Uses, Preparation, Preservation, Adulterations, &c. By the late Henry Letheby, M.B., M.A., Ph.D., &c. Professor of Chemistry at London Hospital, Food Analyst and Medical Officer of Health to the City of London. Second Edition, enlarged, 5J. "Either as a text-book for schools or as a household guide, it is excel- lently adapted."—Fitblic Opinion.PuUications by Bailliere, Tindall, and Cox. 5 A Guide to the Examinations at the Royal College of Sur- geons of England for the Diplomas of Member and Fellow. By Frederick J. Gant, F.R.C.S., Senior Surgeon to the Royal Free Hospital. 3rd edition, revised and enlarged. 2>^. 6d. " In truth a most useful Guide to the Examinations."—Guy's Hasp. Gaz. In Preparation, by the same Author, ' The Science and Practice of Surgery, being a Complete Text-Book. 2nd edition, in 2 vols.; Illustrated by several hundred Wood Engravings, new and original. The Text-Book of Operative Suj^gery, From the French of Professors Claude Bernard & Huette. Illustrated with 88 plates. Plain and coloured. Edited and re-written by Arthur Trehern Norton, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Surgery at, St. Mary's Hospital. Plain, 21s.; coloured, half calf, 42s. "A work of the highest merit as a'guide to operative surgery."—Shi- denCs Joumal. Osteology for Students, with Atlas of Plates. By Arthur Trehern- Norton, F.R.C.S., Atlas and text in one volume, 7J. dd.: in two vols., 8^. dd. "The handiest and most complete hand-book of Osteology."— The Lancet. Affections of the Throat and Larynx. By the same Author, Second Edition, Illustrated, ds. "Short, simple, and thoroughly practical instruction."—Medical Times. Abstracts of Surgical Principles for Medical Students. By Thos. Annandale, F.R.C.S., F.R.S. Surgeon to and Lecturer on Surgery, Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, i vol., 7^-. 6d. A Manual of the Operations of Sua'gery, for the use of Senior Students, &c. By Joseph Bell, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to and Lecturer on Surgery, Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh. 3rd edition, 6s. The Philosophy of Voice. Showing the right and wrong Action of the Breath and Vocal Cords in the Production of Articulate Speech and Song. By Charles Lunn. Fourth Edition, xs. 6d. The Pathological Anatomy of the Human Body. Trans- lated from the German of Professor Vogel. By George E. Day, M.A. Cantab., M.R.C.P. Lond. With 100 plain and coloured engravings. i8s.6 Puhlications by Baillih-e, 2'indall, and Cox. The Text-Book of (113) Anatomical Plates, designed under the direction of Professor Masse, with Descriptive Text. By E. Bellamy, F.R.C.S., Professor of Anatomy, Science and Art Department, South Kensington, Surgeon to and Lecturer on Anatomy and Operative Surgery, Charing Cross Plospital. Second edition, plain, 2\s. ; coloured,'42^-. "With these plates the student will be able to read up his anatomy almost as readily as .with a recent dissection before him.'"—Student's Journal. The Vest-Pocket Gray, or Anatomist's Vade-Mecum. Com- piled specially for Students. By C. H. Leonard, M.D, 32mo., \s. " By dint of a small though clear type, and the exclusion of all unneces- sary words, a marvellous amount of information has been condensed into a remarkably small space."—Medical Press. The Students' Case Book: containing Practical Instruc- tions, and all the Necessary Information for Clinical Work and Systematic Case-taking, with a number of Ruled Sheets, for recording particulars of cases as seen. By George Brown, M.R.C.S., Late Demonstrator ot Anatomy, Westminster Hospital; Gold Medallist, Charing Cross Hospitl. 2nd edition, enlarged, \s. Elements of the General and Minute Anatomy of Man and the Mammalia. From Original Researches. By Professor Gerber, University of Bern, and Professor George Gulliver, F.R.S. vols, containing thirty-four plates. \^s. Nature and Treatment of Deformities of the HTiraaa Body. By Lambert H. Ormsby, M.B., University Dublin, Surgeon to the Meath Hospital and County Dublin Infir- mary. Crown 8vo., illustrated. Price 5X. Handbook of Post-Mortem Examinations, and of Morbid Anatomy. By Francis Delafield, M.D., Curator to Bellevue Hospital, New York. Price t5j-. ■Consumption, its True Nature and Successful Treatment, with Appendix of Cases. By Godwin Timms, M.D. Lond., M.R.C.P., Senior Physician to the North London Consumption Hospital, Consulting Physician to the Western City Dis- pensary, &c. 2nd edition, ioj. dd.7 Fiiblicatioiis by Bailliere, Tindall, attd Cox. Handbook for Attendants on the Insane, with practical information respecting their duties and liabilities; instruct tions for the management, artificial feeding, mechanical restraint of the insane ; legal documents required for their confinement, &c. is. By L. S. Forbes Winslow, M.B., D.C.L., Oxon; M.R.C.P.; Lecturer on Mental Diseases, Charing Cross Hospital; Editor of The Journal of Psychological Medicine. Manual of Limacy. A Handbook relating to the Legal care and treatment of the Insane. Sa7?ie Author, \2s. 6d. "A comprehensive digest of every subject connected with the legal care of the insane."—Meaxal Times. A Lunacy Chart: being a Synopsis of the Lunacy Acts, and having special reference to the management and care of persons of Unsound Mind. By the same Author, \s. 6d. Varnished and mounted on canvas and rollers, 4^. 6d. Spiritualistic Madness. By the same Author, \s. Hints for Hospital Wurses. By Mesdames Williams Rachael and Alice Fisher. 2s. 6d. Cholera: how to Prevent and Resist it. By Professor von Pettenkofer, Professor of Hygiene, University of Munich, President of the Sanitary Department of the German Empire; and Thomas Whiteside Hime, A.B., M.B., Lecturer on Medicine at the Sheffield School of Medicine, Illustrated with Woodcuts and Diagram, 3^. 6d. Diarrhoea and Cholera : their Successful Treatment. By John Chapman, M.D., M.R.C.P. London, is. 6d. "His arguments are enforced at great length in the pamphlet before us, and are supported by an extensive array of facts."—Medical Times. Causes of Cholera: its Treatment. By Wm Grove Grady., M.D., M.R.C.S. is. How to Prevent Small Pox. By Mordey Douglas, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P Third edit., 6d. "This is a very valuable pamphlet."—Medical Press.' The Physiology of Intestinal Obstruction and Constipa- tioD, in certain cases, and in certain persons. By Chas. J. Harris, M.R.C.S. is. Sterility: its Causes and Treatment. Read before the Medical Society of London, by L B. Brown, F.R.C.S., late Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Diseases of Women, at St. Mary's Hospital (printed by request), is.8 FitMicaiions by Bailliere, Titidau, and Cox. The Nature and Treatment of Rabies or Hydrophobi&j and those diseases resembling it. Being the Report ot the Special Commission appointed by the Medical Pi-ess a7id Circular, with valuable additions, ^s. " The most valuable and complete Treatise on the subject; one which we can highly recommend."—Veterinaryjfournal. "This laborious work is a credit alike to the writers, and the journal which first published it."—77^6' Doctor. The Sewage Question: a Series of Reports. Being Investi- gations into the condition of the Principal Sewage Farms and Sewage Works of the Kingdom, from Dr. Letheby's Notes and Chemical Analyses. 4^. dd. " These Reports will dissipate obscurity, and, by placing the subject in a proper light, will enable local authorities, and others interested in the matter, to perceive the actual truths of the question, and to apply them practically." Notes on Nuisances, Drains, and Dwellings: their De- tection and Cure. By W. H. Penning, F.G.S. Second Edition, dd. "The directions, which are plain, sound, and practical, will be found useful in every household."—The Doctor. " This little pamphlet should be studied by everybody."—Scientific Review. flow to Avoid Typhoid Fever and Allied Diseases, with plain rules on house drainage, &c. By Arthur H. DowNES, M.B., M.D. • Typhoid Fever: its Treatment. By William Bayes, M.D., L.R.C.P. xs. Experimental Researches on the Causes and Nature of Hay Fever. With Woodcuts and Lithographic Tables. By Charles H. Blackley, M.D., M.R.C.S. 7^. "It is a piece of real honest work, original and instinctive, and will well repay perusal."—The Lancet. New Observations on Hay-Fever, with Additional Ex- periments. An Addendum to the above. By the same Author. IS. Diagnostics of Aural Disease. Second Edition, with a Chapter on the Application of Electricity, and Description of the Author's Magneto-Electric Catheter. Bv S. E. Smith; M.R.C.S. Illustrated, 2s. 6d. Deafhess : its Causes and Treatment, with the Anatomy and Physiology of the Organ of Hearing. By John P. Pennefather, M.K.Q.C.P., L.R.C.S., &c, 2nd edition, 2s. 6d.FuUications by Baillihre, Tindall, and Cox. 9 A Treatisf) on Pharmacy, designed as a Text-book for Stu dents.- and as a Guide for the Pliysician and Pharmacist, containing the officinal and many unofficinal Formulas, and numerous examples of extemporaneous Prescriptions. By Edward Parrish, Fourth Edit., enlarged and revised by T. S. Wiegand, F.C.S. With 280 Illustrations, half-bound morocco, 30^. " There is nothing- to equal Parrish's Pharmacy in this or any other lan- guage. "—Pharmaceutical yonrnal. The PharmacopcBial Companiou to the Visiting List. Being a Posologtcal Table of all the Medicines of the British Pharmacopoeia, arranged according to their action. By R. T. H. Bartley, M.D., M.B. Lend., Surgeon to the Bristol Ii)ye Hospital. 2nd edit., 6d. The Specific Action of Drugs. An Index to their Thera- peutic Value. By Alexander G. Burness, M.D., and F. Mayor, President of the Central Lond. Veterinary Society, los. 6d. Short Lectures on Experimental Chemistry. Introduc- tory to the general course. By J. Emerson Reynolds, F.C.S., M.R.C.P., Professor of Chemistry, Royal College of Surgeons, Pro- fessor of Analytical Chemistry, and Keeper of the Minerals, Royal Dublin Society. 35-. 6d. Chemistry in its Application to the Arts and Manufac- tures. A Text-Book by Richardson and Watts. Vol. I. : Parts I and 2.—Fuel and its Applications. 433 Engravings, and 4 Plates . . . £1 16s. Part 3.—Acids, Alkalies, Salts, S oap, Soda, Chlorine and its Bleaching Compounds, Iodine, Bromine, Alkalimetry, Glycerine, Railway Grease, &c., their Manufacture, and Applications . , . 13^. Part 4.—Phosphorus Mineral Waters, Gunpowder, Gun- cotton, Fireworks, Aluminium, Stannates, Tung states, Chromates and Silicates of Potash and Soda, Lucifer Matches • . . . ij. Part 5.—Prussiate of Potash, Oxalic Acid, Tartaric Acid," Many Tables, Plates, and Wood Engravings,;^! i6j-. Parts 3, 4, and 5 separately, forming a complete Practical Treatise on Acids, Alkalies, and Salts: their Manufacture and Application, In three vols., £^ los. ^—3Fuhlications by BailUere, Tiftdall, afid Cox. lO Posological Tables: Being a Classified Chart of Doses ; showing at a glance the Dose of every Officinal Substance and Preparation. For the use of Practitioners and Students. By Handsel Griffiths, Ph.D., L.R.C.P., &c. Late Professor of Chemistry Ledwich School of Medicine. Fourth edition, is. A. System, of Botanical Analysis, applied to the Diagnosis of British Natural Orders. £y the same Author, is. 6d. " The author has placed the student under considerable obligations by his system of botanical analysis."—Pharmaceutical yournal. Chemical Wotes for Pharmaceutical Students, including the Chemistry of the Additions to the Pharmacopoeia. By A. Rivers Willson. 2s. 6d. Collenette's Chemical Tables: Oxides, Sulphides, and Chlorides, with Blank Forms for Adaptation to other Compounds. Arranged for the use of Teachers and Students, by Professor Collenette. 6d. "An excellent means for the communication of much valuable informa- tion."—Chemist and Druggist. The Principles of Theoretical Chemistry, with special reference to the constitution of Chemical Compounds. By Ira Remson, M.D., Ph.D. 6s. •* Worthy of careful perusal."—New York Medical Record. The Chemical and Physiological Balance of Organic Nature: an Essay, i vol., i2mo. By Professors Dumas and Boussingault. 4^-. Elements of Chemistry; including the application of the Science in the Arts. By T. Graham, F.R.S., late Master ot the Mint. Second Edition, revised and enlarged. Illustrrted with Woodcuts. 2 vols., 8vo. £2. Vol. II. Edited by H. Watts, M.C.S. Separately, £1. Practical Treatise on the Use of the Microscope. By J. QuECKETT, F.R.S. Illustrated with 11 Steel Plates and 300 Wood Engrav- ings. Third Edition, £1 is. Lectures on Histology : Elementary Tissues of Plants and Animals. On the Structure of the Skeletons of Plants and Invertebrate Animals. 2 vols., 8vo. Illustrated by 340 Woodcuts. By the same Author. £1. 8.f. (>d.FiiMications by Baiilitre, Tindall, and Cox. i r An Introduction to Practical Histology. By George Thin, M.D. 5^. " No more valuable Text-book for the Student will be found, nor one containing a greater amount of useful information in the most convenient form."—Medical Press. Note-Book of Materia Mediea and Therapeutics. By R. E. Scoresby-Jackson, M.D., F.R.S., Revised by Angus Macdonald, M.A., F.R.S. Third Edit. 12S. 6d, "It is a work we can recommend with the utmost confidence."— Students' yourtial. Introduction to Cryptogamic Botany. 8vo. Illustrated with 127 Engravings. By Rev. M. J. Berkeley. The Architecture of the Heavens. By J. P. NiCHOL, Professor of Astronomy in the University of Glasgow. Ninth Edition. Illustrated with 23 Steel Engravings and numerous Wood-cuts. i6j-. The Protoplasmic Theory of Life. Containing the Latest Researches on the subject. By John Drysdale, M.D., F.R.M.S., President of the Liverpool Microscopical Society. 5X. " Subjects beyond the pale of precise knowledge are treated of in a manner which will quite repay peiaisal."—Nature. Materialism, Compatible with Dogmatic Theology. By the smne Author, ts. Life and the Equivalance of Force. By the same Author. Part I. Historical Notice of the Discovery of the Law of Equivalence of Force, xs. Part II. Nature of Force and Life : containing the Har- mony of Fletcher and Beale. xs. 6d. " We cannot part from this work without praising the calm and excellent spirit in which the subject is handled."—7'he Examiner. Responsibility and Disease : an Essay upon moot-points in Medical Jurisprudence, about which Medical Men should not fail to be well instructed. By J. H. Balfour Browne, Barrister-at-Law, Author of "The Medical Jurisprudence of Insanity," &c. 2s. On Mental Capacity in Belation to Insanity, Crime, and Modern Society. By Christopher Smith, M.D. 3^. 6d.12 Publications by Bailliere, Tindall, and Cox. Syphilis : Its Nature and Treatment. By Charles R. Drysdale, M.D., F.R.C.S., Physician to the MetropoHtan Free Hospital; late Secre- tary Harveian Medical Society's Committee for the Pre- vention of Venereal Diseases. Second Edition, 4^. 6d. "Contains in a moderate compass the conclusions of an industrious, painstaking syphilographer."—Medical Press and Circular. Functional Derangements and Debilities of tlie Gene- rative System : their Nature and Treatment. By F. B. CouRTENAY, M.R.C.S. Eleventh Edition, 3^-. Practical Lessons in the H'ature and Treatment of the Affections produced by the Contagious Diseases ; Syphi- litic Inoculation, Infantile Syphilis, and the Results of the Contagious Diseases Acts. By the late John Morgan, M.D., F.R.C.S., Second thousand. 5^. *'Contains much that is original and of practical importance."—Tlie Lancet. The Dangers of Chloroform and the Safety and Efficiency of Ether as an Agent in securing the Avoidance of Pain in Surgical Operations. Same A^ithor. 2nd thousand, 2^. On Certain Forms of Hypochondriasis, and Debilities peculiar to Man. From the German of Dr. PiCKFORr, by F. B. Courtenay, M.R.C.S. 5^. Revelations of Qtiacks and Quackery. A Directory of the London and Provincial Quack Doctors; with Facts and \ Cases in Illustration of their Nefarious Practices. By F. B. CouRTENAY, M.R.C.S., Eng. Twenty-fifth thousand, rs. 6d. " The narrative is too good to be abridged, and ought to be, as we be- lieve it is, largely circulated."—Saturday Rcvinu. A. Physician's Sermon to Young Men. By William Pratt, M.A., M.D., &c. is. "The delicate topic is handled wisely, judiciously, and religiously, as | vi^ell as very plainly."—Guardian. Practical Guide for the Young Mother. Translated from the French of Dr. Brochard, Director-General of Nur- series and Crbches in France, Edited with Notes ana Hints for the English Mother. By a London Physician. 2s.Puhlicatio7is by Bailliere, Tindall, and Cox. 13 The Breath, and the Diseases which give it a Foetid Odour. By J. W. Howe, M.D., Clinical Professor of Surgery in the University of New York. 4J'. 6d. " The appropriate treatment is pointed out in a manner quite intelligible to the non-medical reader"—jVezv York Medical yournal. The Uon-Alcoholic Treatment of Diseases. Reports of Cases treated at the London Temperance Hospital. With introduction by James Edmunds, M.D., M.R.C.P. xs. Modern Hydropathy; with Practical Remarks upon Baths, in Acute and Chronic Diseases. By James Williams, M.D., M.R.C.S. \s. Practical Observations on the Harrogate Mineral Waters. By A. S. Myrtle, M.D., L.R.C.S.E. ' Third Edit., 2s. 6d. Chronic Diseases best fitted for Treatment by the Har- rogate Mineral Springs. By the same Author, 2s. 6d. Practical G-uide to the Baths of Aix in Savoy. By the Baron Despine, Physician. 2s. Engineering Precedents for Steam Machinery : embracing the Performances of Steamships, Experiments with Pro- pelling Instruments, Condensers, Boilers, &c. 2 vols., 8vo. With Plates and Tables. By B. E. IsHERWOOD, Chief Engineer, United States Navy. 15J-, Dictionary of Technical Terms used in Iron Ship-building, Steam-engines, &c. In English, French, and Italian. By Giorgio Taberna. 3^. La Methode des Methodes—clef de la langue Frangaise. By Madame Paul Gayrard. 2s. 6d. The Body and its Ailments: a (family) handbook of fami- liar directions for care and medical aid in the more usual complainSs and injuries. By George H. Napheys, A.M., M.D. With over 100 illustrations. 6s. "We have rarely read any form of domestic medicine so simple, yet x^Yizhlt."—Public Opinion, y ' j14 Publications by BaiUicrc, Tindall, and Cox^ Field Geology, with a Section on Palaeontology. By W, Hy. Penning, F.G.S., of H.M. Geological Survey, and A. J, Jukes-Browne, B.A., F.G.S., of H.M. Geological Survey. Illustrated with wood-cuts and coloured map. ds. " Satisfies a want which has long been felt and frequently expressed."— Electricity Made Plain and Useful. By John Wesley, M.A. Second Edition, 2s. 6d. A Popular Edition, is. "A curious and entertaining little work."—Ziierary Churchman. Brilliant Prospects. A Novel. ByR.L. Johnson, M.D. 3^.6^'. Queer Customers. By the same Author, ix. My First Start in Practice. By the same Author. \s. Constipation: its Causes and Consequences. With Hints. By a Clergyman, ix. Cheerful Words: Sermons for Asylums, Hospitals, Gaols, and other Public Institutions. By Dignitaries of the Church, and Clergymen. Edited by Wm. Hyslop, Proprietor of Stretton House Asylum for Gentlemen, Shropshire. Vols. I. and II., price ^s. each. Hymnologia Christiana Latina; or, a Century of Psalms and Hymns and Spiritual Songs. By Various Authors, from Luther to Heber. Translated into Latin Verse by the late Rev. Richard Bingham, M.A. 5^. The Religion of Rome, described by a Roman. Translated and edited, with notes, by William Howitt, 5^. " Should be attentively studied by all who trace in religious beliefs the rise and fall of nations."—London Ncius. " No one should miss reading this startling book by a writer who speaks with the confidence and preciseness which personal experience alone can give."—Literary World.Publications by Bailliere, Tindall, and Cox. 15 VETERINARY WORKS. A Text-Book of Veterinary Obstetrics, including the diseases and accidents incidental to pregnancy, parturition and early age in the Domesticated Animals. By George Fleming, F.R.C.V.S., F.G.S., Editor of The Veterinary Joicr. 30J. cloth, or in eleven parts, 2s. 6d. each. " Has filled up a void in a more satisfactory and complete way than any other member of lais profession could have done."—7'he Field. " No man who makes any pretensions to Veterinary Science or Stock breeding can dispense with this work."—Live Stock Journal. A Text-Book of Pathology and Practical Medicine. By the same Atithor. {In preparatio . The Contagious Diseases of Animals: their influence on the wealth and health of the nation. Read before the Society of Arts. By the same Author. 6d. A Text-book on the Examination of Horses as to Soundness. A Course of Lectures remodelled and en- larged, delivered at the Royal ^Veterinary College, Edinburgh. By Professor Fearnley. With an Appendix on the Law of Horses and Warrantry, Illustrated, 7^. 6d. (Inpreparation.) Lessons in Horse Judging. By the same Author. 2s. 6d. The Management and Diseases of the Dog. Copiously Illustrated. By J. W. Hill, F.R.C.V.S. ioj. 6d. Horses : their Rational Treatment, and the Causes of their Premature Decay. By Amateur, c^s. An Abridgment of the above. By the same Author, xs. The Principles and Practice of Veterinary Surgery; embracing the Surgical Pathology of all the Domesticated Animals. By Wm. Williams, F.R.C.V.S. Principal and Professor of Veterinary Medicine and Surgery at the New Veterinary College, Edinburgh. With 140 illustrations, Second Edition, 30^-. The Principles and Practice of Veterinary Medicine. By the same Author. IVith Plates, xos.PuMications by Bailliire, Tindall, and Cox. WORKS FOR ART STUDENTS. Artistic Anatomy, for the use of Students in Schools of Art. By John Sparkes, Head Master of the National Art Training Schools, South Kensington. 5^-. Anatomy of the Esternal Forms of Man, designed for the Use of Artists, Sculptors, &c. By Dr. J. Fau. Twenty-nine Plates. FoUo. Plain, 2\s., coloured, 42J. The Student's Manual of Artistic Anatomy. With 25 I plates of the bones and surface muscles of the human figure ; together with a description of the origin, insertion, and use of the muscles. By W. J. Muckley, Principal of the Manchester School of Art. (Approved by the Science and Art Department.) ^s. 6d. Anatomic Artistiqxie Elementaire du Corps Humain, par le Docteur J. Fau. Noires, ^s.; coloriees, 10s. (Text in French.) Third Grade Perspective, comprising Angular and Obliquq Perspective, Shadows and Reflections, specially prepared for the use of Art Students. By H. J. Dennis, Art Master, I,ambeth School of Art, Dulwich College, &c. (Approved by the Science and Art Department). In 12 parts, xs. each, or in i vol., half-bound, 15^. Second Grade Perspective (Theory and Practice), contain- • ing 21, block illustrations, 12 well executed plates on Parallel and Angular Perspective, and many examination exercises; specially prepared for the use of Art Students. By the same Author. 2s. 6d. Elementary Anatomical Studies of the Bones and Muscles, for the use of Students and Schools, from the drawings of J. Flaxman, JR. A. Lately used as a Text- book of Anatomy in the Art Schools at South Kensington. 20 plateSj with Text, 2s.Publications by jJailliere, Tindall, and Cox. 17 THE STUDENTS' AIDS SERIES. Specially designed to assist Students in committing to memory, and grouping the subjects upon which they are to be Examined. In a convenient and uniform size for the pocket. Price \s. each, paper wrapper; \s. 6d. in cloth. Aids to Anatomy, By George Brown, M.R.C.S., Gold Medallist, Charing Cross Hospital. Third Thousand. " The little book is well done."—The Lancet. " With this little work, Students need have no dread of College Exa- miners. "—Medical Press. Aids to Surgery. By the same Author. Aids to Botany. Brief Outlines of the Elementary Facts of the Science, including a Description of some of the most important Natural Orders. By C. E. Armand Semple, B.A., M.B. Cantab., M.R.C.P. LoND. " The Student who can commit this to memory will doubtless be proof against pluck."—Medical Journal. Aids to Chemistry. By the same Author, 2nd Thousand. Part I.—Inorganic : Oxygen to the Metalloids Inclusive. "Students preparing for Matriculation at the London University, and other Examinations, will find it simply invaluable."—Students' Journal. Aids to Chemistry. Part II.—Inorganic. The Metals. By the same Author. Aids to Forensic Medicine and Toxicology. By W. Douglas Hemming, M.R.C.S. "We have no hesitation in recommending Mr. Hemming's book."— The Lancet. Aids to Examinations./ By the sa?ne Author. Being Questions and Answers on Materia Medica, Medicine, Midwifery, Pathology, and Forensic Medicine. Ifi Preparation. Aids to Materia Medica. Aids to Physiology.18 Piihlicatmis by BailUere, Tindall, atid Cox. WORKS ON PHYSICAL EXERCISE AND GYMNASTICS. BY UR. ROTH. The Prevention and Cm'e of many Chronic Diseases by Movements. With Ninety Engravings, los. The Handbook of the Movement-Ciire. With One Hun- dred and Fifty-five Original Engravings. loj-. Contributions to the Hygienic Treatment of Paralysis, and of Paralytic Deformities. With Thirty-Eight Engrav- ings. Illustrated by Numerous Cases. 3^. 6d. The Prevention of Spinal Deformities, especially of Lateral Curvature ; with Notes, t^s. 6d. On Paralysis in Infancy, Childhood, and Youth. With Forty-five Engravings. 3^. 6d. A Short Sketch of Rational Medical Gymnastics, or the Movement-Cure. With Thirty-eight Engravings, is. Table, showing a few Injia-ious Positions, and some De- formities of the Spine, produced partly by bad positions, and tight lacing. With Forty-six Engravings. 6d. A Table of a Few Gymnastic Exercises without Ap- paratus. With Thirty-three Wood Engravings. 6d. Gymnastic Exercises on Apparatus, according to the Ra- tional System of Ling. With Eighty Illustrations, is. The Gymnastic Exercises of Ling. Arranged by Dr. Rothstein; translated by Dr. Roth. Second Edition. 2S. 6d. The Russian Bath: with some Suggestions regarding Pub- lic Health. Second Edition, is. On the Importance of Rational Gymnastics as a Branch of National Education : a Letter to Lord Granville, is Exercises or Movements, according to Ling's System. With Forty-two Illustrations. Fourth Edition, is. Two Tables of Gymnastic Exercises without Appa- ratus ; with Explanations, is. A Plea for the Compulsory Teaching of Physical Edu- cation. IS.Baillicre, Tindall, and Cooes Ferz'odical Piihlications. 19 PERIODICAL PUBLICATIONS. The Medical Press and Gircuiar. Established 1838. Published every Wednesday in London, Dublin, and Edin- burgh. One of the oldest and most influential Medical Journals, ^d. Per annum, post free, in advance, ;£i \s. The Student's Journal and Hospital Gazette. A Fort- nightly Review of Medicine, Surgery, and the Collateral Sciences. The only Paper that represents the whole body of Medical Students 4^/. Per annum, yj. dd. The Doctor. A Monthly Review of British and Foreign Medical Practice and Literature. 6d. Per annum, 6s. The Veterinary Journal, and Annals of Comparative Pathology. Edited by George Fleming, F.R.C.V.S., Veterinary Surgeon 2nd Life Guards, ex-President of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons. \s. 6d. i8s. per annum. The Analyst, including the proceedings of the " Society of Public Analysts." For the information of those interested in the purity of Food, Drugs, &c., monthly, price 6d. Quarterly Journal of Inebriety. Published under the auspices of The American Association for the Cure of Inebriates. Price 3s. 6d. each; 12s. per annum, post free. The Journal of Psychological Medicine and Mental Pathology. Edited by Lyttleton S. Forbes Winslow, M.B., D.C.L., Oxon, Lecturer on Mental Diseases, Char- ing Cross Hospital. April and October, 2,s. 6d. DIRECTORIES. The Irish Medical Directory (Annual). Contains a com- plete Directory of the Profession in Ireland ; their Resi- dences and Qualifications ; the Public Offices which they hold, or have held ; the Dates of Appointments ; and the published Writings for which they are distinguished. 6s. The Medical Register and Directory of the United States of America. Containing the Names and Addresses of about 70,000 Practitioners of all grades. 30J-.2 0 Baiiliere, Tindall, and Cox's Standard French Works. STANDARD FRENCH WORKS. £ s. d. Alvarenga.—Thermometrie clinique - - -050 Anger.—Nouveaux elements d'anatomie chirurgicale, avecatlas 200 Maladies chinirgicales nouvelles fractures et luxa- tions, coloriees - - - - 7 10 o Anglada.—Etudes sur les maladies nouvelles et les maladies eteintes - - - - -080 Armand.—Traite de Climatologie generale - - o 14 o Barnes.—Le9ons sur les opgralions obstetricales - - O 12 o Barth and Roger.—Traite pratique d'Auscultation suivi d'un precis de percussion - - -070 Bayard.—Traite pratique des maladies de I'estomac - o 10 o Beaude.—Dictionnaire de medecine usuelle a I'usage des gens du monde - - - 2 vols. i 10 o Beaunis et Bouchard.—Nouveaux elements d'anatomie descriptive et d'embryologic - - o 18 o Precis d'anatomie et de dissection - -046 Beaunis.—Nouveaux elements de physiologic humaine - o 14 o Beclard.—Traite elementaire de Physiologic humaine - o 16 o Becquerel.—-Traite des applications de Teleclricite a la the- rapeutique medicale et chirurgicale - -070 Traite elementaire d'hygiene privee et publique - 090 Behier et Hardy. — Traite elementaire de Pathologic Interne. Vol. I. Pathologic generale et Semeiologie - 0120 Vol. II. Inflammations du tube digestif et de I'appareil respiratoire, circulatoire et nerveux o 12 ,0 Vol. ILL Inflammation de I'appareil genito- urinaires de la peau et de I'appareil locomoleur o 12 o Bennet.—Recherches sur le traitement dcla Phthisic pulmon- aire par I'hygicne les cliniats et la medecine - 040 Beraud.—Atlas complet d'anatomie chirurgicale topogra- phique - - - - -300 Planches coloriees 600 et Robin.—Manuel de physiologic de rhomme et des principaux vertebres - - 2 vols. o 12 o et Velpeau.—Manuel d'anatomie chirargicale generale et topographique - - -070 Berenger-Feraud —Traite de 1 immobilisation directe des fragments osseux dans les fractures - - o 10 o Traite des fractures non consolidees ou pseudarthroses o lo o De la fievre bilieusc melanurique des pays chauds, coniparee avec la fievre jaune ; etude clinique faite au Senegal - - - -070 De la fievre jaune au Senegal, etude faite dans les hopitaux de Saint-Louis et de Goree - -070 Traite clinique les maladies des Europeens au Senegal - - - - 2 vols. o 16 o Bergeret.—Abus des boissons alcooliquesBaillih'e, Jindall, and Cox^s Standard French 'Works. 21 £ s. d. Bergeret.—Fvaudes dans 1,'accomplissement des fonctions gene- ratrices - - - - -026 Bernard.—Lecons sur le chaleur animale - -070 Bernard (Claude).—Le9ons de physiologic experimentale appliquee a la medecine - - 2 vols. o 14 o Lecons sur les effets des substances toxiques et me- dicamenteuses - - - -070 Lecons sur la physiologic et la pathologic du systeme nerveux' - - - - o 14 o • Le9ons sur les proprietes physiologiques et les alter- ations pathologiques des liquides de I'organisme - o 14 o Lecons de pathologic experimentale - -070 De la physiologic generale - - -060 et Huette.—Precis iconographiquc de medecine operatoire et d'anatomie chii-urgicalc - -140 Ditto ditto, with coloured plates - -280 Premiers secours aux blesses - - -020 Bert.—Le9ons sur la physiologic comparee dc la respiration - o 10 o Berthier.—Des Nevroses menstraelles, ou la menstraation dans ses rapports .avec les maladies nervcuses et mentales - - - - -050 ■ Des Nevroses diathesiques, ou les maladies nervcuses dans leurs rapports avec la rhumatisme, la goutte, les dartres, la syphilis, le cancer, la scrofule, etc. - 050 Classification et diagnostic des maladies mentales - 046 Bidlot.—Etudes des diverses especcs dc phthisic pulmonairc et sur le traitement applicable a chacunc d'elles - 040 Bilhaut.—Etude sur la temperature dans la phthisic iralmo- nairc. - - - - -019 Billroth.—Elements de Pathologic Chirurgicale generale - o 14 o Binet.—Du comage broncho-tracheal et dc ses rapports avec la mort subite - - - -020 Birot.—Essai sur les albufnines pathologiques - * -030 Bivort.—Observations et etudes sur les causes, la jDrophylaxie et Ic traitement de la fievre typhoide ' - -020 Bocquillon.—Manuel d'histoire naturclle medicale - 2 vols. o 14 o Boisseau..—Des maladies simulecs et des moyens de les recon- naitre - - - - -070 Boivin et Duges.—Anatomic pathologique de Tutcrus et de ses annexes - - -pi. col. ago Bonnafont.—Traite theorique et pratique des maladies dc I'oreille, et des organes dc I'audition - - o 10 o Bossu (A.)—Anthropologic, ou etude des organes, fonctiones, maladies de I'homme et de la femme, 2 vol. et atlas 015 o Figures coloriees i i o Traite des pkntes medicinales indigenes, precede d'un cours de botanique. ■ i vol. et atlas - o 13 o Figiu-es coloriees i i o2 2 Bailliere, Tindall, and Cox's Standard French Works. Bossu (A.)—Lois et mysteres des fonclions de reproduction consider^s dans tous les etres animes Bouchardat.—Le Travail, son influence sur la sante Annuaire de therapeutique, de matiere medicale, de pharmacie, et de toxicologic - Formulaire veterinaire Manuel de matiere medicale, de therapeutique et de phannacie - - - 2 vols. Nouveau formulaire magistral - - . Bouchut.—Histoire de la medecine et des doctrines Medicales ■ Traite de pathologic generale et de semeiologie De la vie et de ses attributs Traite pratique des maladies des nouveau-nes et Despres.—Dictionnaire de medecine et de the- rapeutique • Atlas d'ophthalmoscopie medicale, de cerebroscopie De I'etat nerveux aigu et chronique Boudin.—Tiaite de geographic et de statistique medicales, et des maladies endemiques - - 2 vols. Bourgery.—-Traite de I'anatomie de" I'homme, com- prenant la medecine operatoire, dessine d'apres nature, par H. Jacob—8 vols, folio, 726 planches Ditto, ditto, coloriee et Jacob.—Anatomic elementaire en 20 planches, rejDresentant chacune un sujet dans son entier a la proportion de demi-nature, avec un texte explicatif Ditto ditto, coloriee - - - - Bourgeois.—Les passions dans leurs rapports avec la sante et les maladies .... Brehm.—La vie des animaux illustree—Les mammiferes Ditto ditto Les oiseaux Briand et Ghaude.—Manuel complet de medecine legale - BurdeL—Du cancer considere comme souche tuberculeuse Carles.—Etude sur les quinquinas Carriere.—Le climat de I'ltalie Cauvet.—Nouveaux elements d'liistoire naturelle medicale Cazeaux.—Traite de I'art des accouchements Cazenave.—Le9ons sur les maladies de la piau Cerise.—Melanges medico-psycologiques- Charcot.—Legons cliniques sur les maladies des vieillards et les maladies chroniques, par le docteur Ball. 2^ edition 2e serie, par le docteur Ch. Bouchard. I^"' fascicule 26 fascicule Le9ons sur les maladies du systeme nerveux; par le docteur Bourneville. Vol. I., 3e edition Vol. IL. 26 edition Lefons sur les maladies du foie des voies biliaires et des reiils, par les docteurs Bourneville et Se- vestre - - - ■ De la pneumonia chronique £ s. d. 0 5 0 0 2 6 0 I .> 0 4 6 0 16 0 0 3 6 0 16 0 I 0 0 0 4 6 0 16 0 I c 0 I 15 0 0 6 0 I 0 0 30 0 0 50 0 0 10 0 0 20 r\ \J 0 2 0 I I 0 I I 0 0 18 0 0 3 0 0 2 6 0 9 0 0 12 0 0 16 0 8 0 0 0 7 6 0 8 0 0 I 0 0 2 0 0 12 0 0 H 0 0 10 0 0 2 0Baillih-e, Tindall, atid Cox's Stafidard French Works. 23 Ghauveau.—Traite d'anatomie comparee des animaux do- mestiques Chauvel.—Precis d'operations de chirurgie Ghevallier.—Dictionnaire des alterations et falsifications des substances alimentaires, &c., avec I'indication des moyens de les reconnaitre - - - - Civiale.—La Lithotritie et la Taille Codex Medicamentarius, phamiacopee fran9aise, redigee par ordre du gouvernement . - - Colin.—Traite de physiologie comparee des animaux 2 vols. (Leon).—De la Fievre Typhoide dans I'armee Comite-Consultatif d'hygiene publique de France, recueil des travaux et des actes officiels de I'administration sanitaire, chaque vol. Comte.—Structure et physiologie de I'lioirtme, demontrees a I'aidedesfigurescoloriees, decoupees, etsuperposecs Corlieu.—Aide-memoire de medecine, de chirurgie, et d'ac- couchements . - Cornil et Ranvier.—Manuel d'histologie pathologique. Parts I. and II., chaque • ^ Part III. Cornilliac.—Etudes sur la Fievre Jaune a la Martinique Courty.—Traite pratique des maladies de I'uterus des ovaires et des trompes - . _ - CruveilhieretSee.—Traited'anatomie descriptive (complet)- • —— Vol. I.—Osteologie, Arthrologie et le Myologie Vol. 2.—Splanchnologie et organes des sens • ■ • Vol. 3.—An^eiologie et Nevrologie Cruveilhier.—Traited'anatomie pathologique generale ^vols. Anatomic pathologique du corps humain. 41 liv- raisons, chaque - - - . Cuvier.—Les oiseaux decrits et figures. 72 planches, 464 figures, noires - - . . Ditto ditto, coloriees Les mollusques. 56 planches, 520 figures, noires - Ditto ditto, coloriees . . » Les vers et les zoophytes. 37 planches, 520 figures, noires Ditto ditto coloriees Cyr.—Traite d'alimentation, dans ses rapports avec la physi- ologie, la pathologic, et la therapeutique Cyon.—Principes d'electrotherapie Dagonet.—Nouveau traite de maladie>- mentales - Daremberg.—Histoire des sciences medicales - 2 vols. Medecine, histoire et doctrines - • - Davaine,—Traite des cntozoaires et des maladies vermineuses de I'homme et des animaux domestiques 2 vols. Demarquay.—De la regeneration des organes etdes tissiis - : Maladies chirurgicales du Penis £ s. d. I 5 0 0 6 0 I 0 0 0 ■r A 10 0 0 10 0 1 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 b 0 0 4 6 0 6 0 0 4 6 0 7 0 0 12 0 0 19 0 2 5 0 0 16 0 0 15 0 0 17 0 I IS 0 0 11 0 r 10 0 2 10 0 o 15 0 I 5 0 0 15 0 I 5 0 0 8 0 0 4 0 0 15 0 I 0 0 0 3 6 0 14 0 0 16 0 0 II 02.1. BailUcrc, Titidall, and Cox's Standard French Works. Depaul.—Lemons de cliiiique obstetricale. redigees par M. le docteur De Soyre 2 vols. - - - o l6 Cartonne o 17 Deschamps.—Compendium de pharmacie pratique - i o Desmarres.—Le9ons cliniques sur la Chirurgie oculaire - 08 Despine and Picot.—Manuel pratique des makdies de I'eufance - - - . -06 Despres.—Rapport sur les travaux de la 7*^°'= ambidance a I'armee du Rhin et a I'armee de la Loire -20 Dolbeau.—Le9ons de clinique chii-urgicale - " o 7 ■ De la lithotritie perineale - - -04 Donne.—Hygiene des gens du monde - - -04 Dorvault.—Officine ou repertoire generale de pharmacie pra- tique - - - - - o 18 demi rellure, 2IJ ; cartonne I o Duchartre.—Elements dehotanique, comprenant I'anatomie, I'orgaiiogi-aphie, la pliysiologie des plantes, les families naturelles, et la geographic botanique - o 18 Duchenne.—De I'electrisation localisee - • - - o 18 Physiologic des Mouvemenlcs - - - o 14 M^canisme de la physionomie humaine. 9 plates - 10 Edition de luxe, 74 pi. photo, and 9 ]3l. - 2 18 Durand-Fardel.—Traite pratique des maladies chroniqucs 2 vols. I o Dictionnaii'e general des eaux minerales et d'hydro- logie medicale - - - 2 vols. I o Traite pratique des maladies des vieillai'ds - o 14 — Traite clinique et therapeutique du diabcte - 05 Duval et Lereboullet.—Manuel du microscope • - o 5 Fano.—Traite clementaire de chirurgie - - 2 vols. i 8 Farabeuf. —De L'^piderme et des Epitheliums - - o 5 Fau.—Anatomic artistique, noire, 4s : coloriee - - o 10 Fauvel.—TraitC pratique des maladies du larynx, precede d'un traits complet de laryngoscopie - - i o Ferrand—Traite de therapeutique medicale - -08 Fleury.—TraitC therapeutique et clinique d'hydrotherapie - o 17 Follin et Duplay.—Traite 61ementaire de pathologic exteme 117 Fonssagrives.—^Hygiene et assainissement des Villes - 08 Therapeutique generale - - -07 — Hygiene navale - - - - o 12 Fournier.—Le9ons cliniques sur la syphilis etudiee particuliere- ment cheZ la femme - - I vol. 015 Fort.—Anatomie descriptive et dissection, 3e edition 3 tWj. i 10 Pathologic et clinique chirurgicales - ■ i S Foville.—Etude clinique de la folie, avec predominance du delire des grandeurs - - -04 Moyens de combattre I'ivrognerie - - o 5 Fuster.—Clinique Medicale de Montpellier, vol. i - o 10 Galante.—Emploi du caoutchouc vulcanisg dans la therapeu- tique mCdico-chimrgicale - - -05BailBre, Tiiidall, and Cox's Standard French Works. £ s. Galezowski.—Traits des maladies des yeux - - i o • Du diagnostic des maladies des yeux par la chro- matoscopie rStinienne - - ■ o 7 Traite iconographique d'ophtlialmoscopie - i lo Gallard,—Lemons cliniques sur les maladies des femmes - o 12 o-allez,—Histoire des kystes de I'ovaire -. ' - -012 Ganot.—Traite elementaire de physique, experimentale et ap- pliquee, et de meteorologie - - - o 7 Garnier.—Dictionnaire amiuel des progres des sciences et institutions medicales - - -07 Garrigou.—Bagneres de Luchon - - -08 Gaujot et Spillman.—^Arsenal de la chirurgie contempo- raine - - - - 2 vo/s. i 12 Gayrard.—Le Methodede Metliodes clef delalangueFran9aise o 2 Gervais et Van Benenden.-—Zoologie mMicale - 015 Gintrac.—Cours theorique et clinique de patliologie interne et de therapie mgdicale - - 9 vo/s.-, 3 3 Girard.—Traite glSmentaire d'entomologie Coleopteres. Avec atlas, colorie - - - - 3 o • Ditto, ditto, noire - • - - - i 'lO Gloner.—Nouveau dictionnaire de therapentique - -07 Godron.—De I'espece et des races dant les etres organisfies - o 12 Goffres.—Precis iconographique des bandages, pansements, et appareils - - - - I 16 Gori.—Des hfipitaux, tentes, et baraques - -03 Gosselin.—Clinique chirurgicale de I'hfipital de la Charite 2 w/j I 4 Goubert.—Manuel de I'art des autopsies cadavfiriques, surtout dans les applications a I'anatomie pathologique - 06 Graefe.—Clinique ophthalmologique - --08 Grehant.—Manuel de physique medicale - - -07 Grellois.—Histoire medicale du blocus de Metz - -06 Gubler.—Commentaires therapeutiques du Codex medicamen- tarius - - - - - - 013 Guibourt.—Histoire naturelle des drogues simples 4 vols. i 16 Guillemin. —I,es bandages et les appareils a fractures - 06 Guttman.—Traite du diagnostic des [maladies desj organes Thoraciques et Abdominaux - - - -07 Guyon.—Elements de chirurgie clinique - - -012 Hacquart.—Botanique medicale - - - -06 Heck el.—Histoire medicale et phamacetttique des princi- paux agents medicamenteux- . - -06 Herard et Cornil.—De la phthisie pulmonaire - - o 10 Hervieux.—Traitfe clinique et pratique des maladies puerp6 - rales et des suites de couches - - -015 Houel.—Manuel d'anatomie pathologique generale - -07 Jamain.—Manuel de pathologic etde clinique chirurgicalesw/.i o 8 • Manuel de petite chinirgie - - - -08 ■ Nouveau traite elementaire d'anatomie descriptive et de preparations anatomiques - - -01226 Baillib e, 2'indall, and Cox's Standard French Works. £ s. d. o 5 o o 6 o o 12 o o 7 o Jeannel.—Prostitution dans les grandes villes I9« siecle Formulaire magistral et officinal international Jobert (de Lomballe).—De k reunion en chirurgie Kuss et Duval.—Cours de physiologic Kiener.—Le Species general et iconographie des coquilles vivahtes, continue par le Docteitr Fischer. Genre Turbo, avec 43 planches gravies et coloriees - 2 10 o Genre Trochus - - - - Lancereaux.—Atlas d'anatomie pathologique - -400 Lecorche.—Traite du Diabete - - - o 10 o Maladies des Reins - - 0120 Lecour.—Prostitution a Paris et a Londres, lySg—1871 - 046 Le Fort.—La chirurgie militaire et les societes de secours en France et a I'etranger - - - - o 10 o Lefort.—Traite de chimie hydrologique - - - o 12 o Liebreich. — Atlas d'ophthalmoscopie reprcsentant I'etat normal et les modifications pathologiques du fond de I'oeil visibles a I'ophthalmoscope Legouest.—Traite de chirurgie de I'armee . . - Lemaire.—Acide phenique . . - , Levy.—Traite d'hygiene publique et privee 2 vols. Littre et Robin.—Dictionnaire de medecine, de chirurgie, de phannacie, de I'art veterinaire. 14'' edition - Longet.—Traite de Physiologic, 3eme edition - 3 vols. Lorain.—Etudes de medecine clinique : Le cholera, observe a I'hopital Saint Antoine . . - - Le pouls, ses variations et ses formes diverses dans les maladies . . - - . Luys.—Iconographie photographique des centres nerveux Magnan—De I'Alcoolisme, des diverses formes du delire al- coolique et de leur traitement - Mailliot.—Auscultation . . - - . Malgaigne.—Manuel de medecine operatoire - vol. i Traite d'anatomie chirurgicale et de chirurgie experi- mentale - - - - - 2 vols. Mandl.—Hygiene de la Voix - - . - Maladies du larynx et du phaiynx - - - Marais.—Guide pratique pour I'analyse des urines - Marce.—Traite pratique des maladies mentales Recherches cliniques et anatomo-pathologiques^ March and. ^—Des accidents qui peuvent^compliquer la reduc- tiors des luxations traumatiques . - - Marchant.—Etude sur les maladies gpidemiques . Marvaud. —Effets physiologiques et thfirapeutiques des ali- ments d'epargne ou antidgperditeurs Les Aliments d'epargne Alcool et Boissons aroma- tiques (caf6, tb6, &c.) - Maunory et Salmon.—Manuel de I'art des accouchements Mayer.- Conseils aux femmes sar I'age de retour - I 10 0 0 14 0 0 6 0 I 0 0 I 0 0 I 16 0 0 •7 0 0 10 0 7 ID 0 0 s 0 0 12 0 0 7 0 0 18 0 0 4 6 0 18 0 0 0 6 0 8 0 0 I 6 0 0 0 I 0 0 3 6 0 6 0 0 7 o 0 .3 0Bailliere, Tindall, and Cox's Standard French Works, 27 Mayer.—Rapports coiijugaux, considerSs sous point de vue de la population, sante, at de la morale publique ■ r Mfimoire sur le mouvement organique dans ses rap- ports avec la nutrition . - - - Meyer.—Traite des maladies des yeux Montmeja.—Pathologie iconographique du fond de l-'oeil, traits d'ophthalmoscope - •■ - - Moquin-Tandon.—Elements de botanique medicale Elements de zoologie medicale . . - Morache.—Hygiene mililaire - , - Morel.—Traite d'hsitologie humaine - - aves atlas Naegele et Gernser.—Traite de I'art des accouchements - Naquet.-—Principes de chimie - - - 2 vols. Nelaton.—Elements de pathologie chinirgicale - 3 vols. vol. 4, part I. Nielly.—Manuel d'obstfitrique ou aide-memoire de I'eleve et du practician . . . . - Niemeyer.—Pathologie interne - - - 2 vols. Nouvelle Navigation Astronomique Theorie et Pratique . . - . - Onimus et Legros.—Traite d'electricite medicale - Ore.—Etudes sur la transfusion du sang - - - Paulet.—Resume d'anatomie appliquee Pean.—Legons de cliniqiie chirurgicale - - - Pelletan.—Le microscope, son emploi et des applications Penard.—Guide pratique de I'accoucheur et de la sage-femme Peter.—Le5ons de clinique medicale - - - vol. 1 vol. 2 Petrequin.—Nouveauxm6langes de chirurgie et de midecine Peuch et Toussaint.—Precis de chirurgie veLerinaire, 2 vols, Pidoux.—Etudes sur la phthisie - . . - Pinard.—Vices de conformation du bassins Contre indications de la version dans la presentations de I'epaule . _ . . Poggiale.—Traite d'analyse clinique - - - - Poincare.—Lemons sur la Physiologic normale et patholo- gique du Systeme Nerveux - - 3 wA. Quatrefages et Hamy.—Les cranes des races Inimaines, en 6 livraison chaque - . . . Quetelet.—Anthromopetrie, ou mesuredes dififerentes facultes de I'homme - . - - - " - Raciborski.—Histoire des decouvertes relatives au systeme veineux - ... Traite de la menstruation - . - - Racle.—Traitfi de diagnostic medical, guide clinique pour I'etude des signes caracteristiques des maladies - Requin.—Elements du pathologie medicale - - 4 vols. Rindfleisch.—Traite d histologic pathologique Riant.—Legons d'hygiene, coutenant les matieres du pro- gramme officiel adopte par le ministre de instruction pub- lique pour les lycefes et les 6coles normales £ s. d. 0 -* 0 0 0 3 0 0 10 0 0 18 o 0 6 0 0 6 0 0 16 0 0 12 0 0 12 0 0 10 0 I 16 0 0 7 0 0 4 0 I 0 0 I 0 0 0 12 0 0 12 0 0 5 0 I 0 0 0 16 0 0 4 0 0 15 0 sous presse 0 7 6 I 6 0 0 9 0 0 7 0 0 3 0 0 9 0 0 18 0 0 14 0 0 12 0 0 0 0 12 0 0 8 0 I 10 0 0 14 0 0 6 028 JBailHere, Tindall, and Cox's Standard French Works. £ s. d. Richard.—Histoire de la generation - - -0120 Richet, A.—Traite pratique d'anatomie medico-cliinirgicale - o 18 o Robin.—Programme du cours d'histologie - - -,060 Robin.—Evolution de la notocorde - - - -0120 Traite du microscope - - - - r o o Anatomie et physiologie cellulaire - - - o 16 o ■ LeQons sur Les Humeurs, 2eme edition - - o 18 o Roubaud.—Traite de I'impuissance et de la sterility chez I'homme et chez la femme - - -080 Saboia.—Accouchements - - . - -0130 Sandras et Bourguinon.—Traits pratique des maladies nerveuses . . . .2 vols. o 12 o Saint-Vincent.—Nouvelle medecine des families - -036 Sanne.—Traite de la diphtheric - ■- - - o 10 o Schimper.—Traite de paleontologie vegCtale, avec atlas in folio 3 vols., 7 10 o Sedillot et Legouest.—Traite de mfidecine op6ratoire 2 z'oA. i o Senac.—Traitment des coliques hepatiques - - -040 Souberan.—Nouveau dictionnaire des falsification et des alterations des aliments des medicaments, &c. - o 14 o Tatnen-Despalles.—Alimentation du cerveau et des nerfs 070 Traitement physiologique des maladies consomptives et hereditaires - - - -030 Coup d'oeil sur les indications et I'usage des eaux minerales de Contrexeville (source du pavilion) - o I O Tardieu.—Dictionnaire d'hygiene publique et de salubrity, 4 vols. I 12 o Etude Medico-Legale sur les blessures par im- prudence, I'laomicide, et les coups involontaires - 036 Ditto ditto sur la pendaison, la strangulation, et la suffocation - - - - - -050 Ditto ditto sur I'avortement - - -040 Ditto ditto sur I'impoisonnement - - - o 14 o • Ditto ditto sur les attentats aux moeurs - -046 Ditto ditto sur I'infanticide - - - -060 • Ditto ditto sur la folic - - - -07.0 Ditto ditto sur I'identite - - - -030 • Manuel de pathologic et de chirurgie medicates - 070 Tillaux.—Traite d'anatomie topographique - . - o 14 6 Trousseau.—Clinique medicale de l'H6tel-Dieu de Paris i 12 o Trousseau 6t Pidoux.—Traite de therapeutique et de matiere medicale - - - - 2 vols. 170 Yalleix.—Guide du medecin practicien, resume general de pathologic et de therapeutique appliquees, 5 vols. 2 10 o Vandercolme.— Histoire botanique et therapeutique des salsepareilles - - - - -036 Varlette.—Clinique chirur^icale de 1'Hotel Dieu de Lyon - 0120 Vaslin.—Plaies par armes a feu - - - -060 Verneau.—Le Bassin dans les sexes et dans les races - 060Bailliere, Tindall, and Cox's Standard French Works. 29 Verrier.—Guide du Medecin Praticien et de la Sage femme - Vidal.—Traite de pathologic externe et de medicine op^ratoire Virchow.—Pathologie des tumeurs - - - 3 vols. vol. 4, \" fasc Voisin.—Lemons cliniques sur les maladies mentales professees a la Salpetriere - - - - - Vulpian.—Lemons de physiologic generalc et coniparee du systeme nerveux an musee d'histoire naturelle Leijons sur I'appareil vaso-moteur - - 2 vols. Wagner.—Traits de chimie industrielle - - 2 vols, Witkowski.—Anatomic iconoclastique compose de planches decoupees, colorifies et superposees avec texte Corps humain - Encephale : cerveau, bulbe, &c. - -, Larynx et langue' - - - Oeil (de face de profil et les voies lachrymalcs) Organes genitaux de I'homme ... la femme ... ■ Oreille, et Dent . . . . "Woillez.—Dictionnaire dc diagnostic medical, comprenant le diagnostic raisonne de chaque maladie, leur signes &c.^ ------ Traite clinique des maladies aigues des organes re- spiratoires - - ' - Traite clinique des maladies aigues des organes respi- 1 atones ----- Wundt.—Traite elementaire de physique medicale, traduit de I'Allemand par le Dr. Monoyer ... Noveaux elements de physiologic humaine - Wunderlich.—De la temperature dans les maladies £ s. d. 0 7 0 2 0 0 I 16 0 0 4 6 0 6 0 0 10 0 0 i8 0 I 0 0 0 6 0 0 6 0 0 7 0 0 8 0 0 7 0 0 6 0 0 5 0 0 16 0 0 13 0 0 13 0 0 12 0 0 10 0 0 14 0 Valuable Scientific Dictionaries in course of Publication. Dictionnaire de Chimie pure et appliquee,qnlivraisons 040 Dictionnaire de Medecine, de chirurgie, et d'hygiene veterinaires. Edition entierement refondue par A. Zundel, en 6 parties - - . - - - 300 Dictionnaire Encyelopedique des Sciences Medi- cales publie par demi-volume de chacun 400 pages et en quatro series simultanees : la premiere, commen9ant par la lettre A; la deuxieme, par' la lettre L; la troisieme, par la lettre Q, et la qnatrieme par F - - - -060 Nouveau Dictionnaire de Medecine et de chi- rurgie pratiques, d'environ 32 volumes, chaque - - 6 10 o30 Bailiih-e, Tindali, and Cox's Standard French Works. BIBLIOTHEQUE D'HISTOIRE CONTEMPORAINE. In Volumes at 3^. 6d. Bagehot.—La constitution anglaise. Barni, Jules.—Histoire des idees morales et politiques en France XVIIP siecle. 2 vols. • Les moralistes fran9ais au XVIIIe siecle. • Napoleon i^'. et son historien M. Thiers. Barry, Herbert-—La Russie contemporaine. Beaussire, Emile.—La guerre etrangere et la giierre civile. Boert.—La guerre de 1870-71 d'apres Rustow. Bourloton, Ed.—L'Allemagne contemporaine. Carlyle.—Histoire de la revolution fran9aise. 3 vols. Clamageran.—La France republicaine. Deberle, Alf.—Histoire de I'Amerique du Sud. De Rochau.—Histoire de la restauration. Despois, Eug.—Le vandalisme revolutionnaire. Dixon, H.—a Suisse contemporaine, traduit de 1'Anglais. Duvergier, De Hauranne.—^La republique conservatrice. Hillebrand.—La Prusse contemporaine et ses institutions. Laugel, Auguste.—Les Etats-Unis pendant la gueiTe (1861-65). Lord Palmerston et Earl Russell. Meunier, Victor.—Science et democratie. Montegut, Emile.—Les Pays-Bas. Impres de voyage et d'art. Reynald, H.—Histoire de I'Espagne depuis la mort de Charles III. jusqu'a nos jours. Sayous, Edouard.—Histoire des Hongrois et de leur litterature politique de 1790 a 1815. Teste, Louis.—L'Espagne contemporaine, journal d'un voyageur. Thackeray.—Les quatre Georges. Veron, Eugene.—Histoire de la Prusse depuis la mort de Frederic II. jusqu'a la bataille de Sadowa. . Histoire de L'Allemagne depuis la bataille de Sadowa. £ s. d. Alglave, Emile.—Histoire de l'imp6t sur le Revenu en France (sous presse) - - - - -070 Delord, Taxile.—Histoire du second empire, 6 vols. - 220 De Sybel.—Histoire de I'Europe pendant la revolution fran- 9aise. 3 vols. - • - - • - lie Lewis, SirG. Cornewall.—Histoire gouvemementale de I'Angleten-e, 1770—1830, precede de la vie de I'auteur - o 70Bailliere, Tindall, md Cox s Standard Fretich Works. 31 BIBLIOTHEQUE DE PHILOSOPHIE CONTEMPORAINE. In Volumes zr.- 6d. each. Alaux.—Philosophic de M. Cousin. Auber, Ed.—Philosophic dc la medecine. Beaussire.—Antecedents de FHegelianisme dans la philos. frang. Bentham et Grote.—La religion naturelle. Bersot, Ernest.—Libre philosophic. Bertauld.—L'ordre social et Fordre moral, Philosophic Morale. Bost.—Le Protestantisme liberal. Bouillier (Francisque).—Du plaisir et de la douleur. De la conscience. Boutmy, E.—Philosophic de rarchitecture en Grece. Buchner, L.—Science et nature. 2 vols. Challexnel Lacour.—La philosophic individualiste, etude sur Guil- laume de Humboldt. Coignet, G.—La morale independante. Coquerel, Ath.—Origines et transformations du christianisme. La conscience et la foi. Histoire du credo. Dumont.—^Heckel et la Theorie de I'Evolution en Allemagne. Faivre.—De la variabilite des especes. , Fontanes.—Le christianisme moderne. Etude sur Lessing. Fonvielle, W. de.—L'astronomie modehie. Franck, Ad.—Philosophic du droit penal. Philosophic du droit ecclesiastique. La philosophic mystique en France au xviii* siecle. Garnicr, Ad.—De la morale dans I'antiquite. Gauckler.—Le Beau et son histoire. Hartmann.—La Religion de I'Avenir. — La Darwinisme ce qu'il y a de vrai, et de faux dans cette theorie. Herzen.—Physiologie de la Volonte. Janet, Paul.—Le materialisme contemporain. La crise philosophique. MM. Taine, Renan, Vacherot, Littre. Le cerveau et la pensee. Philosophic de la revolution francaise.' Saint Simon and St. Simonism. Spinoza le Dieu en la Bonheur. Laugel, Auguste.—Les problemes de la nature. Les problemes de la vie. Les problemes de I'ame. La voix, Toreille, et la musique. L'optique et les arts. Laveleye, Eni. de.—Les formes de gouvernement. Leblais.—Materialisme et spiritualisme, preface par M. E. Littre. Lemome, Albert.—Le vitalisme et I'animisme de Stahl. De la physionomie et de la parole, L'habitude etl'instinct etudes, de psychologic comparee.32 Baillierc, Tindall, and Cox's Standard Fraich Works. Levallois, Jules.—Deisme et christianisme. Leveque, Charles.—Le spiritualismc dans I'art. La science de I'invisible. Etude dc psychologic et de theodicei Lotze.—Principes geueraux de P.sychologie Physiologique. Mariano.—La philosophic contemporaine en Italic. Max-MuUer.—La Science des Religions. Mill, Stuart.—Auguste Comte et la philosophic positive. Milsand.—L'esthetique anglaise, etude sur John Ruskin. Moleschott—La circulation de la vie, 2 vols. Odysse-Barot.—Philosophic de I'histoire. Remusat, Charles de.—Philosophic religieuse. Reville, A.—Histoire du dogme de la divinite de Jesus-Christ. Ribot.—Philosophic de Schopenhauer. Saigey.—La physique moderne. Saisset, Emile.—L'ame et la vie, une etude sur l'esthetique franc. Critique et histoire de la philosophic. Schoebel.—Philosophic de la raison pure. Schopenhauer.—Essai sur le libre arbitre. Selden, Qamille.—La musique en Allemagne. Mendelssohn. Spencer, Herbert.—Classification des sciences. Saint Simon.—Education. Taine, H.—Le positivisme anglais, etude sur Stuart Mill. ■ L'ldtalisme anglais, etude sur Carlyle. De I'ideal dans I'art. Pliilosophie de I'art. Philosophic de I'art en Italic. Philosophic de I'art dans les Pays-Bas. Philosophic de I'art en Grecc. Tissandier.—Des sciences occultes et du spiritisme. Vachsrot, Et.—La science et la conscience. Vera, A.—Essais de philosophic Hegelienne. Archives Generale de Medecine. ist of each month. Le Progres Medical. Weekly. Post free, per annum. 2i.r., in Great Britain and Ii-eland. Revue des Deux Mondes. ist and 15th of every Month. Revue Scientifique de la France et de l'Et>ranger. Weekly, bd. Revue Politique et Litteraire. Weekly, 6d. Revue Mensuelle de Medecine et de Chirurgie. Monthly, 2J.; 20.v. per annum. Revue Philosophique de la France etde I'EJtranger. Monlhly, ^s. La Petite Bibliographic fra.ii.cs.ise a summary of i/ic Likra- tia-e of the Continent in all its branches, it'ill be sent gratuitously upon application. WORKS NOT IN STOCK, PROCURED AT THE SHORTEST POSSIBLE NOTICE. Messrs. Bailliere, Tindall, & Cox are the specially appointed Agents for the Revue des Deux Mondes, aird most of the Scientific and Medical Periodicals of the Continent.