...— 188 PLATE XXVIII Fig. 3 is a section of the left forearm in its lower third. The radius has become considerably thicker in section. Its surface is covered by the broad pronator quadratus, which from its attachment to the ulna, rolls the radius over to the position of pronation. Beneath it is the interosseous ligament, and on both sides of it the interosseous vessels. The proximity of the radio-carpal joint is evident from the presence of the tendons of the muscles. The flexors and extensors even to the flexor carpi ulnaris have become- tendinous, consequently the radial artery lies free, covered only by skin and fascia, hence affording the readiest means of feeling the pulse, and is here very easily ligatured. The ulnar artery, on the contrary, is still covered over by the tendinous border of the flexor carpi ulnaris, which must be drawn aside in order to reach it. On the extensor aspect are the long muscles of the thumb, and passing upwards from below the radial extensors of the carpus. At their points of crossing, bursae are developed to prevent their rubbing against one another. Over-use of these muscles, such as with mowers, may cause inflammation of these bursas and form a tumour over this locality (teno- synovitis). The number of muscles again on the flexor surface exceeds tlmt of the extensor surface in this section. The mass of the muscles has, however, so much diminished that in amputation of the forearm in this region the flap a la manchette is preferable, as the plate sufficiently explains. Fig. 4. In this plate the section passes through the carpus. The tendons only of the muscles are now shown with their bursal tissue, the presence of which is indicated by the numerous black lines around the divided tendons, the only muscular tissue cut being that of the ball of the little finger. Only a small portion of the radius, the root of its styloid process, is shown. The bones of the carpus seen, are the semilunar, scaphoid, and cuneiform, and the articulation between it and the pisiform, the surface of which is seen anteriorly, has been opened. The three bones of the first row represent a surface, the individual portions of which are moveable, and which articulates with the radius, and with the ulna by means of the inter-articular fibro-cartilage. The