14 PLATE I able variations obtain as regards tbis matter. Especial care was expended on that envelope of tire bladder which forms the porta vesicas of Retzius, as this is not very clearly shown in Henle and Kohlrausch. It is shown that from the termination of the posterior wall of the sheath of the rectus (the so- called fold of Douglas) two laminae of fascia take their origin, and then pass down close to one another between the rectus and the peritoneum. If the bladder be only moderately distended, as in this case, they however confine a space in front of the peritoneum, which is taken possession of by the bladder as it rises upwards during distension. The anterior lamina passes downwards as a thin covering upon the rectus abdominis and lines the space between the bladder and the symphysis pubis; the posterior lamina passes across behind the urachus on to the bladder, in order to invest it, and to join the prostatic capsule and pelvic fascia. The internal vesical sphincter is clearly seen in the plate, but, on the other hand, the external sphincter is not completely brought into view. The limits of the prostate gland are clearly defined, also the parts lying in front of the urethra are accurately represented. In most cases the muscular fibres and gland tissue are not exactly made out. In front of the prostate is the middle pubo-prostatic ligament with the numerous veins which form the plexus venosus of Santorini. Beneath it is some muscular tissue which' has not been completely analysed. It was represented as it stood, and, after Henle, is comprehended under the name of deep transverse perineal muscle; it, moreover, corresponds with Muller’s so-called constrictor of the membranous urethra. The tri- angular ligament of the urethra (Colles), which lies on the ligamentum arcuatum, close beneath the symphysis, and is incorporated with the deep transverse perinei, does not appear very clearly defined in this section. The white portions on the anterior border of the above-mentioned muscular mass are to be referred to this. Yertical sections in an antero-posterior direction are not adapted for the demonstration of the pelvic fasciae and muscles; those made across the axis of the body afford better results. The dorsal vein of the penis and the suspensory ligament are well shown.