PLATE XIX 154 2. That the capacity of the synovial cavity reaches its maximum in a definite degree of flexion, and that the angle at which this happens is 25°. We learn from this that the statement of Bonnet, that the maximum capacity happens in the position of semi-flexion is incorrect, as we see that the position in which this condition exists is rather at the commencement of flexion. But a second and not less interesting relation is evident from the preceding experiments. It is that the increase of capacity is the greatest from extreme extension to 10° of flexion, less from 10°—20°, and still less from 20°—30°. An important practical fact follows from this, that a slight degree of flexion, such as 10°, determines the relatively greatest increase of capacity of the capsule. If the joint be in the position attained, when filled with fluid to its greatest extent, it may be forcibly extended without fear of rupture of the capsule; and here, again, my results differ from those of Bonnet. 3. The minimum of the capacity of the synovial cavity coincides with the maximum of flexion. Hence, the idea expressed by Bonnet on the method of treating penetrating wounds of joints is disproved—that the extension is the position in which the capacity of the capsule diminishes. Although in extension, as sections of frozen knee-joints show, the joint surfaces are closely approximated by means of the tensely stretched lateral ligaments, the spaciousness of the capsule in this position is, nevertheless, very considerable; and it is larger in semi- flexion than in complete. If the knee be forcibly flexed, and if the joint be now entirely filled with fluid, there ensues a degree of flexion by which the wall of the capsule is ruptured and the fluid escapes into the cellular tissue. Moreover the clinical relations throw considerable doubt upon the correctness of Bonnet’s theory of the mechanism of the knee-joint. In such cases as acute arthro-synovitis, the ligamentous structures specially suffer, and disease is distinguished by copious effusion into the articulation. We frequently find complete extension of the knee-joint throughout the course of the disease—an observation which I have repeatedly made, and