12 PLATE I The relations of the peritoneum are represented in the plate as they were met with after the thawing of the preparation; only, for the sake of clearness, half the fat of the greater bag of the peritoneum has been taken away and the layers thereof shown somewhat diagrammatically. A vertical section in the middle line is not the most favorable for showing the mutual disposition of the reflexions of the peritoneum; an oblique one taken outwards from the foramen of Winslow, through the root of the mesentery to the iliac flexure, would much better answer the purpose. Therefore, in the accompanying woodcut I have given a diagram- matic representation, which will at least make clear the relation of the lesser bag to the other portions of the peritoneum. The individual layers of which the transverse ineso-colon is composed, are not represented in this drawing as they cannot be prepared in the full-sized body, and their diagrammatic representation would only complicate the drawing. On the relations of the rectum there is nothing further to add. The distance of the peritoneal sac from the anus, which is here about three inches, is to lire noticed, as is also the position of the so-called valves of the rectum. Since the rectum in its ascending portion courses over towards the left half of the body, there is only a flat section of it to be seen; in this respect my plate differs from those of Henle and Kohlrausch. The representation of the bladder also differs from that given by the above-mentioned authors, it was, however, accurately drawn from the preparation. The bladder was completely full of frozen urine, and conse- quently there was no sinking-in of its upper wall, as is represented in several of Pirogoff’s plates. I injected the bladder with tallow as soon after death as possible, partly through the urethra and partly through the ureter, both in the vertical and horizontal position, in order to compare the form and situation of that viscus. A section in the mesial plane in each case showed the same conditions as in the plate, and, with reference to the flattening of the upper wall, no essential difference was found whether the body was upright or lying down. The position of the entrance of the urethra corresponds with Henle’s and Kohlrausch’s description, though no absolute similarity need be expected. Langer (‘Med. Jahrb. Wien.,’ 1862, 8 Heft) has shown that many consider-