PLATE II 38 The bladder may be so compressed in the middle line that it assumes an hour-glass form, one portion of it still retaining the urine after the other has been emptied by the catheter. In such conditions the catheter would have to be passed into the further cavity, so that all the urine might be drawn off. The anterior lip of the os is continued into the anterior wall of the vagina without a clearly defined border, whilst the hinder is strongly prominent and h&s a length of one inch. The cavity of the vagina contains the canal of the cervix. The vagina itself is 3 inches in length, whilst that in fig. 4 was only P5 inch, and the long extended one in fig. 2, 2‘8 inches. In like manner the distance of the peritoneum on the posterior wall of the vagina from the perineum is increased, being 3'24 inches ; in fig. 1 it is 2'08 inches. The conjugate diameter is large, being 4‘28 inches. The ante-flexed position of the uterus is shown by Schultze to be the normal one in young persons when the bladder is empty. The uterus would, fol- lowing the contracting bladder, lie wpon it, and from traction exercised by the utero-vesical ligament of Courty extend the base of the bladder back- wards (cf. Volkmann, ‘ Sammlung Klinisches Yortrage,’ No. 50). There is no question that during the variations of the forms of the rectum and bladder, according to the amount of their contents, a space remains in the pelvis near the uterus, which must either be temporarily filled with small intestine, or render necessary a larger amount of variability in the shape of the uterus itself. If we exclude with Claudius and Hennig the possi- bility of a filling-up of Douglas’s pouch by the small intestine, in the case of the bladder and rectum being empty, the difficulty of representing the topography of the uterus would be enormous, as is evident to every experienced anatomist. We have the choice only, either with Henke to show the uterus set up at a fixed angle with the vagina surrounded by small intestine, or with Schultze to represent it bent over on the bladder. However important it may be to determine these relations accurately, I do not think that it can be done at present; in any case I should not follow Schultze’s statement completely. The extension of the base of the bladder does not appear to me in Schultze’s plate to be correct, still less so does the assumption of a forcing of the same by means of a ligament, as 5