PLATE VI 62 middle scalene muscles, are tlie supra-clavicular twigs from the fourth cervical nerve. Between the anterior and middle scalene muscles are the sections of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, which are figured collectively on the plate as brachial plexus, so as not to disturb the detail of the clearness of the drawings. The seventh cervical nerve comes off from the spinal cord in the vertebral canal, and takes a direction outwards and backwards behind the vertebral artery. The above-mentioned figures of Nuhn (‘ Chirurg. Auat. Tafeln.,’ taf. iv, fig. 2) and Beraud (‘Atlas d’Anat. Chirurg.,’ Plate XXXVII, fig. 2) should be compared, as the question to be proved is whether in these plates of sections of the neck the natural relations are represented, since they show not round but polygonal contours. There is one word to be added here on the relations of this section with respect to the vertebra, in order that no misconception may arise :—Nuhn’s section of the larynx is taken almost at the same level as mine, whilst in Beraud’s nothing of the trachea below the cricoid cartilage is seen. Both authors make the corresponding- vertebra the fourth cervical, whereas in mine the sixth is shown. One might easily conjecture, therefore, that I have represented a wrong vertebra—an error wdiich may be easily committed if one has been already making many sections of the neck. I, however, expressly state that I went to work most accurately in the definition of the vertebrae, and believe that I have made no mistake in the accompanying plate. By comparing the vertical sections on PI. I and II, as Pirogoff gives it, the fourth cervical vertebra is on the level of the epiglottis, and the seventh has the flat surface of the cricoid cartilage in front of it, which also in this particular agrees with my plate. It cannot be disputed that other variations in this respect happen to the extent of the level of a vertebra. These variations are in all probability occasioned by the different degree of curvature of the cervical spine. Nevertheless, I do not think that this change in position can be extended to two vertebrae, and I maintain that Beraud’s statement that the fourth cervical vertebra lies deeper than the cricoid cartilage is not correct. There is a vertical section in Beraud's atlas (PI. XXVIII, fig. 2) which bears out my statement. Perhaps,