58 PLATE VI Fig. 11. that the section does not pass far below the rima glottidis, and that the surface of the cricoid cartilage is divided obliquely forwards and down- wards. The space expands still wider further downwards, and changes its laterally compressed form for that of a cylinder, as far as to the point where the cricoid cartilage encloses it completely. Finally, in the trachea it becomes in section a segment of a circle. As the present plate offers no points of great interest as regards the relations of the larynx, I have made on a preparation hardened in alcohol, a section exactly in the plane of the vocal cords and introduced it in the accompanying woodcut. It will be seen that the processus vocales are continuous imme- diately with the elastic fibres of the vocal cords. At the line of section, which is not sharply defined, some reticulated cartilage exists. In front the vocal cords pass into a roll of connective tissue to which the thyro- arytenoid muscles are attached. The mucous membrane on the vocal cords is destitute of ciliated epithelium, and is stretching tightly over and is firmly attached to them. Beneath the mucous membrane the glands in this plane lie in the angle between the anterior extremities of the vocal cords and between the arytenoid cartilages posteriorly. On either side of the vocal cords are seen the two cut surfaces of the thyro-arytenoidei, of which the median is shown as internal and the lateral as external. Still more externally are the cut fibres of a muscle Avhich passes partly to the thyroid cartilage and partly to the epiglottis, the thyro-aryteno-epiglottideus (Henle). Behind the section of the arytenoid cartilage the arytenoideus is seen in section passing across from one cartilage to the other. Referring again to the large plate, we see behind the cricoid cartilage and behind the section of the crico-arytenoideus posticus, the transverse chink of the pharynx. The section shows it empty, therefore its anterior and posterior walls are in contact ; behind it is the middle portion of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. As the pharynx lies immediately upon the vertebrm, and the longus colli and recti capitis postici majores,