133 PLATE XYI a fixed position, and, being incompletely invested by peritoneum, an incision can be made into it without wounding this membrane. It is usually stated that the descending colon lies along the outer border of the quadratus lumborum ; and, in conformity with this, an incision is to be made vertically along the outer border of this muscle. This is not always correct. At the lower border of the kidney the colon lies further outwards than it does in the neighbourhood of the ilium; and, the quadratus lumborum being narrower above than below, the rule is true as far as regards the level of the third lumbar vertebra, but not so for the deeper regions. At the level of the symphysis between the third and fourth vertebrae, and at the fourth below the kidney—and therefore exactly in the field of operation—the quadratus lumborum covers in the colon posteriorly, and must be cut in order to reach it. It is only when much distended, a condition which is not so constant as one would expect in operations, that the intestine increases in breadth forwards and inwards, or overlaps the outer border of this muscle (Pirogoff, iii, B., tab. 14). Consequently the incision, which is to be directed along the border of the great extensors of the trunk from the ilium to the twelfth rib, would divide the strongs tendons of the transversalis until the quadratus is exposed, and subse- quently the fibres of this muscle, when the extra-peritoneal fat and cellular tissue would be met with. When the surgeon has carefully arrived at the cellulo-fatty tissue through the fascia beneath the quadratus lumborum, making the incision of an equal length with the primary one, so as to avoid a funnel-shaped wound, the main point is to fix the colon at its free surface and to open it. In doing so he must avoid the kidney, which from its deep position (cf., fig. 1) can easily obstruct the field of operation, and which must therefore be carefully pushed on one side. From the impossibility of recognising the peritoneum from its posterior aspect, success can only be safely calculated on by measuring the distance of the point of reflection of the peritoneum, and how far from the colon this position is constant. In the first place, as regards the descending colon, which I here particularly refer to, after measurements on frozen bodies of full grown men, I find that this distance, in a straight line (therefore not corre-