151 PLATE XIX separation of the patella which is developed in the extensor tendon from the surfaces of the condyles. This is, however, the case when the extensor tendon is relaxed, as in extension, or in only slight flexion of the joint; in greater flexion the patella must be pressed against the con- dyles, by the tension of the quadriceps, thus causing a diminution of the capsular cavity. It will therefore be expected that in consequence of the extension of the synovial space upwards beneath the extensor tendon, a considerable quantity of fluid may be injected, and that a greater degree of flexion must directly diminish the amount. I therefore considered it necessary to undertake a repetition of Bonnet’s researches with the greatest possible care, and that on entire bodies. The method I used was the following : The subject was fresh and normal, and, after violently breaking down the rigor mortis of the lower extremities, was laid on its back on a hori- zontal table. The thigh hung down over the free edge, and during the investigation was fixed by means of a support under the heel by an assistant in the necessary position. A screw was driven into the upper third of the tibia, to the free extremity of which a flat piece of wood was fastened; which served to fix a dial plate, provided with a graduated semi- circle ; and it was so arranged that a plumbline fastened to the centre of the circle stood at zero in complete extension of the bone, and the amount of flexion could be immediately read off. Xo regard was taken of the rotation of the thigh during flexion. In order to prevent diffusion through the capsule, the fluid used for injection was a solution of common salt, contained in a graduated tube about sixty inches in length, to the inferior end of which was fastened a short piece of tubing of india rubber, carrying a strong Pravaz’s needle. The tube was fixed in an oblique position by means of a movable support, so that the vertical line, indicating the difference in height of the point of introduction of the needle and of the level of the fluid, always remained the same; by which means the pressure indicated by the constant height of the support was maintained. The apparatus thus formed a right-angled triangle whose hypotlienuse was represented by the obliquely directed tube, the perpen- dicular by a portion of the support, and the base by a horizontal line running