PLATE I 5 However, at the odontoid process of the second cervical vertebra the trans- verse ligament, with its articulation on the anterior cartilaginous surface opposite the joint fissure between the atlas and odontoid process, is clearly seen, as also are the sharply defined elastic ligamenta subflava. The pos- terior occipito-atloid ligaments which glose in the spinal canal between the occiput, atlas, and axis, have not the elastic quality of the ligamenta flava; they are but slightly distinct from the overlying cellular tissue, and therefore not particularly prominent in the drawing. The section has passed so exactly in the mesial line, that in the neck no muscles are seen except the interspinales, and one in the lumbar region showing through its sheath. In the dorsal region, on the other hand, where the section had passed somewhat to the right side, the tendon-like structure of the multifidus and semispinalis muscles appear. The space between the spinous processes appears in other places filled up with connective tissue, which belongs to the interspinous and supraspinous ligaments derived from the ligamentum nuchas above. At the inferior end of the spine is seen the posterior sacro-coccygeal ligament, which closes in the end of the spinal canal, and attaches itself to the two portions of the coccyx here shown. The intervertebral discs are represented exactly as they appeared, and their fibrous structure and pulpy centre are clearly shown. It appears that in the most movable parts, such as the cervical and lumbar regions, the discs have an unequable thickness before and behind, whilst those in the dorsal region are of an even thickness. The bodies of the vertebras in the region of the thorax are of different depths, anteriorly and posteriorly, and consequently influence the curvature of the spine; and it is shown in the region of the neck and loins, which are the most movable, that the intervertebral discs are essentially stronger anteriorly than posteriorly, though the sides of their respective vertebras are equally deep. There is nothing peculiar to remark of the sternum and skull; they are sufficiently characterised throughout. The spongy portion is accurately shown in each individual bone of the preparation. Especial care was required to bring each portion of the brain clearly under notice. Sections through fresh brains were used in order that the drawing-in of the parts within the dense contours should be made clear and correct.