PLATE I 4 the position of the spinous processes, and so estimated the curvature of the spinal column on the living body. But valuable as these observations are in an individual case, and how- ever carefully followed out, with a view of showing that each variation of the attitude and balance of the trunk exercises an influence on the position of the vertebrae, it appears to me from the great variation in the forms of the spinous processes, that no absolute rule for the position of the bodies of the vertebra can be adduced, more especially as the exact definition of the pro- montory still renders special measurements necessary. Therefore I have, apart from this consideration, by comparing Parow’s curves with my own plates, estimated the alteration which the spinal column presents in the upright position. An exact determination of the line of gravity of the spinal column in my preparation must likewise be given up. It is not possible to estimate with certainty how this line passes through the individual sections of the vertebrae ; and such definitions can only be undertaken on the living body. If the figure be placed in the upright position, and the head be con- sidered as held forwards, as is the case when balanced on the spine, the excessive convexity in the cervical region becomes somewhat flattened, and a plumb-line hanging from the occipito-atloid articulation would cut approxi- mately the vertebral segments, as the brothers Weber have shown. It passes downwards close behind the promontory and through the line of junction of the heads of the thigh bones, and indeed Parow has by his measurements fallen back on this proposition of Weber’s. Also it is shown by examining the inclination of the pelvis both in my plate and in the one given by Pirogoff, that this is much more considerable than Meyer gives it, and presents nearly the same angle that Weber has determined by his measurements. The line joining the upper border of the symphysis pubis with the promontory of the sacrum makes an angle of 60° with the horizon. The ligamentous structures belonging to the vertebrse are represented in the plate as accurately as possible. The separate portions also, such as those of the compound ligamentous apparatus of the articulations of the cranium, and those passing down on the anterior and posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebras, could not be shown in any detail in such a section.