PLATE VIII 69 parts lie considerably deeper, as is shown by an examination of tlie thyroid body. The section of the clavicles passes through their middle, and the subclavian muscles are readily seen. The upper portion of the thorax is opened by the section, which also implicates the region of the neck in front. Hence it is impossible to determine by means of a horizontal plane where the region of the neck terminates and where that of the thorax com- mences, but the boundary must be carried obliquely backwards, and even then the neck may be said to lie not only above the thorax but partially in front of it. Consequently it cannot then be wondered at that wounds penetrating the neck horizontally above the clavicle frequently involve the lung, and this fact must he kept in view in the examination and diagnosis of the course of stabs or gunshot wounds of the lower region of the neck. As the left lung is clearly seen through its exposed and uninjured pleura, whilst the right lung and the subclavian artery are divided, one might perhaps imagine that the saw had been depressed on the right side; this, however, was not the case. Although the horizontal plane was adhered to as accu- rately as possible, still the head of the right humerus has been divided at a considerably higher level than the left. We might suppose, therefore, that in this body the right lung attains a higher level than the left. This difference is clearly seen in the plate, and as it occurs in the case of a young and perfectly formed normal subject, it is obvious that this dispo- sition is of importance in percussion of the apex of the lung. One would naturally expect in a young muscular individual a fuller percussion note above the clavicle on the right side than on the left, and if the reverse con- dition should present itself the existence of some abnormality may be expected. On both sides of the muscular masses of the longus colli, between it and the lung, is the second cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; in front of and above the cupola of the lung is the subclavian artery, and laterally appears the obliquely-divided surface of the brachial plexus. As the artery does not exceed the highest level of the apex of the lung, but lies more on the anterior slope of the pleura, the brachial plexus forms a sort of niche with the spinal column to receive the absolute apex of the lung. On the left side especially this arrangement is well seen.