PLATE XXY 174 compressed the trachea on both sides; and very probably interfered with deglutition from pressure on the oesophagus. It involved the interspace that the two carotids form with the aorta, and pushed them asunder. In the left carotid, which is freely divided, this is clearly seen; whilst in the right a small portion only of its origin from the innominate is involved, as it lay almost entirely in the anterior half of the preparation. The subclavian artery of the left side is not seen, as it takes its origin from the arch of the aorta behind the carotid ; it lay in this preparation behind the section, covered by the pectoralis minor. Its continuation, the brachial artery, came into the line of section, and is to be seen between its accompanying nerves. On the right side is seen, on the other hand, the continuation of the innominate artery into subclavian and axillary. The arch of the right sub- clavian passes under the right innominate vein, over the cupola of the right lung; and gives off anteriorly the internal mammary artery, which is here transversely divided, and the inferior thyroid which is slit up and covered at its extremity by the thyroid body; passes over the first rib from within outwards ; and finally disappears behind the cut surface of the coraco-brachialis. The subclavian veins correspond on both sides. The right subclavian vein is cut short off above the second rib, and the left is widely opened between the scalenus anticus and pectoralis minor. The latter, which receives many small veins, is of large calibre, and passes with its inner wall rather more upwards, towards the internal jugular vein which lies on the outer side of the carotid artery. Of the internal jugular vein of the right side nothing is to be seen, the parts being entirely removed with the anterior half of the body. The left subclavian vein consequently lies farther forward than the right. The right brachial plexus is exposed throughout its length, whilst the left is covered and only its commencement is seen under the anterior scalene muscle. The several structures of the neck group themselves about the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical vertebrm. At the lower border of the seventh cervical are the cut surfaces of the longi colli muscles, which lie between