PLATE Y 50 Henke (taf. lxx, fig. 2). The section passes through the mouth and runs somewhat above the level of the teeth, falling upon the hard palate and the lateral masses of the first cervical vertebra, and slices off: a thin lamina of the cerebellum on the posterior edge of the foramen magnum. It is seen on comparing it with Plate I that the section passes obliquely backwards and upwards, from the head being bent somewhat backward in the recumbent position of the body. This relation must be borne in mind in observations on the living body. In the normal upright position of the body a plane section through the level of the teeth would pass through the second cervical vertebra, and would not touch the skull at all. After cleansing the preparation it appeared that a small portion of the dorsum of the tongue also was sliced off with the crowns of the upper row of teeth. The apex of the tongue remained just behind the teeth. Posteriorly the section had passed 1*5 in. from the foramen caecum. The papillae which are seen on the posterior portion of the section correspond to the middle of the tongue. In the middle line from before backwards is the septum linguae, from which the fibres pass to both sides of the transverse muscles; in the posterior third the upper longitudinal fibres are seen. Behind the back of the tongue the uvula is retained in its entire length, as the section passed through the soft palate a quarter of an inch above its root, where the pillars of the fauces meet. The upper portion only of the tonsil is divided. In front of it, and behind the glands of the soft palate, lie some muscular fibres which pass transversely upwards, belonging to the upper border of the palato-glossus, which is embedded in the anterior pillar of the fauces. The azygos uvulae is also seen. Behind the tonsil and in relation with it is the palato-pharyngeus, which forms the posterior pillar of the fauces. The accurate division of the muscles cannot be defined, nevertheless it appears as if the transversely divided bundle of muscular fibre behind the tonsil (especially the left), belongs to the levator palati. There is no portion of the tensor palati seen since the section passed below the hamular process. A portion of the superior constrictor of the pharynx is very well shown in connection with the lower jaw and the buccinator.