PLATE IY 48 plate. Ike mucous membrane kas fallen into tke section at tke point where it passes over to tke roof of tke pharynx, above tke rectus capitis anticus. Prom tke relative position of tke Eustackian tube to tke pterygoid process and inferior turbinated bone, it is evident tkat oedema of tke mucous membrane may easily close up its opening. Suck a swelling may kappen from cold, and nasal polypi are often tke cause of difficulty of kearing. As regards tke left ear tkere is little to say, as tke saw passed at a considerably kigker level tlian on tke rigkt side. Tke cavity of tke tympanum is laid open nearer its roof, and in front of its connection with tke posterior portion of tke Eustackian tube, at tke middle of wkick a bristle kas been introduced into tke canal for tke tensor tympani. Eurtker forward is tke upper lialf of tke cartilaginous part of tke canal. By tke laying open of tke left meatus auditorius interims, tke auditory nerve is well sliown. Tkat portion of tke nerve wkick goes to tke cocklea is divided, wkile tke vestibular nerve passes witk tke facial tlirougk tke superior fovea (and in tke plate disappears deep down). Tke section of tke cocklea, tke direction of its base to tke meatus, and the exposed vestibule are clearly seen, and agree witk Rtidinger’s statements. Tkere is notking to add as regards tke brain. Tke pons Varolii in section skows tke fibres of tke pyramid passing tkrougk it. Tke anterior portion passing from tke fourtk ventricle to tke aqueduct of Sylvius is met witk; bekind it is a part of tke vermiform process. As tke section kas passed tkrougk tke skull above tke jugular foramen, but very little of tke internal jugular vein and eighth pair of nerves are seen. On tke anterior border of tke pons Varolii are tke divided fibres of tke sixth nerve. Tke third division of tke fifth is met witk on both sides, just below tke foramen ovale. Tke branches of tke second division of tke fifth lying in tke section are tke palatine, which lie below tke splieno-palatine foramen, and tke dental branch wkick is on tke maxillary tubercle. Tke other structures and tissues on tke plate will be alluded to indi- vidually.