180 PLATE XXVI in apposition. Injections of tlie elbow-joint with strong pressure show that it acquires the position of semiflexion, and that the fluid injected partially separates the joint-surfaces. The terminations of the flexor muscles of the arm are not seen. The brachialis anticus, which lies close upon the capsule, is divided longitudinally, as is seen from the direction of its fibres; and the same remark applies to the biceps, its tendon is deeper down behind the radius, and can be exposed only by dissection. The tendinous mass shown in the plate, between the upper end of the radius and the ulna, is a portion of the tendon of the biceps; another portion of it belongs to the circular ligament of the ulna, which forms the means of checking excessive separation, and becomes broader in pronation. The triceps at the back of the humerus shows its complete connection with the olecranou. On the anterior surface of the biceps is the supinator brevis, and farther in front are portions of the supinator longus and the extensor carpi radialis longior the heads of which are removed with the external condyle. Xo vessels or nerves are seen in the plate, excepting an obliquely divided vein, a portion of the median-cephalic, and the radial nerve beneath the supinator longus. The main artery, with its accompanying veins and the median nerve, which pass down on the inner side of the arm and afterwards turn forwards on the bend of the elbow, lie concealed in the soft parts below the surface of the section. Sections made as shown in this plate are rarely successful, and not easy to understand at first sight, since in complete supination and parallelism of the bones of the forearm—the usual position from which descriptions are made—the radius and ulna lie in a frontal plane. I have, however, specially chosen the present position of the arm for the section as being the more normal one in which the radius lies in front of the ulna for almost its entire length. A very similar representation is to be found in Pirogoff’s Atlas (Fasc. iv b, Taf. iv, fig. 7). Frontal sections of the elbow-joint agree with the preceding if the forearm is completely extended and supinated, and if, moreover, it be forcibly retained in this position before freezing. The radius and ulna are divided in their longitudinal axes and in con-