198 PLATE XXXI turned more to its right side than its trunk. The shoulders are entirely in the false, whilst the head has already entered the true pelvis. The pro- pulsive force must have been considerable, as the foetal head is large and the pelvis not particularly wide, and the evidences of this force are shown from the form of the head. Its posterior portion is pointed or pear- shaped, and an examination showed there was considerable effusion of blood on the skull. Further it appears that owing to the strong contractions of the uterus upon the child the joints nowhere exhibit their rounded form with the freely flexed position of the extremities, as it is packed in the smallest space possible. The skin was thrown into sharp ridges. The nape of the neck appeared as a narrow chink between the deeply folded skin of the back and occiput. The bulging out of the head in the region of the left ear is remarkable, being produced by the pressure exerted by the narrow pelvis. Just below it is the section of the symphysis. A deep notch is produced in the left arm by the internal os, which has also left traces behind on the right forearm which passed down longitudinally over it. The uterus itself is. of especial interest, the relations of which are well seen after the removal of the entire child, and a particular plate of its empty cavity seemed necessary. The uterus held the child firmly, and had no folds in it, from which a lax condition of its walls might be inferred. It was placed with its long axis directed nearly vertically towards the plane of the inlet of the pelvis, so that it had the appear- ance of having remained in a state of contraction after death. The internal os lay somewhat -over the inlet, and is noticeable from the lumen of a large vein with a smaller one beside it, the only veins which were found patent in the walls of the uterus, in consequence of the blood remaining in them. In the empty cavity of the uterus, the internal os appeared as a freely projecting semicircle, an inch and a half above the symphysis, and four fifths of an inch above the premontory of the sacrum. The external os, which was completely dilated, appeared as a small projection. It was drawn out obliquely, from the region of the lower border of the symphysis