PLATE VI 59 the space required by the morsel of food in passing downwards is provided for by the dragging forward of the anterior wall of the pharynx and the advancement of the larynx. The larynx is, moreover, lifted in swallowing. The result of this twofold change in position is a movement of the larynx towards the chin, which can be easily observed during the act of deglu- tition. The lax cellular tissue which lies between the pharynx and the vertebrae appears in the section as a narrow border, and by its extra- ordinary looseness it permits of the movements of the pharynx upon the vertebrae. But it is of such a nature that haemorrhage into it would cause great distension. This condition is, moreover, favorable to the infiltration of pus. Behind the pharynx lies the section of the sixth cervical vertebra, which has been divided in its lower half. As the section fell to the right side, and exactly at the springing of its arch, a clear view is furnished of the lumen of the spinal canal, which has the form of an equilateral triangle, and is so spacious that in the most extensive movements of the cervical vertebra the spinal cord has free room, and is thoroughly protected from strain. The relation of the vertebra to the surrounding soft parts is worthy of notice, inasmuch as it appears to be pushed remarkably forwards. If half the diameter, for instance, be taken from before backwards, the body of the vertebra would lie completely in the anterior half of the section. By comparing the measurements with those of the section shown in Plate I, and also in the other figures, it is seen that this position of the vertebra is correct. This appearance is owing to the cervical curvature of the spinal column. The distance of the medulla from the surface of the neck on the living body is usually represented as far too slight. Very similar relations will be found in Pirogoff (fasc. i, tab. iii, fig. 2; tab. ii, fig. 1 ; fasc. i, tab. x, fig. 66). As the body of the vertebra is cut through near its lower border, its connection with the transverse process is clear. The vertebral artery full of injection, with its satellite vein, is seen in the bony canal on either side. On the left side, the section has fallen rather deeper, so that the canal in the transverse processes is closed in posteriorly merely by