9 PLATE I gland should be drawn upwards by a blunt instrument in order to freely expose the upper rings of the trachea, a proceeding unattended with difficulty owing to the mobility of the organ. Should the operation be performed below the thyroid body there is a considerable depth of tissue to get through before reaching the trachea, and, moreover, great attention must be paid to the position of the vessels of the neck. The position of these trunks is not so constant that any general rule for their distance from the upper edge of the sternum can be given. The trachea, which in this preparation divides into the two bronchi opposite the fourth dorsal vertebra, has tolerably the same relations, as shown by Luschka (‘ Brustorgane,’ Tubingen, 1857). It appears, however, from sections on other bodies that there is no constant point of division, and different authors make different statements on this matter. Henle (£ Anatomie,’ 1866, Bd. ii, p. 26 a), describes it as opposite the fifth dorsal vertebra. Pirogoff in his plate (Fasciculus I a, tab. 14), gives it as high as the third. Thorax.—The slight depth of the thorax is striking, and yet one can convince oneself, both from measurements on the living body and also from Pirogoff’s plates, that there is in this case no abnormality. The mediastinum was so exactly divided by the section that neither pleural sac was opened ; whilst of the lungs, nothing is seen but a small strip of the right, which, covered by pleura, is shown behind the body of the sternum. In Pirogoff’s plate (Fasc. I a, tab. 10, 44), no lung is to be seen, by reason of the considerable breadth of the mediastinum. The heart was so divided that only a flat piece of the arch of the aorta remained in the right half of the body, whilst the root of the pulmonary artery was removed with the left side, its right branch being cut through The superior and inferior venae cavae are not seen at all, they lie deeply, and empty themselves above and below into the right auricle, so that their point of entrance cannot be clearly made out. If, in the plate, a line be drawn from the anterior border of the septum auriculorum outwards and downwards, the situation of these deeply lying vessels will be indicated. The large cavity in front of and below the aorta belongs to the right auricle, the larger portion of which remained on the right half of the body. Its cavity extends 2