79 PLATE IX Pirogoff (tab. i, fasc. ii), in a transverse section made between the first and second dorsal vertebrse in a powerful man, shows the oesophagus placed at the side of the trachea; and, indeed, unless the oesophagus be much dilated (as in the case from which Plate I was taken), it does not project towards the median line. This fact renders it evident that in the operation of oesophagotomy, if there be no tumour of the thyroid body of the left side, the oesophagus must be looked for on the left side of the trachea; and from the plate it is clear that the operation is similar to that of finding the left common carotid or ver- tebral arteries. The close relation of the recurrent laryngeal nerve is to be noticed. Under the pectoral muscles, on the outside of the cavity of the thorax, are the brachial plexus and subclavian vein, and between them is the subclavian artery. If the pectoralis major be removed with the muscular branches of the acromio-tlioracic artery, a thin fascia is met with which passes over the short head of the biceps, the coraco-brachialis and the pectoralis minor. It extends inwards as far as the sterno-clavicular articu- lation, and envelopes the subclavius muscle. The fascia then passes upwards along the first rib, at the line of junction with the sharp edged coraco-clavicular fascia, and terminates in a sickle-shaped margin. An aperture is formed externally and above, resembling the saphenous opening in the thigh, which permits of the passage of the cephalic vein, the acromial axis, and the external anterior thoracic nerve. Below this is Mohrenheim’s fascia and the section has so passed that the continuity of this fascia is not interrupted, but is shown by means of a white line. The fascia forms with the posterior lamina a sheath for the pectoralis major and coraco-brachialis, and constitutes at the same time the ante- rior layer of the sheath of the axillary vessels. Higher up it attaches the vein to the subclavius muscle and clavicle. Wounds of the vein at this spot may be attended by a dangerous entry of air into the heart. The posterior layer of the sheath of the vessels is formed by the fascia of the serratus magnus and intercostal muscles; the external layer being derived from the fascia of the subscapularis muscle. The cavity of the