137 PLATE XYII rectum, which contained a little feces, was divided shortly before its final curve. The anal extremity was fully 3-8 inches distant from it. If the peritoneum leaves the anterior surface of the rectum entirely free, and, under the form of Douglas’s pouch, descends here externally and internally rather more than half an inch ; this pouch is about three inches from the anal aperture, and it follows that at this level an operation on the rectum might be undertaken, without fear of wounding the peritoneum. These relations correspond with those of Plate I. The question arises with regard to the rectum, as in the case of the bladder, what changes of form it assumes with its varying degrees of disten- sion ; that it is capable of very great changes in volume, both experience and experiments by means of injection show us. The requisite space is provided for in the same way as for the bladder ; the cellular tissue and fat are pushed aside, Douglas’s pouch and the intestines are lifted up, and in fuller distension of the rectum the bladder is raised somewhat upwards and forwards. The following woodcut from Pirogoff’s atlas is instructive on this point. There is little here that needs explanation ; the great similarity in form with my plates will facilitate the description. More than half the cavity of the pelvis is occupied by the distended rectum, which is cut through about two inches above the anus, and is considerably distended with air. The semi-lunar fold has not been obliterated by this distension, but springs up sickle-shaped into the cavity. The contour of the pelvic cavity is worthy of notice. The section passes as above mentioned through the spines of the ischia, and partially through the sacro-spinous ligaments, and between the ischiatic notches. Corresponding with it, a process of bone springs from the body of the ischium on both sides, tolerably far backwards, and terminates in the whole length of the sacro-spinous ligament as far as the sacrum. On the right side this band is only to be followed for a certain distance from the sacrum, and does not reach to the apex of the ischium as on the left; while the sacro-spinous ligament has a horizontal direction, the tuberoso-sacral ligament has a more vertical one, and a small portion only of the latter is seen. It is shown near the sacrum at the edge of the gluteus, where it deviates from the other ligamentous band and lies deep. 18