40 PLATE III lose themselves in the white substance of the cerebrum, and show the small bundles of fibres, the beak-shaped processes which belong to the fornix below. Externally are the choroid plexuses of the descending cornua. Beneath the white substance of the corpus callosum is a fissure bounded laterally by the optic thalamus and filled up with vessels, and in the middle of it is the pineal body. In this space also is the pia mater passing beneath the corpus callosum to the central portion of the cerebrum. In the middle are the lumina of two large vessels belonging to the great internal veins of the brain, the venae magnae Galeni. These, when followed down with the sound under the splenium to the great veins behind the corpus callosum, and the commencement of the straight sinus, are found to debouch by the two veins here shown. The falx cerebri unites the inferior longitudinal sinus which opens into the straight sinus, with the superior longitudinal which lies farther back. The veins of Galen curve at first upwards, and then bend downwards into the straight sinus. It would be worth while to examine whether during the movements of the brain in respiration any influence is exerted on the venous circulation at this spot, since a change here takes place between the compressible inner veins of the brain and the rigid walls of the sinus. In front are the optic chiasma and the optic tract cut obliquely, which consequently are more vertical than the plane of the section. Internally are the grey-edged lentiform nuclei, and behind them lie the sections of the optic thalami. Between them in the middle line is a portion of the third ventricle. On either side of the chiasma are the internal carotid arteries in section. The ophthalmic arteries are not seen, as they enter the optic foramina beneath the optic nerves. The commencement of the artery of the corpus callosum on the one side and on the other is removed, the lumina seen being those of the artery of the fissure of Sylvius. The orbits were so divided that the saw passed above the optic foramina, and consequently did not open them. The eyelids were tolerably firmly closed, so that only a small portion of the upper lid came into the section,