10 PLATE I upwards toward tlie right auricular appendix, of which, as is clear by the plate, only a small portion reached across to the left half of the body posteriorly towards the vertebras, and somewhat behind the left auricle. A large portion of the tricuspid valve has been removed in the section. Only a small portion of the left auricle is left, and this is seen lying behind the right auricle, and between it and the spinal column. About two thirds of it were removed with the left half of the body. The two openings into it correspond to the entrance of the pulmonary veins. That portion of the auricular septum containing the foramen ovale is removed, and only a small portion of the right ventricle is noticed. Here the heart was cut obliquely near its upper surface, and there- fore its muscular tissue and fatty layer appear remarkably clearly. There is a considerable amount of fat on the heart. The muscular struc- ture of the heart and valves, however, shows no irregularity. The relation of the pericardium is clearly shown. The accompanying woodcut ex- plains the position of the heart with regard to the mesial line as found in the present case, from whence result the rules for its percussion. It will be noticed that the relations agree exactly with those given by Luschka (loc. cit., tab. iii). The entire length of the oesophagus is not distinctly shown by the median section, as in certain places the tube diverged considerably from the middle line. In this preparation, however, on account of the contents of the stomach having regurgitated into it, it was so distended that the plane section met it throughout its course. Abdomen.—It can be seen from the form of the abdominal walls, that there is no sinking-in of the parietes, but, although the intestines were moderately distended, the short distance of the umbilicus from the lumbar vertebrm is very remarkable. The depth of the abdomen in the mesial line is, indeed, very variable, and is generally represented far too great. But it is to be expressly noticed here that the condition of parts seen in the present drawing is not precisely the same as in the living body, since in Fig. 1.