92 PLATE XI The contour of the pericardium is clearly shown; it extends at this level considerably further back on the left side than on the right, corre- sponding with the higher position of the left auricular appendix. On the right side it has been opened in front of the superior vena cava, and extends between it and the aorta posteriorly to the right branch of the pulmonary artery, playing the part of a bursa by permitting the necessary movement of these vessels upon each other. As the trunks of the vessels which pass from the lung into the left auricle, and from the right ventricle to the lung, run horizontally, a section which passes through the roots of the lungs exposes much more of their length, whilst the vessels of the greater circulation, which pass more vertically to and from the heart, appear divided more transversely. The pulmonary artery is the most important to examine' of the vessels of the lesser circulation, as it is exposed for a large portion of its course. It is met with close to its origin, and its right branch is divided throughout its course. The left branch does not lie in the same plane, but it is also divided. It rises up somewhat in its course to the left lung, arching over the left bronchus and left auricle. The trunk of the pulmonary artery runs somewhat to the left, backwards and upwards, and can be seen in the upper surface of the section. It is evident that the aorta and pulmonary artery are fixed together, whilst the former is capable of movement upon the vena cava. The relation of the aorta to the right pulmonary artery is important, as in aneurismal dilatations of the first part of the aorta compression of the right pulmonary artery may be expected. The position of the valves of the pulmonary artery and aorta with regard to the chest wall were accurately defined in the preparation, and can be deduced approximately from the plate. The pulmonary orifice lay behind the left border of the sternum under the upper margin of the third costal cartilage. The aortic orifice lay behind the left half of the sternum on a level with the third costal cartilage, behind and to the right of the pulmonary opening. The cur- vature of the aorta behind the first part of the pulmonary artery, with the position of its valves, is rendered as accurately as possible. It must however be expressly understood that such definitions cannot represent