72 PLATE VIII and in a fourth case it passed down on both sides of the body in front of the subclavian artery. These relations are important, inasmuch as in ligature of the ascending portion of the subclavian artery they are frequently met with, and care must be taken to avoid them. Directions are given for the avoidance of nerves and arteries, but no notice is taken of the vertebral vein, or of the thoracic duct, which on the left side lie close up. On the outer side of the carotid, immediately behind the sterno-cleido-mastoid, is the internal jugular vein, and between it and the carotid, the vagus nerve. The external jugular vein is seen on the left side, between the clavicle and omo-hyoid muscle. On the right side it opens into the divided trans- versus scapulae vein. The subclavian vein is not seen as yet, as it lies below the section. In front of the trachea is the thyroid body, which is divided directly through its isthmus. It appears to be completely normal,' both as regards structure and size, which in this country (Saxony) is seldom the case, as most subjects show enlargement of this gland. The oesophagus at the level of the gland begins to leave the mesial line to get to the left side. In Plate X, which gives the structures at the level of the sterno-clavicular articulations, the oesophagus already lies to the left side of the trachea. Although this lateral deviation of the oesophagus is the rule, still the exact level at which the greatest deflection takes place appears to vary. I find this lateral position complete in Pirogoff’s atlas (tab. i, fasc ii), in which the section has passed between the first and second dorsal vertebras, as in Plate VIII, where the oesophagus first begins to leave the middle line. The head of the left humerus is divided nearly in its middle, and in front is part of the greater tuberosity, into which is inserted the tendon of the infra-spinatus. Under this tendon, and close to its insertion, is the thinnest part of the capsular ligament. The supra- spinatus, the mass of which is seen between the two bony ridges which belong to the scapula, is divided at its anterior extremity, at the point