2 PLATE I the section passed close against the contracted anus, which was opened after the body had thawed; this accounts for the apparent size of this passage. In sections which pass through the anus in the frozen condition of the body the anterior wall lies nearer to the posterior, not, however, so close that complete apposition is permitted. It is also to be observed that the details in these plates were worked out from fresh preparations, in order to produce as useful a result as possible; due notice will be taken of these details in the proper places. With regard to the structures entering into the formation of the skeleton as seen in the section, the vertebral column holds the chief place. The section has been so directed that it passes almost through the middle line of the bodies of the vertebra; and that the arches, on the other hand, as is clear in the dorsal region, are divided somewhat to the right of the middle line. An examination of the individual portions of the vertebra shows the spinal column to be quite normal. No deformity at all was to be found in the bodies of the vertebra (as is so frequently the case in aged indi- viduals), but, on the other hand, a great amount of mobility in the parts was met with, characteristic of a young and actively built person. The sacrum was devoid of any irregularity, and had a perfect and uniform curve. That only two portions of the coccyx are to be seen in the plate is owing to a variation which this part of the skeleton presents, and is not remarkable. On examination of the vertebral column in general, its considerable amount of curvature is first of all worthy of notice. One would clearly expect that in the horizontal position a flatter curve would be met with, as the spine, when examined in preparations after the removal of the thoracic wall and viscera, shows a much flatter arc in the two halves of the body. Parow, however, has proved (Virchow’s c Archiv,’ Bd. xxxi, p. 108, &c.) that the removal of the viscera of the thorax causes a great increase in the flattening of the spinal column. One needs only to compare the method which was stated by him after the measurement of an isolated vertebra, and