125 PLATE XV middle line of the body. It agrees, however, exactly with Luschka’s state- ment that the pylorus is not to be sought in the right hypochondrium, as it never reaches the right arch of the ribs ; and from the present plate one can see that it must have had the same position. Hence, it follows that the horizontal portion of the duodenum does not run from left to right in a transverse direction, but more in an antero-posterior one between the ductus choledochus and the gall-bladder, close to the transverse fissure of the liver. The duodenum is divided in its vertical descending portion at the point of flexure of the upper horizontal part. Between the vena cava and the pancreas is the ductus communis choledochus, which has passed directly over to the left side of the duodenum, in order to open into the vertical portion of the duodenum at the head of the pancreas. If we look into the duodenum we see how it curves round the head of the pancreas, becoming continuous on the left side with the inferior horizontal portion. Owing to the mobility of the stomach, without which the different stages of distension would cause great disturbance, we may expect that the pylorus and the upper portion of the duodenum would change with its condition of distension. I have proved that, whilst in the empty stomach the pylorus lies near the middle line of the body, in greater distension it is pushed half an inch further back. The upper portion of the duodenum possesses a mesentery in the hepatico-duodenal liga- ment, which permits and follows its changes in position. The middle or vertical portion of the duodenum is not absolutely fixed, but follows the movements of the ascending colon ; and in distension is pushed to the left of the middle line, assuming its original position when the colon is emptied. The pancreas is divided obliquely, so that a small portion of the head remains on the left side and a considerably larger portion on the right. These relations correspond with the position of the pancreas, as it does not lie exactly horizontally, but passes obliquely downwards from left to right; consequently the splenic vein, which lies below it, has had its upper surface removed in the section, and the mouths of the veins opening into it are seen.