PLATE XXV 176 humerus and the clavicle. It is cut through behind the attachments of the muscles. The pectoralis minor on both sides of the chest is divided, and shows a large surface of section, on the left side particularly. This is explained by the forward position of the shoulder, and by the muscle becoming relaxed and folded so that its posterior border was bent backwards. The strongly curved clavicle has a different appearance on the two sides. The right, which projects further forwards, shows beyond the section its entire acromial end, whereas on the left side this is not seen. The section of the clavicular portion of the deltoid of this side is shown. On the right side the anterior attachment of this muscle is completely removed. Its attachment to the humerus is equally divided on both sides ; and the bursa between it and the capsular ligament appears as a black line. With regard to the relations of this capsule, the following points are to be noticed. Since the shoulder-joint is under the influence of atmospheric pressure, the bone is pressed against the glenoid cavity; and therefore the cavity of the joint notwithstanding its extent and the laxity of its capsule can be shown merely as a crevice in the representation of its section. The ligamentous tissue which terminates at the neck of the humerus is the capsule: this, on the left side, encircles the bone like a ring from the greater tuberosity, and encloses the obliquely divided tendon of the biceps superiorly; these relations on the right side are shown rather differently. In the first place, a portion of the limbus carti- lagineus is seen, terminating above in a sharp angle, and externally the supra-spinatus presents itself in section strengthening the capsule by its tendon, and which more externally is so closely united wTith the tendons of the infra-spinatus and the teres minor that no line of separation can be represented. On the inner side of the neck the capsule is more loosely attached, so that by raising the humerus its folds are obliterated. The limit of the capsule towards the middle line is formed by the sub- scapularis, which is seen divided on both sides. Beneath it lies its bursa, which must be looked for between it and the capsule. It normally forms a communication with the cavity of the joint, but which was not seen in this