PLATE III 39 horizontal only as opposed to the longitudinal section, without thereby meaning that he adhered to a horizontal plane which was accurately mathematical. I considered it profitable to conduct the section in the same way as Sommering has done, and to carry it up tolerably far back. I convinced myself, however, from a large series of sections, that we are not positively able to determine in what position of the optic nerve or tract the saw will fall from the front inwards. The individual differences of the base of the skull are so numerous that it is impossible to assign to them any definite data. Only so much is certain, that the optic tract rises up from the chiasma to the corpora quadrigemina considerably more vertically than the optic nerve does to the optic foramen. I was therefore unable to expose the optic nerve thoroughly throughout its entire length, but was obliged to supple- ment the section by taking off a thin slice of the anterior lobe in order to completely expose the chiasma. Again, a thin layer of fat was removed from the orbit so as to show the entire breadth of the nerve, as the line of section had just missed its upper edge. It must be further explained that, although the external form of the globe be established, the relations of the lens and iris must be rendered after further sections. The fine dust which even such a thin saw produces was very difficult to remove without causing a change in the relative position of the individual organs of the eye. I therefore froze fresh orbits, sawed through the bones, and then continued the section with a razor. In all cases the eye was thoroughly injected with Thiersch’s carmine and glue preparation, in order to give the globe its original expansion. The injec- tion was made from the ophthalmic artery, and in the entirely divided skull which forms PI. Ill, the carotid artery and jugular vein were completely injected with different colours. It will be noticed from the relations of the brain that the plane of section is obliquely upwards and backwards. In front, owing to the removal of the thin lamina of the anterior lobe, a small portion of the floor of the skull in the region of the crista galli is seen. Behind it are the optic chiasma with a small piece of the optic tract cut obliquely, and further back is a section of the gyrus fornicatus, the superior processes of which