PLATE X 85 level of a vertebra for the individual thoracic viscera can be given. The lungs themselves are divided through the lower portion of their upper lobes, so that on the left side a small portion of the under lobe falls into the section, which, as the plate shows, quickly increases in size down- wards. Between the lungs, in front, is the thymus gland, which is sometimes found as late as the twentieth year, and consequently renders a mesial section possible on the young person, without opening the pleural cavity. In older subjects, after the atrophy of the thymus gland, both lungs lie so close to each other that in such a section it is impossible to avoid opening the pleural cavity. I omitted to speak of the details of the form of the mediastinum; repre- sentations of it are given by Hyrtl, £ Top. Anat.,’ i, 547, and by Luschka in Virchow’s ‘ Archiv,’ xv, 369. There is nothing more variable in shape than the mediastinal space, for it is confined by fixed limits only in front and behind, on both sides the boundaries are moveable. The alteration in capacity of the lung during breathing must also alter the position of the mediastinum. It further obtains that the contents of this mediastinal space are moveable and changeable. The oesophagus when distended takes up more space than when empty and collapsed. The same remark applies to the great vessels, which alter in size considerably after each contraction of the heart. The medi- astinum in the region of the sterno-clavicular articulation, as shown in the plate, passes downwards and inwards, so that the space beneath it is contracted and funnel-shaped. In consequence of the position of the thymus gland it is possible to reach the upper edge of the arch of the aorta with its three branches, and the superior caval and innominate veins, without necessarily opening the pleura, and perforation of that portion of the trachea which lies behind the manubrium sterni may take place from the anterior wall of the chest without the pleura being involved. In order to compare the relations produced by pathological changes at similar levels, I have taken some reduced and reversed figures from Pirogoff, so that they may correspond, as far as the observer is concerned, with my own plates.