175 PLATE XXV the spine and the thyroid gland. Above both muscles, on either side of the bodies of the vertebrae, are the vertebral arteries slit open ; of these the left shows a far larger calibre than the right. From behind these vessels proceed the roots of the brachial plexus, which is entirely covered on the left side, and partly on the right, by the cut surfaces of the scaleni. Still more externally and upwards are the sections of the sterno-cleido-mastoids, with a strip of the platysma, immediately beneath which on both sides is the external jugular vein. The right phrenic nerve is completely removed; the left is seen between the carotid artery and the lung. The artery accompanying it is the internal mammary. The vagus is only partially cut on the left side, where it lies in front of the arch of the aorta, and from whence its recurrent branch passes upwards behind that vessel. On the right side, on the contrary, it is divided transversely at the point where it is applied to the root of the lung. The shoulder-joints have so fallen into the section that the saw has passed on both sides in front of the glenoid cavities; and nothing is seen of the scapular element of these articulations. The bony elements of this portion of the joint lie behind the plane which passes through the middle point of the head of the humerus. On the left side the glenoid cavity was only a quarter of an inch behind the plane of section ; on the right it was so much closer that the limbus cartilagineus fell into it. As the head of the humerus is directed inwards and backwards towards the glenoid cavity and as the section passes deeper on the right than on the left, the greater tuberosity of the right side has been entirely removed. The round section of the head is all that is seen, whereas on the left the greater tuberosity projects in a triangular form. On the right side a portion of the acromion appears; and on the left the section has passed more anteriorly, and has nearly divided the coraco- acromial ligament. Normally the acromion rises but very little above the head of the humerus, so that anteriorly a tolerably large portion of the latter remains unprotected by bony covering. The coracoid process is divided transversely on either side, and is readily seen between the head of the