51 PLATE Y Within this muscular zone is the cavity of the pharynx. This space is often thought to be larger because it is observed on the living body in an oblique direction, through the posterior palatine arch ; in a vertical section made on soft preparations the interval between the uvula and the posterior wall of the pharynx is generally represented as far too large. In the operation of staphyloraphy one is often disagree- ably surprised at the narrowness of the locality, and must resort to some one of the ingenious needles which have been invented on account of this want of room. Behind the muscular tissue of the pharynx and the lax cellular tissue which in the plate is represented as a white line, lie the longi colli and recti capitis antici majores, and further outwards on the transverse process of the atlas is the tendinous origin of the rectus capitis lateralis. The position of the internal carotid artery is of the utmost importance in operations on the tonsil and pharynx. It is seen that this large arterial trunk lies in immediate relation with the muscular tissue of the pharynx; its pulsation can be easily felt from that cavity during life, and deep incisions in this region should not be made without the greatest caution. The actual position of the artery to the tonsil, on the other hand, permits of greater freedom in extirpation of this gland, and numerous operations on it have shown that Hyrtl’s apprehension (‘ Top. Anat.,’ 1, 380) in this respect is much exaggerated. Nevertheless the proximity of the carotid must be especially borne in mind, even in the forcible dragging of the gland from its bed, but from the benign nature of most of the tumours of the tonsil there is no necessity for endeavouring to remove the gland completely, as the surgeon may be thoroughly satisfied if the chief mass of the growth be extirpated. As most of the instruments used for operations in this region only permit of a levelling and not of an extirpation of the tonsil, there is a sort of guarantee against wound of the carotid.* The position of the inferior dental and lingual nerves with regard to the lower jaw, is well * By the use of a simple curved bistoury and vulsellum forceps the tonsil can be more readily and easily removed than by any other method, and the object of dragging the gland forcibly from its bed towards the mesial line, with a view of avoiding any chance of wounding the vessel, can be well recognised from examining the plate.—Tr.