PLATE XVIII 144 of the levator ani lie the sections of the obturator internus, bounded below by the obturator membrane, and laterally by the pelvic bones. If the space between the intestines and the pelvis be followed upwards on both sides from the bladder, beneath the peritoneum, we meet with two whitish oval sections, which represent the lateral ligaments of the bladder. They lie thus far removed from the bladder, because it was small and contracted ; a distended bladder would carry them upon its upper surface, and at the same time occupy the entire space of the inferior aperture of the pelvis, as several of Pirogoff’s plates show. Farther outwards, and in the same space, between the peritoneum and the pelvis, is the vas deferens, and above it the obturator vein and nerve and a small artery. The main trunk of the artery passes through the obturator foramen. Finally, we arrive at the external iliac artery and vein; both vessels lie on the inner wall of the psoas, as the preceding sections show, not side by side, but behind each other ; hence the artery lies over the vein, and not to its inner side as appears by this frontal section. The relations of the liip-joint, which have been already briefly alluded to, afford many points for examination. It has been already mentioned that the section has traversed the entire length of the ligamentum teres of both sides. It is evident that this ligament limits extreme adduction, and by simultaneous stretching, assists in maintaining the firm position of the pelvis and trunk. As the section passed through the acetabular notch the course of the articular artery is exposed. The articular cartilage, ligamentous apparatus, and the extent of the cavity of the joint are well seen in the plate. The architecture of the upper portion of the thigh bone is well worthy of study, as much so for its general disposition as for its structure. Meyer has the merit of having first called attention to the arrangement of the cancellous tissue, especially in the neck of the bone, which essentially increases its weight-bearing power. The individual laminae and interlace- ments of bone arrange themselves in rows, which are detached from the borders of the compact tissue, and cross each other in the middle line. In the. section of the left thigh bone especially these indications of its structure are shown.