PLATE XIV 117 cavities and points of investment of the peritoneum have been represented with the greatest fidelity; and hence the cavity of the omentum between the lobulus Spigelii, and the posterior wall of the stomach, was not drawn as contracted, although both cavities are connected immediately below the surface of the section. The portion of the stomach which lies close to the diaphragm shows the end of the posterior cardiac region free, and uncovered by peritoneum. An examination of the peritoneum shows that it has two functions to perform, especially mechanical, which are — (1) that it fixes the several organs in the abdominal cavity in definite places; and (2), like a colossal, sinuous, mucous membrane, allows of their movements upon one another in their various conditions of distension. These changes of position can occur, where the black hues in the plate, like joint spaces, represent the cavities of the peritoneum; at points, on the other hand, where the peritoneum is reflected, and leaves a free space for the entrance of blood-vessels, the viscera are fixed to their surroundings. In order to show the relations as they exist in the extremes of age, I have here introduced two woodcuts. Fig. 1 is taken from a man, get. 50, who had enlargement of the liver and spleen. Fig. 2 from a recent body of a female infant, at full period, born dead. The body of the old man is the same which furnished Plate IX in the large coloured atlas. Death resulted from hanging, and the stomach and intestines were empty. The section passed through the tenth dorsal vertebra, and anteriorly through the xiphoid cartilage. The stomach was empty, with the exception of a little frozen mucus. The lung structure was normal and absolutely empty of air. The liver large and fatty. Supra-renal capsules and spleen large. The well-developed body of the child showed no irregularities. The great resemblance between Figs. 1 and 2 is singularly remarkable, also the fatty livers of the old and young subjects; moreover, the relations correspond wonderfully accurately. In both cases the liver fills up almost the whole interspace internal to the diaphragm, and spreads over a large portion of the spleen, which lies