24 1 PLATE XXYII 185 prominences being clearly distinguished. This relation of the muscular masses, and the position of the vessel on the belly of the brachialis anticus, demonstrates the'fact that all incisions which are intended to penetrate the joint should be arranged on its exterior aspect, as it can be here entered without fear of any considerable haemorrhage, and the ulnar nerve alone requires care in looking after. Fig. 4 is a section of the forearm through the head of the radius, which is clearly shown with the annular ligament, and the upper extremity of the ulna the lesser sigmoid notch of which lies in articulation with the radius. The brachialis anticus is now for the most part tendinous, and attached to the ulna on the other side of its tuberosity. The tendon of the biceps is behind the tuberosity, which lies below the surface of the section, and the bursa, between it and the upper part of this tuberosity, is indicated by a black line. The brachial artery lies in the middle in front of the joint, enclosed by the origin of the flexors and extensors. Its division into radial and ulnar is evident. In front of it is the communication between the superficial and deep veins, and shows why bleeding in this region is so copious, if contraction of the muscles around the deep vein be induced; it is, however, not possible to expose the intimate relations clearly by section. It may, however, be here explained that the “system” of the median vein does not only associate the trunks of the cephalic and basilic with each other, but also keeps up a communication with the deep veins accompanying the radial and ulnar arteries. The irregularly formed and generally small vein which lies in the bend of the elbow requires no particular note, as it possesses no further importance than the trunks which frequently approach close to the basilic and cephalic in the bend of the forearm. It is, however, worth while to designate this communication, which passes deep down, as median (it is named by Arnold, the deep median vein), and to denominate the oblique branches of communication between the basilic and cephalic as median basilic and median cephalic. The mass of the flexor muscles is already at this level more strongly developed than in the preceding section. They predominate over the extensors, as will be still more clearly seen in the deeper section of the forearm.