158 PLATE XX Las then passed through the obturator foramen, obliquely outwards through the ascending ramus of the pubis and corpus cavernosum penis, the obturator membrane, and the sacro-sciatic ligament. Above the capsule of the hip-joint through the divided synovial mem- brane is observed the psoas muscle and the portion of the iliacus associated with it. Below the outer extremity of this muscle is the section of the tendon of the rectus femoris. The second head of this muscle is incor- porated with the ligamentous structures at the brim of the acetabulum, and could not be shown separately in the plate. Above the ilio-psoas, is seen the fascia over the last dorsal nerve running down over the vessels to unite with the fascia of the pectineus, and attaching itself to the capsule of the hip-joint. We have here already the commencement of the sheath of the femoral vessels, and observe how it forms a prismatic space, the outer wall of which bears towards the sar- torius. The superior boundary of this space wrould be indicated by a single lamina, as is shown in the preparation. External to the sar- torius is the origin of the tensor vaginas femoris attached to its tendinous sheath, and between them the external cutaneous nerve. Next, we observe the gluteus medius muscle with its strong tendinous fascia from which a portion of its fibres arise. The oblique section of its muscular bundles is not quite clearly rendered in the plate—a remark which also applies to the gluteus minimus, which is more internal. To the latter is attached the tendon of the pyriformis, and of the gemellus superior and obtu- rator internus, which is seen in its angular course with its large subjacent bursa. The above-mentioned series of muscles forms the superior limit of the space occupied by the vessels and nerves, as the gluteus maximus does the inferior. The great sciatic nerve is here seen. The fascia which comes from the gluteus medius, to cover the gluteus maximus, is considerably thinner on the latter muscle, passes over this median ridge to be partly inserted into the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and partly into the fascia of the obturator internus. Of the adductor group are seen the sections of the pectineus, the adductor longus, and the adductor brevis. The adductor magnus is not seen; and the