132 PLATE XVI The distance of tlie anterior wall of the abdomen from the spine in Plate XVI is nearly 3 inches; in fig. 1, 2*5 inches; and in Pirogoff’s nearly 6 inches,—the section passing immediately below the navel. A less distance between the spine and the abdominal walls than that shown in Plate XVI is not uncommon. This depends on the position of the diaphragm and the contraction of the lnng on the one hand, and on the distension of the intestines on the other : and it is easily understood how, with normal lungs and empty intestines, the abdomen in the dead body can be pressed in so much, and the lumbar vertebras present such a marked prominence through the abdominal walls, the distance being thus reduced to a minimum. Therefore, in compressing the abdominal aorta, care must be taken to obtain a high position of the diaphragm, and that the intestines be as empty as possible. This compression is indispensable, for example, in disarticulation of the head of the thigh-bone. Pressure must be brought to bear immediately in the region of the navel, as the aorta divides just below the umbilicus, and still further downwards the finger would fall into the pelvis. Lying near is the aorta in the middle line, and the cava, which is more to the side, also the ureters, and close to them and more externally the spermatic vessels. Behind and partly internal to the psoas are the sec- tions of the lumbar nerves. The oblique muscles are divided immediately above the crest of the ilium. The relations of their tendons to the sheaths of the rectus abdominis and quadratus lumborum are so clearly shown in the plate that we need not refer to them again. The anterior iliac spines spring forward as projections in the external contour. It remains now to describe the position of the descending colon, and the operation for opening it, which is practicable in this region without wounding the peritoneum. This proceeding was described by Callisen, but was first performed by Amussat in 1839, and it afterwards obtained the name of Callisen-Amussat’s operation for artificial anus. This operation is preferred by most surgeons to that of opening the iliac flexure in the left inguinal region (Littre), as the descending colon has