41 PLATE III and the lower remained untouched. The globe was divided almost exactly in the middle. The saw cut the upper border of the entrance of the optic nerve of both eyes. In the orbits it was necessary to remove cautiously a thin layer with the knife in order to expose clearly the optic nerves. These show a slight curve, which on further examination is seen to be associated with a bending downwards, in the form of the letter S, which is their normal position while the eye is at rest. This fact renders it possible that considerable traction on the globe may exist without the optic nerve being stretched in any injurious manner in the various movements of the eyes. A tension of the optic nerves must occur unless they entered the optic foramina in this curvilinear manner. It may be left unde- cided, and for further investigation, whether by a stretching of the sheath of the optic nerve a lymph motion is brought about in its course. The researches of Schwalbe have established, as I may here point out, that the different tensions of Tenon’s capsule during the action of the muscles of the eyeball may perhaps act in such a way. It is certain that this relative length of the optic nerve is necessary to ensure the position of the globe when the eye is at rest, and if the optic nerve were tense as it passed from the optic foramen to the globe it would be drawn out of this original position by the constant movements of the eyeball. The optic nerves, which are represented rather too broad in the plate, are about '16 of an inch in diameter. Here they are considerably narrower than when they are within the skull. In the latter situation they are from *2 inch to '24 inch broad. These diameters, however, appear at first sight to be equal on account of the slight length of the nerves. The orbit was not opened to its apex, and is, moreover, proportionally small even for a young person’s skull. The length of the nerve from the optic foramen to its entrance into the globe is, according to Henle, about 1'2 inch, according to Soemmering (‘ De Oculorum Sect, horiz.,’ Gottingm, 1818) l'4 inch; in the present plate it is only 1*12 inch. On the other hand, it shows a complete agreement with the statement of Henle that the centre of the point of entrance of the optic nerve is '16 nearer the middle line from the posterior pole of the axis of the globe. Those portions of the globe which are shown in the preparation require no 6