PLATE III 42 further explanation. Their symmetrical form appears remarkable, as, according to the statement of Briiche, some considerable want of symmetry exists which is characterised by the fact that the equatorial plane, through the iris, lens, and ora serrata, converges to the nasal side. The globe, together with the cornea, exhibits much more nearly a circle in a section in the horizontal meridian, where the long diameter exceeds the transverse one almost imperceptibly* It must, however, not be forgotten that preparations such as the present one cannot furnish in this respect any absolute standard. The numerous vessels of the choroid have, as is known, a considerable influence on the form of the globe. As I could not accurately measure the pressure of the injection, and as it was chiefly calculated to throw as much fluid as possible into the vessels of the eye, it is quite possible that it was considerably more powerful than it would be under natural conditions ; great pressure in the vessels of the eye tends to approximate the form of the eyeball to that of a sphere. It is to be further remarked that freezing does not seem to be the most suitable method of hardening the eye. Influences are thereby exerted which may bring about variations of volume in the watery contents of the globe; however, I know of no other method. It is here not so much a question of determining the forms and position of individual portions of the globe as it is of representing in section the relations of the eye to the orbit and to the other portions of the skull. The dark fissure in front of the globe represents faithfully the expan- sion and folding-in of the conjunctival sac. Behind are the attachments of the external and internal recti, which are inserted into the globe beyond its axis of rotation—relations which are not represented correctly by Soemmering. It is also evident that the internal rectus is inserted further forwards than the external. At the inner angle, and lying on the lachrymal bone, is the section of the lachrymal sac, and on the outer angle between the muscle and the bone a small portion of the lachrymal gland. The relation of Tenon’s capsule cannot be represented on account of the small size of the plate; it was considered that a multiplicity of lines would