PLATE V 53 vertically upwards, and tlie second where it bends backwards after the com- pletion of the curve as an arc flattened transversely towards the middle line. There is nothing particular to observe with regard to the section of the skull and the small lamina of cerebellum. As the skull was divided very superficially the prominences appear larger than they really are, and they thus acquire such singular forms. The muscles, vessels, and nerves of this region are readily recognised in the plate, and require no particular remark. The occipital artery of the right side is seen through a consider- able portion of its length. It arises from the posterior aspect of the external carotid, and passing at first vertically upwards, crosses the internal jugular vein to reach the posterior belly of the digastric. From thence it runs horizontally backwards in the lateral region of the neck, being covered by the trachelo-mastoid and splenius. Having arrived at the middle edge of the splenius it pierces the upper origin of the trapezius (cucullaris), and then runs superficially on the skull. Very little of this vessel is to be seen on the left side. Between the splenius and the occipital bone a muscular branch appears passing deeply from its trunk. The glosso-pharyngeal, vagus, spinal accessory, and hypoglossal nerves are shown in the jflate. The parotid gland is of especial surgical interest; it is, enclosed in a dense fascial envelope which surrounds it on all sides, sending a multitude of septa into the substance of the gland, which account for the lobulated appearance which it presents on section. As the fascia lines the entire niche in which the parotid is imbedded, there is not only a demarcation between it and the internal jugular vein (which must especially be considered in the extirpation of tumours of the gland), but it is a protection to the vagus, spinal accessory, and hypoglossal nerves, which are in close proximity. The portion of the fascia which is most strongly developed is that which covers in the outer aspect of the gland. This, on account of its connection with the fascia of the masseter, is called fascia masseterico-parotidea. In consequence of this arrangement the swelling of the gland from inflammation is limited externally, thus the tumour presses internally against the nerves and vessels. O Tbe parotid being pierced by the terminal branches of the external