PLATE XY 124 distension of the stomach, and were made from preparations, of which a view was obtained from above after raising the peritoneum by taking away the upper half of the thorax and part of the diaphragm; and, although the perspective view of the position of the spleen is not quite correct, it gives the same results. Pirogoff’s plates (fasc. iii, B.), which represent plastic preparations made by chipping the organs out of frozen bodies must be compared with them. It is shown in all these figures, as Luschka states, that the spleen does not occupy the highest point of the cupola of the diaphragm, and moreover does not lie with its hilus on the fundus of the stomach; but that the fundus of the stomach, covered by the left lobe of the liver, lies in the highest part of the cupola of the diaphragm, and the spleen takes up its position laterally with it. Correspondingly with the greatest amount of play of the diaphragm, the position of the spleen will not be affected ; and in breathing will be less displaced than if it lay high up in its cupola : at the same time, the influence of respiration is consider- able enough to be of practical importance. The size of the normal spleen cannot always be felt with certainty in deep inspiration; if, however, it be enlarged, it can be reached with the finger, on causing the individual to take a deep breath. The determination of the size of the spleen, by per- cussion, always presents certain difficulties which must not be under-rated. Whilst on this subject I may mention that the kidney, and left colic flexure when distended with faeces, have more than once been mistaken for tumour of the spleen.» A small strip only of the stomach is seen in front of the seventh costal cartilage. The connection between the duodenum lying between the liver, pancreas and right kidney no longer exists. It can be seen, however, from the position of the duodenum that the pylorus must have lain near the middle line of the body, and so also that the pyloric portion of the stomach took an oblique direction from below backwards, hence the pyloric valve could not have lain in an antero-posterior direction directly, but more obliquely forwards (Luschka). In Pirogoff’s Atlas (iii, 2, fig. l),is a section which passes exactly through the pylorus and shows this relation clearly. According to this plate the pylorus lies in the anterior half of the abdominal cavity near the eleventh costal cartilage, immediately to the right of the