106 PLATE XIII The heart does not extend downwards beyond the fifth rib, reaching only to its lower border; the cavity of the pericardium, however, extends about half an inch lower, and contains about a tablespoonful of frozen fluid. In a male fifty years of age I found at the level of the eleventh costal cartilage a portion of the heart corresponding with that here represented, but considerably deeper. The relations of the pleurae to the front of the heart are of practical importance. The pleurae appear as folded sacs, which extend from the anterior border of the lungs towards the middle line, leaving in the present instance merely a small interspace between the left edge of the sternum and the fifth costal cartilage, through which the pericardium could be reached by the trocar without wounding the pleurae. Bodies vary considerably in this particular, so that it is readily conceivable why so many different descriptions are given for the position of the point in the introduction of the trocar. Luschka, however, is right when he maintains that the pericardium presents at the left border of the sternum a narrow strip quite free of pleura, so that it may be safely avoided in paracentesis of the pericardium. The safest method of operating, as I have satisfied myself, is to pass a fine trocar in the upper angle between the left edge of the sternum and the fifth costal cartilage. It does not appear justifiable to depend upon an adhesion of the pleura. Even large collections of fluid in the pericardium may exist for a considerable time without it. The amount of extension of the liver towards the left appears surprising; hence the heart seems to be entirely supported by its left lobe, and from its abnormal size one is inclined to assume that some pathological condition was present. Such, however, was not the case, and the viscus was normal both in weight and structure. It must be borne in mind that the left lobe of the liver shows great varieties of form even under normal relations; that it reaches down to the spleen ; but that it lies always under the heart, a portion of which projects anteriorly and to the left side over the margin of the liver. Again, it is to be remembered that, in consequence, false notions are formed of the shape and position of the liver; one having been accustomed to observe it in front as