11 PLATE I the dead subject the lungs are in the position of fullest expiration, and the diaphragm reaches its highest level; and the relation of the intestines with it, the distribution of the blood, and the arching forward of the abdomen, are somewhat altered. Therefore, with reference to the living body, the distance of the vertebral column from the abdominal walls must be con- sidered as somewhat greater, although not so much so as one is accustomed to suppose. From this relation of the parietes to the vertebree, the possi- bility of the ready compression of the abdominal aorta may be inferred. Compression becomes the easier the thinner the individual and the less full the intestines. Further, it is evident that the individual should lie in such a position that the lumbar vertebrse be bowed as much forward as possible; and as the aorta bifurcates on the fourth lumbar vertebra, the pressure should be brought to bear directly on the navel. Intestines.—The position of the intestines in the middle line should be compared repeatedly with other sections on bodies of the same size. It appeared that a similar figure continually obtained, and that, with exception of some of the coils of intestine, the stomach, duodenum, transverse colon, iliac flexure, and rectum, when in an equal state of distension, lay pretty much in the same position. In one case the stomach was found in such an empty and contracted condition that it was at first entirely overlooked, and when it was found the little finger could be scarcely pushed into its cavity. On examining the abdomen it appears (and more so than in other regions) that the change in the volume of individual organs as well as their mobility may be considerable without other parts having essentially to suffer thereby. For fat and cellular tissue so completely surround the viscera that no empty spaces are left, and thus freedom of movement and com- pression are permitted. The section of the liver passes through the left lobe near the lobulus Spigelii. The pancreas is cut through near its head, where the superior mesenteric vein approaches the liver. The other part of it, which is directed from the head of the gland to the middle line along the lower horizontal portion of the duodenum (the so-called lesser pancreas), lies behind the mesenteric vein, so that it looks as if the vein passed through the pancreas itself.