PLATE VI 61 tliis prominence as a means of assistance is not directly suitable in all cases, as is already proved by examination of the normal thyroid body (see figure), the upper lobe of which lies between the artery and the thyroid cartilage. Swellings of this gland must draw the artery away from the bony promi- nence, but they do not permit of its being released from the strong fibrous sheath, which is formed by the investment of the sterno-cleido-mastoid and scalene muscles, and of the gland itself. From a section which I made at a similar level in the neck on a well-frozen body affected with goitre, the carotid was half an inch external to the tubercle in question, but the relations of the muscle and fascim were unaltered. On a closer examination of the plate the relation of the fascke to the artery will be seen. It is true that such representations are insufficient; and in order to make clear the relations of all the fasciae one is compelled to represent them as white lines. I have therefore been able to mark out satisfactorily the coalescence of the several laminae. Moreover, actual fascirn cannot be properly distinguished from layers of cellular tissue. For the more accurate relations of this part I refer to the works of Dittl, Pirogoff, and Henle. I may add that the contours of the muscles which chiefly determine the arrangement of fasciae are sufficiently accurately represented in the preparation, and in this respect furnish trustworthy points of reference. Externally, and somewhat behind the artery, is the internal jugular vein, and between these vessels is the vagus, which in ligature of the artery must- be carefully protected from injury. It is most safely avoided, if after divi- sion of the fibrous sheath a fine director be passed through the cellular tissue immediately over the artery, and then the edges of the fascia pulled aside with two pairs of forceps, before passing the ligature needle. By this means the ligature can be as readily applied, either from without inwards or from within outwards. Behind, and nearer the artery, is the sympathetic nerve, which may be avoided if merely the old rule be followed with respect to the vagus, of introducing the needle from without inwards. Behind the vagus, and on the anterior scalene muscle, lies the phrenic nerve. Behind the jugular vein, between the sterno-cleido-mastoid and the