126 PLATE XY The vein entering it directly in the middle line of the body is the superior mesenteric ; and at their junction the portal vein commences. This position is so constant that vertical sections in the middle line would expose a large portion of it (Plate I and II). The portion of the pancreas lying behind the vein is the so-called lesser pancreas. The position of the pancreas at the level of the first lumbar vertebra, corresponds with that in Plate I and II; it is, however, so increased in breadth that it extends downwards to the next vertebra. Behind the pancreas on the right side is the vena cava, with the left renal vein opening into it, and near it on the left side the abdominal aorta. In front of the latter passes the superior mesenteric artery, in order to gain the root of the mesentery beneath the gland. The aorta has nearly reached the middle line, where it divides below the third lumbar vertebra into the common iliac arteries. Its distance from the anterior wall of the abdomen is nearly four and a half inches; whilst the distance in the preceding Plate at the level of the eleventh dorsal vertebra, in the same body, is nearly five inches. In plate, Xo. XYI, corresponding with the cartilage between the third and fourth lumbar vertebra, this distance is only three and a half inches ; so that it is clearly evident that the anterior curvature of the lumbar spine brings the vessel nearer the abdominal wall, rendering its compression from the front possible. The section of the kidneys is such that it cuts the right above its hilus, whilst on the left side it has passed through it. The left kidney lies a little higher than the right—a relation which exists in the generality of cases. The length of the kidneys corresponds with the bodies of three and a half vertebree, they extend from the upper border of the twelfth dorsal vertebra to the middle of the third lumbar. As they are in relation with the spleen and liver superiorly, and are bounded posteriorly by the diaphragm and pleural cavity, one would expect that they would be displaced in great pleu- ritic effusion by the descent of the diaphragm as are the liver and spleen. Enlargements of the liver exert a dislocating effect upon the kidney, as will be shown more exactly in the next plate. The position of the kidneys is rather antero-posterior than transverse,