PLATE XIII 107 projected on a plane, in which case its entire extent cannot be shown. A good view of the extent and position of the liver is obtained from the diaphragm above; and this is the easiest method that can be adopted of studying the important relations of the liver to the spleen, stomach, and heart. I have frequently, after the removal of the chest-wall, shown the diaphragm intact, with a portion of the pericardium attached to it, and sub- sequently removed the diaphragm and introduced the liver into the drawing; and I always found a similar relation of the heart and liver to that seen in this plate, notwithstanding the variable extent of the left lobe. If the dia- phragm be very carefully removed, the peritoneum may be preserved and the individual organs seen through it in their respective relations to each other. If the body be placed in the upright position, the pressure on the surface of the diaphragm is lessened and rupture of the peritoneal sac avoided. I give three plates which were made from the bodies of young powerful men (suicides) which were brought to the anatomical school with the rigor mortis on them. There is no question that in such operations the position of the diaphragm frequently alters; and that with the removal of the upper half of the thorax especially the anterior and posterior walls of the lower half somewhat approach each other, and the cupola of the diaphragm rises correspondingly higher in consequence : this alteration of position having, however, but a very slight influence on the subjacent organs. A prepara- tion of this kind may be made on a subject lying on the belly or on the back without any perceptible displacement of the enclosed viscera. Frequent observations show that by means of this method many useful results are obtained in explanation of the topography of this region. I have, then, rested satisfied with the representations obtained, and have refrained from attempting an improvement upon the plates by a previous moulding in plaster of Paris, and from using the drawing apparatus of Luc*. Considering the sources of error which result from the relations in the dead body, an exact definition of the position of the parts must be given up. Fig. 1 represents the relations of the parts, the stomach being tolerably full. This viscus "when full pushes the left lobe of the liver