46 PLATE IV introduced at the end of this chapter, in which the parts are enlarged three times. Deep down in the tympanum passing from before back- wards is seen a bony protuberance which belongs to the semi-circular and Fallopian canals, and behind the stapes, in the section of the temporal bone, is shown the canal containing the facial nerve. This marked “ cropping up ” of this canal on the roof of the cavity of the tympanum is characteristic of the young individual. The young ear is especially suitable for the study of the organ. In the middle line from the stapes is the vestibule. The cochlea is not shown as it lies above the section. Internally and in front of the cavity of the tympanum is the internal carotid artery, shown from its entrance to its first curvature, and subse- quently divided transversely. In front of the carotid is the Eustachian canal, flat anteriorly, and passing deep down posteriorly. It runs conse- quently more vertically backwards than the plane of section passing from the nasal to the auricular aperture. The section passes through its pharyngeal opening, laying that portion of its canal free, but not its bony portion. Thus, only a small portion of the lateral tubal cartilage (Riidinger’s hook) is divided anteriorly, whilst a long strip of the median cartilage is exposed. Laterally the canal exhibits a mucous membrane rich in glands and cellular tissue. A portion of the tensor palati can be seen, and its origin can be traced backwards to the spine of the sphenoid. No portion of the levator palati is shown, as the section passed above its origin. It has been repeatedly proved that the tensor palati is at the same time a dilator of the Eustachian tube, and an elevator of the lateral cartilage, thus opening the canal. The excellent representation of the Eustachian tube in Rudinger’s atlas (‘ Atlas des menschlichen Gehororganes,’ Munchen, 1867) should be compared with this. The projecting lip is clearly seen where the middle of the tube stands out at a point about '6 of an inch from the posterior wall of the pharynx, and behind it is the fossa of Rosenmuller (■recessus infundibuliformis of Tourtual). The mucous membrane of the pharynx is rich in glands, and is continuous with that of the Eustachian tube and nasal cavities. It presents numerous blind crypts and depressions, which can be only hinted at in the