PLATE I 8 parts of the hyoicl bone and the neighbouring organs, which are here shown, are similar to those represented in Pirogoff’s plate, and as it was not taken from a person who had died by hanging, they may be regarded as normal. The larynx is evenly divided in the mesial plane, and offers no peculiari- ties for consideration. The sections of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages, and the ventricle of Morgagni between them, are shown, and, on account of the apposition of the vocal cords, the ventricle appears only as a cleft. The muscles to be noticed in this section are, on the posterior wall of the larynx, the transverse section of the arytenoideus, anteriorly, between the cricoid and thyroid cartilages, some fibres of the crico-thyroid lying close in the mesial line, and above a portion of the thyro-hyoid. The ligaments shown are the glosso-epiglottic, the middle thyro-hyoid, and further down the middle crico-thyroid. The section of the neck is so closely in the mesial plane that no vessels are seen, except a vein above the manubrium sterni, a commu- nicating branch uniting two subcutaneous veins of the neck. It lies enclosed between two laminae of fascia, which arise from the splitting of the anterior lamina of the cervical fascia. Behind this lies the cut edge of the sterno-thyroid muscle. Between this muscle and the trachea is the section of the middle portion of the thyroid body which is perfectly normal in its relations. The plate shows the direction taken by the knife in tracheotomy, and the importance of keeping the incision exactly in the middle line of the neck. The absence of arteries in the middle line, as is almost uniformly the case, shows that there is less apprehension of danger in the middle line from ha3inorrliage than laterally. The thyroidea ima artery is the only one which would be met with in such a plane, and this, according to Neubauer, is found in one in every ten bodies. Since this vessel takes its origin in almost all cases from the innomminate its distribution must be looked for somewhat towards the right of the middle line. As the trachea lies further distant from the surface of the body as it descends, the operation of tracheotomy is easier of performance the nearer the surgeon approaches the larynx, consequently, unless there are contra-indications, it should be performed above the thyroid body. It must be recollected that this