57 PLATE VI portion of tlie neck, and consequently exhibit no lateral expansion in the region of the junction of the shoulder and neck, the upper surface of such a section, however, would offer another shape, and approximate more to the circular. Pirogoff’s plate (fasc. i, tab. x, fig. 5) should be examined in order to prove that it is the feebly-developed muscular neck which takes the circular form. Pirogoff, moreover, says that his section was taken from an emaciated body; however, I maintained from recent sections on a man of fifty years of age (such as is repre- sented in Tab. ix of the first volume), that a section at the level of the sixth cervical vertebra is tolerably round. The present case must then be regarded as typical of the neck of a young powerful male, and deviations towards the circular form on the living body are to be referred to want of muscular development. Sections on unhardened bodies naturally give no fixed forms cor- responding with their original relations. The parts yield so much on bodies which have been frozen and subsequently thawed that the neck gradually acquires a circular shape. This may very likely be the reason that the plates of Beraud and Nulin, which represent very similar regions of the neck, differ so essentially from mine as regards external form. (Beraud’s plate is in his ‘Atlas d’Anatomie Chirur- gicale,’ Paris, 1862, pi. xxxvii. Nulm’s is represented by Henle, ‘ Muskellehre,’p. 131, and by Henke, ‘ Abl. der Topographischen Anatomie,’ taf. lxix.) As to individual portions of the present plate to be studied, the first of all is the larynx, which is divided close below the vocal cords ; anteriorly is the arc, formed by the section of the thyroid cartilage, and close behind it the section of the cricoid. Of the arytenoid cartilages only the muscular processes are met with, and nothing is seen of the vocal processes, as they lie higher. The space between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages is filled up with the thyro-artenoideus and crico-arytenoideus lateralis. On the other side are some fasciculi of the thyro-epiglottideus. Behind this and on the anterior surface of the crico-arytenoidei postici lie the inferior laryngeal nerve and artery. Prom the form of the transversely divided trachea it will be observed 8