PLATE XI 93 with absolute accuracy the relations on the living body. Apart from the influence which maintains the filling of the vessels, the position of the heart and its great branches is determined chiefly by the lungs and diaphragm, and it varies with each change of position of these important connexions. (This will be referred to again in the text accompanying the next plate.) Both bronchi are clearly seen; the left is divided more obliquely, in consequence of its being less vertical than the right, and as its ramifications lie in the plane of section, more of its branches are seen; whilst as the right has been divided more transversely, most of its branches have been separated. Between them, at the root of the lung, are a number of the characteristic pigmented bronchial glands. Nearly in the centre, in front of the sixth dorsal vertebra, is the oesophagus, and" behind it, to the left side, is the descending aorta, which already begins to take a direction towards the middle line. Between the oesophagus and the aorta is the thoracic duct, which in this instance is double. The vagus lies on the right side near the oesophagus and the vena azygos major; on the left side it lies between the bronchus and descending aorta. The practical physician will notice with interest the changes which pathological conditions have given rise to in these sections. I have, there- fore, introduced two plates from Pirogoff, which have been taken from the bodies of patients. Fig. 1, taken at the same level as my plate, shows extensive pericardial exudation. The immense expansion which the pericardium has attained at the roots of the great blood-vessels is remarkable; both pleural sacs are widely drawn asunder, and the right especially has acquired a consider- able inflexion. The pulmonary artery with its right branch has slightly changed its position with regard to the middle line; the aorta lies con- siderably further towards the right side than is normal, and is pushed far away from the vena cava. On account of the exudation all the vessels seem to be pushed towards the vertebral column. The section corresponds with that given by Pirogoff (fasc. ii, p. 22), and passes through the second intercostal space, dividing the third, fourth, and fifth ribs of both sides and the fourth costal cartilage at the level