129 PLATE XVI According to Lusclika (Anat., ii, 1, p. 289), they usually lie higher, viz. from tire middle of the eleventh dorsal to the lower border of the second lumbar vertebra. I do not lay any stress on this, and I think that these statements may be regarded as coinciding with mine, since half a vertebra makes but little difference. The hilus lies at the level of the first lumbar vertebra, and corresponding with it is the position of the renal vessels in Plates I and II. Pirogoff gives the same (fasc. iv, tab. 4—9) ; but through the hilus in front of the first lumbar vertebra. The upper margin within which the kidneys are divided is determined by the eleventh dorsal vertebra; the lower by the cessation of the section of the ribs, and corresponds nearly with the third lumbar vertebra. But the relations are different if there be depression of the diaphragm, or enlargement of the liver and spleen. The kidneys are then pushed out of their position, and undergo a dislocation, which may amount to the extent of several vertebras. In a pleuritic exudation of the right side no kidney is to be seen at the middle of the twelfth dorsal vertebra, Pirogoff (iii, 6, 3) : and in the man of fifty years, with enlargement of the liver and spleen as I have before mentioned, the hilus, as in the woodcut, fig. 1, is met with at the level of the fourth lumbar vertebra. The kidneys were also here directly pushed downwards on to the soft parts. As regards the intestines, in Plate XYI, the inferior portion of the colon is in front; behind and on the left side the contracted descending colon; posteriorly and on the right the ascending colon more distended. Both the ascending and descending colon lie in the angle formed by the psoas magnus and quadratus lumborum. More in the middle of the cavity of the abdomen are coils of small intestine, though not so many as one might expect. From the descending colon to the anterior border of the transverse colon is seen the cut surface of the great bag of the peritoneum passing across to the ascending colon. It is remarkable that the intestines should show such extreme differ- ences in calibre. According as they are empty, full, or distended with gas, they exhibit a larger or smaller cut surface. The ascending and transverse colons are large, and so also is a coil of small intestine, which has considerably compressed the end of the latter. 17