170 PLATE XXIV pushed aside by the sustentaculum tali, they would obtain a very insuffi- cient hold beneath the short internal malleolus if the flexor longuis pollicis and tibialis posticus lay on the inner border of the leg, and if the flexor longus digitorum arose from the fibula it would act at a great disadvantage. This defect is remedied in a simple manner by the crossing of the tendons. The arteries have the same muscular separations as before, notwith- standing that they have materially altered their position with regard to the tibia; and, in consequence of the diminution of the bulk of the overlying muscles they are considerably nearer the surface, so that their ligature is easier than above. The anterior tibial artery can be reached between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus pollicis, and the posterior tibial can be readily found if the border of the soleus be detached and pulled back from the flexor longus digitorum. The position of the peroneal artery is the most unfavorable for ligature, as it must be searched for behind the peronei, after separating the flexor longus pollicis from the fibula, when it can be drawn out from behind the bone. Fig. 2. This section of the leg in the region of the malleolus terminates this series. It divides the tibia and fibula immediately above the astragalus, hence the comparatively large size of the tibia. Both are strongly bound together by ligaments, and in front is an opening into the cavity of the ankle-joint. The muscles now almost entirely present their tendons, only the outer portion of the extensor of the toes, the peroneus tertius, and the extensor flexor longus pollicis, still show muscular tissue. With the tendons are associated their bursas which are shown as dark chinks, and the ligamentous apparatus which renders secure the position of these tendons at the ankle. The upper portion of the annular ligament is met with, the point of origin of which from the os calcis lies deeper and is consequently not seen, and under the middle fasciculus which encloses the extensor longus pollicis, lies the anterior tibial artery which may be here readily reached from the surface. To expose the posterior tibial artery for ligature, the division of one fasciculus only of the internal annular ligament is necessary. It lies between the flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis, and the