PLATE XIX 155 which is corroborated by Yolkmann (‘ Kranklieiten der Bewegungsorgane,’ 1865, p. 195). Again, effusion of blood into the joint in an extended position of the extremity exhibits symptoms compatible with this. Figure 2.—This section of a normal right foot is from the same body. The section runs near the inner border of the foot, and divides in succes- sion the tibia, astragalus, scaphoid, internal cuneiform and first metatarsal bones, and the first phalanx of the great toe. The saw has missed the second phalanx, as the toe was somewhat bent outwards. The section passes nearer the inner border of the foot than that repre- sented by Weber (£ Gehwerkzeuge,’ tab. xi), Yolz (‘Beitrag zur Ohirurg Anat.,’ tab. x), Henle (£ Gelenke,’ figs. 136, 137). It was only just possible to avoid the cuboid and third cuneiform bones which project inwards so much that they would have been divided by any section passing further outwards, and made the relations of the plate more complicated. The bones of the foot are not placed so that they simply form an arch from before back- wards, but there is also one in a transverse direction. It can be easily proved by measurement, that from the pressure exerted by the weight of the body, in the upright position, the curves of the skeleton of the foot are flattened in both directions, and that the foot is not only lengthened but broadened. It is clearly seen from the plate, that the astragalus which has been divided exactly at the attachment of the interosseous ligament, is set as the keystone of the arch. It is wedged in between the sca- phoid and os calcis, is pressed against them both, and thus prevents their approach. The ligaments correspond with the structure of the arch, which the several bones of the foot form. They are proportionally weaker on the convex dorsum, where they hold the separate bones in position during pressure on the arch; and extraordinarily strong on the plantar aspect, where their function is to act as a tie beam, and prevent separation of the bones : and it is not the form of the bones alone that renders the arch secure, since they would fall apart were it not for the immensely strong- ligamentous arrangement of the sole of the foot, strengthened by the plantar fascia.