PLATE II 35 The woman (fig. 6) died immediately after childbirth; the anteflexion also was recent, brought on by the weight of the heavy body of the uterus, which had a capacity of about two fluid ounces. The flexion is so considerable that the body and neck of the uterus are almost at a right angle with each other, and on the anterior wall a distinct fold is formed. The posterior wall of the uterus rests on the rectum, and presses on its lumen, &c. The vagina is distended and measures 3‘6 inches. The distance of the peritoneum on the posterior wall of the uterus from the perineum is 3-8 inches. These figures consequently considerably exceed those in the preceding case. The position of the fundus with regard to the firmly-compressed bladder is to be remarked here, so also the position of that portion of the peritoneum which lies between the uterus and bladder on the anterior wall of the vagina. In the normal condition of the uterus its end lies nearest the peri- toneum, whereas it is here in the middle. It is further to be noticed that the strong attachment of the posterior portion of the base of the bladder with the neck of the uterus (which as already mentioned is admitted by Courty) is not present in this preparation, otherwise the bladder and urethra lying close down on the uterus would be dragged upwards. Nevertheless, the lax cellular tissue and fascia between these viscera is not so capable of distension that variations in the position of the uterus could continue without any influence on the bladder. We notice here that a large piece of the posterior portion of the base of the bladder has been drawn upwards, a condition which would interfere with the action of the vesical sphincter, and consequently cause an incontinence of urine. The conjugate diameter is very large, 5 inches, and exceeds that in PI. II. The ante-flexed position of the uterus is very well represented by Legendre, as is also to be found in Pirogoff’s ‘ Atlas,’ and in Riidinger’s ‘ Topogr. Chirurgische Anatomie,’ i, II Abtheilung, taf. ii. The female from which his plate was made died shortly after instrumental labour, and was soon given over to Rudinger, who froze it and obtained a good section. The thick-walled uterus had dragged the small intestine upwards and lay with its fundus high above the symphysis. Here also the base of the bladder had not followed the traction exerted by the