60 PLATE VI ligamentous tissue; it involves also tlie superior articular process of the seventh cervical vertebra and its joint cavity. Since the body of the sixth cervical vertebra with its transverse process is divided, a proper opportunity is afforded of examining the so-called tubercle of Chassaignac and its relation to the common carotid artery. Among surgeons this process is known as Chassaignac’s tubercle, and is considered, according to the statements of authors, to be a most valuable landmark in seeking the vessel, in cases where ligature is rendered difficult on account of swelling of the tissues or the presence of a tumour. It is clearly seen that the anterior of the tubercles of the bifurcated transverse process, which proceeds from the side of the body of the vertebra, and encloses the sixth cervical nerve, is a direct guide to the common carotid artery, which lies immediately upon it. Further, with regard to this tubercle, it has a morphological importance as a rudimentary rib, and is correctly called the eminentia costaria, jutting out more markedly from the sixth vertebra than from any of the others. It can be readily felt in the living body if gentle pressure be made on the side of the body of the vertebra upwards towards the level of the larynx. Although advantage may be taken of the presence of this tubercle in looking for the vessel, for the sake of demonstration, and of making beginners acquainted with its locality, still it is not necessary for surgeons of experience to avail themselves of such a means of assistance, even in complicated cases. If the vessel has to be ligatured exactly at this spot, it is better to make the usual dissection over the course of the artery, dividing layer by layer. In this way there is less danger of wounding important parts, whilst the course to the vessel is sure. The position of the vessels is defined by muscles and fasciae, but these can be easily pushed away from their relations with the bony points. When, however, the vessels lie in bony canals, and are enclosed as fixedly and unalterably as the vertebral, for instance, then undoubtedly the determina- tion of their position is facilitated. But, on the other hand, the means of reaching them may be rendered proportionately difficult. As, however, the carotid can be easily drawn away from its relation to Chassaignac’s tubercle,