PLATE XII 101 A needle pushed into the middle of the third intercostal space, at the distance of rather less than half an inch from the left sternal border, would strike the central point of the mitral opening. In order to pierce the tricuspid opening, it must be thrust into the right half of the sternum at the level of its articulation with the fourth costal cartilage. The pulmonary orifice would be reached at the upper border of the third costal cartilage, about one fifth of an inch external to the left edge of the sternum, and the aortic orifice at the level of the third costal cartilage. I have frequently performed such experiments on young male subjects, and I am convinced of the accuracy of these statements. But I am far from insisting on their being absolute for all bodies, still less would I maintain that the positions are exactly the same for the living without further observation, entirely waving the question of pathological changes. According to the position of the body whether it lies on the back, side, or abdomen, so the position of the heart is affected, and further it is con- siderably influenced by the condition of the diaphragm. The heart is placed between the lungs and the diaphragm, so as to be surrounded by structures which can be displaced from it as soon as something else has taken their place. And owing to this arrangement the position of the heart is somewhat variable. The tender organ is not only perfectly protected from shocks which affect the anterior wall of the thorax, but has, moreover, free room for its own movements. In the body of a young and powerful individual, such as the one here represented, the lungs gradually contract to an extent which is never the case during life. Consequently the external air presses equally on the surface of the abdomen and upon the diaphragm. When the lungs contract, the heart, which lies between them, naturally moves upwards with the diaphragm, and so attains after death a higher level than is possible during life. If the elasticity of the lungs be lost, as is the case in old people and in those affected with disease of the lung-tissue, we must expect a deeper position of the heart. By sections in the bodies of young powerful men I found the pulmonary orifice at the upper border of the third left costal cartilage, and at the