PLATE XXIY 171 bursal sheaths of both muscles can be completely avoided in looking for the artery. The tendo Achillis lies some way further back, so that its division is easily accomplished without wounding the vessel. The two plates here given are sufficient to show the most important points in the lower half of the leg. On the other hand, the relations given of the foot are insufficient, and perhaps a further series of sections might have been shown. From numbers of sections which I have made and had drawn, and have before me, as well also from the examination of Pirogoff’s plates, I have come to the conclusion, that sections of the foot are not of very much use for the comprehension of its structure, although a clear idea of the arrangement and form of its bony arches may be obtained; but for the relations of the soft parts they are only of sub- ordinate importance. Flat preparations are in this respect of more value and are indispensable. The numerous small muscular masses of the sole are divided from each other merely by fascim and cellular tissue, and the number of tendons on the dorsum which can be but inadequately separated from the ligaments by transverse section, would give unre- liable plates. Again, the arrangement of the annular ligament would be absolutely unintelligible if studied on sections only. The arteries, as has already been mentioned in fig. 1, lie much nearer the surface than in the preceding plate, and therefore have far simpler landmarks for their ligature than in the upper half of the leg. They form a triangle with two nearly equal sides. The base of this triangle is formed by a line passing from the anterior tibial artery to the peroneal, directed outwards, as seen in fig. 1. This arterial triangle, in consequence of the termination of the peroneal artery, ceases in fig. 2, and is not seen in Plate XXIII, fig. 1. On the other hand, it is very clear from Plate XXIII, fig. 2, that if this triangle be compared in this and the preceding plate, the direction of its base and the length of its sides remain exactly the same. It so happens that these arteries in their course in the lower half of the leg remain in the same position with regard to each other ; and that they run as parallel vascular tubes, and do not from their own change of position get nearer the surface, but from the con- tinually decreasing masses of the muscles as they proceed downwards.