PLATE I 15 The curvature of the urethra differs somewhat from that which Kolil- rausch describes as normal, but the condition here represented must also be regarded as such, since it presents no pathological irregularities nor are there any in neighbouring organs. It must be therefore assumed, as follows from the plate of Pirogoff and Jarjarvay, that this urethral curvature which offers in the normal condition frequent variations can only be generally defined. Moreover, the ease with which instruments can be introduced into the bladder merely by their own weight proves that it is less a question of giving the catheter a definite curvature, than of knowing of the hindrances which might oppose its introduction. The projection in the prostatic portion of the urethra corresponds to the prostatic sinus near the colliculus seminalis, which lies in the section with the ejaculatory duct. The relations and structure of the glans and corpus cavernosum are well shown, so also is the fossa navicularis. The other dilatations and contractions of the urethra which are regular in the normal body cannot be defined. In order to obtain a clear idea of these, casts must be made from soft specimens as Langer has done, as sections of hard prepara- tions are not of much value. The position of Cowper’s glands, which lie so deeply below the urethral muscles, will explain why the inflammation and enlargement, which are frequently found on section to have affected them, are so little regarded during life; a considerable amount of swelling must occur in order to afford any perceptible tumour. If the plate be examined with regard to perineal operations, such as lithotomy, one is astonished at the narrowness of the space between the upper portion of the urethra and the rectum. It must be remarked, however, that in the present instance it is peculiarly exaggerated, as the rectum was full of feces. The importance of the rule is evident that before the operation of lithotomy be undertaken the rectum be cleared of all fecal matter, in order that it be out of the reach of the knife. That the space is thereby substantially enlarged is manifest from Kohlrausch’s plate, which is drawn from a greatly distended rectum. It is further seen from the relations before us, that it is quite practicable to preserve the capsule of the prostate. By dilating the mem-