PLATE XVIII 143 jejunum and below ileum, as can be readily recognised from the nature of tlieir mucous coats, indicate that in many instances they have been met with in their long axis. There are singularly few instances in which this has happened in the preceding sections, and it therefore follows that the coils of intestine have a parallel direction with the long axis of the body. Of the individual portions of the intestine, the section of the vermiform process is seen at the upper border of the right psoas ; and on the left of the iliac vein the transverse section of the rectum. The latter was especially studied in relation to its course. It ascended behind Douglas’s pouch, in the left half of the body near the middle line ; curved sharply forwards over the left psoas muscle, so that it fell in the plane of the section; and then passed somewhat forwards towards the right half of the body as an arc of a large curve, ultimately becoming continuous with the descend- ing colon. It shows, moreover, a deviation from the usual course, at the lower portion, as figured by Pirogoff (fasc. iii B, tab. xv, fig. 1), but does not completely correspond with the relations shown in Plates I and II; and one can easily convince oneself by injecting with tallow that, in individual cases, and those not very rare, the $-curve of the rectum is not sharply marked in a frontal direction with regard to the sacrum,—variations which are owing to the inconstant length of the meso- rectum. Should this be strong and reach far back, the position of the rectum is freer, and more dependent on the condition of the neighbouring organs. Shortness and tenseness of this meso-rectum, on the other hand, contribute to a firm and constant position of the intestine. The effect produced by the distension and by the firmness of the walls of the rectum must be taken into consideration. Great distension from feces, and flaccidity of its walls especially, permit of considerable stretch- ing of the original curves. It can be proved by investigation and clinical observations, that the surgeon can straighten the curved rectum by means of instruments, and introduce them as far as the iliac flexure. Foreign bodies introduced from the anus, and firmly impacted, can be seized with forceps and withdrawn. The bladder contained a little urine, and was firmly contracted: it is separated from the section of the levator ani by a little fat; on both sides