100 PLATE XII As the left ventricle lies more posteriorly and the right extends more anteriorly, the auricular septum is drawn out backwards and to the right side; the left auricle lies considerably higher than the right. The inferior vena cava projects upwards into the posterior half of the right auricle, and in front of it are the remains of the Eustachian valve. Still more anteriorly the auricle bulges outwards and downwards to a depth of about an inch and a quarter, rising again to open into the right ventricle and by means of the auriculo-ventricular opening, which is guarded by the tricuspid valve. In front of the tricuspid valve is the right ventricle, which is opened by the section, and from which the section has carried away the root of the pulmonary artery. From the anterior wall of the ventricle (the section of which is seen in front) one of the musculi papil- lares passes backwards to the anterior flap of the valve, and behind this, deeper in the cavity of the ventricle, are the columnse carneas of the hinder wall. By comparison with the under surface of the next section the position of both aui’icles can be accurately determined. It appears that the cavity of the right auricle attains the level of the lower border of the fourth, to the middle of the third, costal cartilage, and that its corresponding auricular appendix reaches to the upper border of the third costal cartilage. Its greatest breadth extends from the middle of the left half of the sternum to about an inch external to the right border of that bone. The left auricle extends from the upper border of the fourth costal cartilage to the middle of the second intercostal space, and in breadth it corre- sponds to the eighth dorsal vertebra and its articulations with the heads of its ribs; its auricular appendix rises to the lower border of the second costal cartilage. The right auriculo-ventricular opening is at the level of the eighth dorsal vertebra and to the right of the middle line of the sternum; it also extends across slightly to the left half of the body, nearly in the centre between the vertebra and sternum. Anteriorly its position is marked by the level of the nipple and the fourth costal cartilage. The left auriculo-ventricular opening commences somewhat to the left of the sternum and reaches nearly to the middle line, lying 2'8 inches behind it at the level of the fourth intercostal space.