199 PLATE XXXI towards the articulation between the sacrum and coccyx, and surrounded the protruding occiput of the foetus. The opening of the right Fallopian tube was well seen in the upper third of the uterus. The depth of the uterine cavity from the horizontal plane of the surface of the section to its lowest point was 2'6 inches, and the distance of the internal os to the fundus 6-6 inches. The distance of the external os from the inner in the axis of the pelvis was 4'5 inches. The thickness of the walls of the uterus varied considerably in different places. The placenta lay in the floor of the uterus, and chiefly in its left half, therefore the origin of the cord must have been divided in the section. Although the patency of the rectum was here and there retained, the bladder was empty and contracted. Behind the symphysis its walls had become so thin as to be hardly recognisable. Above and below the symphysis, where the pressure had not been so great, it was thicker, and consequently better seen. On filling the bladder it became distended upwards, so that the anterior walls of the abdomen must have been lifted up slightly from the uterus. The protrusion of the abdominal parietes by the uterus is here more considerable than in the preceding case, in which that organ occupies a different position, although not so marked as would appear at first sight. In both the spine projects beyond a third of the entire depth of the trunk. Unfortunately, during the removal of the left half of the mother in order to obtain the necessary view of the child, the skeleton was destroyed, so that it was impossible to restore it as was done in the previous case. As the vertebras had no lateral deviations so the section passed exactly in the mesial line. The kyphotic curvature of the thoracic and cervical portions, though marked, is of no particular interest as regards the relations here shown. The relations of the intestines and stomach, the former being, as in the other body, pushed upwards, afford nothing worthy of remark. The liver and spleen were normal. The former weighed about three pounds, and displayed a protuberance of its anterior wall, as in the first instance, the latter weighed about seven ounces, and measured 5-6 inches