PLATES XXIX and XXX 194 and only in one higher. Dorn in his measurements by means of the cyrto- meter on living females in advanced pregnancy and in lying-in women, found that in most cases the bases of the thorax had a greater breadth during pregnancy than after delivery, but, on the other hand, its depth was less from before backwards. When the uterus was empty this relation was reversed, the thorax collapsed on both sides, the transverse diameter decreased, and the vertical diameter increased (‘ Bericlit liber die Natur- forchenversammlung zu Giessen,’ 1865, p. 225). In the cavity of the thorax, in consequence of the scoliosis of the spine, the section deviated to the right of the middle line, so that traversing the lumina of the superior and inferior venm cavse, the right auricle and root of lung are met with, consequently the relation of the openings of both veins into the heart are clearly seen. The inferior vena cava, which receives the hepatic vein just before its entrance into the heart, comes from behind into the right auricle, whilst the superior vena cava opens considerably further forwards. The axes, therefore, of the cavas form an angle, which, owing to the convexity of the septum auriculorum, is rounded off. The eminence, behind which lies the left auricle, is the tuberculum Loweri. On the right half of the body is noticed the external wall of the right auricle, whilst on the left a view is obtained of the left ventricle, in front of the entrance to which is still a small portion of the rudimentary Eustachian valve. This valve limits the posterior portion of the right auricle, in which is still to be seen the original position of the foramen ovale. In the anterior portion of the auricle, to which the superior cava tends, the bulbus aortas forms a flatfish protuberance. The aorta itself is not seen entirely, a portion of it only being exposed. It rises in front of the superior vena cava, and then disappears below the left innominate vein. The section of the lung seen in Plate XXIX is that of the right. The soft parts of the neck are considerably dislocated towards the left side, owing to the hypertrophied thyroid body. The trachea lies so far over to the left side that only a small portion of the thyroid cartilage is met with. The brain was divided through its right half, the radiation of the fibres of the right corpus callosum being thus shown. Beneath it is the