PLATE IX 76 instance the under surface of the third dorsal vertebra is divided, and in the latter the upper. In the younger subject, also, the plane of section has passed nearly an entire vertebra higher, yet in spite of this the sternum is deeper. It would follow, then, that although the section was perfectly hori- zontal the sternum lies higher in the young subject than in the old. If the transverse and antero-posterior diameters of both the sections be compared, the latter diameter is seen to be the larger in the old man, whilst the transverse diameter is less. It is possible that the enlarged thyroid gland invading the cavity of the thorax may be the cause of this difference. By comparison of the shoulders, we observe that in consequence of the extremely powerful muscular development they stand much higher in the young man; therefore considerably more is removed by the saw. A glance at the large surface which involves the pectoralis major, the deltoid, and the subscapularis, suffices to show that the muscular develop- ment has been great. The anterior contour is partly owing to these masses of muscle and partly to the different attitude of the shoulders. It may be that the older subject was frozen with the arms slightly raised, and with the shoulders pushed somewhat backwards, whereas in the present instance the arms were laid close against the thorax. By measuring the sections it is shown that the antero-posterior and transverse diameters of the body differ but little. The transverse diameter in this plate amounts to nearly an inch more than in Plate IX in the coloured atlas, if both sections be reduced to equal scale, since the bony contours are more regular. In the middle portion of this plate the position of the vessels and nerves is more intel- ligible than on the section of the body of the older individual, owing to the changes in the relative position of the parts from the presence of the goitre in the other case. Behind the sternum lie the sections of the sterno-thyroids, and near them and behind the clavicles are the sterno-hyoids. In front of the sternum are the tendinous origins of the sterno-cleido-mastoids. Further