66 PLATE YII superior thyroid artery has already entered the anterior portion of the gland, and the inferior thyroid is seen external to it. On the right side, between the carotid and the deep muscles of the neck, are two large divided vessels which belong to the inferior thyroid artery, which springs from the subclavian, passes for a while upwards in order to curve behind the carotid, and then again downwards so as to reach the thyroid body. The vessel is divided just below the loop, so that both its ascending and descending portions are seen. On the left side the descending portion of the vessel has already given off branches. It has been before mentioned that in such sections as these there is very great difficulty in representing fasciee, consequently all the finer laminge lying between the different vessels have been omitted. The space, however, in which the carotid, internal jugular vein, and vagus nerve are enclosed is filled up with cellular tissue. The limits of this space, as a whole, are accurately shown, and it can be understood that the sheath of the vessel is formed anteriorly by the middle portion of the fascia of the neck and the omo-hyoid, internally by the envelope of the thyroid, posteriorly by the lamina covering the deep muscles, and externally by the sheath of the sterno-cleido-mastoid. Inside the sheath, externally and somewhat posteriorly, lies the vein, and in front, between the artery and the vein, is the vagus nerve. The descendens noni lies on the front of the sheath. At this point the omo-hyoid begins to cross the great vessels and to become tendinous, as is well seen on the left side. It is a recognised fact that the operation of tracheotomy should be performed by preference above the thyroid body; between it and the cricoid cartilage. The plate shows how near the surface the trachea lies in this region, and how easy an operation on this body would be on account of the normal condition of the thyroid body and the slight development of its middle portion. As shown on the plate, one might be misled by the relations, and look upon it as advantageous to perform the operation by a single stroke of the knife ; but the practitioner is warned against such a proceeding; he must divide the tissues cautiously layer by layer, inasmuch as the middle portion of the thyroid body may widely displace the field of operation, whilst hajmorrhage from it is very difficult to arrest.