159 PLATE XX gracilis is divided in its tendinous origin. The acetabular artery, which in this case comes from the internal circumflex, lies close on the hip-joint. Care has been taken to represent the direction of the fibres of the muscles, and also the masses of the several bundles of fibres as accu- rately as possible, the coarse fibres of the gluteus maximus being parti- cularly noticeable. It is true that from this plate hardly sufficient can be gathered to form a correct idea of the formation of the crural ring, and the anatomical relations of crural hernia; but we shall have to rest contented with having obtained the idea of the size of the individual portions and the position of their layers with regard to each other in their natural relations, and I do not think that we should have gained more if the section had been taken farther up. Linhart has already correctly remarked, that for the representation of the relations of crural hernia single sections are not sufficient. Plate XX, fig. 2, is a section of the thigh at right angles to its axis immediately below the trochanter minor. The lower portion of the iliacus muscle is still seen on the inner surface of the thigh; close to it and internally the pectineus; and externally the crureus. The femoral artery has already given off the profunda, which is separated from the main trunk by a lamina of fascia. The three adductors lie over one another on the inner side; and above and beneath the adductor brevis are the two branches of the obturator nerve, with it the branches of the internal circumflex artery. More internally is the gracilis, which is now fleshy. The sartorius is drawn more over to the middle, and is on the point of overlapping, like a muscular roof, the femoral artery, which vessel has acquired a more superficial position with respect to its accompanying vein. The rectus femoris with its internal tendinous raplie, lies on the crureus and vastus externus, and near it the tensor vaginas femoris, wdiich is enclosed by the fascia common to it and to the tendon of the gluteus maximus. The strong lamina of fascia which passes beneath from the gluteus maximus, and turns inwards between the vastus externus and rectus