PLATE VIII 73 where it ascends to its insertion into the greater tuberosity. Its tendon is blended with the fibrous structures on the anterior surface of the articulation. The deltoid with its intermuscular septa is well developed, and between it and the insertions of the muscles attached to the greater tuberosity is a bursa, the cavity of which is indicated by a black line. As the glenoid cavity has been divided nearly in the middle, the tendon of the long head of the biceps lies free in the joint. Beneath it was found a thin fold of synovial membrane, but higher up the tendon was completely free. On the anterior surface of the coracoid process are the tendinous origins of the biceps and coraco-bracliialis, and internal to them the fleshy mass of the pectoralis minor. On the posterior and inner side of this process the conoid and trapezoid ligaments are seen in section. The head of the right humerus is divided considerably higher than that of the left, namely, at the level of the upper border of the glenoid cavity. In conse- quence of this the articular cartilage appears completely encrusting the bone. The capsule is free all round, and the tendon of the long head of the biceps is seen coming up to be incorporated with the glenoid ligament. Too much must not be expected from the plate, as the bundles of the tendinous masses can be only represented in general. The individual fibres of the tendon of the infra-spinatus, for instance, cannot be followed out round the head of the humerus. They become lost deeper down on the greater tuberosity, and are intimately blended with the insertion of the supra-spinatus. If the section in this plate be compared with Plate IX in the large coloured atlas (also the section of a young powerful man) as well as with that of a man fifty years of age, its massive mould would be evident. The individual layers of muscle are everywhere broader, although the skeleton itself does not appear larger or stronger. The difference, therefore, between the longitudinal and horizontal measurements does not show itself in the manner which one would be led to expect from a superficial examination. For though the lower outline was drawn exactly to the section (and therefore closely corresponds with the plane in Plate IX in the large atlas), the breadth of the shoulder is 10