PLATE XXIII 167 muscular septum lies on tlie interosseous ligament and fibula. The posterior tibial nerve is seen between the flexor longus pollicis and the soleus. The three arteries, the anterior tibial, posterior tibial and peroneal, are seen together with their veins. The two latter arteries lie close to each other, as the section passed immediately below their origins, separated from the interosseous ligament by the tibialis posticus, and they divide the deep layer of the flexor group from the muscles of the calf which form the superior layer. The anterior tibial artery lies on the interosseous membrane. The furrow running between the tibialis anticus and extensor digitorum longus indicates the position of this vessel, hence it may be readily found, its depth being the only difficulty. Fig. 2. This section through the middle of the left leg may be compared with the plates of Henle (‘ Muskellehre,’ fig. 142), and Yoltz (a a 0, tab. ix, fig. 2). The relations of the muscles, vessels and nerves can be so readily made out that it does not seem worth while explaining the plate. Beneath the muscles of the calf, in this section, all the flexors are seen together. The flexor longus digitorum has now considerable bulk, and so also has the flexor longus pollicis, which has already the peroneal artery between it and the fibula ; and the anterior tibial artery lies between the extensor communis and the tibialis anticus. The artery is still so deep that its ligature at this place, though practicable, is not to be recommended. Farther down, and nearer the ankle, the muscular tissue ceases somewhat, and the vessel is more easily reached. The peronei muscles are completely developed, and the superficial peroneal nerve is already approaching so near the surface that it seems about to perforate the fascia. If the two sections be compared which represent the position of the individual structures in the upper half of the leg, the superficial position of the tibia is evident and can be readily felt, hence affections of this bone from disease and accident are easy of diagnosis. The fibula, on the other hand, is unfortunately situated in this respect. The thick masses of the surround- ing muscles do not favour its examination, and we must in its instance use some other diagnostic means, such as fixed, deep-seated pain.