7 PLATE I vena Galeni magna passes upwards in order to empty into the straight sinus, of which only a small portion is met with at its junction with the lateral, whilst the thyroid plexuses of the third and fourth ventricles are very evident and clearly represented in the plate. The dura mater, which in the cavity of the skull lies close down upon the bone and on the foramen magnum, and is connected with the external periosteum, leaves the bony walls in the spinal canal and approaches the cord. At the commencement of the cauda equina at the lumbar vertebra the cord can (in the plate) be no longer distinguished from the dura mater. It will be observed that a portion of the septum narium has been removed. This has resulted from its deflection towards the left side. It was not caused by a polypus. I amplified the defect somewhat in order to bring the relation of the mucous membrane to the septum narium and the two upper turbinated bones clearly into view. Behind the septum is seen the inferior opening of the Eustachian tube. It follows from the relation of the parts, that instruments which are introduced into the tube must be passed along the floor of the nares in order to preserve the neces- sary direction. The plate shows that an examination of the opening of the Eustachian tube by means of the laryngoscope, would be materially facilitated by drawing the velum forward and upward. The relation of the uvula to the glands and muscular tissue is evident. The thickness of the velum must be borne in mind in the operation of staphyloraphy. One is inclined to underrate its thickness, and thus to experience difficulty in freshening the edges of the cleft. Mouth.-—Before the freezing of the subject the contents of the stomach had ascended into the oesophagus, and partly filled up the cavity of the mouth. After removal of the frozen mass its tube could be represented in the plate. It can be seen also in the present preparation that the tongue is formed like a muscular pestle, which can thrust hither and thither the contents of the cavity of the mouth. The relation between the tongue, hyoid bone, and larynx is clearly shown. If the surgeon desires to reach the larynx easily, he only requires to draw the tongue out of the open mouth, and can then move the epiglottis and with it the larynx upwards and forwards. The