PLATE IX. 77 in behind the muscle, the sternum, and the clavicles, is the upper por- tion of the thyroid body. It is separated from the sterno-mastoid by the middle layer of the cervical fascia. Further back is the left inno- minate vein, which, on account of its oblique course downwards from left to right, is extensively divided. The trunk can be followed towards the right side as far as the lumen of a vein, which is the inferior thyroid vein opening vertically. On the other side of this vein the trunk lies more deeply and is no longer seen through the cellular tissue. The isolated right innominate vein is divided transversely. On examining the left innominate vein two small openings are seen ; the anterior of these is the internal mammary vein, and the posterior the thoracic duct. The duct in this instance opens more internally than is usual, and into the innominate instead of into the subclavian vein ; and it may be followed on the inner pleural surface of the left lung directly backwards, whence it bends downwards, applying itself along the vertebral column. On the right side behind the great vein are a series of four large arteries, which pass obliquely towards the middle line. Commencing from the left side they are, the left subclavian, the left vertebral (which in this case sprang independently from the aortic arch), the left carotid, and the innominate. The arch of the aorta is immediately below the plane of section. Although the length and point of origin of the innominate artery are liable to considerable variations, the vessel, nevertheless, lies so close to the middle line that it should be searched for in the middle line of the jugulo-tracheal space, as Pirogoff recommends. After researches on the dead body, I have convinced myself that this proceeding is the surest guide to the vessel. The head is to be drawn towards the left side and the right shoulder depressed, and the tissues divided as far as the group of muscles coming from the hyoid bone and larynx. It is a matter of importance to make the incision exactly in the middle line between both sterno-thyroid muscles, and to divide the dense cervical fascia to which the great veins are intimately attached. If this be done the trunk of the artery in the