3 PLATE I is figured a a 0, PI. Y, fig. 4, with that given by E. Weber (‘ Mechanik der menschlichen G-elrwerkzeuge ’) and with mine, in order to see at once the great difference. If the plate before ns be compared with that which Pirogoff (‘ Anatome Topographica,’ 1859, fasc. I, a, Tab. 10, 11), made from a body which was also frozen in the horizontal position, and then sectioned, it will be found that the curvatures are nearly exactly the same. Both differ, however, in this respect from Weber’s, as they do not show so considerable a concavity in the dorsal region. As Parow found by his observations that the con- tents of the abdominal cavity, although not on so high a level as those of the thorax, influenced the position of the vertebra, we must look for the cause of this slight difference in Weber’s preparation in the previous eventration. Although Weber’s proposition for the establishment of the shape of the vertebral column, with its ligaments and discs, is excellent, still it is not thoroughly applicable to all vertebral columns in connection with the soft parts, and must, therefore, be modified according to circumstances. It would seem now worth while, in the vertebral column before us, to be able to determine what this variation would be in the upright position of the individual, but, unfortunately, the means of doing so are impos- sible. If any series of representations of the body frozen in the upright posi- tion were given, no advantage would be obtained. It is evident that it is impracticable to keep a body so balanced, and in such equilibrium, as the muscles are capable of doing during life. The trunk always hangs over to one side to such an extent that the spine partly loses its original curvature and takes a semiflexure. It is therefore not to be wondered at that the figure which Pirogoff (ci a 0, Tab. 12) gives, taken from a sub- ject frozen in the upright position, exhibits curves having flatter arcs than it would have had if the drawings had been taken from one frozen in the horizontal position. We should consequently fall into a great error if we conclude on the ground of Pirogoff’s plate that in the living individual, whilst in the upright position, the spine has a lesser curvature than when lying down. Parow, indeed, by the help of an instrument (Coordinaten- messer), carried out a number of observations with a view of determining