123 PLATE XV jecting folds of Kerkring, of tke small intestine, and the irregular flat processes of the mucous membrane of the large intestine, are easily recog- nisable. On the liver, on the left side, anteriorly and internally, is the kidney, and the descending colon immediately below its left colic flexure, which is divided transversely. The contents were some green coloured fmcal matter and a little gas. Between the ascending colon and the right kidney, is the vertical portion of the duodenum, divided transversely just as it winds round the head of the pancreas. The liver fills up the remaining space externally as far as the diaphragm. Its surface has the impression of the neighbouring structures. Its convex upper surface attaches itself intimately to the line of the diaphragm; internally, on the other hand, the outline of the liver becomes irregular, owing to certain prominences in front from the impression of the colon, and behind from that of the kidney—forms still recognisable after these organs have been removed, but which, however, may disappear from the equalisation of pressure within the peritoneal investment. It is open to proof that the form of the liver is not an independent one, but varies with the pressure and volume of neighbouring organs; so that in a normal condition it must possess a softness of structure which can be compared with fat and connective tissue, and which yields to the movements and change of position of the organs in contact with it. A series of sections of frozen bodies in the region of the liver should be made, or the plates of Pirogoff (fasc. iii, 1, 2, 3, 5, 7) compared, to show that everywhere it is defined by tfig neighbouring organs, and entirely fills up all remaining spaces. Only a small portion of the spleen is seen, entirely covered by peri- toneum, and at this point nowhere attached thereto. Its posterior extremity reaches to the section of the eleventh rib, and corresponds also, if the preceding plate be examined, to the course and curves of the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. Hence it agrees with what Luschka has recently published (‘ Priiger Vierteljalirschrift,’ Bd. 101, 1869, p. 122). In the text to Plate XIII I have introduced three woodcuts, figs. 1, 2, 3, which explain the position of the spleen, although not originally with this view. They place its position in the upper compartment of the abdominal cavity in the cupola of the diaphragm in the different states of