54 PLATE Y carotid artery and tlie posterior facial vein, its extirpation without wound- ing these vessels is impracticable. But if the carotid, as shown on the right side of this preparation, lies so peripherally that it can be dug out of the mass of gland tissue, an operation would be less uncretain in its result. On account of the numerous anastomoses of the arteries in the skull it is of little use to attempt to arrest hsemorrhage from the external carotid, but in the event of complete extirpation of the gland it would be necessary to direct one’s attention especially to the preservation of the internal jugular vein. Figure 2 represents the upper surface of a lamina 1/5 inch thick, which corresponds with the under surface of Plate IY. The section which the plate represents has passed through the thyroid notch and has fallen close on the upper border of the fifth cervical vertebra. As the section passed immediately below the chin and lower jaw, the neck would be divided in its so-called cylindrical portion. It is seen, however, that on account of the muscular development at this level the natural form of the neck is not an exact cylinder, consequently its section is not a circle, but is a pentagon. The lateral portion of the trapezius (cucullaris) commences im- mediately below the section, consequently the plane of section is enlarged, corresponding with the anterior curvature of the cervical spine. The section of the vertebra lies much further removed from the side of the neck than one would expect. In the accompanying plate the body of the vertebra lies in the anterior half of the figure. The point met with in the section of the vertebra is where the arch springs from the body, hence the lumen of the spinal canal is seen. On the left side is seen the articular process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and from this point we can follow the course of the sixth cervical nerve behind and to the outer side of the vertebral artery. The divided nerve seen lying in the bifurcation of the transverse process is the fifth cervical. The larynx is so divided that the vocal cords with the ventricle of Morgagni between them is clearly shown. The mucous membrane which lies behind the divided arytenoid cartilages is here singularly rich in glands.