103 PLATE XII which a considerable amount is left. The aortic portion of the mitral valve is clearly seen lying stretched flat over the apex of the hinder flap. The right auricle exhibits in its posterior half the point of entrance of the superior vena cava, which has been somewhat compressed by the peri- cardial exudation, and in its anterior part is seen the entrance to the right ventricle. If these relations be compared with the normal condition one is struck with the altered form of the thoracic cavity. The antero-posterior diameter is considerably enlarged; it amounts to the half of the transverse diameter, whereas it should be only one third. Owing to the great distance of the sternum from the spinal column, space is permitted for the extensive exudation. The heart appears driven back- wards, but this is not really the case, as the parts between the heart and vertebra, the oesophagus and descending aorta, have clearly ample room. But it is rolled over entirely to the left side. The axis of the left side of the heart passes in a direction transverse to the section of the fifth rib, whereas normally it points obliquely forwards towards the left nipple. The axis of the right side of the heart shows a similar change in direction. The lungs are considerably compressed, to give more room for the pericardial exudation. Whilst in my plate they enclose the entire heart and closely approximate its anterior boundaries, they are here widely separated from each other and sunk back, not- withstanding that pleuritic effusion exists on the right side. The pleural cavities should be especially studied with reference to paracentesis pericardii, in consequence of their attachment to the chest-wall. In this section they are but slightly dislocated, only a small space near the sternum being left free, so that a trocar would have to be intro- duced very close to the border of the sternum in order to avoid wounding the pleura. The section in Fig. 2 is taken almost exactly at the same level as mine, and the relations of the heart are similar, this organ being slightly pushed over, and at the same time rotated on its axis toward the left side. The left lung is considerably diminished, so that it is not applied to the anterior surface of the heart. The pleurae, however, reach as far