70 PLATE VIII The left subclavian artery is intact, but sections of two of its branches are represented. The inner of these is the vertebral, the outer the thyroid axis. In front the superficial cervical artery winds round the anterior scalene muscle and the phrenic nerve, and mounts up obliquely above the brachial plexus in order to gain the nape of the neck. It has been divided at the commencement of its course, and immediately below; the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid overlaps it, a small portion of the muscle having been cut off, but almost the whole of it is shown in the section immediately preceding. On the hinder border of the sub- clavian are the openings of two small arteries which are not very clearly defined. The transverse cervical artery, the extremity of which is seen in the preceding plate, sprang, in common with the inferior thyroid, from the large trunk in the mass of the scalenus anticus, and the continuation of its trunk (the posterior scapular) is seen to be covered by the rhom- boid muscle. The supra-scapular artery lies behind the subclavian, and is again seen near the coracoid process, behind the conoid and trapezoid ligaments, whence it passes towards the supra-scapular notch. It runs over the trans- verse ligament of the scapula to the supra-spinous fossa, whilst the accom- panying nerve passes below the ligament. The section has removed a strip of the upper surface of the right subclavian artery, and at the inner end there is a bulging out of the wall of the artery corresponding with the origin of the thyroid axis, and indicating the point of origin of the superficial cervical artery. Further outwards, between the subclavius and serratus magnus are the supra-scapular nerve and artery to which we have already alluded. On comparing the subclavian arteries of the two sides it is evident that on account of the higher level of the right over the cupola of the lung, that the first portions of both have very different directions. These differences are dependent on the variation of origin of the two vessels. The ascending portion of the left subclavian (from the aorta) lies further backwards, and is in relation with a considerable portion of the pleura, whilst the right passes in the opposed direction of the blood-stream, forwards, to unite with the common carotid to form the