PLATE XVII 136 the section given in Plate I, the mass of ice was carefully removed and represented in profile. This could readily be accomplished, as only a small part of the upper wall of the bladder and its contents was removed with the upper portion of the section. By comparing this with the sagittal section of Plate I a close agreement in form was observed ; though they differed in the fact of the internal orifice of the urethra in Plate I being somewhat higher than in this. In both cases, however, the form and position of the bladder of a young powerful man is defined, as can be verified by injecting tallow either by the urethra or the ureters. It is, at least, certain that the spherical form represented by Kohlrausch is not a natural condition, as he omits to notice a neck to the bladder, which is a funnel-shaped contraction of this viscus towards the urethra. For a wider distension of the bladder there is, as the plate shows, ample room. The cellulo-fatty tissue on both sides of it gives way readily, and the coils of small intestine are easily lifted up and pushed on one side by the swelling bladder. The rectum will be more flattened, and room is afforded by the emptying of great venous plexuses, until at last the bladder alone almost fills the pelvic cavity. With these changes in volume of the bladder, the relations of its peritoneal coat alter. Even in the slight degree of distension shown in the present instance, only the upper wall and a small portion of the posterior were covered by peritoneum, so that there was a passage above the symphysis although but a slight one ; and it is evident that this sub-peritoneal passage must acquire breadth with the increased distension and elevation of the bladder. Behind the bladder is a flat section of the peritoneal sac containing a portion of small intestine divided behind the fold of Douglas, and behind this again is a cul-de-sac of peritoneum, the so-called pouch of Douglas. This is directed in an oblique direction forwards and downwards, and is about three fourths of an inch deep. It held about three fifths of an ounce of frozen water. The vesicuke seminales, which lie immediately below the section, were exposed by taking away some cellular tissue; towards the middle line the vasa deferentia take a sharp curve forwards and upwards, and are divided in the section; their small calibre and thick walls are well seen. Anteriorly and somewhat externally, are the ureters in section. The