184 PLATE XXA^II spiral nerve, which has nearly terminated its half turn round the humerus, and behind it is the origin of the supinator longus. On the inner side the ulnar nerve has already become distinct from the great vessels and mass of nerves. The brachial artery is on the inner border of the biceps, accom- panied by its vence comites, with the median nerve above it. Although its position is here very easily made out and its compression readily performed, there is great difficulty in isolating it and tying it unless the steps of the operation be carried out very correctly. The vessel, as the plate shows, cannot be directly cut down upon, as on account of nerves and veins which here often very freely anastomose, the operator may be much embar- rassed ; and experience has shown that the vessel may be easily missed; the surgeon must therefore make for the edge of the biceps, which is slightly in front of it, and open its sheath from the inner side, when he will come directly upon it. The distance of the artery from the bone depends on the development of the brachialis anticus. In this instance, on account of the muscles in relation with it having become more developed, the vessel lies further from the bone than in the preceding section. Compare fig. 1 of this Plate, and also Plates X and XI, fig. 3. Pig. 3. In this instance the plane of section passes through the lower end of the humerus and the olecranon. On the left side is the commence- ment of the capitellum with the end of the lateral epicondyle, on the left the trochlea with the middle epicondyle. The olecranon lies behind in the posterior supra-trochlear fossa. The extent of the cavity of the synovial membrane and capsule is indicated by a dark line. Behind the olecranon is a large bursa between the skin and the tendon of the triceps. On the right, in the furrow between the olecranon and medial epicondyle is the ulnar nerve. To the left of the olecranon is the anconeus. The muscles of the arm are much reduced in bulk at their point of attachment. The origins, however, of the flexors and extensors of the hand and fingers, the pronator teres, and the supinator longus, the latter, on account of its high origin from the humerus, are more powerfully developed in the section. On the anterior aspect of the bones are masses of muscle, on the posterior merely ligaments and tendons, which allow of tbe bony