78 PLATE IX loose cellular tissue can be isolated from tbe trachea, and the ligature passed. The surgeon must remember that close to it is the left innomi- nate vein, which runs obliquely across its trunk, and that on the right side of the trunk, as is shown in the plate, the vagus nerve passes down. The vagus in this case was met with below the point of origin of the recurrent laryngeal nerve ; it therefore lies further back than it does higher up in its course on the left side; the recurrent laryngeal nerve is between the oesophagus and trachea, and the trunk of the vagus is in front of the subclavian artery. From the position of the innominate artery it is clear that burrowing of pus in the mediastinum is likely to follow such an operation as its ligature, whilst the relative shortness of its trunk and the strong pressure in the arch of the aorta are serious obstacles in the way of the formation of a resisting thrombus. It is therefore obvious that however artistically the operation itself may be conducted, it will be followed by serious conse- quences. The position of this artery must be taken into consideration in the performance of tracheotomy below the thyroid body. The surgeon must be prepared to meet occasionally with an arterial trunk from the innominate* running obliquely over the trachea (as Llicke did in one case). The artery is the thyroidea ima. Ligature of the first part of the subclavian artery and its dangers have already been alluded to. It must be remembered that even in its normal relations (as in the present instance) the left subclavian artery lies in a niche of pleura, and that it has not been pushed against the pleura by means of the enlarged thyroid gland. (Plate IX in the large atlas should be referred to.) It can be readily seen from the plate that swellings of the thyroid body may push the oesophagus out of position, and displace the trachea backwards. In the superior aperture of the thorax the oesophagus normally inclines to the left side, and attains its greatest deviation in the region of the second or third dorsal vertebra. I have observed exactly the same condition in another section made on a normal male subject. # In a case in which I performed tracheotomy on a man, set. 50,1 found the innominate artery running obliquely across the trachea below the isthmus.—Tr.