PLATES XXIX and XXX 191 the left side. The left knee was moreover grazed by the saw. The back and belly lay in the right half of the uterus, and the greater portion of the liquor amnii remained in the left. As the relations of this oblique section of the foetus offer points of no peculiar interest, I have refrained from reproducing the corresponding plate of the large atlas in this small edition. The uterus is so folded over the symphysis that its anterior wall forms a kind of sac, indicating a condition of relaxation. The numerous large veins in its tissue are shown in the plate in the wall as simple strokes, their lumina becoming recognisable only when their walls were separated from each other; they appear patent, however, in the vaginal portion of the uterus and in the vagina itself. The vaginal portion of the uterus is proportionately deep, and for the most part lies in the left half of the body, the section having passed through its right half and opened merely the first portion of the cervix, as shown in Plate XXIX b. It was filled with viscid mucus and opened into the cavity of the uterus, about one fifth of an inch below the plane of section, so that its upper half could not be seen. The length of the vagina at this period of pregnancy makes it probable that the woman was not a primipara, notwithstanding that there were no cicatrices on the abdominal parietes, and the os internum was so narrow that only a very small sound could pass it. The number of veins met with in the right half of the vagina and their swollen condition is remarkable, and their lumina are peculiarly well seen in the left half of the preparation, Plate XXIX b. The falling in of the vaginal portion of the uterus is remarkable, considering the empty contracted condition of the bladder. The latter has slipped down bodily from the inner surface of the symphysis, and is so completely displaced that the course of the urethra has become bent at an angle. The external os lies in the hollow of the under border of the symphysis, although, according to Moreau, it corresponds at the end of pregnancy with the level of the upper border of the symphysis, and is still higher according to Schultze. The level of the fundus corresponds nearly with the under border of the first lumbar vertebra; a more accurate definition cannot be given, as the highest point of the uterus was not included in the section, as it