187 PLATE XXVIII Pig. 2. In this plate, which shows a section through the middle of the left forearm, there is considerably greater difficulty in recognising the relations of the individual structures than in the preceding, and this diffi- culty is not so much from the number of muscles, but from the absence of the fascial septa which limit the individual groups. The interosseous ligament alone forms with the skeleton an absolute limit, and this does not extend throughout the entire breadth of the section. The ulna and radius present their sharp edges to each other, and are bound together by the interosseous ligament; on the right is -the mass of the flexors, and on the left that of the extensors. Both groups of muscles are separated from the radius by a very thin fascial covering, which is attached to the radius and it encloses the radial artery and veins. This vessel is at this level easily found beneath the inner border of the supinator longus. The ulnar artery and nerves are here nearer the surface than in the preceding section, and the surgeon has only to make an incision between the flexor carpi ulnaris and the flexor sublimis digitorum to reach it., The fascial lamina passing from it to the median nerve, and which is prolonged beneath the origin of the pronator teres to the radius, divides the deep layer consisting of the flexor profundus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis from the super- ficial flexors, in which the flexor sublimis digitorum has penetrated beneath the palmaris longus which has already become tendinous. In like manner, on the opposite side of the interosseous ligament the extensors, are divided into a superficial and deep layer; and the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and the extensor secundi internodii are already shown. If the flexor surface be compared with the extensor with reference to the mass of its muscles, it is seen at once that the flexor considerably pre- dominates over the extensor, and farther that the main trunks of the vessels lie on the flexor surface. If the surgeon has a choice of flap in amputation of the forearm in this region, provided there is nothing to the contrary, he should form his flap chiefly from the flexor surface, as much on account of the quantity of soft parts as for the nourishment afforded the stump by the vessels. The formation of flaps from the extensor aspect is much more difficult of performance on account of the closeness of the bones to the surface-