71 PLATE VIII innominata. The portion of each artery here shown belongs to the middle part of its course. The direct proximity of the lung and pleura indicates clearly enough the danger of ligature in this situation, and all cases hitherto undertaken have been attended with unfortunate results. In front of the subclavian artery on either side is the common carotid, and between these vessels is the trunk of the vertebral and deep cer- vical veins; and in the middle line is the long cardiac nerve. The vertebral vein is subject to many variations. Although in the vertebral canal it is generally a single trunk, it may form a plexus. In rare instances it joins with the deep cervical vein, and passing down behind the articular process, forms a trunk which receives the blood from the sinuses in the canal. It has also many variations in its point of termination, the most frequent of which is in the commencement of the innominate vein, and it may pass down hence either in front of or behind the subclavian artery. In one case, on the left side of the body, it was found as a trunk in the vertebral canal, in front of the vertebral artery, and at its point of exit from the canal was directed forwards, and passed over the subclavian artery in front in order to terminate in the left innomi- nate vein near the junction of the internal jugular. Thus it formed with this large trunk, on the inner side of the vertebral artery, a V, in which lay the thoracic duct before emptying into the subclavian vein.* In a second case the vertebral vein came forwards from behind the subclavian artery, between it and the pleura, and terminated in the lower end of the internal jugular, so that after the removal of the pleura the vessel could be seen lying free, and crossing the subclavian artery from behind forwards. Into the horizontal portion of the vertebral, a vein opened corresponding to the deep cervical, in front of the sub- clavian artery. On the right side of the body, in a third case, it passed behind the subclavian artery, whilst on the left it passed in front of it, * I have on more than one occasion observed the thoracic duct to tei’minate in the lower part of the vertebral vein.—Tr.