173 PLATE XXY Corresponding with this, on the left side of the plate, there is no inter- ruption of the pleura, whilst on the right side (to the left of the spectator), the points of reflexion of this membrane have fallen in the section. The relations are complicated by the pericardium. Between the lungs and heart there are seen two spaces, which are the cavities of the pericardium and pleurm. The left ventricle is opened, and a portion of the right auricle is shown. In connection with them are seen the aorta and superior vena cava in section. The former is exposed for its whole extent, so that the entrance from behind of the azygos major vein appears. In continuation of the superior cava is the right innominate vein, which as it passes more verti- cally, is divided throughout, and the two delicate valves are seen. The left innominate vein, which passes more obliquely, was removed with the other half of the body. Its end only is shown, at the point of entrance of the left subclavian vein as a large venous lumen immediately above the first rib. The aorta is exposed in the horizontal jDortion of its arch. At its origin it shows a considerable swelling of the buibus aortas, produced by the pressure of the injection on the semilunar valves, of which two, one nearly bisected, are seen. Below them, in the left ventricle, is the aortic segment of the mitral valve. The liquor pericardii had collected in the upper portion of the pericardium. It will be observed from the free surface afforded by the divided left auricular appendix above the left ventricle, that the two laminas of the pericardium are considerably separated from each other in this situation, whilst in all other places they are directly in apposition, so that its cavity is shown only as a crevice. Between the left ventricle and the ascending aorta is the section of the pulmonary artery, which being nearly horizontal, is divided transversely. The vessel is seen from before backwards, and the lumen of the right branch is exposed, curving sharply behind the aorta, to reach the root of the right lung; whilst the left branch passes obliquely upwards and outwards, to course over the left bronchus and root of the left lung. The position of the great vessels given off from the aorta is considerably altered by the hypertrophied thyroid gland. This, as the plate shows, has