PLATE XIY 116 lobulus Spigelii with the omentum. Close to it on the right is the inferior vena cava; and in front of this are the transverse fissure, the portal vein, and the hepatic duct. The stomach contained some frozen food, which was removed so as to show its walls. It was ascertained subsequently that the fundus of the stomach had attained its highest position, and that beyond the distended portion in the commencement of the stomach, there was contraction where the folds of the mucous membrane were most marked, and that subsequently the cavity became again distended further to the right side and below. It appears, therefore, that Luschka is quite correct in disputing the entire approximation of the anterior and posterior walls of the organ in its empty condition. Here also, where completely normal conditions existed, the stomach was contracted like intestine in its empty portions, and was not flat, as represented in some plates. The cut edges of peritoneum behind the stomach belong to its lesser sac. Further back is the spleen, normal, with its blood-vessels ; it corre- sponds with the course of the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs, and in its greatest diameter follows their direction. The left supra-renal cap- sule is not seen, whereas the right is evident between the liver and diaphragm. Concerning the relations of the peritoneum, it must be remarked that transverse sections are not adapted for displaying it. The cavities can only be represented by black, and the cut edges by fine white lines, which easily mislead the eye. In order to render any representation advantageous, views of sur- faces must be given, or longitudinal or oblique sections taken as the bases of the drawings, by which, semi-diagramatically, the cavities of the peritoneum appear enlarged. Luschka and Henle have excellent plates of this kind. On the other hand, representations of such transverse sections, here shown true to nature, are of great value surgically. They show what localities are free of peritoneum, and what not, and the surgeon conse- quently can plan an operation. It is of the first importance to avoid this membrane, and in this, as in the following plates, the boundaries of the