145 PLATE XVIII The articular cavities themselves appear merely as chinks. Their extent downwards explains to what limit intracapsular fracture of the neck of the thigh bone may reach, and where the region of extra-capsular fracture commences. Since intra-capsular fractures isolate the upper fragment, and leave it connected by the ligamentum teres and the aceta- bular vessels, it is evident that, apart from the difficulty of accurate adaptation and retention of the parts, union is of very rare occurrence, on account of conditions unfavourable for its nutrition. An increase of effusion into the joint, as may happen in inflammation, will not separate the surfaces of the acetabulum and head of the thigh bone. The powerful ilio-femoral ligament, in consequence of its torsion in complete extension, presses the joint-surfaces firmly against each other. On the other hand, in flexing the joint, a corresponding separation of the two surfaces will occur from increased effusion within it; and, as inves- tigations show, this may be somewhat considerable. If fluid be injected through the acetabulum into the joint-cavity, after the example of Bonnet, the articulation takes successively the positions which afford the greatest amount of space; but which ultimately place the ilio-femoral ligament in the condition of greatest relaxation. The femur is raised and somewhat rolled outwards. If the joint be frozen, sections can be made of it, and the relations of the articular surfaces to each other ren- dered clear. The accompanying woodcut represents such a preparation, made from the body of a normal young female. In order to render the femur more easily movable, the upper layer of muscles was removed and the bone itself sawn through the middle. On injecting the joint with tallow, and applying as great a pressure as possible, the femur was raised and rolled outwards. In this position it was frozen and sawn as shown in the woodcut; the section passing not quite through the middle of the head, but slightly in front, and including the trochanter minor in its course. The mass of tallow, which is hefe represented by the dark shading, was about one fifth of an inch thick, and a little farther down in the articulation somewhat thicker; and surrounded the head of the bone like a cap, extending outwards to the attachment of 19