160 PLATE XX femoris, is worthy of notice. The tendon of attachment of the gluteus maximus to the bone is not yet seen, but its insertion into the fascia lata only, which is especially developed at the external surface of the thigh. Covered over, but separated from it by a thin lamina of fascia, is the common head of the biceps and semi-tendinosus, and above that the strong tendon of the semi-membranosus. Between it and the adductor magnus is the great sciatic nerve, and a large inosculating branch of the ischiatic artery, with the first perforating and the profunda. The segment, the upper surface of which is here represented, was about two inches thick. If the sections of the arteries in both plates be com- pared, it will be seen that the femoral artery changes its position with regard to the bone, and to its accompanying vein, in its course downwards. At the level of the horizontal ramus of the pubes it lies so near the bone, that the possibility of its compression against it was obvious ; in fig. 1 the distance of the artery from the head of the bone is so inconsiderable that pressure could be readily exerted on the vessel; whilst in fig. 2 greater pressure would appear to be necessary. Besides this distance of the vessel from the bone there is also an altera- tion in its direction. In figure 1 the artery lies above the bone, so that a force acting vertically from the front might smash both bone and vessel; in fig. 2 it lies farther down, already so far to the side of the femur, taking its course outwards, that a force acting in the same direction might wound the artery without injuring the bone, or the contrary. Moreover the position of the artery to the vein changes during its course. Commencing at the abdominal cavity, the main trunks lie alter- nately in the sagittal and frontal planes. The abdominal aorta lies on the lumbar vertebrge close to the vena cava. In the abdominal cavity the iliac artery lies in front of its vein, at the inner border of the psoas; and then, after passing below the crural arch, lies to the side of the vein. The vessels, however, soon again change their relation, for below the fossa ovalis, as is seen in fig. 2, the vein lies below the artery and accompanies it to the knee; so that, in attempting to reach the popliteal artery from behind, the vein would be in danger of being wounded, and must be pushed aside in order to render the artery accessible.