PLATE VII 65 shot or punctured wounds in tliis region. Students and beginners espe- cially are liable to look for the highest of the dorsal vertebras much deeper in the neck than at the lower border of the larynx. Of the bony portion of the vertebral column here seen we have the under surface of the body of the seventh cervical vertebra, and its long spinous process; this can be readily felt through the integument, and is useful as a commencing point for counting the dorsal vertebrae. To this vertebra belong the sections of the divided articular process. In front lie the articular and transverse processes of the first dorsal vertebra, and on the right side juts out the head of the first rib. In front of the spinal column on either side of the median line is the longus colli, and close beside it on the transverse process is the scalenus anticus. The latter muscle is separated from the scalenus medius by the transverse section of the brachial plexus, which is formed by the anterior branches of the last cervical and first dorsal nerves; the posterior branches are not clearly seen in the preparation. On the anterior surface of the anterior scalenus is shown the phrenic nerve. Between the longus colli and scalenus anticus lies the vertebral artery with its vein, which have been divided on their way to the vertebral canal; and immediately in front of the vein on the right side is the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. On the left side the sympathetic lies between the scalenus and the carotid, and a branch of the inferior thyroid artery is to be seen on the inner side. On the front of the spine is the trachea, which passes obliquely down- wards and backwards, and its section shows the rest of the cricoid carti- lage. Posteriorly the inferior constrictor of the pharynx indicates the position of the commencement of the oesophagus, and as this canal is empty, its anterior and posterior walls are closely approximated. Plate VIII, which is taken at the level of the first dorsal vertebra, shows that the gullet deviates considerably towards the left side. Between the trachea and oesophagus on either side is seen the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and more externally are the lateral lobes of the thyroid body. Just at this point all the four arteries of the gland are visible, and one can easily appreciate the difficulty of applying a ligature to them. The 9