181 PLATE XXYI tinuation with the humerus. As Pirogoff’s and Voltz’s Atlases contain an excellent and complete series of such sections, it seems hardly worth while to multiply them in this work. Fig. 2 is a longitudinal section of the right forearm, hand, and third finger, from the same arm as fig. 1, and is viewed from the ulnar aspect. The radius is divided in its entire length; on its articular surface is the semilunar bone, and in front of it the os magnum and third metacarpal bone, the first phalanx, and a portion of the second, the third was not included in the section. The joints were not particularly prepared for the section. In the hand they are in the condition of partial extension, whilst the fingers are flexed from the effects of freezing. The skin is smooth on the dorsal aspect, whilst on the volar, which is rich in fat, it forms thick pads, giving rise to deep furrows. During extension these furrows appear as transverse lines, and do not correspond with the opposed articular surfaces of the joints. Those on the volar aspect of the root of the finger lie considerably further forwards than the corresponding metacarpo- phalangeal joints, and the subsequent furrow exceeds, though not to so great an extent, the joints between the first and second and third phalanges, consequently in disarticulation of a finger from the volar aspect the joint will not be opened if the knife be applied directly upon this furrow. The articulation will be far more certainly reached if the incision be made from the extensor aspect, after slightly flexing the finger, a little in front of the projection which the head of the bone makes with its distal phalanx. Corresponding with the more extensive expansion of the cartilage on the volar aspect, the cavity of the synovial membrane extends further upwards than on the extensor. The capsular ligament is moreover con- siderably strengthened by the tendinous expansions formed by the lateral ligaments, and which prevent too great an amount of extension of the finger. Immediately beneath the skin, and separated from it merely by bursal tissue, are the flexor tendons of the finger, of which the more superficial disappears at the first phalanx, and the tendon of the deep is shown passing on to its insertion into the ungual. These tendons are easily followed upwards, beneath the annular ligament to their muscles which form the chief bulk of the forearm.