84 PLATE X portion of the fifth rib is seen, and on the left side the boundary is formed by the intra-thoracic fascia. The form of the section of the thorax is that of a heart as seen on a playing card, and is produced by the projection of the body of the vertebra and the recession of the hinder end of the ribs. It has been remarked by Hyrtl (‘ Topog. Anat.,’ 1860, i, 492) that this form is associated with the upright position of man, since by this formation the centre of gravity of the thoracic viscera is advanced nearer to the support of the trunk. This advantage is not possessed by other animals, and one cannot maintain that this form is only a consequence of this upright condition, since, in the newly born infant, the curvature of the spine amounts almost to nothing (Pirogoff, a a 0, fasc. i a, tab. xvi, fig. 3). But this heart-shaped form of the section of the thorax exists in new-born children, as I can state from my own observations. Pirogoff’s transverse sections also show it (fasc. ii, tab. xx). I find, however, that the relation of the breadth to the depth in children is considerably more variable than is that of the adult at a corresponding level. In the newly born child the antero-posterior diameter is to the transverse diameter nearly in the proportion of 1 to 2, whereas in the present plate of an adult it is as 1 to 3 ; in the old man, on the other hand, the proportion is more like the child’s, viz. 1 to 2‘5. The lungs are in the condition of expira- tion, and that to such an extent that during life the respiration pause was never reached. As the contraction of the lungs after death is dependent on their elasticity, the size which they gradually assume must be so much the smaller the younger, sounder, and more elastic the said lungs are. And as the contraction of the lungs depends pro- portionately on the position of the diaphragm, with the heart, liver, and spleen, there is naturally in young powerful individuals a higher position of the diaphragm and of its neighbouring organs after death than in the aged or diseased. If the section of the old man be com- pared with the present plate, it will be seen that it is deeper by a vertebra (the sixth in the old man). Consequently, in the definition of the position of the arch of the aorta, division of the bronchi, &c., the age of the individual must be always taken into consideration, and no fixed