PLATE II 37 If, with a view of forming any conclusions, the figures here given be compared, it is at once noticed that the statement of Claudius (“ Bericht liber die Naturforscherversammlung zu Giessen,” 1865, 4 Zeitschrift fiir Rationelle Medizin,’ iii Reihe, 23 B., p. 244), according to which the normal uterus is not so movable and not so enclosed on all sides by coils of small intestine as is generally represented, is quite borne out. The uterus lies so much more between the bladder and the rectum, that Douglas’s pouch contains no small intestine. Corresponding with this is the gravid uterus in PI. II, a, b, in closer apposition with the hinder wall of the pelvis. However, as I have mentioned above, I am not able to express myself precisely on this matter. It would be important to institute further investigations on preg- nant bodies to find out whether the sharp bending seen in PI. II, a, b, is post mortem or not; at all events, the fact of lying the body on its back cannot alone be the reason of it. If the uterus were ante-verted, and directly after death sank from its own weight into the position of retro-flexion, we must expect that during life there may have been similar variations when a supine position is taken up repeatedly and for a long time at once. On the other hand, I cannot assent to the state- ment of Claudius, when he affirms that the bladder by its filling and empty- ing communicates no movement to the uterus. I have already mentioned that one can demonstrate that an influence is exerted by the full and empty bladder upon the site of the uterus on the dead body, also on the living- subject the variations of the position of the uterus from micturition can be made out. A cup-like sinking-in of the upper wall is shown, moreover, in the empty bladder only, when the subjects are not very fresh and the urine has been voided immediately before death. The round and empty bladder with its firmly contracted thickened walls (Plate II) shows the normal relaxations of this viscus when it has been emptied by its own power of contraction.