PLATE XXII 164 It is not correct to describe tbe course of the artery as spiral witli regard to the bone. It lies certainly in front of the bone above, in the middle of it farther down, and at the knee-joint completely behind it. One can convince oneself on any preparation, whether the artery be injected or not, that the artery passes downwards in a tolerably straight direction; it is the bone on the contrary that describes a twist round the artery. The relation of the artery to the sartorius is constant throughout the entire length of the thigh. The great sciatic nerve, like the artery, has changed its position from the upper section. As higher up it lay behind the adductor magnus, so here it will be seen behind the short head of the biceps. There is nothing further to say about the muscles. The prominence of the central tendinous intersections indicates the termination of the muscles, as well as forming the separation between the individual portions of tbe quadriceps, which higher up were separated by fascia. Fig. 2 is a section of the left knee-joint through the centre of the patella. The man, whose lower extremity afforded the preparation, had been a mason, and had probably knelt a great deal. At all events the large development and width of the prsepatellar bursa would suggest it. The patella lies with the external portion of its posterior articular surface so close to the external condyle of the femur, that only a narrow chink separates them; while on the other hand it is raised from off the external condyle. The synovial cavity is divided by means of the ligamentum mucosum into two portions; of these, one follows the patellar surface and passes upwards and inwards, whilst the other is applied over the inner condyle. This position of the patella upon the condyles renders it clear why in dislocation it glides by preference over the external condyle. The position itself is conditional on the curving inwards of the femur, so that the action of the powerful extensor muscles alone would cause the patella to glide outwards from off the flat hollow between the condyles, if these lateral tendinous masses did not securely hold it in position. These structures are interwoven as fibrous bundles with the lateral flat tendinous expansions which pass from the great extensor downwards to the leg, and assist in transmitting the - power of extension beyond the patella and ligamentum patellas. In fracture