45 PLATE IV describing the individual organs, then, of the left ear, the left nasal cavity, and so on, the right side of the plate must be consulted. The upper half of the external meatus, the relations of the cartilaginous, integumentary, and bony parts of the right ear are seen. The connections of the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube with the cartilage of the pinna, and the fissures of the external meatus appear as gaps between the cartilaginous rings. By this disposition a large amount of passive motion is allowed at the entrance to the ear, which is noticeable equally in the movements of mastication and in the contractions of the pinna. By drawing back the ear the curve of the meatus is diminished and the examination of the membrana tympani rendered more readily accessible. It is worth noticing that the curvature of the external meatus is not so abrupt as one might imagine from the examination of soft preparations or plates. After examination of the living body as well as Pirogoff’s plates (a a 0, fasc. i, Tab. 6) which also were prepared from frozen bodies, and in spite of the various differences which in this respect the external meatus offers, I must admit that the parts seen in the section of a body not thoroughly hardened, vary materially with their original position. It is well known that this canal is curved from before backwards and from above downwards, and is thus somewhat serpentine in its course. Naturally, the relations in this section could not be represented with perfect clearness, although it will be seen from the stronger shading of the internal parts, that the upper wall of the canal rises backwards and somewhat upwards, and consequently that the semi-canal in the region of the membrana tympani is deeper than it is wide externally. The membrana tympani has been divided in its lower half, hence the ossicles are not interfered with. The direction and position of this membrane should be noticed, as it lies in a plane which makes a very acute angle with the horizontal, and also the navel-shaped retraction towards the tympanum, and the portion of the malleus which is in relation with it. As the ossicles of hearing, on account of their small size, are very difficult to represent accurately, a woodcut is