52 PLATE Y shown. With regard to the latter nerve it is to be remarked that wounds of it in clumsy extraction of teeth from the slipping off of the instrument have often occurred. Its division in the mouth in neuralgia, as Poser has recommended, is thoroughly practicable, without cutting through the cheek. After extraction of the last upper molar the nerve may be divided with a tenotome on the ramus of the jaw, without the necessity of further dis- section. The articulation between the axis and atlas is such that the saw has entered under the anterior arch of the atlas, dividing its odontoid process, and has met the occipital bone over the posterior arch. The powerful transverse ligament of the atlas passing obliquely behind the odontoid process, is separated from the bone by a bursa. Further back is seen the broad ligamentous mass of the lateral axoid ligament, which terminates on the body of the axis, and which partly passes over into the posterior common ligament. I have been unable to find in this preparation the synovial membrane described by Luschka as existing between these ligaments. Unfortunately, the two ligaments are not clearly enough defined from each other in the plate; the lateral por- tions of the ligamentum latum are represented too streaky. On the anterior aspect of the odontoid process lies the ligamentous mass filling up the space between the bodies of the axis and anterior arch of the atlas— the deep anterior axo-atloid ligament. A portion of this ligament is met with below the anterior arch of the atlas ; the anterior articular cavity lies above the section. It will be seen from the breadth of the ligamentous mass that the position of the odontoid process acts as a safeguard against powerful strains, and that the lateral masses of the atlas must have a great expanse in order to afford sufficient attachments for such strong ligaments. The mass of cellular tissue which closes up the space between the posterior arch of the atlas and the occipital bone is very lax, and the posterior atlanto-occipital ligament, which is cut at a very acute angle, takes up a considerable space. Immediately beneath, the posterior arch of the atlas can be felt. It is here that the vertebral artery makes its way, in order to perforate the dura mater further internally, and it thus reaches the medulla oblongata. The artery is divided three times, on account of its curves. The first section is in the vertebral canal, where the artery passes