PLATE I 6 Beneath the corpus callosum a good view is obtained of the fornix. It is seen as it passes forward and downward from the splenium, and stopping at the corpus mammillare which lies at the base of the skull. In front of this last lies the infundibulum, which leads to the pituitary body in the sella turcica. Still further forward is a section of the optic chiasma. At the extremity of the fornix is the anterior white commissure. Behind the fornix is the black cleft representing the foramen of Munro, and the inner grey lamina of the optic thalamus with the grey commissure. From the upper white lamina of this some fibres are to be seen passing to the pineal gland, which is in relation interiorly with the posterior white com- missure and the corpora quadrigemina. Beneath the corpora quadrigemina is the aqufeductus Sylvii uniting the third and fourth ventricles ; the anterior half of this is covered by the corpora quadrigemina, the posterior half being provided with grey convolutions above from the valve of Vieussens. The floor of the fourth ventricle is formed of grey matter, which is shown to be as a continuation of the grey nucleus of the medulla. This becomes clear from the departure of the posterior fibres of the medulla to the cerebellum. In the pons Varolii a white band is well seen, the penetrating fibres of the pyramid, whilst those of the olivary body go through between the pons and cerebellum. Behind the pons is seen a portion of the nucleus of the olivary body cut through. Between the several portions of the brain which are not directly in apposition, the sites of the great subarachnoid spaces are seen. One, for instance, between the anterior (here upper) border of the pons and the corpus mammillare, and a second between the cerebellum, the medulla, and the commencement of the spinal cord; a third between the posterior part of the corpus callosum and the cerebellum. The investing arachnoid, which, springing across from one portion of the brain to another, so forms this space, cannot be reproduced in the plate on account of its excessive fineness. Excepting the artery of the corpus callosum, which passes upwards over the genu, all the vessels depicted are veins. The superior longitudinal sinus is laid open for almost its entire extent. The inferior longitudinal sinus on the lower border of the falx is only to be distinguished by the blood seen through its walls. Beneath the splenium the