1 I I IELEMENTS OF SURGERY.KDIMIIIHUII : PRINTliD nv DAI.I.ANTYNR ANH COMPANY, TAI'L'ti WOHK, CANltNl.ATI..ELEMENTS OF SURGERY BY EOBEKT LISTON, FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGES OF SURGEONS IN LONDON AND EDINBURGH, SURGEON TO THE ROYAL INFIRMARY, SENIOR SURGEON TO THE ROYAL DISPENSARY FOR THE CITY AND COUNTY OF EDINBURGH,LECTURER ON SURGERY, &C. &C. &C. PART THIRD. LONDON: PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, REES, ORME, BROWN, AND GREEN, PATERNOSTER ROW ; AND ADAM BLACK, EDINBURGH. 1832.3CONTENTS. VAGK Of Affections of thj: Chest, 1 Of Empyema, 3 Wounds of the Chest, .......... 6 Of Affections of the Abdomen, 7 Of Hernia, B Ascites, . 49 Ovarian disease, . 51 Injuries of the Abdomen, 56 Of Lumbar Abscess, 58 Of Spina Bifida, 61 Of Affections of the Rectum and Neighbouring Parts, 63 Of Haemorrhoids, ib. Inflammation of the Rectum, 65 Fistula in Ano, 70 Stricture of the Rectum, 73 Schirro-contracted Rectum, 75 Prolapsus Ani, 76 Tumom-s and foreign bodies in the Rectum, . . 77 Imperforate Rectum, 78 Treatment of Affections of the Rectum, .... ib. Of Affections of the Urinary and Genital organs, 88 Of Gonorrhoea, 89 Hernia Humoralis, 99 Inflammation of the Bladder and posterior part of the Urethra, 102 «vi CONTENTS. , PACK Of Strictiu'e of the Urethra, lOG Retention of Urine, 121 Incontinence of Urine, 144 Gonorrhosa Prsepiitialis, 146 Phymosis and Paraphymosis, 148 Cancer of the Penis, 153 Imperfections of the Urethra, 156 Chimney-sweeper's Cancer, 157 Hydi'ocele, 159 Cireocele, 165 Haematocele, 167 Tumours of the Testicle, .Miici'M .».(' i69 Stone in the Bladder, 176 Calculus in the Female, 217 Gonorrhoea in the Female, 219 Gonoi'rhoeal Lichen, . . ^ 222 Retention of Urine in the Female, 223 Vesico-Vagiual Fistula, 224 Imperfections of the Female Genital Organs, . . 227 Stricture of the Vag-ina, '}:)n&l'0 of^'- 228 Inflammation of the Female Genital Organs, . . 229 Tumours of the Female Genital Organs, .... ib. Uterine disease, ...... i 231 Of Ligature of the Common Iliac Artery, . . . 233 Of Ligature of the Internal Iliac,' '{ ' j - "M>t; ) , 235 Ligature of the External Iliac, 236 Ligature of the Femoral, 237 Ligature of the Arteries of the Leg, 240 Aneurismal Varix of the Thigh, ib. Of Enlargement of the BuRSiB in th^; Inferior Ex- tremity, 242 Of Cartilaginous Bodies in the Knee-joint, . . 243 Op Distortion of the Feet, 245 Of Exostosis of the Distal Phalangbs of the Toes, 246 Op Fractures, 247 Of Fracture of the Frontal Sinus, 257 Fracture of the Ossa Nasi, 258CONTENTS. vii PACE Of Fracture of tlio Os Malso, .260 Fracture of the Lower Jaw, ib. Fracture of the Spine, 262 Fi*act\ive of the Clavicle, . ; . • 26B Fracture of the Scapula, 27 ]. Fracture of the Ribs, 272 Fracture of the Sternum, 274 Injuries of the Shoulder, ib. Fracture of the Shaft of the Humerus, .... 279 Fracture of the Olecranon, /. . . 283 Fracture of the Forearm, ..... •i'.iRcn ^ij . 285 Fracture of the Phalang-es of the Fing-ers, . . . 287 Fracture of the Pelvis, .288 Fracture of the Femur, 290 Fi'acture of the Patella, ........ 302 Fracture of the Tibia and Fibula, 305 Of Disunited Fracture, 311 Of Dislocations, 314 Of Luxation of the Lower Jawy 318 Luxation of the Clavicle, . . 320 Luxation of the Scapula, 321 Luxation of the Humerus, 322 Luxation of the Elbow-joint, 329 Luxation of the Radius, 331 Luxation of the Wrist, 332 Luxation of the Carp^is, 335 Luxation of the Fingers, 33f) Luxation of the Femur, 338 Luxation of the Knee, 345 ■ Lxixation of the Patella, ib. Luxation of the Ankle, 346 Luxation of the Tarsus, 347 Of Sprain, . 348 Of Bruise, 356 Of Amputation, 359 Of Amputation of the Fingers, 373 Amputation of the Forearm, 378VII1 CONTKNTS. rJLGE Of Amputation at the Elbow, 381 Amputation of the Arm, 382 Amputation at the Shoulder-joint, 385 Amputation of the Toes, 388 Amputation at the Foot, 389 Amputation of the Leg, 390 Amputation of the Thig-h, 394 Amputation at the Hip-joint, 395 Or Excision of Diseased Portions of Bones, . . . 397 Of Excision of the Knee-joint, 401 Excision of the Shoulder-joint, 402 Excision of the Elbow-joint, 404 Appendix, in regard to the Success of the Lateral Operation of Lithotomy, 407ELEMENTS OF SURGERY. PART III. OF PARTICULAR SURGICAL SUBJECTS. Affections of the Chest, Inflammation of the pectoral serous tissue would come to be considered more properly in a work ex- clusively on the practice of physic; but the affection not unfrequently occurs in consequence of wounds or other external injuries, and it is proper that it should be shortly noticed here. The most promi- nent symptoms are a violent pain in the chest, gra- dually increasing in intensity; difficult respiration, painful and often hurried; prolonged inspiration, causing aggravation of the pain; flushed face, a rapid, full, and bounding pulse, with other symp- toms of inflammatory fever. The practitioner must be on his guard not to mistake violent and sudden pain in paroxysms for inflammatory; the pain of inflammatory action is steady, and increases gradu- ally, without any intermission. Inflammation soon terminates in one way or another, and the pain which PART III. AAFFECTIONS OF THE CHEST. attends it is altogether very different from such as continues for weeks, severe at one time, and slight at another. In regard to the chest, the affections, inflammatory or not, of the internal parts, must be carefully dis- tinguished from those of the external, as of the in- tercostal muscles. These are often affected from in- juries, or from exposure to cold, and give rise to symptoms which may appear to indicate serious dis- ease of the included viscera—difficult breathing, ef- fected with great pain, and very distressing; pain on pressure and on motion of the ribs; frequent, painful, and ineffectual efforts to cough; general anxiety, and more or less disturbance of the constitu- tion. The tendinous coverings of the costal cartil- ages, and of the sternum, may be involved, and some- times considerable and painful swelling takes place in consequence. Mercurial influence is no iinfrequent cause of such perichondriac affection. Before proceeding to active treatment, that is, bleeding to the extent of pounds, the surgeon should make himself very sure that inflammation of import- ant and vital organs does really exist. Every cir- cumstance must be taken into consideration, and well weighed ; it is far easier to take away vital fluid than to replace it. The age, temperament, previous life, state of constitution, must all be attended to. "When inflammation of internal parts has actually com- menced, every endeavour must be made to procure resolution; effusion and suppuration are to be dread- ed, as generally fatal.3 AFFECTIONS OF THE CHEST. Effusion of serum may take place into the cavities, attended with subsidence of the symptoms. In such circumstances, the lung collapses, either entirely, or still admitting a small quantity of air; and if the collection lodge for a considerable time, that side of the chest - enlarges. When the cavity is not quite full, the fluid is heard to be troubled; on motion of the trunk a sound of splashing is perceived. Part of the cavity may be occupied with air which has escaped from an opening in the lung ; or halitus may be extricated from the accumulated secretion. There are other signs, sufficiently distinct, imparting a know- ledge of such effusion. The previous history of the case leads to a shrewd suspicion. The chest is un- naturally immovable, as well as enlarged; the in- tercostal spaces are widened, and ultimately protu- berant ; there is dulness on percussion, and no respi- ratory murmur perceptible in those parts where there is fluid; the sounds are natural in that part of the lung which is permeable to air, and distended. Often suppuration is the result of the incited action ; and purulent matter forms in the cavity of the pleura, generally without breach of svirface. The membrane is covered with lymph, more or less extensively or- ganized. Empyema is established. Suppuration may take place in the substance of the lungs, and from ulceration the matter may escape, in small quantity at a time, into the bronchial tubes, giving relief to the patient; or it may be poured in profusely and suddenly so as to cause instant suffocation ; or it may work its way into the cavity of the pleura, and occupyAFFECTIONS OF THE CHEST. 4 the same place as if it had been secreted by that membrane. Or again, if the lung adhere to the costal pleura, the matter may approach the surface of the body, by the aid of interstitial absorption of the intervening parts, and the collection may then be opened like a common superficial abscess, by division of the integuments only. When the pleura is full, the chest enlarges, the in- teguments become oedematous ; and if, from the pre- ceding and collateral circumstances, no doubt exist of the presence of matter, paracentesis may be per- formed with a chance of relieving and saving the patient. The patient is placed horizontally, with the shoulders slightly elevated; and the affected side should be as dependent as possible, that he may be readily turned over on his face should the breathing become embarrassed. The position of the diaphragm, in regard to the inner surface of the false and lower true ribs, must be kept in view. Wlien the disten- sion is great, this important muscle is displaced; it is pushed downwards, carrying before it the viscera in the upper part of the abdomen ; it is thus removed far from the place at which the incision is usually made. The point of election, as it is called, is between the fifth and sixth ribs, and midway between the ster- num and the spine. An incision is made through the integuments, over the upper edge of the sixth rib, an inch and a half in extent; in this situation there is no risk of wounding the intercostal artery. If the operator intend to shut the cavity as soon as the fluid has been discharged, the integuments are5 AFFECTIONS OF THE CHEST. drawn upwards previously to making the incision, in order that they may afterwards overlap the wound. A cautious opening is then made through the inter- costal muscles, and the pleura punctured. This is im- mediately followed by forcible ejection of fluid. The wound of the pleura is then enlarged by a probe- pointed knife. The thrust of a trocar, or sharp- pointed bistoury, is here inadmissible, as in some cases the diaphragm, perhaps the liver or stomach, or even the lung, might be wounded. The fluid at first escapes rapidly; afterwards it is ejected chiefly during expiration. After its discharge, a tent is placed in the wound, over which a compress, and the chest is firmly bandaged. The closure cannot be maintained safely longer than twenty-four hours; the dressing must be undone, the tent removed, and the matter again allowed to flow. I would certainly not recommend any attempt to heal the wound by the first intention. In consequence of continued closure, the secretion soon becomes very profuse, mixed with blood, and of a putrid nature ; irritative fever is established. The treatment principally con- sists in obtaining gradual, and at the same time free evacuation of the fluid, restraining the motions of the chest, and supporting the general strength. As the discharge ceases, the lung may in part expand; it may, however, continue collapsed, become consoli- dated, and the chest fall in. In neglected cases, ab- sorption of the intercostal substance takes place ; the integuments bulge outwards, and distinct fluctua- tion is perceived. The skin has been allowed to be-AFFECTIONS OF THE CHEST. 6 come thin, and even to give way, without the nature of the case being known ; but this can be the result only of ignorance or of inattention. In such cases the ribs have been denuded, and become necrosed to a large extent,—the sequestra separating slowly and in fragments, and causing long continued and wasting discharge. It is plain, therefore, that point- ing of the matter should never be waited for. Chronic collections are occasionally met with, of years duration, and producing great enlargement of the chest. Surgical interference with such is less likely to prove beneficial than with the acute. Wlunds of the large blood-vessels of the chest, or of the cavities of the heart, are almost immediately fatal. Mere punctures, however, of these parts, have closed for a time, and in some cases even permanently. All wounds of the chest, though not involving blood- vessels of a large size, are productive of severe con- sequences—effusion of blood or bloody fluids into the cavities, escape of air into the external cellular tissue, collapse of the lung; and inflammation and its results are always to be dreaded. The danger is not uniformly tantamount to the extent of injury inflict- ed. Individuals have recovered from extensive wounds causing profuse haemorrhage, and great dis- placement and laceration of the parts ; whilst, from much slighter injuries, untoward and fatal conse- quences have quickly resulted. "Wounds may pene- trate the chest, and be continued into the abdomen ; the stomach, liver, and intestines—one or all—mayAFFECTIONS OF THE ABDOMEN. 7 be perforated as well as the lung ; in such cases the haemorrhage is in general speedily fatal. Injury of the intercostal arteries, and of the maramany and its branches, is attended with serious bleeding. It is easily arrested, however, by pressure. A piece of fine linen is pushed into the wound, followed by charpie, so as to form a small bag within the chest, a little larger than the opening; by pulling this gently out- wards and fixing it, efficient pressure is made on the bleeding vessel. At the same time the motions of the chest are to be restrained by bandaging ; indeed this is necessary in almost all injuries of that part. When reaction has been established, antiphlogistic treatment must be pursued, and it generally requires to be extremely active. Bloody, serous, or purulent fluids lodging in the cavity of the pleura, are to be evacuated, if need be, either by incision or by en- largement of the original wound. In the course of the cure hectic usually supervenes to a greater or less degree, and requires the reverse of the previous treatment. Affections of the Abdomen. Inflammation of the peritoneum, when idiopathic, is generally treated by the physician. But it occurs in consequence of wound, obstruction from hernia, or affection of the lower bowels. There is a burning heat in the belly ; the pain is constant and increasing, much aggravated by the slightest pressure or exertion of the abdominal muscles, and the patient, in conse-8 OF HERNIA. qiience, lies with these muscles in a state of relaxa- tion. The pain is of a very different character from that arising from spasm, induced by an irritating nature of the intestinal contents, which supervenes in paroxysms, and is relieved by pressure or by evacua- tion. In inflammation the countenance is very anxi- ous, and generally pale ; the extremities are cold and bathed in perspiration; the patient vomits frequently; and the bowels are generally constipated. The pulse is small, wiry, and rapid. Hernia has been classed with tumours. It is a swelling, but of a peculiar kind, and attended in some states by peculiar symptoms. The term rupture is in common use instead of hernia, but was at first applied from a false notion of the disease. There is a descent of viscera, but no rupture of the parietes. By hernia is meant protrusion or escape of the con- tents of any cavity, but the term is most frequently applied in regard to the abdomen. The protrusion may occur at various parts of the abdomen ; through the diaphragm, constituting Phrenic Hernia; through the umbilicus, constituting Exomjilialos; through the dilated apertures for transmission of vessels, con- stituting Ventral Hernia ; through the inguinal canal, constituting Inguinal Hernia; through the crural aperture, constituting Crural or Femoral Hernia. The most frequent forms are the inguinal and crural, —the effects of pressure or action of the muscles on the abdominal contents being concentrated towards the lower part of the cavity. It is but rarely that the bowels protrude through the sacroischiatic notch, or9 Ol*" HERNIA. through the obturator foramen, or by the side of the vagina, or betwixt the bladder and rectum. It is of great importance for the student to atten- tively study and reflect on both the healthy and mor- bid anatomy of this disease. When a hernia is stran- gulated, there is an absolute necessity for early inter- ference ; the bowels are obstructed and their action inverted; fseculent vomiting ensues, and enteritis is threatened, along with all its dangerous consequences. He may meet with the affection at a very early period of his practice, and may be so situated as to command no assistance or advice; he must be guided by his own judgment and knowledge. He should be well aware of the relation of the parts to each other, and the changes likely to have been occasioned by the disease. If, through delay, the patient lose his life, or if an operation be attempted, and its object impro- perly accomplished, or not accomplished at all, his reputation may be blasted. But if he interfere skil- fully, and at the proper time, and save his patient, relieving him at once from all his painful and dread- ful symptoms, great credit and professional fame may be in consequence acquired. An examination of the healthy anatomy is not sufficient, many changes take place, which mere anatomical and physiological know- ledge could never anticipate. Extraordinary dis- placements and adhesions occur. The parts are alto- gether changed ; and repeated examination of the morbid state alone can impart the requisite know- ledge to one previously well acquainted with the healthy structure. In consequence of laceration or separation of10 OF HERNIA. fibres, hernia may occur suddenly, and even in the best formed parts, from very violent exertion—as in leaping, wrestling, pulling, lifting heavy weights ; from sudden exertion of the abdominal muscles in any way ; from blows, &c. Or the protrusion may come on gradually, after slight exertions, where the tendons are naturally weak or deficient; or it may be slowly induced by repeated and almost constant mus- cular action, as in urinary, intestinal, and pulmonary complaints ; in such cases, slight pain is usually felt at the site of the protrusion before the tumour is perceived. The disease is often congenital. But the common cause of abdominal hernia is powerful action of the abdominal muscles, compressing the viscera to a greater or less degree, and with more or less suddenness ; the viscera resisting the compressing force, react on the parietes, and these, yielding at the points which are naturally weak or deficient, permit enlargement of the coerced cavity by pro- trusion of part of the contents. When the com- pression and reaction are sudden and violent, the protrusion is the same ; but when the former are not sufficient to overcome the cohesion of the parietes by a single occurrence, but by repetition gradually effect the morbid end, the hernia is proportionally slow in Hiaking its appearance, and gradual in its increase. ' To understand the nature of congenital scrotal hernia, the student must recollect that the testicle in the foetus is lodged in the cavity of the abdomen, immediately below the kidneys, and resting on the psoas muscle ; that it gradually descends into a pro- cess of peritoneum, called spermatic, which extendsOF HERNIA. 11 from the general peritoneal cavity down towards the scrotum, and which ultimately constitutes the tunica vaginalis. The orifice of this peritoneal pouch not closing immediately after the descent, may permit a fold of intestine to slip into its cavity, and remain in contact with the testicle. Or the testicle may, though rarely, contract in the abdomen an adhesion to a por- tion of bowel, and in its descent bring this along with it. In either case the bowel remains in its new situation, and constitutes congenital hernia. Hernia infantilis differs from the hernia conge- nita, and is a kind of protrusion peculiar to the early period of infancy. In the congenital form the pro- truded intestine is in immediate contact with the testicle, and surrounded by the tunica vaginalis testis ; but in this a process of peritoneum is interposed betwixt the intestine and the vaginal coat. The affec- tion occurs after the abdominal aperture of the sper- matic process has closed, but before the rest of that process has become incorporated with the spermatic vessels and their surrounding cellular tissue. In fact, only the peritoneum proper has closed, and forms the septum between the cavities of the abdomen and of the tunica vaginalis ; but being insufficient to with- stand the impulse of the abdominal contents, yields before it, and descending along with the protruding portion of bowel, forms its envelope, or the proper hernial sac, within the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. Such is the opinion generally adopted in regard to the nature of hernia infantilis; but its accuracy is doubtful. It seems more probable that the bowel, covered by a fold of peritoneum, is protruded into the12 OF HEllNIA. cellular tissue of the spermatic chord, after closure and contraction of the spermatic process, and de- scending till it reach the upper and posterior i)art of the tunica vaginalis, adheres to this tunic, bulges it forwards, and is covered by it. On cutting down in such a case, the hernial tumour may appear to be lodged within the tunica vaginalis ; whereas the bowel is actually placed exterior to the tunic and behind it. Indeed, the case is similar to the common scrotal her- nia, only the tumour is behind, not anterior to the vaginal coat. And this relation of parts is more apt to occur in the infant than in the adult; for in the former the testicle does not for some time descend fully into the scrotum, and whilst it is lodged in the groin a fold of peritoneum protruded into the sper- matic chord may soon contract adhesion with the tunica vaginalis, afterwards descending along with it and the testicle. The subjoined case, illustrative of the preceding statement, came under my observation in 1814. J. S. set. 21, was admitted into the Royal In- firmary, with symptoms of strangulation which had been of eight days' duration. The hernia had existed from infancy ; it was on the right side, and tolerably large. In the operation, on dividing the integuments and various coverings, a sac was opened, which proved to be the tunica vaginalis', containing the testicle, a considerable quantity of serum, and a large smooth transparent tumour above the testicle and behind the posterior layer of the tunica vaginalis. The operator was puzzled, but finally determined on cutting into this tumour; it proved to be the hernial sac, covered by the tunica vaginalis, containing three or four ouncesOF HERNIA. 13 of serum and a portion of omentum. The protru- sion could not be returned ; after relieving the stric- ture, the omentum was cut away, and the bleeding vessels tied separately. The patient died on the third day after. An analogous case is on record; and a third has been related to me by an old and experi- enced surgeon: In that instance, both the anterior and posterior layer of the tunica vaginalis, together with the true sac, were simultaneously divided; omentum and intestine protruded into the vaginal coat, and for a time the opening through the pos- terior part of that cavity and sac was mistaken for the inguinal ring. On extension of the incision, the nature of the case became more apparent, the stric- ture was relieved, and the protrusion reduced. Children are sometimes born with deficiency of the umbilicus, and protrusion of bowel into the loose cellular tissue of the umbilical cord ; the disease is termed congenital exomphalos. Almost all the viscera of the abdomen and pelvis are liable to protrusion—the stomach—the spleen— the omentum—the great and small intestines, and even some of their most fixed parts—the ovaria—the bladder. Also, right portions of the viscera occasion- ally escape on the left side of the parietes, and the left at the right. Hernial protrusion has received different names, according to the nature of its contents. When com- posed of a portion of intestine, it is termed Enter- ocele; Epiplocele, when composed of omentum ; and Entero-epiplocele, when both intestine and omentum have escaped ; and, as already observed, different14 OF HERNIA. nimes are also applied, according to the situation of the protrusion. The inguinal and crural forms of hernia being the most common, will chiefly occupy our attention. The inguinal is divided into true or oblique inguinal^ and into direct or ventro-inguinal. In the oblique, the protrusion passes along the inguinal canal. This course is in young persons short, but as the muscles become developed it is lengthened to about two inches, reckoning from the external ring to the fun- nel-like opening through the transverse fascia. The appearance of the swelling in this canal leads to diag- nosis betwixt the oblique and direct hernia; but in chronic cases, this distinction is often in a great mea- sure done away with. In large and old oblique rup- tures the neck of the tumour is shortened, and the openings of the canal are approximated and more in a direct line. They are also immensely dilated, being often enlarged to such an extent as to admit all the fingers of the hand, when placed in a conical form,— and this even in the living body, the loose integument receding along with the tumour. The epigastric artery is situated behind the neck, and on its inner side. It is much displaced inwards in cases of old standing. The direct hernia passes through the parietes oppo- site to the external ring, and does not come in con- tact with the spermatic chord until it has reached that point. Its neck is short, and the epigastric artery is on its outer side. The coverings of the two tumours are different. Those of the oblique are such as the chord possesses, a prolongation of the transverse fascia, a covering from the creniaster muscle, fibres15 OF HERNIA. from the edge of the external ring, and the superfi- cial fascia of the abdomen. The direct has only the last. The oblique inguinal, when recent and small, is termed Bubonocele ; but when large, it generally de- scends into the scrotum—oscheocele—of course exte- rior to the tunica vaginalis ; and in females into the labium. The tumour often attains an immense size, from continued application of the causes that produced it,—laborious occupations, or straining of muscles in any way. When of long duration, and not attended to, it is not uncommon for the swelling to hang as low as the middle of the thigh, or even down to the knee. In such cases, the testicles often are wasted, and the penis concealed ; indeed the skin of the penis^ as well as of the lower part of the abdomen, is stretched over the tumour. Crural or femoral hernia is, on the contrary, seldom larger than a small apple. Sometimes, but very rarely, the tumour is of large dimensions. I have seen one containing the transverse arch of the colon, the omentum, and a yard and a half of small intestine. When a very large hernia remains always full, the cavity of the abdomen diminishes in size ; in fact, it adapts itself to its contents; and this must be kept in mind when interfering with such cases. Inguinal hernia most frequently occurs in males, the femoral in females ; and the reason of this is ob- vious on comparing the size of the inguinal and crural openings in the male and female. In the male, the inguinal opening is much larger than the femoral; in the female, the femoral is the larger, the inguinal is16 OF HERNIA. small, containing only the round ligament of the uterus. The causes of hernia act equally on both openings, and therefore it is to be expected that pro- trusion will take place where there is the least resist- ance, where the parietes are most deficient. Hernia can seldom be mistaken for any other swell- ing, by one at all acquainted with his profession, and who makes his examination attentively. The history, and the mode of its appearance, are to be at- tended to. The swelling proceeds from above—at times it recedes on the patient lying on his back and making pressure on the swelling—a distinct impulse is communicated to it on exertion of the abdominal muscles, as in coughing—the tumour is generally elastic, and its neck can be felt extending from the lower abdominal aperture. Also, the two kinds, inguinal and crural, can scarcely be confounded with each other; the former is above, the latter below the ligament of Poupart. It will be proper, how- ever, to enumerate shortly the diseases for which hernia may be mistaken. Cirsocele may be confounded with inguinal her- nia. Cirsocele, being a varix of the spermatic veins, enlarges on coughing and during the erect posture, like Hernia; but in general the composition of the tumour can be ascertained by the feel which it im- parts when handled,—the veins feel like a handful of earthworms. Besides, the swelling is made to dis- appear, on emptying the dilated veins by pressure upwards; and if the surgeon then firmly compress the inguinal aperture, the tumour will rapidly re- appear, on account of the venous flow being inter-OF HERNIA. 17 rupted, particularly if the patient exert his abdomi- nal muscles, or assume the erect posture. Whereas, had hernia existed, the swelling could not have been reproduced; and on the patient being directed to cough, a distinct impulse would have been felt with the finger. Hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis may- be confounded with scrotal hernia, if its distinctive characters be not understood or attended to. The pyramidal swelling is of an equal surface, fluctuates, and is generally diaphanous ; its formation is gra- dual, commencing at the lower part, and slowly ascending ; the testicle cannot be felt at the bottom of the scrotum ; there is no swelling at the inguinal canal, and the chord is felt free; the tumour is not affected by the position, motion, or exertions of the patient. These circumstances plainly indicate the nature of the case. Bubo, sarcocele, and acute swell- ing of the testicle, are sufficiently distinguished from hernia by their situation, form, feel, and history, and cannot be confounded with it save by the profoundly ignorant. Hydrocele of the spermatic chord is more likely to lead to deception when large; but it is gene- rally small and circumscribed, involving the middle of the chord, leaving the inguinal aperture free, and the upper part of the spermatic chord distinct. Be- sides, whatever may be its size, its formation is always slow and indolent, it is never capable of being pushed into the abdomen, and it is unaffected by those circumstances which contribute to mark hernia. But hydrocele of the chord and hernia may coexist, as in PART III. B18 OF HERNIA. the following instance :—A gentleman had swelling in the course of the siDermatic chord for many years, while in a warm climate. Bandages were applied, and great pain thereby occasioned. After his return to this country, pain in the belly and vomiting seized him on a Monday morning, and continued with more or less violence till Sunday. Then the vomiting be- came foeculent, the belly excruciatingly painful and tender, the tumour tense, and the pulse weak. A phy- sician opposed operative measures, having been con- vinced that his former complaint was a hydrocele of the chord. But I conceived the symptoms warranted cutting down on the parts, and did so. A hernia was found containing omentum and a fold of bowel; a hydrocele of the chord lay alongside of it. Crural hernia has been mistaken for bubo, and vice vei'sa. Lumbar abscess and varix of the femoral vein are also supposed to resemble it in some mea- sure. The situation and form of the tumour in lum- bar abscess is very different from those of hernia; and the mode of examination recommended in regard to cirsocele is equally applicable to the detection of dilated femoral vein. The distinctions between crural hernia and bubo are too obvious to require mention. Patients with unreduced hernia are constantly in great danger ; bruising of the swelling, or accumu- lation of foeces in the protruded bowel, are likely to occasion very unpleasant consequences. They are generally troubled with indigestion, flatulence, and constipation; a slight degree of constriction at the neck of the tumour produces an obstruction to theOF HERNIA. 19 intestinal contents; the viscera in the sac have not due support and pressure, hence accumulations take place in them, and may be productive of serious and even fatal effects. No protrusion, in which these cir- cumstances are likely to occur, should be allowed to exist if possible. So afraid were the ancients of al- lowing hernias to remain unreduced, that it was their custom to cut all patients labouring under rupture who would submit to the operation ; and this was generally performed by itinerant quacks. They re- turned the protrusion without opening the sac, and then the neck of the tumour was either stitched up, or tied along with or without the spermatic chord. The actual cautery, and the most powerful caustics, were also applied to the parts by some, and dreadful were the eflfects; yet after the neck of the sac had been destroyed, and perhaps the bone exposed and exfoliated, protrusion again took place by the side of the cicatrix. By many, castration was considered necessary for the cure of scrotal hernia. Such harsh measures were founded on erroneous and imperfect ideas of the nature of the disease, and are not to be met with in the present day. Operations for unin- carcerated hernia are not justifiable, and those who have operated in such circumstances give a very de- sponding account of the experiment. The external applications employed to reduce her- nia are various. Some are supposed to produce cor- rugation of the integuments, and contraction of the cremaster muscle, and thereby to force up the pro- truded intevStine; others are of an astringent charac-OF HERNIA. 20 ter, and their administrator may gravely believe and say, that by them he exjjects to tan the living scrotum, to reduce the hernia, and to present an insuperable obstacle to its reproduction. But all such means are visionary, and practically ineffectual; no external or internal remedy can attenuate and reduce the hernial sac, remove adhesion, or produce contraction of the tendinous and rigid apertures. Herniae are either reducible ox irreducihle. A hernia is said to be reducible, when the protruded bowel or viscus readily returns into the abdomen on the appli- cation of pressure to the swelling, or on the patient assuming the recumbent posture. When recent, the swelling may not be made to disappear without con- siderable difficulty, but after the disease has become of long duration, the aperture through which the pro- trusion has taken place dilates and is relaxed, and admits of the ready passage of the hernial contents ; such tumours are usually of considerable size. -But reducible herniae should not be permitted to enlarge, since their protrusion can be prevented by simple and safe means; after reduction, a properly fitted bandage, termed Truss, is applied over the aperture and canal, and by the compression thus made, the opening is rendered impervious to the abdominal viscera. In inguinal hernia, the pad of the truss must make equable compression over the whole of the canal; in the other species, the aperture is less extensive, and the pressure more direct. Perseverance in the use of a well-adapted truss is highly necessar)'^ in children from the first, so that a chance may be afforded ofOF HERNIA. 21 permanent cure by contraction of the opening and developement of the surrounding parts. In young per- sons the canal is short, and ahuost direct, and from its^becoraing oblique and elongated during growth, prevention of protrusion may be e'fFected. Descent must never be allowed during such attempts at cure. But in adults such a fortunate result can scarcely be expected ; the truss must be constantly worn during the day, in bed it may be disused, and the patient must rest satisfied with thereby escaping those dan- gers to which protrusion of the hernia would render him always liable. Great care should be taken to ascertain in the morning, before the truss is applied, that no protrusion exists. If the opening be not much dilated, it ma)'- contract even in adults when protrusion is sedulously prevented. The patient will also require to avoid the causes of hernia. If he is subject to cough, or labours under urinary disease, by which the abdominal muscles are called frequently and fully into action, there is no chance of a cure ; the continued use of a truss will alone afford safety. Hernia is rendered irreducible, 1. By the formation of adhesions between the sac and the included parts. 2. By induration of the protruded omentum, and by accumulation of fat in it, or in the appendiculae of pro- truded large intestine. 3. By contraction of the abdo- minal cavity from long-continued displacement of a large portion of its contents. 4. By the nature and connexions of the protruded part, as in hernia of the sigmoid flexure, or of the caput coecum coli. 5. By firm compression of the abdomen. 6. By the tight-OF HERNIA. 22 ness of the opening giving rise to engorgement of the protruded parts. 7. By accumulation of foeces, solid or fluid, in the protruded portion of bowel. With care, some of these causes may be got over, and the tumour reduced. In irreducible hernia the use of a bag truss is indispensable to prevent increase of the protrusion. In irreducible femoral hernia of small size, a hollow pad with a weak spring is used with advantage, to give support to the contained parts, prevent farther protrusion, and guard the tumour against external violence. The patient must avoid violent exertion, keep his bowels open, and be careful of his diet; he is always in danger, and should know it. Many have lost their lives from blows otherwise not dangerous ; and even straining at stool is suffi- cient to force additional portions of viscera into the neck of the sac, and thereby induce most serious distress. The term incarceration of hernia is employed to indicate a slight degree of Strang illation, when the hernial contents are confined from any cause, and when the circulation in the protruded bowel and the course of the foeculent matter are nevertheless unin- terrupted. By many it is applied indiscriminately with strangulation. Strangulation arises, not from any change in the neck of the sac or in the tendinous aperture, but from increase of volume in the protruded parts, caused by accumulation of the solid, fluid, or gaseous contents of the bowel, followed by interruption to its circula- tion ; or the interruption to the flow of blood mayOF HERNIA. precede the distension. The circulation is more readily retarded or arrested in the veins than in the arteries, and consequently the engorgement of the bowel is at first caused by venous turgescence ; but when the flow in the arteries is at all impeded, the infiltration and exudation become more rapid, and the part quickly perishes—sphacelates. The symp- toms which accompany and indicate strangulation are of a very imposing nature, and cannot be neglect- ed ; and it is fortunate that such is the case, for no disease is fraught with greater or more immediate danger to the patient, or requires more the early in- terference of a skilful and expert surgeon. The tu- mour becomes tense and painful, and the integument is often red and shining ; the pain is much increased by pressure, and extends over the abdomen, but conti- nues most severe near the neck of the swelling; sick- ness and inclination to vomit quickly follow; the patient feels languid ; his countenance soon assumes a contracted anxious appearance ; the circulation is hurried ; the pulse beats wiry and hard, though at first it may have been full. If relief is not afforded, all the symptoms are speedily aggravated ; vomiting comes on,-and is frequent; no discharge can be pro- cured from the upper bowels, though the lower may be, and often are, evacuated by injections or by natu- ral efforts : if the upper bowels evacuate downwards, the strangulation cannot be of the whole calibre of the gut, but only of a part. Pain and heat in the tumour and belly increase ; and the former becomes very tender, and tense as a drum. The circulation isOF HERNIA. 24 more hurried, and restlessness and intolerable anxiety sui^ervene. The patient becomes worse and worse every hour ; foeculent matter in large quantity is vo- mited or gulped up with great distress, and is com- mixed with bile, Avith vitiated mucous secretion from the stomach and bowels, and with whatever may have been recently swallowed; in fact, the peristaltic action of the alimentary canal above the strangulated part is inverted, and all the contents are ejected. Trouble- some hiccough comes on, and this symptom is by many considered as a sure sign of gangrene having taken place ; but it is often present when the bowels are quite free from tenderness or tendency to gan- grene. The extremities grow coldish; the pulse is unequal and fluttering, and with difficulty counted at the ankles. The countenance sinks, and assumes a leaden hue; the pain abates suddenly; the eyes are glassy; the tumour is flaccid, often livid and emphy- sematous. Now, the bowel may recede, and foeculent evacuation take place, with some relief; but the patient, after lying some time insensible, expires. All this may occur, either within twelve or sixteen hours after the occurrence of strangulation, or not till after many days. The rapidity of the symptoms and the danger are influenced by the size of the tumour and the condition of its neck, and by the nature of its contents. In small recent hernias, the advance from bad to worse is usually very rapid, the aperture through which protrusion has taken place being small, and effecting a great degree of constriction when dis- tension and engorgement occur. ^Vhen the neck ofOF IIEllMIA. 25 the tumour is large, and completely occupies the aper- ture previously to the strangulation, the progress of the symptoms is also rapid, for a similar reason. But if the hernia be large and of long standing, and if the protruded parts are not bulky at the point of protrusion, the constriction is in general not very severe, and-the distressing consequences progress more slowly. The symptoms are not so violent in epiplocele as in enterocele. In many instances of the former, the intestinal discharges are never obstructed, though great irritation and inflammation may be in- duced by the strangulation. There is also less dan- ger in entero-epiplocele, than in enterocele, compres- sion of the bowel being in the former instance dimi- nished by the intervening omentum. It is scarcely necessary to observe, that when the train of symptoms just detailed commences in any case, the surgeon must immediately enquire as to the existence of external hernia, for often the disease is concealed, particularly by females; all parts where protrusion is likely to occur, must be examined at- tentively. At the same time, the surgeon must bear in mind, that pain of the abdomen, with symptoms resembling those of strangulation, in fact, that en- teritis, with obstruction, may exist along with her- ; nia, but independent of it. A person with hernia is as liable as any other, if not more so, to inflamma- tory attacks in the abdomen from a variety of causes. The portion of bowel in the tumour may participate or not in the general abdominal affection ; if luiaf- fected, it may be reduced; it is neither painful norOF HERNIA. 26 tense. Again, in large ruptures, inflammation of the contents may take place without strangulation, and without affection of the parts within the abdomen. All circumstances bearing on the case, must be well considered by the surgeon, before making up his mind as to the nature of the affection. Returning the contents of the hernia into the ab- domen is the only effectual means of counteracting the direful effects of strangulation; and the propriety of an early recourse to this measure must be quite apparent. It is indispensable, and no delay is warrant- able. The means for accomplishing it must be varied, according to the state of the parts, the duration of strangulation, and the general symptoms. The most simple method, and that which should first be at- tempted in ordinary cases, is the taxis; that is, reduc- tion by pressure with the hand. In this, the posi- tion of the patient is of importance ; it should be such as effects relaxation of the tendinous structures through which the hernia has protruded, and through which it is to be returned. With this view he is placed on his back, with the shoulders and pelvis elevated, and in crural hernia the thigh is bent on the trunk, and turned towards the opposite side; thus the aperture is relaxed along with the fasciai which compose it. Long ago, the positions into which pa- tients were forced for the cure of hernia were vari- ous, and generally awkward ; they all tended towards more or less complete inversion of the erect posture, and thus it was supposed that the abdominal bowels dragged on those protruded, and thereby assisted re-OF HERNIA. 27 duction. But the viscera are equally pressed on in every position of the body; it is not they, but the external parts, that are affected by change of posture. During the attempts at reduction, the patient should be exhorted not to strain or resist, but to relax his muscles ; and it will be well to engage him in con- versation, that he may not have an opportunity of keeping his lungs distended, and thereby acting forcibly on the abdomen. Very gentle pressure is to be used. At first, it should be general, ap- plied either with one hand or with both, according to the size of the tumour, so as to diminish the con- tents. If air be heard gurgling at the neck of the swelling, the chance of success may be considered good, for a return of part of the bowel's contents is thereby indicated. Then a gentle kneading should be made at the neck with the fingers of one hand, while with the other general pressure is kept up. The impression made is at first slight and gradual, but when a portion of the bowel returns the rest of it slips up suddenly. The return of omentum is always slow, and the last part requires as much manipulation as the first. The direction of the pres- sure must be varied according to the case. In ingui- nal and ventro-inguinal hernia, it is made in the direc- tion of the neck of the sac ; in the former ujDwards and outwards, in the latter upwards and backwards ; and previously the body of the tumour should be brought into the same line with its neck. In crural hernia, the pressure must first be made towards the centre of the thigh, so as to bring the whole tumour28 OF HEKNIA. into the same direction with its neck, and then up- wards. In umbilical, the pressure is straight back- wards. Small hernia?, and those of recent origin, are with difficulty reduced ; their neck is narrow, and the passage proportionately small; the crural are usually of this description. In all hernise, after strangulation has existed for some time, and adhesions formed, par- ticularly at the neck, reduction is almost impossible. The taxis is to be neither attempted nor perse- vered in after the hernia has become tender and inflamed. No good can be done by it, and the pa- tient's chance of recovery by operation is much dimi- nished. Even when no pain is felt in such circum- stances, any degree of force must be prejudicial. Mor- tification of the bowels is often hastened by the taxis being unskilfully employed by ill-informed practi- tioners, who are determined, at all risks, to accom- plish speedy reduction of the viscera. Men, even eminent, may declare that they always succeed in the taxis, but such practice is highly dangerous. The surgeon will take care to inform himself of all particulars,—as to the duration of strangulation, the previous state of the tumour, if it was all, or only in part reducible, as to its size, &c.,—before proceeding in any way. Great mischief is likely to accrue from the tumour being handled, perhaps roughly, by many people. Certain means may assist the taxis, but they should not be long continued or often repeated. Venesection can be employed only in strong plethoric patients, in the very first stage of strangulation, and before theOF HERNIA. 29 patient is exhausted by the distressing symptoms. It is had recourse to in order to induce syncope, or an approach to it, during which general relaxation takes place, and reduction may be attempted with advan- tage. With that view the patient is placed erect, and a large orifice made in the vein of one or both arms, so that a moderate quantity of blood suddenly ab- stracted may have a powerful effect on the system. In several cases I have found this practice beneficial, but am inclined to say, that in general, it will not be fol- lowed with success. In a favourable case, one attempt of this kind may be made, but not repeated. In many states of the constitution, and in the latter stages of the disease, bad consequences must follow the prac- tice. But in regard to it or any other remedy, it would be folly to lay down positive general rules ; what may prove useful in one or two instances, may answer very ill in the majority of cases that come under treatment. Local bloodletting can have no effect in diminishing the size of strangulated parts ; though in inflammation of the contents of the tumour, without strangulation, no more powerful means can be employed. Purgatives have been recommended with the view of extricating the bowel by increased peristaltic mo- tion, but the symptoms will, to a certainty, be aggra- vated by their use. Purgative enemata can do little good ; if in small quantity, they empty only the rectum ; if large, they may reach the strangulated part, but will scarcely be able to extricate it. Emetics have been supposed to be indicated in thisOF HEIINIA. 30 affection as well as in ileus; but there is in general enough of vomiting without them ; and often it is difficult to allay the vomiting even after removal of the obstruction. The warm bath is greatly trusted in by some, and in many cases it proves a valuable and useful auxi- liary to the taxis. It acts beneficially by inducing general relaxation, or even syncope, during which, whilst all resistance of the compressing powers upon the contents is suspended, pressure on the tumour can be employed to good advantage. By steady per- severance, whilst the patient is in the bath, a great majority of strangulated hernije may be reduced. But neither the general nor the local application of heat, or any other known means, save the edge of the knife, can relax tendinous apertures farther than can be effected by attention to position. Irrecoverable and most precious time may be wasted in preparing the bath, and for this reason such means should never be resorted to, unless they can be commanded at the shortest notice. If fomentation is used at all, it must be general; local fomentation can do no good. The apertures can be neither relaxed by heat, nor contracted by astrin- gent applications. By the local application of heat, the size of the parts composing the hernia will be augmented, the flatus being rarified, and the effusion and engorgement encouraged. The cold bath, and the dashing of cold water on the surface, near the seat of the disease, have been tried in some rare cases with most marked success;OF HEllNIA. 31 but this is a practice not to be relied oil. It can act only by producing sudden and powerful contraction of the coverings, and uniform pressure thereby on the contents. It is, perhaps, only applicable to scrotal hernia. Cold has been applied to the tumour, and even ice, so as to produce frostbite, but little faith can be placed in such ; the practice becomes danger- ous after inflammation has existed for some time, the application diminishing the weakened powers of the parts, and accelerating gangrene. Opium has been given by the mouth, and tobacco by the lower extremity of the alimentary canal; the former may sometimes prove advantageous, but the latter had better be dispensed with. The tobacco is thi'own up either as an enema, or in the form of vapour ; but the former method is generally pre- ferred. A drachm of the leaves is infused in a pound of water for ten minutes, and one-half of the liquid injected ; if this prove insufficient to prostrate the patient, the rest is administered after the lapse of a short interval. But many people have thus been poisoned, and the indiscriminate employment of the supposed remedy cannot be too strongly reprobated ; its effects are most severe and unmanageable; the state of collapse is most complete and alarming, and it is often difficult, if not impossible, to bring the patient out of it,—to procure reaction. In some cases reduction may be accomplished during the state of extreme debility which follows its use, but I have often seen it fail, and have witnessed the operation afterwards performed on the patients, who were atOF HERNIA. 32 the time without pulsation, from whom no blood flowed after the incisions, and who never rallied, but sunk rapidly. Indeed the patient is always in a very unfavourable state for operation after the exhibition of the tobacco enema, though certainly in a very fa- vourable state for reduction being attempted. The strong objection to the medicine, I conceive to be its being so extremely unmanageable; it is impossible to say whether the depression of the vital powers ^hat must ensue will be just sufficient to induce that relaxation and debility necessary or favourable to reduction, or whether it will proceed uncontrollable to such a degree as to extinguish life. In general it produces intolerable nausea and depression, universal relaxation of the muscles, coldness of the surface, with clammy exudation, vomiting, and violent retching, vertigo, and perhaps insensibility. Were I so unfor- tunate as to be the subject of strangulated hernia, I should certainly have no tobacco used. After unsuc- cessful trial of the taxis, I might submit to be bled ad deliquium, and have a surgeon to attempt reduction during syncope ; if somewhat more advanced in life I should prefer the warm bath ; if this failed, I should certainly be operated on in a very few minutes after- wards. If the surgeon, after mature consideration, make up his mind as to the course of practice he would wish pursued in his own case, he will be fully alive to the necessity of impressing the utility of it on his patients, and have little difficulty in persua- ding them to submit to his proposals. No time should be dissipated in admiuistering purges or clysters, orOF HERNIA. 33 ill cold or warm applications; and, for my part, I should never advise tobacco. If the tumour is not very tender, make one good trial of the taxis, not long continued ; and if a warm bath can be readily commanded, place the patient in it, and employ the taxis when he begins to feel faint. If foiled, and if the patient can bear depletion well, the strangulation being recent, try a full bleeding to syncope; it may save depletion afterwards, and at all events the patient will be no worse of it. Having failed, as may probably be the case, operate without delay. The operation is neither formidable nor dangerous of itself; the delaying of it is attended with the most serious and irretrievable mischief. It ought to be performed within a very few hours after the occur- rence of strangulation, and, in most instances, with- out putting off time with the means considered auxi- liary to the taxis. Under urgent circumstances, it may be necessary to operate within a quarter of an hour after seeing the patient, as I have often done. In ordinary cases, time must be taken to converse with the patient and his friends, to convince them that all those means likely to assist reduction, and render an operation unnecessary, have been tried. The surgeon must not appear to be in a hurry, though he puts off no time unnecessarily, otherwise his mo- tives may be misconstrued. The necessity for operating early is greater in small than in large hernise, in crural than in inguinal. The groin and neighbouring parts are to be shaved, and PART III. c34 OF HERNIA. the patient i)laced in the recumbent posture, with the shoulders slightly elevated. The mode of opera- tion must be varied according to the nature of the tumour, its size, and other circumstances. The operation for inguinal hernia is conducted as follows:—The patient is placed recumbent on a table, or, in private practice, on the side of a bed, his shoulders supported by pillows, and his feet resting upon a stool. An incision is commenced about an inch above the external abdominal ring, and continued to the bottom of the tumour. This latter part of the procedure, however, is applicable only to small and moderately-sized hernias; in large tumours the wound is not made so low, for in them the bowels may be irreducible, from the quantity protruded, and the con- tracted state of the abdominal cavity: in such cases the incision should be only to such an extent as is sufficient to enable the operator to reach the stricture. The first cut is carried through the skin and fatty matter, not deeper. The layers are then divided suc- cessively, with the hand unsupported ; and this is done only at the middle and projecting part of the swelling. It is unnecessary to prolong the incision of the layers along the whole extent of the wound in the integuments, at this stage of the proceedings. In the direct hernia, which is of rare occurrence, there is but one proper layer, that furnished by the superficial abdominal fascia : not unfrequenth^ there is an imperfect additional envelope, furnished by fibres from the edge of the external ring; but in the common inguinal hernia there are three or four, and these are thickened more or less according to theOF HERNIA. 35 size and duration of the tiiinour. The division of these layers must necessarily be conducted with great care and caution. At length the sac is exposed. This is opened by pinching up a portion betwixt the nails of the thumb and forefinger, and then cut- ting with the blade of the knife laid horizontally. On wounding the sac, there is usually evacuated a small quantity of brownish serous fluid. The probe- pointed bistoury is then taken up, and insinuated in- to the opening; and by this instrument, guided on the forefinger of the left hand, the sac and its cover- ings are divided up to near the ring, and down to near the bottom of the tumour. The hernial con- tents are thus exposed. These are unravelled, and ex- amined attentively ; if only brownish red, from accu- mulation of the venous blood, of unbroken surface and unadherent, they are fit to be reduced. The stricture is felt for with the forefinger of the left hand, and into it either the point of the finger or the nail is gently insinuated. The protruded parts, if voluminous, are held down by an assistant, and along the fore- part of the finger is passed a probe-pointed, narrow, and slightly curved knife. In carrying this upwards, the blade is placed flat with the finger, and its point, and no more, is passed through the contracted part; its edge is then turned forwards, its back resting on the finger, and by raising the handle gently, a slight incision is made into the more resisting fibres, in the direction of the mesial line. The instrument is with- drawn with the same caution as in its introduction. The finger now enters easily, and by raising it gently and repeatedly, the parts are dilated. It is then36 OF HERNIA. passed upwards to the site of the internal ring, and if this be found narrow and contracted, the edge of the knife is to be directed against it in a similar way, and dilatation to a sufficient extent effected. Now reduction is to be commenced, and in doing so the same precautions are to be observed as in the employment of the taxis. In general, the omentum, if any, is put back first, and then the bowel; but this must depend on the relative quantity of the parts, and other circumstances. With the right hand the bowel is to be compressed as uniformly as possible; and, if at all obstinate, its reduction may perhaps be accelerated by pulling down a small portion at the neck, so as to facilitate the return of the faecal contents. By gentle pressure with the forefingers one portion is put back after another; it is wrong to attempt sudden and entire reduction; it should be gradual and successive. In many cases, from adhesion, or from the bulk and nature of the hernia, the parts, though sound, cannot or ought not to be reduced ; a portion may be got back, bu t part requires to remain. This can often be ascer- tained beforehand by proper enquiry into the history of the case, as to the duration of the disease, and the period at which the whole tumour could be made to disappear. In such cases, the stricture should al- ways be freely relieved. When the bowel is morti- fied, and its contents effused into the sac, care is to be taken not to detach or disturb the adhesions at the neck, and the bowel should be opened so as to allow free discharge. When the bowel or omentum are comparatively sound, though irreducible, the surgeonOF HERNIA. 37 must rest contented with relieving the stricture, then cover the parts with the integuments, and pro- mote union of the wound. If it be considered neces- sary to remove condensed and tuberculated omen- tum, it is cut off, and separate ligatures of fine silk are applied to every bleeding vessel on the cut sur- face ; the whole mass is not to be included in one noose, as was formerly the practice. In the operation for femoral hernia, the position and preliminaries are the same as for inguinal. A longitudinal incision is made from above the margin of Poupart's ligament to a little below the middle and most prominent part of the tumour. This is crossed by another at its lower extremity, the whole resem- bling in figure the letter T inverted; and the two flaps, so marked out, are reflected. Sometimes a single incision, from above the neck of the tumour to the lower border of it, is sufficient to afford room for the after proceedings. One layer is found covering the sac, furnished by the strong and dense cellular tissue which occupies the space under the crural arch and falciform process of the fascia lata; it is generally denominated the fascia propria, but has by some been described improperly as the sheath of the femo- ral bloodvessels. It is carefully divided, so as to ex- pose the sac. This not unfrequently is thickened very considerably, a quantity of dense fatty matter being intimately incorporated with it; but in general it is thin, and appears of a dark colour in consequence of the bowel and effused bloody serum being seen through it. It is opened with great caution, part of it being raised and touched with the edge of the knifeOF HERNIA. 38 held horizontally or nearly so. The aperture, thus formed, is enlarged by means of the probe-pointed knife, which is carried upwards along the forefinger of the left hand. Some recommend that the sac should be left undivided,and that the stricture should be relieved by passing the knife on the outside ; others, that only the neck of the sac should remain entire, and the stric- ture be attacked also on the outside of the j)eritoneura. But this appears an unnecessary and unprofitable precaution. The extreme difficulty of returning the sac is now well known and generally acknowledged ; indeed, reduction of it, whether opened or not, is practicable only in recent cases. Its neck, besides, is firmly constricted, and the bowel may and will remain strangulated when returned along with its sac, for the peritoneum long retains the contraction at its strictured point. This happened in an unfor- tunate case in which, on accoimt of the sac being unusually thick, and intimately resembling the struc- ture and feel of bowel, I unwittingly returned the tumour along with its covering. The bowels were not relieved, the symptoms continued unabated in urgency, and a fatal issue soon occurred. The stric- ture cannot be relieved unless the neck of the sac is cut along with the resisting fibres exterior to it. After the sac has been opened, the forefinger of the left hand is passed up to the crural ring ; and it should be recollected that this opening is very small, even in most cases in which a hernia of ordinary size has existed for some time. It is capable of great dilatxi- tion, however, as takes place in very old ruptures ; it may admit two or three fingers easily. But in generalOF HERNIA. 39 only the nail of the finger can be insinuated into it; and this organ is a better and safer conductor for the knife than a grooved director. The edge of the stric- ture is felt very sharp; the point of the finger is turned towards the pubes, and along it a narrow, blunt- pointed, curved bistoury is passed in close contact, and with the edge towards the pubes ; its mere point is pushed beyond, and then the position of the blade is changed, its back is turned upon the finger. This slight motion is often sufficient to relieve the constriction on the protruded parts, and permit their reduction; if not, a few more fibres are cut by raising the handle of the knife gently from the palm of the hand. The di- rection of this incision is towards the tuberosity of the pubes, inwards and forwards. Thus only the cres- centic portion of the crural arch is cut; and the divi- sion of this produces sufficient relaxation of the neigh- bouring parts. There is danger in cutting directly forwards, particularly in the male, at least if the inci- sion be made to any considerable extent; there is a risk of wounding the chord, and the obturator artery has been met with in a few instances coursing round the neck of the sac. This distribution of the artery, however, is rare, and can occur only when the epi- gastric and obturator arise by a long common trunk, and even then it may not encircle the neck of a hernia, as I have witnessed. Occasionally a vessel passes round the opening, connecting the epigastric with the obturator, when these arteries follow their usual course ; and this also may surround the neck of the sac. If vessels should exist in this situation in aOF HERNIA. 40 person the subject of operation, as has not happened so far as I know, they would be felt by the finger used to conduct the knife. And the bistoury should never be passed—for there is no necessity for it—r through the opening so far as to meet with a vessel, even if awkwardly placed. The danger of cutting forward and to any extent has already been spoken of; such incision can answer no good purpose. The stricture is not in Poupart's ligament—though at one time it was proposed to cut this through without interfering with the tumour at all—but in the crural arch underneath, and in a manner independent of the strong tendinous chord and expansion. The crural arch is formed by the junction of the fasciae of the thigh and abdomen, superficial and deep. It is insert- ed into the linea ileo-pectinea, where the tendon of the external oblique has no connexion, and is strength- ened by fibres from the internal oblique, transverse, and recti muscles. The crural aperture formed by this arch is relaxed by flexion and inversion of the thigh, and by relaxation of the abdominal parietes. And this fact requires to be attended to, after opera- tion as well as during the taxis, so as to facilitate replacement of the protruded parts. The same attention to the state of the parts in judging of the propriety or not of reduction after operation, and the same after treatment, both general and local, is requisite in crural hernia as in inguinal. When the parts are reduced, the edges of the wound are brought together by means of a few stitches ; a graduated compress, of proper dimensions, is applied.OF HEIINIA. 41 and retained by a spica bandage. If this is neglected, there is a risk of the parts again descending, and on this account it is particularly necessary when the patient is unmanageable from delirium tremens, or is liable to fits. Afterwards large mild enemata are to be administered, and, after some hours, purgatives, so as to procure copious and free evacuation of the bowels. If the stomach continue unsettled, a sina- pism may be applied to the epigastrium, or solid opium exhibited. Subsequently it may be necessary to bleed locally, or generally, or both ; in other cases the strength from the first requires support. After cicatrization, a well adapted truss must be constantly worn. Umbilical hernia is generally congenital. The ten- dinous parietes are often deficient to a great extent, and there is consequently much fulness along the umbilical chord. The plan of embracing such tumours by ligature, as at one time extensively practised, is now abandoned, there being much risk of peritoneal inflammation and fatal issue. The surgeon is now content with reducing the hernia, and applying a truss, to prevent displacement, as in other forms of protrusion ; and if this be done in early life, and the apparatus carefully worn, the opening contracts, and the patient may ultimately be cured. The tumour may become strangulated, though rarely in the adult; it is generally large, and almost always occurs in females. The sac has no covering but the skin and cellular tissue. A small incision is made through the sac and its investure, either on one side of theOF HERNIA. 42 tumour, or in the mesial line at its lower aspect. The stricture is then divided with care, the parts reduced, the wound approximated, and a compress applied. Opening the tumour throughout its whole extent is hazardous and unnecessary. The contents of hernia are often in a very bad state, either dark-coloured throughout, or studded with dark tender spots. Often lymph is effused all over the parts, gluing them to one another, and to the sac. This effusion, which generally takes place to the greatest extent at the neck of the sac, is a wise provision made by nature against the accidents of the disease ; inasmuch as a barrier is thereby formed between the cavity of the abdomen and the extruded parts, preventing, in a great measure, the destruction of the latter from affecting the abdominal viscera. For example, a portion of protruded intestine sloughs, the faeculent matter is effused, and had not this ad- hesion to the neck existed, the gut might have slip- ped back into the abdomen, its contents would have escaped there, and a fatal result would have been the inevitable consequence. Still, notwithstanding the salutary effusion, the bowel may ulcerate at its upper part, and giving way within the belly, produce rapid death. The bowel, where embraced by the stricture, is contracted and thickened, and dilated above. At the lower part of this dilatation the coats are apt to give way by ulceration, even after incision of the constricting parts. The contraction does not disap- pear quickly. In some cases it continues to such an extent as to keep up obstructions to the faical matter, and cause a fatal issue from this cause alone.43 OF HERNIA. Often, on opening the sac, in long neglected cases, a discharge takes place of foetid air and thin faeculent matter, the bowel has mortified either entirely or in patches ; in the latter case, presenting the appearance of having been perforated at various points. Few constitutions can bear up under such mischief. In some, if an opening be not made, the integuments slough, and the patient, rallying after discharge from the bowel takes place, recovers after losing a portion of integument, of intestine, and perhaps of omentum. In others, and they constitute the majority, the sys- tem sinks before discharge from the bowel is effected, by sloughing of the external parts. The surgeon is called on to operate in the worst possible circumstances, provided the patient is not in articulo mortis. Even after many days of fsecu- lent vomiting, the bowels may be found tolerably healthy. The sac must be opened carefully, and the stricture is to be relieved without disturbing the adhesions that have formed. The bowel, when dead, or evidently moribund, is to be opened, and the discharge of faeces by the wound promoted. If returned into the abdomen, the sloughs will sepa- rate, and faeculent effusion take place, causing death in a very few hours. Sometimes the patient lingers longer than could be expected, and I have known a female survive upwards of a hundred hours after the occurrence of faeculent effusion into the abdo- men. The dressing should be light, and the pa- tient's strength must be supported in every way, byOF HERNIA. 44 the mouth, and by the anus when the injured part is high in the canal. The separation of the sloughs is to be encouraged. And the extent of sloughing need not dishearten the surgeon, for large portions of bowel, several feet in length, have mortified, and the patients recovered, with artificial anus, either temjDorary or for life. In artificial anus, when the bowel has perished to a considerable extent, the intestine has contracted firm adhesion to the hernial sac at the opening in the abdominal parietes ; through the opening in the bowel exterior to this, the fseculent matter is discharged externally, and by the adhesion is prevented from being effused into the abdominal cavity. The pro- truded bowel in which the sphacelation has occurred may be said to be thereby divided into an upper and an under portion,—one, the upper, discharging ; the other, collapsed and empty ; these lie parallel to each other, in close contact, and usually adhering, from the abdominal ring downwards, to each other, and to the hernial sac. The hernial sac seldom sloughs entirely; in almost every case its neck remains sound; to this remaining part the intestine adheres. The deficiency in the integuments and cellular tissue, through which the faeculent matter escapes, gradu- ally contracts, and the aperture in that portion of the hernial sac which is exterior to the intestine also diminishes; but at the same time dilatation takes place in the immediate vicinity of the intestinal ori- fices, so that a funnel-like cavity is formed for the evacuation of faeces, extending from the opening in45 OF HERNIA. the bowel to the opening in the skin—its narrowest part being at the latter situation, its most capacious surrounding the intestine. The cellular tissue in- termediate between the integument and hernial sac becomes condensed, and forms a membranous li- ning. By this cavity an imperfect communica- tion is established between the two portions of bowel, part of the faeculent matter returning through the lower intestinal orifice, and part escaping exter- nally. But this communication must be indeed very imperfect at first, since the two portions of bowel lie parallel to each other, and their coalescing sides form an acute angular projection into this funnel- shaped cavity. The lower portion is necessarily much diminished in calibre, being in a great measure unaccustomed to the usual distension, and its col- lapsed orifice is retracted a little higher than that of the superior. On account of these circumstances faeculent matter cannot pass straight onwards from one portion of bowel to the other, but must first tra- verse the funnel-shaped cavity; and even then it is but a small quantity that reaches the rectum. In- deed, in most cases of artificial anus, nothing but oc- casional flatus passes by the original outlet for weeks or months. After some time the bowel retracts, but cannot leave the adhesion in the groin; by this re- traction the orifices may be brought in a more direct line with each other, and the natural passage of the faeces be somewhat assisted. When one or more slight patches of discolouration are observed after division of the sac, it may be re-46 01?' HEllNIA. turned, it being most probable that the parts will recover after removal of the stricture. When any portion has given way, of course no one can con- template reduction ; and when the whole calibre has sloughed, it is absurd to attempt separation of the adhesions which must exist, dividing the external from the internal parts. In mortification of the protruded knuckle, or part of the calibre of bowel, the symptoms are at first se- vere. These are vomiting, pain, and symptoms of enteritis; perhaps the bowels are obstructed for some time, but evacuation again takes place. Abscess occurs externally to the swelling, and on the giving way of the integument, matter, flatus, and thin faeces are discharged. A fcecal fistula remains for some time ; but, by the aid of lymph and granulations, the breach in the parietes of the bowel is repaired gra- dually, the feeces resume their natural course, and the external opening heals. When the whole calibre has sloughed, and even when a large extent of bowel has come away, there is still a chance of the patient recovering from the artificial anus by natural means, after the lapse of many months. As already remarked, the intestinal orifices retract, and come more into a straight line. A mucous discharge occurs from the lower bowels along with the passage of flatus, and at last part of the faeces is voided by the rectum. The discharge from the external opening diminishes, and ultimate- ly ceases, perhaps only a minute fistula remaining, through which a few drops of fluid, sometimes ffrcu-47 OF HERNIA. lent, sometimes limpid, may occasionally escape. The funnel-shaped cavity previously contracts into a narrow fistula. This desirable result may be assisted and hastened by gentle pressure ; and after the faecu- lent discharge has nearly ceased from the fistulous opening, the healing of this may be accelerated by the cautery lightly applied. It has been proposed to destroy the projecting septum between the two portions of bowel, either by ligature or by the pres- sure of forceps ; but this should not be attempted unless nature seems unable to effect a cure. The former method consists in including a considerable part of the septum in ligature, so as to induce con- densation of the parts by effusion of lymph, and de- struction of the projecting portion. This has not been found successful. The application of forceps presents a more rational expectation of cure. The external opening is dilated, and the situation of the septum ascertained. One blade of metallic forceps, with blunt serrated edges,—Dupuytren's,—is passed into the one intestinal orifice, and the other into the opposite ; the handles of the instrument are then approximated, locked, and fastened with a screw, and by means of the last-mentioned part of the apparatus the degree of pressure is regulated. Pain of the abdomen, furred tongue, loss of appe- tite, sickness, vomiting, and constitutional irritation, generally follow this proceeding, but gradually sub- side on the employment of enemata and fomenta- tions, and on lessening the pressure of the forceps. The septum cannot long withstand the continued com-48 OF HERNIA. pression, and by its destruction the chance of cure is greatly augmented. The proceeding is, besides, not dangerous ; for effusion of lymph takes place to a con- siderable extent above the part grasped by the forceps, gluing the portions of bowel firmly to each other, and forming a new barrier against any of the faecu- lent matter escaping inwardly. Attempts may be made to repair the loss of substance in the skin by paring the edges of the opening, and affixing a flap taken from the neighbourhood. There is a greater chance of recovery from the in- convenience of artificial anus after hernia than after wounds. If the opening in the bowel be near the stomach, the patient will die from inanition. When it is lower in the intestinal tube, nutrition is more perfect, and the patient can be further supported by nutritive enemata. When no natural cure is likely to take place, the inconvenience will be palliated by a truss with a soft pad being worn, so as to retain the faeces till a favourable opportunity occurs for evacu- ation ; or a soft plug of lint may be inserted into the aperture, and retained by a compress and roller. Prolapsus of the mucous membrane of the gut some- times takes place through the artificial anus, and is reduced with difficulty. The use of a truss or tent, already mentioned, will tend to prevent the occur- rence. Great attention to cleanliness is required when the opening cannot be closed. Operations for other kinds of hernia, if discovered during life, are to be conducted on similar principles with those for inguinal and crural. The surgeon 5OF ASCITES. 49 must be guided by his anatomical knowledge. No positive rules can be given. In Ascites, or accumulation of fluid in the peri- toneal cavity, the surgeon is not unfrequently called upon to relieve the patient, when the abdominal parietes are much distended, and the functions of the viscera of the abdomen and thorax interrupted. He must, however, exercise his own judgment in regard to the case, and convince himself of the propriety of operating. He must examine into the symptoms, and ascertain that the tumour is really caused by accumu- lation of fluid in the bag of the peritoneum. In ascites, the abdomen has swelled slowly and uniformly, and distinct fluctuation is felt when the hand is placed on one side of the swelling, and gentle tapping made at the other. There is considerable difficulty of breath- ing, uneasiness in the abdomen usually increased by pressure, thirst, and scanty secretion of urine. It ought to be remembered, that other affections have been confounded with ascites, and lamentable opera- tive mistakes committed in consequence. Trocars have been thrust into the belly for tympanitis, either of the bowels or of the peritoneum—for solid tumours of the viscera—for enlargement of the ovaria. As already hinted, the operation of tapping the abdomen is to be undertaken only when the distension is very great, when the functions of the thoracic and abdominal viscera are interfered with, and when diuretics, and other means of getting rid of the fluid, have failed to diminish the accumulation. The PART III. D50 OF ASCITES. trocar employed is either flat, with a spring-steel canula, or round; when the latter is used, and the abdominal parietes are not very tense, a small inci- sion is first made with a lancet or bistoury ; the flat enters easily, and requires no previous wound, but does not permit so rapid and free a flow. The point usually chosen for the puncture is either in the linea alba, a little below the umbilicus, the blad- der being previously emptied,—a precaution which should always be attended to, though in general there is little danger of wounding this organ—or midway betwixt the superior anterior spinous process of the ilium and the umbilicus, with the view of penetra- ting the parietes in the linea semilunaris. The lat- ter situation, however, can seldom be obtained with accuracy, for the parietes yield irregularly. Little bleeding follows the puncture at either point; but the risk of haemorrhage is greater at the latter, for branches of the circumflex artery may be wounded. More serious bleeding is liable to occur, from the veins ramifying on the abdominal viscera giving waj^ on removal of their support, as the serum flows ofi*. Fainting, also, may take place from accumulation in the branches of the vena portarum, unless the fluid is withdrawn slowly, and the precaution adopted of sup- porting the parietes with a broad band both during and after evacuation. Bandages are made for this purpose, with tapes or straps attached, and are well fitted for it. Three or four yards of flannel, liow- ever, with each end split, is equally effectual, and can always be readily obtained—a consideration of con-OF OVARIAN DISEASE. 51 sequence in the choice of all apparatus. After the band has been applied, a person is placed on each side, to tighten it gradually by steady pulling at the ends, which are carefully crossed behind. An opening is made in the cloth, opposite to where it is proposed to puncture, and the operation is then proceeded in. Sometimes the flow is impeded by the omentum or a fold of bowel falling forward on the canula, and closing or diminishing the opening ; this is remedied, by passing a tube along the canula, closed at the extremity, but perforated at the sides near it, and about half an inch longer than the ca- nula. After the cavity has been emptied, the pa- tient is placed recumbent, and a long broad flannel bandage applied over the whole abdomen, and retain- ed so as to prevent shifting by straps passed over the shoulders and under the perineum. Collections occur in the ovaria. The fluid is gene- rally glairy, sometimes thick and gelatinous, often turbid and dark coloured. Not unfrequently the main cyst is subdivided, either by membranous septa, or by an aggregation of smaller cysts of the nature of hydatids. The swelling is at first on one side, and gradually rises out of the pelvis ; often it remains long movable; it increases, becomes more fixed, and ultimately fills the abdomen, displacing the viscera, and giving rise to feelings of much uneasiness, deformity, and loss of health. The cyst is generally thick ; some- times it is thin at one or more points, and these may give way, causing effusion of the contents into the pe-52 OF OVARIAN DISEASE. ritoneal sac. Fluctuation is perceptible in many cases; in others, it is obscured by the thickness of the cyst and viscidity of its contents. Many such swellings may be punctured both with advantage and with safety, but generally the tapping requires frequent repetition. Some patients require tapping, merely as a mean of improving the figure and relieving uneasy feelings, once, twice, or thrice a year ; their existence is not much embittered or abridged by the disease. A large round trocar is necessary for the purpose ; and the puncture is made at the softest and most pro- minent point of the tumour, a small incision through the integument being premised. The ovaria become enlarged by degeneration of their structure and the addition of solid matter in great abundance. The consistence and structm-e of such tumours are very various ; they are generally of a malignant nature : often medullary, often fibrous, with or without cysts, sometimes melanotic ; the simple enlargement is rare. In the majority there are cysts, varying in size, number, and contents; sometimes filled with curdy matter, sometimes with glairy colourless fluid, sometimes with a turbid and flaky serum, sometimes with blood ; and in them, as well as in the enlargement from accumulated fluid, though perhaps more rarely, are occasionally found teeth, hair, and membranous looking matter; some are intermixed with bone, cartilage, and fat. The situation and attachments of such tumours cannot be correctly ascertained by examination during life, far less can their internal structure and dispositions be53 OF OVAllIAN DISEASE. arrived at. Indeed an accurate diagnosis is exceeding- ly difficult, if not impossible. Innumerable mistakes have been made, which have led to most unjustifiable proceedings. In one case, the abdomen was, after two or three dry tappings, opened by an incision from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes ; the viscera were turned over and over, but no tumour could be dis- covered. The woman was sewed up, and did not die. The following was a still more complete failure in diagnosis. In a case of large tumour of the belly, many persons accustomed to manipulate abdominal swellings considered that extrauterine conception had taken place ; and that the child had come to matu- rity and perished. The history of the case counte- nanced the supposition; the symptoms had been such as indicate impregnation. The woman, to avoid ex- posure, went to a distance to be relieved of her bur- den, which was becoming more and more bulky. The usual period passed over. It was thought that the head and thorax of an infant could then be felt readily through the parietes, and perhaps some one might have been found heroic enough to have divided them and explored the tumour. The young woman, however, was in the last stage of phthisis, and soon died. A wonderfully tuberculated omentum filled the peritoneal cavity; the uterus and its appendages were quite healthy. Operation has also been pro- posed, when, on dissection, the liver was found to compose the abdominal swelling. Such cases, a long list of which might be given, render the prudent surgeon very cautious in his diag- nosis of abdominal tumours, and chary of operative54 OF OVAllIAN DISEASE. interference with them. The abdomen has been opened, as ah'eady stated, and the result has been such as to render the perpetrator indictable for cul- pable homicide, and qualify him for such punishment as his rash and reckless conduct richly deserved. A less severe censure might have sufficed, had not the example been followed by similar proceedings, and equally direful results ; and these have been such as to render any condemnatory remarks not only justifiable but absolutely necessary. A great many unfortunate women have, I am afraid, been sacri- ficed to a desire for false reputation. The attempts to remove abdominal tumours by incision of the parietes were some time ago very numerous, both here and elsewhere ; and, as might have been expected, the issues were highly unsatisfactory to those concerned. Such doings, however, were recorded in print, repre- sented in plates, and moreover puffed and placarded ad nauseam. The majority of those who were thus " dissected, to see what part was disaffected," perished within forty-eight hours. One woman survived for some time, after having been subjected to this opei'a- tioiiy improperly so termed. In her there was a tu- mour, but of such a size, and so connected, that it could not be removed. A second survived the extir- pation of one ovarium; and the other, also diseased, was left for a further exhibition of daring intrepidity. It is not easy to conceive how the proposal could have been seriously entertained by any sane indivi- dual, far less put in practice, when disaster after dis- aster crowned every attempt. It is my opinion, and I believe that I express the sentiments of a very largeOF OVAllIAN DISEASE. 55 portion of the profession, that the repetition of any- such incisions and gropings would be unpardonable.— 1. On account of the difficulty, nay, impossibility, of forming a correct diagnosis; of ascertaining with cer- tainty what organ is involved ; of ascertaining the structure and disposition of the tumour, if any, and to what parts it is adherent. 2. Because the ovarian disease, in general, even though extensive, does not threaten imminently a fatal termination, being slow in its progress, and the greater number of the swell- ings being not of a malignant nature. The solid tu- mours are often of a bad kind, as already stated ; but enlargement by fluid is much more frequent in the ovaria than that by solid and new matter. 3. If the tumour be malignant, it will be impossible to ascer- tain to what extent the parts , are involved by the diseased action, or whether the lymphatics are affect- ed or not. There is a strong probability of the lym- phatic system being involved, even at a very early period, and then the extirpation of the tumour—sup- posing the mass to be so situated as to admit of re- moval without difficulty or danger—cannot be at- tended with any advantage ; and in every point of view interference is unadvisable. 4. The operative attempt is attended with imminent danger. There is almost a certainty of the patient being destroyed, as shown by the sad experience of the past. " We are not the arbiters of life and death of those who apply to us for relief. If people die in consequence of disease, it cannot be helped. They submit to it because they know it is inevitable. But we had better refrain from making such experiments as may56 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN. probably destroy them, and bring disgrace upon the profession." Sruises of the abdomen are apt to be followed by inflammation of the contained parts, particularly of the serous membrane. Occasionally lacerations of the viscera, both solid and floating, but more frequently of the former, are produced by bruising or squeezing of the abdomen, as by a blow, or by a heavy body passing over; they may also follow violent concussion of the parts by falling from a height. The liver is the organ most frequently torn, and death is common- ly the result, rapid, and principally from haemorrhage. The laceration is generally on the convex surface ; extravasation takes place under the peritoneal cover- ing ; or this is torn, and the effusion is into the abdo- minal cavity. When the quantity of blood is not so great as to cause speedy dissolution, the patient may survive for some time, and even ultimately recover. Reaction is slow, the patient continuing long pale, exhausted, and almost pulseless; there is tenderness in the hypogastric region, with swelling. The spleen is liable to similar injury, and pours out a large quan- tity of blood The gall-bladder has sometimes been torn, as also portions of the small intestines, by a blow or kick, or by a heavy body passing over the abdomen, as the wheel of a loaded waggon. The escape of the con- tents is followed by sickness, rigour, quick, weak, and indistinct pulse, most excruciating pain, a sense of heat diff'used all over the abdomen, and rapid sinking of the powers of life; a fatal termination57 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN. generally occurs within twelve hours. The same train of symptoms supervene when the contents of the intestinal canal have been effused into the peri- toneal cavity, through an opening in the stomach or bowel, caused either by slow destruction of the coats, the peritoneum giving way last, or by a rapid ulcer- ation or sloughing process, as in hernia. The patient may live in agony for a day or two, but death gene- rally takes place much within twenty-four hours. All treatment is of no avail; venesection hastens the sinking. Fomentation over the abdomen, and seda- tives either by the mouth or by the anus soothe the patient, and render his last moments more calm. Penetrating wounds of the peritoneal cavity, if they reach the solid viscera and large vessels con- nected with them, are attended with effusion of blood externally and internally, in quantities proportioned to the size of the external aperture, the importance of the vessels concerned, and the vascularity of the part. The patient may perish from the bleeding, either instantly or after some time ; or inflammation and its consequences supervene in a violent form, and destroy him at a more remote period. The inflammatory symptoms are to be combated by profuse bleeding; in short, the utmost endeavours must be made to keep the action within bounds. When the intestines are wounded, the injured part may protrude; or the re- lative size of the openings, through the parietes and bowel, may be such, that the intestinal contents do not escape into the peritoneal bag. A natural cure takes place by adhesion of the surface of the bowelOF LUMBAR ABSCESS. 58 to the lining of the parietes round the wound, faecu- lent matter continuing to be discharged externally ; after a time the opening may contract, and the dis- charge diminish and ultimately cease ; or an artificial anus may be permanently established, and. this is not so easily cured as that following hernia. Wounds of the intestines, whether transv^erse or longitudinal, attended with faeculent escape into the peritoneal cavity, are not uniformly fatal. Effusion of lymph takes place around^ gluing the wounded bowel to the peritoneal surface of a neighbouring fold, or forming a sort of pouch within which the extravasation is limited. The treatment consists in absolute rest, and most rigid antiphlogistic regimen ; manual inter- ference with the wounded part is not advisable. Lumbal' Abscess is generally chronic ; the collec- tion of matter is gradual and slow. Sometimes it is acute, and rather rapid in its appearance. It usually originates in the sheath either of the psoas or of the iliacus'muscle ; sometimes it seems to form behind these, or before and above the psoas. The precur- sory symptoms are often not particularly attended to; they are rigours and pain of the loins. As the disease advances, the patient feels pained in the erect posi- tion, and in general the pain is aggravated by extend- ing the thigh. Thickening and slight glandular enlargement take place in the groin ; there is an evident fulness there ; and then swelling appce^rs on the inner side of the femoral vessels, beneath the pubal portion of the fascia lata. This swelling is59 OF LUMBAR ABSCESS. more jDroniinent in the erect position, and is also increased by exertion of the abdominal muscles ; an impulse is given to it on coughing. As it advances, and comes more to the surface, fluctuation is percei- ved. This is the most common site in which the abscess presents itself; but it is not unfrequently met with on the outside of the vessels, either lower or higher in the thigh, above Poupart's ligament, in the loins over the crest of the ilium, and occasionally the matter is insinuated under the pelvic fascia and appears by the side of the anus. Large and neglected collections may work their way to the surface in two or three of these situations. The disease is often attributable to a sprain or wrench of the loins, or to exposure to cold and over- fatigue. Occasionally the mischief is confined entirely to the soft parts ; the vertebrae, a portion of the os innominatum, or the sacrum, may be denuded and of irregular surface, but this is evidently the result of the pressure of the abscess. A strong example of this, and of the extensive destruction of parts which this affection sometimes produces, may be shortly stated.—A very large lumbar abscess formed within a few weeks, in consequence of great and con- tinued fatigue and exposure to bad weather. At first it had been trifled with. At last it was opened in the usual situation in the thigh, and a vast quantity of matter evacuated. Thirty-six hours afterwards, the patient was sufi"ocated by a flow of purulent matter into and through the air passages. On dissection, the cavity was found to be immense, opening through theOF LUMBAR ABSCESS. 60 diaphragm into the adherent lung,and communicating with the bronchi. The fore part of the lumbar ver- tebrae was exposed, and in some parts stripped of the theca ; but there were no cavities in the bone, and no disease of the interposed cartilages. Such cases are now and then met with, of abscess in the loins not originating in any vice either of the bones or of any other part of the apparatus of the spinal column. Most frequently, however, the collections have their foundation in ulceration of the bodies of the vertebrae. The patient has had tenderness in the part, weakness of the back and of the lower limbs, and increase of pain on pressing or striking some particular spinous processes—perhaps slight excurvation. Then pain in extending the thigh supervenes, followed by swelling and other signs of abscess. The lumbar vertebrae are those most frequently affected, but the ulceration may also be either in the dorsal region or in the pelvis. Disease of the last lumbar vertebrae at its connexion with the sacrum, or disease of the sacrum itself, is attended with abscess around, which descends into the pelvis, displacing the bowel and appearing by the side of the buttock. Such abscesses mav have been allowed to come to the surface, and to discharge their contents sponta- neously ; or they may have been at a late period opened either at one point or at several. In these circumstances, the discharge is generally profuse, long continued, and attended with exhaustion and hectic, gradually but surely destroying the patient. But, by good management, a perfect and permanent61 OF SPINA BIFIDA. recovery may in many cases be obtained. When the vertebrae are affected, absolute rest must be enjoined and enforced; and a drain is to be established by the sides of the spinous processes, either by moxa, potass, or seton—it is immaterial which. The dis- charge is kept up by occasionally dressing the issue for a few hours with an acrid ointment, so as to re- produce a slough. When the abscess begins to pre- sent, it should be opened as early as possible, and a free exit allowed to the matter ; the discharge should be at no time confined. The opening of the cavity, and again shutting it up, however carefully conduct- ed, is in almost every instance followed by alarming and hazardous results. Rapid accumulation of putrid and bloody matter takes place, and air is extricated within the cavity ; the vessels of the cyst, being un- supported, part with their contents ; irritative fever is lighted up, with rapid pulse, anxious countenance, and delirium. These symptoms are relieved only by immediate evacuation of the fluid. Some slight con- stitutional disturbance follows the making of a free opening, but quickly subsides ; then the discharge improves in quality, becomes more pure and unmixed, diminishes in quantity, and gradually ceases. During the discharge the strength requires support; and the attention to the original mischief must not be neglected or intermitted. Spina Bifida is a congenital fluctuating tumour, with deficiency of the subjacent vertebras. It is usual- ly situated in the lumbar region, sometimes in theOF SPINA BIFIDA. 63 dorsal, and sometimes over the sacrum. The size of the swelling varies according to the age of the child, and the extent of deficiency in the parietes of the spinal canal. The spinous processes are either imperfect or altogether wanting, aud over the space so formed the tumour is situated. Its contents are usually of a serous character, thin and colourless ; sometimes they are turbid and flaky. The parietes seem to be a continuation, or protrusion, of the membranes of the spinal chord, thickened and somewhat altered in structure, and usually in close contact with and ad- herent to the integuments. By pressure the size of the tumour is diminished, but, if firm or long con- tinued, unpleasant effects are apt to result. There is often debility of the lower limbs, and the disease is not unfrequently coexistent with hydrocephalus. Children with this affection seldom live more than a few years. The application of gentle, uniform, and continued pressure affords support to the parts, and prevents increase of the tumour ; and under this palliative treatment, life may be both rendered more comfort- able and prolonged. It has been proposed to com- bine continued pressure with occasional puncturing of the cyst by means of a fine needle, with the view of diminishing the tumour and ultimately obtaining entire obliteration of the cyst. The practice has been made trial of, and the result may warrant repe- tition ; caution, however, is necessary, for the too free opening of the tumour often is followed by a rapidly fatal issue.63 OF H^MOttllHOIDS OR PILES. Affections of the Rectum and Neighhouring Parts. Of Hcemorrhoids or Piles.—Piles are blind, fur- nishing no discharge, except a mucous or puriform fluid ; or open, pouring out a greater or less quantity of blood from time to time. They are usually of small size ; invested by the mucous membrane, thick- ened, congested, and consequently of a dark colour ; and either within the sphincter or projecting exter- nally. Internally, they may sometimes consist of blood, coagulated or not, effused between the mucous and muscular coats of the intestine ; but in general their inner structure is venous, at least in the first instance. Branches of the hsemorrhoidal veins, rami- fying near the inner surface of the gut, become vari- cose, probably from their superior trunks being com- pressed by hardened fcECulent matter or other ob- structions. The varix protrudes the superimposed mucous membrane ; and at first the excrescence is composed of the dilated venous trunks containing fluid blood, and invested by the membrane, which inflames, thickens, loses its villous character, and discharges a vitiated secretion. In this stage the tumour is easily compressible, and by pressure may be made to disappear almost entirely, the communi- cations between the varicose vessels and the trunks above being still unobstructed. But inflammatory action is soon kindled in the incommoded veins, as64 OF HiEMORIlIlOIDS OR PILES. frequently happens in varix of the lower extremi- ties ; their coats become changed, are thickened, effuse lymph externally and internally, adhere to one another, and are ultimately matted into one confused and solid mass ; the contained blood coagulates, be- comes fibrinous, the whole tumour feels hard and firm, and often is painful. At length all traces of venous structure disappear ; the tumour seems to consist chiefly of effused lymph, condensed cellular tissue, and coagula. In not a few instances, however, the contents of the veins remain partially fluid, and a communica- tion exists between the vessels of the tumour and those of the surrounding parts. That such is the usual structure of piles, I am convinced from repeated and careful dissection of the tumours. The neighbouring parts often swell and inflame. Sometimes one or two tumours exist; or they occur in numbers, clustered together, and form a large irregular mass, inflamed and often ulcerated. Acute pain is experienced in the part, when touched and after straining at stool; by straining too, such as are attached within the sphincter are jjushed out, and if allowed to remain, are constricted l)y the sphincter, swell in consequence, ulcerate or slough, and discharge blood. The bleeding often is very violent in such cases, or when the tumour is punc- tured ; the blood flowing in great quantity, and in a rapid stream. The hsemorrhage often is periodical, both in males and females ; in the latter, it would65 HiEMORRHOIDS OR TILES. seem occasionally to take the place of the menstrual flux. The soft bluish tumours that are compress- ible, and fluctuate when large, furnish blood more readily and profusely than the hard and tubercu- lated. Much irritation is produced by piles, and some of them are more irritable than others. There are often extensive excoriation of the nates around, and pro- fuse discharge from the raw parts, particularly when the tumours are external. In such cases, flat, hard, warty excrescences often form in the cleft of the nates, and increase the irritation; these are termed fici, mariscse, and condylomata. In internal piles, a frequent desire to go to stool is induced, and more or less of the mucous coat of the rectum is protruded and swollen. The tumour, along with the protruded portion of bowel, may be- come strangulated if not replaced. By such, or other causes, inflammation is excited, which often extends to the neighbouring parts, and terminates in abscess ; but this is not so apt to occur from tumours seated high in the rectum, as from those about the verge of the anus. The usual cause of piles is obstruction to the re- turn of blood in the hsemorrhoidal veins; and this may be occasioned by advanced pregnancy, habitual distension of the sigmoid flexure and rectum with hardened faeces, or tumours of the abdominal viscera. Inflammation of the Rectum is attended with ex- cruciating pain, burning heat, and a feeling of con- PART III. E66 INFLAMMATION OF THE RECTUM, traction, increased very much when the parts are thrown into action by evacuation of the contents of the boweJ, or of the bladder. The heat may be felt on introducing the finger, with the view of examina- tion ; by doing so. dreadful torture is produced, and such manipvilation should not be had recourse to un- less there is a suspicion of foreign matter lodging in the part, by removal of which the action might be cut short. The bladder is often affected sympatheti- cally ; there may be frequent desire to empty it, or else retention of its contents ; this latter occurrence not unfrequently follows operations on the bowel, as for the removal of hsemorrhoids. The inflammation extends to the cellular tissue round the rectum, with swelling and increased pain; the pain is aggravated by pressure, and the patient is unable to sit erect. As the painful symptoms abate, puriform discharge from the membrane of the gut takes place, and often is very profuse. The morbid action sometimes ex- tends to the other intestines, attended after a time with mucous or even bloody evacuations. When the affection is confined to the rectum, the feeces and vitiated secretion are distinct from each other, and the former are usually of their natural appearance; but when the other intestines participate, to a greater or less extent, the faeces are fluid, and intimately mixed with the morbid secretion. Ulceration of the mucous coat, with continued dis- charge, often supervenes. Sometimes the peritoneal •coat of the bowel is affected secondarily, and then the67 AND NETGHBOUllIIOOD. pain is much more acute and more aggravated by- pressure. Patients affected with haemorrhoidal swellings,— the action of whose bowels is irregular, and in whom the vessels about the anus are congested,—are pecu- liarly liable to inflammation and abscess in the rec- tum or its neighbourhood, from the application of cold or wet to the surface, particularly that of the lower part of the body. Ascarides often produce violent irritation in the extremity of the rectum, both in children and in adults ; and the morbid excitation is communicated to the bladder, as will afterwards be noticed. Not unfrequently the inflammation is induced by a foreign body, either lodging in the cavity of the bowel or imbedded in its coats—as hardened fseculent matter, alvine and biliary con- cretions, bones of small animals, needles, pins. Effusion takes place into the loose cellular tissue round the bowel, with hard swelling, followed by unhealthy and extensive suppuration. Rigors gene- rally precede the formation of matter, and violent fever almost always attends, abating, along with all the painful feelings, on evacuation of the fluid. Still the discharge continues, and the patient is kept un- comfortable and unhappy. Resolution can very rare- ly be procured; suppuration is the almost uniform termination of the action, and in persons of bad habit this sometimes occurs in these parts without any assignable cause, and without previous warning. The purulent collections are often very extensive, both externally and internally, the integuments are all68 INFLAMMATION OF THE RECTUM, undermined, and in some cases it is difficult to ascer- tain the depth of the abscess, even with the aid of a long probe. Owing to the loose nature of the texture surround- ing the gut, abscesses near the anus often attain a great size, and extend deeply before there is much external indication of their existence; a hardness is felt on pressing the fingers d.eeply by the side of the tuberosity of the ischium ; this is at first obscure, but gradually becomes more developed ; and at last a small dark red spot appears, indicating that the mat- ter has approached the surface, and is most superfi- cial at that part. But the surgeon should not wait for the pointing here, as the matter may burrow much previously, and abscess form in the substance of the sj)hincter, or exterior to it. If the matter does not cause ulceration of the coats of the intestine, and escape into its cavity, pointing takes place, and the pus is discharged externally, in general through a small opening, The matter is of a very ofiensive odour. The external aperture, and even the whole cavity of the abscess, may be at a distance from the gut, but in most cases the matter is close to it: its coats are denuded, and often ulcerated through. The surrounding degree of induration, the quantity of con- tained matter, the extent of the cavity, and the situ- ation of the opening, vary almost in every instance. Cases occur of induration, often very extensive, in the neighbourhood of the anus, on one or both sides, with dark discoloration of the integuments, and burning pain. The affection resembles carbuncle.69 AND NEIGHBOURHOOD. The precursory symptoms are soon followed by partial suppuration, and extensive sloughing of the cellular tissue. At first there is excitement of the system, but symptoms of debility, and flagging of the vital powers, soon present themselves—irregular pulse, delirium, disordered stomach, hiccough, vomiting, and cold extremities. The disease is one of great danger, and the patient can be saved only by free and early incision, and the judicious employment of sti- mulants. In some instances the inflammation is merely su- perficial, seated merely in the integuments, and fol- lowed by slow collection of matter. It is indeed seldom that a cavity formed by abscess near the anus fills up entirely, however large and free the opening into it may have been. The pari- etes contract, but the hardness around is not entirely dissipated ; the opening may close for a little while, but is soon found again discharging, and may con- tinue to do so for months or years. A sinus is thus formed. Fresh collections and openings, either ex- ternally or internally, are apt to occur, with extensive induration of the cellular tissue, and disease of the gut. Instead of a single sinus, a number of collate- ral ones are formed, all running into the main canal, like branches to a common sewer, or by-lanes open- ing into one spacious street. The disease is one of frequent occurrence amongst females ; and often from a false sense of delicacy its existence is not declared till it has advanced to a state of truly horrible per- fection.FISTULA. 70 Fistula is generally the consequence of abscess in the cellular substance near the anus. By the term is understood a sinus or track, with narrow orifice and hard, parietes, discharging thin gleety matter. If the track extends from the cavity of the gut to the surface, flatus must often pass through the narrow and tortuous canal, and, from a peculiar noise being produced by its passage, the name of Fistula has pro- bably been adopted. The term cannot be properly applied to recent cavities of abscesses, but only when their sacs have contracted, their lining has become callous, and their discharge thin and almost colour- less. The fistula may be one of three varieties—blind external, blind internal, complete. The first denoting that the sinus opens externally, but does not commu- nicate, either at its origin or elsewhere, with the cavity of the bowel. The second, that it communi- cates with the bowel, but does not open externally. The last, that it both communicates with the bowel and opens externally. Some contend that fistulas are always complete, that they commence from within, and that the internal opening is always at one par- ticular point; but such, according to my experience, is far from being the case. Fistulas occur in children, though rarely; gene- rally in people advanced in life. The cavity of the sinus, after long continuance, becomes coated with an expansion resembling mucous membrane, and secretes a discharge of mucous character. In every case, it is necessary that the surgeonFISTULA. 71 should ascertain, as accurately as possible, the extent and nature of the fistula ; and with this view, exa- mination with the probe is requisite. The probe is introduced into the canal, when the fistula is an ex- ternal one, and directed through its windings, so as to discover its direction, length, and divarications ; the guidance of the instrument is facilitated, and the information augmented, by the forefinger being placed in the rectum. Sometimes all the by-paths cannot be detected, until the orifice of the canal is enlarged. When the fistula is complete, the probe, entered at the external extremity, can be passed into the bowel so as to be felt by the finger in the rectum ; but it must be remembered, that the internal opening is not always at the inner termination of the sinus, but often seated more externally—the cellular tissue being destroyed to a considerable extent above it, so as to form a large unhealthy abscess, communicating with the main track of the fistula. But the gut may not be opened into, though denuded to a large extent, and forming part of the walls of the sinus ; and in some instances, the sinus may not come within a con- siderable distance of the bowel. An internal fistula is more difficult of detection. The symptoms leading to a suspicion of its existence are—puriform discharge from the bowel, increased on going to stool, and then accompanied with tenesmus ; pressure on the side of the anus causing pain, and sometimes an augmentation of discharge; and in many instances hardness, deeply seated, is felt. On introducing the finger into the rectum, the aperture72 FISTULA. in the coats of the bowel is perceived, or a part of the bowel feels more boggy and tender than the rest; through this point a curved probe, introduced along the finger, may be passed into the sinus, and being then directed downwards, reaches the outer extre- mity of the canal, causes the integuments to project, or is readily felt from the surface. The internal open- ing is usually immediately within the sphincter, sel- dom higher. The discharge, in general, is rather pro- fuse, the bowel is very irritable, desire to evacuate it is frequent, and the fasces are often tinged with blood. There is a sensation of itching about the fundament, the heat of the parts is felt by the patient to be in- creased, he is unable to bear pressure there, and sits on one hip : in most cases the bladder sympathizes consi- derably. The giving way of the bowel may be pro- duced by ulceration commencing in the mucous mem- brane, but is more frequently the result of inflamma- tory action in the surrounding cellular tissue. The aperture is the seat of acute pain when pressed upon, and during evacuation of the bowel. Great light is thrown on such cases, by the use of a proper specu- lum. Considerable information can be obtained by the finger; but to the sense of touch, however acute, it is better to add that of vision. The speculum, made of silver or steel, and having its internal sur- face highly polished, is introduced gently into the anus, and expanded fully ; and by changing the situ- ation of the instrument, and holding a light so as to illuminate the interior, the surface of the bowel for73 STlllCTUllES. five or six inches above the anus can be examined accurately, as if it were an external part of the body. Simple indurations and contractions of the lower part of the bowel follow long-continued irritation and inflammation of its parietes. The part is a com- mon seat of stricture, and sometimes the bowel is constricted at two or more points near each other; frequently the stricture is extensive and firm, in other cases it is narrow, consisting merely of a thin band. It is often complicated with fistula; if so, the inter- nal aperture is immediately above the stricture, and is caused by ulceration ; abscess sometimes forms above the stricture, destroys the coats of the bowel at that point, burrows around, and not unfrequently points at a far distance from its origin ; or slough- ing and ulceration may take place in the coats of the bowel, and faeculent matter be discharged through the opening of the abscess. In females, the vagina may be opened into in consequence of unhealthy sup- puration in the cellular tissue, between that organ and the gut. Stricture is readily ascertained by examination with the finger; but the medical practitioner must not suppose that every obstruction, however slight, to the passage of a bougie into the bowel is owing to stricture ; the top of the sacrum naturally pro- jecting forwards on the commencement of the rec- tum, in some degree opposes the entrance of any large body, and this circumstance is laid hold of by the unprincipled or ignorant; the patient is de- 1STRICTURES. 74 clared to labour under stricture of the bowel, when none exists. Some practitioners discover stricture in almost every patient with disordered digestion ; the whole digestive apparatus is certainly thrown into disorder by obstruction in the lower part, but this obstruction is fortunately rare. In cases of tight stricture, the bowels are distended with faeces and flatus; and if evacuation is not procured vomiting ensues, followed by enteritic symptoms, as in stran- gulation of the higher bowels. The gut above the stricture is always more or less dilated. The symptoms which lead the surgeon to suspect the existence of stricture, are—difficulty in voiding the excrements ; a long time occupied in the eva- cuation, with pain and much straining; small thin portions of faeculent matter coming away, when the matter is consistent: discharge of puriform fluid, mixed with a slimy mucus; itching and heat in the parts ; and irritability of the urinary organs. Strictures of the urethra and rectum often co-exist, as is exemplified by the following case:—A middle- aged man, when in Holland, laboured under a very deep and extensive fistula in ano. Sinuses were di- vided in all directions, and some healed ; one, how- ever, remained open, leading towards the gut from near the tuberosity of the ischium on the left side. He was desired to keep this open by means of bou- gies, which, as many were used, he manufactured himself out of cloth and plaster. On one occasion, a portion passed deeply, and could not be extracted; but his alarm at this occurrence was appeased onSCHimiO-CONTRACTED RECTUM. 75 being told that the foreign body would be absorbed. His condition at that time was very miserable; and inflammation was often excited in the parts, with fresh collections of matter. At the same time, he laboured under stricture of the rectum and urethra. He applied to me fifteen years after the commence- ment of the disease. Then the most troublesome symptom was a constant itching in the perineum, and round the anus, preventing sleep, and causing much excoriation from involuntary scratching; be- sides, he was annoyed by seminal emissions, and fre- quent desire to make water. I first divided a small internal fistula, and some time afterwards operated on a large complete one; in the latter instance, a foreign body was felt deep in the wound, the inci- sion was extended, and a large portion of bougie, firmly impacted, was with some difficulty withdrawn* Some days after, other portions of bougie were ex- tracted along with hairs ; and these continued to be discharged for many weeks. The symptoms were much relieved. An occasional itching remained, but disappeared after the cure of a very bad stricture in the urethra. He recovered perfectly from the com- plication of diseases. Schir7'o-contracted Rectum, a malignant and truly horrible disease, may be the consequence of inflam- matory action, or of neglected stricture. The neigh- bouring parts are involved in cartilaginous indura- tion ; the surface of the bowel is lobulated and ulcer- ated, its cavity is contracted, and the discharge is76 PROLAPSUS ANI. profuse, sanious, bloody, and putrid; there is fre- quent desire to void the contents of the gut, but in general nothing but flatus and puriform fluid is eva- cuated ; when faeces do pass, dreadful pain is excited, and continues for some time. The diflSculty of void- ing faeculent matter becomes greater and greater, fre- quent attacks of ileus occur, and in one of them the patient expires. During the progress of the disease, the functions of the bladder become disturbed ; change of structure in it and in the vagina takes place ; and frequently the cavities of the rectum, bladder, and vagina, are laid into one by inveterate and malignant ulceration. The affection is more common in females than in males, and rarely occurs in young persons. The countenance has the sallow hue peculiar to car- cinoma, and in the advanced form of the disease be- comes still more cadaverous from profuse discharge of matter and frequent haemorrhage. The cellular tissue, anterior to the rectum, is liable to become the seat of tumoui\ Malignant medullary formations occasionally form here, causing most dis- tressing symptoms; by displacing the bowel they may obstruct its canal, and simulate stricture or schirro-contraction. Prolapsus Ani. Folds of the lower portion of the rectum are apt to protrude during evacuation, as already mentioned, in those labouring under haemor- rhoids. These are readily replaced, and the painful feelings relieved, if the attempt be made before swell- ing and engorgement of the vessels and cellular tissue take place. Protrusion, liowcver. is sometimes to aPROLAPSUS AN I. 77 great extent; the sphincter is relaxed, and the lower part of the bowel is retained within it with diffi- culty ; indeed there is often more of the gut with- out the sphincter than within it. The mucous lining becomes insensible, thickened, and white; and the patient is subject to attacks of inflammation, with additional swelling, excoriations, and ulcers of the parts. Slight protrusion is very common, and pa- tients who have long laboured under it are in the habit of reducing the bowel after every stool, in the intervals wearing a supporting bandage. They are subject however to constant uneasiness, and more or less puriform discharge from the parts; often there is a flow of blood while at stool; health is under- mined, and comfort diminished ; all exertions are gone through with difficulty, and undertaken with reluctance. During exertion protrusion is almost cer- tain to occur, and apt to be increased. The part most commonly prolapsed in time becomes hard, thick, and in a measure insensible; other and new folds ap- pear on extraordinary straining at stool, in coughing, or any exertion of the abdominal muscles. Tumours occasionally grow from the coats of the rectum, and are of various consistence. They may be either vascular, or deposited in consequence of increased vascular action, and afterwards increased by addition of solid matter. They are to be removed either by ligature or incision, according to their situ- ation, nature, and attachments. Foreign bodies may lodge in the rectum—as bones, portions of hard indigestible meat, &c., introduced byPROLAPSUS ANI. 78 the mouth—or clyster pipes, bougies, &c., which have passed up per anum. By being the source of con- stant irritation, and obstructing the functions of the part, they demand removal. Alvine concretions are now rare ; they are usually situated in the caput caecum coll, sometimes in the sigmoid flexure, or in the arch of the colon ; they may descend into the rec- tum, and lodge there. Children are sometimes born with the anus imjie?'- Jhi'Cite, the extremity of the rectum being covered merely by integument, or the bowel terminating an inch or two above the usual site of the anus ; or the rectum may be wholly deficient. In the last case, the colon may end in a blind sac at the fundus of the bladder, or it may open either into that viscus or into the vagina. Treatment of Affections of the Rectum.—In the treatment of haemorrhoids, the cause should be re- moved if possible ; and this may suffice for the cure. When the tumours are recent and small, they may be made to disappear by the use of astringent oint- ments or decoctions, as of galls, kino, oak-bark, and by sedulous attention to cleanliness of the part. In inflamed tumours, blood may be abstracted by leeches or punctures, and hot fomentations afterwards used. When constriction by the sphincter has occurred, the tumour should be replaced if possible. In irrita- bility of the sphincter, a bougie is sometimes used with advantage ; and incision of the muscle, by which rest is aff'orded to the parts, will often eff'ect a cure, after the failure of all other means ; the divisionTREATMENT. 79 may be either partial or complete, as the case may seem to require. In most cases, the tumour can be got rid of only by the knife or ligature. When the piles are internal, removal by ligature is to be pre*- ferred ; the patient being made to strain, and thereby bring the tumours as low as possible, a ligature is placed round the base of the swelling, provided its form conveniently admits of it; otherwise the base is pierced by a fixed needle armed with a double liga- ture, the separate portions of which are applied tight- ly to the corresponding parts of the base. Before pro- ceeding to this measure, the bowels should be emptied by mild and repeated purgatives, and afterwards all stimuli should be avoided. It is imprudent to apply ligature to several tumours at once, for serious consequences will most probably ensue, inflammation of the bowel, obstinate constipation, and general excitement. Excision of such piles is contraindicated by the risk of profuse haemorrhage. The bleeding is into the cavity of the bowel, a coagulum is there formed which encourages the flow; and from this cause, and the peculiar situation of the bleeding point, it is with difficulty arrested. When the tu- mours are external, ligature may be adopted ; but here there is no objection to the use of the knife, and excision is less painful and more speedy. The tu- mours, along with protruded portions of the mucous lining of the rectum that cannot be reduced, and are changed in structure and function, are readily taken away by the rapid stroke of sharp curved scissors. Or they may be laid hold of and stretched, and their base divided by one or more sweeps of a bistoury or80 TIIEATMKNT. scalpel. Should haiinorrliage occur, the sui'geon has it completely under command, since it proceeds from a superficial part. Pressure by a large graduated compress is generally sufficient. In inflammation of the rectum, the exciting cause often is not discovered ; when detected it should be removed without delay. In simple inflammation of the part with yiolent fever, general bleeding may be required ; and in all cases blood should be abstracted locally and freely. Leeches are to be applied to the verge of the anus, and the lower part of the peri- neum, and hot fomentations afterwards used. Inter- nal antiphlogistics are at the same time not to be neglected. In retention of urine, or great irritation of the bladder, in consequence of the afiection of the rectum, the perineum should be leeched and foment- ed, perhaps also the lower part of the abdomen ; the catheter should be avoided if possible. When indu- ration takes place in the cellular tissue by the side of the anus, or in the perineum, suppuration must in ,all probability occur, and poultices with occasional fomentation are to be used, though only for a short time ; for, as already mentioned, pointing of the matter is not to be waited for in this situation ; inci- sion must be had recourse to early, in order to pre- vent bad consequences. Leeching is sometimes used here, as in purulent formations in other parts, from gross ignorance of the real state of matters ; and sometimes their use is continued after fluctuation is distinct, and until the pus begins to ooze through the leech-bites ; such is very useless and very dan- gerous practice ; in most cases the internal parts are81 TREATMENT. extensively destroyed before the matter comes spon- taneously to the surface. In the carbunculous state of the cellular tissue, near the rectum, with extensive infiltration, dark integument, and a tendency to sloughing, an early and free opening must be made wherever matter is suspected to have formed, however deeply seated, and in whatever quantity, and whether the parts are indurated or not; nothing but mischief can result from delay. When the cellular substance is destroy- ed, the incision must be proportionally extensive, to afford a free exit for slough as well as matter. Du- ring the suppurative cure, the system will require good support, and most probably a free administra- tion of stimuli. It has been recommended that, in abscess extend- ing along the gut, the cavities of the bowel and ab- scess should be at once laid into one by incision. I have done so, but always found the cure to be tedi- ous. It is better that the matter should first be eva- cuated through an external opening, that the pain- ful symptoms and constitutional disturbance should be allowed to subside; and that after the cavity has contracted, and the extent of the sinus been ascer- tained, the operation should be performed. In the operation the knife is now used ; but in former times the ligature and cautery were in employ. The old surgeons supposed that there was something malig- nant in the hardness and callosity attending this disease, and were not contented with opening the PART III. F82. TREATMENT. cavities, but endeavoured to dissect out the ^vhole parts ; and if foiled in this, they finished the work with the red-hot iron. Indeed the practice of exci- sion was recently in vogue at Paris. But the opera- tion for fistula has been much simplified. The bowel is generally so much separated from its con- nexions, as to be incapable of again adhering, or of furnishing granulations ; and though capable, heal- ing is effectually prevented by the frequent motion of the parts caused by the action of the sphincter and levator of the anus. One side of tlie cavity is fixed, whilst the other is in motion. It becomes necessary to lay the cavities of the bowel and of the fistula into one. This can generally be effected with great ease; a salutary degree of excitement follows the use of the knife, rest to the parts is procured, the edges are allowed to retract and adhere to the opposite surface, and the wound heals quickly from the bottom. The surgeon, in his operative proce- dure on these parts, must use both hands equally well, otherwise the patient must vary his position, and be often put in a very awkward predicament, more particularly if a female. The patient is placed in a stooping posture, with the legs unbent, and the fundament turned towards the light. The surgeon inserts the finger, well soaped and oiled, into the rec- tum, and with the other hand insinuates a curved probe-pointed bistoury into the sinus, using the in- strument merely as a probe. Having reached the extreme depth of the canal, the direction of the in- strument's point is changed so as to apply its cutting83 TREATMENT. surface to the coats of the bowel, at that part. The instrument on being thus passed into the bowel is fixed by the finger, and by drawing both outwards, the coats of the bowel and the parts intervening be- tween them and the sinus are divided. All colla- teral sinuses extending towards the perineum and hip must be freely divided, for they cannot be ex- pected to csotract otherwise. Such is all that is necessary in the generality of cases ; but it is evi- dent that the steps of the operation, and the extent and number of incisions, must be varied according to circumstances. A great part of the affected bowel may be pulled down by a director before being cut, as is sometimes done ; but the practice is useless and painful. Should haemorrhage take place, it may be restrained by stuffing the wound gently with lint; if this fail, the bleeding vessels are to be secured by- ligature ; but this is seldom necessary. The bowels should be well cleared out before the operation, so that two or more days may pass over without the parts being required to perform their functions ; and if the bowels are naturally loose, opiates may be ad- ministered. Afterwards copious evacuation is to be procured by enemata or gentle laxatives. It is neces- sary to prevent the external part of the wound from adhering, until the whole has contracted equally, and begun to be filled up by granulations from the bot- tom ; and with this view a piece of lint is interposed between the margins. Stuffing the wound daily with large dossils of lint is attended with much pain, and imi)edes the cure. The dressing should be simple andTREATMENT. light, and introduced with gentleness and care. The first should be allowed to remain undisturbed till spontaneously discharged along with the faeculeut matter. In the greater number of cases, a second inter- position of dressing is all that is required. In all cases, dressing should not be continued long ; but as the cavity gradually contracts, discharging laudable pus, and becoming coated with healthy florid granulations, the interposed pledgets should be daily diminished, and soon omitted entirely. If the surgeon continue long to stuff the wound it cannot contract, will become callous as before, and a fistula will be reproduced. Injections into the wound, or the application of lint soaked in a gently stimulating lotion, are often bene- ficial in promoting contraction. But, as already stated, most fistulse get well after proper incision, with but one dressing, and without any after applica- tion excepting plenty of soap and water. During the cure, the general health must be kept vigorous, and the state of the bowels strictly attended to. j In ulcer of the mucous lining, with irritability of action in the bowel, injections of tepid or cold water are useful, by removing irritating matters from the part. By means of a speculum ani the ulcer can be readily exposed; it may be touched occasionally with the nitrate of silver, in substance or solution, or, if indolent, with a solution of the muriate of mercury. When the irritation is very great, and the lower part of the bowel frequently in a state of spasmodic action, the sphincter may be divided 80 as to allow the parts to remain quiet; and ano_TllEATMENT. dyne suppositdries'bl' soothing* eneraata wilf t'heri used with much greater advantage than previously. To obtain reparation of breach of structure in any partj rest is a principal part of the treatment; and in the case of the rectum and other mucous canals it is pre-eminently required. Strictures of the rectum are treated by bougies of wood, plaster, or elastic gum, introduced at inter- vals, and gradually enlarged. The bougie should be smooth in the surface, and rounded at the point; also slightly curved, so as to suit the figure of the bowel; and with a narrow neck, so as to remain, without the irritation caused by distension of the sphincter. At first it should be of such a size as can without much difficulty be pushed past the stricture, and as this relaxes, the size of the instrument must be proportionally increased till it completely fills the bowel when dilated to the natural calibre. The bou- gie may at each time be retained from a quarter of an hour to an hour, according to the feelings of the patient. Suppositories and enemata are at the same time employed ; the latter to clear out the lower bowels, the former to allay the irritation which ac- companies the disease, and which may be increased temporarily by the bougies. When the stricture is callous, and will not yield by dilatation, it may be divided with the knife; and when the parts have begun to granulate, recourse to the bougie will soon effect a cure. When fistula and stricture co-exist, both are got rid of at once by the usual operation forTllEATMENT. 86 the former, and by the after treatment peculiar to each. In malignant contractions of the gut, all that can be done is to palliate the disease by anodynes, admi- nistered by the mouth, or applied topically. Injec- tions, bland, and occasionally anodyne, tend to dimi- nish irritation; bougies aggravate the disease. At the commencement, the diseased parts may be re- moved by the knife or by ligature, and relief and exemption follow, at least for a time; but no opera- tion is warrantable in this or any other cancerous af- fection, when the morbid action has gained ground, and the disease is extensive. Female patients have by some been cruelly treated; the vagina and dis- eased bowel have been laid into one loathsome cavity, and though the patients have continued to pass ex- crement and discharge through this cloaca, with the symptoms undiminished, themselves miserable and obnoxious to others—still such cases have been report- ed as cures ! In prolapsus ani, the protruded parts are to be carefully reduced, and kept so by means of a com- press supported by a T bandage ; often a spring with a pad is used with advantage. In inflamed prolapsus, with ulceration of the mucous coat, the patient is confined to the recumbent posture, and soothing ap- plications employed, and when thus the irritation has been removed, reduction is performed; but the bowel seldom remains up till after the ulcerations have been healed. In chronic obstinate cases, the prolapsed and altered parts are removed by the knife with safe-87 TREATMENT. ty ; contraction attends the cicatrisation, and so fur- ther protrusion is prevented. By the speculum aui assisting the eye and finger, the nature and position of foreign bodies in the rec- tum are ascertained, and their removal facilitated. They are to be extracted by the finger, by a scoop, or by forceps. It has been proposed by cut into the colon from behind, so as to open that part of the bowel unconnected with the peritoneum, when it is distinctly ascertained that alvine concretions lodge there. This may be put in practice when the case is clear and the symptoms urgent, but, as already observed, such foreign bodies are now very rarely met with. In imperforate anus, when the bowel terminates high, it has been proposed to cut through the abdo- minal parietes, and open the sigmoid flexure, so as to establish an artificial anus. The proceeding is un- warrantable, both in congenital deficiency and in ma- lignant disease of the bowel. There is no doubt a possibility of life being thus prolonged, but it is by no means probable, and scarcely desirable. In the more common cases, the bowel is opened, and the meconium evacuated, by a slight and safe incision in the site of the anus. Even through a considerable depth of soft parts the impulse of the fluid in the bowel is distinctly felt during exertion of the abdo- minal muscles. If incision through the integuments and cellular tissue prove insufficient, a sharp-pointed bistoury is pushed onwards in the direction of the bowel, under the guidance of the forefinger of the88 URINARY AND GENITAL ORGANS. left hand, carefully avoiding the bladder, vagina, and uterus, as also the vessels within the pelvis. To reach the bowel is an object of great consequence, yet the risk incurred in its accomplishment must be considered, and the incisions limited. In some cases the opening requires to be kept pervious by the use of proper bougies, but, in general, the functions of the parts are sufficient for the establishment of the anus. Affections of the Mucous 3Iemhranes of the Uru nary and Genital Organs.—It has been previously observed, that these membranes closely sympathize with the skin and with the mucous lining of the diges- tive organs. Stimulating substances introduced into the stomach frequently produce irritation of the uri- nary organs; and if the stimulants be employed in large quantities, and continued for some time, inflam- mation of the mucous membrane, investing the blad- der and urethra, will be induced, with vitiated and increased secretion from the parts. In children, den- tition is a common cause of urinal irritation; and not unfrequently discharge from the urethra comes on during the cutting of the teeth. The application of acrid matters, as cantharides, to the skin, will oc- casion unpleasant effects in the urinary organs. In short, the practitioner, in attending to affections of these parts, must ever bear in mind the close sympa- thy which exists between them and the external sur- face, the stomach, and the intestines, particularly the lower.gonokiiiici;a. 89 O/ Gonorrhcecii or inflammation of the Urethra.— The morbid action is usually limited to the extremity of the canal, seldom extending more than two or three inches from the orifice. There is itching and heat at the orifice, with swelling and redness of the glans, and of the lips of the urethra, and generally the whole penis appears more full than natural. When making water, the patient experiences acute heat and pain, often most agonizing—chiefly referable to the extre- mity of the passage, and extending for two or three inches backwards. The urine is discharged in a small and scattered stream, the anterior part of the urethra being diminished in calibre by the swollen and turgid state of its lining membrane. The di- minution may be in part caused by spasm of the canal, in consequence of the morbid excitement in it; or by fear, as the patient dreads making water, well knowing the excruciating pain which he must in consequence undergo. During erection, there is great increase of pain. The lips of the urethra, and the glans around, are often tender, and partially excoria- ted through neglect of ablution. There is seldom, if ever, any breach of structure in the canal; there is discharge of increased and vitiated secretion, without ulceration or absorption ; the matter is poured out from the relaxed, but entire, mucous membrane. In severe cases, the erections are abnormal, and at- tended with much pain, constituting cJiorclee. This troublesome symptom usually occurs during the night; the inflamed membrane is stretched, and great pain is felt along the course of the urethra. From extension90 GONOIUIHOLA. of the inflammation to the vascular tissue around the canal, and effusion of lymph into it, the penis is bent downwards during erection, the corpus spongiosum not admitting of so complete distension as the corpora cavernosa. Sometimes a portion of the spongy body is obliterated permanently by the effusion, causing deformity of the organ, and imperfect erection. I have also seen the penis bent to an inconvenient ex- tent from a similar affection of the corpora cavernosa. After the uneasy and painful sensations have con- tinued for some time, puriform matter, of a greenish or yellow colour, is secreted by the inflamed mem- brane, and discharged in profusion. The discharge changes very much as to quantity and quality, accord- ing to the intensity of the action and duration of the disease, and is also modified by the constitution of the individual. When the discharge is suppressed, either from the imprudence of the individual, or from bad treatment, the inflammation is much increased ; and when the secretion returns, it is in general thin and bloody. As the disease abates, the matter be- comes thick, ropy, and less abundant, is seen only in the morning, and in quantity little more than suffi- cient to glue together the lips of the orifice; ulti- mately it loses its whitish or streaked appearance, becoming clear and colourless. The first attack of the disease is generally the most severe. In neglected cases the prepuce swells, often to a great size. During the progress of the Gonorrhoea there is always a tendency to serous infiltration in the prepuce; and if the patient walk much withoutGONOllllHCEA. 91 supporting the organ, or have the part exposed to friction, swelling will inevitably take place. From this cause Phymosis and Paraphymosis are apt to occur —affections that will be afterwards described. From the same cause the inguinal glands often enlarge, but such swelling is generally small and seldom suppu- rates. Induration and enlargement sometimes occur along the urethra from effusion of lymph, or from obstruc- tion and distension of the lacunae. Suppuration may take place at these points, and the matter escape either into the urethra or externally. Swelling of the lymphatics of the penis is by no means uncommon in severe or neglected cases of gonorrhoea; a hard chord, tender, and extremely painful when pressed, is felt running along the dorsum penis, and terminates in the inguinal cluster of glands, which are in general also affected. Inflammation and abscess under the strong tendinous sheath that envelopes the penis oc- casionally follows the affection of the lymphatics. The whole penis swells greatly, with fever and much pain ; the matter is confined, burrows under the un- yielding sheath, and appears either at the junction of the glans and prepuce, or over the symphysis pubis. Occasionally the inflammation is not confined to the extremity of the urethra, but pervades its whole extent, in consequence of maltreatment, neglect, or idiosyncrasy. On this account, abscess in the peri- neum, or over that part of the urethra which is co- vered by the scrotum, is no uncommon consequence of a badly managed clap; the inflammatory actionGONOllRHCEA. 92 extending from the urethra to the cellular texture exterior to it. The formation of matter is preceded by fever and great pain; the patient is unable to sit; and occasionally retention of urine takes place. The part affected feels hard, and extremely painful when pressed; it gradually softens, and at last fluctuates and points. But if the matter form deeply, behind the bulb and in the cellular texture beneath the pe- rineal fascia, or in the situation of Cowper's glands, it may be long of appearing externally. Fluctuation should never be waited for; and in most cases there are distinct enough signs of the presence of matter long before fluctuation can be felt. , Some people are much more liable to inflammation of the urethra than others, and many are exposed to the ordinary causes of gonorrhoea without suffering, whilst perhaps they are readily affected by ^uch ani- mal poisons as produce disease of the prepuce and glans. Patients often give very ridiculous accounts of the way in which their clap was contracted. They will say that the infection was received in a common necessary, that the disease was produced by a blow, by a strain of the back, by taking drugs that did not agree with them, by drinking out of the same cup or smoking the same pipe with an infected person, by wearing tight boots, falling into a dirty pond, &c. They will exert thek ingenuity to the utmost in or- der to deceive their surgeon, and attempt preserving their moral character untainted. Discharge from the urethra may be occasioned by dentition, &c. as already mentioned; or may take place from calculi93 ttONOIlRIKEA. passing along and getting fixed in the uretlira, or from irritations about the anus. The most common cause, however, is the application of irritating matter to the lining membrane ; and this may take place during coition with females suffering from lecuor- rhoea, or during their menstrual discharge : but go- norrhoeal matter is the specific virus, and the appli- cation of it to the orifice of the urethra is by far the most frequent cause of inflammation of the canal. Irritating substances injected into the passage, may, and often do, produce or aggravate the inflammatory action. Besides all this, irritability of the urethra is common in gouty individuals. Gonorrhoea has been termed virulent when caused by gonorrhoeal infection—simple, when induced by ir- ritations such as those previously enumerated ; the distinction is seldom attended to, and is of no prac- tical importance. It has been supposed that the poi- son which produces chancre is the same with that which gives rise to gonorrhoea, the action being mo- dified by the texture in which the virus is lodged : such an opinion has been found to be wholly unte- nable. Gonorrhoea supervenes at various periods after ex- posure to the infection, from twenty-four hours to six or eight weeks, but generally in from ten to twenty days; often the time cannot be correctly as- certained ; much depends on the idiosyncratic sus- ceptibility of the urethra, on the degree of acridity in the matter applied, and other contingent circum- stances.GONORRHEA. 94 When the discharge becomes more clear and thin, and the inflammatory symptoms have disappeared, the disease is termed Gleet. The passage remains contracted in some degree, from relaxation of the mucous surface; there is a desire to make water more frequently than usual, and the urine is passed in a tortuous or scattered stream ; in many cases the discharge continues profuse. There is now no pain nor scalding during the passage of urine, but these are readily reinduced by slight excess ; perhaps there is a trifling chordee. After connexion the discharge returns as if fresh infection had been caught, though such be not the case ; both in simple gleet, and in that attending stricture, the seemingly virulent symp- toms come on speedily, often appearing within a few hours after the coitus. In gleet the matter is no longer green or yellow, but whitish and flaky; the globules are contained in a mucous instead of a serous fluid. The disease is usually attendant on stricture, but occurs frequently without any or- ganized contraction, the discharge being furnished by the vessels of the surface, which have become weak and relaxed in consequence of previous excited action. In feeble constitutions, inflammation of the urethra is almost always followed by long-continued and intractable discharge. A practitioner is not unfrequently asked when the infection of gonorrhoea is not communicable, and if an individual in whom the discharge is very slight, or has just disappeared, is likely to contaminate a healthy female. The question is a difficult one to an-GONORRHOEA. 95 swer. Ill general it is prudent to err, if at all, on the safe side—by expressing doubts, and dissuading from intercourse until all discharge shall have entirely ceased for a considerable time. Discharge is often brought back, as already observed, by the excitement of sexual connexion. In simple inflammation of the urethra, with dis- charge, little or no treatment is required ; if the pa- tient keep quiet and avoid the causes which gave rise to the affection, the symptoms will disappear in a short time. But virulent gonorrhoea is often very unmanageable, particularly if it has been allowed to follow its own course, and consequently to make head before it is attacked. It is no easy matter to arrest it after the parts have got into the habit of furnishing discharge, and particularly if it has been aggravated by thoughtlessness and imprudence of the patient. All exercise, more particularly violent, should be avoided, as also indulgence in venery and liquors, A great variety of remedies, both external and iur ternal, have been employed. General bleeding has been recommended, but never can be required in simple clap. If the bladder, or other important organ, become affected, depletion will be indispensable. Ab- straction of blood by leeches from the perineum may be required, when from any cause the inflammation extends beyond its usual seat; and great relief is afforded by afterwards employing hot fomentations, or the bidet, and by diaphoretics given internally. Mercury was used in clap by those who conscien- tiously believed that the disease was the same as96 GONORRHCEA. what they called syphilis. But it had been better far for mankind had such a term, or tiie notions associated with it, never been broached; or at least had mercury never been considered as necessary for the cure of affections of the genital organs. In go- norrhoea mercury may do much harm; it never can do good. The disease has often been contracted, '' whilst the system was saturated with the mineral. Frequent and violent purgings with neutral salts— a common plan of treatment amongst the unprofes- sional and inexperienced—are hurtful; the extremity of the rectum is irritated, and may inflame, and the urethra, from intimate sympathy, will suffer accord- ingly. Common turpentine, coj^aivi, cubebs, buchu, &c. have been long employed in all forms of the dis- ease ; of these, copaivi, administered from the first, and not after the inflammatory symptoms have sub- sided, is perhaps the one chiefly to be relied on. It may be taken pure, with a little water, or mixed with an equal part of honey; it should be given at bed- time, and in a large dose, from a drachm to two drachms. The medicine may with prudence be con- tinued afterthe disappearance of the discharge, though its beneficial effects are scarcely observable, excepting during the inflanmiatory stage. An unpleasant erup- tion, resembling urticaria, sometimes follows its em- ployment ; it appears on the inside of the lips, and on the glans penis, and if the drug is continued, the eruption spreads over the whole surfiice. Cubebs, though somewhat similar to copaivi in its virtues, often disappoints the practitioner. Tliis class of 2PART III. G V. GONOIIIIHCEA. 97 remedies, instead of stimulating, diminish greatly the irritation in the urethra or the other parts of the urinary organs. In severe cases it is of importance to increase the quantity of urine, and thereby dimi- nish its acrimony, by the free employment of diluents and mucilaginous drinks ; on this principle infusum lini, containing more or less of nitrous aether, is very efficacious. The patient suffers much when the urine is scanty, and contains a large proportion of saline particles. Rest and moderate diet are of paramount importance as means of cure. Support of the penis, by a suspensory bandage, or otherwise, should always be attended to when the patient takes exercise, for many bad consequences will thereby be avoided; in- deed it is a measure requisite in all affections of the organ, and particularly in gonorrhoea—when the prepuce, or even the whole penis, is liable to swell enormously. Its propriety has been long known; one of the fathers of surgery has said, " Sursumque coles ad ventrem deligandus est, quod in omni cura- tione ejus necessarium." By low diet, and the fre- quent use of warm bathing, of the part, or of the whole surface, the disease often disappears rapidly; but when the cure is supposed complete, a few glasses of wine and a hearty meal will suffice to bring it back with all the violent symptoms. Cooling washes applied externally to the penis are of little use, and will seldom be long submitted to by the patient. Fluids injected into the urethra, so as to be applied to the affected part of the mucous mem-GONORllHGEA. ^8 brane, are much more efficacious. When stimula- ting, the relaxed membrane is astringed, the action in the part is changed, and a healthy secretion en- sues ; such are applicable after the inflammatory symptoms have subsided. But in many instances astringent injections are of much service from the very commencement; the morbid action seeming to be arrested, and the parts quickly brought into a healthy condition. Yet the use of such is not unac- companied with risk, and the mildest are sometimes hurtful; the incited action is apt to extend along the passage ; the discharge may be suddenly sup- pressed, and inflammation of the bladder or testicle will generally supervene ; in short, the prominent symptom, discharge, may be arrested, but at the same time such violent inflammatory action may be induced as will be followed by change of structure in the canal, callosities, contractions, abscess, &c. The injections may be composed of nitras argenti, sulphas cupri, sulphas ferri, sulphas zinci, acetas zinci, sulphas aluminae, murias hydrargyri, in the proportion of a very few grains to the ounce of dis- tilled water, or the astringents may be vegetable, as kino, galls, &c.; their strength may be gradually increased according to their effects. They are in- jected by means of either a small syringe or an elastic bottle fitted with an ivory tube, the point being smooth and rounded. This is carefully introduced into the orifice of the urethra, and the patient is recommended to press on the canal with his finger to prevent the fluid from passing farther than an inch99 GONOIUIHCEA. or two. It may be thrown in two, three, four, or five times during the day, according to circumstances, and retained for a few minutes ; at each time the patient should make water immediately before. The quantity injected at one time should not exceed a teaspoonful; more is unnecessary, and may do harm. By passing bougies or other instruments along the canal during active inflammation, much mischief is done. When excitement has gone off, and discharge remains, advantage may be obtained by the internal administration of lytta or other stimulants. When contraction of the passage is suspected, or when, in spite of all means, no progress is made towards a cure, slight discharge continuing long without pain, and probably furnished by a relaxed portion of the membrane, recourse must be had to the occasional introduction of a full-sized bougie. Cold bathing, local or general, is sometimes useful. If during the violent symptoms the discharge be from any cause suddenly suppressed, inflammation of the bladder, swelled testicle, or both, are to be dreaded ; and endeavours should be made without delay to procure its return, as by leeching the peri- neum, fomentations, and the general warm bath. The Consequences of Gonorrhcea occur in parts closely connected with the urethra by sympathy and function ; or they are such as affect the constitution. Of Hernia Humoralis, or swelled testicle. Pain and swelling occur in the epididymis, and soon affect the body of the testicle. The pain is most excrucia-HERNIA HUMORALIS. 100 ting, the unyielding nature of the tunica albuginea preventing the vessels from relieving themselves fully, and inducing compression of the enlarging organ. Effusion takes place into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, and thereby the tumescence is still more increased, this tunic from its great dilati- bility readily accommodating itself to the accumu- lation of fluid within. Sometimes the effusion is bloody, more generally serous, and not unfrequently composed of serum more or less tinged with blood. The epididymis remains enlarged longer than any other part, often during the remainder of life. Sick- ness, vomiting, and violent fever, attend the progress of the swelling. Pain in the lower part of the abdo- men is not infrequent, and may be mistaken and treated for enteritis. The spermatic chord becomes enlarged and tender. The pain is much increased when the patient assumes the erect posture, from the enlarged and pendulous gland stretching the in- flamed chord. Uneasy feelings are complained of in the back, and pain there is sometimes so acute as to be compared by the patient to the sawing of his loins asunder. When the inflammation is violent, and effusion into the substance of the gland exten- sive, suppuration may occur ; and in infirm constitu- tions this is not an infrequent, though remote, con- sequence of hernia humoralis. The testicle is said to be rendered useless by the supervention of this disease. Certainly it is in danger of having its func- tions destroyed when the incited action is intense and the effusion great, and particularly if suppuration101 HERNIA HUMOIIALIS. follow. The disease may be induced by violent ex- ercise during inflammation of the urethra, bruising of the organ, suppression of gonorrhoeal discharge, the imprudent introduction of bougies, the use of strong m-ethral injections, or debauchery of any kind, during inflammatory gonorrhoea. In the treatment, complete rest occupies a promi- nent station. The inflamed organ must be supported ; and all means which may have been employed with the view of checking gonorrhoeal discharge must be abandoned. General bleeding may be necessary when the system is much excited ; and in all severe cases blood should be abstracted copiously from the part, by the application of leeches or the oj)ening of a scro- tal vein, and the organ is afterwards to be fomented for some time, and then enveloped in a warm poul- tice. The bowels must be kept open, the diet must be very low, and the value of antimonial medicines as a powerful remedy in all inflammatory affections must not be overlooked. Cold applications are of little or no service at any period of the disease, and frictions with mercury and camphor had better be dispensed with. When the violent symptoms have subsided, bathing the part with a tepid solution of the murias ammoniae is often useful; or it may be rubbed gently with diluted iodine, or with a liniment of soap and camphor. Much relief is experienced from interposing between the scrotum and suspensory bandage a soap plaster, or one composed of equal parts of gum and mercurial plasters ; thereby the organ is defended from irritating friction and mo-102 INFLAMMATION OF THE BLADDER. tion, and slight stimulation is produced and kq)t up. Blisters promote discussion if the swelling become indolent, but are very annoying to the patient. They require repetition, but generally are in the end effec- tual ; perhaps the rest necessary during their use is of as much benefit as the application. Inflammation of the Bladder and posterior part of the U?'ethra, may arise from other causes than suppressed or badly treated gonorrhoea; but, how- ever induced, its symptoms and consequences are the same. The presence of calculi or other foreign bodies, over-distension, &c. will be treated of hereafter, as causing irritation and inflammation of the viscus. Much vesical irritation is often produced and kept up by disease of the kidney. When inflammation of the bladder is slight, it is attended by uneasy feelings referred to the perineum, pelvis, and glans penis ; frequent desire to empty the organ ; pain felt acutely before evacuation of the urine, and relieved immediately afterwards ; scanty secretion of acrid and highly coloured urine ; a dis- charge of slimy tenacious mucus, either pure or voided along with the urine. In severe cases, most excruciating pain is experienced during the discharge of the contents of the bladder. The urine is often bloody ; in general it is of a milky appearance, con- taining lymph or puriform matter, and vitiated secre- tion from the lining membrane. INIicturition is al- most constant, small quantities being voided at a time. Sometimes the inflammation extends to theINFLAMMATION OF THE BLADDER. 103 ureters and pelves of the kidneys, causing violent pains in the loins, nausea, occasional vomiting, and colicky affections. In very violent cases lymph is effused on the inner surface of the bladder, and may become organised ; but such effusion is rare. I met vi^ith one remarkable instance of it in my own practice, and have seen several others. An old pensioner fell from a scaf- folding, during his late Majesty's visit to this city. He sustained a severe contusion of the back, and retention of urine came on ; his urine was drawn off regularly for some weeks, but then severe pelvic symptoms supervened, and at last nothing but a small quantity of purulent matter flowed through the catheter. The symptoms became urgent, the bladder was very much distended, and rose to the umbilicus ; all endeavours to evacuate the urine per urethram failed, the instrument being always closed by thick pus, and I was obliged to open the blad- der above the pubes. Much purulent matter mixed with foetid urine escaped from the wound, as also a false membrane which invested the mucous coat of the viscus. The membrane was of a flocculent ap- pearance, in some places distinctly fibrous, in others thin and transparent; and its internal surface was irregular, as if from the deposition of minute granules of recent lymph. The patient died exhausted, after having survived about three weeks, voiding his urine partly by the wound, and partly per urethram. It should perhaps be mentioned, that those who saw him immediately after the accident supposed that104 INFLAMMATION Ol' THE BLADDER. blood was extensively effused into the bladder, and attempted to extract the suspected extravasation by- means of an exhausting syringe through a catheter, probably not passed into the bladder. Occasionally, though rarely, the inflammation extends to the peritoneal covering of the bladder, and thence to the external surface of the intestines. The bladder becomes thickened, and lymph is ef- fused between its coats, from repeated attacks of in- flammation, or from long continued irritation in con- sequence of resistance to the expulsion of its contents. The mucous membrane is thickened, relaxed, and of a flocculent appearance ; the fibres of the muscular coat are enlarged, and, bulging out, form projections along their course; the mucous follicles are expanded ; and depressions, often of large size, are formed be- tween the projections of the enlarged muscular fasci- culi. The cavity of the organ is generally dimi- nished in proportion to the thickening of its parietes, and there is a loss of balance betwixt the retaining and expelling powers. Irritable bladder is generally a symptom of some other affection. There is profuse mucous discharge ; micturition ; pain, increased by distention of the organ, and relieved by evacuation. The coats are more vascular than naturally ; sometimes the mus- cular is strengthened, and ulceration of the mucous membrane is not infrequent. Occasionally this lat- ter tunic is the seat of tumour. In the treatment of inflammation of the bladder, after removal of its causes, antiphlogistic meansINFLAMMATION OF THE BLADDER. 105 occupy a prominent situation, and are to be regu- lated according to circumstances. Leeches to the perineum and hypogastrium—soothing injections into the rectum—opium or hyoscyamus, either by the mouth or in the form of suppository—fomentation and the warm bath—are all valuable remedies in this affection. When injections into the rectum are used, their bulk should not exceed three or four ounces, and they should contain from fifty to a hun- dred drops of laudanum, or a less proportion of the liquor opii sedativus. But an anodyne suppository is perhaps more simple and more efficacious, com- posed of from two to five grains of opium with ten or fifteen of hyoscyamus. Its effects are almost in- stantaneous ; all pain goes off"; the patient becomes quiet, loses all recollection of his former sufferings, and often remains in a state of enviable comfort for twelve or sixteen hours. The suppository may be repeated as need be ; the preferable time for its exhi- bition is the hour of sleep. Camphor, given by the mouth in large doses, is a powerful remedy for allay- ing irritation of the bladder, from whatever causes induced ; as is copaivi, less nauseous and more trust- worthy than cubebs or buchu. The copaivi will often remove speedily the most intense irritation, when all other means have failed. The bowels are to be kept gently open, and all stimuli disused ; diet should be low, drink copious and bland. Washing out the bladder with anodyne or other fluids, and the application of blisters to the perineum and neigh-106 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. bouring parts, have been recommended, but are more injiirioiis than useful. Of Stricture of the Urethra.—By stricture is understood a narrowing* or contraction of a mucous canal, from deranged action, or from morbid altera- tion of its structure. It may arise from relaxation and turgescence of the parietes, or from effusion of lymph either under the lining membrane, or on its surface. Spasmodic stricture has been spoken of by some writers, but is most probably an imaginary disease. An irritable urethra, in which organic dis- ease does not exist to any great extent, may contract at various points, diminish the stream of urine, and prevent the introduction of instruments, or retain them by closing firmly round, and in such circum- stances the obstruction does probably depend on spasm of the muscular fibres of the urethra ; yet to such a state of the canal the term stricture cannot be applied with any degree of propriety. True, organic, or permanent strictures of the urethra, vary in their degree of constriction, beco- ming tighter when irritated by improper treatment, hard living, or exposure to damp or cold ; indeed all mucous canals are sensibly affected by cold and damp. From these causes a combination may be produced of permanent stricture and spasmodic ac- tion ; but, as already hinted, it would perhaps be well that this latter term, applied to urethral stric- ture, were forgotten, instead of remaining a conve-STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 107 nient excuse for want of knowledge or dexterity. Spasms of canals and cavities, unusual membranes, adhesions, sacs, and cysts, are too often met with in the Practice of Surgery, preventing the practitioner from accomplishing the objects of his operations, putting the patient to a great deal of unnecessary suffering, and even endangering his life. The old writers supposed that obstruction of the urethra arose from growths, warts, caruncles, or carnosities in the passage; and even in the present day such causes would sometimes appear to be more accredited than they ought; small excrescences do sometimes form on the membrane, though very rarely. True stricture is the result of inflammatory action in the part; at first serous effusion takes place beneath the membrane, and elevates it into an cedematous swell- ing, which, according to its extent, obstructs the canal; then lymph is deposited both beneath the membrane and external to it, becomes organised, and forms a permanent and more unyielding obstruc- tion. Strictures are of various kinds. The bridle stricture is rarely met with ; a membranous band of organised lymph traverses the canal, and, according to the thick- ness of this membrane, the flow of urine is more or less impeded; in the majority of cases the morbid forma- tion is thin and delicate, but still sufficient to scatter and diminish the stream. When a soft bougie is introduced, it is resisted by the stricture, and on ex- amining the instrument when withdrawn, the trans- verse and central impression on its point marks theSTlllCTUllE OF THE URETHRA. 108 existence of the bridle. The urethra is sometimes narrowed by a circular membranous ring projecting into its canal, composed of swollen mucous mem- brane with subjacent effusion, and presenting the appearance of a thread having been tied round the passage. Other strictures occupy a considerable por- tion of the urethra, from a quarter of an inch to two or three inches; differing from the preceding only in the effusion and membranous swelling being more extensive. Others are irregular, the contraction being not uniform at the narrowed point, and sometimes only one side of the canal is affected. Some are almost cartilaginous, the effused lymph having be- come much condensed after organisation; others are less dense in their structure, and exceedingly elastic. From repeated attacks of inflammation at the constricted part, and around, additional lymph is effused and organised, and thus the extent and tight- ness of the stricture is increased. The urethra is generally constricted at those parts which are naturally the tightest; at the orifice— betwixt three and four inches from the orifice—and betwixt six and seven inches from the orifice; the most frequent site is perhaps anterior to the sinus. Contraction of the orifice is frequently the conse- quence of cicatrisation, and generally proves obsti- nate ; in some cases the smallest probe is passed with difficulty. Considerable portions of the anterior part of the canal suffer contraction from the efiect of ulcer- ation ; and congenital malformations of the orifice give rise to many afl'ections of both the urethra and109 STRICTURE or THE URETHRA. bladder. Contractions in different parts of the canal depend much upon one another. When a tight stricture exists, the passage ante- riorly is never fully distended, and becomes perma- nently contracted in consequence ; whilst more or less dilatation is produced behind the tight part, wherever that may be. The enlargement often is very great, the urine lodges in the cavity formed by dilatation, and can be pressed out in a stream, or dribbles away after the patient supposes that he has done making water. Mucous and sabulous deposits often lodge in it; and calculi are occasionally retained there, may attain a large size, and may give rise to very unpleasant and even dangerous symptoms. Not unfrequently ulcer- ation takes place behind the stricture, and the urine becomes insinuated into the cellular texture ; but this tissue immediately around is in general condensed previously to the giving way of the canal, and so prepared by lymphatic effusion as to oppose effectu- ally extensive infiltration. Such is not the case, as will afterwards be explained, when solution of con- tinuity in the urethra takes place in consequence of distension of the bladder. In the gradual escape of urine by ulceration be- hind the constricted point—the urethra being neither altogether obstructed, nor nearly so—abscess forms in the cellular tissue, exterior to the ulcerating part. The suppuration is often slow in its progress, and imparts to that part of the perineum a stony hard- ness. Repeated collections of matter may form, and, if the cause be not removed, numerous openings willSTRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 110 form in the scrotum and perineum, and through them foetid matter and urine will constantly and in- voluntarily distil. The patient is reduced to a miser- able state, the neighbouring parts are excoriated, and exhale a noisome odour, his body and bed are soaked and rotted by the discharge, and the atmosphere to! a considerable distance around offends the nostrils^ Fistula in peri?ieo is established. Ulceration and perforation of the urethra from stric- ture seldom takes place anteriorly to the scrotum ; but ulceration often is induced there by retaining instru- ments long in the passage, and may be followed by sloughing of the integuments, abscess in the cellular tissue, or both. Occasionally the urethra communi- cates with the rectum in consequence of ulceration, escape of urine into the cellular tissue, and formation of matter. The symptoms of stricture are often much relieved after the formation of fistulous open- ings ; and the cure can then be much more easily accomplished than formerly, the passage being less iiTitable. When the fistula is free and open, allow- ing the urine to escape readily, the natural passage contracts, and will become almost entirely obliterated, unless means are taken to dilate it, and to diminish the unnatural opening. Neglected aggravated cases are met with, in which the urine has passed entirely through the false passages for years, the urethra and penis, anterior to the stricture, being both rendered completely useless; but even such can, by proper management, be permanently cured. Ulceration of the urethra, originating in consequence of stricture,STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. Ill may proceed even after the stricture is removed, and give rise to abscess and fistula. Many patients labour under stricture, and even tolerably bad ones, without being aware of it. But the surgeon is led to suspect the existence of stric- ture, by complaints which the patients wish to be relieved of, and which they suppose to arise from totally different causes—pains in the loins or hips, indolent swelling of the testicle, or of the inguinal glands, irritability about the fundament, gleet. On enquiring about the stream of urine, the patient may declare that it is as good as possible; and many say so without intending to deceive, for the stream dimi- nishes so gradually, that the patient is not aware till after he is relieved that he has been voiding his urine in a very imperfect manner. On questioning further, it is discovered that the stream is forked or twisted, or divided into several small ones ; that there is frequent desire to empty the bladder, during the night particularly; and that at first the urine comes away only in drops, A long time is occupied in pass- ing even a small quantity of urine, and the patient has to strain much ; in bad cases he is almost always obliged to go to the water-closet when inclined to make water, lest the contents of the rectum be evacu- ated by the great exertion of the levator ani and abdominal muscles, necessary to overcome the ob- struction in the urethra. By the straining hernia is also frequently induced. In consequence of the almost constant endeavours to overcome the resistance afforded by the stricture,112 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. the bladder becomes much strengthened in the coats, and diminishes in size. All the coata are affected, but particularly the muscular; the surface becomes fasciculated ; the fibres grow fleshy and strong, and are collected in large bundles. Cysts form, often of a large size; some are caused by interlacement of the enlarged muscular fibres, others are produced by outward protrusion of the mucous coat. This mem- brane being, by excessive muscular action in the vis- cus, pushed between the enlarged fasciculi, dilates into a bag, and forms a cyst of greater or less size, com- municating with the cavity of the bladder, generally by a narrow neck ; the protruded membrane is thick- ened by new deposit, and ultimately the parietes of the cyst, in some degree, resemble those of the blad- der. Cysts of this description are usually situated near the fundus of the organ, and often attain a large size ; in some cases the cyst equals the bladder in capacity ; and the two seem to form one large organ contracted near the middle. The secretion from the surface of the bladder becomes vitiated, is much increased in quantity, and passes off along with the urine or after it—sometimes in solution, often separately. In se- vere cases the ureters and pelves of the kidneys dilate, and their mucous surfaces also contribute to furnish the discharge, in general slimy, ropy, and tenacious^ sometimes puriform. Discharge also takes place from the stricture, from the dilated portion, and from be- hind this; it is a kind of gleet, very apt to be in- creased by excess in drinking and venery. After113 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. debauchery, the stream of urine—which was pre- viously not much affected, at least to the patient's observation—comes to be very small; and frequently the urine can be voided only in drops, and that with much labour. Besides, the balance between the re- taining and expelling powers of the bladder often is lost, and either incontinence or retention of urine is the consequence. Though the urine be much ob- structed, even when the stricture is not very tight, the flow of the semen is not; the degree of contrac- tion must be very great to prevent ejaculation of the latter fluid. Indeed, during the healthy state of the parts, the whole urethra is much narrowed, as well as shortened, during seminal emission in coitu, from forcible action of the muscular fibres, and in- jection of the corpus spongiosum ; and the moment- ary contraction of the passage in such circumstances is perhaps greater than almost ever occurs in conse- quence of disease. Sometimes the seminal fluid passes back into the bladder, from an inverted action of the canal, and is evacuated along with the urine ; noc- turnal emission is a frequent concomitant of stricture. That an inverted or antiperistaltic motion sometimes exists in the urethra, is shown by a soft bougie being in such cases drawn into the bladder after having been passed but a short way into the urethra. In cases of bad stricture, the complexion is sallow, the countenance anxious, and the general expression of the features so peculiar as to be almost pathogno- monic. The lower limbs become emaciated and weak. Gout often accompanies stricture, and pa- PART III. H114 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. roxysms of it are induced by irritation of the ure- thra ; the canal itself is said to be sometimes affected with a gouty action. Stricture may be caused by inflammation or long- continued irritation of the urethra, however induced —^by mismanaged virulent gonorrhoea—by stimu- lating acrid injections—by piles, and other irritations about the fundament—by calculi passing along the urethra. That gonorrhoea is a very frequent cause of stricture has been long known—" If the case be slubbered over, and long delayed, caruncles arise in the urethra, and in progress of time a carnosity." The passage or lodgement of calculi in the canal has induced stricture even in children; and calculus in the bladder «^ap^»8ed sometimes teproducesdisease in the urethra, and vice versa. Strictures are often caused by falls or blows on the perineum, and such cases are of the very worst kind; in some the ure- thra becomes almost entirely obliterated, in most the stricture is extensive and callous, and in all the dis- ease is overcome with difficulty. When stricture is suspected the urethra must be examined. A soft white-wax bougie is best adapted for ascertaining the state of the parts, but must be used very gently. If pushed forwards rashly and with force, the instrument yields before the stricture, and when withdrawn, is found twisted like a screw, or doubled backwards on itself. The vessels of the urethra may be torn, and haemorrhage, with great pain, ensue. The bougie should be slightly curved in its farther extremity, warmed either at the fire or by friction with the fingers, and well oiled, pre-STRICTURE or THE URETHRA. 115 viously to its introduction. It is then passed softly along the canal till its progress is arrested ; thus the situation of the stricture is ascertained. Then a lit- tle more pressure is employed for a short time; if the instrument have not become insinuated into the constricted part, it will resiliate on removal of the pressure from its free extremity ; if it is passed into or beyond the stricture, it is firmly grasped by that part of the urethra, and retained ; thus we discover the degree of contraction ; and from the extremity of the bougie receiving and retaining the impression made thereon by the contracted part, we can form an accurate diagnosis regarding the nature and ex- tent of the stricture. The information thus acquired is afterwards acted on. Ball probes have been pro- posed for the examination of the urethra : they look well on paper, but are of no practical utility. The principles on which the cure is to be conduct- ed are the same in almost all cases ; but the particu- lars of the treatment must vary according to circum- stances. In slight cases, the gentle introduction of a moderately-sized bougie produces a cure by removing the irritability or susceptibility of the surface ; the re- laxed membrane is stimulated by the distension made with the bougie, and soon regains its natural tone. It may be necessary to repeat the introduction of the bougie a few times, at considerable intervals. In tight organic stricture something more is required ; the constricted part must be dilated gradually. Much dexterity and management is often required to pass an instrument through a tight stricture, particularly116 STKICTURE or THE URETHRA. if inflamed; and in such circumstances the attempt should not be made but on good grounds, and to re- lieve urgent and dangerous symptoms ; but after a bougie or catheter, however small, has been got past, the disease is completely under the control of the surgeon, and a cure must follow if the treatment be properly conducted. The effect of an instrument passed through an organic stricture is to remove the irritability of the lining membrane, to excite the ab- sorbents to remove the newly-formed parts, and to dilate the passage : it may be supposed to act In some measure on the same principle as a bandage applied to a swelled extremity. The instruments in- troduced must be gradually enlarged till one readily passes of the full size, that is, one that enters the orifice with some difficulty, and fully distends the rest of the canal. Numerous contrivances have been employed for the dilatation of strictures ; but the preferable instrument is a silver catheter, or a bou- gie made of silver, of steel, or of plated metal. A soft gum-elastic bougie is useful in ascertaining the nature and situation of the stricture ; but in the treat- ment must give place to the metallic, slightly conical at the point. This, in the hands of a well-quali6ed person, can be more surely and readily directed than a flexible one, and in its use there is less risk of in- jury being inflicted on the passage; besides, it does not yield to the action of the diseased part. The practitioner must be provided with a full assortment of metallic bougies, each one difl'ering from the other in size ; for, as already observed, the size of the in-STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 117 struraent passed must be gradually increased : and, besides, the calibre of the canal varies much in dif- ferent individuals ; what is a full size for one person may be but a trifle in the urethra of another. The bougies are arranged by what is termed a size-plate or gage, a flat piece of steel, containing fifteen or six- teen circular perforations, which commence about the size of a small crow-quill, and gradually enlarge in diameter. These apertures are numbered, and the bougie which fills one has the corresponding number imprinted on it. By reference to the numbers, the surgeon is at once made aware of the progress he has made towards a cure. In the more common and simple cases, a regular and gradual ascent in this scale is all that is required, allowing a proper interval to elapse betwixt the intro- ductions. But in tight and unyielding stricture, small, firm, silver catheters are required. One of these of a size proportioned to the contraction of the canal—and the calibre often must be extremely minute—is pass- ed through the stricture or strictures by dexterous, persevering, and at the same time gentle pressure in the proper direction. If the diseased part be ante- rior to the bulb, it can be grasped between the fingers of the left hand, whilst with the right the instru- ment is insinuated into it; thus the part is steadied, and the course of the catheter made more certain and safe. If it be posterior, assistance in the introduc- tion, and information as to the direction and progress of the instrument are obtained by the forefinger of the left hand being placed in the bowel; and this is the118 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. more necessary when the stricture is of an elastic na- ture. Considerable experience is requisite to enable the surgeon to be aware of the progress he is making with the instrument, and whether or not it is ad- vancing fairly in the canal; much information as to this is imparted by the sense of feeling. If the point of the instrument be within the contracted part, it will be felt embraced and obstructed, and on withdraw- ing the pressure, it will be stationary ; if it have not entered the stricture, but is pushing it before it, resi- lience will be felt as soon as the pressure is either di- minished or removed. The sensation imparted when the instrument has left the canal, and is forming a false passage, is of a peculiar grating nature, and when once felt, will scarcely be forgotten or mista- ken. By means of a good knowledge of the natural course of the urethra, and an acquaintance with the feelings just alluded to, but which cannot be graphi- cally described, the surgeon of experience is enabled to avoid blunders, and to pass an instrument with safety through the tightest strictures. It is, how- ever, an operation of very great difficulty in aggra- vated cases, perhaps the most difficult in surgery; facility in passing the catheter is acquired only by practice and experience. The greatest caution is re- quired, along with considerable fortitude and perse- verance ; there is always a risk of making false passages,—the most dexterous surgeon may so err in-a moment of negligence oi'- i'aslmess,—and when once established, it is a difficult matter to avoid them.STlllCTUllE OF THE UllETHllA. 119 When the nistrument has been fairly lodged in the bladder, it is to be retained. A tape is attach- ed to each of the rings at the neck of the catheter^ is brought under the thigh, and fastened to a band- age passed round the waist; this simple retentive apparatus is quite effectual, and suits the erect as well as the recumbent posture. A peg, of metal or wood, is placed in the mouth of the catheter, that the patient may be kept dry, and at the same time have it in his power to relieve the bladder as often as necessary. The instrument should be retained for twenty-four hours at least, and, if the patient can bear it, for forty-eight, or even more. At first it oc- casions considerable uneasiness, pain, and excitement, but these gradually subside ; when severe, they may be allayed by opiates. The parts make efforts to get rid of the foreign body, and these efforts are salu- tary. Discharge takes place from the membrane, and oozes by the side of the catheter; relaxation occurs, often to a very great extent; and, on moving the handle of the instrument, it is found to be not only less firmly grasped, but to possess considerable free- dom of motion in the contracted part. Thus a most successful inroad is made upon the disease, and the after treatment thereby happily abridged. The in- strument is withdrawn, and time afforded for the parts to become quiet. After the lapse of two, three, or four days, according as the uneasy feelings dis- appear, a larger instrument is introduced, and re- tained perhaps for half an hour ; and the succes- sive introduction of instruments—bougies being now120 STElOTUllE OF THE URETHRA. adopted—at proper intervals, and in proper gradua- tion, is continued as in ordinary cases. Sometimes, though rarely, the good effects of the first introduc- tion and retention quickly disappear, the stricture becoming tight and unyielding as before ; when this takes place, the practice is to be repeated, but not till after several days, and then the instrument will be retained with advantage for a longer time than before, provided no imtoward symptoms are caused by its lodgement. There are very few strictures, indeed, which will not yield to this treatment, when judici- ously planned and perseveringly followed. Fistulous openings generally close in a short time, when once the urethra has been widened. Their con- traction may sometimes, however, prove slow and im- perfect, even after the stricture has been entirely remo- ved, and the application of the cautery may be requi- site ; to accomplish this, when the opening terminates in the rectum, a speculum ani is required, by which to view the aperture, and ascertain its site, and along which to pass the heated wire with safety to the bowel. The cautery is not to be applied so as to produce an extensive slough, and much loss of sub- stance, but lightly to the edges. On the separation of the superficial eschar, the margins are raw, excited, and swollen, with a disposition to granulate ; and during cicatrisation of the sore, considerable contrac- tion takes place, independent of the formation of new matter. After the contraction thus efiected has oc- curred to its full extent, and not before, the cautery is reapplied ; and by a few repetitions of the instru-STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 121 ment at long intervals, the opening is brought to close. At one time attempts to destroy the contraction oi the urethra, by the application of caustic to the stric- ture, were in great vogue ; but the total inefficiency of such practice is now generally acknowledged. The armed bougie was applied hundreds of times, at considerable intervals; and the mode of treatment, though trying, tedious, and hurtful to the patient, must have proved useful to the surgeon—but to him alone. Years were spent in such trifling, and not un- frequently serious consequences followed this treat- ment, or rather neglect, of the disease. Cutting ca- theters are dangerous, as well as inefficient for the cure of stricture ; thrusting at the end of a long stric- ture can avail but little, and in the hands of most practitioners the instrument is as likely to perforate the coats of the urethra as to enter the stricture. Incision of stricture may be required in retention of urine, scarcely otherwise. The practice is noticed under the treatment of retention. In stricture ante- rior to the scrotum, it is well to avoid incision, if pos- sible, as it generally is, for a wound there is healed with difficulty, if at all. Retention of Urine is not to be confounded with suppression of the secretion from the kidneys, arising from disorder of the structure or function of these organs. The kidneys perform very important func- < tions ui the animal economy, and complete suppres-122 RETENTION OF UKINE. sion of their secretion is a very suspicious and dan- gerous occurrence. In the healthy state of the urinary organs, when the powers of each correspond, the urine passes without almost any exertion on the part of the pa- tient; the action of the levator ani and abdominal muscles is scarcely required. But when either struc- ture or function is disordered, the balance between the parts is upset; additional assistance is necessary for expulsion of the contents of the bladder. The symptoms of retention differ according to the state of the parts and the cause which has induced it. The bladder varies in size, and in distensibility. In some cases the organ yields readily to the accumu- lation of fluid within it, rising high in the belly, reaching even the umbilicus, and forming a large, oval, tense, fluctuating swelling, apparent to the most careless and casual observer. The swelling and fluc- tuation are in such circumstances so distinct, that the disease has actually been mistaken for ascites. Again, all the symptoms of retention may exist, and all its bad consequences result, without any apparent swell- ing of the abdomen. But then the distended bladder can always be felt by the finger introduced into the va- gina or rectum ; indeed its posterior fundus bulges in towards the cavity of the gut, in every case, before it ascends upwards in the abdomen. Sickening and agonizing pain, with great anxiety and ineffectual straining, generally attend distension of the blad- der to any great degree. ^Vhen the distension is allowed to continue, urinous fever supervenes, the123 IIETENTION OF URINE. circulation is accelerated, the patient perspires pro- fusely, and exhales a urinous odour; delirium comes on, followed by sinking, and, if the cause is not removed, coma terminates the distressing train of symptoms. In other instances, the painful feel- ings subside after some time, and the urine is dis- charged involuntarily from the urethra. The ureters lose the valvular structure of their vesical termina- tions, and become dilated; the pelvis and infundi- bula of the kidneys also enlarge, and all are distended by the accumulating urine. On relieving the blad- der artificially, the pressure is taken otF the kidneys, their secretion is generally renewed with great vigour, and the bladder is again filled rapidly. If the blad- der is not relieved, the secretion of urine is sup- pressed. In many cases the urethra—the bladder more rarely—sloughs or ulcerates, unless preventive mea- sures are adopted, and extravasation of urine takes place into the cellular tissue of the pelvis, of the pe- rineum, of the groins, of the lower part of the abdo- minal parietes—into the cellular substance of the scrotum, and of the penis—the parts infiltrated de- pending of course on the point at which the urinary canal has given way. Under such circumstances the patient is sometimes rapidly destroyed, the extrava- sated urine appearing to induce speedy sinking, like to the effects of inoculation of the most virulent poi- son. If the urine escape into the cavity of the abdo- men, the patient inevitably perishes, and that very speedily; and when the cellular tissue of the pelvisRETENTION OF URINE. 124 is the seat of the extravasation, little hope can be entertained of recovery, though the fatal termination may not be so rapid as in the former case. When the urine is effused into more external parts, as into the perineum or scrotum, the danger is also im- minent, if the fluid is allowed to accumulate and become extensively infiltrated ; but when it freely escapes externally, either spontaneously or by inci- sion, there need in general be no great apprehension of immediate danger. In such cases the aperture in the urethra is found to be at first irregular and ragged ; afterwards its inner surface becomes rounded off, and a papilla presents externally. The infiltrated cellular tissue is dark, foetid, broken down, and soft, some- times seemingly in part dissolved by the putrescent urine ; and, when the patient has survived a con- siderable time, it frequently resembles closely in ap- pearance a portion of suppurated lung. When active practice is not adopted after extravasation of urine has taken place, the cellular tissue around sloughs along with the integuments ; rapid depression of the powers of life ensues, with great disturbance of the sensorial functions. Death very soon relieves the pa- tient from his sufferings ; some few struggle through, and recover, after losing the coverings of the penis, of the testicles, and of the perineum. The causes of retention are many; but the sur- geon must know them all, as the treatment must vary according to the cause. They may be divided into such as weaken the power of expulsion, and into such as impede the progress of the urine in the urethra.125 RETENTION OF URINE. • Retention of urine is caused by paralysis of the hiadcler, from over-distension, from injury or disease of the spinal chord, from pressure on the spinal chords or nerves. In such cases the bladder often attains a very large size. At first the accumulation produces all the uneasy symptoms formerly men- tioned, but after some time these subside, and the urine drains away according as it is secreted, with- out, however, the original accumulation and tumour being diminished. This state of the urinary system is very common in old people, who neglect natural calls to empty the viscus during the night, or while sitting socially after dinner. The uneasiness gra- dually goes off, and when they at length think of making water, none can be got to flow. Sometimes they remain in this state—the bladder full, and be- coming more and more distended—for days, drinking gin and water, juniper tea, or other popular remedies. Incontinence then takes place, and the dribbling of the urine affords considerable relief; this state of matters is often allowed to continue for weeks. Thus the power of expulsion may be lost for ever, though sometimes it is regained even under very unfavour- able circumstances. I recollect attending a man upwards of eighty, labouring under retention of urine with incontinence, and whose bladder required re- lief by the catheter for ten or twelve days ; at the end of that period the bladder regained its expulsive power, and retained it; and cases are on record in which the power of expulsion has returned after the lapse of several months. Retention thus induced is126 RETENTION OF URINE. often complicated with disease of the prostate gland or of the urethra. The jiatient, perhaps, has been for a long time incapable of emptying his bladder completely ; a portion of the urine always remains in the most dependent part of the viscus, and the quantity retained becomes greater and greater, until from some slight cause the power of expulsion is lost entirely. In these cases the bladder, though much increased in capacity, is also much thickened. Retention from inflamed urethra, attended with swelling and spasmodic action of the sphincter vesi- cae, is preceded by hardness and tenderness in the course of the urethra, and a smarting felt when a drop of urine passes along. Retention not unfre- quently takes place during gonorrhoea, from the dread which the patient has of making water; and from the swelling of the lining membrane. Retention from abscess in the perineum was for- merly noticed. Retention from injuries ifi the 2^e7'ineum. The urethra is either severely bruised, perhaps lacerated, or torn completely across ; and if the patient at- tempts to make water before proper means are adopt- ed, blood and urine are extravasated into the cellular tissue exterior to the canal. In cases of slighter in- jury, retention may occur on account of the inflam- matory swelling of the parts supervening seconda- rily. Retention from sirictm-e of the urethra is of very frequent occurrence, and most difficult to manage. The state of the urethra and bladder in this diseaseIIETENTION OF URINE. 127 has been already adverted to, but it is necessary to bear in mind the thickening of the latter, and the dilatation which uniformly takes place behind the stricture. All the urgent symptoms of retention may, in this case, arise from the accumulation of but a few ounces of urine. The bladder contracts fre- quently and very forcibly, causing great suffering. Temporary relief is experienced when the urethra gives way by ulceration, and the urine becomes extra- vasated into the cellular texture ; the patient gets up, and, if in the dark, thinks that the stricture has yielded, and that he is passing urine naturally. But soon he feels a glowing heat in the perineum, the parts swell and become livid ; violent constitutional symptoms come on, the discoloration advances, the integuments slough, ill formed matter is discharged, and disorganised cellular tissue mixed with putrid sanies is exposed. The parts exhale a urinous odour, which, when once ifelt by the practitioner, can never afterwards be mistaken. Occasionally cedematous swelling of the penis takes place, particularly of the prepvice, when it has been pulled at and bruised du- ring the patient's efforts to make water, and this must not be confounded with infiltration of urine ; I have seen it occur some time after the bladder had been relieved by the catheter. Retention from the lodgement of calculi. Tempo- rary obstruction to the flow of urine is sometimes experienced from calculus in the bladder. Complete and fatal retention has arisen from calculi having become impacted into the urethra, and been allowed to remain there, blocking up the passage entirely.RETENTION OF URINE. 128 Retention from affections of the prostate gland and necJe of the hladdei', inflammatory or indolent. In acute inflammation of the prostate gland and cer- vix vesicae, the other parts around swell, the mu- cous membrane becomes turgid and more villous, and the mucous secretion is increased. Suppuration may take place, and an abscess, chronic or acute, form in the substance of the gland, or in the cellular tissue exterior ; the parietes of the abscess may give way, and the matter be discharged into the bladder, into the rectum, or into the cellular tissue of the peri- neum.—Bloody and mucous discharge from the ure- thra, frequent desire to make water, sudden stoppage of the urine whilst making water, pain in the glans penis, and other symptoms of stone in the bladder, fol- lowed a fall on the back. Afterwards, a tumour point- ed into the rectum, and was opened ; purulent matter was profusely discharged, and afterwards urine esca- ped through the aperture. The patient died in three weeks, from irritative fever, with gastro-enteritic symptoms. Along M^th thickening of the bladder, and disease of its mucous coat, there was found a large abscess of the cellular tissue, communicating with an abscess in the third lobe of the prostate gland, and that with the cavity of the bladder. When the inflammation is less acute, the prostate slowly enlarges, from opening out of its texture, and deposition of new matter in the interstices. The whole gland may enlarge uniformly, but generally one part protrudes more than the others. When the third lobe enlarges, it necessarily projects into theIIETENTION OF URINE. 129 bladder, or into the prostatic portion of the urethra, and there acting like a valve, causes much more for- midable obstruction to the flow of urine than does enlargement of the lateral lobes; and the obstruc- tion is the more complete the greater the distension of the bladder. At first, this lobe is but slightly pro- minent, and of a conical form ; but as it enlarges, its regularity of shape disappears, the tumour is nodu- lated, and in general somewhat pyriform. The affec- tion is seldom met with, unless in old people. In consequence of prostatic enlargement, pain is felt in perineo, with occasional throbbing, and a sense of weight; there is frequent desire to make water, the bladder is irritable and discharges ropy mucus. There is more or less irritation of the lower bowels; there is an almost constant desire to empty the rectum, from a feeling of fulness there, and pain, often severe, is felt on going to stool; when the enlargement is great, the bowel is considerably compressed, and the faeces, when solid, are passed flattened like portions of tape. Frequently there is thin mucous discharge from the urethra. In making water, the urine, as it were, hesitates, and after a while passes away at first in drops, and afterwards in a scanty and irregular stream ; pain is felt at the point of the penis, in the loins and hips, and often in the inside of one or both thighs. On attempting to pass the catheter, its extremity is obstructed in the prostatic region, and the swelling can be felt by the finger introduced into the anus. Examination PART III. IRETENTION OF URINE. 130 of the tumour, per anum, often is a very painful proceeding; it is best accomplished when a catheter or sound is introduced. The disease is often co- existent with calculus in the bladder. The tumour is very seldom malignant, but proves both trouble- some and dangerous from its size. The bladder may become distended in consequence, though re- taining the power of partially relieving itself; or the urine may come away involuntarily after some time; or retention may be complete, and, if not re- lieved, the bladder or urethra may slough. It is to be recollected, that in retention of urine, from whatever cause, and particularly in that ari- sing from prostatic enlargement, the urethra is elon- gated, and the bladder rises into the abdomen like the gravid uterus. The reason of such change of rela- tive situation is sufl&ciently obvious, being chiefly mechanical. Fungous, or other tumours, furnishing blood or vitiated puriform matter, now and then grow from the internal surface of the bladder, unconnected with the prostate gland. Worms, too,—spiroptera homi- nis,—occasionally lodge in the bladder. Either of these circumstances may induce retention of urine. Another cause of obstruction is hernia of the bladder. There is no disease in which the patient is more liable to be ' bungled out of his life,' than in reten- tion of urine. Great credit is to be gained by judi- cious and skilful management of the various stages, and by expert use of the catheter in difficult cases, when others, after being foiled, have proposed opera-RETENTION OF URINE. 131 tions alarming to the patient, and dangerous. In no disease are patients more grateful for relief, for in this the agony is often unbearable. Immediate abate- ment of all painful symptoms follows skilful and prompt measures; and the superior science of one man over others is made apparent to the most ignorant observer. In over-distended bladder from paralysis, the catheter can in general be passed without diffi- culty. It should be of a large size, and its introduc- tion should be repeated as often as nature calls for relief, perhaps three or four times during the twenty- four hours, until the viscus regains its tone; and this, unless irrecoverably lost, will generally be re- stored in a few weeks at most. Repeated introduc- tion of the instrument is here preferable to the re- taining of it; the latter measure should always be avoided, unless absolutely indispensable, for a foreign body lodging in the urethra and neck of the bladder must always be a source of more or less irritation; and experience shows that the bladder sooner re- covers its tone when the instrument- is introduced only to draw off the urine, when the uncomfortable feelings of distension come on, than when it is con- stantly retained. The patient soon learns to pass the instrument himself, and thereby saves the surgeon from frequent attendance, whilst, at the same time, the bladder is opportunely relieved. Stimulants, as the tinctura lyttse, given internally, with external friction, blistering, or the application of a moxa, may contribute towards restoration of the muscular power132 RETENTION OF URINE. of the organ. Injections into the bladder have been recommended, but are both hurtful and inefficient. Enemata, containing turpentine, or other stimulating fluids, are of service. In retention from inflamed urethra, the catheter should, if possible, be dispensed with. The intro- duction of it is excruciatingly painful, and will cer- tainly aggravate the original affection. Blood should be abstracted both from the system and from the perineum ; fomentations, with the warm bath or the hip bath, are afterwards to be employed. The re- tention is usually induced by over-exertion in exercise, or intemperance in living; these of course must be abandoned, and their opposites enjoined. Camphor, alone, or combined with opium, is to be given inter- nally in large doses. Opium may also be useful, administered in the form of an enema or suppository. If relief is not soon afforded by such soothing mea- sures, the bladder must be relieved by the catheter; and if the surgeon be foiled in the introduction of this, as he ought not to be, the only resource is to punc- ture the bladder from the rectum—a harsh measure, to be sure, and one not indicative of surgical talent, but still preferable, in the eyes of both patient and surgeon, to death. In retention from abscess in perineo, a little delay is allowable under the employment of palliatives, when the affection is acute. The abscess must be freely opened as soon as its seat is discovered ; and until the evacuation of the matter, the use of the133 KETENTION OF URINE. catheter should be deferred if possible. In cases of chronic abscess, the catheter must be used, and does no harm. In retention from injury of the perineum, the ca- theter should be passed before the patient attempts to make water, and the instrument must be retained ; thus extravasation of urine into the cellular tissue will be avoided. If extravasation has occurred, the perineum, scrotum, or other parts, must be freely incised wherever the urine has been effused, in order to prevent the direful effects of lodgement of that fluid; and then the catheter should be passed and retained as in the former instance. If the surgeon be foiled in introducing an instrument, as he may be, and if the prostate be sound, the bladder must be re- lieved by puncture from the rectum. Eetention from stricture is, as already observed, the most difficult to manage. No time can be put off in bleeding or warm bathing, in giving internal remedies, or exhibiting enemata. The viscus is ma- king violent efforts to relieve itself, and if these are left unassisted, or not rendered unnecessary, they may prove the patient's destruction. The system may be drained of blood, and the body parboiled, without the patient being relieved. The case re- quires immediate and decided practice; for whilst the surgeon is consulting about what is to be done, the urethra may give way, and the patient be lost. The discharge of a small quantity of urine may fol- low the introduction of small flexible bougies, but the134 llETENTION OF URINE. bladder is not relieved. The throwing of cold water on the thighs may, in slight cases, induce such con- traction of the expelling muscles as may overcome the resistance in the urethra, and this method has been had recourse to after failure with the catheter ; but he must be a very poor surgeon who is foiled, when such practice is successful. Immediate recourse must be had to the firm silver catheter, proportioned in size to the tightness of the stricture, and the difficulties afforded to its introduc- tion must be overcome by skill and perseverance; it is no easy matter to pass the instrument in many cases, and particularly when ineffectual attempts have been made previously. By gentle insinuation, and perseverance in moderate pressure, properly directed, the obstacle can always be overcome,—and that with- out the infliction of any injury to the parts. I may here observe, that 1 have never yet been foiled in passing the catheter, though many severe cases have fallen to my lot; in other words, I have never been obliged to abandon my attempts to obtain an exit for the urine by its natural passage, and, as a last re- source, to mutilate and endanger a patient by making an unnatural aperture in his bladder. Yet circum- stances may soon occur to me in which the introduc- tion of an instrument along the urethra shall be im- possible ; no man can be always wise or always for- tunate ; he who pretends to invariable success must be either a knave or a fool. Should the surgeon fail in passing the catheter,IIETENTION OF UlllNE. 135 the bladder must be relieved at all hazards; and if the prostate be sound, puncture by the rectum may- be performed. This is neither a difficult nor a dan- gerous operation, else it would not be so often resort- ed to ; it does not require so much skill and manage- ment as does the passing of a catheter. Neither is it painful to the patient; the parts to be perforated are thin, there is scarcely any effusion of blood, and all is done in the dark. But it is an operation which should never be thought of, unless as a last and des- perate remedy; it is one in which I have had no personal experience, though I have seen it done re- peatedly. The procedure gives temporary relief, but then the urethra still remains to be put into a proper condition ; a man cannot always void his urine and excrement through one common cloaca. If the ure- thra be cleared, the recto-vesical aperture may soon close. After the bladder is relieved, the urethra may become quieter, and admit of an instrument being passed; but it is of very great consequence to effect the introduction of a catheter at the first. Rather than puncture the bladder, the stricture should be cut down upon, and an opening made into the dilated part of the urethra behind the stricture. A firm silver catheter is passed down to the stric- ture, and retained there by an assistant; an incision in the line of the central raphe—supposing the con- stricted part to be in the perineal region—is made over the extremity of the instrument, the contracted part of the urethra is divided, and the catheter passedllETENTION OF URINE. 136 on into the bladder. Thus, even in the worst cases, the natural canal is at once established. In every- instance of difficulty and complication, the catheter, however passed, should be retained for two or more days. The above is the only admissible mode of puncturing by the perineum. It has been proposed, and practised on the continent, to reach the bladder from the perineum either by incisions or by the ran- dom thrust of a long trocar ; the latter mode is un- scientific, the former is unnecessarily painful, serious, and difficult; both are dangerous, and to be avoided. The symptoms of extravasation of urine have been already detailed. The practice must be bold, and adopted without hesitation or delay. No bulging or fluctuation in the perineum is to be waited for. Ex- travasation can never be mistaken or overlooked by a man of any experience, and who is endowed with common observation. The effect and extent of the perineal fascia must be borne in mind ; it diminishes or precludes—when the point at which the urethra has given way is interior to it—external appearance of the mischief, and by confining the deleterious fluid increases the infiltration internally. A free and deep incision holds out the only chance of relief; punctures or trifling scratches are worse than useless ; neither is there any need of passing bougies or catheters, or of puncturing the bladder. The following appears to me an instructive case, and may be briefly detailed in ierrorem. A man applied for relief, with a large swelling in the hypo-137 IIKTENTION OK UllINE. gastrium, occasioned by extensive infiltration of urine into the cellular tissue of the abdominal parie^; tes. The tumour was mistaken for distension of the bladder, and a long trocar was plunged in above the pubes Muthout a drop of urine escaping. The patient died during the night. The bladder was found con- tracted, and the external cellular tissue of the abdo- men full of urine. When judicious and energetic practice is adopted without delay, patients often make wonderful reco- veries. The following may serve as an example— An elderly man laboured under retention, and his bladder became distended to a very great degree ; attempts had been made to relieve him, but jiroved unsuccessful. A catheter was passed, and retained for three days. During my absence in the country retention again occurred, followed by extravasation. On my return I found him insensible, but immediate- ly turned him round in bed, and opened the perineum freely, giving vent to fcetid urine, sloughs, and matter. Next day he was delirious and knew no one ; he hic- coughed and had cold extremities ; " he fumbled with the sheets," and " his nose was as sharp as a pen." A physician in attendance, well acquainted with disease, declared that he could not live six hours. But the urine had a free exit, the hiccough ceased on the exhibition of spiritus ammonise aromaticus, and wine and brandy were poured into him liberally, the only favourable symptom being, that he still retained the power of swallowing—when that is lost, all is generally lost.IIETENTION OF UllINE. 138 He took soup along with the stimulants readily and greedily, and to the astonishment of every one reco- vered rapidly; afterwards the stricture was got rid of, and restoration to perfect health completed. Many cases of similar import might be related, all showing the great danger of extravasation of urine, and the advantage of early and decided treatment. I have also lately witnessed an unexpected recovery from extravasation into the corpus spongiosum urethras. This occurrence is always attended with most im- minent risk ; and is generally the result of retention from stricture. The urine escapes into the bulb, or anterior to it. Alarming constitutional symptoms quickly supervene ; rapid sinking is threatened. The whole penis, scrotum, and perineum are swoln, but the swelling is hard, and most marked in the glans and along the course of the urethra. The glans blackens, unhealthy abscesses form in the spongy body, and before these give way, or at least before the sloughs begin to separate, the patient usually perishes. The man to whom I allude however recovered, retaining a part of the glans, as well as a considerable portion of the urethra and integuments ; the rest sloughed and were discharged. In regard to retention from swelling at the neck of the bladder, it may be observed, that spasm of that part of the viscus has been, by some, considered as a cause of the affection ; such an idea is a bad one for him to entertain who enters on the treatment of the disease. The capacity of the bladder varies much in139 RETENTION OF URINE. cases of enlarged prostate; in general the organ bears a good deal of distension, and the urgent symp- toms do not appear rapidly. Nevertheless, it is the duty of the surgeon, immediately ou being called, to relieve the bladder. When the prostate is very large, and retention has continued long, it is impossible to reach the bladder by the common catheter. Those who employ this instrument in such cases are often much puzzled ; they continue long in their fruitless endeavours, and, from rashness, generally produce a discharge of much blood, but no urine; they then become alarmed on finding the instrument always filled with coagulum, and suppose that blood has been effused into the bladder, and that the symptoms of retention have been thus induced. A catheter is to be used, which is two or three inches longer than the common one, possessing a larger curve, of such a| size as to admit of being passed easily, and not so small as to render it liable to interruption from the lacunae of the urethra. The posterior part of the urethra is elongated to no slight extent by the enlarge- ment of the prostate, and besides, the whole canal is stretched by the distended bladder rising high in the abdomen. In short, the bladder is farther away from the surgeon than it is in other cases of reten- tion, and he requires an instrument proportionally long in order to reach it. No time is to be put off. A cautious and persevering endeavour must be made to bring away the urine by the natural passage. Force is prejudicial and unnecessary. It is true, that the projecting third lobe of the prostate has not un-RETENTION OF URINE. 140 frequently been perforated by the catheter, and no unpleasant consequences resulted, the urine continu- ing to flow, perhaps freely, through the artificial opening there ; but still it is always an injury, often an unnecessary injury, and as such to be avoided. The catheter is to be passed steadily on till it ap- proaches the prostatic region, it is then to be guided by the forefinger of the left hand introduced into the rectum, and when the point is lost in passing through the gland, the instrument is carefully carried forward, and if long enough will infallibly reach the urine and relieve the bladder. It must, indeed, be a very extra- ordinary case in which the bladder cannot be reached with the catheter. When enlargement of the prostate, whether of the whole gland or principally of the third lobe, presents an insuperable obstacle to the passage of the catheter, and when the surgeon has taken care to assure him- self that such is the case, I conceive that he ought to perforate the gland in the direction of the natural course of the urethra, not with the catheter, but with an instrument better adapted for the purpose—a long canula, or catheter with open end, very slightly curved towards the extremity, provided with two wires, one blunt and bulbous at the extremity, the other pointed as a trocar, both made so as to project a short way beyond the end of the canula. The canula is passed on to the resisting body, its orifice occupied by the bulbous wire, which is then withdrawn, and its place supplied by the trocar, the instrument being held steady in the proper direction. The trocar, or stilet,IIETENTION OF URINE. 141 is pushed forwards along with the caniila ; the for- mer is then withdrawn, and the latter retained. This proceeding I consider quite safe in the hands of an experienced surgeon, one well acquainted with the urinary passages—but not otherwise. It is in every way preferable to puncture of the bladder above the pubes, to puncture behind the prostate, or to puncture of the prostate along with wound of the rectum. As before noticed, I never have had occasion to puncture the bladder but once—then it was above the pubes, and for an imusual affection of the blad- der, the particulars of which have been already de- tailed. The result of the experience of several emi- nent surgeons, both in this country and abroad, is similar. Elastic gum catheters have been recommended in this affection, and it is said that after the instrument has been passed to the prostatic region, its entrance into the bladder is facilitated by gently withdrawing the stilet, the point of the catheter being thereby cur- ved upwards, and, as it were, lifted over any central projection of the prostate that mayimpede its straight- forward introduction. But, according to ray expe- rience, this instrument is far inferior to the firm silver catheter. j^In all cases of retention when the urine cannot be brought away per vias naturales, and when no farther assistance or advice can be procured immediately, the surgeon should puncture the bladder rather than leave the patient to his fate; and the operation should beRETENTION OF URINE. 142 performed early. He must not temporise till all chance of recovery has gone by. By not operating till late, in this or any other disease, when no reason- able chance of saving the patient exists, our depart- ment of the profession is brought into discredit and contempt. Delay is more dangerous than even the worst mode of making an opening into the bladder; and while life exists, the patient should have his chance. Some defer extreme measures from day to day, either from hesitation or from a false hope that matters may ultimately change for the better, but the delay of one hour is in many cases most hazardous. In retention from disease of the prostate, extravasa- tion of urine is more dangerous—more certainly fatal —than in other circumstances. Here a part of the vesical parietes gives way by sloughing, and the fluid is effused within the ilio-vesical fascia ; in other cases the extravasation is usually beyond that fascia, and beneath the fascia of the perineum. Pimcture hy the Rectum is, in cases of enlarged prostate, inadmissible and highly dangerous ; the operator must either perforate the gland, or enter the cavity of the abdomen. Even in the healthy state of parts, there is very little space between the posterior part of the prostate and the reflection of the perito- neum. The operator having ascertained that the prostate is sound, and the rectum empty, introduces the fore and middle fingers of the left hand into the bowel, and along these passes a trocar and canula from four to five inches in length, of moderate ca- libre, and of a curve rather greater than that of the143 RETENTION OF URINE. sacrum. He places the point of this instrument on the part to be perforated, and fixes it there, the point of the trocar being hitherto withdrawn within the canula; the trocar is then protruded, and both carried onwards into the bladder. The part to be perforated is immediately behind the prostate. Punctii7'e above the Piihes is easily enough per- formed when the bladder is capacious, but it is at best a dangerous operation. The wound is made through loose cellular tissue ; urinary extravasation into that tissue is apt to occur, and proves fatal. If the bowels are inflamed, or evince a tendency to- ■wards inflammatory action, the danger is increased, for a formidable wound is made in the immediate vi- cinity of the bowels. The operation has been resorted to when the catheter might have been passed with- out much difficulty; this statement may appear harsh, but it is too true, and can be borne out by indispu- table facts. It is brought forward more as a caution to the young than as a reflection on the senior mem- bers of the profession. Some patients have recovered from the operation, and lived in misery for months and years, passing their urine through a canula re- tained in the wound. An incision is made above the symphysis pubis, in the mesial line, dividing the integuments and cellular tissue, to the extent of from one to two inches ; on thus exposing the coats of the bladder, a flat trocar with a canula is pushed into the cavity of the viscus, at the lower part of the wound ; the trocar is withdrawn, and the urine evacuated. The treatment of enlarged prostate is palliative—144 INCONTINENCE OF URINE. attention to the general health, the occasional admi- nistration of anodyne suppositories or enemata, pre- vention of accumulation in the lower bowels, either by gentle laxatives or the throwing up of bland fluid, and the avoiding as far as possible all sources to ex- citement, of mind as well as body. The radical cure is extirpation of the gland, but the cool proposal of such an operation would indicate either ignorance, or dereliction in principle, or mental obliquity, or all combined. In retention from effusion of blood into the cavity of the bladder, a long catheter will sometimes eva- cuate the urine, and after some time also the blood ; for the latter, though at first coagulated, ultimately becomes dissolved in the urine, and passes off along with it, even through a catheter of no very large calibre. Should, this fail, and the symptoms continue urgent, an exhausting syringe should be employed, well adapted to the extremity of the catheter. After the urine has been thus evacuated, should a suspicion remain of coagula being still in the bladder, some warmish water may be injected with the view of pro- moting the breaking down of the clots, and then the exhaustion may be repeated. Incontinence of Urine, as already observed, is a common result of distension of the bladder and of stricture. But it also occurs as a primary affection, particularly in young people, from irritability of the posterior part of the urethra not suffering the urine to accumulate within the bladder as in ordinary cir- 2145 INCONTINENCE OF URINE. cumstances. It is removed by the application of a blister to the perineum, and by the patient attending to empty the bladder at intervals during the night. Children, and even mothers, sometimes have recourse to a more effectual method, the application of a tight ligature round the penis. But of the folly of such practice, the following may serve as an example. A. R., when a boy, passed a brass curtain-ring over his penis to prevent incontinence of urine during the night, and thereby escape chastisement, to which he had been frequently subjected. Great swelling soon took place round the ring, and he was unable to remove the jugum. He experienced much pain and difficulty in voiding his urine ; the integuments under the ring gradually ulcerated, the ring appear- ed to sink into the substance of the penis, and the swelling subsided. The integuments met and ad- hered, the foreign body was concealed, and all unea- siness soon ceased. The penis performed well all that was required of it; the urine passed easily, and after a while he became the father of a fine family. When between fifty and sixty years of age, he ap- plied to me. For some years previously difficulty in making water had been coming on, and frequent desire to pass it in the night-time rendered him very uncomfortable. He was under the necessity of ha- ving a vessel constantly in bed, and was generally dis- turbed every half hour. The penis had become very unserviceable, and he was now anxious to have the ring removed. A broad hard substance was felt sur- rounding the penis, close to the symphysis ; an inci- PART III. KGONOllRIKEA I'RiEPUTIALIS. 146 sioii was made into the urethra at that part, and a calculus easily extracted. The uneasy symptoms quickly disappeared, and the patient recovered with a small fistula at the incised part, which could have been removed without difficulty, had not the intro- duction of bougies been obstinately resisted. The calculus resembled a prune in size, of a crescentic form, with one of the apices detached, and was appa- rently composed of uric acid, coated with the am- moniaco-magnesian phosphate. On making a sec- tion of it, about two-thirds of the brass curtain-ring, partially decomposed, were found firmly impacted in the centre. It would appear that a portion of the ring had speedily made its way into the urethra, had been acted upon and washed away by the urine; while the remainder coming more gradually in con- tact with that fluid, had become incrusted with de- posit, and formed the nucleus of the calculus. It is strange that the penis should have been efficient, —that the erectile tissue should have remained per- vious—after having been cut completely through near the symphysis. Of Gonorrlicea Prceputialis vel spuria.—By this term is understood discharge of puriform matter from the lining membrane of the prepuce, and from the surface of the glans, accompanied with an itching and smarting sensation. The affection may arise from mere inattention to cleanliness, the natural secretion being allowed to collect and deteriorate ; or from the application of acrid matter, gonorrhoeal, or leucor- hoeal. It often attends discharge from the urethra,GONOUllHCEA PRiEPUTIALlS. 147 and is usually met with in those who, from the na- tural tightness of the prepuce, uncover the glans with difficulty, if at all. It may occur without im- pure connexion ; mucous discharge accumulates, be- comes acrid from stagnation, and is washed away by profuse secretion of puriform matter ; the parts then become quiet, and resume their healthy functions, but are apt from slight causes to be again the seat of dis- charge. Generally, the surfaces of the prepuce and glans are relaxed and turgid, but there is no breach of continuity ; in neglected cases there is superficial patchy ulceration, and sometimes a deep and slough- ing sore. The matter is often confined by tightness of the prseputial orifice, and mischief thereby occa- sioned to the glans ; a large purulent collection forms, and, if the case is neglected, ulceration takes place, either of the glans or of the prepuce, or of both ; the latter becomes thin, and at length gives way; the aperture thus formed extends, and occa- sionally is of such a size as to admit of protrusion of the glans. (Edematous swelling generally takes place to a great extent in such cases. The glands of the groin sometimes swell, and through inattention may suppurate. The absorbents of the penis may also become turgid and painful. Tenderness of the glans and prepuce often exists, in a greater or less degree, for years ; in such circumstances the affection may be termed gleet of the prepuce, and is usually the consequence of irritable urethra. The treatment consists in cleanliness and rest, ap- plying astringent washes to the parts, and suspend-148 PIIYMOSIS AND PARAPHYMOSIS. ing the organ. When swelling of the prepuce or inflammation of the lymphatics is threatened, con- stant rest must be enjoined. In obstinate cases, dis- ease of the urethra is to be suspected as the cause, and the state of that canal should therefore be ascer- tained ; if derangement of structure or function is detected, then means must be forthwith adopted for its removal, the applications to the prepuce and glans being at the same time not neglected. Mercury can be of no use. Phymosis and JPara'phymosis are often connected with gonorrhoea of the prepuce, or of the urethra. The edge of the prepuce may be rendered tight by inflammation, swelling from effusion, or cicatrisa- tion of sores ; the tightness also attends irritabi- lity of the urethra, particularly in young subjects ; often it is congenital. The affection is termed Phy- mosis when the prepuce occupies its natural relative situation, but cannot be drawn back so as to uncover the glans. The contraction exists in various degrees ; sometimes the orifice is so tight that the flow of uritfe is obstructed, the prseputial cavity becoming swelled and distended every time the patient attempts to make water. In other instances the uuinjected glans can be exposed either in part or entirely, though with difficulty. In consequence of the prasputial cavity being frequently filled with urine, in cases of great contraction, urinary concretions have formed there or in the orifice of the urethra, giving rise to very annoying, and sometimes alarming, symptoms.PHYMOSIS AND rAllAPIIYMOSIS. 149 In consequence of Phymosis, the urethra and bladder may become diseased. It is often attended with pro- fuse puriform discharge, with sores of different kinds, or with warty excrescences on the glans and pre- puce ; sometimes the whole surface is completely covered with granulated prominences of various sizes, some large, but the majority small, some broadly attached, others suspended by narrow necks ; all generally furnish discharge of thin acrid matter. Adhesion may take place between the raw surfaces of the prepuce and glans, provided the parts be not frequently displaced for the purpose of ablution. Para/phymosis arises from the same state of the orifice of the prepuce as the former affection, only the parts are in different relations to each other. In phymosis the prepuce covers the glans, and the tight part is anterior to it; in paraphyraosis the prepuce is reflected over the glans, the tight part acts as a ligature round the penis behind the glans, and such swelling speedily arises in consequence of the con- striction as to prevent reduction. The glans and lining membrane of the prepuce swell anteriorly to the stricture, the integuments of the penis swell behind, and the stricture is depressed and concealed between. The cellular tissue there is necessarily very loose, so as to admit of free motion and change of relative position, and consequently the engorgement is often very great. The infiltration is at first serous, and the swelling is easily compressed ; but, from con- tinuance of the inflammatory action, lymph is effused and becomes organised, and the turgescence is more150 PHYMOSIS AND PAllAPHYMOSIS. solid and unyielding. When the stricture is very tight, the patient cachectic and irregular in his mode of life, and the case injudiciously or inertly treated, sloughing takes place rapidly, or phagedenic ulceration occurs anterior to the stricture. But in most cases the prepuce is not so tight as to cause complete strangulation, yet obstructs the flow of blood sufficiently to induce swell- ing of the included parts, breach of surface more or less extensive, and an unhealthy appearance of the ulceration. The ulceration is generally in the neigh- bourhood of the stricture, at first limited and super- ficial, but increasing both in depth and extent so long as the cause remains. The stricture is not situated anteriorly to the swelling, as has been supposed, but near its middle—where the tight orifice of the pre- puce grasps the penis, and causes a depression in the swelling. On separating the anterior and posterior tumours, the stricture is readily exposed, though pre- viously effectually concealed. In slight cases of phymosis, the orifice may be di- lated by frequent fomentation, and perseverance in withdrawing the prepuce as far as possible. When ulceration or secretion of matter has occurred, astrin- gent injections, at first mild, and gradually strength- ened, should be frequently thrown into the pra?putial cavity. Suspension of the penis should be enjoined, along with rest—of the whole body, as well as of the affected organ in particular. Wlien much inflamma- tion exists, antiphlogistic remedies must be put in force, followed by foir.entations. In bad cases, the prepuce must be divided in order to expose the seatPHYMOSIS AND PARAPIIYMOSIS. 151 of ulceration, morbid secretions, and vegetations. The preferable situation for incision is close by the side of the fraenum, much less deformity ensuing than when the prepuce is divided either laterally or ill front. The flaps are at first loose and flabby, but shrink as the oedeniatous swelling subsides. A straight director is introduced within the prasputial orifice— the groove pointing downwards^—and passed down to the reflection, close to the fraenum ; a sharp-pointed curved bistoury is slid along the groove till it also reaches the reflection ; by raising the handle and pushing it forwards, the integuments are transfixed there, and withdrawal of the knife by a rapid sweep completes the incision. Care must be taken not to pass the director into the urethra instead of into the praeputial cavity. It is very seldom that ligature is required to arrest bleeding. Should the cellu- lar tissue of the divided part not have been the seat of solid effusion, the integument and the lining mem- brane of the prepuce separate, leaving a large raw surface; and to prevent this a small suture should be passed between the membrane and skin on each side of the wound ; these may be withdrawn on the second or third day, the cellular tissue having then become consolidated, so as not to admit of retraction. A warm poultice is the best application for the first few days ; afterwards healing of the cut surfaces may be promoted by the application of a gently Stimula- ting lotion. Should oedema of the prepuce remain, this may soon be effaced by bandaging. By this operation sufficient space is obtained for uncovering152 rilYMOSIS AND rARAl'HVMOSIS. the glans, under any circumstances ; and besides, to this part of the organ is still preserved its natural investment, not in the least curtailed either in size or in efficiency—the glans can be uncovered and covered at will; whereas by any other mode of in- cision the unseemly flaps always fall away, leaving the greater part of the glans constantly uncovered, and placing the patient, if not in a worse, at least in the same predicament, as if he had been subjected to regular circumcision. There is danger in allowing the state of phymosis to exist long ; it has been already observed, that this condition of the parts predisposes to ulceration, ve- getations, and morbid secretions ; but besides, expe- rience has shown, that very many cases of cancer of the penis are attributable to phymosis, either conge- nital, or of long duration. In all cases, when the orifice of the prepuce is so tight as not to admit of exposure of the glans, the operation is expedient, the existing state of parts being very inconvenient; but it becomes a matter of absolute necessity, when there are extensive sores on the prepuce or glans, when there is much tumefaction or hardening of the parts, when urinary concretions lodge in the praspu- tial cavity or in the orifice of the urethra, when ve- getations or warts form on the glans, and when the prseputial orifice is so contracted as to seriously im- pede the flow of urine. In paraphymosis there is a necessity for early interference, in order to save the organ \ indeed active and decided measures are as imperiously call-153 PHYMOSIS AND PARAPHYMOSIS. ed for here, as in the case of strangulated hernia; and it ought to be remembered that the organ is one of importance, and that its loss would ren- der most people miserable. To attempt relaxation by fomentations, and such like, is absolute folly; the stricture cannot yield to such remedies; and, from increase of swelling, strangulation will become more and moi'e complete. Cold, too, is incapable of reducing the swelling; cold, or astringents, can- not possibly diminish the size of the vessels, whilst return of the blood in them is prevented by tight stricture ; and so long as the stricture remains, the serous effusion cannot subside, but will increase. Besides, the application of cold will hasten the occur- rence of gangrene, in as much as it tends to diminish the power of parts which are already in a weakly condition. The parts must be instantly replaced. With the fingers of the right hand, the surgeon grasps the glans, and by firm and continued pressure diminishes its volume, whilst with the left he endea- vours, by steady pulling, to reflect the swollen pre- puce over the glans, which he is at the same time pushing back, as well as lessening. By uniformity and perseverance in these manipulations, more than by any force, replacement will often be accomplish- ed. He will be able to judge, from the duration of the disease, and from the appearance and feel of the parts, whether simple reduction, that is, with- out having recourse to the knife, be practicable or not. In some cases, particularly when gangrene is imminent, there is danger of twisting off the glans.PHYMOSIS AND rARAPHYMOSlS. 154 if attempts at reduction are injudiciously persevered in. When he is foiled in reduction, or deems the attempting of it imprudent, the stricture must be divided ; and in this simple operation much error is often committed from ignorance of the nature of the disease, and of the relative situation of the parts. It is necessary to divide only the edge of the prepuce, which, from being reflected, alone composes the stric- ture. The anterior and posterior swellings are to be separated as far as possible, and, in the very bottom of the depression between, the stricture is exposed ; a slight incision, a scratch, through this, either with the point of a bistoury, or with a lancet, is sufficient; the tight edge of the prepuce—the only part in fault—is divided, and then, by the jjrocess already detailed, reduction can be readily effected. After reduction, a minute notch in the extreme edge of the prepuce is the only deformity visible, except the swelling. But if, from ignorance of the true seat of the stricture, extensive incisions have been made, pretty much at random, the organ will be consider- ably disfigured—and that unnecessarily. By fomen- tations, rest, and low diet, the effusion will be dissi- pated in a very few days. Reduction is difficult when the contraction has continued for some time, and the tissues have become glued together by ef- fused lymph. Malignant ulcer, with induration of the surround- ing parts, and contamination of the lymphatics, oc- curs occasionally on the glans penis, or on the liningCANCEE OF PENIS. 155 membrane of the prepuce. As before observed, it is most frequently met with in those who have laboured under congenital phymosis; in that state of the organ, its extremity is apt to inflame, swell, and ulcerate, in consequence of accumulation and acrimony of the secretions from the membrane of the prepuce: indolent swellings form in the groin; and in one case, I recollect, these assumed a malig- nant action, a frightful ulcer formed, and the patient was destroyed, after division of the prepuce, and after the ulceration on it had been long healed, and the part had apparently become quite sound. Early removal of the diseased part, by incision wide of the indurated and altered structure surrounding the ulcer, is the only means of saving the patient, of pre- venting glandular inguinal tumour, ulceration of it, haemorrhage, hectic, and death. When the prepuce solely is involved, removal of it is sufficient, either entirely or in part, as circumstances may demand. When the glans and coverings, as also the body of the penis, are involved, amputation is to be perform- ed, provided the lymphatics still appear unaffected. In this operation the integuments must be freely re- moved, otherwise the cut orifice of the urethra will be obstructed by their puckering and contraction during cicatrisation of the wound. With this view, the skin is drawn forwards and stretched by the left hand, and then with one sweep of a long knife a transverse incision is made at once through all the parts composing the organ. Two or three vessels by the side of the septum may require ligatures. The156 IMPERFECTIONS OF URETHRA. skin retracts considerably, leaving the cut surface free ; the wound granulates, contracts, and cicatrises. If diminution in the canal of the urethra be threat- ened during the cicatrisation, it is to be obviated by the occasional use of a short conical bougie. Imperfections about the orifice of the urethra are by no means imcommon. Often there is a mere vestige of the orifice of the urethra in the natural situation, the opening being situated half an inch or a whole inch behind, and on the lower part—Hyj^o- spadias; in such cases the prepuce is generally short. Sometimes the urethra is deficient to a great extent, terminating immediately before the scrotum, or even behind it. A child had passed no water thirty hours after its birth. The bladder was distended. The genital organs were imperfect; the urethra was -Pt^anting, and the penis was diminutive and abnormal. A small trocar was passed from the vestige of the ori- fice onwards, in the proper course, guided by the finger in the rectum. The ui-ethra seemed to have terminated at the bulb ; the canula reached this, and was retained for twenty-four hours. Afterwards the urine passed readily through the canal, partly na- tural, but principally artificial, and the power of retaining it became perfect. In adults the hypospadias is inconvenient; the orifice is often contracted, and the whole par.ts are irritable ; and the ejaculation of the seminal fluid is unsatisfactory to the parties concerned. The defi-IMPEUFECTIONS OF URETHRA. 157 ciency may be repaired in some measure, when there is abundance of skin to spare, but no rules can be laid down for such irregular operations. Imperfection of the urethra anteriorly, on the dor- sum, is rare—Hyijerspadias. The following is rather a remarkable instance—The man was aged 26, robust and healthy. The whole extent of the urethra ante- rior to the pubes was exposed superiorly, there being a wide fissure through the corpora cavernosa and glans. The penis was retracted considerably, so that the posterior part of the fissure lay beneath the sym- physis pubis. The numerous lacunae of the urethra were beautifully distinct, and the mucous membrane was seen covered by their secretion. When the patient made water, the urine, after emerging from beneath the pubes, divided into numerous small streams, some of which spread over the side of the penis, while others passed along the exposed urethra. The callous margins of the fissure, formed by the corpora caver- nosa and glans, were carefully pared, and, a catheter having been introduced, the raw surfaces were retained in apposition by suture. The wound healed perfectly, almost entirely by the first intention ; and the organ both looked well and proved efficient. The malfor- mation was congenital, and was considered by the patient as analogous to harelip ; but the story re- lated to account for this was not very plausible. The disease of the external parts of the male geni- tal organs, commonly called Chimneij-siveejoer's Cmi- ce?', is one of a formidable and intractable nature, but158 chimney-sweeper's cancer. fortunately not often met with. The scrotum is the part usually attacked. A wart forms, generally at the lower part, assumes an irritable appearance, and quickly degenerates into open ulceration of a malig- nant character. The ulcer extends rapidly, consu- ming the neighbouring integument, and involving the testicle and other subjacent parts in induration and enlargement. The induration extends along the sper- matic chord, and the lymphatics participate in the diseased action at an early period. The discharge from the sore is acrid, sanious, and possessed of much foetor; sometimes fungi protrude, but more common- ly the surface is excavated and smooth. Not unfre- quently the skin surrounding the ulcer is studded, to a considerable extent, with numerous clusters of warts, of an unhealthy and angry aspect. The general health is soon undermined, and the disease advances from bad to worse with the usual certainty and rapidity of malignant action. It seldom occurs till after the age of thirty or forty ; and though most frequent in chimney-sweeps, is not peculiar to them. No treat- ment can be expected to arrest its progress at an advanced stage ; the only opportunity of saving the patient is at the commencement of the disease, when the affected part is small, and before the lymphatics have become involved. Local application and internal remedies are not to be trusted to; the part must be excised. An incision is made wide around the wart or ulcer, and the included parts are dissected away to a considerable depth. When the testicle has become affected, the chance of success is much diminished ; 6HYDROCELE. 159 but still if the inguinal glands appear sound, and the chord tolerably free, castration is to be performed as the last, though desperate, means of eradicating the disease. By Hydrocele is meant a tumour caused by accu- mulation of fluid either in the chord or within the cavity of the tunica vaginalis testis. It has been divided into diffused and encysted. By the former term is understood effusion and accumulation of serum in the cellular tissue, the cells gradually dila- ting to accommodate the increasing fluid, and ulti- mately becoming converted into vesicles of large size ; the parts around are thickened and condensed. This affection is very rarely a local one, but almost uniformly combined with and forming a part of anasarca arising from constitutional causes. When the swelling proves troublesome, it may be diminish- ed by drawing off the fluid through one or several punctures ; free incision is attended with risk, and is besides unnecessary. Encysted hydrocele of the chord occurs in children more frequently than in adults. The fluid is thin and clear, and contained in a distinct cyst, of a smooth, shining, serous appearance internally ; this cyst may be either an unobliterated portion of the congenital spermatic process, or composed of thickened and con- densed cellular tissue, strengthened exteriorly by the expansion of the cremaster muscle. The tumour is seldom large, usually of an oval form, and situated nearly midway between the testicle and groin ; cau-160 HYDROCELE. sing no pain, but proving inconvenient simply from its bulk and situation ; fluctuating, and sometimes partially diaphanous ; evidently circumscribed, the chord both above and below being natural to both sight and touch ; not altered by change of posture or by muscular exertion. Sometimes it encroaches both on the groin and on the testicle, but even then atten- tive manipulation readily distinguishes it from swell- ings connected with these parts. Discharge of the fluid by means of a small trocar and canula, not only dissipates the swelling, but often effects a permanent cure, particularly in young persons—the cyst either ceasing to exercise a secretory function, or becoming obliterated. If re-accumulation take place, the treat- ment is to be conducted on the same principles as in hydrocele of the vaginal coat. Hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis is exceedingly common, particularly amongst labouring people, and occurs apparently with equal frequency at all ages. It is a gradual accumulation within the tunica vagi- nalis of a fluid partaking more or less of the serous character, furnished by the exhalants of that mem- brane and of the tunica albuginea,—but whether from excessive secretion or deficient absorption, it is diffi- cult to determine. It is probable that the accumula- tion is the result of excited action in the part, for its origin is most frequently attributable to external in- jury—blows or bruises, followed by rapid swelling, which, after a time, subsides, leaving perhaps some enlargement of the testicle, or of the more superficial tissues, and succeeded by the gradual appearance ofHYDllOCELE. 161 the disease in question. Sometimes it is attributed to powerful and habitual muscular exertion, as in blow- ing wind instruments, lifting heavy weights, &c.; and perhaps the impediment to the venous return, so produced, may be the cause of the effusion. The accumulation, as already stated, is gradual, and con- sequently the formation of the swelling is proportion- ally slow. It commences at the lower part of the scrotum, and by degrees ascends, at first globular> afterwards of a pyriform shape ; after it has attained a considerable size, the testicle cannot be felt in its usual situation, for it is now placed not at the bottom of the bag but towards its middle, and if the tumour be tense it can scarcely be felt at all. The raphe is displaced to the opposite side, the usual puckering of the scrotum has disappeared, and the tumour feels light in proportion to its size. On manipulation it is found yielding and elastic, and in all ordinary cases a distinct fluctuation is communicated to the fingers during alternate pressure. And by using the hand as a shade, the rays of light are made to permeate the swelling, rendering it more or less transparent accord- ing to the thickness and density of the covering, and the hue of the contained fluid. It is seldom that the distension of the vaginal coat is to such an extent as to reach the groin, consequently the spermatic chord is felt to be free, as also the inguinal aperture ; and even when the swelling does reach so high, the upper part is the least tense, permitting displacement of the fluid and distinct perception of the chord. The patient complains of a sense of dragging and weight PART III. LHYDROCELE. 162 in the parts, and of uneasiness and inconvenience during' exertion, but seldom of pain. When large, the tumour is necessarily covered by borrowed inte- gument, often so as almost entirely to conceal the penis. In almost every case the testicle is increased in size and indurated, and sometimes this enlarge- ment forms a considerable part of the swelling. Oc- casionally the spermatic veins are varicose ; and this has been, by some, considered one of the causes of the disease. In cases of very slow increase, and in per- sons of advanced age, the vaginal coat is not unfre- quently much thickened, so as to obscure the sense of fluctuation, and destroy the transparency of the tumour. Sometimes deposit of earthy matter takes place between the layers of the membrane, rendering it hard, rigid, and in a measure osseous ; in such cases cholesterine has been found in the contained fluid ; sometimes the cavity is intersected by mem- branous filaments, delicate and reticulated ; some- times complete septa subdivide it into several com- partments. The fluid is generally thin, albuminous, and of a straw colour ; in some cases paler, and coagulating on cooling, being gelatinous ; in others of a dark colour, probably from admixture of blood. The treatment is either palliative or radical. The former consists in evacuating the fluid from time to time, according as the feelings of the patient demand it; and in children this simple tapping is often success- ful in preventing return of the disease. The swell- ing is grasped from behind by the left hand, and com- pressed so as to render the middle and fore part tense163 HYDROCELE. and proniiiieiit; into this a trocar and canula are plunged, piercing the coverings in a perpendicular direction, and then inclining the canula upwards, the stilet being partially withdrawn, so as to avoid wounding the testicle. When fairly passed within the cavity, the trocar is withdrawn entirely, and the fluid escapes through the canula—gentle pressure being employed towards the conclusion. The wound usually heals in a few hours. Various means of radi- cal cure have been proposed—incision, seton, caustic, and the injection of stimulating fluids. Incision and the seton are now abandoned, and do not require no- tice. The application of caustic perhaps may prove efficient in children when tapping has failed, and in youths; an aperture is thus made, through which the fluid escapes, and at the same time considerable excitement is induced, which may prevent reproduc- tion< I have made trial of it in several instances, and generally with success ; but am now inclined to avoid it, having lately experienced much diflSiculty in keeping within moderate bounds the inflammatory action which succeeded its application. Injection is now generally practised; and if carefully performed, it is unattended with risk, and almost invariably suc- cessful. Various fluids may be employed—cold water, wine, wine and water, spirits, a solution of the sul- phate of zinc, &c. I use pure port wine ; and have scarcely ever seen its effects either excessive or defi- cient. I can remember very few cases in which the dis- ease returned after this injection. Having ascertained that the testicle is sound, or but slightly enlarged—HYDROCELE. 164 for injection of the tunica vaginalis is incompatible with diseased testicle—the fluid is drawn off by means of a round trocar. The canula is left in the wound, and to it is adapted the nozzle of a brass stop-cock attached to a small elastic bottle. By means of these instruments the wine is injected in sufficient quan- tity to distend the tunic moderately, taking care that the extremity of the canula is completely within the cavity, otherwise the cellular tissue will be injected, and violent inflammation ensue, terminating in un- healthy suppuration and sloughing. By turning the cock, the wine is retained until the patient begin to feel pain shooting upM^ards to the loins, when it is to be evacuated. He may not feel any uneasiness, however, and then it will be necessary to draw off the fluid and inject a fresh quantity. If this, too, fail, a more stimulating fluid must be used, a solution of sulphate of zinc, spirits and water, or pure ardent spirits. It is supposed that this treatment is effectual by inducing adhesive inflammation, and obliteration of the cavity by adhesion of the tunica vaginalis to the tunica albuginea ; but this is erroneous. There may in some cases be a little lymph deposited, but in general there is not. The excitement following injection seems to change the action in the parts without altering their structure or relation—to re- establish the healthy balance between the exhalants and absorbents. Its first effect is to produce increase of swelling from fresh effusion into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, accompanied with redness of the integument and considerable pain—sometimes with165 CIRSOCELE. slight fever. This fluid, however, is quickly ab- sorbed—usually in from four to six days—the swell- ing subsides, as also the pain, and the patient remains free of the disease. Whilst this salutary action is in progress, the recumbent posture must be strictly en- joined, along with low diet and suspension of the organ ; and sometimes, though rarely, it may be necessary to have recourse to more active means to moderate inflammation. Should the excitement ap- pear insufficient after a day or two, the parts may be rubbed with the hand, and gently squeezed, or the patient may be directed to walk occasionally through the room until pain is felt. If the disease return, as need scarcely be dreaded, injection is to be repealed, either again with wine, or with a more potent fluid. The term Cirsocele is applied to varix of the sper- matic veins. The affection seldom extends to the inguinal aperture, and is usually situated on the left side. The tumour is somewhat pyriform, the larger extremity resting on the testicle, and by its peculiar appearance and feel its structure is at once apparent; the veins are seen through the integument. Pressure from below upwards, during the recumbent posture, diminishes the swelling ; pressure above augments it, particularly if the patient change his posture, and exert the abdominal muscles. Sometimes a dull pain in the back is complained of, relieved by suspension of the scrotum, and often wasting of the testicle slowly advances. In some cases the swelling attainsCIRSOCELE. 166 a large size, elongating tlie scrotum, and proving a source of very great uneasiness to the patient—so great that some have requested and urged castration. Commonly it is sufficient to wear a bag truss, and avoid all causes of irritation to the parts; thus in- crease of swelling is prevented, and the inconvenience rendered trifling. If pain, with redness of the inte- gument, and additional enlargement, should super- vene, rest and the recumbent posture must be enjoin- ed for a time, combined perhaps with low diet and local depletion. But in cases of large inconvenient tumour, accompanied with atrophy of the testicle, rather than accede to the wishes of the patient and perform castration, the treatment recommended many centuries ago is to be put in practice—the apj^lication of a heated wire to the veins. The upper part of the tumour is grasped and made prominent, the veins are separated as much as possible from the other parts composing the chord, and a small-pointed cautery, a glover's needle, for example, is inserted at several points. This is followed by some pain, and increase of swelling. Inflammation and obli- teration of the veins is produced at the cauterised points, the swelling gradually diminishes, and ulti- mately a dense chord is all that remains. The cure is radical, and I have never seen the effects prove too severe. Rest and antiphlogistic regimen are of course necessary for some days after the ai)plication ; ab- straction of blood will seldom be required. Hccmatocele is an effusion of blood, cither into the167 HEMATOCELE. cellular tissue of the scrotum, or within the tunica va- ginalis, or in both. It is generally the consequence of a bruise or wound. From the loose nature of the cellular tissue, the effusion into it is apt, if proper attention be not given, to take place to a great, and to the patient and friends alarming extent. This I have witnessed after the operation for hernia, and after removal of the testicle—bleeding from some small artery continues, the blood is by dressing or pressure prevented from escaping externally, it is consequently extravasated into the cellular structure, giving rise to tumour; and in some cases this swelling, occurring' after the operation for hernia, has been mistaken for redescent of the bowel. The blood must either be absorbed or discharged. Absorption is the more safe and desirable, but necessarily tedious, and more or less thickening and enlargement may remain for a long time. Discharge, whether spontaneous or by incision, is usually followed by unhealthy suppura- tion of the infiltrated and partially broken down cel- lular tissue, sloughing of it, tardy separation of the dead parts, and tedious, perhaps exhausting, flow of matter. Haematocele of the vaginal coat may supervene on Hydrocele, in consequence of external injury; or bloody effusion may take place from the vessels of the membrane, from sudden abstraction of their custom- ary support, after evacuation of the serous fluid, and whether injection has been resorted to or not;—as happens in careless tapping for ascites. Some of the diagnostic marks of hydrocele are thereby lost; thereHEMATOCELE. 168 is no traiislucency of the swelling, and fluctuation is either indistinct, or altogether imperceptible. The appearance of the contents varies according to the time which has elapsed betwixt their discharge and the occurrence of the extravasation ; if short, coagula float in a thin bloody fluid; if considerable, the li- quid is thick, dark, and putrid. Bloody effusion into the scrotal cellular tissue produces a dark appearance of the integuments, and the swelling has a doughy feel. At one or more points, where the cells are broken down and much blood has collected, fluctuation is perceived more or less distinct. The treatment consists of rest, the recumbent posture, support of the swelling on a small cushion, and the employment of fomentation when the parts are painful. The absorption proceeds slow- ly ; and after some time, when all painful feelings have ceased, stimulant embrocation may be used, with the view of expediting it; a solution of the mu- riate of ammonia, of the sulphate of alumina, or of other astringent stimulating salts, may be employed in strength proportioned to the feelings of the patient and the progress of the case. If the tumour sud- denly become painful, and increase in size, indicating putrefaction of the blood, and commixture of it with puriform matter, a free incision is to be made, and poultices applied. When the parts have become quiet, and suppuration been established, poulticing is to be discontinued, and mild and light dressing employed. When, on tapping a hydrocele, the fluid is found toSAllCOCELE. be bloody, injection is not to be resorted to, though the other circumstances of the case should appear fa- vourable. Rest is enjoined ; and a radical cure is not to be attempted till the fluid has collected a second, or perhaps a third time, and become colour- less. Acute inflammation of the testicle, from sympathy with the urethra, and sudden suppression of discharge from the anterior part of the canal, has been already treated of. The inflammation may also be the result of external violence. When the urethra is diseased, the testicle is irritable, and its circulation easily ex- cited. After subsidence of the inflammatory attack, swelling, particularly of the epididymis, or of the posterior part of the gland, seldom altogether disap- pears. The new matter is not entirely absorbed ; and thickening and induration remain, to an extent depending on the violence of the action and the pro- priety of the treatment. Enlargements of the body of th.e gland are gene- rally attributed to injury. But often they occur with- out such cause being assignable; and may be the result of chronic excited action, kindled in deposit produced by a previous acute inflammatory attack. Such indolent swellings attain considerable size. The tumour is of an irregular surface, and feels hard and unyielding; there is always more or less effusion of fluid into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, add- ing to the bulk of the swelling. Indeed, the size and consistence of the tumour can be correctly ascertained only after evacuation of this fluid.SARCOCELE. 170 Many of these tumours, as already observed, are of firm consistence ; others are soft and doughy. They occur at the middle period of life, or before it. Some are resolved easily, and by ordinary attention. Others enlarge, notwithstanding the most judicious treatment; they gradually soften, and at length fluctuation becomes apparent. Curdy matter is eva- cuated by incision, perhaps mixed with a small quan- tity of thin unhealthy matter ; and from the wound projects a pale fungous growth furnishing profuse discharge. The gland has now lost all appearance of its original structure ; a section of it presents a homogeneous surface, of a greyish colour, and soft consistence, at some places broken down and mixed with pus. The fungus is of the same nature as the rest of the tumour, but softer, and often with puri- form depots in its base. In this disease there is nothing malignant; it occurs in people of impaired or originally weak constitution, and is generally known as the scropliidous testicle. In the more simple swellings, the gland at some points retains its original texture, but the greater part has no tubulous appearance, and seems to con- sist principally of lymphatic deposit, dense, pale, and equable ; the tumour, in short, is a simple enlarge- ment. Such often accompany and are attributable to a diseased state of the urethra,—part of the canal being in an irritable and contracted state ; and all efforts to discuss them usually prove fruitless, unless the urethra have been previously restored to a healthy condition. The soundness of this canal is171 SARCOCELE. therefore to be enquired into in the first instance, and if stricture, or irritability independent of con- traction, be discovered, the practice must be directed towards it. The urethra being sound, counter irri- tation is to be apphed to the testicle ; and the part sliould be suspended, though not in function alto- gether ; walking exercise, and the friction which it occasions, must be avoided as much as possible. A gum and mercurial plaster protects the part, and in- duces a moderate irritation of the surface usually suf- ficient to dissipate the swelling slowly ; if ineffectual, either repeated blistering, or the insertion of a seton in the integuments, may be had recourse to—from either or both much benefit is often derived. In obstinate cases the recumbent posture must be en- joined. In general, slight enlargement and indura- tion of the epididymis remains. The scrophulous swelling does not often yield to the means for discussion, but advances to suppura- tion. The abscess is to be opened, and the unhealthy contents discharged; endeavours are then to be made to effect closure by granulation, and after that counter irritation may dissipate the tumour, or at least dimi- nish its size. If protrusion occur, as generally hap- pens, it may be cut away; and by then keeping the granulations on a level with the integument, either by pressure or escharotics, at the same time attend- ing to improvement of the general health, cicatrisa- tion may be procured, though tedious. Or escharo- tics may be used from the first, instead of the knife. For example, powdering the fungous surface occa-172 SAllCOCELE. sioiially with the acetate of lead, I have found in several instances effectual; repeated sloughing of the protruded matter takes place ; it sinks to the level of the integument, and ultimately below it, and then the employment of stimulating dressing induces con- traction and closure. Not unfrequently the testicle is attacked by swell- ings of a more serious nature—medullary sarcoma is common, as also both fibrous and soft tumours, with cysts ; schirrus is more rare. These morbid altera- tions may take place at once—that is, the swelling may be from the first malignant—or they may super- vene on tumours originally simple and benign. The tumour increases with the usual rapidity; to describe minutely the successive stages, would be but repeti- tion of what has been already stated more than once, in treating of similar diseases in other organs. The medullary tumour often attains a very large size before the integuments give way; it may in some cases be mistaken for hydrocele, unless the history be attended to, and careful manipulation made ; elasti- city must not be confounded with fluctuation. After ulceration has taken place, the formation of a bleeding fungus is not uncommon ; indeed, the testicle is the most frequent seat of fungus hcematodes. The ingui- nal glands are in general affected early, and swell to a large size,*" ulcerating extensively, bleeding, and throwing out fungi; not unfrequently the chord feels free and soft, appearing a healthy structure between the inguinal and scrotal swellings. In the advanced stages of schirrous testicle, the chord and its integu-173 CASTRATION. merit are thickened and hard. The progress of this tumour is slower than that of the medullary, but equally certain. The cystic sarcomata, when fibrous, may remain long apparently in an indolent state, and without affection of the lymphatics ; but when soft, the cystic contents are often bloody, the medullary matter soon breaks down, and then the integuments yield, and the malignant advance is rapid. It need scarcely be observed, that in such cases nothing but the knife, used at an early period, when the tumour is yet latent and the lymphatics uninvolved, can save the patient. Castration must be performed; and even this is in too many cases insufficient to annul the malignant disposition of which the parts have become the seat. As already stated, it must be had recourse to before hard and knotted swelling in the groin, with thickening and induration of the chord, has commenced, otherwise it can be of no avail. The patient is placed recumbent. An incision is commenced a little above the inguinal aperture, and carried downwards ; on reaching the tumour it is inclined to one side, so that with a similar one on the opposite side an elliptical portion of integument may be included. One straight incision might be suffi- cient for removal of the tumour : but in most cases it is necessary to take away more or less skin, that a large, loose, and flabby bag may not remain after the extirpation. This preliminary wound penetrates only through the skin and cellular tissue, and should be made rapidly. At its upper part the chord is then to be cut down upon, exposed, and divided ; but the174 CASTRATION. division should not be made until the chord has been isolated for some distance, so as to afford a firm hold to an assistant, and not before the assistant has secured it firmly in his fingers, otherwise it may retract within the inguinal canal, rendering the bleeding from the spermatic artery troublesome. The dissection is now to be continued downwards, rapidly, and yet cautiously; the tumour is detached on all sides, and removed along with a sufficient quantity of integument. In dissecting off its pos- terior surface, care must be taken not to wound the septum of the tunica vaginalis. All adherent skin must be taken away, and in the case of fungus, the incision of the integument must be wide of the pro- jecting part. But, at the same time, unnecessarily extensive removal of skin is always to be avoided, otherwise there will sometimes be a difficulty in cover- ing the root of the penis and the remaining testicle. The assistant has, during the extirpation, retained his firm grasp of the chord, so restraining haemor- rhage from that quarter ; now the branches, generally two, of the spermatic artery are pulled out by the forceps, and a ligature applied to their extremities, in- closure of any of the surrounding parts being studi- ously avoided. To tie veins, artery, nerves, vas de- ferens, and cellular tissue, in one mass, would lead to most serious mischief, not to mention the inmiediate and excruciating pain occasioned. It has been re- commended either to pass a temporary ligature round the chord, before its division, to prevent re- traction, or to tie the artery before it is cut across.175 CASTJIATION. I have never found either practice necessary; the latter retards the operation ; the fingers of an assist- ant are generally as effectual as a ligature, and inflict less injury to the parts and less pain to the patient. Should the chord slip, there can be but little diffi- culty in pulling down the artery by means of a hook ; at the worst, slight extension of the inci- sion upwards may be necessary. The scrotum is to be sponged clean of coagula, and its bleeding vessels secured; often they are numerous. The incision is brought together by several points of suture, and cold cloths applied. In no operation is secondary bleed- ing more frequent, occurring within an hour or two after reaction has been established, and the patient begun to get warm in bed. The flow is always from the scrotal vessels in the lower part of the wound, and often profuse. The dressing must be partially undone, so as to expose the vessels, and permit of the application of ligature. On this account, it is well not to approximate the lower part of the wound in the first instance, but to fill the cavity with charpie or dry lint, retaining this until risk of haemorrhage has passed over, and then to bring the edges toge- ther. The upper part of the incision often heals by the first intention, but this is seldom effected in the lower ; sui)puration takes place, and the cavity fills up slowly by granulation. Indeed, attempts to pro- cure primary union of the scrotal wound are scarcely to be recommended ; they are very seldom effectual; and should bleeding take place, the patient is eitherCALCULUS VESICAE. 176 put to much pain, by removal of the stitches, and separation of the edges, or the blood is confined, ac- cumidates in the cavity, and is infiltrated into the cellular tissue, producing much tumour, which termi- nates in extensive and unhealthy suppuration. Such retardation of the cure is avoided by open dressing of the lower part of the wound from the first. Not unfrequently infiltration of the cellular tissue over the chord takes place within a few days after the operation, extending upwards under the superficial fascia of the abdomen, with discoloration of the in- tegument, diffused doughy swelling, and much irri- tation of the system. The matter soon collects at one or more points. Early incision will check the advancement of this affection, followed by fomenta- tion and poultice, and attention to the constitution. Collection of the matter should never be waited for ; and when depots have formed, a free and dependent opening should be made early. Sometimes the pa- tient may perish, exhausted by the profuse discharge and the disturbance of the system, in cases that have been neglected, or in which infiltration is rapid and extensive and the powers of life weak. Calculus VesiccB. Morbid action of the kidneys, producing altered secretion of the urine and deposi- tion from it, takes place in consequence of derange- ment of the digestive organs—often occasioned by the free use of acids, or of ascescent diet or drink. Many causes, which have not as yet been well ascer- tained or understood, seem to influence and predis-CALCULUS VESICJE. 177 pose to calculous disorders. The prevalence of these affections in particular districts has been attributed to the quality of the water, or to the use of peculiar food or beverages; but such opinions, in all proba- bility, have been adopted neither on very good grounds, nor after due enquiry and consideration. The county of Norfolk, and the eastern part of Scot- land from the Frith of Forth northwards, are dis- tricts very similarly situated, exposed to cold and piercing winds, and appear to furnish a greater number of cases of stone than the rest of Great Britain, with Ireland to boot. The reason of this, as already stated, has not been satisfactorily explain- ed. But the disorder seems also to adhere to fami- lies, to be transmitted from one generation to an- other. Some children seem almost to come into the world labouring under calculus. The symptoms are noticed very soon after birth, and often patients are presented to the surgeon at the tender age of twelve or eighteen months. The depositions from the urine are various. The deposit chiefly affecting children is of a dark colour, dense, hard, and crystallised ; but one lighter colour- ed, and more friable, sometimes precedes the forma- tion of this dark concretion. The dark sand or stone is occasionally, though much more rarely, met with in older individuals ; but in them the red, dark brown, yellow, and white deposits are more common. And, in them too, the diathesis or disposition to the formation of one or other variety evidently alter- PART III. M178 CALCULUS VESICA. nates, as is well demonstrated by section of urinary- concretions. The red deposit, by much the most common, at least in adults, consists principally of uric acid, so- luble by solutions of the alkalies. The brown and yellowish are also composed of uric acid, often in combination with a base, and are likewise soluble in alkaline solutions, or in alkaline carbonates. The white is most commonly the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate, soluble in acids ; rarely, it consists of phosphate of lime, not so white or friable as the pre- ceding, but likewise soluble in acids ; or it may be a compound of phosphate of magnesia, ammonia, and phosphate of lime, very white and soft, and impart- ing a stain to the finger, soluble in acids, but prin- cipally characterised by its fusible property. The dark, hard deposit, chiefly occurring in children, con- sists of the oxalate of lime, either pure, or in combi- nation with one or other of the preceding, very dense and soluble in acids. When these, by accumulation within the bladder, are formed into concretions, they are always mixed with more or less of a peculiar animal matter deposited from the urine. Passed by the urethra, and settling at the bottom of the vessel as the urine cools, they are termed either morphous, or amorphous, according as they are crystallised or not. To correct the calculous diathesis is an object of much importance ; solution of a concretion in the bladder is now allowed to be impracticable. The principal attention is to be directed to the digestive organs ; these must be brought into a sound state by179 CALCULUS VESICiE. attention to diet, and the exhibition of laxatives, tonics, antacids, &c., as the individual case may re- quire. And much benefit is also derived froui the use of either alkalies or acids in solution, according to the nature of the deposit. The uric acid diathesis is the most frequent; in that, alkalies, as the car- bonates of soda or potash, are to be employed ; the potash is preferable. Diuretics and diluents are useful in carrying off the sand, and relieving the painful symptoms ; venice turpentine with squill is on this principle often a valuable remedy, and in some cases colchicum proves of benefit. The symptoms attendant on the collection and passing of sand, or gravel, as it is commonly termed, are—pain in the loins ; heat in making water ; heat in the urethra occurring afterwards, continuing for some time, and usually at the orifice ; frequent desire to empty the bladder ; and an occasional mixture of blood with the urine. When aggregations of the deposit, forming concretions of some size, pass along the ureters, violent pain is felt in the course of these tubes. Often the patient complains of colicky pains all over the abdomen, and of sickness without vomit- ing. There is pain in the thighs and testicles, with retraction of the testicle on the affected side. The calculous deposit may, instead of passing off along with the urine, be accumulated in the body, forming concretions. It is produced by the kidneys, and in them the concretions may be formed and lodged; or it may not accumulate until it has reached the bladder. Usually the stones are produced in the180 CALCULUS VESICA. former situation, and after having attained some size descend by the ureters, causing much pain. It is not often that they remain in the pelvis or infundibula till they have become too large to descend ; in such cases they increase in their original situation, produ- cing, in general, much more uneasiness than had they reached the bladder. Or they may enter the ureters, and lodge in these canals, distending and obstructing them. The concretions may be caused by the lodgement of extraneous substances in the urinary passages. Foreign bodies introduced, even in the most healthy persons, are soon incrusted by calculous matter ; and the rapidity of the incrustation is in proportion to the tendency to the calculous diathesis. At first the deposit is generally of a brownish colour. Catheters retained in the bladder are soon blocked up by it. Needles, bodkins, leaden bullets, seeds of vegetables, kernels of fruit, &c., have been found forming nuclei to urinary calculi—more frequently in females than in males, for obvious reasons. Some concretions are formed on the nucleus of condensed vitiated secretion from the mucous coat of the bladder, and partly consist of this deposit from the membrane. Such are generally of a dirty white colour, soft, friable, small, and numerous ; it is sel- dom that they are collected into masses of any con- siderable size. They are usually adherent to the mucous membrane, sometimes forming a broad and thin sheet covering it extensively; other stones, thougli composed of calculous deposit from the urine.CALCULUS VESICA. 181 are equally friable as the preceding, and also both numerous and small. So brittle is their structure that they frequently break up by rubbing upon one an- other, or by being compressed one against another by the action of the muscular coat of the bladder. Their laminae in fragments, and the nuclei entire, are, in consequence, often evacuated along with the urine in considerable numbers. It has been elsewhere noticed, that cysts are apt to form in bladders which have been long subjected to irritation from any cause; it need therefore excite no surprise that such formations should be found in patients afflicted with calculous disorders. In one of these unnatural cavities a stone may lodge, both at first small. The concretion receives gradual increase, fills the cyst completely, and then dilates it in pro- portion to its own enlargement. So long as it is covered by the cyst, the patient suffers but little from it; but when, from the addition of calculous matter, it projects through the opening of the cyst, coming in contact with the coats of the bladder during con- traction of the viscus, the usual symptoms of stone are manifested. Sometimes there are several encysted calculi in the same bladder, but in such cases they are seldom of large size. The stone in the bladder—whether formed in the kidney, and having descended, or originally concreted in the bladder, either spontaneously or in consequence of the presence of foreign matter—produces very marked and distressing symptoms. There is fre- quent desire to empty the bladder, and the uneasinessCALCULUS VESICiE. 182 is not relieved by doing so. There is pain during and after the evacuation, referred to the course of the urethra, particularly to the orifice. In children, the patient is induced by the pain to grasp the penis, and pull forwards the prepuce, often so habitually as after a time to cause considerable elongation of the latter part. The flow of urine often stops suddenly, and immediately afterwards the pain is unusually severe ; the stream reappears on change of position. The body is usually inclined much forwards during the attempts to make water; sometimes the patient rests on his knees and elbows, or on the top of his head, having found that he obtains most ease in these pos- tures. The urine is mixed with ropy mucus, and in long-continued cases with a puriform fluid. After exercise, or unusual exertion, the m*ine is bloody. A bearing down pain is complained of during the making of water, and often there is simultaneous and involuntary evacuation of the contents of the rectum ; the close sympathy between the bowel and the blad- der has been already adverted to. In young persons afflicted with stone, prolapsus of the anus is common, and sometimes it occurs also in adults. Occasionally there is pain in the testicle, or in the back of the thighs, and very frequently a burning heat in the hollow of one or both feet; sometimes there is a fixed pain in the last situation. Some of the symptoms are more prominent than others, and the severity of these also is not uniform. At times the patient is toJerably free from uneasi- ness ; but then a fit of increased suffering supervenes,CALCULUS VESICAE. 183 often attributable *to intemperance, or to over-exer- tion. The intensity of the symptoms also depends on the nature and size of the concretion, and on the idiosyncratic irritability of the patient; in some peo- ple the bladder is naturally so acutely irritable as to be thrown into the utmost disorder by the most tri- fling cause, whilst in others sources of greater irrita- tion produce but very little uneasiness. The mul- berry or oxalate of lime calculus is of very rough surface, and gives rise to the most violent symp- toms. But the projecting portions of this, or of other rugged concretions, may become covered by additional and smoother deposit—or the surface may become smooth, polished, and water worn, receiving no addition for a long time—and in such circum- stances the sufferings are mitigated. However, in consequence of fresh incrustation, they may soon become again much aggravated, and almost intoler- able. The increase of the stone is in some cases exceed- ingly slow ; after many years, the size may not ex- ceed that of half a walnut. In others, large dimen- sions are attained within a short period. T'he mul- berry is always of gradual formation ; and the ra- pidly increasing are generally of the alternating cha- racter. The symptoms above detailed—many, and some- times all of them—may be produced by other causes than stone in the bladder. Irritation of the bowels, more particularly of the lower, by worms, foreign bodies, or faeculent matter of a bad kind—irritationCALCULUS VESICA. 184 of the kidney—alteration of structure in the kidney, and the lodgment of concretions in its pelvis,—are all attended by many of the symptoms of vesical calcu- lus. Irritability of the bladder, the nature of which has been elsewhere detailed, also possesses somewhat similar indications ; but the pain is usually referred to the hypogastric region and the perineum, as well as to the point of the penis, perhaps more frequently, and is generally relieved after evacuation of the urine—such is not the case in calculus. The symptoms of stone, when severe, will lead the patient to take such means as are necessary to ascer- tain the cause of them—to ascertain whether or not stone exists in the bladder. The term sounding is applied to such examination. In this proceeding the bladder should contain some ui'ine, so that the object may be effected more readily, and with less pain to the patient; he should be desired to retain his urine for one, two, or three hours, as he may be able. In the contracted state of the viscus, the stone may escape detection, if of no great size, from being embraced by the bladder, and concealed in its folds; or, on the contrary, it may be discovered either after or during evacuation of the urine, having eluded the surgeon's search during an over-distended state of the viscus. Also, it may be discovered in one position of the patient, whilst it is lost in another. When the symptoms are decided, examination is to be made, both during the recumbent posture, and during the erect with the body bent forwards, and likewise with the bladder in various states of fulness ; and if18;5 CALCULUS VESICiK. unsuccessful, the search is to be repeated. But in general no difficulty is experienced in discovering the stone. The instrument used should be pretty large, with a smooth metallic handle, and either with a large curve and long point, or straight till near the farther end, and then having a short curve. The latter form is preferable, as admitting of the curved part being introduced completely within the bladder, and turned in all directions and into every part of the viscus—the urethra being brought into a straight line by the remaining part of the instrument. The posterior fundus, behind the prostate, is the situ- ation most commonly occupied by the stone during the recumbent posture ; and there it is in a measure concealed, when small and the gland enlarged. The surgeon, aware of this, examines that part of the organ very carefully, and, as already stated, explores every corner with the utmost gentleness, and at the same time minutely, never employing the slightest force or rudeness of search. Upon bringing the in- strument in contact with the foreign body, or moving it quickly upon it by turning the handle, the sharp, clear sound of the stroke can be distinctly heard ; and this is one reason why the instrument should be throughout metallic. The prudent surgeon is not satisfied of the existence of calculus in the bladder, without this sign. Not a few practitioners have been deceived, and have subjected their patients to incision of the blad- der when no stone was there. A false and deceptive grating is sometimes felt during the passage of the186 CALCULUS VESIC-<E. instrument through the prostate ; or the point may be made to rub against dense and rough fasciculi of the bladder; or a more distinct feeling, as of stone, may be communicated from the instrument being brought in contact with particles of sabulous matter entangled in mucus, and adherent to the inner coat. The last deception is to be expected only in those ad- vanced in life. But the greater number of those cut unnecessarily have been young persons. In them the symptoms of stone are closely simulated by irritations of the alimentary canal, and the crying of the patient prevents the stroke on the stone from being distinctly heard. Perhaps the practitioner may be very anxious to discover a stone and have the glory of removing it, and is satisfied with feeling a rubbing or grating of the instrument; he cuts into the bladder, and to his dismay and discomfiture nothing is found. No foreign body may have existed ; or perhaps some small particles of sand which gave rise to the feel- ing may have escaped detection, being carried off along with the urine and blood. On the contrary, cases have occurred in which a stone actually exist- ed, but was overlooked ; and the patient, after reco- vering from the first incision, has been relieved by a second and better conducted operation. In diseases of the urinary organs, the surgeon cannot be too cau- tious and considerate in all his proceedings and inter- ferences. For example : I went to see an operation for stone in the bladder, and was asked to feel the stone, but could not. There was merely a sense ofCALCULUS YESICyE. 187 m-atinff durins: the introduction of the instrument; and the operator was dissuaded from his intention. The patient did not live many weeks; a small ulcer- ated cavity was found in the situation of the veru- montanum, but no stone. By a dexterous use of the sound the size of the foreign body can be tolerably well judged of, as well as the state of its surface, and it may also be known whether there are more stones than one. The bent part of the instrument is passed over and beyond the calculus, and then under it, so as to ascertain its thickness ; and by moving it on each side, the other dimensions are also arrived at. No information can be obtained as to the size of the stone—at least in adults, and when it is not encysted—from any exa- mination by the rectum. Concretions resembling horse beans in size, and even larger, can be brought through the adult ure- thra without incision, by means of properly con- structed forceps. The facility with which this is accomplished will depend much on the state of the passage, whether naturally capacious and free from morbid contraction or not, and also upon the condi- tion of the prostate gland. Notwithstanding the greater irritability of the parts in young persons, this operation may be readily performed on them ; on several occasions I have removed from children concretions of considerable size through the natural passage. Various contrivances have been used for the purpose. Modifications of what are called Hun- ter's forceps have been recommended,—two elasticCALCULUS VESlCiE. 188 blades shut by being withdrawn into a cunula, and made either straight or curved; but they are not so applicable as the forceps of Weiss. These are of differ- ent curves and sizes, and the handles should be made of iron, smooth on the flat surfaces and roughened on the edges ; for thus the concretion will be more readily felt. The instrument is passed along the urethra, and used in the bladder as a sound ; when it has touched the stone the blades are opened, and by raising the handle, pressing the convex part down- M'ards, and then allowing the blades to close slowly, the concretion is embraced. If the stone lie on the forepart of the instrument, on its concavity, it will fall between the blades as soon as they are sufficiently separated. By observing whether or not the wire goes home into the canula, it is ascertained whether or not the foreign body is between the blades ; if it is not, the manoeuvring must be repeated ; if it is, the instrument is to be withdrawn carefully—of course bringing the concretion along with it. Some slight resistance is felt in passing the prostate, as also anterior to the sinus; and on reaching the orifice, some little force is requisite to complete the removal, or the orifice maybe dilated by a slight incision so as to facilitate the disentanglement of the forceps with the concretion. By one or more operations of this nature many stones may be removed, and the pa- tient thus freed entirely from the disease. There is no great risk of seizing and pinching the coats of the bladder with this instrument, whilst there is a toler- able certainty of doing so with most of the othei-s.CALCULUS VESICA. 1H9 On one occasion, when operating on the dead body, I found that the instrument had got several stones in its grasp, and was kept so dilated as to be withdrawn with much difficulty—there being no means of disentangling the stones but by farther expansion of the blades, which was impossible. A great many foreign bodies—pieces of pebble—had been introduced; but had the same number of uri- nary concretions been laid hold of—which is scarcely possible—those farthest from the point and most compressed would have crumbled down, and thus the expansion of the blades would have been dimi- nished. I have experienced not the least difficulty in operating with this instrument, in numerous cases, and at all periods of life. The safety of the proceed- ing is its greatest recommendation. It is very sel- dom that any unpleasant symptoms follow ; there may perhaps be a trifling effusion of blood, and some slight pain in making water may continue for a day or ^o. Should either irritability of the bladder, or symptoms indicating inflammation of the mucous coat supervene, these must forthwith be combated. Concretions of such a size as cannot be made to pass through the neck of the bladder, and along the urethra, and yet are not much larger than a filbert, may, if soft and friable, be laid hold of in the bladder by properly contrived instruments, and acted upon so as to be reduced to powder and fragments, which may either pass off along with the urine, or be ex- tracted by means of forceps. This proceeding is not advisable in children, owing to the small size of theCALCULUS VESICA. 190 parts and their greater irritability, and in considera- tion also of the concretions in them being in general exceedingly dense ; as formerly noticed, they are most frequently composed of the oxalate of lime. In the adult, it cannot be adopted with safety and propriety, when the bladder is irritable and will not bear a certain degree of distension, and when the prostate gland is large. The cases in which the con- cretion is small, soft, or brittle, and the parts sound and free from irritation, form but a small proportion of those labouring under stone who present themselves to an operating surgeon. However, the bruising, grinding, and rubbing down of stones has been tried in all kinds of cases, but with neither a satis- factory nor an encouraging result; a case will now and then be met with favourable to these proceed- ings, but they can never become generally applicable, and attempts to make them so will, as experience has shown, be followed by disappointment and disaster. A stone of a larger size than I have indicated, and of dense structure, may be laid hold of in the blad- der, and may by repeated and tedious operations be broken into fragments ; but each sitting, as it is called, of the patient, and each attack upon the stone, is attended with more pain, greater risk, and far more exhaustion, than its removal by incision would inflict. The repeated introduction of the instruments, their expansion, and the turning of them about in the bladder, and, if their object is accomplished, the action of the angular and rough surfaces of the frag- ments on the mucous coat, are certainly followed by191 CALCULUS VESICili. an attack of inflammation of the viscus, always tedi- ous and annoying—often excruciating, dangerous, perhaps fatal. Attacks of inflammation of the tes- ticle are also not uncommon, probably from irrita- tion of the prostate, and from the pinching and brui- sing of the verumontanum, which it is almost impos- sible to avoid, whatever care and precaution be adopt- ed. In turning to the records of LiHliotrity—and under this term we shall include all attempts to break down stones within the bladder, whether by drilling, or filing, or hammering—it will be found that many patients have died from the mere explo- ration ; and altogether, nearly a half of those who have fallen into the hands of the experimenters and adventurers have perished in consequence. Every successful case is well advertised ; the dead men rest in peace. The operation of breaking up a stone in the blad- der is very advisable in certain cases, and may be re- sorted to with every prospect of a safe, speedy, and successful conclusion. But it can be recommended and employed only within certain limits ; the case must be well chosen, and every circumstance must be perfectly favourable as regards the condition of the ui'inary passage and of the bladder, and the size and nature of the stone. Every operating surgeon should make himself well acquainted with the instru- ments and their mode of application, so that he may resort to them as occasion requires. A great deal of ingenuity has been expended of late years in inventing and improving upon the ap-192 CALCULUS VESICA. paratus. Many useless, inapplicable, and highly dangerous machines have been produced, a few efl&- cient and perfectly safe. The three-branched instru- ment of Civiale takes its place at the head of the latter class. The knowledge of the fact that the curvature of the urethra can be effaced, and a perfectly straight instrument passed into the bladder with equal facility and freedom from uneasiness as a curved one, has facilitated very much the application of means for seizing and acting upon a stone in the bladder. The three-branched instrument, which it is unne- cessary to describe, as it can be readily seen and ob- tained, can be without difficulty brought in contact with the stone, the bladder being partially distended by urine, or filled to the requisite extent by tepid water injected through the outer canula of the ap- paratus. The branches are then so far expanded, and the drill withdrawn; and by a little cautious management, turning the instrument, altering the degree of expansion, and sounding with the drill, the stone is seized, and then fixed by pulling back the inner canula. By turning the drill with the fingers, and pulling back forcibly the inner canula so as to close the branches, the concretion may at once be pulverised ; or it may be again seized, and at- tacked by the drill on a different side. The opera- tion may, if necessary, be repeated after the lapse of eight or ten days, or sooner if the irritation caused by the former have subsided. Diluents are to be given so as to facilitate the washing out of tlie detri-CALCULUS VESICA. 193 tus, and strict rest and abstinence from stimuli must be observed for a few days Various forms of drill have been contrived for act- ing on a large surface of the stone ; others for scoop- inar it out, the shell to be afterwards broken into fragments and triturated ; they are unsafe and inef- fectual. The instrument is also so constructed that a drill-bow may be used, and the apparatus may be fixed by what mechanics call a bench, or it may be attached, by complicated machinery, to the table on which the patient is laid, and be there secured in a proper position. But all this implies an intention of attacking large and dense stones, and a repetition of the attempts. So far as my experience goes,—and besides having seen Civiale and others operate, I have myself employed the instruments in a good many cases, and in some successfully,—I should dissuade from all endeavours to rid the patient of stone by such means, unless its size and consistence were such that it would yield to one or two attacks, and to the drill set in motion by the fingers. A plan of crushing the stone, by forcing one part of an apparatus against another by the stroke of a hammer, has been lately promulgated, and by a per- son who previously maintained that the grinding and rasping was quite perfect, though now regarding them as nought. This percuteur has a short bend at its farther extremity, one half separates from and slides on the other, and both are provided with teeth. It is very possible to entangle a portion of the blad- der betwixt its blades ; and, besides, these may bend PAKT III. NCALCULUS vesica:. 194 or break, as they have done in one abominable case, in which incisions were required to disengage the instrument from the patient's urethra or bladder. Also, a stone may be laid hold of by the apparatus, and being so hard as not to yield to the impulse of the hammer, may become fixed in such a way as it cannot be freed from the grasp, there being no pro- vision for pushing it out as in the lithotriteur. It will be seen from what has been stated, that I am not so sanguine—and I trust I shall be excused of presumption in giving an opinion upon the subject— as to suppose that the breaking up of the stone in the bladder will ever supersede lithotomy. That it would do so was at one time industriously represented, and perhaps believed, by some of the advocates and promoters of lithotrity. If, by some miraculous in- terposition, the deposits from the urine should uni- formly be pulverizable, and the bladders be made of less irritable stulf than they are, and the affected in- dividuals be prevailed on to apply in due time, then might such pleasant anticipations be entertained, and then might we with some reason hope to see them realized ; but as matters now are, urinary concretions must, in the great majority of instances, be cut out of the bladder. Nor is it a circumstance to be very much deplored, since, in good hands, the jDatient neither endures so much suffering, nor incurs so much risk, as by the proceedings already detailed. The cure, besides, is far less tedious. The stone- grinders, whilst they conceal their own unfortunate results, endeavour to depreciate lithotomy by blazon- ing abroad the practice of some unlucky surgeon,195 CALCULUS VESICAE. who, perhaps, loses four in twelve or six in twelve of the patients who come under his knife. It has been said that lithotrity is applicable, when, from the advanced age of the patients and the rigidity of the parts to be cut, lithotomy is not. This statement is incorrect, at least the latter part of it. Old people, from 70 to 80, and even beyond, recover, when the operation is conducted quickly, without loss of blood, and so as to guard against infiltration, as certainly and rapidly as young persons. Perhaps no operative procedure has been more can- vassed than that of lithotomy. The subject has been discussed, and the operation attempted, by many not very eminently qualified. All sorts of contrivances have been made and promulgated in connexion with this operation; the greater number intended to supply the want either of anatomical knowledge or of operative dexterity. A volume would scarcely contain a catalogue even of the instruments which are in my possession,—crooked staffs, knives, spoons, and forceps. I shall content myself with describing what appears to me the most simple, safe, and certain procedure. The bladder may be opened, for the removal of stone, in various situations ; at its forepart, by inci- sions above the pubes; in the posterior fundus, by division of the sphincter ani and a portion of the bowel; at its neck, by cutting upon it through the perineum. The first mode is termed the high opera- tion, the second the recto-vesical, the last the lateral. The lateral shall be first considered; it is the safest, the most advisable,and the mostfrequently resorted to.CALCULUS VESICA. 196 Keeping the patient in suspense for days after operation has been agreed on, with the view of pre- paring him as it is called, is prejudicial. Unless his digestive apparatus be in disorder, or he be labouring under some other affection incompatible with the safety of operating, the sooner he is cut the better. Delay often inflicts much mental suffering, is apt to induce despondency, and to weaken the defensive and reparative powers of the system. On the night be- fore the operation a dose of castor-oil, or other mild purgative, is to be administered, so as to obtain an empty state of the rectum ; should this fail, an ene- ma must be given. The existence of a stone should be ascertained im- mediately before proceeding to the operation ; it is not enough that the sounding was satisfactory the day before, or at any former period ; and the opera- tor will also, for his own sake, satisfy those who are met as his advisers and assistants of the fact that there is a stone in the bladder. All apparatus that may be required should be at hand. A grooved staff, a knife, forceps, a scoop, and an elastic gum tube, are in general sufficient. A Read's syringe should also be provided, lest the stone should prove brittle and crumble under the forceps. When the operator has, by previous examination, ascertained that the stone is of an unusually large size, then he must be provi- ded with a narrow, straight, and probe-pointed knife, with forceps of considerable length and grasp, and also with forceps so constructed as to effect crushing of the stone, should this prove necessary. The staff should be curved, of a size sufficient to fill197 CALCULUS VESICiE. the urethra or nearly so, and with the groove placed betwixt the convex surface and the side presented to the left of the patient. This form of instrument will prove the most convenient guide into the bladder. It is introduced fairly into the viscus, and made to touch the stone audibly. Its concave surface is raised towards the arch of the pubes, and retained thus, firmly hooked under the bones—as if with the intent of lifting the patient from the table—perpendi- cularly straight, without any inclination of the handle, or any bulging of the convexity towards the perineum. After being properly placed, the instru- ment is intrusted to an experienced assistant, who keeps it exactly in the same position from the begin- ning to the conclusion of the incisions. He at the same time elevates the scrotum, and, standing behind the patient, leaves the surgeon with both his hands at liberty, and with the patient's perineum all clear. The operator is thus enabled to guide the knife by the left hand ; whereas, if he use a straight staff, his left hand must be solely devoted to the management of this instrument during the most delicate part of the incisions. The staff is introduced either before or after the patient has been secured. The fixing of the patient is in this operation very necessary and im- portant ; on the proper management of that depends much the facility of completing the operation quickly and satisfactorily. Children are easily and conve- niently held on the lap of an assistant, who, grasp- ing the knees, places and secures the limbs so as to expose the perineum. In adults ligatures are indis-CALCULUS VESKM-: 198 pensable; the hands and ancles are to be fixed together by means of strong and broad worsted tapes ; and, in addition, the pelvis requires to be secured, and the limbs must be retained well separated, by two steady and powerful assistants, pressing obliquely down towards each other. The patient is plaeed on a firm table of a height convenient to the operator, who is seated on a low stool. A table from two feet and a half to three feet in height, with a stool about a foot lower, will be found to suit very well. The instruments likely to be required are disposed in the folds of a towel placed on the floor, on the right side of the operator, and at a convenient distance. Before proceeding to incise, the finger is introdu- ced into the rectum to ascertain that it is in an empty state, and also to promote its contraction. A knife is used, with blade and handle somewhat longer than those of a common dissecting knife, and without an edge till within an inch and a half from the point,— held lightly in the fingers, the end of the handle rest- ing on the palm. It is introduced close to the raphe, on the left side, and nearly opposite to where the erector penis and accelerator urinai approach each other. Its point is made to penetrate through the skin, fat, and superficial fascia of the perineum, and is carried downwards with a slight sawing motion, by the side of the anus—about midway betwixt the anus and the point of the tuberosity of the ischium— and is continued till nearly past the lower part of the orifice of the bowel. The forefinger of the left hand is then introduced into the wound, and the resisting fibres of the transverse muscle of the peri-199 CALCULUS VESICii:. neum, and of the levator ani, are touched with the edge of the knife directed downwards. Wound of the rectum is avoided by pressing it downwards and to the opposite side by the finger ; indeed the finger should be constantly in the wound, as a guide to the knife. In this stage of the proceedings,, incision up- wards would be likely to interfere with the artery of the bulb, whatever its distribution may be,—whether the vessel come from the pudic, or from the posterior iliac. It occupies nearly the same relative situation in either case, and by care can always be avoided during the second incision. Division of it occasions most profuse, alarming, and dangerous haemorrhage. I have seen the patient lose much blood in conse- quence during the incisions ; and after the occurrence of reaction, have seen the blood soaking through the mattrass, dropping from the foot of the bed, and col- lecting in pools on the floor. The bleeding is diffi- cult to arrest; the application of ligature is very troublesome, if not impracticable, and efficient pres- sure cannot be made with safety. In my own practice I have had no haemorrhage— chiefly, I believe, from never cutting upwards after the first incision—excepting one instance of secondary bleeding. The patient was sixty-one years of age, and had laboured under symptoms of stone for eight years. He had been dyspeptic for some weeks before the ope- ration, but otherwise appeared a favourable subject. Very little blood was lost during the operation, but on the fifth day haemorrhage occurred to the extent of seven ounces ; on the eighth day, the same amount was lost; on the twelfth, a pound ; on the sixteenth.\ 200 CALCULUS VESICAE. five ounces; on the seventeenth, about a pound. The bleeding was uniformly preceded by a feverish attack; and the blood had a florid, arterial appear- ance, and flowed rapidly. It proceeded from the inte- rior of the wound, and a suppurating cavity in the neighbourhood of the prostate was felt by the finger. From the prostatic side of this abscess the blood ap- peared to spring; probably a considerable branch of the pudic ramifying in this situation had been opened i by unhealthy ulceration. Pressure proved always effectual at the time, the haemorrhage recurring on * the loosening and separation of the lint. After the last bleeding the dressing was retained for some days, and on its removal no recurrence took place. The patient had been much exhausted by this severe loss of blood, but notwithstanding made a good, and by no means tedious, recovery. Many patients have perished within the first day or two from bleeding, owing to the using of the knife too freely and in an improper direction. By very slight application of the edge to the resisting fibres, and by gentle dilatation with the finger, the mem- branous portion of the urethra is reached. The knife is passed over the back of the forefinger in the wound, and lodged in the groove of the staff'; it is then carried forwards through the prostate, with the edge directed downwards and outwards, cutting the gland obliquely. In this incision the knife is raised very little from the groove, the object being to divide the gland to the extent of no more than barely three quarters of an inch. By so doing, the reflection of the pelvic fascia remains uninjured, and the boundaryCALCULUS VESlCiE, 201 is entire betwixt the external cellular tissue, and that loose and very fine texture immediately exterior to the bladder—betwixt it and the fascia lining the pelvis; thus the risk of urinary infiltration is annulled, at least much diminished. There is great danger in dividing the base of the prostate completely, and much more in cutting any part of the coats of the bladder. When the knife enters the groove of the staff, this instru- ment must be held very steady ; if it be at all with- drawn, its point may escape through the wound, and mislead the knife. There is no great risk of wounding the trunk of the pudic artery, unless by using either a broad in- strument called the gorget, or a concealed knife. The former is now almost wholly abandoned. Besides endangering the pudic, it is apt to lacerate the neck of the bladder, pushing the prostate before it, and so tearing its cellular connexions. The latter, the litho- tome cache, makes the internal wound larger than the external; the coats of the bladder are slit up to an unnecessary extent, being cut much more easily than the prostate, and the instrument not aftording suffi- cient resistance to the gland. Through the prostatic opening the finger is easily passed into the bladder, and the stone felt. The staff is then withdrawn. Sometimes it is troublesome to reach the bladder with the finger, in consequence of the straining and struggling of the patient causing the organ to ascend in the pelvis ; the difficulty is overcome by patiently waiting till these exertions cease. By steady and gradual movements of the finger in the wound of the prostate, the opening is muchCALCULUS VESICA. 202 dilated, so as to admit of the ready introduction of instruments for laying hold of and removing the stone. Indeed, the neck of the bladder is capable of dilatation without any incision. In a case of perineal abscess containing a portion of exfoliated bone, on account of which incision was made, it was found that the cavity communicated with the urethra ; lest other foreign matter should remain, I introduced my finger into this aperture in the membranous portion, and found that by the most gentle movement I could not only easily reach the bladder, but dilate the open- ing in it to a very considerable extent. By the finger'in the bladder the size and position of the stone is ascertained ; and no extracting instru- ment should be employed till after the finger is in con- tact with the stone. When it is of moderate size, and after having been turned, if necessary, into the most favourable position for extraction, the forceps are introduced. This instrument should be tolerably long, so as to afford power in its use; and the extremities of its blades should be covered with cloth, for thus it is not so likely to slip or to chip the stone as those with raised and projecting teeth. For flat stones, the forceps should be flat-mouthed ; for round, more open, hollowed, and bent; or for the latter description of stone, forceps with a sliding joint may be used. The object is to lay hold of the concretion by as many points as possible—to bring a large surface in contact with the instrument. Those with the sliding joint are of no service when the stone is flat, as it either cannot be caught by them at all, or merely by their points, or near tlie joint; it is applicable only to203 CALCULUS VESICA.. round stones of considerable size. The instrument is introduced shut, along the finger, and on reaching the prostate is gently insinuated, whilst the finger is at the same time withdrawn. It is brought in contact with the stone, and carefully opened, the handles being raised. One blade is passed under the stone, the other remaining above, and then the instrument is closed, firmly but not forcibly. By the finger, again introduced, along the side of the forceps, it is ascer- tained whether or not the stone is held securely, and in the proper direction ; if not all right, it may then be turned by using the point of the finger and relaxing the grasp. Now the handles of the instru- ment are depressed, so as to avoid resistance from the bones in the front of the pelvis, and the extrac- tion is commenced, steady and gradual; if difficult, dilation is effected, and the process so facilitated, by moving the forceps gently backwards and forwards; no force or violence is required, either in pulling or dilating; all should proceed smoothly and with deli- beration. The forceps must be proportioned in length to the size of the stone; a large concretion requires long forceps, both that it may be grasped securely, and that sufficient power may be affi^rded for the extrac- tion. Some stones are of such a size as will not admit of passage through the section of one side of the gland. By using the blunt-pointed knife, directed by the finger, without any additional external incision, a wound is made on the right side of the prostate, in204 CALCULUS VESICA. the same direction and to the same extent as that on the left. Thus a triangular flap is formed, the apex towards the membranous portion of the urethra, and through the opening thereby afforded any stone which will pass through the bones of the pelvis can be extracted without much difficulty. But no benefit can result from cutting both sides of the prostate, either by the double lithotome or in the manner just detailed, in all cases. It is time enough to incise the opposite side when, by introduction of the finger through the usual wound, it has been ascertained that the stone is too large to pass through. Then it is safer to cut the other side, than to enlarge the original opening, either by the knife, or by laceration in cruel attempts to extract the stone through an insufficient opening. When the stones are small, the scoop is the pre- ferable instrument. By it the bladder may be soon cleared, even when the concretions are numerous. It is introduced along with the finger, is brought in contact with the foreign body, and passed beyond it or beneath it. Then the point of the finger is placed on the lower part of the stone, so as to steady and secure it, and the scoop and finger retaining this re- lation are gradually withdrawn along with the stone. More than one, perhaps, may be removed at each withdrawal of the instrument. The flat and slightly bent lever, usually forming the handle of the scoop, is useful should the forceps unfortunately slip during extraction, leaving the calculus impacted in the wound ; by insinuating it behind the stone, and em-CALCULUS VESICAE. 205 ploying it partly as a lever, partly as an extractor, removal is completed. If the stone break, which should not often happen if the forceps be used properly, the fragments must be carefully brought away, the larger by the forceps, the others by the scoop. The sand and detritus which may remain are washed away by injecting tepid water into the bladder, afterwards promoting copious secretion of urine by diluents. After almost every operation for stone, particularly when the concretions are numerous, or when they have broken into fragments, a searcher is useful to ascertain whether or not all have been removed. It is a slightly curved sound, with a bulbous point. Having been introduced by the wound, it is passed into every part of the bladder with great care, with the view of detecting small calculi, or fragments, which may have escaped the search of the finger, forceps, and scoop. Besides this precaution, the extracted fragments should be carefully examined, and the stones built up, that the surgeon may better judge if they be all there. The surface of the stone affords considerable information; if it be uniformly rough, the likelihood is that it is solitary ; if one or more points are smooth, it is probable that these have been occasioned by the attrition of other calculi. If suspicion still exist of part remaining, examination may be made through the wound, during the suppu- rative stage, six or eight days after the operation, before it has closed much. It has been proposed to break the stone when veryCALCULUS VESICiE. 206 large, to facilitate its extraction, and many instru- ments have been contrived for the purpose. I have had no experience of the proceeding, but consider the following description of instrument as the best adapt- ed for the purpose—strong, massy forceps, of consi- derable length ; the blades proportionally narrower, but much thicker, than those of the extracting for- ceps, and armed with several strong teeth, thick at their origin, tapering gradually, and terminating in a sharp ridge; the handles also thicker than they are broad, that they may not yield to the compressing force, and approximated by means of a combination of the lever with the screw. The foreign body is secured firmly between the blades closed on it; the handles are then fixed by a screw and nut, and com- pressing force is exerted by the lever acting both as a lever and a wedge. The screw, turned by the fingers, will suffice to crush many concretions ; and none can withstand the full power of the instrument. But it is, perhaps, safer to open the bladder above the pubes, and extract the stone through a wound in that situ- ation, when it is too large to pass betwixt the rami of the ischia. When the stone or stones have been extracted, and the surgeon has satisfied himself that no more foreign matter remains in the bladder, the next step in the lateral operation is the insertion of a gum-elastic tube, from four to six inches in length, according to the depth of the perineum, in calibre a little larger than a full-sized catheter, provided with a noose attached to each of two rings at its neck, and at its farther207 CALCULUS VESICiE. extremity open at both point and sides. It is intro- duced along the forefinger in the wound, and its ex- tremity lodged fairly within the bladder ; a double tape is attached to each of the nooses at its orifice; one is passed up in front, and secured to the fore part of a broad band round the loins ; the other is brought under the thighs, and fixed behind. The object of its introduction is to facilitate the escape of urine externally, and prevent infiltration of the cellular tissue by this fluid. The wound, when made ac- cording to the directions which have been given, is both conical and dependent—the external opening is free, the internal small, the intermediate space gra- dually contracting as it approaches the bladder, and the inferior part of the wound of the integument is lower than the corresponding portion of the prostatic section ; thus the draining away of the urine is fa- voured, but it conduces very much to the patient's safety to ensure still farther its free escape by the insertion of a tube—part passes through the tube, and drops from its orifice, part flows by its side according to the laws of capillary attraction. For some hours after the operation, it is necessary to clear out the instrument frequently by means of a feather, otherwise its extremity will soon become obstructed by coagula ; in short, this must be perse- vered in till colourless flow from the orifice shows that the internal oozing of blood has ceased, and that nothing is passing but urine. When by salutary effusion from the vessels the surface of the wound becomes consolidated and imperviable to the urine.CALCULUS VESICiE. 20S the tube is to be withdrawn, but not till then ; in young persons it may be removed after twenty-four hours, but in those advanced in life and of relaxed habit it must be retained for forty-eight or more. The tube is also of service should bleeding con- tinue from branches of the superficial pudic, or from small arterial twigs in the neighbourhood of the pros- tate ; for it admits of the application of efficient pres- sure to the bleeding point, without interfering with the escape of urine, and so increasing the danger of infiltration. Slips of lint are pushed along it to a sufficient depth, and are retained, if necessary, by compress and bandage, the orifice of the tube being left clear. But, as already stated, it is indeed very seldom that this proceeding will be required, if the operation have been conducted with proper caution. After the tube has been secured by its tapes, or during this process, the patient is unbound ; he is placed in bed with the thighs separated and bent, and must be kept very quiet. Diluents are admi- nistered copiously, to encourage the secretion of urine ; he cannot wet too much. His nourishment must be very sparing, consisting chiefly of bland fluids ; and all sources of inquietude and irritation must be carefully avoided. Depletion, whether ge- neral Dr local, will very seldom be required ; danger is not to be apprehended from inflammation so much as from infiltration of the cellular tissue by urine. In the fatal cases, unconnected with haemorrhage or exhaustion, the peritoneum is not found vascular or coated with lymph, nor is there collection of morbid 3CALCULUS VESICAE. 209 secretion from this membrane within the abdominal cavity, but the celhilar tissue, along the track of the wound, is black, disorganised, easily lacerable, pu- trid ; or, if the infiltration has not been to such an extent or in such a site as to kill speedily as if by poisoning, unhealthy suppurations are found, exten- sive, uncircumscribed, composed of sanies, urine, and , dead cellular tissue, horribly mixed. Should fixed and increasing pain be complained of in the hypo- gastrium, the part is to be leeched and fomented ; this is the only indication of inflammatory action which has occurred in any of my patients, and it has yielded to the simple treatment here mentioned ; so far as I recollect, in only three cases was the leeching necessary. Some patients require support very soon, almost from the first; others evirjce sufficiency of action throughout, and in them it is very necessary to pay strict attention to the state of the stomach and bowels, lest the action should exceed ; some pro- ceed favourably for a time, and then become torpid and stationary, their spirits and constitutional power flagging, in consequence of confinement and the dis- charge and irritation of the wound,—such also require judicious support, and perhaps slight stimulation. Union of the wound by the first intention is not desirable ; attempts to procure it are dangerous, as conducing to infiltration; the presence of the tube effectually prevents both. Discharge and granula- tion take place, and the cavity contracts gradually and uniformly. By the sixth or eighth day—sooner PART in. o210 CALCULUS VESICA. in young people, and later in those far advanced in life—the urine begins to flow in part by the natural passage, causing considerable pain in consequence of the urethra having been for a time unaccustomed to its stimulus ; and as the opening in the prostate con- tracts, the escape of urine by the wound proportion- ally diminishes. When the natural course is com- pletely restored, the wound closes more rapidly than before, granulations soon fill it up, and cicatrisation takes place. Sometimes, though very rarely, a small fistulous opening remains for some time, through which a few drops of urine may occasionally distil; should it prove obstinate in not closing, it may be touched with a heated wire. And sometimes also, when the urine is unusually slow of coming by the urethra, this may be expedited by the occasional in- troduction of a catheter or bougie. It is not often that the operation of lithotomy re- quires to be repeated. In some few cases, however, the calculous diathesis continues, a new concretion is formed, and the patient again applies for relief, per- haps several years afterwards. In such circumstan- ces, the incisions are to be made in the right side of the perineum ; for the track of the former wound is now consolidated, firm, and hard, and would be cut with diflSculty. But when, from neglect or want of dexterity, the first operation has been imperfectly performed, one or more stones being left behind, the wound may not heal, nor even contract to any considerable extent ; and then dilatation of the ex- isting opening, with fresh section of the prostate.211 CALCUI-US VESICiE. will probably be sufficient, though at an interval of many months. It has been proposed to divide the operation into two parts, with an interval of several days between ; first to make the incisions, leaving the stone undis- turbed, and after suppuration has been fairly esta- blished, and the parts become relaxed, then to extract the foreign body, provided it have not in the mean time been discharged spontaneously—in short, to perform the operation a deux temps. This method is liable to serious objections. Two operations must in general be more severe than one. The patient is rendered despondent and miserable after the first, by knowing that the object of his suffering has been imperfectly accomplished, or rather not accomplished at all. Much, and often serious irritation is produced by the wounded bladder being contracted on the hard and rough foreign body; patients have sunk under this torture. The cure is tedious. From the earliest times it has been quite well understood, that when the stone cannot be got out it must be left in; but the proposal of always leaving it in, on principle and not from necessity, is really absurd. There is room for suspecting that this mode of operation originated as a virtue from necessity; the extraction of the stone is always the most difficult part of lithotomy, requiring much skill and dexterity, and the operator, finding himself baffled in his attempts to effect it, wisely desists from his futile efforts at the time, and waits for another opportunity. This is certainly better practice than the using of much force, or di-212 CALCULUS VESICAE. lating the wound by incision to a dangerous extent, but it is very far from being so good as the immediate removal of the foreign body, smoothly and quickly, skilfully, and without violence ; and it has been alrea- dy observed, that the cases are very few indeed in which the stone cannot be removed through the pros- tatic opening without the employment of any force, and without inflicting any injury to the parts through which it passes—without hazard and without delay. The sooner the method en deux temps is expunged from the list of surgical operations, the better will it be for suffering humanity and the credit of our art. In those rare cases in which the stone is so large that it cannot be brought through the outlet of the pelvis, it must either be broken into fragments, or removed entire through incision above the pubes; as already stated, it is probable that the high opei'a- tion is the safer proceeding. It is, however, an ope- ration attended with much danger. The wound is necessarily extensive, and important parts are liable to be interfered with ; and, from not being depend- ent, the escape of the urine by it is almost certain to cause infiltration of the cellular tissue surrounding the bladder—an occurrence almost alwaj'^s proving fatal, and that rapidly. The first part of the proce- dure is to insure distension of the bladder, so that it may rise in the pelvis, and afford sufficient space be- tween its lower part and the anterior reflection of the peritoneum ; but this may prove either very difficult, or altogether impossible, even with the aid of injec- tion by the urethra, in consequence of the unyielding213 CALCULUS VESICAE. contracted state of the viscus, and the great thicken- ing of its coats. An incision is made through the integument and fatty matter, from three to four inches in length, in the mesial line, and terminating over the symphysis pubis ; the recti and pyramidal muscles are then separated, the cellular tissue cautiously divided, and the fore and lower part of the distended bladder exposed. The coats are pierced at the most, inferior part, and an opening made sufficient for the introduction of the finger. By the finger the dimen- sions of the stone are ascertained, and then the wound is enlarged upwards to such an extent as will by di- latation admit of the extraction. Forceps are intro- duced, of sufficient length and grasp, and the foreign body removed without laceration or bruising of the parts. The patient is then laid on his side, a piece of dressing being interposed between the edges of the wound to favour the discharge of the urine exter- nally. The escape of this fluid may be free and co- pious, and the wound may close favourably ; but the majority of the patients on whom this operation has been performed, have perished either from urinary infiltration, from peritoneal inflammation, or from exhaustion. Fortunately, I have never had occasion to resort to it. It has been proposed to combine this mode of ope- ration with wound of the posterior part of the ure- thra from the perineum, in order that a free and de- pending outlet may be aff'orded to the urine, and also, that by introducing instruments into the bladder from the lower opening, the organ may be elevated andCALCULUS VESICAE. 214 Stretched so that its fore part may afford sufficient space for the high incision without danger to the peritoneum. With this view the perineum is incised, similarly but to a less extent than in the lateral ope- ration, and the membranous part of the urethra open- ed. Through this aperture the sound with a stilet for elevating the bladder is passed, and intrusted to an assistant; the incision above the pubes is then made, and the stone extracted, and a tube is left in the perineal wound for discharge of the urine. The plan appears feasible, though complicated, and likely to diminish hazard by preventing infiltration. The 9'ecto-vesical method should never be resorted to in preference to the lateral; in other words, it is unwarrantable, in my opinion, in those cases to which the lateral operation is applicable. It consists in ex- posing the neck of the bladder by division upwards of the sphincter ani and lower part of the rectum, and then either making a section of the prostate in the usual way, or dividing also the coats of the bladder in the posterior fundus, when the concretion is large. The cure is tedious and harassing ; the lu'ine and faeces are discharged together, and hardened fecu- lent matter may accumulate within the bladder ; the wound is long in contracting, and often cannot be made to close completely without much trouble, and after a long time ; often a fistulous opening remains, communicating with the bladder and rectum, and through this the urine continues to be in part dis- charged. It has been argued, that the recto-vesical method is advisable, M'ith the view of obtaining moreCALCULUS VESICA. 215 room for extraction of the stone ; but to me it ap- pears that the divided rectum will occupy just as much space in the outlet as when entire and empty. Circumstances may however occur, rendering this operation, or a modification of it, absolutely neces^ sary, as in the following case—the only instance in which I have encountered an encysted stone. The patient, aged 64, of a spare habit of body, was seized with symptoms of stone in the bladder about twen- ty-four years previously to my seeing him ; at that time he was sounded, but no stone could be discover- ed. The symptoms gradually subsided, and ulti- mately disappeared, and he remained for consider- ably more than twelve years totally free from any affection of the urinary organs. But, about three years previous to the operation, the symptoms re- turned, and again attentive examination of the blad- der was made, without detecting any stone ; on in- troducing the finger into the rectum, however, as high as possible, a firm substance was felt, globular, of considerable size, and very slightly movable. From this time the symptoms gradually increased in seve- rity, ultimately becoming almost intolerable. At length the presence of a stone was distinctly ascer- tained by sounding, and the instrument was passed be- neath as well as over the calculus ; from simultaneous examination by the rectum, it was evident that the hard bulging body was connected with the foreign matter struck by the sound. The lateral operation was performed, and, expecting to meet with a large stone, both sides of the prostate were divided. The forceps were introduced, but the stone, though easily laid216 CALCULUS VESICAE. hold of, could not be moved. Attempts with tlie in- strument were accordingly abandoned, and further examination made by the finger, when it was found that the stone lay fixed in the lower and anterior part of the viscus, that it was firmly enveloped by a cyst situated between the rectum and posterior part of the prostate, and that only a part, small in proportion to its body, projected into the cavity of the bladder. Of this unusual and untoward circumstance, the me- dical gentlemen present were also satisfied by manual examination. It was quite apparent that it would be impossible to divide the cyst sufficiently without wounding the rectum, and I therefore determined to lay the bowel, the cyst, and the track of the wound into one cavity. This was effected by cutting the upper and anterior part of the cyst, passing a blunt- pointed and curved bistoury behind the remainder of the cyst, insinuating it through the coats of the gut at that part, meeting the point with the forefinger of the left hand passed per anum, and then carrying the instrument forwards to the surface. A strong scoop, much curved, was passed behind the stone, and with- out much difficulty extraction was thereby completed. Not above a few tablespoonfuls of blood were lost during the operation, in which not much time was occujDied, and no bleeding took place after reaction Avas established. The cure proceeded favourably, though necessarily slow and tedious, the more so since the patient had been very much reduced by the previous suffering. Some superficial slough- ing took place in the wound, but the sloughs soon separated, and healthy discharge and granulation fol-CALCULUS VESICAE. 217 lowed. By keeping the bowels gently open, the an- noyance from faeculent evacuation by the wound was in some measure diminished. He was daily out of bed, and took food in good quantity and with relish. At the end of the fifth week, however, he was seized with a severe bowel attack—vomiting, purging, cold extremities, &c.—and the effects of this were never surmounted. The weak state in which it left him continued and increased, he was soon confined entire- ly to bed, the wound made no progress in closing, sloughing of the back took place, and he sank about the end of the eighth week. Calculi sometimes lodge in the urethra, obstructing the flow of urine, becoming firmly impacted, and in- creasing in size. If in the perineal portion of the canal, they are to be fixed and made prominent by being grasped with the fingers, and then exposed by an incision made in the raphe ; they are turned out, either with the finger, or by means of a small scoop. If situated in the part covered by the scrotum, the opening should be made, if possible behind, not an- terior to it, for a wound in the latter site will be closed with difficulty. When in the posterior part of the canal, they are reached by incision in the left side of the perineum and opening of the membranous por- tion. After such operations, the wound, if not ante- rior to the scrotum, usually closes in a few days. Calculus in the female is exceedingly rare. Con- cretions are not so apt to be retained in the bladder, as in males; they are passed by the urethra. The218 CALCULUS VESICA. symptoms are similar to those which have been de- scribed as indicating stone in the other sex. Sound- ing is easy; it is performed with an instrument slight- ly bent at the farther extremity, and considerably shorter than those employed in the male. Even when the calculi are of considerable size, they can be removed, as well as other foreign matter, by dila- tation of the urethra, effected gradually. Portions of gentian root, and sponge tents, were formerly used for this purpose ; but of late years various dilators have been contrived. Some are really new, others have been published as such though correctly repre- sented in works some hundred years old. Their blades are made to separate in a parallel direction by pecu- liar adaptation of the screw; and by gradually and very slowly increasing their separation, uniform dila- tation is effected. Soon it is sufficient to admit the finger ; then the size of the stone is ascertained, and, if necessary, the dilatation is continued to a sufficient extent. When thus the canal has been widened so as to admit of the passage of the stone, forceps are intro- duced, and extraction accomplished hi a direction downwards, that is towards the vagina. Inconti- nence of urine is apt to continue for some time after this operation, if the dilatation have been consider- able, as well as after the removal of larger stones by incision. Incision has been proposed in various directions— into the vagina, or by the side of it, upwards and outwards; and it has also been recommended to cut219 GONORRHCEA AND LEUCORHIICEA. the bladder, on the fore and lateral part of its neck, without interfering with the urethra. By the latter method the chance of incontinence remaining is diminished, but there is a risk of uri- nary infiltration, and this will require to be provided against by the use of a tube, as after the lateral ope- ration in the male. A staff is introduced, and by it the urethra is depressed towards the vagina. An incision is then made by the side of the crus clito- ridis, and through this the finger reaches the neck of the bladder, more by dilatation than by additional use of the knife. In one case I removed a very large stone by inci- sion. By a straight grooved staff the urethra was depressed; a straight blunt-pointed bistoury being slid along the groove, was carried upwards and out- wards, first on the left side, and then on the right— dividing the urethra and parts exterior, so as to form a track of wound, which, after dilatation, would admit of the ready passage of the stone. Extraction was easy. Incontinence continued for many months, but ultimately was in a great measure removed bypromo- ting farther contraction of the opening by the cautery. Gonori'hcea in females is often confounded with Leiicofi'hoea^ which is a very common complaint both in married and unmarried women. Leucorrhoea sometimes occurs at a very early period of life, at the age of ten or sooner ; and in such circumstances affections of the glandular and osseous systems often supervene. Frequently it precedes the accession of220 GONOimHCEA AND LEUCORRHCEA. the coloured menstrual discharge, and in many in- stances is substituted for it; it is always most violent after the menstrual period. In leucorrhoea there is generally neither heat nor pain during the passing of urine, and the colour of the discharge differs from that of gonorrhoea, though sometimes very slightly ; the stain of gonorrhoeal matter is yellow with a black border; leucorrhoeal is white or yellowish, but does not possess the latter characteristic. The application of leucorrhoeal matter will induce discharge from the urethra or from the external parts of some males, but the affection thus caused is perhaps not so violent, nor of so long duration, as that which arises from specific contagion. The effects of leucorrhoea on the system are very troublesome. There is general debility, dis- order of the stomach, pains of the back, sides, and limbs, a sallow bloodless complexion, paleness of the lips. It is often a cause, at other times a consequence, of miscarriage. Sometimes it is accompanied with a prolapsus uteri, sometimes with thickening of the os uteri. The discharge which attends ulceration of the parts, from whatever cause, is generally bloody, some- times it is thick and of a laudable aspect, sometimes thin and foetid. More or less discharge attends poly- pus, and is often profuse and coloured. In gonorrhoea the inflammation is usually limited to the external parts, but sometimes extends along the vagina. In neglected cases great tumefaction of the labia takes place, along with excoriation of the neigh- bouring parts, patchy ulceration around, and swell- ing of the absorbents and of the inguinal glands.GONOllllHCEA AND LEUC011111102A. 221 Heat, pain, and scalding, are experienced in making- water, but in comparison with the other sex females suffer little or nothing in this disease. The parts are much less complicated ; and bad effects seldom fol- low either the affection or the remedies employed, however strong. The inflammatory stage must be subdued by anti- phlogistic measures, proportioned to the intensity of the action and the state of the constitution ; they sel- dom if ever require to be at all severe. Turpentines, and other internal remedies which may prove beneficial in the gonorrhoea of males, are of little use. The exter- nal means are to be chiefly trusted to, consisting of astringent and stimulating washes ; when the vagina is affected, the solutions must be thrown up by means of a syringe. In leucorrhoea, the same external treat- ment is required, and the use of a syringe is always necessary. The washes most commonly employed are —solution of the sulphate of zinc, of alum, and of the nitrate of silver, or a decoction of oak bark or galls. In leucorrhoea the internal exhibition of tinct. lyttse in large doses may be considered as almost a specific, stimulating the whole system, and correcting that state of morbid debility, both general and local, on which the vitiated secretion depends ; and the in- jection for the vagina, which is perhaps most effica- cious, is the solution of the nitrate of silver. When the menstruation is irregular, blisters and sinapisms may be applied to the loins, with cold bathing, general and local. In gonorrhoea, when only the external parts are inflamed and furnish discharge, the application of 6222 GONORRHCEAL LICHEN. a solution of the sulphate or of the acetate of zinc to the parts by means of lint, effects a cure in a few days —along with strict attention to cleanliness, the obser- vance of rest, regulation of diet, and occasional doses of gentle jjliysic. Gonori'hoeal Lichen not unfrequently follows sup- pression of the discharge both in males and females. It is preceded by smart fever, headach, and violent pains in the limbs. Inflammation of the fauces is generally present, with superficial ulceration or exco- riation ; and sometimes the abraded portions of the mucous lining are covered with a whitish exudation. The symptoms subside on the appearance of the eruption, which is papular. It generally appears first on the breast and arms, and then extends over the whole body, accompanied with slight itching. If the case proceeds favourably, the red papulae disappear in a few days, leaving blains in their stead. Desquama- tion of the cuticle generally follows. This affection must not be confounded with a cutaneous eruption which sometimes follows the use of copaivi, and which is a species of urticaria. When the fever is violent, bleeding must be had recourse to, but not to a great extent, and only when it cannot with safety be avoided. Gentle laxatives are to be given. Diaphoretics are very beneficial, and the patient should not be exposed to cold or wet, but kept rather warm, otherwise the eruption may be re- pelled, the affection thereby prolonged, and the con- stitutional disturbance augmented. The fauces soon223 IIETENTION OF URINE. recover under the use of simple gargles. Mercury is hurtful. Retention of Urine in females arises from tumours, natural or morbid, of the uterus, or of the vagina and appendages, from displacement of these parts, or from foreign bodies lodged in them. But the consider- ation of such affections belongs to the accoucheur. Retention takes place in females from paralysis of the bladder, and the same treatment is necessary as in the case of the male. Hysterical women often take it into their heads that they are unable to empty the bladder, and will not attempt it; and though it may be difficult to convince them of their mistake, yet when they are left to themselves for a little, and begin to feel some of the torments which attend re- tention, they contrive to get rid of their burden, and that without any very great exertion. Others are still more whimsical, and will push into the viscus needlecases, bodkins, portions of tobacco pipes, and such like. The surgeon should be aware of such whims. There is, in general, no difficulty in passing the catheter. A short one is preferable, there being less chance of giving pain ; and the operation must, of course, be proceeded in with the utmost regard to delicacy. The forefinger is placed in the upper part of the orifice of the vagina, and the point of the in- strument, when placed a little above this mark, read- ily slips into the urethra. It is recommended to use the clitoris as the guide, placing the finger on this,VESICO-VAGINAL FISTULA. 224 and moving the point of the instrument thence down- wards ; but when this method is pursued, the cathe- ter is apt to enter the more patent passage. The instrument is to be carried gently onwards, in a ho- rizontal direction, till the urine flows. In some cases of enlargement and displacement of the neighbouring parts, the urethra is elongated, and its course irre- gular ; in such, a long elastic catheter is required. If objections are made to the use of the catheter, at an early period of retention, nitrous ether may be given internally, fomentations applied to the hypogastrium, and a turpentine enema administered. Puncture of the bladder can seldom, if ever, be necessary in the female ; if it should be required, the opening may be made either above the pubes or through the vagina. From the latter method there is a risk of fistula remaining ; but this, as will afterwards be noticed, can in most cases be ultimately made to close. The operation above the pubes has, in some instances, been necessary during parturition, when instruments could not be passed by the urethra, nor through the coats of the vagina and bladder. False communication betwixt the vagina and blad- der, termed Vesico-vagiual Jistula, is usually the re- sult of mismanagement during parturition. The bladder has been allowed to become over-distended, and in this state to be pressed upon and bruised by the child's head ; or it may have been compressed and bruised by instruments employed in tedious de- livery. The consequence is inflammation, violent, and followed by sloughing. On the separation of the225 VESICO-VAGINAL FISTULA. sloughs, the urine escapes, perhaps six or eight days after delivery ; or the anterior surface of the vagina, and the coats of the posterior and lower part of the bladder, have been lacerated by the imprudent use of the crotchet, or some such crooked and awkward tool; then the escape of urine is immediate. The unnatural flow continues, diminishing after a time, and if the opening be at first not large, and have gradually contracted, ultimately it may escape in but small quantities, at least during the recumbent pos- ture. Of course, the size and site of the opening are very various. I have been consulted in some dread- ful cases, incurable and loathsome—the consequence of most culpable neglect and ignorant rudeness on the part of the accoucheur ; the bladder without any part of its posterior fundus, rent so as to admit the fingers ; the rectum also torn extensively—in some, merely a shred of the sphincter remaining; faeces and urine constantly mixing in one vast offensive cavity. But in general the opening is in the neck of the bladder immediately behind the commencement of the urethra, and nearly in the mesial line; some- times it is considerably further back. It can be felt by the finger, and is readily seen by means of a pro- per speculum, a copper spatula being at the same time used to prevent the folds of the vagina from interrupting the view; the speculum opened by handles attached to the blades, and prevented from shutting by a serrated semicircular plate interposed, is the most convenient and suitable. Attempts have been made to close the aperture, TAllT III. i>226 YESICO-VAGINAT. FISTULA. by paring the edges, and then insertmg sutures ; but this is a proceeding both difficult in execution and not likely to prove successful; the thinness of the parts, the presence of a secreting surface on each side, and the oozing of acrid urine betwixt the edges, all militate strongly against adhesion. No benefit can be expected from any treatment, unless the opening be of no great size, and in such cases the cautery will be found most effectual. The speculum is intro- duced into the vagina, so as to expose the aperture, and guard the neighbouring parts from the cautery; and should the opening not appear distinct, a flexible wire is passed by the urethra, and insinuated through it. A small heated cautery is then slid cautiously along the speculum, and applied lightly to the mar- gins, with the view of producing a superficial slough; this separates, and during the consequent cicatrisa- tion the opening contracts. When the edges have again become smooth, the cautery is applied as before, and by several repetitions complete closure may ultimately be obtained. The interval between the applications is necessarily considerable; each must be allowed to have its full effect. Once I attempted to combine the cautery with the suture; first applying the heated Mare, and after separation of the slough, and when the margins were tumified, excited, and apparently prone to adhere by the formation of new matter, then approximating them by a species of twisted suture. At first, matters proceeded favour- ably, but the ultimate result was not very success- ful—it was such, however, as to render the i)lan227 IMPERFORATE VAGINA. worthy of being again tried; if fortunate, it would very much abridge the cure. By the cautery I liave succeeded in relieving many, and in curing a few perfectly. I cannot quit the subject, without ex- pressing regret at the frequent occurrence of such cases. I have had three or four in the hospital at one time. The professors of the obstetric art should look to this. Imperfections of the female genital organs are sometimes met with. The external parts may be well formed, while the vagina is short, and the ute- rus and its appendages are wanting; or these may be perfect, and the vagina closed at its external ori- fice, either by a thin and dense membrane, or by a thick and fleshy substance. Young children are not" unfrequently presented with the latter kind of im- perfection, but in them there is no need for inter- ference ; the urine is not obstructed, and it is only towards puberty that a necessity arises for removal of the deficiency. At this period, the menstrual dis- charges are retained, if the vagina continue closed, and accumulate in great quantity, producing much distension of the canal, pain in the hypogastrium, general uneasiness in the parts, and sometimes swell- ing of them to a great extent. On division of the membrane, there is an escape of many pounds of dark, thick, putrid fluid, and all the symptoms quickly subside. A cautious incision is made in the mesial line, until the obstruction be completely divided ; if an opening be found, a probe, or director, is intro- duced, and by this the knife is guided. There is228 STRICTUKE OF VAGINA. seldom any risk of the parts again coalescing ; when the obstruction, however, is unusually thick, the in- sertion of dressing between the edges during granu- lation may be necessary to prevent contraction. Unnatural adhesions of the external labia occa- sionally take place, occurring in early life from the healing of excoriation and ulceration caused by ne- glect of cleanliness. Perhaps the closure is not to such an extent as to prevent escape of the discharges, but still it is inconvenient and requires attention. The parts must be divided in the proper direction and to the necessary extent, and by the interposition of dressing reclosure is prevented. Coiitraction of the vagina at a distance from the orifice sometimes occurs. On one occasion I was requested by an accoucheur to examine and divide a very tight, firm stricture, scarcely admitting the finger. Labour had commenced, and the expulsion of the fcetus was prevented by the stricture ; it was attributed to injury inflicted in a former delivery. By a probe-pointed bistoury guided on the finger, it was notched pretty deeply at many points—a pro- ceeding which I have followed with advantage in simple stricture of the rectum. Every thing pro- ceeded happily. Occasionally the contraction of the vagina is to a great extent; the uterine discharges are not per- mitted to exist at all, and great uneasiness is thereby occasioned. In one case in which the canal may be said to have been wholly obliterated, from what cause or at what period it did not distinctly appear, ITUMOURS OF THE GENITAL OllGANS. 229 ascertained the position of the uterus by the finger passed into the bowel, pushed a curved trocar on to it through a considerable thickness of parts, and afterwards dilated this artificial passage by bougies gradually increased in size. The vagina was thus re-established, and menstruation again occurred and without interruption. Violent and deep injlcmmation of the external parts of generation is not uncommon,—the result of bruise or wound. It is generally met with in the lower prostitutes. The inflammation often attacks the vagina and neighbouring parts, followed by great swelling, and, if not allayed, extensive abscess forms, with much fever and pain ; pointing takes place be- twixt the external and internal labia. The parts must be copiously leeched, and afterwards fomented ; strict rest and antiphlogistic regimen must be ob- served, and, when matter has formed, a free opening should be made early, to prevent deep and extensive mischief. A sinus sometimes, though rarely, results ; generally the cavity fills np, and the discharge ceases in a very few days. These parts are much more vas- cular than the lower part of the bowel, and when in a diseased condition do not require to be so frequent- ly put in action ; hence extensive incision and divi- sion of the sphincter is here unnecessary. Ttimours of various kinds are met with about the external female organs ; more rarely, internally. En- cysted tumours of the labia are not uncommon, andPOLYPUS VAGINA. 230 sometimes solid swellings, varying in size and struc- ture, grow from these parts. I had occasion to re- move one of the latter description, which weighed many pounds, and had been productive of great and long inconvenience. The general rules for the ex- tirpation of tumours apply to them. Considerable haemorrhage may be expected. The operation must be done so as to deform and impair the functions of the parts as little as possible. New and unnatural growths, or enlargements of the natural parts, as of the prep vice of the clitoris, or of the internal labia, sometimes occur, and may re- quire curtailment. The external parts of elderly females may be the seat of warty excrescences, degenerating into ma- lignant ulcer, and demanding free removal by inci- sion. Tumours of a medullary nature sometimes proceed from the interior of the pelvis, and displace and in- terfere with the functions of the vagina, bladder, and the neighbouring parts ; such cases are of course hopeless, and the treatment must be merely pal- liative. Polypous tumours, of various size, structure, and consistence, sometimes grow from the cavity of the uterus, or from its orifice, or from the parietes of the vagina. They are generally attached by a narrow pedicle, except when of a truly malignant nature— occasioning discharge, mucous and vitiated, some- times bloody, often profuse. Bearing down pains are complained of, and the health declines in conse-UTERINE DISEASE 231 qiience of the discharge. Most of such tumours are benign, troublesome only from their bulk and situ- ation, and from the irritation which they produce in the surrounding membrane. Removal by ligature is generally the most advisable method of extirpation. Tlie site and nature of the attachment is ascertained, and a fine and strong silver wire, or a piece of cat- gut, is noosed round the base by the finger, and j^ished down close to the origin, care being taken not to include the healthy parts beyond the growth. The ligature is tightened by passing it through a canula, or along a strong probe, with a ring at each extremity, to the lower of which it is secured. It is drawn more tightly from time to time, till the tumour drop away. By practice only, can dexterity in such manipulation be acquired; the object being under- stood, it must be attained by perseverance. Malig7ia7it disease of the uterus is common. Va- rious morbid alterations are here met with ; soft, or hard, or bloody masses, earthy deposits, &c. The disease generally commences in the neck, with full- ness and thickening; in many females it is attri- butable to faulty menstruation, to leucorrhoea, or to other irritations in the neighbourhood. Ulcer- ation sometimes occurs, not of a malignant nature, from similar causes ; but in old females this is either of a bad kind from the first, or degenerates, present- ing all the usual characters of malignant sore on a mucous surface. The surrounding induration is usu- ally great, and quickly spreads to the neck and body232 UTERINE DISEASE. of the organ, contaminating also the neighbouring tissues and the lymphatics. Some bloodthirsty accoucheurs and operators have attacked the uterus unrelentingly ; more than one ap- pear to have been seized with the monomania of cut- ting out part or the whole of the organ. Numerous females, at a period of life when malignant diseases rarely show themselves, have been subjected to ex- cision of the OS and cervix uteri. Some forty or fifty were operated on within a very few months ; in al- most all of these cases the proceeding was, without a doubt, cruel, reckless, and unnecessary. Attention to the general health, Math local applications, would in all probability have restored the parts to a healthy condition. Malignant disease affecting the uterus may be re- moved, at an early stage, by incision, with propriety and safety : I have done so successfully. The part is examined by means of a hollow tube of tin, polished inside, gently and cautiously introduced. A dilator as well as a speculum is required in the operative pro- ceedings for removal of the parts ; and for this pur- pose the instrument mentioned, when treating of vesico-vaginal fistula, is to be employed, ^^'^hen this has been introduced, the os uteri is laid hold of by one or more vulsella, and pulled down ; the diseased portion is then removed by a blunt-jiointed knife, the incisions being carried beyond the hard and altered part. There is not much loss of blood, and it is easily arrested by stuffing the vagina. Afterwards bland fluids are injected, and, after a time, gentlyLIGATUllE OF COMMON ILIAC ARTEllY. 233 stimulating, to wash away the superfluous discharge, and promote healing. The state of the sore can be occasionally examined by means of the speculum, and nitrate of silver or other applications employed when necessary. When the disease is in an advanced stage, the neck of the uterus is involved completely, and there is an uncertainty as to how far the morbid altera- tion extends. Only palliative treatment can be adopt- ed,—soothing applications, and internal remedies ac- cording to the symptoms. The practice of some, however, is more bold and decisive. The uterus has been cut out by incision of the abdominal parietes. It has also been removed through the outlet of the pelvis. As was to be expected, the patients have perished from loss of blood, and the shock of such barbarous proceedings; one or two perhaps survi- ved, only to die from extension of the disease to the internal parts, within a very few months. Such doings are not justifiable by any plea, and if repeated, should be punished, not merely by the desecration of all professional men of sound sense and principle, but by the strong arm of the criminal law of the land. The Common Iliac artery may require ligature, on account of extensive aneurism, involving the in- ternal iliac, or its branches at their origin, or en- croaching on the external iliac to near the bifurca- tion. It may also be necessary, in consequence of wound of the artery, or in cases of secondary hse-234 LIGATURE OF COMMON ILIAC. inorrhage from branches of either the external or the internal iliac. An incision is made through the abdominal parie- tes, commenced over the passage of the chord through the transverse fascia, and extending upwards, and a little outwards, for five or six inches; its extent de- pending on the size of the patient, the thickness of the parts to be divided, and the consequent depth of the vessel. By this first incision, the skin and su- perficial fascia of the abdomen are divided, and then the muscles are penetrated, the line of the prelimi- nary wound admitting of their being cut in the di- rection of the fibres. After the external oblique has been passed, the proceedings require to be conducted with great caution. The fibres are cut by the hand unsupported, and then the transverse fascia is scratch- ed through, slightly and with great precaution, cut- ting upon the finger or a director introduced at the lower angle of the wound. By means of the finger, the opening is dilated, and the fascia separated from the peritoneum. This membrane and the parts with- in it are then, with the utmost gentleness, pushed in- wards and upwards, by the hands of an assistant, so as to expose the bottom of the wound. The course of the vessel is now felt for, and by separating the edges of the wound, either by the fingers, or by broad and thin copper spatulas, it bifurcation may be seen. About an inch, or less, above this point, the artery is slightly detached from its connexions by the point of the knife, separating it from the vein on its posterior and inner surface, and a blunt point-235 LIGATURE OF INTERNAL ILIAC. ed needle, armed with a firm ligature, is pushed be- neath, without force, and close to the coats of the vessel. The deligation is made firmly, and both ends of the ligature are brought out at the wound ; this is then approximated by a sufficient number of stitches, and a compress and bandage applied. This operation is not often required. I had re- course to it once in bleeding after very high amputa- tion of the thigh, occurring some days after the ope- ration. The haemorrhage was effectually arrested, but the patient did not recover from the effects of the previous loss of blood, and continued to sink. Aneurism of the branches of the internal iliac, whether spontaneous or the result of wound, is rare. When it does exist, its signs are sufficiently distinct. The old operation—opening the tumour by direct incision, and tying the vessel close to the cyst—has been performed successfully in one remarkable case on record. But this is attended with much risk, there being no means of commanding the bleeding du.ring the incisions, nor until the ligature is placed and secured. The preferable proceeding is to tie the internal iliac, near its origin, as has been put in prac- tice successfully in a few cases. The same incisions are made as for reaching the common iliac, and then the sacro-iliac junction is felt for ; with the nail of the forefinger the cellular tissue is cautiously and gently separated, and a needle and ligature placed under the vessel. In a corpulent adult, the needle, with a movable point, will be useful, as also the236 LlGATUlli: OF EXTERNAL ILIAC. copper spatula?, to keep the parts aside ; and a serre- noeud may assist in the securing of the noose. Aneurism in the Groin is not uncommon, and is very easily recognised. The old operation has been attempted, and unsuccessfully. Ligature has been placed on the distal side of the tumour, with no fa- vourable result. One horrid example of the latter operation is on record, in which the femoral artery had been completely obliterated spontaneously, and nerves, vein, and portions of the muscles, were all in- cluded in ligature, by one random thrust of a sharp needle. The external iliac is to be tied—a proceeding now regarded as one of the regular operations of sur- gery, and likely to ensure a favourable result. It was first undertaken in a case of secondary bleeding after ligature of the femoral, and since, has often been per- formed for the cure of inguinal aneurism, with almost uniform success. The incisions are made in the same direction as recommended for ligature of the common and internal: illiacs, but not nearly so exten- sive. This is preferable to incision, either in the di- rection of the vessel, or of a semilunar form with one of the corners pointing upwards ; the abdominal muscles are less weakened, less injury being inflicted to the muscles, and no troublesome bloodvessels are encountered. The artery is well circumstanced for the application of ligature, affording a considerable extent without the giving off of any branches. It is easily exposed by cautious separation of the celki- lar tissue, and the ligature is secured either towardsLIGATURE OF FEMORAI-. 237 its middle, or at its upper part, according to the size and situation of the aneurism. Popliteal aneurism is of more frequent occurrence than any of the preceding, and in regard to it also the old operation has deservedly fallen into disuse. It seems in most cases to be occasioned by partial lacera- tion of the coats of the vessel; a sudden pain, and a feeling as of the receipt of an injury on the part, are felt, during some violent or unusual exertion; the pain continues, and an unwonted beating is soon perceived in the ham, along with inconsiderable swelling ; the tumour with pulsation increases, and may ultimately attain a large size, causing pain, general uneasiness in the limb, and lameness, sometimes oedema. In cases of long duration, and when the patient is cach- ectic, the bones become diseased, absorption being caused by the pressure of the tumour, and deep and extensive abscess may form in the soft parts. The superficial femoral is to be tied, and the pre- ferable point is where it is crossed by the sartorius muscle. This is a better practice than removal of the limb, which has not unfrequently been resorted to in cases of large aneurism ; there is great risk in such a proceeding, the anastomosing vessels in the thigh are all much enlarged, profuse haemorrhage takes place during the incisions, not completely arrest- ed by any pressure, and probably twenty arteries or more require ligature, as I have witnessed ; after all, the occurrence of secondary bleeding is not unlikely. I have tied the femoral artery, with a favourable re-LIGATURE OF FEMOllAI.. 238 suit, in some cases of very large aiieurisniul tumour, and in one instance after the cyst had been impru- dently punctured. An incision is made from three to four inches in length, and in an oblique direction in regard to the thigh, tracing the inner border of the sartorius muscle, and so placed that its middle may correspond with that part of the artery on which the ligature is to be put. In order to insure the wound being thus situated, there is no need for mea- surements ; these are but a clumsy substitute for anatomical knowledge. The surgeon, well acquaint- ed with the relative situation of the parts, finds it sufficient to ascertain the exact course of the muscle by manipulation, whilst the thigh is slightly bent, and then guides his knife by the eye, unfettered with mathematical diagrams. The muscle is exposed al- most by the first incision ; the dissection is then con- tinued through the cellular tissue on its inner border, until the sheath of the bloodvessels is reached, the branches of the crural nerve on the fore part being carefully placed aside uninjured; the sheath is cau- tiously opened immediately above where the muscle conceals it, and the artery separated from its connex- ions to a very slight extent; the needle is then passed, and the ligature applied. The operation, when thus conducted, is exceedingly simple. But embarrass- ment and delay have often been experienced from fol- lowing an opposite method, cutting down on the out- side of the sartorius ; the muscle must either be dis- sected from its attachments and turned over, or cut239 LIGATURE 01'' FEMOllAI-. across ; or the artery cannot be found, and an addi- tional external wound is necessary. The artery may require ligature at a higher point, either in consequence of wound, or for the cure of femoral aneurism. This disease, however, is very unfrequent. When it does exist, it is usually so situated as not to admit of the favourable application of a ligature below the origin of the profunda ; and it is necessary to tie the common femoral. The course of this artery being superficial, is easily as- certained ; an incision of convenient extent is made in the same line, penetrating the skin and fatty mat- ter ; the cellular tissue is carefully separated, and the sheath exposed ; a limited opening is made, with cor- responding detachment of the vessel, and the ligature applied, close to the lower edge of the ligament of Poupart. But ligature of the external iliac, is in most cases to be preferred. This has proved successful in more than one case of double aneurism, one in the groin, the other in the ham. In ligature of the common and of the superficial femoral, the vein is in more danger than the nerve, and the utmost caution is required lest it be punc- tured. It has been wounded—I witnessed one in- stance of it; the opening was drawn together and closed by ligature, inflammation of the vein super- vened and proved fatal. When secondary bleeding occurs, on the separa- tion of the ligature, either after this operation orANEURISMAL VAIUX OF THIGH. 240 after that for popliteal aneurism, compression is not to be trusted to, nor should the vessel be tied higher in the thigh. From imprudent reliance on the for- mer method I have known patients perish. An inci- sion must be made in the same line as the former, and a ligature placed on the vessel both above and below the bleeding point. The arteries of the. leg very seldom require liga- ture, except for wound. In such cases, the source of the bleeding must be the guide to the incisions, and these should be placed so as to interfere with the muscles as little as possible, always cutting in the direction of the muscular fibres. When the bleed- ing point is arrived at, the vessel is exposed to a short distance, and tied above and below the wound. During the dissection, it will in most cases be neces- sary to arrest the bleeding by pressure in the ham, either by the fingers of an assistant, or by means of a tourniquet. The thigh may be the seat of aneurwmal mri.v, the result of wound, as in the following case. Fourteen years ago, a young man wounded the lower part of his thigh deeply by the accidental thrust of a narrow chisel. The puncture was in the direction of the femoral artery ; violent haemorrhage was the imme- diate consequence, and after he had fainted the wound was stuffed and compression applied. In eiglit days the parts had healed, and he returned to work- as usual. But about twelve months afterwards, trou-241 ANEUlllSMAL VARIX OF TIIIGir. blesome pulsation was perceived in the part, at tlie same time the veins of the leg became varicose, and a succession of ulcers formed on the lower and anterior portion of the limb. The affection attract- ed but little of his notice till about six months since, when he observed a considerable swelling in the site of the wound, beating strongly, and the pulsations accompanied with a peculiar thrilling sound and feel —not confined to the tumour, though strongest there, but extending to the groin along the course of the femoral vein, which was evidently much dilated throughout its whole course. At present the tumour is nearly equal to the fist in size, of regular surface and globular form, pulsating very strongly, and im- parting to the hand the peculiar sensation of aneu- rismal varix, remarkably distinct and powerful. The pulsation and thrilling are continued, in a less de- gree, to Poupart's ligament, and down to the calf of the leg. On applying the ear close to the tumour, or listening through the stethoscope, the peculiar noise is not only felt, but heard of almost startling intensity—somewhat resembling the noise of compli- cated and powerful machinery, softened and confused by distance. By making firm pressure on the tu- mour, the thrill is lost, and the regular pulsation alone perceived ; at the same time, the turgescence of the femoral vein disappears, and on compressing the femoral artery in the middle of the thigh, both pul- sation and thrilling are arrested, and the swelling much diminished,—but only temporarily, for the col- lateral circulation is free and complete. He feels PAllT III. Q242 ENLARGED BUllS^. little pain, but exercise and exertion of every kind are seriously impeded ; constant and firm pressure on the swelling, with uniform compression of the whole limb, has been employed, with the effect of relieving all the symptoms, and rendering the limb much more useful, and by its continuance it is to be hoped that the disease will at least be considerably palliated. In the lower extremity, as in the upper, the htirscB become enlarged, in consequence either of pressure or of external injury. The aflfection may be acute, fol- lowing a blow or squeeze, but is most frequently chronic, enlarging gradually and with little or no pain, and caused by habitual pressure on the part. From this, it will at once be understood, why the bursa over the patella should be the one most com- monly affected. Its vulgar name, housemaid's knee, marks its cause—the avocations of such persons re- quiring them to rest on one or both knees, frequently, and often for a long time. It also occurs in shop- keepers, and other persons accustomed to shut draw- ers with their knee, or in other ways to make fre- quent pressure on that part,—in gardeners, and those employed in similar pursuits. In the acute swelling from injury, local depletion, fomentation, and rest are required, and these are generally sufficient to arrest the swelling, and promote its subsidence ; but, in some cases, the fluid deteriorates and the surface inflames, and free incision is required, followed by poultice, and afterwards by simple dressing. In the chronic collection of clear fluid, gentle and continued stimulation of the surface, as by the gum and jucrcu-CARTILAGINOUS BODIES IN KNEE-JOINT. 243 rial plaster, causes gradual decrease by absorption ; the causes of the affection being at the same time studiously avoided. Unyielding parts, habituated to pressure, defend themselves by the interposition betwixt them and the surface of a movable bag containing fluid ; the cel- lular tissue condenses into a cyst, its internal surface assuming a serous appearance, and secreting a fluid resembling the synovial. Such adventitious bursEe are not unfrequent on the ancles and feet, as in tailors, or others usually sitting cross-legged. They may attain a considerable size, and so produce defor- mity ; but they should not be interfered with unless they become inconvenient, as from excited action. When the extremity of the metatarsal bone of the great toe is large, and consequently the seat of pres- sure, a bursal formation is produced in the soft parts covering it; this from increase of pressure, or other irritation, may inflame—forming the painful and troublesome disease termed Bunion. Sometimes un- healthy abscess occurs, with thickening, infiltration, and condensation of the surrounding cellular tissue; in such cases, incision and poultice are required, and occasionally it is necessary to destroy the unsound cellular tissue and the degenerated cyst by free appli- cation of the caustic potass. The cyst is thus got rid of, healthy granulation takes place, and by afterwards avoiding undue pressure upon the part, a permanent cure is obtained. It has been elsewhere mentioned, that cartilaginous bodies sometimes form within articulating cavities,244 (^AllTlI.AGINOUS BODIES IN KNEE-JOINT. occasionally attached by a narrow and slender con- nexion with the secreting surface, but generally loose, seldom numerous, and usually of no great size. They "are most commonly met with in the knee-joint, pro- ducing inconvenience byimpeding progression. Some- times they are neither painful nor annoying, being small, and seldom becoming interposed between the articulating extremities of the bones during motion ; such ought not to be interfered with. But when large, they may be so troublesome as to warrant in- cision and removal. The foreign body is made to project on one side, and, having been made as super- ficial as possible at a favourable point, is fixed by the fingers of an assistant. The integuments are then drawn to one side, and an incision made over the body, the capsule is cut to as limited an extent as possible, and removal effected by pressure—or it may be laid hold of by a hook, and extracted ; if the cartilaginous subs^tance be attached by a pedicle, this must be divided, but with great gentleness and cau- tion. The integuments are immediately allowed to resume their natural situation, and so to close the wound of the capsule by overlapping it; the skin is then accurately approximated by the adhesive plas- ters. The limb is kept extended, and not the slight- est motion of the joint permitted. The patient is confined constantly to the recumbent posture, purged, and kept on low diet; the utmost vigilance is neces- sary to prevent inflammation of the synovial ajipa- ratus. In some patients on whom I have performed this operation, the wound closed by the first inten- tion, and no untoward symptom threatened, mo-DISTORTION OF THE FEET. 245 tion and the erect position being resumed in a few days. But in the last case, though the extirpation was performed with the utmost care, most violent inflammation supervened; the wound opened, syno- vial secretion flowed out in large quantity, profuse escape of unhealthy matter followed, and exhausting discharge continued for many weeks. At one time the constitutional disturbance was so great as to en- danger life ; the limb was saved with difficulty, the joint anchylosed. From the result of this case, I am disposed to dissuade operative interference, unless the patient strenuously urge it, and be willing to take the responsibility for the consequences on himself. Congenital distortion of the feet appears in many cases to be hereditary ; and often several in one family are born with similar deformities. The foot is turned either outwards or inwards, usually in- wards. The bones of the tarsus may be deficient, or imperfectly formed, but generally are natural in their formation, unnatural merely in their relation to each other and to the ankle-joint, the muscles and tendons being also perfect. In such the deformity can be remedied, during childhood, by mechanical means— apparatus being worn, contrived so as gradually to bring the parts into a proper relation to each other. In advanced life the deformity is irremediable ; but frequently nature in part removes the impediment to progression, by the formation of adventitious bursas on those parts of the sides of the feet which bear pressure during the erect posture. 3246 EXOSTOSIS OF DISTAL PHALANX. The phalanges of the toes in general resemble those of the fingers in their diseased actions. Ex- ostosis of the extremity of the distal phalanx, how- ever, has no analogy in the upper extremity ; it is by no means an uncommon affection, and usually occurs in the great toe. The growth is generally globular and rough in its extremity, narrow at its origin, attached on the dorsal aspect, projecting ob- liquely upwards, and always of similar structure with the phalanx. Sometimes they are met with of a size nearly equal to that of the bone from which they spring, but the majority are considerably smaller. At first the patient complains merely of pain in the part while walking; soon the pain increases so as to impede progression very seriously; then the nail is found to be raised at its margin, and to cover a hard, unyielding, and tender swelling. The elevation of the nail increases, and the tumour becomes more apparent, covered by hardened cuticle, causing great uneasiness, and almost entirely preventing walking exercise. It has been recommended to expose the tumour by incision, and remove it at its origin. This affords temporary relief, but the disease is in no long time reproduced, and the incision must either be repeated, or the phalanx amputated. The preferable practice, according to my experience, is to remove the phalanx at once. It is less tedious and painful than the in- cision, produces very little, if any, impediment to progression, and of course is quite eflVctual in eradi- cating this most annoying though apparently simple disease.rilACTUllES. Of Fractures. — Deformity, shortening, loss of power, unnatural motion on extending and moving the part, pain, and grating, mark solution of conti- nuity in bone, ov fracture. Swelling, with spasmodic action of the muscles, soon takes place. One or several of these symptoms may be wanting ; there is little deformity, and no shortening, when one of two or more parallel bones is fractured. In fracture of the extremities, extrication of air into the cellular tissue, about the ends of the bone, is not unfrequent, though difficult to account for—giving rise to crepi- tation, superficial, and quite a distinct sensation from that imparted by the broken bone. Bones become brittle as age increases, and fragility is also induced by certain disordered and debilitated, states of the constitution. In some patients, the bones give way on very slight force being applied, after what may have been supposed a rheumatic attack ; the thigh is broken by turning in bed, or by walking from the bed to a chair. In one instance, I had put up a fracture of the thigh with a long- splint, and in three weeks afterwards the humerus was broken over the end of the splint during an attempt by the patient at change of posture. In such cases union either does not take place, or is very imperfect. In children the bones frequently contain little earthy matter, bend easily, and often break partially on the convexity of the curve. Even at the age of twelve or thirteen, bending of the bones from injury some- times occurs to a great extent, as of the forearm from a fall on the palm of the hand ; in adjusting the parts, a slight crackling is heard when they areI'HAC'TUllES. 248 brought nearly straight. Complete solution of con- tinuity, though more rare, is occasionally met with in very young subjects. Fractures are generally the result of great force applied directly to the shaft of a bone, or to its ex- tremity ; but they are also not unfrequently caused by twisting of a limb whilst the muscles are in powerful action. Bones are broken transversely; but more frequently there is a degree of obliquity in the fracture, and fragments are generally detached. A bone may be split longitudinally, as from a musket- ball striking its shaft in the centre ; and fissures often extend from a cross break to a considerable extent, sometimes into joints. Swelling is often rapid, from extravasation of blood ; at other times it is slow, and of a serous cha- racter. At first it is soft and yielding, but after a time painful inflammatory tumescence supervenes, the violence and extent of which will depend on the severity of the injury, and very much also on the treatment to which the parts are subjected. If the bones be put as nearly as possible into their original position, and retained so, judiciously—the limb being- laid in a comfortable and unconstrained posture, and the bandages, splints, &c., properly adapted—little or no pain or inflammatory swelling Avill occur.; no more action ensues than is required for reparation of the injury. If, on the contrary, the bones are allowed to remain unreduced—perhaps after being well hand- led—their broken ends, lying among the soft parts, are pulled about by violent spasms, laceration of the muscles and vessels is increased, effusion, swelling,FRACTURES. 249 and violent inflammatory action occur, the pain be- comes excruciating, fever and delirium follow ; there is an imminent risk of gangrene, and extensive sup- puration among the muscles is almost inevitable. If the patient recover, the union is bad, and the limb deformed. A fracture is said to be simple, when there is no wound of the superim.posed integuments. The exter- nal parts may be bruised, or the deep structure much injured, with laceration of the vessels arid rapid and great swelling ; or there may be little or no injury of the soft parts. Great danger may exist without divi- sion of the integuments ; these, yielding under the force, may remain entire, whilst by great and direct violence the bone is comminuted, the muscles broken up, vessels and nerves torn,—the limb is infiltrated with blood, and must become gangrenous as soon as reaction takes place. But usually these untoward circumstances do not exist in simple fracture, the soft parts being but slightly injured. Fracture is compound when the integuments are divided by the external force, so as to expose the bro- ken bone. But the wound may not penetrate to the bone ; and then the accident is termed fracture with wound, not compound fracture. The soft parts are often divided by the sharp end of the bone ; this is frequently the case in oblique fracture, occasioned by a fall from a height, the lower fractured extremity being pushed forcibly upwards. The muscles are usually much injured. The wound is either large or small, lacerated or clean. Fracture, simple or compound, is comminuted v/lnenFllACTUllES. 250 the bone is divided at the broken point into fragments, either small and loose, or large and adherent to the covering of the bone and other soft parts. Fracture may be comj)licated with wound or dis- placement of a neighbouring joint, and with lacera- tion of large bloodvessels and nerves. Unio7t of divided bones, as of soft parts, is preceded by incited circulation in the part, and effusion of or- ganisable matter. The extent of action is regulated by that of the injury, whether inflicted by accident or by operation. If the soft parts have not been much bruised, if the bone and its covering are merely sepa- rated and slightly displaced, and then speedily put in contact, the incited action and the effusion are limited to the divided parts. There is no irregularity after- wards at the point of fracture, the new matter that is not required being absorbed soon after deposition ; the bone is smooth and even as before. If, on the contrary, there is much displacement, and if that is not entirely removed, intense action ensues both in the soft and hard parts, there is great effusion of new matter, or callus, soft and yielding at first, but gra- dually becoming hard and dense—bony particles being deposited from the vessels ramifying in the extremities, or in the attached fragments, of the old bone. When detached portions of callus are found lying in the soft parts, a piece of old bone which retained its vitality has formed the matrix of the deposit; the osseous substance has not been secreted from the arteries of muscles, cellular tissue, or mem- brane. In badly reduced fracture the swelling is great and251 FRACTURES. hard. The callus is exuheimnt, much being required for the union of the fractured ends that overlap, and are perhaps far from being in contact; the vascular action and accompanying effusion are great, accord- ing to the necessity for them. The bone at the united part is enlarged to double its original thickness, or even to a greater size. After some time, the ends of the old bone, and part of the new deposit, are rounded olf by absorption of the protuberances, and the part becomes more shapely. When the ends of the bone are not well placed, or when they are moved occasionally whilst the uniting medium is still soft, there is danger of a false joint being formed—the callus either giving way, or being all along imperfect, and the extremities at the soft part becoming smooth and movable on each other; or incited action may run high and terminate in sup- puration, with death or ulceration of portions of the bone. Fragments are sometimes entirely detached at the time of the accident, and perish at once ; or are so slightly connected with the shaft that they lose their vitality on the first accession of inflammation, become surrounded by purulent matter, part from their slight attachments, and come towards the surface. Or the shaft itself may be so bruised by the violence of the injury as to be incapable of resisting incited action, though slight. By malpractice, such untoward conse- quences as the preceding, and many others beside, are frequently induced. The uniting medium of separated bones remains soft for some time, as was already observed ; and252 rilACTUllES. often, whether from the state of the constitution, or the circumstances connected with the fracture, the parts remain long movable. Pregnancy is said to prevent union ; but I have often seen fractures in pregnant women unite as speedily and firmly as if the patients had not been in that state, and otherwise in robust health ; profuse uterine or vaginal discharges, or determination to particular parts or organs, will certainly retard union. In ordinary cases, the limb, if not lying altogether straight, can be moulded into a proper form after the lapse of eight or ten days from the time of injury, without the patient suffering any great degree of pain, without the process of union being at all interrupt- ed, or the cure protracted ; even at the late period of five or six weeks, badly united fractures may some- times be much improved by gradual pressure and change of position. A gentleman fell from his horse, and sustained simple fracture of both bones of the leg, near the middle. It had been laid and retained on its side. I saw him exactly six weeks after the injury ; the leg was much curved forwards, and the foot turned outwards. The limb was placed on the heel, and a long splint, with a foot-piece, applied on the outside ; by attention to its position, and by gradually tightening the bandages, it soon became quite hand- some. Care should be taken not to allow the patient to rest too soon on the fractured limb ; for though quite straight, symmetrical, and of the proper length, when the retentive apparatus are discontinued, it may become short and deformed in a few days from even slight weight being put upon it.253 FRACTURES. The period at which firm union takes place varies ; the process is more rapid in young people than in those advanced in life, and will depend more on the extent of the injury, and its vicinity to the centre of the circulation, than on the size of the broken bone. The requisite length of confinement is regulated by these circumstances, and by the use to which the ])art is to be afterwards put; the lower limbs require longer time than the upper. In the treatment of fracture, as in solution of con- tinuity in the soft parts, great advantage is gained by placing the disjoined parts as nearly in their original position as possible, retaining them so, and allowing of no motion. These indications ought to be accom- plished very soon after the accident; many evils are thus prevented—the further laceration of the soft parts, the inflammatory effusion into all the tissues, and the consequent startings and spasms of the muscles. This cannot be too much insisted on. There is much folly and absurdity in allowing a broken limb to lie unrestrained—leaving the ends of the bones displaced, the one riding over the other— making attempts to keep down the inflammation, applying leeches and large poultices—all ineffectual so long as the palpable cause of incited action remains unheeded. The circumstances which kindle and keep up inflammation should always be understood when so easily discovered as in fracture, and when under- stood should never be lost sight of. If the parts be replaced there will seldom be inflammation ; if they remain displaced, the inflammation is so great that it is impossible to subdue it by any means short of re-254 FRACTURES. moval of the cause. There is also an impossibility,— not to mention the patient's sufferings,—of reducing bones to a good position some weeks after the acci- dent. Such practice has been extensively followed and recommended by some writers, even modern ; they set about reducing a fracture at a period after the accident, when, by proper treatment, union would have been completed, or at least far advanced. The confinement and suffering of the patient are increased threefold, and after all it is a bad cure, and there is a risk of false joint. In all fractures, whether simple or compound, comminuted or complicated, if an attempt is to be made to save the limb, let reduction be immediate ; coaptation and retention of the separated parts can- not be made too soon. A neglected case may be met with, in which the intensity of inflammatory action in all the tissues may forbid immediate interference. But even though inflammatory action has taken place to some extent, there are no surer means of arresting it than removal of its cause—the irregular ends of the bones being taken away from among the soft parts—provided it can be done without vio- lence or increase of tension. Reduction is facilitated by proper position of the limb, by relaxation of cer- tain sets of muscles. Extension and counter-exten- sion are made, but very little force required ; the sur- geon extends the limb with one hand, and resists with the other ; when the system is excited, and the muscles act spasmodically, an assistant is required to steady the limb, and to resist the extending po\rer which the surgeon employs. Then the position of255 FRACTURES. the limb and of the patient, when long confinement is required, must be considered, and rendered as easy as possible, though at the same time secure. The apparatus for retaining the bones in the right posi- tion must be varied according to circumstances. In compound fractures, when the wound is so small and clean that adhesion readily takes place, the cure is as rapid as in the simplest form of accident; but when the soft parts are much lacerated, the breach in them must be repaired by granulation; there will be profuse discharge from the wound, with risk of deep suppuration, and union of the bones will be slow. To accomplish reduction, long and sharp pieces of bone may require to be removed by means either of the saw or of the forceps, or else the wound must be dilated; both proceedings may be necessary in some cases. Detached portions of bone, and foreign bodies, if any, must be taken away; and the edge of the wound may be approximated when a reasonable chance of adhesion exists. The limb must then be properly placed and secured. Inflammatory action, should it threaten, must be kept down, but bleeding and purging are to be employed with cau- tion. The action and its consequences are moderated by one or two depletions, but these must not be had recourse to without due consideration of circum- stances ; strength is required to effect the action neces- sary for union, and to withstand the subsequent suppurations, though these may be prevented or at least moderated by timeous depletion. Abscesses are to be opened early, the parts are fomented, and then perhaps poulticed. The limb must all along256 ACT ORES. be kept in a correct position, dead portions of bone must be removed when detached, and the strength sui)ported by generous diet and wine. Opiates are of great use in alleviating the pains and twitchings in the limb. Poulticing is to be continued only for a short time ; in many cases it may be altogether super- seded by fomentation ; and the latter should be used only when abscess is threatened, or when the patient is much pained at one or more parts of the limb. Sup- port and gentle pressure are indispensable soon after evacuation of the matter, when no fresh collection is threatened. The injury is often so great as at once to demand removal of the limb. There is no alternative, when, from laceration of the soft parts, superficial, deep, or both—comminution of the bone to a great extent— rupture of large vessels—and opening of joints— either gangrene or an overpowering suppuration are rendered not only probable but almost certain. The period at which the operation is to be undertaken re- quires judicious selection. Some patients are not affect- ed constitutionally even by great and violent injury, such as dreadful laceration of the limbs; whilst others, even after slight wounds, are affected with delirium, tremors, vomiting, lowness of spirits, depressed cir- culation, paleness of the surface, and appear on the eve either of rapid sinking or of immediate dissolu- tion. In the first class of patients immediate ampu- tation may be had recourse to with safety and advan- tage. In the second, the patient must be reassured, and stimulated both by external and internal means ; in short, reaction must be lirought al)out, and thenFllACTUllE 01" THE BONES OF THE FACE. 257 let the surgeon operate. If he amputate before this, his patient will most probably die on the table, or very soon after his removal from it; reaction will never take place, and sinking of the vital powers is accelerated by the ill judged interference. A greater or less time is required for the occurrence of reaction in different individuals ; the usual period is from two to six hours. Commencement of it is a sufficient warrant for operation; the surgeon must not delay till inflammatory fever has been lighted up, for then he will interfere with great disadvan- tage. He must then subdue the inordinate action as much as possible, and wait for the suppurative stage. When the patient has become hectic from profuse and long continued discharge, when perhaps no union has taken place—then also the limb must be remo- ved. In civil practice, patients as often recover from secondary as from primary amputation. But accord- ing to the experience of military surgeons, the re- sult is otherwise—.many recover after primary and few after secondary; much may depend on the accommodation of the patient afterwards. A great deal is left to the judgment, discretion, and conscien- tiousness of the surgeon. Fractures of the Cranium were treated of as con- nected with disturbance of the important organ which it protects. The bones of the face are occasionally broken and displaced. The frontal sinus is sometimes opened PART TII. 11FRACTURE OV THE OSSA NASI. 258 by fracture of the external plate. No small degree of force is required to effect this injury :—I recollect an instance of it, with opening into the sinus, occa- sioned by an attempt at suicide ; the man had struck his forehead violently with a large stone, wishing to knock his head to pieces. The integuments are gene- rally divided, and during expiration, blood, sometimes frothy, is poured out through the opening. When there is no wound of the integument, emphysema of the forehead and eyebrows has resulted from disrup- tion of the bones that compose this cavity, or others connected with the nostrils. T/ie ossa nasi are fractured and displaced by di- rect violence. They may be broken and commi- nuted without much displacement, or separated from their connexions and depressed without much frac- ture. Even slight cases are generally attended with laceration of the schneiderian membrane, and with profuse haemorrhage from the nostrils. The soft parts over the bones are thin and tense, and conse- quently in many cases divided. Great swelling is apt to ensue, at first either bloody or cedematous. In- flammatory swelling to a great extent, both exter- nally and internally, is to be dreaded and guarded against. Abscess of the schneiderian membrane, frequently of the septum narium, occurs from slight injuries, if neglected ; and, if not actively and pro- perly treated, may terminate in loss of substance and consequent deformity of the features. The existence of fracture of the ossa nasi is very readily ascertained; the part is distorted, being either uniformly depressed, or hollow at some points,FRACTURE OF THE OSSA NASI. 259 and abruptly prominent and sharp at others. With the view of remedying deformity produced by dis- placement, and preventing the bad consequences already spoken of, the bones must be restored to their original position. They are to be raised by means of a strong probe or director, covered with lint, and introduced high into the cavity. Whilst, by means of this instrument, pressure outwards is made, the fingers of the surgeon are applied externally, so as to mould the organ into a proper shape. Unless force be again applied to the part, there is no risk of sub- sequent displacement; no apparatus is required to preserve the bones in situ. In compound fracture the detached spiculae are to be picked out, and the wound cleansed of blood and extraneous bodies ; its edges are to be brought neatly together, and retained by one or more stitches, with slips of unirritating plaster. Inflammatory symp- toms are to be warded off and combated by purga- tives, antimonials, local abstraction of blood, and fomentations. Formation of matter in the nasal cavity is to be prevented, by scarification of the swol- len membrane that fills the nostrils and precludes the passage of air; and if matter has been allowed to collect, it must be early discharged. Opening into the frontal sinus, whether the result of accident or of exfoliation, may sometimes be closed by paring the edges of the integuments and bringing them together, or by covering the deficiency with a flap borrowed from a neighbouring part. Such mea- sures should not be resorted to, in the case of open-FRACTURE OF THE I,OWEU JAW. 260 ing from accident, till after all inordinate action has subsided, otherwise adhesion will fail. Cases of fracture of the os malcB and zygoma have been met with. Great displacement cannot occur, nor is any peculiarity of treatment required. It is sufficient to prevent motion of the divided parts, as much as possible, by the application of a bandage. The inferior maxilla is exposed to violence, but from its construction and consistence is capable of resisting a great degree of force. It may be broken at various points ; the usual site of fracture is where the canine or the first small molar tooth is implanted ; but it not unfrequently gives way at the symphysis, or near-the angle. The alveolar processes are often detached, with loosening of one or more teeth. The fracture is frequently compound ; being produced by a direct blow, as the kick of a horse. The bone some- times breaks at a part not struck, as at the symphy- sis from a blow near the angle. The accident is easily recognised ; in fact, the patient, if sensible, has himself discovered fracture before he applies for as- sistance. There is distortion of the part, and the broken extremities, when moved, are felt grating on each other; there is discharge of blood, perhaps of teeth, from the mouth; and in compound fracture the ends of the bone are visible. At the sympliysis the parts are not much displaced ; they are more so when the fracture is in the site of the first molar. In the latter situation it is occasionally difficult to re- place the bone, and retain it in its proper position. The fiice swells to a greater or less extent, accord-rilACTURE OF THE LOWER JAW. 261 ing to the severity of injury clone to the soft parts, and the time which has elapsed before reduction. The parts within the mouth swell; often there is great infiltration of the loose cellular tissue under the tongue. Sometimes extensive abscess forms, show- ing itself in the mouth or under the chin. The bone is to be brought to its former shape by pressure of the fingers on the outside, and of the thumbs placed within the mouth on the corners of the teeth. Motion is prevented, and the parts are retained in their proper situation, by a wedge of cork or wood interposed on each side of the jaw, and grooved so as to receive the teeth both above and below. The wedges are placed with their thick ends anteriorly, and are retained by the lower jaw being firmly bound towards the upper ; sufficient space for the introduction of food must be left between the wedges at the fore-part of the mouth. Pasteboard is applied externally, cut so as to fit exactly the frac- tured bone ; it is previously softened in warm water, that it may adapt itself to the shape of the parts, and form a case over them ; a thin layer of carded tow is placed between it and the skin, and the whole is retained by a roller, which is preferable to split cloths. The patient should not talk, or in any way attempt motion of the injured bone, and the food given should not require mastication. Inflammation is to be kept down by the usual means, and abscesses, if they form, must be early evacuated. Detached teeth and splin- ters of the jaw are to be extracted at the first; if teeth loosen during the cure, they should be con- sidered as foreign bodies and removed, otherwise262 FRACTUllE OF THE SPINE. they will keep up the discharge and tend to prevent union. From three to six weeks is generally suffi- cient time for consolidation of the fracture. In severe cases union may be prevented by necrosis of part of the bone; or, though the bone unite, the external wounds may not heal, and the discharge may con- tinue till the dead portions separate and are dis- charged. Fracture of the Sjnnal Column is attended with alarming symptoms, and often terminates fatally, from the pernicious effects necessarily produced on the spinal chord, either immediately or consecutively, when the bones forming the column are disjoined to any great extent. The injury is effected by great violence—by the body being projected and alighting awkwardly—by a fall on the breech from a height, the head and trunk being bent forcibly forwards— by direct blows on the spine. Displacement of the bones forming the spine sel- dom takes place without fracture to a greater or less extent. Pure dislocation of the spine, from the rup- ture of ligaments and fibro-cartilage, is a very rare accident; few cases of it are on record, and in them the injury was in the cervical region ; I have only met with one instance of complete and pure disloca- tion. The ligaments are of great strength, and the bones yield sooner than they; and in the greater number of severe injuries of joints this is the case more or less. Either the bodies or the processes of the vertebras are broken, and sometimes comminuted; occasion-263 FllACTUllE OF THE SPINE. ally the bodies are broken entirely through, with con- siderable displacement, the upper or lower end, as may be, projecting. There is twisting or bending of the trunk or neck, the articulating processes on one side only being displaced, whilst the ligaments on the other remain pretty entire. In some cases, either the spinous processes, or the articular, are separated without yielding of the bodies of the ver- tebrae, or of the interposed substance ; then there is bending of the trunk forwards. The symptoms vary according to the site of the injury, and the extent of violence inflicted on the spinal chord. This important organ may suffer con- cussion without fracture or displacement of the bones, its functions may be consequently more or less dis- turbed, and paralysis occasioned of those parts that are supplied with nerves from below the injured point. Without fracture, too, vessels may give way within the canal, and by compression from effused fluid urgent symptoms will be produced. The power of motion may be lost whilst sensation is retained, and vice versa ; but in general both are either impaired or destroyed. In one case that I attended, there was power of motion in one limb and no sensation, whilst in the other there was no motion but the usual sensation. Patients may recover from the effects of a severe blow on the spinal column and consequent concussion of the chord, but very frequently they do not. Changes may take place at a late period in the chord or its membranes, in consequence of the injury—as thick- ening of the coverings—bloody, serous, purulent, or264 rilACTUllE OF THE Sl'lNE. lymphatic effusion—disorganisation and softening of the medullary matter, with urinary symptoms. In- flammation of the membranes, or of the chord itself, may supervene, either very soon after the accident, or long afterwards ; its intensity and period of acces- sion will depend on the extent of the injury, and on the treatment. The muscles act spasmodically, the circulation is excited, the sensorium and nervous sys- tem are disordered, delirium ensues, and is followed by paralysis and coma. In some cases of displacement, even to no small extent, the spinal chord escapes being bruised, torn, or compressed ; no bad symptoms may ensue ; or pa- ralysis to a greater or less degree occurs and gradu- ally goes off, probably occasioned by bloody eff"usion, which is afterwards absorbed. This I have experi- enced in several instances—in a boy who fell over a high rock—in a woman who fell from a window ; both lighted on the breech, and the trunk was bent for- wards. The lad remained stout, but his trunk was somewhat deformed by an excurvation ; the woman recovered perfectly. In these cases there was evi- dently laceration of the interspinal ligaments, though probably not of the ligamenta subflava, for the spinal chord must be stretched or otherwise injured when these are torn. The chord is more or less injured in the majority of cases of fractured spine. If the injury occurs high in the cervical region, immediate death ensues, from compression or laceration of the medulla oblongata. Respiration is arrested by compression or destruction of the chord above the origin of the phrenic and otherI'llACTUllE OF THE SPINE. 265 respiratory nerves. If the chord is injured in the middle of the cervical region, there is paralysis of the upper and lower extremities, with distension of the bowels, and inability to void the urine ; the lower bowels have become insensible to the stimulus of dis- tension from want of their nervous energy, and the sphincter ani is paralysed. The bladder becomes dis- tended, and then incontinence of urine follows ; and frequently there is priapism. The quality of the urine is changed, the secretion of mucus from the bladder is vitiated and increased. Slow inflammation of that organ is induced, the urine becomes bloody and mixed with ropy mucus ; lymph is deposited on the lining membrane. Bruises of the loins often lay the foundation for degeneration and abscess of the kidney, with many of the symptoms of calculus vesicae, attended with red tongue and hectic, and ultimately terminating fatally. The effects of concussion of the spine are frequent- ly developed long after the infliction of the injury. There is formication, numbness, and difficulty of re- gulating the motions, in one or more limbs. Still the muscles are not shrunk, nor unable to perform powerful movements ; but the patient cannot put his hand or foot to the place he wishes, and cannot support the weight of the body without assistance. Sensation in the limbs is lost to a greater or less degree, their heat is diminished, and it is found difficult to preserve their temperature equable. The symptoms increase till the limbs become totally useless. Along with the lower limbs the bladder is affected, though not always. The urine is not voided with force, and incontinence oc-266 rilACTUUE OF THE Sl'lNK. curs from distension. Sometimes excitement of the viscus follows ; the secretions from its surface are increased, and often mixed with blood. Yet patients survive long under such circumstances, digestion and the other important functions are well performed, and the intellect is unimpaired. Prognosis in injuries of the spine is unfavourable, as well as in disease of the column, whether the result of injury or not. From the treatment much need not be expected ; but still no chance is to be thrown away, even in the most unfavourable cases. The attention must be directed towards alleviation of the symptoms. The comfort of the patient must be looked to in regard to the situation of the injured bones and other parts, even where there is reason to believe that the chord is lacerated or completely divided, and that there is no chance of recovery. In less severe cases, by pla- cing the injured parts in their proper position, and retaining them by splints placed along the sides of the spinous processes ;—by keeping down inflamma- tory action, palliating all the symptoms as much as possible, and attending to the state of the bladder if necessary—unlooked for recoveries have taken place. It has been proposed to treat the spine, in cases of severe and alarming fracture, in the same manner as the cranium—by trephining ; and some have recom- mended this in almost all kinds of injuries. I allude to the practice only to condemn it. And further notice of it is unnecessary, seeing that, as far as I know, it has been unanimously discarded by the pro- fession from amongst the list of surgical operations.5267 FRACTUllE 01"' THE SPINE. When the patient has horne up against the shock of the injury, and the more immediate consequences, and when partial loss of sensation and motion has supervened, great benefit is obtained from counter irritation, by blisters, issues, or moxa. But these are not advisable, but to a certainty injurious, till after time has been allowed for subsidence of the imme- diate effects—for union of the divided parts, and dis- appearance of acutely excited vascular action. The endermoid application of strychnine is also efficacious in many cases where the injury has been slight—as in the following. A young man was struck on the back of the neck with a leaden plummet. The im- mediate effects were loss of power and sensation in the whole body. The use of the upper limbs was regained gradually and completely; and when he applied to me, the remaining symptoms were dimi- nished sensation and irregular muscular action in the lower limbs. The mode of progression was very remarkable ; supported on the points of the toes and assisted by a staff, he made two or three quick steps as if running, and then suddenly stopped, a few more rapid steps and another abrupt halt, and so on. A succession of small blisters was applied along the sides of the spine in the dorsal and lumbar regions. On the raw surface strychnine was sprinkled, com- mencing with half a grain daily, and gradually ad- vancing to a grain and a half. He made a perfect recovery in less than three weeks. In another patient, in whom sensation in one limb without motion, and in the other motion without268 rilACTUllE OF THE CLAVICLE. sensation, remained after severe injury of the spine by a fall from a high window, complete recovery was obtained by the internal use of strychnine, and re- peated application of the moxa. Slow degenerations of the spinal chord are not easily combated with success. Considerable changes of structure have taken place, as shown by the symp- toms, before the patient becomes alarmed and applies for relief. He has had a feeling of distension about the lower part of the bowels, and, voiding his urine with some difficulty, perhaps suspects stricture of the urethra as the cause. He lifts his feet awkward- ly, sets them down clumsily, and all of a piece ; his knees totter, there is no feeling about his but- tocks, and a numbness round the anus. At length he is for the first time alarmed by incontinence of urine having supervened, or by the limbs having sunk un- der the weight of the trunk, and come to the ground with violence. The remedial means are local abstrac- tion of blood from over the seat of the disease, fol- lowed by friction and counter-irritation. Strychnine may be tried in some cases. But it is indeed seldom that the progress is satisfactory. Fracture of the Clamcle. This bone is liable to be broken by indirect violence, as by falls on the point of the shoulder, from horseback, or from the top of a carriage ; or by a fiill with a carriage, the person being inside—of this accident I have met with three or four instances. It may also be broken by direct violence, as by a blow on the bone, or by the personFRACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE. 269 striking it against a hard substance in a fall. It generally gives way about the middle. The fracture, when occasioned by force applied to the acromial extremity, is usually oblique ; transverse when the force is applied to the shaft of the bone. The dis- placement is in most cases great; but when the frac- ture is at the bend near the scapular extremity,—a not very uncommon accident,—disjunction of the fractured extremities, is prevented by the attachments of the conoid and trapezoid ligaments. In ordinary cases, that fractured extremity projects which is at- tached to the sternum, whilst the scapular portion is depressed and carried inwards. In short, the scapular portion is displaced, the sternal is nearly in situ ; though, from the depression of the former, the pro- minence of the latter appears to be displacement. The arm falls forwards and downwards. The fracture is sometimes compound. The wound is generally small, and occasioned by the projection of the sternal portion ; or the integument may be divided by the external force. The nature of the accident is readily recognised. The deformity is very apparent. There is swelling, from extravasated blood, over the bone ; the shoulder is unnaturally approximated to the chest, and depress- ed. The motions of the extremity, those above the shoulder, are impaired. Crepitation is felt on raising the arm, and canying it backwards so as to bring the fractured surfaces into contact. When the patient is seen immediately after the accident, the bones are to be placed in apposition, and270 FRACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE. retained, without delay, and before inflammatory swelling has come on. No complicated apparatus is required. A pad, firm, though of soft material, and large enough to fill the arm-pit completely, is rolled in a shawl and placed in the axilla ; it is retained by tying the shawl over the opposite shoulder, a soft pad being interposed between the knot and the skin to prevent excoriation, and is farther secured by tying the ends under the axilla of the uninjured extremity, which should also be protected by a small cushion. A few turns of a roller, or a handkerchief, are placed round the arm and chest, so as to secure and fix the limb ; so the retentive apparatus is completed. The shoulder is thus raised, and removed from its unna- tural position ; and the fractured exti'emities of the clavicle, previously placed in accurate contact, are prevented from being again displaced. The elbow and forearm should be supported by a sling, otherwise the unsupported weight of the limb dragging on the shoulder will cause considerable pain, and subsequent displacement will be apt to occur. The apparatus should be looked to occasionally, adjusted and tight- ened ; and the cushions should be replaced by fresh ones, to prevent excoriation and uneasiness. The bone will be found to lie quite smooth, to remain of its proper length, to unite, generally within twenty days, and that without any unseemly exuberance of callus. No evaporating lotions are necessary. No compresses or splints need be applied over the bone. If the patient be bruised in other parts, and become feverish, it may be requisite to abstract blood and exhibit nn-FRACTURE OF THE SCAPULA. 271 timonials, purgatives, &c. But all inflammation, arising from the fracture, subsides on the accomplish- ment of reduction, adaptation, and retention of the portions. If the fracture be compound, the edges of the wound should be brought together and retained, so as to favour immediate union. The body of the scapula is broken, generally by a severe injury of the chest, as by a hard and heavy body passing over it. There is little or no displace- ment ; and the accident is not easily detected, more especially after swelling has taken place. It is sufficient to restrain motion; and this is effected by passing a bandage round the chest, over the scapula, and round the arm. The acromion process may be broken off; but the accident is rather uncommon. The fracture is pro- duced by direct violence—a blow or a fall on that point. The spiiie of the bone also is sometimes broken by a like cause. Portions of the acromion may be separated along with the ligaments connect- ing the clavicle to it, in the accident of dislocation of the scapular extremity of that bone. The acromion is occasionally broken into fragments by heavy falls on the point of the shoulder. There is a slight appearance of flattening of the shoulder at first, and then great swelling. Crepitation is felt by pressing gently and alternately with the points of the fingers over the fractured part. The arm requires to be raised and supported by a sling.272 FllACTURE 01' THE RIRS Fracture of the llihs. One rib, or more, may be broken by injuries in various ways—by blows of the fist—falls on hard bodies—pressure on the chest by heavy bodies passing over or falling upon it. They generally give way anteriorly to the angles, at the most convex point; but sometimes near the spine or the sternum. At the same time they may be par- tially luxated at either of the extremities. The frac- ture is generally transverse ; occasionally, and rarely, oblique. Sharp portions are seldom detached. The skin is sometimes divided, but more frequently the pleura and lungs are torn by the spiculae projecting internally ; hence effusion into the chest, and emphy- sema of the sub-cutaneous cellular tissue near the fracture, take place. The emphysema, if permitted, extends over the greater part of the chest, and even farther. Fracture of the ribs is attended with pain, parti- cularly during full inspiration ; and if the injurj'^ is severe, the patient is incapable, without great pain and exertion, of accomplishing full inspiration. He uses his handkerchief, sneezes, and coughs, with the utmost difficulty. Crepitation is felt by the patient, and is easily detected by the surgeon, by placing the hand on the suspected point, and desiring the patient to attempt full inspiration so as to grate the surfaces on each other. Motions of the trunk, and often of the upper extremities also, are attended with aggra- vation of the symptoms. In some cases attentive examination is necessary to discover crepitus—in cer- tain situations, and when perhaps one rib only has273 FKACTUIIE OF THE lllBS. given way, especially if some time have elapsed be- twixt the infliction of the injury and the application of the patient for relief. In the slighter cases, it is sufficient to restrain the motions of the chest by a broad bandage applied firmly round it; and a split cloth, or a scapulary, may be passed over the shoulders and attached to the cir- cular bandage to prevent its being displaced. Great and immediate relief is thus afforded. In those of a plethoric habit, blood may be taken from the arm, some hours after the injury, with relief and advan- tage ; it may ward off an inflammatory attack—and it is absolutely necessary to adopt this practice on the slightest indication of such supervening. The appear- ance of the countenance, and the state of the pulse and respiration, must be watched ; and on the first beco- ming anxious, the second strong and accelerated, and the third hurried and imperfect, active measures must be employed—venesection, antimony, purgatives, dia- phoretics, anodynes—one or all according to cir- cumstances. In the more severe injuries the same practice is pursued ; and the symptoms are watched with great care. The air in the cellular tissue, if effused in great quantity about the neck and face, and interfering with the functions of the parts, is to be evacuated by punctures. If the emphysema is slight, and confined to the neighbourhood of the injured part, farther extrication is prevented by the timeous and accurate application of a bandage ; the air already in the cellular tissue speedily disappears. The effusion PART III. s274 INJURIES OF THE SHOULDER. into the chest is also in general absorbed ; but it may remain and increase, and from violence of action purulent secretion may be mixed with the serous. The breathing then becomes embarrassed, the chest swells, and the integuments are cedematous. The action of the lung is either much impaired or entirely arrested, as is ascertained by auscultation. In such circumstances, evacuation of the effused fluid may be required. The Sternum is sometimes fractured, or, in young persons, the bones composing it disjoined; but the occurrence is exceedingly rare. The displacement is not great; and is rectified by changing the position of the trunk. The same treatment is required as for fracture of the ribs. Abscess has formed under the bone, as the result of the injury ; but by antiphlo- gistic means, local and general, this may be in most cases prevented. Fracture in the vicinity of the Shoulder-Joint re- quires to be most accurately examined, that a correct diagnosis may be formed, and the practice be judi- cious and decided. Portions of the upper part of the humerus are torn off, along with the attachments of the short muscles, during violent exertions, particularly if the limb is in an awkward position. This is followed by want of power, great swelling, and considerable deformity. Some indistinct crepitation is perceived ; the articulation is afterwards stiff, and the bone of anINJURIES OF THE SHOUI.DEr.. 275 unnatural form. But these indications of the injury gradually disappear. More extensive solution of the continuity of the bone takes place, generally in consequence of a direct and violent blow on the shoulder. The patient is unable to raise the arm, though with great pain it can be placed in any position that it occupies natu- rally ; it can be abducted and raised, perhaps to a greater extent and more readily than when sound. The shoulder is flattened, and the limb apparently lengthened. The elbow is readily put to the side. On raising the humerus, rotating it, and moving it to and fro, crepitation is distinctly perceived—but not so readily after swelling has taken place. The swell- ing also obscures the appearances observed imme- diately after the infliction of the injury,—the flatten- ing of the shoulder, and apparent elongation of the arm. By the fingers of one hand, pressed deep into the axilla, the head of the humerus can be discover- ed ; and on rotating the shaft of the bone with the other hand, grasping the elbow and pushing upwards at the same time, crepitation is perceived, and the upper portion of the bone is ascertained to be unaf- fected by the rotation of the shaft. The nature of the injury is then sufficiently apparent. But the shaft of the humerus may, by such mani- pulation, be ascertained to be entire. Still, from the direction of the force which effected the injury, the flattening of the shoulder, the remarkable falling down of the arm, the loss of power, the free motion, and from the crepitation, though perhaps indistinct,276 INJURIES OF THE SHOULDER. it is evident that fracture has occurred. Then, by the fingers in the axilla, whilst the humerus is raised and moved in diflferent directions, crepitation is recog- nised deeper and less distinct than in the former case; and the surgeon is warranted in believing that the glenoid cavity has suffered—that it is broken into fragments, or that it is separated from the body of the scapula by fracture of its neck : he is also war- ranted in adopting the means of cure suitable to such an accident. Many such injuries occur, yet it is strange that preparations illustrative of it are scarce- ly to be met with in our collections of morbid spe- cimens. How both detachment and luxation of the head of the humerus should occur, can scarcely be explained. Luxation certainly cannot take place after fracture; no force can be applied to the head of the bone suf- ficient to displace it. It is barely possible, that after luxation, force may be applied to the bone so as to fracture its neck. This accident is of very rare oc- currence, though by some supposed to be otherwise. I have had an opportunity of examining but one case, and that was very distinct; the head of the bone, completely detached from the shaft, lay in the axilla. Comminution of the head of the bone, with displace- ment of the fragments, is not uncommon. Separation of the head of the bone occurs occa- sionally in young persons, presenting the same ap- pearances and symptoms as fracture of the neck of the humerus in later life. Each, by a little care, is distinguishable from dislocation, even after swelling277 INJURIES OF THE SMOULDEK. has supervened. And it is highly necessary that the diagnosis should be correct and prompt, otherwise atrociously cruel and unnecessary proceedings will be adopted, and irreparable mischief occasioned. Lux- ation is attended with flattening of the shoulder and elongation of the arm, to a greater or less degree, according to the position of the head of the bone. But the elbow does not come to the side, and the motions of the limb are abridged; it cannot be ab- ducted to any extent, if the scapula is fixed. The head of the bone is felt under the pectoral muscle, or in the axilla ; and on rotating the arm gently, by laying hold of the forearm, and using it, when bent, as a lever, the head and shaft are found to move simul- taneously, all of a piece, and no crepitation is felt. Besides, the history of the accident is an excellent guide towards correctly ascertaining the nature of the injury. If the patient, in falling, have involun- tarily stretched out his arm, in order to save himself, and alighted with his whole weight on the palm or elbow, dislocation will most probably have occurred" If, on the contrary, he have pitched upon the shoul- der, without any intermediate breaking of the fall, fracture is to be expected. The evil consequences of false diagnosis, and of treatment formed thereon, are very apparent. A dis- location may be put up and treated as a fracture, per- haps till too late for reduction; and the patient will possess but weak and imperfect motion of the limb, after having undergone long suffering. On the con- trary, dreadful torments are inflicted on the patientINJURIES OF THE SHOULDER. 278 when fracture is treated as luxation. The force ap- plied with the view of reduction is in all circumstances very painful, but, when exerted on a fractured bone, must prove absolute torture; and during the whole treatment, the fragments are every now and then torn separate, and union so prevented. Severe in- flammatory action follows the reductive violence, and is kept alive or regenerated by the loose and pro- jecting fractured ends of the bone; extensive sup- purations, attended with fever, ensue, and may de- stroy the patient. Undetected fracture may also be treated as a bruise of the soft parts only ; then every motion of the body and limb is productive of excru- ciating pain, and there is much risk of uncontrollable inflammation being excited—all which would have been warded off, by placing the bones in a proper and steady position ; the adaptation of a pad in the axilla is followed by immediate and great relief. Such mistakes are quite inexcusable. By one care- ful examination,—productive of considerable unea- siness to the patient in some conditions of the parts —the real state of matters should be ascertained ; and then the practice founded on the knowledge so obtained will be followed with speedy cessation, or at least great diminution of pain, and with every pro- bability of restoring the limb to strength and use- fulness. Fractures of the glenoid cavity, of the neck of the scapula, and of the neck of the humerus, are all treated by the same simple, though effectual, appa- ratus as employed for injuries of the clavicle. It re-279 FRACTURE OF THE HUMERUS. quires to be re-adapted occasionally, to have the parts under the crossings of the bandage, and under the knots of the shawl retaining the pad, well protected by soft pads, and must be worn for four or five weeks —perhaps, in some cases, even a short time longer. Then gentle passive motion of the limb is to be em- ployed, gradually increased as the painful feelings abate. If the parts are at once placed in apposition, and accurately retained, no abstraction of blood, either general or local, is required at the time, and is not likely to be called for during any stage of the treatment. No cold evaporating lotions are neces- sary ; fomentations are sometimes useful. Fracture of the Shaft of the Humerus is either oblique or transverse, according to the direction of the force applied. There is considerable displace- ment. The limb is always shortened to a certain extent, and the natural contour destroyed; the arm is useless, and bent towards the trunk, and the muscles are in a state of spasmodic contraction. The nature of the injurj' is at once and readily recognised. There is unusual and unnatural mobility of the arm, and distinct crepitation at the fractured point. There is great pain from the pressure of the lower extremity of the bone upon the nervous trunks. The large vessels are seldom torn—though the branches of the humeral artery, and the vessel itself, have in a few cases been ruptured—but there is often considerable bloody swelling in this as in all fractures. Occa-280 FllACTUllE OF THE HUMERUS. sionally, when the violence has been great, either the upper or the lower fractured end is thrust through the skin. When the inferior part of the shaft is broken, there is less displacement than when the fracture is towards the middle of the bone. Fracture above the condyles sometimes extends through them ; and the one may be detached from the other, either with or without frac- ture of the shaft. When such an accident is sus- pected, the position of the condyles in regard to the ends of the bones of the forearm should be accurately observed. Flexion and extension of the forearm can be readily performed, though with pain ; not so, when the bones are luxated. Crepitation is detected along the line of fracture, during motion of the limb, and when the condyles are laid hold of and rao.ved upon each other, or on the shaft. In fracture of the middle of the shaft, coaptation is easily accomplished ; slight extension is made by one hand grasping the elbow, whilst, by the other, the bones are brought together, and the straightness and outline of the limb restored. The proper po- sition is readily maintained by two splints of book- binders' pasteboard, one applied from over the acro- mion process to beyond the point of the elbow, the other from the axilla, and also passing over the elbow on the inside; thus the neighbouring joints are fixed, and the muscles rendered inactive. The conjoined breadth of the sjilints should be sufficient to embrace the limb almost entirely; some spaceFRACTUllE 01' THE HUMERUS. 281 being left, so that when the swelling subsides, they may neither meet, and consequently lie loose, nor overlap each other. They are softened by steeping in hot water, so that they may embrace every part of the limb to which they are applied ; and the extre- mities should be rounded off, to prevent galling of the parts. They are padded with soft flannel or lint, or, what is better, with finely carded tow, and retained by a circular roller applied from the points of the fingers up to the shoulder. The binding should proceed from below upwards, to avoid swelling from obstruct- ed cH'culation, and do away with the necessity of removing the apparatus arising from this cause. It is well to place a wooden sj)lint on the outside, re- tained by an additional bandage, so as to steady the parts till the pasteboard has dried, and formed a firm mould or case for the limb ; then the wood is unne- cessary, and should be removed. The forearm is bent at right angles, and the humerus fixed to the trunk. In simple fracture, there is in general no ne- cessity for interfering with, the apparatus until the bandage slackens, in consequence of the swelling sub- siding ; then, usually at the end of eight days, it is to be reapplied. One splint is carefully raised, whilst the other is kept fixed and the parts steadied, and the limb is ascertained to be straight and of a proper length; if not, then, or even later, the position of the bones may be rectified without causing much un- easiness. A simple fracture need not confine the pa- tient to bed ; he may walk about with the arm sup- ported in a sling.FRACTURE OF THE HUMERUS. 282 In compound fracture similar splints are applied, after due attention has been paid to the wound and to the position of the hon^. The patient is placed on his back in bed; and the splints are retained by slips of bandage, double, one end being passed through the loop and secured to the other by a run- ning noose. This method of deligation affords fa- cility for the removal of the splints, in order to examine into the state of the limb and dress the wound. It also permits of the apparatus being slacked in the first instance during the swelling, and of being afterwards tightened, without lifting the limb or disturbing its position. Fracture at the distal extremity of the humerus is managed most conveniently with the limb in the straight position. The fragments are placed accu- rately together, and one splint placed on the fore part, another posteriorly. The forearm is kept in a state of supination. At the end of about twenty days the apparatus should be removed, and the position of the articulation changed if possible. The forearm is to be bent slightly, and a splint applied,—made to fit accurately, and with a joint corresponding to the bend of the arm. This should be occasionally re- moved, provided consolidation of the fractured bones has advanced so far as to admit of it, and slight pas- sive motion of the elbow-joint employed. Obstinate rigidity of the parts is thus guarded against. Fracture of the condyles has been already alluded to. It may be farther observed, that the exact na- ture of the accident is often difficult to detect; in all 5FRACTUllE OF THE OLECRANON. 283 cases accurate and careful manipulation is required. Displacement of one or other of the bones of the fore- arm almost uniformly attends this fracture, some- times rendering diagnosis obscure. Fracture of the olecranon process of the ulna is occasioned by falls on the point of the elbow ; or the bone may be snapped asunder by powerful and sudden action of the triceps extensor cubiti, when the arm is much and quickly bent. The injury is readily re- cognised ; there is inability to extend the forearm by its own muscular powers, a considerable space is felt between the separated portions of the bone, and the upper fragment is movable as well as detached; these marks of the injury are rendered more conspi- cuous by bending the joint. Crepitation is produced by moving the limb when extended, and the separated parts thereby approximated. Bloody swelling soon takes place, large and extensive when bruising of the soft parts has been great—and this is usually the case, in consequence of the injury being almost always the result of direct violence. In some cases the process is comminuted. Compound fracture is rare, and likely to be pro- ductive of serious consequences. I have treated and witnessed several cases. In one the process was cut off by the patient falling on an earthen vessel, which broke under the limb. The joint is necessarily open- ed. Violent inflammation soon commences, and can very seldom be kept within moderate bounds. Dis-284 FRACTURF. OF THE OLECRANON. charge of increased and vitiated synovial secretion takes place, followed by profuse and unhealthy sup- puration. The cartilages ulcerate, and then the bones- The cellular tissue around becomes infiltrated, the parts swell and are dis'coloured, and collections of matter form probably .at more points than one ; per- haps there is a succession of abscesses. The con- dyles, and often a portion of the shaft of the bone, are denuded by the suppuration, and superficial ne- crosis results. Ultimately the patient grows hectic. Amputation had to be resorted to in all the cases which have come under my observation, weeks or months after the accident. Union of the simple fracture will take place by bone, if the portions be retained accurately and per- manently in contact; but there is a risk of the joint remaining stiff, and of re-separation being produced by even slight violence. Union by ligament is as rapid as that by osseous matter ; and if the liga- ment is short, the arm is quite as useful. Approxi- mation of the broken surfaces is favoured by exten- sion of the elbow joint, the triceps muscle being thus relaxed. The position is preserved by a splint placed on the fore part of the limb, extending from the middle of the arm to the lower part of the fore- arm, and retained by a roller applied, not over-tight, from the fingers upwards. The application of appa- ratus to the separated portion, with the view of for- cinjr it into contact with the shaft of the ulna, is use- less. The figure of 8 bandage, and such like, areF«ACTU11E OF THE FOREARM. 285 hurtful. Permanent relaxation of the triceps, with prevention of motion, is sufficient. This is continued for three or four weeks ; by that time the fracture will in all probability have united, and then gentle and gradual passive motion of the joint is to be com- menced. In compound fracture the prognosis is always un- favourable. Means must be taken to avert incited action—the limb must be properly placed without delay, the edges of the wound accurately approxi- mated, and antiphlogistic measures pursued. Puru- lent collections must be opened early. Rest of the joint is to be ensured, and support afforded, by ban- daging—perhaps by the application of plasters and a splint. The patient will be fortunate if he escape mutilation by the amputating knife. Fractures of the bones of the forearm^ of one or both, are common ; generally simple. The Radius may be broken at various points—at the upper part— near its head—at the middle—most frequently near the distal extremity. At the two first points the fracture will probably have been produced by direct violence ; but near the carpus, it is usually the result of force applied to its extremity, as by falls in which the weight of the body is thrown on the palm of the hand. The ulna is usually broken by force directly applied, as when the arm is brought in contact with hard bodies in falls. By direct violence also, both bones may give way about the middle, and at cor- responding points ; or, when force is applied in the286 FRACTURE OF THE FOREAIiM. direction of the bones, the ulna may be found broken near the wrist, and the radius near the elbow. When one bone is broken, there is little displace- ment. The power of motion is lost to a consider- able degree, and there is some deformity, but little or no shortening. The existence of fracture is ascer- tained by tracing the bones with the fingers, and by gently rotating the limb ; the broken portions mo- ving on each other produce distinct crepitation. When the radius is broken near its middle, the fore- arm is kept pronated, and the broken extremities are drawn towards the ulna; by bringing the limb towards the supine position, the ends come together, and the one bone is removed from the other. Frac- ture of the radius near the distal extremity produces displacement of the wrist, with great deformity ; and this is increased by bloody effusion into the sheaths of the tendons, and into the superficial cellular tis- sue. In fracture of both bones, there is much defor- mity and shortening of the limb ; the power of mo- ving the hand is lost; the muscles are bruised and torn, and great swelling soon results. There is little difficulty in remedying the slight displacement which takes placp when but one bone is broken, and in retaining tl^ parts in a favourable position. When both have given way, slight exten- sion is required, and the forearm is placed in the middle state between pronation and supination. Two pasteboard splints, softened in hot water, and padded with tow, are applied, one on each aspect, from a little above the elbow to over the fingers ; the outerFRACTURE OF THE PHALANGES. 287 should extend to the tips of the fingers, the inner need not pass the palm ; they are retained by a roller. In fracture of both bones, a wooden splint should be retained on the outside of the limb for a few hours ; but this precaution is scarcely required when but one has suffered. Similar treatment, along with attention to the wound, is required in compound fracture. The metacarpal hones and phalanges of thejinge?'s are subject to fractures, both simple and compound. The metacarpal bone supporting the little finger most frequently suffers from force applied to the knuckle, as in pugilistic encounters. The other metacarpal bones are occasionally broken from crushing of the hand, as by a heavy body falling on it, or by its be- coming entangled amongst machinery. The injury is readily ascertained by moving the fingers, and pressing in the course of the bone. On laying hold of the distal end of the bone suspected to have given way, placing the fingers over the shaft, and attempt- ing slight motion, distinct crepitation is perceived. For the cure, motion of the parts must be prevented for a sufficient time, and inflammation warded off when threatened ; there is little or no displacement, and consequently retentive apparatus can be almost wholly dispensed with. Simple fractures of the phalanges are recognised and treated by even the most unlearned in the sur- gical profession. The deformity is so striking as to render mistakes as to the nature of the accident im-288 FRACTURE OF THE PELVIS. possible; reduction is accomplished without difficul- ty; and the bones are kept in their proper places by a small splint, either of wood or pasteboard, placed on each side of the finger, and retained by a narrow roller. Compound fractures of the phalanges are almost uniformly followed by most violent inflammatory action in all the tissues, terminating in disease of the joints, and in death of the tendinous and fibrous tissues. The suppuration is profuse and unhealthy, and the infiltration of the soft parts extensive. The diseased action not unfrequently pervades the palm of the hand. In the great majority of cases, necessity for amputation arrives sooner or later. Fracture of the bones composing the pelvis occa- sionally takes place, but can be produced only by the application of great force, as by a loaded vehicle passing over the body, or by falls from a great height. The accident is usually attended with serious injury of the viscera contained in the pelvic cavity, or in that of the abdomen; they may be either ruptured, or lacerated by sharp projecting spicula?, or merely bruised. The nature and extent of the injury is not easily ascertained. There is great pain on motion of the body or of the limbs, and usually extensive ex- travasation of blood in the soft parts ; these circum- stances, along with the symptoms that may arise from internal organs which have been injured, and a know- ledge of the way in which the injury was inflicted, lead to a strong suspicion of fracture of the pelvis. A portion of the crest of the ilium may be broken289 FllACTURE OF THE PELVIS. off, without serious mischief ensuing, and may unite favourably. More extensive fractures, deeper in the pelvis, as in the neighbourhood of the acetabulum, are attended with excruciating pain on the least motion; in these the existence of fracture may be suspected from the first, but the extent of the in- jury is not fully known till after death. Fractures near the symphysis, and of the rami, either of the OS pubis or ischii, are usually attended with injury to the bladder, or to the urethra. Wound of the bladder is almost necessarily fatal, extravasation of urine, with all its fearful consequences, taking place in the loose cellular tissue connecting the upper part of the viscus to the parietes of the pelvis, and in the cellular tissue behind the peritoneum. The urethra may be lacerated by the sharp edge of fractured bone, or it may be ruptured by direct violence applied to itself. The latter case some- times accompanies partial diastasis of the symphy- sis, produced by the person falling astride on a beam. Either injury separately is sufficiently dan- gerous, and a patient with both is in a very preca- rious situation. Great extravasation of blood takes place in the perineum, scrotum, penis, and tops of the thighs, infiltration of urine quickly follows, re- tention supervenes, abscesses form, and the patient perishes under a train of symptoms already detailed when treating of the urinary organs. The treatment is seldom satisfactory. Absolute rest must be procured, and with this view the limbs are to be secured, and a broad band passed round PART III. T290 FRACTURE OF THE FEMUR. the pelvis. The state of the viscera must be attend- ed to ; collections of matter must be evacuated; and all other untoward symptoms must be actively met, and their consequences either averted or got over as far as possible. Fracture of the Sacrum is uncommon, as also de- tachment or fracture of the Coccyx. The former acci- dent happens in consequence of a fall from a great height- There is little or no displacement whether the fracture is transverse or longitudinal ; sometimes there is splintering of the bone. Acute pain is occa- sioned by motion of the limbs and of the trunk, and by pressure over the injured part. Abscess is apt to follow, both under the integument, and in the con- cavity of the bone, and the chief duty of the surgeon is to prevent this if possible. Fractures of the Thigh.—On account of the thick muscular covering, much attention is required to enable the surgeon to form an accurate diagnosis regarding the effects of an injury of the upper part of the femur. The necessity for ascertaining what the injury really is, need not be insisted on. Conse- quences dreadful to the patient have too often follow- ed blunders in diagnosis. As in the accidents of the shoulder-joint, some idea as to the exact injury may be formed by ascertaining how the force was applied; but this, alone, may sometimes mislead. Careful manipulation is to be chiefly trusted. Fracture within the capsule is met with most fre-FRACTURE OF THE FEMUR. 291 quently in those of advanced age, when the form of the neck of the bone has been altered,—when it has become shorter, and attached less obliquely to the shaft; the bones, too, are then more brittle than in earlier life. The accident often happens from slight force, applied either to the farther end of the bone or to the trochanter, as by a fall in going up or down a stair. Though the height be not great, yet the patient's energies are weakened and he can make no effort to break the fall, and the weight of the body is thrown on either the fore or the back part of the trochanter. Though the fracture, in such an accident, generally extends beyond the capsule, and the processes are broken to a greater or less extent, yet occasionally the head of the bone is separated by transverse break of the neck without farther injury. This fracture occurs sometimes in those of middle life; and even in children, separation of the head of the bone may on good grounds be supposed occasionally to take place. The marks of fracture within the capsular liga- ment are inability to move the limb, pain about the joint on attempts being made to move it, and short- ening to a slight extent, as ascertained by comparison with the sound limb ; the patient being laid straight on his back, with the crests of the ilia in a line, either the knees or the ankles are looked to, and the comparative length of the limbs thereby observed. In some cases, neither shortening nor deformity is apparent for some time after the accident; there is merely want of power, and crepitation produced byFRACTURE OF THE FEMUR. 292 rotation; but retraction of the thigh would after a time inevitably occur, and has done so when the nature of the injury was not at first ascertained, nor proper treatment adopted. Most frequently there is eversion of the toes, and to a considerable extent; sometimes there is inversion, and this is owing to the limb either having been placed in that position in falling, or having acquired it after the injury has been inflicted. The rotators outward are the more powerful; the limb naturally inclines outwards, and when in the recumbent posture, the weight of the foot favours eversion. But in fracture the muscles do not act as in a sound limb ; and when the limb is once placed, the patient will not by his own efforts alter the posi- tion. Thus it is that inversion not unfrequently happens in this form of fracture, although the oppo- site state is that which, from a consideration of the muscles involved, is a priori to be expected. In in- version the limb presents somewhat of the appearance arising from the most common luxation ; but it pos- sesses greater mobility, and has not the want of pro- minence occasioned by displacement of the articulating extremity of the bone. The facility of lengthening the member, and the crepitation felt on a proper and more attentive manipulation, will remove all doubt. On examining the injured hip, motion to any ex- tent can be effected, though with excruciating suf- fering to the patient. On stretching the limb to its original length, and then rotating slightly, crepitation can be felt by the hand, or heard by the ear, placed over the trochanter major.FllACTUllE OF THE FEMUR. 293 Fracture is much more frequently met with out- side of the capsular ligament, generally passing obliquely through the trochanters, and communica- ting with fissures in various directions. Splinters are often detached, and sometimes the small trochan- ter is broken off. Here, also, there is inability to move the joint, violent pain on attempting it, swell- ing, and deformity of the member; there is shorten- ing to a greater extent than in the fracture within the capsule ; there is free motion in all directions; rotation, abduction, adduction, flexion, and often ex- tension, can be effected to an unnatural and unusual extent—the degree of motion is no longer limited by the ligamentous attachments of the head of the bone. Here, also, the limb is most frequently everted, but occasionally inverted ; and that even when, from the direction and extent of the fracture, neither the rota- tors outwards nor the rotators inwards have been deprived of action. In some cases of fracture, partly within and partly without the capsule, all the usual marks of this in- jury are present, but it is impossible to move the limb without employing considerable force. This arises from the broken portions being jammed toge- ther, the neck of the bone being, as it were, driven into and wedged in the cancellated texture of the trochanter major, or of the upper part of the shaft. The trochanter major is sometimes, though rarely, detached, without separation of the neck of the bone from its shaft. In this injury there is apparent lengthening of the limb, and flattening of the hip;294 FRACTURE OF THE FEMUR. the patient is able to use the member, though not freely. Before swelling has taken place, crepitation can be jjerceived on laying hold of the trochanter whilst the limb is in motion ; and the trochanter it- self is found to be in a slight degree movable. Fracture of the upper part of the shaft is attended with immediate and great shortening ; the limb is much mishapen, and lies on its outer side, with the knee partially bent. The upper fragment of the bone projects ; the resistance to the action of the psoas and iliacus is in a great measure done away with, consequently these muscles raise the upper, whilst the lower end falls back and is drawn, upwards be- hind the other. In mismanaged cases, I have found on dissection the lower end of the bone lying in the sacTO-ischiatic notch, and a process advancing very different from reparation—necrosis. The marks of this accident are so conspicuous, that the surgeon is satisfied of what has happened without enquiring for crepitation. Rapid and great swelling takes place, if reduction and coaptation are not soon resorted to ; the bloodvessels are torn more and more by the ends of the bone, and effusion of blood into the intermuscu- lar cellular tissue is easy. Very soon more extensive and dangerous swelling takes place, the result of in- flammatory action, accompanied with startings of the muscles and greater retraction of the limb. Fractures of the middle and lower thirds of the bone are not attended with such great risk, and are more manageable in every way. There is less disfi- guration—the ends of the bone are not drawn by theFRACTUllE OF THE FEMUK. 295 action of the muscles so far apart. The fracture is either oblique or transverse, according to the direc- tion of the force applied ; and the bruising and the degree of swelling are also dependent on the same circumstance. From transverse fracture fissure some- times extends, separating one or other condyle. The reparation of injury in the upper part of the femur is opposed by a variety of circumstances. Fractures of the neck of the bone are almost uni- formly met with in those whose powers of life have been nearly exhausted. The whole injury is confined within the synovial capsule, and the fibrous tissues which support that are unyielding, and but slightly vascular; consequently, in fracture of the neck of the femur, there occurs none of the swelling and in- creased vascularity of the surrounding tissues, which follow fracture of other bones, or other parts of this bone ; from this cause, support of the disunited parts is deficient. The head and neck of the bone are not so well supplied with bloodvessels as the other parts; those arteries which pass along the ligamentum teres are the chief support. And perhaps the influx of blood is not increased, in consequence of injury, to such a degree as in other parts ; in these, when the surrounding parts are bruised or otherwise injured by fracture in their immediate vicinity, their vascu- lar action is soon excited, the vessels ramifying on the periosteum are enlarged, and blood is poured into the bone at all points. Instead of these salutary changes, the secretion of synovia is increased, and a fluid, perhaps vitiated, surrounds the bone, and is in-FllACTURE OF THE FEMUR. 296 terposed betwixt its ends. There is also difficulty in jDerforming accurate adaptation of the broken ends, and in securing retention so long as is necessary for union ; the limb has a tendency to retraction ; in readjusting the apparatus, when become loose, the broken surfaces are rubbed on each other, and thus any union which may have been in progress is inter- fered with. In consequence of all this, union seldom takes place by bone ; it has occurred, and will occur, in favourable cases and under good treatment; but it is an undeniable fact, that the circumstances which of a necessity follow fracture at this point are inimi- cal to its effective reparation. The broken ends are sometimes united by fibrous tissue. Most frequently no union takes place, and the broken surfaces gra- dually become smooth and adapted to each other; a false joint is formed, but at the same time the capsu- lar ligament, and tissues exterior to it, are thickened and strengthened, and so the unnatural motion is limited. The rough and irregular portions of the bone are absorbed, and the neck of the femur, from interstitial absorption, almost disappears; its head lies attached to the cotyloid cavity, and is rubbed upon by the ojDposed surface of the shaft. Shortening of the limb is an inevitable result, and at first the power of motion is slight, and the support afibrded to the body weak; in course of time the member becomes strong and useful. Many bones are preserved and exhibited, in which fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, with bony union, is supposed to have taken place ; but there are297 FRACTURE OF THE FEMUR. strong grounds for suspecting that many such have not sustained actual fracture. The neck of the bone may be shortened, and set on awkwardly, and there may be masses of new osseous deposit round the neck and the trochanters. Perhaps the history of the case is known—An old person sustains an injury of the hip by falling, or by a blow on the trochanter; great lameness ensues, and, after a confinement of many weeks, the patient begins to use the member, which, however, remains considerably shortened. But all this may have taken place, and, on examination after death, the parts may have presented the appearances above alluded to without fracture. The change in the bone is the consequence of diseased action induced by the injury. The bloodvessels of the bone and its coverings are excited, and new osseous matter is formed at various points ; at the same time, intersti- tial absorption of the cancellated texture of the neck gradually advances, and the bone is consequently altered in length and form. These appearances alone, therefore, do not warrant the confident belief of fracture having occurred, even though the history should seem to favour the assumption. And it ought to be recollected, that mere bruising of the parts about the hip is not unfrequently attended with in- ability to move the limb, with eversion of the foot, so as to relax the muscles which have suffered, and sometimes with slight apparent lengthening. In many patients advanced in life, who have sustained fracture of the neck of the femur, there is298 FRACTUIIE OF THE FEMUR. little, if any, chance of union. In these cases, the ap- plication of apparatus with the view of adapting and retaining the parts, is productive of great annoyance, and is apt to produce either ulceration or sloughing of the integuments at various parts ; and confine- ment to one constrained position for a considerable time has a mischievous effect on the general health. Instead, the limb is placed in the easiest posture, either extended and slightly retained, or bent over a double inclined plane formed by pillows, with the knee of the affected side fixed to the opposite ; a broad band is passed round the trochanters and pelvis, so as to restrain motion without causing inconve- nience ; and when pain about the thigh is trouble- some, fomentation may be used. After some weeks, when the uneasy feelings have subsided, the position is changed, the patient is set up, and encouraged to move about, supporting the weight of the body upon crutches. In more favourable subjects, whether the fracture is suspected to be without or within the joint, either entirely or partially, the broken surfaces are to be brought in contact, and retained immovably in appo- sition for a time sufficient to admit of union. The limb is put up in apparatus not requiring removal, and but little re-adjustment. This can be effected only in the extended position. Many splints, with foot-boards, straps, and screws, are intended for this purpose, some to be attached to the injured limb, others to the sound one ; but the apparatus which is299 FRACTURE OF THE FEMUU. most simple, and easily procured at all times and in all circumstances, is at once the best and the most ef- ficient. This is a straight wooden board, not too thick to feel cumbrous, and not too thin to be pliable or easily broken ; in breadth corresponding to the dimensions of the limb, in length sufficient to extend from two, three, or four inches beyond the heel to near the axilla ; deeply notched at two places at its lower end, and perforated by two holes at the upper. The splint, well padded, is applied to the extended limb, the ankles being protected by proper adjust- ment of the pads. The apparatus is retained by bandaging. A common roller is applied round the limb, from the toes to near the knee, so as to pre- vent infiltration, which would otherwise follow pres- sure above by the rest of the apparatus. The splint is then attached to the limb by involving both in a roller from the foot to above the knee ; and in doing this, the bandage, after having been turned round the ankle, should be passed through the notches, so as to be firmly attached to the end of the splint, thereby preventing the foot from shifting. A broad bandage is applied round the pelvis over the groin, and down the thigh, investing all that part of the limb left uncovered by the previous bandaging. A broad band, like a riding belt, is fastened round the pelvis, so as to bind the splint to the trunk, and thereby keep the broken surfaces of the bone in con- tact. A large handkerchief, or shawl, is brought un- der the perineum, and its ends secured through the openings at the top of the board. It is evident that,FRACTURE OF THE FEMUR. 300 the splint being thus securely fixed and made as part of the limb, tightening of the perineal band will ex- tend the member, and preserve it of its proper length. By care and attention in applying the apparatus, and in adjusting the cushions about the ankle and peri- neum, there is little or no risk of the skin giving way. The bandages will require to be re-applied once or twice during the cure, and the perineal band should be tightened frequently. The apparatus is retained for six or eight weeks, the time necessary for union varying according to circumstances. After its remo- val, great care must be taken at first in moving the limb and in putting weight on it: it should be accus- tomed to its former functions very gradually. The same apparatus is the most effectual for all fractures of the thigh ; but those near the distal ex- tremity, and in the lower third of the bone, may be managed easily and well on the double inclined plane—M'Intyre's splint, the thigh-piece of which is double, the one portion sliding on the other, and made to shorten and lengthen by means of a screw, without removal from the patient. To this the limb is secured by bandaging from the toes upwards ; the upper bandage, which should be broad, being con- tinued close to the perineum, and then passed several times round the loins. By elongating the thigh-piece by means of the screw, extension is kept up. Great complaint is made by the patient of pain and stiffness in the knee for a long time after the treatment of broken thigh in the bent position. There is no possibility of treating fracture of theFRACTURE OF THE FEMUR. 301 thigh, with any satisfaction or credit, on the outside of the limb with the knee bent; however attentively the splints are placed, shortening, eversion of the foot, and deformity of the whole limb, are sure to follow. No greater absurdity and cruelty is con- ceivable than leaving the fracture unadjusted for weeks, making attempts to subdue consequent over- action, and then endeavouring to reduce and retain the bones at a period when otherwise they should have been firmly united. " Experience teacheth" not " fools," and cannot amend those whom prejudice has blinded. Compound fracture of the thigh, if circumstances do not forbid attempts to save the limb, is to be re- duced and retained in the same way as the simple, the wound being attended to, and means taken to subdue inflammatory action. Abscesses must be opened timeously, the limb must be equably support- ed, and the powers of the system preserved. The application of force may, in young persons, de- tach the epiphysis of the lower end of the femur, and displace it to a greater or less extent; and if the accident be not detected, the epiphysis will become consolidated with the shaft in this unnatural position, impairing the usefulness of the member, and probably laying the foundation for disease in or around the articulation. Reduction is easy, and the retentive treatment is the same as that recommended generally for fracture of the thigh near the knee-joint. I have met with one well marked case of this form of dias- tasis. A girl sustained an injury of the knee whenFRACTURE OF THE PATELLA. 302 fourteen years of age, in consequence of the limb ha- ving- been entangled amongst the spokes of a carriage- wheel in motion; the knee continued painful and swoln, and she had a halt in walking. After the lapse of about three years, extensive suppuration occurred in the lower part of the thigh and round the knee-joint, and amputation very soon became in- dispensable for the preservation of life. The syno- vial apparatus was much diseased, and the epiphysis of the lower end of the femur was found displaced forwards and upwards, so that only the posterior part rested on the tibia ; in fact, it was turned almost half round on the shaft: firm union by bone had taken place. Fracture of the Patella is generally simple. It is occasioned either by great force applied to the bone directly, or by the action of the strong extensor muscles—the knee being suddenly bent, and the bone snapped across over the end of the femur. The degree of immediate swelling, and of incited action, will vary according to the mode of infliction. When the injury is caused by a blow upon the part, the bone may be broken either transversely or vertically, or both ; either the upper or the lower portion may be vertically split, usually the upper; sometimes there is considerable comminution. Muscular action produces transverse fracture only. The nature and extent of the injury is readily ascertained. The patient is unable to extend the limb, and cannot support weight on it; in tiie bentFRACTURE OF THE PATELLA. 303 position, a space is felt in the situation of the patella, the lower portion is found nearly in its place, but the other is drawn upwards on the fore part of the thigh ; by extension of the limb and flexure of the thigh the portions are approximated, and crepitus is perceived when they are brought in contact. These symptoms are perceptible through any quantity of bloody eifu- sion. By attentive manipulation, comminution and vertical splitting may also be detected. The circum- stances attending the accident will, in most instances, lead to a tolerably accurate expectation of the state of parts. The ligament of the patella does not give way to muscular action; it is much stronger than the bone, and the latter consequently snaps. It may be, and has been, divided, along with the superimposed inte- gument, by a fall on a sharp substance. This acci- dent is followed by lameness, the ligamentous tissue does not soon unite, and the limb is long in regain- ing its usefulness ; sometimes the union is imperfect, and the member remains weak. Division of the integuments over a fractured pa- tella is a very serious accident. The joint is opened, and such a state both of the limb and of the consti- tution must sooner or later occur as to cause neces- sity for amputation. The bone unites, under favourable circumstances, in the same way as any other. In longitudinal frac- ture there is almost always bony union. In trans- verse, the obstacles to correct apposition are great;FRACTURE OF THE PATELLA. 304 the upper portion is acted on by the muscles on the fore part of the thigh, to a greater or less degree, in almost any position ; there is increase and vitiation of the synovial secretion, and when the bones are approximated, this fluid is interposed. The union is therefore almost uniformly ligamentous, and, fortu- nately, this is as strong and as rapidly effected as that by bone. When the treatment is not of the most approved kind, a long portion of ligament is pro- duced, and the limb remains weak. But union by a short ligament is undoubtedly the most desirable result, the member is as useful as when bone is the uniting medium, and ligament is less subject to dis- ruption ; bony union is, for a long time, apt to give way on the application of even slight force. The fragments are to be approximated, and brought nearly into contact, by placing the limb, with the knee extended, and the thigh slightly bent on the pelvis. The limb is retained in this position by the applica- tion of a straight splint behind, hollowed at the ex- tremities, extending from a little below the tuber- osity of the ischium to below the middle of the leg, and retained by a roller, not at all tight; the foot and lower part of the limb must be previously ban- daged to prevent infiltration. All apparatus with straps, buckles, and apertures to receive the portions of the bone, are worse than useless. The splint re- quires to be worn for some time after the patient gets into the erect position, which ought not to before six weeks after the accident. 1305 FRACTURE OF THE LEG. Fracture may occur at any part of the leg. One or both bones may give way, either transversely or obliquely, according to the application of the force. The transverse fracture is produced by a direct blow, by a heavy body striking or falling on the limb, or by the lower part of the limb being fixed whilst the body is in rapid motion ; the oblique is caused by force applied in the direction of the bones—as when a person falls or leaps from a height, and alights on one foot, the limb being extended and the body erect. In the latter description of accident, it is frequently supposed, erroneously, that but one bone has given way ; fracture of the tibia perhaps is perceived some few inches from the distal end, whilst the fibula at that part is entire ; but by attentive manipulation, it will often be found that the fibula has sustained frac- ture, within a short space of its upper extremity ; the force was applied to the ends of the bones, and they gave way, each at the weakest point. The tibia is broken at its upper part, near the tuberosity, with or without similar injury of the fibula. There is considerable displacement, particu-^ larly in the bent position of the knee; there is no restraint to the action of the extensor muscles in- serted immediately above the point of fracture, and these, though not acting with unusual power, cause protrusion of the upper end of the tibia, the condyles of the femur serving as a fulcrum over which the muscles are stretched. This injury is usually the result of direct violence. PAllT III. u306 FRACTUltE OF THE LEG. Fracture of one bone, at a point lower in the limb, is not attended with much displacement or deformity. Indeed, attentive manipulation is often required to detect the site of the injury; and a sense of crepita- tion is perceived, only when the lower and upper por- tions of the bone are pressed on alternately or during rotation of the foot. When both bones are broken, the disjilacement and swelling are great. The foot is sometimes turned inwards, but usually it falls out- wards ; and if there has been much laceration of the soft parts, with or without division of the integu- ments, the lower portion of the limb hangs quite loose. By the application of great force, as by a rope being twisted round and run tight on the limb, both bones and soft parts may be reduced almost to a pulp, with- out much or any division of the integument. Such an accident is, followed by rapid and great swelling, violent incited action, gangrene, and severe constitu- tional disturbance. The progress of the mortifica- tion is not in all cases uniform ; in some, the swelling and discoloration extend to the groin and trunk in two or three days, attended with furious delirium ; in others, the disorganisation of the limb is very slow, some days elapsing before it reaches the knee, and in these the constitutional symptoms are less severe. In some cases there is extensive wound of tlie in- tegiiments, without serious injury of the bone, mus- cles, or vessels. The skin either has been divided by the external force acting upon the resisting bone,FRACTURE OF THF. LEG. 307 or the sharp fractured end of the bone has been thrust through. Sometimes the bone is protruded to a con- siderable extent, and entangled amongst the more superficial soft parts. Fractures of the lower portions of the bones are generally the consequence of twisting and partial dis- placement of the ankle. The fibula is most frequently broken by twisting of the foot outwards, and the fracture is almost uniformly between two and three inches above the articulation. The broken ends are displaced inwards upon the tibia. The injury is detected by moving the foot, and tracing the line of bone ; after swelling has taken place, examination, though almost equally easy, is productive of much more pain, and it is of importance to ascertain the nature of the injury at once, and immediately after the accident. The outer malleolus sometimes gives way from the same cause ; or it may be snapped off by a direct blow. The lower portion of the tibia is sometimes longitudinally split by bending inwards of the foot, the patient having fallen from a consi- derable height; occasionally the inner malleolus is broken transversely. Enquiry as to how the acci- dent happened, particularly as to the direction of the twist, the displacement of the foot, and the degree and extent of crepitation, will determine the nature .of the injury. The astragulus, os calcis, the other bones of the tarsus, and those of the metatarsus, are sometimes broken by the application of great force, but theyFRACTURE OF THE LEG. 308 are not much displaced. Sometimes the foot is vio- lently concussed in consequence of a fall from a height, and, though no fracture may have occurred, the pa- tient is equally lame and pained ; severe inflamma- tion is sure to supervene rapidly, and may terminate untowardly. Fracture of the upper part of the tibia is to be treated in the straight position, for it has been al- ready observed, that when the knee is bent the upper portion necessarily projects. A hollowed splint of wood, extending from the middle of the thigh to near the heel, is applied behind, whilst one of paste- board is placed on each side : all are secured by ban- daging, the foot and lower part of the limb being rolled previously to prevent infiltration; by this simple apparatus motion of the knee-joint, and of the ends of the bones on each other, is completely pre- vented ; the heel is raised, if necessary, for complete adaptation. Fractures of the middle and lower portions of the bones are treated most advantageously, whether sim- ple or compound, in the bent position, the angle being made more or less obtuse, according to the degree of flexion most conducive to easy reduction and reten- tion. Extension is made on the limb, and the parts brought into as natural and handsome a shape as possible ; and in doing so, the appearance of the sound member should be kept in view. There is seldom any difficulty in accom])lishing reduction; the ex- tending and counter-extending power need be but309 FRACTURE OF THE LEG. slight; the upper part of the limb is steadied by an assistant, whilst the lower is stretched and moulded by the hands of the surgeon. In compound fractures at this part, the portions of bone completely detached from the hard and soft parts are to be extracted. And if reduction cannot be effected in consequence of a sharp and long end of the bone projecting through a narrow wound, either the portion must be abridged by the saw or cutting pliers, or the wound must be enlarged. Sometimes the one mode is preferable— sometimes the other—occasionally both are required. When the protruding portion composes but a small portion of the shaft, though perhaps of considerable length, it should be taken away ; but when, on the contrary, it is more thick than long, it is better to enlarge the wound ; but on this subject no general rules can be laid down. The splint is the same as that recommended when treating of fractured thigh, composed of a thigh and leg-piece, with a movable foot-board—the double inclined plane, improved by Mr M'Intyre of Newcastle and others. The foot- board is fixed so as to make the leg-piece of the pro- per length, and the splint is secured at a convenient angle. It is padded by means of a cushion filled with fine chaff. The foot is rolled separately; the limb is then raised carefully, and laid down on the splint placed quickly beneath by an assistant; it is retained in a proper position by the hands of the assistant, whilst a roller is carried from the toes round the foot-board, and along the limb to the knee. A broad roller is then made to surround the thigh andFRACTURE OF THE LEG. 310 splint, and having been turned several times round the loins, is secured to the upper part of the cushion. The limb is thus rendered independent of the mo- tions of the trunk ; it is made as of a piece with the splint. The wound, if any, is to be approximated. If discharge follow, part of the bandage may be un- done from day to day, for the purpose either of employing fomentation or of applying suitable dress- ing, and still the limb is kept perfectly steady. Ab- scesses must be opened early—spiculae removed— constitutional symptoms warded off, and, if they do occur, combated,—at one time inflammatory action must be kept down—at another and more advanced stage, the strength must be supported by all means. In simple fracture it is seldom necessary to undo the bandage, till the apparatus is loosened by subsidence of the swelling—and if the fracture be early reduced, and kept steady, that will be but slight. Then the bandages are undone and reapplied, and the po- sition of the limb attended to. It is seldom neces- sary to interfere with the leg during readjustment, but should there be any deviation, even considerable, from the proper position, it is easily remedied at the end of the first, second, third, or even of the fourth week ; but the sooner the better. The patient may be removed from bed, and may sit up during the greater part of the day, with the heel on a level with the pelvis, within the first week. His health, appe- tite, and spirits, are thus kept up, sore back is avoid- ed, the tedium of confinement diminished, and the cure greatly accelerated. At the end of five, six,DISUNITED FRACTUllE. 311 seven, or eight weeks, according to the age, and as the consolidation advances, the patient may be allow- ed to move about on crutches, some few days after removal of the apparatus, the foot and leg being still bandaged. No weight should be put'on the limb for several weeks after, otherwise a leg cured well and straightly may become bent, twisted, and deformed. Fractures of the lower extremities of the bones, and of the malleoli, are reduced by placing the foot straight, and retaining it so by the application of a straight wooden splint; the parts are protected by a wedge-shaped pad, and the whole is retained by a common roller. The splint is made to project two inches or two inches and a half beyond the ankle, and to reach near to the knee-joint. It has two per- forations in the upper end ; to these a bandage is attached by its split end, and it is then carried down along the inside of the splint, and rolled round the foot and ankle ; thus the apparatus is prevented from shifting upwards. The other extremity of the ban- dage, during its convolutions round the foot, is made to pass through notches in the farther end of the splint; the foot is thus turned to the side opposite to that in which it was placed by the accident, and ought to be retained so till consolidation has taken place. The splint is always placed on the side of the limb opposite to the fracture. Disunited fracture. In some cases union takes place very slowly. On removing the splints, with the expectation of finding the bones firmly united, the312 DISUNITED FRACTURE. ends can be moved very freely on each other without crepitation or much pain. This, as akeady stated, may be referrible to various causes—necessary or ac- cidental evacuations, natural or not—diversion of the nutritious fluids to some particular organ, as in preg- nancy—the period of life, a diseased state of the bone or of the marrow, &c. By keeping the parts immo- vable and firmly compressed for some time longer, consolidation may be brought about. But in spite of every care, the ends of the bones in some cases remain unconnected by any save a soft medium. This hap- pens, however, very rarely under proper manage- ment. I have had but one case of it in my own practice, when the patient was from the first under my own inspection and care ; and in that the occur- rence of false joint was attributable solely to the absurd conduct of the patient. He was tripped up on the street by some individuals following their avocation as pickpockets, fell, and broke his forearm. The fracture was immediately reduced and splints applied—one of pasteboard on each side, Avith a wooden one exteriorly till the pasteboard hardened. He soon cut away the ends of the splints—within thirty-six hours after they had been put on—so as to allow motion of the fingers and hand, sufficient for indulgence in card playing. The splints were still farther shortened, and wholly removed much too soon ; shortly afterwards he fell from horseback. No union took place by bone. Unless in the case of pre- vious disease of the bone, disunion is generally attri- butable to some carelessness or recklessness, either of the surgeon or of the patient.DISUNITED FRAC'J'URE. 313 If any osseous deposit has taken place, it is absoi'b- ed ; the ends of the bone are diminished in size by- interstitial absorption; ligamentous or fibro-cartilagi- nous tissue is formed round the wasted extremities; and the surrounding cellular tissue being thickened and condensed, a sort of synovial pouch is formed, in which the ends, by this time smooth and rounded off, move freely. The limb is shortened in some degree, and its actions are very much diminished in force, there being no sufficient support for the muscles. The bones of the leg and of the forearm are occasionally the seat of false joint, sometimes the femur, but most frequently the humerus. By the tight application of a firm and broad belt of leather, the part is steadied, and the limb rendered more serviceable. Various measures have been pro- posed and practised with the view of promoting a salutary increase of action in the parts, by which osseous deposit in sufficient quantity to form a firm uniting medium might be procured. The ends of the bones have been exposed by incision, and removed either by the saw or by cutting pliers ; they have then been placed together, retained by proper appa- ratus, and treated as a case of compound fracture. The ends have been cut down upon, rubbed over with escharotics, as caustic potass, and afterwards treated as in the former method. Setons have been passed between the ends of the bones, and been retained till sufficient action has occurred ; they have been then withdrawn, and the limb steadied by splints and ban- daging."DISLOCATIONS. 314 To the last method I would, from some experience, give the preference. It is the least severe, both im- mediately and consecutively ; it is the most readily accomplished, and the most likely to be followed by a successful result. The exact site of the ends of the bones must in the first place be ascertained ; the position of the bloodvessels and nerves must be look- ed to, that they may be avoided ; a bistoury is then passed through the skin and down into the substance interposed between the ends of the bones. A strong and sharp needle, fixed in a handle, and with its eye near the point, is passed, in the track of the knife, fairly betwixt the bones, and pushed through the soft parts on the opposite side of the limb. A cord is then passed through the eye, and by withdrawal of the needle the seton is properly lodged. The effects rnust be attentively watched, and when sufficient action is supposed to have been excited, perhaps at the end of the first week, the cord is withdrawn, and the limb placed immovable in a proper position. If action is slow in supervening, the chord may be smeared with irritating substances, as the unguen- tum oxydi hydrargyri rubri, meloes vesicat: &c. In this manner I have treated false joint in several situ- ations successfully, but I have also been sometimes foiled in effecting my purpose. Much will depend on the period at which the practice is adopted. D'idocafions.—Some joints are so contrived—their composing bones are so notched into one another, and connected by such powerful apparatus—andDISLOCATIONS. 315 they are crossed by tendons, and tied together by ligaments in such a manner,—that dislodgement can scarcely be effected but by the most violent means. Nothing short of immense force is sufficient, and the displacement is uniformly attended with fracture of portions of the bones, or of their processes. Other bones are loosely joined, permitting free and unre- strained motion in all or in many directions, and but little force, applied in particular directions, suffices to separate and luxate them. In every joint the pro- cesses are liable to be broken, and the attachments of the ligaments to be torn off; ligamentous tissue with- stands a greater degree of sudden violence than the osseous. The synovial membrane, and the fibrous tissue exterior to it, are almost always torn in com- plete luxation ; but the extent of laceration varies in different joints, according to the direction of luxation and the degree of displacement. The rent may be small, closely embracing the neck of the bone ; or there may be an extensive gap on the side opposite to that on which the luxation has taken place. In an articulation surrounded by muscular substance, there is also laceration of this to a greater or less extent. In some individuals, dislocation is very apt to occur, perhaps from peculiar laxity of fibre ; and if in any person luxation of a joint has once been produced, the accident is apt to occur again and again from but slight causes. In general, the mobility of the luxated joint is much diminished ; the limb is either shortened or lengthened ; its contour is changed ; the injury isDISLOCATIONS. 316 attended with violent pain ; the patient is sick and pale ; the system receives a shock, from which it gradually recovers after some time. Then swelling, from effused blood, takes place ; and this is followed, after some hours, by excited action of the vessels and farther effusion, giving rise to greater stiffness and pain on attempts at motion. If no means are taken to replace the bone, the painful feelings subside along with the swelling, the limb remains long useless, and is the seat of occasional lancinating pains, but at last motion and utility are to a certain extent restored by the formation of a new joint—the head of the bone, and the parts on which it rests, mutually accom- modating themselves to each other, by degrees, and permitting a limited extent of motion. Post mortem examination, years after the occm'rence of the injury, shows change in the form of the bones—the head is flattened, and in the bone on which it lies there is a corresponding depression, formed partly by the depo- sition of new matter, partly by absorption of the old ; in dislocation on the dorsum of the ilium for exam- ple, there is excavation by absorption opposite to the centre of the head of the femur, and round this new osseous matter is deposited so as to form the cavity into a cup resembling the acetabulum. New jjrocesses are formed for the attachment of the muscles, and the old are absorbed to a remarkable extent. There are also new ligaments ; and a sort of capsule is formed by condensation of the surrounding cellular tissue. The new articulating surface becomes quite smooth inter- nally, and is covered, if not by cartilage, by a sub-317 DISI-OCATIONS. stance resembling it very closely ; the old is gradu- ally filled up and obliterated, the prominences being absorbed, and the cavity occupied by new deposit. These changes do not take place so rapidly as is generally supposed ; the cartilage and synovial sur- face are not much altered for months after the occur- rence of luxation ; and if replacement be effected, the functions of the parts are soon performed as before the injury. In some articulations, on account of the formation of the opposed surfaces, attempts at reduction prove ineffectual after the lapse of two or three weeks ; in others, of more simple construction, it may be accom- plished after some months. The simple mode of reduction is to put the patient off his guard, so that the muscles may be in a state of relaxation, and then to move the limb artfully in the proper direction, without much force. Occasionally, the bone is pulled into its place by the action of the muscles, during the patient's efforts to place the limb in a comfortable position. Considerable force, however, is sometimes required in even recent luxations of large joints, and means must also be taken to weaken the muscular power. The patient, if young and robust, may be bled to syncope, or placed in the warm bath till a sense of fainting supervenes ; or an enema of tobacco infusion may be administered, and smoking of tobacco may have the same effect when the patient has not been addicted to the noxious habit; or antimonial solution may be given in nauseating doses. Several or all of these methods may be necessary in some cases, par-318 LUXATION OF THE LOWER JAW. ticiilarly if the dislocation be of long standing. When thus general exhaustion has been procured, counter- extension and extension are to be had recourse to. The former consists in having the patient, and the bone next to the trunk, fixed immovably by fitting laques and belts; and the latter is made by one or more assistants, or, if need be, with the help of pul- leys. During extension, advantage is in many cases gained by lateral force and by rotation of the limb, the bone being thereby moved from its position, and brought within the sphere of muscular action, by which it is drawn suddenly into its proper place. In some cases, there is no doubt but considerable lacera- tion is occasioned by the efforts at reduction, and perhaps this is in some degree necessary to a success- ful issue—as when the capsule has been slightly lace- rated by the accident, and in consequence interposes an obstacle to the head of the bone slipping into its socket. After reduction, inflammatory action in the articulation and its neighbourhood is to be expected, to a greater or less degree, particularly when much force has been employed, and means must be taken to avert it; local are generally sufficient, along with perfect rest. In luxation of the loiver Jaw, both articulating ends are most frequently dislodged. They can escape in but one direction, forwards into the temporal fossa ; when both are dislodged, the mouth is widely open, and fixedly so, the chin is drawn downwards and backwards. When one is displaced, the jaws areLUXATION OF THE LOWER JAW. 319 partially opened, the chin is twisted to a side, and immovable. Great pain is experienced from the pressure of the condyles of the bone on the temporal muscles, from stretching of the fibres of the ptery- goids, and from interruption to the functions, by pressure, of the contiguous bloodvessels and nerves. Mastication is impossible, the speech is altered, and indeed articulation may be said to be impracticable. It is supposed by the vulgar, that the accident is particularly apt to happen to infants and young per- sons. Nurses are in consequence careful, when a child yawns, to support the chin, and pronounce an accom- panying blessing. The articulating cavity is then shallow, yet luxation must be rare in young sub- jects. In my own experience no instance of dislo- cated jaw has occurred but in adults ; and then, either from over-opening of the jaws, or from power- ful muscular action during depression of the inferior maxilla. The nature of the injury is at once known ; and the displacement is easily remedied. But I have met with instances where, through ineffectual attempts at reduction, the unnatural position has been allowed to continue for many hours, to the great distress of the individual. The object in view is to depress the ramus—one or both, as may be—and to raise the chin. This is effected by pressure with the thumbs on or in the situation of the molar teeth, whilst with the fingers the jaw is moved upwards and back- wards. The thumbs need not be protected by a glove, as is generally recommended ; on the bone re-320 LUXATION OF THE CLAVICLE. Sliming its place, they are easily slipped into the space betwixt the jaw and the cheek. There is no neces- sity for bandaging, as retentive apparatus ; the pa- ^ tient is not likely to yawn for some time after. Luxation of the clavicle^ at either end, is produ- ced by force applied to the point of the shoulder. It is seldom that the sternal extremity is separated from its connexions. When this accident does happen, it is easily recognised; the end of the bone is promi- nent and loose, and is distinctly felt riding over the top of the sternum. Replacement is effected by bringing back the shoulder; but the bone is with difficulty retained in the proper position, and is long in becoming fixed; a certain degree of deformity is ever after present. Displacement of the scapular extremity is by no means rare, and occurs to a greater or less extent, according to the laceration of the ligaments. If those only are torn which connect the end of the bone to the acromion, there is mere rising of the end. But if—as is often the case, when the violence has been great, as in a fall either from a height or with great velocity—the conoid and trapezoid ligaments, con- necting the tuberosity of the bone with the coracoid process, have given way, then the end of the bone projects, pushes out the deltoid, and gives rise to con- siderable flattening of the shoulder. The arm falls forwards, and cannot be moved but with pain ; nor is the patient able to raise it by muscular power. If the surgeon grasps the middle of the bone, he finds321 LUXATION OF THE CLAVICLE. the end movable; and the evident and deforming projection puts an end to any doubt regarding the nature of the case. The bone is readily reduced by raising the arm, and carrying the scapula backwards. The limb must be retained in the proper position for many weeks, if a cure without interruption, and with as little deformity as possible, is desired ; but after the utmost care and patience, there still remains, in almost every case, some projection more than before the accident. The ligaments are slow in uniting, and the union is imperfect and weak. The requisite apparatus is the same as for fractured clavicle, but must be retained for a longer time. The patient experiences great relief from the limb being put up in this manner and maintained so ; and inflammatory action, with much of the swelling, is averted. The inferior angle of the Scapula occasionally escapes from under the border of the latissimus dorsi, usually with some laceration of the muscular fibres. The displacement is occasioned by raising the arm above the head to an unusual extent. The angle of the bone projects considerably, and the muscle is felt playing beneath it, more distinctly during motion of the parts ; the movements of the limb are limited and painful. The parts may be brought into their ori- ginal position by pressing the angle of the scapula towards the ribs, whilst the arm is much raised ; and the bone is afterwards confined in its proper place by a broad bandage passed tightly round the chest. The retentive apparatus must be continued for a consider- PART in. X322 LUXATION OF THE SHOULDEll-JOINT. able time, and in some cases a cure may be so effect- ed ; but in general the bone soon regiains its former unnatural position, and continues to do so, however often and however easily it may be replaced. The parts gradually become accustomed to the change in relative position, and little inconvenience is expe- rienced. Luxation of the Shoulder-joint is prevented, by the arrangement and structure of the parts, from taking place in any direction excepting towards the axilla—downwards into the hollow of the arm pit, downwards and forwards under the lower border of the pectoral muscle. On that side the articulation is not supported, as at its other aspects, either by mus- cular substance or by processes of bone. The acci- dent is occasioned sometimes, though rarely, by di- rect violence, as by a blow on the back part of the shoulder ; and of such I have seen a few examples. But in almost every instance, the displacement is caused by force applied to the distal extremity of the humerus ; either immediately, as by falling on the elbow ; or through the forearm, as when a per- son endeavours to break a fall by stretching out the arm, and falls with the whole weight of the body on the palm. The accident may also result from forcible abduction of the extremity, particu- larly when the power is applied near the extremity of the limb. There is laceration, to a greater or less extent, of the caj^sule, and of the muscles immedi- ately investing the fibrous tissue round the articu- lating cavity. Without disruption, complete luxationLUXATION OF THE SHOULDEll-JOlNT. .'}23 cannot exist—the articulating surfaces cannot be separated, nor can the head of the humerus be altered in position ; subluxation, or, in other words, a sprain, may occur in such circumstances, but true luxation cannot. Bruises of the shoulder, with or without fracture, either of the scapula or of the upper part of the humerus, must not be mistaken for dislocation, for the consequences of such a blunder are fearful. In both descriptions of accident, the appearances of the limb are somewhat similar, and hence the examina- tion requires to be particularly accurate and careful. In both there is flattening of the shoulder, but in fracture there is crepitus, motion to an unnatural extent, though painful, and greater suffering during manipulation ; in dislocation no crepitus at all resem- bling that in fracture can be perceived, the motions of the limb are very limited, and the displaced head of the bone can almost always be felt. The direction of the force too, as already observed when on the subject of fracture, is an important assistant in diag- nosis ; from falls or blows upon the shoulder we may expect fracture, from falls on the elbow or palm, luxa- tion. In dislocation an indistinct feeling, sometimes amounting to obscure crepitation, is occasionally perceived during rotation of the limb ; and this arises from one or more of the tendinous attachments of the muscles having, during their disruption, torn away a portion of their osseous attachment. Great pain attends on dislocated humerus, from the head of the bone compressing and stretching the axillary plexus; and the interruption to the flow of324 LUXATION OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. the blood produces tingling at the points of the fingers, numbness of the whole limb, and after a time swelling of the hand and forearm. Flattening of the shoulder, and depression under the acromion, are the - most prominent marks of displacement having occur- red, and are at once apparent. They are more dis- tinctly perceived on comparing the two shoulders ; then the acromion on the affected side stands remark- ably outwards. The projection is not so apparent when the immediate swelling from effused blood has been fully formed, but the hollow under the acromion can be felt through any quantity of extravasated blood. The arm admits of very little motion, is lengthened, and abducted. The elbow cannot be brought close to the side, and attempts to do so are productive of great suffering. The patient has little or no muscular command over the upper arm. Ro- tation and elevation of the limb require considerable force, and are practicable only to a very limited ex- tent ; during attempts at the former, as already men- tioned, obscure crepitus is sometimes perceived. The abduction is most remarkable in the dislocation directly downwards ; and in this form of the accident, the fingers easily detect the head of the bone lying in the axilla, deep, yet distinct, particularly during attempted rotation. When the head of the bone lies forward under the jjectoralis major, it can be felt, and the prominence occasioned by it can be seen, be- fore swelling has occurred, and after its subsidence. The bone sometimes lodges in an intermediate situa- tion, and then the symptoms peculiar to each form of displacement are mixed. Wlien reduction is notLUXATION OV THE SHOULDER-.TOrNT. 325 accomplished, the bloody swelling first occurs to ob- scure the symptoms; this may in part subside, but then the inflammatory supervenes ; both after a time disappear, the muscles waste, and then all the signs are very apparent. After some weeks, the motions of the limb become more extensive, not in conse- quence of the head of the humerus having changed its position, or returned into the glenoid cavity, but from the scapula moving on the ribs more freely, and to a greater extent than usual. At last, but not till after a long period, considerable motion can be effect- ed ; the scapula, where the head of the humerus rests, having furnished an adventitious cavity, to which the latter has adapted itself. But free motion can never be regained, for the movements that are effected are chiefly produced by the action of the muscles of the scapula. Replacement, even in very recent cases, sometimes is accomplished with difficulty in those whose muscles are fully developed. But in general a successful re- sult will follow simple measures, particularly if the patient is taken unawares—^as by rotating the arm with one hand whilst the fingers of the other are placed in the axilla, then suddenly lifting the head of the bone outwards, and at the same time performing abduction—the patient being all along assured that he will not be put to pain, and that there is no inten- tion of attempting reduction. In this manner reduc- tion may often be accomplished by the surgeon and one assistant; the trunk and scapula being fixed by the assistant either grasping the patient in his arms,326 LUXATION OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. or holding a sheet or towel passed round the body, close to the axilla, M'hilst the surgeon extends and rotates the extremity, and at the same time lifts the head of the bone from its situation. The rotation is made by using the forearm, bent to a right angle, as a lever ; thus considerable power can be exerted on the head of the bone, and the long head of the biceps muscle —the stretching of which, no doubt, affords an ob- stacle to reduction—is at the same time relaxed. In luxation downwards, there is no more successful me- thod than that by counter-extension with the heel in the axilla, and extension by the surgeon grasping the wrist. The patient is placed recumbent, on a couch or on the floor, and the surgeon, sitting by his side, lodges his heel in the axilla, and with both hands extends the arm ; after a short continuance of exten- sion, he performs a sudden and pow^erful combination of both movements, and so jerks the bone into its natural position. In some recent, and in all old cases, it is necessary to apply considerable force, steadily, and for a long time, so as to tire out the muscles, and dislodge the head of the bone. An assistant effects this by means of pullies. These are fixed to a laque, applied above the elbow with a clove-hitch, and to a ring fastened either in the wall or to a post; two small iron rings which can be screwed into a beam are useful in private practice, and should always accompany the pulleys. When all is prepared the assistant pulls the end of the rope steadily, and with considerable power, whilst the surgeon rotates the limb, and endeavours to lift the head of the bone, at the same time regulating the degree of extension. TheTJJXATION OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT, 327 directing' of the degree and continuance of the force is not the least difficult part of the procedure, for, when excessive, there is a risk of the axillary nerves and artery giving way; such accidents have hap- pened, and been accompanied with serious and even fatal consequences ; and from laceration of other tissues, the muscular, fibrous, or cellular, fatal inflam- mation and abscess have resulted. The surgeon is therefore called upon to exercise judgment and dis- cretion—not to continue extension to a pernicious extent, and not to abandon attempts at reduction too soon, leaving his patient disabled for life. For making counter-extension to the extension by pulleys, a broad strong belt is useful, perforated near the middle for transmission of the injured arm ; it is passed round the body so as to fix the tnmk and scapula, coming under the axilla of the sound side, and being then fastened by means of a hook to a ring in the wall. Luxations of the shoulder-joint may be, and have been, reduced after the lapse of two or three months ; but the difficulty increases, and the chance of suc- cess diminishes, in proportion to the time which has elapsed since the date of the accident. And in de- ciding upon making the attempt, many circumstances are to be weighed and considered—the patient's period of life and his occupations, the state of the parts, the degree of motion that has been acquired, and the treatment, if any, which has been previously followed. Perhaps the most important consideration is regarding the state of the parts, as indicated by the degree of motion. If the movements be to such an328 I,UXATION OF THE SHOULDER-.JOINT. extent as to favour the supposition of the head of the bone having been furnished with a new recipient cavity, to which it has in a great measure accommo- dated itself, and that the glenoid cavity has, from disuse, become altered, the surgeon can scarcely hope for advantage to his patient from attempts to break up the new articulating apparatus, and re-establish the old. The patient will, most probably, be put to a great deal of pain and some danger, ■without expe- riencing improvement to the limb ; indeed the mo- tions and jDower may prove less than before. In old men too, force sufficient for reduction cannot be em- ployed without great risk of laceration of nerves, bloodvessels, and muscles. But if the patient be young, the motions still limited, and the articulation apparently not changed by solid effusion, reduction may be attempted with a fair prospect of success, and without injury. In all such cases, however, the sur- geon must watch every step of the proceedings, and have sufficient experience to stop short of inflicting irreparable mischief. No standard can be fixed for the degree of force that is necessary and safe; he may be foiled, even after the most powerful efforts, in a dislocation of two or three weeks' duration ; whilst, by the use of but slight force, he may succeed in one of as many months. Much assistance is ob- tained by the means formerly adverted to as auxili- ary, by weakening the muscular energy. Of these, nauseating doses of antimony are most generally employed, and being the most safe, may be recom- mended to be tried first; and if these fail to produceIJJXATTON OF THE KIJiOW-JOTN'l'. \V29 the desired effect, the patient may be bled freely, if he be young and robust, more especially since this will assist to avert the inflammatory action likely to follow the violent reduction. Tobacco produces the most complete prostration of muscular power, and may consequently be resorted to in extreme cases; but it ought, if possible, to be avoided, as its use is far from being void of danger. The warm bath can- not always be procured ; when at hand, it merits adoption, being both safe and effectual, particularly if combined with antimony or bleeding. The exten- sion should not be commenced till these means have begun to take effect, but every thing should be pre- pared, so that it may be applied at a moment's warn- ing. After all attempts at reduction, whether suc- cessful or not, it is necessary to moderate the inflam- mation that ensues, by local bleeding and fomenta- tion, combined, if necessary, with nauseating laxa- tives ;—general depletion is seldom required. Luxation of the Elbow-joint is an extremely com- mon accident, particularly in young persons, before the bony processes have been fully formed. It is produced by wrenches, or by force applied to the farther end of the forearm, the bones neither break- ing nor bending. Sometimes, though very rarely, it is caused by direct violence, as in a fall, and then may be combined with fracture of one or both bones of the forearm ; but in other circumstances, frac- ture and luxation can scarcely coexist. In general, both bones of the forearm are displaced backwards,330 LUXATION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. sometimes a little to the ulnar side. The coronoid process occupies the cavity for the reception of the olecranon, and the head of the radius lodges behind the external condyle, the extremity is shortened, and looks twisted ; it is slightly flexed, and in the middle state between pronation and supination. Unnatural lateral motion can be produced, but flexion is imprac- ticable, the limb cannot be brought quite into the extended state, and rotation is difficult and painful. Swelling soon takes place, and consequently the hol- lows are filled up, and the processes of the bones ob- scured. Yet the olecranon and inner condyle can always be recognised and felt, and their relative po- sition ascertained ; the form of the end of the hume- rus, its hollows, and its prominences, can be distinctly discerned, both before and after the swelling, the soft parts being stretched over the bone ; and by rotating the limb with one hand, whilst the other is placed over the outer and back part of the joint, the situa- tion of the head of the radius is detected. Thus the relations of the bones to one another are dis- covered ; and this must be done at once, whatever pain may be produced by the examination, for it is a saving of suffering in the end. Yet the nature of this injury would seem difficult of detection—a fact scarcely intelligible by any one who is careful in liis manipulations, and who possesses common observa- tion, and a sound knowledge of anatomy. Many cases of unreduced luxation are met with ; I have seen it in both elbows of the same person ; and I have had a dozen of cases, in as many months, of unreduced elbows shown too late for attempts at re-LUXATION or THE ELROW-.TO I NT. fi'il duction. The frequent occurrence of such blunders is the more lamentable, as it is almost impossible to replace the bones after three or four weeks ; indeed, I have been foiled at the end of two weeks. The parts soon accommodate themselves to their new position, the olecranon process shortens, motion ra- pidly increases, and the bones get more and more secure in their new relations,—osseous matter being deposited laterally, forming cavities for their lodge- ment, and new ligamentous matter confining them thereto. After a time, flexion can be made to a right angle ; and the limb becomes tolerably useful. By unsuccessful attempts to restore the natural position, inflammation is excited ; and thus the salutary pro- cesses, commenced by nature for reparation of the dis- placement, are interrupted and delayed; in young persons such disease of the joint maybe produced as will lead to loss of the extremity. Luxation of the Radius alone, backwards on the outer condyle, is sometimes met with ; but this bone is seldom singly displaced far from its original site. A hollow is felt below the end of the humerus, on the outer and fore part, and there is a corresponding prominence behind ; the head of the bone is found unnaturally movable on rotation, and this motion is difficult and painful; the arm is extended, present- ing a twisted appearance, and flexion is very limited. Extension is to be made, along with pronation. Sometimes the radius is displaced forwards. The coronoid process of the ulna is occasionally broken off"; there is no deformity during flexion of the elbow,332 LUXATION OK THE "WRIST. but when the limb is extended, the olecranon is drawn upwards. In luxation of both bones, reduction is much faci- litated by position of the arm. The arm and fore- arm are extended, and the limb is brought well be- hind the trunk, so as to relax the triceps ; then the surgeon performs extension and counter-extension, pulling the forearm with one hand, whilst he pushes with the other placed on the scapula. If the force thus employed prove insufficient, as it seldom will in recent cases, the patient may be placed on his face, on a couch, and on the limb being brought into the favourable position already noticed, counter-exten- sion may be made by the heel planted against the in- ferior costa of the scapula, whilst the wrist is pulled with both hands. It is seldom necessary to employ ^ pulleys, excepting in cases of old standing; if so, the only peculiarity in their application to this joint is the direction of the force, backwards. And this I consider to be a very material part of the manipula- tions, for, by attention to it, I have succeeded after previous failures,—after great force had been applied, causing excoriation and swelling of almost the whole limb. In luxation of the radius, flexion and pro- nation, combined, if necessary, with extension, will generally effect replacement. Dislocation at the Wrist, is very unfrequent. The articulation is naturally strong, admitting of little motion, the bones being accurately fitted to each other, whilst the retaining ligamentous appara- tus is both copious and unyielding; on this accountLUXATION OF THE WlllS r. '.V3S greater force is required to effect displacement here than at either the elbow or shoulder-joints, and vio- lence applied to the hand usually causes fracture of one or both bones of the forearm, not luxation of their extremities. Luxation, however, sometimes occurs, either from violent twisting, or from falling on the palm of the hand ; and the displacement may- be either of both bones or of one. In the latter case, it is almost uniformly the radius that suffers ; in the former, the luxation is forwards. Dislocation of the distal extremity of the radius is generally produced by a sudden wrench or twist. The bone is felt loose and prominent, sometimes riding over the upper part of the carpus. The posi- tion of the hand is towards pronation, supination can- not be performed, and, on attempting it, great pain is occasioned. Reduction is readily accomplished, by pulling the palm with one hand, whilst with the other the head of the bone is pressed backwards into its situation. Displacement of both bones is more frequently the result of a fall on the palm, with the hand bent much backwards. In this case there are two projections, so distinct as at once to mark the true nature of the accident, one anteriorly, formed by the ends of the radius and ulna, the other posteriorly by the carpus ; above the posterior prominence there is a consider- able depression. Here also reduction is easy; it is sufficient to perform simple extension with one hand, whilst with the other the wrist is moulded into its proper form. The after treatment, however, requires attention, for extensive laceration of tendinous andLUXATION OF THE WlllST. 334 ligamentous tissue, perhaps combined with fracture of the bony processes to a greater or less extent, must have taken place to admit of displacement; in con- sequence violent inflammation is to be expected, and means must be taken to avert it. On account of this laceration, also, mere reduction is not sufficient, retentive apparatus must be applied ; as soon as the limb has been made straight, a pasteboard splint is to be applied on each side, as in fracture of the fore- arm, and retained with a roller, a wooden splint being placed exteriorly until the pasteboard hardens. This precautionary measure is also necessary to avert re- displacement in dislocation of the radius singly; in both accidents the apparatus should be retained for at least a fortnight. Afterwards, passive motion, gradually increased and combined with friction, is requisite to prevent stiffness of the joint. In mere sprain of the wrist, large swelling soon forms anteriorly, from extravasated blood, resembling somewhat projection of the bones, and so leading towards fallacy in diagnoses ; indeed it is not unrea- sonable to suppose that dislocation here does not occur so frequently as is imagined. Fracture also near the distal extremity of the radius, an accident formerly mentioned as exceedingly common from falls on the hand, is very apt to be mistaken for lux- ation. On this accovmt, and because in every injury of the wrist the parts are soon obscured by bloody swelling, there is a strong necessity for early and accurate examination. Subluxation not unfrequently occurs ; in other words, the attachments of the bones of the forearm toLUXATION OF THE CARPUS. SS5 each other are broken up, and their extremities sepa- rated to an unnatural distance. The accident is dis- tinctly marked by the deformity, the absence of hard projection, and by the unusual space between the radius and ulna occupied by a soft and yielding swell- ing. Replacement is accomplished much in the same manner as in complete luxation, the bones being com- pressed towards each other with one hand, whilst extension is made with the other; afterwards splints must be applied and retained. Compound luxations of the wrist are occasionally met with, and like compound fractures in this situa- tion, are always troublesome, and often terminate unfavourably. The soft parts are sparing, possessed of little vitality, and much injured by the accident; consequently reparation proceeds very slowly, and is generally superseded by unhealthy and profuse sup- puration, perhaps accompanied with more or Jess sloughing of tendons and integument. If the ends of the bones protrude bare, shattered, and split, they should be removed by means of either the saw or the cutting pliers, previously to attempts at reduction ; the wound should then be approximated, and the cure conducted on ordinary principles. Sometimes a single bone of the Carpus is displaced, usually backwards. It is quite loose and movable, and is easily replaced, but in almost every case redis- placement occurs, the bone at one time occupying its proper situation, at others forming an inconvenient and unseemly prominence on the back of the wrist, diminished by extension, and increased by flexion of336 LUXATION or THE I'lNOEllS. the joint. The accident, however, is rare. I have never seen simple dislocation of any of the metacar- pal bones. Dislocation of the Fingers is produced by force ap- plied to the extremities of the phalanges ; the dis- placement is always backwards, excepting at the middle joint, where the bone of the middle phalanx is sometimes, but very rarely, luxated forwards. The remarkable projection on the back part of the finger marks the nature of the accident, even to the most careless observer. Reduction is accomplished by ex- tension combined with flexion. In the case of the distal phalanges, it may sometimes be necessary to fasten a handkerchief to the tip of the finger, in order to obtain sufficient extending power. After replace- ment, the application of temporary splints and ban- dage is prudent. Compound luxations, however care- fully treated, almost uniformly come to amputation. Luxation of the first joint of the thumb is rather an uncommon accident, and is not easily managed. The base of the first phalanx is displaced backwards upon the distal extremity of the metacarpal bone, causing a remarkable prominence on the dorsal as- pect, and a corresponding depression on the palmar. The thumb is shortened, deformed, and almost im- movable ; the sweUing and pain are severe. This displacement is generally produced by the application of force to the point of the thumb, as in falling on it, or in coming against a resisting body with the thumb straight. The deformity is such as at once to ap- prise even the most inattentive or inexperienced of337 LUXATION OF. THE TIILTMIi. the true nature of the injury; but the treatment is very difficult and puzzling even in the hands of the best informed surgeons. The base of the bone seems to slip through the lateral ligaments, and remain firmly locked in their embrace; and these being very strong, and in a state of complete tension, defy all usual at- tempts at reduction. The end of a silk handkerchief is to be attached to the distal extremity of the displa- ced phalanx, by means of the clove-hitch ; and with this extension is made, either by the surgeon alone, or by one or more assistants,—frequently several are required. Counter-extension is made by the surgeon or assistant grasping the forearm, or another hand- kerchief may be passed betwixt the thumb and fore- finger for an assistant to pull by. The extending force should be made in a direction towards the palm, and almost uniformly requires to be great and long continued, even in recent cases. The bone may occasionally be jerked into its place by a sudden attempt at flexion of the joint, during steady pull- ing that has been continued for some time. But cases have occurred in which all attempts have proved ineffectual, and it has been found necessary to divide one of the lateral ligaments. From what has been already stated, the reason why this proceeding should facilitate reduction is sufficiently obvious. I have had recourse to it in but one instance,—one in which difficulty of reduction was not to have been expected. The accident was very recent, not an hour had elapsed ; the patient was an old man, and very drunk ; no resistance to the reductive measures PART III. YJ.UXATION OF THE HlP-JOlNT. 338 could have been offered by muscular energy ; yet very powerful force was applied and persevered in without avail. At last the external lateral ligament was divided by the point of a very narrow and fine bistoury, and then replacement was immediate and easy. Some inflammation followed, but was kept within bounds, and the man regained the use of the articulation. In other cases, again, the bone is re- placed by the use of but very slight force, provided it be applied, as already stated, in a direction towards the palm of the hand. The last phalanx is equally liable to luxation in the thumb as in the fingers, and has no peculiarity of treatment. Luxation of the Hip-joint.—The great strength of the ligaments, the depth and fitness of the bony and cartilaginous cavity for the reception of the head of the bone, and the great power of the muscles sur- rounding the articulation, render dislocation here both difficult and rare. The accident is generally produced by great and sudden force, applied either to the distal end of the femur, or to the farther extre- mity of the limb, as by falling from a considerable height, by the foot slipping whilst the person is sup- porting a heavy weight, by falls from or with a horse, &c. The luxation, in a great majority of cases, takes place upwards and backwards, the head of the bone lying on the dorsum of the ilium. The limb is shortened to the extent of from an inch and a half to two inches and a half, the toes are turned in, the thigh is slightly bent upon the pelvis, and very339 LUXATION OF THE HIP-JOINT. firmly fixed. Before swelling has occurred, and also after it has subsided, the head of the bone can be felt lying under the gluteus. The trochanter is evidently out of place, being depressed, and lying farther up and back than usual. This is strikingly observable on comparing the injured limb with the opposite. Attempts to move the limb and effect rotation pro- duce great pain. Large swelling soon follows, along with greater stiffness and immobility. If the head of the bone is not replaced, the pain gradually subsides, and, after some months, freedom of motion is regain- ed to a slight extent; the patient is able to walk, but with a great halt. At first, reduction is accomplished with no great difficulty. Within a very short time after the oc- currence of the injury, before the patient had re- covered from the shock, whilst he still lay sick, faint, and powerless, I have succeeded in effecting reduc- tion of the femur quite unassisted,—extending with one hand, grasping the thigh behind, and, at the same time, rotating it outwards by pressure of the forearm on the leg, counter-extension being made by the left hand on the symphysis pubis. When a few hours have intervened, assistance and apparatus are requi- site. The patient is secured by a broad band,—a common sheet suits very well,—passed under the perineum. The laque is fixed above the knee, with a knot that will not run, a towel wrung out of cold water being applied next to the skin, in order to in- crease the security of the hold and prevent excoria- tion. A well-padded broad iron ring, tightened on340 LUXATION OF THE HIP-JOINT. the limb by a screw, and provided with suitable straps for attachment of the pulleys, is very useful,— fully more convenient than the common woollen laque. Extension may be made by one or more as- sistants ; but this may prove ineffectual, and it is better at once to have recourse to the pulleys : these are not alarming to the patient, and, being efficient, will in the end materially diminish his suffering. The extension should be gradual, steady, and persevering; the rotation of the limb during extension should be principally outwards, effected by laying hold of the ankle, and using the leg as a lever. This motion is peculiarly successful when the bone has yielded a little to the extension, when it has changed its place, and come nearly on a line with the cotyloid cavity. In some cases, even of no long standing, auxiliary means are required,—bleeding, antimony, &c. as formerly noticed. In old cases, no attempts at reduction should be made until the patient has been brought into a re- laxed state, approaching to collapse, by one or more of the auxiliary means, and by such as are best suit- ed to the particular circumstances of the case ; in such instances also the extension, rotation, &c. must be persevered in for some time,—they are not at once successful. Frequently, particularly in recent cases, reduction is accompanied and indicated by an audible and perceptible snap, occasioned by the head of the bone slipping into the cotyloid cavity ; the motions are again readily performed, and the limb resumes its proper length and shape. The muscular and articu- lating apparatus must be kept quiet for some timeLUXATION OF THE HIP-JOINT. 341 afterwards ; a band should be passed round the knees, and the patient strictly confined to the recum- bent posture ; at the same time, fomentations are to be used about the joint, to the perineum, and to the part where the laque was applied. It is rarely ne- cessary to have recourse to abstraction of blood from the neighbourhood of the articulation. There is no great risk of the bone again escaping from its situation. I have but once witnessed such an accident. A female suffered luxation of the hip nearly a month previously to her admission into the Royal Infirmary, and reduction was unavoidably deferred for three days more. It was accomplished without difficulty, and the usual precautions were afterwards adopted ; but next day it was discovered that luxation had again taken place. The patient had cunningly contrived to have ardent spirits brought to her, had indulged freely in these, got out of bed, and slipped down. Replacement was again effected, more easily than before; the limbs were firmly secured to each other, confinement to bed and no more indulgence were strictly enjoined, and after thirteen or fourteen days the limb fully regained its functions. Luxation of the hip downwards and forwards, the head of the femur lying in the thyroid foramen, is generally produced by a fall under a heavy load, the thigh being at the same time forcibly abducted. I have seen it occasioned by a fall with a restive horse. The limb is elongated considerably, and advanced a little forwards ; the trochanter major is depressed,342 LUXATION or THE HIP-JOINT. the toes are inclined neither outwards nor inwards ; the limb is immovably fixed, and this the most unequivocally marks the nature of the accident. The limb is lengthened when the trochanter major is split off, as also when severe bruise of the glutei has been inflicted without breach of continuity in any part of the bone, and without displacement. In the first stage of morbus coxarius too, a somewhat similar appearance and position of the limb is presented ; there is lengthening, but then there is also more or less wasting of the muscles, more mobility than iu the dislocation, and a marked history attached. Com- plicated cases occasionally occur—as when a patient who has been labouring under hip-joint disease, per- haps not in an aggravated form, falls heavily, and on being lifted up is found to be incapable of moving the joint, the limb at the same time being elongated, and having a distorted appearance. An instance of this nature impressed strongly upon me the great necessity for accurate diagnosis in the first instance, and that such was to be acquired only by taking every circumstance into consideration. A young man was engaged in cleaning a slaughter-house, standing on two blocks of wood with his legs consi- derably apart. One of the blocks suddenly slipped from under him, and he fell with his limbs spread. He was carried home in great pain, and next day I was asked to visit him. The limb was elongated, and the hip flattened, the joint was stiff, and attempts at motion produced great pain ; but by perseverance the limb could be put in various positions, and theLUXATION OF THE HIP-JOINT. 343 trochanter was not so much depressed as in luxation downwards. By cross-examination it was discovered that the patient had halted in walking for many weeks previously, had felt as if the limb was longer than the other, had pain in the groin and knee ; in fact, morbus coxarius had been advancing, and the pain, immobility, and greater elongation had been oc- casioned by the fall, causing violent excitement of the morbid action previously in progress. Dreadful con- sequences must have resulted from mistake in diag- nosis and practice founded upon it. I have observed, in other cases, great and rapid elongation of the limb in consequence of injury to the hip-joint previously diseased. The reduction is in many cases difficult. In young and muscular individuals, after the lapse of some hours, when reaction has occurred, the muscles are rigidly contracted, and the head of the bone is not easily dislodged. Extension, made to a certain ex- tent and continued, is not so useful or essential here as in other forms of luxation of this joint. Adduc- tion, carrying the injured thigh quickly and forcibly over the other, is generally successful; and the reduc- tion is favoured by at the same time raising up the neck of the bone, by means of a towel or wooden roller passed under the upper part of the thigh. There is also no such advantage from rotating the bone as in other luxations. It is very often neces- sary, even in recent cases, to adopt measures to weaken muscular exertions; and again, in cases of three weeks' duration, I have found no difficulty.LUXATION OF THE HIP-JOINT. 344 The head of the bone, when dislodged from the foramen obturatorium, may slip past the cotyloid cavity, for it is impossible to regulate its direction ; it comes to be acted upon by muscles which have been displaced, some being compressed and partially paralysed, whilst others are excited ; they have been put out of their usual condition and relation, and act irregularly. The head of the bone may, from this cause, get into the sacro-ischiatic notch, This has occurred to me ; but I have found no difficulty in removing it from thence, and effecting reduction satisfactorily. Displacement into the sacro-ischiatic notch is at- tended with great and remarkable inversion of the toes, slight shortening of the limb, and prominence of the head of the bone felt under the gluteus maxi- mus. It is the least common form of luxation. Re- duction is attempted by extension and rotation out- wards, at the same time pulling the head of the bone towards the ace abulum by means of a towel passed under the thigh. Luxation of the head of the femur on the pubes is perhaps more frequent than any other, excepting that on the dorsum of the ilium. The limb is not much shortened, the toes are everted, the trochanter major is depressed and nearer to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium than usually, and the head of the bone is both seen and felt prominent in the groin. Much pain, swelling, and sometimes more or less paralysis of the limb, are occasioned by this displace- ment ; the femoral artery and vein lie immediatelyLUXATION OF THE KNEE. 345 interior to the head of the bone, and are compressed, and the crural nerves are stretched over it. In attempting reduction, rotation inwards should be employed during extension, accompanied with endea- vours to lift the upper part of the bone towards the acetabulum. Luxation of the Bones of the Leg—separation of them from the end of the femur—seldom occurs. It can be the effect only of great violence and great laceration. Most frequently fracture is concomitant, perhaps with wound ; and such accidents require amputation, either primarily or secondarily. Subluxa- tion, from laceration of the internal lateral ligament, is not so unfrequent. It is most common in females, the natural conformation of their thigh-bones being to bend inwards ; and from falling awkwardly, par- ticularly if carrying a weight, the ligament is apt to give way. The limb is pained, deformed, and unable to support the body, and swelling to a considerable extent soon follows. Reduction is extremely easy ; and the parts are retained in site by the application of a wooden splint, to either the outer or the posterior side of the joint, the leg and foot being previously bandaged. The joint remains long weak, and never recovers entirely; a sustaining apparatus, fitted on the outside, retained by straps, and with a joint oppo- site to the articulation, is required to be constantly worn when the patient wishes to use the limb. Luxation of the Patella is spoken of by some as common. Others of much experience have not metLUXATION OF THE ANKLE. 346 with a single instance of it. I have never seen tbis accident. The bone, it is said, may be displaced outwards, inwards, or upwards. The first form of hixation is the most frequent, and is caused by a severe fall with the foot twisted outwards and the knee inwards. Displacement inwards is produced by direct violence applied to the outer part of the bone, or by the foot being turned inwards in a fall. Dis- placement upwards can occur only after laceration of the ligamentum patellae, the bone being then drawn up by the unresisted action of the muscles on the fore part of the thigh. In dislocation outwards, the bone has been found " resting with its inner edge upon the outer surface of the condyle, the fore part facing obliquely forwards and inwards." In this last form of accident, sudden, forcible, and complete flexion of the limb is said to produce immediate reduction. In dislocation outwards or inwards, the muscles are to be relaxed by raising the heel, extending the limb, flexing the thigh, and then forcing the bone to its proper site by manipulation. In the dislocation upwards with rupture, the limb is to be kept extend- ed and raised, and the bone is brought as nearly into its place as possible by bandaging. "^Vlien a peculi^-r laxity of the apparatus about the joint exists, whether as a cause of luxation or not, the sujDjDort of a well- made knee-cap is required. As formerly stated, dislocation of the Ankle cannot take place inwards or outwards, without fracture of the end of the tibia or of the fibula, either above the articulation, or where they project by the sides of theLUXATION OF THE TAllSUS. 347 astraguliis for the greater security and strength of the joint. Subluxation, however, or sprain, may occur without injury of the bones : in this accident, should the parts not have spontaneously resumed their original situation, no difficulty is experienced in putting them to rights ; simple manipulation is suf- ficient. Occasionally, the foot is luxated forwards, by force applied either to the heel or to the fore part of the leg whilst the limb is fixed. The heel is shortened, the foot elongated; indeed the marks of the injury are so distinct, that comparison of the limbs is suffi- cient for diagnosis. Luxation may also take place backwards ; and in this case the heel is elongated and the foot shortened. In these accidents it is not un- frequently found that one or other malleolus has given way. Reduction is sometimes difficult. Ex- tension is to be made by grasping the foot and pull- ing whilst the limb is fixed, at the same time making pressure either backwards or forwards, as may be required. To retain the bones in their proper situa- tions, it is always necessary, at least prudent, to ap- ply a pasteboard splint to each side of the limb, par- ticularly when fracture of the malleoli is conjoined. Displacement of the Bones of the Tarsus may re- sult from great force ; for example, when the foot is squeezed under a heavy weight, one or more bones may escape from their connexions, and project; Re- duction of such displacement is exceedingly difficult at any period, and becomes almost impossible when inflammatory action is allowed to supervene pre- viously to attempts being made. The astragulus isSPRAIN. 348 sometimes pushed out of its place ; though it is dif- ficult to conceive how, to a bone so hid and so firmly- connected, such force should be applied as to cause protrusion of it from its natural situation. It has been found lying on the dorsum of the foot, causing swelling, lameness, great pain, shortening and defor- mity of the limb; and the shape of the bone can, in such circumstances, be distinctly felt through the integument. As already observed, reduction is almost impracticable, and, with the view of remedying de- formity, it has been proposed to cut out the displaced bone ; but as to the expediency of such practice I can give no opinion. I have seen but one instance of displacement of this bone backwards, and most probably another will never occur to me. A heavy young man, in a state of utter intoxication, fell backwards down a stair, and in the fall his foot became entangled in the railing. The astragulus was found lying betwixt the back of the tibia and the tendo Achillis, its upper articulating surface facing forwards, the lower in contact with the tendon. All attempts to reduce the bone proved fruitless. Violent inflammatory action followed, but was reduced by active measures ; and the limb ulti- mately became very useful; in fact, though not till after many months, little lameness or shortening was perceptible. By Sprain is understood subluxation or partial displacement of a joint, with stretching, and more or less laceration of the articulating apparatus—liga- ments, tendons, sheaths, and bursa?, being all involvedSPIIAIN. 349 in the injury. Sometimes small portions of the pro- cesses of bone are separated, being torn away, at- tached to ligament or tendon. All joints, both large and small, are liable to the accident. In the proxi- mal, or in the middle joints of the finger, for example, one or other lateral ligament is stretched or torn ; the finger is twisted to a side ; the joint is swelled ; and this swelling, with pain, is of long continuance, perhaps increased by repeated twists, or by impru- dent use of the joint. The elbow and shoulder are frequently sprained, as also the hip and knee; but the injury most frequently occurs in the wrist and ankle. It is generally occasioned by a fall, the foot or hand coming awkwardly to the ground, the mus- cles being at the time relaxed and unprepared ; by over-exertion in lifting heavy weights ; by entangle- ment and twisting of the limb, &c. The ankle is often sprained by what is called a false step ; the fore part of the foot comes in contact with an obstacle unexpectedly, the foot is twisted under the limb, the weight of the body is thrown on the apparatus of one side of the joint, and this is in consequence immo- derately and unnaturally stretched. Violent pain immediately occurs, and the patient is sick and faint. Discoloration and rapid swelling take place from extravasation of blood into the cellular tissue, into the sheaths of the tendons, and perhaps into the synovial pouches, in consequence of laceration of the bloodvessels. Effusion of serum and increased secre- tion of synovia afterwards occur, from incited action of the vessels. Thus the joint is deformed. Atten-SPRAIN. 350 tive examination is required to guard against mis- takes ; the existence or non-existence either of dis- placement or of fracture must be at once ascertained by determined and perfect manipulation ; the parts must be pressed and moved, to such an extent as is necessary, notwithstanding the pain thereby occa- sioned, and notwithstanding the resistance afforded by the patient. It has been already stated that lux- ation of the wrist is not uncommon ; that separation of the one bone of the forearm from the other, and fracture of the radius, at the distal extremity, are accidents by no means rare. Great disfiguration follows simple sprain, much swelling taking place on the fore part of the limb from effusion under the fascia, and there is also much serous and bloody in- filtration of the cellular tissue on the back of the hand and forearm. In the ankle, the ends of the bones must be carefully examined, and also the fibula in its whole extent, that the existence or non-existence of fracture may be ascertained, and that the surgeon may be guided to a correct mode of treatment. If the joint is not put at rest immediately, the extra- vasation is increased, and, in consequence, the pain and inflammatory swelling also ; and parts of the joint at first not involved in the injury may thus be made to suffer. Many diseases of synovial membrane and articulating cartilages are attributable, and can be traced, to badly managed sprains ; and in some constitutions, but slight injury, combined with a little bad treatment, suffices to destroy a joint. When the case is well managed, the pain is never great, andSPRAIN, 351 soon abates ; tlie swelling after a few days slackens ; the discoloration becomes greater, the serum being absorbed, and the effused blood shining through the skin ; the integuments appear green, blue, red, purple —these hues either being present all at the same time, or occurring successively ; the discoloration often extends far from the joint. The mobility and strength of the joint are recovered gradually. Perhaps no injury is more frequently mismanaged, by those both in and out of the profession. Every old woman thinks she can manage a sprain ; most absurd and hurtful measures are resorted to ; the injured parts are kept in'motion ; cold lotions and cold affusions are employed, and at the same time stimulating frictions : probably attempts are made, either by leeching or by puncturing, to extract the effused blood ; and many similar follies are com- mitted. The proper treatment certainly appears to consist principally in absolute rest. If there is any displacement it must be rectified immediately. If there is any fracture ; or if there is a tendency to redisplacement after reduction ; or if the patient is restless either from folly or from insensibility, as when the head has been injured by the accident, when the patient is under the influence of strong liquors, or when he labours under delirium tremens, —a splint or splints must be applied to secure im- mobility of the parts, at the same time without such compression as may interfere with swelhng from effu- sion ; the effusion is a salutary process, and should be encouraged, not repressed. By absolute rest, the352 SPRAIN. extent of the swelling is limited, and inflammation warded off. Fomentations, properly employed, afford much relief; at first they probably encourage the serous effusion. The integuments soon become re- laxed, during the regular use of fomentation, and tension and vascular action subside, as also pain. The swelling then abates, and is no longer hard ; it pits on pressure, and the skin has a puckered appear- ance. Then gentle friction becomes advantageous, and uniform support should be afforded by the appli- cation of a flannel roller. The longer the limb is disused, the more perfect and rapid is the recovery, provided the rest of the cure be properly conducted. In general nothing more than what has been stated is required. But if the limb be moved, or stimu- lated in any way, early, then necessity will arise for antiphlogistic measures—perhaps venesection, cer- tainly copious and repeated abstraction of blood by leeches, accompanied with fomentations, and the in- ternal exhibition of antimonials, purgatives, &c. When such is the case the cure is tedious, the joint long remains swelled and stiff, the patient is lame and incapable of exertion. Leeching or puncturing at an early period, with the view of allowing extravasated blood to escape, is useless and hurtful. The effused and coagulated blood cannot escape, and suppuration, followed by destruction of the cellular tissue, has often been the consequence of such ill-advised proceedings. Fric- tion with stimulating liniments, or even simple fric- tion, at an early period, is also hurtful, as tending to353 SPRAIN. excite vascular action, and to convert simple swelling into inflammatory. The application of cold at any- period is of little use, and ought certainly to be avoid- ed immediately after the injury, as adding to the sufferings of the patient, and interfering with the natural processes which have commenced for the reparation of that injury. In limbs that have remained stiff after severe and mismanaged sprain, the dashing of water, either cold or tepid, has been strongly recommended. The prac- tice is not ineffectual; the vessels of the surface are excited, perhaps as by other friction, and perhaps by the reaction which follows the chill. But the limb is apt to become rheumatic ; and, on this account, the state of matters will not be improved by this pro- ceeding, unless it be resorted to with proper precau- tions. In severe sprains there is reason to think that sometimes even the tendons yield a little—that many of the fibres give way, and that thus the tendon is thinned and elongated. Such injury happens ofter? in horses, in what is called breaking down. In them the tendon is occasionally snapped entirely through, and the ends widely separated. The same occurs in the human subject. Separation of the muscular fibres, however, is rare ; laceration of the tendon itself, or separation of the tendon from the muscle, is more common. The yielding of the broad tendons on the upper and fore, lateral and under parts of the abdo- men, affords an example of laceration of tendinous fibre from violent exertion. The tendons of the limbs PART III. z354 SPRAIN. are more frequently injured, and in the lower oftener than in the upper. I have seen the tendon of the biceps torn in violent exertion. In the thigh, too, some fibres occasionally give way from a similar cause. The supra-muscular fascia in the arm and thigh is apt to give way at one or more points during powerful exertion of the muscles, causing deformity by protrusion of muscle through the torn space. But it is in the apparatus for extending the foot, and raising the weight of the body, that laceration of tendon most frequently takes place. The accident is uncommon till after the middle period of life, when the body has become heavier, when muscular exer- tions have been less habitually practised, and when the fibre has grown more rigid. The person in raising himself over some slight obstruction in walk- ing, perhaps attempting to pass a small ditch or stile, suddenly " breaks down." Or in dancing,— an amusement which he has long discontinued—a sudden snap is felt, with immediate lameness and slight pain in the back of the limb ; swelling and discoloration follow ; and these symptoms vary in intensity according to the extent of the injury. Lace- ration may have been slight; the pain, swelling, and lameness are proportional, and at first an inconsider- able void can be felt at the upper part of the tendi- nous termination of the gastrocuemii. Sometimes no change is perceptible, and in such cases some have been of opinion that the slender tendon of the plan- taris has given way and caused the lameness; but this is doubtful, and it seems more probable that stretching and yielding has taken place in some pari355 SPRAIN. of the tendon of the gastrocnemii, which had been in powerful action—probably, the tendinous and mus- cular tissues have been separated to a slight extent. Occasionally the tendo Achillis is found .completely torn through, and its upper end retracted ; in such cases a large space is occasioned at the injured part, when the knee is extended and the foot bent. Some- times the tendo Achillis is cut through ; I have seen both completely divided in the same individual—he received a sabre wound across the back of both limbs, while endeavouring to escape from the mate of a vessel, in which he had been stealing. In rupture without breach of surface, the torn bloodvessels pour out their contents into the cellular tissue to a consi- derable extent, and if a proper mode of cure be not adopted immediately, inflammation quickly super- venes ; and this is apt to terminate very unfavour- ably in the infiltrated tissue. The tendon is united by the deposition of new matter, and the conversion of this into substance resembling the original structure from the vessels of which the deposit has taken place. The quantity of new formation necessarily depends on the extent of laceration and the space thereby occasioned. That such reparation of tendon does take place, and that to a very great extent occasionally, is placed beyond all doubt by the results of veterinary practice. " Knuckling oyer" in horses is occasioned by con- traction of the flexor tendon ; the heel does not reach the ground, and in order to effect this the tendon is completely divided. The cut ends immediately sepa- rate, to the extent of some inches, and after a time356 BRUISE. this large space is filled up by a substance similar to tendon, so similar, indeed, that on post mortem exa- mination, some years afterwards, a careless observer could scarcely distinguish any difierence in the appear- ance of the various portions of the tendon. The treatment of lacerated tendon consists in placing the parts so as to relax the muscles whose tendons have suffered. In rupture of the tendo Achillis, the knee should be bent and the foot extend- ed, relaxing the muscle and approximating the sepa- rated ends. This is readily and conveniently effected by placing a slipper on the foot, and attaching to its heel a firm band, which is then fastened to a ring or strap placed on the thigh. This apparatus must be worn for six or eight weeks. Afterwards a high- heeled shoe should be worn for some time ; or if the union be still weak and imperfect, a splint may be placed on the fore part, resting on the dorsum of the foot and the fore part of the leg. Bruise. The effects of bruises or contusions are, separation of the cellular connexions, rupture of bloodvessels, and effusion of their contents into the cells ; a cavity, often large, is thus formed partly by the direct injury, and partly by the subsequent effu- sion, and it is quickly filled with blood, partly fluid and partly coagulated. Immediate tumour forms ; and the integument is discoloured, often beyond the principal swelling. The injury may, or may not, be attended with division of the integuments, or with fracture or displacement of the bones ; but all inju- ries of the hard parts are attended with more or less357 BRUISE. bruising of the soft Bruise is most frequently pro- duced by a blow, and is most severe when the violence is resisted by an unyielding part, as by bone; a squeeze between two bodies, particularly if they be in motion, also inflicts extensive contusion. The swell- ing continues to increase for some time, and then gradually disappears along with the pain. As the tumour subsides, the discoloration increases; the thinner parts of the effusion have been absorbed, and the clot then shines through the skin, imparting to it various hues. Bruise may be followed by inflammatory action. Then effusion is increased, bloody fluid is poured both into the cavity and into the unbroken cellular tissue, the whole parts become extremely tender, the surface inflames, and the excited action is apt to terminate unfavourably in the various tissues. Not unfrequent- ly sloughing takes place, both of the skin and of the cellular tissue and fatty matter, with unhealthy sup- puration and infiltration ; and constitutional disturb- ance accompanies. All this is likely, nay, certain, to follow admission of air into the cavity filled with effused blood, whether by accidental wound or by intentional division of the integument. Meddlesome surgery is unfortunate here, as well as in many other cases. After scarifications, punctures, leechings, or incisions, the blood often seems to undergo a putre- factive process, and unhealthy suppuration is quickly established. Sometimes the clot is not entirely absorbed, and considerable swelling remains for a long time, perhaps with slight tenderness of the part; and foundation isBRUISE. 358 thus laid for abscess, either chronic or acute. Fre- quently the inflammatory action following on bruise is not so violent and rapid as that above described, but is limited in its consequences chiefly to the efi"u- sion of coagulable lymph. This may not be altoge- ther absorbed along with the other effusion, it may become organised, and be the nucleus or germ of a new growth, of a tumour contrary to nature— deposit increases in and around the nucleus, and this formation, though at first of a simple nature, may become rapid in its growth, and may assume a trou- blesome or even a malignant action; and sometimes all this may occur at an early period, before the atten- tion either of the patient or of the practitioner has been drawn to the action or to its effects. Many tumours can be traced to the effects of a bruise. In the treatment of bruise, the parts should be placed in a state of absolute rest, and methodically fomented. Local bleeding is seldom required, and is of little use ; at first it is hurtful. When, from the extent or number of the bruises, fever follows, general antiphlogistic measures must be resorted to. Cold and astringent applications, and other repercussives, as also stimulants, are pernicious in the first stage, and are not very useful at any time. Opening of the cavity must be carefully avoided, excepting when absorption has ceased, when the tumour has increa- sed and become painful, and when the effVised blood is putrescent, and unhealthy suppuration has commen- ced. Then the cavity should be opened freely, and by poulticing the clots and sloughs are got quit of; afterwards the parts must be supported, as also theAMPUTATION. 359 strength of the patient. When from long want of use, in tedious cases, the parts have become cold, shrunk, and weak, as also happens in sprain, friction, champooing, tepid affusion, passive motion, and volun- tary motion short of giving pain, will all be of use as tending to restore the circulation, the nervous energy, and the muscular developement. If oedema remain, bandaging or a laced support will be required. Amputation. Every endeavour, which skill and experience can suggest, must be made before mutila- tion of the body, by the removal of even the smallest portion of one of its members, is resorted to. But there are cases in which mutilation, though a harsh remedy, is still indispensable for the saving of life. There are others in which it is prudent and proper to resort to operation, in consequence of a member being perfectly useless, and likely to impair the usefulness of the individual. Such are very bad and complicated fractvires and luxations—laceration of the soft parts of a limb to such an extent as to impress the experienced surgeon with a certainty that in a short time gangrene must ensue, and ren- der the success of any attempt to save life very pro- blematical. When the extent of injury is such that, though gangrene may not be dreaded, yet it is plain that extensive suppurations and exfoliations must necessarily take place, a question may arise as to whether immediate amputation is to be performed or not. This will be decided by the circumstances inAMPUTATION. 360 which the patient is placed, and often also by his own feelings upon the subject. He may choose to run some risk, and endure much suffering, with even a very slight chance of ultimately preser- ving his limb. In cases of traumatic gangrene of the chronic form, amputation is not only justifiable but imperative; as also, in those cases of severe frac- ture, in which the patient is sinking under pro- fuse discharge, with disunited bones. And the same absolute necessity for operation exists in many dis- eased joints, and in some diseased bones, when the patient's safety would otherwise be endangered, or when, on mature consideration, it is evident that the member, if retained, must for ever be an encum- brance, and worse than useless. Certain tumours of bones, tumours involving joints, tumours and ul- ters of the soft parts of a malignant nature, and without appreciable disease of the lymphatic system, will also demand recourse to the amputating knife. Patients, too, will be met with who, after under- going all the suffering attendant on disease of long duration—as exfoliation and sloughing of tendons, following deep suppuration—will, to get rid of the annoyance of the stiff and deformed member, or part of a member, not only submit to, but urge and insist on, the removal of the offending part. Amputation will also occasionally be required for badly-formed stumps, as those in which the end of the bone pro- trudes through ulcer of the integument, and is ne- crosed—or those in which the bone has been sawn of an inconvenient length.361 AMPUTATION. Many precautions are to be observed in this opera- tion. It is not to be commenced without due consi- deration as to the position of the operator, and of his assistants—their several duties—the form of incision —the length of the stump—the difficulties, if any, which may be expected, and the best means of obvi- ating them. The most prominent objects are, to save undue effusion of blood, to effect the incisions with as little suffering to the patient as possible, and to make them of such a form as to cover the end of the bone effectually—so that pressure may after a time be borne without risk of ulceration of the soft parts, or exfoliation of the bone. In all cases, and in all situations and circumstan- ces, haemorrhage can be restrained during comple- tion of the incisions, and during the employment of means to close the cut ends of the vessels, by means of very slight but exact pressure on the trunk of the principal vessel. The point at which this is to be applied, should be at as short a distance as possible above the place of incision, and at the same time above the origin of any branches which must be cut. Not the slightest pressure should be made until the instant when the incisions are about to be com- menced, so that no venous congestion may take place in the limb. All the blood in the limb, below the incisions, must necessarily be lost. The veins are more easily compressed than the arteries, and pres- sure, made a short time before the operation, may arrest the return of the blood, whilst it may not stop its influx ; thus engorgement of the lower part of the"AMPUTATION. 362 \ limb is produced, and the quantity of blood that must be lost is increased. For a similar reason, pres- sure, sufficiently firm to stop arterial haemorrhage, is to be continued till the principal branches are tied, and then entirely removed ; for the continuance of even slight pressure will increase the flow from the surface of the stump—blood, flowing in, and being arrested in its venous return, trickles out through the open ends of the veins. If a circular band be used for the compression, such as the screw tourni- quet, it should be put on quickly, and screwed up at once, and then the incisions should not be delayed one instant after; there should be no relaxation of the pressure at any part of the operation; and as soon as the principal vessels have been secured, the apparatus should be altogether removed—otherwise,' as already stated, rapid oozing will continue from the face of the stump. It is my confirmed opinion, that much more blood is lost from the use of a tour- niquet than without it. I would rather trust to a no very efficient assistant, than put on a tourniquet. It is evident, that compression on the whole circum- ference of a limb must completely interrupt venous return, and cause the increase of haemorrhage already mentioned ; whereas pressure on only two points of the same circumference, as is effected by the hand of an assistant, is not liable to this objection. Besides, the latter mode is more quickly applied, and more quickly removed, causes infinitely less pain to the patient, and is equally eff'ectual in arresting the flow in the main arterial trunk. The incisions should363 AMPUTATION. always be made rapidly; and after their completion, the surgeon, if distrustful of his assistant, may him- self grasp the limb and compress the vessel, giving the forceps or ligatures to another. The first step in the operation is to arrange the measures for temporary arrestment of the bleeding. The patient is placed in a favourable position, either sitting or lying, as may be most convenient for the particular amputation, and is firmly secured by one or more assistants ; all the apparatus must be in good order and conveniently placed, and an assistant should be stationed to attend to them, and hand those required. The compressor and the operator are each at their post, and ready to act in concert. The incisions may be made either from without in- wards, or from within outwards, after transfixion of the limb. The latter mode is to be preferred when practicable, as requiring less pressure ; the parts are more stretched than in the former method, are there- fore more easily and rapidly cut, and consequently less pain is inflicted. To the inexperienced trans- fixion may appear cruel, it may appal them, but in reality it is almost unattended with pain ; it is rapid- ly executed, and renders the operator capable of com- pleting his work with great quickness and little suffering, and at the same time with neatness and precision. The knife should be of a size and length proportioned to the incisions, straight-backed, and with a good point; of a form to pass through readi- ly, yet strong, and not too broad. With one sweep of this the incisions are made at once, through theAMPUTATION. 364 muscles, through the cellular and fatty tissues, and through the integuments—or vice versa, if the mode from without inwards be preferred. By these parts being cut rapidly and at once, their connexions with each other are not separated, the cut surface is smooth, and the parts are in the most favourable state for becoming agglutinated and consolidated; the bone is more deeply covered, and the stump of a handsomer and more useful shape, than when the parts are cut successively and with detachment. The operator places himself so that he may grasp the part to be removed, diu'ing the sawing of the bone, without change of position. The incisions are made with the left hand free ; but as soon as the saw is in the right, the left should take firm hold of the limb below the wound. During the operation, the limb is supported by an assistant, either sitting or kneeling ' before the patient; but the regulating of the position of the limb, during sawing, is not to be intrusted to him. He may, from anxiety to facilitate the action of the saw, snap the bone and splinter it; or, from dread of this, he may lock the instrument, and so delay completion of the operation. The management of the lower part of the limb should always be by the person using the saw. This instrument should have its teeth well set, and be provided with a workman- like handle. It is worked steadily and not hurriedly, with very slight pressure, and that pressure employ- ed only when pushing forwards. Before its applica- tion, all the soft parts must necessarily be divided completely; and this is done by carrying the knife.AMPUTATION. 365 after formation of the flaps, round tlie bone, with its edge rasping on it, and as high up as possible. The instrument is then placed accurately on the point tlius exposed, close to the soft parts, and during the sawing the flaps are retracted by the hands of an assistant. The saw may be worked either horizon- tally or vertically : the latter direction is to be prefer- red, for thus, when the section is nearly completed, the uncut part of bone is deep, and less likely to snap on the weight of the limb being allowed to ope- rate, or when undue pressure is made downwards. If splintering of the bone have occurred, whether from neglect of the foregoing precautions, or by other ac- cident, the sharp projecting parts should be taken away, and the cut surface made quite smooth by means of the bone-pliers ; and with this instrument also, the sharp edge of the bone may be rounded off, in cases where subsequent pressure might cause ul- ceration or sloughing of part of the integument of the stump. The arteries are tied close to their connexions. Their cut ends are laid hold of with the dissecting forceps, and pulled out; a small firm thread, either linen or silk, is then applied tightly, and one end immediately cut away close to the reef-knot. Sepa- ration of the ligatures generally takes place from the sixth to the tenth or twelfth day; they produce little discharge or irritation during their presence, and no source of irritation connected with them is left behind. But when both ends are cut away close to the knot, separation is long of taking place, andAMPUTA riOX tluniivli the ])arts may heal ovor tliem kindly enougli, the stump never can be considered sound till all are discharii'ed. Trobahlv several of these knots remain deeply imbedded after cicatrisation of the integument, aud wheu the patient considers himself cured, and is moving; about the room or Avard, actively and cheer- fully, painful hardness forms deeply, part of the stump reddens and swells, matter forms, and at length the insignificant origin of the mischief is discharged ; and this may occur more than once. Generally such sup- purations are limited, and soon cease ; but occasion- ally the abscess formed round the knot is extensive, deep and free incision is required, the filling up of the cavity is necessarily slow, the cure is long pro- tracted, and both practitioner and patient are disaj)- pointed and aimoyed. Besides, the suppurations thus occasioned, though slight in extent, may, when in the neighbourhood of a principal arterial branch, cause ulceration of the coats of the vessel, producing trou- blesome haemorrhage at a late period. All these un- toward consequences of cutting oft' both ends I have experienced in a series of cases, and from the results of a faithful comparative trial of both methods, I am now fully determined always to leave one end of the ligature hanging from the lips of the wound. No one now dreams of the absorption of ligatures, whether composed of animal substance or not; there- fore the catgut ligature, at one time much recommend- ed, has no superiority over the linen or silk thread,— besides it is not so convenient of application. Twistins: or bruisin<j the cut ends of arteries hasAMPUTATION. 367 been long* known as effectual in arresting bleeding. Vessels of a larg-e size can be so treated with suf- ficient facility, and they may not bleed after; but well tied ones are much more secure. The smaller cannot be pulled out and twisted, ligatures must be used for them; and the application of one or two more ligatures, namely, to the large arteries as well as the small, will add to the patient's safety, and to the operator's comfort and peace of mind, and can have little effect in increasing irritation. I have made trial of the method of torsion after amputation, and for the above reasons, and because the manipula- tions are more tedious, I disapprove of the plan, and decidedly prefer the ligatures. I am not aware that the proposal of leaving the vessels both untwisted and without ligature has been tried in this country ; one would think that it must always be troublesome, and not unfrequently hazardous. In some cases, as when the incisions are made in the neighbourhood of diseased bone, the soft parts are so condensed that the vessels cannot be pulled out by means of the forceps ; they are to be trans- fixed by a sharp hook or tenaculum, and a ligature is then applied round the parts which the instrument holds ; or the vessels may be encircled by a thread passed round by means of a curved needle ; in both methods more or less of the surrounding tissues must necessarily be included in the noose, though always as little as possible. Sometimes an artery of the bone, whether sound or inflamed, bleeds sharply ; in such circumstances the application of ligature is difficult, 6AMPUTATION. 368 and I have occasionally been obliged to insert a wooden peg into the opening; to this a cord is attach- ed by which it can be removed after a few days. When bleeding has been satisfactorily arrested, the surface of the wound is to be cleaned of coagula, either with the fingers or with a warm and soft sponge, the ligatures are brought to the margin at convenient points, and the edges of the integu- ment are then put together by interrupted sutures— two, three, or more, according to the extent of the wound. They need not be numerous, for they are only temporary, effecting partial approximation, and showing the line in which the parts are to be brought together by the after dressing. The stump is then covered with lint soaked in cold water, and this appli- cation is renewed frequently so long as any trickling of blood continues. Farther dressing is delayed for six or eight hours, when the oozing has entirely ceased, and the visible cut surface become glazed. Under this management, there is less chance of bleed- ing breaking out afresh than when the limb is encom- passed by bandages and pledgets of lint, perhaps com- pressed so as to interfere with the return of the blood, and heated by superfluous dressings. If bleeding to any extent should occur, as there is alwa5'-s a risk of, after the patient has become warm and com- fortable in bed, and reaction has been established, there is but little pain or annoyance in reaching the bleeding point, and taking measures to stop the flow; the few stitches are soon clijiped away, and then the surface of the wound is completely exposed.AMPUTATION. and ligatures can be applied to those vessels which require them. Then, after removing all coagula, sutures are placed in the same perforations, and the stump is in as favourable a state as previously. After six or eight hours, as already stated, any clots that have formed are to be taken away gently, and the glazed edges of the wound are then brought accurate- ly and neatly together by the adhesive composition recommended at page 241 of Part I.,—with the dif- ference of being spread upon slips of oiled silk, which I have found to be more pliable, and altogether pre- ferable to the glazed ribbon. Interstices are left for the sutures and the ends of the ligatures, and the latter may now be abridged slightly. This mode of keeping the edges in contact I can confidently recom- mend from experience. The plasters are much more adhesive than those in common use, do not irritate, and are not loosened by discharge. After twelve or twenty-four hours, not longer, the sutures are clipped through and removed. No other dressing is required till the end of the cure, provided this proceed favour- ably. The part is kept cool, and the slight discharge which occurs in a day or two is wiped up from time to time, if it be in such abundance as to reach the oiled cloth over the pillow on which the stump is laid. No disturbance of the parts is necessary as when ointments, bandages, and compresses are em- ployed, or straps that require frequent removal and reapplication. The patient suffers nothing compara- tively ; and the surgeon is saved much troublesome and dirty work,—for union by the first intention sel- dom fails. PART III. 2 aAMPUTATION. 370 Bleeding within a few hours after the operation, before excited action of the vessels has commenced, is easily arrested by exposure of the surface, removal of all clots, for by these h£emorrhage is encouraged, and by including the open vessels in ligatures. For the accomplishment of this, the period and mode of dress- ing, above recommended, afford great facility, as has been already observed. Hiemorrhage at a later period is not common. It happens occasionally in consequence of the stump having acquired an un- healthy condition, from sloughing,—or from abscess, as when this occurs round ligatures which have been retained, along with the slough of the vessel aud cellular tissue, both ends having been cut away. The matter formed during separation of the liga- ture in the usual way, escapes readily along the pro- truding end, but when there is merely a knot, the integuments have most probably closed over, there is no direct outlet; the matter is confined, and causes ulceration of the coats of the vessel as well as of the surrounding tissues. In this kind of bleeding, it is needless to attempt finding the bleeding point by tearing open the stump, separating any adhesions that may have formed, causing much pain and re- tardation of cure. And even though the bleeding vessel or vessels could be found, they are not in a state to hold a ligature. The artery is surrounded by sloughing cellular substance, its coats are tender, and in no condition to assume a healthy action ne- cessary for permanent closure after deligation. If ligature is applied, the included part quickly sepa- rates, and then the vessel is as open as before. As-AMPUTATION. 371 tringeuts, and even the cautery, are useless. Liga- ture of the main arterial trunk, above the origin of branches supplying the stump, so as to weaken for a time the circulation, is found to be effectual. I have had recourse to this in many cases, and uniformly with success. Some years ago, several occurred in the Royal Infirmary, within a very short time of one another ; it was during rather an unhealthy sea- son, and at the time I was making trial of cutting off both ends of the ligatures. They were all after re- moval of the lower limb; one patient died—the am- putation was high, through the trochanter minor, and the vessel tied secondarily was the common iliac ; this had the effect of completely arresting the haemor- rhage, but the previous loss of blood proved too much for the system to recover from ; transfusion was had recourse to, and produced temporary benefit. The others, cases of amputation below the knee, made most favourable recoveries after ligature of the super- ficial femoral, and in more than one the stump healed very rapidly after its readjustment. Indeed it is not unfrequently found that when the flaps are separated, from whatever cause, and replaced when the granulations have appeared, there follows a rapid union and cure. When healing by the first intention has failed, fomentation and poultices are generally the most grateful and beneficial applications for a day or two. Afterwards, when suppuration has been fairly esta- blished, and the stump begins to be flabby and oede- matous, simple dressing and uniform support by bandaging are required, sometimes along with com-372 AMPUTATION. presses on particular points to prevent lodgement of matter. Sometimes the secondary haemorrhage is not an arterial and rapid flow, but a slow and continued oozing from a cavity, ulcerated, dark, and angry, round the end of the bone ; this seems to arise from diseased action in the cancellated tissue of the bone. Removal of the coagula, stuffing the cavity with dry lint, and the application and continuance of firm pres- sure, generally suffice for its arrestment. Hitherto, these general observations on amiDutation have regarded the operation by flaps only; the cir- cular method has not been mentioned. The reason is, that the circular amputation has been now almost entirely abandoned in this country, at least in this part of it. And its inferiority to the method by flaps is so obvious, and so generally acknowledged, that detail of the different steps of the operation is, I con- ceive, here altogether vmnecessary. It is more tedious in performance, more painful to the patient, does not afford so good a covering for the end of the bone, and consequently not so convenient and useful a support for an artificial limb, and the cure of the wound is protracted. The stump is always conical, tlie end of the bone is, ultimately at least, covered only by in- tegument, and from even very slight pressure this is apt to ulcerate; exfoliation of the bone follows to a greater or less extent, or unhealthy ulcer of the soft parts continues, along with caries of the bone, and partial death of its surface : and at length it becomes necessary either to perform a second amputation orAMPUTATION OF THE FINGERS. 373 to curtail the length of the bone. It may sometimes succeed tolerably well when there is but one bone; when there are two, it is altogether vile and inad- missible. Various accidents and diseases require removal, either primary or secondar}'^, of the fingers, or of parts of them. Amputation is most easily accomplish- ed at the articulations, and ought therefore always to be performed at these joints, when the circumstances of the case permit. The last phalanx may require removal either on account of severe injury, or from incurable disease, as onychia maligna, necrosis, caries, &c. The operatidn is one by single flap, and may be conducted in one of two ways. The doomed phalanx is grasped, on its anterior and posterior aspects, by the fore and middle fingers of the left hand; and the articulation is flexed almost to the full extent, in order that incision into it may be faci- litated. A straight, narrow, and sharp-pointed bis- toury is carried in a semicircular sweep over the fore part of the joint, so as to divide the integuments, and open completely the articulating cavity. The remain- ing ligamentous investments of the joint are divided by one or more additional touches of the knife, so as to loosen the base of the phalanx. The fingers of the left hand are then changed from the fore and back parts of the phalanx to its sides, the edge of the knife is passed behind the base of the bone, and the sur- geon, by carrying the blade forwards and downwards, forms a flap of sufficient dimensions to cover the374 AMPUTATION OF THE FINGERS. wound, and removes the oflfending part. There is seldom any trouble from haemorrhage ; no ligatures are required. The flap is turned up so as to form a cushion over the exposed surface of the middle pha- lanx, and is retained so by the adhesive composition formerly mentioned, or by one or two turns of a linen bandage. The other method of operation is the reverse of the preceding. The joint is extend- ed, the bistoury is made to transfix close to the joint and at its posterior part, and by then carry- ing it downwards and forwards, as before, a similar flap is formed; this is retracted by an assistant, and with one sweep of the knife the articulation is di- vided from behind forwards. By either method the flap is the same. By similar procedure the amputa- tion at the middle articulation is performed. It is sometimes an object to save as much as pos- sible of the proximal phalanx, when amputation is rendered necessary by disease of the middle articu- lation, or of the distal extremity of the bone. In such cases, two semicircular flaps are made by cut- ting from without, either on the lateral, or on the thenal and anconal aspects, and the bone is divided either by a small saw or by the cutting pliers. The flaps are retained in apposition, and the bleeding arrested by bandaging. Amputation at the proximal articulation is also performed by double flap. In the previous operations an assistant steadies and supports the hand; in this he has likewise to bend the rest of the fingers, and to separate as widely as possible those neighbouringAiMPUTATION or THE FINGERS. 375 to tlie one about to be removed. The operator seats himself before the patient, grasps the finger so as to manage its movements with the left hand, and hold- ing the knife perpendicularly, with its point upwards, lays it over the knuckle, and carries it obliquely up- wards so as to open that side of the articulation. He then pushes the finger towards the opposite side, and with the point of the knife completes the loosen- ing of the articulation ; for this the blade of the in- strument should never be employed, otherwise the integument will be cross-cut and mangled. After separation of the base of the phalanx by the point, the blade is passed behind, and carrying it down- wards and outwards, a flap is formed similar to the first—both proportioned to the size of the wound which they are to cover, and the bone which they are to protect. They are retained in contact by bringing the neighbouring fingers towards each other. This also sufiices, in general, to suppress the bleed- ing, but sometimes one or both digital arteries re- quire ligature. At first cold cloths are probably the best applications, with the view of stopping the oozing, and warding off inflammatory action. Vas- cular excitement is very apt to follow this amputa- tion, when performed for disease of the finger, as after neglected or severe whitlow ; the soft parts in which the incisions are made are generally infiltrated and condensed, and prone to inflammation. The sur- face around is red, tense, and shining, on the second or third day; the back of the hand, the palm, and per- haps the forearm, are then involved in inflammation376 AMPUTATION OF THE FINGERS. of the surface, and infiltration of the cellular tissue ; and in all probability, free incisions, followed by poul- tice and fomentation, will be necessary to restore the parts to quietude. Such consequences, therefore, are to be guarded against, by attention to the system, and avoiding all irritating dressing. The phalanges of the thumb are removed in the same manner as those of the fingers. Amputation of the metacarpal bone is accomplished thus. The thumb is grasped by the fingers of the left hand, and so managed. The bistoury, held in the same man- ner as for amputation at the proximal articulation of the finger, is placed with its point on the web be- twixt the thumb and forefinger, and carried in one sweep rapidly upwards in a slightly oblique direction, till it is stopped by the os trapezium. The point is used to effect disarticulation, the member being at the same time pushed steadily outwards; the blade is then placed behind the base, carried downwards close to the side of the bone, and is not to be brought out till sufficiently low down for forming a flap to cover the whole wound. After arresting the haemor- rhage, the flap is laid smoothly down, and retained in its proper position by bandage or slips of the adhe- sive plaster. The metacarpal bone of the little finger is removed by the same method of incision as for the thumb. In amputation of the fingers, the incisions sometimes require to extend beyond the proximal articulation, on account of disease having involved that part; in other words, it may be necessary to remove more or less ofAMPUTATION OF THE FlNGEllS. ii77 the metacarpal bone along with the finger. The me- thod of incision will vary according to the extent to which the bone is diseased. When the operation is required for disease of merely the distal extremity, the incisions are made in the same form as for ampu- tation of the joint, only they are on each side suffi- ciently high to be beyond diseased bone. They may either be made from below upwards in the usual way, or be commenced at their highest point on the dorsum of the metacarpal bone. After the soft parts have been separated from the bone, by a few touches of the knife after formation of the principal incisions, removal is completed by either the cutting pliers or the metacarpal bow-saw—the former I have found the more convenient instrument. It is applied perpen- dicularly, and should always have its smooth surface in contact with the part to be retained, otherwise the cut part will be rough and irregular. Section is com- pleted more rapidly than by the saw, and, by atten- tion to the above precaution, the stump is equally smooth, if not more so. The wound is brought and retained in contact by approximation of the fingers. But in taking away any considerable portion of the metacarpal bone, it is of importance to preserve the palm uninjured. With this view, the knife is entered over the dorsal centre of the bone, above the diseased part, and carried straight downwards till near the articulation, when it is made to diverge for the for- mation of lateral flaps ; the integuments in the track of the longitudinal wound are then dissected back- wards, so as to expose the bone completely, and the378 AMPUTATION OF THE FORE ARM. bistoury is passed round the bone throughout its whole extent,the edge being kept close to it,—in order that the soft parts may be separated, and that with- out unnecessary width of wound. Then the bone is clipped at the proper point by the cutting pliers ; or the section of the bone may be performed before separation of the soft parts from its under surface, as, by raising the cut end, this part of the operation may be facilitated. Here the metacarpal saw is in- applicable. Before quitting this part of the amputations, it may be observed, that no good can result from taking away a metacarpal bone and leaving a finger, or from removing a proximal phalanx and leaving the distal. The parts so left can be of no use, they have no sup- port, and no muscles or tendons ; they must prove an incumbrance, and as such will either form the subject of a second amputation, or remain a proof of the un- successful result of the first. Amputation in the forearm may be necessary at various points, on account of accident or disease, but should never be resorted to, in either case, so long as part of the hand can be saved. The preservation of even a small portion of this useful member is of great importance to the patient. When, however, this is hopeless, all must be removed; and if the wrist be sound, amputation may be performed at that joint. Hitherto, no mention has been made of the temporary suppression of bleeding, for in the amputations detail- ed there is scarcely ever any necessity for adopting such measures; but in those of the forearm and ami, a379 AMPUTATION OF THE FOIIE^UIJM. steady assistant must be placed ready to compress the humeral artery as soon as the incisions are com- menced ; in the case of the forearm, the pressure is made at a low point of the artery; in the arm, the point of pressure will necessarily depend on the point of removal. The patient may be either seated or re- cumbent. One assistant compresses, another steadies the limb in the supine position. The surgeon holds the hand in his left, standing on the inside of the right limb and on the outside of the left. Suppose the right wrist is to be operated on,— the end of the ulna is felt for, and at that point the knife is entered ; it is held in a horizontal direction and pushed across the joint, emerging over and close to the end of the radius. By rapid and gentle sawing motion down- wards and forwards, a flap of sufficient size is then formed. This is retracted by the assistant, the joint is opened and its apparatus completely divided, the blade of the knife is laid behind the carpal bones, and by carrying it downwards and backwards, a, second flap is formed posteriorly, and the part removed. The dorsum of the hand may be so diseased or injured as not to afford sufficiency of sound parts for a posterior flap; in such circumstances the anterior must be made proportionally large, that it may alone cover the ends of the bones. After suppression of the bleeding, the flaps are approximated by one or two points of suture, and afterwards these are removed, and their place supplied by the adhesive plaster. Amputation, at any point between the wrist and elbow-joints, requires, in all, the same method ofAMPUTATION OF TUK FOREARM. 380 incision, but the nearer to the elbow the better is the stump ; at the wrist tlie flaps are composed principally of integuments and tendons, and the cushion so formed for the bones is very inferior to one of muscle. Compression is made and the limb steadied ' as before, the surgeon with his left hand grasps the wrist, and places the forearm in the middle state be- tween pronation and supination. In the right forearm, the knife, held perpendicularly, is entered over the centre of the radius ; and its point, after reaching the bone, is inclined inwards so as to pass round it; trans- fixion is then made, the knife passing close to the palmar surface of the bones, and emerging at a point opposite to its entrance; and then by rapid motion downwards and inwards a proper flap is formed. The instrument is again introduced over the radius, at a little distance from the upper part of the first wound, and passed on the opposite side of the bones, emerging also in the first incision and at a similar point; another flap is made. These are retracted, the knife is swept round the bones, and passed freely be- tween them, to divide the remaining muscular sub- stance, and after this has been completed the saw is applied. During the sawing it is well to preserve the limb in the same position as during the incisions, and to apply the instrument perpendicularly; thus both bones will be divided at once, and the risk of splintering diminished. In transfixion, great care is required that the point of the knife pass across, not between,the bones,and with this view a slight change of position is useful; during the transfixion for theAMPUTATIOM AT THE ELBO\V-,I()I M T. .'381 inner flap, the surgeon, as soon as he feels the knife rounding the radius, rotates the forearm gently in- wards, and in transfixing for the outer flap similar rotation is made outwards. Sometimes slight diffi- culty is experienced in tying the interosseal artery. The flaps are brought together, and treated in the way already mentioned. ' In all amputations of the upper extremity, it is of importance, and indeed a rule scarcely to be depart- ed from, to leave as much of the limb as possible ; for here the longer the stump, the more useful is it to the patient. In accordance with this maxim, am- putation at the elbow-joint may be required, when either disease or injury extend too high for amputa- tion in the forearm, but not too high for the forma- tion of an anterior flap over the joint. The limb is steadied in the supine position, compression being made near the middle of the humeral ; the knife is passed horizontally across the condyles close to the bone, and brought downwards and forwards to a suf- ficient extent for the production of a flap, which is alone to form the protecting cushion. The joint is then cut through, the knife is passed down till ob- structed by the olecranon, and with one sweep a se- micircular incision of the posterior integument is made. All soft parts in this line are divided, and then the saw is applied to the olecranon process. This amputation is easy, rapid, and beautiful in execution, and when the flap is sufficiently large,—as it always may be, for there is no want of soft parts in front,— the stump is well formed and useful. The flap is laidAMPUTATION OF THE ARM. 382 down, and attached by suture to the integument posteriorly; in due time the adhesive dressing is ap- plied. The circumstance of a secreting surface form- ing the stump does not seem detrimental, either here, or in the wrist-joint. The synovial fluid soon ceases to distil, and union is not interrupted by it. There is no necessity for scarification, with the view of hastening cessation of secretion and granulation of the surface. Amputation of the arm is performed by the forma- tion of lateral flaps, at any point below the insertion of the deltoid muscle. Compression is made on the upper part of the humeral, or on the axillary artery. The limb is held well separated from the side ; and care should be taken that, when so raised, its height be convenient to the operator. The knife is entered perpendicularly to the shaft of the bone, passed fair- ly down to it, and then inclined along its side; the operator now grasps the limb below the line of incision with the left hand, and pulls the muscles towards him—it is supposed that the right arm is amputa- ted, the surgeon standing on the inside, and an as- sistant supporting the forearm—and then completes transfixion, inclining the handle of the knife towards himself, in order that its point may pass round the bone and emerge at as distant a point in the cir- cumference of the limb as possible. By a rapid saw- ing motion, downwards and inwards to the proper extent, the inner flap is formed ; and by attention to the grasping of the muscles and the inclination of the383 AMPUTATION OV TUK ARM. knife, its base is so large as to admit of the more easy performance of accurate transfixion for the outer— that is, the instrument is more easily brought through the same incision. The assistant seizes the extremi- ty of the inner flap as soon as formed, and retracts it, but only to a slight extent; it is simply held out of the way. If it be pulled backwards as in re- traction during sawing, the formation of the second will be much impeded. The knife is again entered about half an inch below the commencement of the first incision, and by inclining the handle the point is brought round the bone, and made to appear on the opposite side also in the first incision ; this is facilitated by pulling the soft parts outwards with the left hand. Then the outer flap is completed. The knife is swept rapidly round the bone, so as to expose it completely at the upper part, the assistant at the same time retracting the flaps fully. The saw is applied, the arteries tied, the flaps approximated, and the operation completed. In performing the second transfixion, the reason why the knife is entered lower than in the first, is, that cross-cutting of the corners of the wound is thereby avoided. For long I was surprised and an- noyed to find many stumps present an unseemly cross-cutting of the integument at the upper parts, particularly after approximation of the flaps, al- though the incisions seemed to have been made smoothly and accurately. It is occasioned by the sawing process for making the second flap, and when this is commenced at the same height as for the first, irregularity of incision at the upper part is unavoid-384 AMPUTATION OF THE AIllM. able. The precaution, however, of making the second ti-ansfixion considerably lower than the first I have found quite effectual. The disparity between the bases of the flaps is readily and quickly remedied, after their formation, by a sweep of the knife up- wards on the lower side. The formation of neuromata occurs more frequent- ly after the amputations of the arm and forearm than in any other. The disease, however, is less common than formerly, and this may be fairly attributed to the improvements in the operation—to the method by flaps having superseded the circular, and nothing but the arteries being surrounded in ligature. Still the aftection is occasionally met with, and there can be none more painful and troublesome. Generally, no obvious cause can be found for its attack; but in some of the cases there would seem to be a constitu- tional and innate tendency, as it were, towards the formation of such tumours—as in the following case : A gentleman, aged 53, underwent amputation of the thumb, in consequence of laceration of the hand. Amputation was very soon afterwards performed at the middle of the forearm, on account of haemorrhage and infiltration of the hand, after fruitless attempts to secure the arteries. After cicatrisation of the wound, he complained of great pain in the stump, and in the situation where the tourniquet had been applied. Amputation of the arm was then perform- ed, but the stump was not w^ell made. The pain returned, and he applied to me, with the view of again submitting to amputation. It was performed nearer to the shoulder-joint, and in order to guardAMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER-.TOINT. 385 against recurrence of the disease, the nerves were laid hold of, pulled outwards, and cut across as high as possible. The patient was relieved of many of his sufferings, and continued tolerably comfortable for nearly two years ; again, however, the painful symptoms have returned, though in a slighter degree. On examining the removed stump, all the nerves, particularly the musculo-spiral, were found greatly enlarged in their extremities, and intimately adhe- rent to the cicatrix and the ligamentous covering of the rounded extremtiy of the humerus. Amputation at the Shoulder-joint is more fre- quently required for accident than for disease. It has always been the custom to trust, for suppression of bleeding during this operation, to the hands of an assistant; and when the method has been found ef- fectual in the case of the large axillary artery, why object to it, on the score of inefficiency, in the minor amputations ? particularly when it is evident, put- ting efficiency out of the question, that it is prefer- able to compression by the tourniquet, or any other circular apparatus—more quickly applied and relax- ed, less painful, less formidable, always ready, and independent of the instrument-maker? The com- pression is made above the clavicle, so as to secure the subclavian, where it passes over the first rib. The thumb of a steady assistant is placed deeply into the cavity of the lower triangular space of the neck, imme- diately above the first large sinuosity of the clavicle. The pressure thus made, is quite effectual; but as it TAUT III. 2 L386 AMPUTATION AT THK SHOULDEll-JOINT. requires to be firm and uniform, and as there is always a risk of the thumb giving way from exhaustion, it is better to interpose some mechanical contrivance when the assistant is either diffident or inexperienced. The best apparatus for this purpose is a common door- key. A bit of lint or cloth is wrapped round the handle, and this part is then pressed down on the vessel. As in other amputations, the pressure is not commenced till the knife is about to enter. The flaps may be double, on the outer and inner aspects, or one may be made sufficiently large to cover the whole wound. The ptient is seated on a chair, and secured by a person placed behind. The arm is raised a little from the side, and supported by an assistant. Two oblique incisions are made, com- mencing high on each side of the shoulder, and con- verging gradually till they meet near the insertion of the deltoid. The triangular flap, so marked out, is dissected rapidly upwards, close to the bone, and kept raised by an assistant. The person supporting the arm then uses it as a lever, carrying it down- wards and backwards ; the joint, thus made more pal- pable, is cut into by a semicircular sweep of the knife across it; the head of the bone is now dislocated, and the rest of the capsule and fibrous tissue exterior to it divided; the blade of the knife is insinuated behind the head of the bone, and carried rapidly through the remaining soft parts. In no amputa- tion can I conceive any necessity for suspending the incisions, in order to secure vessels, provided the pres- sure is well applied, and the knife used dexterously. Here there is very little blood lost. The vessels di-AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER-JOINT. 387 vided ill the formation of the flap are small, and the axillary is not cut till the incisions are nearly com- pleted ; as soon as the limb has dropped, the surgeon places his finger on the mouth of the artery, and then applies his ligature as quickly as possible ; the pres- sure may now be removed, and the minor vessels secured leisurely. The flap covers the wound com- pletely, and is easily retained. Or two flaps may be made by transfixion. In opera- ting thus on the right limb, the surgeon, standing in front of the patient, enters the knife a little below the point of the acromion, passes it across the outer as- pect of the joint, and by inclination of the handle outwards, makes its point to appear on the inside of the outer margin of the axilla; by carrying it down- wards and outwards to a sufficient extent, the outer flap is formed. This is immediately elevated by an assistant, and then the arm is pushed upwards, and across the chest, so as to render the joint more acces- sible ; the ligaments are cut, the bone disarticulated, the knife passed beyond its head, and placed with the edge parallel to the shaft of the humerus, and the arm restored to its former position; the inner flap is then made, by carrying the instrument down- wards and inwards. In the left limb, the knife is entered on the inside of the outer border of the axilla, and brought out below the extremity of the acromion, reversing the order of the former incisions ; after the outer flap has been so formed, the joint is cut across, the knife passed beyond the head of the bone, and an inner flap made, as before. Accidental injury, as already stated, is the most388 AMPUTATION OF THE TOES. frequent cause of amputation at this part, and this will always influence the method of incision. There is nothing peculiar in the after treatment of the stump. But it ought always to be remembered, that the operation is one of great severity, that a large part of the body has been suddenly removed, that, consequently, there is risk of the mere shock being dangerous, and of an untoward constitutional con- dition supervening—and, therefore, the after attend- ance should be zealous and careful. The phalanges of the toes are removed in the same way as those of the fingers. In the amputation at the proximal joint, it is to be recollected, that the extremity of the metatarsal bone lies more removed from the web of integument betwixt the toes, than the metacarpal bone does from that of the fingers. The incision upwards, therefore, requires to be deeper; but in other respects the operations ai*e pre- cisely the same. In amputating at the proximal articulation of the great toe, there is often a difficulty in obtaining a sufficient covering for the wound, on account of the presence of the sesamoid bones, and the general bul- ging of the bones. The knife is entered on the dor- sum of the metatarsal bone, about half an inch above the joint, and then inclined to each side, marking out lateral flaps of considerable length; these are then reflected,—in making the outer, the instrument being dexterously passed round the sesamoid bone,—and the disarticulation completed. In removing the great toe, along with themetatar-889 AMPUTATION AT THE FOOT. sal bone, the bistoury is entered over the articulation of the metatarsal bone with the tarsus, and carried straight downwards, along the centre of the dorsum of the bone, till near its extremity; it is then in- clined to each side, in the manner described for am- putation of the metacarpal bones. The integuments are dissected off on each side of the longitudinal inci- sion, and the knife run up along the inside of the bone, till stopt by the tarsus. The surgeon now presses the toe outwards, so as to assist the disarti- culation ; and after this has been completed, the bis- toury is carried downwards, close to the outside of the bone, and not brought out till past the lower ar- ticulation. The external flap thus formed is then laid accurately down, so as to cover the wound, and retained. Or the flap may be formed previously to the disarticulation, by running the knife upwards along the outside of the bone, and then effecting removal. The operations on the other metatarsal bones are the same as those on the metacarpal. They may be removed, either entirely or in part, along with the corresponding phalanges, by operative pro- cedure similar to that practised on the hand. Sometimes disease of the foot is not so extensive as to require or justify removal of the whole organ ; the metatarsal bones are not involved throughout their whole extent. The same remark applies to in- jury by accident. In such circumstances, amputation is performed at the articulation of the metatarsal bones with the tarsus. The operator first ascertain^ the exact site of these joints, and then transfixes the390 AMPUTATION OF THE LEG. foot at that point, passing the knife close along the plantar aspect of the bones ; carrying the instru- ment downwards, a sufficient flap is formed to cover the stump. The integuments on the dorsum are then divided in the line of articulation, the joints divided successively, and the parts removed. The flap is raised, adjusted, and retained. In dividing the articulations, it is to be recollected, that the base of the second metatarsal bone, reckoning from that of the great toe, is lodged considerably higher than the others ; and, therefore, the knife must be inclined upwards at that point, or else the use of the saw is requisite. The stump thus formed proves exceedingly useful: the subsequent lameness is not great; the heel and tarsus compose a very efficient support for the weight of the body, and the flexion is unimpair- ed ; by attention too, the deformity may be in a great measvire concealed. In short, the surgeon who am- putates above the ankle, for disease or injury not ex- tending to the articulation of the metatarsus with the tarsus, is guilty of a serious error. The disease may reach higher than is compatible with the preceding operation, and yet it may be pos- sible to save the heel. In such cases amputation is performed in the articulations of the os calcis with the OS cuboides, and of the astragulus with the os naviculare. The, plan of the incisions is the same as that for the operation at the bases of the metatarsal bones. No amputation is more frequently performed than that of the leg. Operation near the ankle is inad-391 AMPUTATION OF THE LiiO. missible ; sufficiency of soft parts, for the protection of the stump, canuot be procured lower than the calf. Incision is consequently limited to two points, either immediately below the tuberosity of the tibia, or in the bellies of the gastrocnemii. The former is the situation to be preferred in hospital practice, and amongst the lower orders generally ; the latter is suitable to the better classes of society, that is, to those who can afford to purchase an expensive artifi- cial support. The amputation below the tibial tube- rosity being the most frequently required, will, with propriety, be described first. Suppose the right leg is to suffer.—The operator places himself on its inner side, according to the general rule formerly incul- cated, and grasps the lower part of the limb with his left hand, an assistant supporting the foot at a proper height, and controlling motion. The knife is entered over the fibula, on its outer aspect, and carried up- wai'ds along that bone for an inch and a half, or two inches; it is then brought across the limb in a semi- lunar direction, and after reaching the inner and lower part of the tibia transfixion is performed, the instrument being pushed along the posterior surface of the bones, and made to emerge at the upper part of the fibular incision. By then carrying the knife downwards, a posterior flap is formed sufficient to cover the stump. All this is effected by uninter- rupted sweeps of the knife, that is, without ever re- moving the point from the track of incision. The integuments on the fore part are then dissected up- wards a little, by a few touches of the knife, so as to form a small semilunar flap ; at this part of the ope-392 AMl'UTATION OF THE LEG. ration there is no necessity for laying down the knife and using a bistoury. The muscles in the in- terosseous space are then completely divided, and the knife swept round the bones to detach the soft parts still uncut. The saw is applied, either in a horizon- tal or perpendicular direction; I prefer the latter for reasons already assigned. The vessels are scoured, and there are generally but three—the popliteal, and two sural. Before adjusting the flap, it is well to assist nature in rounding off the end of the tibia, and thereby prevent danger to the integument; with this view the sharp anterior ridge of the bone is cut away and rounded off by means of the pliers. To some the fibular incision may appear unnecessary; but I have long practised it from conviction of its advantage. It is an excellent mark for transfixion, and assists greatly in preventing entanglement of the knife betwixt the two bones ; besides the soft parts there must be divided at one or other step of the operation, and hence the procedure cannot be objected to on the ground of causing unnecessary wound. In operating on the left limb, there is not the same danger in transfixion, and consequently so long a preliminary incision on the inside is not requi- site ; in other respects the steps of the operation are the same as for removal of the right. It has been proposed to excise the head of the fibula after formation of the flap, instead of sawing it across at a corresponding point with the tibia. At one time I put this modification into extensive prac- tice, with the effect of improving the appearance of the stump very considerably; but in several cases,AMPUTATION OF THE LEG. 393 untoward consequences took place. Discharge of clear fluid resembling synovia occurred on the second day, followed by very profuse suppuration, which proved of long continuance, and very exhausting ; in more than one case, the joint became anchylosed, rendering the stump very inefficient as a means of support, in consequence of being fixed at an inconve- nient angle ; and one patient sank, exhausted by the profusion of the discharge. I then found, from re- peated examination of the parts on the dead subject, that it was very difficult, nay impossible, to excise the head of the bone without either wounding the synovial pouch itself,—that is, dividing the capsular ligament,—or opening a bursal cavity, beneath the popliteus muscle, communicating with that of the knee-joint. It is scarcely necessary to add, I have since wholly abandoned this method of operation. It has been already observed, that high amputa- tion of the leg is preferable amongst the poor. The limb is of much greater use to the patient than were the stump longer ; he is able to follow his occupation with greater ease and security, and at less expense, by resting on the knee, than by using the artificial. limb applied to the middle of the leg. The wealthier patient, however, can afford a more expensive sup- port, and a less efficient, though more handsome con- tinuation of the limb suffices. In such circumstances, amputation is performed at the middle of the leg; and after cicatrisation, the artist supplies an artificial support resembling the natural limb ; thus the mo- tion of the knee is preserved. The same directionsAMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. 394 apply to this operation as to that immediately below the knee. In amputation of the thigh, the same method of incision is followed as in amputation of the arm. But, according to the point of removal, the direction of the flaps varies. If in operating high in the limb the flaps be made laterally, there will be imminent risk of the bone protruding through the upper part of the wound ; for the patient uniformly raises the stump towards his abdomen. No antagonist muscular power is left to oppose the action of the muscles inserted into the trochanter minor, and the elevation of the stump is involuntary; it always occurs to a remarkable extent in young persons. On this account, anterior and posterior flaps are here far preferable to the late- ral ; for then the more the stump is raised, the better is the end of the bone covered—the anterior flap folds over it. Transfixion is therefore made horizontally ; and the posterior flap should be a little longer than the anterior. But in the lower part of the limb, late- ral flaps are not only not liable to the same objection, but preferable to the anterior and posterior. In the neighbourhood of the knee-joint, the soft pai'ts con- sist almost entirely of ligamentous tissue on the fore and .back part, and proper cushions can be obtained only from the sides. Transfixion is therefore made perpendicularly. Thus the bone will be well covered by parts likely soon to adhere; and there is no risk of protrusion, for muscles are left to comiteract the elevators, and there is sufficient lever in the limb whereby to control its motions. And it may be hereAMPUTATION AT TPIE Hll'-JOINT. 395 mentioned, that after all amputations, wlien start- ings of the muscles are not only painful, but disturb the position of the stump, the limb should be bound down by a broad band, passed across it a short way above the wound, and fastened firmly at each end to the bed or pillow ; at the same time anodynes are to be administered. Amputation at the hip-joint is deservedly ranked amongst the most formidable operations in surgery. It ought, therefore, never to be performed but as a last and necessitous resource for the salvation of life. At the same time, when necessity for it is obvious and acknowledged, and no other means can be of any avail, hesitation and delay should never take place ; otherwise the last and only chance of saving the patient will pass away, and the operation, when at length performed, will but hasten his exit from this world,—and besides inflict an injury to science, by in- timidating practitioners, and affording subject of re- proach and ridicule to the thoughtless and uninform- ed part of the public. I prefer the formation of ante- rior and posterior flaps,—as follows. The patient is placed recumbent on a firm table, his nates resting on, or rather projecting a little over the front edge. The sound limb is separated from the one to be re- moved, and held aside by an assistant. Or it is secured to the foot of the table by a towel, the neces- sity for an additional assistant being thus done away with, and more freedom in his movements afforded to the operator. Indeed, in all amputations of the lower extremity, this is the preferable method of fix-396 AMPUTATION AT THE HIP J0I>;T. ing the sound limb. The other limb is supported by an experienced and intelligent assistant, who under- stands, and is able to perform, the movements to faci- litate the different steps of the operation. The com- jjression is intrusted also to an experienced and steady assistant, who, standing by the patient's side, presses firmly with one or both thumbs on the femoral artery, where it passes over the pubes ; and in this more than in any other operation, should the pressure be delayed till the instant of incision, for otherwise the blood lost in the limb will be immense. Transfixion, by a knife proportioned in size to the dimensions of the limb, is made horizontally, the in- strument being passed in a somewhat semicircular direction, so as to include as much of the soft parts as possible ; an anterior flap is made by cutting down- wards. During the passage of the knife across the joint, the assistant rotates the limb a little so as to facilitate the bringing of the instrument out with its point well inwards ; in the left limb the rotation will be inwards, in the right outwards. After formation of the flap, the assistant abducts forcibly, and presses downwards ; the joint is opened, the round ligament cut, the capsule divided, and the blade of the knife placed behind the head of the bone and the large trochanter; the posterior flap is then made rapidly. After transfixion for the superior flap, and when the sawing motion downwards has advanced but a little way, the compressing assistant shifts his hands into the incision imuicdiately behind the back of the knife, and so obtains a firm grasp of the femoral previously to its division. He retains this hold, at the same397 EXCISION OF DISEASED BONES. time retracting the flap, during the rest of the opera- tion. As soon as the limb has been separated, the surgeon secures the vessels on the posterior flap, partly by his fingers, partly 'by compression with a large sponge, and ligatures are applied as quickly as possible. The femoral is secured last, for, as long as the assistant retains his hold, haemorrhage from it is not to be dreaded. Thus, when both surgeon and assistants are quick and cool, the operation may be completed with the loss of much less blood than might be expected. In cases of accidental injury re- quiring this operation, the lever use of the limb must frequently be wanting ; and in such cases too, the parts may be so injured as not to afford flaps ante- riorly and posteriorly. In these circumstances, the surgeon must be guided by experience and judgment in adopting the mode of procedure which appears most applicable; in ordinary cases the operation above detailed appears the preferable. Excision of diseased portions of hones, is practi- sed occasionally with the view of removing a source of irritation and exhaustion from the system, without sacrifice of a limb. When the operation proves suc- cessful, the beneficial effect on the general health is as remarkable and rapid as after removal of the hectic cause by amputation ; the pulse falls and grows firmer, diarrhoea and sweating cease, the hectic flush leaves the cheek, in short, the constitution makes a complete and successful rally. It is had recourse to in order to take away disease in the following situa-EXCISION OF DISEASED BONES. 398 tions—in the cancellated articulating extremity of a long bone, in part or the whole of a short bone, and in part or the whole of long bones. Even a long bone, from one articulating surface to the other, may- be removed ; the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and the metatarsal bone supporting the great toe, may, for example, be taken away in their whole extent. I have seen these bones so treated, but the result was unsatisfactory. As has already been observed, the part of the member that is left is without support, and not under the influence of muscle ; it is conse- quently loose and useless. Operation for the removal of necrosed, or softened and ulcerated portions of the carpal and tarsal bones, is sometimes successful. But operative interference, either with these, or with more extensive and for- midable articulations, is not advisable unless the soft parts are not largely involved, and when the general health is tolerably good—the patient either having suffered less than usual, or having rallied and begun to gain strength after exhaustion by discharge and fever. If the ligaments, bursas, and cellular tissue are much affected, as is often the case, there is no chance of discharge ceasing, and the patient regaining health, even though the bone be removed to any extent—a second operation will be required, namely, amputa- tion above the diseased parts. And when this becomes requisite, after failure of the first to restore or even improve the health, the patient is apt, as has too often been the case, to sink under the accumulation of suffering. He might, even though much exhaust-399 EXCISION OF DISEASED BONES. ed, have been able to bear up against the shock of one and a successful operation, but he cannot endure that of a second, or perhaps third, serious and pro- tracted attack of the knivesman. The disappointed hope of a cure is a secondary, though nevertheless a sure contributor towards the unfortunate issue. No particular rules can be laid down for the opera- tive procedure. By converting two or more natural openings into one, extending the incisions as much as possible in the direction of the limb and of the muscles and tendons, and avoiding the course of the larger bloodvessels and nerves, room is made for an accurate examination of the diseased parts. A strong and firmly pointed knife is required for these inci- sions, for the soft parts are much consolidated, and are cut with difficulty. The extent of disease is ascer- tained both by the probe and by the finger, and far- ther measures, if necessary, are then adopted for com- plete removal. Loose portions of bone are taken away; and often large sequestra of the cancellated tis- sue are found lying in the cavity, either loose or easily separable ; for extraction, forceps and the fingers, and sometimes a lever, are required. A firm scoop is useful for removing such portions of diseased cancel- lated tissue as are still continuous with the shaft of the bone. When an opening in the cancellated tissue, leading to an internal sequestrum, is minute, enlarge- ment is effected by means of either the trephine or the cutting pliers ; afterwards, gouges, gravers, &c., may sometimes be useful in operating on the soft texture underneath,—but they are seldom requisite.400 EXCISION or DISEASED BONES. The bleeding from the soft parts is free; the vessels do not retract, and may require the application of a needle and ligature. That from the bone is easily- arrested by pressure ; the cavity is filled with charpie or with dossils of lint, and these are supported by a bandage. Some days after, this dressing is removed, having been previously softened and loosened by fomentation"and poultice. The cavity should now be examined carefully, to ascertain whether or not all the diseased parts have been taken away ; it is then dressed daily from the bottom. If parts of the sui*- face assume an unhealthy aspect, the granulations being either backward or flabby, to these escbarotics should be applied—the most suitable is the red oxide of mercury. Gradually the cavity fills up, and a de- pressed, firm, and permanent cicatrix is obtained. It need not excite surprise, however, if, in not a few cases, after matters have proceeded apparently very favourably for some time, the surface become pale, soft, and glistening ; the discharge thin, acrid, and profuse ; the integuments around tumid and disco- loured,—if, in short, the disease be in no long time fully re-established. The tarsal and carpal bones are often the subjects of this operation. In a few cases I have removed several, in others one or a portion of one, with suc- cess. In one instance the greater part of the astra- gulus was taken away, along with the ends of the tibia and fibula. There remained, in consequence, a large opening across the joint, through which a cord was passed, to facilitate gradual and piecemeal dis-401 EXCISION OF JOINTS. charge of remaining portions of diseased bone. The articulation could be seen through. The seton was gradually diminished, and the aperture closed. The foot was thus preserved, and the leg was but little shortened; the limb proved strong and extremely- useful, but the ankle-joint retained little power of motion. I have also trephined the os calcis and re- moved large portions of it; the cuboid likewise has been taken away, along with the base of the metacar- pal bone or bones in connexion with it; in some of these cases an excellent cure followed, in others amputation of the foot was afterwards necessary. Some have ventured to cut away the articulating ends of the bones composing the knee-joint. This may be accomplished without much difficulty. The patella is either removed entirely or turned to a side, the ligamentous and tendinous attachments are divi- ded, and the ends of the bones thus exposed ; by cutting close to and towards them, little risk is incur- red of wounding the bloodvessels and nerves in the popliteal space. The saw is readily applied in a hori- zontal direction. After tying the vessels, and approxi- mating the edges of the wound, the limb is placed in the straight position, and retained fixedly so by the application of splints. Much constitutional disturb- ance is to be expected, as well as profuse and tedious suppuration. There are few surgeons so rash as to have recourse to this operation. One or two patients, it is true, have lived in spite of it, retaining the limb in a tolerably useful state. But in others,—and these constitute the majority,—amputation was after all PART III. 2 cEXCISION OF JOINTS. 402 required, and that proved insufficient to save the patient. In short, the results of excision of the knee- joint do not justify its repetition. Tlie articulating ends of the bones composing the shoulder-joint have been removed; and this may be done with advantage on account either of disease or of injury. This joint is, like others, liable to ulcer- ation of the cartilages, either primary, or in conse- quence of abscess and degeneration of the soft parts around. The disease is attended usually with pain- ful feelings increased by motion, and the patient is indisposed to attempt motion. Sometimes merely weakness of the limb is complained of, and the atten- tion is drawn to the wasted appearance of the mus- cles, particularly of the upper arm ; the deltoid seems shrunk almost to nothing. The motions above the shoulder are lost; and abduction is impracticable. Much pain is produced by pushing sharply the arti- culating surfaces into contact, and is further increased by rotation. The enforcement of strict and absolute rest of the joint, the establishment of a drain in the soft parts immediately neighbouring, and attention to the general health, often prove sufficient to arrest the progress of this disease. If, however, it is neglected, abscess forms sooner or later. On opening this, and introducing the finger, the joint is discovered to be open; the head of the bone is found detached from the soft parts, and unsupported. Or this state of parts may be ascertained to exist by examination through a sinus, either with a probe, or with the finger after dilatation. In these circumstances, an attempt may403 EXCISION OF JOINTS. be made to check disease, and preserve the arm, by excision of the obnoxious parts of the bone. And this kind of operation is also justifiable when the head of the humerus has been shattered by musket shot; or when it has been exposed and injured by a splinter, or by a large shot, and the joint laid open. The situation and course of the incisions will be so far regulated by the openings or wounds already existing. They should always be made in the direction of the fibres of the deltoid, and the posterior aspect of the articulation is preferable to the anterior. One inci- sion, from the back of the acromion process to near the insertion of the muscle, is sufficient to expose the head of the bone, to allow all its remaining attach- ments to be separated, and to admit of its being turned out so as to be conveniently acted on by the saw. Merely the head is taken away. In sepa- rating the soft parts from its neck, the edge of the knife should be always directed to the bone, to avoid the nerves and vessels on the inside. In some cases of injury, very little additional wound may be requi- site. The glenoid cavity may, in consequence of being seriously involved in disease, also require removal; this is best accomplished by large cross-cutting pliers. Few vessels require ligature. The edges of the wound are brought together; and the elbow is supported, and the arm fixed to the trunk, in order to keep the bones in apposition, and prevent motion. This posi- tion must be retained during the rest of the cure ; and when the wound is on the outside of the shoul- der, as recommended, the dressing of it does not in-EXCISION OF JOINTS. 404 terfere with the retentive apparatus. The discharge gradually ceases, and cicatrisation is obtained, though not till after a considerable time, at least in general. The cut ends of the bones accommodate themselves to each other, and a sort of new joint is formed—but never strong. The motions of the forearm are per- fect, though perhaps weakened ; those of the upper arm are very incomplete. I have both performed and assisted in the operation frequently, and never expe- rienced any difficulty; a cure has not always fol- lowed, but in some cases the limb has become very useful. The elbow-joint, on account of its exposed condi- tion, is generally regarded as the most favourable for excision. As to the truth of this opinion, there is great room for doubt. The affections of the joints of the upper extremity are much more manageable than those of the lower, and may generally be pre- vented from proceeding so far as to end in destruc- tion of the apparatus. By care and good manage- ment, disease will be ai'rested, and the functions and motions of the parts restored and preserved; or the articulation may become stiff, and even though the anchylosis be complete, the limb will be v^ry useful if the joint have been kept in a good position. The health, if previously undermined, is renovated, so soon as the local disease is arrested. But some bad cases are met with, in which all the parts surround- ing the articulation are involved, and the strength wasted; in these, amputation is the only safe and effectual procedure. It is only when the soft parts are not much diseased, when it is ascertainable that405 EXCISION OF JOINTS. the affection of the bone is only to a limited extent, and when the usual means of cure have had a fair trial and failed, that excision is admissible. In de- termining on the operation, the time of life and the worldly circumstances of the patient are to be con- sidered ; a poor man requires his limb to be service- able in labour, handsome appearance without utility is to him of no value. The motion and usefulness of the arm may be in a great measure preserved, if only a part of the bone of the arm, or a part of those of the forearm, entering into the articulation, be removed ; but if large portions of all of these be taken away, the muscles will lose their support, the motions will never be restored to any extent, and the motion that is will be weak and vacillating. The joint will remain loose and powerless, and the limb will prove to be but a useless incumbrance. Such, at least, is the result of my experience on this subject; and I am sorry to add, that all which has been writ- ten on it is not deserving of unreserved belief. Many patients have, after long and severe suffering, preserved the arm to little purpose; others have been necessitated to submit to another operation— amputation after all; some have died after the first, others after the second mutilation. The operation is attended with no difficulty in execution, and this in some measure accounts for its frequent, and it is to be suspected, indiscriminate, performance of late years. The incisions are made on the posterior aspect of the joint. One is placed in the mesial line, extending from about two inches above the ole- cranon to the same distance below it; and from406 EXCISION OF JOINTS. this flaps are raised, by making either a cross-cut in the middle, or one at each extremity ; in the one case the flaps are four, and triangular ; in the other, two, and quadrangular; by either method the bones are readily exposed. The joint is open- ed and dislocated, and the soft parts separated to the necessary extent from the bones. The ulnar nerve is avoided by dissecting close to the bone. The diseased portions are then sawn oflf. The wound is closed, and the arm kept bent. By the sanguine supporters of this operation, the after treatment is advised to be conducted so as to secure motion in the new articulation. From this I would dissent, for if the articulating ends of the bones have been actually cut off, the motion may be exten- sive enough certainly, but both joint and limb will be almost altogether impotent. It would be better to procure anchylosis in the bent position, than to have the arm dangling like a flail; in the one case the limb will be useful; in the other, ornament, and that too of an equivocal kind, is all that it can boast. Even anchylosis, in most cases, can be brought about only after the lapse of a long period. In the more severe affections of this joint, amputation of the limb is the operation which must ultimately be had recourse to, if the patient survive; and it is better to perform this at once, than after the experi- ment of excision has been tried and found wanting. I am well aware that parents have had to regret and mourn bitterly their having departed from sound advice, and lent themselves to such experimental trials on their offspring.[ 407 ] In illustration of what has been said in these pages regarding the success attendant on the lateral method of lithotomy, when properl)^ conducted, the following list is subjoined of cases operated on by me in the Royal Infirmary. The accuracy of this statement can be authenticated by reference to the records of the house. For this reason I prefer limiting the.list, instead of republishing that given in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, No. 95, for April 1828, with the addition of my other cases, in private, since that period—though this would show an equally favourable result. Some cases, in which stones have been broken down and extracted by the urethra, are of course omitted in this list, as well as others in which concretions lodged in the urethra have been extracted by inci- sion of the perineum. It may require explanation why, in 1830, no pa- tients were cut for stone by me in the Royal Infir- mary. This can be given very shortly. By placard- ing in the streets, and such like means, a good many were induced to apply elsewhere. About the half of these individuals were cured; at least such is the statement of the result published and uncontradicted.[ 408 ] Some writers on medical statistics will find, in the following table, a refutation of their statements re- specting the proportion of calculous disorders in Scot- land :— Name. Age. Place of Abode. Occupation. Date of Operation. Result. i^alculi. \^iictl ICS \jriUSUll flino I 1 R->K O Ullt! 1> iO—O 1 1 \y 11(11 i.Co X 1 dac 1 OtJ IVlllL/ctl iilllt!sll* urniGr Alio- 9A 1898 1 01 clllVCl til LdUU Ul cl Cpnt 91 1898 r»ii rckH >U1 cU 1 An/lfPTO" lillltlTI Do HiUlIiUUl fiTlL if f n -/Ul t?U 1 IVl "f C AlovQll/IOl' OO ILLU* Mrtv 1^1 A9ft 1 TnliTi Tirnwn wUiii JL^J. yj *» 11 Ditto ilQi n t pi» l^dl 11 IiXjX Dec 10 1828 curGd 1 \jrcuJt£tJ XYXixiit:; rkfsi vcni I'P iTj-LFi ci Y anil c 1 <i>i liJd Fpb 189q I'lirpn 1 X ^ t nri P n a vpyi wed V Cl Anril 6 189Q John Cuddy 26 Lasswade porter May 31, 1829 curec 3 Alex. Darling 6 Edinburgh Oct. 16, 1829 curet 1 John Duncan 17 Arbroath Mar. 8, 1829 curec 1 John Hay 32 Alloa labourer Mar. 21, 1831 1 Henry Hinde 20 County Down ditto. Sept. 22,1831 curec 1 David Law 60 Montrose sailor Oct. 2, 1831 curec 2 M. M'Lauglilin 56 Londonderry labourer Nov. 23,1831 ciu-ec 1 John Davidson 60 Arbroath ditto. April 3, 1832 curec 1 John Bishop 6 Edinburgh Apr. 16, 1832 curec 1 James Sherrat 67 Montrose labourer May 21, 1832 curec 1 James Mellis 56 BanflFshire farmer June 4, 1832 curec 1 Robert Young 42 Prestonpans carter Sept. 12,1832 curec 1 Alex. Dunbar 73 Strathdon farmer Sept. 16,1832 curec 3 Wm. Webster 65 Old Meldrum ditto. Oct. 3, 1832 curec 2 .James Skinner 46 BanflF cooper Oct. 17, 1832 cured] 1 Of these twenty-three, two have died—one from the effects of the operation, the other from disease totally unconnected with it. The cases were not picked. Every patient who presented himself was operated on. John Hay, a man of lax habit, scarcely recovered from the shock of the operation,—by no means tedious, and imattended with loss of blood—but continued low 1 V[ 409 ] and gradually sinking; tympanitis supervened, and he died on the third day. No traces either of inflam- matory action or of urinary infiltration could be dis- covered. Charles Fraser made a very favourable recovery from the operation. The urine passed by the ure- thra on the tenth day, and the closure of the wound advanced rapidly. He was seized, however, with typhoid symptoms, accompanied vi^ith erratic erythe- ma of the feet and forearm, and died on the twenty- second day—dissection showing nothing in the uri- nary organs at all connected with his decease. The typhoid erythema was at the time epidemic. THE END. BDINUUttOH : PRINTED BV BALLANTVNE AND COMPANY, PAUL'S WORK, CANONOATE. 1\r