21 last month, which at 12s. per hundred cost the Hospital £28 16s.” “ Complaint has been made to me by the matron that an altercation was occasioned in Charlotte ward between two Patients, in consequence of one of them having stated that a Pupil came into the ward at a late hour (about twelve at night), and either sat or lay on the bed of the other patient. She told, first, the nurse of the ward, who appeared to take part with the accused party, and she having rather coarsely designated this other patient for, as she supposed, encouraging the Pupil, the nurse thought proper to taunt her with her having received the sacrament. This patient has been in the Hospital before, and on both occasions has conducted herself with great propriety. The only fault appears to have been the coarse term which she applied to the other Patient, but which there is too much reason to fear she has in some degree subjected herself.” “ Finding the difficulty of obtaining creditable women for assistant nurses, who can write, I have thought proper to suggest that it would be better to relax from the plan re- quiring all to write. It is found, that only the very refuse, who can write, offer themselves for such situations, whereas of those that cannot write, very creditable and suitable might be obtained, and the possibility of danger may be obviated, by requiring the nurse to get up, whenever medicine is required to be given during the night, which is found not to occur, on an average, more than once in a week, in each ward. I have directed that the matron present one of these assistants, who cannot write (hired last week), to the Committee to-day, that they may have an opportunity of judging of the persons refused under the present regulations and to decide the question.” “ But there are a great number of patients to whom porter might be beneficial, tho’ not so necessary as to justify the medical gentlemen in putting the Hospital to the expense ; but they themselves, or their friends might supply them. The objection has been that porter would be improperly