8i Dressing all sorts of Flesh, Fowl, and Fish. By Hannah Woolley. To which is Added : The Ladies Physical Closet : or Excellent Receipts, and Rare Waters for Beautifying the Face and Body. London, printed by E. Milbourn, for N. Crouch, in Exchange- Alley over against the Royall-Exchange in Cornhil, 1672. B. M. A to Q in twelves ; only two leaves in A and four in Q. Pages 1-300 followed by bills of fare and table of contents ; the pagination is continuous throughout, but “ The Exact Cook” has a separate title- page, dedication, and headlines, and “ The Ladies Physical Closet ” has a separate title-page, headlines, and a final note. The title-pages are :— (1) The Exact Cook : or Excellent Receipts for Cookery, being the True way of Dressing all sorts of Flesh, Fowls, and Fish, with the best Directions for making of all manner of Cickshawes, Pyes, and the most curious Sauces : whereby Noble Persons and others in their Hospitalities, may be gratifyed in their gusto’s. By Hannah Wolley. London, printed by E. Milbourn, for Nathaniel Crouch, 1672. (2) The Ladies Physical Closet, or Choice Receipts and Experiments in Physick and Chyrurgery. With some Excellent Waters for Beautifying and Adorning the Face and Body. And some Rare Receipts in Cookery ; with Bills of Fare for all the Seasons in the Year. London, printed by Tho. Milbourn for Nath. Crouch, 1672. The frontispiece—a lady and her cook in the kitchen—is the same as that in the 1662 edition of “ The Ladies Directory ” ; the word “ de- light ” is substituted for “ directory.” The B. M. has a German edition of this book, entitled “ Frauen-Zimmers Zeit-Vertreib,” printed at Hamburg in 1674. The name is given as Anna Wolley. It has a somewhat similar frontispiece by Hensbergen. THE GENTLEWOMANS COMPANION; or, a guide to the Female Sex : containing Directions of Behaviour, in all Places, Companies, Relations, and Condi- tions, from their Childhood down to Old Age, viz., as, Children to Parents. ] f Huswifes to the House. Scholars to Governours. | | Mistresses to Servants. Single to Servants. }► Mothers to Children. Virgins to Suitors. j j Widows to the World. Married to Husbands. j [ Prudent to all. G