29 her wonderfull preservation.” The whole pamphlet is in- teresting. As was mentioned above, the bodies of criminals were handed over to their friends on payment of fees. If these were not forthcoming the hangman sold the bodies to surgeons; According to “ An accurate description of Newgate,” by B. L., 1729, the price varied from ten shillings to half-a-crown: In 1752, Surgeon’s Hall was built for the purpose of dissection, which was sometimes ordered as part of the sentence, and which was apparently carried on in public, for in the Annual Register for 1785 (April 13), there is mention of a murderer who was much shocked at the idea of dissection. “ The horrid spectacle he had seen there of several murderers, from time to time, made a deep impression upon his mind.” Several attempts have been made to utilize condemned criminals for surgical experiments, but all seem to have failed. In 1731, Charles Ray was reprieved on condition that Cheselden should perforate the drum of his ear to find out whether the perforation would cause deafness. Un- fortunately, the man fell ill of a fever before the operation, and the public became so excited that the experiment was stopped. In 1763, a man was reprieved on condition of per- mitting his leg to be cut off and a new styptic tried upon it. This man was inconsiderate enough to die before the trial could be made. In 1767, John Benham was reprieved for a similar purpose, as was imagined, but when Mr. Pierce, who had prepared a new styptic, waited upon the Secretary of State to find whether he might experiment, he was told that the intention was entirely laid aside, His Majesty being of opinion that it was quite improper to try such experiment. Distinguished murderers were honoured by having their skins tanned and distributed. I have a piece of the skin of Burke which was once in a museum at Distington. Accord- ing to Baring Gould* this was “ a favourite Yorkshire custom.” In the museum of the Bristol Royal Infirmary is * Yorkshire Oddities, II., 271.