22 introduced to other patients, but this might be obviated by the apothecary giving a ticket to such patients as might have (a pint more or less) porter, and the assistant of the ward getting it daily for them. ... I have made personal and other enquiries at several of the Hospitals, and find that at St. Thomas’s the nurses are allowed to bring in porter for patients who can buy it, and when not forbidden by medical men, and it is ordered from whom the patients think proper.” “ On Saturday a patient named Habfield, formerly a grocer of Aldgate, was buried in the Hospital ground. On Monday morning some wretches had disinterred the body, but some of the patients saw them from the ward windows (about 5 o’clock) and the fellows left the body in a sack partially covered, in the ground to the horror and disgust of all who saw it. The man was 76 years of age, and being in a state of putrefaction the parts of the body which were exposed through the broken sack, all the thighs and legs, were denuded of the skin, and of course presented a shocking sight. Having gone to see it, I directed the immediate reinterment.” Here, however, is an entry which is often found in Hospital reports of to-day :— “ Potatoes very bad ; frequent complaints have been made to the Contractor, but no remedy.” I have a few old prints of the Hospital, also “ An account of the rise, progress, and state of the London-Hospital, or Infirmary ; ; . . from the first institution on the 3d of November, 1740, to the 17th of March, 1750-51 inclusive.” This document has, at its head, an engraving after Hogarth. The expense of maintenance from March, 1750, to March, 1751, was £3,063 14s. 6d. I have also “ Rules and orders for the London-Hospital, as reviewed, enlarged, and confirmed by a General Quarterly Court, held the 15th of December, 1756.” This last pamphlet sheds much light on many of the entries in Mr. Valentine’s report books. The full diet for patients in 1756 included “ three pints of beer in summer, one quart in winter ” ; middle diet, “ 1 pint of beer ” ; low diet, “ no beer.” Jews were “ to be allowed two-pence