25 her husband, as her head, which, if she transgresses, is called by the law, a small, or light degree of treason. “ For this offence, and in order to deter women from break- ing their marriage vows (and from the evidence we have heard given, you have done), the law has stamped a punishment full of ignominy upon such offenders. “ The sentence which the law obliges me to pass upon you, is, That you, Elizabeth Boardingham, shall be led from this to the gaol from whence you came, and from thence upon Wednesday next, you shall be drawn upon a hurdle to the place of execution, and there you are to be burnt with fire till you are dead, and your body consumed to ashes. There is nevertheless, such a spirit of lenity in the common law of this country, tho’ this is the sentence you have received, and, for my own part, do not believe that sentence could ever be more properly executed in the strict letter thereof, than upon you, however severe the punishment is, that you, who have been found guilty of a crime of the greatest magnitude, are con- demned to undergo, the law has allowed some mitigation : You are first to be strangled at a stake, and then to be burnt with fire. You have reason to admire the excellency of that constitution by which you have been tried and found guilty.” It is difficult to see what Elizabeth had to “ admire ” or to discover the “ spirit of lenity in the common law ” which for ioi years after this date condemned men, women, and children to capital punishment for small thefts.* Davey in his “ Pageant of London,” states that Christine Murphy, strangled on March 18, 1789, was the last woman whose body was burnt in London. As an undergraduate I had the privilege of many walks with Canon Liddon. On one of these he poured out his indignation on the bench of Bishops who had been doing some- * In Scotland capital punishment was inflicted for very slight offences against morality. In 1630 Alexander Blair was beheaded for living with his first wife’s half-brother’s daughter.” In 1705 one Drysdale was banished for life for cohabiting once only with Barbara Tannahill, his deceased wife’s sister. Barbara herself was hanged.