4 Many of my boxes are very pretty. One is of leather with a glass bead top. Another consists of an iron plate inlaid with gold and pierced with holes for four pegs which are in a drawer below ; it stands on four legs. The most costly is a silver box, with four counters of almost pure gold, engraved by Loos. On the obverse of each of these is the representa- tion of some classical story, Atalanta, Argus, etc. ; on the reverse is an appropriate German motto. None of the boxes I have seen look older or bear an earlier hall mark than 1760. But there is another form of earlier date which seems to have been used for whist, as the boxes sometimes bear a dial on which the numbers run from one to ten. The complete form consists of a box containing four smaller boxes in which are counters. There are three complete specimens in the British Museum, two of ivory, and one of straw. One of the sets in ivory has a dial on each cover, and bears the inscription “ Mariaval le jeune a Paris fecit.” I have a complete set in ivory by the same maker— Mr. Alfred Trapnell has two, but one set has lost the enclosing box—and also three sets made of wood, gilt and painted, with markers of ivory. These complete sets are rare, al- though I have sometimes bought or been offered odd boxes. They all seem to be of a date between 1660 and 1720. Whist markers disappeared in the Victorian era. The latest in my collection is a German one, the counters of which are inscribed with the battles of the Franco-German War of 1870. Card tables sometimes have four hollows to contain the players’ counters. Where these hollows did not exist, it was convenient for each player to have a receptacle at his side, while there was a larger one in the centre of the table for the pool. * The most artistic of these were made of Battersea enamel, and they are the most common, although it is not easy to pick up a set of five. The five trays have the same pre- dominating colour throughout. Mr. Stoner, who is an authority on Battersea enamel, has seen six varieties, viz.,