28 time thumping her on the breast, others hanging with all their weight upon her legges ; sometimes lifting her up, and then pulling her downe againe with a suddaine jerke, thereby the sooner to dispatch her out of her paine, insomuch that the Under-Sheriffe fearing lest thereby they should breake the rope, forebad them to do so any longer. At length when every one thought she was dead, the body being taken downe, and put into a coffin, was carried thence into a private house, where some Physicians had appointed to make a Dissection. The coffin being opened, she was observed to breath, and in breathing (the passage of her throat being streightened) ob- scurely to ruttle ; which being perceived by a lusty fellow that stood by, he (thinking to do an act of charity in ridding her out of the small reliques of a painfull life) stamped severall times on her breast and stomack with all the force he could. Immediately after, there came in Dr. Petty, our Anatomy- Professor, and Mr. Thomas Willis, of Christ-Church, at whose comming, which was about 9 a clock in the morning, she yet persisted to ruttle as before, laying all this while stretched out in the coffin in a cold roome and season of the yeare. They perceiving some life in her, as well for humanity as their Profession-sake, fell presently to act in order to her recovery. . . . Whilst the Physicians were thus busie in recovering her to life, the undersheriffe was solliciting the Governor and the rest of the Justices of Peace for the obtaining her reprieve, that in case she should for that present be recovered fully to life, shee might not bee had backe againe to execution. Whereupon those worthy gentlemen, considering what had happened, weighing all circumstances, they readily appre- hended the hand of God in her preservation, and being willing rather to co-operate with divine providence in saving her, than to overstriene justice by condemning her to double shame and sufferings, they were pleased to grant her a re- preive untill such time as her pardon might be compleatly obtained.” Ultimately Anne Greene “ had liberty to re- paire (and is since gone) unto her friends in the Country ; taking with her the Coffin wherein she lay, as a Trophey of this