19 The last entry is a list of plays which he wants to be put on, one being “ The child and her doll,” which, “ if not produced soon, Miss Poole will be too old and the effect lost unless another clever child turns up.” (2) Far more interesting to me than Pocock’s Dramatic Mems. is the weekly report book of the Rev. W. Valentine, who was chaplain and house governor to the London Hospital. Two volumes covering the years 1826-1830 were knocked down to me at Puttick and Simpson’s for three shillings and sixpence. Mr. Valentine appeals to me in many ways. He was a parson, so am I. He was connected with the London Hospital where I was a student for four or five happy years. As I am, so was he, a collector, for on Nov. 27, 1827, he reports,- “ During last week I was not a little alarmed for my Black Letter riches, in consequence of an unusual degree of heat through the wall where the flue of the Chapel and passage stove passes in my Library.” I can even recall enough of my youthful curate days to understand his weakness in showing decided preferences for those of the staff who were regular at Chapel. It was this weakness which caused trouble, for the diary of these years is full of two battles which he was for ever fighting against the apothecary and the cook, both of whom entirely neglected his ministrations. The diary un- fortunately ends with the fate of the contests still undecided. Some day I must revisit “ The London,” and ask the Secretary to tell me the result. In June, 1826, Mr. Valentine writes a long report of six pages to the Committee who had been weak enough to sustain an appeal of the cook against an order of his that the porters should dine in the kitchen. The porters are mentioned in subsequent entries as being regular at Chapel. The Com- mittee, at the cook’s request, had ordered that the porters should dine in the outer kitchen, and in spite of the six pages refuse to reverse their decision. One would think the porters would have rather dined at a safe distance from the cook, whom one of them described as being “ more like a tiger than