1 7 I have also made a series of London vinaigrettes, and have a run from 1797 to 1821, with the one exception of 1820. Birmingham vinaigrettes are far more common and go further back. I possess one of 1796 and have seen one of 1791. It is interesting to notice the change in the perforated plate from perfect simplicity to lavish ornament. There is not a great variety in the form of the box itself. Circular ones for suspension are the rarest and are nearly all of Birming- ham make, though I have a London one of the year 1816. I have an oval one for suspension bearing the London mark for 1803, which is unlike any other I have ever seen ; and another of most unusual shape with the Birmingham mark for 1801. There are other silver boxes for holding perfume which are worth collecting. Pomanders are, of course, out of the question, but I have collected several little boxes which unscrew top aqd bottom, the top compartment having a perforated plate. I used to think these were for holding pounce and wafers; but Mr. Drane, of Cardiff, who seems to know all that is to be known about everything, insisted they were for liquid and solid perfume, and I have been converted to his opinion by finding remains of the latter in a specimen lately bought. They are sometimes in the shape of a vase, oftener in the shape of an egg ; all my specimens are of foreign make. The finest has the cover made into a whistle. It is in its original red leather case and is stamped on one side with MEW and the other with 1736 ; on the bottom is I W. I have also a few little bottles used for scent. One is a silver mounted nut engraved A J S, 1748. Another has E A on one side,- on the other a double-headed eagle with a cursive E A below ; at the bottom is the maker’s mark, IN STER- LING, i.e., John Nicolson of Cork. At one time I collected nutmeg boxes with much vigour, and have now over 150 in silver, beside others made of Batter- sea enamel, wood, Sheffield plate, iron, brass, ivory, etc. This is not such a numerous collection as that of Mr. Guy Oswald Smith, which was for some time exhibited at South J