20 a woman,” but on July 4, Mr. Valentine once more pleads for them “ as being entitled to consideration and to be made comfortable, but now they are made exceedingly uncomfort- able, and no single reason have I heard stated for the arrange- ment which makes them so, except forsooth that a cook requires a kitchen of 30 feet by 20 as a kind of whited sepul- chre for herself alone.” To this the Chairman adds a note} “ In order that silence may not be again construed into appro- bation, I must object to the style of this as I have of some former reports.” So long as there were no complaints about the cooking, the Committee were probably wise in supporting the human tigress in spite of her neglect of Chapel, and her unwillingness to have the porters dining in her kitchen. But it seems strange that they did not get rid of Mr. Valentine’s other enemy the apothecary. This official should have combined . the duties of a resident medical officer and a head dispenser: But he neglected the dispensary, kept his books in an unin- telligible manner, practised out of doors, kept late hours, was sometimes out all night, and was frequently drunk. On one occasion he is said to have been “ in the pupils’ rooms in such a state as to allow the Pupils to smear butter over his head under the pretence of suiting the action to the words, which were in shape of professions of determination to stand by him.” Shortly afterwards, “ the Patrol came to the Hospital stating that the apothecary came to the gates of the Hospital about two or three o’clock that morning in a coach, and he being very intoxicated the coachman imposed on him.” Yet all the Committee did was to reprimand him and raise his salary. There are many entries in the report book which show the enormous change which the last 70 years have brought about in hospital life. “ In case of operation an additional woman shall be hired* till the Surgeon might deem haemorrhage no longer to be apprehended.” “ The expenditure of leeches, amounting to 4,800 in the