27 In the 18th century when criminals were brought to life, they were usually transported. I have an engraving of William Duell, aged 16, who revived after execution, and references to many others who had a similar experience. But in early days they were strung up again without hesitation. In the register of St. George’s Church, Southwark, 1610, is the entry, “ Michael Banks, out of King’s Bench Prison. Executed. Did revive again. Was in the vestry three hours, and was then carried back and executed again.” I have a little book called “ A murderer punished and pardoned,” which relates “ the wicked life and shameful-happy death of Thomas Savage,” who was hanged on Oct. 28, 1668, at the age of 15, for killing his fellow-servant. “ After he was turned off the cart he struggled for a while, heaving up his body, which a young man (his friend) seeing, to put him quickly out of his pain, struck him with all his might on the breast several times together, then no motion was perceived in him, and hanging some considerable time after that, . . . the Sheriff commanded him to be cut down. . . : Layed upon a Table, unto the astonishment of the beholders, he began to stir and breathe. . . . But his reviving being known, within four hours the officers came to the house where he was, and conveyed him to the place of execution again, and hung him up again, until he was quite dead, whence he was con- veyed by his mourning friends to Islington, where he now sleepeth in the bed of his grave, until the morning of the Resurrection, from whence though buried in dishonour, he will then be raised in glory.” The classic instance, of course, is that of Anne Greene, aged 22, who was hanged at Oxford in 1651. The narrative is to be found in “ Newes from the Dead,” a pamphlet written by Richard Watkins, of Christ Church, and of which there were at least two editions. To the story are added English and Latin “ poems casually written upon that subject.” Christopher Wren and Anthony a Wood are among the poets. “ She was turned off the Ladder, hanging by the neck for the space of almost half-an-houre, some of her friends in the mean 4