30 a book bound witlTthe tanned skin of John Horwood, a lad of 18, who was hanged for murder in 1821. In the Athenaeum at Bury St. Edmunds is one bound with the skin of William Corder, who was hanged in 1828. The fame of this latter worthy is commemorated by a Staffordshire figure of the Red Barn, which was the scene of the murder. Other murderers were honoured by medals. I have one of James Blomfield Bird, who murdered the Jeremy’s in 1848, and two of I. Curtis, who was executed for the murder of a Jew named Wolf Myers, near Sarum, in 1768. Curtis “ denied the fact to the last, though carried round the pit where the dead body was found,” before being hanged. The larger medal, two inches in diameter, gives a representation of the pit; the smaller one, which is a half-penny smoothed and engraved, depicts Curtis hanging in chains. Sarah Malcolm, hanged in 1733, seems to be the only murderer who was honoured by a Whieldon plaque. The Chaplain of Newgate regularly issued an account of the behaviour, confession, and dying words of condemned criminals. According to “ An accurate description of New- gate ” his salary was very meagre, and as he received no dues, this was his only method of adding to it. The earliest I have ever possessed was issued in 1738, and gives an account of 18 criminals, of whom five, one “ a little girl, convicted of steal- ing money,” were reprieved, the other 13 were hanged together at Tyburn. Four were women, two only 20 years of age, convicted of stealing ; one of the others had murdered her new-born baby. She was the only one of the 13 who had committed a more serious offence than robbery. The Chap- lain says of each, with hardly any variation in the words, “ He begged pardon of God and man ; believed in Christ, and died in peace with all the world.” Similar accounts have been published up to modern times, though not by prison Chaplains. I have a curious reference to this in a letter written by a Joseph Jackson the day before he was hanged. “ My brother will call upon you and give you every information in his power relative to my life, etc.,