9 Nutmeg boxes usually bear the London or Birmingham mark. I have only one Irish and one Scotch. The former is a beautiful Dublin one of the year 1789, the latter is a poor specimen and undated. The only two boxes, whose original owners are known to me by name, belonged to Beau Brummel and Southey. The first, engraved with a B on the cover and made in London in 1782 by Thomas Phipps and Edward Robinson, who were the principal makers of these boxes, was sold at Christie’s with other relics of Brummel in 1899. The other was sold in the Walter collection in 1904 in the West of England. Inside is a note in Mr. Walter’s writing, “ This nutmeg grater belonged to Southey the Poet, given to me by his grand-daughter.” It bears the London hall mark of 1786. Snuff boxes are really barred by my second rule, but I have a dozen or so. One, with the Exeter mark for 1805, is in the shape of a coffin as was that of Mr. Sowerberry in “ Oliver Twist.” I have seen another of the same dismal shape. A second is a very fine specimen, silver gilt, with the London mark for 1805, opening top and bottom for two different kinds of snuff, and bearing the crest of the Prince of Wales. A third, very small, made in Birmingham in 1808, is interesting from its containing at one end a vinaigrette ; it perhaps belonged to a lad}7. Best of all I like to collect small articles which are unique, or, at any rate, very rare. If I could afford it, I would collect pomanders. But I have been able to get together several interesting things at a far less price. Some have been men- tioned ; others are a little box with a wonderful double hinge of the year 1800 ; a little sweetmeat box, fully marked, of the year 1687 ; a travelling candlestick of 1795 ; a toy tea- pot of William III. ; a shagreen case with sugar tongs and six spoons of the same reign ; a wine cup of 1710, a memento mori. I often wish I had collected old silver with more vigour. Every year the price goes up. And yet it is only about forty years ago, at Lord Willoughby d’Eresby’s sale, that Christie’s