8 Kensington, and which is described in the Connoisseur for November, 1907 ; but I have all his varieties except the cylinder, dated 1818, in plate B. These boxes go back to the Stuart period, and died out in the early days of Queen Victoria. The earliest marked specimen I have seen was of the year 1695, but there seemed more serious objections to it than its price. The next earliest, bearing a date letter, is a London one of 1774 in my possession. These boxes were carried about for each man to spice his punch to his liking. The typical variety is a small box opening at the top for the grater and at the bottom for the nutmeg, but they were also made in the shape of eggs, vases, barrels, cylinders, etc. A useful variety is one which con- tains a corkscrew. The earliest boxes are either in the shape of a heart, opening top and bottom, or of a cylinder with two compart- ments, one shallow for the nutmeg, the other deep for a circular grater. None of mine have any mark except that of the maker. Several are marked T K in a shield, which does not correspond with any of those given in Jackson. Though nutmeg boxes must have been in very common use—a grater is generally found in old cases of implements— there are very few allusions to them in books. Edward Fitzgerald in a letter writes of one in his possession, and Charles Dickens mentions them in the last chapter of “ David Copperfield,” and in “ The Battle of Life.” They often bear inscriptions. On one, which I found in Munich, bearing the Birmingham mark of 1807, is “ Zum Andenken ” ; on another, “ Sans cet ami point de vie ” ; on an early one by T. K., “ Mary Moss anno 1710. Amoris tela omium quaerela ” ; the engraver perhaps is responsible for the mistake. About 1805 a larger variety came into use which was not for the pocket but to hang in the room. It consists of a grater, semi-cylindrical in shape, with a box underneath for the nutmeg. At this time the ordinary boxes tended to become larger and were for the table rather than for the pocket.