183 INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. isarl nee. The large or middle menimjeal artery, ascends to the head leneath the external pterygoid muscle, and enters the skull hrough the foramen spinosum (p. 119). It supplies branches to he temporal and external pterygoid muscles, an olfset to the ympanum through the Glaserian fissure, and the following :—■ Small meningeal branch, c. Arising from the large meningeal, t enters the skull through the foramen ovale: an offset is fur- lished outside the skull to the internal pterygoid with the branch f nerve to that muscle. INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. The branches of the inferior maxillary nerve, whose lettering corresponds with that in Plate xx., are here traced backwards to he foramen of exit of their trunk from the skull. 1. Auriculo-temporal nerve. 2. Inferior dental nerve. 3. Gustator}'- nerve. 4. Masseteric branch, cut. 5. Buccal branch. Chorda tympani nerve. Mylo-hyoid branch. Deep temporal branch, Branch to the external pterygoid. Branch to the internal pterygoid. The inferior 7naxillary or the third trunk of the fifth cranial ' lerve (Plate xiii.) leaves the skull by the foramen ovale, and |5plits at once into two under the external pterygoid muscle, viz.— m anterior small part, and a posterior large part. And as the aerve is composed of a motor and a sensory root (p. 117), the function bestowed by its offsets will be determined by their receiving filaments from only one or from both roots. The small piece of the nerve breaks up into branches to most of the muscles of mastication as below:— The masseteric branch, 3, courses above the pterygoideus ex-, ;ernus and through the sigmoid notch to the under surface of its muscle, in whose fibres it can be followed nearly to the anterior edge: it gives an offset to the back of the temporal muscle. The deep temporal branch, 8, is directed upwards on the skull into the fibres of the temporal muscle, and usually with an artery of the same name. The buccal branch, 5, pierces the external pterygoid, and is continued over the buccinator towards the corner of the mouth ;