NERVES IN THE POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. 145 The great aurkidar nerve, 3, courses near the external jugular in to the lobe of the ear, and ends in the integuments of the ider and outer parts of the pinna. One offset joins the pos- ior auricular nerve, 14, and others are directed forwards to the eguments over the parotid gland : some long slender branches ss through the parotid to join the facial nerve (Plate xvii.)- iThe small occipital nerve, 4, lies along the posterior border of ije sterno-mastoideus, and perforating the deep cervical fascia r ar the head, ramifies in the scalp of the occipital region. The superficial cervical nerve, 5, is often represented by several lall nerves, as in the Drawing, and is therefore very variable in size : it is distributed to the platysma, and to the integuments the neck in fi'ont of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Descending tranches. The chief of these, two or three in 1 mber, belong to the teguments of the shoulder and the upper ' ]rt of the thorax; but some offsets are directed backwards to the iteguments over the trapezius muscle, from the clavicle nearly to t3 head. A large nerve, 6, divides into three :—one crosses the attach- 3nt of the sterno-mastoideus to the clavicle, another lies over 3 insertion of the trapezius into the same bone, and the third )sses the middle of the clavicle; they extend two or three inches low the collar bone, the inner nerves reaching least far. Muscular offsets. Only a few of these are now visible. One, len j enters the levator anguli scapulae. Others, 9, pass beneath 3 trapezius supplying it ; and they join beneath that muscle fe\th the spinal accessory nerve, 13* Brachial yhxus.—The lower four cervical nerves, and the first fik rsal nerve (in part), give rise to the large bundles of nerves piiir irked, 11 ; but in the side view presented to the Artist the angement of the several nerves entering the plexus could not shown as in Plate xviii. The plexus extends under the clavicle to the axilla, where it miuates in nerves for the upper limb ; and all the muscular 5ets in the neck come from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, )yt'V;h the exception of small branches to the longus colli and the leni.