198 DEEP DISSECTION OF THE NECK. i i External carotid trunJc, m.—Only the lower part of the artery,: with its first branches which were not represented or only imper- ^ fecfcly in preceding Plates, has been left in the dissection. And; as the carotid begins above the nsual place these first branches! have to descend to their destined positions. The npjjer thijroid, Ic, runs over the superficial surface of the^ thyroid body, N, before entering the substance. It furnishes,i firstly, muscular offsets; next a laryngeal branch, n; and lastly,] a crico-thyroid branch, /, which lies on the membrane of the sama name, joining that of the opposite side, and would be endangeredj in the operation of laryngotomy. Lingual artery, o .—its hyoidean offset arises before the artery passes beneath the hyo-glossus, Q, and is distributed to the thyro- hyoideus, P. The facial artery, p, furnishes the following branches to the neck before it reaches the jaw :— : A tonsillitic offset, r, ascends between the pterygoideus internum and the stylo-glossus, V, and perforating the upper constrictor X, ends in the tonsil and the side of the tongue. An inferior palatine branch, s, courses along the side of th( pharynx between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus musclef to the upper border of the superior constrictor, X, where ii passes in^wards to supply the palate. It supplies muscular branches and one offset long and slender, reaches the Eustachian tube %. Other offsets of the facial, viz., submental and glandular ar seen in Plate xvii. The ascending pharyngeal artery, arises near the beginning o the external carotid, and ascends on the spinal column betweei the pharynx and the internal carotid trunk nearly to the skul Here it enters the phaiynx above the upper constrictor, and end in branches to the front and back of the soft palate ; of these th anterior are the largest, and join with corresponding branches ( the opposite side, so as to form two arches beneath the mucoii membrane—one lying near the upper, and the other near th lower edge of the velum palati (Quain) * * Fifth edition of Quain's Anatomy, 1846, p. 489.