LARYNGEAL VESSELS. 231 vocal cords, to all of which, except to the crico-thyroideus, it gives branches. But it must bestow sensibility by means of the offsets ramifying in the mucous membrane. If the recurrent nerves are cut through, the muscles are paralysed ; and as the vocal cords cannot be placed in the vocal- izing position, and cannot receive the necessary degree of laxity or tension, voice will not be produced. VESSELS OF THE LARYNX. Two arteries on each side, which are companions to the nerves, ramify in the larynx ; they are named upper and lower laryngeal. Other small arteries from the upper thyroid enter the larynx, below, by perforating the crico-thyroid membrane. a. Upper laryngeal artery. Ascending branch Descending branch f of the J upper ( artery. Communicating branch of the upper laryngeal. Communicating branch of the lower laryngeal artery. /. Muscular branch of lower laryn- geal. g. Inferior laryngeal artery. h. Branches of superior thyroid artery to the thyroid body. k. Branches of inferior thyroid ar- tery to the under part of the thyroid body. The wp'per laryngeal artery, a, resembles the nerve of the same name in its branches, but it is not distributed so exclusively to the mucous membrane. The offsets, h and c, supply the mucous membrane from the root of the tongue to the chorda vocalis; and from c, arteries are furnished to the muscles, 0, P, and Q, under the thyroid cartilage, and to the crico-thyroideus, Y. The branch, d, anastomoses with the inferior laryngeal both under the thyroid cartilage, and in the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The wferior laryngeal, g, gives branches to the posterior laryngeal muscles, R and Y, and to Q in part; and it joins the upper laryngeal outside the thyro-arytsenoideus muscle, P. Branches of it enter the mucous membrane of the pharynx, and communicate again with the upper laryngeal by the offset, e. Veins accompany the arteries. The upper laryngeal opens through the superior thyroid vein into the internal jugular trunk; and the lower sends its blood into the innominate vein along the inferior thyroid branch.