1,14 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER MAXILLARY NERVE. ascend, with a small artery to the lower eyelid and the orbicularj muscle. Its facial or terminal branches join in a plexiforn^ manner with branches of the facial nerve. It gives off the follow- ing branches:— Denial Sm^z./... .—These are usually two in number, one at the back, and the other at the front of the maxilla. The posterior branch, 1, descends on the jaw, gradually diminishing in size, and is received into a canal in the bone: Most of its branches course through the bone to supply th( grinding teeth, but one or two slender offsets are furnished t. the gums and the buccinator muscle. ' The anterior branch, 8, is conducted by a bony canal in froL of the antrum to the bicuspid and incisor teeth : it sends som filaments to the mucous lining of the nose, and joins the posteno branch. OrUtal and spJieno-paMine branches :-Opposite the sphen( maxillary fossa these remaining branches take origin. The orbital branch, 4 (temporo-malar), is a cutaneous nerve . the face and temple, and receives its designation fi^om passu through the cavity of the orbit. In the dissection it was ci necessarily by the removal of the outer wall of the orbit. In i uninjured state the nerve can be traced into the orbit, where splits into a temporal and a malar branch ; these issue to the destination through apertures in the malar bone. The spheno-palatine branches, two in number, descend benea the internal maxillary artery, and communicating with Mecke ganglion in the spheno-maxiUary fossa, supply the lining me brane of the nose and roof of the mouth ; the soft palate, and t tonsil; and the mucous lining of the pharynx near the aperti of the Eustachian tube. The upper maxillary trunk of the fifth nerve springs from Gasserian ganglion without commixture with the motor root, [ is solely a sensory nerve, like the first or ophthalmic trunk, its influence is due the sensibility of a part of the face, of teeth of the upper jaw, of the nose cavity, and of the roof of mouth and the soft palate. Facial nerve.—This branch, of rather large size, which