SUPERFICIAL VEINS OF THE NECK. 143 .nd an anterior. Only the lateral vein and its branches appear in the other is fii^ured in Plate xvi. he Drawing Tc. External jugular vein. I. Transverse cervical vein. n. Supra-scapular vein. 0. A subcutaneous vein. The external jugular vein, k, conveys blood from the head to the ubclavian vein, and gathers blood also from the superficial parts >f the neck. It begins in the parotid gland by the union of the emporal and internal maxillary veins (Plate xvii.) ; and becoming .uperficial, it descends beneath the platysma muscle, A, to the ower part of the neck, where it sinks through the fascia and ends n the subclavian vein (Plate xviii.). Its common position in the leck would be marked by a line from the angle of the jaw to the niddle of the clavicle, though in the Plate it is placed internal to hat line. At the upper part of the neck the vein is small in size, receiving )nly few branches, but for an inch and a half at the lower end, \j is dilated behind the sterno-mastoid muscle : here it receives eins from the shoulder, viz. the transverse cervical, /, the supra- capular, w, and some cutaneous veins—one being marked with o. L pair of valves exists both above and below the lower dilata- ion. The lower pair is close to the clavicle, and is less complete ,han the other, for it allows blood to pass in a reflex course from he subclavian vein. The upper pair is found just after the vein Tosses the sterno-mastoid muscle, and acts perfectly, as it permits he blood to flow only in one direction—from above down. Bloodletting in the external jugular vein, is seldom had recourse o now, but the steps of the operation are the following :—The lownward current of the blood is stopped by pressure of the' humb near the clavicle. A cut is then made obliquely upwards md b ackwards across the vein, to incise the vessel and the fibres )f the platysma to the necessary extent. As long as the pressure )n the vein remains the blood issues through the opening, but vhen the thumb is removed the flow stops, because the blood finds ts way by the usual channel into the subclavian. After the )peration is finished the wound is to be closed by adhesive )laster.