207 THE PHARYNX AND ITS MUSCLES. and with the lower end of the stylo-hyoid ligament, 0. The fibres radiate to their ending at the middle line behind, the lower passing beneath the inferior constrictor, and the upper over the superior constrictor to within an inch of the skull. The upper constrictor, C, (cephalo-pharyngeus) is fixed by its anterior edge to the following parts : to the pterygoid plate (lower third of the inner surface) and the hamular process, to the pterygo-maxillary ligament, f, to the lower jaw behind the last molar tooth, to the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, and to the side of the tongue. As the fibres pass back to the middle line, the upper form a free curved border below the skull, where the levator palati muscle E enters above them; and the lower are continued beneath the middle constrictor, and blend with fibres of the stylo-pharyngeus. When these muscles contract, they diminish the size of the pharyngeal cavity by moving forwards the loose hinder part. In swallowing, the two lowest grasp and convey onwards by successive rapid contractions the morsel of food or the drink; whilst the upper one, which is placed above the aperture of the mouth, takes little share in the process, farther than by lessening the space above the mouth, it so far assists in opposing the ascent of the food behind the soft palate. As the tonsil is covered by the upper constrictor opposite the angle of the lower jaw, it may be compressed during the action of that muscle. Elevators of the pharynx. Two muscles on each side, an external and an internal elevator, descend from the head to raise the upper part of the pharynx preparatory to swallowing. The levator pharyngis externus, D, (stylo-pharyngeus) arises from the root of the styloid process, and descends, becoming wider, between the upper and middle constrictors to be inserted mainly into the upper border of the thyroid cartila,2:e, and in part with the upper constrictor muscle. Levator pharyngis internus (salpingo-pharyngeus) is delineated in Plate xxvi. It is-a small muscular slip inside the pharynx, immediately beneath the mucous membrane, which arises by tendon from the end of the Eustachian tube, 0, and joins below the palato-pharyngeus muscle, C.