DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 222 Between the arytenoid and cricoid cartilages there is a ver moveable joint with a fibrous capsule surrounding the articula surfaces, and a synovial membrane lubricating them. In thi joint the arytsenoid cartilage can slide on the cricoid forward and backwards, and inwards and outwards ; and further, when th arytenoid is controlled by the muscles tending to draw it in oi: posite directions, it can be rotated round a vertical axis so as t move the anterior spur outwards and inwards. The condition of the vocal cord, 0, is altered by the movemeni of the cartilage. Thus it is relaxed when the arytenoid .is carrit forwards, and is tightened when the same is moved backwards and the distance of the cords from one another will be increase and diminished as the two cartilages are moved from and towar(? each other. In rotation out the cords are separated and mad tense, and in rotation in they are approached, but without bein relaxed. The smaller or accessory cartilages are articulated by hgi mentous bands, but have not moveable joints as in the largi cartilages. The cartilages of Santorini are united to the top of the arytasno: by surrounding fibrous tissue: but at times there is some ii dication of a joint between the base of the one and the apex ^ the other. The epiglottis is fixed below by a band (thyro-epiglottid) to tl thyroid cartilage, close below the notch in the upper border; ar in front it is united to the back of the hyoid bone by fibrous tissi —the hyo-epiglottid ligament. The larynx joins the trachea below by a membrane similar to th connecting the rings of this tube; and it is attached to the hyo bone above by the following ligament. The thyro-hyoid membrane, T, is thin for the most part, but forms rounded thicker cords behind—the thyro-hyoid ligameni M. It is inserted below into the upper edge of the thyro cartilage; but it is continued onwards to the upper edge of the 1 hyoides, muscles shutting it out from the lower edge of th bone : a synovial membrane intervenes between the two.