OPENINGS OF THE PHARYNX. 211 removing obstruction in the tube, or of conveying air into the tympanum. The posterior nures are the apertures of communication between {the two sides of the nose cavity and the pharynx. Each is elon- gated from above down, and will admit readily the tip of the finger. In the dried skull it is bounded by the vomer internally and the internal pterygoid plate externally, and by the body of the sphenoid above and the palate bone belowr ; but in the fresh state the bones are clothed by the mucous membrane, though without much diminution in the size of the opening. Separating the two is the septum nasi, D. These apertures allow the air to pass in and out when the 'mouth is closed. Each is very much larger than the opening in the face of the same side of the nasal cavity; and its increased size will be of use in communicating with the upper part of the nose, and in allowing the outgoing air to ascend towards the roof of the space, and warm the parts that have been rendered cooler in inspiration. When the lower jaw is immoveably fixed, liquid food can be passed into the stomach by a small flexible tube introduced into the pharynx through the nose and the posterior naris. In hasmorrhage from the half of the nose the fluid may escape by the nostril, or the posterior naris, or by both those openings when the flow of blood is great; and it may be needful to check the loss of blood by stopping both openings. The aperture in the face can be closed easily; but the posterior naris will ,have to be plugged through the mouth. The posterior opening of the mouth, M, is named isthmus faucium, and has the following bounds :—Below lies the tongue, 8; and above are the soft palate, K, and the uvula. On each side is placed the anterior arch of the palate, P, consisting of a fold of mucous membrane with fibres of the palato-glossus muscle: these folds of opposite sides constitute the pillars of the fauces. This opening marks the boundary line between the mouth and the pharynx, and all voluntary control over the morsel to be swal- lowed ceases at that spot. The anterior palatine arches on the sides of the aperture take part in the process of deglutition in