178 DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. muscle arises chiefly from the pterygoid fossa, but below from th palate and upper jaw bones by a process which extends m fron of the lower part of the external pterygoid muscle. It is mserte into the inner surface of the angle and ramus of the jaw as hig as the dental foramen. It raises the angle of the jaw in conjunction with the massete and may be considered the internal elevator of the angle. The external pterygoid muscle, B, is directed almost horizontal back and out from the base of the skull to the condyle of tl jaw. Arising fi'om the outer surface of the external pterygoi plate, and from the contiguous part of the great wing of tl sphenoid bone as high as the crest, the muscle is inserted mi the front of the neck of the lower jaw, and into the interarticuL fibro-cartilage. An interval separates the attachments to the external pterygo plate and the great wing, through which the internal maxilla artery, d, usually passes. ^ If the muscles of both sides act the jaw is moved downwar and forwards, and the front lower teeth pass beyond the upp( If only one muscle acts, say the right, it draws the condyle of t same side further into the articular socket, and causes the ch to project to the left of the middle Une of the head, the grindi: teeth of the lower jaw passing laterally over those of the upi jaw. The buccinator muscle, D, forms a thin fleshy layer in the che between the mucous membrane and the teguments. It is attact to the jaws opposite the molar teeth, and between the jaws the baik of the mouth to a fibrous band—the pterygo-maxilh ligament. Towards the corner of the mouth the fibres are agg gated together, and entering the lips blend with the orbicuki oris muscle. In the movements of the lips the muscle retracts the cor; of the mouth, and so widens that aperture, and wrinkles 1 cheek. In mastication it is applied to the jaws, and prevents the f( escaping outside the teeth; when it is paralysed the food distei it and the cheek in an inconvenient manner.