159 LIGATURE OF THE CAROTID ARTERY. sternally with the artery; and on the left side the vein advances ver it, especially lower in the neck. Three veins cross the tery;—near the chest is the anterior jugular vein, s; near the ding the upper thyroid vein ; and below, x , the middle thyroid lein. In front of the sheath, in the upper half, the descendens noni erve, 3, crosses obliquely from without inwards. Beneath the heath is the sympathetic nerve; and lower down the recurrent iryngeal nerve and inferior thyroid artery cross inwards under it. n the sheath, between the artery and vein lies the vagus nerve. No collateral offset arises commonly from the carotid artery, nd the trunk remains nearly of the same size; but not unfre- uently the upper thyroid branch d is transferred to the slight ilatation at the end. Ligature of the vessel. The part of the common carotid marked hus X is selected for ligature because it is far removed from each nd, and because it is less deep here than at a lower point. But ince the vessel may bifurcate as low as the cricoid cartilage or ven lower, two trunks instead of one may be met with at this pot. Should the point of splitting of the artery be recognised n the operation of ligature both trunks may be tied; but if the rigin of the two trunks cannot be seen in consequence of the Ttery having divided very soon, the finger may be pressed on ach, and that trunk may be tied which takes blood to the disease )r injury for which the operation was undertaken (Quain). Stejps of the operation. With the line of the vessel in mind, the tperator places the forefinger of the left hand opposite the Ticoid cartilage, and makes an incision in that line three inches n length (the finger marking the centre) through the integu- Qents, platysma, and deep fascia, down to the fibres of the sterno- nastoideus: should the cut be made too far forwards, the anterior ngular vein may be injured. Next the sterno-mastoid muscle is 0 be dissected back rather beyond the position of the artery, the lead being inclined towards the shoulder of the same side to relax ts fibres. The operator now looks for the deep guide, viz., the mgle formed below by the omo-hyoid muscle, C, and the sterno- nastoideus, A, and seeks the vessel at that spot, dissecting but