158 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE NECK. : posterior belly of the digastricus, which retain their usual posi tion, and on the extreme contraction of the other muscles. Supposing the os hyoides fixed by its depressors, the muscle used commonly as elevators of that bone will have a differen action:—those attached to the jaw may then carry it downwards so as to open the mouth ; and the lingual muscles can depres the tongue. I ARTERIES OF THE FRONT OF THE NECK. Only the carotid trunks and some branches of the externa carotid artery are visible in front of the sterno-mastoideus. a. Common carotid artery. b. External carotid artery. c. Internal carotid artery. d. Superior thyroid artery. e. Lingual artery. /. Facial artery. The common carotid trunk, a, begins opposite the sterno-clavi cular articulation, and ends at the upper edge of the thyroi cartilage by splitting into two—external and internal carotic Its situation will be marked on the surface by a line from tli inner end of the clavicle to a point midway between the jaw an the ear. Contained in a sheath of fascia with the jugular vein and th vagus nerve, it is covered throughout by muscles ; and it has th following connections with the contiguous parts :—Superficial t it, besides the teguments and the platysma, are the depressors c the hyoid bone and the sterno-mastoideus—the last muscle covei ing it to the ending (Plate xvi.); and the others, only as high i the cricoid cartilage. Beneath the vessel is the spinal columi To its inner side lie the gullet and the air passage, with tl: thyroid body; and as the trachea swells out to form the laryn: necessarily the artery is carried farther from its fellow above tha below. Along the outer side is a chain of lymphatic gland which is liable to become enlarged. The internal jugular vein, is parallel to, and in close conta( g. Occipital artery. j h. Posterior auricular artery. I. Superficial temporal artery. ' n. Internal maxillary artery. X Spot for ligature of the com mon carotid artery. \