THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY AND ITS BRANCHES. 169 From the position of the branches, the connections, and the difference in the depth of the ends of the snbclavian trunk, the third or external part, h, will be best suited for ligature on account of its comparative freedom from any branch, and its easily accessible position. As the second part gives origin commonly to bat one branch it may admit of being tied under some circum- stances. Whilst the inner or first part is so beset by branches as Iot to possess commonly an interval sufficient for the application f a ligature without secondary hemorrhage. On the left side tie complicated connections forbid the attempt to put a thread n the first part. Ligature. The steps of the operation for securing the artery 1 the third p'irt, or beyond the scalenus, have been detailed at . 141. Should the less usual operation of tying the second part of the rtery be resorted to, the clavicular piece of the sterno-mastoideus nd the anterior scalenus would have to be cut through. In ilividing the scalenus great care should be taken of the phrenic lerve, 3, on its front. Ordinarily the external jugular vein lies utside the scalenus : with the position here taken it would need 0 be cut through, and the ends would require to be tied. Branches of the subclavian artery. At their origin the branches re concealed by the jugular vein and the anterior scalenus, but in *late xxiv. most may be seen. From the first part come the ertebral, the thyroid axis, and the internal mammary; and from he second part, the upper intercostal, with a small branch to the jpinal canal (Quain). jrei! 1. T\iQ vertelral \% first branch, and ascends to the brain is to' prough the apertures in the six upper cervical vertebrse. felt 01 2. The thyroid axis, a short thick trunk, splits into the three )llowing;—Inferior thyroid, d. This is a tortuous artery, and braiti ads in the thyroid body; an offset, the ascending cervical, f, lies etween the anterior scalenus and the larger anterior rectus, sup- lying offsets to both, and to the spinal canal. The transverse rvical, h, crosses the scalenus, and ends under the trapezius y dividing into two. The supra-scapular, I, courses along the avicle to the scapula, on the dorsum of wliich it ramifies. I are 01 t