INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 185 11 The hmnch to the' internal pterygoid muscle, f, comes from the ^ I large part of the inferior maxillary trunk, and enters the under llsurface of its muscle. Around the root of this branch, and on he inner or deep surface of the large trunk, lies the otic ganglion, hich furnishes offsets to two other muscles, viz., the tensor "'^^^^tympani andjhe circumflexus palati : this body can be recognised nly in a view from the inner side. ontaM ijijie large part of the inferior maxillary trunk receives fibrils ^J'>^ from both roots of the fifth nerve, like the smaller piece; but as the part contributed by the sensory root is much the largest, most of the branches are formed by this alone, and are therefore sensory in fun(;tion. The three large trunks, auriculo-temporal, 1, dental, ■2, and gustatory, 3, are solely sensory nerves; and the last is one of the nerves of taste. The muscular branches receiving olfsets from both roots, bestow sensibility and contractility on the muscles before mentioned, viz., the pterygoideus internus, the mylo-hyoideus, the anterior belly of the digastricus, the circum- flexus palati, and the tensor tympani. The chorda tympani nerve, C, is a branch of a motor nerve— the facial (p. 117), and issues from the cranium through, or by the side of the Glaserian fissure. It is applied to the gustatory under the external pterygoid muscle, and is conveyed by that nerve trunk to the tongue, where it is distributed : at the point of contact one or two offsets join the gustatory. The two following pieces of fascia, which are called ligaments, look like distinct bands in consequence of the removal of the rest of the cervical fascia, with which they are continuous. The. internal lateral ligament of the articulation of the jaw, N, is attached by one end to the base of the skull, and by the other to the margin of the dental foramen, and to the bone above the insertion of the internal pterygoid muscle : it is part of the deep cervical fascia projecting under the jaw. routO The stylo-maxillary ligament, 0, reaches from the styloid process lejiiH to the hinder and lower parts of the ramus of the jaw: this piece teal of the cervical fascia is continuous below with that separating the parotid and submaxillary glands (Plate xvi., N).