232 DISSECTION OF THE LAEYXX. ^ THE THYROID BODY AXD THE TEACHEA. ; In a side yiew, the thyroid body, T, is only partly yisible. j This organ is larger in the female than the male, and is more deyeloped in the foetus than in the adult relatiyely to the rest of the body: its use is not known. It is placed opposite the upper part of the trachea; and consists ' of two lobes, right and left, which are firmly attached to the windpipe, and project upwards, one on each side, as far as the | thyroid cartilage. A narrow part, the isthmus, joins the lobes j below in front of the trachea. Each lobe is pointed above and ' wide below ; and it lies between the larynx and the common . Carotid artery, where it is coyered by the depressor muscleS'of the hyoid bone (Plate xxiy.). Projecting upwards from the' left lobe, or from the isthmus, is , a small tapering part, U,—the pyi-amid, which is connected to the J OS hyoides by a band of fibrous tissue. Sometimes, as in the* Drawing, a thin muscular slip, W, levator glandules thyroidecE, ] unites the pyramid with the hyoid bone. ■ Brownish red or purplish in colour, it consists of small masses | or lobules about as large as the little finger naiL It does not possess any excretory duct. On cutting into it a thick yellowish fluid escapes from small closed capsules or yesicles. The swelling of the throat known as a wen or Derbyshire neck, is caused by enlargement of the thyroid body. Bloodvessels.—Two large arteries on each side ramify in this body. The upper thyroid, h, a branch of the external carotid, enters the apex of the lobe, but it distributes some branches over the surface, which join the other arteries. The lower thyroid, is usually larger than the upper, and is a branch of the subclayian trunk : it penetrates the base of the lobe, and offsets ramify over the under surface. All the arteries communicate freely together. Three large thyroid veins issue on each side. Two, upper and lower thyroid, run with the arteries of the same name, and end— the former in the internal jugular, and the latter in the inno- minate vein. A middle thyroid vein leaves the middle of the