DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 225 The thijro-arijtmnoideus muscle, P, lies outside the vocal cord oi the same side, to which it is closely united. Anteriorly it arises from the lower half (in depth) of the thyroid cartilage, and from the contiguous crico-thyroid membrane; and it is inserted behind into the base and outer surface of the aryteenoid cartilage. Its inner and lower fibres are transverse, but the outer ascend anc join the depressor of the epiglottis, 0. Through the action of this muscle the arytsenoid will be drawi forwards towards the thyroid cartilage, and the vocal cord of th( same side will be relaxed, as when deep or grave sounds are pro duced. The muscle is supposed (Willis) to have the power o placing the inner vibrating edge of the vocal cord parallel to it fellow. The crico-thyroicl muscle, Y, can be seen entire in Plate xxi^ Placed on the front of the larynx, it arises from the side and for part of the cricoid cartilage ; and it is inserted into the inferio cornu, and the lower border of the thyroid cartilage nearly to th middle line. Supposing the attachment to the cricoid cartilage to be th fixed point, the muscles of opposite sides will bring down tL thyroid cartilage in front. By this movement the interval b( tween the arytjenoid and thyroid cartilages is increased, and coi sequently the vocal cords are tightened, and put into the stal necessary for the production of a high note. If the thyroid supposed the fixed point, the fi'ont of the cricoid will be raise( whilst the back of the same with the arytsenoid cartilages will I lowered, and the vocal cords will be likewise stretched. The depressor of the epiglottis, 0, (thyro-arytaeno-epiglottideu is a thin and indistinct layer of muscular fibres, which is coi tained in the arytasno-epiglottid fold, U, and consists usually two parts. The chief bundle of fibres comes from the top of t; aryt^enoid cartilage, where it is continuous with the thyro-arytf noideus and aryteenoideus muscles; and the other slip is attach* to the thyroid cartilage near the insertion of the epigloti The fibres of the muscle ascend on the side of the opening the larynx, and are inserted into the margin of the epiglottis. The lower fibres of the muscle cross the top of the saccul