148 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE NECK. No large arterial trunk can be seen on the surface of the nec as long as the sterno-mastoideus keeps its natural position ;* ar this Plate teaches also that no triangular space containing tl large cervical bloodvessels is observable until that muscle h: been displaced, as in Plate xviii. A few small arteries reach the surface. Thus, the facial arter a, with its vein winds over the submaxillary gland and the ja in front of the masseter muscle, and gives forwards the su mental branch, I, below the jaw ; whilst opposite the back of t] hyoid bone the lingual vessels, e, appear for a short distanc Issuing from beneath the sterno-mastoideus are small cutaneoi offsets, e, of the upper thyroid artery—one, d, entering the supe ficial lymphatic gland near the hyoid bone ; and piercing tl sterno-mastoideus are other cutaneous arteries,/, of the subclavij and external carotid trunks. Near the ear a cutaneous branc g, of the posterior auricular artery, escaping beneath the parot gland, crosses over the sterno-mastoideus. Two superficial jugular veins are directed from above do^ through the anterior part of the neck. One, the external juguk h, crosses the sterno-mastoideus from before back; and the othc the anterior jugular, I, lies in front of that muscle, and near t middle line of the neck. Cutaneous nerves cross from behind forwards, spreading o over the region dissected. The nerve marked, 1, is the cervi( part of the seventh cranial nerve, which reaches as low as t hyoid bone; and the nerve, 2, is a branch of the cervical plex to the teguments below the preceding. MUSCLES AND THE CERVICAL FASCIA. Most of the muscles laid bare will be described more fully the explanation of the following Plate ; but as the natural st of the sterno-mastoideus, and its connection with the cervi * Anatomists depict and describe the common carotid artery as uncov( by the sterno-mastoideus at its upper end. And the directions of surg( for placing a ligature on that bloodvessel are based on the same inaccuracy