118 DISSECTION OF THE BASE OF THE SKULK ; i into the meatus auditorius, and passes through the small aper- ^ tures in the bottom of that meatus, to end in the inner parts of | the ear. The 'glosso-pJiaryngeal, or ninth nerve, 9, (part of the eighth i pair, Willis,) leaves the skull by the foramen jugulare, being j contained in a distinct sheath of dura mater, and lying in a ' depression in the lower border of the temporal bone. It is dis- tributed, as the name expresses, to the tongue and pharynx. The pneumogastric, or tenth nerve, 10, (part of the eighth pair, Willis,) is transmitted through the foramen jugulare in a sheath of dura mater common to it and the following nerve. . \i is a flat trunk, consisting of fibrils. Its terminating branches ramify in the air passages, the heart, and the alimentary canal. Tlie spinal accessory, or eleventh nerve, 11, (part of the eighth pair, Willis,) is the only cranial nerve that is not united with the \ encephalon. Arising from the spinal cord, it enters the skull ■ through the foramen magnum; it then bends outwards to the | foramen jugulare, and leaves the cranium through that hole in i close contiguity to the pneumogastric—the two being contained in the same fibrous sheath. This nerve supplies in part two muscles , of the neck—the sterno-mastoid and trapezius. i The hypoglossal, or twelfth nerve, 12, (ninth pair, Willis,) ; consists of two bundles of filaments, which pierce separately the i dura mater. These join in the anterior condyloid foramen, by which they issue from the cranium as one trunk. It is a motor ' nerve of some of the hyoid, and the tongue muscles. I Large petrosal nerve, 17. This is a continuation of the j Vidian nerve, derived from Meckel's ganglion. Coming into the I skull through the pterygoid foramen and over the foramen la- ' cerum in the base, it is conveyed in a bony groove under the Gasserian ganglion to the hiatus Fallopii, which it enters to j join the facial nerve in the temporal bone. VESSELS IN THE BASE OF THE SKULL. Two large arteries on each side, carotid and vertebral, pass through the base of the skull in their course to the brain, and i furnish some offsets to the dura mater. Other meningeal vessels, :