116 DISSECTION OF THE BASE OF THE SKULL. corresponding numerals, except in the case of the first nerve which has been removed with the brain. 2. Optic nerve and commissure. 3. Motor nerve of the eyeball. 4. Trochlear nerve. 5. Trifacial nerve. 6. Abducent nerve of the eyeball. 7. Facial nerve. 8. Auditory nerve. 9. Glosso-pharyngeal nerve. 10. Pneumogastric nerve. 11. Spinal accessory nerve. 12. Hypoglossal nerve. 13. Gasserian ganglion. 14. Ophthalmic nerve. 15. Superior maxillary nerve. 16. Inferior maxillary nerve, 17. Large petrosal nerve. The olfactory, or first cranial nerve, is marked by a bulb whi(;h rests on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and sends fila- ments to the nose through the subjacent apertures : it will be found attached to the brain. The optic, or second nerve, 2, ends in the eyeball. Posteriorly the nerves of opposite sides unite in a commissure (chiasma) on the olivary eminence of the sphenoid bone, with a partial decussa- tion of their fibres. In front the nerves diverge ; and each issues from the skull through the optic foramen, with the ophthalmic j artery. In the orbit of the left side the further course of the \ nerve to the eyeball is evident. j The motor oculi, or third nerve, 3, crosses the middle fossa, and ; enters its sheath of dura mater behind the anterior clinoid process, j as seen on the left side. Contained in the dura mater, it is conveyed ' to the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies all the muscles moving the ^ eyeball, except two. 1 The trochlear, or fourth nerve, 4, is received into a sheath of ' dura mater behind the posterior clinoid process, and courses for- ; wards through the wall of the cavernous sinus to end in one I muscle in the orbit—superior oblique. The trifacial, or fifth nerve, 5, consists of two roots, large and ^ in the nomenclature arises from this difference in the mode of numbering, j The enumeration of the nerves as twelve appears most natural, as only two nerve trunks, with like function and distribution, will then be included in ' one cranial pair ; whilst, in using the smaller number, as many as four and \ six trunks, differing in name, function, and distribution, will be combined together as one pair of the cranial nerves. I