154 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE NECK. the narrow firm line of the hyoid bone, which is marked J, in tl preceding Plate. A finger's breadth below that bone the prom nence of the thyroid cartilage of the larynx (pomum Adami) is m( with. Still lower, about half an inch, comes the firm cricoid ( ring cartilage of the larynx,—a prominence less than the formei and between the two is a slight hollow, opposite the crico-thyroi membrane, through which the knife is sunk in the operation < laryngotomy. From this point to the sternum the tube of tl windpipe and the thyroid body carry forwards the muscles: tl former can be recognised by the finger. Behind the os hyoides and the larynx and trachea lies the phi rynx with the oesophagus. Position of arteries. Opposite the level of the cricoid cartilaf tlie large trunk of the common carotid, a, escapes from beheat the depressor muscles'ofthe hyoid bone. In company with tt internal jugular vein it lies between the pharynx and the spin and ascends under cover of the sterno-mastoideus, A, to the upp( border of the thyroid cartilage, where it splits into the extern carotid, T), and internal carotid, c. From the point of divisic these two arteries are continued in the direction of the parei trunk to the interval between the ear and the jaw, and they er in the following way:—one (external) is consumed in offsets ou side the cavity of the skull; and the other (internal) is distribute chiefly to the brain, without furnishing branches to the nec Neither vessel is visible till after the stemo-mastoideus has be( displaced. See Plate xvi. Position of veins. By the side of the common carotid artery the internal jugular vein, p; and it is continued to the base of t] skull along the internal carotid trunk. In the upper narrow part of the space between the jaw and the ear the external jugul vein begins; but it then runs downwards over the sterno-m{ toideus. Near the middle line of the neck the anterior jugul vein, s, descends (Plate xvi.); and it passes beneath the stern mastoideus at the lower part of the neck. Position of nerves. Many nerve trunks lie in contact with t great bloodvessels, and most of them accompany those vessels the base of the skull.