184 DEEP DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. | it supplies chiefly the buccinator muscle as well as the integu- ] ments covering, and the mucous membrane lining the same. In j the cheek it joins in a plexus, duccal, with the facial nerv^^ (Plate XX., 8). Two masticatory muscles, yiz., the external ptery.i gold and the temporal, receive offsets from this branch. -j A branch to the pterygoideus exlernus, 9, enters the under sur-i face of that muscle. . : This smaller part of the inferior maxillary nerve contams; portions of both roots ; these are disposed in a peculiar way, and. give different functions to the branches. Thus the nerves fur, nished by it to the jaw muscles-masseter, temporal, and external ptery^oid-are constructed from both roots, like spinal nerves, and give sensibility and contractility to those muscles. The nerve to the buccinator on the contrary is formed altogether by the sensory root, and bestows only sensibility on the muscle and the other parts to which it is distributed. The larger piece of the inferior maxillary nerve ends in thre( good-sized trunks, and gives a branch to the internal pterygoi( muscle. The auriculo-temporalnevve, 1, beginning generally by tworoote is inclined backwards beneath the external pterygoid muscle, an^ ascends finally with the temporal artery to the integuments of th side of the head. It comuiunicates largely with the facial nerve and it supplies also the articulation of the jaw, the meatus of th ear, and the parotid gland. The inferior denial nerve, 2, descends over the pterygoidei internus and the internal lateral ligament to the dental foramt of the lower jaw, and is distributed to the teeth, and the low part of the face. A small muscular branch, mylo-hyoid, arises from the nerve ne the jaw, and runs in a groove in the bone to the anterior belly the digastricus, and the mylo-hyoideus (Plate xvii.). The gustalory nerve, 3, is directed downwards to the front the internal pterygoid muscle, near the attachment to the ja^ its further course in the tongue will be represented in Plate Under the external pterygoid muscle it is joined by the chor tympani nerve, 6.