168 DISSECTION OF THE SUBCLAVIAN REGION. snbclavian and innominate veins ; and crossing it at right angles is the internal jugular vein, r, with the vertebral vein beneatl: this. And in front of the artery though separated by muscles ii the anterior jugular vein, v. The vagus nerve, 10, crosses over the artery inside the jugnlai vein, together with some branches of the sympathetic ; and th( recurrent branch of the vagus, and the cord of the sympathetic lie beneath it (Plate xxiv.). ' The second or middle part of the artery, the shortest and highest is covered by the anterior scalenus, L, and the stemo-mastoideus K ; and rests on the middle scalenus, N. No vein touches the artery in the second part, for the anterio scalenus intervenes between the subclavian vein and artery. Tw( arteries, transverse cervical, h, and supra-scapular, /, lie near th( line of the subclavian trunk, the former being rather above, an( the latter below it. The lower cervical nerves are above the vessel between thi scaleni; and the phrenic, 3, crosses it, but separated by th scalenus anticus. The outer or third part, h, is the most superficial, and descend over the first rib to the axillary space, crossing beneath the omo hyoideus, D, the subclavius, C, and the clavicle. This par appears in the posterior triangular space of the neck (Plate xv.) and its connections are described in p. 137. Into the concavity of the arch of the bloodvessel the bag of th pleura projects, for this membrane rises above the first rib, an comes in contact with the first and second parts of the subclavia artery : this connection of the serous membrane must be remeni bered when ligature of the second part of the artery is to l undertaken. Alterations affecting the arch have been dwelt on i p. 140. Numher and position of the branches. Usually four branche arise from the artery in the following manner :—three are cod nected with the first part, and one with the second part; whilst n branch, as a rule, comes from the third part. Very commonl however (Quain) an oflFset (posterior scapular) of the branch, h, i attached to the last part of the subclavian trunk.