144 DISSECTION" OF THE POSTERIOR TRIANGLE. i ■ Under some conditions air may enter the vein dm^ing th( operation of bloodletting. As long as the blood runs freely, anc the breathing is regular, the accident is not likely to happen : bui if the breathing becomes laboured, or if the opening is not closec as soon as the flow of blood stops, air may be drawn into the vein In suspended animation the external jugular is sometime; opened with the view of relieving the over-distended right sid( of the heart* ; and this practice is founded on the fact that blooc will enter the jugular below from the subclavian vein. At th( same time the blood can flow downwards through the anterioi jugular in the usual way (Plate xviii.), so as to relieve simulta neously the congested heart and head. I NERVES m THE POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. I Parts of the cervical and brachial plexuses of nerves, with on( cranial nerve—the spinal accessory, are included in the dissection 1. Third cervical nerve. 2. Fourth cervical nerve. 3. Great auricular nerve. 4. Small occipital nerve. 5. Superficial cervical nerve. 6. Su[)erficial descending branches of the cervical plexus. 7. Nerve to the rhomboideus. 8. Nerve to the serratus magnus. 9. Branches to the trapezius. 10. Nerve to the subclavius. 11. Upper part of the brachia plexus. 12. Supra-scapular nerve. 13. Spinal accessory nerve. 14. Posterior auricular nerve. t Nerve to the levator anguli sea pulse from the cervical plexus The cervical plexus is formed by the union of the upper fon cervical nerves ; and it lies beneath the sterno-mastoideus, B, an on the levator anguli scapulse, E. Only the lower part of th plexus comes into the posterior triangular space, and from it sprin muscular, and ascending and descending tegumentary branches. Ascending tranches. These consist of the three followin nerves, which are directed to the ear, the occiput, and the foi part of the neck. * A more general employment of this practice is recommended by D Struthers, in a paper On Jugular Venesection in Asphyxia." Edin. Me Journal for November, 1856.