136 DISSECTION OF THE POSTEEIOR TRIANGLE. omo-hyoideus muscle, H—the lower being designated clavicnlai% and the upper occipital. The occipital part, much the larger of the two, occupies nearly 1 the whole length of the neck. It has the same bounds in front \ and behind as the large hollow ; and it is limited below by the ' omo-hyoideus, H. Its depth increases towards the low^er boundary; j and in it are contained chiefly nerves, with some small vessels, i and lymphatics. \ The nerves issue from beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and ! unite in a plexiform manner—the upper nerves entering the cer- vical, and the lower the brachial plexus. From the nerves, 1 and 2, of the cervical plexus, superficial : branches are directed upwards and downwards :—The ascending i set reach the fore part of the neck, the ear and contiguous part! of the face, and the back of the head; and the descending set, more numerous than the other, ate continued through the space ! to the integuments of the top of the chest and shoulder. j The lower cervical nerves join in the brachial plexus, 11. These trunks are inclined downwards through the lower end of the occipital part, and through the clavicular part of the triangular space to the axilla: they give few branches, and their position will be referred to again. One large nerve, 13, the spinal accessory, (eleventh cranial nerve) crosses the space obliquely downwards and backwards, from the border of the sterno-mastoideus to the under surface of the trapezius. Vessels. The arterial branches are small in size, and supply the surrounding muscles: they appear behind the sterno-mastoi- deus. The lowest and largest is the transverse cervical artery, c, "which passes beneath the trapezius. Veins accompany the arteries, their size corresponding with that of their companions. The clavicular part of the posterior triangular space has its sides formed by the clavicle, L, and the omo-hyoideus, H ; and its base or fore part by the sterno-mastoideus, B. Towards the surface it is covered by the same layers as the great triangle; and the floor is constructed by the scaleni muscles, the serratus magnus, and the first rib.