150 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE NECK. 1h.Q parotid is the largest of the salivary glands. It is plac between the jaw in front, and the ear with the mastoid proc( and the sterno-mastoideus behind ; and it projects downwai beyond the level of the jaw, where the process, N, of the cervii fascia separates it from the submaxillary gland. Towards the surface the gland is flat, and is covered by t deep cervical fascia : on it rest one or more lymphatic glan( Its deep part is very irregular in form, and sends downwai prolongations around the styloid process. i Several vessels and nerves pass through the substance of t parotid, and the position of these may be studied in Plate xv The external carotid artery, l, ascends through the gland givi off* the auricular, temporal, and internal maxillary branches. T external jugular vein, r, begins by the union of the temporal a: internal maxillary branches, and passes downwards superficia' to the carotid. The facial nerve, 4, traverses the gland frc behind forwards, over the artery, and is joined by ofiPsets of t great auricular nerve. Close to the ear the cutaneous part, ] of the auriculo-temporal nerve is directed upwards by the side the temporal artery. The excretory duct of the gland (ductus Stenonis) leaves t fore part, and piercing the buccinator muscle, opens into t mouth opposite the second molar tooth of the upper j< (Plate XX.). In enlargement of this gland the swelling will project doT\ wards at first towards the deep vessels and nerves in front of t spine, and then into the neck along the sterno-mastoideus ; t extension towards the surface will be delayed by the strong fag( binding it down. Much pain will attend the swelling of t gland in "mumps" and other affections, just as in all inflam glandular parts that are prevented expanding by the firmness the incasing sheaths. The swelling and abscesses in front of the ear in scrofulc children are occasioned by inflammation of the lymphatic glar on the surface of the parotid. The submaxillary gland, K, is not surrounded by such unyie ing structures as the parotid ; for, though concealed somewhat