223 THE VOCAL APPARATUS. INTERIOR OF THE LARYNX AND THE VOCAL APPARATUS. The larynx or the dilated upper part of the windpipe is wider ibove than below; and the space enclosed within the cartilages aries in form and size at different points. As a whole the larynx neasures about one inch and a half from above down, one inch iud a quarter across at the top, and about an inch across at the ower part. The laryngeal cavity (Fig. iii.) communicates above with the |)harynx by the epiglottid aperture, and below with the trachea. 3y means of muscles and the mucous membrane the space inside he thyroid cartilage decreases in width from the epiglottis to ihe level of the vocal cords, 0, where only a narrow fissure—the lottis, remains; but just above the vocal cord is a dilatation )n each side, Q, which is named the ventricle of the larynx. Beyond the vocal cords the space enlarges to the size of the ricoid cartilage, and becomes circular. Its shape is something ike an hour-glass, the glottis, R, corresponding with the narrowest )art of that instrument. Vocal apparatus. Under this general term may be included the rocal cords, with the chink or interval between them; and the rentricle of the larynx and its pouch. R The vocal cords are two whitish bands on each side, which shine hrough the mucous membrane, and lie above and below the ven- ricular space, Q. Both are stretched between the thyroid car- ^*lage in ront, and the arytaenoid behind. The upper land, P, or the false vocal cord, forms a curve with he convexity upwards. In front it is fixed to the thyroid carti- ^^^^ age slightly above the middle ; and behind to the outer part of the iirytsenoid. It consists of a bundle of white fibrous tissue, which covered by the mucous membrane. The use of this band is unknown. The voice is not produced Dy it, for it is removed so far from the centre of the laryngeal space as to be out of reach of the direct current of air. The lower or true cord, 0, Fig. ii., is stronger than the other, ind is horizontal in direction. It is inserted in front into the icreas! towai idlBS \^ jtai oine apei rtoii