140 DISSECTION OF THE POSTERIOR TRIANGLE. ; i Alterations affecting the artery. Commonly the arch of tl vessel rises about an inch above the clavicle (Quain), but it mj be lowered to the level of, or sink beneath the bone ; and on tl other hand it may be elevated as high as one inch and a h^i above the collar-bone. Occasionally the artery passes over ( through the anterior scalenus, instead of beneath it. When tl artery has either the higher level, or the more superficial positio it will be rendered less deep, and will be more easy to find in i operation. One or two branches for the shoulder, viz., posterior scapuL and supra-scapular, may spring from this part of the artery, such branch or branches should be seen in an operation, great security against secondary haemorrhage would be obtained by tyir one or both, than by leaving either free to convey blood into ' from the trunk near the ligature. Alterations in the surrounding parts. With a thin and loi neck and a flat clavicle, there is a prospect of a less tedious oper tion than in the opposite states of those parts, because the arte; will be nearer the surface. Muscular fibres may cover the artery as before said, p. 137, t clavicular attachments of the sterno-mastoid and the trapezi being lengthened, or the omo-hyoid arising from the clavic Also in axillary aneurism high in the arm-pit the clavicle may carried upwards considerably above the level of the subclavi; artery. Under these circumstances the operation of ligatu would be made more difficult, as the artery must be sought behh the raised bone in the one case, and beneath the muscular fibi in the other. The subclavian vein rises sometimes as high as the level of t clavicle ; and it has been found twice beneath the anterior sea nus with the subclavian artery : both changes in its positi would cause it to be more endangered in the steps of an opei tion. The external jugular may be moved outwards from t sterno-mastoideus as far as the middle of the clavicle, so that Mr. Quain's researches on the Surgical Anatomy of the Arteries, in the w( before quoted.