212 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. ] this way :—as soon as the food has been moved backwards by the tongue to the isthmus, the lateral arches are shortened and moved inwards by the contraction of their contained muscular fibres, and shut olf with the tongue the cavity of the mouth. Upper aperture of the larynx, V.—This is a-single opening, and occupies the middle line jusfc below the mouth. Wide before and narrow behind it is sloped down and back ; it extends upwards rather above the hyoid bone, and downwards to the bottom of th( central notch in the front of the thyroid cartilage. In front ifc i^ bounded by the wide expanded part of the epiglottis, T; and be hind by the tips of the cornicula laryngis, and by the arytjenoi deus muscle and the mucous membrane. Laterally it is limitec by a fold of mucous membrane (arytseno-epiglottidean) whicl stretches from the epiglottis to the arytagnoid cartilage, and con tains the depressor muscle of the epiglottis. ] Through this hole the air is inspired and expired in breathing and during the respiratory act the space remains open with th epiglottis raised. I When deglutition is about to take place the larynx is movei upwards and forwards under the hyoid bone and the tongue, am the epiglottis is partly lowered ; and during swallowing the epi glottis is placed over the orifice, so as to close it from th passing food or drink, whilst the muscular fibres on the sides an back of the opening contract, and give increased security agains the entrance of the aliment into the windpipe. Even when th epiglottis is absent the food does not find its way into the ai passage, because the upper part is sulficiently closed by th elevation of the larynx, and by the contraction of the musculo fibres around the upper opening and on each side of the passac lower down. If an attempt is made to take breath during, or tc soon after a long draught, some of the fluid is drawn with tt air under the partially-raised valve, and produces violent cougl ing by irritation of the larynx. The aperture of the oesophagus, W, terminates inferiorly tl cavity of the pharynx, and is placed opposite the lower edge • the cricoid cartilage : it is circular in form, and is surrounded I the fibres of the lower constrictor.