236 DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. the cavity to the pharynx for the purpose of conveying liq food into the stomach. Blood escaping into the nasal cavity from rupture of vessels of the mucous lining requires to be confined within space when the loss of a fresh quantity may be injurious to hea or endanger life. In closing the nasal fossa the posterior narif stopped first by a plug inserted through the mouth in the folk ing manner :—An elongated dossil of lint or cotton wool of size of the opening is to have a piece of silk or small twine t around the middle, so as to leave the ends about a foot loi Next, a bit of wire (not too stifF), with a noose at the end a rather curved downwards, is to be pushed along the floor of 1 nose and behind the soft palate until it can be seen through t open mouth. One of the string ends should be inserted throi! the noose with a pair of forceps, the other being retained in 1 left hand. By withdrawing the wire the string will be brou^ out through the nostril; and by means of that piece of string t plug can be dragged through the mouth, and round the soft pal; with the aid of the left forefinger to the posterior naris. T two strings may be then tied between the nose and moui Finally to complete the closure of the nasal cavity the nostrili to have a plug inserted into it. When the surgeon considers the bleeding not likely to return t. plugs are to be taken away. For the removal of the anterior o: the proceeding is simple ; but the posterior has to be taken o through the mouth in this way :—The knot on the face beii untied, the plug is to be dislodged from the posterior naris ] pulling downwards and backwards with a forceps the string in t^ mouth ; and it is then to be conducted round the soft palate the exterior of the body. -^1 .1 SPONGY BONES AND THE MEATUSES. ' i Three curved bones, Fig. i., project into the nasal cavity fro the outer wall ; they are named from their form spongy or turb nate ; and from their position, upper, middle, and lower. The; osseous pieces do not extend the whole length of the outer wal