DISSFXTION OF THE FRONT OF THE NECK. 1G2 As high as ihe mastoid process tlic artery is covered by stcrno-mastoideus, A, the digastricns, R, and the stylo-hyoid P, besides the common investing superficial layers ; and the to its ending it is concealed by the parotid gland (Plate x^ Anterior to it are the pharynx and the jaw ; and beneatl is the styloid process. No companion vein belongs to artery. Several nerves cross this carotid trunk -.—superficial to it t tlic beginning is the hypoglossal nerve, 14, and near the end the ramifications of the facial nerve, 4 ; whilst beneath it the external laryngeal, 2, the superior laryngeal, 1, and near jaw the glosso-pharyngeal (Plate xxii.). The offsets of the artery are numerous :—they consist of anterior set of three, viz., thyroid, d, lingual, e, and facial, a posterior set of two, occipital, (j, and posterior auricular, h; : an ascending set, also three in number, the temporal, I, inter maxillary, n, and ascending pharyngeal (Plate xxiv.). Ligature. The artery is accessible below the digastric mus and here it is covered, like the internal carotid, by the stei mastoideus. Its branches are attached to the trunk so thic as not to leave space enough between any two for the applica of a hgature without the prospect of haemorrhage when thread comes away. Before the removal of tumours about jaw, ligature of the external carotid trunk might be considi advisable as an auxiliary means of checking ha3morrhage du an operation. In a wound of a branch of the external carotid the v( should be tied, as a rule, where it is injured; but in hsemorrl from the artery of the tongue, where the bleeding orifice ca be secured, the surgeon may have recourse to ligature of artery nearer the origin from the common trunk. Branches of the carotid. The upper th?jroid, d, ends in thyroid body : it gives offsets to the contiguous muscles, a laryngeal branch to the interior of the larynx with the i laryngeal nerve, 1. The lingual artery, /, is distributed to the tongue. Ar above or below the cornu of the hyoid bone it is directed in)