MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE AND THE HYOID BONE. 187 3r the OS hyoides being fixed, it will help to brins: down the jaw, IS in the act of opening the mouth. Extrinsic tongue muscles. There are four on each side, viz., hyo-glossus, genio-glossus, stylo-glossus, and chondro-glossus: only the three first are now laid bare. ! Hyo-glossus, D. This thin muscle arises from the hyoid bone, viz., from the great cornu by one part (cerato-glossus), and from the body of the hyoid bone by another * (basio-glossus). From this attachment the fibres ascend and enter the side of the tongue. With the OS hyoides fixed the hyo-glossus can depress the tongue in the floor of the mouth, and give to that organ a rounded form, I Supposing the tongue the fixed point the muscle will raise the I hyoid bone, preparatory to swallowing. j The stylo-glossus, E, arises from the styloid process and the ! stylo-maxillary ligament (Plate xx.), and enters the back of the tongue ; but its fibres extend forwards underneath the side of the tongue to the tip where they blend with their fellows. The muscles of opposite sides contracting will draw back and up the base of the tongue ; and by the action of one muscle the point of the tongue will be turned to the same side of the moutii. Gemo-hyo-glossus,, G. Shaped like a fan, it arises by a narrowed part from a tubercle inside the symphysis of the jaw ; and it is inserted along the middle of the tongue from tip to root, as well as into the body of the hyoid bone. In contact with its fellow by the inner surface, the anterior edge is covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth, and the posterior touches the genio- hyoideus, B. All the fibres contracting the tongue will be sunk in the floor of the mouth, and notably its middle part, so as to give a con,- j cavity to the upper surface. If only the lower fibres act they will raise the hyoid bone, and put forwards the tongue between the teeth : by m^ans of the last mentioned fibres the muscle will be able to dilate the pharynx anteriorly. The stylo-hyoid ligament, 0, stretches between the end of the styloid process and the small cornu of the hyoid bone. Below, it * A third fleshy slip (chondro-glossus), which is attached to the small cornu of the bone, is considered to form part of the muscle.