THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 203 Sym'pathdic nerve.—The cervical part of the sympathetic nerve, 11, lies on the spine beneath the great bloodvessels, and is con- tinuous with the knotted cord in the thorax. In the neck it is marked by three ganglia—upper, middle and lower ; and each ganglion furnishes external or communicating branches, internal or visceral, and branches to bloodvessels. The upjwr ganglion, 12, is the largest of the three : it is fusiform in shape, with a reddish colour, and is about two inches long. Near the base of the skull the cranial nerves lie over it. The outer branches communicate with the first four spinal nerves, and with the tenth and twelfth cranial nerves. Most of the inner branches pass beneath the carotid to join in the pharyngeal plexus ; but one, larger than the rest and named upper cardiac, descends beneath the artery to the cardiac plexus in the thorax. The nerves to bloodvessels from the ganglmi (nervi molles) ramify on both carotid arteries, forming plexuses on them; and on some of the branches of the external carotid there are inter- spersed ganglia. Through the offset, 26, on the internal carotid the vessels and the vascular membrane of the brain are supplied, and communications take place with the cranial nerves in the middle fossa of the base of the skull. The middle ganglion, 13, variable in size and shape, is placed near the inferior thyroid artery, e, and is smaller than the others. Its offsets are the following :— Outer branches which join usually the fifth and sixth spinal nerves. Inner branches ramify on the thyroid artery and end in the thyroid body. One of these, the middle cardiac nerve, 15, is con- tinued to the cardiac plexus in the thorax. The inferior ganglion lies beneath the subclavian artery and close above the neck of the first rib. It is rather rounded in shape, and is often divided into parts, as in the Figure, where one of the pieces is marked, 14. Its branches are similar to those of the other ganglia. Outer branches, two or more in number, join the two lowest cervical nerves.