BOUNDARIES OF THE TRIANGULAR SPACE. 135 Another muscle, the serratus magnus, lies in the lower and outer angle of the triangular space, viz., where the omo-hyoideus and the trapezius meet ; it is concealed by the trapezius. POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE OF THE NECK. The intermuscular interval on the side of the neck, named the '[posterior triangular space, is narrow before the fascia is removed, like the corresponding hollows opposite the joints, but in the Drawing the space is delineated as it appears after dissection. The great artery of the upper limb with some smaller branches, and he cervical nerves, together with much fat and interspersed lymphatic glands, are contained in this hollow. This interval reaches fi-om the clavicle to the back of the head, [t is bounded in front by the sterno-mastoideus, B, and behind by -he trapezius muscle, D. By its dissection greater apparent length js given to the neck, in consequence of the teguments being re- noved from part of the head. Narrower above than below, the space is said to be triangular, lather it is flask-shaped, with the small part directed upwards. Vs low as the letter D, the hollow is shallow, and the sides learly straight; but beyond that spot it becomes deeper, and is videned in consequence of the posterior border being curved. ¥hen in its natural position, the upper part of the sterno-mastoid )rojects farther back towards the trapezius than is indicated in he Drawing. Stretched over the space are the skin, the subcutaneous fatty layer ontaining the platysma. A, and the deep cervical fascia. And the i oorof the hollow is formed by the superficial stratum of the mus- ics of the side of the neck, in the following order. Beginning hove, the splenius capitis, C, is first met with ; and below it lies he levator anguli scapulge, divided into parts and marked by E, E. 'arther down comes the scalenus medius, F j and near the clavicle :ie serratus magnus projects above the first rib, but this would e visible under the trapezius only in a front-view. The space is divided into two unequally-sized parts by the small