215 MUSCLES OF THE SOFT PALATE. the muscles L and G. A small bursa exists where the tendon plays round the curved process of bone. As this muscle is attached to the immoveable hard palate its action must be more limited than that of the levator; it may- assist the special elevator in bringing the side of the soft palate into a more horizontal position, and it will then fix and render tense the same part of the palate. The two muscles above described are connected with the car- tilaginous part of the Eustachian tube, and may act on it. Taking their fixed point below, they are enabled to open that tube which is ordinarily closed, and so to permit air to enter the cavity of the tympanum. During swallowing, and during forced expiration with the mouth and nose apertures closed, they act in the manner indicated; but some persons have the power of open- ing at will the Eustachian tube, and driving air in expiration into the tympanic cavity, without the nostrils being stopped. Azygos uvuJce, J.—This slender muscle shortens the uvula and the middle part of the soft palate, and assists therefore the elevators. It consists of two slips of pale muscular fibres, (only the right is seen.) which arise above from the palate spine and the aponeurosis of the soft palate, and are inserted below into the submucous tissue of the uvula. The depressors of the soft palate, two in number on each side are directed downwards in the folds of the arches of the palate to the tongue and the thyroid cartilage. The palato-glossus (constrictor isthmi faucium) lies in the anterior pillar, P. It is a thin narrow slip, which begins on the front of the soft palate, where it joins its fellow in the middle Hne; and ends on the side and dorsum of the tongue, as is shown in Plate xxvii. If the lower end is fixed it can draw down the soft palate, stretching the same, so as to diminish the space between the tongue and the palate; and if both ends are fixed the muscle will be moved inwards towards its fellow, narrowing the isthmus of the fauces, as when a morsel of food is about to be swallowed. The palato-pharyngeus is larger than the preceding and consists