157 ELEVATOR MUSCLES OF THE OS HYOTDES. nserted into the body or the great cornu of the os hjoides, joili- ng the aponeurosis of the digastricus. The digastric muscle consists of two fleshy parts with an inter- nediate tendon. The posterior belly, R, is fixed to the groove beneath the mas- oid process of the temporal bone; and the anterior, H, is ttached to the jaw close to the symphysis. Below, the muscle is onnected to the surface of the body of the hyoid bone by a thin leofi Iponeurosis, which joins the anterior belly and the fore part of the endon.* The digastric encloses with the jaw a space in which the two uperficial salivary glands are lodged. And the posterior belly narks the spot at which the carotid bloodvessels become deep and naccessible: ^.he position of this part of the muscle corresponds ifch a line on the surface from the mastoid process to a point lalf an inch above the hyoid bone. The myJo-liyoid muscle descends from the jaw-bone to the body )f the OS hyoides: it lies beneath the anterior belly of the digastric, md in Plate xxii., where it is reflected, it may be seen to join its fellow along the middle line of the neck. The genio-hyoideus is beneath the preceding. Plate xxii. shows t in position, reaching from the jaw to the hyoid bone. Two tongue muscles—liyo and genio-glossus—may act as ele- vators of the hyoid bone: the hyo-glossus is marked with IST in ;he Figure, and both are displayed fully in Plate xxii. Action of the elevators. With the mouth shut and the tongue ixed against the roof, the muscles will assist in preparing the pharynx for the reception of the food, by drawing upwards and brwards the os hyoides, so as to bring the larynx under shelter )f the tongue. But if the mouth is open and the tongue not in ontact with the roof, the muscles are deprived of their usual point 3f support above, and swallowing will be performed with difficulty; the necessary elevation of the hyoid bone in this imperfect leglutition being then dependent upon the stylo-hyoideus and * There are great variations with respect to this attachment and the state )f the stylo-hyoideus muscle : some of these may be perceived in the different Plates.