SUPERFICIAL ARTERIES OF THE NECK. 151 le side of the maxilla, it projects down the neck for an inch or I ore in front of the angle of the jaw. Superficial to it are the iteguments and the platysma with the deep fascia ; and beneath is the mylo-hyoid muscle. In front it is bounded by the Qterior belly of the digastric, F ; below by the digastric and ' le stylo-hyoid, H ; and behind by the process, N, of the deep glam: ^ryical fascia which intervenes between it and the parotid. Over be surface wind the facial vessels, a. \ The gland consists of larger lobules than the parotid; and from s deeper surface the duct (Wharton's) is continued to the floor of le mouth : the course of the duct is evident in Plate xxii. of the ibmaxillary region. ^ I The sublingiM gland projects in the floor of the mouth under ■"^'^ le front of the tongue, where it forms a lengthened swelling. '^^'^ laced deeply under the side of the jaw, close to the symphysis, ^ ^ s connections will be indicated in Plate xxii. The lympliatic glands marked thus, |, are three or four in 4' Limber, and lie along the base of the jaw, superficial to the %vih~ 8'^* axillary gland: they receive vessels from the submental artery, h. |] scrofulous children these glands may enlarge, and suppurate. 1 In the middle line, just above the liyoid bone, is a small 'toi mphatic gland, which receives a vessel, d, from the upper \ lyroid artery. , SUPERFICIAL ARTERIES OF THE NECK, of In comparison with the superficial veins the arteries appearing s;i 1 the surface are few, and are small in size. None except the ;fe ipial, a, and the lingual, c, are large enough to furnish serious of emorrhage in superficial wounds ; but in cuts involving the ik juscles, the large trunks displayed in Plate xvii. may be ,iit bened. ( Facial artery and vein, oi I Submental branch of tlie facial, jjjj < Lingual artery and vein. ° ( Offset of the upper thyroid artery to a lymphatic gland. I]. cc. Superficial offsets of the upper thyroid artery. ff. Branches of the subclavian and carotid trunks perforating the sterno-mastoideus. .7. Cutaneous offset of the posterior auricular.