20G DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. j THE PHARYNX AND ITS MUSCLES. The pharynx is the upper part of the alimentary tube which isi placed behind the nose, mouth, and larynx. Both the food and; air pass along it. It reaches from the skull to the lower end ofi the larynx, gradually tapering from above down, and measures j from five to six inches in length. Above it is inserted into the' skull by a thin fibrous membrane called the aponeurosis of attach-i ment of the pharynx ; and in front it is fixed to the head, the: hyoid bone, and the larynx. | In the wall of the pharynx are contained constricting andj elevating muscles, wdiich are employed in swallowing ; thej latter are engaged in placing the receiving bag in the position| required for the entrance of the food or drink, and the former; urge onwards to the gullet the morsel received. ' A. Inferior constrictor. B. Middle constrictor. C. Superior constrictor. D. Stylo-j)liaryngeus, E. Levator palati. F. Tensor palati. G. Buccinator. H. Stylo-glossus, cut. I. Temporal muscle. J. Mylo-liyoideus. K. Sterno-hyoideus. The constrictor mtiscles are flat and thin, and are three in number on each side, viz. lower, middle, and upper. They are attached in front to the larynx, hyoid bone, and the head, and meet their fellows in the middle line behind : their contiguous edges overlap like scales, the upper being more superficial. The lower constrictor, A (laryngo-pharyngeus) arises from the side of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages of the larynx; and the fibres end in the middle line behind. Its upper edge overlays the middle constrictor B, and the lower is continuous with the circular fibres of the oesophagus. The middle constrictor, B, (hyo-pharyngeus) is connected in front with the hyoid bone, viz. with the great and small cornua. L. Omo-liyoideus. M. Hyo-glossus. N. Tliyro-liyoideus. 0. Stylo hyoid ligament, ossified. P. Sterno thyroideus. Q. Crico-thyroideus. R. Thyroid body, thrown down, S. CEsophagus or gullet. T. Trachea or windpipe. t Pterygo-maxillary ligament.