134 DISSECTION OF THE POSTERIOR TRIANGLE. This belly of the muscle makes tense the deep fascia of the neck. The possibility of its compressing the internal jugular vein has been suggested by Theile.* The scaleni muscles, three on each side, pass from the first two ribs along the side of the spinal column, and are crossed by the great nerves and vessels of the upper limb. The anterior muscle, Gr, arises from the first rib around a slight prominence on the upper surface ; and it is inserted into the fore part of the transverse processes of four cervical vertebra, viz. 6, 5, 4, 3. In front of the muscle lie the omo-hyoideus, H, and sterno- mastoideus, B ; but the deep connections can be more fully observed in Plate xviii. With a lateral view of the side of the neck, as in the Figure, part of the muscle may be seen in the posterior triangular space ; but in a front view, the muscle is usually concealed by the sterno-mastoideus. The middle muscle, F, larger than the preceding, arises from a groove across the hinder part of the upper surface of the first rib ; and it is inserted into the posterior part of the transverse processes of all the cervical vertebrae. Along its outer edge lies the levator anguli scapulse ; and it is placed beneath the cervical nerve trunks, and the subclavian artery. The posterior muscle is small, and is concealed by the pre- ceding. Arising from the upper border of the second rib at the back, it is inserted into the transverse processes (posterior or neural) of two or three lower cervical vertebras. When the neck is fixed the scaleni will elevate the first two ribs. When the ribs are fixed the movements of the neck will vary with the action of the different muscles. If the two pos- terior scaleni of one side contract, the neck will be inclined laterally towards the muscles acting ; but if those of both sides come into play at once—the one set antagonizing the other—the vertebral column will remain upright. Should the anterior scaleni of both sides act the neck would be bent forwards, in consequence of their attachment in front of the spine. * "Lelire von den Muskcln," Leipzig, 1841.