DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 124 come through the sphenoidal fissure. Some end in the contents of the orbit, like the arteries, and others are transmitted through the cavity to the nose and the forehead : they have the following general distribution. The second or the optic belongs to the eyeball. The third, fourth, and sixth, are furnished to muscles. And the ophthalmic trunk of the fifth nerve supplies the eyeball and the lachrymal gland, and ends outside the orbit. The nerves which are superficial to the muscles are displayed on the right side, viz. the fourth, and the supra-orbital and lachrymal branches of the fifth : on the left side the other nerves referred to in the description may be observed. 2. Optic nerve. 3. Third nerve. 4. Fourth nerve. 14. Oplithalmic nerve of tlie fifth. 18. Supra-orbital nerve. 19. Lachrymal nerve. 21. Upper branch of the third nerve. 23. Continuation of the nasal nerve. The third cranial nerve, 3, (motor oculi) supplies all the muscles of the eyeball except two, and enters the orbit in two pieces between the heads of the external rectus. The upper and smaller part, 21, (left side) is furnished to the levator palpebraB, P, and the upper rectus, R ; the lower portion of the nerve may be seen in Plate xiv. 22. The fourth cranial nerve, 4, passes through the sphenoidal fissure above the muscles, and ends in the upper oblique, N, piercing the fibres of the muscle on the surface turned away from the eyeball. The ophthalmic nerve, 14, begins in the Gasserian ganglion, 13, and is (continued through the wall of the cavernous sinus and the sphenoidal fissure to the orbit. It ends by dividing into the supra- orbital, 18, and the lachrymal branch, 19 ; and from its inner side, before the terminal bifurcation, springs the nasal nerve, 20, (Fig. xiv.) The lachrymal nerve, 19. the smallest of the oflPsets of the ophthalmic trunk, is directed to the outer part of the orbit, and supplies the lachrymal gland and the upper eyelid. The swpra-orMtal nerve, 18, lies above the muscles, like the lachrymal, and is continued through the cavity to the supra-