239 OLFACTORY REGION AND NASAL NERVES. ,peii in rows between the nerve branches: their long ducts are ined by scaly epithelium. Bloodvessels.—k% the arteries are not injected, suffice it to say ,hat they are derived chiefly frora the internal maxillary, and )ome through the spheno-palatine foramen. A few enter through ',he apertures in the roof from the ophthalmic artery ; and near ihe nostril are branches of the facial. In the pituitary membrane ihey form a network ; and on the surface and free edges of the ;wo lower spongy bones they ramify in plexuses beneath the aiembrane. The veins accompany the arteries, and form large venous plexuses on the septum nasi and the middle and lower spongy bones. Through the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, the veins of the nasal cavity communicate with those in die cranium. THE OLFACTORY REGION AND THE NASAL NERVES. In the mucous membrane at the top of the nasal cavity the olfactory nerve ends, and the seat of smelling is located. To this part the term olfactory region has been applied by Mr. Bowman, jits situation is under the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone ; and it extends down for about an inch on the septum nasi and the outer wall. Over the limits of this region the mucous membrane is thin, as before said, with thick scaly epithelium, and the glands are like sweat-glands. The vessels construct a network in the adult; but in the foetus Mr. Bowman found on injecting them loops here and there Avith enlargements, suggesting to him the idea of rudi- mentary papillse. Olfactory nerve.—The offsets of the olfactory nerve enter the nose through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone ; and penetrating the mucous membrane they divide and subdivide in a plexiform manner till they are reduced to the I necessary degree of fineness; but-the mode of ending of the nerve-filaments is not known. Recent researches (Schultze) point to the ending of the branches in olfactory or nerve-cells, which resemble somewhat columnar epithelium, and project to the free