160 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE NECK. very little, because the descendens noni nerve, 3, and offsets of th upper thyi'oid vessels to the sterno-mastoideus cross the sheath. The sheath is next to be opened towards the inner part—ove the artery—avoiding the nerve, and the small vessels if possible and after the artery has been separated from its sheath the need] is to be passed under it, whilst the opposite side of the sheath i raised with a pair of forceps. Between the artery and vein lie the vagus nerve: this is not to be included in the ligature, an if the artery has been carefully detached the nerve caunot we be caught. Before tying the thread the operator shoul ascertain that the pulsation in the vessel can be stopped b pressure. Should the artery be denuded too much, the application of tw ligatures may be needful—one at each end of the part laid bare And should the size of the vein be inconveniently large, it ma, be diminished by the pressure of the finger of an assistant at th upper part of the wound. i In an operation on the left side the vein, from its position ove the artery, would have to be turned aside; and this step may b( needed also on the right side when the vein covers the artery. In the operation on the dead body the needle will pierce readil the coats of a large loose artery, if force is used; and any chec therefore to the progress of the needle in the living body shoul be met by drawing back the point of the instrument, and b pulling upwards tightly with a forceps the opposite side of th sheath before another attempt is made to pass the ligature. The internal carotid artery, c, is the direct continuation of th common carotid trunk, and enters the skull through the tempore bone (Plate xxiv.). Below the level of the digastric muscle th artery may be reached by the surgeon, but above that muscle : is quite inaccessible. No offset is given from this vessel in i\ neck. In the accessible part of its course it corresponds with il surface-line of the common carotid. It is covered, like th? vessel, by the sterno-mastoideus, and rests on the spine;—at th spot it lies external or posterior to the external carotid trun The internal jugular vein, and the vagus and sympathetic nerve