204 DEEP DISSECTION OF THE NECK. One large inner or visceral branch, inferior cardiac, runs beneath the subclavian artery to the cardiac plexus in the thorax. Offsets to the bloodvessels entwine around the vertebral artery, l, forming a plexus on it; and other nerves ramify on j ! the subclavian trunk which they surround with one or two ;i loops. I The branches of the sympathetic in the neck serve chiefly : I to connect this nerve with others, and to supply the blood- \\ vessels. 1 \ By means of the communicating branches with the cranial and :i spinal nerves the sympathetic gives fibres to, and receives fibres i i from those nerves ; and the offsets joining the anterior primary i i trunk of each spinal nerve are directed through the roots of the t nerve towards the spinal cord, and send also some fibres to the i trunk of the nerve to be distributed peripherally with it. To the bloodvessels the sympathetic gives the power of regnlat- 'i ing the quantity of blood circulating through them ; so that on ; section of its nerves (vaso-motory) to them the muscular coat is \ \ paralysed, and being unable to contract on the contained fluid, i the blood slackens in speed, and congestion of the vessels of the !! i)art and increased heat ensue. Stimulating the cut nerves by : j galvanism will restore for the time contraction of the muscular , i coat, and will cause a decrease in the congestion and the heat. ' Spinal nerves.—Eight in number, they are divided equally t between two plexuses ;—the upper four entering the cervical, and ! j the lower four the brachial plexus. : ; Cervical plexus.—The anterior primary branches of the first \' four nerves interlace in the cervical plexus ; they are marked 16 i to 19 inclusive, and the small branch of the first, 16, is named ii the loop of the atlas. The superficial offsets of the plexus are ij delineated in Plate xv.; the deep branches follow below :— ! Branches to muscles.—From the loop between the first two ' nerves branches are furnished to the contiguous recti muscles ; I and from the other loops of the plexus the surrounding muscles, j viz., the sterno-mastoideus C, Levator anguli scapulae E, scalenus | medius B, intertransversalcs, trapezius, and the platysma, receive i nerves. I