173 POSTERIOR DEEP MUSCLES OF THE NECK. transverse processes of the upper dorsal vertebras, and to the articular processes of the cervical vertebrse, except the first two; and by the inner edge it is connected with the spines of one or two lower cervical and upper dorsal vertebras. It is inserted into the mid part of the occipital bone between the curved lines. Towards the inner edge a piece of the muscle possesses a middle tendon, and this is often described separately as the Mventer cervicis. If the muscles of both sides act they will maintain the head erect, or will bring it back (raising the face) according to the degree of contraction; but supposing only one to contract, the occiput will be inclined down and out towards the transverse processes of the same side. Semispimlis colli, C. Filling the vertebral groove with the multifidus spinas, it is attached externally, like the preceding I muscle, to the tr^ansverse processes of the upper dorsal vertebrse, and to the articular processes of the cervical vertebrse, except the first^thifigj and internally it is inserted into the spines of the cervical vertebrae below the first. Acting with its fellow it extends the spine: by itself, it rotates the spine, turning the face to the opposite side. The oMqmis inferior, D, slants between the first two vertebrae : it arises from the spine of the axis, and is inserted into the trans- verse process of the atlas. Drawing backwards the lateral part of the atlas it rolls this bone round the odontoid process of the axis, and rotates indirectly the head, moving the face to its own side. The odliquus superior, F, arises from the transverse process of the atlas, where the preceding is attached, and is inserted into the occipital bone between the curved lines, and near the mastoid process. The muscle can draw back the head; and may check a too great forward movement, as in nodding. The rectus posticus major, G, arises from the spine of the second vertebra; and widening as it ascends obliquely, it is inserted into the outer half of the lower curved line of the occi- pital bone, where it is partly concealed by the obliquus superior.