156 DISSECTION OF THE FEONT OF THE NECK. De^jressors of the os hyoides. These muscles cover the trac' cind larynx, and are marked B, C, and D. Omo-hyoideus, C. The anterior belly of this muscle crosses common carotid artery and jugular vein just below the eric cartilage, and is inserted into the body of the hyoid bone cl to the great cornu. For the posterior belly, see Plate xv. £ p. 133. Sterno-hyoideus, B. The muscle arises from the inner surf of the sternum and first rib, and is inserted into the middle of ■ body of the hyoid bone. Sterno-thyroideus, D, arises lower in the chest than the prec ing, though like it from the sternum and the rib, and is inserl into the oblique line on the thyroid cartilage, where it is c( tinuous with the following. The small thyro-hyoideus, F, joining the preceding below, inserted into the anterior half of the great cornu, and into p; of the body of the os hyoides. This group of muscles is covered partly by the sterno-m toideus; and it conceals the windpipe and the thyroid body, a the sheath of the great bloodvessels. An interval separates \ muscles of opposite sides along the middle line of the neck, exc( for about an inch above the sternum, where the sterno-thyr muscles touch. Adioji. Commonly the muscles act from the sternum, a draw down rapidly the os hyoides as soon as the morsel of food the fluid to be swallowed has passed the upper aperture of larynx. If they take their fixed point above, the sterno-hyi and sterno-thyroid will assist in dilating the chest in laboric breathing ; and the small thyro-hyoid, F, will raise and tilt ba( wards the thyroid cartilage—relaxing thereby the vocal cords. Elevators of the hyoid bo7ie. These muscles are more numer than their antagonists, for some extrinsic muscles of the ton^ help to raise the os hyoides: the deeper muscles of the set may referred to in Plate xxii. Stylo-hyoideus, P. Arising near the root of the styloid proc( the muscle is divided into two parts, between which passes tendon of the posterior belly, R, of the digastricus; and it