CRANIAL NERVES IN THE BASE OF THE SKULL. 115 the foramen magnum, and is widest where it joins the tentorium. It contains the occipital sinus. Falx cerebri, E. Only a small part of this is exhibited. It is narrowed in front and widened behind, and reaches along the middle line of the head from the crista galli, I, to the occipital protuberance where it joins the tentorium (Plate xiv.). At its attachment to the skull lies a venous space, the superior longitu- dinal sinus (Plate xiv. 0). Meningeal arteries. Small in size and few in number, they ramify in the dura mater of the foss93, taking the names anterior, middle, and posterior, from their situation. Few of them are seen in an ordinary injection, and they will be noticed more fully after ,the cranial nerves. Meningeal nerves. These are smaller than the arteries, and cannot be perceived without steeping the dura mater in acid : they are derived from the sympathetic, and from some of the cranial nerves, especially the fifth.7^'^- CRANIAL NERVES IN THE BASE OF THE SKULL. All the nerves attached to the encephalon are called cranial ; and one nerve, 11, not attached to the encephalon, is reckoned as a cranial nerve, because it enters the skull and leaves by an aperture in the base of the cranium. The nerves course forwards I from their origin to the apertures of exit; and a part of each nerve is left in the skull after the removal of the brain. The nerves crossing the middle fossa of the base of the skull are invested by sheaths of the dura mater, but the others are free from the same till they enter their foramina of exit. On the left I side, the place of entrance of those nerves into the sheaths may be observed ; but to examine fully their trunks, and to define also the ganglion and branches of the fifth nerve, as in the Figure, the dura mater should be removed on the right side from the middle fossa of the base. There are twelve pairs of cranial nerves :*—these are marked by 1 * English anatomists reckon in general nine pairs of cranial nerves, and the ■anatomists on the Continent enumerate twelve pairs; so that some confusion