128 DISSECTION OF THE OKRIT. act as antagonists to the group of muscles (before described, p. 121) on the outer side and above the ball. Like the other group they consist of two straight and one oblique ; and they are named inferior rectus, internal rectus, and inferior oblique. N. Upper oblique muscle. 0. Superior longitudinal sinus. P. Levator palpebrse superioris. Q. Cavernous sinus. K. Upper rectus muscle. S. External rectus muscle. V. Inferior rectus muscle. W. Inferior oblique muscle. X. Internal rectus muscle. Recti muscles. The lower rectus, Y, (depressor oculi) and the inner rectus, X, (adductor oculi) arise, behind, around the optic nerve with the other muscles ; and the two separating from each other in front, are inserted into the eyeball near the cornea, each being attached opposite its antagonist muscle. One of these muscles contracting, the pupil will be directed towards it, the under rectus depressing and adducting, and the inner one adducting the eye ; but the two recti acting together the pupil will be turned to a point intermediate between both. The extertial rectus, S, is more evident here than in Figure xiii.; and on the right side the nerves passing between its heads of origin, viz., the third, 3, the nasal nerve of the fifth, 20, and the sixth, 6, have been traced out, to show their relative position. The inferior oUigue muscle, W, is displayed only at its insertion into the eyeball. Arising from the fore part of the floor of the orbit, close to the lachrymal sac, it is inclined backwards below the inferior rectus and the eyeball, and is inserted into the back of the eye near the upper oblique muscle. By the action of this muscle the back of the ball may be depressed and the cornea raised ; and the eye being rotated at the same time the cornea will be directed upwards and outwards to- wards the temple. This movement towards the outer side of the orbit is thought to counteract the motion of the ball up and in by the upper rectus muscle. DEEP NERVES OF THE ORBIT. The second nerve, part of tlie third nerve, tlie lenticular