ARTERIES IN THE TRIANGULAR SPACE. 139 iperfidal to the artery are the common coverm^s of jthe space, z., the sldn, the cutaneous fatNvith the platysmafitad th^ de^p"' ,scia; and as it is about to pass under the clavicle'and the sub- avius the supra-scapular artery and vein cross in front. TJnder- 3ath the vessel lie the middle scalenus, F, and the first rib. Its companion vein, subclavian, is arched like the artery (Plate I'ui.), but it is placed lower in the neck, and beneath the clavicle. ' rossing the artery near the scalenus is the oyh(vn2n1jii(yiilar v^in, • whose branches may form a plexus over it. The nerves of the brachial plexus, 11, lie above the artery near 1 le scalenus anticus, and gradually approach it below, so that, at D lie clavicle, the trunk formed by the last cervical and first dorsal ruches the vessel, and may be mistaken for it in the operation of 'S' lang the subclavian. A small branch, 10, to the subclavius s iiuscle is directed across the artery. Superficial to the clavicular !3ace are the descending cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus, Ihich will be cut in the operation for ligature. Offsets of the artery. As a rule this part of the subclavian •unk does not furnish any named branch. A cutaneous offset, took origin from the vessel in this body, but it springs com- i only from the supra-scapular artery b, near the external jugular is ^in. al Compression of the artery. As the subclavian artery is un- )vered by muscle whilst it crosses the triangular space, it may e compressed at the lower part of the neck during life. Its posi- on is marked on the surface by the most prominent part of the .avicle ; and if the thumb is pressed firmly downwards and back- os' ards behind that point of the bone towards the first rib, the Tculation in the vessel may be stopped. Sometimes the top of ij. J^ey padded may be used more advantageously than the thumb. Ligature of the third part of the subclavian artery is prac- sed commonly for aneurism of the axillary trunk ; and as this Deration may be rendered more difficult by the unusual posi- :on of the subclavian vessels, and by unusual states of the lirrounding parts, the conditions complicating it will be first iviewed.* t * The summary here made has been derived from the facts made known hy