220 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. | lages; and outside and below these the lower cornua of tl thyroid cartilage rest on it. Internally it is smooth and lined by mucous membrane ; and externally muscles are attach. to it. . ' The part of the larynx enclosed by this cartilage is quite me tensible; and by means of the great depth of the cricoid behi^ the arytainoid cartilages are raised to the height needful for t attachment of the vocal cords to them. The aryimnoid cartilages are something like a pitcher in sha] and are placed at the back of the larynx. Each is pyramidal form, with the base resting on the upper border of the cric( cartilage, and the apex blending with the cartilage of Santorini Narrow and smooth internally or towards its fellow, it is wider and rough externally where muscles are inserted into it, Fig. H. Its posterior part is hollowed, and lodges the arytsen- muscle; and from its fore part projects a spur into which 1 vocal cord, 0, is fixed. This is the most moveable of the laryngeal cartilages ; and the vocal cord and most of the muscles altering the conditio! that cord are connected with it, the production and modificatioi the voice are influenced by its position. • The remaining small cartilages do not take part in the prod tion of the voice, though they may assist in modifying the S£ after it is formed, and they are therefore of secondary imp^ Five in number, the chief of them acts as a valve to the uf opening of the larynx, and is called epiglottis: the others are pairs, one being named cartilages of Santorini, and the secc cartilages of Wrisberg. The cartilages of Santorini, T, (cornicula laryngis) are placec the tops of the arytsenoid cartilages. Wide below they gradu taper above, the points bending towards each other. They bound posteriorly the upper laryngeal opening; enveloped by the mucous membrane, serve for the attachmei] the folds, U, bounding laterally that opening. The cartilages of Virisberg, K, Fig. ii. (cuneiform cartila< are placed in front of the cornicula one in each arytieno-epiglo fold U. Each resembles a grain of rice in shape and size.