224 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. thyroid cartilage about the centre of its depth, and behind into tl anterior spur at the base of the arytsenoid cartilage. In the ma it measures rather more than half an inch, and in the fema rather less. This band forms the upper free edge of the cnc thyroid ligament (Fig, ii., N), and consists of a bundle of fii elastic tissue covered by thin mucous membrane. It has two free surfaces, one internal which looks to its fella and one above where it bounds the ventricle ; and the free ed between those two surfaces is the part that is made to vibrate the outgoing current of air. Sound or voice is produced by the expired air throwing ii vibration the free edges of the lower two vocal cords. In breat ing the vibrating edges are at a distance from each other, a divergent, behind, and the air passes by them without som In order that voice should be produced those edges require to approximated and put parallel to each other by muscles, and to be brought into the state called the vocalizing position. The pitch of the voice varies with the degree of tightness laxness of the vocal cords. If the cords are loose a deep sou ensues, but if they are tight, a high tone is formed. Alterati( in the degree of tension depend upon the action of control muscles. The glottis (rima glottidis), R, is the narrow interval or ch between the true vocal cords. Its extent is greater than that of cords, for it reaches across the larynx; and it is bounded on e side by the vocal cord and the arytenoid cartilage. It measn fi'om before back nearly an inch, and across at the base w: dilated about a third of an inch : both measurements refei the larynx of the male. In the female the size is less by or three lines. During inspiration the space is larger thar expiration. Its form changes with the dilatation. In a state of rest the in val resembles a spear-head with the shaft placed backwards ; w dilated it is triangular in form, the base of the interval b( behind. The ventrich of the larynx, Q, is the hollow between the i and true vocal cords of the same side ; and it extends from