190 DISSECTIOI^ OF THE SUBMAXILLARY EEGIOK tip of the tongue, gradually decreasing in size by the supply c offsets. On the liyo-glossus it furnishes branches to three extrinsi tongue muscles—the hyo, stylo, and genio-glossus; and to on( elevator of the hyoid bone—genio-byoideus. It joins the gus tatory nerve, 5, by means of the loop, 7. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve, 1 (ninth cranial), taking th course of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle (Plate xxiv.), enters hi neath the hyo-glossus to reach the mucous membrane and th papilla of the hinder third, and the lateral part of the tongue Beneath the hyo-glossus muscle it furnishes offsets to the pharym the arches of the soft palate, and the tonsil. The nerve confers sensibility on the mucous membrane of th pharynx, and gives the faculty of tasting in the back of th tongue and in the pillars of the soft palate. The gustatory nerve, 5, coming from the pterygoid regio (Plate xxi.), appears betvreen the jaw and the internal pterj goid muscle, and courses forwards along the under surface c the tongue to the tip. At first the nerve rests against the pre minence inside the last molar tooth ; and in the rest of it ■extent in the tongue it lies near the edge, covered by the mucoi membrane. Offsets from it supply the mucous membrane of the floor of th mouth, the submaxillary and sublingual glands, and the tongn in front of the distribution of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve- especially the mucous membrane and the papillae. As this branch of the fifth cranial nerve does not receive an filaments of the motor root (p. 185) its function is sensory; an the faculty of tasting in the fore part of the tongue is dependei upon it. Submaxillary ganglion, 7. This little body resembles the lei ticular ganglion in the orbit (Plate xiv.), and is connected wit the branch of the fifth nerve distributed to the tongue. Smalh than the lenticular ganglion, and occasionally reddish in colou it lies just above the submaxillary gland. Some branches are furnished to the submaxillary gland an the mucous membrane of the mouth.