238 DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. shaped end in the meatus ; but in the recent state a piece of the lining membrane of the nose is stretched over the apertm*e forming a yalve for it, and leaves only a small oblique passage for the tears. In the Figure the size of the opening, 0, is to be seen. Usually the flap closes the aperture, and prevents air fi'om being driven out of the nose into' the lachrymal canals. An instrument entering the duct from below must necessarily injure the valve. One sinus, viz., that of the body of the sphenoid bone, L, does not open into a meatus : its aperture, which is rather large, may be seen on the slanting hinder part of the roof. THE MUCOUS MEMBRAXE AXD THE BLOODVESSELS. The mucous membrane, named pituitary and Schneiderian, clothes the cavity, uniting with the periosteum of the bones, and joins the skin in fi'ont, and the lining of the pharynx posteriorly. It is continued over the foramina transmitting vessels and nerves into the cavity, so as to close them ; but it sinks into the apertures leading into the sinuses in the surrounding bones, and lines those air spaces, whilst it diminishes somewhat the size of their openings. Through the nasal duct it is continued upwards to the lachrymals sac, and forms below a thin valve, 0, which shuts the opening. In the lower half of the nasal cavity the membrane is thick'. and vascular, particularly over the septum nasi and the lowei^ spongy bone ; and it increases the surface of the latter by being^ prolonged fi'om the lower margin. Its epithelium is columnar^ and ciliated, except in the dilatation near the nostril where it I joins the epidermis and is laminar: at this same spot it is pro-j vided with papillae, and with long hairs or vibrissae. Large*S mucous glands abound in the lower part of the nose, and theii^ apertures cover the sm'face. ^ In the upper part of the nose the mucous layer is less thick ■ and vascular, and is of a yellowish colour. The epithelium isi thick, especially over the olfactory region, and is laminar according ; to Bowman; though other observers state that it is ciliated at' spots, and is coltimnar. The glands ai'e numerous. In the olfactory region these resemble the sweat-glands of the skin, and i