INTERIOR OF THE LARYKX. 225^ l\i It lire Id s, aii lltM mtiTjIi or Ui Ion meal laseit! i refe ssbj thyroid to the arytsenoid cartilage. The bottom of the hollow is wider than the opening into the larynx ; and at its upper and anterior part it communicates with the sacculus laryngis, S. Into this hollow the mucous membrane sinks, and, after lining the space, enters the laryngeal pouch. This space by its position isolates the true vocal cord [ from the wall of the larynx, and permits the free vibration of that band. The laryngeal pouch (sacculus laryngis), S, is a small conical bag of the mucous membrane, which projects upwards from tlie ventricle of the larjmx, and when distended reaches as high as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. Fig. ii. gives an inner view of its position on the side of the epiglottis ; and in Fig. i. it is seen from the outside as it rises above the thyro- arytsenoid muscle, P. Closed and dilated above, the pouch is narrow below ; and it opens into the ventricle by a small hole, which is diminished somewhat by a projection of the mucous membrane. Over the outer surface are scattered numerous mucous glands (sixty or seventy in number) which open by small ducts on the inner surface, and pour their secretion over the contiguous parts, viz., the ventricle and the vocal cords. The mucous lining of the larynx forms a fold, U, (arytseno- epiglottid,) on each side of the upper orifice, and extends through the cavity to the trachea. Furnishing a very thin covering without glands to the vocal cords, it sinks into tlie ventricle between them, and gives rise to the sacculus. As low as the vocal cords it is loosely united to the subjacent parts by areolar tissue, but it is joined closely to those bands without tlie intervention of any submucous stratum. In consequence of the closeness of its attachment to the cords the swelling from fluid eflPused into the areolar tissue in oedema of the glottis does not extend below that point; and thus, though the upper orifice of the larynx may be closed by the swelling, air can be admitted to the lungs by an artifical aperture through the crico-thyroid mem- brane, N, as in the operation of laryngotomy, because this opening will be situate below the swollen parts. Q ■11'