161 ARTERIES OF THE FRONT OF THE NECK. ofti eofi re. iDOft tenii» ave the same position to the internal, as to the common carotid rterj. Crossing the artery superficially is the hypoglossal nerve, 14, hich sends down the descendens noni branch, 3; and beneath the superior laryngeal nerve, 1, is directed inwards. The ccipital artery, g, runs backwards over it, commonly near the figastric muscle, but sometimes lower down as in the Figure: a ranch of this supplies the sterno-mastoideus. Ligature. If this artery is ever tied it should be secured as far om its origin as it well can be ; and a point between the hyoid )ne and the digastric muscle may be selected as the most suitable, jit the part of the artery available may be very short in consc- ience of the common carotid ascending as far as, or farther than le OS hyoides oefore it splits. Should the forked ending of the )mmon trunk be found in an operation, both the resulting •teries may be secured at their origin. Occasionally the ending the common carotid rises still nearer to the head, and in those ses no part of the internal carotid will be below the digastric uscle. The spot for the application of the ligature being well ascer- lined by means of the digastric muscle, the hyoid bone, and the le of the artery, the first steps of the operation, and the parts be cut through are the same as those before given for ligature the common carotid. After the sterno-mastoid muscle has been fleeted the hypoglossal nerve and the occipital artery, with eir branches, may be met with. When laying bare the artery re must be taken of the external carotid trunk on the one side, d of the internal jugular vein on the other ; and in passing 3 aneurism needle the same precautions are to be observed as the case of the common carotid (p. 159). The external carotid artery, reaches from the upper border of tb thyroid cartilage nearly to the neck of the lower jaw, and liketc's !ticiiei« ^' ds by dividing into temporal and maxillary branches. It is aller than the internal carotid; and it distributes branches to 3 neck, and the outer parts of the head. At first it is placed the anterior or inner side of the internal carotid, but after- rds becomes superficial to that vessel.