J BOUNDARIES OF THE NASAL CAVITY. 235 fore part is made up of the frontal and nasal bones, and the lateral cartilage ; and the hinder part is bounded by the anterior and inferior surfaces of the body of the sphenoid, with the sphenoidal spongy and the palate bones. The inner wall is the septum or partition between the fossse of opposite sides. In it are the descending plate of the ethmoid, E, the vomer, S, and the triangular cartilage, T. The outer wall is marked by projecting osseous pieces with subjacent hollows, and is constructed of several bones. From before back the following is the order of succession, viz. : os nasi, upper jaw, lachrymal, ethmoid, and palate bones, with the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone. Below the nasal, in front, the lateral cartilage is found. I The width of the nasal fossa is larger below than above; and at I the floor close to the septum is the greatest space available for I passing an instrument through the cavity. Across the upper part I of the fossa the spongy bones project, so as nearly to touch the ' septum. From before back the length measures about three inches along the floor, and the depth amounts to two inches at the centre. In front is the opening called the nostril: this is an elongated hole which is surrounded, except behind, by the cartilage of the aperture, U, and is always open. For the distance of half an inch within the nostril is a dilatation, E, large enough to take the end of the finger, which is lined by skin provided with hairs or vibrissa. Behind, the space communicates with the pharynx by the posterior naris (Plate xxvi.). In breathing the air passes ordinarily through the lower half of the nasal fossa, but by snilBng, as in the attempt to recognise faint odours, the current can be directed upwards to the region where the olfactory nerve ramifies. Through the lower part of the nasal fossa the opening of the Eus- tachian tube, P, can be reached. To enter that tube an instrument should have the requisite size and curve, and should be directed along the floor close to the septum until it reaches the posterior naris ; then the point is to be turned upwards and outwards into the aperture. In like manner a flexible tube can be passed through