I 230 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. brane of the larynx as low as the true vocal cord ; and by its" extreme sensibility it guards the upper part of the passage against' the entrance of anything but the air. As soon as a particle of food or drink touches the lining membrane, the respiratory muscle^ are called into play by a reflex act, and the foreign body is ex^i. pelled by coughing. In the attempt to breathe an irrespirable? gas the passage is closed by the contraction of the surrounding; muscles, also through a reflex act. When the nerve is cut across! in an animal during life the sensibility of the part is lost, and; food may enter the larynx. j To the crico-thyroideus muscle, which it supplies alone, it give^ motor influence as well as sensibility ; and to the arytgenoideus, to which with the recurrent it furnishes offsets, it imparts only sensibility. The inferior laryngeal or recurrent nerve, 5, ascends over the side of the cricoid cartilage, and ends in muscular off'sets beneath the thyroid. At first the nerve supplies branches to the mucous membrane of the pharynx, and the communicating branch, 6, which joins the upper laryngeal under the thyroid cartilage. The continuation of the nerve, 7, then terminates in branches for muscles :—one belongs to the crico-aryt^noideus posticus, R; a second, which passes beneath the preceding muscle, enters the arytsenoideus, V; and another gives nerves to the crico- aryteenoideus lateralis, Q, and the thyro-arytjenoideus, P, Ii short, the nerve supplies all the special laryngeal muscles excepi the crico-thyroideus, Y, which receives the external laryngea branch of the superior laryngeal ^erve.* The recurrent is the motor nerve of the muscles acting on th( * Anatomists are silent for the most part respecting the nerve to the mnscl here called depressor of the epiglottis ; but Mr. Hilton states (Guy's Hospita Reports, vol. 2, 1837) as the result of "repeated and careful dissections that it is supplied from the recurrent nerve by means of two filaments whid are prolonged from the branch of the same nerve to the thyro-arytsenoideus Neither in my own dissections, nor in those of Mr. P. B. Mason and Mr. J S. Cluff, formerly Demonstrators of Anatomy, could any separate branch b traced from the recurrent nerve to the muscle, Mr. Cluff made six specif examinations of the human larynx, one of the larynx of a donkey, and one ( ^he larynx of a cat.