DEEP NERVES OF THE NECK. 199 f Branches are given to the contiguous muscles, the lymphatic ^ glands, and the nerves ; and one (meningeal) enters the skull [through the foramen lacerum, and ends in the dura mater. The internal carotid artery, u, ascends through the neck and the temporal bone to the interior of the cranium, and terminates I in branches for the brain and the orbit. The cervical part of the vessel, of the same size throughout and devoid of branches, lies by the side of the pharynx, and rests on (the rectus anticus, J. At first the artery is accessible in an operation (p. 160), but it becomes deep afterwards beneath the parotid gland and the digastricus, and the styloid process and its muscles. The internal jugular vein is contained in a sheath of fascia with the artery, and is external or posterior to it. Numerous nerves are in contact with the vessel Crossing it superficially from above down are the glosso-pharyngeal, 1, the pharyngeal branch of the vagus, 5, and the hypoglossal nerve, 7 ; and beneath it, also with a cross direction, are the pharyngeal branches of the sympathetic, the upper laryngeal, 3, and the ex- ternal laryngeal, 4. In the sheath between it and the vein, and j parallel to it, lies the vagus nerve, 2 ; and behind the sheath and ! parallel, is placed the sympathetic nerve with its branches. Close to the skull the cranial nerves issuing by the foramen jugulare and anterior condyloid foramen interpose between the artery and vein, but they diverge afterwards to their destination. In the temporal bone the artery becomes flexuous, and fills the carotid canal, only a few branches of the sympathetic ascending around it: here it gives a small tympanic branch to the ear, which pierces the bone. For the anatomy of the artery in the skull see Plate xiii. (p. 119); and for the description of the ophthalmic artery refer to p. 122. DEEP NERVES OF THE NECK. Four cranial nerves, and the sympathetic nei've, with their branches, together with the spinal nerves of the neck, are visible in the Plate.