181 PIOKLINQ AND PRESERVING put them into a large earthen jar; cover the jar with a cloth, and put it into a cellar or any damp place to stand for eight days ; they will probably be mouldy on the top; remove this; stir them up well with a large silver spoon; put them on to a hair sieve, and the juice will run through quite clear ; to each pint put one pound of powdered sugar ; boil ten minutes ; let it stand till cold; bottle, cork, and seal it up. This is very good for colds, coughs, etc. 729. To Preserve Cherries for Drying.—Take the best Kentish cherries; remove the stones, and weigh the fruit; allow half a pound of double-refined sugar to each pound of fruit; clarify and boil the sugar to blowing height; put in the fruit; boil a minute or two; then take it off the fire, and let it stand a little ; put the pan on the fire, and let it boil till the fruit looks transparent ; leave the cherries to stand in the syrup four or five days, then lay them on sieves, and dry them on a slow stove; change them on to clean sieves every day till they are dry; put them away in cardboard boxes. 730. Brandy Cherries. — Take fine Morello cherries, cut their stalks short, and put them into a glass jar, with a stick of cinnamon, twelve cloves, a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar-candy, and a quart of brandy. N.B.—The glass jar must be quite full. Tie it over with bladder. 731. Greengages in Brandy.— Take greengages preserved accord- ing to the following receipt, put them in a glass jar, fill them up with good French brandy, tie the jar over, and keep a few weeks. Peaches, nectarines, and apricots may be done in the same way. 732. To Preserve Greengages. —Pick the plums when full grown and nearly ripe; let them he in cold water twenty-four hours; lay some vine-leaves in the bottom of a clean brass pan; take the plums out of the water and lay them in the pan, pouring over as much water as will just cover them; strew a pinch of powdered alum over, and set the pan on a clear fire ; when they rise to the top, take them out, and put them into a bowl with a little fresh warm water; clean the pan and lay fresh vine leaves in it; return the fruit to the pan; cover it with boiling-water, and a small pinch more powdered alum ; put a cloth over the pan, and let it stand a quarter of an hour ; then take the plums out of the water, weigh them, and take the same weight of double-refined pounded sugar; put the fruit into a clean pan, strew the pounded sugar over them, add a little water, set the pan on a clear fire, and let it boil slowly till the fruit looks green and transparent. It is then ready to put into pots ; boil the syrup, how- ever, a little longer, and let it get cold, when you may pour it over the greengages and let them stand two or three days; then pour off the syrup, and boil it up again with more sugar till it is thick and smooth ; pour it over the fruit, and close up the pots. 733. Crystallized Fruits may also be made, when preserved, by first draining them thoroughly from the syrup ; cover them with clari- fied sugar; boil a minute or two; drain them on sieves, placing them so that they cannot touch each