DAINTY DISHES 184 746. Gooseberry Jelly.—Fill a Btone jar with ripe gooseberries ; cover the top close up with paper ; set the jar in water, and boil till the gooseberries are quite tender; then pass them through a sieve, and to every pint of juice add a pound of single-refined sugar, clarified ; put in the juice, and boil till it jellies, which you will easily know by letting a little cool in a saucer. Green gooseberry jelly, from un- ripe gooseberries, may be made in the same way. 747. Gooseberry Cheese. — Mash two quarts of ripe red or green gooseberries, add a pound of fine-sifted sugar to them, and let them stand all night; next day boil it up; rub the gooseberries through a sieve, and boil the pulp, stirring it all the time over a gentle fire for twenty-five minutes; put it in moulds or pots. Cheese of apricots, peaches, or plums may be made in the same way. 748. Gooseberry - Biscuits.— Gather the fruit when full grown, but not ripe ; put them into a jar and set them to boil in a kettle of water till they become soft; rub through a sieve. To every pound of pulp add a pound of loaf-sugar; stir it till the sugar is dissolved over the fire; then pour it into shallow dishes to dry in the sun or in a cool oven. When it begins to candy, you may cut them into any form you please. Turn them every day till they become dry and hard; keep in tin boxes in a dry place. Barberries, apricots, lemons, etc., to be done the same way. Cookery for tbe 749. Rumford Soup. — Take double the quantity of water you want to have soup; one pound of split peas, three carrots and turnips, or more if they are not large, and put it overnight to simmer by a slow fire ; strain it next morning; add a quarter of a pound of rice, pepper, salt, celery, and any other vegetables you may have. Let them simmer on a slow fire till tender. 750. Soup for the Poor.—One pound of beef, a quarter of a pound of rice or barley, two onions, five turnips, pepper, and salt; put all together into a gallon of water; when it has boiled for an hour, take out the beef and cut it in Sick ant> poor. small pieces; add some potatoes, and boil an hour longer. It may also be thickened with meal, which makes it more nourishing. 751. A Nourishing Soup for the Poor. — Take the liquor in which meat has been boiled the day before, with the bones of leg and shin of beef, and add as much water as will make thirty gallons ; add also two ox heads, the meat of ten stone of leg and shin of beef, all cut in pieces; two bunches of carrots, four of turnips, two of leeks, half a peck of onions, a bunch of celery, half a pound of pepper, and some salt; boil ten hours, and thicken it with either barley or oatmeal. This can, of course, b*