DAINTY DISHES 110 cut in any shape you please, but the neatest way is with a plain round cutter; dip each piece in melted butter, and lay them in the mould with the edge of one just resting on the other pieces like fishes’ scales. Take care that the bread is not cut too thick, and bake it very crisp. 593. Calf s-foot Jelly.—Put six calves’ feet into six quarts of water, set them on the fire, and boil eight hours, when it should be reduced to four quarts ; strain and carefully remove all the fat; whisk up twelve whites of eggs with a pound and a half of coarsely - pounded sugar, the juice of ten lemons and the peel of two, and a small stick of cinnamon ; add the stock from the calves’ feet to this while warm, boil it up for a quarter of an hour, then put it in half a pint of white wine ; boil it up once more, and let it stand for ten minutes covered up in the pan, then strain through a jelly-bag two or three times till it runs quite clear, and put it into a mould, which place on the ice or in a cool place to set. A very good nourishing jelly may be made of neats’ feet, omitting the wine and using only four lemons. 599. Sponge Jelly or Jelly k la Russe.—Take a pint of calves’- feet jelly; just melt it; whisk it over some ice till it looks like thick cream ; fill a mould with this, and when cold turn it out. 600. Punch Jelly.—Add half a teacupful of brandy, and the same of rum, to a pint and a half of calves’-feet jelly ; put it in moulds, and ice. 601. Clarified Isinglass.—Break the isinglass in pieces with a hammer, wash it in several waters- and to four ounces add six pints of water, which reduce by boiling to one-third, skimming it meanwhile carefully; strain through a silk sieve, and it is ready to use for jellies or creams. 602. Jelly of Orange Flowers and Champagne.—Take a handful of orange-flowers, put the leaves of them in fresh water in a pan, set them on the fire, and give them one boil; drain and throw them into clarified syrup; boil them again in this a minute or two, take them off, and when nearly cold add five or six glasses of champagne, a little melted isinglass, and the juice of two lemons. Mix well together, and pass it through a double tammy; shake it well, and pour it into china cups; set them in three pounds of ice which you have previously beaten fine and placed in a convenient vessel that will hold eight or nine cups; cover them with a sheet of paper, and leave them to get firm. When ready, wipe the cups and dish them. The jelly should not be too stiff, but delicate and shaking. If, however, it is wished to set it in a mould, more isinglass must be added, or it will fall. Other flowers may be used in the same way, and maraschino, noyeau, etc., substituted for champagne. 603. Pineapple Jelly.—Cut the best part of a pineapple either in slices or rounds, rather thicker, but of the size of a crown-piece; boil these and the rind in clarified sugar, with the juice of two lemons, then add some ready prepared isinglass ; strain the whole through a jelly-bag, and pour the jelly into the mould to the depth of a quarter of an inch, then set the mould on