142 DAINTY DISHES minutes in a quart of water ; strain the liquor through a tammy into a jug; add the peel of a lemon cut very thin and one tablespoonful of clarified sugar ; let it stand five or six hours, and it is fit to drink. 802. Drink for a Fever.—Boil three ounces of currants, two ounces of raisins carefully stoned, and an ounce and a half of tama- rinds, in three pints of water till it is reduced to a quart; strain it; add a piece of lemon-peel, and let it stand an hour, when it is fit for use. 803. Imperial Drink. — Pour two quarts of boiling water upon an ounce of cream-of-tartar and the peel of half a lemon; let it stand till quite cold; then pour it off, and sweeten to taste. If liked, the juice of the lemon may be added. 804. Lemon Whey. — Boil a quart of milk and water (a pint of each); add to it the juice of two lemons ; let it simmer five minutes, then strain it off, and add a little sugar. This is an excellent drink for a cold. 805. White Wine Whey.—Put a pint of new milk on the fire; when it boils up pour in a glassful of wine—sherry or madeira; if one glassful is not enough, add more—it must be enough com- pletely to turn the milk ; let it boil up once, and set it aside till the ourd subsides; pour the whey gently off, add a little boiling water, and sugar to taste. 806. An excellent Drink for a Cough.—Beat up two eggs with half a pint of milk, warmed, two tablespoonfuls of capillaire, and the same of rose-water. It must not be warmed after the egg is added, or it will curdle. 807. Linseed Drink.—Pour over a teaspoonful of linseed, or more if required thicker for a oough, a quart of boiling water; the whole or half the peel of a lemon and two or three pieces of sugar-candy are to be added, and the whole left to stand in a oovered jug till cold. 808. Clarified Milk Whey.— To six pints of milk add enough rennet to turn it; leave it to make in a warm place; press out the whey, and strain; clarify it by adding the whites of three eggs, and half a drachm of cream-of- tartar; boil, and filter through paper. 809. Brandy Mixture.—A gill of brandy, the same quantity of cinnamon water, beaten up with the yolks of two eggs and half an ounce of pounded sugar. This is a valuable restorative in cases of extreme exhaustion. A table- spoonful or two should be given at intervals of from ten to fifteen minutes. 810. Egg Cordial.—A table- spoonful of cream, the white of a very fresh egg, and a tablespoon- ful of brandy; whip first the egg nearly to a froth, then the cream with the egg; add the brandy by degrees, and mix well; do not let it stand after it is made. This is very nourishing, and so fight, it will remain in the stomach when nothing else will. The receipt was given to me by the late Professor Miller, of Edinburgh. 811. For a Weak Digestion.— Beat up in a basin a fresh-laid egg, add six tablespoonfuls of cold water, then two of potato-flour; mix it thoroughly with the water