PUDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTRY, ETC. 115 prepare the natural ice in the follow- ing manner: Pound it small, and with about eight pounds of ice mix one pound of salt; bury the freez- ing-pots in this ; then take the lids off them, and work the fruit or other ice in them with a wooden spattle, scraping it from the sides and mixing well till it is sufficiently frozen to hold together. If the ice is to be made in a shape, fill the mould quite full, shaking it so as to avoid air-holes; put it in the ice in the same manner, and let it stand half an hour. To turn it out, dip it in cold water, take off the ends of the mould, then dip it again, and gently touch it with a spoon, when it will -come out. If it is to be served in china ice- pails, take it out with a spoon, arrange it in the pail, and put ice underneath. 630. To Clarify Sugar for Ice. —To three pounds of sugar add half a teaspoonful of the white of egg whisked together with a quart of water; when melted, let it boil, and skim it carefully. When no more scum rises, it is fit for use. 631. Strawberry Water - Ice from Fresh Fruit. — Pick the strawberries from their stalks and rub them through a sieve ; then take fine pounded sugar and mix with the pulp till it is smooth and the thickness of cream ; add a little lemon-juice to freshen it and give it more the flavour of fresh-picked strawberries. 632. Peach Water-Ice.—Take fresh peaches and rub them through a hair-sieve ; to whatever quantity of pulp you have add the same of clarified sugar, half as muoh water, and lemon-juioe sufficient to make it as near the original flavour of the fruit as possible. 633. Cherry Water-Ice.^Take good fresh Duke cherries, and pick them from their stalks; then pound them in a mortar and break the kernels 7 lay them on a sieve, drain the juice from the pulp ; then add to the quantity of juice you have half as much water, pouring it over the pulp in the sieve to get out what juice may remain, and the same quantity of clarified sugar; pass the juice through the sieve again, and add a small quantity of lemon-juice. 634. Orange Water - Ice.— Choose three rough-rind oranges, and rub them on a piece of sugar till all the zest is off; then scrape all the sugar where they have been rubbed off, and squeeze the juice of the oranges and of six lemons on to it; add to the quantity of juice half as much water, and the same of clarified sugar. 635. Pineapple Water-Ice.— Grate and pound one pound of fresh pineapples; add a pint of clarified sugar-syrup, the juice of two lemons, and half a pint of water; pass the whole through a sieve; cut three slices of pineapple in small dice, mix with the rest, and freeze. 636. Noyeau Water-Ice.—Take half a pint of lemon-juice, half a pint of sugar-syrup, a quarter of a pint of water; mix together and freeze; then stir in one glass of noyeau and four whites of eggs whisked up to a strong froth. Maraschino may be made in the some way. 637. Lemon Water-Ice is made the same as orange water-ioe,