VEGETABLES, SALADS, ETC. 79 tourte,’ or silver souffl4-pan, cover them with breadcrumbs, and bake. Just as you send them up, which you must do in the dish they were cooked in, squeeze over some lemon- juice. 412. Tomatoes au Jus.—Stew the tomatoes whole in some good gravy, drain them on a sieve, and pour over them a little gravy reduced to a half-glaze, and a tea- spoonful of vinegar in it quite hot. 413. Tomatoes Stewed.—Stew them in a little fresh butter till quite tender, and squeeze a little lemon - juice over them before serving. Tomatoes are also excel- lent roasted in the Dutch oven, with only a few little bits of butter to prevent their sticking to the pan. About twenty minutes will cook them. 414. Laver.—Is usually bought prepared in pots, and then merely requires heating over a lamp and a squeeze of lemon added to it. Serve over a lamp that it may be very hot. If you pick it fresh by the seaside it requires most careful washing in many waters to get rid of the sand. Salt water is best, if you can get it quite clear, to wash it in. It should then be slowly stewed for many hours in weak veal broth till it is quite a pulp ; add more broth if it gets too dry. 415. Grilled Mushrooms.— Choose large, fresh mushrooms; skin them and remove the stalks; lay them on a dish with a little fine oil, pepper and salt over them; let them stand an hour, and then broil on a gridiron over a clear, sharp fire. Serve them either dry on a ‘.oast or with the following sauce : Mince the stalks or any spare pieces of the mushrooms fine, put them into a stew-pan with a little broth, some chopped parsley and young onions, butter, and the juice of a lemon, or instead of the two latter the yolk of an egg beat up in some cream. Beat all thoroughly together and pour round the mush- rooms. 416. Mushroom Toasts.—Put some moderate-sized mushrooms skinned and cleaned into a stew- pan with the juice of a lemon, a piece of butter, some pepper and salt, three cloves, some green onions, parsley, and sweet savory, tied up together in a bit of muslin; set them over a moderate fire, and let them stew gently till nearly dry ; give them a dust of flour, add some veal broth, and let them stew a quarter of an hour. Take out the herbs, etc., and thicken the sauce with two eggs beaten up in a little cream. Cut the top off a French roll, remove the crumb, butter and toast it, and then pour in the mushrooms and sauce, and serve. 417. Ragout of Mushrooms.— Skin and cut them in slices, toss them in melted lard or butter, seasoned with salt, pepper, and minced parsley; moisten with broth and a spoonful of cullis. Just before serving, add a squeeze of lemon. 418. Mushrooms Farcie.— Take some large mushrooms, skin and trim them, stew them in a little broth, but not too much; take them out and put in the stalks and trimmings, stew them till quite tender, drain them, mince them very fine, mix them with a little butter, some pepper, salt, and a very little minced parsley; lay this on the inside of the mushrooms;