95 PUDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTRY, ETC. sugar, the grated rind and juice of two lemons, and two Seville oranges. Mix well, and keep in jars in a cool, airy place. Before using, moisten with a pint and a half of sherry, half a pint of brandy, and the same quantity of orange- flower water. Cover baking-pans of any size with rich puff-paste, fill with the minced meat, put a cover of paste over, trim the edges neatly with a cutter, glaze them with sugar, and hake half an hour in a moderate oven. The minced meat should only he moistened just be- fore using, and the apples are better added in the same way, or they may be omitted altogether. 507. Monday Pudding.—Place some slices of Sunday pudding at the bottom of a mould, take half a pint of thin cream or new milk, a very little cinnamon, a little lemon- peel, and one laurel-leaf; set it over a slow fire and let it boil, then add the yolks of four eggs ; beat it all up together, and strain it through a sieve over the plum- pudding in the mould; then set the mould in a stew-pan of water, and steam it half an hour. 508. Eatafia Pudding.—Grate a large slice of stale bread, boil a pint of cream or new milk, put the bread in a basin and pom: the cream over, and cover the basin with a plate. Pound two ounces of sweet almonds and two or three bitter ones with a little cold milk or cream till they are quite smooth; mix it with the bread in the basin, beat up six eggs till they are quite fight, and add them, also a very little cinnamon and nutmeg grated, a little sugar, and a glass of brandy. Mix all well together; butter a mould, pour in the ingredients and put it to boil in a pan of boiling water for an hour, taking care to keep the water at the same height by adding more as it boils down, but be careful it does not boil over into the mould, which should have a cover and weight on it. Turn it out and serve with a custard sauce poured over it (see Pudding Sauces). 509. Muffin Pudding.—A pint of milk boiled, sweetened, and flavoured with cinnamon and lemon-peel; strain it and add the yolks of four eggs. Take half a pound of ratafia biscuit crumbled d^fn, two muffins sliced, some dried cherries, half a gill of brandy and the same of sweet wine; butter a mould well with fresh butter, stick the cherries on the inside, then put in a layer of grated biscuit, next of muffin, and so on alternately, till the mould is near full, then pour in the brandy and wine. Three-quarters of an hour before you wish to serve the pud- ding add the custard as above, and put the mould into a stew-pan of boiling water, taking care that the water does not get in over the top of the mould. Serve with a wine- sauce. 510. Cabinet Pudding.—Boil a pint of cream with a bit of lemon- peel and a little salt; pour the cream while boiling over six pounds of sponge or Naples biscuits, and let them soak ; then add the yolks of eight eggs, and the beaten whites of six ; also a little brandy ; butter a mould, decorate it with preserved cherries, pour in the mixture, and put it into a bain marie to steam for half an hour ; serve either with a clear wine or custard sauce. This pudding may also be made with the remains of Savoy biscuits,