DAINTY DISHES 8a through a tammy into a clean saucepan, and put into it a good quantity of capers. Prepare two haddocks by boiling them for a quarter of an hour with very little water covered close on the stove. Keep them in the dish, and pour the sauce very hot over them just before serving. 161. Filets de Sole k l’Orlie.— Clean the soles and cut them en- tirely open by the back from head to tail. Make each into four neat fillets, and steep them in lemon- juice, salt, parsley, and sliced onions. Shake them occasionally in this marinade, where they ought to remain an hour. When ready to serve, drain, dip them in flour, and fry till they are firm and of a good colour. Serve under them an Italienne or tomato sauce. (See Fish Sauces.) 162. A Good Way to Dress a Turbot.—Lay the fish you are to boil in a pint of vinegar seasoned with salt, pepper, sliced onion, and a faggot of thyme, marjoram, and parsley. Leave it in an hour ; then put the fish and pickle carefully into a fish-kettle of boiling water ; add to it a few cloves, some mace, four or five anchovies, and a bit of horseradish. When done enough, take out your fish and let it drain ; be careful it is not boiled too fast, and in only just enough liquor. For the sauce take half a pint of the well-strained liquor of a quart of oysters, half a pint of white wine, the flesh of the body of a lobster, a little mixed spices, a bit of lemon-peel, and two anchovies. Let it stew about twenty minutes, then strain and add a pound of butter, and as much flour as will make it a good thickness; then put in the oysters, and the tail and claws of the lobster, previously boiled and cut in dice. Put the sauce on the stove again for a few minutes, and serve very hot. Cod and other fish are good dressed in the same way. 163. Water Souch6.—Stew two or three flounders, some parsley- leaves and roots, thirty pepper- corns, and a quart of water, till the fish are boiled to pieces; then pulp them through a sieve. Set over the fire the pulped fish, the liquor that boiled them, and the perch, pike, or whatever fish you wish, and some fresh parsley-leaves and roots. Simmer till the fish is done enough. Serve in a deep dish. Thin shoes of bread-and-butter should be eaten with it. 164. Smelts aux Anchois et Oapres.—Eight large smelts are enough for a small dish. For the sauce boil a couple of anchovies in a glass of Rhenish or other white wine till they are dissolved, and strain it into a ladleful of cullis or gravy; season with a bunch of onions and parsley, a blade of mace, a bay-leaf, and some pepper and salt. Put your fish in and let them stew gently a quarter of an hour. Take out the onions and parsley, and add a spoonful of capers. Make it boiling hot, and squeeze in the juice of an orange or lemon. Take out the fish very tenderly to dish. Put a little finely-minced parsley into your sauce, and pour it over them. You cannot name a fresh-water fish that is not good dressed in this way. 165. Eels k la Poulette—Turn the eels upon hot cinders till the skin is completely grilled. Wipe and scrape them. Cut off the fins i