SAUCES 27 the juice of a lemon, and when the herbs are just done pour them in to thicken the sauce, which it will not do if the herbs are too much stewed. This is used for cbtelettes & la Maintenon, sweetbreads, fat livers, etc. 96. Sauce k la Maitre d’HStel. —Chop six shallots, one teaspoon- ful of parsley, one of fennel, and a dozen mushrooms fine. Let them boil together for five minutes in two ounces of butter; add half a pint of cullis, boil ten minutes more; season with salt and pepper and the squeeze of a lemon. If for a white Maitre d’H6tel, use the same quantity of bechamel instead of cullis. 97. Maitre d’Hotel Maigre is nothing more than melted butter with a little chopped parsley, and a little shallot if liked, seasoned with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. 98. Truffle Sauce.— Pare eighteen truffles and slice them, boil them together in two ounces of butter till tender, add half a pint of bechamel or cullis, according as you wish your sauce white or brown; season with salt and the squeeze of a lemon. Mushroom sauce may be made in the same way. 99. Italian Sauce.—Chop four cloves of garlic, six shallots, five mushrooms, and a teacupful of parsley fine; add two fcablespoon- fuls of sweet oil, and boil them together for five minutes; add half a pint of cullis (or bechamel if for white sauce), and a glass of white wine; season with pepper and salt. The wine may be omitted. 100. Tomato Sauce.—Remove the seeds from a dozen tomatoes; put them in a stew-pan, with an onion, a few pieces of ham, a clove, and a sprig of thyme. When quite boiled down, rub them through a tammy; and to the pur^e add a few spoonfuls of cullis, a little salt and pepper, and boil it for twenty minutes. 101. Tomato Sauce to Keep. —Take tomatoes when quite ripe, bake them till tender, skin them, and rub them through a sieve ; to every pound of tomatoes add one quart of chili vinegar, a quarter of an ounce of white pepper, half an ounce of salt, one ounce of garlic, and one of shallot, with the juice of three lemons. Boil the whole together till it becomes the consis- tency of thick cream; strain it through a very fine sieve ; let it stand till cold, and bottle it for use in wide-mouthed bottles. This is excellent for fish, cutlets, etc., and may be used merely heated up, or a few spoonfuls of cullis added to a sufficiency of it. 102. Spanish Receipt for a Tomato Sauce to Keep.—Boil white sugar, in the proportion of an ounce to each tomato, until it becomes candied; add a fourth part of the quantity of tomatoes you have of onions, and when they begin to colour put in the tomatoes ; season with salt, pepper, a few cloves, and a little nutmeg. Boil the whole over a very quick fire ; when sufficiently thick, strain it through a hair sieve. Set it on the fire again immediately, and boil till it is very thick. Put it into jelly-pots; cover with two papers, the first one oiled, and keep in a cool dark place. This may be made in the same manner, but omitting the onions. 103. Sauce Piquante.—Put into