73 VEGETABLES, SALADS, ETC. broth, thickened with a little brown roux, and seasoned with salt and pepper; boil it in a bain marie, that is, set the mould in a pan of hot water, taking care there is not enough water to boil into the mould; boil for one hour; or it may be baked for the same time ; serve with a brown sauce. This chartreuse, instead of being filled with vegetables, may be served as an entree, putting forcemeat next the spinach, and filling up with a ragout of sweetbread, etc. 374. Macedoine of Vegetables. —Boil two dozen asparagus tops, twelve button onions, half a cauli- flower, two turnips, and two carrots, cut with a cutter twelve new pota- toes and twenty French beans; put them all together into a stew- pan with a pint of bechamel, a little salt and pepper; make very hot, and serve. 375. A Dutch Macedoine.— Brown four or five onions sliced and chopped in some butter; then add previously boiled vegetables of any kind you can get, also chopped; stew all together in the butter, stirring continually; when nearly done, add some sliced tomatoes and two or three minced chilies, also a little salt, and either two table- spoonfuls of vinegar or a handful of sorrel. 376. Chou en Surprise.—Take a whole cabbage ; put it on to boil in boiling water for a quarter of an hour ; put it into cold water ; then press it dry with your hands, but without breaking the leaves ; draw the leaves backwards ; take out the stalk and centre, and in its place put sausage meat and boiled chest- nuts ; replace the leaves so as to give the appearance of a whole cabbage ; tie it up with packthread and put it on to stew in broth, with a little salt, whole pepper, a carrot, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs; when done sufficiently, drain, and serve with either a cullis or a bechamel sauce. 377. Chou k la Bourgeoise.— Boil a whole cabbage, well cleaned, for a quarter of an hour; lay it in cold water; when cold, take it out, and squeeze it dry ; open the leaves carefully, and between each put a little veal forcemeat; tie all together with packthread, and stew it in as much broth as will cover the cab- bage, with salt, pepper, sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, an onion, carrot, and parsnip, and two or three cloves ; when stewed enough, press it gently with a clean cloth, remove the packthread, cut it in half, and serve with a sauce espagnole poured hot over it. 378. Colcannon.—Chop an equal quantity of boiled cabbage and potatoes, add two ounces of butter, pepper, and salt, and fry them to- gether ; some onions or carrots may also be added, if liked. Cab- bages should always be boiled in two waters, and the water skimmed, and take about an hour to cook. 379. To Stew Red Cabbage.— Split a red cabbage, cut it across in thin slices, throw it into salt and water, then put it into a clean saucepan, with some broth and a piece of butter rolled in flour ; add pepper and salt, a glass of vinegar, and a little bit of bacon. Let it stew till tender, take out the bacon, and serve. It is good with sau- sages, stewed partridges, etc. 380. A Dutch Receipt for Red Cabbage.—Cut it in shreds, and boil in water till tender ; then drain