PLDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTRY, ETC. 103 pour it over the fruit when dished. Any sort of large good fruit may be done in the same way, with the difference only that they should be dipped in a thin batter made with flour and small beer. 552. Beignets de Fraises.— Make a batter thus : To two eggs, whites and yolks, well beat, put half a pint of cream thickened with fine flour, sugar, and a little cin- namon. Put the strawberries raw into this batter, and fry them in a pan of hot lard, a spoonful at a time. Dish them in a pyramid, and sift sugar between and over them. Raspberries and other fruit are good done in the same way. 553. Beignets d’Orange.—Take four or five sweet oranges, and slice off the peel with a knife ; cut them in quarters, and take out the pips; put them on the fire with a little sugar. Mix some white wine, a little flour, a spoonful of good oil, and a very little salt together; it should be of the consistency of thick cream. Dip the quarters of oranges in this batter, and fry them in hot lard of a good colour; sift sugar over them and sala- mander them. 551 Beignets d’Abricots. — Take apricots that are not too ripe ; cut them in two, take out the stone, pare, and put them to soak in brandy for an hour, with a little sugar and lemon peel. A little before serving, drain and dip them into a pate & frire (which see); fry them in butter to a good colour, sift sugar over them, and glaze either in the oven or with a salamander. 555. Beignets en Surprise.— Take small rennet apples; leave the stalks on; peel and cut them in two near the top ; take out the heart with a round-topped knife ; put them to steep in a little brandy with some lemon-peel and whole cinnamon; drain and fill them very full with apricot marmalade or creme patissiere (which see). Mix the yolk of an egg with a little flour, fix the tops of the apples well on with this, they may look whole ; dip them into pate A frire ; fry, sugar, glaze, and serve. 556. Beignets de Groseilles.— Make a rich paste, and roll out very thin; brush it all over with egg, and lay the currants, preserved or fresh, down in little lumps on it. Prepare another sheet of paste, and lay over it, pressing well down at the edges, that they may not come out in frying. Make the lard pretty hot, fry of a good yellow colour, dish with fine sifted sugar over them, and glaze with a sala- mander. 557. Spanish Fritters. — Cut the crumb of a French roll into lengths as thick as your finger; soak them in cream with some nutmeg, pounded cinnamon, sugar, and an egg beaten up in it; when well soaked, fry them in butter of a good brown, and serve very hot. 558. Strawberry Toasts.—Soak thin, long-shaped pieces of bread in cream, lay good red strawberries on them, and fry in butter; or fry them crisp in butter without soak- ing the bread, which many prefer. 559. Pineapple Toasts.—Pound the pineapple to a pulp with some sugar, then spread it neatly on thin pieces of bread ; fry them crisp in clarified butter, and serve. 560. Prussian Fritters.—Stew well a dozen of apples, sweetep