160 DAINTY DISHES soft side up. When cold fill them with whipped cream, flavoured and sweetened. 906. Strawberry Salad.—Put some picked strawberries into a large basin and toss them about in castor sugar to sweeten and bring out the flavour. Add a little vinegar, and continue tossing them gently till all is absorbed. Pile them up on a dish and serve with dessert. 907. Strawberry Gateau.—Take a round sponge cake about six inches in diameter and cut a lid off, moisten the cake outside with jam and stick round either meringue finger biscuits or Savoy. Scoop out the centre. Tie round with a ribbon. Then fill up to the brim with straw- berries and whipped cream. Place the lid on and put some more whipped cream on the top, garnished with strawberries. 908. Portuguese Salad.—Set a border mould with clear aspic jelly, and in it first a decoration of lobster coral. Let that set; then add a layer of hard-boiled yolk of egg, passed through a sieve. Then, when that is set, put in pieces of lobster, caviare, truffle, capers, and anohovies filleted. When set, turn out and fill the centre with small salad, and some finely-chopped aspic jelly round the dish. 909. Caramel Walnuts.—Take some Marzapan and form in oval shapes. Plaoe the half of a peeled walnut on either side and insert a little stick or skewer at one end. Then make some caramel with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, half a gill of water, a little lemon juice, and three drops of acetic acid. Boil this to the snap over a glimmer of gas, dip the walnuts in quickly, giving them a thin coating of the caramel all over. Let them dry on an oiled plate or slab, and serve in fancy cases. 910. Creme de Volaille.—Butter a souffl6e mould with cold clarified butter. Pound a quarter of a pound of raw meat from the breast of a chicken in a cold mortar, and season it with pepper and salt to taste. Whip up half a pint of good thick cream. Pass the chicken through a wire sieve, and gradually mix the cream in with it. Try a spoonful of the mixture by poaching it, and if not light enough add a little more cream. Put the mix- ture into the mould, knocking the mould gently on a cloth, so as to fill the mould evenly. Steam very gently, and serve with a creamy white sauce, either Bechamel or Supreme.