VEGETABLES, 77 SALADS, ETC. is good cither alone or with cutlets. 400. Stewed Cucumbers.—Pare some cucumbers, cut them down the middle in two, remove the seeds, and trim them into oval- shaped pieces; put them to mari- nade for two hours in vinegar, with two or three sliced onions, some pepper and salt; then squeeze them dry in a linen cloth, put them in a saucepan, and toss them in a little melted bacon or lard. When they begin to grow brown add some good gravy, and set them to simmer over a stove. When nearly ready to serve, skim the fat from them, and thicken with cullis. 401. Vegetable Marrow. — When full grown cut them in four lengthways, remove the seeds, stew them in vinegar and water and fat bacon or butter. When tender, pour over them a bechamel sauce. If small and young, boil them whole. Serve them on toast with a bechamel round them, and a squeeze of lemon-juice over. 402. Artichokes h la Crime.— Boil them in water ; when they are done enough, drain them well. About half an hour is sufficient to cook them if they are young. Toss them in butter in a stew-pan, add to them some cream and a bunch of chives and parsley. Let them stew a little, thicken the sauce with the yolk of an egg; season with salt and a little cayenne. 403. Artichoke - Bottoms au Blanc.—Trim them neatly round, leave on the tender leaves at the heart; blanch them in salt and water. When they are so far done that you may remove the leaves and choke without breaking the bottoms, take them out and lay them in cold water. Then prepare the following ‘ blanc,’ which is also good for all sorts of vegetables : Cut about half a pound of bacon- fat into large dice, also a little beef-suet ; add two ounces of butter, a little salt, and half a lemon cut in thin slices, and as much water as will cover the vegetables you wish to stew in it. Let it simmer half an hour, then put in the artichokes and stew them till they are quite tender, which will be in about half an hour. Take them out, drain them, and serve with a sauce espagnole. (See Sauces.) 404. Jerusalem Artichokes.— Cut one or two onions into half rings, brown them lightly in oil; trim the artichokes, and put them into the pan with the onions a little minced, and scallions, salt, and pepper. Toss them two or three times ; as soon as they are tender dish them. Put a spoonful of vinegar in the saucepan, boil it up, and pour it over them. Jerusalem artichokes are also good plain boiled, and served with a bechamel sauce or fried in butter, like salsifis (which see), or roasted, and served on a napkin. 405. Salsifis en Salade or Aspic.—Take enough salsifis to fill a mould the size of the dish you require; boil them in water enough for them to swim in, with a little salt, a bit of butter, and the juice of a lemon. Before boiling you must scrape off the outside skin, and throw each bit as you prepare it into vinegar and water, which prevents their turning black. They will take three-quarters of an hour to boil. Be sure that they are tender. Drain them and cut