VEGETABLES, SALADS, ETC. 69 crown. Put three ounces of butter into a frying-pan; slice three onions into it; fry them of a light colour; then put in the potatoes, and turn them about till they are a nice yellow. Add a spoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and the juice of a lemon; toss them well over the fire, that all may be thoroughly mixed, and serve very hot. They are very good to eat with cutlets. 347. Potatoes k la Maitre d’Hotel.—Wash the potatoes clean, and boil them in salt and water in their skins. When they are done, let them cool. Trim them round and cut them into moderately thick shoes, and stew them a few minutes in a maitre d’hotel sauce (see Sauces). If you should have none ready you can melt some butter, using milk instead of water; mix with it a little minced parsley, pepper, salt, a small bit of glaze, and the juice of a lemon. 348. Fried Potatoes.—Cut raw potatoes into the shape and size of large corks, and then into thinnish shoes ; throw them into hot clari- fied butter, and fry till they are crisp and of a good brown. Drain ah the grease from them on a cloth, and serve very hot on a napkin, and sprinkle them over with a little fine salt. 349. Mashed Potatoes. — The potatoes should be first thoroughly weh boiled, carefully remove ah defects or hard bits; mash them very smah with a wooden spoon, adding as much cream as will make them the right consistence, and season with pepper and salt; or, instead of cream, you may use butter and boding milk, and they can be browned after they are dressed in the dish they are to be served on in the Dutch oven. 350. Potato Souffles. — Roast eight potatoes in the oven; when they are quite done scoop out the insides and mash them up with a little bit of butter and a smah quantity of cream, some pepper and salt; mix thoroughly. Whip four whites of eggs to a froth, and mix with the potatoes; then fill the skins, having cut them low enough to be of a good shape, and put them into the oven for eight minutes ; after which, serve them up as quick as possible. Large even potatoes should be chosen. 351. Potato Chips. — Cut raw potatoes into neat round slices rather more than an inch thick, and then into thin spiral shavings, going round and round in the way you peel an apple; throw these carefully into hot lard or oil; fry them very crisp of a fight brown, and serve as hot as possible. A little salt should be sprinkled over them. 352. Potato Salad (German).— Cut cold boiled rather waxy pota- toes into moderately thick slices, put them in a bowl, and add to every pound a tablespoonful of vinegar, two of oil, half a teaspoon- ful of salt, a quarter of a one of pepper, and a little minced parsley. Slices of beetroot and Portugal onions are a great improvement to the salad. 353. To Stew Peas.—The peas should be young. Put them, with a bit of butter, a sprig of mint, and one of parsley, tied together, and a lump of sugar, into a stew- pan, and cover them up close. Stew them till they are soft; take