96 DAINTY DISHES or the crumb of a French roll or penny loaf. 511. Ginger Pudding. — Take twelve sponge-biscuits soaked in a pint of cream or milk, ten yolks of eggs, two ounces of preserved wet ginger cut in small pieces, a spoon- ful of the ginger-syrup, and two ounces of dissolved butter ; boil it half an hour in a buttered mould au bain marie, or bake it in a dish lined with puff-paste. Pineapple pudding may be made the same. Serve with a custard-sauce flavoured with ginger or pineapple. 512. Lemon Pudding. — Take eight yolks and four whites of eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, one pound of butter, half a pint of cream, the juice of one lemon and the grated peel of two. Mix well together, put it in a form of puff- paste, and bake about half an hour. 513. Another Lemon Pudding. —A teacupful of water, two ounces of butter, one ounce of loaf sugar, the juice and grated rinds of two lemons. Boil all together for ten minutes, then add the yolks of eight eggs well beaten; stir without ceasing after putting in the eggs till it is as thick as custard; take the pan off the fire. Have ready, half baked, a shell of puff-paste, pour in the pudding, and bake for half an hour ; or it may be baked in a dish lined with puff-paste. 514. Orange Pudding. — Take three China orange skins, boil them in rose water till tender, pound them in a mortar; add twelve yolks of eggs, twelve ounces of sugar, and six ounces of butter. Beat all well together in the mortar till thoroughly mixed ; put it into a shell of puff-paste, and bake half an hour. 515. Dunnikier Orange Pud- ding.—Take five ounces of butter, melt it in a pan, but do not let it oil; add to it while warm five ounces of sugar, and the yolks of ten eggs beaten ; mix well together, and beat till the mixture turns white. Have the bottom of a baking tin covered with puff- paste ; spread thickly on it orange marmalade, and pour the rest of the ingredients over; bake in a moderate oven about half an hour ; turn it out of the tin and serve. Pineapple and apricot may be made in the same way. This is an excellent recipe. 516. Apricot Pudding. — Take twelve large apricots, scald them till they are soft; pour on the grated crumb of a penny loaf, a pint of cream boiling hot; when cool, add four ounces of sugar, the yolks of four eggs well beaten, and a glass of madeira or sherry. Pound the apricots in a mortar with the kernels; then mix the fruit and other ingredients well together. Line a pattie-pan with puff-paste, put in the pudding, and bake half an hour. 517. Gooseberry Pudding. — Stew gooseberries in a stone jar over a hot stove, or placed in a saucepan of water, till they will pulp; rub them through a coarse sieve, and take a pint of the pulp and beat it with three whole eggs, previously whipped together and strained, an ounce and a half of butter, and as much sugar as will sweeten it; add some crumbs of roll, or four ounces of Naples bis- cuit, to give it consistence; put into a shape of puff-paste, and bake half an hour. 518. Apple Pudding. — Stew