PUDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTBY, ETC. 105 degrees the eggs, etc. ; when sufficiently mixed it should look like thick cream ; then add to the mixture a quarter of a pound of ground rice, a large wineglassful of brandy, and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, melted; pour this when well beaten together into buttered pattie - pans, and bake about a quarter of an hour. 565. Lemon Puffs.—Beat the juice of a lemon with half a pound of finely-powdered sugar, adding as you beat it the white of an egg whipped to snow ; when well beaten, add three eggs and the rind of a lemon finely grated, beat again till well mixed. Strew some sheets of paper with sugar, drop the mixture on them, sift a little sugar over, and bake in the oven. 566. Dampfnudel (Bavarian). —Take a pound of flour, one ounce and a half of yeast, and rather more than a quarter of a pint of hot milk. Set the paste to work in a warm place the same as for bread. When it has well risen add a quarter of a pound of melted butter, two whole eggs, and four ounces of pounded sugar; mix and beat the paste well, and let it swell again. When it begins to rise, make it with your hands into small balls, and place them on a well- buttered cold dish, then place them in a gentle heat to rise. When they have attained double their original size, put th^ff* into a hot oven, and when about half cooked pour over a cup of milk sweetened and flavoured with essence of vanille; finish cooking them, and serve with a sauce of whipped eggs and cream, k la vanille. 567. Zweibach. — Put through a tammy into a bowl half a pound of flour, and set it in a warm place to heat moderately; while this is doing make half a glass of milk just lukewarm, with a quarter of a pound of butter, some sugar, and a pinch of salt. When this is well mixed, add the flour, mixing it well in with the yolks of two and the white of one egg. When well in- corporated add a teaspoonful of beer yeast passed through a tammy The paste should be of a consis- tency fit to roll with the hands ; if too soft more flour may be added. Roll the paste into round balls, which when baked should be about the size of billiard-balls. Bake in a quick oven. PUDDING SAUCES. 568. Custard Sauce.—Boil to- gether some sugar and cream ; beat up the yolk of an egg, and add it to the boiling cream with a glass of sherry or madeira; stir well, and serve. 5S9. Brandy Butter Sauce for Plum Pudding.—A quarter of a pound of butter to be beaten with a wooden spoon all one way till it looks like thick cream ; then add a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar (less is better), a glass of sherry, and a small glass of brandy ; mix well with the butter and sugar, adding only a small quantity at a time. 570. German Pudding-Sauce. —Just bring to the boil half a pint of white wine, with a little lemon- peel and sugar in it; beat up well the yolks of seven eggs, and pour