FISH 89 dish them, and ponr over a sauce Ravigote A la creme. (See Sauces.) 176. Soles au Gratin.—Cut off the fins of a fine fresh sole, and make an incision in the back ; then butter a saute-pan, and put into it a teaspoonful of finely-chopped onions and a wineglassful of white wine; then place the sole in the pan, oover it with six spoonfuls of cullis, and sprinkle fine bread- crumbs over it, and stick a few small pieces of butter about it. Put it now into a moderate oven for twenty minutes or half an hour. Remove it carefully from the sautd- pan and keep it hot while you make the following sauce: Put into the saucepan four spoonfuls of stock, let it boil five minutes, stir- ring it all the time; add the juice of a lemon, a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms, one of minced parsley, one of essence of anchovies, a little sugar and cayenne pepper; beat all together, and pour it round the fish in the dish in which it is to be served, and which should be a silver one. Put it again into the oven for a quarter of an hour, pass the salamander over it, and serve very hot. 177. Maqueraux k l’ltalienne. —Clean the fish well, cut off the heads and tails, and put them into a saucepan to stew, with as much white wine as will cover them, a few slices of onions and carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, some salt, and a little nutmeg. When done enough, pour over them a sauce Italienne (see Fish Sauces), and serve. 178. Whitings h lTtalienne.— Wash, clean, and skin them; out off the tails and fins, and lay them in a marinade for four hours, made with oil, lemon-juice, slices of onion, and whole parsley-leaves. Strain them, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry them of a fine golden colour—this is best done with oil. A real Italian recipe.) 179. Mackerel h la Maitre d’Hdtel.—Choose large, fresh, soft- roed mackerel; out off the fins, points of the tails and heads, and make an incision an inch deep down the back; lay them in a dish, strew salt and pepper over them, also half a pint of sweet oil, an onion cut in rings, and some whole parsley. Leave the mackerel to marind in this for about two hours, turning them over from time to time. Half an hour before serving rub a gridiron with oil, take out the fish and wipe them, sprinkle them with a little salt, and lay them an inoh apart on the gridiron over a slow fire. Do them on one side till they are of a good colour, then turn them over and do the other. Lay them on their backs for five minutes, when they will be ready to dish. When dished, open the backs with a spoon, and intro- duce a piece of butter, mixed with salt, pepper, minced parsley, and the juice of a lemon. The marin- ade may he served with the maokerel. 180. Filets de Maqueraux. — Cut the mackerel into fillets, and cook them in a frying-pan with a little butter over a slow stove. Make your sauce with a piece of butter, the yolks of two eggs beaten, a little broth, some cayenne pepper, and finely-minced fennel and parsley, salt to your taste, and the squeeze of a lemon or a Seville orange. Do not let your sauce