COOKERY FOR THE SIGK AND POOR 137 766. Nourishing Jelly.—Sim- mer six sheep’s trotters, two blades of mace, a little cinnamon, lemon- peel, a few hartshorn shavings, and a little isinglass, in two quarts of water till it is reduced to one; when cold, remove the fat. Give half a pint twice a-day, warming it with a little new milk. 767. Strengthening Jellies.— Boil cow-heel down to a strong jelly ; take equal parts of the jelly and white wine; flavour with lemon-juice, zest, and sugar, and to each pint add three fresh yolks of eggs; beat it well; heat it over a stove, stirring constantly; pour it out, continue stirring till cold, and put it into cups. Two ounces of isinglass dissolved in a pint of water; add a glass of white wine, the juice and peel of two lemons, and sugar enough to sweeten ; beat the yolks of six very fresh eggs, and add them; thicken it over the fire, stirring all the time; pour it into a basin, and stir till cold. 768. To make Cake Jelly to Keep.—Take nine or a dozen gang or set of calves’ feet, scald them well, slit them up, and lay them to soak in warm water for several hours. Put them on in a large pot, with water enough to cover them; when they are boiled enough for the bones to come out, remove them, and return the meat to the pot, and let it boil slowly till all the substance is out of it; strain it through a hair sieve into an earthen vessel that will hold it; while it is warm, skim all the fat you can from it; let it stand all night; and if there is any more fat, remove it carefully; when you take it out of the vessel, cut the sediment from the bottom of it, then put the jelly into a clean brass pan, and set it on a moderate fire. It must boil till it is very thick, and appears almost black in the pan ; then pom it out as thin as you can on stone plates. When it is cool, take it from the plates and lay it at a distance from the fire to dry gradu- ally. When it is quite dry, and looks clear and hard like horn, put it by in tin boxes to keep for use. 769. Hartshorn Jelly. — Put half a pound of hartshorn shavings into three quarts of water; boil to a quart; then add an ounce of the strained juice of Seville oranges or lemons, four ounces of Malaga wine, and half a pound of fine sugar; boil down to a consistence fit to drink when warm, or jelly when cold. 770. Iceland-Moss Jelly.—Boil three-quarters of an ounce of Ice- land moss (unwashed) in a pint and a half of water until only a pint remains; add the juice of a Seville orange, and take a wine- glassful two or three times a day. (Very nourishing and good in con- sumptive cases.) 771. —Ivory-Dust Jelly.—Boil one pound of ivory-dust in three quarts of water for eight hours. It will require no skimming. When done strain through a jelly - bag. This may be flavoured in various ways with wine or lemon and sugar ; but it is very strengthening, and its principal use is, that, having no taste, it may be mixed in tea or coffee or other fluids, and given without the patient’s detecting it. 772. Gloucester Jelly.—Barley, sago, rice, and eringo root, of each