112 DAINTY DISHES must be mixed with the ice. When set, turn it out. Do not bruise the fruit too much, or the small seeds will spoil the flavour. Strawberry and currant may be done the same. 610. Jelly and Miroton of Peaches.—Cut a dozen peaches into halves, peel them gently, and boil them a short time in a thin syrup. If the peaches are very fine, you may leave them almost raw. Break the stones, peel the kernels, and throw them into the hot syrup with the fruit; leave the peaches to soak in the syrup about an hour, and then use them as follows : Drain the peaches on a sieve, squeeze into the syrup the juice of six lemons; pass this through a jelly-bag; when very clear, put some clarified isinglass into it. Choose a plain mould, and pour some into it, and set it on the ice; when quite firm drop the peaches on to the jelly, and lay the kernels between ; pour some more jelly over, and let it freeze; then fill the mould gently, and again put it on the ice. A great quantity of ice, with some salt, should be round the mould, as this jelly is very delicate and extremely liable to break. 611. Creme au Gel4e.—Take half a pint of jelly and half a pint of cream ; the jelly must be warm; whip them well together, till it is about milk-warm; put it into a mould, and set it in a cool place. If ice is to be had, it should be placed on it, and also whipped in ice. It may be flavoured with maraschino, noyeau, or any other flavour preferred. 612. Flemish Cream.—1Three- quarters of a pint of thin cream, the yolks of six eggs, a small quantity of lemon-peel, a teaspoon- ful of arrowroot, one laurel-leaf, and as much loaf-sugar as will sweeten it to taste; set it over a slow fire in a saucepan, and keep stirring till it boils ; strain through a sieve, and stir again till it is cold to prevent its getting lumpy; add to it a glass of madeira, then beat the whites of the six eggs very light, and stir them in. Put it in a mould, and set it in a cool place or on the ice till it is served. 613. Dutch Cream.—Break ten yolks of eggs into a stew-pan, with four glasses of white wine, a little cinnamon and lemon-peel; stir it over a slow fire till it becomes thick; have ready melted half an ounce of isinglass and a pint of cream, well whipped. Mix the isin- glass and eggs together, and stir them round till quite cold; then add the cream, and put the whole in a mould to set on the ice or in a cool place. 614. Italian Cream. — Take a pint of thick fresh cream; whip it well; add half a handful of fine sugar, the juice of half a lemon, and three tablespoonfuls of madeira; dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in a little water, and strain it into the cream, then put it in your mould. A little less isinglass in winter will be sufficient. 615. Plombiere. — Take one pound of sweet almonds and four ounces of bitter; pound them fine together, and put them into a stew-pan with one pound of fine lump sugar, a quart of single cream, and twelve yolks of eggs; turn on the fire till thick, pass through a tammy, and when cold freeze like any other ice. Twenty