DAINTY DISHES 74 as dry as possible, put it into a stew-pan, with some pure olive-oil, a piece of fresh butter, a small glass of vinegar and water, an onion cut small, some pepper and salt. Let it simmer till all the liquor is wasted. It is eaten in Holland either hot or cold, and considered very wholesome. 381. Brussels Sprouts au Jus. —Boil them a few minutes in water, and then stew them till tender in some good gravy, with a little salt and pepper. They may also be served with a white sauce or pass6 au beurre. Boil them first, and then toss them in a frying-pan, with a little butter. Do not let them brown. 382. To Boil Onions.—Peel and soak them in cold water, put them into boiling milk and water, and boil till tender. Roast onions should be done with all the skins on, and parboiled before putting them in front of the fire or in a Dutch oven to brown. Portugal onions should be parboiled, and then stewed in good broth till it comes to a demi-glaze. 383. Stewed Portugal Onions. —Peel four large onions, and put them into a quart of strong broth, with three-quarters of a pound of fine white sugar and a pinch of salt. Put this into a stew-pan, cover it close, and set it in the oven. They will require from six to eight hours’ cooking. The broth should be reduced to quite a glaze. 384. Stewed Cauliflower.—Piok and clean them well, boil them, but only partially; set them to drain, then put them into a saucepan with some veal stock, and let them simmer till tender. Now set the saucepan on the stove over a brisk fire ; thicken the sauce with a piece of butter the size of a walnut rolled in flour, add a squeeze of a lemon, and serve. 385. Choufleurs au Gratin.— Prepare and boil a cauliflower, drain it, and put it on the dish in which it is to be served ; prepare a sauce with grated parmesan oheese, a piece of butter, some pepper and salt, a little lemon-juice, and the yolks of two eggs beaten in cream; beat and mix all well together, pour it over the cauliflower, grate par- mesan cheese over the top, put the dish in the oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Brown the top with a salamander. 386. Choufleurs k la Bechamel. —Remove all the green leaves and divide it in good-sized pieces, par- boil, and then stew it till tender in a little veal broth, with salt, pepper, and a little bit of mace. When done, take it out, pour a rich bechamel (see Sauces) over it, and serve. 387. To Stew Cabbage Lettuce. —Wash the cabbage lettuces clean in several waters, put them into a saucepan to boil for half an hour with only as much water as will barely cover them ; then take them up with a skimmer and lay them in cold water; squeeze the water from them with your hands, each lettuce separately, and place them in a small saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of butter mixed with a quarter of a spoonful of flour, a blade of mace, a bit of bacon as big as a thumb, stuck with cloves ; add as much veal broth as will quite cover them, also a little pepper and salt. Set them to stew over a clear fire. Winter lettuce will require au hour; for summer, half that