152 DAINTY DISHES peppercorns and a little salt. Let this now boil quickly for about twenty minutes, pass the tomato puree through a hair sieve, using a wooden spoon so as to preserve the colour. Return to the casserole, add one quart of very good white stock, thicken with just a little arrowroot. When boiling and quite clear, and of a rich, red, natural colour, add two or three lumps of loaf sugar to counteract the acidity of the tomatoes. Serve in a soup tureen and hand fried bread cut in dice. 853. Italian Macaroni.—Boil one pound of macaroni in salted water until tender, about half an hour will cook it as a rule. Strain otf the water, let it drain and cut it in pieces one inch or an inch and a half long. Take a pint and a half of Espagnol sauce, make it hot in a casserole, put in the macaroni, add a little cayenne and three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese—this may also be served in small casse- roles, and in that case sprinkle a little cheese also on the top and let it brown. 854. Chicken a la Marengo.— Take two chickens and cut them into nice small joints, using only the best pieces; the chickens must be uncooked ones. Skin and fry them a nice golden brown in a casserole with about a quarter of a pint of salad oil. Pour off any oil remaining after this process, and add half a pint of good tomato puree and half a pint of brown sauce, some mushrooms peeled and a little seasoning to taste. Cover the casserole and cook very gently for one hour. Serve in the casserole. Savotmee. 855. Cassolette Pastry.—A very useful pastry for savouries is made as follows : Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into three-quarters of a pound of the best flour, add cayenne and salt, mix with the yolks only of two eggs, the juice of half a lemon and a very little water. Knead this well until quite smooth and roll out once. This may be used for lining moulds, cases or patty pans, or for biscuit-shaped founda- tions for savouries. 856. Scotch Woodcock.—But- ter some slices of toast and cut into small triangular shapes. Take a stewpan and melt in it a piece of butter the size of a walnut, stir into it the same quantity of flour, a little cayenne pepper and salt, then gradually add two tablespoonfuls of milk and the same quantity of cream until it has formed a thick white sauce, then add a few drops of anchovy sauce and stir in the yolk of an egg; lastly, remove from the fire and mix in a large tablespoonful of grated cheese. Arrange this mixture on the triangles of toast. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs, chopping the yolks and whites separately, so that the triangles may be decorated alternately with the white and yellow, placing a tiny sprig of parsley in the centre of the pyramid. 857. Buttered Toast and Cheese. —Prepare some tiny slices of