15 SOUPS 19. Soup & la Flamande.—Take two quarts of good veal stock, put m a small handful of sliced spinach and sorrel, and let it boil till this is tender; season it with salt, and while it is boiling, but about two minutes before serving, stir into it a pint of cream previously well mixed with the yolks of six eggs. 20. Turnip Soup. — Slice six yellow turnips, two large onions, a carrot, and a piece of celery; stew them till tender in a quarter of a pound of butter, then add a little boiling soup, and let it boil till the vegetables are thoroughly done; rub them through a sieve, return them to the stew-pan, and add as much soup as you require for your tureen; let it boil; beat up the yolks of six eggs in a pint of cream, and just before serving stir it into the soup. Season with white pepper and salt. 21. Potage k la Purde de Len- tilles.—Take six heads of celery, three onions, two turnips, and four carrots ; put them into a stew-pan with one pound of lentils, a large slice of ham, and a quarter of a pound of butter; set it upon a stove to stew slowly for one hour, then add two quarts of soup, and let it stew for two hours; strain the soup into a dish, and put the vegetables and lentils into a mortar and pound them; then rub through a sieve with a little of the broth by means of a wooden spoon; put it again into the stew-pan, with a little salt and the crust of a French roll toasted, and let it simmer for a quarter of an hour longer, and serve. It may be made without the French roll, and fried bread served with it. When celery cannot be procured, the seed, as a substi- tute, is almost as good; the same with chervil. 22. White Celery Soup.—Two quarts of veal stock boiled with six heads of celery till done very tender ; strain it and add six more heads of celery cut very fine, and two ounces of butter mixed with three tablespoonfuls of flour. Stew till the celery is quite tender, and just before removing from the fire add half a pint of good cream pre- viously scalded. Season with salt, a small piece of sugar, and a very little cayenne. 23. Purde of Green Peas.— Take three pints of green peas, two turnips, two onions, a small bunch of mint, and one head of celery cut in pieces, and put them into a stew-pan with two ounces of butter and one quart of soup; let them stew till tender enough to rub through a tammy; when this is done add two quarts more soup. Season with salt and a small piece of sugar; let it come to the boil, and add one teacupful of spinach- juice to make it a fine green colour. Spinach-juice for Greening.— Pound some spinach in a mortar, squeeze it through a tammy or sieve; put the juice in a stew-pan on the fire till it curdles; then pour the water off through a fine lawn sieve, and rub the green residue through with a little broth. 24. Soup Maigre.—Put three pints of green peas in a gallon of water, a bunch of sweet herbs, a French roll, a blade of mace, a few cloves, and some pepper. Let these boil till it comes to three quarts; strain it, and put in a pint of young peas. Then take some lettuces, some parsley, young leeks, and