157 8 A VOURIES fire and beat in the yolks of three eggs, one at a time, and a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan cheese. Lastly, add the whipped whites of four eggs and mingle them well in. Pour into the prepared mould and bake in a moderate oven for about three-quarters of an hour. Remove the paper when cooked and send to table immedi- ately. 890. Cold Cheese Soufflee.— Take a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan cheese, half a pint of thick cream, one-quarter of a pint of aspic jelly, season with salt and cayenne. Just warm the jelly, then mix all together and fill little moulds lined with aspic jelly. Turn out and garnish with chopped aspic jelly and a little grated cheese on the top. 891. Soft Roes on Toast with Oysters.—Have some rounds of buttered toast in readiness. Then saute some soft roes of bloaters in butter, sprinkle with a little cayenne and salt. Make the oysters hot in their own liquor, having previously taken off the beards. Place a nice piece of roe curled round on the toast, with an oyster on top in the centre. Sprinkle over one or two drops of lemon juice, garnish and serve with watercress. 892. Mock Foie Gras.—About half a pound of goose and chicken livers, a quarter of a pound of bacon, a bouquet garni of parsley, ma- joram, thyme, just a soupQon of garlic, a little carrot, celery and nutmeg, one bay leaf, pepper and salt. Mince the livers and bacon, carrot and celery, then put all into a saut6 pan and stir to pre- vent burning. Cook until all the flavours are well extracted, pound in a mortar and pass through a wire sieve. Put this in a potted meat jar, covered with clarified butter. It will keep for two or three weeks, if necessary. 893. Anchovies and Shrimps. —Bake some small shells of casso- lette pastry and let them get cold. Take half a pint of picked shrimps, four filleted anchovies, two table- spoonfuls of cream, a very little cayenne. Pound these all together in a mortar and fill the cases, garnish with shrimps and finely- chopped parsley. 894. Bengal Toast.—Prepare some small rounds of buttered toast. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in a stewpan. Beat up three eggs with one tablespoonful of chopped capers and one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and just a little cayenne. Turn this mixture into the butter and cook gently until it thickens, then spread it thickly over the toast and serve very hot, 895. Welsh Rarebit.—Half a pound of grated dry cheese, two tablespoonfuls of butter, the same quantity of cream, one teaspoon- ful of made mustard, a little salt. Melt the butter first in a stewpan, then add all the other ingredients and make quite hot. Serve on toast and send to table imme- diately. 896. Kidneys a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Skin some kidneys and cut them in halves, and cut some tomatoes in slices about a quarter of an inch thick and saut6 both in three ounces of butter. Egg and crumb some small rounds of bread and fry a golden brown, then lay a slice of tomato on each and the kidney on that, the out side upper-