64 DAINTY DISHES saucepan with enough water to cover it, two or three onions, a carrot, and a bay-leaf; stew it till tender, then place it in a pie-dish with its own liquor strained, and two glasses of port wine; season with pepper and salt, cover with a good puff-paste, and hake about an hour in an oven that is not very hot. 314. Calf s Head Pie (Scotch).— Scald and soak the head, and simmer for half an hour in a little water, with a knuckle of veal, the rind of a lemon, two onions, a faggot of parsley and winter savory, a few white peppercorns, and two blades of mace. Take up the head, and, when cold, cut into bits of different shapes. Skin and cut the tongue into square pieces. Boil the broth in which the head and knuckle were simmered with a few bits of isinglass till it is reduced to a strong jelly gravy. Place a layer of thin slices of lean ham at the bottom of the pie-dish, then some of the head and tongue, a little forcemeat made from the knuckle, hard yolks of eggs cut in two; season with white pepper, salt, a very little nutmeg, and a little grated lemon-peel. Fill the dish thus with alternate layers, pour in as much as it will hold of the gravy jelly, cover it with puff-paste, and bake an hour. This is to be eaten cold. 315. Calf’s Feet Pie (Scotch). —Clean and boil two feet till tender, but not too soft, mince the meat when cold with suet and pared apples in the proportion of a third part apples and suet to the calf’s feet. Put into a pie-dish with a little strong gravy and a glass of white wine; season with a little pepper and salt; cover the dish with puff-paste, and bake it rather more than an hour. This is very light and nourishing. 316. Pigeon Pie.—Put in the bottom of the pie-dish a good beef- steak, not cut too thick ; truss and prepare six young pigeons, arrange them in the dish, between each place the yolk of a hard-boiled egg; season with a quarter of an ounce of mixed salt and pepper, a sprinkle of minced parsley, and a very little cayenne pepper; add a wineglass- ful of veal stock, cover with a puff- paste not too thiok, and bake one hour. 317. Chicken Pie. — Cut the chickens in joints; blanch them; season with pepper and salt, a mixed spoonful of chopped mush- rooms, parsley, and onions ; add a few slices of ham or bacon. A layer below and one above the chicken arranged in the pie-dish is best. Fill it up with veal gravy in which you have previously boiled a few mushrooms ; put in also the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs. A little lemon-juice may also be added. Cover with puff-paste, and bake rather more than an hour. 318. Casserolles of Rice.—Boil the rice well, and let it stand till nearly cold; then make it into round rolls with a small shape about the depth of a pattie. Cover them with egg and breadcrumbs, and fry them of an even light colour. When cold, scoop out the inside, and fill them with either minced veal or chicken, well stewed with parsley and shallot, and mix with a bbchamel sauce. Make them hot, and serve with fried parsley. 319. Petits Patties—Cut some chioken in dioe, put it into a sauce-