DAINTY DISHES 180 jelly or cream, and a tablespoonful in a glass of water makes a very pleasant drink. Lemons may be made in the same way. 724. Sliced Oranges. — Choose Seville oranges with the thickest rind, which are usually those of the middle size ; cut as many thin round shoes from the top, bottom, and sides, as you can till you come to the pulp; throw them into a large basin of spring water, and let them soak two days, then boil them in the same water till they are quite tender; make a syrup with the juice of the oranges and some of the water they have been boiled in, allowing to every pound of liquid and orange-peel included a pound of fine loaf-sugar; then boh them again, taking one-third of the sugar till they look clear, and allow them to he in this thin syrup two days; then strain it off and boil it with the rest of the syrup; skim it weh; put in the slices, and boil them a quarter of an hour; take them out, and pot for use. 725. Orange Biscuits. — Boil Seville oranges in water very gently, changing the water three or four times till the oranges are quite ten- der, and a good deal of the bitterness out of the peels ; then cut them in halves ; scrape out the whole of the inside carefully; weigh the peels, and take twice their weight of fine- pounded loaf-sugar, and beat it up with the oranges in a marble mortar till it becomes a smooth paste; with the back of a spoon spread this paste upon sheets of glass, and set them in a window in the sun to dry; by the next day you may cut the paste into any shaped biscuit you please, and just raise it from the glass; the day after, turn the biscuits, but let them remain on the glass, and as much as possible in the sun, till quite dry. Keep them in boxes with sheets of paper between each layer. Lemon - biscuits may be made in the same way. 726. White Currant Jelly.— Bruise the currants with the back of a wooden spoon, and run the juice through a jelly-bag; to every pint of juice take a pound of double-refined sugar; clarify, and boil it to candy; then put in the currant juice ; boil it ten minutes; skim well, pass through a fine sieve, and pot it. 727. Black Currant Jelly.— Strip three pints of black currants and one of red from their stalks, and put them into a jar with half a pint of water; tie it close over with folds of paper ; set the jar in a pan of water, and boil for twelve hours; taking care none of the water gets into the jar; add more water to that in the pan as it wastes in boiling; turn the cur- rants when boiled on to a sieve, and bruise them well with the back of a spoon, then gather the bruised berries together, and put them into a clean bowl; pour on them a pint of water, and bruise them again; return them to the sieve, and let them drain all night ; add what runs through to the rest of the juice, and for every pint take one pound of sugar, clarified and boiled to candy height; let it boil half an hour; skim as it rises, and pot. 728. Black Currant Syrup — Pick any quantity of black currants you please clean from their stalks;