87 EGGS, CHEESE, ENTREMETS, ETC. butter in a teacupful of cream; mix with a quarter of an ounce of good cheese, finely grated ; beat it well together, stew till it is quite smooth, stirring all the time. Serve upon well toasted bread, and brown the top with a salamander. 458. Cheese Toasts. — Grate three ounces of Gloucester cheese ; mix it with the yolks of two eggs, four ounces of grated bread, and three ounces of butter; beat the whole well in a mortar, with a dessert-spoonful of mustard, a little salt and cayenne pepper. Toast some bread thin and crisp, cut it into neat pieces, lay the paste as above thick upon them, put them into a Dutch oven, covered with a dish, till hot through; then re- move the cover, let the cheese brown a little, and serve as hot as possible. 459. Fondu.—A quarter of a pound of fine flour well dried, half a pint of cream, a piece of butter the size of a nut; mix them well together in a stew-pan over a slow fire, stirring constantly till it is quite thick, and smooth ; then add the yolks of five eggs, half a pint of new milk, and two ounces of grated parmesan cheese. Stir all together, but not over the fire. Beat up the whites of the five eggs to a strong froth, and mix it very lightly with the other ingredients. Bake in a souffle-dish or paper case in a gentle oven for half an hour. Take care it is served the moment it comes out of the oven, or it will fall and become heavy. 460. Ramequins. — Take a quarter of a pint of milk, one ounce of butter, and boil together, adding two spoonfuls of flour ; stir constantly till quite hot. Mix in smoothly four whole eggs, and two ounces of grated parmesan cheese. Fill small paper cases, and bake in a moderate oven a little more than a quarter of an hour. 461. Ramequins Souffld.—Melt one ounce of butter ; mix into it a spoonful of flour and a little salt; stir for a few minutes over the fire. Have ready boiled half a pint of milk, and a quarter pint of cream. Pour this on the butter and flour by degrees, and work it perfectly smooth. Take the pan off the fire and add half a pound of grated parmesan cheese, a little pepper, a very little powdered sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of two well beaten. When well mixed, add the other six whites, beaten to a froth. It should then be about the consistency of cream. Fill paper cases, but not quite to the top, and bake in a slow oven eighteen minutes. 462. Ramequins h la Sefton.— Make half a pound of puff paste (see Pastry); roll it four times, then sprinkle some grated parmesan cheese all over it; roll it out four times more, repeating the sprink- ling of cheese between each rolling ; cut the paste with a cutter in any form you please; sprinkle cheese over the top, and bake them a good brown in a moderate oven. Serve very hot on a napkin. 463. Failles au Parmesan, or Cheese Straws.—Take six ounces of flour, four of butter, two of cream, three of grated parmesan cheese, the slightest grating of nut- meg, two grains of cayenne, a little salt, and white pepper; mix the whole well together, roll it out, and cut it in strips the size and thick- ness of a straw. They must be