PUDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTBY, ETC. 97 some apples, and pulp them through a sieve. To about half a pound of apples, after they are pulped, add six ounces of melted, but not oiled, butter, in which mix as much sugar as will just sweeten the pudding ; add the yolks of six eggs, and the whites of four, whipped. Mix all with the apples, and beat it very light; add the rind of a lemon. Cover the bottom of a baking-tin with puff-paste, and pour the pudding into it; bake in a moderate oven half an hour, strew sugar over it, and serve. 519. Another Apple Pudding. —Peel one dozen and a half of good apples, take out the cores, cut them small, and put them into a stew-pan that will just hold them, with a little water, a little cinna- mon, two cloves, and the peel of a lemon; stew over a slow fire till quite soft, sweeten with moist sugar, and rub through a hair- sieve ; add to it the yolks of four eggs, and the white of one, a quarter of a pound of good butter, a little nutmeg, the juice and grated peel of one lemon. Beat all well to- gether ; butter a mould, put in the pudding, and bake or boil half an horn; serve with a custard-sauce made without wine. 520. Citron Pudding. — Slice half a pound of citron thin, and shred it very small; pound it with half a pound of powdered sugar in a marble mortar till well incor- porated. Beat the yolks of twelve eggs to a cream; mix them by degrees with the citron, beating well together; add as much spinach-juice as will make it a fine green; bake in a shape of puff- paste ; just before putting it in the oven add five ounces of oiled butter and a little brandy. 521. Riz Meringude.—Take six ounoes of rice, put it in a quart of milk, and set it over a slow fire to simmer till the rice swells and gets thick; add half a pint of good thick cream, and let it simmer till it gets thick again; then take it off the fire, have six ratafia biscuits dried and crumbled small, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and the grated peel of a lemon ready to put into it. Mix all well together, and let it stand by the fire till the first course is served. Whip the whites of three eggs to a fine broth, stir it quickly into the rice, put it into the dish it will be served in, and set it over a stove. Sprinkle sugar over when nearly done, brown with a salamander, and serve. 522. Sweet Omelette.—Break six eggs, separate the whites, mix the yolks with a quarter of a pound of sugar, two spoonfuls of flour, the peel of a lemon grated, and a vei-y little mace. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, then mix all to- gether and fry it. When done at the bottom, turn it into a dish, sift fine powdered sugar over it, and glaze it with a hot salamander. 523. Cream Souffle.—Take three yolks of eggs, three spoonfuls of flour, one spoonful of maraschino; mix them together, and add a pint of cream; beat up four whites of eggs to a strong froth, and stir them in. Bake in a case, and sift pounded sugar over. 524. Souffle. — Souffles require the greatest care in their prepara- tion and baking; their lightness mainly depends on the proper whisking of the eggs, but also much on the oven being the right Q