83 SAUCES Into the hot vinegar, shake and mix well, stirring continually. It must not be put on the fire after the eggs and butter are added. 144. Sauce Italienne.—Put into a saucepan a little parsley, a shallot, some mushrooms and truffles, all minced small, with a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Let it stew a few minutes, and add a quarter pint of white wine and a little pepper and salt. Let all boil together slowly for half an horn-, pass it through a tammy, and add a tablespoonful of olive-oil. This is the sauoe for maqueraux k l’ltalienne, but it is excellent with other fish, 145. Sauce aux (Eufs (Fla- mande).—Put four yolks of eggs beaten, three or four slices of lemon, a little grated nutmeg, a tablespoon- ful of vinegar, and a good-sized piece of butter, into a saucepan set it on a gentle fire, stir it well, and do not let it boil. It is good with all sorts of fish. 146. Sauce for Salmon Trout. —Take a piece of ham, one onion cut in four, four cloves, a little pepper, a shallot, and a piece of butter. Put them into a saucepan, and set over a slow fire for a few minutes, then add a tablespoonful of flour and some good stock. Reduce—i.e., boil till it thickens— some red wine; add about a glass- ful to your sauce, and a small lump of sugar ; a little salt and pepper, and six anchovies, previously washed and scraped. Let your sauce boil, and pass it through a tammy. This is also good for eels. 147. Newcastle 3auce for Fish. —Take three spoonfuls of vinegar, three of strong gravy, three or four anchovies. Boil them together till reduced to one spoonful; strain it off, and add half a pound of butter beaten to a cream, and one spoon- ful of ketchup. Boil all together just before you serve. 148. Sauce for Fillets of Sole. —Sweet basil, thyme, and parsley, and a shallot, all minced very fine ; add a ladle of clear gravy, a table- spoonful of white wine or vinegar, the juice of a lemon, pepper and salt to taste. Serve very hot. 149. Sauce aux Capres.—Take three ladles of cullis, three large spoonfuls of capers, some parsley minced fine, the juice of two lemons, and a little minced shallot. Set it in a saucepan on the fire, and let it boil. This is good for pike, barbel, etc. 150. Sauce for Turbot or John- Dory.—A pint of good gravy, two wineglasses of Rhenish wine, two spoonfuls of oil, the juice of two lemons, an anchovy, half a shallot, a small bunch of green onions and parsley, a spoonful of cullis, pepper and salt to taste. Cover it down very close. Set it upon a slow stove to simmer gently for about an hour. Take a large ladle of cullis, and strain to it about the same quantity of the liquor the fish was boiled in ; add this to the sauoe with a large spoonful of whole capers, or minced olives, and a little minced parsley. Let it boil, and pour it boiling over the fish. 151. Beurre Noir.—Boil till it is reduced to half the quantity, half a pint of the best vinegar wdth a little salt, pepper, and half a bay- leaf. Put into a frying-pan seven 0