PUDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTRY, ETC. 593. Apples with Jelly.—Take the largest apples you can get, peel and cut them in half, remove the core, and hollow them out a little, put them in a broad saucepan nearly full of water, turn them occasionally in the water, and when they are pretty soft take them out, drain and place them on the dish with the hollow side uppermost. When they are cold fill them with the following apple-jelly: Take twenty golden pippins, pare and quarter them, leaving in the cores ; put them in a pipkin with a pint of spring water, and boil them till they are tender and sink to the bottom, then rub them through a colander. To every pint of the juice put half a pound of fine sifted sugar, and set it on to boil as fast as possible. When it begins to jelly, put in the juice of two lemons and a little cinnamon. The rind of a pineapple boiled with the jelly is a great improvement. 594. Fastnachts Krapfen.— This is a German cake which is eaten on Shrove Tuesday, as pan- cakes are in England; it is very good, and is made in the following manner : Take a pint of lukewarm milk, six ounces of butter, two ounces of sugar, six yolks of eggs, and two ounces of yeast. Mix all this well together with as much flour as will make a paste, just stiff enough to roll out; then with a round cutter cut out cakes about the diameter of an orange, and an inch and a half thick; put them on a board in a warm place to rise, and then fry them in hot lard from five to ten minutes, so that they may acquire a nice brown colour ; drain them on blotting-paper to free them from fat, sprinkle them with sugar, and serve very hot. It is usual before they rise to open them and introduce a spoonful of jelly or marmalade, and to glaze the outside with egg. y, 595. Almond Paste.— Blanch and pound one pound of Jordan almonds very fine, adding a spoon- ful of orange-flower water while pounding, to keep them from oil- ing ; add threequarters of a pound of fine sifted sugar; stir it together over a gentle fire to dry off the moisture; when it becomes a stiff paste take it out of the pan and put it into pots to keep. It is use- ful for many things, icing of cakes, etc. 596. Almond Cups.— Roll out some of the above paste, and form cups of it in moulds ; bake them in a slow oven, and fill with whipped cream, custard, or preserves. 597. Charlotte de Pommes aux Abricots.—Take a dozen rennet apples, or more if your mould is a very large one ; cut them in quarters, peel and put them into a pan with a lump of butter, a small piece of cinnamon, the peel of half a lemon, and a little pounded sugar. Stew all this together over a very brisk fire, but do not allow them to bum ; when the apples are nearly done, take them off the fire, mix them with half a pot of apricot marmalade, and then put them into the mould, which you will previously have arranged, with thin slices of bread dipped in melted butter; cover apples with similar slices of bread, and bake the char- lotte in a moderate oven of a fine rich brown; serve very hot and crisp. The mould should be rubbed all over with clarified butter, and the slices of breadcrumb may be