29 SAUCES till they are done ; then mash them well, and add a little brown sugar. 113. Bread Sauce.—Boil a good- sized onion cut in four, and some black peppercorns, in milk, till the onion is quite a pap, then strain the milk on to grated white stale breadcrumbs; cover it close, and let it stand for an hour; put it into a saucepan with a piece of butter rolled in flour ; beat it well together over the fire, and serve. 114. Bread Sauce. — Boil the crumb of a French roll and a whole onion in half a pint of cream ; add one ounce of butter and twelve peppercorns. When done, take out the onion, beat up your sauce, and season with salt and pepper. 115. Sauce Poivrade — Take a bit of butter about the size of half an egg, two or three onions accord- ing to their size ; cut in slices also carrots and parsnips; shred two cloves, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme and sweet basil, and a little flour. Put all together in a saucepan, and set it on the fire to brown; then put in a glass of red wine, a glass of water, and a spoonful of vinegar. Let it boil half an hour, strain through a sieve, and add a little salt and whole pepper. This is good for all game. 116. Sauce au Petit Maitre.— A glass of white wine, half a lemon cut in slices, a piece of crumb of bread chopped small, two tea- spoonfuls of salad oil, a bunch of parsley, two or three small onions, two cloves, a few leaves of tar- ragon, a clove of garlic, a little salt and pepper, and a glass of good broth. Put all in a stew-pan, set it on a gentle fire to boil for a quarter of an hour; remove the grease, strain through a sieve, and serve. This is good for either poultry or game. 117. Sauce k la Marquise.— Take a handful of chopped bread- crumbs, a piece of butter the size of half a crown, a tablespoonful of the best olive-oil, a shallot minced fine, some salt, whole pepper, and as much vinegar as will cover all. Put it into a stew-pan, and stir with a spoon over the fire till it boils. Good with all sorts of meat. 118. Green Sauce for Boiled Chicken. — Take a teacupful of spinach-juice, add the juice of one lemon, two yolks of eggs beat up, and a teaspoonful of sugar. Just heat, and serve. 119. A Good Gravy for Game or Fowl.—Boil some veal gravy with pepper and salt, and the juice of a Seville orange and a lemon. 120. Onion Sauce. — Peel the onions and boil them tender; squeeze the water from them; chop, and add to them butter that has been melted rich and smooth with milk instead of water. Boil it up once. For boiled rabbits, shoulder of mutton, etc. 121. Onion - Sauce, Brown.— Boast four- large onions, peel and pulp them into a rich stock with salt, cayenne, a glass of port wine, a little vinegar, or the juice of half a lemon ; simmer and stir into it a small piece of butter. Good for cutlets, etc. 122. Pur4e or Sorrel.— Wash and pick some sorrel, and put it in a stew-pan with a little water; keep stirring to prevent its burn- ing ; when tender lay it on a hair sieve to drain; then chop it fine, and put it back in the stew-pan with a little butter. Let it fry, stirring it often till all the water is