48 DAINTY DISHES into the mutton, which should be placed in a deep dish for four days, and basted three or four times a day with the liquor that drains from it; then wipe it quite dry, and rub in a quarter of a pound more sugar mixed with a little common salt, and hang it up haunch downwards ; wipe it daily till it is used. In winter it should be kept three weeks, and roasted in paste like venison. Serve with currant jelly. 226. Roast Leg of Mutton.— Cover it well with water, and bring it gradually to a boil; let it simmer gently for half an horn*, then lift it out and put it immediately on the spit; roast it an horn- and a quarter or a half, according to its size. Dressed in this way it is particu- larly juicy and tender, but there must be no delay in putting it on the spit after it is taken out of the water. It may be garnished with roasted tomatoes or potatoes, or served with haricots & la Bretonne round it. 227. To Dress Roedeer or Hare. —Take the two haunches and the back; take off the hard skin, lard the upper sides of the haunches with good fat bacon ; then put into a pint of vinegar some carrots, turnips, and onions sliced, parsley minced, pepper and salt. Mix all together, and boil for ten minutes. When it is cold, lay the meat in a dish, and pour the pickle over it. Let it remain in the pickle for four days, turning it every day, and rubbing it well into the meat. When roasted, butter a large sheet of paper and tie it over the larded side. Three quarters of an hour is sufficient, with a good fire, to roast the haunches. For sauce, take a little of the pickle, a piece of butter rolled in flour, a teaspoonful of currant jelly, and a little good gravy. Boil all up together, and serve either round or in a sauceboat. 228. Cutlets of Mutton h la Mariniere.—Cut your cutlets thick and short, put them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter about the size of half an egg ; pass them on the fire till a little browned; wet them with a glass of white wine, the same quantity of broth; add a dozen little white onions; stew over a gentle fire for half an hour ; then add a pound of bacon, a carrot and a parsnip, a small piece of savoury, and parsley, all minced, a little salt and pepper, and a dessert- spoonful of vinegar. Stew till the cutlets are very tender and the sauce reduced. Lay the cutlets on the dish, the sauce and onions round, and the minced bacon and roots over them. 229. Cotelettes de Mouton en Robe de Chambre.— Stew them with broth, a very little salt, and a bunch of sweet herbs, quite slowly. When done tender, skim off the fat, pass the broth through a sieve, set it on the fire again, and reduce to a glaze. Glaze your cutlets, and leave them to cool. Take a piece of veal, some beef-suet, two eggs, a little salt and pepper, parsley, onions and mushrooms. Mash all fine together, moisten with a little cream; roll each cutlet in this forcemeat, cover them with bread- crumbs, lay them on a baking-tin, and place them in the oven till they are of a fine brown ; the oven should not be too hot Serve with shallot gravy or other clear sauce. 230. Beef-Steaks or Mutton- Chops.—It is absolutely necessary,