13 SOUPS quarts of water. Cover the stew- pan up closely and allow its con- tents to stew slowly four hours ; then place the cock in a tureen; remove the beef, and pour the soup and leeks over it, and serve. 9. Another Cock-a-Leekie.— Put four lb. of beef and an old fowl in a gallon of water, and when it boils throw in a good quantity of sliced leeks (as many as four dozen) with plenty of the tender green part left on, a teaspoonful of ground pepper, and half a one of salt. Let all b oil for four hours, then put in half a lb. of prunes, and let it boil an hour longer; take out the meat and fowl; cut off some of the best parts of the white meat from the breast of the fowl, and add it to the soup; the prunes should be left in. The leeks are improved by being soaked two hours in cold water before they are used. This is an excellent receipt. 10. Friar’s Chicken, Li6 or thick.—Take a knuckle of veal, two carrots, two turnips, two or three onions, and a few sweet herbs ; boil all these together to a good stock and strain it. Have ready a pair of chickens boiled tender and cut in pieces, a quart of cream and six yolks of eggs beaten together; add to these the stock only, as above, and heat them up together, and send it to table. Some like a little minced parsley added just before serving. 11. Friar’s Chicken, clear.— Take two or three chickens cut in quarters, as for a fricassee, and two lb. of lean beef; put them in four quarts of boiling water; when nearly done enough, which will be in about two hours, add some finely-minced parsley. not leave it on the fire more than ten minutes after this ; the minute before serving stir in quickly two eggs previously well beaten to- gether. Attention should be paid to skimming, and it is more deli- cate if the skins of the chickens are removed. 12. Knuckle of Veal and Rico Soup.—To a knuckle of veal well scalded add three quarts of veal stock, three ounces of rice, a blade of mace, and a sprig of thyme; when it has boiled two hours and a half put into it one onion and two heads of celery cut fine ; let it boil half an hour longer; season with salt, take out the large bones, and serve. A fowl and rice may be done in the same way, but will not take so long. 13. Potato Soup.—Grate off the skin of as many potatoes as will make the quantity of soup required, and which will partly depend upon their size, they should be of a mealy kind; wash them well in tepid water, add them to your stock previously prepared from roast beef bones ; four or five onions, and some salt and pepper. Let it simmer very slowly till the potatoes are quite dissolved. 14. Another Potato Soup.— Cut a breast of mutton into small square pieces ; put it on to boil with some good stock; let it stew gently, skimming it meanwhile carefully, for two hours ; then add two dozen of potatoes peeled and washed (they should not be large ones), and two dozen button onions, or five large ones sliced. Season with salt and pepper, and stew slowly till the potatoes are nearly dissolved. 15. Hare Soup should be made