MEAT, POULTRY, GAME 51 cold haunch in a little water, season with peppercorns and salt. Strain and thicken it with a bit of butter rolled in flour; add a glass of port wine, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, and one of currant jelly. When hot, add the venison cut in thin shoes, heat it thoroughly, and serve with sippets of toasted bread. Cold haunch of mutton may be dressed in the same way. 243. Hashed Mutton k la Nell Gwynne.—Half a pint of mush- room ketchup, half a pint of white wine vinegar, half a dozen shallots sliced fine and stewed for two hours in this liquor ; then put in a pound of previously parboiled collops of mutton, and stew gently till ready to serve. 244. Beef a la Vinaigrette.— Cut a slice of underdone boiled beef three inches thick, see that some fat is with it. Stew it in half a pint of water, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a bay-leaf. Season it with pepper and three cloves pounded ; let it stew till the liquor is nearly wasted, turning it occa- sionally. Strain off what may be left, to which add some vinegar, and when the beef has become cold serve it with it for sauce. 245. Hashed Mutton.—Rub a little flour and butter in a stew-pan till brown, then add as much more butter as will make it the consis- tence of good cream, put in some chopped onions, let them stew till tender. Cut three slices of mutton lean and fat about an inch in size, put them into the sauce with some pepper and salt, a spoonful of ketchup or Harvey, some chopped gherkins, or hot pickles. Make very hot and serve. 246. Tourte de CStelettes de Mouton h la Perigord.—Take a neck of mutton, cut into short thick cutlets, and arrange them in your pie dish, or in a raised crust. Take as many middle-sized truffles as cutlets, peel and place between each cutlet; season with a little salt and mixed spices, cover it with thin slices of bacon, and over that a layer of good butter about the thickness of a shilling, cover the whole in with pie crust, and bake for three hours. When done, raise the top of your crust and pour in a glass of wine warmed, with two tablespoonfuls of cullis. Skim off any grease with a spoon, and re- place the crust. 247. Perdreaux au Celery Blanc. — Take three partridges, make a forcemeat of the livers, and stuff them with it; blanch them in a hot marinade for a few minutes. Spit them across, lay on them slices of bacon, cover them with paper, and roast them gently about twenty-five minutes. For your sauce take the white part of six or eight heads of celery, split them two or three times, and cut in pieces about an inch long, blanch them a few minutes in water, then boil them in good broth for an hour ; put in a bit of butter mixed with flour, a liaison of four or five eggs beaten up with some cream, a little pepper and salt; pour it into the sauce when it is boiling hot; move it about for a minute on the stove, squeeze in a little lemon-juice. Take the partridges off the spit, and serve with this sauce over them. It is also excellent with boiled partridges, chicken, or pheasant.