65 MEAT, POULTRY, GAME pan with some bechamel sauce, well seasoned with shallot. Reduce it a little and let it get cold. Line your pattie-pans with puff-paste, rather thin, and put a little of the meat in each. Stew them well. Sprinkle them over with bread- crumbs and some bits of fresh butter. B ake them twenty minutes in a quick oven, and serve hot. 320. Larks en Ragofit.—Take a dozen larks, put them in a stew- pan with a bit of butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, some mushrooms, and sweetbread cut small, a good pinch of flour, a glass of white wine, one of gravy, and some broth. Reduce the same, skim it well, take out the herbs, season with pepper and salt, and serve hot. 321. Roast Sweetbreads.—Trim a fine sweetbread (it cannot be too fresh); blanch or parboil it for five minutes, throw it into a basin of cold water; when cold dry it well on a cloth, run a lark-spit or small skewer through it, tie it on the spit, and roast it either plain or egged with a brush, and well powdered with breadcrumbs. Serve with a clear sauce piquante. (See Sauces.) 322. Rognons de Bceuf, etc.— Cut two kidneys in slices, put them into a stew-pan with two ounces of butter at the bottom, a spoonful of minced parsley, onion, and mush- room ; cover them with fat bacon, and let them stew one hour. Strain the liquor off, and thicken with a spoonful of flour. Season with salt and pepper, half a glass of white wine, and the juice of a lemon. 323. Kidney k, la Brochette.— Divide two or more kidneys, put them on a silver skewer, melt some butter, and with a paste-brush butter them well all over ; set them upon the gridiron as near the fire as possible, for they cannot be done too quick. Turn them every minute, and when half done season with salt, pepper, and a little cayenne. Put them, skewer and all, on a hot plate, squeeze a little lemon-juice over them, and serve. You may garnish them with beurre & la maitre d'hotel. 324. Kidney Sautd.—Cut three kidneys each in five pieces ; put an ounce of butter in the saut4 pan; when very hot put in the kidneys, stir round for a few minutes with a spoon till they are set. Add a tea- spoonful of flour, quarter of a one of salt, and the third part of that of pepper. Mix well; add half a gill (about two tablespoonfuls) of broth, and a small wineglassful of either sherry, port, or champagne, and a few mushrooms Do not let them boil; a few minutes is enough to do them. 325. A Haggis.—Boil a sheep’s fights and head, then mince them fine, add about the same quantity of suet, season with salt and pepper, a good handful of chopped onions, and two handfuls of oat- meal. Fill the bag (or paunch) half full, put into it about a pint of broth, sew it up, and boil gently between three and four hours. Some put in the fiver minced, and sweet herbs and spices. 326. Scotch Minced Collops.— This is simply a piece of lean raw beef minced very fine. They re- quire about twenty minutes to cook. Put them in a saucepan, with a bit of butter to prevent their sticking. When they are hot, add a tea- spoonful of flour and a little gravy