DAINTY DISHES 82 cream. Season with pepper, salt, the squeeze of a lemon, and a very little cayenne. 137. Sauce for Carp.—Put half a pint of Lisbon wane in a small stew-pan, to which add a little minced parsley, thyme, and a small onion, four anchovies, the liver of the fish, two spoonfuls of vinegar and one of ketchup. Let them boil ten minutes; then put in three spoonfuls of gravy, a quarter of a pound of butter and a little flour; set it on the fire again and keep stirring till it is ready to boil; then strain it through a hair sieve. This is also good for mullets, etc. 138. Sauce Hollandaise (a real Dutch receipt).—The yolks of six eggs beat up with a very little flour and about the size of half a nutmeg of butter; add a little pepper and salt, and a blade of mace, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and four of water. Put it on the fire and stir all the time till it just begins to boil; then take it off and put in a good lump of butter; stir it well together, always going round the same way. It should never be put on the fire again, and therefore should not be made till the fish is ready to serve. All boiled fish is good with this sauce. The quantity here given is sufficient for six people. 139. Dutch Sauce.—Boil some sliced horseradish, a blade of mace, and two anchovies in some good stock ; strain, and thicken it with the yolks of four eggs well beaten and mixed. 140. Sauce h la Grillon — Put about two ounces of butter in a stew-pan to melt; then rub in a spoonful of flour ; stir it about, and add two tablespoonfuls of cream and J pint of milk; stir till quite smooth, then add about a table- spoonful of minced parsley and shallot; season with white pepper and salt; keep stirring it over the fire till quite hot, but do pot let it boil; and serve. This sauce is good for fillets of turbot, sole, or whiting; it should be of the con- sistence of thick cream. 141. Good Sauce for Fillets of Sole.—Two hard-boiled eggs, one raw yolk, and a little cream; mix very smooth with a tablespoonful of tan-agon or elder vinegar. Put it into a stew-pan, heat without boiling, season with pepper and salt, and pour over the fillets. 142. Melted Butter. — This, however simple, is rarely well done. Mix in the proportion of a tea- spoonful of flour to four ounces of the best butter as much as you require on a plate, then put it into a small saucepan with three table- spoonfuls of hot water or milk; boil it quick for a minute, shaidng it all the time. Another way is to cut two ounces of butter in small pieces, put it into a very clean saucepan with a large teaspoonful of flour and half a pint of milk ; hold it over the fire, and shake it round constantly the same way till it begins to simmer, then let it stand quietly and boil up. Care must be taken that the butter does not oil. The yolk of an egg is a great improvement. 143. Sauce Hollandaise.—Four tablespoonfuls of elder vinegar boiled with a little salt, a teaspoon- ful of flour, and a blade of maco. Beat up the yolks of five eggs ; cut about a quarter of a pound of butter into thin slices; put these