43 FISH herrings, cut off their heads and tails, skin them, take out the back- bone, and divide them longitu- dinally into two fillets ; place them side by side in the case, and put between each a bit of butter mixed with fine herbs, some chopped mushrooms, parsley, a little shallot and green onions minced fine, a little pepper, and just a sprinkling of olive-oil; powder them over the top with fine breadcrumbs, and lay the case on the gridiron over a very clear fire, taking every pre- caution to prevent their burning. When they are sufficiently done, which will be in about ten minutes, serve them in the case with a squeeze of lemon over them. 200. Red Herrings.—Take off their heads and tails ; divide them from end to end; take out the bone; put them on a dish, and baste with oil. When ready to serve, turn them for a minute or two on the gridiron, and send to table immediately. 201. Lobster au Gratin.—Chop a middle-sized onion and put it in a stew-pan with two ounces of butter; fry of a light brown; mix with it a small tablespoonful of flour; pour over half a pint of milk, a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter one of pepper, and half that of cayenne, a little sugar, a very little nutmeg, and some chopped parsley. Boil a few minutes till rather thick; put in your previously boiled lobster meat cut in pieces. Let it boil up ; add the yolk of an ogg and a little cream, mix quickly; fill the shells, egg and breadcrumb them; put in an oven for ten minutes, pass a hot salamander over them, and serve. 202. Crab au Gratin (Ameri- can).—Prepare the crab as usual, lay in the empty shell a layer of the soft part, then a layer of grated American crackers or biscuit; over this lay the fleshy part of the crab, on which pour a spoonful of mush- room ketchup: add some chopped hard-boiled yolks of eggs. Season with a little salt, pepper, and cayenne; cover all with the re- mainder of the soft part of the crab ; make it even with a knife ; egg and breadcrumb it over, or grated biscuit may be used instead of breadcrumbs; stick a few bits of butter on the top; set it in the oven for twenty minutes or half an hour, and serve very hot. 203. Partan Pie. — Pick the meat after boiling out of the crab ; clean out the shell and mix the meat with a little salt, pepper, a bit of butter, and, if too liquid, a few breadcrumbs ; add three spoon- fuls of vinegar, and put all into the shell again; strew a few bread- crumbs over, and set it before the fire or in the oven. Brown with a salamander; add a little cayenne, and serve. 204. Curry of Lobster.—Take them from the shells ; cut them in medium- sized pieces, and lay them in a saucepan with a small piece of ham, a blade of mace, cayenne pepper, and salt to your taste, four spoonfuls of veal gravy, and four spoonfuls of cream. Bub smooth together two teaspoonfuls of curry- powder, a teaspoonful of flour, and a little cream. Add it to the sauce. Simmer an hour, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon before serving. 205. Curry of Cod should be made of sliced cod that has either