99 PUDDINGS, JELLIES, PAST BY, ETC. they may be flavoured also with grated lemon-peel, or whatever is liked. Melt a piece of butter in a frying-pan; pour in, when it is hot, as much of the batter as will cover the bottom of the pan, fry brown on both sides, roll up the pancake, and serve very hot with sugar sprinkled over them. 529. English Pancakes.—Take six yolks of eggs, break them into a bowl, separating the whites, which beat up until they are quite light; beat the yolks also with a little sifted sugar, a teacupful of cream, and a quarter of a pound of flour; mix in the whites, have a good clear fire ready, put a bit of fresh butter into the frying-pan, and when it froths pour in a break- fast-cupful of the batter; keep shaking the pan for a little, loosen the batter round the edge with the point of a knife, give it a shake, toss it over, and do it the same time on the other side ; then turn it over, and lay them on a hot dish. Cook as many as you require in the same way. Strew sugar over and serve very hot. Lemon should be served with them, but separately. 530. French Pancakes.—Take four eggs, beat the whites quickly to a snow ; then beat the yolks up with a spoonful of fine sugar, two spoonfuls of flour, and one of cream. Mix all together, and fry in butter of a light brown colour. Lay it over with apricot marma- lade, fold it up, and serve very hot. 531. French Thick Pancake.— Take the yolks of four eggs, and beat them up with four tablespoon- fuls of sugar till very light, add a tablespoonful of orange or pine- apple marmalade, a little nutmeg, four tablespoonfuls of flour, and four of good cream; whisk the whites to a snow, and mix all well together; pour the batter into an omelette-pan, in which you have melted a piece of butter. Fry on a slow fire of a light- brown ; turn it over, strew sugar over it either simply or glazed with a sala- mander. 532. Frea«Ti Light Pancakes. —Mix the yolks of seven eggs, half a pint of cream, and one ounce of butter broken up into small pieces, with three spoonfuls of flour ; whisk the whites of the eggs to a snow, and when ready to be fried mix all together. Fry in a very little butter as thin as possible; do not turn them in the pan, but as they are done turn them out one upon the other, sifting sugar between till you have enough. A few seconds is enough to cook each, but they must not be left for a minute till they are served, and should be very hot. 533. Rice Pancakes.—A quarter of a pound of rice boiled quite tender in milk, pounded in a mortar with a little sugar, nutmeg, and cream; add four eggs well beaten, mix all together, and fry them like other pancalces. 53L Cheesecakes.—Beat a quart of milk with eight eggs till it comes to a curd, strain the whey from it, and put the curd, with a quarter of a pound of butter, three eggs, and three spoonfuls of sugar, into a mortar; beat and mix thoroughly, add half a nutmeg and a little salt. Bake in very light puff-paste cases. 535. Curd Cheesecakes.—Beat in a mortar till it looks like butter a pound and a half of cheese curd.