182 DAINTY DISHES other ; dost them over with coarsely - powdered sugar; when dry on one side, then powder the other ; repeat this, and when quite dry put them away in boxes. 734. To Preserve Apricots.— Choose ripe apricots; take the stone out at one end, so that they may look whole ; prick them all over with the point of a knife, and lay them in a shallow stew-pan, taking care they do not touch each other; add a little clarified sugar to them, but not enough to cover them; let them boil gently up; take the pan off, and when the apricots are cold turn them in the pan, and boil them up again; re- peat this twice more, taking care to let them get cold between each turning. When they have, after the last boil-up, stood twelve hours, drain them ; put into each a kernel which you have previously blanched, dust them over with pounded sugar, lay them on tins, and put them into a cool oyen to dry. Next day turn them on a sieve, let them get perfectly dry and hard, and put them away in boxes with paper between. Peaches and nectarines may be done in the same way. 735. Apricot Jam.—Stone and peel the apricots; take equal weight of sugar and fruit; clarify and boil the sugar to candy; put in the apricots, and let them boil very quick till they are well broke, and bruise them a little with a spoon; blanch the kernels and add them. A little white currant jelly boiled with the apricots is also an improvement. Take the pan off, and when the jam is cool, pot and tie it down. Greengages and other plums may be made into jam in the same way. 736. Comp6te d’Abricots.— Take apricots nearly ripe; remove the stones without breaking them ; put them in a pan of water on the fire, but do not let them boil; for every twenty-five apricots take a pound of sugar; clarify it, and put in the apricots ; set them on a very slow fire, that the sugar may in- corporate ; when quite tender, they are done. If they are to be pre- served for future use, drain them, boil the syrup next day, and pour it, when cold, over the fruit; con- tinue doing this for five days, adding each time a little more sugar, as it is necessary the fruit should be quite covered with the syrup. On the last day put the apricots into the boiling sugar, and give them a gentle boil; skim them well; and peaches and quinces may be done in the same way, either for present use or to keep a year. 737. Apricot Paste—Take any quantity of perfectly ripe apricots you choose; take out the stones ; put them in a pan of water on the fire to boil till they break; drain and rub them through a sieve; dry and weigh the paste ; take as much clarified sugar as fruit; mix well together; put it again on the fire to boil; it must be more done than for marmalade; then put the paste into moulds, or make it into thin flat cakes, and dry them in the oven or stove; paper each one, and put them by in boxes. 738. Pineapple Jelly. — Boil two dozen of the best common apples as for apple-jelly; pass them through a jelly-bag, and to every two quarts of juice add the juice of