DAINTY DISHEB 122 of a pound of butter, a pint of milk, and two tablespoonfuls of yeast; let it rise like ordinary bread, and bake about an hour in a moderate oven. Currants may be used in- stead of caraway seeds. 682. A Diet Loaf. — Beat a pound of eggs with a pound of sifted sugar till it looks quite thick and white ; then add a little ginger and cinnamon, powdered, some caraway seeds, and one pound of dried flour; butter a mould, and bake it. 683. A Gingerbread Loaf.—To a pint of treacle add six eggs well beat up, two pounds of flour, and twelve ounces of fresh butter beat to a cream ; half a pound of brown sugar, half a pound of orange-peel cut into small pieces, two ounces of ground ginger, and one of ground cloves; mix all these in- gredients together, and the more it is beat up the lighter it will be. When ready for the oven put it into a tin shape, with buttered paper round the loaf; do not allow the oven to be too hot. It should be baked about an hour. To know if it is thoroughly done put a knife into the cake; if it comes out clean it is done enough. Leave it in the mould till cold. 684. Nuremburg Gingerbread. —Beat the whites and yolks of eight eggs, together with one pound of finely-sifted sugar, for half an hour; mix with this the peel of a lemon cut very thin, and minced fine, and a tablespoonful of ground spices in the proportion of two parts of cinnamon and one part each of cloves and cardamoms ; a tablespoonful of finely-cut candied orange - peel, half a pound of blanched and roasted almonds sliced small, and one pound of fine dry flour; all to be thoroughly mixed together, made into cakes about eight inches long by four wide and two thick, spread on wafer paper, and baked in a quick oven. 685. Gingerbread without Butter.—Mix with two pounds of treacle a quarter of a pound each of candied ginger, orange and lemon peel, all sliced very thin, half an ounce of caraway seeds, half an ounce powdered ginger, and as much flour as will mix it into a soft paste; lay it on tin plates in convenient-sized cakes, and bake in a quick oven. 686. Honeycomb Gingerbread. —Bub together half a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, a teaspoonful of ground ginger, one each of allspice and cinnamon in powder, the rind of one lemon grated, and as much treacle as will make it into paste to spread very thinly on tins ; bake it gently while hot; cut it in squares, and roll it over a stick like wafers till cold. Keep them in a dry place, or they will lose their crispness. 687. Gingerbread Nuts. —One pound of butter rubbed fine in three pounds of flour; add to it a pound of fino-sifted sugar, an ounce of caraway seeds, an ounce of ginger, and a grated nutmeg; mix all well together with a pound and a quarter of treacle ; make it into a stiff paste, and form into nuts or little cakes ; bake on paper in a slack oven till quite crisp. The quantity of spices may be increased if liked. These nuts are excellent.