28 DAINTY DISHES a stew-pan three or four slices of ham, three shallots cut small, a few peppercorns, and four wine- glasses of sherry. Let it simmer for twenty minutes, then add about half a pint of cullis. Let it stew a quarter of an hour longer ; skim it well; season to your taste with salt and pepper, and strain through a fine sieve. Good with various entries, kromeskies, etc. 104. Relishing Sauce for Broiled Bones, Chicken, or Fish. —Put a tablespoonful of chopped onions into a stew-pan, with one of chili vinegar, one of common vinegar, three of water, two of mushroom ketchup, two of Har- vey’s sauce, and one of anchovy. Add to it a pint of melted butter ; let it simmer till it adheres to the back of the spoon ; add half a tea- spoonful of sugar, and it is ready for use. 105. Sauce au Jus d’Orange.— Put half a glass of good stock in a stew-pan, and the same of brown gravy, a Seville orange peel grated, a piece of butter mixed with flour about half the size of an egg, and a little salt and pepper. Set it on the stove, and, when it thickens, squeeze in the juice of a Seville orange. This is good for wild duck, game, and poultry. 106. Sauce for Wild Ducks.— Four tablespoonfuls of gravy, two of Harvey’s sauce, two spoonfuls of mustard, a quarter of a lemon squeezed, four small wineglassfuls of port wine, half a saltspoon of cayenne pepper. Make it very hot, and serve. 107. Sauce for Teal or Wild Fowl.—A small onion and a shallot chopped fine, four or five leaves of sweet basil, and the peel of a lemon shred small; put into half a pint of gravy. Let this boil five minutes; strain, and add a spoonful of salt, half a one of cayenne pepper, a few drops of shallot vinegar, the juice of a lemon, and a glass of port wine. Serve it very hot. 108. Sauce Royal. — Boil for four or five minutes six shallots in a tablespoonful of sweet-oil; add half a pint of sauce tournee (No. 86), a glass of white wine or champagne ; strain it, and stir in two tablespoonfuls of cream. 109. Sauce k la Reine.—Pound the breast of a fowl very fine; add to it a pint of bechamel (No. 85) and half a pint of cream, a little salt, and a few drops of lemon-juice. 110. Lemon Sauce for Boiled Fowl or Rabbit.—The inside of one lemon peeled, and the pips re- moved, cut in dice; the fiver of the fowl or rabbit minced, half a pint of bechamel or melted butter. Season with salt; add a little minced parsley for rabbit, or tar- ragon for the fowl. Boil on a slow fire. 111. Green Sauce for Duck- lings.—Mix a quarter of a pint of sorrel-juice with a glass of broth or gravy; scald some green goose- berries, rub them through a sieve ; add a little sugar and a small piece of butter. Set it on the fire and make it very hot. This is also very good for green goose. 112. Apple Sauce—Pare, core, and slice as many apples as you require for your sauce; put them into a pipkin with two or three spoonfuls of water, and set them on a hot hearth, till they fall to pieces. Or they may be done au bain-marie—i.e., set the pipkin in a vessel of boiling water to boil