DAINTY DISHES 150 three pints of good brown stock, two tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup; let it come to the boil, then add one onion, carrot, and turnip cut into dice. Simmer very slowly with the lid firmly closed, either in the oven or on the top of the stove. 838. Stuffed Steak.—Have some rump steak out rather thin in one large slice. Make a veal stuffing, spread it over and then roll it up, fastening with small skewers. Make a quarter of a pint of olive oil hot in a casserole and fry the beef a good brown outside, add one pint of Espagnol sauce with a quarter of a pint of tomato sauoe, and simmer slowly for two hours. Dish on an entree dish and garnish with grilled tomatoes. 839. Stewed Eels en Casserole. —One pint of Espagnol sauce and one pint of good beef gravy. When it boils put in the eels, cut up into pieces about two inches long. Let them simmer very gently for three-quarters of an hour. Thicken the gravy if necessary with a little flour, add a large wineglassful of port and half the quantity of mushroom ketohup, pepper and salt to taste with just a squeeze of lemon juice. 840. Stewed Oxtail.—Joint the tail in neat pieces and fry them brown in the casserole, then add one pint of good brown sauoe with one pint of brown stock, with two cloves, a blade of mace, some salt and pepper. Cook slowly for four hours. Skim well and serve. It is rather a good plan to cook this the day previously, as the fat can be more readily removed when cold, and simply reheat it in the casse- role. 841. Dressed Steaks.—About two pounds of thm steak divided into strips, sprinkle each with minced onion, a dust of sage, salt and pepper, roll up and fasten with a small skewer. Heat some butter or oil in a casserole, fry brown, and then add one pint of brown sauce, a few mushrooms and simmer very slowly for an hour and a half. 842. Eggs with Cream.—Take small casseroles and butter them well, pour a little cream into each, then break an egg carefully and place in each, cover with more cream, sprinkle with salt and pepper a few crumbs on the top. Cook very gently for a few minutes in tho oven. 843. Eggs with Cheese.—May be prepared as in the preceding recipe, using grated oheese instead of breadcrumbs on the top and browned under the salamander or in front of the fire. 844. Bouch£es of Cheese.— Boil about half a pound of macaroni until tender, then strain it and cut it in small pieces. Butter some small oasserole moulds and half fill with macaroni, oover with one tablespoonful of tomato pur6e, then with cream, a little oayenne and salt, and a thick sprinkling of grated Parmesan cheese on the top, and put them into a hot oven to brown. Serve very hot in the casseroles. 845. Seakale with Cheese.— Boil the seakale until tender in some good white stock, drain and cut in small pieces, then butter some small casseroles, holding suffi- cient for one person, and put in alternately a layer of seakale and a