159 SUNDRIES strips ; then the other half of meat in same manner, Tie up tightly in a cloth, and boil in stock for two hours. Take it up and press lightly. When cold, out in cutlets, arrange in saut6 pan, and cover with aspic jelly. Dish on ohopped aspio jelly, garnished with endive and radish. 901. Brisket of Beef Spiced.— Weigh the meat and allow half an hour to eaoh pound and half an hour over. Let it oook very gently and plunge it into hot water, Tie up in a muslin bag one blade of mace, some cloves, allspice, and peppercorns. Boil one carrot and one turnip with it. Take up the meat when done, slip out the bones at once, and then press the meat between two dishes with a weight on the top. Leave till quite cold. Then glaze the top with the above stock boiled down to two table- spoonfuls : if not dark enough, add a drop or two of browning. 902. Roast Chicken, Boned and Stuffed.—Bone the chicken, with the exception of the wings and legs, and then stuff it with this forcemeat: half a pound of minced veal, quarter pound of beef suet, quarter pound of bread crumbs, a few mushrooms and truffles, pars- ley, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and lemon peel. Mix this with two eggs, stuff the chicken, and truss into shape and roast it. This may be served either hot or oold. 903. Galantine of Beef. — About two pounds of rump steak cut about half an inch thick. Trim this into an oblong shape and spread over with this mixture : the trimmings of the beef chopped or minced finely, half a pound of minced ham, two hard-boiled eggs, also chopped, pepper, salt and allspice, a quarter of a pound of breadorumbs, Mix with a little cream and two raw eggs, spread this mixture evenly over, roll up and stitch into shape. Cook for about two hours gently, the same as for other galantines, press into shape, glaze when oold. 904. Fruit Salad.—This may be made with any ripe fruits in season, mixed in a bowl. Then make a syrup with one pound of loaf sugar and half a pint of water, well boiled for ten minutes, add a small glass of Cura9oa or Chartreuse or any liqueur and pour it over the fruit. Serve either in a large china bowl or on small ice plates, and stand on ice or in a cool place until wanted. 905. Meringues. — Take a quarter of a pound of castor sugar to each white of egg. A board is used for these to bake on, so that the inside should remain soft; if they were baked on a tin they would be hard all over. Cover the board with a piece of oiled paper. Then take a cold basin and break into it the whites of the eggs, taking great care that none of the yolk goes in. Have a cool and dry whisk, and put a pinch of salt on the whites and whip them to a very strong froth, then stir in the sugar (which must have been sifted), and shape them like an egg very quickly with two dessert-spoons and a knife dipped in cold water. Lay them on the oiled paper, sift more sugar over, and dry them well in a warm oven. When thoroughly set, turn them over and scoop out the soft part. Put them on a clean piece of paper on the board and let them dry again in the oven, the