MEAT, POULTRY, GAME 67 for twenty minutes; when they have boiled a few minutes take them out and prick gently with a fork. 333. White Puddings.—Boil a pint of good milk and a handful of breadcrumbs on the stove, turning often till the bread has absorbed all the milk and it is quite thick; leave it to cool. Cut six middle- sized onions in small pieces, brown them in a frying-pan with a good hit of butter. Then take half a pound of fat of the inside of the pig chopped, and mix with the onions on the fire, let it cool a few minutes, then take it off, put in the boiled breadcrumbs, and six yolks of eggs, beaten up with about half a pint of cream. Stir all together. Season with salt, pepper, and some fine spices, and stuff the previously prepared gut, but not more than three parts full, for fear of bursting. Tie in lengths of about six inches, put them gently into water which is quite boiling, and let them boil a quarter of an hour; take them out with a skimmer, and put them into cold water. Dry them. Broil in paper cases, and serve hot. 334. Pork Sausages.—The trim- mings from the hams and part of the griskin, an equal quantity of fat and lean, should be cut small with a knife, carefully removing any sinew or hard part, then chop it very fine with a chopper. Season with pepper, salt, and a little fine spice. Add a little finely minced sage. Mix thoroughly, and fill the skins. They may either he boiled, fried, or broiled, and take about a quarter of an hour to do. 335. Veal Sausages. — Chop equal quantities of the lean of veal and fat bacon, a handful of sage, a little salt and pepper, and three or four anchovies ; beat all in a mortar, and when used, roll in balls or the shape of a sausage and fry; serve on mashed potatoes with fried sippets. 336. Beef Sausages—Chop two pounds of lean beef and one pound of suet very fine, a teaspoonful of powdered thyme, one of sage, and one of allspice ; season with pepper and salt; put them in skins, previ- ously well cleaned and washed. They may be fried or broiled, and are good served with stewed red cabbage. 337. Godiveau, or Veal Force- meat.—Scrape one pound of veal, half a pound of fat bacon, pound it fine in a mortar; add the crumb of a French roll, a teaspoonful of mace, and the same of nutmeg; a tablespoonful each of chopped onions, parsley, and mushrooms, or truffles, some pepper and salt; mix all this together, with two whole eggs, and rub it through a sieve. It is used on all occasions ; for pies and forcemeat stuffing. timetables, Salats, Etc. 338. To Boil Potatoes.—They skins can easily be removed before should always he boiled in their serving them. Choose them as skins, and are best served in them; much as possible of a size, that but for those who dislike this, the they may all be equally done ; put