138 DAINTY DISHES one ounce; boil them in a quart of water till reduoed to a pint; then pass it through a sieve. A teacup- ful, with a little milk, to be taken night and morning; or it may be dissolved in beef-tea, wine, etc. 773. Pork Soup or Jelly —Out up and break the bone of a leg of pork ; simmer it gently in three gallons of water till reduced to one; add salt and pepper, and let half an ounce of nutmeg or other spice stew in it; and strain it. This may either be taken as soup, a cupful three times a day, or eaten cold as jelly, and is extremely nourishing. 774. Veal Soup or Jelly.—Shoe a pound of veal very thin; put it into a closely-covered jar or other vessel in alternate layers, with sliced turnips; add one teacupful of water and a little salt; place in a pan of water, and simmer gently four hours; or it may be done for the same time in the oven ; strain it, and when cold it will be a strong jelly, and is equally good and nutritious eaten so, or warmed into soup. 775. Fowl Soup or Jelly.—Skin and cut in pieces an old fowl; break the bones; put in a covered earthen pan with a cup of water; simmer seven hours either in a oain marie or the oven; season to taste, and strain it. To be eaten either hot, or cold as jelly. 776. Partridge or Pheasant Soup or Jelly.—Skin and out in pieces two large old partridges or one pheasant; fry it with a small quantity of butter or fat bacon, together with an onion or two, some celery, and a little salt. When quite done, pour three quarts of boiling water on it, and put it in a close-covered vessel, which place either in the oven or in a pan of water on the fire to simmer slowly three hours; then strain off the soup. 777. Bread-Berry.—Pour boil- ing water over thin slices of bread in a bowl, as much as will make it thick or thin as you wish; sweeten it with brown sugar, and add a little cinnamon water. 778. Bread Panada.—Set some water on the fire, about a tumbler- ful, with a glass of sherry, some loaf-sugar, and a little grated nut- meg and lemon-peel. Have some grated crumbs of bread ready, and the moment the water boils put them in without taking the pan off the fire. Let it boil as fast as possible. When sufficiently thick just to drink it is ready for use. 779. Chicken Panada.—Skin a chicken, and boil it in a quart of water till about three-parts ready; let it stand till cold, then cut all the white meat off; put it into a mortar and pound it to a paste with a little of the water it was boiled in; season with a little salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a small piece of lemon-peel; boil gently a few minutes to the consistency you like. It should be tolerably thick, but such as you can drink if you please. Barley or rice may be boiled to a pulp, passed through a tammy, and added to it, which makes it more nourishing. The panada can also be made with partridge or pheasant in the same way. It is very nutritious and easy of digestion. 780. Caudle. —Put two spoon- fuls of oatmeal into a quart of