VEGETABLES, SALADS, ETC. 81 common vinegar, and one of chili, two teaspoonfuls of ketchup, and the same of anchovy sauce, some cayenne pepper, mustard and salt; mince some parsley, tarragon, and a little shallot very fine, and mix with the sauce ; then add six table- spoonfuls of the best olive-oil or thick cream. Mix all these well together with the inside of the head and coral of the lobster. Cut the meat of the tail into pieces, and the claws in two; lay them in a bowl or deep dish, pour the sauce over, and then heap the salad on the top—lettuce, endive, cucumber, small salad, etc. Salmon is equally good done in this way. The cold salmon should be cut into fillets, and may either be served in the same way, or the fillets ranged round the sauce in the centre, and surrounded with the salad and slices of cucumber. 427. Salad of Lobster or Crab. ■—Chop one large onion, two sour apples, and the meat of ope crab or lobster together ; pour over it three spoonfuls of oil, two of vinegar. Season with cayenne pepper and salt to taste. 428. Salade de Poulets aux Concombres.—Choose three good cucumbers, cut off both ends, peel and cut them in quarters, take out the seeds, and cut them in oval pieces of an equal size; blanch them in water with a little salt and vinegar : stew them in a ‘ blanc ’ (see No. 403). When sufficiently done, drain them and lay them aside to cool. Take the white meat of a previously-cooked chicken, cut it in scollops the same size as the cucumbers ; dish them alternately. Tut small salad in the centre, and pour over a good salad sauce (see Cold Sauces) in which a little bechamel or aspic has been mixed. Minced parsley or chervil may be added. 429. Endive Salad k la Fran- gaise.—Wash and dry the endive quickly, as leaving it in the water makes it bitter. It should be well blanched, and any green parts left out. Rub a salad-bowl with a clove of garlic, slice the endive into it, add a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter one of pepper, five table- spoonfuls of good oil, and two of vinegar. Rub a piece of garlic on two crusts of bread, each about the size of a walnut; add them to the salad, which you must stir well with a wooden fork and spoon for a few minutes, and then serve. 430. Salad k la Tartare.—Well wash and dry the salad—cabbage or cos lettuce ; boil four onions; when cold, cut them in slices. Cut also four pickled cucumbers. Put salad at the bottom, then cucum- bers and onions, and again salad. Have ready two Dutch salt her- rings ; broil them, but not too much. Take out all the bones, and cut them in small, square pieces, and add them to the salad. Pour over three tablespoonfuls of vinegar and five of oil. Season with salt and pepper, and mix all well together. 431. Chaudfroid en Salade.— Prepare a fricassee of chicken, pouring the sauce over it, so that when it is cold it may adhere all over. Cut up any salad that may be in season—lettuce, endive, etc. —place it in the middle of the dish, and just moisten it with tarragon vinegar, oil, and a little mustard worked up in it. Arrange the chicken round it, place some of the cold fricassee sauce on the topi B