DAINTY DISHES 26 and any bits of fowl you may have, together with a dozen good-sized mushrooms: do not let them brown; then put them into a sauce- pan, with two carrots and onions, a large tablespoonful of flour, salt, pepper, a little mixed spioe, and as much veal gravy as will cover them. Let it boil up, skim off the fat, and let it simmer for an horn: and a half; strain, and keep it covered for use. 89. Sauce k l’Espagnole.—Put about a pint of cullis in a stew-pan, with a largish glass of white wine, the same of good broth, a bunch of parsley, a few small onions, a dove of garlic, two cloves, a bay leaf, a small pinch of coriander-seeds, an onion, a carrot, and a parsnip out in slices ; add two spoonfuls of oil. Boil for two hours over a very gentle fire, remove the grease, and pass through a sieve: season with salt and whole pepper. This sauce is good with all sorts of meat. 90. White Sauce for Chicken, Veal, or Vegetables.—To a pint of good veal gravy add a spoonful of lemon-juice, half an anchovy, a teaspoonful of mushroom-powder, a few button-mushrooms, potted or fresh. Give them a gentle boil, then put in half a pint of oream and the yolks of two eggs beaten very smooth. Shake it over the fire, after the cream and eggs are added, but do not let it boil, as it would curdle the cream. 91. Ham Sauce.—When a ham is nearly done, pick the meat that is left clean from the bone, leaving out any part that does not appear good ; beat the m*at and the bone to a mash with a rolling-pin; put it into a saucepan with three spoonfuls of gravy, set it over a slow fire, and stir it all the time, or it will stick to the bottom. When it has been on about half an hour, add to it a small bundle of sweet herbs, some pepper, and half a pint of brown gravy ; oover it up, and let it stew over a gentle fire. When it has a good flavour of the herbs, strain it off. A little of this improves most gravies and sauoes. 92. Sauce Hachde. — Take a large tablespoonful of chopped onions, the same of parsley, and a little gravy. Boil them together five minutes, then add a table- spoonful of minced pickled cucum- bers, another of boiled carrots chopped small, and a thud of capers; add half a pint of cullis. Boil all together for a few minutes, season with salt, a little sugar, and the juice of half a lemon. Good for cutlets, etc. 93. Sauce Poulette.—Beat up six yolks of eggs with two spoon- fuls of cream, the juice of one lemon, and half a pint of bechamel or white sauce. Heat all together, add some shred sorrel; season with salt and a little cayenne. Good for boiled fowls and chickens. 94. Sauce Piquante.— Boil a tablespoonful of chopped onion, parsley, and mushroom together in a little butter for five minutes; add a quarter of a pint of cullis, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and season with salt and cayenne. Let it boil one minute, and serve with outlets, broiled fowl, etc. 95. Sauce k la Dusselle.—Put a little butter into a stew-pan with an equal quantity of rasped bacon, some fine herbs, parsley, a little shallot, and some mushrooms, all minced fine; season with pepper and salt, and stew over a slow fire. Beat the yolks of four eggs with