DAINTY DISHES 104 them sufficiently; a small bit of cinnamon or a few cloves should be stewed with them. When done enough, set them to cool; have ready some puff-paste rolled thin, and cut into rounds about the size of the top of a teacup ; lay a tea- spoonful of the apple marmalade on one of these pieces, brush round the edges with egg, and lay another piece of paste on the top; press the edges close together, and trim them neatly with a smaller cutter. Proceed thus till you have enough for your dish. Fry them quickly in butter, that they may not be- come sodden. Arrange them on the dish, after having sifted pounded sugar over them, and passed a salamander over them on both sides. 561. Croquettes de Riz k la Fleur d’Orange.—Take six ounces of picked and well-washed rice; set it on the fire with three-quarters of a pint of new milk or cream; when the rice is tender add three ounces of butter, three ounces of powdered sugar, and four yolks of eggs. Mix all well together, and set it again on the fire to acquire some consistence. Flavour it with orange-flower water, or you may use vanille, citron, or any other flavouring you prefer. When the mixture is firm enough, take the saucepan off the fire and turn it on to a dish to cool; when cold take a spoonful of the rice according to the size you wish the croquettes to be, and dip it into some very finely-sifted breadcrumbs, which you have previously prepared; roll them of a neat shape, and dip them into three eggs well beaten up in a basin, and again into the bread- crumbs; roll them well, and fry them quickly of a fine clear brown. Just before serving sift sugar over them, and send them up very hot. 562. Rice Fritters.—A quarter of a pound of ground rice boiled tender in a very little milk, with a bit of cinnamon, a lam-el-leaf, and a small piece of lemon-peel; when done enough, take out the season- ing. Grease a stew-pan with a little bit of fresh butter, put in the rice and stir into it two ounces of sugar and the yolks of two eggs. Work it well over the fire till it comes to a paste, then spread it on a well-floured board; when cool throw a little flour on it, cut it in pieces, and roll into small balls or long - shaped rolls ; dip them lightly into the beaten yolk of an egg, and then roll them in very fine breadcrumbs; repeat this a second time, then fry them in very hot lard a good brown, shake some powdered sugar over, and serve. 563. German Puffs.—Make a smooth batter with three table- spoonfuls of flour and a little cream; beat up the yolks of four and the whites of three eggs, and mix with the batter. Add sugar to taste, a little powdered cinnamon, and a pinch of salt; then melt ha a little cream a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut; let it get cold, and mix all well together. Butter small moulds well, fill them half full, and bake for ten minutes in a moderate oven. Serve with wine- sauce. 564. Rice-Cakes.—Beat up five yolks and one white of eggs, a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and a little pounded cinnamon well together; pound in a mortar half on ounce of sweet and four bitter almonds j^while pounding add by