FISH 3? and skin. Out off the head and tail, and gut them. Cut in pieces of an equal length; wash and leave to blanch; scrape and clean the blood well out; put them in a stew- pan with a bit of butter and some mushrooms ; set them for a minute on the fire, and dust them with flour; then add a glass of stock and one of white wine; stir with a wooden spoon till it boils. Put to it a little parsley, two shal- lots, half a bay-leaf, one clove, salt and pepper to taste, and twenty or thirty button onions; let it simmer, and reduce; skim off the fat; thicken with two or three yolks of eggs well beaten; add the juice of a lemon, and serve. 166. Eels k la Tartare.—Pre- pare the eels as above; put the pieces in a stew-pan with slices of onions, carrots, parsley, two or three scallions out in two, a glass of white wine, salt, a bay-leaf, two cloves, and a sprig of thyme. When done enough drain, and roll them in breadcrumbs ; dip in egg, roll them again in crumbs, and put them on the gridiron till well browned. Serve with sauce 4 la tartare. (See Cold Sauces.) 167. Spitchcocked Eels. — Clean them well; rub them with salt, and skin them; slit open the belly and take out the bone ; wash and dry them ; cut them in pieces about four inches long; dredge them with flour, and wipe it off so that they may be quite dry. Make a batter of melted butter thickened with yolks of eggs, a little minced parsley, sage, and a very little shallot, some pepper and salt. Roll the pieces of eel in finely-grated breadcrumbs; dip them in the batter, and roll them again ; then broil them over a clear fire of a fine light brown. If the eels are small they may be dipped and broiled whole. Serve with a remoulade, a tartare, or a Dutoh sauce. (See Sauces.) 168. A good way to Boil Tench, Perch, etc.—Clean them well and scale them, and put into the pan with a pint of water, a teaspoonful of salt, an onion sliced, three sprigs of thyme, a bay-leaf, some parsley and "celery, a little pepper, and a wineglassful of vinegar. If the fish weigh a pound, boil for half an hour, and more or less according t o their size. Serve with Dutch or other sauce. 169. Stewed Trout, Carp, or Tench.—Clean the fish very well. If large they may be cut in pieces. Rub them inside with salt and mixed spices; lay them in a stew- pan with as much good stock as will cover them, two onions, with four cloves stuck in each, some Jamaica and black peppercorns, and a bit of mace. "When the fish have stewed a few minutes, add two glasses of white wine, a boned anchovy, the juice of a lemon, and a little cayenne pepper. When the fish is sufficiently stewed, take it out carefully and keep it hot; thicken the sauce with some brown roux. Add a teaspoonful of mush- room ketchup, skim, strain, pour over the fish, and serve. 170. Matelote of Carp or Eels, etc.—One large or two small carp, cut in seven or eight pieces. Pry them in a little butter, then add to them about a pint of red wine, a ladle of gravy, a bunch of green onions, herbs, and parsley, a few cloves, three or four bay-leaves, pepper and salt. Stew all togethor