158 DAINTY DISHES most. Mix on a plate one tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, one tablespoonful of butter, a squeeze of lemon juice with a little cayenne and salt. Put a little pat of this on to each kidney and serve. Garnish with parsley or endive. 897. Eggs Farced. —Boil some eggs hard, remove the shell and cut eaoh in halves lengthwise, cutting also a little of the white so that they stand steadily. Re- move the yolks and pound in a mortar with a little cream and potted meat or fish, season to taste and form into oblong shapes, put one in each egg, and form a handle over with a parsley stalk to represent egg-baskets. Dish on small cress, or watercress, To be served cold. Sundries, 898. Chicken Galantine.—The chicken must first of all be boned. To do this cut off the neck, leaving as much of the skin on as possible ; cut the wings off at the first joint, and the feet. Then commence to bone by dividing the bones at the shoulder and taking out the merry- thought, continue to press the flesh off the caroase with the thumb and divide any sinews with a sharp knife. The fowl should not be drawn, but the carcase taken out whole. On coming to the leg divide it at the joint, being careful not to cut the skin, and get the carcase out whole ; then bone the legs and wings, soraping the flesh off with a knife. Take a pair of scissors and cut down the back, and spread it out as large and as flat as possible. Half a pound of veal should be put through the mincing machine and mixed with the same quantity of sausage meat. Mix pimento (one teaspoonful) with some pepper and salt, and sprinkle some of this seasoning on the chicken; then half the sausage and veal, spread evenly over, and half of the other ingredients cut in strips consisting of two hard boiled eggs, some truffles, pickled gherkins, one or two chillies, sprinkle more seasoning, then the rest of meat, seasoning and pickles. Roll this up tightly and sew it up, tie it in a cloth and plunge it into boiling water and let it simmer for an hour and a half or braize it for two hours. When cooked take it up and take off the cloth, roll it up tightly in a clean one and press it between two dishes with a weight on the top. When quite cold, brush it over with one or two coats of glaze, and garnish with chopped aspic jelly and cucumber. 899. Turkey Galantine.—This must be boned exactly like the chicken, spread the same stuffing over and put a whole tongue in the middle of the turkey, the tip of the tongue towards the breast. The tongue must be cooked first. Roll up the turkey so that the stuffing comes all round the tongue and sew it up. Tie up in a cloth and boil for two and a half hours or braize for three hours. Finish off and glaze. 900. Rabbit Boned and Stuffed. Bone a rabbit; spread over half the sausage meat, the egg, ham, and walnuts, gherkins, and chillies in