DAINTY DISHES 154 Let this cool. Drop teaspoonfuls of this mixture into some hot fat and let the fat get hotter whilst the process of frying goes on. They will expand like air balls. Drain and serve piled high on a dish with some grated cheese and finely- chopped parsley sprinkled over. 865. Cheese Fritters. — The whites of two eggs very stiffly whipped, add a little grated cheese, cayenne and salt. Mix lightly and fry in boiling fat, dropping in pieces about the size of a walnut. Drain and serve. 866. Cheese Puffs.—Roll out some puff pastry very thin, cutting out rounds about the size of a five- shilling piece. Put a teaspoonful of the following mixture in the centre of each. Some grated cheese and cream in equal quantities, cayenne and salt to taste. Moisten the edges with a beaten egg and fold in half-moon shapes. Brush over with egg and crumbs and fry in boiling fat a light fawn colour. 867. Iced Cheese Souffles.— Mix half a pint of good white sauce made with cream and stook, with the same quantity of warm aspic jelly, add a quarter of a pound of grated cheese, a little cayenne and made mustard. Whip all well together until beginning to set, then fill some ramequin cases, sprinkle with raspings and place in the refrigerator with ice round. 868. Cheese Ramequins.—Make a pint of cream warm and pour it on to a quarter of a pound of white bread and let this soak well. Then beat it up with a fork and add the yolks of four eggs, a quarter of a pound of grated cheese, with a little cayenne, made mustard and salt. Now whip the whites of the eggs very stiffly and mingle thoroughly with the mixture. Butter some ramequin cases, fill these three parts full, and bake ten to twelve minutes. Dish and serve. 869. Cheese Tartlets.— Bake some open cases of puff pastry and fill with the following mixture. One ounce of butter melted in a stewpan, mix in one ounce of flour, add gradually half a pint of cream, three ounces of grated cheese, a little cayenne and salt. Serve these either hot or cold as desired. 870. Fish Savoury Cream.— Melt half a pint of aspio jelly. Take some cooked dried haddock, about half a pound, and mince it finely, also half a pint of double cream. Whisk these all together until beginning to set, then fill some paper ramequin cases. Garn- ish with raspings on the top and serve in the cases. 871. Fricassee of Shrimps.— Half a pint of shrimps when picked. Make two ounces of butter hot in a stewpan, and fry a little shalot, parsley and thyme, then add one ounce of flour seasoned with salt and pepper, one quarter of a pint of good fish stock and the same quantity of cream should be gradu- ally mixed in and brought to the boil. Lastly, put in the shrimps. This mixture is very nice and may be piled on buttered toast or in cassolette cases, using cassolette pastry to line small patty pans ; garnish with shrimps and lobster coral. 872. Buttered Shrimps.—Egg and breadcrumb some small rounds of bread and fry in boiling fat.