12 DAINTY DISHES When the water boils, put them in; about ten or twelve minutes will do them. Then take them up ; drain them well, and put them on the dish. Serve with grated horseradish, and horseradish sauce, or parsley and butter made very green. Mackerel may be boiled in the same way, and served with fennel or green gooseberry sauce. 193. Pickled Herrings, Mac- kerel, Sprats, or Smelts.—Cut two onions in thin shoes, mix with salt and pepper and a little mixed spice, two or three bay-leaves, and a small faggot of sweet herbs. Clean the fish, and cut off the fins and gills. Put a little of the onion inside them, and rub the outside with the same. Put them into a deep dish, with the onions, herbs and seasoning, half a pint of vinegar, and a gill of water. Bake in a slow oven one hour. Serve cold. They keep a long time good. 194. Fish Pie.—Clean and soale some trout, whitings, or other small fish ; out off their heads and tails ; put a few bits of butter in the bottom of a pudding-dish; lay in the fish, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and a good quantity of chopped green onions and parsley; then put in another layer of fish, seasoning in the same way. When the dish is full, pour over a glass of vinegar and a little mushroom ketchup; cover the top of the dish with mashed potatoes, and put it to bake in the oven for an horn. 195. Fish Pudding. — Pound some cold fish in a mortar with a few spoonfuls of broth ; add a small lump of butter and some crumbs of bread; mix it with the yolks o* four eggs, previously well beaten, and rub it through a sieve into a basin with the whites of the eggs also well whipped; put it into a souffle-mould, and bake it in the oven. 196. Cod Pie.—Take a piece of the middle of a small cod and salt it well one night; next day wash it, season with pepper and salt and a little cayenne ; place it in a pie- dish with a few bits of butter and a little good broth; cover it with crust and bake it. Make a sauce of a spoonful of broth, a quarter of a pint of cream, a small piece of roux, and a little grated lemon- peel ; give it one boil, raise the crust, and pour it over the fish when it is baked enough. Oysters may be added, and also minced parsley. Soles and turbots may be dressed the same way. 197. A Yarmouth Recipe to Cook Bloaters: ‘ There was never a herring spake but one, And he said, Toast my back before you toast my bone.’ 198. Rizard Haddocks.—Rub them with salt inside and out; hang them up in the open air for twenty-four horns, which is best done by running a skewer through their heads, which you support on two nails; skin them, dust them with flour, and broil over a clear fire. They are excellent for break- fast. 199. Red Herrings & la Bruxel- loise.—Take a large sheet of the thickest white paper double, of which make a case large enough to contain eight herrings; butter it well inside and out that it may not burn; then take eight of the best