PICKLING AND PRESERVING 120 wish it very bitter you may leave out some of the zest, and this you can dry, mix with a little sugar, and pot, for seasoning puddings, creams, eto. 719. Mrs. Bay’s Marmalade- Take Seville oranges, grate them, cut them in two, and squeeze out the juice; remove all the pithy part, and lay them in cold water all night; then boil them in a copper pan till tender; throw them into cold water; take them out, and drain them well; then cut them in small shreds, but re- serve some to pound, which must be done quite to a paste; strain the juice through a sieve, and add it and the grating to the rest; clarify an equal weight of sugar as you have of oranges, and when it is boiled to proof (which you will know by dropping a little into cold water ; if it crackles, then it is ready for you to put in the oranges); boil for half an hour; put it into pots, and let the marmalade be quite cold before you tie them up. Only the outside part of the peel of the orange should be grated in making marmalade. 720. Orange Jelly.—To every pound of oranges two quarts of water; cut the oranges in pieces, remove the pips and core, and put them with the oranges in a pan on the fire; let it boil till the skins are quite soft; then press it through a hair sieve, rubbing it with a spoon till no more will pass. To every pint of this pulp add one pound of sugar; boil it, removing the scum as it rises, till it jellies, which you will know by letting a little cool in a saucer; and it is ready to pot. 721. Chip Marmalade--C^ja- mence as in the foregoing receipt, by weighing the oranges, wiping and grating them ; as the oranges are grated pour boiling water over them, and cover them up till ready to use; take equal weight of sugar; cut the oranges across, and squeeze them through a sieve; boil the skins quite tender; scrape off all stringy parts, and cut them into very thin chips ; set them on with the syrup, and boil them till they are transparent; then put in the juice, and strain the water from the gratings through a sieve into the pan; let all boil together till the juice jellies. Lemon marma- lade may be made in the same way. 722. Marmalade of the Whole Orange. — For every pound of oranges take two pounds of sugar and one quart of water; cut the oranges across, and quarter them ; take out the pips and core, and shoe all down as thin as possible ; to every two pounds of oranges allow the juice of three lemons; mix all together, and boil the whole slowly a full hour; take care the chips do not float, but keep constantly under the syrup. If well made it should look full of jelly. 723. Seville Orange Syrup.— Squeeze the oranges through a fine sieve ; to every pint of juice add a pound and a quarter of fine white sugar, broken into lumps; stir it up all together in a large earthen pan; skim it twice a day till the sugar is all dissolved, which it will not be under nine days ; it must not be made near a fire, and should be kept in a cool place ; then bottle it. It is useful for making orange i