78 DAINTY DISHES them in pieces to fit the mould; arrange them as for a chartreuse, dipping each piece into aspio to make it stick round the mould ; fill the centre with a salad of small bits of salsifis cut of the same size; season with salt and pepper; add oil, vinegar, some aspic, and parsley chopped very fine; mix well to- gether, fill up the mould with aspic, and set it on the ice. When you wish to serve, wrap a cloth dipped in hot water round the mould and turn it out on the dish. 406. Fried Salsifis. — Make a batter as follows : Six spoonfuls of flour, a small pinch of salt, a spoon- ful of oil; beat the whole together with as much beer as will make it into batter, but not very liquid; then whip the whites of two eggs, and when well beaten pour them into the batter, which keep stirring gently. Boil the salsifis as in the preceding recipe. Dry them well on a cloth; dip each piece separ- ately into the batter, and throw them into hot lard ; fry them crisp and of a golden colour; sprinkle a little salt over them and serve, gar- nished with fried parsley. Jeru- salem artichokes and artichoke- bottoms are excellent dressed in the same way. 407. To Dress Beetroot and Small Onions with a Sauce Piquante. — Take two or three beetroots, wash them clean, and be careful not to break any of the fibres, otherwise they will lose then- colour in boiling. Boil them till tender, with two or three dozen button onions. When they are done, take off the skins and the outside fibres of the beetroot and slice it down ; stew it in the follow- ing sauce for ten minutes: Take an ordinary-sized onion, mince it small, and fry it brown in a little butter; add a little flour and brown that also; then put in a ladleful of soup, the juice of a lemon, and some salt and pepper. When it is done, dish the onions in the centre, the beetroot and sauce round, and serve very hot. 408. Fricassee of Beetroot.— Boil some beetroots tender, slice them, and put them into a sauce- pan with some parsley, chives, and sweet herbs minced fine ; a little bit of shallot, a pinch of flour, salt, pepper, and a spoonful of vinegar or more. Let it boil a quarter of an hour, and it will be ready to serve. 409. Stewed Beetroot. — Bake beetroots in an oven till they are tender; take them out, and when they are cold remove the outside, cut them in slices, and pour a little vinegar over them; then put them into a stew-pan with as much gravy as will cover them; simmer for half an hour. Thicken the gravy before serving with some cream in which you have mixed a slice or two of beetroot beaten up in the mortar to give it a fine colour. 410. Tomatoes.—Scrape out the inside of eight tomatoes, drain, rub them through a sieve; add one ounce of breadcrumbs, the same of butter, salt, and a very little cayenne. Put this back into the skins and bake for ten minutes. Serve with a cullis sauce round them. 411. Tomates Farcies. — Take the pips out, and fill the tomatoes with sausage-meat mixed with a very little bit of garlic, some pars- ley, tarragon, and small onions minced fine; put them into a