DAINTY DISHES with a perfectly fresh hare. When skinned, take care to save all the blood. If a larger quantity of soup is required, or it is wished very strong, take two fresh hares, but on no account use any other meat. Cut the hare in pieces, and put into a dish with the quantity of water required for your soup. Let it stand an hour ; then add the blood of the hare ; strain it through a sieve into the soup-pot, and put all on the fire; stir it constantly till it boils, to prevent its curdling, and skim it a little ; then put in a carrot, a piece of celery, two whole onions, and an ounce of black pepper tied up in a bit of muslin; a bunch of herbs, salt, and a little chopped onion. Boil it slow for three hours; take it off an hour before dinner; strain it through a sieve ; take out the onions, carrot, pepper, etc., and put in some of the best pieces of the hare which you had previously kept back, cut as for jugged hare ; return it to the saucepan, and let it boil for about an hour. Take a tablespoon- ful of ground rice, and, shortly before serving, stir it well into the soup; continue stirring till it is removed from the fire. 16. Sportsman’s Broth.—Take a grouse, a blackcock, a ptarmigan, a woodcock, and any other game you have: cut them in small joints, reserving some of the best pieces; put them into a pot with water and plenty of vegetables whole. Let it stew very slowly four or five hours; then take the best pieces, season them and toss them into a little flour; brown them over a very quick fire, and add them to the sti’ained stock, with two dozen very small onions, two heads of celery sliced, and half a white cabbage shred fine; to stew slowly till tender. Half an hour before serving, add six potatoes cut in slices. This is excellent. 17. Moorfowl Soup.—Remove the backs of six moorfowl; cut the best parts of the legs, wings, and breast from four of the birds; if you have any pieces of pheasant or partridge, you can add them. Stew them till quite tender, then add about three pints of veal stock, and set it on to boil very slowly for one hour. Strain it through a tammy, and skim the fat off as clean as possible ; remove all but the best pieces of moorfowl; give one boil more, and skim it again ; add a small lump of sugar and a glass of white wine. 18. Mulligatawny. — Take a good veal stock, flavoured with carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a little white pepper; strain it through a fine sieve; be particular in removing the scum when it first boils up. Then take two chickens, or the best part of three rabbits ; put them into a stew-pan with a little butter ; set it over a slow fire to stew till they become tender; take them out and wash them clean in warm water. In another stew-pan put a little butter and flour; stir it over a slow fire for five minutes, then add your veal stock; let it boil up for a quarter of an hour; now put in your chickens or rabbits, cut as for fricassee; curry powder, the quan- tity of which you must regulate according to taste; two large spoonfuls of rice, a little cayenne pepper, and a little salt. Let it boil till the rice is tender; skim it clean; and before serving stir in carefully a pint of good cream.