DAINTY DISIIES 72 a sieve, for then it becomes a pur<$e, not a mash. 368. Turnips Glac6 au Sucre. —Trim about two dozen turnips in the shape of small pears; if quite young, which is best, leave them their own shape ; put them into a stew-pan with a small piece of butter, two ounces of pounded sugar, a very little salt, and half a pint of good broth; set them on to simmer very gently over a slow fire for about forty minutes. When they are nearly done, place the stew-pan over a brisk fire to reduce the sauce to a glaze, rolling the turnips about in it at the same time, but with great care, to avoid breaking them; dish, and pour the glazed sauce over them. 369. Carrots k l’Allemande.— Trim four or five dozen spring carrots; wash them and parboil them in water with a little salt for ten minutes; then put them into a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, the same of pounded sugar, and a pint of good broth; boil the carrots in this, very gently, for half an hour ; then set them on to boil briskly, till the sauce is reduced to a glaze; dish them; pour alle- mande sauce round, and the glaze over them. 370. Racines k la CrSme.— Take some good carrots, scrape and wash them; put them on to boil for half an hour, then cut them in long slices, and put them in a stew- pan with a piece of fresh butter, a bunch of parsley and green onions, sweet basil, a clove of garlic, and two shallots. Pass them over the fire, add a pinch of flour, and a little good broth; let them simmer; reduce the sauce, take out the bunch of herbs, etc., put in three yolks of eggs, beat up with a little cream ; thicken the sauce, but do not let it boil again. Just before serving add a little vinegar. 371. Racines en Menu Droits. —Cut some onions into slices, brown them in butter with a pinch of flour. When they are almost done enough, moisten with broth, and stew till quite tender. Have some carrots, parsnips, celery, and turnips ready boiled and cut in slices, and add them to the onions ; season with salt, whole pepper, and a few drops of vinegar. Make all very hot, and just before serving mix a fit tie mustard into the sauce. 372. Pur6e de Navets.—Take ten or twelve good-sized turnips, cut them in small pieces, scald them in boiling water, and drain them; put them in a stew-pan with a bit of butter, and turn them often till they acquire a colour; then put in a pinch of flour, a little salt and pepper, two minced shallots; moisten with broth, and stew over a gentle fire till the turnips fall into a sort of thick cream; then rub them through a sieve, and they are ready to serve. Under mutton cutlets, etc. 373. Chartreuse of Vegetables. —Blanch three dozen pieces of carrot; three dozen pieces of turnip, cut with a cutter ; boil two dozen button onions, all of a size ; boil and chop a good quantity of spinach, one cauliflower, and a dozen asparagus heads; line a mould with slices of fat bacon; cut them; arrange the roots, etc., round the bottom and sides into any pattern you fancy ; then press the spinach all over them, and fill up with all sorts of chopped vege- tables, which should be stewed in