X FOODS AND THEIR SEASONS Fruits.—Cherries, currants, gooseberries, green apricots, melons, straw- berries, forced grapes, nectarines, peacheB, pines. JULY. Meats.—As in May, with buck venison. Fish.—Carp, crab, crayfish, dace, eels, gudgeons, lobsters, mackerel, mullet, plaice, salmon, sole, trout, turbot, whitebait. Poultry and Game.—As in May and June. Vegetables.—As in June. Fruits.—As in June, with raspberries, plums, and damsons. AUGUST. Meats.—As in July, without venison. Poultry and Game.—As in July, with wild duck, and, after the 12th, grouse. Fish.—As in July. Mackerel is not good in August. Vegetables.—As in July. Fruits.—As in July, with figs, mulberries, and filberts. SEPTEMBER. Meats.—As in July, with pork, which comes into season. Fish.—Barbel, brill, carp, cod, crayfish, conger-eels, John - Dory, eels, flounders, haddocks, herrings, lobsters, mullet, oysters, perch, pike, plaice, skate, soles, sturgeon, trout, turbot, thornback. Poultry and Game.—As in August, with partridges and wheatears. Vegetables.—As in August. Fruits.—As in August, with hazel-nuts, blackberries, greengages, and quinces. OCTOBER. Meats.—As in September, with venison. Fish.—Barbel, brill, cockles, crayfish, gray mullet, the rest as in September. Poultry and Game.—All kinds of fowls, with geese, pheasants, partridges, larks, hares, black-cocks, plovers, quails, teals, and widgeon. Vegetables.—As in September, ivith horse-radish and tomatoes. Fruits.—Almonds, apples, bullaces, damsons, figs, filberts, grapes, medlars, nuts, peaches, pears, plums, quinces, and walnuts. NOVEMBER. Meats.—Beef, mutton, veal, pork, houselamb, and doe venison. Fish.—As in October. Poultry and Game.—As in October. Vegetables.—As in October, with Brussels sprouts, red cabbages, haricots, winter spinach, truffles. Fruits.—As in October, with chestnuts. DECEMBER. Meats.—As in November. Fish.—Turbot, gurnet, soles, sturgeon, carp, gudgeon, eels, codlings, dories, and shellfish. Poultry and Game.—Geese, turkeys, pullets, pigeons, capons, fowls, rabbits, hares, snipes, woodcocks, larks, pheasant, sea-fowl, guinea-fowl, wild duck, teal, widgeon, grouse, and dun-birds. Vegetables and Fruits.—As in November. This table is prepared from an examination of a number of authorities, so da to afford in the smallest space an easy view of seasonable foods. Of course the numerous tinned importations are omitted, being always to be had.