183 PICKLING AND PRESERVING a fine pineapple, which you extract by cutting it into slices, and laying it for two days in fine pounded sugar; add this to the apple juice, clarify, and boil three pints of syrup to a crack; boil the refuse of the pineapple and the juice ten minutes; pass through a jelly bag, and pot. 739. Pineapple Jam.—Pare, cut in slices, and pound a pineapple to a pulp; to a pint of pulp put a pound of sifted sugar; boil it twenty-five minutes, and pot. 740. Pineapple Marmalade.— Pare the pineapple, then cut it round and round in small thin shreds or strips like orange marma- lade ; to each pound of fruit the same weight of fine sugar; boil till jellied. If there is not enough juice in the pineapple, add either lemon or apple juice. 741. Pineapples in Slices. — Pare off the outside, and cut the pineapple in slices half an inch thick; put a layer of fruit and a layer of sugar alternately in an earthen pan; let it remain on the stove three or four days, then put it into a preserving-pan with the juice of four lemons, and boil for ten minutes, skimming it well; next day boil it again for ten minutes, and put it up. Or the slices may be drained from the syrup, powdered with sugar, and dried in the oven; the syrup being kept to flavour jellies, creams, etc. 742. Apple Jelly. — Pare and core six pounds of green codlings or any juicy apples; cut them in pieces, and add a quart of water to them; boil them gently till quite mashed, stirring all the time ; put this through a jelly-bag, and to a quart of this juice add three pints of clarified syrup; boil the sugar to a crack, add the apple juice, and boil together ten minutes. Care must be taken not to boil it too much, or it becomes like treacle. Any sort of fruit may be added to this jelly, boiling the fruit whole in it, and putting it into pots while hot—such as strawberries, rasp- berries, cherries, etc. 743. Strawberries Whole. — Take two quarts of clarified syrup, boil to a strong blow, put eight pounds of fine large strawberries in it, and boil them up gently, taking care they do not break. Repeat this boiling three times, letting them stand a quarter of an hour to cool between each. Now add two quarts of apple jelly made as above; boil it up three times more, and put it hot into glasses or pots. 744. Raspberry Jam.—Pick and clean the raspberries well, and to every pound add a pint of red- currant juice and a pound and a half of lump sugar ; pound it and put it into a pan alternately with the fruit; let it stand some time before you set it on the fire, that the sugar may soften; boil over a quick fire, and when the fruit falls to the bottom it is done enough. 745. Gooseberry Jam. — Take the same weight of pounded sugar as of gooseberries, stewing the sugar over them as you put them in the pan; pour half a pint of water over them, and set them on a slow fire to boil gently a few minutes; skim as clear as you can; then put them on a hotter fire, and boil till they look quite clear, and will jelly (about twenty minutes). They are then ready to pot.