PREFACES ri PREFACE TO SIXTH EDITION. It has naturally been a great gratification to the compiler of Dainty Dishes to find, from the number of editions already issued, that it has been so well received by the public, and it gives her reason to hope that the wish she expressed at the end of her Preface to the First Edition, and which, indeed, was her only object in publishing the volume, has been in some measure fulfilled; and however undeserved she has felt the many favourable criticisms she has read upon her perfectly unpre- tending work, they have not the less given her sincere pleasure, and they encourage her now to offer a small Appendix of receipts she has collected since her arrival in Germany. One or two writers have taken exception to the title Dainty Dishes, contending that what was inexpensive, or equal to the means of the poor, could not rightly be called ‘ dainty.’ From this opinion she must, how- ever, beg humbly to differ. In her idea true daintiness consists in exquisite cleanliness and neatness in the preparation of whatever food it may be, and that with this and a little good taste and ingenuity, out of the most simple and least costly materials, a * dainty dish ’ may be prepared and set before the peasant as well as before the king, whom the ancient nursery rhyme mentions as having had four-and-twenty blackbirds baked in a pie, and ‘ when the pie was opened the birds began to sing ’ —which must have been a ‘ dainty dish,’ though rather disappointing to the king if he happened to be hungry. It is almost impossible that one cookery-book should contain receipts for dishes suited to every palate or every nation. There is an old proverb which says, not un- truly, that 1 what is one man’s meat is another man’s poison.’ No doubt climate has a great influence on the prevailing taste in cookery. In the more northern latitudes, blubber, fat, tallow, oil, and such sub- stances, constitute what the native considers a * dainty dish,’ while in the southern, milk, meal, fruit and vegetables, are almost the only articles of food. For this there is probably a chemical explanation, and that nature indicates what is most likely to support the body in healthy vigour, and what materials will supply those with which the air is deficient, to effect that purpose. A good cook should be a cosmopolitan—able to feed you with the plain wholesome roasts, broils, and boils an Englishman enjoys ; tickle your palate with ragouts and entrees like a Frenchman; be economical like the Swiss and the Germans, and simple like the Scotch and