38 DAINTY DISHES gently about three-quarters of an hour. Strain it into another stew- pan, in which put as much cullis as will make up the quantity of sauce you require for your dish. Place your fish in it, with a spoonful or two of capers; an anchovy cleaned, honed, and minced fine; and the juice of a lemon. The capers may be omitted and button onions sub- stituted. Tench and eels are ex- cellent done in this way. 171. Un Brochet Farci.—Pre- pare your pike thus: Gut it with- out cutting it open, but take care it is well cleaned. Cut a notch down the back from head to tail, put the tail in the mouth, and lay it to marinade for an hour in vinegar and oil, sliced onions, parsley, and bay-leaves. For your stuffing take the udder of a leg of veal, or the kidney fat of a loin of lamb, some fat bacon cut in dice, some green onions, a mushroom or two, or truffles, parsley, salt and pepper, and a morsel of butter. Chop it all well, add the crumb of a French roll soaked in cream or milk; pound all together in a mortar, try if it is seasoned enough, if not add more. Fill the belly of the fish, close up the out in the back, egg it well over, strew breadcrumbs on it, and bake in a gentle oven. Serve with a caper sauce. (See Fish Sauces.) 172. To Fry Whitebait.—The sooner they are cooked the better. Keep them in a pan of salt and water. When you wish to cook them, lift them out with a skimmer, for they should never be handled. Put them into a cloth on which there is plenty of flour, toss them about in it till they are well coated, place them on a sieve and sift off all the flour that will come. Have ready your hot lard, and fry im- mediately from one to two minutes. Lift them out with the skimmer, drain from the frying fat, and serve them instantly. Thin shoes of brown bread and butter, cayenne and lemon, should be eaten with them. 173. To Saut6 Soles, Flounders, etc.—Clean and trim the fish, dip them in a couple of eggs previously well beaten. Put six tablespoon- fuls of olive-oil in a frying-pan, place it over the fire ; when quite hot put in the fish, let it remain five minutes, turn it over and fry the other side. Ten or twelve minutes should be sufficient to cook them. 174. Soles b la Menuisi&re.— Cut the fins off a sole, and with a knife make four incisions across it on each side, then rub well into it half a tablespoonful of salt and chopped onions, dip it in flour, and broil over a slow fire. Have ready two ounces of fresh butter, mixed with the juice of a lemon and a little cayenne pepper, which rub over the sole, previously laid in a very hot dish without a napkin. Turn the fish over once or twice that it may be well covered. Put it into the oven for a minute, and serve very hot. 175. Soles Saut6 b la Ravigote. — Scale and wash the soles, but do not empty them; run a knife be- tween the bone and the flesh, and remove the fillets; skin them, cut them in two, put them into a saut6- pan, cover them with melted butter, and dust them over with pepper and salt; fry them on both sides over a brisk fire. When done, drain them on a sheet of white paper,