BAKING 121 quarter of a pint more milk; make it up into a light dough; roll it out the thickness of a finger; twist it up in the shape of figures of eight, rings, or fingers; let them rise on the tins before baking; when done brush them with sugar dissolved in milk, and sprinkle a few small bits of sugar on the top. 676. German Rolls. — Half a peck of the finest flour, and as much new milk as will make it into dough; mix it with half a pint of yeast and half an ounce of sugar, and set it to rise; when risen add an ounce of butter melted, and two eggs beaten up in it; make the dough into rolls; put them to rise in a warm place, and bake on buttered tins in a brisk oven for twenty minutes. 677. Rusks. — One pound of flour, one ounce of butter, one ounce of sugar, one egg, four spoonfuls of yeast, and as much warm milk as will make the whole into dough; roll it out, and cut it into cakes the size you wish ; set them before the fire a quarter of an hour before you bake; put them into the oven, and when they are just coloured take them out and split them; return them to the oven, and bake till they are quite brown. 678. French Rusks.—Take a clean copper pan, and break into it a pound weight of yolks of eggs; add a pound and a half of pounded sugar, and with a large wooden spoon stir them well together for ten minutes; to this put two pounds of flour and two handfuls of caraway seeds, and mix well; roll out the paste in a roll about fourteen inches long, and six or seven thick; lay three sheets of paper on a baking-plate, put the roll of paste on it, and flat it dpwn with your hand. It should ^Be an inch thick in the middle, and thin at the edges. Do not bake them too much, or they will not cut without breaking. Damp the paper to remove them from it, and with a sharp knife cut out the rusks about a quarter of an inch broad and a finger long; lay them flat on a wire baking-plate; put them again into the oven, so as to make them quite crisp and dry, and they are done, 679. Brioche.—A quarter of a pound of flour, two spoonfuls of yeast; let it rise for half an hour ; then take threequarters of a pound more flour, and rub into it half a pound of butter and a little salt; now mix eight eggs with it, and work it till it looks quite like cream; add this to the flour and yeast; mix them well together, and set it to rise gently for three or four hours; butter the mould well; put in the brioche ; let it stand in a warm place an hour longer ; bake in a moderate oven. An hour is generally sufficient. 680. Des Echaudids. — To a pound of flour add six eggs well beat, half a pound of butter, and two spoonfuls of yeast; mix thoroughly; roll them in pieces about the size of an apple; put them into boiling water for two or three minutes; take them carefully out with a skimmer ; drain them, and put them on a tin in the oven. In three or four minutes they will be done enough. 681. Bread Cake.—Two pounds of the best flour, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, one ounce of caraway seeds, two eggs, a quarter