CASSEROLE COOKERY 149 for a few minutes to extract the flavour from the vegetables and to seal up the juices from the chickens. Then add one pint of Espagnol sauce with half a pint of tomato sauce, a quarter of a pint of sherry, a little pepper and salt, and a small piece of glaze. Place the lid on and put into a moderate oven for one hour and a half. Dish the chicken piled high on an entree dish, slrim the sauce and strain it over, garnishing with a little watercress. 833. Curried Chickens.—Cut the chickens up as for a fricassee and trim the pieces neatly. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in the casserole, and when hot, fry some sliced onions, shalot and apples, about equal quantities, then add two tablespoonfuls of good curry powder, two blades of mace and a little salt. Then add the pieces of chicken and a pint of good white stock, half a pint of cream, and when boiling, two tablespoonfuls of chutney. Let all cook slowly in the oven with the lid on for one hour and a half. Just before serving squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Skim and dish in the casserole, serving some boiled rice separately. 834. Salmi of Ducks.—Cut the ducks into neat joints and fry brown in the casserole in a quarter of a pint of good olive oil. Then drain away the oil, and put in about a pint of good brown sauce, two anchovies, one quarter of a pint of port, a little seasoning to taste, and the juice of one lemon. Let it cook very gently in the oven for an hour and three-quarters. Dish up and serve in the casserole, garnish with a little lemon. 835. Jugged Hare.—Take a good-sized casserole and put first of all in it, a quarter of a pound of butter, half a pound of fat bacon very finely minced, and two pounds of steak cut into small chunks. Place the pieces of hare on the steak—no water or stock is to be added. Cook this very slowly on the top of the kitchener for four hours at the very least. Take out the pieces of hare, and proceed to thicken the gravy with about six ounces of flour, one wine-glassful of vinegar and one of port, and the same of mushroom ketchup, a little pepper and salt to taste and a little caramel to darken it. Let this sauce boil for fifteen minutes, then return the pieces of hare. Serve in smaller casseroles or entree dishes and garnish with forcemeat balls. Hand red-currant jelly. This is an excellent recipe for jugged hare. 836. Partridges en Casserole. —Truss the partridges, cut them in half and fry them in olive oil for five minutes in the casserole, four or five tablespoonfuls would do. Then add some tiny button onions, two slices of bacon finely chopped, two bay leaves, half a pint of good brown stock, a small wineglassful of port and the same of vinegar, about eight peppercorns and a Tittle salt. Cover the casserole firmly with the lid, and cook gently in the oven for one hour if young birds : old birds would require two hours or more. Dish the birds and serve; they may be served in the casserole if preferred. 837. Haricot Mutton. — The best end of a neck of mutton cut into neat pieces, fry these in a casserole with a quarter of a pound of butter, then dredge in a quarter of a pound of flour with some salt and pepper to season, then add