62 DAINTY DISHES sieve, return it to the mortar, and mix it thoroughly, first with one whole egg, and then with the white of another ; season it with salt and pepper to taste, take it out with a tablespoon, smooth it over the top, and put each into a stew-pan with as much broth or water as will cover them. Ten minutes is sufficient to cook them. Serve with a bechamel sauce. 301. Quenelles aux Truffes.— Boil a young fowl, skin it, scrape all the white meat clear from sinews, pound it very fine in a mortar, soak some crumb of light bread either in broth or milk, boil a calf’s udder and pound that smooth also ; mix all well together; season it with pepper and salt; add three eggs and some minced truffles; mix well. Have ready some boiling water; take up a tablespoonful of the mixture, smooth it over, throw into the water, and poach like an egg. Serve with a strong, clear gravy. 302. Veal Cake (Cold).—Take a breast of veal; bone it and cut it into three parts; season it with cayenne pepper, white pepper, nutmeg, mace, cloves, and salt; mince a good quantity of parsley with two anchovies fine, and strew it over. Boil four eggs hard, cut them in halves; cut some lean bacon half an inch thick; put a large slice of butter in a basin, then piece of veal, stew it with the parsley, and lay over half the eggs, then slices of bacon, and so on till the basin is full. Lay the bones on the top to prevent it from getting dry; put it in a moderate oven for four hours. When you take it out, remove the bones, and lay a weight on to press it; make it solid; garnish with aspic jelly and pars- ley, and eat it with any cold sauce you like, or vinegar, mustard, and sugar. 303. Blanquette of Veal k la Paysanne.—Roast a neck or loin of veal; when cold, cut it into collops; season well, and put it into a stew-pan with some sauce tourn4e (see Sauces), some finely- chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. Reduce the sauce, and thicken with the yolk of an egg. Serve very hot. 304. Tendons de Veau k la Ravigote.—Stew the tendons very tender in broth; let them cool, turn them, arrange them neatly in your dish, and pour over a cold ravigote. Border the dish with Beurre de Montpellier or aspic. 305. Veal Cutlets.—Take a leg of veal, cut the cutlets a neat size and shape, and beat them flat; strew over them a little black pepper and salt; beat up an egg with a little minced parsley and shallot; dip the cutlets into this, and then into breadcrumbs, and fry them a good brown. Serve with shallot - gravy or sauce piquante. 306. Macaroni Pie. — Bone a fowl and cut it into quarters; blanch it, boil it tender with a few onions, thicken the gravy with the yolk of an egg. Wash the maca- roni clean; boil it for a quarter of an hour, have about two ounces of Parmesan cheese grated; mix all together with pepper, salt, and a little good butter ; then put it into a raised paste, and bake in a sharp oven for one hour. 307. Chicken Pie aux Feuille- tages.—Cover the bottom of the