140 DAINTY DISHES then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil it till it is as thick as hasty pudding, stirring it all the time; add to it, while boiling, a spoonful of sugar and two of orange- flower water. When ready, pour it into shallow dishes. Wine, milk, or cream are eaten with it. 787. Dutch Flummery.—Boil two ounces of isinglass in a pint and a half of water very gently for half an hour ; add a pint of white wine, the juice of three lemons, and the rind of one cut very thin ; rub a few lumps of sugar or an- other lemon to obtain the essence; add as much of this sugar as will sweeten it sufficiently; beat the yolks of seven eggs, add and mix into the above, and give the whole one scald, stirring all the time; pour it into a basin, and stir till cold; let it settle, and put it into cups, or any shape. This is very strengthening. 788. Rice Flummery. — Boil with a pint of new milk a bit of lemon - peel and cinnamon ; mix with a little cold milk, rice-flour enough to make it rather thick; add to the hot milk, and boil it till it is smooth and of good consis- tency, taking care it does not burn; then pour it into a basin; when cold, turn it on to a dish, and serve with cream, milk, or custard. 789. Barley Gruel.—Wash four ounces of pearl barley; boil it into two quarts of water, with a bit of cinnamon, till it is reduced to one quart; strain, and return it to the saucepan, with a little sugar and three-quarters of a pint of port wine ; make it quite hot, and it is ready to be used as wanted. It is very strengthening. 790. Ground-Rice Milk.—Boil one spoonful of ground rice, rubbed down smooth, with a pint and a half of milk, a bit of cinnamon and lemon-peel, a little nutmeg and sugar to taste ; add the sugar only when nearly done. It should be thick and smooth. 791. Thick Barley-Water.— Wash a quarter of a pound of pearl barley, and boil it in a gallon of water till it is quite soft, smooth, and white ; then strain, and flavour with lemon-juice, and sweeten with a little syrup. Some people con- sider barley - water made with common barley as preferable to pearl barley. It should be well washed, and allowed to simmer slowly, with a little lemon-peel, in water, and when thick enough, strained. 792. Clear Barley - Water.— Wash a large cupful of pearl barley twice in cold and once in warm water, throwing away the water; then put the barley into a jug holding about two pints, with the peel of a lemon cut very thin and a small piece of sugar; pour quite boiling water over this, cover it close, and let it stand till cold; do not strain, but pour it off clear. 793. Toast and Water.—Cut a crust off a loaf of stale bread, about twice the thickness toast is usually cut; toast it carefully till it is hard and brown all over, but not at all blackened or burnt; put this into a jug, and pour over it what quantity of water you require, boiling hot; cover the jug close, and let it stand till cold. The fresher it is made the better, as it is apt to turn sour. 794. Oatmeal Water is made in the same way as toast and water.