19 SAUCES Cayenne pepper and salt—the only attention it requires being occa- sional skimming and the addition of a little water when it gets too dry. Anything and everything may be put into it; and as it should at all times be simmering by the fire, a good meal is always ready for any guest that may chance to come uninvited. Sauces. COLD SAUCES. 36. Balbirnie Sauce for Cold Pheasant. — A small shallot chopped as fine as possible, one spoonful of mustard, one table- spoonful of oil. Mix thoroughly and add a little salt, one table- spoonful of vinegar, and two of ketchup. This is excellent. 37. Sauce Piquante.—One large spoonful of mustard, one of sugar, worked smooth together with a few drops of olive-oil, one tablespoonful of shallot or tarragon vinegar, or half a one of each, one of ketchup, and two of Harvey sauce. 38. Hanoverian Sauce for Boar’s Head, etc. — The outer rind of a lemon (a Seville orange is better) cut in very thin small slices, one tablespoonful of pounded- sugar; squeeze the juice of a lemon over the two together, add half a tablespoonful of mustard, two of oil, and two of port wine. This is an excellent sauce for wild duck. 39. Sauce Provengale. — Put into a basin two raw yolks of eggs, a good pinch of salt and two spoon- fuls of mustard, and a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. Take a spoon and beat it well and quickly. When it is well mixed, add a few drops of common vinegar and the same of oil; beat them well in as you add them, taking care never to put in too much oil at a time. Continue to add till you have enough sauce, and have worked it quite smooth and thick; then taste and season as it may require with salt, pepper, or more vinegar, and stir in some finely-chopped chervil, parsley, and tarragon. 40. Sauce for Cold Meat or Fish. — Shred parsley, a little shallot, and half a clove of garlic very fine. Rub them down in two spoonfuls of good oil and five yolks of eggs well beaten; add a little salt and pepper, one spoonful of mustard, two of tarragon vinegar, or elder if preferred, and one of white wine. Continue beating till of a good consistence; it takes three-quarters of an hour to make it well. 41. Dutch Sauce for Cold Meat.—Beat up the white of an egg with a little white pepper and salt, a dessertspoonful of minced parsley, a small shallot and onion, a teaspoonful of mustard, and two tablespoonfuls of olive-oil. Whisk it well together, and add a spoon- ful of tarragon vinegar; grated horseradish may be added if liked. 42. Sauce for Cold Game, etc. —Rub the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs through a sieve ; add two tablespoonfuls of salad-oil, two of tarragon vinegar, one of chili, half a spoonful of walnut ketchup, r