SALADS, ETC. VEGETABLES, 83 to the top of the water. When the boxes are perfectly soldered, place them in a large kettle or pan of boiling water, where they must boil uninterruptedly for two hours ; if the water boils away, add more, but mind it is also boiling ; at the end of this time take them out and place them in cold water, which you must often renew, so that they may cool as rapidly as possible. Many people, however, leave them to cool in the water they were boiled in, pretending that you can then with a greater certainty know if they have been perfectly soldered; if this is the case, the hd will be slightly depressed inwards, if not, it will be bulged outwards, and then they must be done over again. This also is a certain sign by which you may know, on examining the boxes (which you should do from time to time), if they are keeping well; any that are bulged should be immediately opened and used, if they are still fit for it. To stew the vegetables, put a piece of butter in a glazed saucepan, and when it begins to boil stir in a tablespoon- ful of flour, then add the vegetables, and as much of their juice as is necessary, a bit more fresh butter, some salt, and a little pepper, and if for peas or carrots, a piece of sugar. Asparagus may be boiled in its own juice, with the neces- sary quantity of salt, and served as usual, with melted butter; cauli- flower heated in its own liquor and served with a Bechamel sauce, and French beans sliced and heated in the same way, with the addition of a piece of butter, some minced parsley, and a squeeze of a lemon over them when ready to serve. Fruit must be preserved in wide- mouthed, strong glass bottles, filled with boiling water to within a thumb’s-breadth of the cork, then corked down tight, the corks tied down, and the bottles set in a pan or kettle of cold water, so deep that it comes half-way up the bottles, hay filled in between them, and allowed slowly to boil from ten to twenty minutes, according to the size of the bottles. They must then be taken out and dried, the corks well covered with rosin, and put away in a cool place. The vegetable boxes should also be kept cool. Eggs, Cbeese, Entremets, Etc 434. German Omelette.—Fry a quarter of a pound of bacon cut in dice. When done, beat up eight eggs with some pepper and salt; add them to the bacon, and fry all together. Stir till it gets thick, and turn it into the dish you mean to serve it in very hot. 435. A very light Omelette. A quarter of a pint of cream and the yolks of six eggs beaten well together with a little cayenne and a little salt; then add a small piece of shallot and a little parsley minced very fine; mix well to- gether ; whip the whites of five eggs, and stir into the omelette till very light; melt a little butter in the frying-pan, and porn- in the eggs; do them over a quick fire for five minutes. Serve it very hot,