DAINTY DISHES hausted; let them brown just a little, and serve with a sauce poiv- rade (see Sauces). 267. Salmi of Grouse or Part- ridge.—Cut them in joints, put the trimmings with some stock into a stew-pan, boil it an hour, strain and skim off the fat, thicken with brown roux, put in a little onion and shallot minced fine, put it on to boil again. A little before serv- ing put in the game ; season with salt and pepper, and make it very hot; if for boiled duck add a glass of port wine, and the squeeze of a lemon. 268. Fillets of Turkey.—Cut the breast of a turkey in collops, put some broth of veal into a stew- pan, with an onion and a bunch of sweet herbs. Let it boil rather more than half an hour; strain and thicken it with white roux and a little cream; beat up the collops in this ; add salt and pepper, and the squeeze of a lemon. A little finely- minced parsley may be added. 269. Jugged Hare. — Cut the hare in moderate-sized pieces, wash it and put it into a stone jar, just large enough to hold it, with a bunch of sweet herbs, some lemon- peel, a large onion with five cloves stuck in it, a quarter of a pint of port or claret wine, and the juice of a lemon; tie the top of the jar down with a bladder, so that no steam may escape; put the jar into a saucepan of boiling water suf- ficiently deep to cover it; keep the water boiling nearly three hours. Take it out, strain the gravy from the fat, and thicken it with flour and give it a boil up; lay the hare on the dish, and pour the sauce over it. Serve with currant jelly. 270. Canard a la Eearnoise.— Stew a duck in a little broth, half a glass of white wine, a bunch of parsley, thyme, sweet basil, and small onions, two bay-leaves, and two cloves. Put into another stew- pan seven or eight large onions cut in slices and a bit of butter ; pass them on the fire, turning often till they get a colour; then add a good pinch of flour; moisten with the liquor the duck was stewed in; stew the onions and reduce the sauce ; skim off the fat, and add a squeeze of lemon or a few drops of vinegar, pour it over the duck, and serve. 271. Canard ft Pur6o Verte.— Take rather more than a pint of green peas, boil them in a little broth, andrub them smooth through a sieve ; stew a duck in broth, with salt, whole pepper, and a clove of garlic, some small onions, parsley, thyme, basil, and bay - leaves. "When done enough, pass the sauce through a sieve, and add it to the pur^e of peas ; reduce the whole to a good consistency, about that of thick cream. Serve the duck with the puree over it. 272. Ragout of Duck.—Half- roast the duck and cut it into joints, put it into a stew-pan with a pint and a half of broth, a large onion with four cloves stuck in it, a little whole allspice and black pepper- corns, and the rind of half a lemon cut thin; when it boils, skim it well; then put the lid on the sauce- pan, and let it simmer an hour and a half. Put into another stew-pan two ounces of butter, and work into it as much flour as will make a stiff paste; strain the sauce from the duck to this, mixing it by degrees; when it boils, add a glass