16 DAINTY DISHES celery; chop them small and fry them in brown butter, drain them, and add them to your soup. A small piece of bacon may be used to season it. 25. White Soup Maigre.—Take a large handful of chervil, four heads of celery, two onions, three lettuces, a little sorrel, thyme, and tarragon ; boil these in a quart of water upon the stove till quite stewed down. About a quarter of an hour before dinner take it off and strain it from the herbs, and let it stand till it is cool; then add to it a pint of good cream, thickened with the yolks of three eggs; stir it well in, and put it on the fire to heat, but do not let it boil. Greer peas or asparagus, sorrel or rice may be added. 26. Another Soup Maigre.— Six cucumbers, four lettuces, two onions, a good handful of spinach, a sprig of mint, and a pint of shelled peas, a small piece of ham, and a quarter of a pound of butter; put these into two quarts of water and boil for four hours, and then pass it all through a sieve. When done, put in a pint of green peas well boiled, and a few slices of cucumber or any other vegetable you like. The vegetables should be well washed, and the cucumbers and lettuces cut before being put in. FISH SOUPS. 27. Stock for Brown or White Fish Soup.—Take a pound of skate, four or five flounders, and two lb. of eels; clean them well, and cut them into pieces; cover them with water, and season with mace, pepper, salt, an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, two parsley roots sliced, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Simmer all together in a stew-pan closely covered for an hour and a half, then strain it off for use. If for brown soup, first fry the fish brown in butter, and then proceed as above. It will not keep more than two or three days, and is best used quite fresh. 28. Salmon Soup.—Take a fowl or an equivalent piece of veal, a piece of lean ham, a few anchovies, and half a pound of salmon; put them all together in a stew-pan, with a piece of fresh butter, on the fire; lot it stew for half an hour, taking care it does not brown ; add three quarts of water, and skim well; add to it a head of celery, two or three onions, a little parsley, two or three cloves, and a little allspice and white pepper; let it boil an hour and a half, and strain it through a lawn sieve ; then take a pan with a bit of butter and at spoonful of flour, stir them together till it comes to a fight brown, then add the stock and stir till it boils ; take care and skim off all the butter; now stir in a piece of salmon, previously boiled, pounded, and rubbed through a tammy with i a little cream, and, if you have it, some lobster spawn, which gives it a fine colour. Have ready a slice of salmon, boiled quick in water; cut it in small pieces, and add it to the soup before you serve it up. 29. Soup & la Melton Mow- bray.—Fillet two middling-sized haddocks with the skin on; lay them on a buttered saute-pan on which you have previously sprinkled six finely - chopped eschalots, a tablespoonful of minced parsley, and a pinch of finely-powdered mace. Take the heads, bones, and trimmings, and set them in a