DAINTY DISHES 50 both sides of each cutlet, put them again on the gridiron; broil for another minute, and serve. 237. Lamb’s Head Stove.. — Wash and trim the head carefully, then put it on to stew in some good stock. When nearly done enough add a good quantity of spinach well washed and coarsely chopped; thicken the sauce with a little flour, and season with pepper and salt. It will take rather more than an hour to stew; two or three young onions minced and added is an improvement. Serve all to- gether in a deep dish. 238. Lamb’s Head and Fry.— Skin the head and split it, take out the tongue and brains, wash and clean it, and the liver, heart, and lights, and lay the whole to soak in boiling water for half an hour; then put on the head to boil; it will require a little more than three hours. While it is boiling take the fry and mince it very small, put it on to stew in a quart of veal broth; add some minced parsley, a little ketchup, a spoonful of cream, a small piece of butter rolled in flour, and season with pepper and salt. When the head is sufficiently boiled, brush it over with the yolk of an egg; sprinkle it with chopped herbs and breadcrumbs, baste it with butter, and brown it in a Dutch oven or before the fire. Keep the mince hot while it is browning, then lay it in the dish with the head over, and garnish with the brains, and the tongue cut in half lengthways. They should be separately stewed in broth, and a little lemon-juice squeezed over the brains just before serving. 239. Queues de Mouton.—Take five mutton tails, put them on a gentle fire with some broth, a bunch of parsley and small onions, half a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, thyme and sweet basil, two cloves, and a little pepper and salt; when tho- roughly done, take them out to drain and cool. Take six ounces of rice, wash it in warm water, strain what broth may be left from stewing the tails ; if not enough, add a little more broth, put in the rice, and stew till it is quite tender; when ready, make a foundation of the rice on the dish you mean to serve it in, lay the mutton tails quite separate on the rice, cover them over with the remainder of the rice; glaze the outside with an egg, put the dish into the oven with a tin cover over till the rice forms a crust, tilt the dish that any grease may drain off. Wipe the dish clean and serve very hot. 240. Langues de Mouton.— Blanch them, cut them longitu- dinally through the middle, and put them on the gridiron over a clear fire. When done enough, serve with a sauce piquante. (See Sauces.) 241. Eminc6 of Mouton. — Mince the meat of an uncooked loin of mutton with half a pound of the fat; add a spoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper, two large onions cut in dice, a pint of green peas, four cucumbers cut in dice, a lettuce, a sprig of thyme, and a quarter of a pound of butter, with four spoonfuls of water; let all stew together for three hours, and serve with rice round. Celery or asparagus may be used instead of peas. 242. Hashed Venison or Mutton.—For gravy boil a part of the bone and trimmings of a