PUDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTRY, ETC* 93 them with the flour. It should be rather a thin batter. Heat the pan and rub it with butter or dripping before the batter is poured in; it should be about an inch thick. When the pudding is browned on one side, turn and brown it on the other. It may be made plainer with half a pound of flour, a tea- spoonful of salt, three eggs, and a pint of milk, and baked in a tin under a joint of roasting beef or mutton. 493. Hasty Pudding.—Boil a pint of milk with a pinch of salt; while boiling, stir into it by degrees as much flour as will thicken it, pour it out, and eat with cold butter and brown sugar. 494. Fig Pudding.—Chop six ounces of suet and half a pound of the best figs fine, add three-quarters of a pound of breadcrumbs, and four ounces of moist sugar; mix first the bread and suet, then the figs and sugar; add a little nutmeg, a well-beaten egg, and a cup of milk. Boil in a mould four horns. 495. Bread Pudding.—Put into a stew-pan a pint of breadcrumbs, with as much milk as will cover them, the peel of a lemon, and a small bit of cinnamon ; boil about ten minutes, sweeten with powdered sugar, take out the lemon and cinnamon, add four eggs. Beat all well together, and boil one hour, or bake half an hour. 496. New College Puddings.— Beat six yolks and three whites of eggs, mix them with one spoonful of flour and four of breadcrumbs ; add a little salt and nutmeg, with BUgar to taste, four ounces of shred suet, and the same of picked and washed currants; mix well to- gether. Make the batter into egg- shaped pieces with a spoon, and fry in very hot butter, or they may be baked in pattie-pans. 497. Puddings in Haste.—Mix shred suet with grated breadcrumbs, a handful of currants cleaned or a few stoned raisins, the beat yolks of three eggs and the white Of one, with a little grated lemon-peel, to a stiffish paste. Boll this in flour, and with two spoons make it into small balls ; have ready a pan of fast-boiling water, drop them in; when done they will rise to the top. 498. Sponge-Cake Pudding.— Steep sponge-cake in brandy, butter a mould and stick it over with dried cherries : put the cake in and make a custard with three whole eggs and four yolks, about half a pint of milk, and a little sugar and nutmeg; fill up the mould and boil it an horn-. Serve with arrowroot and brandy sauce. 499. The Tedworth Albert Pudding.—Take twelve ounces of breadcrumbs or sponge-cake; boil a pint of cream and pour it over the crumbs; leave them to soak a little, rub off on a piece of lump sugar the rind of a lemon; when pounded it should be about a quarter of a pound. Well whip the yolks of six and the whites of two eggs. Mix all well together, adding a pinch of salt; butter a mould well, and pour in the mixture : boil or steam the pudding one hour and a half ; serve with clear wine-sauce. Currants or cherries may be added if liked. 500. Marmalade Pudding.— Take about half a teacupful of milk, one tablespoonful of fine flour, and about two ounces of white sugar; put it on the fire, and stir till it boils; then add th® yolks of four