DAINTY DISHES 98 heat. Experience alone can deter- mine this. They should be served the moment they come out of the oven, or they will fall and become heavy. They are better under than over done. A really good souffle cannot be made without practice and experience. If it fails, there is one consolation, that a souffle ‘ manqu6 ’ generally makes a very good pudding. They should be baked in a proper souffle-dish, which is double, the inside case being put in the oven, and then placed in the finer one when sent to table. Soufjlt.—A quarter of a pound of fine flour, half a pint of cream, and a piece of butter the size of a nutmeg; stir this constantly to- gether in a stew-pan over a slow fire till it is very thick; then add the yolks of five eggs, half a pint of new milk, and sugar to your taste. Flavour with orange-flower, vanille, or what you please. Stir it well together, but not on the fire ; beat the whites of five eggs to a strong froth, and mix it lightly In. Bake in a gentle oven half an hour. Take care it is served im- mediately it comes out of the oven. Sprinkle a little sugar on the top. 525. Souffle au Riz.—Boil two ounces of rice flour in a pint of milk quite thick, stirring it all the time till cold ; mix with it four yolks of eggs, the peel of a lemon grated, and half a pound of fine powdered sugar. Whisk twelve whites of eggs to a very stiff froth, and stir them quickly and lightly in. Bake in a case or mould, and sift pounded sugar over the top before serving. It may be flavoured with vanille, orange-flower, coffee, ginger, etc. 526. Soufll6 de Fecule de Pomme de Terre. — Mix two ounces of potato flour with half a pint of boiling cream, in which you have infused the peel of a lemon ; add a little sugar, a large lump of butter, and a very little salt; break six eggs, and add the yolks of four of them; now beat the six whites to a froth, which pour gently into the mixture, and then the whole into a souffle-dish, which place in a moderate oven. When done enough, powder a little sugar over, and serve the moment it comes out of the oven. The sugar must of course predominate over the salt; but observe, that the less sugar there is in a souffld the lighter it will be. 527. Omelette Souffld.—Break six eggs; separate the yolks and whites; add to the yolks two spoonfuls of sugar, a little orange- flower water, or a few drops of spirits of lemca. Work them well together. Whip the whites to a firm froth, and mix lightly with the rest. Put into the frying-pan a small bit of butter; let it melt, that the pan may be buttered all over; pour in the omelette, set it on a slow fire, and take care it does not burn. In a minute or two, when it has set, turn it out upon the dish it is to be served on. Sift sugar over, and put it in the oven. As soon as it has risen, take it out and serve immediately. 528. Pancakes.—A spoonful of flour, a pint of new milk, and a little cream, if you have it, mixed well; the yolks and whites of three eggs beat together, but not too much, as it makes the pancakes tough, added, with sugar to your taste, and a teaspoonful of salt i