VEGETABLES, SALADS, ETC. 71 the fibre, and throw them into fresh water. If any are larger, cut them to the general size of the rest. Put them in a stew-pan with plenty of water, and a handful of salt, and set them over a strong fire. When they are done enough, throw them into cold water; then drain, and put them in a stew-pan with a bit of butter, and an onion or two cut in little dice, and previously fried white in butter. Sprinkle in a little flour ; let them stew a few minutes, but do not allow them to brown; add a spoonful of soup, some minced parsley and scallions, or green onions, salt and pepper. Let them come to a boil, stirring them well, and thicken the sauce with the yolks of two eggs, beaten in a little cream. Just before serving add the juice of a lemon. 362. French Beans Stewed.— Cut off the stalks and remove the fibres, shred them fine, and wash them in salt and water ; put them on to boil in a good deal of water, with plenty of salt in it, which pre- serves their greenness. When they are about half done, drain them, and put them into a stew-pan with three spoonfuls of good broth, some cream, a piece of butter rolled in flour, salt, and pepper; stew gently till quite tender, and serve hot. 363. Broad Beans au Jus.— Take a sufficient quantity of young beans ready shelled, and put them on to boil with a great deal of salt and water; when nearly done, drain them, and put them into a stew-pan with a bit of butter, some minced parsley and scallions ; toss them well in the butter; add three spoonfuls of espagnole; let them simmer ; skim off the fat; reduoe the sauce, dish, and serve. 364. Carottes au Sucre. — Cut a pound and a half of carrots into rather thin slices; blanch and brain them ; put them into a sauce- pan with a pound of white sugar, and as much boiling water as will oover them. When the water is reduced to half, add the rind of a lemon; and when only about three spoonfuls are left, squeeze over them the juice of two lemons; make very hot, and serve. 365. To Stew Carrots.— Half boil and carefully scrape them; then slice them into a stew-pan; add half a teacupful of broth, the same of cream, and some salt and pepper ; simmer till they are very tender, but not broken; ten minutes before serving add a small piece of butter rubbed in flour, and some minced parsley ; the latter may be omitted if not liked ; a little sugar is a great improvement. 366. Carrots au Jus.—Parboil and scrape them; cut them into moderately thick slices, and put them into a stew-pan with a pint of good broth, a little salt and pepper, and a spoonful of sugar; let them stew gently till very tender; a few minutes before serving add a squeeze of lemon to the gravy. 367. Mashed Turnips, Carrots, or Parsnips.—Peel some turnips; wash and boil them in salt and water. When done enough, press all the water out and pound them well in a mortar; then put them into a stew-pan with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a little salt, half a pint of cream, and a tea- spoonful of flour; mix thoroughly ; make it very hot, and serve. Pro- ceed exactly the same for carrots and parsnips. Never rub through