41 FISH salt an onion stuok with cloves, a bunch of herbs, and a little shred parsley. When the shoes of salmon are broiled, put them into this sauce, and let them simmer in it till the sauce is reduced enough. Then take out the fish and lay it in a dish. Add to the sauce a thickening of one or two yolks of eggs, beat up in a little vinegar. Let the sauce just come to a boil, stirring it well, and pour very hot over the salmon. 186. Saumon en Caisse.—Take two good slices of salmon; put them to marinade for an hour in a dish with as much sweet-oil as will cover them; parsley, onions, a little mushroom, and a shallot, all minced very fine ; half a bay-leaf, a little thyme, and sweet basil, re- duced almost to powder ; salt and pepper. Make a paper-case large enough to hold your two slices of salmon. Oil the paper. Put in the fish with the seasoning on it, and place it in the oven. When done enough, pour a little lemon- juice on it, and serve. 187. Salmon Collops.—Cut the salmon in thin collops. Season with pepper and salt, and fry them in a saute-pan with a little butter. Place them in a dish, and serve with the following sauce : Take a spoonful of fennel, mint, and parsley, boil them five minutes, and chop them fine. Mix with them half a pint of bechamel and a little glaze. Season with salt, a little cayenne, and the squeeze of half a lemon. Mackerel are very good done in the same way. 188. Irish Pickle for Salmon. —Equal parts of vinegar, white wine, and water. Boil it with mace, cloves, ginger, pepper, and horseradish. Take out the latter when sufficiently boiled, and pour the pickle over salmon previously boiled in strong salt and water. 189. Yorkshire Recipe to Dress Dried Salmon.—Pull some dried salmon into flakes. Have ready some hard - boiled eggs, chopped large. Put both into a pint of cream, with two ounces of butter, rubbed up with a teaspoonful of flour. Skim it and stir till it boils. Make a wall of mashed potatoes round the dish, and put the fish in the centre. 190. Baked Herrings.—Scale, wash, and dry them well in a cloth ; lay them on a board, pound Borne black pepper and cloves to- gether, and mix them with four times the quantity of salt, and rub the fish all over. Lay them straight in an earthenware dish (a deep one is best). Cover them with vinegar and a few bay-leaves. Tie strong paper over the top of the dish, and bake them in a moderate oven for about half an hour or more. They are good eaten either hot or cold, and will keep a long time if well covered. Mackerel and trout may be dressed in the same way. 191. Baked Herrings in a Crust.—Make a shape of good paste just the length and the breadth of a herring. Then lay a fresh herring, previously scaled, washed, and cleaned, in it, with a piece of butter, some minced onions, pepper and salt. Cover with paste, and put them in the oven for about twenty minutes or half an hour. They are excellent. 192. To Boil Herrings.—Scale, clean, and wash them; dry them thoroughly in a cloth, rub them well over with salt and vinegar.