DA INTY DISHES 88 baked in a moderate oven, should be quite crisp, and of a pale colour. Serve very hot in the second course. 464. Cheese and Ale. — Cut some good Gloucester cheese into thin slices, carefully removing the rind; lay them in a dish over a lamp ; spread each piece of cheese with mustard, and pour over as much strong ale as will cover them; stew till the cheese is quite dis- solved. Toast and ale should be served with this. The toast should be thick, and well browned, and hot ale, with or without spices, poured over it. 465. Canapes.—Take the crumb of a large loaf; cut it in slices three-quarters of an inch thick; cut this into any shape you please, and fry a good colour in oil. Mince separately the yolks and whites of hard-boiled eggs, capers, cucum- bers, some herbs (such as chervil and tarragon), and some small salad, fillet some anchovies, and put all this in a little of the best oil. Season the canapes that are fried with salt, pepper, and vinegar; arrange the salad on them, with the anchovies on the top; dress them neatly in the dish, and gar- nish with hard-boiled eggs, ham, beetroot, small herbs, capers, an- chovies, etc. 466. Roties d’Anchois.—Toast some slices of bread, cut thin and in neat slices, and then soak in a little good oil. Take some ancho- vies, a little rasped lemon-peel, onion or shallot, parsley or chervil, tarragon and burnet, and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg; mince all together very small, and mix well. Drain the toasts from the oil as much as possible; spread the mix- ture pretty thick on them ; arrange on the dish they are to be served on, and pour over a sauce made with two spoonfuls of oil, one of lemon-juice, some mustard, and a little pepper. 467. Rdties h la Minime.—Cut some slices of bread about two fingers’ length and the thickness of a crown-piece; put them into a stew-pan with a little oil over a gentle fire; turn them often till they acquire a good colour. Dress them on your dish, and lay some shoes of well-washed anchovy or sardines on them. Add to the oil you fried the bread in some minced shallot, parsley, green onion, minced thyme, sweet basil, a bay- leaf, some whole pepper, and a little vinegar; boil it a moment, pour over the toast, and serve cold. The bay-leaf, sweet herbs, and pepper to be removed. 468. Salmagundi. — Wash and bone two large Dutch or Lochfine herrings; mince the meat fine; take the breast of a cold roast chicken, skin it and mince it; also two hard-boiled eggs, an onion, an anchovy, and a little grated ham or tongue. Mix well together; moisten with salad oil and vinegar, and season to taste with salt and cayenne pepper. Serve on toast. 469. Indian Sandwiches. — Cut the breast of a roast fowl or pheasant in very small square pieces, also about four ounces of tongue or lean ham, four anchovies washed and filleted; mix well with the chicken, and put it into a stew- pan with two spoonfuls of veloute sauce, a dessert-spoonful of curry paste, half a teaspoonful of chutnee, the juice of half a lemon, and a little salt and pepper. Boil for a few minutes on the stove, mixing