PUDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTRY, ETC. pan with its lid and let it simmer for twenty minutes; add a small piece of butter melted in a little cream and the grated rind of a lemon. Pour into a well-buttered pudding-dish, and bake for a quarter of an hour. 480. A Pudding without Eggs. —Boil a pint of milk; take a thick slice of bread and grate it down fine, pour the boiling milk over and cover it close up for half an hour ; then add some marmalade, grated lemon, or any other flavouring you like, sugar to taste, and half a teaspoonful of salt. If you like you may also add a glass of wine. Pour all together into a pudding- dish and bake for a quarter of an hour. 481. Arrowroot Pudding. — One tablespoonful of arrowroot, half a pint of milk, and a small quantity of lemon-peel; put it on a slow fire and stir till it boils ; then add the yolks of four eggs, a glass of white wine, and a teaspoonful of orange-flower water. Beat up the whites of four eggs and stir them in lightly. Sweeten to taste with loaf-sugar. Butter a mould, place dried cherries round it, or in any form you fancy, and pour in the pudding. Set the mould in a stew-pan of water, and steam for half an hour, with fire on the lid of the stew-pan, which makes it light. Serve with an arrowroot and wine sauce. 482. Custard Pudding.—Half a pint of thin cream or new milk, a little loaf sugar, a small bit of laurel-leaf, a very little cinnamon, and a small quantity of lemon-peel. Put it on the fire, and let it boil; then let it stand till it is cold, when add the yolks of five eggs; strain through a sieve, butter small moulds, put the custard into them, steam twenty minutes. Serve with either a wine or custard sauce. 483. Baked Custard Pudding. —Make the custard with eight yolks of eggs, half a pint of cream or new milk, half a lemon-peel grated, two spoonfuls of orange- flower water, and two ounces of sugar. Boil the milk and add the eggs when cold; then strain; line a pudding-dish with tart paste, placing some round the edge ; put in the custard, and bake till set; or line a mould with biscuit paste, fill it with flour, and bake it. When done, take out the flour, fill it with the custard, and put it again in the oven till the custard is set and brown at the top. 484. Sago Custard Puddings. —Take a spoonful and a half of sago, and put it into a saucepan with as much water as will cover it, a drop of cinnamon, three blades of mace, and some lemon-peel, and set it on to boil. When you find it clear and thoroughly done, add to it half a pint of new milk, and keep stirring it over the fire. When it becomes thick, take it off, remove the seasoning, beat the yolks of four and the white of one egg well up with half a pint of cream; sweeten to taste; then take the milk and sago boiling hot, and mix well with the cream and eggs. Put it into small moulds, and bake or steam for ten minutes. Tapioca may be done in the same way. 485. Ground Bice Custard Puddings.—Boil a pint of new milk with a bay-leaf, two or three bitter ahnonds, and some brown sugar, for a quarter of an hour; take two ounces of ground rice and