EGOS. CHEESE. ENTREMETS, ETC. 89 well. Have ready prepared some thin slices of bread cut with a circular cutter, as many as you re- quire for your dish, fry them in oil of a bright yellow, drain them on a napkin, and place half of them on a baking-sheet covered with clean paper ; spread a thick layer of the above preparation on each, and cover with another croftton. Next grate four ounces of parmesan cheese, mix it into a paste with butter, divide it into as many parts as there are sandwiches, roll each into a round ball, and place one on the top of each sandwich. About ten minutes before serving put them into the oven; let them be thoroughly heated; pass a red-hot salamander over them; dish on a napkin; and serve. 470. Minced Sandwiches. — Cut some thin slices of bread, fry them crisp in oil; take some ham or tongue, and any sort of game or poultry. Cut in thin small slices a few pickled gherkins and olives—there should be equal pro- portions of each; mince fine, and mix well; moisten with a sauce made of a spoonful of shallot vine- gar, a little oil, mustard, and a little sugar, worked well together ; spread the mixture on the toast, and lay another piece on the top; cut them of a neat shape, and not too large. 471. Anchovy Toast.—Bone a few anchovies, pound them in a mortar or mince very fine with dried parsley, half a clove of garlic, a little cayenne, a squeeze of lemon- juice, and a very little salad oil. Servo on toasted bread, or bread fried in oil. 472. Croutons aux Rognons are best made with ve^l kidneys. Take two, cut them in small pieces, and put them into a stew-pan with some butter, salt, and two or three onions minced; let them stew till they are tender. Meanwhile, put into another saucepan a piece of butter, a spoonful of flour, and a little broth. Reduce it till it is thick; then put in the kidneys, four whole eggs, some finely - minced parsley, and a little grated nutmeg ; stir well together over the fire for a few minutes, and let it get cold. Cut some shoes of French roU of the day before’s baking ; dip them in milk in which you have beaten up an egg. Spread the mince on them thickly. Fry them in hot oil or clarified butter, and serve very hot. 473. Ravioli k la Napolitaine. —Take some of the best Naples macaroni, parmesan cheese, good fresh butter, a dozen fivers of chickens, some celery, an onion or two, some carrots and turnips. Begin by mincing the fivers and vegetables very fine, and put them into a saucepan to cook in a little butter over a gentle fire. Mean- while blanch the macaroni, add pepper and a little fine spice ; and when done enough let it drain. Now take the dish you mean to serve it in, and which should be rather deep and able to stand the fire; lay some macaroni first in the dish, then a layer of the minced fivers and vegetables, then one of grated parmesan cheese, and so on till the dish is full enough. You should end with a layer of cheese. Then set the dish over a gentle fire on the stove or in the oven and let. it cook for a few minutes. Brown it on the top, and serve very hot. J