185 COOKERY FOR TEE SICK AND POOR made in smaller quantities. The estimated cost of the thirty gallons of soup, when the receipt was given to me, was as follows : s. d. 10 Stone leg and shin of beef 11 8 2 Ox heads. . . .40 2 Bunches carrots . .06 4 Bunches turnips . .08 2 Bunches leeks. . .04 £ Peck onions . . .08 1 Bunch celery . . .06 £ Pound pepper . . .18 20 0 752. Sago Milk for the Poor. —Put a teacupful of sago into a quart of water, with a bit of lemon- peel ; when thickened, add some grated ginger, half a pint of raisin or port wine, brown sugar, and two spoonfuls of geneva; boil all up together. To be given in cases of great weakness. 753. An Excellent Soup for the Poor.—Put two cow-heels and a breast of mutton into a large pan, with four ounoes of rice, an onion, a turnip, a carrot; twenty Jamaica and twenty black peppercorns, and a little salt; pour on it four gallons of water ; cover the pan with brown paper, and bake in the oven six hours. 754. Stew for the Poor.—Take a pound and a quarter of fat mutton; cut it into pieces; add nine potatoes, two turnips, eight onions, half a gill of split peas, and a little celery-seed; cut all the vegetables up small; season with salt and pepper, and pour five quarts of water on the whole ; let it simmer two hours and a half on a slow fire. The whole expenses will not exceed Is. 6d., and it will feed more than five persons. 755. Pea-Soup.—One pound of split peas, one teaspoonful of celery-seed, a large onion, some ground and whole pepper, salt, and a beef bone or two, either raw or cooked; boil the whole together slowly two or three hours ; strain it, and set it on to boil again slowly for a short time. Potato-soup may be made in the same way, but do not strain, and leave out the celery-seed. 756. Beef-Tea. — Cut three pounds of beef into pieces the size of a walnut, and if there are any bones chop them up also ; put it into a saucepan with some vege- tables, such as carrots, turnips, celery, an onion, or some leeks, etc., half an ounce of salt and some pepper, a teaspoonful of sugar, and a pint of water; set it on a sharp fire for ten minutes, stirring it now and thon with a spoon. It should form a thick, but not brown, gravy at the bottom. Then add six pints of hot water ; set it on a sharp fire, and when it boils take it off and set it by the side to simmer for three hours, skim off all the fat, strain it through a sieve, and it is ready to serve. This is very good to drink cold during the night for invalids ; but, when made for this purpose, the onion should be left out. This receipt makes about six pints. 757. Beef-Tea.—Cut a pound of lean meat into thin slices ; put it into a pan with one pint and a half of cold water; set it over a slow fire, to become gradually warm, after the scum rises, which you should remove ; let it continue gently simmering two hours, then strain through a fine sieve; let it