DAINTY DISHES 116 but the zest of two lemons is sufficient. 638. Barberry Water-Ice.— Pound ripe barberries ; beat them, and rub them through a sieve ; to a pint of the juice add the same quantity of syrup and half a pint of water; then freeze. 639. Frontignac Grape Water- Ice.—Squeeze out the juice of the grapes through a sieve, and to four spoonfuls of grape-syrup add half a pint of lemon-juice, a pint of clarified sugar-syrup, and half a pint of water; mix together and freeze. 640. Punch-Ice.—Rub the rinds of two lemons off on sugar; take a pint of lemon-juice, the same of syrup, and half a pint of water ; mix all together and freeze it hard; then add a teacupful of brandy and one of rum; mix well together, and then stir in the whites of six eggs whipped to a very stiff froth. 641. Red Currant Water-Ice. —Squeeze the currants through a sieve; to a pint of the juice add half a pint of syrup and a quarter of a pint of water. White and black currants may be made the same. 642. Plain Ice-Cream.—Take good thick, fresh cream; sweeten it with a very little sugar ; then put it in the freezing-pot; take a whisk and whisk it well together ; freeze it in small oval shapes, like an egg or a plum, and serve to eat with strawberries or other fruit. 643. Coffee-Ice.—Two ounces of the best whole coffee, four yolks of eggs, a quart of cream, and sugar to sweeten it to taste; mix all together, and set it on to boil; stir till nearly cold; when you take it off, pass it through a sieve, and freeze. The coffee-berry may be either roasted or green; if green the ice will look nearly white, which is usually preferred. 644. Green Tea Ice-Cream.—Is made as above, and with the same proportion of ingredients. 645. Brown Bread Ice-Cream. —Cut brown bread in thin slices ; dry it crisp before the fire, and sift it through a sieve; to a quart of plain ice-cream, made as above, addateacupful of the breadcrumbs; mix well together, and freeze. 646. Ratafia Biscuit Cream.— Two ounces of Ratafia, the yolks of two eggs, and a pint of cream; boil all together, pass through a sieve, and freeze. 647. Custard Ice-Cream.—A quart of cream and five eggs, whisked together, with a little sugar ; boil it, stirring all the time, with the rind of two lemons cut fine ; strain it, stir till nearly cold, and freeze. The same mixture is very good served unfrozen in cups, as custard. 648. Chocolate Cream-Ice.— Shred one cake of chocolate; dis- solve it with three ounces of sugar, a quart of cream, and three yolks of eggs; boil, and then whisk till cold, and freeze. 649. Pineapple Cream-Ice.— Grate one pound of fresh pine- apple; add half a pint of syrup, a pint and a half of cream, and the juice of two lemons ; rub through a sieve; cut two shoes of pineapple into smah dice; mix with it, and freeze. 650. Pineapple Jam-Ice.—To a pound of jam add a pint of good cream, and mix it together; rub it