DAINTY DISHES 124 for about a quarter of an hour, or till they are quite thick and light; then stir in by degrees the flour, but not till the eggs are cold; add the grate of two lemon peels; bake in whatever shape or shapes you please, in a quick oven. 696. Sugar Biscuit.—One pound of eggs, one of sugar, and one of flour. The sugar must be sifted fine, and mixed carefully with the eggs; then stir in the flour, pre- viously well dried; drop them in rounds on paper, bake, and glaze on the top with sugar. 697. Naples Biscuits. — One pound and a half of Lisbon sugar put into a pan with three-quarters of a pint of water and a small cup- ful of orange-flower water. Boil the sugar with the water till quite melted, then break twelve eggs, both the yolks and the whites, and whisk them well together. Now pour the Lisbon syrup, boiling hot, in with the eggs, whisking all the time as fast as you can, and con- tinue till it is cold and set. Then mix in as lightly as possible one pound and a half of flour; lay two sheets of paper on the baking- plate ; make the edges stand up about an inch and a half high ; pour the batter in, sift powdered sugar over, and put it in the oven, but do not leave it a minute for fear it should burn. When baked, take it out in the paper; let it stand till cold ; then wet the paper till it comes off with ease, and cut the cake what shape and size you like. It may also be baked in tins. 698. Biscuits k la Cuillidre are made of the same mixture as Savoy biscuits. Use a silver teaspoon to shape them; fill the spoon, and drop the batter on paper, pulling it along so as to make it about three inches long and half an inch wide; with your fingers spread it a little wider at both ends than in the middle; sift sugar over them, and bake in a moderate oven. When done cut them hot off the paper. 699. Little Short-Cakes.—Rub into a pound of dried flour four ounces of butter, four ounces of pounded sugar, one egg, and a spoonful or two of thin cream to make it into a paste ; roll them out thin, and cut with a wine-glass into round cakes. Currants or caraways may be added to them. 700. Luncheon Cake. — One pound of flour, six ounces of butter, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of currants, one egg, a pint of milk, and three tablespoonfuls of baking powder. The egg and milk should not be added till the cake has risen and is ready to be put into the oven. 701. Pitcaithley Bannock.— Dry before the fire one pound of fine flour; then melt half a pound of butter, and mix it well with the flour. Add two ounces of almonds blanched and thinly sliced, two of candied orange-peel cut fine, two of sugar, and the same of carraway comfits. Knead all well together, and bake an hour in a slow oven. 702. Potato Biscuits. — Rub potatoes through a sieve; take half a pound of this and mix with a pound of flour, a pinch of salt, and as much butter as will enable you to roll the paste out into rounds the size of a saucer; knead all well together, and bake in a quick oven.