MEAT, POULTRY, GAME 45 way. The spices must all be ground. 211. Method of Kippering Salmon.—The largest fish are best. To twenty pounds of salmon put one and a half pounds of salt, one pound of raw sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre. Mix all well together. Wash the fish well in salt and water; split it up the back, cut off the head, and take out the back- bone. Rub it well inside with the mixture ; lay it in a deep dish with the inside uppermost; leave it in the pickle twenty-four hours; then put a heavy weight on it; press it for two days, or three if a large fish. Take it out of the pickle and hang it to dry in the sun. flDeat, poultry (Same. 212. Salt Beef.—To salt beef for immediate use, common salt, pre- viously well dried at the fire, is better than any other pickle. The kernels should be carefully ex- tracted, then sprinkle the meat well with salt, and six hours after- wards hang it up to drain. After it has drained, rub it thoroughly in every part with salt, and lay it in a salting-tub. Cover it over with a cloth saturated with the brine, and then with the cover, which should fit close to the tub. It must be turned and rubbed every day with the brine. A round of beef, of twenty-five pounds’ weight, will require one and a half pounds of salt, to be all rubbed in at first. Turned and rubbed every day, if not wished very salt, it may be eaten in four or five days. If you wish it red, rub it first with salt- petre, in the proportion of half an ounce and the same quantity of moist sugar to one pound of common salt. 213. Baked Round of Beef.— If about fifteen pounds, hang it two or three days; then rub in, being previously well pounded together, three ounces of saltpetre, one ounce of moist sugar, a quarter of an ounce each of black pepper, all- spice, cloves, and mace, and a nut- meg grated, some minced sweet and savoury herbs, and three quarters of a pound of common salt. The bone should be taken out, and it should be turned and rubbed every day for a fortnight. When you dress it, put it into a pan with a quart of water; cover the meat with three pounds of suet, shredded rather thick, and an ounce or two minced small; then cover the whole with a flour crust to the brim of the pan, and bake in a moderate oven six hours. 214. To Boil Beef.—The slower it is done the better; if boiled too quick at first, no art afterwards can make it tender. Half a round, of about fifteen pounds’ weight, will take about three hours. Put plenty of cold water in with it, and carefully remove the Bourn as it rises. Let it boil till no more comes, then set the boiler on one side of the fire, and keep it simmer- ing slowly till done. 215. Sportsman’s Beef.—Take a large round of beef, three ounces and a half of saltpetre, one ounce