DAINTY DISHES 126 and in nine or ten days it will be fit for use, but it will keep in the pickle quite good for two or three months. The pickle should be reboiled and strained once a month. 708. American Pickle. — To eight pints of cold spring water add seven pounds of large salt, half a pound of saltpetre, and one pound of treacle; mix all well together, and it is then fit to receive the meat-pork, beef, or tongues. In this pickle they never get hard. It will keep good three or four months, according to the quantity of meat that is put into it. 709. To Clarify Sugar for Pre- serving.—Allow to every pound of sugar half a pint of water, and to every two pounds the white of an egg; beat the eggs up well, and mix them among the water; then put in the sugar, and let it stand to soften a little before you set it on the fire: stir it after the pan is on the fire till the sugar is quite dissolved; when it comes to a boil, and the scum rises fast, throw in a little cold water, and let it con- tinue to boil till it rises again, then take the pan off; let the sugar settle a little, and skim it, letting the scum run through a hair sieve into the pan, so that nothing but the dross remains; set the pan again on the fire, and when it comes to a boil add more cold water, which makes a second scum rise ; treat it the same way as the first, and it is ready for use. The terms in sugar-boiling are first a ‘ small blow,’ which is when it bubbles if blown through a skim- mer ; five minutes more make it a ‘ strong blow ’ ; in four minutes it becomes a ‘ flutter ;’ and in five minutes after a ‘ crack,’ which is ascertained by dipping a stick in cold water, then in the sugar, and again in the water, when the sugar which adheres should slip off and crack between the fingers. One minute’s more boiling makes it caramel, when the pan should be taken off the fire, and stood to cool for a minute in water; if allowed to boil longer, the sugar becomes burnt, and is unfit for use. 710. Dried Fruits.—Take fresh- gathered peaches ; cut out the kernels; put them on a tin in the oven just as the bread comes out; when about half-done take them out, flatten them, and replace them till done sufficiently. Plums may be done in the same way, choosing those that fall from the trees. Apricots the same as peaches. Pears should be peeled, taking care to leave on the stalks ; then put them with the peel in a large pan full of water, boil them till they begin to soften, and then dry in the oven as the others. 711. To Preserve Currants and Gooseberries.—Have ready some perfectly dry, clean bottles; cut the currants from the larger stalks, and drop them gently into the bottle; to each bottle allow a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar; tie bladder over the bottles ; set them in a saucepan up to the neck in water, and let them boil half an hour, and remain in the water all night. Gooseberries the same: keep them in a cool place. Almost all fruit and young peas may be preserved in the same way. The bottles are better if kept in sand with the cork downwards; they should be carefully corked and rosined.