PREFACES vii Italians. A cookery-book which teaches you how to eat best at the least possible cost is an invaluable work, and may successfully contend with the works of ancient and modern philosophers ; nay, it may even be regarded as both philanthropical and political. How many things may be arranged over a good dinner 1 How much more pleasantly and readily are all affairs settled. Speculations, alliances, treaties, love, friendship—all progress smoother and with quite another feeling to what they would before, or might after, a bad dinner. Your temper is quite different, and you shake hands willingly with a man you would previously have knocked down with pleasure. Depend upon it, a good dinner is a grand thing, and nothing important in politics or love should be discussed unless your private 1 Minister of the Interior ’ is well satisfied. Fewer wars and quarrels would be the result if this were the case ; but you must take care the contented ‘ interior ’ is not on one side, if there is truth in the old Scotch proverb, ‘ It’s ill talking between the fu’ man and the fasting.’ Talk of philanthropy to a famished man, and he will be deaf to your prayers ; but try him after a good dinner, and he will be capable of the most generous actions; even the most avaricious man, after he has been well fed—always supposing he has not had to pay for it—may be persuaded to open his purse for the benefit of his fellow-beings. A life made up of cares and troubles becomes more tolerable, if not even pleasant, under the softening influence of good meat and drink; for the time are forgotten the delusions of ambition, betrayed friendships, unfaithful love. A good cookery-book should thus contain a palliative for every evil, physical and moral. The first of physical evils is hunger, and it should teach you not only to satisfy, but to gratify it—how to prepare a sauce that will make the worst piece of cold meat palatable, or out of the most homely, as well as the most expensive, materials, cook a dish that will refresh the wearied body, which immediately reacts on the weary spirit, and gives it fresh courage to face anew the world and all its troubles. The compiler is not presumptuous enough to believe that her collec- tion of receipts is capable of conferring so great a boon upon humanity; she only hopes that it may in some measure help towards it. Dernebueg, November nth, 1866. PREFACE TO FIRST EDITION. It may seem superfluous, if not presumptuous, to offer to the public a book on Cookery, when there are already so many extant, and of which several are the works of real great ‘ Artists but this little volume presents itself without any pretensions, as being merely a collection of receipts, many of which the Compiler believes to be original, and all of which she knows to be good. And if the jaded appetite of one sick person is stimulated, or one healthy appetite gratified, her object will