92 dainty dishes stir it in by degrees while the milk is boiling until thick ; let it boil a few minutes longer ; dip your cups in cold water, pour the mixture into them, turn them out just before serving. They are best eaten cold with the following sauce: Take about half a pint of milk or cream, a little whole cinnamon, some lemon-peel, a bay-leaf, and enough brown sugar to sweeten it. Boil it a quarter of an hour, and when cold add to it three yolks of eggs. Put it on the fire again, but do not let it boil. Two minutes before you take it off thicken with a little ground rice, with the addition of a glass of madeira or sherry. This is a good sauce for all puddings that require one. 486. Lemon Custard Puddings. —Take the yolks of six eggs and the whites of three, the rinds of two lemons grated and the juice of one, half a pound of powdered sugar, two Naples biscuits grated, and a small glass of brandy. Beat all well together, add a pint of good cream and two ounces of fresh butter. Butter small moulds, put in the pudding, and bake half an hour in a quick oven. This is a very good recipe. 487. Vermicelli Pudding. — Take two ounces of vermicelli, boil it in a pint of milk till the milk thickens, stirring it all the time it is boiling ; then add six ounces of butter, half a pound of sugar, six yolks and four whites of eggs, and the grated rind of a lemon. Line a dish or shape with puff-paste, and boil half an hour. 488. Macaroni Pudding.— Simmer one or two ounces of pipe macaroni in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon-peel and cinnamon, till tender; add cream, three yolks of eggs and one white, a little nut- meg, and some sugar. Bake in a dish or shape lined with puff-paste half an hour. 489. Bread-and-butter Pud- ding.—Cut thin slices of bread and butter, and lay them in a well- buttered mould or pudding-dish; between each layer strew currants and a little powdered cinnamon and sugar ; fill your dish or mould thus three parts full, and pour in a cold custard made with four or six eggs (according to the size of the pudding), beaten up with cream or milk, and flavoured with lemon- peel ; pour it in by little at a time, so that the bread may absorb it without floating; when full, bake one hour. If wished rather richer, when made in a mould, a little wine or brandy may be poured on the bread before the custard. 490. Batter Pudding. — Two spoonfuls of fine flour, the whites of two eggs and yolk of one, with milk enough to moisten; beat well together and boil twenty minutes. Serve with wine-sauce, or eat it with cold butter and brown sugar, which is much the best. 491. Batter Pudding Baked.— Take six ounces of fine flour, three eggs, aud a pinch of salt; add by degrees as much milk as will when well beaten make it the consistence of thick cream. Pour into a pudding - dish, and bake three- quarters of an hour; or it may be boiled in a basin, buttered and floured, and tied up in a cloth. It will require two hours’ boiling. 492. Yorkshire Pudding.—Six eggs, six heaped tablespoonfuls of flour, and a teaspoonful of salt; beat and strain the eggs, and mix