CASSEROLE COOKERY 161 layer of grated Parmesan cheese, cover with some good white creamy sauce and serve hot. 846. Homard a la Hollandaise. —Mince the meat of one hen lobster finely, saving the coral for decoration, mix it thoroughly with Hollandaise sauce and put into well-buttered casseroles. Serve either hot or cold and decorate the top with lobster coral before sending to table. 847. Fillets of Sole—Fillet the soles and spread on the skin side of each fillet a little lobster cutlet mixture. Put one fillet into each small casserole, and sprinkle a few drops of lemon juice over, cayenne and salt. Cover with cream and some crumbs on the top. Cook gently for fifteen to twenty minutes and serve. Garnish with lobster coral. 848. Stewed Lamb Chops.— Put the chops into a casserole with white stock just to cover, and one onion, six turnips sliced. Give it about one hour’s very gentle simmering, add pepper and salt and send to table. The mixture should be fairly thick when finished. 849. Stewed Rump Steak.— About two pounds of steak. Line the bottom of the oasserole with slices of fat ham or bacon, place the steaks on these—possibly there will have to be two layers—add a little allspice, a bouquet garni, one small carrot sliced, one large onion, half a dozen cloves, a little celery and pars- ley, cover with stock and simmer very gently for about two hours. Take up the steaks and dish them, then thicken the gravy with a little flour, some salt, a tablespoonful of claret and the same of mushroom ketchup. Strain the sauce over the steaks. Adding the salt when making the sauce and not in the first place, tends to keep the meat tender. 850. Minced Veal.—Mince some eold veal finely. Put four ounces of butter in a casserole, then mix in half the quantity of flour, a little pepper and salt, the grated rind of one lemon, half a pint of good white stock and the same of cream. Let this come to the boil and cook for twenty minutes, then skim it and put in the veal, letting it get quite hot, but the sauce must not boil again. Dish and serve with a garnish of cut lemon, small pieces of grilled bacon and little sippets of toast. 851. Hashed Hare.—Cut the remains of a roast hare into neat pieces, and with the trimmings that are left make a good sauce. Let these boil in a quart of brown stock for an hour, then strain it. Take three ounces of butter, the same of flour, add seasoning, half a pint of cream, then gradually add the stock and let the sauce thicken and boil for a quarter of an hour, then add two tablespoonfuls of red-currant jelly, put in the pieces of hare and any stuffing cut in small squares. Let all get thoroughly hot and serve in the casserole. 852. Tomato Soup. — About three pounds of ripe red tomatoes, cut in slices and two or three rashers of bacon cut up small. Make a quarter of a pound of butter quite hot in a casserole and gently fry in this one small chopped onion, a little celery, a bouquet garni, and the bacon, after a few minutes add the sliced tomatoes, a few white