PUDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTRY, ETC. Ill the ice to freeze. When the jelly is firm, lay slices of the best part of the pineapple, in any design you please (taking care that they are dry), on the jelly, sticking them together with a little more jelly, which you must allow to set on the ice before filling the mould. As soon as this is firm fill it up, and surround the mould with ice. 604. Cherry-Jelly in Moulds. —Boil Morefio cherries till they come to a pulp, which will be in about twenty minutes ; strain them through a jelly-bag; bottle and cork it till wanted for use, then heat as much as you require, sweeten to taste, and add an ounce and a half of melted isinglass. Strain through a jelly-bag into a mould, and set it in a cool place or on the ice till wanted to serve. 605. Orange-Jelly.—Take twelve oranges; cut each in two ; squeeze them through a silk sieve into a dish; rub the peel of three of the oranges off on a lump of sugar, and scrape off all the yellow part, which gives the jelly a fine flavour; break half a pound of sugar into small pieces; put it in a pan ; beat the white of half an egg up with water till it gets white, and add it to the sugar; let it reduce till it begins to bubble, then pour in the juice of the oranges. The heat of the sugar will clarify the jelly. Do not let it boil, but as soon as you perceive a yellow scum, skim the jelly, and pour it through a jelly-bag. Boil an ounce of isinglass in three-quarters of a pint of water for two hours, and when the jelly is nearly cold mix it with it. When the jelly is cold, but not before, pour it into a mould to set. Lemon jelly is made in the same way, but requires rather more sugar. 606. Orange Sponge Jelly.— Dissolve two ounces of isjj»glass in one pint of water, and strain it through a sieve; add the juice of two China oranges, four Seville oranges, and one lemon, with about half a pound of fine sugar; whisk it till it looks like a sponge, put it into a mould, and when set turn it out. 607. Apple-Jelly.—Deduce two pounds of juicy apples boiled with a teacupful of water, rub them through a sieve, add half a pound of sugar, the juice of two and the peel of one lemon. Have reedy half an ounce of isinglass boiled in half a pint of water to a jelly, add it to the apples, and boil all to- gether; strain it, take out the lemon-peel, and pour it into your mould; set it in a cool place. If half an ounce of isinglass is not enough to stiffen it, more may be added; but as little as possible should always be used. Pineapple is an excellent addition. 608. Red Strawberry-Jelly.— To a pint and a half of calf’s-foot jelly add, when melted, two spoon- fuls of cochineal; arrange whole strawberries in the mould; pour in the jelly; when cold and set turn it out. Other fruit may be done in the same way. 609. Raspberry-Jelly.—Put the fruit into a mortar, with a suffi- ciency of sugar to sweeten it; mix together, and add a little water. When all the juice is extracted, pass it through a jelly-bag, add isinglass to stiffen it (the quantity depends upon how much fruit you have), then put it into a mould, with ice over and under. No salt