143 COOKERY POR THE SICK AND POOR and egg, and pour as muoh boil- ing water over it as will make into a jelly, stirring it well. Useful in all oases of stomachic debility. 812. Cordial for the Weak.— A pint of wine to a quart of barley- gruel ; boil to a third ; add lemon- peel or other seasoning. A teaoupful several times a day is strengthening. 813. Cordial for an Invalid.— Half a pint of best French brandy, boiled with as much brown sugar as the brandy will imbibe, till about the consistency of treacle. Taken frequently in small quantities, this has been found of the greatest use to consumptive persons. 814. Cocoa is a refreshing, in- vigorating drink, also a nutritious food. It can be mixed with milk or water. Directions for mixing are to be found with every packet when purchased. 815. Custard without Eggs.— Take two ounces (or else 11 or 12 lumps) of sugar and one packet custard powder. Out of a pint of new milk or cream take just suffi- cient to make the powder into a thin smooth paste when well mixed in a basin ; then boil the remainder of the milk or cream with the sugar, and while still boiling pour it all at once into the basin. Give the whole two or three stirs, and when quite cold, fill the custard glasses. 816. Gruel.—Take of patent groats one tablespoonful, mix with a wineglassful of cold water, gradually added, into a smooth paste, pour this into a stew-pan containing nearly a pint of boiling water or milk, stir the gruel on the fire (while it boils) for ten minutes ; pour it into a basin, add a pinch of salt and a little butter, or if more agreeable, some sugar, and small quantity of spirits. When for an invalid, butter had best be omitted. 817. Barley Water for Inva- lids.—Take of Patent Barley an ounce, mix with a wineglassful of cold water into a smooth paste, pour this into a stew-pan con- taining a quart of boiling water, stir this over the fire while boiling for five minutes; then flavour with a small bit of lemon-peel or cinnamon, and sweeten to taste. When the patent barley is used to make a summer beverage, only half an ounce must be taken. 818. Scones.—Take one pound of ordinary flour, two teaspoon- fuls of baking powder, a small teaspoonful of salt, about a break- fast-cupful of sweet milk; mix the flour, baking powder, and salt well together in a bowl, dry. Make into a dough quickly with milk, adding the milk a little at a time till you have a moderately still dough. Do not knead more than is necessary. Roll out flat on a floured board till about half an inch thick, and out into circles or three-cornered pieces. Put at once into the oven or on the griddle or hot plate sprinkled with flour. Bake quickly. Delicious little din- ner loaves can be made with above mixture, using a little more milk to make a soft dough, and baking in small round buttered tins.—To make a richer scone add two ounces butter and one ounoe sugar.