DAINTY DISHES 108 it over the custard, sift fine sugar on to it, and bake in the oven for about twenty minutes. Marma- lade or fruit tarts of any sort may be made in the same way. 586. Orange Tart. —Pare off the rind, quarter and remove the core of a dozen and a half of China oranges ; boil them in a little sugar and water about three minutes, and lay them on a sieve to drain. Take the juice that runs from them and the liquor they were boiled in and boil it to a syrup; put the oranges in for a minute or two, but without boiling them; then lay them in the shape of a crust, which must be previously baked. Just before serving pour the syrup over the oranges. 587. Raspberry Tart k, la Creme.—Roll out some puff paste thin; fine a pattie-pan with it; put in some fine ripe raspberries, and strew fine sugar over them; put on a lid of paste, and bake in the oven. When done enough cut it open and put in half a pint of cream well beaten with the yolks of two eggs and a little sugar. 588. G-kteau de Pommes.— One pound of fine sugar boiled to a syrup, one pound of apples cored and peeled, some lemon-peel, and the juice of one lemon, or more if necessary, to be boiled over a slow fire in a saucepan without a lid on it till the apples fall and become smooth, and of a proper consis- tency ; then put it in a mould, and serve cold with the following : 580. Burnt Cream. — Make a rich custard of cream and eggs, boiling lemon-peel in it, but no sugar. When cold, pour it over the gkteau de pommes, sift a good deal of sugar over, and brown the top with a salamander. 590. Apples k la Portugaise.— Take eight or nine of the best and largest apples, peel and core them, put them in a pewter dish with a little water, set the dish in the oven, fill the core with sugar. When they are baked enough, serve with either lemon, orange, apricot, or pine-apple marmalade poured over them. 591. Apples with Cream.— Pare the apples and cut them in four, take out the core, put them to stew with a little water and sugar in a saucepan. When they begin to fall take them off the fire. In another pan put four yolks of eggs, a spoonful of flour, a pint of good cream, and a little sugar. Bet the pan upon a slow fire, and keep stirring the cream continu- ally, taking care it does not boil for fear of curdling it. When done enough, add a glass of madeira or sherry. Arrange the apples in the dish, and pour the sauce over. 592. Pommes au Riz M<§ringu£. —Stew pared and cored apples in a saucepan over a slow fire, with a little bruised ginger, three or four cloves, a bit of lemon-peel, and some brown sugar. Boil a quarter of a pound of rice with a pint of milk or cream, an ounce of butter, two ounces of sugar, and half a lemon-peel grated; make it stiff enough to put round a dish. Put the apples in the centre, porn- a custard over. Beat the whites of eight eggs to a stiff froth, which will take half an hour ; place this over all, sprinkle with sugar, and bake in the oven a nice fight brown.