114 DAINTY DISHEB 623. Crime au Till Vert.—Boil a pint of cream and the same of milk, into which throw a pinch of salt and some sugar; when the cream boils, throw three spoonfuls of the best green tea into it; give it a boil; add the yolks of ten very fresh eggs ; keep constantly stirring it on the fire till the cream becomes thick, but mind that the eggs are not over - done; then add some melted isinglass; pass it through a tammy, and put it in the mould, which set in ice. When you wish to make the cream more delicate, let it get cold, and before you put the isinglass in, set it in a vessel over ice, and whip it when quite frozen; add some cold melted isinglass. This method requires less isinglass, and the cream is lighter. 624. Orange-Flower Cream.— Boil half a pint of cream with a handful of fresh orange-flowers, and let the cream cool; strain and mix with a pint of thick cream; keep whipping it over ice till it is quite thick; add half an ounce of melted isinglass; put it into a mould and surround it with ice. 625. Mille Fruit Cream.—Take a spoonful each of preserved straw- berries, raspberries, apricots, cur- rants, greengages, ginger, pine- apple, gooseberries, plums, and orange-peel cut small; add an ounce of isinglass boiled in half a pint of water for half an hour, and three ounces of sugar; whisk till nearly cold, then add a quart of cream whisked to a froth. Mix well and put in a mould, which surround with ice. 626. Caramel-Cream. — Take a quarter of a pound of lump-sugar; put it in a sugar-pan with three tablespoonfuls of water; set it on a stove fire till it becomes burnt brown and tastes rather bitter; have ready a quarter of a pint of boiling cream, which pour into the sugar; strain it through a fine sieve into a basin, and let it cool a little ; take six yolks of eggs and mix with the cream; put it in a stew-pan over the fire, and whisk it till it becomes thick, but be sure it does not boil, otherwise it will curdle and spoil. Now put it back into the basin, and add warm as much melted isinglass as will make it stiff enough for a mould (about half an ounce). Stir it with a wooden spoon, or whisk till nearly cold; have ready a pint of whipped cream to mix with it; sweeten to taste; and immediately put it into the mould. 627. Clouted Cream to eat with Tarts.—Take four pints of new milk; set it on a clear fire, and stir it now and then; when- ever it begins to boil take it off, and put it into broad flat dishes to cool; stir it about in the dishes for some time after it is turned out of the pan; set in a cool place and let it stand twenty-four hours. It is excellent to eat with all sorts of fruit tarts, and may be served with cream poured over it. 628. V el vet - Cream. — Take a little syrup, lemon, orange, or pine- apple ; put two or three spoonfuls of it in the bottom of a dish; heat some new milk lukewarm; pour it on the syrup ; put in as much rennet as will set it, and cover it over till ready. 629. To Freeze Ices. — Make them according to the following receipts; put them in the freezing- pots, cover them with the lid, and