MEAT, POULTRY, GAME 53 care the sauce does not stick to the pan. Add to the sauce either capers or minced gherkins. Fry some thin slices of bread of a light- brown, glaze ; then arrange them round the dish, with the chicken in the centre, and pour the sauce over. 253. Matelotte de Petits Pou- lets.—Cut up your chickens as for a fricassee, legs and wings, pinions, and the breasts and backs, into two, put them into boiling water on the fire for two or three minutes, then place them in a stew-pan with a slice or two of ham, a ladleful of mixed veal gravy and cullis, a bunch of onions and parsley, a little sweet basil, half a shallot, some pepper and salt; stew all together gently for an hour. Then strain the sauce, add some more cullis, a few button mushrooms or sliced truffles, a squeeze of orange or lemou-juice; dish the chicken, pour the sauce over and serve. This may be varied with peas or aspara- gus tops, instead of mushrooms or truffles. 254. Cold Minced Chicken aux Fines Herbes.—Mince some mush- rooms and sweet herbs, add mace, pepper, lemon zest, and a little salt, two tablespoonfuls of cream, and a piece of butter. Stew them together till the whole are well cooked, then remove the herbs; add the white meat of a cold chicken previously minced, some finely minced chervil and parsley, and the squeeze of a lemon. Just heat it thoroughly and serve with fried croustades of bread round it. 255. To Dress Cold Chicken, Veal, or Game.—Cut them up and put them into a good well-seasoned stock, let it come to a boil, and then set it to simmer for half an hour ; add a small piece of butter rubbed in flour, a boned anchovy, a minced onion, and a small pieoe of shallot, a little salt and cayenne, and a tablespoonful of port wine. Let it stew together about ten minuteslonger ; shake it frequently and it will be ready to serve. 256. For an Aspic of Fillets of Chicken.—First put a little aspio into the mould to acquire a sub- stance. When it is set cut some shapes of hard-boiled yolks and whites of eggs, truffles, gherkins, and beetroot; when you have arranged all these decorations, pour in some liquid aspic gently to settle all together, and put it in the mould on the ice to freeze; then arrange the fillets of chicken previ- ously cooked, skinned, and cut in good shape, neatly all round, pour in as much more aspic as will set the chicken, then put round and over the chicken some mayonnaise or Beurre de Montpellier, over thia as much oold aspic as will cover it, otherwise the butter or sauce would dilute in the jelly and cause it to look muddy. Fill the mould now with the liquid aspic as full as it will hold and let it freeze. When ready to serve, dip a cloth in hot water, wrap it round the outside of the mould, which will loosen it, and turn it out on the dish. 257. L’Aspic for the Above.— Take a handful of aromatic herbs, such as burnet, chervil, and tarra- gon, boil them in white vinegar; when the vinegar is well flavoured pour into the stew-pan some re- duced consommd of fowl. Season with salt and pepper and a little spice, then break the whites of four eggs into a pan, and whisk them