PICKLING AND PRESERVING 125 703. Marathon Biscuits.—Rub with new warm milk; add a taljle- into a pound of flower three ounces spoonful of yeast; knead it quietly; of butter, a pinch of salt, and some let it stand an hour, and bake in a sugar; then make it into a paste quick oven. flMcftUrtg anb preserving. 704. Indian Pickle.—One gallon of vinegar, and a quarter of a pound of garlic, half a pound of salt, a quarter of a pound of ginger, two ounces of white mustard-seed, two teaspoonfuls of cayenne pepper; mix all well together; lay any vegetables you wish to pickle, such as onions, cauliflowers, French beans, radish pods, gherkins, cap- sicums, etc., in salt for three days; then put them into the pickle - bottle, and cork, and in three weeks they will be fit for use. 705. Hot Pickles.—One gallon of vinegar, two pounds of mustard- seed, one pound of long pepper, one of black pepper, two pints of Chili vinegar, a bottle of Cayenne pepper, six pieces of horse-radish the size of an egg, sliced, and two cloves of garlic. All these in- gredients must be well boiled, and put in a jar till it cools; then put in enough turmeric to colour it with, or cover the jar till the pickle is quite cold, when you must boil it again; have ready prepared the different vegetables you mean to pickle—cabbages, cut cauliflowers, and French beans, shoots of young elder, celery, radish roots, apples, cucumbers, etc. These should be dried some days previously in the sun. If dusty, they must be cleansed by pouring boiling vinegar over them ; take them out, drain, and let them lie a night; then put them into the pickle, and tie the jar or bottle down with a bladder. If, after some months, you find there is not sufficient vinegar, pour off the pickle, and boil it up again with a quart of plain and a pint of Chili vinegar, adding another ounce of mustard-seed. These receipts are for a large quantity; but if smaller, the same proportions must be observed. 706. Pickle for Ham or Tongues.—Boil twenty pounds of salt in two gallons of water, skim- ming it well; then add one pound of saltpetre, three pounds of sugar, one ounce of cloves, the same each of mace and allspice, two ounces of whole pepper, garlic, shallots, thyme, and bay-leaves; boil it for a quarter of an horn-, then put it by to cool; when cold pour into oval crocks ready to receive the tongues or ham. The tongues should be well cleaned before putting them in by rubbing them with common salt, and laying them on a sloping board to drain for a night. This is a very good receipt. 707. Hamburgh Pickle.—Four gallons of water, six ounces of common salt, four ounces of salt- petre, eight ounces of brown sugar; boil it well and strain it. When cold you may put in beef, mutton, pork, or tongues. Mind that the meat is covered with the brine;