75 VEGETABLES, time will suffice. When the broth is boiled down quite thick, and sticking to the lettuce, pour over a little clarified butter, and shake the saucepan till it unites with the broth and lettuce, but do not toss it for fear of breaking them. You may turn it out and Berve it thus, or, just before removing it from the fire, add the yolk of an egg beaten up in a little cream. Celery and endive may be done in the same way. 388. To Stew Endive.—Choose the whitest endive, pick it and blanch in boiling water, then put it in cold water; take it out and squeeze it well. Lay it on a table, and hash it a little with a knife, place it in a stew-pan with as much veal broth as will cover it, and a small bit of ham. Let it simmer over a slack fire till it gets quite thick; remove the ham. If the sauce, when it is stewed sufficiently, is not thick enough, add a little cullis. 389. To Dress Sorrel.—Pick the sorrel carefully and nip off the stalks ; set over a stove a saucepan half full of water. When it boils, put in the sorrel and scald it; take it out again at once and drain it; squeeze it as hard as you do spinach, then put it into a saucepan with a little veal broth, and Bimmer till smooth and thick over a gentle fire. When nearly done, add a very little ham sauce. (See Sauces.) 390. Stewed Sorrel.—Wash any quantity you require of the leaves clean; boil them tender in water and rub through a tammy into a stew-pan; add a slice of fresh butter and a spoonful or two of bechamel SALADS, ETC. sauce, a little salt and sugar ; stew for a few minutes, and serve. 391. Stewed Celery. — Wash and trim off the outer leaves; put it on to boil; when it is tender take it out and squeeze it well; then place it in a stew-pan with some good veal broth, and simmer it over a gentle fire. When reduced enough, thicken the sauce with a bit of butter the size of a walnut rolled in flour, add a few drops of vinegar or a squeeze of lemon, and serve. 392. Celery & la Creme.—Trim and wash ; if the heads are large, halve them and cut them into lengths to suit your dish ; put them into a stew-pan with a cup of weak broth or veal gravy; stew till tender; add two tablespoonfuls of cream, a pieoe of butter rolled in flour, salt, pepper, and a little white sugar. Simmer together a few minutes, and serve. 393. Asparagus & la Crfime.— Cut the green part of the asparagus in pieces an inch long, and blanch them in boiling water; then toss them in a stew-pan in a little butter or lard over the fire, but take care not to make them greasy. Add to them some cream, a bunch of herbs, a little pepper and salt; let them stew till tender. Before serving, beat up two yolks of eggs in a little cream with a teaspoonful of sugar; add it to the sauce; mix well, make it hot, and serve. 394. Asparagus au Jus.—Cut them in pieces, as above ; cut some parsley and chervil small and toss them together in a little melted lard; put in also a whole leek, which you afterwards take out; do not let them brown. Season