DAINTY DISHES 118 657. To Clarify Yeast.—Take a quart of yeast; put it in two gallons of cold water ; let it remain one night. By the next morning the yeast will have fallen to the bottom. Drain off the water, and any yeast that may be floating on the top. Your yeast will now be white and sweet. When it is to be used, mix about half a handful of bran with it, and then strain from the bran through a sieve into the flour you are going to make your bread of. This makes it perfectly sweet. 658. To Make Fine Bread or Rolls.—To three pounds of flour add one pint of warm milk and a quarter of a pint of clarified yeast; stir it thinly into part of the flour, and leave it all night. Next morn- ing warm another pint of milk ; add it to the flour and yeast, stir it round a few times, and then work in lightly the rest of the flour ; let it remain half an hour, then make up your rolls. Let them rise till they are quite light, and bake in a hot oven. This paste for loaf- bread should be made somewhat stiffer than for rolls. 659. Excellent Bread.— Four- teen pounds of flour, four eggs, a pint of yeast, and enough luke- warm milk to make it into a dough the thickness of hasty pudding; leave it two hours to rise; sift over it some fine salt; work enough flour into it to make the dough of a proper consistence; make into loaves, and bake in a quick oven. 660. A Plain Loaf of Bread.— Half a peck of the best seconds flour, one teaspoonful of salt, three tablespoonfuls of yeast, and a pint and a half of water, allowed to rise, and baked, makes one good large loaf of bread. 661. To make Brown Bread.— Take thirty pounds of flour and forty pounds of bran, or seventy pounds of flour only once bolted or sifted, so that merely the coarser bran is removed. Into forty-two pounds of this mix a quart of good thick yeast previously strained through a hair sieve (if thin it will require more); then stir in with a spoon a sufficient quantity of luke- warm water to make a proper dough, not too stiff. It makes two loaves more, and still better bread, if you use bran-water in- stead of plain water. It is made by boiling five pounds of coarse bran in rather more than four gallons of water, so that when boiled perfectly smooth you have three gallons and three quarts clear bran-water. Leave the dough to stand two hours; if it does not rise sufficiently, add two teaspoon- fuls of coarse brown sugar. "When it has risen, add a pint of salt dis- solved in plain or bran - water, according as [you have made your bread (this and the bran-water must both be strained), and the rest of the flour. Work it well for an hour—the coarser the flour the more working it requires ; cover it up, and leave it to stand at least two hours more. Next lay it on a table (it is better if near the fire), and alternately work it with your hands and roll it out with a rolling- pin for a little while; then shape it into two round pieces for loaves of the shape desired. Wet the sides that are to be joined with a little water, and make a hollow with the hand in the upper part. See that the oven is properly