SAUCES 31 to a proper consistency. The yolk of a hard-boiled egg worked in is considered an improvement by some cooks. For roast beef. 131. Sauce App^tissante.— Mustard one large spoonful, a tablespoonful of sugar worked into it; two tablespoonfuls of Harvey sauce; a teaspoonful of shallot, elder and chili vinegars, and a tablespoonful of claret or port wine. French mustard may be added or other vinegars, or the proportion of each varied to taste. Put the whole in a silver dish over a lamp. Put in your shoes of meat of any kind, or hot or cold game ; let it cook till very hot. This is excellent, and will revive and stimulate the most jaded appetite. 132. Sauce for a Grill.—Half a pint of gravy, one ounce of butter, well rubbed together with a table- spoonful of flour, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, two teaspoon- fuls of lemon-juice, one of made mustard, one of capers, half a one of whole black pepper, a very little grated lemon-peel, a teaspoonful of shallot vinegar, and one of essence of anchovy, and a few grains of cayenne pepper. Stir well to- gether, simmer till very hot, and pour over your grill. 133. Sauce for Venison.—To a pint of port wine add two pounds of moist sugar and a quarter of a pint of white wine vinegar. Boil it about twenty minutes. Good with stewed venison or hash. FISH SAUCES. 134. Fish Sauce without But- ter.—Simmer very gently a pint of vinegar with half a pint of soft water, an onion, half a handful of scraped horseradish, and the fol- lowing spices lightly bruised—four cloves, two blades of mace, and half a teaspoonful of black pepper. When the onion is quite tender take it out, and chop it small, with two_ anchovies, and set the whole again on the fire to boil for a few minutes, adding a spoonful of ketchup. Have ready well beaten theyolks of three eggs; strain; then mix the liquor by degrees with them ; when well mixed, set the saucepan over a gentle fire ; toss the sauce to and fro from the saucepan into a basin you will hold in your hand, and shake the pan over the fire; do not let it boil. The sauce should be of the consis- tency of melted butter. 135. Lobster Sauce. — Pound the spawn and two anchovies, pour on them a little gravy, add a small bit of butter; when pounded very fine, rub it through a hair sieve, and cover it till it is wanted. Break the lobster carefully, cut all the flesh into dice, but not too small; dilute some of your pre- pared spawn in some melted butter, and if you have no anchovies to pound with it, you may now add two teaspoonfuls of essence of anchovies, a little salt and cayenne pepper, two spoonfuls of double cream, and mix it all well before you add the meat to it. Let it simmer on the fire, taking care it does not boil. A squeeze of lemon may be added. It should look very red and smooth. 136. Oyster Sauce. — Beard three dozen good-sized oysters; put them in a stew-pan with their own liquor, six ounces of butter, and a tablespoonful of flour. Let them just boil one minute all to- gether, then add a teacupful of