lpapcr=»ag Goofier?. ‘EN PAPILLOTES.’ 819. Dried Haddock—Trim the haddock and place it in a well- greased bag using either good salad oil or butter, add two tablespoon- fuls of milk, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and three or four small tomatoes, Fasten the end and cook on a perforated grid or shelf in a hot oven for about twelve minutes. Dish up and serve with the tomatoes arranged down the centre, and a sprinkling of chopped parsley. 820. Filleted Plaice.—Prepare the fillets oarefully, season with a little salt and pepper, and sprinkle over a little lemon juice. Roll up each fillet with the skin inwards. Put some butter on the top of each and place the fillets side by side in a buttered paper bag. Bake for about ten minutes. There will be a little essence of the fish in the bag. Use this in making the sauce to cover the fillets, which will give it an excellent flavour. 821. Bloaters. — Cut off the heads and clean them thoroughly, place them side by side in a well- buttered paper bag, fasten the end securely and bake for about ten minutes. 822. Mackerel.—Cut off the head, wash and dry the fish and out it open down the backbone, which remove, then brush over with some butter, season with pepper and salt, adding a pinch of mixed herbs sprinkled over with a little finely- chopped shallot, just a soupgon. Slip the fish into a well-buttered bag and bake for about half an hour. Dish up and serve. 823. Stuffed Haddock.—Stuff the fish with a veal stuffing omitting the suet, sew it up and then truss it in the shape of the letter S. Brush it over with egg and raspings, bake this in a well-buttered paper bag for about half an hour. Serve with anchovy sauce. 824. Dried Kippers.—Remove the backbone, then spread over a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, a little onion, pepper and mustard. Put small pieces of butter on the top and bake for about ten minutes in a buttered paper bag. 825. Red Mullet. — Take a paper bag and well oil or butter it, place the mullet inside, adding a piece of butter, a glass of sherry and a few drops of anchovy or other fish sauce, a squeeze of lemon juice, cayenne and salt, with a very tiny piece of shallot. Bake slowly for about twenty minutes. Be careful that the bags are well secured when liquid is put in: it is a good plan to fold both ends. 826. Dressed Turbot.—Take a small turbot and just raise the fillets on the white side, cutting down the centre and slipping the knife under. Then stuff the fish