156 DAINTY DISHES season to taste and serve on the toast quite hot. 881. Lobster Soufflfees.—Butter some small moulds very thickly. Make a stiff ponada with two table- spoonfuls of butter, the same quantity of flour, one-quarter of a pint of good fish stock, the same of thick cream, cayenne and salt to taste, the coral from a hen lobster, well pounded and dried, also the meat from the lobster, chopped and pounded, making a smooth mixture. Remove from the fire and beat in the yolks of two eggs thoroughly. Lastly, the whites of three eggs whipped very stiffly and mingled in. Fill the moulds half full and steam gently for twenty minutes. Turn out carefully on to a cassolette biscuit and garnish with a little of the coral. 882. Fried Oysters.—Beard the oysters, then dry them well in flour ; egg and breadcrumb them and fry in boiling fat for one minute. Garnish with watercress and lemon. 883. Mushrooms Farced.—Take some cup mushrooms, peel them and remove stalks, then fill them with this mixture. Some minced ham and breadcrumbs in equal propor- tions, a little finely-chopped shalot and parsley, seasoning to taste and mixed with a little cream. Bake in a hot oven and when cooked, serve on fried crohtons of bread. 884. Tomatoes Farced.—Choose some firm red tomatoes of equal size, cut out the centre core and stalks and fill with the above mixture. Bake and serve in a similar way. 885. Mushrooms and Tomato. —Cut some bread into rounds, egg and breadcrumb and fry a golden brown i Take some tomatoes, cut them in half and fry gently in some butter, with some mushrooms and a little seasoning. Put the half tomato the cut side up on the crouton and lay one mushroom on the top. Serve quite hot. 886. Tomato Toast.—Skin and slice some tomatoes and then fry them for about five minutes in some butter, then break into the pan two or three eggs, add a pinch of sugar, one rasher of bacon or ham very finely minced, and a little seasoning. Stir until it begins to set. Pile on small squares of fried bread. 887. Angels on Horseback.— Cut some round pieces of bread rather small and fry them in clari- fied butter till of a golden colour. Roll a little slice of grilled bacon round an oyster which has been made hot in its own liquor, and place on the top of each crouton with just a drop or two of lemon juice and a dust of cayenne pepper. 888. Stuffed Olives. — Make some biscuit rounds of cassolette pastry, and place a turned olive, stuffed with foie gras in the centre, curl a filleted anchovy round this, which has been dipped in lobster coral or panurette crumbs. Deco- rate with a small rose of anchovy butter on the top and one on either side of the biscuit, using a forcer. 889. Baked Cheese Souffle.— Butter a souffles dish or tin and fix round it a band of buttered paper to come up about three inches above. Melt three ounces of butter in a rather deep stewpan, stir in three ounces of flour, one pint of cream, cayenne and salt when it comes to the boil, remove from the