DAINTY DISHES 46 of allspice, and a good pinch of cayenne pepper : rub it well in, and let it stand twenty-four hours. Then rub in thoroughly several handfuls of salt. Put it by for ten days, turning and rubbing in the salt every day. Then put it into a pan, with four pounds of shred beef-suet, dredge it lightly with flour, and bake in a slow oven for four or five hours, according to the Bize. This will keep good in moderate weather as long as any remains of it. 216. Beef Bouilli.—Take the short ribs of a breast of beef, and put them on to stew with a few turnips, carrots, onions, a head of celery, a clove of garlic, a few slices of leg of beef, a small piece of mutton or veal, and a little spice. Cover it with boiling water, and let it simmer slowly four or five hours, till the meat is as tender as possible. For sauce, take some cullis or good rich gravy, a dessert- spoonful of chili vinegar, four or five gherkins minced fine, a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a little soy, and pepper and salt to your taste. Simmer all together a few minutes. When ready to serve, take the top skin of the bouilli, glaze it with a dark-brown glazing, and serve the sauce under the meat. 217. Collared Beef.—Choose the thin end of the flank of fine mellow beef, but not too fat. Lay it in a dish with salt and saltpetre; turn and rub it every day for a week, keeping it in a cool place. Then remove all bone and gristle, and the skin of the inside part, and cover it with the following season- ing : Cut small a large handful of parsley, the same of sage, some thyme, marjoram, pepper, salt and allspice (and, if liked, a little garlic). Boll the meat up as tight as pos- sible, and bind it first with a cloth and then with tape or packthread. Put the beef on in plenty of water, and let it boil gently seven or eight hours. When done, put a heavy weight on while it is hot, without undoing the cloth, etc. It will, when cold, be of an oval shape. It should then be glazed on the outside. 218. Dutch Beef.—Take a lean piece of beef, rub it well with treacle or brown sugar; let it lie three days, turning and rubbing it often, then wipe it; salt it with salt and saltpetre beaten fine to- gether, the salt having the largest proportion; rub it well in every day for a fortnight, roll it tight in a coarse doth, and press it under a heavy weight. Hang it to dry in wood smoke, turning it upside down every day; when smoked enough, bod it in pump-water and press it. To be eaten cold, cut, or grated. 219. An Excellent Mode of Dressing Beef to eat Cold.— Hang three ribs of beef three or four days ; take out the bones and rub it well with salt, a little salt- petre, and bay salt, brown sugar, pepper, cloves, mace and allspice, in fine powder. Let it lie for a fortnight, turning and rubbing it every day; then put it into a baking-pan, and put some butter or suet on it; cover it with a coarse crust, and bake slowly till as tender as possible. Tongues to eat cold are excellent done in the same way. 220. Collared Ox Cheeks.—The cheeks must be well washed and