COOKERY FOR THE SICK AND POOR 139 water, with a little mace and lemon-peel, stir it often, and let it boil half an hour; strain it; add some sugar and nutmeg, and a large glass of white wine. Brown caudle is prepared as above, but after straining you add a pint of good mild ale, and flavour with brandy and sugar. 781. Grit Gruel. — Well wash half a pint of split grits, boil them in three pints of water till rather thick and smooth, stirring it fre- quently ; strain through a hair sieve, and add either sugar or salt to taste. 782. Oatmeal Gruel. — If for thick gruel, mix well together in a basin two tablespoonfuls of oat- meal with three of water; if for thin gruel, only one with the same quantity of water; have ready in a stew-pan a pint of boiling water or milk; pour this by degrees to the oatmeal you have mixed, and then return the whole to the sauce- pan, set it on the fire, and let it boil five minutes, stirring it all the time; then strain it through a hair sieve, and it is ready for use. If wished more nourishing, it may be made with broth instead of water or milk. 783. To make Arrowroot.— For one cupful take a teaspoonful of the best arrowroot, and miv it by degrees with cold water till it is quite smooth, but so stiff that the spoon will only just turn round in it; have ready a kettle of quite boiling water, and fill the cup up, pouring at first slowly and then more rapidly, and stirring all the time in the same proportion. The result should be a perfectly clear jelly, to which you may add a table- spoonful of brandy or sherry, or flavour it with lemon, and sweeten with sugar to taste. It is much better made in this way than boiled. 784. Porridge.—Fill a pan with water, and while it is boiling add a little meal and as much salt as you think will be necessary to season the porridge ; then take the porridge-stick (a round stick like a thin rolling-pin) in the right hand and the oatmeal in the left, and when the water begins to rise shake in the meal with one hand and stir with the other quickly, but adding the meal by degrees ; continue putting it in till it is thiok enough not to fly over when stirred; continue to boil it for some time, well beating it with the porridge-stick. It may be made thinner or thicker according to taste. Barley-meal porridge is made in the same way, and should be served in a soup plate, which is better than a wooden bowl, in which oatmeal porridge is best. They are both eaten with milk and cream, or ale and brown sugar. Nothing is so wholesome and nourishing for children. 785. Furmity.—Boil wheat till it oomes to a jelly, and to a quart of this add by degrees two quarts of new milk ; stir and boil till well mixed; beat the yolks of three eggs, with a little nutmeg, and sugar to sweeten it to taste; stir this well in over the fire; pour it into deep dishes, and eat either hot or cold. 786. Flummery. — Put three handfuls of fine white oatmeal to steep a day and a night in cold water; then pour the water off clear, and add as much more water; let it again stand the same time;