85 EGGS, CHEESE, ENTREMETS, ETC. filled; put them on the gridiron for two or three minutes, pass a salamander over the top, and serve. 444. Des (Eufs au Soleil.— Poach about eight fresh eggs very nicely; take them out and put them into cold water; when they are cool lay them for about a quarter of an hour to marinade in a glass of white wine vinegar, with some sweet herbs ; then dry them upon a cloth, dip them in a batter prepared with flour mixed with equal quantities of ale and water till it is of the right consistency, about the thickness of double cream. Fry them of a nice light brown in hot lard. Serve upon a bed of fried parsley. 445. Timbales of Eggs au Jus de Perdrix.—Take a partridge, split it down the back, notch the breast and legs; put it into a small stew-pan with a bit of ham, an onion, a carrot, and a little parsley. Pour in a spoonful or two of broth, and let it stew gently till it is dry and brown at the bottom. Add a ladleful more broth, and let it boil gently for about a quarter of an hour. Then strain it through a linen sieve, take off the fat, add a little salt and pepper, and when cool pour in six or seven eggs pre- viously well beaten; pass it through a tammy, and pour it into small china cups or timbale moulds. Place them in a pan of hot water ; let it boil till you perceive they are set like custard; turn them out, and pour the same gravy over them. 446. Curried Eggs. — Slice two onions, fry them brown in a little butter, add a pint of broth and a tablespoonful of curry - powder ; stew till quite tender. Thicken a cup of cream with some arrowroot or rice-flour ; mix it with the broth, etc.; simmer a few minutes, and add six or eight hard-boiled eggs cut into slices; heat them tho- roughly in the sauce, but do not let them boil. 447. CEufs au Bouillon.—Put into a stew-pan six yolks of fresh eggs and two whites, with six spoonfuls of good stock; mix all well together, and pass it through a sieve. Butter some small moulds; let them drain and cool; pour the eggs into the moulds and set them in a pan of boiling water on the fire. When they have properly taken, turn them out with care on a dish, and serve with a rich gravy round them. 448. Les CEufs en Fricassee.— Put a piece of butter in a stew-pan with some finely-minced parsley and green onions, a teacupful of broth, and a shake of flour ; reduce it a little and skim it well. Boil some eggs hard, cut them in slices not too thin, and put them in with a little salt and pepper. Beat up the yolk of an egg in a small cup- ful of cream; add this to the rest, and the juice of half a lemon. Mix well, make very hot, and serve with sippets of toasted or fried bread. 449. (Eufs Farcies.—Boil some fresh eggs hard ; cut them carefully in halves lengthways, first remov- ing the shell; take out the yolks and beat them up with a bit of butter, some breadcrumbs soaked in milk and squeezed dry, a little minced parsley, pepper and salt. Add cream enough to moisten the paste, fill the whites to the original shape of the egg, oover the top