82 DAINTY DISHES garnish with aspic jelly, or sur- round it with a border of aspic made in a mould. Cold salmi of partridge or grouse is good in the same way. 432. Boiled Salad.—Boil tender beetroot, potatoes, Brussels sprouts, and celery ; shoe the two first, and cut the celery in largish pieces. There should not be many sprouts. Pour over a rich salad sauce (see Sauces). The vegetables must be cold. This salad may be made of any sort of vegetables which are improved by being cooked in a blanc (see No. 403), such as Jeru- salem artichokes, cucumbers, Por- tugal onions, French beans, aspara- gus tops, etc. 433. Of Preserving Veget- ables, etc.—German housekeepers are especially skilful in preserving vegetables and fruits, so that you may eat them all the year round, as fresh as if only just brought from the garden. This they do by a simple and well-known process, but as the compiler has never seen it described in any cookery-book, and as anybody with a little care can do it for themselves, she has thought it may not be uninterest- ing to describe it: Vegetables pre- served in hermetically closed tin boxes may be preserved fresh for years, but as soon as the box is once open, the vegetables will not keep long; it is therefore better not to have the boxes made too large, but of such a size that they hold as much vegetables as should serve for an ordinary dish; they should be made of good, strong tin, and have round the inside edge of the box a rim so that a flat piece of tin can be laid on it as a lid, and soldered to the outside edge. The boxes must be first boiled in potash and water, and then well rinsed in clean hot water. Care must be taken that all the vegetables used are young and perfectly fresh: as for fruits, they must be preserved in bottles, as their acid acting on the metal would give them an un- pleasant taste. The best vegetables for preserving are peas, French beans, broad beans, young carrots, cauliflower and asparagus. With the exception of the peas and asparagus, they should be half- boiled, with as little water as pos- sible, and not much salt, as that can always be added when they are cooked. Peas should be shelled and boiled in a little broth without any salt not longer than a quarter of an hour, and asparagus should only be washed clean and closely packed in the boxes. Vegetables are to be laid in the boxes while they are still hot; they are not to be filled fuller than half a little finger’s breadth from the top ; you are then to pour over each some of the liquor they were boiled in, and in the case of the asparagus plain boiling water, leaving still about as much room as two straws would take between the top and the lid, or the boxes could not be soldered, which they are now ready for, and which is the most important part of the whole process, for if they are not made perfectly air-tight all your labour will have been in vain, so you should take care to have a trustworthy tinsmith in attendance, and let him wait till you have quite finished, that he may be at hand to close with solder any little aper- ture which may be discovered in the course of boiling, and which will be seen by small air-bubbles rising from the spot continuously