DAINTY DISHES 80 strew fine breadcrumbs over tbem, and bake in a Dutch oven. 419. Mushrooms k la Crfime.— Cut the mushrooms in pieces and toss them over a brisk fire in butter seasoned with salt, a very little nutmeg, and a bunch of herbs. When they are done enough and the butter nearly all wasted away, take out the herbs; add the yolji of an egg beaten up in some good cream, make very hot, and serve. 420. To Dress Truffles.—Having peeled the truffles, cut them in slices, wash and drain them well; put them into a small saucepan with some essence of ham, or ham- sauce (see Sauces), and set them on to stew gently over a slack fire. When they are quite tender, bind them with a good cullis, and serve. 421. Truffles Maigre. — After having peeled, cut and wash the truffles as in the last recipe; put them into a stew-pan with some fish stock; season with salt, pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and stew them over a gentle fire. When they are done enough, thicken the sauce with roux, take out the herbs, and serve. 422. Truffles au Vin de Cham- pagne.—Take ten or twelve fine truffles, put them in warm water, brush them clean and change the water; brush them again, and rinse them thoroughly in fresh water that they may be quite clean; drain them, cover the bottom of a stew-pan with shoes of bacon, and put in the truffles; season with a little salt, a bunch of parsley and scallions; add a little good stock, and half a bottle of champagne. Make them boil. Cover the top of the stew-pan first with paper, and then with the lid. Put fire over as well as under, and leave them to cook an hour. Ascertain if they are done enough by pressing them. If they are, drain them on a cloth, and serve in a folded napkin; if not, let them stew longer. A slice or two of ham may also be added. 423. Morels in Cream.—Having taken off the stalks of the morels, cut them in two, and wash them in several waters that they may not be gritty; put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter; season with salt, pepper, a bunch of herbs, and a little shred parsley; toss them over the stove, then moisten with some good broth, and set them to simmer over a slack fire. Make a thickening with the yolks of two eggs beaten up with cream; take out the herbs, add this to the sauce, and serve. Mush- rooms may be dressed in the same manner, and morels are good done in the different ways mushrooms are. 424. Gorman Salad.—The fillets of four salt herrings chopped very small, one beetroot and four boiled potatoes, two hard-boiled eggs, two russet apples, two stalks of celery, all minced fine. (For sauce, see Salad Sauces.) 425. Anchovy Salad.—Wash them in fresh water till the liquor be clear, then dry them on a linen cloth. Cut off the tails and fins, and bone them; split them and lay them on a dish. Mince young onions, parsley, beetroot, and lettuce; arrange it round them. Beat up oil and lemon-juice to- gether and pour it over. 426. Lobster Salad.—Kub two hard-boiled eggs through a sieve, add to them two tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, the same of