DAINTY DISHES 59. Shallot Butter.—A quarter of a lb. of butter, a teaspoonful of chopped shallot, a little cayenne, salt, and pepper, half a teaspoon- ful of mustard, and the juice of a lemon ; mix all well together. These butters are all good for cold or broiled meats and salads. 60. Beurre de Montpellier.— Take a handful of chervil, tarra- gon, burnet, and green onions or chives; wash them very clean and blanch them in boiling water with a handful of salt, which keeps them green; let them boil six minutes, and put them into cold water to cool; have ready eight hard-boiled yolks of eggs; drain the herbs and squeeze all the water out of them; put them into a mortar, and pound them to a pulp; add the yolks of eggs, ten anchovies (washed and boned), two spoonfuls of capers, a very little bit of garlic (this may be omitted if not liked), some salt, a little cayenne, and a small quan- tity of mustard. Pound all this together till quite smooth, then add half a pound of very fresh butter, a spoonful of olive-oil, and one of elder or tarragon vinegar. Taste if it requires more seasoning, and rub it all through a sieve. None of the herbs should predominate; and if not green enough, add some spinach or parsley juice. Put it on the ice, and use it for anything cold, such as salads of fish, game, etc. To make the greening of spinach or parsley, pick and wash two large handfuls of spinach or parsley; pound them in a mortar; squeeze them through a tammy, and pour all the juice into a small stew-pan; set it on the fire, but take care it does not boil; and when it just begins to curdle, strain it through a silk sieve, and use as required. 61. Salad Sauce.—The yolks of three raw fresh eggs, a teaspoonful of salt, and the same quantity of mustard; beat it well together one minute, then add and mix, by little at a tune, three tablespoonfuls of the finest olive-oil, and one of the best vinegar. 62. Salad Sauce.—Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs well bruised, two tablespoonfuls of oil well mixed, the same of vinegar, a teaspoonful of chili vinegar, and the same of salt and mustard. 63. Balbirnie Salad Sauce.— Two eggs boiled twenty - five minutes and well bruised, two spoonfuls of salt, two yolks of raw fresh eggs, eight tablespoonfuls of oil, mixed slowly in a cup with a wooden spoon. When half the oil is mixed in, a little at a time, add half a teaspoonful of mustard, and then the remainder of the oil; by so doing it will become as thick as a paste; then add two tablespoon- fuls of French tarragon vinegar, and mix well. This is excellent to eat with beetroot. 64. German Salad Sauce.—Six tablespoonfuls of oil, and eight of the best vinegar, two of tarragon vinegar, and one of chili, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper; stir together and mix well with the salad. The red wine vinegar of Germany and olive-oil, mixed in the proportion of one tablespoonful of vinegar to two »f oil, and a little salt and pepper, makes the best possible summer salad sauce. 65. Salad Sauce.—The yolk of one hard-boiled egg mixed with one raw one and a little water, a teaspoonful of salt, half a tea- spoonful of mixed cayenne and