DAINTY DISHES 20 and three of common vinegar, a small quantity of minced parsley and shallot, some pepper and salt. Add enough cream to make the consistence of thick custard. 43. Sauce k la Tartare.—Take two anchovies, wash them well; two yolks of hard-boiled eggs. Mince separately some parsley, shallot, or onion, and tarragon. Put all into a small bowl with a spoonful of French mustard, one of olive-oil, and one of vinegar, a little pepper and salt; beat with a wooden spoon till it is smooth. It is good with meat, fish or game, with or without salad. 44. Sauce Piquante. — Pound together two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, one ounce grated horseradish, half an ounce of salt, a tablespoon- ful of mustard, a little minced shallot, one teaspoonful of celery an$ one of cress-seed, a small quantity of cayenne. Add gradu- ally a wineglassful of oil, and two of tarragon, horseradish, or cress vinegar. Set it over a gentle fire, and stir with a wooden spoon till it is like thick cream, then let it cool. 45. Cold Sauce for Grouse, or other Game.—Mix the yolks of two raw eggs with a spoonful of salad-oil very smooth; then add three spoonfuls of vinegar, one of sugar, and three of finely-chopped parsley, green onion, and a little shallot; add some pepper and salt. Out up your game, and just before serving pour this sauce over it. 46. German Sauce for Boiled Beef. — Take six ordinary - sized potatoes, boil them in salt and water, skin them, and let them cool, grate them with a sugar- grater ; add the yolks of six hard- boiled eggs, mix them well together; then take four spoonfuls of fine olive-oil and two of vinegar, and pass all through a hair sieve ; add a little finely-minced parsley. This sauce should be pretty thiok, but if it appears too much so, more vinegar may be added. This is enough for a large quantity. 47. Mustard Sauce.—A teacup- ful of mustard to be put into a dish with a teaspoonful of sugar, one of olive-oil, and a little salt; to be well mixed with the yolk of a hard- boiled egg rubbed down; add aB much vinegar as will make it suf- ficiently liquid, and strain it through a sieve. 48. Sauce k la Tartare.—Chop one onion, two shallots, a little parsley and tarragon, and a few capers, very fine; two yolks of eggs boiled hard, rubbed down, and dissolved by a little drop of water. Mix all these well together, and add a spoonful of tarragon and one of plain vinegar ; beat it well with a wooden spoon, adding by degrees a spoonful of olive-oil and mustard to your taste. This is a very good receipt, and is excellent with broiled fowl, or grouse, or eels, or salmon, and with cold meat of all kinds. 49. Sauce k la Ravigote.—Take capers, burnet, chervil, tarragon, a few stalks of celery, and two balm leaves; pick and wash them; also two anchovies. Mince the whole very fine, add a little fine pepper and salt, put all into a marble mortar, and beat till it is thoroughly mixed. While beating, add the yolk of a raw egg and a little olive- oil, and at intervals moisten it with a little white vinegar till it is of the consistence of thick cream. Mus- tard may be added, if liked, and chopped green chilies.