70 DAINTY DISHES out the mint and parsley; add a little stock and a pinch of flour ; mix well together, and stew till they come to a boil. 354. Peas k la CrSme.—Take two quarts of very young green peas, toss them up with a bit of butter, and let them stew over a gentle fire ; add a little bunch of parsley and chives. When they are nearly ready, season them with a little salt and pepper; remove the parsley and chives, and mix about a wineglassful of cream, sweetened with a little sugar, with them. 355. Peas k la Frangaise.— Wash the peas, which may be rather old ones; put them into a stew-pan with a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut, a fag- got of parsley and green onions, two cloves, a small slice of raw ham, a large white cos lettuce cut into slices, and a little salt. Put all on the fire to stew in its own liquor ; then put in a little boiling water, and allow it to stand for a quarter of an hour ; add a lump of sugar and some small bits of butter rolled in flour; mix well; let them have one more boil to thicken, and serve. 356. Pease Pudding.—One pint of peas and one potato; boil till they are quite soft; then rub them through a sieve ; tie them tight in a cloth, and boil ten minutes. Some salt should be added before the pudding is tied up. 357. Les Haricots k la Bre- tonne.—Boil half a pint of haricot beans till they are quite tender; slice four large onions very thin, and fry them in a little butter till quite brown ; then dry them in a cloth. Put the haricots and onions together in a stew-pan, and add a small ladleful of reduced cullis, a little good broth, a small bit of glaze, pepper and salt, and a little finely-minced parsley; make very hot, and serve. 358. White Beans k la Maltre d’Hotel.—White beans when new and fresh must be put into boiling water, but if they are old and dry they should be soaked for an hour in cold water before you boil them. Put them on to boil in cold water, and if more is required before they are done, replenish also with cold; boil them very tender, and put into a stew-pan a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a little finely-minced parsley, some pepper and salt, and then the beans, previously well drained; keep shaking the stew- pan, but do not touch the beans for fear of breaking them; squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and serve very hot. 359. Haricots Blancs au Jus.— Steep them a night in cold water; stew them slowly for two hours in broth, and serve them with a clear gravy; about half a pound is enough for a dish. Be sure they are stewed till quite tender. 360. Haricots Stewed for Roast Mutton.—Soak a pint of white beans in water for a few hours, let them boil gently till quite tender, but not broken, strain the water off, and add to the beans two ounces of butter, two minced shal- lots, pepper and salt, and a pint of either bechamel or cullis, accord- ing as you wish them white or brown; let all stew a few minutes, and serve with roast leg of mutton. 361. French Beans k la Pou- lette.—Choose the beans small and tender; wash them and take out