67 MEAT, POULTRY, GAME of port wine, a squeeze of lemon, and a spoonful of salt. Put the duck, which you will have kept very hot, into the dish, and strain the sauce over. Serve with sippets of fried bread. 273. Salmi de Becassines.— Take three woodcocks or four snipes, divide them, cut them in joints—the breasts and backs in two pieces—lay them aside on a plate, and in the dish on which the birds were cut, and which ought to be of silver, break up the livers and trail of the birds; squeeze over them the juice of four lemons; add the peel of one minced very fine; then place the birds on the dish, seasoned with a few pinches of salt, a little white pepper, nutmeg, and cayenne, two spoonfuls of French mustard, and half a glass of white wine. Put the silver dish over a spirit lamp ; keep moving each piece that the seasoning may penetrate and mix properly. Do not allow it to boil, but just as it comes to it put out the lamp, sprinkle with a little good olive-oil, keep stirring it for a minute or two, and serve instantly that it may be as hot as possible. All sorts of game is good dressed in this way. 274. Salmi of Woodcock.—Cut in pieces two woodcocks, previously half roasted; put them into a stew- pan, with three-quarters of a pint of gravy, an onion with two or three cloves stuck in it, an anchovy, a piece of butter rolled in flour, a little cayenne, and salt to taste ; simmer for about a quarter of an hour, but do not let it boil; then put in a glass of red wine and a squeeze of lemon. The livers and trails should be bruised in the sauce. Serve very hot. 275. Salmi of Duck.—Cut off the fillets of roasted duck, and the rest of it in pieces; mix salt and cayenne pepper together: sprinkle it over them; add half a wine- glass of olive-oil, a glass of claret, and the juice of two Seville oranges; shake it well over the fire till very hot, and serve. 276. Salmi of Partridge.—Pre- pare three partridges, lard and roast them, let them be underdone; when cold cut them in pieces, take off the skin, pare and arrange them in a stew-pan with a little good broth; set the pan on hot cinders, do not let it boil immediately; add six shallots and a little lemon-peel, also four large spoonfuls of reduced espagnole. Let it stew down to half the quantity, pass the sauce through a tammy, drain the par- tridges, and dish with a slice of hied bread between each piece ; pour the sauce round, and squeeze over them a little lemon-juice. 277. Salmi Chaud-firoid.—Pre- pare the salmi as above. A quarter of an hour before serving take the partridges out and add to the sauce a large spoonful of aspic jelly. Put the stew-pan in ice and shake it well till it takes, then dip each piece of partridge in separately that the sauce may adhere all over; dish them, pour the remainder of the sauce over, garnish with aspic and serve. Fricassee of chicken treated in the same way makes chaud-froid de poulet. 278. Salad of Grouse.—Roast a young grouse ; when cold cut it in eight pieces ; put into a deep dish or salad bowl some fine white lettuce, celery, mustard and cress, etc.; lay the grouse on it, and four hard-boiled eggs cut lengthways.