94 DAINTY DISHES eggs, and one small pot of marma- lade, reserving most of the chips to line the mould with. Mix all well up together, then beat up the whites of five eggs, and stir them lightly in. Butter a mould and line it completely with orange chips, put in the pudding, and steam it for half an hour with fire under and over. 501. Sir Watkin Wynne’s Pudding. — Take ten ounces of breadcrumbs, eight ounces of chopped suet, three ounces of pounded sugar, the grated peel and juice of two large lemons, three eggs, and a little salt. Mix all well together, put it into a mould that will just hold it, and boil for three hours. Serve with a clear wine-sauce. 502. Marrow Pudding.—Take half a pound of marrow from beef bones, grate about half a pound of bread into crumbs; put both into a basin and pour a pint of boiling cream over them, cover it close, and let it stand till nearly cold; beat up six eggs very light and mix them in, add a little grated nut- meg and cinnamon, a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and a spoonful of smooth marmalade. If liked, a small glass of brandy may also be added. Mix all well together, butter a mould, lay it with dried cherries or orange-chips, put in the pudding, and boil one hour; or it may be baked for the same time in a dish with good puff-paste round the edge. 503. Sunday Pudding. — Take half a pint of raisins, and half a pound of currants, the same of suet chopped fine and breadcrumbs, one tablespoonful of flour, half a glass of brandy, a small piece of lemon- peel chopped fine, three ounces of moist sugar, four eggs, and one teacupful of milk. Mix all these ingredients well together, put it in your mould, and boil four horns. 504. Plum Puddings. — Suet flour, currants, and stoned raisins, of each one pound, the rind of a lemon grated, four eggs, as much milk as will mix it into a proper consistency, and a wineglassful of brandy. Flour a cloth, tie it up tight, and boil eight or nine hours; or it may be boiled the same time in a mould. Instead of all flour, half the weight of breadcrumbs is an improvement. 505. A Rich Plum Pudding.— Four ounces of breadcrumbs, two ounces of flour, half a pound of muscatel raisins stoned, the same quantity of picked and washed currants, a pound of sliced kidney suet, a quarter of a pound powdered sugar, a saltspoonful of salt, a little mixed spice, two ounces of candied lemon, orange, or citron peel, chopped ; the rind of two, and the juice of one lemon; beat six eggs well with some new milk, and a glassful of brandy. Mix all well together, and let it stand two or three hours. Scald and flour a cloth, tie the pudding in firmly, and boil for five hours briskly. 506. Mince Pies.—Take a good fat salted bullock’s tongue; par- boil, skin, mince, or scrape two pounds of it. Mince separately two pounds of beef kidney suet, the same of good sound apples peeled and cored, half a pound of candied citron and orange peel, a pound and a half of stoned raisins; add two pounds of picked and washed currants, an ounce of mixed spices, a teaspoonful of salt, a pound of