49 MEAT, POULTRY, GAME to mate them good, that they should be cooked over a sharp red fire. The gridiron should be on the fire about two minutes before the chop or steak is laid on. They should be beaten a little before- hand, to set the meat and prevent it from shrinking, well seasoned with pepper and salt, and turned often to keep the gravy in the centre. Ten minutes will do a steak of half a pound weight, and about six minutes a chop. 231. Mutton or Lamb Chops au Feu.—Cut them rather thin, mince an onion and some parsley leaves very fine, add some oil; rub the chops well with this, leave them to soak in it two hours, season with pepper and salt. Broil over a sharp fire, and serve immediately. 232. Relishing Cutlets or Steaks.—Chop fine a tablespoon- ful of green pickled chilies, mix with two ounces of butter a little mustard and a spoonful of grated horse- radish. The cutlets or steaks should be cut rather thick. Season them with salt, and spread the above mixture on both sides. Put them on a gridiron over a sharp fire, turn them three or four times. Serve on a very hot dish, with the juice of half a lemon and a dessert- spoonful of walnut ketchup. 233. Lamb Chops h la Bou- lang&re. — Cut and trim neatly cutlets enough for a small entrde— say ten or twelve—season highly with salt and pepper and a little cayenne, dip them gently in olive- oil and then in flour. Broil them over a slow fire. While they are doing, put a gill of cream in a stew-pan, set it on the fire, and, when boiling, add two ounces of freBh butter, a tablespoonful of chopped chervil, the juice of half a lemon, and a little pepper and salt; stir quickly till it forms a nice smooth sauce; pour it over the cutlets when done, and serve quickly. Fillets of veal or rabbits are good done in this way. 234. Mutton Cutlets aux Con- combres.—Take a neck of mutton, cut it into chops, and trim them nicely. Chop some parsley and shallot very fine, and put them in a little melted butter ; dip the chops in this and then into breadcrumbs. Put them in the frying-pan, and fry of a fine light brown. Prepare two cucumbers by cutting them in four quarters, removing all the seeds; cut them in oval shapes about an inch long; boil them in half vinegar and water till tender. Make a sauce with the trimmings of the cutlets, some minced shallot and herbs ; put the cucumbers into the sauce and make them very hot. Serve in the centre of the dish with the cutlets arranged round. 235. Irish Stew.—Four pounds of potatoes, and a pound and a half of mutton, six or seven good-sized onions, and one carrot. Cut the meat in moderate-sized pieces, if the breast or scrag end of the neck, or in cutlets. Add one pint of water; stew very slowly till the potatoes are nearly done to a pulp; a few more potatoes should be added about half an hour before it is ready to serve. Season with pepper and salt. This is enough for six or seven persons. 236. Lamb Chops h l’Africaine. —Cut a lamb chop or outlet, broil over a very sharp fire, turning it continually; when nearly done season highly with salt and popper, and rub a spoonful of chutnee on D