55 MEAT; POULTRY, two dozen peeled truffles into godi- veau or forcemeat, and fill the breast of the turkey ; let it remain in for a week before it is roasted ; serve with sauce aux t ruffes. Pheasants or fowl may be done in the same way. 262. Une Dinde Rotie Parfaite. —Cover the turkey with slices of bacon and white paper ; just before it is quite done take off both bacon and paper, that it may get a nice brown. Stuff it with fifty chest- nuts, a little sausage-meat, and half a pound of truffles. A turkey re- quires about forty-five minutes to roast. 263. Turkey Legs. — Take a sweetbread, clean and scald it, cut it in square pieces the size of dice, cut some mushrooms as nearly as possible the same shape; put them into a saucepan, with some grated bacon, parsley, small onions, shallot, and sweet basil, minced fine, some coarse pepper, and the yolks of two eggs ; shake them well together. Take two raw turkey legs, remove the bones, leaving just a little bit at the end for show. Stuff the legs with the sweetbread, etc.; sew them up, so that nothing can come out. Put them to stew in a glass of good broth, one of white wine; add a bunch of parsley and small onions, and a little salt. Cover with slices of bacon, and stew over a gentle fire. When done, and but little sauce remains, skim it, take off the bacon and the bunch of parsley, add two spoonfuls of cullis, and thicken with yolk of an egg, and serve just before sending to table. Squeeze over the legs a little orange-juice. 261 Pigeons k la Tartare.— Singe your pigeons, truss them as for boiling, flatten them with a cleaver on the dresser as thin as you can without breaking the skin of the breast or back; season them with pepper and salt, dip them in melted butter, and dredge them with grated breadcrumbs, Broil them on a gridiron half an hour before you want them, turn- ing them often, and broiling them thoroughly. Make the sauce as follows: Mince a spoonful of parsley very fine, a shallot or a piece of onion, two spoonfuls of pickles, and a boned anchovy; mince all separately very fine, then squeeze over them the juice of a lemon, add half a spoonful of water, six spoonfuls of oil, and a little pepper; mix all these in- gredients together, and just as you are going to serve, rub in a spoonful of mustard. Put the sauce into the dish and the pigeons over it, and serve. 265. Poulets k la Tartare.— Cut the chicken in half, singe it over the fire, marinade it with a little melted butter, one clove of garlic, two or three small onions, some parsley and mushrooms, all hashed together, a little pepper and salt. Cover it with breadcrumbs, and boil over a sharp fire. Serve with a tartare or piquante sauce (see Sauces). Grouse is excellent dressed in the same way. 266. To Stew Old Partridges. —Put them in a stew-pan, with a little salt, pepper, a bunch of pars- ley, small onions, thyme, two bay- leaves, some sweet basil, a clove of garlic, and as much broth as will cover them. Stew gently over a slow fire till all the broth is ex-