84 DAINTY DISHES with or without a good gravy over it. This is an excellent recipe. 436. Omelette.—Two yolks of eggs and one white, a tablespoonful of cream, a little minced parsley and shallot, and a very little nut- meg. Whisk all well together, and fry in as little butter as possible. Very good. 437. Omelette aux Fines Herbes.—Break six very fresh eggs into a basin ; add a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter one of pepper, two of minced parsley, and half a one of minced onion; beat them well together. Put into a clean dry frying-pan two ounces of butter; set it on the fire, and when the butter is hot pour in the eggs. Keep mixing quickly with a spoon till it is lightly set, then tilt the pan sideways so as to let the omelette slip to the edge, which will make it of an oval shape. Let it set a minute, and turn it over on to a hot dish and serve. If you wish it to be flavoured with par- mesan or gruyere cheese, leave out the parsley and onions, and put two tablespoonfuls of the cheese grated to the eggs. 438. Buttered Eggs.—Put in a stew-pan two ounces of butter; break four fresh eggs into it; add a tablespoonful of chopped mush- rooms or truffles, half a teaspoon- ful of salt, and a quarter one of pepper. Set it on the fire and stir continually with a wooden spoon till it is of a good consistency. Have ready some slices of buttered toast on a hot dish ; pour the eggs on to them, and serve. 439. Eggs k la Bonne Femme. —Cut a middle-sized onion in dice; fry them in a stew-pan with a pat of butter a light brown ; add a tea- spoonful of vinegar when done; then butter a dish lightly, spread the onion over it, break the eggs into it, and put the dish in the oven. When the eggs are done, strew them over with fried bread- crumbs, and serve very hot. 440. Eggs k la Provengale.— Take the yolks of eight and the whites of five eggs; beat them well; add a spoonful of cullis or brown sauce, a little minced green onion and parsley, pepper and salt; stir it over a slow fire till it thickens ; squeeze in the juice of a lemon or orange, and serve with fried bread, or put them into small moulds. When done enough, turn them out, and serve with a sauce of cullis seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little lemon-juice. 441. Egg Vermicelli. — Boil eight yolks of eggs hard ; add three ounces of butter to them; pound them together, and rub all through a coarse sieve into the dish it is to be served in, on which you have previously laid cold toast buttered. 442. Ham and Eggs.—Cut an ounce of well-cooked ham in small dice; put it into a pan with an ounce of fresh butter and three eggs, a little pepper, and a spoon- ful of chopped chervil. Stir con- tinually till the eggs are enough done. They should not be very stiff. Serve on toast. 443. Eggs en Caisse. — Make some small paper boxes. Take a piece of butter and mix it with some stale crumbs of bread, a little minced parsley, salt, and cayenne pepper. Butter the bottoms of the boxes; then put in some of this mixture; break an egg into each box, cover it over with bread- crumbs ; see that the boxes are