DAINTY DISHES 128 then put all into a preserving-pan, and boil till the apples look clear ; pot them, and tie bladder over the top of the pots. It is better if the ginger is only bruised and put into a muslin bag, to be afterwards taken out; but you must then use nearly double the quantity of ginger. 716. To Make Currant Jelly. —Take the largest berries you can get; strip them off the stalks; keep back all green ones and the hard red ones at the end of the bunch; then weigh the currants, and take the same weight of single- refined sugar; clarify the sugar, and let it boil to candy, which you will know if, when it boils thick, you take some out in a spoon, and if it hangs in broad flakes it is ready; then throw the currants into the syrup, and let them boil very fast for ten minutes; then pour the jelly through a hair sieve into an earthen pan; stir the cur- rants gently with a spoon, but do not break them, or the pulp will run through and make the jelly thick. While it is passing, clean out the pan it was boiled in ; then return the jelly and warm it on the fire, but do not let it boil again; pot it up, and cover it with oiled paper. This method of making jelly preserves more of the flavour of the fruit than by running it through a bag; and it is not so apt either to candy or become fluid as by the usual way. 717. To make Jelly without Boiling.—Pick the currants care- fully ; squeeze the juice through a linen cloth; to every pint of juice allow a pound of refined sugar; pound, sift, and put in the oven to dry, and get as hot as it can be without melting; add it in this condition to the juice in small quantities at a time. It must be constantly stirred by another person while the sugar is being added; when it is all dissolved the jelly is ready for potting. If it is well made it will keep good three years, and is superior in colour and flavour to other boiled jellies. DIFFERENT METHODS OF MAKING MARMALADE. 718. Smooth Marmalade. — Weigh the oranges, and then take the same weight of white sugar; wipe all the oranges with a wet cloth, and grate the zest off them ; cut the oranges longways in quar- ters, take off the skins, scrape all the white pulp off the inside of the skins, and from the oranges pick the pips out carefully, and put the skins into water in a pan to boil till they are so tender they will beat to a mash; squeeze all the water out of them, and remove all stringy parts before you pound them; then clarify the sugar, and mix the syrup by degrees with the pounded skins, stirring with a spoon as if you were making starch. When it is well mixed put it into the pan, and let it boil till the sugar is incorporated with it; then put in the pulp of the orange and boil till it is smooth and thick. You will know when it is enough done by its becoming more difficult to stir and looking of a finer colour. Pound the grated zest in a mortar ; take off the marmalade and stir it in carefully; then set the pan on the fire again, and let it boil till thoroughly mixed. If you do not