DAINTY DISHES 12 should be wanted stronger, a neck of mutton; put them into a pot with two quarts of cold water; as soon as it comes to the boil be careful to skim it well. Cut down some carrots and turnips small, a little parsley and two onions; before you add the roots skim it again. Boil slowly till the head is quite tender; take the pot off the fire and stand it near, covered closely, for a quarter of an hour before serving. The head and trotters should be served separately, with whole carrots and turnips. To Prepare the Head and Trotters. — They should be well singed, which is best dono at the blacksmith’s. Split the head down the middle of the skull; take out the brains, and rub the head all over with them ; lay the head and trotters to soak in water all night; scrape and wash well before using. N.B.—Sheep’s head is excellent eaten cold. 5. Hotch Potch.—Take a neck or breast of mutton; cut it into small square pieces, put them into a pot with two quarts of cold water; when it boils skim it well, and add the vegetables and a little salt and pepper; carrots, turnips, celery, young onions, and a quart of shelled peas (they should not be very young); let them boil very slowly till done. Half an hour before serving add a pint of young green peas. Almost any vegetables that are in season may be added to hotch potch with improvement, and it may be made with lamb instead of mutton. It cannot be boiled too slowly; eight hours is not too much. 6. Clear or English Mutton Broth.—Take a neck of mutton; •cut off it as many chops as you wish to serve in the broth ; put the remainder into a pan with carrots and. turnips, stir it to prevent its getting thick, and skim carefully; let it boil four hours, then strain it through a sieve, and add the cut- lets and carrots and turnips cut into dice or any shape you fancy, and boil till they are tender; season with pepper and salt. A little raw parsley chopped very fine may be added just before serving. 7. Beef Broth, or Broth k la Mode.—Put into a soup-pot twelve lb. of the sticking piece of beef from a young ox, with the kernels and sweetbreads; pour on suffi- cient cold water to cover the meat; set the pot over a quick fire, and carefully attend to the scum rising, so that it may all be removed before it can boil into the broth. After the first scum is removed, immediately throw in some cold water, which will cause more to rise. When this is removed, place the pot by the side of a stove to boil slowly for four hours; then strain the broth through a napkin, which should be kept for the pur- pose ; take care of the kernels and sweetbreads, which you return to the broth, together with four carrots and turnips, a head of celery and two onions; these should be cut in good-sized pieces with a round cutter. Continue boiling the broth till the vegetables are quite tender; season and serve. Be careful to remove any fat that may rise in the second boiling. 8. Cock - a - Leekie. — Truss a cock as for boiling; put it into a stew-pan with a piece of lean beef, about four lb.; two dozen of leeks cut in pieces about an inch long, rejecting the coarser green part; a little pepper and salt, and five