155 SAVOURIES Then fry about half a pint of picked shrimps in three tablespoon- fuls of butter, add a little salt and cayenne pepper and thicken with the yolks of two eggs and a little cream. Pile the mixture on the croutons and garnish with a filleted anchovy curled on eaoh, previously dipping it in lobster coral or paunrette crumbs. 873. Oysters & la Russe.—Bake some cassolette pastry in open tartlets, with some raw rice or peas in the centre to keep the shape. Make a sauce with two ounces of butter, half the quantity of flour, the liquor from a dozen oysters, and half a pint of oream, a little oayenne and salt. When the sauce has boiled add a squeeze of lemon juice and the chopped whites of two or three hard-boiled eggs. Fill the tartlets with this mixture. Lay an oyster on the top and just return to the oven for five minutes if a hot savoury is desired, otherwise leave the oysters uncooked. Garnish with the yolks of the eggs rubbed through a sieve. 874. Devilled Prawns.—Take some picked prawns, lightly flour them and put them in a frying- basket, plunging them into boiling fat for one minute. Have some chopped parsley, oayenne and salt sprinkled on a cloth, toss the fried prawns on to this and roll them about gently, until all are well seasoned. Serve immediately with thin brown bread and butter and garnish with a cut lemon and parsley. 875. Brains on Toast.—Soak some sheep’s or calf’s brains in salt water and remove the fibre, then simmer for about a quarter of an hour. Take up, remove all skim, chop up finely, adding a little minced ham, about three table- spoonfuls of cream, a little salt and pepper. Pile in pyramid form on triangles of buttered toast, sprinkle over some finely-ohopped parsley and serve quite hot. 876. Caviare.—Fry some small rounds of bread a golden brown, spread over with a little butter, then a layer of the caviare, with a squeeze of lemon juice. 877. Plovers’ Eggs.—Boil the eggs hard, then remove the shell and oover each with a ooating of foie gras, about an eighth of an inch thick. Egg and breadcrumb and fry a light fawn oolour. When cold, cut them in halves and serve with oress. 878. Plovers’ Eggs in Aspic.— Boil the eggs hard, dip in cold water and remove the shell, line a small mould with aspio jelly, deoorate with ohevril and truffle, place the eggs in the centre and fill up the mould with more aspio jelly. Turn out when cold, garnish with ohopped jelly and sprigs of endive. 879. Savoury Eggs.—Butter some small clariole moulds thickly, then sprinkle all over with finely- chopped ham, truffle and parsley, adding a little salt and pepper, put a raw egg in each, care being taken not to break the yolk. Steam until set and carefully turn out on to small rounds of buttered toast. 880. Ham Toast. — Mix the butter with a little mustard and spread on the toast. Have ready some minced ham and hard-boiled eggs finely chopped, in equal quanti- ties, put these in a saucepan with some oream and the yolk of an egg, oook until forming a thick mixture,