DAINTY DISHES 52 248. Poulets aux Petits Pois. —Cut your chickens into pieces, put them into a stew-pan, with a pint of green peas, a bit of butter, a bunch of parsley, and some small onions; set the pan for a minute or two on the fire, then add a good pinch of flour, and moisten suffi- ciently with half broth, half gravy. Stew slowly till quite tender and reduced to the proper quantity. Just before serving, season with a small quantity of salt and a little sugar. 249. Fricassee of Chicken.— Parboil your chickens, skin them, cut them in pieces, and put them in a stew-pan with some strong broth, whole pepper, a blade of mace, a little salt, two anchovies, and a green onion. When nearly done, add half a pint of cream, a very little bit of butter mixed very smoothly in flour, and a teaspoon- ful of mushroom powder. Stir over the fire till it thickens. Beat up the yolks of two eggs, mix them in carefully, add the juice of an orange or lemon, strain it off, dish the chicken, and pour the sauce over. 250. Another Fricassee.—Skin your chickens, cut off the shanks and pinion bones, separate the legs, wings, and breast, break the leg bones with a rolling-pin, remove the bones, put all the flesh into water, and blanch over a stove. When this is done, put them again into cold water. When they have soaked a little while, take out and drain them, put them into a stew- pan, with a little melted bacon, a small piece of fresh butter, a bunch of herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, and some mushrooms. Season with salt and pepper. Toss all this up together over a stove, then moisten with half broth, half water, and set it over a gentle fire. Beat up the yolks of four eggs in cream, and mix in it a little shred parsley, peas, or asparagus-tops, or use it plain. When the liquor is dimin- ished enough, thicken it with the eggs and cream without removing it from the stove, and serve when sufficiently done. 251. Poulets h l’Estragon.— Boil for a quarter of an hour a large pinch of tarragon-leaves, throw them into cold water, press and hash them. Mix about a quarter of this with the chickens’ livers minced, a little salt and pepper, and a bit of butter. Put this kind of forcemeat inside the chickens, cover the breasts with a slice of fat bacon or lard, and roast them in paper about twenty-five to thirty minutes. Put the rest of the hashed tarragon into a stew-pan, with a bit of butter the size of a large walnut rubbed in a little flour, two yolks of eggs, half a glass of gravy, two spoonfuls of good broth, a few drops of vinegar, some whole pepper, and salt. Thicken your sauce on the fire without letting it boil, lest the eggs should turn. Take the paper and bacon off your chickens, place them on a dish, and pour the sauce hot over them. 252. Capilotade of Chicken.— Cut up two chickens that have been either roasted or boiled previously, skin them, and put them into a stew-pan, with a piece of butter rolled in flour, set them on the fire for a few minutes, then pour a brown Italienne over (see Sauces), and let them simmer a quarter of an hour over a slow fire. Take