86 DAINTY DISHES •with breadcrumbs, and fry in butter of a light brown. 450. CEufs sur le Plat.—Break five or more fried eggs carefully into a dish, so that the yolks are at equal distances from each other. Pour a little hot butter on them, either browned or not. Strew them lightly with breadcrumbs, and put them into a moderate oven till the white is well set. 451. CEufs enPurde.—Boil some fresh eggs hard ; let them get cold; take out the yolks and beat them in a mortar with butter, pepper, salt, and the yolks of three raw eggs ; chop the whites small, and stew them a few minutes in a little good gravy without letting them boil; pass the yolks through a colander into the dish they are to be served in. Arrange the whites round, garnish with sippets of bread dipped in egg, place the dish in an oven, and serve as soon as it is browned. 452. Fried Eggs.—Put into a frying-pan some olive-oil or butter; set it over the stove, and when it boils raise the handle of the pan that the liquid may run to one side. Break an egg carefully into the pan, and with a pierced ladle throw the boiling oil or fat over the egg, which will cause the white to boil up and cover the yolk. As soon as one is cooked, take it out with the strainer, and do another in the same way, till you have enough. Take care to keep them hot. They should be a nice light brown, and may be served with a puree of tomatoes, a sauce piquante, or a good gravy, and seasoned with pepper and salt. 453. CEufs au Fromage.—Place in the dish you will serve them in, and which must be strong enough to resist the fire, a piece of butter, a little oil, and some slices of good rich cheese. "When it is melted, break whole eggs into it, put the dish in the oven or before the fire. When the whites set, sprinkle grated cheese and pepper on them. Brown at the top, and serve as hot as possible. 454. CEufs aux Truffes.—Mince fine a slice or two of bacon; put it with a little butter in a saucepan over a slow fire. When it has cooked a few minutes, pour it into the dish the eggs are to be served in ; add a spoonful of gravy and a little white wine. Break into it the quantity of eggs you require, being careful not to break the yolks ; add salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg. When they are quite set, stew over the top minced truffles, which have been previously stewed in butter. 455. Boiled Cheese.—Take four ounoes of cheese (single Gloucester or Dunlop do well), two ounces of fresh butter, and a tablespoonful of cream; cut the cheese into thin slices; put all into a stew-pan, and set it over a slow fire. Stir it till it boils and is quite smooth. Take off the pan; break an egg into it, stir both yolk and white quickly in; put it in a dish, and brown in a Dutch oven before the fire. 456. Fromage Cuit.—Cut half a pound of Cheshire cheese into thin slices ; pound it well in a mortar ; add by degrees the well-beaten yolks of two and the white of one egg; also, half a pint of cream. Mix well together, and bake on a dish for ten or fifteen minutes. 457. Stewed Cheese. — Melt three-quarters of an ounce of fresh