DAINTY DISHES 84 ounces of fresh butter ; heat it on the fire till it begins to blacken; then add a few picked parsley- leaves. Let them fry for a second or two, skim the butter, let it settle for a minute, and pour it into the vinegar, after having removed the bay-leaf. For skate, etc. 152. Maltre d’Hfitel Sauce.— Melt a quarter of a pound of fresh butter in a saucepan with a good pinch of flour and a glass of milk. Let it heat, stirring it constantly ; add some finely-chopped parsley, and squeeze in the juice of a lemon. 3fi0fo. 153. Whitings or Sole h la Pr6- voyante.—Cut your fish into fillets and marin4 it thus : Lay them two hours before cooking in a flat dish, and pour over them one spoonful of vinegar, one of oil, six or eight onions sliced, a few sprigs of thyme, a little parsley, and four or five bay-leaves, pepper and salt. Set the dish in a cool larder. To pre- pare the batter in which they are to be cooked, put into a basin two tablespoonfuls of flour, equal quantities of small beer and water, and one tablespoonful of oil; beat it well up, keeping it quite thin. It should be about the consistency of thick cream. "Whisk the white of a raw egg to a froth, and add it to the batter just as you are ready to use it. Have your hot lard ready ; take up the fillets of fish separately, and dab them about in the batter till they are covered with it; as they are done, drop them into the hot lard and fry of a fine golden colour. It is a good guide to know if the lard is of the proper heat, to put in a few parsley-leaves, and if they immediately crisp it is right. Tomato sauce should be served with this, but separately. 154. Whitings & l’ltalienne.— Having cleaned the whitings, lay them on a silver or metal dish with a small piece of butter, two shallots, and some parsley minced very fine; put them to cook in a moderate oven. While they are doing, pour over them a glass of white wine and one of stock. When they are nearly ready, put them carefully, so as not to break them, into a saucepan; add to the sauce a spoonful of oullis, a piece of butter, a very little essence of anchovy, and the squeeze of a lemon. Keep them on the fire a few minutes and arrange them on the dish they are to be served on. 155. Whitings as in Scotland. —Choose small, perfectly fresh fish, rub them in flour till it adheres; lay them in a frying-pan with a good bit of butter ; saut4 them very slowly. They should not be dry or coloured. Mince some parsley and green onions or chives very fine ; put them into some good broth and about two tablespoonfuls of cream; mix it well together and pour it over the whitings before they are quite finished cooking; move them about very gently, not to break them, till they are done. They are very delicate and excellent done in this way, which, though simple, requires great care. No butter should be used but what is re- quired to fry them.