24 DAINTY DISHES and should bo gathered on a dry day. Pick the leaves off the stalks and dry them a little before the fire, cover them with the best vinegar; let them steep fourteen days, then strain, bottle, and cork it well; keep it in a dry place. Elderflower, chervil, basil, burnet, and many other herbs, may be made to flavour vinegar in the same way. 76. An excellent Vinegar for Salads.—Take tarragon, savory, chives, and shallots, each three ounces; a handful of the tops of mint and balm, all dried and pounded. Put them into a wide- mouthed bottle with a gallon of the best vinegar, cork it close, set it in the sun, and in a fortnight strain it off and squeeze the herbs. Let it stand to settle, then strain through a filtering-bag and bottle it. 77. Mushroom Ketchup.—Chop two pecks of mushrooms small, add a pound of salt; let it stand four days, then strain and pass it through a cloth; let the liquor settle and pour it off into a stewpan; add half an ounce of allspice, the same of whole pepper, and a piece of ginger. Boil all together for half an hour; when cold, strain and bottle. 78. Tomato Ketchup.—Half a bushel of tomatoes boiled till they are soft; rub them through a fine hair-sieve, and add a quarter of a gallon of the best vinegar, half a pint of salt, one ounce of cloves, one of cayenne pepper, two ounces of allspice, two heads of garlic, skinned and separated. Mix all to- gether, and boil three hours, or until the quantity is reduced one- half. Bottle without straining. 79. A good Sauce. — Black pepper, pounded allspice, and salt, of each an ounce; half an ounce of minced shallot, one pint of mush- room ketchup, a tablespoonful of port wine, and a teaspoonful of chili vinegar. Set the bottle for twenty-four hours in 90° of heat; let it stand for a week, then strain and bottle it. It is excellent added to gravy for outlets. HOT SAUCES. Roux, or Thickening for Sauces. —This is of two kinds, brown and white, and is the foundation of many sauces, and although very simple requires the greatest atten- tion in making, and should always be kept in readiness for use. 80. Brown Roux.—Melt some butter very slowly, stir into it browned flour—which is easily made by laying a quantity of fine flour on a dish before the fire, or in a moderate oven, till it is of a fine even brown, not too dark ; add as much to the butter as will make it the thickness of paste, stirring well with a wooden spoon for fif- teen or twenty minutes till it is of a yellowish-brown colour. This must be done gradually, with care and patience ; if the fire is too hot it will become bitter and spoil everything it is put into; when cold it should be thick enough to cut with a knife. It will keep a fortnight. 81. White Roux.—Melt some good fresh butter slowly and stir it into the best sifted flour till like a thin, firm paste ; stir it well over a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, taking care it does not brown. This