COOKERY FOR TEE SICK AND POOR 141 The oatmeal may be browned in the oven or before the fire ; boiling water is then poured over it as above. It is very useful in stop- ping sickness. 795. Orgeat of Montpellier — Take one pound of barley ; wash it and soak it in water; separate the grains well; tie it up in a piece of muslin, put it in a pot with a quart of water, and set it on the fire to boil gently four hours. Then put into the water one pound of sweet almonds, without their skins; boil a few minutes ; then take out the barley and almonds ; pound them together in a mortar; mix well with the water ; strain all together through a piece of linen; pound again the residue; pour the water over; stir, and repeat the straining. This water should now look very thick. Add a pound of pounded lump sugar, and boil to a syrup. You will know that the syrup is done by dropping some on to a plate, and it remains like paste. Then take it off the fire, and flavour it with fleur d’orange, or anything else you please. Bottle and keep it for use. To make the drink, put into the bottom of a decanter one ounce of syrup, pour fresh water over it, shake to mix it well, and it is ready to drink immediately. 796. Fresh Orgeat or Almond- Milk.—Blanch and pound four winces of sweet almonds and four t/itter almonds ; when pounded very fine, add one quart of water, t»' spoonful of syrup, or some pounded sugar, and two spoonfuls of orange-flower water. This latter may be omitted, and it may be made with milk instead of water. It is very good for a cough, and very serviceable in many inflam- matory attacks. 797. Raspberry Water to Drink.—Mash one pint of rasp- berries in the juice of two lemons, a pint of water, and as much syrup as will sweeten it to taste; strain through a lawn sieve. Strawberry, cherry, and mulberry water may be made in the same way. It is a very refreshing drink when feverish, or in hot weather. 798. Lemon Cup.—The peel of a lemon added to an ounce of clarified sugar and a pint of quite boiling water ; when quite cold add the juice of a lemon and a glass of white wine. 799. Lemonade.—To a dozen of lemons add two quarts of water, two pounds of sugar, a pint and a half of any kind of white wine, and a pint of milk ; peel all the lemons, and pour the water boiling on the peel; let it stand till nearly cold, then squeeze in the juice, and add the sugar and wine, and the milk, which must be boiling; let it stand a few minutes, and pour it through a jelly-bag till it is quite clear. 800. Apple Water—Peel and slice some sharp apples; add a little sugar and lemon-peel, then pour over it boiling water. Let it stand in a covered jug by the fire for two hours, when it is fit for use. It may be drunk cold or hot, and is very refreshing iced. Another way of making ic is to out six apples in pieces, leaving the skins on; pour over them a quart of boiling water; let it stand an hour, and add two ounces of honey, and the juice of two lemons. 801. Rhubarb Water.—Boil six clean-washed stalks of rhubarb ten