DAINTY DISHES Put into a basin a tablespoonful of finely-chopped shallot, one of pars- ley, one of pounded sugar, the yolks of two raw eggs, a teaspoon- ful of salt, quarter of a one of pepper, two tablespoonfuls of chili vinegar, and four of oil. Mix all well together; whip half a pint of cream, which add by degrees to the sauce, and pour over the salad ; do not mix it till you help it. 279. Salmi de Chasseur.— Roast three partridges as for other salmis ; put into a stew-pan three spoonfuls of oil, half a glass of claret, or other red wine, salt and pepper, cayenne, and the juice and zest of a lemon; put in the par- tridges, previously cut up, toss them over the fire in this sauce till they are very hot, and serve. 280. Salmi k l’Ancienne.—Pre- pare three partridges, lard and roast them, let them be underdone; when cold, cut them in pieces, take off the skin, pare and arrange them in a stew-pan, pour over a little stock, and set them to simmer; add six shallots and a little lemon- peel, also four large spoonfuls of reduced espagnole (see Sauces), let it reduce half, pass the sauce through a tammy. Take the trim- mings and parings of the par- tridges, moisten them with a little of the sauce, pound them in a mortar as fine as possible, and rub through a tammy ; pour this pur4e over the partridges in the stew-pan, heat it in a bain-marie, arrange the salmi in a dish with fried croutons of bread between each piece, and pour the sauce very hot round. Pheasant is excellent dressed in the same way, but should have the addition of a glass of red or white wine, the juice and a small bit of the peel of a Seville orange. 281. Lapereaux aux Fines Herhes. — Cut two rabbits or leverets in pieces, trim and put them into a stew-pan with some butter, salt and pepper; some parsley, shallot, and mushrooms all minced. Pass them over the fire for a quarter of an hour, squeeze a lemon over them, and serve. 282. To Roast Game.—No game can be good that is not carefully roasted and thoroughly well basted. It is more tender if cooked imme- diately than if kept a night; bury- ing it in the ground for a few hours if required to eat immediately makes it more tender; about three days is the best time to keep it. Ducks should be roasted but a short time, and basted with their own drippings, a little butter, and port wine. Partridges will require about twenty minutes, grouse twenty- five, snipe and woodcocks fifteen; the latter should have buttered paper over them till they are nearly done; it is better than bacon, which spoils their flavour; a hare requires about an hour, and should be basted with cream and dredged with flour. 283. To Roast Grouse.—Two brace of birds will require a pound of fresh butter to baste them ; the butter should be put in a basin and allowed to melt before the fire. The birds should not be placed too near the fire at first, and should be basted soon after they are put down, and this should be continued with- out intermission till they are ready to serve. If you wish to serve them English fashion with a gravy, you must make it from grouse, as all meat gravy would spoil this