153 SAVOURIES buttered toast, sprinkle over it about a quarter of an inch deep some grated Parmesan cheese, seasoned with cayenne and salt. Brown it under the salamander or in front of a quick fire, and serve at once. 858. Marrow Bones.—Saw the bones even, so that they will stand steadily, each being about two inches in height, cover the ends with a piece of pastry and steam until they are done, or bake them in a slow oven for about an hour. Stand each on a round of toast, or serve fresh toasted bread in a small rack. 859. Anchovy Toast.—Fry some bread in clarified butter, cut into neat shapes and spread this mixture over. Some filleted anchovies pounded in a mortar, with a very little made mustard, and a dash of curry powder, rub this through a sieve and spread smoothly on the toast. 860. Devilled Biscuits.—Take some cassolette pastry. Knead this well and roll it out thinly, cut into biscuits and bake in a slow oven. Spread butter mixed with curry powder over them and return to the oven for one minute. Serve these either hot or cold as occasion requires. 861. Devilled Kidneys.—Skin and cut the kidneys in halves and gently saute them in about two ounces of bacon fat, sprinkle them with cayenne and salt, add a dessertspoonful of sherry and a few drops of any piquante sauce. Make quite hot and serve. 862. Oyster Savoury.—Take one dozen oysters blanched and bearded. Chop them small and put them into a stewpan with a little butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream, make it quite hot, then stir in a little grated lemon peel, cayenne and salt with the yolk of one egg. Do not let this mixture boil, but when thoroughly hot, pile it upon some fried croutons of bread and garnish with lobster coral. 863. Oyster Cassolettes.—One dozen oysters blanched and bearded. Chop each into four pieces, mix them with three tablespoonfuls of cream, four cooked mushrooms finely chopped and one truffle. Keep this mixture hot in a stewpan and add cayenne and salt to taste. To make the cassolettes, take one pound of butter, divide it equally into twelve cork-shaped pieces, roll in white crumbs, then egg and bread-crumb and shape again. Take a sharp knife and mark a lid just a little way down, place the cassolettes in a frying-basket and fry in very hot fat to a golden brown. Drain for a minute or two on kitchen paper, then with a pointed knife raise the marked lid and let out the melted butter inside into a basin. Fill each cassolette case with the oyster mixture and replace the lid. Serve on a folded serviette and garnish with lobster coral and endive. 864. Aigrettes de Parmesan.— One pint of boiling water, dissolve in this two ounces of butter using rather a deep stewpan; when boiling gently sprinkle in half a pound of the best sifted flour and cook until thoroughly smooth, stirring all the while. Remove from the fire and beat in four whole eggs, one at a time, then add two more yolks, five ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a little cayenne and salt.