18 DAINTY DISHES previously washed and cut in small pieces, in the pan, and cover them with warm water, but not more than equals the depth of the con- tents ; add salt in moderation, half a bay-leaf, and the flesh of half a lemon without rind or pips, two tomatoes cut in dice and the seeds removed, a small tumbler of light white wine, a few peppercorns, and four cloves of garlic. Set it on a very hot stove, and let it boil for twelve minutes. By this time the liquor should be reduced to a third of its original quantity; add a small pinch of saffron, a tablespoon- ful of chopped parsley, and allow it to boil a minute longer; taste and correct the seasoning if re- quired. Have ready your tureen or deep dish with two dozen slices of light French roll or bread, cut half an inch thick, laid in the bottom; pour some of the soup over, and turn the bread, so that it may be thoroughly soaked; then pour in the remainder, keeping back the inferior parts of the fish, and serve very hot. This is sometimes varied by adding a liaison made of the yolks of six or seven eggs, adding to some of the soup, which is to be stirred quickly over the fire till it comes to the consistency of custard, and then poured over the slices of bread. 33. Bouillahaise k l’Anglaise. —As the preceding receipt is often considered too strong for the Eng- lish palate, this is in a milder form; it is excellent, and exceedingly nourishing and wholesome for an invalid. Take cod, mullet, whiting, turbot, or any other fish you like, cut them cross ways, in pieces of from about two ounces to a quarter of a pound each. Slice two good-sized onions, place them in a stew-pan large enough to contain all the fish at the bottom—a shallow pan is best. Add two tablespoonfuls of olive-oil; fry the onions a light brown ; put in the fish with as much warm water as will cover them well, a teaspoonful of salt, half a one of pepper, half a bay leaf, the flesh of half a peeled lemon cut in dice, two tomatoes cut in slices and their seeds removed, two small glasses of sherry or other white wine, a few peppercorns, and half a clove of garlic. Set on a fierce fire, and boil very fast for twelve minutes, or till the liquor is reduced to one- third. Then add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, let it boil one minute longer, and pour it into a deep dish over slices of bread, the same as the other. This is also very good made with all sorts of fresh-water fish, and the garlic may be entirely omitted. 34. Oyster Soup.—Take eighty oysters and their liquor; place them in a pan with salt, cayenne pepper, and a teaspoonful of chopped chervil; when boiling, add three yolks of eggs beat up in half a pint of cream, and serve. This is enough for five persons. If the oysters have not sufficient liquor, a little water and salt may be added, and parsley may be used, if pre- ferred, instead of chervil. 35. Pepper Pot. — This soup, which is of West Indian origin, should be made in an earthen pot, which always remains by the side of the fire, where the contents simmer but do not boil. These should consist of an equal admix- ture of fish, flesh, fowl and vege- tables, seasoned with chilies or