136 DAINTY DISHES stand ten minutes to settle, and pour off the clear tea ; a little salt and a few grains of black pepper should be added, and a little celery seed and a whole carrot boiled in it improves the flavour. Yeal or mutton tea may be made in the same way. 758. Calves’-Feet Broth.—Boil two calves’ feet, two ounces of veal, and two of beef, the bottom of a penny loaf, a blade or two of mace, and a little salt, in three quarts of water till it comes to three pints; strain, and carefully remove all the fat. 759. A very Nourishing Veal Broth.—Put the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of veal, with but little meat on it, an old fowl, and four shank-bones of mutton well soaked and crushed, three blades of mace, ten peppercorns, an onion, and a large piece of bread, with three quarts of water, into a stew-pot that covers close ; let it boil up, skim it, and then let it simmer four hours as gently as possible; strain it, remove the fat, and it is ready to serve. 760. Chicken-Tea. — Skin and divide the chicken in pieces, leav- ing out the back; put in some clear water, with a blade of mace, a few white peppercorns, and an onion sliced; simmer till it is sufficiently strong, then strain, and when cold carefully remove all the fat. It may be drunk cold or heated again. 761. Very Strengthening Chicken-Broth. — Cut down and bruise two or three cock chickens ; put them in a saucepan with three quarts of water ; simmer till the juice is entirely drawn frofia them; press it well out, strain, and return the soup to the saucepan; add salt, whole pepper, rice, or vermicelli; a whole chicken may be boiled in the soup, and served so in it. In spring, young vegetables, parsley, and chervil may be added. 762. Stewed Partridges.—Half stew one or two partridges; cut them up, take out the largest bones, put them in a pan with the liquor they were stewed in, with a little salt, a blade of mace, and a bit of lemon-peel; when done, serve with the gravy in the dish. All sorts of poultry and game are light and nourishing done in the same way. 763. Restorative Jelly for the Poor.—Take a neat’s foot cleaned and prepared, two ounces of harts- horn shavings, two quarts of milk, and two quarts of water; bake for several hours in a slow oven, strain it, and when cold remove the fat; warm it a little and sweeten it; a cupful to be taken as often as liked. In summer it is best to omit the milk in making it, and add a little when used. 764. Strengthening Jelly. — Bake four calves’ feet in two quarts of water, and the same of new milk, in a close covered jar four hours. When cold, remove the fat; it may be flavoured with lemon-peel, cinnamon, mace, etc., and sweetened to taste. Give a glassful the first and last thing. 765. Another. — Boil half an ounce of fine isinglass with a quart of new milk, till reduced to a pint; add some sugar and two or three bitter almonds, pounded. Drink this at bedtime; it is good for a cough.