SAUCES 25 Is used for thickening white sances. Pour it into jars to keep for use. 82. Clear Gravy of Veal for Sauces.—Lay in the bottom of a stew a small slice of fat bacon; on that place four pounds of leg of veal, a slice of raw ham, two onions, two carrots, and some pars- ley; add three spoonfuls of stock, cover it close, set it upon a slow fire, till it becomes dry and brown. Take the greatest care it does not burn, and move the pan round frequently that it may not colour more in one part than another. Pour in four quarts of stock, and let it simmer for half an hour, and strain through a lawn sieve. It should be a fine amber colour, and as clear as possible. 83. Brown Gravy for Sauces.— Cut eight pounds of the lean part of a knuckle of veal into small pieces, with two pounds of lean ham, and if you have an old fowl you may add it. Put all in a stew- pan, with one ounce of butter, three onions, two carrots, eight mush- rooms, one head of celery, one parsnip, a blade of mace, and a quarter of a pint of water or stock. Let it stew slowly, with the cover on the pan, till it catches at the bottom, then add four quarts more water or stock, let it boil gently, and strain it. 84. Oullis, or Brown Sauce.— Put six pounds of lean veal, cut in slices, and two pounds of raw lean ham into a stew-pan, with two ounces of butter, a handful of chopped mushrooms, three onions, one carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, the rind of a lemon, and a tea- spoonful of mixed allspice, clove, and mace. Let it just brown at the bottom, then add four quarts of good brown gravy, and let it boil three or four hours ; strain it off, thicken it with brown roux, and boil it well for ten minutes, stirring all the time, then pass it through a tammy. 85. Bechamel, or White Sauce. —Chop two pounds of veal and one pound of ham in small pieces, a dozen of mushrooms and two onions sliced, four cloves, two blades of maoe, a sprig of thyme and marjoram, and a quarter of a pound of butter; add three pints of white gravy, and let all stew gently one horn and a half. Mix some of the gravy with two teacup- fuls of flour, and add it to a quart of cream. Put this into your stock, let it boil a quarter of an horn’, stirring it well that it may not burn at the bottom; strain, and season with salt. 86. Sauce Tournde is made of the same ingredients, and in the same proportion, as oullis. When boiled three hours, strain it; add half a pound of butter and two tea- cupfuls of flour ; boil well together for half an hour, stirring that it may not brown. This sauce is used in fish or vegetable salads. 87. Sauce Allemande.—Put a little minced ham into a stew-pan with a few trimmings of poultry either dressed or raw, three shallots, half a small clove of garlic, a bay leaf, two tarragon leaves, and a few spoonfuls of stock. Let them simmer for half an hour, strain it off, and add some cullis: squeeze in a lemon. Season to taste with pepper, salt, cayenne, and sugar. The above are all stock sauoes, the foundation for others. 88. Sauce Veloutd. — Heat in melted butter one pound of veal