59 MEAT, POULTRY, GAME bird; while they are roasting thin slices of crisp toast should be placed to receive the drippings, and a piece placed under each bird when served. In the Scotch fashion make some toast like buttered toast, crisp it before the fire, place it under the birds, and serve with thin melted butter. All should be very hot. 284. —The Admiral’s Curry.— Put about an ounce of butter into a Btew-pan, and as soon as it is hot slice into it four onions, some carrots and turnips; let them brown over a sharp fire, and rub through a tammy. When done sufficiently, add some good veal stock to the sauce, a teaspoon- ful of curry powder, and one of curry paste, also a dessertspoonful of chutnee. Mix all this well to- gether with a wooden spoon for about ten minutes; now put in whatever meat you choose—rabbit, fowl, or fish—cut in rather small pieces; stew over a smart fire, adding occasionally a little weak broth or milk that the curry may not get too dry. Let all simmer together, and an excellent curry will be the result. Milk is con- sidered a great improvement to curry, either sweet or butter milk ; if the former is used, a little lemon- juice should be added to it. In India fresh tamarinds are used with it. The sauce from pickled man- goes is a great improvement; it should not be put into the sauce, but eaten with the curry. 285. To Boil the Rice.—Throw the rice, having first well washed it, into boiling water; there must be enough quite to cover it. Let it boil exactly sixteen minutes, but not too fast. When done suffici- ently, and while still boiling, dash some cold water into the pot, and immediately remove it from the fire, throw the rice into the colan- der to drain, cover it with a napkin, and when all the water has completely drained from it, serve. N.B.—The dash of cold water has the effect of separating the grains of rice. 286. The General’s Curries— A Dry Curry.—Two or three common-sized onions to be sliced and fried brown in a little butter, and then worked into a paste with water, a tablespoonful of curry powder, and a little salt. Cut up the fowl, meat, or fish, add it, and stir up the whole without ceasing till the meat is thoroughly cooked. 287. A Wet Curry.—Cut the meat, fowl, or fish into small pieces; put them, with a piece of butter and two or three onions sliced, into a stew-pan; fry them till brown. When nearly done, add a tablespoonful of the curry powder and some salt, and simmer the whole gently, with a little water or broth, until it is suffi- ciently cooked. Remember to keep constantly stirring. 288. To Boil the Rice.—Put two quarts of water in a stew-pan, with a tablespoonful of salt ; when boiling, add half a pound of rice, well washed. Boil for about ten minutes till the grains become rather soft. Drain into a colander. Slightly grease the pot with butter, and put the rice back into it. Let it swell slowly for twenty minutes, either near the fire or in a slow oven. Each grain will then swell and be well separated, when it is ready to serve.