DAINTY DISHES 106 the hot wine over them; whisk it or mill it to a froth, and serve with almost any boiled pudding. 571. Sabajone or Sabaillon.— Mix eight very fresh yolks of eggs with three glasses of madeira or sherry wine, some sugar, and a little cinnamon. Put all into a saucepan over a quick fire; do not let it boil, but beat it constantly till it rises and is of the consistency of thick cream. This is an excel- lent pudding-sauce, but in Italy it is poured into glasses and eaten by itself, being served at balls, etc. 572. Arrowroot - Sauce.—Mix smooth with cold water a spoonful or two of arrowroot, pour boiling water over it, stirring continually till it is smooth and clear; then put it into a saucepan with a glass of sherry, a bit of lemon-peel, and a little sugar; heat thoroughly, stirring all the time, take out the lemon-peel, and serve. 573. Wine Sauce.—Make some thin melted butter, sweeten it with brown sugar, add a little grated lemon-peel, or a little nutmeg, and two glasses of sherry or madeira ; make it quite hot, but do not let it boil, and serve immediately. PASTRY. 574. To Make Puff-Pastry.— Take rather more butter than flour —about half a pound of flour makes a good dish of pastry. Mix lightly with your hands rather less than half the butter with all the flour, then add some water and mix again, but work it as little with your hands as possible ; roll it out, then put into the centre of the sheet the rest of the butter, and fold it up into six folds; then roll it out again, and refold it in the same way; repeat this three times; lastly, fold it only in three, roll it once more out, and it is ready to use, and can be cut into any form you please. For shells, tartlets, or patties, it should be about three- quarters of an inch thick ; for puffs, etc., it must be rolled thinner. 575. Paste for Raised Pies.— Take ten ounces of butter and two pounds of flour; pour on it a pint of boiling water, mix it into a very stiff paste, put it into a covered stew pan, and set it near the fire to heat for half an hour ; then knead it well, and raise it in a pie or other shape to suit; wash it well over with egg beaten up ; ornament the sides in any way you choose; fill it with bran, and bake in a moder- ate oven of a fight brown. 576. Paste for Lining Moulds or Timbales.—One pound of flour mixed with a quarter of a pound of butter, six yolks of eggs, and a glassful of milk. Mix into a stiff paste. 577. Crisp Paste for Tarts.— To half a pound of flour well dried add half an ounce of loaf sugar in fine powder; make it into a stiff paste with half a cupful of boiling cream and an ounce and a half of butter ; work it well, and then add a yolk of an egg. 578. Another.—A pint of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, and two eggs, one spoonful of pounded sugar, and a spoonful of cream; work it well and roll it thin. 579. A Good Tart Crust to pover a Dish.—Rub half a pound