113 PUDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTBY, ETC. minutes before serving work into it half a pot of apricot jam, and as you serve lay the rest of the jam on the top, or put it in the centre. It should be dished rough, not put in a mould. 616. Queen Mab’s Pudding (Cold).—Take one pint of cream, one ounce of isinglass, one ounce of mixed citron and lemon-peel, two ounces of preserved cherries, and sugar to taste; add half a wineglassful of brandy; mix well, pour into a mould, and ice. 617. Lemon - Cheese. — Take a quart of cream just on the turn, rasp the rinds of two lemons, and squeeze their juice into the cream; whip with a whisk always the same way for about twenty minutes; take a sieve, on which lay a piece of fine muslin large enough to con- tain the whipped cream; pour the cream on to it, place the sieve on a hollow dish that the whey may run off, and let it stand twenty- four hours. You can sweeten it to taste while whipping. 618. Preserved Pine - Apple Cream.—Take a teacupful of syrup of preserved pine-apple, and the juice of two lemons, two ounces of sugar, and four slices of pine-apple cut in small dice; mix with this an ounce of isinglass boiled for half an hour in half a pint of water; whisk all together till nearly cold, then add a quart of well-whisked cream; mix well, and put it into your mould, which set on the ice or in a cool place. Ginger cream of preserved ginger may be made in the same way. 619. Orange - Cream.—Boil the rind of a Seville orange very tender; beat it fine in a mortar; add to it a spoonful of the best brandy, the juice of a Seville orange, four ounces of loaf-sugar, and the yolks of four eggs; beat all together for ten minutes; then by degrees pour in a pint of boiling cream ; beat it till it is cold; put it into custard cups or glasses; set them in a deep dish or pan of boiling water to stand till cold. If preferred in a mould, half an ounce of isinglass dissolved in a very little water must be added with the cream. This is excellent. 620. Coffee-Cream.—Boil a calf’s foot in a quart of water till it re- duces to a pint of jelly, clear of sediment and fat; make a teacup- ful of very strong coffee, clear it with a bit of isinglass that it may be perfectly bright; pour it on the jelly, and add a pint of very good cream; sweeten to taste; give it one boil up, and pour it into your mould. 621. Strawberry, Raspberry, or Currant Cream. — If the fruit is fresh pulled, take equal weights of fruit and sugar; then clarify the sugar and put in the fruit; let them boil till the sugar has quite penetrated the fruit; when cold, take two or three spoonfuls of it and whisk it up with a pint of cream; then take some of the whole fruit picked, and mix a few spoonfuls with the whisked cream; stiffen with a little isinglass, and put it in a mould. 622. Sack-Cream.—Boil a pint of cream, the yolk of an egg well beaten, three spoonfuls of white wine, a little lemon-peel and sugar, over a gentle fire; stir it till it has the consistency of thick cream; then take it off, and continue stirring till oold. Serve in cups or glasses. H