DAINTY DISHES 90 474. Macaroni k la Napoli- mesan cheese, a very little nutmeg, tame.—-Put a pound of macaroni some pepper, salt, and as much into boning water, with a piece of cream as will make sufficient butter, some salt, and an onion sauce. Let the whole stew gently stuck with cloves. Let it boil for together a few minutes, and serve three-quarters of an hour; then very hot. These are genuine Nea- dram the macaroni, and put it into politan recipes, a saucepan with some grated par- ffm&Wnos, 3elltes, pastry iStc. 475. Gateau au Riz. — Two handfuls of rice, a small quantity of lemon-peel, half a laurel-leaf, and a pint of milk; boil together till it is quite dry, then put in the yolks of three eggs and one white ; sweeten to taste with moist sugar. Butter a mould, shake in some fine breadcrumbs, put in the rice, and bake three-quarters of an hour. 476. Gateau deNouilles.—Take the yolks of five eggs and the white of one, and as much flour as will work it into a stiff paste ; roll it out as thin as a wafer, then roll it up very lightly and cut it in strings as fine as a packthread; shake it to- gether and throw it into water ready boiling on the fire, and let it boil five minutes ; then put it into a colander, and let some cold water run through it; drain it well; butter a mould, sprinkle it all over with fine breadcrumbs, then put in the nouilles mixed with a quarter of a pound of sugar and the grated peel of a lemon. Melt two ounces of butter and pour over them, sprinkle some breadcrumbs on the top, and bake three-quarters of an hour. A gateau of macaroni or vermicelli may be made in the same way, previously boiling them tender in a little milk with some seasoning, and the yolks of two eggs may be added. 477. Rice Pudding without Eggs.—Put half a pound of rice well washed into three pints of milk, with half a pound of moist sugar. Bake till the rice is tender. 478. Tapioca Pudding.—Boil a pint of cream and a pint of milk with some sugar, a pinch of salt, and the rind of a lemon; when boiling, put in half a pound of tapioca and let it simmer over a slow fire till quite tender, then add a small piece of butter and six eggs, previously beaten; mix well, and pom it either into a dish or mould, and bake till it is brown on the top ; if baked in a mould, the mould should be buttered and strewed with breadcrumbs, which makes it turn out better. Tapioca swells very much, and requires a long time cooking. If boiled over a strong fire and too quickly it becomes tough, therefore this is to be avoided. 479. Poor Man’s Tapioca Pud- ding.—Put into a stew-pan five ounces of tapioca, one pint of new milk, five ounces of sugar, and a little salt; stir this over the fire till it boils, then cover the stew-