60 DAINTY DISHES 289. Curry Powder.— Coriander seed, well washed 8 oz. Turmeric . . . . 9 „ Dried ginger . . . 8 „ Black pepper . . . 6 „ Dried chilies . . . ,, Cardamoms . . . 4 ,, Cinnamon . . . . 4 „ Garlic . . . . 1 „ 290. Bengal Curry Powder.— Black pepper . . . 5 oz. Cayenne pepper . . . 1 „ Coriander seed . . . 18 „ Fenugreek seed . . . 3 ,, Cummin seed . . . 8 „ Turmeric . . . . 10 ,, 291. The Professor’s Curry.— Take a good handful of onions sliced, and put them, with two ounces of butter, into a stew-pan ; let them stew till quite soft, then fry them very brown and take them out of the butter. Cut what- ever meat you intend to curry into small pieces, put them into the butter, and fry them brown also. Then take them out, and put in two teaspoonfuls of curry powder, and fry it till all the butter is absorbed. Now put back the onions and meat into the pan with the curry powder, and pour sufficient milk over the whole to cover it, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, add a spoonful of salt, and let the whole stew very gently till all the liquid is absorbed and like a paste over the meat. It is essential that this curry be cooked in a stew, not a frying, pan. Buttermilk may be used if pre- ferred ; in that case leave out the lemon-juice. 292. To Boil the Rice.—It should first be well washed, and then put into plenty of water, not less than a quart to a quarter of a pound of rice. This may be either hot or cold. It must be boiled as fast as possible, and will require about twenty minutes. When the water assumes a white appearance it is usually done enough ; but the rice should be tried to be sure it is soft. Pour the water off, and lay the rice on a sieve to drain, covered over with a cloth. As soon as all the moisture is absorbed it is ready to serve, and should be quite soft, and each grain separate. 293. The Baronet’s Curry.— Take a young fowl and divide it as for a fricassee, removing all the skin and fat; mix a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper with two table- spoonfuls of curry powder; rub it well into the fowl. Cut eight large-sized onions into shreds ; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a clean frying-pan, and set it over a clear fire; take great care that the butter neither burns nor oils. As soon as it is well browned, put the fowl into it, keeping it on the fire and turning it frequently with a fork till it is well browned on both sides. Have ready a stew- pan which has been previously heated; place the fowl in it, and put the onions into the frying-pan till they are browned; then add them to the fowl in the stew-pan, with a quarter of a pint of new milk, twenty almonds blanched and pounded, the juice of one lemon, a little salt, and a wineglass- ful of fresh sorrel-juice; put the stew-pan on a gentle fire, and let it simmer, but not boil, for an hour and a half, frequently shaking it. Serve very hot. 294. Curry Powder for the Above.—The best turmeric six ounces, coriander seed ten ounces, cummin seed two ounces, well