85 FISH 156. Fried Fillets of Whitings. —Cut about six small whitings in two from top to bottom, take the fillets, lay them to marinade for about an hour, in equal proportions of vinegar, white wine, and water ; add salt, green onions, a few blades of mace, and some whole pepper; dry them; toss them in a heap of fine flour. Have ready a pan of hot lard, and fry all together on a brisk fire. Fry some parsley crisp and green, and serve your fish upon it. They should be eaten with the following sauce : To a large spoon- ful of the best vinegar and the same quantity of water, add a little salt, some shallot and parsley minced fine, and the juice of an orange or lemon. 157. Whitings in Sauce.—Clean your fish, and lay them in salt and water. Take as much fish stock (or stock made from a fowl will do) as you require for the quantity of sauce, season it with salt, whole white pepper, two or three cloves, a blade or two of mace, and a bit of lemon-peel ; let it boil five minutes; strain and return it to the pan; thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour. When it boils add some parsley and chives or green onions minced fine; let it boil a few minutes, and put in your fish. When nearly done add the yolks of two eggs, a little cream, a glass of white wine, and the squeeze of a lemon, previously well mixed with some of the sauce. Do not let it boil after this is added, but shake it well over the fire. 158. Haddocks with Brown Sauce (Scotch).—Take the largest haddocks you can get; clean them, cut off the heads, tails, belly and fins; lay them in as much small beer and vinegar (half of each) as will cover them; let them remain an hour or two. Take the trim- mings and one fish cut in pieces; put them into a saucepan with as much water as you wish sauce, two onions, a sprig of savoury, thyme, and a little lemon-peeL Boil slowly till all the substance is out of the fish ; Btrain off the stock; thicken with brown roux; add two table- spoonfuls of ketchup, a little mixed spice, some salt, and half a glass of claret. When it boils, put in your fish. If you can get oysters, add them, with some of their juice. Let it boil about ten minutes, when it will be ready to serve. 159. Fillets of Haddock k la Maltre d’HStel.—Take the two sides of a haddock off the bone; lay them in a saute-pan; boil in broth, for five minutes, a spoonful of chopped onion, parsley and mush- room ; then pour it over the fillets; add a little pepper and salt, and fry them. When done, serve under them a maitre d’hotel sauce. (See Fish Sauces.) Whitings may be done in the same way. 160. Haddocks aux Capres.— Cut a haddock into two or three pieces; set it on to boil in water with a little salt, an onion, and some parsley; let it boil half an hour ; strain it and add to the stock some beef broth. Then take a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a spoonful of flour; set it on the stove to melt, add the stock to it, and stir till it boils. Let it boil gently half an hour, skimming it all the time, then add a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, two of soy, one of vinegar, salt and pepper to taste, and a little cayenne; strain it