21 SAUCES 50. Indian Sauce. — Three apples, one large cucumber, with the seeds taken out, two onions, eighteen fresh green chilies, and three tomatoes; to which add one small spoonful of cayenne. Mince all very fine, mix well together, put in a little salt, and cover with vinegar. It is ready for immediate use, but will keep a long time, and is excellent with cold meat. 51. Poivrade Sauce to Keep. —Half a pint of the best vinegar, half a pint of water, two large onions, half a handful of horse- radish, and a little pounded white pepper and salt. Boil all together for a quarter of an hour, strain it clear, and bottle it. This may be added to gravy when used. 52. Mayonnaise. — Take three spoonfuls of sauce allemande (see No. 87), six of aspic; add a spoon- ful of tarragon vinegar, a little pepper and salt, and some finely- chopped herbs, such as tarragon, chervil, burnet, etc., or minced parsley alone. Add these, and then set the sauce on the ice to freeze till it becomes quite stiff. This may be used with fish or meat. 53. Sauce Remoulade or Vinai- grette.—Put into a sauce-boat a shallot, a clove of garlic, some parsley and green onions, all minced very fine; add a little pepper, a spoonful of mustard, three tablespoonfuls of oil, and two of vinegar. This is very good with all cold meats. 54. Mayonnaise. — Choose two very white yolks of eggs, add to them a little fine salt, and two teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar; beat this quickly in a mortar or dish with a wooden spoon. "When well mixed add by degrees a wine- glassful of olive-oil and a little more vinegar. Work it well against the sides of the dish, as this makes it creamy and thick. You may add more oil or vinegar —either elder, tarragon, or shallot —as your sauce makes, and a spoonful of aspic jelly. It must be made very quickly in a dry, cool place, or it will curdle. If you have no ice to freeze it, and wish it to look very white, rub in a few drops of cold water. 55. The Same h la Ravigote.— Blanch a ravigote of tarragon, scallions, and chervil for five or six minutes in boiling water; let them cool, squeeze and pound them; add a spoonful of mayon- naise. When it is well incorpor- ated, strain and mix by degrees with the above mayonnaise. 56. Beurre h la Maitre d’Hotel. —Put on a plate a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a quarter of a spoonful of salt and one of pepper, two of chopped parsley, the juice of a middle sized lemon (if you have no lemon you can use vinegar), and a very little cayenne. Mix all well together and keep it in a cool place. This is good with kidneys and all broiled meat and fish. 57. Anchovy Butter.—Take six anchovies, scrape and wash them, bruise them on a board, and mix six ounces of fresh butter with them; pass through a sieve, and keep in a cold place for use. 58. Pimento Butter. — Two ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of chilies chopped fine, one of parsley, a piece of garlic the size of a small pea scraped, half a spoonful of salt, a little pepper, and the juice of half a lemon—all well mixed.