PUDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTRY, ETC. 101 541. (Eufs k la Neige.—Beat to a strong froth some whites of eggs, and boil it in milk, with a little salt; cut them all of a size with a spoon, and set them to drain. Boil a pint of cream ; when it is boiling throw in the outer rind of half a lemon, a little sugar, and a very small quantity of salt; beat the yolks of four eggs with the cream, and let it thicken on the fire, stir- ring it continually. When thick enough, strain through a tammy and pom over the oeufs a la neige, which you must previously arrange on the dish they are to be sent to table in. The flavouring of this sauce may be varied with vanille, almond, rose, etc. 542. Pate & Frire.—Sift half a pound of flour, put it into a dish with two spoonfuls of oil, a little salt, and three yolks of eggs; moisten it with small beer in such quantities that the paste is not stringy; work it till it is of the consistency of thick cream ; whip one or two whites of eggs, and mix them lightly with the paste. Make it two or three hours before it is wanted; remember that the lightness of the paste depends upon the whites of eggs being well whipped. The paste may be made with butter instead of oil, and with hot water instead of beer, adding a glass of white wine. The fat taken from the stock-pot makes the best fritters, after that the kidney fat of beef minced. Fine oil is also good, but hog’s lard softens them, and prevents their being so crisp. 543. Creme Patissi^re.—Break two eggs into a stew-pan, with a little salt and as much sifted flour as they will take up ; mix in a pint Qf new milk, put it on the fire, stir constantly that it may not stick till you do not smell the flour; then add a lump of butter the size of a walnut, put it into a dish, and rub a little butter over it, that it may not harden on the outside. 544. Creme Frangipane.—Take the above creme, add to it a little sugar, a spoonful or two of orange- flower water, an^ some crumbled macaroons. Mix all well together till it is quite smooth; then add eggs to it, mixing them in one by one till it is of the consistency of thick soup. To be used for tourte de frangipane, cream tartlets, fritl ters, etc. 545. Gateau aux Pistaches.— Make a creme patissiere (which see). Blanch a quarter of a pound of pistachios and of sweet almonds pound them together, occasionally adding a drop of water to prevent their oiling. When quite smooth take them out of the mortar, have ready prepared a spoonful of spinach blanched, pressed in butter, beaten and rubbed through a colander; add this to the paste, and put both into the cream, which should have as much flour in it as it will take. Add now three- quarters of a pound of sifted sugar, a teaspoonful of orange - flower water, four whole eggs, six yolks, and a quarter of a pound of melted butter. Mix all well together. Whip the six whites, mix them in lightly. Prepare a stew-pan by buttering it with clarified butter, drain it, and powder it all over with fine crumbs of bread ; put in the mixture, and bake it in the oven for three-quarters of an hour. Serve immediately it comes out. 546. Genoises Glac6 & l’ltali- enne.—Put into a sweetmeat-pan