120 DAINTY DISHES eggs, and a teacupful of yeast; mix all together with some warm milk; set it to rise for an hour; make into round cakes; let them rise again ; and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. 668. Breakfast Cakes.—A pint of flour, two eggs, one spoonful of yeast, and as much cream as will mix it up light; make it up into cakes; let them rise an hour, and bake in a moderate oven. 669. Whigs.—Eub a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound and a half of flour, very fine; beat three eggs together with two spoon- fuls of yeast; add a pint of milk; mix well, and strain through a sieve on to the flour; beat all together till quite smooth; cover it over, and let it stand three hours at a little distance from the fire ; then stir in half a pound of sugar and half a pound of currants ; cover it over again, and let it stand an hour; bake them in tins, which fill half full, and stand them before the fire for an hour to rise. A quarter of an hour in a quick oven is sufficient to bake them. 670. Buns.—Mix a quarter of a pound of butter with a pound of flour; beat up the yolks and whites of two eggs in half a pint of new milk, and add a quarter of a pound of sugar and a tablespoonful of yeast; mix this with the flour, and work all well together; drop it out of a large spoon in a round form on tin plates, and when it has risen, bake. This quantity should be sufficient to make eight buns. 671. Barn Break (Irish).—The dough of half a quartern loaf, two ounces of caraway seeds, six ounces of sugar, four eggs, and a quarter of a pound of butter; work it all up together with as much flour as will make it a fit consistency to bake ; this will take half an hour to do ; make it into a round cake or loaf, and bake. 672. Muffins.—Take four pounds of fine flour, two pints of warm milk, two eggs well beaten, a little salt, and four spoonfuls of new yeast; mix all together, and beat it up well with your hand; set it before the fire to rise; make the muffins round with the bottom of a plate well floured; flour them on both sides, and bake on an iron plate in the oven. 673. Another Receipt for Muffins.—One pound of flour, two tablespoonfuls of yeast, mixed with as much warm water as to- gether will fill a teacup; set it up to rise and fall; then beat it to a thick batter till it draws out as you take it up. Make the muffins round with a knife and spoon ; roll them well in flour; let them he a few minutes, and bake on an iron plate. When they are quite done they will rattle on being knocked. 674. Crumpets.—A pound and a half of flour, three pints of milk, two spoonfuls of yeast, two fresh eggs ; mix the milk just warm with it; beat the whole into a batter; let it stand till it rises in blisters to the top, and bake on a polished iron baking-sheet with a rim to it. 675. Cringles.— Rub a quarter of a pound of butter in one pound of flour and two ounces of sugar; take half the dough, and set it to rise, with two spoonfuls of yeast and a quarter of a pint of milk; when risen add the rest of the dough to it, with two eggs and a