DAINTY DISHES 30 absorbed out of it. Mix into it four spoonfuls of cullis, or more if you require a large quantity, and let it boil for an hour; then rub it through a tammy ; if it should be too thiok, dilute with a little broth. If plain sorrel is thought too acid, some lettuce may be mixed with it. Endive may be done in the same way. For sweetbreads, fri- candeau, etc. 123. Celery Sauce. — Choose some good stalks of celery, wash them well, but do not let them soak, in water; pare instead of scrape any parts that may require it; cut it into small pieces and boil in a little water till quite tender. Strain off the water and simmer it for a few minutes, with the addi- tion of half a pint of cream, a small piece of butter rolled in flour, and a pinch of salt and pepper. Be careful that your fire is not too hot, or the cream will burn, and stir it all the time it is on gently. Good for boiled poultry and game. 124. Tarragon Sauce.—Chop a handful of the green leaves of tar- ragon ; boil them for five minutes in a little water ; add half a pint of bechamel. Season with salt and cayenne. For boiled fowl, fillets of chicken, etc. 125. Curry Sauce. — Peel and cut two good-sized onions in slices, an apple and a carrot in dice, and an ounce of bacon. Put them in a stew-pan with two ounces of butter; let them stew gently five or six minutes ; add three tablespoonfuls of flour, a large one of . curry- powder. Moisten with a pint and a half of milk, a teaspoonful of salt, and one of sugar. Boil till rather thick, pass through a sieve, and it is ready to use as desired. 126. Sauce for a Steak.—Take equal parts of red wine and ketchup, a small piece of butter, and a little pepper, with a teaspoonful of shallot vinegar ; stir together in a small saucepan on the fire, and pour it very hot over the steak. It is also good with mutton-chops. 127. Sauce h la Tripe.—Peel and cut six onions in slices; put them in a stew-pan with ten ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, one of sugar, and half a one of pepper. Set it on a slow fire to simmer till it becomes a pulp, stirring now and then to prevent its getting brown ; add a tablespoonful of flour, a pint of milk, and boil till it is rather thicker than melted butter. For eggs, etc. 128. Sauce for Veal Cutlets, etc.—Put in a pint saucepan two yolks of eggs, | pound of butter, a quarter teaspoonful of salt, half that of pepper, and the juice of a small lemon. Set it on the fire, and stir round quickly till it forms a rich thick sauce; two minutes should be enough to do it. If too thick, add a few drops of milk. N 129. Mushroom Gravy.—Clean your mushrooms carefully; put them into a stew-pan with a piece either of bacon or butter; brown them over a stove till they stick to the bottom of the pan, then put in a little flour, and let that also brown ; add a pint of broth, let it boil for two minutes, take it off the fire, and season with the squeeze of a lemon and a little salt. 130. Horseradish Sauce.— Grate a stalk of horseradish very fine ; to each tablespoonful of this add a teaspoonful of mustard, one of white sugar, and a little salt; add vinegar, a teaspoonful at a time, working it well till it comes