63 MEAT, POULTRY, GAME dish or pattypan with a light paste; cut your chickens as for a fricassee; lay them in and season with pepper, salt, and a bit of mace ; put in a little bundle of green onions and parsley tied, and two spoonfuls of broth; cover with thin slices of bacon; put the lid on neatly, and bake it about an hour and a half. Before serving, take off the top, remove the bacon and herbs, and skim off any fat. Have ready a ladleful of cullis, with some aspara- gus points or peas boiled ; add the juice of a lemon, make it boiling hot, pour over the chickens, and serve. Young rabbits are good dressed in the same way. 308. Veal Pie.—Take the middle or scrag of a small neck, cut it into nice pieces, season with pepper and salt. Lay in the bottom of the pie-dish some slices of ham or bacon; then the veal and some hard-boiled yolks of eggs, a little minced parsley and green onions, and two spoonfuls of veal stock. Cover with a good puff paste, and bake about an hour and a half. 309. Partridge Pie (raised).— Bone as many partridges as you will require for the size of the pie. Put inside a whole peeled raw truffle, and enough forcemeat to fill each. Make your raised pie- crust in a mould, lay a few thin slices of veal at the bottom and a layer of forcemeat, then the par- tridges ; fill up the corners with truffles, cover over with slices of fat bacon, then with paste, and bake for four hours. It should be eaten cold. The forcemeat in the following receipt should be used. 310. Perigord Pie.—Take eight Bmall fat chicken, bone them; make forcemeat of half a pound of liver—fowl’s, calf’s, or lamb’s-a piece of veal and a small bit of ham, a little salt, some pepper, two boned anchovies, a very little allspice, and some cayenne pepper, a little fresh-chopped suet, and the yolks of eight eggs. Pound them all very fine in a stone mortar; stuff the chickens quite full, put them in the pie, and fill up all the spaces above and below with the stuffing. Truffles are a great im- provement, and should be added both whole and minced with the forcemeat when they can be pro- cured. All sorts of game make a good pie in this way. It should be eaten cold, and baked in a raised piecrust between four and five hours. 311. Lark Pie.—Season the larks with pepper and salt, fill them with forcemeat, put them in a raised paste with forcemeat under and over, bake them one hour. Pour cullis or brown sauce over them when done. 312. Sheep’s Head Pie (Scotch). —Take a sheep’s head and feet with the skin on; singe them till quite black, put them into warm water and scrape them clean; open the head, take out the brains, and put the head and trotters in a saucepan with a little water, an onion, a bay-leaf, a little parsley, two cloves, and some salt. Stew six or seven hours. Take out the bones, and put the meat in a pie- dish ; reduce the liquor they were stewed in; strain and pour over the meat. Let it get quite cold, then cover it with a puff-paste, and bake it till the crust is well browned. It is best eaten cold. 313. Hare Pie (Scotch).—Cut a hare in neat pieces; put it into a