44 DAINTY DISHES been crimped or sprinkled for a day with salt, to make it firm. Fry it with some onions in a pan till it is of a fine brown; then put it in a stew - pan with some good veal gravy, a spoonful or two of curry- powder, a bit of butter rolled in flour, and four spoonfuls of rich cream. Season to taste, with salt and cayenne. Stew it slowly till done. Serve with rice, or in a rice border. 206. Kedgeree.—Boil a break- fast-cupful of rice twenty minutes, and four eggs ten minutes. Take any kind of cooked white fish; pull it in pieces; take care there are no bones left; chop the eggs very fine; add three or four ounces of fresh butter; season with salt and cayenne pepper (fresh green minced chilies are better). Beat the whole together, and serve as hot as possible. A little chutnee sauce eaten with it is a great improve- ment. 207. Oysters Stewed (Ameri- can Way).—Take a dozen large oysters in their own liquor; let them just boil; add salt, pepper, a piece of butter the size of a nut- meg, and half a teaspoonful of chopped chervil. 208. Another American Way. —Open a dozen oysterB; put them in a small stew-pan with two grains of black pepper, a pinoh of sugar, a little salt butter, and cayenne. Set them on the stove for three or four minutes; give them just a slight boil, and put in a bit of butter the size of a walnut, which you have previously mixed with half a teaspoonful of flour. Shake the stew-pan round till it is melted; put the pan again on the fire to simmer for a minute or two. Serve very hot on toast. Any quantity may be done in the same way. A little cream is an improvement. 209. Oysters Stewed in their own Juice (Scotch).—This is an excellent method of dressing them. Take the largest you can get; wash them clean through their own juice; lay them close together in a frying-pan; sprinkle them with a little salt. Do not put one above another. Make them a fine brown on both sides. If one panful is not sufficient, do off more. When they are all done, pour some of their liquor into the pan, mixing it with any that may be left from their cooking. Let it boil a minute or two. Pour it over the oysters, and serve very hot. 210. To Pot Char or Trout.— Three teaspoonfuls of black pepper and allspice mixed, two of mace, one each of cloves and nutmeg. Keep them well corked up in a small bottle; when used, add a little salt. This is a sufficient quantity for fourteen pounds of fish. Cut open the fish; clean them well with a dry cloth, but do not wash. Remove the heads, tails, fins, and backbone ; then rub the spices well into them. Put them with the spices into a baking dish ; cover well with fresh butter, and place the dish in a slow oven, to remain till the bones are dis- solved, which will take about five hours. Drain off the butter, and put the fish into pots; press it down firmly, and pour a thin layer of fresh butter over the top. The trout should be red-fleshed, and not exceeding three-quarters of a pound in weight. Other fish, such as eels, sprats, eto., or shrimps and prawns, may be done in the same