SAUCES 23 black pepper, and one of mustard, oil or thick cream. Cream may a tablespoonful of vinegar, one of generally be substituted for oil in anchovy sauce, and five of either salad sauces. COLD SAUCES TO KEEP. 66. A useful Sauce for Cold Meat, etc.—Half a pint of mush- room ketchup, three anchovies, a gill of walnut ketchup, four fresh green ohilies, two shallots or clove of garlic—pound them together; if you have no chilies, use a large pinch of cayenne; mix it well, bottle, and stop it close. 67. A Chutnee Sauce. — Pulp five or six roasted apples, colour them with turmeric and beetroot juice till they are of the colour of a tomato, add a tablespoonful of chili vinegar, a clove of garlic, a shallot, a small quantity of cayenne and salt; simmer gently for some time. It ought to be of the consis- tency of thick oream. When cool put into half-pint bottles, and cork it down. 68. A Good Sauce. — Haricots one quart, vinegar and water of each half a pint, three heaped spoonfuls of grated horseradish, a sliced lemon, a few chilies, twenty cloves, a few bits of nutmeg; simmer gently till the water is evaporated. When cool, add half a pint of walnut or mushroom ketchup, and the same of essenoe of anchovy. 69. Fish Sauce to Keep.—Dis- solve six anchovies in a glass of ort wine, bruise six shallots and oil them in a quart of walnut ketchup, with a few cloves, a couple of blades of mace, and some whole pepper, for about half an hour; let it cool, mix in the an- chovies, add half a pint of port wine. 70. Another. — Port wine one bottle; sherry, walnut, and mush- room ketchups, of each half a bottle; the juice of four small Seville oranges ; shallots and horseradish, of each half a pound ; two ounces of made mustard, and a quarter of an ounce of cayenne. This is an excellent sauce. 71. Sauce ‘ Volage.’ — Pound well in a mortar six anchovies, six shallots, four cloves of garlic, half an ounce of cayenne pepper, and add one pint of vinegar. Put all together into a jar, let it stand ten days, strain it through muslin, and bottle for use. It is muoh improved by keeping. 72. Gunner’s Delight.—Half a pound of sharp apples, half a pound of onions, both raw, to be chopped fine and well mixed; add two or three chilies, cover the whole en- tirely with best white vinegar. 73. Camp Vinegar.—One head f garlic cut in shoes, half an ounce of cayenne, a large glass of soy, one of mushroom or walnut ketchup, a pint of the best vinegar, and a little spirit of cochineal to give it a fine colour. Shake it often for five or six weeks; filter, and bottle it in small bottles. 74. Shallot Vinegar.—Split six or eight shallots, put them into a quart bottle, and fill it up with the best vinegar; stop it close, and in a month it will be fit for use. 75. Tarragon Vinegar.—Fill a wide - mouthed bottle with fresh- gathered tarragon leaves ; they are best between Midsummer and Michaelmas, just before flowering,