MEAT, POULTRY, GAME 47 wiped dry. Salt them well with common salt for twenty-four hours; take off the salt and lay them in a pan with the following mixture over them: One ounce of salt- petre, the same of salprunella and of brown sugar. Let it remain three days, then take it off and stew the cheeks for three hours till the bones will draw out. Chop it while warm into small pieces; season it well with chopped herbs, pepper and salt; put it into a tin mould, which fill till it comes a little above the top ; put the cover on with heavy weights over it, and press it down close. When quite cold turn it out, and it is ready to eat. 221. BeefenSaucissons.—Take two pieces of beef about double the size of your hand, and one finger thick; beat them to make them flat, trim them even; take the parings and another bit of beef and mince very fine together with some parsley, a few sweet basil leaves, some small onions, two shallots, some mushrooms, salt, and whole pepper. Mix this forcemeat with four yolks of eggs, spread it upon the slices of beef, roll them up in the form of sausages, tie them and put them into a stew-pan on a slow fire, with a little broth, a glass of white wine, a little salt, some pepper, an onion with two cloves stuck in it, a carrot, and a parsnip. When well stewed pass the sauce through a sieve, take off the fat, reduce it till it is thick and rich. Put in the beef again, just bring it to a boil, and serve. It is good to eat cold. 222. Beef en PapilloteB. — Take a rib of beef, shorten and trim it bo that it is a proper size for your dish. Put it on a gentle fire with a pint of broth, a little salt, and whole pepper; reduce it over a very gentle fire till it begins to stick to the beef; then put it in a marinade of oil, parsley, a very little sweet basil, small onions, one shallot, and some mushrooms, all minced very fine. Let it he an hour, then put the beef and marinade into a large sheet of white paper ; plait it up all round the edge so that it may be entirely covered ; oil the paper on the outside ; place it on a gridiron with another piece of oiled paper under it; broil on both sides over a gentle fire, and serve in the paper. 223. Shoulder of Mutton Mari- nade.—Lay it for three days in a quart of vinegar, with four onions sliced, a handful of sweet herbs, and a small quantity of mace and cloves pounded ; lard it with bacon rolled in Jamaica pepper ; put it to bake with some of the liquor round it. When done, serve with a rich gravy. 224. Leg of Mutton h la Peri- gord. — Take some truffles and bacon, cut them into pieces fit for larding, roll them in a little salt, spice, an onion, and a clove of garlic minced and well mixed to- gether ; then lard the mutton with the bacon and truffles, wrap it in a paper, and keep it from the air for two days that it may acquire a good flavour of truffles. Stew it on a gentle fire with some shoes of veal and bacon in its own gravy. When done enough, skim the sauce, add a good spoonful of cullis, and serve. 225. To Make a Haunch of Mutton eat like Venison.—Mix two ounces of bay salt with half a pound of brown sugar ; rub it well