PICKLING AND PEE SERVING 127 712. To Preserve Plums for Tarts. — Put the plums into a narrow-mouthed stone jar, and to every twelve pounds of plums allow seven pounds of raw sugar ; strew it among the plums as you put them in the jar ; tie up the mouth of the jar with several folds of paper, put them in a cool oven, and let them stand till the sugar has thoroughly penetrated the fruit, when they will be done enough, and the bottles must be corked close, and tied over with bladder. 713. To Preserve Cucumbers. —Lay a dozen large green cucum- bers in a pickle of salt and water for two days; then take them out and put them in plenty of fresh water for other two days, with a plate on the top of them to keep them down. Cover the bottom of a pan with vine leaves (cabbage will do), lay the cucumbers on them and cover with more leaves ; set the pan on the fire and give them a scald ; take the pan off, and let them stand till ahnost cold; repeat the scalding and cooling till the cucumbers begin to look green, then take them out, drain them, put them in a pan with water and leaves, andboil them three minutes; take them out carefully; make a slit in the flat side with the end of a teaspoon; scrape out the pulp and seeds; dry the cucumbers between the folds of a cloth; fill them with white pepper, a little mace, some sliced ginger, and some thin parings of lemon; tie them round with a fine packthread to keep in the seasonings; clarify a thin syrup of double-refined sugar, and when it is nearly cold pour it over the cucumbers, and keep them covered for two days; then si^un, reboil the syrup, and when cooi again pour it over them. Repeat this five times every two or three days, or till the cucumbers look quite transparent. Take them out of the syrup, and put into a rich syrup, which you will have mean- while prepared, adding the juice of four lemons. Put them into jars, cover with paper dipped in brandy, and tie them down close. 714. To Imitate Ginger — When white cos lettuce is begin- ning to run to seed cut off the stalks, and peel all the stringy part off them till only the heart is left; then cut in pieces about the size West Indian ginger usually is, and throw the pieces into water as you cut them ; wash them well ; have ready some sugar and water, in the proportion of a pound of sugar to five pints of water; add a large spoonful of pounded ginger, and boil the whole together for twenty minutes ; let it stand two days and boil again for half an hour ; repeat this five or six times, always leaving it in the same syrup, then drain it on a sieve and wipe it with a cloth. Prepare a fresh syrup, with as much raw ginger in it as will make it taste quite hot; boil the mock ginger in this two or three times, till it looks quite clear and tastes as hot as India ginger ; put it then in pots; when it is cold tie it close down. If this is done with care it is difficult to detect the mock from the real ginger. 715. Apple Ginger.—Pare and cut twelve pounds of apples in round pieces; add to them eight pounds of fine-sifted white sugar and four ounces of pounded ginger; let them stand forty-eight hours;