40 DAINTY DISHES boil, but make it very hot, and pour it over the fillets. 181. Cod k la CrSme.—Put into a stew-pan a good bit of butter, half a spoonful of flour, a clove of garlic minced fine, and some whole pepper; moisten with milk or cream ; thicken your sauce on the stove. Put in the fillets of cod; heat, and serve very hot. If you wish to serve it with breadcrumbs, put in a little more butter and the yolks of three eggs. Lay the fish in the dish you mean to serve it in, with the sauce round it; cover with breadcrumbs, and put it for a minute or two in the oven, and brown it with a salamander. Cod or salmon that have been previously dressed are good in this way. 182. Salmon au Court Bouillon or au Bleu.—Having drawn and cleaned your salmon, score the sides of it pretty deep ; lay it on a napkin, and season it with salt, pepper, a few cloves, a little nut- meg, some sliced onions, chives, parsley, sliced lemon, two or three bay-leaves, and some basil. Work up a pound of butter in a little flour, and put it in the belly of the fish ; then wrap the salmon in the napkin, bind it about with a pack- thread, and put it into a fish-kettle of a size proportionate to your fish. Pour over it equal parts of wine, water, and vinegar, in quantities sufficient to boil it, and set it over a quick fire. When it is done enough, which will be in from fifteen to twenty - five minutes, according to its size, take it off, and keep it simmering over a slow stove till you are ready to serve. Then take up the salmon, take it out of the napkin, and lay it on another in the dish you intend to serve it in, and garnish it with parsley. 183. To Boil Salmon as at Ber- wick.— Cut the salmon across into small shoes, wash them twice in hard water, or pump water over them. The water must be boiling when the salmon is put in, and plenty of salt in it (as much as will float an egg). If a small salmon it will take fifteen minutes ; if a large one twenty to twenty- five. Hard water must be used in boiling. Serve in a deep dish, with some of the water the fish was boiled in poured over. 184. To Broil Salmon with a White Sauce. — Having cut the salmon in slices, melt some butter in a pan, and add a little salt to it. Bub the shoes of fish with this, and broil them on a gridiron over a slack fire. Make a white sauce as follows : Put a piece of butter and a pinch of flour into a sauce- pan, two anchovies, previously washed and boned, some capers, and a whole leek. Season with pepper, salt, and a very little nut- meg. Add a httle water and a few drops of vinegar. Keep stirring the sauce over the stove till of a proper thickness, then take out the leek, and pour it into the dish you intend to serve the salmon in. Lay the shces of broiled fish in, and serve very hot. 185. Salmon with a Brown Sauce.—Broil your shces of salmon as above. Put into a saucepan a piece of butter the size of an egg, and set it on a slow stove. When the butter is melted, put in half a spoonful of flour, and shake it about till it is brown. Then put in some good fish stock and a glass of white wine. Season with pepper,