FISH SOUPS 11 saucepan over the fire for a few minutes, and then add two quarts of good stock; simmer for half an hour. Blanch and beard fifty oysters; add the liquor to the stock, and the oysters to the fillets; thicken the soup with roux, and, when well Bkimmed and clarified, add it to the fillets previously slightly fried. Let it boil five minutes; add half a pint of Madeira or dry sherry, the juice of half a lemon, and season with cayenne to taste. When haddocks oannot be procured, soles or whitings do as well. It is also excellent made with cod-sounds, well soaked and blanched, instead of fillets of fish, and codfish used for the stock. 30. Cod’s-head Soup. —Make half a gallon of strong stock as follows : Take two pounds of beef, half a knuckle of veal, and a pound and a half of lean ham, two large onions stewed in butter, with a little gravy to keep them from turning brown. Let it boil up, then add a bunch of sweet herbs, marjoram, thyme, and basil, two bay-leaves, a small handful of parsley, and the peel of half a lemon. Let it stew gently till the herbs are tender, then pass it through a tammy. Now take half a bottle of white wine, the eighth of an ounce of cloves, and the same quantity of black pepper, the eighth of a pound of anchovies, and a quarter of a pint of mushroom ketchup ; stew all these together Blowly for a quarter of an hour, strain, and add the liquor to the stock. Season with a little cayenne pepper and salt, and thicken with a little roux. Have ready a large cod’s head stewed in a pan with a little stock till all the meat comes from the bones. Add this fish and the gravy it was stewed in to your soup, and let it boil up, with forced-meat balls and little eggs thus prepared : Take half a pound of cod, six large oysters, three anchovies, and a quarter of a pound of suet; season highly; add a few breadcrumbs and one egg, and make into baUs. The little eggs are made by beating three hard boiled yolks of eggs m a mortar to a paste with the yolk of one raw egg. Roll into small balls, and throw them into boiling water for two minutes. 31. Scotch Fish Soup—Take four haddocks, skin them, and take out all the bones; cut them into pieces about two inches long ; then put the heads, skins and bones, after being well washed, into four quarts of good beef-stock, with three onions, and let it boil for an hour; then strain the soup into a clean saucepan, into which put two onions, chopped very small, a turnip and a carrot, which latter are to be taken out. Let it boil five minutes, then put in your pieces of fish with a handful of minced parsley, and let it boil eight minutes. Season with pepper and salt. Some add two tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, but the compiler dis- approves of it. 32. A Marseilles Receipt for Bouillabaise. — Almost any sort of fish may be used in making bouillabaise, and the more kinds the better. Those generally used, because caught in the Mediterra- nean, are whitings, red mullets, soles, gurnet, turbot, lobsters, and oray-fish. Slice two large onions, place them in a wide but deep stew-pan made of thin metal; add four or five spoonfuls of the best olive-oil. Fry the onions of a pale brown colour. Next place the fish, B