DAINTY DISHES 76 with salt and pepper, and then put them in a stew-pan with a little good broth, and set them to simmer over a gentle fire. When done enough, skim off all the fat, add some beef gravy, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and serve. 395. To Boil Asparagus.— Scrape the stalks clean, wash them in cold water, tie them up in bundles of about twenty-five each, cut off the stalks even at the bottom about four inches from the green part; put them into a stew- pan of boiling water with a handful of salt in it; let it boil rather quick, and skim it. From twenty to thirty minutes should be enough to do them; but observe as soon as they are tender to take them out of the water, or they will be spoilt. While they are boiling toast a round of a quartern loaf, about half an inch thick, brown on both sides ; lay it in the middle of the dish and the asparagus over it; serve melted butter in which you have beaten up the yolk of an egg with them, but separately in a boat. In France asparagus is much liked cold as salad, and eaten with the following sauce: Vinegar, one tablespoonful; oil, two; quarter of a teaspoonful of salt; half that of pepper. Mix well together, and add a little minced parsley. 396. To Dress Spinach.—Boil the spinach tender without putting any water to it in a bain marie— i.e., stand the saucepan in boiling water. When it is done squeeze it between two plates, pound it in a mortar, roll it into balls, and throw them into cold water. When you want to use it, put it into a stew-pan with some cream and a vory little salt and pepper, or a small piece of butter and a few spoonfuls of soup. Let it stew quickly that it may not turn yellow, and stir it well. 397. Roties aux Epinards.— Out some slices of bread about two fingers in length and the thickness of a crown-piece. Take some spinach that has already been served stewed; mix two yolks of eggs with it, lay it on the toast, pass a knife dipped in egg over the top breadcrumb, and fry them. French beans are good dressed in the same way. The grease that runs from a goose when roasting should always be kept, as it is par- ticularly good to dress spinach with. 398. Stewed Watercresses (Cornish Receipt).—Lay the cresses in strong salt and water; pick and wash them well, and stew in water for about ten minutes; drain and chop them; return them to the stew-pan, with a bit of butter, some pepper and salt; stew till tender. Just before serving put in a little vinegar; serve with fried sippets. It is good with boiled chickens. 399. Cucumbers and Onions.— Peel the cucumbers and cut them into quarters; take out all the seeds, and cut each quarter into three pieces, and pare them round. Peel as many small onions as you have pieces of cucumbers; put them all to marinade for two hours in vinegar and water (half of each), some pepper and salt; then pour off the liquor, add as much stock as will barely cover them, boil them down to a glaze, add as much cullis as you think they require, boil a few minutes, add the juice of a lemon and a little sugar. This