Soups. Soups, properly so called, are made from stock, which may be made beforehand ; and this, by the addition of different vegetables, or very often the same merely cut in another shape, or the flavour varied by herbs, becomes Soupe a la Julienne, Prinianibre, Brunoise, etc., etc. For the making of stock, and its subsequent metamorphosis into these various soups, there are so many directions given in divers excellent French cookery-books that it would be superfluous to introduce them here: the following receipts would be therefore more correctly termed Broths, as they require to be fresh-made, and have each an individual character of their own. 1. Pot au Feu.—Put in a sauce- pan six lb. of beef (bones included) cut into two or three pieces ; three- quarters of a lb. of mixed vege- tables, such as onions, carrots, turnips, leeks, white cabbage, and celery with its leaves left on, all cut in good-sized pieces; three small spoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, and one of sugar; add eight pints of water ; let it boil gently three hours; remove the fat; add crusts of roll or slices of bread, either previously toasted or plain, and serve. 2. Scotch Mutton or Barley Broth.—Soak a neck of mutton in water for an hour ; cut off the scrag, and put it into a stew-pot with two quarts of water. As soon as it boils skim it well; let it simmer for an hour and a half, then take the best end of the mutton, cut it in cutlets, trim off some of the fat, and add as many to the soup as you think proper; skim the moment the fresh meat boils up, and every quarter of an hour after ; then add four or five carrots, the same number of tur- nips, three onions, and some celery, all cut, but not too small; four large spoonfuls of barley, previously washed in cold water. The broth should stew altogether three hours twenty minutes; before serving, some chopped parsley may be added. 3. Sir Robert Preston’s Mutton Broth.—Two pounds and a half of mutton boiled in two pints of water, with, say, three spoonfuls barley, very slowly for three on four hours; then strain it off and remove the fat; add three turnips, and carrots, and two leeks or onions, cut very fine; put them, with three mutton chops, into the broth, and boil till tender; when, nearly done, add some greens, pre- viously blanched and well drained; boil for about ten minutes more,, season with salt, and serve. The vegetables should appear quite thick in the broth and be cut very small. 4. Sheep’s Head Broth.—Take a large breakfast cupful of barley, a sheep’s head and trotters pre- viously prepared, and, if the brothi