dainty dtsties 66 or water. They should be stirred often to prevent then getting lumpy, and are very light and nutritious. Onions may be added, or a little minced hot pickle, if liked. 327. Hare Collops are dressed in the same way, with the addition of a little claret. 328. Caparata. — Cut down a cold fowl, mince all the white very small, break the bones and the back, and put them, with the rest of the trimmings, a little water, a bit of lemon-peel, and a blade of mace, in a saucepan. Let it boil till all the substance is out of them; strain it off, thicken with a bit of butter rolled in flour and a little cream; chop some hard-boiled yolks of eggs, put them with the fowl into the sauce, give it two or three good boils. Just before dish- ing add a squeeze of lemon, a little salt, and cayenne pepper. Pepper and salt the legs, broil and lay on the mince. 329. Stewed Tripe.—Select two pounds of double tripe well cleaned and blanched, cut in pieces of rather less than a quarter of a pound each; put in a clean stew- pan with a pint of milk and one of water, two teaspoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, eight middle-sized onions carefully peeled. Set it on to boil, which it should do at first rather fast, then simmer till done, which will be in rather more than half an hour. Put it into a deep dish or tureen, and serve with the milk and onions. 630. Tripe k la Lyonnaise.— When any oold tripe remains, cut it in thin slices about an inch square and wipe it very day. Mince two onions, put some butter (in the proportion of three ounces to a pound of tripe) into a frying-pan with the onions; when they are about half done put in the tripe and let all fry for about ten minutes, season with pepper and salt, and three tablespoonfuls of vinegar to each pound of tripe. Serve very hot. This is a favourite dish in Lyons, both with the ‘ gourmet ’ and the ‘ gourmand.’ 331. Gratin of Tripe.—Cut each half pound, previously boiled, in four pieces. Stew it slowly in a pint of bechamel, in which you have mixed two teaspoonfuls of curry paste or powder, for half an hour. Add the yolks of two eggs, mix and stir quickly; place it in the dish it is to be served on, strew it with breadcrumbs. Stick a few bits of butter on the top, and place it for a minute or two in the oven. Pass a salamander over the top, and serve. 332. Black Puddings.—When a large pig is killed, catch the blood in a basin, to each quart of blood put a large teaspoonful of salt, stir incessantly till it is cold ; simmer, in the smallest possible quantity of water, a pint of Emden groats till tender, but not the least reduced to gruel. To each quart of blood add one pound of the inside fat of the pig, chopped, but not too small, a quarter of a pint of breadcrumbs, a tablespoonful of sage, a teaspoon- ful of thyme, minced fine, a quarter of an ounce each of allspice, salt, and pepper, and a teacupful of cream. When the blood is cold, strain it through a sieve and mix it with the fat, then the groats, and lastly the seasoning; mix well, and fill the largest guts, previously well cleansed, tie in lengths of about nine inches, and boil gently