148 DAINTY DISHES with a quarter of a pint of picked Bhrimps or prawns mixed with breadcrumbs, parsley, salt and pepper, one egg and some cream. Brush the fish over with butter and sprinkle a little lemon juice over, garnish with prawns down the centre. Bake slowly in a buttered paper bag for about half an hour. Serve with cut lemon and garnish with endive, 827. Salmon au Parmesan.— One or more salmon steaks, butter these and bake in a paper bag for a quarter of an hour. Then care- fully cut the paper open and cover the salmon with grated Parmesan cheese, pepper and salt, with a sprinkle of raspings on the top. Return to the oven for five or six minutes. Dish and serve with a garnish of ououmber arranged in thin sliees. 828. Salmon Piquante.—One salmon steak dipped in salad oil; cover both sides with this mixture: a finely-chopped pickled gherkin and onion, one anchovy, cayenne and salt. Place the fish in a well- oiled bag and bake slowly for twenty to thirty minutes according to the thickness of the steak. Trim the bag and serve the fish in it. 829. Kidneys and Mushrooms. —Skin the kidneys and cut them in halves, peel the mushrooms, put them in a buttered paper bag with about two ounces of butter, a dash of cayenne, salt. Bake very slowly for twenty minutes. Dish and serve with the liquor formed in the bag. 830. Beef Olives.—Some thin slices of raw beef taken from the undercut of the sirloin, lay a thin slice of bacon on each and then a layer of veal stuffing. Roll each fillet up and tie it. Place these in a greased bag, add one quarter of a pint of good stock, with some finely-chopped mushroom, carrot and turnip. Bake for about forty minutes. Dish up and serve with some good brown sauce to which has been added the stock from the bag. 831. Stewed Kidneys.—Cut an ox kidney up in pieces the size of a walnut, or use sheep’s kidneys cut into four pieces, about two ounces of bacon finely chopped, a small wine- glass of sherry, a squeeze of lemon juice, one quarter of a pint of good stock, pepper and salt. Roll the pieces of kidney in flour and put all into a buttered paper bag. Bake slowly for half an hour. Dish and serve. Note.—It is essential that all paper bags should be well oiled or buttered, firmly secured with clips and laid on a perforated shelf or grid to bake in the oven, having the joined edge of the paper upper- most. This is most important, otherwise the bag may leak. Casserole 832. Chicken a l’Espagnole — Cut up a couple of chickens into neat joints, have ready some shalots, truffle and mushrooms prepared Cookery and cut up small. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in the casserole, and when hot fry the vegetables, chicken pieces and a bouquet garni