DAINTY DISHES 100 with ten ounces of butter; add a quarter of a pound of almonds previously pounded with orange- flower water, a pound of sugar, eight yolks and four whites of eggs, and a little cream. It will take a quarter of an hour to incorporate all these ingredients thoroughly. Bake in puff-paste in a quick oven. 536. Almond Cheesecakes.— Take six ounces of sweet and three of bitter almonds, and beat them fine in the mortar ; add eight eggs well whipped, twelve ounces of loaf-sugar, half a pound of fresh butter carefully melted, and four ounces of ground rice. Mix well together, and beat it up for half an hour. Bake in pattie-pans lined with puff-paste in a moderate oven. 537. Lemon Cheesecakes. — The peel of two lemons boiled in two or three waters till tender; pound them with six ounces of sugar ; add the yolks of six eggs beaten up well with six ounces of melted butter and the juice of half a lemon. Bake in pattie-pans lined with puff-paste in a quick oven. 538. Orange Cheesecakes. — Blanch half a pound of sound sweet almonds, and beat them very fine with two spoonfuls of orange- flower water, half a pound of fine pounded sugar, three quarters of a pound of melted butter added when almost cold, eight yolks and four whites of eggs. When well beaten and mixed, strain it. Boil the peel of a Seville orange till the bitter- ness is out, pound it fine, and mix with the rest. Bake in very light puff-paste. This is an incompar- able cheesecake. Orange, apricot, or pine-apple marmalade may bo substituted for the Seville orange- peel. 539. Egg Cheese.—Take a quart of new milk, add to it sixteen yolks and eight whites of eggs ; beat and strain them; then put in a piece of sugar dissolved in water, a large piece of cinnamon, the rinds of a lemon and an orange. Mix well together; and before you set it on the fire, squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Let the fire be slow, and stir with a wooden spoon from the bottom till you see it come to a soft curd; then take it off, and put it to drain in a frame. Let it hang two hours, and serve, cover- ing it with the following cream : A quart of cream, eight yolks of eggs, a piece of sugar dissolved in water, half a spoonful of fine flour, a piece of cinnamon, the rind of an orange and a lemon. Set over a slow fire, whisk till it begins to bubble ; take it off, let it get cold, and serve, poured over the cheese. 540. Portugal Eggs.—Take nine eggs and boil them hard; pound them in a mortar with some sugar, a little pounded cinnamon, and nut- meg; add two raw eggs to bind them. Roll the paste, with your hands well floured, into eight or nine round balls; then take half a pint of good cream, put it into a pan with some sugar, a stick of cinnamon or vanille, and the rind of a lemon; add the egg-balls; let them stew gently over a slow fire, moving the pan occasionally. When you think they are done enough, take them out carefully with a spoon, arrange them on a dish, pour the cream over, and serve.