BAKING 119 cleaned and heated, and put the bread in, where it should remain about two hours. Keep the oven closed, otherwise the bread will crack. 662. Very Good Bread.—Take a peck of the best flour, two quarts of milk and water, mixed half-and- half, together with a teacupful of yeast and a little salt; make a hole in the flour; pour it in, and stir all well up with a wooden spoon; set it in a warm place, and let it stand till you think it has suffi- ciently risen, which is usually in from two to three horns; then work it up lightly, and let it stand two minutes before you put it in the oven; bake according to your judgment, but it generally takes an hour and a half. 663. Aerated Bread.—One pound of flour, ninety drops of muriatio acid, seventy-five grains of carbonate of soda, seventy grains of salt, and half a tumbler of water; mix the salt and soda together; stir the flour, in small quantities at a time, slowly and thoroughly into the salt and soda; then add the water and acid, kneading as quickly as possible together (half a minute should do it); then put it at once into the oven. 664. French Rolls. —Take a quarter of a peck of flour, a teacup- ful of yeast, as much warm milk, with an ounce of butter in it, as will mix them not very stiff; add one egg. Cover the dough with a clean flannel, and let it stand to rise ; when risen, if for making smooth French rolls, add an ounce more butter; if for rasped ones, use as it is; bake them on a tin in a quick oven, leaving the door open till they are brown on one side, then turn them, and close the oven-door (a quarter of ar^lour will do them). They should be rasped immediately, or they will turn soft. The same dough is good for other rolls, and if a little sugar is added, and currants or caraway seeds, makeb excellent buns. 665. Sally Lunns.—Two pounds of flour, two ounces of butter, and one ounce of sugar; rub them well together; take four table- spoonfuls of yeast, mixed with a little warm water; set the yeast to rise, and when it rises a little beat up with it a gill of cream and some milk (or all milk, if new, will do), and the yolks of four eggs. Warm this a little ; add to it the dough, and work it all together; the dough must not be quite so stiff as bread dough. Mould it with your hands in small round cakes ; lay them on an iron baking- plate to rise, in a warm place; bake them in not too hot an oven. They will take about an hour, and are eaten cut open and buttered. After they are buttered they should be closed and returned to the oven for a minute or two. 666. Bath Cakes.—Rub half a pound of butter into a pound of flour; add a spoonful of good yeast; and with some warm cream work all into a light paste ; set it by [the fire to rise. When you make them up, work in four ounces of caraway seeds, keeping some to strew on the tops. Make them in round cakes the size of a bun. Bake them on tins, and serve hot. 667. Cheltenham Cakes. — Six pounds of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, the yolks of two