MEAT, POULTRY, GAME 61 pounded and sifted together. Cayenne and black pepper to be added to taste when the curry is made. 295. To Boil the Rice.—Wash the rice thoroughly in cold water; have some water boiling very fast (there should be plenty of it), and throw the rice in; boil about a quarter of an hour. To ascertain if it is done enough, rub a grain in your fingers, if it goes quite down, it is done enough; strain it into a colander ; pour a cup of cold water over it, and put it back into a covered saucepan near the fire till ready to serve. 296. Rabbits & la Provengale. —Cut the rabbits in pieces ; put them in a stew-pan with some good olive-oil, salt and pepper, and some onions cut in shoes; fry them of a light brown; take them out and dry them on a cloth. Then return the rabbits and onions to the stew- pan with the addition of a clove of garlic minced fine, a small spoon- ful of espagnole, and some tomato sauce, and stew until sufficiently done. 297. Hare or Rabbit Hashed or Stewed.—Cut them in pieces (the stew-pan should be flat, so that each pieoe may touch the bottom); heat the pan, then put in about half a spoonful of lard; place the pieces of hare or rabbit in the pan so that each piece touches it; as soon as they begin to brown, sprinkle them with two handfuls of flour (they should be browned on both sides); add a few small onions; let the pan remain five minutes over a moderate fire, then pour over a pint of boiling water; season with salt and pepper, two cloves, three allspice, and a bit of garlic about the size of a pea, two bay leaves, and a small bunch of pars- ley. Let the whole simmer slowly nearly an hour and a half; now add to the whole half a bottlb of good claret, and continue to simmer for two hours longer, when it will be ready to serve. Care must be taken not to have too much fire, or it will become dry. 298. Filets de Li&vre en Poiv- rade.—Take a hare that has been already roasted, cut the meat into fillets; if you have not enough to fill your dish you may leave the bones in, otherwise the meat alone is best. Place it in a stew-pan with some sauce poivrade (see Sauces); make it very hot, but do not let it boil, and serve with sippets of fried toast. 299. Boudins of Rabbit.—Boil the rabbit well; pick the meat from the bones; pound it very fine in a mortar with a small piece of butter; add a little good gravy, a little parsley, and sweet herbs; season with pepper and salt; add a few breadcrumbs and three eggs; beat it up well. You may cook them in cups or timbale moulds. Butter and flour them first. Put in the boudins, and steam them about three-quarters of an hour. Turn them out, and serve with a rich bechamel. If you have rabbits enough, use only the white meat. 300. Quenelles of Chicken.— Take the breast of a fowl and scrape all the meat from the sinews, the same quantity of suet, and shred it very fine. Put it in the mortar and pound as smooth as possible ; then take the crumb of a penny roll, wet it in milk, add it to the meat in the mortar, and pound a little more; rub it through a fine