DAINTY DISHES 102 five ounces of sugar and five eggs ; mix as for a biscuit; add a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds beaten, and the same quantity of flour; butter a baking-sheet, roll the paste the thickness of a crown- piece, lay it on the sheet, and bake of a fine colour in a quick oven. When done, you may cut it into any form you please. Clarify a pound of sugar, put the pan into cold water, and gather the sugar ; mix gradually the whites of five eggs well whisked with it; glaze the tops of the genoises with this, and set them to dry for a quarter of an hour in the stove. 547. Gateau k la Reine.—Beat a pound of sweet almonds to a paste ; add a pound of sifted sugar, and four whites of eggs, by degrees. When well mixed, it may be cut into what shapes you fancy. Bake in a slow oven, and glaze the same as the genoises. 548. Gkteau Napolitaine k la Chantilly.—Weigh one pound of flour, eight ounces of sifted sugar, eight ounces of pounded sweet almonds, and the same of butter ; mix them on the pastry slab with five yolks of eggs, the zest of two oranges rubbed off on a piece of sugar, and a very little salt. Work all well together. When thoroughly mixed, knead the paste into the form of a rolling-pin, and divide into twelve equal parts. Knead these again into round balls, and roll them out to about seven inches diameter. Cut them all the same size with a circular cutter, prick them all over with a fork, egg them, and lay them on previously buttered baking-tins, and bake them in a moderate oven, keeping them a light colour. When they are done, lay a weight on them to keep them flat till they are cold; then lay one upon another, with a layer of apricot or other jam be- tween each. The sides and top may be iced with sugar, or de- corated according to taste. 549. Baba.—Take half an ounce of salt, five whole eggs, a pound and a half of butter, the same quantity of picked raisins, half that quantity of currants, a little pow- dered saffron, and a small quantity of yeast. Make a hole in the centre of a pound of flour ; put all these things in, and work it with a little warm water to a smooth and not too stiff paste. Rub a sauce- pan with butter, and put in the baba. If in winter, leave it five or six hours to rise; in summer it will not require so long. When it has risen, bake like any other cake in a moderate oven. 550. Beignets de Pommes k la Bavarie.—Pare and quarter some large pippins ; lay them to soak in brandy with some fine sugar, cin- namon, and lemon-peel; turn them often, and, when near dinner-time, dry them in a cloth, roll them about in flour, and fry them tender in hot lard. Dish, and sift over them a quantity of fine sugar, and colour them with a salamander. 551. Beignets de Peches au Vin du Rhin.—These should be made of a fleshy kind of peach, and each cut in two. Put them to soak in some Rhenish wine, with plenty of sugar, some cinnamon and lemon-peel. When ready to serve, dry them, and fry in hot lard, without any flour. Strain the wine into a stew-pan, and boil it to a syrup ; add the kernels of the peaches blanched and split, and