PUDDINGS, JELLIES, PASTRY, ETO. of butter in one pound of flour, wet it with as much water as will make a stiff paste, roll it out three times, as thin as a crown-piece. This is a good paste to cover all fruit tarts in dishes. 580. Biscuit Paste. — One pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of sugar, six yolks of eggs, one wineglassful of milk, worked together into a stiff paste. This is good for tarts baked in pans, or lining moulds. For custards line small moulds, fill them with flour, bake them hard; when done take the flour out, clean, fill with cus- tard, and bake till set. 581. Almond Pastry. — Make some square thin pieces of puff- paste, pound some sweet and a few bitter almonds very small, mix them with the white of an egg and a little sugar; spread this upon the pieces of pastry, and bake them in an oven till they are as crisp as possible. 582. Madeleine Cakes.—To one tablespoonful of flour add four of cream and three yolks of eggs, with two spoonfuls of pounded sugar; put it on a slow fire, and just let it come to a boil, then set it aside to cool. Have ready some puff- paste rolled as thin as a half-crown. Cut the piece in half, and on one spread the above preparation pretty thinly, then cover it with the other half. Glaze it with egg spread with a brush; bake in a quick oven, and when it is done cut it into equal-sized pieces the shape of an ordinary sponge cake. Sift coarsely - powdered sugar over them, and glaze with a salamander, so that they may look candied on the top. 583. Frangipane.—A quarter of a pint of cream, four yolks of eggs, two ounces of flour, two or three almond-cakes crumbled, four table- spoonfuls of sugar, a little grated lemon - peel, a small c^mtity of candied peel cut fine, a teaspoon- ful of brandy, and a very little nutmeg. Set it upon a gentle fire, give it a boil, and stir that it may not become lumpy. Prepare either a square, oval, or round shape of puff-paste, rolled to the thickness of half an inch; put in the mix- ture, lay bars of paste across it, glaze, bake in a quick oven, and salamander before serving. 584. Another Frangipane. — Take six bitter and a handful of sweet ahnonds; pound them as fine as possible in a mortar, add a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, a tablespoonful of Horn', the yolks of two eggs, half a lemon- peel grated fine, one spoonful of orange marmalade, and a little nutmeg; mix all together with half a pint of good cream. Line a baking-tin with a thin, light pasta laying a thicker bit round the edge, put in the preparation, and bake in a moderately hot oven. About half an hour should do it. 585. Custard Tart.—Cover a tart-pan with puff - paste ; stew some apples very soft, then rub them through a sieve, sweeten them to taste, and put them in the paste ; make a custard with half a pint of cream or good milk ; set it on to boil with a laurel-leaf, a bit of lemon-peel, and an ounce and a half of loaf-sugar; when it boils stir in the yolks of three eggs, stir till thick, and pour it over the apples. Beat the whites of ten eggs to a very stiff froth and spread