BAKING 128 688. Ginger Cakes.— Half a pound of flour, three ounces of Lisbon sugar, three ounces of butter, half an ounce of ginger, and the yolks of two eggs mixed with either cream or milk ; then dropped on tins or paper and baked in a slack oven. 689. Rice Cake.— Beat twelve yolks and six whites of eggs with the grated peel of two lemons; mix one pound of [ground rice, eight ounces of flour, and one pound of fine-sifted sugar; beat it up with the eggs by degrees for an hour, with a woodqp. spoon ; butter a pan well, and put it in at the mouth of the oven, which should be a gentle one. An hour and a half will bake it. 690. Oat Cakes.—A quarter of a pound of butter to two pounds of oatmeal, then add as much water as will just work them together, but the less the better, and hot water is best; roll them out with a rolling-pin as thin as possible. One side should be done on the girdle and the other on the toaster. Oat cakes may also be made with- out any butter, mixed with hot water, and a pinch of salt added. As little water should always be used as possible, for it makes them flinty. 691. Barley-meal Scones.—Put a pan full of milk on the fire, and when it boils stir in barley-flour till it is as thick as possible; add a little salt, and roll them out as thin as you can ; bake them on the girdle, but do not keep them too long on it as it makes them tough. 692. Yorkshire Cakes.—Three pounds of flour, a pint and a half of warm milk, four spoonfuls of yeast, and three eggs; beat the whole well together, and let it rhie ; then form the cakes round ; ^flace them on the baking-tins and let them rise again before putting them in the oven, which must be of a moderate heat. Five ounces of butter may be warmed with the milk and added if preferred. 693. Balloon Cakes.—Mix two tablespoonfuls of yeast with four of cream; add to it six of flour; make it into a light dough ; set it to rise in a warm place ; roll it out very thin ; cut it into round cakes and bake on tins for four minutes. 694. Savoy Biscuit or Cake.— Half a pound of very fine dry flour, one pound of dry pounded sugar, fourteen very fresh eggs ; rasp over the sugar the peel of two oranges or lemons; put the sugar again to dry; break the eggs, separating the yolks from the whites. Be very careful to see the eggs are fresh, as one bad one would spoil all. Put the sugar with the yolks and beat them together with a wooden spoon ; beat the whites to a firm froth, then mix with the yolks, and sift the flour through a hair sieve over them. Mix gently with the whip. Butter a mould, and powder it over with sugar; put the biscuit in the mould—a little at a time, to prevent its blistering at the top; put some ashes on a baking-dish, and put the mould over this in the oven. The heat must be moderate. About an hour is sufficient, but be careful not to remove it till it is done. 695. Sponge - Cake. — To one pound of flour finely sifted take twelve good fresh eggs ; break the eggs into a pan, whisk them over a cool stove till milk-warm; whisk