DAINTY DISHES 54 well, pour the aspic on them, and put the whole again in a stew-pan on the fire ; keep beating and stir- ring till the jelly gets white ; it is then very near boiling ; put it on the corner of the stove with a cover over it and a little fire on the top; when quite clear and bright strain it through a jelly-bag or sieve, and it is ready to use when wanted. 258. Another Aspic.— Put a knuckle of veal, a small part of a knuckle of ham, and some trim- mings of fowl or game into a small stock-pot, with onions, carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt; pour over half a bottle of white wine and some good broth ; let it boil gently for four hours, then skim off all the fat and strain it through a silk sieve ; put it into a stew-pan with two spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, four whites of eggs, and if you think it requires it, some more pepper and salt. Stew it on the fire till it becomes very white, then set it on one side with a little fire over the cover ; when you find it clear drain it through a jelly-bag. If this is re- quired for garnishing raised pies or galantine, the vinegar may be omitted. 259. Mayonnaise de Perdreaux. — Boast three partridges, leave them to cool, cut them in pieces, put them in a pan with four shal- lots, a little tarragon and burnet minced, four spoonfuls of oil, three large ones of broken aspic jelly, a little pepper and salt, and a large spoonful of tarragon vinegar. Mix all well together, dish the part- ridges, putting the breasts and backs at the bottom, and the other pieces round, cover with a good mayonnaise (see Sauces), and gar- nish with aspic jelly, or Beurre de Montpellier. Chicken can be done the same. 260. Scollops of Fowl k l’Essence de Concombres.—Take the white meat of three fowls, and cut it into scollops the size of a half-crown piece, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them on both sides over a brisk fire for a few minutes, taking care they do not brown. Cut four or five cucumbers into slices, the same shape and size; put them into a basin with a little salt and half a glass of vinegar, let them soak in this one hour, then drain them on a napkin, and put them into a stew-pan with a small piece of butter; let them fry a little without colouring, sprinkle a spoon- ful of flour over them, add suf- ficient broth to cover them well, a small bit of sugar, and a bundle of parsley and green onions. When the cucumbers are sufficiently done, lay them on a dish covered over till you want them. Take the parings, fry them in a stew-pan with a little butter, add the sauce in which you have boiled the cucumbers, skim off all the butter and fat, reduce the sauce till it is quite thick, add all the juice that may have escaped from the cucum- bers in stewing them, and three spoonfuls of bechamel; rub the whole through a tammy. Now put into the same the scollops of chicken and the cucumbers, add a little salt, and, if the sauce is too thick, a spoonful of double cream. Heat all thoroughly, and serve, garnished with small forms of light pastry round the dish. 261. Turkey aux TruffesPut