BAKING 117 through a hair sieve, and add as much lemon-juice to it as will make it near the flavour of the fresh fruit. All jam-ices, such as strawberry, raspberry, and apricot, may be made in the same way. 651. Orange-Flower Cream- Ice. — Chop an ounce of fresh candied orange-flowers fine; add three ounces of sugar, four yolks of eggs, one quart of cream, and two spoonfuls of orange-flower water ; boil; take it off, and whisk till cold, then freeze. 652. China Orange-Cream.— Rub the rinds of six oranges od sugar, and scrape it off; adfl the juice of two lemons, three ounces of sugar, and a pint and a half of cream ; rub all together through a hair sieve, and freeze. Lemon may be made in the same way. 653. Ginger Cream-Ice.—Take four ounces of preserved ginger; cut it in small pieces; two spoon- fuls of ginger syrup, four yolks of eggs, and a pint and a half of cream; let it boil, then whisk to- gether till oold, and freeze. Baking, BREAD, BISCUITS, CAKES, ETC. 654. Yorkshire Method of Making Yeast.—One ounce of hops boiled in a gallon of water for twenty minutes; let it stand tiff lukewarm; mix gradually with this half a pound of flour, and cork it up for three days. Before using bruise a few potatoes very fine, stir them into the yeast, and set it before the fire to work for a few homs before it is to be used. A pint is sufficient for a stone of flour. When once this yeast is made, some of the old should always be kept to mix with the new, when it need only be corked up for thirty-six hours. 655. Other Methods.—Boil one pound of good flour, half a pound of brown sugar, and a little salt, in two gallons of water, for an hour ; let it cool till it is lukewarm, then bottle, and cork it close. It will be fit for use in twenty-four hours. One pint is sufficient to make eighteen pounds of bread. 656. An Excellent Yeast.— Boil five English pints of soft water; take a large breakfast- cupful of ground malt, mix it in a basin with a little of the boiling water, let it stand for a quarter of an hour, then put it into the pan with the rest of the water and two ounces of hops ; let it boil twenty minutes, strain it into a large jar, and add to it by degrees, that it may be well mixed, a pint of flour. Let it stand till it is about milk- warm, and then pour into it a bottle of yeast. Let it stand ten hours in a warm place, when it may be bottled and is fit for use. This yeast must not be kept in too cool a place. In making bread you must use at least two-thirds more than of common yeast. There cannot be a better method.