i The Un iPersity Library Leeds LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARYAlso dBATmcrj>/ R0AST1NG.B01 Wing N“8 Pigeon N?6 4 JUiiTjirJiGn AndcfFitfiiiri MllfS, GRAVIES, CGLllCFJ, AN' ft hfshts sniff til) AodioniaktallScrttof fe, Puddings, Pancakes, an(i 5i«,Mi,M(lBifn)iti;C)iK(ec3k«,' tolsjCraninjitilaimiBimc' fl«f7iJfc,ai)(lSyllibu' ^knan'ouiArticItsin '‘"‘'iC'-'OK. ]/(!<• 'AvTHE Accornpli/lied Houfekeeper, AND UNIVERSAL COOK. CONTAINING ALL THE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF COOKERY; DIRECTIONS FOR ROASTING, BOILING and MADE DISHES, ALSO FOR: Fryingi BroUing^ -Stewing. Mincing, and'HaJhing, The different Methods of Drefling POULTRY, GAME, AND FISH, And of Preparing SOUPS, GRAVIES, CULLICES, AND BROTHS, Fo drefs Roots and Fegetablesy And to make all Sorts of Pies, Puddings, Pancakes, and Fritters; Qakes, Puffs, and Bifeuits; Cheefecakes, Tarts, and Cuf- tards; Creams and Jams } Blanc Mange, Flummery, Jellies, and Syllabubs. The various Articles In Candying, Drying, Preferves, and Piekling The Preparation of Hami^ Tongn^, Bacon, and of Made Wines mid Copiiial Waters, DIRECTIONS FOR 'carving. With a Catalogue of the varioiia Articles in Seafon every Month in the Year. BY T,WILUAMS,- AND THE PRINCIPAL^SoKS AT THE LONDON AND CROWN AND ANCHOR TAVERNS. LONDON : Printed for J. Scatcherd, No. iz, Ave-Marla-Lane; 1797. [Pr/« Three Shillings fcwed-1I- I. If io, ' « ’ 1 ■ , ' ], ' r omvE88fH li 4UUM (££H - If ifilp ' f 1 -vf hf, lliat ^rorI:,ii rower comp imallerh'pe, It tlie expire O(?laroe(litioi It would Ik ^er\- pi^, ffelo,|> IfiPREFACE. The very favourable reception the Public have been pleafecl to give The tJnnierJal Cook and City and Country Hoiije^ keeper^ has induced the Editors to abridge that Work, in order to bring it into a nar- rower compafs, and by printing it in a fmaller type, to accommodate it to the pur- chafe of thofe, who may not choofe to be at the expence of the original and elegant' o6tavo edition. , It would be needlefs to enlarge on the utility of a book of this nature, the advan- tages of which are known and experienced by every pradlitioner in* the culinary line. Complete as the fcience of Cookery may be confidercd at prefent, it will ever be fubjedl to the variations of tafte and fa- fhion ; and from this fource proceeds the A 2 great NMiI I V iV PRRPACfiv great variety of books on this fubject, which are daily claiming the patronage of the Public. After many years pradtice in the mofl capital taverns this great" metropolis pro- duces, the Editors have had frequent occa- iions to deviate from the printed directions found in books of this kind, fometimes by altering, but more frequently by reducing the number of ingredients, and thereby rendering them more' fimple and lefs ex- penfive, though equally falutary to the conftitution, and gi-ateful to the palate. It will from hence follow, that the Edi- • * tors do not prefume to arrogate to them- felves the reputation of having ufhered into the world a Work entirely new, which indeed could not be expeCled; but they flatter themfelves, that the alterations they have made in the different receipts, the new ones added, and the methodical manner in which the whole is arranged, will, in fome degree, entitle them to the patronage of the Public. The generous • fupportPREFACE. lupport the above Work has already re- ceived, affords them the moft* flattering fa- tisfadlion. What has been faid of the odfavo edi- tion, is applicable to this abridgement, )vhich is almofl literally copied from it: As a book of Cookery, it mull; be equally valuable with the original ; and the me- thod of brewing malt liquors, the ma- nagement of the poultry and the dairy, and the kitchen, and fruit-gardens, which are here omitted, will, perhaps, be of little confcquencc to the purchafers of this book. THE EDITORS. A 3 CONTENTS,[ ti ] % I { CONTENTS. I Page (GENERAL Ob- Jervations - i Pieces in a bullock 2 calf - ib, flieep - ib. lamb - 3 hog - - ib. Roajiing - 4 To road ox palates 5 JBullock’s heart -• 6 Fillet of veal with col lops - - ib. Calf’s head - - ib. Calf’s heart - - 7 Haunch of mutton venifon faflrion - ib. Neck of mutton like' venifon - - - 8 I,eg of mutton with oyfters - - ib. Pig - - 9 Quarter of pig lamb fafliion - icji Leg of pork barba- cued - - ib. Fowl with chefnuts ib. Turkey - - ii Another way - ib. Rabbit hare falhion 12 Hare - ib. Woodcocks or fnipes 13 Ruffs and reifs - ib. Plovers - "14 Quails and ortolans ib. Venifon - - ib. Boiling 15 Rump of beef - 16 Bouillie beef - 17 Scrag of veal - ib. Calf’s head - - iS Veal palates - - ib. Shoulder of mutton with onions - ib. NeckVII ■ ib. Neck of mutton Leg of lamb Lamb’s head Pickled pork - 20 Pig’s pettitoes - Chickens and tongue 21 Ducks the French way - - ih. Pigeons and bacon 22 Pi'^eons and rice - ib. Pheafants - 23 Partridges - '^b. Woodcocks or fnipes ib. Made D 'l/hes 24 Beef (leaks* rolled 25 Rump of beef rolled 26 Beef collops - 27 Beef gobbets - ib. Beef in epigram - 28 Beef efcarlot - ib. Portugal beef - ib. Peef tremblant - 29 Beef a la mode 30 Beef a la royal - ib. Beefaladaube 3^ Beef olives - 3^ Fricando of beef ib. Porcupine of beef 33 Rib of beef glaCTe ti>. Brea ft of veal in hodge podge - 34 Veal olives a la mode 35 Page Neck of veal and (harp fauce lb. Neck of veal a la royal 39 Neek of veal a la braife 37 Leg of veal marinat- ib. ed Legofvealindifguife ib. Leg of veal daubed 38 Veal a la bourgeoife ib. Loin of veal in epi- gram 39 Sweetbreads with af- paragus th. Sweetbreads a la .■ daube 40 S .veetbreads a la dau- phine ib. Sweetbreads ragooed 41 Sweetbreads as hedge hogs 42 Sweetbreads forced ib. Shoulder of veal a la Piedmontoife 43 Pillow of veal - - tb. Veal blanquets 44 Bombarded veal ib. Harrico of veal 45 Veal rolls ib. Calf’s head the beft way - 46 Scotch collops white ib. Scotch collops brown 47 A 4 Scotch CONTENTS. Page - ^9 ib.I I \ Vij'» CONTENTS, Page Scotch colJops the French way 48 Gigot of mutton ib. Leg of muttou Mo- dina faftiion - 49 Split leg of mutton ib. Leg of mutton a la daube - 50 Leg of mutton a la mode - ib. Leg of mutton a la haut gout - ib, I,eg of mutton forded ib. Leg of mutton ra- gooed - 51 Leg of mutton a la royale - ib. Shoulder of mutton in epigram - 52 Shoulder of mutton fuiprifed - 53 N eck of mutton lard- ed - ib. Hafly difli - ib. Saddle of mutton a^ St. Menehout 54 Mutton the Turkllh way - 55 . Mutton a la Main- tenon - ih. Bafque of mutton ib. Harrico of mutton 56 Hodge podge of imit- ton - 57 Mutton rumps a la braife - ib. Quarter of lamb for- ced - 38 Lamb chops en cafa- role - ib. Lamb’s bits - 59 Lamb’s fweetbreads ib. Chine of pork - 60 Pig barbacued - ib. Pig a pere Duillet 61 Pullets a St. Mene- hout - ib. Chicken pulled 62 Chickens the Scotch way - 63 Chickens iiv afpic ib. Fowls fluffed ib. Fowl marinaded 64 Turkey a la daul^c ib. Turkies and chickens 65 Turkey glazed ib, Turkey a la hate ib. Ducks a la mode 66 Ducklings rolled 67 Goofe marinaded ib. Pigeons en compote 68 Pigeons a la Souffel ib. Pigeons a la Duzelle 69 Pigeons furtout ib. Pupton of pigeons 70 Rabbits pulled - ib. Florendine rabbits ib. Rabbits en cafferole 71 Portu-eONTJIKTa. Page Portugueze rabbits To hodge-podge a 71 hare 72 Hare jugged - ib. Phcafants a la braiTe ib. Partridges in panes 73 Frying 74 To fry beef fteaks ib- Veal cutlets ih. Grafs lamb fteaks 75 To fry cold veal ib. Loin of lamb 76 Lamb’s rumps ib. Neck or loin of lamb ib.' To fry cold chickens yy Broiling ib. To broil beef fteaks ib. Breaft of mutton 78 Mutton fteaks ib. Pork fteaks ib. Cliickens 79 Pigeons ib. Partridges ib. Suwingy M'mdng-t and bojb 'ing - 8o To flew a rump of beef - ib. Lamb’s head - 81 • Page Fillet of veal - 82 Breaft of veal ib. Chickens ib. Turkies 83 Giblets ib. Hares - 84 Partridges Pheafants ib. 85 To mince veal ib. Mutton 86 Cold mutton - ib, To hafti a calf’s head ib. Fowls 87 Ducks - ib. Hares 88 Woodcocks - ib. Ragoos and Fricafees 89 Breaft of veal ragood ib. Neck of veal - ib. Ox palates 90 Lamb ib. Partridges 91 To fricafeee tripe ib. Ox palates 92 Pigeons ib. Eggs 93 Chickens - ib. Rabbits white - ib. Rabbits brown “ 94 J.amb cutlets ib. Lamb ftones and fwee_tbreads * .95 PottingX CONTENTS. J t j;/' t Page Potting and Collaring 95 To pot beef ib. Hares 97 To collar a hare ib. Beef ib. Breaft of mutton 98 Breafl of veal ib. Pigs 99 Pies and Tarts 100 To make pafte for large pies Jib. Puff pafle ib. Short cruft 101 Paftie for cuftards ib. Pafte for tarts ib. Crifp pafte for tarts ib. Beef fteak pie ib. Lamb pie 102 Sweat veal pie ib. Savoury lamb pie 103 yenifon pafty ib. Cheftiire pork pie . 104 Sucking pig pie ib. Apple tart , 105 Apple pie ib. Codling pie 106 Cherry pie 107 Orange or lemon ■ tarts ib. Tart de moi 108 Mince pie ib. Page Partridge pie - 108 Chicken pie - 109 Giblet pic - no Pigeon pie - ib. Duck pie '• ib. Goofe pie - 111 Rabbit pie - ib. Puddings 112 Suet pudding -113 Beef fteak pudding ib. Pork pudding ib. Hunting pudding 114 Cuftard pudding ib. Almond pudding ib. Ditto baked - 115 Apple pudding baked ib. Bread pudding - ib. Rice pudding - 116 Cheap rice pudding ib. Ground rice pudding ib. Batter pudding - 117 Marrow pudding ib. Orange pudding - ib. Goofeberry pudding 118 Green codling pudd. ib. Quaking pudding ib. Spoonful pudding ib. York (hire pudding 119 Potatoe pudding ib. Apple dumplings ib. Damafcene dump- lings - 120 Hard dumplings ib. Norfolk S’ rif- CONTENTS. Page 120 ib. 121 ib. ib. 122 ib. 123 ib. ib. Norfolk dumplings Millet pudding Plumb^udding - Suet pudding Yeaft dumplings Black puddings IVafe pudding Hafly pudding - Sago pudding Vermicelli pudding Soups and Broths 124 Soupe fante • - Vermicelli foup Soup crelTy Soup and bouillie Macaroni foup Dauphin foup /Soupe a la reine Tranfparent foup Calf’s head foup Hare foup Almond foup Giblet foup Greed Pcafe foup C« mionpeafefoup 132 ib. 133 134 135 ib. ib. 6 ib. 125 126 ib. 127 ib. - 128 129 ib. 130 • ib. ib. 131 Portable foup Soupe Lorraine Soupe maigre Egg foup Rice foup Onion foup - Eel foup 13 Page Milk foup 13^ Chicken broth 13? Veal broth - Beef broth to keep ib. Common beef broth 138 Mutton broth ib. Gravies^ Sauces and Cullices - ib* Ham fauce - ib* Effence of ham 139 Sauce for roaft meat in general ib< Caper fauce - ib. Anchovy fauce 14® Shalot fauce • ib. Egg fauce * jb. , Lemon fauce - ib Bread fauce - ib Fennel fauce - 14^ Goofeberry fauce ib Mint fauce - ib Shrimp fauce ib Oyfter fauce ib Sauce for wild fowl 14; General fifh fauce ib Pontiff fauce it Afpic fauce it Rich gravy - 14 Common gravy il Brown gravy - il Browning •' I4 Forcemeat ballsCONTENTS, Xlt Lemon pickle Page Pace H5 To boil fturgeon 157 White cullis 146 To ftew flounders Rich cullis ib. and plaice ib. Family cullis ' 147 To fricafee ditto ib. Fiih cullis ib. To broil mackarel To fry whitings 158 ib. *To drefs Fijh 148 To broil whitings or haddocks ib. Salmon a la braze ib. To flew pike 159 Salmon broiled ib. To fry perch ib. Salmon rolled 149 Perch in water Salmon dried ib. fouch.y i6(i To flew cod ib. Eels ftewed ib. ’ Cod’s head and Eels fricafleed ib. fliouldcrs ib. Eels broiled 161 To crimp cod 150 Eels fried ib. Cod broiled ib. Eels pitchcockcd 16a Cod with fweet Oyfters fricalTeed ib. herbs Herrings ib. Sak cod ib. Herrings wilhmuf- Cod founds • ib. tard fauce ib. Turbot with capers 152 To fry herrings To fry trout ib. To bake ditto - ib. To ftew trout 153 To bake fprats ib. Carp ib. Eel pie 'ib. Carp fried 154 Salmon pie 164 Carp ftewed ib. Turbot pie Tench fried ib» Lobfler pie ib. Tench Hewed 155 To drefs a turtle 165 Soals ftewed Soals fried ib. ib. Mock turtle 166 To marinade foals 156 Foots and vegetables 167 Soals a la Frangoife ib. To drefs cabbages ib. Sturgeon ib. Brocoli - lb- CauU-, CONTENTS. xiU Page Cauliflowers - , Spinach - French beans Afparagus - Peas - ^^9 Garden beans ib. Artichokes - Artichoke bottoms fricafleed ^ 17^ T urnips - A’’* Carrots - Potatoes - 17* Parfnips - ih. To fricaflfee mulh- rooms - ib. Pancakes and fritters 172 To make pancakes ib. Cream pancakes ib. Rice pancakes ib. Plain fritters 173 Apple fritters ib. Cuftard fritters ib. Royal fritters 174 German fritters ib. R'ce fritters ib. Tanfcy fritters 175 Rafpberry fritters ib. Strawberry fritters ib. Currant fritters 176 Cakes, Puffs and ^ Bifeuhs - ib. To make a plumb cake - ib. Page Shrewfbury cake 177 Bride cake ib. Pound cake 178- Heart cakes ib. Common feed cake ib. Rich feed cake 179 Good family cake ib. Almond cakes ib. Bath cakes 180 Icings for cakes ib. Almond puffs 181 Lemon puffs ib. To make wafers ib. Common bifeuits ib. Naples bifeuits 182 Savoy bifeuits ib. To make gingerbread ib. Cheefecakes and Cuff tards 183 \ To make common cheefecakes ib. Elegant cheefecakes ib. Rice cheefecakes 184 Almond cheefecakes ib. Citron cheefecakes 00 Lemon and orange cheefecakes ib. Common cuftard ib. Cuftard to bake 186 Almond cuftards ib. Orange cuftards ib. Lemon cuftards 187 Rice cuftards, ib.f i 1 •1 I Xiv CONTENTS. Page Creams and Jams 187 Orange cream ib. Burnt cream 188 Spani(h cream ib. Piftachio cream ib. Whipt cream ib. Icecream - 189 Goofeberry cream ib. Black currant jam 190 Cherry jam - ib. Goofeoerry jam ib. Apricot jam 191 Red rafpberry jam ib. Blanc Afangc, Jel- lies and Syllabubs 192 To make blanc mange - ib. Hartfhornflummer. 193 French flummery ib. Calt’s feet jelly 194 Hartlhorn jelly 195 Orange jelly - ib. Black currant jelly 196 Red currant jelly ib. A folid fyllabub 19,7 Syllabub under the' cow - ib. Candying and Dry-, ing - ib. To prepare fugar for candying ib. To candy melons 198 Lemon and orange Page peel , - 198 Caflia 199 Angelica ib. To dry cherries ib. Damfons 200 Peaches ib. Apricots 201 Plums ib. Prefervlng To preferve goofe- 202 berries whole ib. Currants for tarts Red currants in 203 bunches ib. Codlings 204 Apple marmalade ib. Quince marmalade 205 Apricot marmalade ib. To preferve damfons ib. Strawberries 206 Syrup of quinces To preferve rafp- ib. berries 207 Walnuts green ib. Walnuts white 2C8 Cucumbers ib. Green fruit Marmalade of oran- 209 ges To preferve Morel- 210 la cherries ib. Green-. CONTENTS. Page Green-gage To pickle falmon Conferveofredrofes 2II OyUcrs Orange peel Smelts Syrup of citron ib. Sturgeon XV Page- 225 226 227 ib. Pickling 212 The preparation of vinegar - White wine vinegar 213 214 ib. ib. Hams, Tongues, Ba- con, - 228 Elder vinegar Tarragon vinegar Sugar vinegar To pickle cucum- bers ib. ib. 229 ib. ib. 215 Cucumbers in flices 216 Walnuts - Onions - 217 Mangoes French beans Red cabbage Gerkins Radilh pods Mu fli rooms Mufhroom pickle Samphire Capers Beet roots Walnut ketchup 223 Mulhrooin ketchup ib. Mulhroom powder 224 Artichoke bottoms ib. Nallurtium buds 225 To make caveach ib. 218 219 ib. ib. 220 ib. 221 ib. 222 ib. To cure pork hams Beef hams Mutton hams To pickle tongues Pork To make hung beef 2 30 Yorklh. hung beef ib. To make bacon W^eftphalia bacon To make faufages Oxford faufages Common faufages 231 ib. 232 ib. 233 Made Wines ib. To make Smyrna raihn wine ib. Common raifin wine ib. Red currant wine 234 Grape wine Orange wine Elder wine Mead wines W alnut mead Cowflip mead Goofeberry wine ib. ib. 23s ib. 236 ib. 237 MountainI' < K » k. J svl ' CONTENTS. Page Pare Mountain wine 237 Fever water 245 Cherry wine 2q8 Red rofe-bud water ib. Black cherry brandy ib. Black cherry water ib. Birch wirre ib. Peppermint water ib. Balm wine • 239 Orange or lemon Rafpberry wine 240 water 246 Rafpberry brandy ib. Nutmeg water ib. , Orange fhrub ib. Hyfterical water ib. Damfon wine 241 Surfeit water 247 Cowflip wine ib. Rofe water 248 Lavender water ib. Cordial Waters 242 A catalogue of the various articles Cordial poppy water ib. Milk water - 243 Aqua mirabilis ib. Treacle water 244 Angelica water ib. in feafon every month in the year 249 Directions for carv- ing - 267 / tHEvrSkconu CouriSEf K ■ai^MiIBiLiiofEjVBE iorTtny j ■Pij»3rr Co TO8E \ Sbco^td CourseAccomplifhed Houfekeeper General Obfervations, Before we enter on the pra£lical part of the Cook’s bufinefs, it may not be impro- per to make a few general ohfervationsy wJiich are as neceflary to be attended to as any part of the culinary profeffion. The firft and moft im- portant of all thefe is clcanlinefs, not only in their own perfons, but alfo in every article ufed in the kitchen. To the wantof a due attention to copper velTels badly tinned or decayed, and foups or broths that have been fuffered to remain in them all night, many people have unhappily loft their lives,^of which the melaricholv affair at Salt-hill IS a fatal proof. To prevent any thing of this kind, the cook ftiould be particu- larly careful, in families where copper utenfils are ufed, frequently to infpedl tliem, and fee that no part of the copper be uncovered with tin ; and be careful likewife to wipe them per- feaiv dry after they have been ufed, as the leaft moifture left injhem may produce vcrdigreafe, which may aftea the health, if not endange^ the lives, of fome part of the family. A k^t- Aen properly fupplied with utenHIs, kept neat credurth^A^""'”''" ^ ^ B Pieces ik ■12 PIECES OF DIFFERENT ANIMALS. Pieces in a Bullock. Plead includes the tongue and palate. The Entrails confift of the fweetbread, kidnies, fkirts, and tripe; as alfo the double, the roll, and the reed-tripe. ■ The Fore Quarter confifls of the haunch, and includes the clod, marrow-bone, flrin, and the (licking-piece, that is the neck end. The leg of mutton piece, which has part of the blade bone. The chuck, the brifket, fore ribs, and middle rib, which is called the chuck-rib. The Hind Quarter conlKls of the firloin and rump, the thin and thick flank, the veiny piece, the ifeh bone, or chuck bone, buttock, and leg. Pieces in a Calf. The Head and Inwards are the pluck, which contains the heart, liver, lights, nut and melt, and what they call the (kirts, (which eat finely broiled) the throat fweetbread, and the wind- pipe fweetbread, which is the fined. The Fore garter is the (houlder, neck, and bread. The Hind garter is the leg, the knuckle, fillet, and loin. Pieces in a Sheep. The Head Pluck, which includes the li- ver, lights, heart, fweetbread, and melt. The Fore Quarter is the neck, bread, and fhoulder. The Hind pearler includes the leg and loin. The two loins together are called a faddle or / chine of mutton. C-J Pieces— PIECES OF different ANIMALS. . 3 The Head and the Pluck, which includes the liver, lights, heart, nut and melt. There is alfo the fry, which is the fweetbreads, Iambs floncs, and (kirts, with fome of the liver. The Fore garter includes the fhoulder, neck, and bread together. The Hind garter includes the leg and loin. This is in high feafon at Chridmas, but lads all • the year. Grals Lamb comes in feafon in April or May, according'to the feafon of the year, and holds good till the middle of Augud. which are the liver and crow, kidney, and fkirts. Alfo the chitterlins, and the guts, which are cleaned for faufages. T he Fore ^tarter is the fore loin and fpring. If it be a large hog, you may cut ofF a fpare rib. The Hind garter confids of only the led and loin. , ° A Bacon Hog is cut in a different manner, bccaufe of making hams, bacon, and pickled pork. Here you have fine fpare'ribs, chines, and grifkins, and fat for hog’s-lard. The liver and crow are much admired fried with bacon ; the feet and ear? are both equally good foufed. Pork comes in feafon at Bartholomew-tide, and holds good till about Lady-day. '.V* J Pieces in a Lamb. Pieces in a Hog. The Head and Fnwards, including thehallet. B 2 ROAST- §? I i •4 «. ■ I Roastiwc. ROASTING. fire muft be prepared according to the weight and fizc of w'hat is to be roafted. If it be any thing fmall or thin, a brifk fire will be neceflary, in order that it may be done quick ; but if it be a large joint, it wdll require ailrong fire that has lain fome time to cake. It is a very good,cuftcHn to put a little fait and wa- ter in the dripping-pan, with which you may at firfi bafie your meat. As foon as the fire has dried if, you may throw a little flour over it, • and then bafte it with butter. This will give an agreeable colour to your meat. Take care ’to keep the meat at a proper diflance from the fire ; becaufe, if it once gsfii fcorched, it will make the outfide hard, and will prevent the fire from having a proper efFedl on the meat, fothat iit will appear to be thoroughly cooked, while it niav be nearly raw within fide. A clear fire, and often balling the meat, are very elTential points to be obferved by the cook. Any kinds of vvild-fowl require a brifk fire ; but care muft be taken not to roaft them too much, as that fpoils them. Tame fowls require a longer .time, as they are not fo foon heated through as the wild fort f and they muft be often balled, as that keeps up the froth, makes them more plump, and gives an addition to their colour. Geefe and pigs require a good fire, and fhould turn quick. In order to prevent hares and rab- bits from appeal ing bloody at the neck when they be cut up, when they are half roafled, cut the neck flcin, and the blood will then run out. Thel'e require time and care. Every thing will requireROASTING. ^ require more roafting in frofty than in mild weather. It is an improper method, though pradifed by fome cooks, to fait the meat before it be put to the fire, for that draws out the gravy. Take care that the fpit be clean, for a fpit mark is very difagrceable. When your meat is done, flour and bafte it juft: before you take it up, when it will have a nice froth, and- make a better appearance. To roaji Ox Palates. Firft boil your palates tender, then blanch* them, cut them into pieces about two inches in^ length, and lard one half with bacon. Have ready two or three pigeons, and two or three chicken-peepers, which muft be drawn, trufled,- and filled with force-meat. Having larded one half of them, put them on a bird-fpit thus: a bird, a palate, a fage leaf, and a piece of bacon, and fo on till you have fpitted the whole. Par- boil and blanch fome lambs and cocks ftones iard them with little bits of bacon, large oyfters parboiled, and each larded with a piece of ba- con. Put thefe on a fkewer, with a little bit of bacon and a fage leaf between them. Tie them on the fpit and roaft them. Beat up the yolU ot three eggs, fome nutmeg, a little fait, and crumbs of bread. Bafte them with thefe all the time they are roafting, and have ready two fweetbreads, each cut in two, fome artichoke bottoms quartered and fried, and then rub the difli with ftialots. Pile the birds one upon an- rounVtl n'r'"'’ kings round them al feparate by themfdves. Have your fauce ready, which muft be made of a pint ^3 of6 ROASTIN*. of good gravy, a quarter of a pint of red wine, an anchovy, the oyfter liquor, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Boil all thefe together, r,nd pour them into the difli, with a little juice of lemon; and the lemon itfelf you may make ufe of as a garnifli. To roaji a Bullock’s Heart. As we have already given general dire£l:ions for roafting joints of beef, we prefume there is no occafion for repeating it here: we fhall con- iine ourlelves to the manner of drefling the fmaller parts of the ox. To roaft a bullock’s heart, mix crumbs of bread with fome chopped fuet, or a piece of butter; add fome chopped parflev, fvveet marjoram, grated lemon peel, pepper, fait, and nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg. Stuff the heart with this, and either roafl: or bake it. You may, if you pleafe, lard it with bacon. Put a little red wine into the gra- vy, and ferve it up, with melted butter and cur- rant jelly in boats. ^ Fillet oj Veal with Collops. Cut what collops you want; then take a fmail fillet of veal, and fill the udder full with force-meat. Roll it round, tie it with pack- ’thread acrofs, and roaft it. Lay your collops in the difli, and your udder in the middle. Gar- nifli your diflies with lemon. T? roaji a Calf’s Head. Firft wafli the head perfedlly clean, then take out the bones, and dry the head well with a cloth. Make a feafoning of pepper, fait, beaten mace, 4ROASTING. y mace, nutmeg, cloves, fome fat bacon cut very fniall, and fome grated bread. Strew this over , it, roll it up, fl?ewer it with a fmall Ikewer, and tie it with tape. Roafl: it, and bade it with butter. Make a rich veal gravy, thickened with bufer and rolled in flour. Some like mufli- rooms and the fat part of oyflrer.s; but you may either ufe or omit thefe, as you plcafe. A Calf’s Heart roajicd. Fill the heart with the following forcemeat;- Take the crumb of half a penny loaf, a quarter of a pound of beef fuet chopped fmall, a little parfley, fweet marjoram, and lemon peel^-mixed' up with a little pepper, fait, nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg. Having filled the heart with this forcemeat, lay a veal caul on the fluffing,, or a fheet of writing paper, to keep it in its place. Put into a Dutch oven, and keep turn- ing it till it be thoroughly roafted. When you dilh it up, lay flices of lemon round it, and pour good melted butter over it. To roajl a Haunch of Mutton Venifon-Fajhlon. Cut a hind quarter of mutton venifon-fafliion, and let it fteep in the fheep’s blood five or fix hours. Then let it hang, in cold dry weather, for three weeks, or as long as it will keep fweet. Rub it with a cloth, then rub it over with frefh butter, and ftrew fome fait and a little flour over it. Butter a fheet of paper, and lay over it, and another over that, or fome pafle, and tie it round. If it be a large joint, it will take two hours and a half roafting. Before you take it up, take off the paper, or pafte, and bafte it well B 4 with^ roasting. %vith blitter, and flour it. Let the jackgorounil <]uiok, that it may have a good froth. Make life of gravy and currant jell-y for your fauce. Neck of Mutton drejfed like Fenifon. Cut a large neck before the fhoulder is taken off, rather broader than ufual, and the flap of the flioulder with it, to make it look handfome. Stick the nock all over in little holes with a Jfharp pen-knife, and pour a little red v;ine upon it. Let it lie in the wine four or five days, ant, rub it three or four times a day. Then take i cut, and hang it for three days in the open ai Out of the fun, and dry it often with a cloth, keep it from mufting. When you roafiit, ba it w’ith the wine it was fteeped in, if any b left; if not, ufe frefli wine. Put white pap^r' three or four folds to keep in the fat, and roaff it thoroughly. Then take off the fkin, froth it nicely, and fend it up to table. Leg of ALutton roajied with Oyjlers. Make a forcemeat of beef fuet chopped fmall, the yolks of eggs boiled hard, with three ancho- vies, a fmall bit of onion, thyme, favory, and about a dozen or fourteen oyfters, all cut fine ; feme pepper, fait, grated nutmeg, and crumbs of bread, mixed up with raw eggs. Stuff the mutton in the thickeft part under the flap, and at the kuckle. You may make your fauce of feme ovflcr liquor, an anchovy, a little red W'lne, and fome more oyfters ftevved, and laid under the mutton.9 ROASTINGi ^0 roaji a Pig. Take a fine fat young pig, and fiick it juft above the breaft bone ; but mind that your knife touches the heart of it, otherwife it vvilJ be a long time in dying. When it is dead, put it a few minutes into cold water, and then rub it over with a little rofin beat exceedingly fine, or with its own blood. Put it for half a minute into a pail of fcalding water, and then take it out. Lay it on a clean table, and pull off the hair as quick as pofiible ; but if it does not come clean off, put it in again. When you have made it perfe<511y clear of the hair, walli it in warm water, and then in two or three cold wa- ters, to prevent the rofin tailing. Cut off' the fore feet at the firft joint, make a flit down the belly, and take out all the entrails. Put the li- ver, heart, and lights, to the pettitoes, wafli it well with cold water, dry it exceedingly well ' with a cloth, and hang it up. When you roaft it, put in a little Hired lage, a tea-fpoonful of black pepper, two ef fait, and a cruft of brown bread. Spit your pig, and few it up. Lay it down to a brifk. clear fire, with a pig-plate hung in the middle of the fire. When your pig is warm, put a lump of butter in a cloth, and rub your pig often with it while it is roafting. A large one will require an hour and a half roaft- ing. W'hen your pig is of a fine brown, and the fteam draws near the fire, take a clean cloth, rub your pjg quite dry, then rub it well with a little cold butter, and it will help it to crifp. 'Take a fliarp knife, cut off the head, take off the collar, and then take off the ears and jaw- ^ 5 Bone,f) i lO ROASTIfiG. bone, which fplit in two. When you have cut the pig down the back, which muft be done be- fore you draw the fpit out, lay your pig back to back on the difh, the jaw on each fide, the ears on each fhoulder, and pour in your fauce, gar- nifli with a cruft of brown bread grated, and fend it up to table. Hind garter of a Pig drejjed Lamb Fajhion. Take the hind quarter of a large roafting pig, at the time of the year when houfe-lamb is very ftear. Take off the fkin and roaft it, and it will eat like lamb. Half an hour will roaft it. You may ferveup with it either afallador mint fauce. To barbacue a Leg of Pork. Roaft a leg of pork before a good fire, put into the dripping-pan two bottles of red wine, and bafte your pork with it all the time it is roafting. When it is enough, take up what is , left in the pan, put to it two anchovies, the yolks of three eggs boiled hard and finely pound- ed, with a quarter of a pound of butter and half a lemon, a bunch of fweet herbs, a tea-fpoonful of lemon-pickle, and a fpoonful of catchup. Boil thefe a few minutes, then take up your pork, and cut the fkin down from the bottom of the flank in rows an inch broad, raife every other row, and roll it to the fliank. Strain your fauce, and pour it in boiling hot. Garnifti with oyfter patties and green parfley, and fend it up ' to table. Lo roaf a Fowl with Chefnuts. . Roaft fome chefnuts very carefully, fo that tliey mav not be burnt, and then take off the ' fkins, ^ tII ROASTING. (kins, and peel them. Cut xibout a dozen of them fmall, and bruife them in a mortar. Par- boil the liver of the fowl, bruife it", and cut about a quarter of a pound of ham or bacon, and pound it. Then mix them all together, with a good quantity of chopped paifley, fvveet herbs, fome mace, pepper, ialt, and nutmeg. Mix thefe together, put it into your fowl, and roaft it. The heft way of doing this is to tie the neck, and hang it up by the legs to roafl withaftring, and then bafte it with butter. For fauce, you may take the reft of the chefnuts peeled and fkinned, put them into fome good gravy, with a little white w’ine, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour. Then lay your fowl in the difli, pour in the fauce, garnifh with le- mon, and fend it up to table. ' ''To drejs a Turkey. Having boned your turkey, make the follow- ing forcemeat. Cut the flelh of a fowl fmall, and beat a pound of veal in a mortar, with half a pound of beef fuet, as much crumbs of bread, Ibme mulhrooms, truffles, and rnorels cut fmall; a few fweet herbs and parfley, with fome nut- meg, pepper, and fait, a little beaten mace, and fome lemon peel. Mix all thefe together with the yolks of two eggs, put it into your turkey, and roaft it. Make your (auce of good gravy, and put into'it mulhrooms, truffles, and morels, " You may lard your turkey, if you pleafe. Another Method. '' . Having cut your turkey down the back, and ^ boned it with a lharp knife, with a forcemeat, B 6 made12 ROASTING. made as above diredied, fill up the places where the bones came out, and fill the body, fo that it may look juft asit did'before it was boned. Then few up the back, and roaft it. Be fure to leave the pinions on. Put good gravy into the difh, and garnifh with lemon. You may ufe oyfier fauce, i celery fauce, or any other fauce you pleafe. 7o roaji a Rabbit Hare Fajhion. Lard your rabbit with bacon, and.then roaft it as you do a hare. Make a gravy fauce; but, if you do not lard it, make the following white fauce. Take a little veifl broth, boil it up with a little flour and butter to thicken it, and add a gill of cream. Keep it ftirring one way till it IS Imooth, and then put into a boat. To roaji a Hare. Having cafed your hare, and properly trufled it for drelFing, make a ftufling of a large flice of bread crumbled very fine; put to it a quarter of 3 pound of beef marrow, or fuet, the like quan- tity of butter, the liver boiled and fhred fine, a iprig or two of winter favory, a bit of- lemon- peel, an anchovy, a little chyan pepper, and half a nutmeg grated. Mix thefe well together with a glafs of red wine and two eggs, put into the belly of the hare, and few it up. WUen you have fpitted, and put it down to roaft,^put into vour dripping-pan a quart of^ilk,’ and keep balling your hare with it till<Were is little left. When it is nearly done, dredge it with flour, and bade it with butter till it is properly froth- ed. If it is but’a fmall hare, it will take about an hour and half; and, if a large one, two hours. » *ROASTING. 13 hours. When it is done, put it into yourdifli, and ferve it up with plenty of good rich gravy, and fome currant jelly warmed in a cup. Or, you may take a pint of red wine, and put into ^ it a quarter of a pound of fugar ; fet it over a * flow fire, and Jet it fimmer for a quarter of an hour; then take it ofF, and pour it into a bafon or fauceboat. ro roaji Woodcocks or Snipes. Thefe birds are fo peculiar from all others, that they muft never be drawn for roafling. Having fpitted them, take the round of a three- penny loaf, and toafb it nicely brown. Then Jay it in a difli under the birds; and when you put them to the fire, bafte them with a little butter, and let the trail, or gut, drop on the toafl- When they are done, put the toaft in the difli, and Jay the birds on it. Pour about a quarter of a pint of gravy into the diJh, and let it over a lamp or chafing-difh for three or four minutes, and fend them up hot to table. ' A woodcock will take about twenty minutes roafling, and a fnipe fifteen. To drefs Ruffs and Reifi. Thefe birds, which are principally found in Lincolnfliire, may be fatted, like chickens, with bread, milk, and fugar. They fatten very fafl, and will die wifh fat if not killed at the proper time. Draw and trufs them crofs-legged, like fnipes, and then roaft them. For fauce, have fome good gravy thickened with butter, and out ■ a toafl under them. * L •W-'14 ROASTING, To dref. P' vers. Roaft green plovers like a woodcock, with- out drawing, and let the trail run upon a toaft. Have good gravy for fauce. Grey plovers muft be ftewed. Make a forcemeat for them v/ith the yolk? of two hard eggs bruifed, fome mar- row cut fine, aitichoke bottoms cut fmall, and fweet herbs, ieafoned with pepper, fait, and nut- meg. Stuff the birds, then put them into a faucepan with good gravy fufficient to cover therri; then put in a glafs of white wine, and a blade of mace. Cover them clofe, and let them flew very gently till they are tender. Then take up the plovers, lay them in a difli, keep them hot, and put in a piece of butter rolled in flour to thicken the fauce. Let it boil till it is fmooth, fqueeze into it a little lemon, fkim it clean, and pour it over the birds. Quails and Ortolans. Thefe birds may be fpitted fideways, and roafted with a vine leaf between them. Bafte them with'butter, and when they are ready, ferve them up with fried crumbs of bread round the difh. To rooji Venifon. As foon as you have fpitted your venifon, lay over it a large iheet of paper, and then a thin common pafte, with another paper over that. Tie it fall:, that the pafte may not drop off; and, if the haunch be a large one, it will take four hours roafting. As loon as it is done enough, take off both paper and pafte, dredge it well with flour, and bafte it with butter. '' ‘ %^5 Soiling. ■ foon as it becomes of a light brown, difh it tip with brown gravy, or currant jelly fauce, and fend up fome in a boat. BOILING. ■jV/fUCH care, nicety, and attention, are re- quired in boiling all forts of meat, but particularly veal; to boil which properly, you muft fill your pot with a proper quantity of foft water. Having dufted your veal with flour, put it in your pot over a ftrong fire. The cuftom of putting in milk to make it white is ufelefs, and had perhaps be better left out. Oatmeal has no better effect than milk, and flour is certainly better than either, when duffed on the meat. Be fure to fkim it well, for every thing will throw up a feum, and if that be fuffered to boil down, it will give a black caft to the meat. The meat muft have plenty of water, and boil very flowly, which will give a plump appear- ance to the veal. To let any fort of meat boil fait is a great error, as it hardens the outfide, prevents the water from properly penetrating, and gives a difagreeable colour to the meat. It is a general rule in boiling meat, to allow a quarter of an hour to every pound ; but a leg of veal of twelve pounds, will require three hours and a half boiling, for the flower it boils the better. All forts of frefh meat may be put in when the water boils, but fait meat when the water is warm ; though there are many expe- rienced cooks who always put the meat in when the water is cold, as they fay it thereby gets \ warm I \ A iBOILING. I warm to the heart before the outfide gets-harJ^ To boil a leg of lamb of four pounds weight, you muft allow an hour and half. Mutton oi? beef, which you muft always be careful to dredge well with flour before you put them into the pot, do not require fo much boiling as lamb, pork, and veal, which, if they are not well boiled, will be unvvholefome ; but it is not fo much thought of, if mutton and beef be not quite fo well done. A leg of pork will take an hour’s boiling iTkore than a. joint of veal of the fame lize; but never forget to,fcum the pot, let the meat be what fort it may. To hoil a.Rump of Beef. Boil a rump of beef half an hour, and then take it up. Lay it into a. large pewter difli or ftew-pan, and cut three or four gaflies all along the fide of it. Rub the gaflies with pepper and downwards, and cover it clofe. Let it flew for two hours and a half over a charcoal fire, or a very flow coal fire. When you do it in a pew- ter di(h, it is beft done over a chaffing-difli.of hot coals, with a bit or two of charcoal to keep it alive. You muft take care that the bone be chopped fo clofe, that the meat may lie perfectly fait, and pour into the difli a pint of red wine, as much hot water, two or three onions cut fmall, the hearts of eight or ten lettuces cut final 1, and a large piece of butter rolled in a little flour. Lay the flcfliy part of the meat fiat in the difli.-When the beef is enough, take it up, lay it in the difli, and pour the fauceover it. This is a difli cooked in the French manner. Builllt250ILING;, 37 BulUle Beef, Put the thick end of a brifket of beef into a kettJe, and cover it quite over with water. Let k boil two hours; then keep ftewing it clofe by the fire for fix hours longer, and fill up the kettle as the water waftes. At the fame time tliat you put in your beef, put in alfo fome tur- nips cut into little balls, carrots and fome celery cut in pieces. About an hour before it be done, take out as much.broth as will fill your foup- dilli, and boil in it for that hour turnips and carrots cut into balls, or little fquare pieces, with fome celery, and fait and pepper to your palate. Send it to table in two dilhes, the beef and the foup feparately. You may, if you pleafe, put pieces of fried bread into your foup, and boil in a few knots of greens. If you ap- prehend your foup will not be rich enough, you may add a pound or two of fried mutton chops to your broth when you take it from th beef, and let it dew for that hour in the broth ; but be lure to remember to take out the mutton be- fore you fend the difh to table. To boil a Scrag of Veal. Put a ferag of veal into a faucepan, and to each pound of veal put a quart of water. Skim It very clean, then put in a large piece of up- per ciuft of bread, a blade of mace to each pound of meat, and a little parfley tied with thread. Cover it clofe, and let it boil very foftiv two bourse, when both broth and meat will be fit to eat. This is a very good difh for a fick perfon. Calfsfend it up. / 1% . I lf “ f l8 ROILING. Calf’s Head Boded. Having waftied the head very clean, parboif one half of it. Beat up the yolk of an egg, and rub it over the head with a feather. Then ftrew over it a feafoning of pepper, fait, thyme, par- fley chopped fmall, flired lemon peel, grated bread, and a little nutmeg. Stick bits of but- ter over it, and fend it to the oven. Boil the. other half white in a cloth, and put them both into a difh. Boil the brains in a piece of cloth, with'a little parfley and a leaf or two of fage. When they are boiled, chop them fmall, and warm them up in a faucepan, with a piece of butter, and a little pepper and fait. Lay the tongue, boiled and peeled, in the middle of a fmall difli, and the brains round it. Have in another di(h bacon or pickled pork, an in an-i. other greens and carrots^ Veal Palates. Boil two palates about half an hour; then take off the Ikins, and cut them into pieces, as you do ox palates. Put them into a ftewpan wnlh a glafs of white wine, alittle minced green onion, parfley, pepper, and fait. 1 ofs it often till the wine is gone, pour in a ladle of your cullis mixed with gravy, and flew them foftly till very tender. Put in a fmall glafs more of wine, add the juice of a lemon or orange, and Shoulder of Mutton boded^ and Onion Sauce. Put in your fhoulderwhen the water is cold, and when it has boiled enough, cover it with onion. !BOILING. 19 onion fauce, made in the fame manner as for boiled clucks. You may drefs a fhoulder of veal the fame way j but neither of thefe dillies are often ordered. To drefs a Neck of Mullon Take a neck of mutton, and lard it with le- mon peel cur in thin fmall lengths. Boil it in fait and water, with a bunch of fweet herbs, and an onion ftuck with cloves. While it is boiling, make a fauce of a pint of oyftersftewed in their own licjuor, as much veal gravy, two anchovies dilTolved and ftrained into it, and the yolks of two eggs beat up in a little of the gravy. Mix thefe together till they come to a proper thick- nefs, then pour it over the meat, and fend it up to table. To boil a Leg of Lamb, Boil a leg of lamb an hour, which will be fufEcient to do it. Take the loin and cut it into fteaks, dip them into a few bread crumbs and egg, and fry them nice and brown. Boil a good deal of fpinach, and lay it in'adifh. Put the leg in the middle, lay the loin round it, and garnilh with an orange quartered. Put fome butter in a cup, and fend the dilh up to table. To drefs a Lamb's Head. Having boiled a head and pluck tender, and having taken care not to do the liver too much, takeout the head, and cut it in all diredtions with a knife. "I hen grate fome nutmeg over it, and lay it in a difli before a good fire. Grate ibmc crumbs of bread, and fome fweet herbs rubbedBOiLTNG. 20 rubbed, a little lemon peel finely chopped, anJ a very little pepper and fait. Strew thefe over the head, and bafte it with a little butter. Then throw a little flour over it, and juft as it is done bafte it and dredge it. Take hif the liver, the lights, the heart, and tongue, and chop them very fmall, with fix or eight fpoonfuls of gravy or water. Firft fhake fome flour over the meat, and ftir it together; then put into the gravy or water, a large piece of butter rolled in flour, a little pepper and fait, aixl the gravv that runs from the head.into the difh. Simmer them all together a few minutes, and add half a fpoonful of vinegar. Pour it into your difh, and lay the head in the middle of the mincemeat. Have ready, the other half of the liver cut thin, with fome flices of broiled bacon, and lay them round the head. Garnifh with lemon. - • To boll pickled Pork.' ' Your pickled pork muft be put in when the water boils, and if it be a middling piece, an hour will boil it 5 if it be a "very large piece, it will require an hour and a half, or two hours. If you boil pickled pork too long, it will go to a jelly; but you may eafily know when it is done by trying it with a fork. Pork in general fhould be wefl boiled ; a leg of fix pounds wih take two hours; the hand muft belioikd till very tender, Peafe-pudding, favoys, or any forts of greens, may be ferved up with it. To boil Pig's Pettitoes.. Boil the heart, liver, and lights of one or more pigs ten minutes, and then fhred them prettyBOILING. 21 retty fmall. Let the feet boil till they are pretty tender, and then take them out and fplit them. Thicken your gi'avy with flour and butter, put in your mincemeat, a flice of le- mon, a fpoonful of white wine, a little fait, and let them boil a little. Beat the yolk of an egg, add to it two fpoonfuls of good cream, and -a little grated nutmeg. Put in your pettitoes, fliake them over the fire, but do not let them boil. Lay flppets round your difli, pour in your mincemeat, lay the feet over them, the ikin fide upwards, and ferve them up. Chickens and Tongues. Boil half a dozen fmall chickens very white, boil and peel as many hogs tongues, boil a cau- liflower whole in milk and water,,and boil a good deal of fpinach green. Lay your cauli- flour in the middle, the chickens clofe all round, the tongues round them with the roots out- wards, and the fpinnach in little heaps between the tongues. Garnifh with little pieces of toaft- cd bacon, and lay a fmall piece on each tongue. To boil Ducks the French JVay. Take two dozen of roafted chefnuts, and put them into a pint of rich beef gravy, with a few leaves of thyme, two fmall onions, a little whole pepper, and a race of ginger. Then take a fine tame duck, lard it, and half roaft it. Put it into the gravy, let it flew ten minutes, and put in a quarter of a pint of red wine. When the duck is enough, take it out, and boil up the gravy to a proper thicknels. Skim it very clean -ifom fat, lay the duck in the dilli, pour the fauce over I \ ^ I r .22 BOILING. over it, garnifii with lemon, and/fend it up to table. Boiled Pigeons and Bacon. Wafh and clean fix young pigeons, turn their legs under their wings, and boil them twenty minutes in milk and water by them- felves. In the mean time boil afquare piece of bacon, and take off the Ikin and brown it. Lay the bacon in the middle of the dilh, and the pi- geons round it with lumps of hewed fpinach. Pour plain melted butter over them, putparfley and butter in a boat, and fend them to table. To boil Pigeons with Rice. Having huffed hx pigeons with parhey, pep- per, and fait, rolled in a very little piece of but- ter, put them into a quart oh mutton broth, with a little beaten mace, a bundle of fweet herbs, and an onion. Cover them clofe, and let them boil Full a quarter of an hour. Then take out the onion and fweet herbs, and take a good piece of butter rolled in flour ; put it in, and giv« it a fhake. Seafon it with fait, if it wants it, and, in the mean time, boil half a pound of rice tender in milk. When it begins to be thick, taking great care that it does not burn, take the yolks of two or three eggs, beat up with two or three fpoonfuls of cream, and a little nutmeg. Stir it together till it is quite thick, and then take up the pigeons, and lay them in a difh. Pour the gravy to the rice, ftir it all together, and pour it over the pigeons. Garnifli with hard eggs cut into quarters, and ferve it up.BOILING. T0 boil a Fheafant. \ Your phcafant muft be boiled in plenty of water; and If ir -s a Imall one, half an hour will do’it, but if a lar5reo>'e, it will take three quar- ters. For 'fguce, ‘/oiTie heads of celery cut very firve with cream, and a fmall piece of butter rotted in flouir. 3eafon it with fait to your palate, When tK*hird is done, pour the fdace ovarii Garniih wdh thin dices ot lemon, dndfcrvelt-ufl * To boil Partridges. Boil tho-r quick in plci.ty of water, and fif- teen minult s A-ili inern. For-fcHice, r.;kc a .quarter of a piuc of cit;,uu, and a piece of frofi\ butter about the iizc oi a v alnut. Stir it one way till it is melted, and then pour it over the birds. I i 1 f 'e s .; To boil Woodcocks or Snipes. Cut a pound of lean beef into f mall jiieces, and put them into two quarts ot water, with an onion, a bundle of fweet herbs, a blarlc or two of mace, fix cloves, and fome whole pepper. Cover it clofe, and let it boil till it is half waft- ed. T hen ftrain it off, and put the gravy into afaucepan, with fait enough to feafon it. Draw the birds clean, hut take particular care of the guts. Put the birds into the gravy, cover them clofe, and ten minutes will boil them. In the mean time, cut the guts and liver final], take a little of the gravy the birds are boiled in, and ftew the guts in it with a blade of mace. Take about as much crumb of bread as the infide of a roll, and rub or grate it very fmall into a clean \I 24 MADE DISHES. clean cloth ; then put into a pan with fomebut- • ter, and fry it till it is crifp, and of a fine light brown. When your birds are ready, take about half a pint of the liquor they were boiled in, and add to the guts two fpoonfuls of red wine, and a piece of butter, about the fize of a walnut, rolled in flour. Set them on the fire, and fliake your faucepan frequently till the butter is melt- ed, but do not ftir it with a fpoon. Then put in the fried crumbs, give the faucepan another ihake, take up your birds, lay them in thedifh, and pour your fauce over them. Garnifli with lliced lemon, and fend them up to table. MADE DISHES. AS neither eggs nor cream will contribute much to thicken your white fauce, be - careful, before you put your eggs or cream into it, to have all your-ingredients well boiled, and the whole of a proper thicknefs. Do not ftir them with a fpoon, nor fet your pan on the fire, after you have put in your eggs and cream, for fear they ftiould gather at the bottom and be lumpy. To prevent this, hold your pan at a proper height from the fire, and keep fliaking it round one way, which will keep it from curd- ling; but be fure that youdonotfuffer it to boil. Remember to take out what you are drefling with a fifh flice. and ftrain your fauce upon it, which will prevent any fmall bits of meat mix- ing with your lauce, and you will thereby have it clear and fine. Be particularly cautious, in browning difties, that no fat floats on the top of IMADB DISHES, H the gravy, which may be prevented by its being , property fleimmed. It rtiould have no predo- minant tafte, which depends on your jufity pro- portioning the different ingredients, and fhould be of a fine brown. Nothing is more hurtful to the reputation of a made difli than the taffe of raw wine, or frefh anchovy ; in order, there- fore, to avoid this defed, you muft deprive it of its rawnefs, by putting them in fome time be- fore your dull is ready. Fried force-meat balls 'mufi: be put in a fieve to drain, that the fat may run from them, and never let them boil in your fauce, as thafwiH foften them, and give them a difagreeable appearance; the bell method there- fore is, to put them in after the meat is dillied up. Force-meat balls, morels, truffles, arti- choke bottoms, and pickled mulhrooms, may be ufed in almofl every made dilh. Take vi'hat quantity of beef fieaks you have oecafion for, and beat them with a cleaver till they be tender. Make a force-meat with a pound of veal beaten fine in a mortar, the flelilr •of a fowl, half a pound'of gammon of bacon or cold ham, fat and lean, lire kidney fat of a loin of veal, and a fweetbread. Cut all thefe verv Imall, and add fome truffles and morels ffewed and cut fmall, two lhalots, fome parfley, a little thyme, lemon peel, the yolks of four eggs, a nutmeg grated, and half a pint of cream. Mix thefe w'ell together, and ftir them over a flow ‘fire for eight or ten minutes. Put them upon the ftcaks, and roll them up, and fkevver them •tight. Put them into the frying-pan, and fry BeeJ" Steaks rolled. c them # LMADE DISHES. a 6 ihemofanice brown. Take them from the fat, and put them into a flcw-pan with a pint of good drawn gravy, a fpoonful of red wine, two of catchup, a. few pickled mufhrooras, and let them flew for a quarter of an hour. Take up the fteaks, cut them in two, lay the cut fide uppermoft, and garnifh with lemon. ^ Rump »f Be^f rolled. Cut the meat from the bone as whole as pof- fible, fplit the infide from top to bottom, and fpread it open. Take the fleih of two fowls and fome beef fuet, of each an equal quantity, and as much cold boiled ham, a little pepper, an anchovy, a nutmeg grated, fome thyme, a good deal of parfley, and a few muflirooms. Chop all thefe together, and beat them in a mortar, with half a pint bafon full of crumbs of bread. Mix all thefe together with four yolks of eggs. Put it into the meat, cover it up, and roll it round. Stick in it one fkewer, and tie it faft to- gether with packthread. Put a layer of bacon and a layer of beef, cut in thin dices, into a pot, or large faucepan, that will juft hold it; put in a piece of carrot, fome whole pepper, mace, fweet herbs, and a large onion. Lay the rolled beef on it, and put in juft w'ater enough to co- ver the top of the beef. Cover it clofe, and let it flew very foftly, on a flow fire, for eight or ten hours, but not too faft : as foon as you find the meat is tender, which you may know by running a fkewer into it, take it up, and keep it hot. Boil the gravy till you think it be ^rong enough, then ftrain it off, and take fome chopped mufhrooms, fome truffles and morelsmade dishes. . 27 «ut fmall, two fpoonfuls of red or white wine, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. You may .alfo put in the yolks of two eggs ; but/ as they are apt to curdle, they had perhaps better be omitted. Boil thefe together. Set the meat before the fire, bafte it, with butter, and throw crumbs of bread over it. As loon as the faucc is enough, lay the meat in the difli, and pour the fauce over it. To drefs Beef Collops, Take any tender piece of beef, fuch as the rump, and cut collops rather larger than Scotch collops. Halh them with a knife, and flour them. Melt a little butter in a flewpan, and put in your collops. Having fried them quick for about two minutes, put in a pint of gravy, a little butter rolled in flour, and feafon it with pepper and fait. Cut fome pickled cucumbers into thin flices, half a walnut, a few capers, and a little onion Hired very fine. Stew them five minutes, then put them into a difli, and ferve them up. if you chufe it, you may put into it half a glafs of wine. Beef Gobbets. ^ Take any piece of beef, except the leg, cut it into pieces, and put it into a flewpan. Cover them with water, and let them flew an hour. Then put in a little mace, cloves, and whole pepper, tied loofely in a muflin rag, with fome celery cut final!. To thefe add fome fait, tur- nips and carrots pared and cut in flices, a little parfley, a bunch of fweet herbs, a large crufl of Bread, and an ounce of barley or rice. Having C 2 covered28 MADE DISHES. covered it clofe, let it ftew till it be tender. Then take out the herbs, fplces, and bread, and have ready a French roll toafted, and cut it into quarters. Put them into your dilh, pour .in the meat and fauce, and ferve it up hot. Beef'tn Epigram. Having roflfted a firloin of beef, take it ofF the fpit, raife the ikin carefully off, and cut the lean ^arts of the beefout; but obferve not to cut near the ends or fides. Cut the meat into pieces about as big as a crown-piece, put half a pint of gravy into a tofs-pan, an onion chopped fine, two Ipoonfuls of catchup, fame pepper and fait, fix fmall pickled cucumbers cut in thin .flices, and the gravy that comes from the beef, with aiittle butter rolled in flour, put the meat in, and toGs it up for five minutes. Then put it on the firloin., put the fkin over, and ferve it up. You may ufe horfe-radifh for garnifh. Beef Efcarlot. Take half a pound of coarfe fugar, two ounces of bay fait, one ounce of faltpetre, a .pound of common fait, and, having mixed them .all well together, rub them into a brifleet of beef. 1 hen lay it in an earthen pan, and turn it every dav. You may let it lie a fortnight in the pickle. Then boil it, and fend it to table either with favoys, cabbages, greens, or peafe- pudding. It eats much better cold, and lent to table cut into flices. Portugal Bc(f. Cut off the meal from the bone of a rump of :heef, cut it acrofs, flour it, and fry the thin part brownC 3 lemon. f MADE' DISHES. if brown in'butter. Stuff the thick end with fuer, boiied chefnuts, an ancfiovy, an onion, and a little pepper. Stew, it in a pan of ftrong broth, and, when it is tender, lay both the fried and ftewed meat together in your difh. Cut the fried in two, and lay it on iach fide of the ftevv- ed. Strain the gravy it wa's ftewed in, put to it fome pickled gerkins chopped, and boiled chefnuts. Thicken ft with a piece of butter • rolled in flour, a fpoonfuf of browning, and give it two or three boils up. S^afon it with ' fait to your tafte, and pour it over the beef» You may ufe iemoi> for garnifh. ' • BeefTremblant. Take a rump of beef, which is the heft of the ox you can ufe for this purpofe, and cut the edge of the bone quite clofe to the meat, that’ it may lie flat in your dilh. If' it- be a large rump, cut ifat the'chump end fo as to make it fquare. Hang it up three or four days at leaft^ without putting any fait to it. Prepare a pickle, and leave it all night in foak. Fillet it two or three times acrofs, and put it into a pot, the fat uppermoft. Put to it a little more water than will cover it, take care tofkim it well, and fea- fon it as you would for a good broth, adding about a pint of white wine. Let it ftmm^r. at long as it will hang together. There are many fauces for this difh, as minced carrots, herbs^ &c; The carrots muft be cut an inch long, boiled in a little water, afterwards ftewed in. broth proportionate to your meat. When they, are done tender, put in a glafs of wine, a little minCeef fhalot and parfley, and the juice of a4 1 \ ■ ' '4 A 30 MADE DISHES. Jemon. Take your beef out, and put it on a' cloth, clean it from the fat and liquor, place it hot and whole in your difli, and pour your fauce hot over it. , Beef a la Mode, Take fome of the veiny-piece, or fmall round of beef, which is generally called the moufe buttock. Cut it five or fix inches thick, and flice fome pieces of fat bacon into long bits. Take an equal quantity of beaten mace, pep- per, and nutmeg, with double the quantity of fait. Mix them together, dip the bacon into fome vinegar, (garlick vinegar, if agreeable) and then into the fpice. Lard the beef with a Jarding-pin, very thick and even. Put the meat into a pot juft large enough to hold it, with a gill of vinegar, two large onions, a bunch of Iweet herbs, half a pint of wine, and fome le- mon peel. Cover it down very clofe, and put a wet cloth round the edge of the pot, to pre- ven\ the fteam evaporating. When it is half done, turn it, and cover it up again. Do it over a ftove or very flow fire. It will require five hours and a half to do'it properly. You may add to it trufiles and morels. Beef a la Royal- Take a rump, flrloln, or brilket of beef, and eut fome holes in it at a little diftance fronj each other. Fill the holes, one with chopped oyfters, another with fat bacon, and a thud with chopped parfley. Dip each of thefe, before you fluff your beef, into a feafoning made with lalt, pepper, beaten mace, nutmeg, grated lemon ^ f3» MADE DISHED peel, fvveet marjoram, arid thyme. Put a piece of butter into a frying-pan, and, when it has- done hiffing, put in the beef. Make it of a fine brown, then put in fome broth made of the bones, with a bay-leaf, a pint of red wine, two anchovies, and a quarter of a pint of finail beer. Cover it clofe, and let it flew till it be tender. Then take out the beef, fldm off the fat, and flrain the gravy. Put in two ox palates dewed tender and cut into pieces, fome pickled ger- kins, truffles, morels, and a little mufhroora powder. Let all thefe boil together. Thicken the fauce with a bit of butter rolled in flour, put in the beef to warm, pour the fauce over it, and fend it up to table. Beef d la Dauhe^ Bone a rump of beef, or you may take part of the leg of mutton piece, or a piece of the but- tock. Put fome fat bacon as long as the beef is thick, and about a quarter of an inch fquare. Take eight cloves, four blades of mace, a little allfpice, and half a nutmeg beat very fine. Chop fine a good handful of parfley, fome fweet herbs of all forts, and put to them fome pepper and fait. Roll tlte bacon in thefe, and then take a large larding-pin, or a fmall bladed knife, and force the bacon through the beef. Then put the meat into the ftewpan, and co- ver it with brown gravy. Chop three blades of garlick very fine, and put in fome frefli mulh- rooms or champignons, two large onions, and a carrot. ,S:ew it gently for fix hours, then take out the meat, flrain off the gravy, and Ikim oflf all the fat. Put your meat and gravy again C 4 intoMADE DISHES. into the pan, put a gill of white wine into it, and feafon it with pepper and fait, if wanted, Stew them gently for half an hour, and add fome artichoke bottoms, truffles and morelsr, fbuie oyflers, and a fpoonful of vinegar. Put the meat into a foup-dirti, and the fauce over it. You may, if you choofe it, >put in turnips and carrots cut in round pieces, fome fmall onions, and thicken the fauce. Then put in the meat, and flew it gently for half an hour with a gili of white wine., Beef Olives^ Cut fleaks from the rump) or infide of the flrioin, half an inch thick, about fix inches long, and four or five broad ; beat them a little, and rub over them the yolk of an egg. Strevy on them crumbs of bread, chopped parfley, le- mon-peel fhred fine, pepper and fait, chopped fuet or marrow, and grated nutmeg. Roll them up tight, fkewer them, and fry or brown them in a Dutch oven. Stew them in beef broth or gravy till tender, thicken the gravy with a little flour, and then add a little catch- up or lemon juice. If i you wifh to make it richer, you may add'forcemeat balls, hard.yolks of eggs, and pickled muflirooms. Fr lean do of Beef . " Take one or more pieces of beef, of what fizc you pleafe, and lard them with coarfe piece? of bacon feafoned with fpices. Boil it in broth with a little white wine, a bundle of parfley and fweet herbs, a clove of garlick, flialots, four cloves, whole pepper,^and lome fait. When it is tender, Ikim the fauce well, and flrain it, and reduce33 MADE DISHES'. reduce it to a glaze, with which you may glaze the larded fide, and fend it up to table on what ftewed herbs you pleafe. A Porcupine of the fat Ribs of Beef Having boned the flat ribs, beat the meat half an hour with a pafte pin, and then rub it over with the yolks of eggs. Strew over it bread crumbs, parfley, leeks, fweet marjoram, lemon- peel Hired fine, nutmeg, 'pepper and fait. Roll’ it up very clofe, and bind it hard. Lard ir* acrofs with bacon, then a row of cold boiled longue, a third row of pickled cucumbers, and a fourth row of lemon-peel. Do it all over in rows till it .be larded all round, when it will look like red, green, white, and yellow dice. Then put it in a deep pot, with a pint of water; lay over it a caul of veal to keep it from fcorch- ing, tie it down with ftrong paper, and fend it to the oven. When it comes out, Ikim off the fat, and fti'ain your gravy into a faucepan. Add to it two fpoonfuls' of red. wine, the fame of browning, one of mufliroom catchup, half a le- mon, and thicken it with a lump ofbutter rolled in flour. Difh up your’meat, and pour the graw into the difli.. You may garnifh with forcemeat balls and horfe-radifh, and then^fend it to table. A Rib of Beef glaffe, with Spinach. Take one of the prime ribs, trim it neatly, and lay it in a marinade for an hour or two. Take a ftewpan that will jufl fit it, put a flice or two of bacon at the bottom, .lay in your beef, and cover it with the fame. Seafon it w-ith air onion or two, fome bits of carrot, a little fweet C 5 bafil,34 made dishes, hafil, thyme, and parfley, a little pepper, falD, and a blade or two of mace. Let it ftew gently till it be very tender, then take it out upon a plate, ftrain your braze, and clean it well from the fat. Put it into a clean ftewpan, and boil it with a ladle of gravy very fall, and you will lind it come to a fort of gluey confiftence. Then put your beef in, keep it hot till dinner time, and then fend it up to table with fpinach. You may ferve it up with favoys or red cabbage, flripped fine and Hewed, after being blanched, only adding a piece of bacon, with a few cloves jluck in the Hewing, but not to fend to table, A fillet of the firloin is done nearly in the fame manner, marinated and roaHed, with bacon over it, and the fame fort of fauces. Breaji oj Veal in Hodge Podge. Cut the brifket off a breaH of veal into little pieces, and every bone afunder. Then flour it, and put half a pound of good butter into a Hew- pan. As loon as it is hot, put in the veal, and fry it all over of a fine brown. Have ready a tea-kettle of boiling water, and pour it into the Hew-pan. Fill it up, HIr it round, and throw in a pint of green peafe, a fine whole lettuce clean walhed, two or three blades of mace, a little whole pepper tied in a muflin rag, a fmall bundle of fweet herbs, a fmall onion Huck with a few cloves, and a little faff. Cover it clofe, and let it flew an hour, oiTill it is boiled to your ta.He, if yo\| wilh to make foup of it; but, if you only intend to have a fauce to eat with the veal, you muH Hew it till it comes to the quan- tity you want, and then feafon it with fait to youryour palate. laKe.out^tiie ipice, omoa, and fweet herbs, and pour it: into your difh, -nVich will be a very fine one. If you have no peafe, pare three or four cucumbers, fcoop out the. pulp, and cut into little pieces. Take four or five heads of celeryj walh them clean, and cut the white part fmall; but, for want of lettuces, you may take the little hearts of favoys, or the little young fprouts that grow on the old cab- bage (talks, about the fize of the top of your thumb. If you wilh to make a very fine difii of it, fill the infide of your lettuce with force- meat, tie the top with a thread, and flew it till there is but juft enough for fauce. Set the let- tuce in the middle, the veal round it, and pour the fauce all over it. This difti will ferve a number of people, and it is the cheapeft and beft way of drelfing a breaft of veal. Take two pounds of veal, fome marrow, two anchovies, the yolks of two hard eggs, a few mufhrooms, fome oyfters, a little thyme, mar- joram, parfley, fpinach, lemon-peel, fait, pep- per, nutmeg, and mace, finely beaten. Take your veal caul, put a layer of bacon, and a layer of the ingredients: roll them in the veal caul, and either ro'aft or bake it. An hour will do either. ^ When it is enough, cut it into dices, lay it in your difti, and pour good gravy over it. You may ufe lemon for a garniili. flour, diced onions, roots, a little coriander feed, Neck of Kml and Jharp Sauce. Make a marinade with butter and a little I C6 one .k.MADE DISHES; 36' one clove of garlick, three fpice cloves, thyme, bafil, pepper, and fait. Warm it, and put it. in a larded neck of veal. Let it lie in a marir t>ade about two hours, then wrap it in buttered paper, roaft it, and ferve it up with a lharp fauce. Neck of Veal d la Royal. ^ Cut off the fcrag end of a neck of veal, and part of the chine bone, fo that it may lie flat in the di(h. Chop very fine a little parflcy and thyme, a few llialots and muflirooms, and fea- ibn with pepper and fait. Cut middle-fized lards of bacon, and roll them in the herbs and feafoning. Lard the lean part of the neck, put it in a flewpan with fome bacon, or the fliank of a, ham, the chine bone and fcrag cut.in pieces, with a little beaten mace, a head of ce- lery, onions, and three or four carrots. Pour in as much water as will cover it,^fliut the pan clofe, and flew it flowly two or three hours, till it,be tender. Then ftrain half a pint of the. liquor through a fiete, fet it over a ftove, let it boil, and keep ftirring it.till it becomes thick, and is of a good brown. Tlien take the veal out of the ftewpan, wipe it clean, and put the larded fide down upon the glaze. Set it five or fix minutes over a gentle fire to take the glaze, and then lay it in the dilh with the glaz- ed fide upwards, rut into the fame ftewpan as rnuch flour as will lie on a fixpencc,'ftir it well, and add fome of .the braze powder, if any be left. Let it boil till .it;is-of a proper thicknefs, .and pour it, into the difti. Squeeze in a little lemon juice, and ferve it up. ✓MADE DISHES. 37 Neck of Veal d la Braife. Lard the beft end of a neck of veal with ba- con rolled in parfley chopped, pepper, fait, and nutmeg. Put it into a ftewpan, and cover it with water. Put in the ferag end,.with a little Jean bacon, or a bit of ham, an onion, two carr rots, fome (halots, a head or two of celery,.and a little Madeira. Let thefe flew gently for two hours, or till tender. Strain the liquor^ mix a little butter with fome flour, and ftir it in a ftewpan till it be brown. Lay in the veal, the upper fide to the bottom of the pan, and let it do a few minutds till it is coloured. Lay. it in the difli, ftir in fome more liquor, boil it up# and fqueeze in orange or lemon juice. Leg of. Veal marinated. Marinate a nice leg of white veal, and roaft it with four flices of bacon over it, cover it with paper. Take, four or five heads of endive, cut into bits about an inch in length ; blanch it a little, and ftew it in a little gravy mixed with a ladleful of cullis.. Put in a minced fhalot and Ibme parfley, fqueeze in the juice of a lemon# and fend it to table with the fauce under, it; For the fake of a change you may make ufe of capers, olives, or. any other fort of pickles. Leg of Veal in Difguife, . Take a leg of veal, and lard it with flips of bacon, and a little lemon-peeL cut very. thin.. Make a fluffing as for a fillet of veal, only mix with it half a pint of oyfters chopped fraalJ. Put it into a vefleJ, cover it with water, and 1sti 38 MADE dishes; let it flew very gently till quite tender. Then take it up, awtl fkini off the fat. Squeeze into it fome juice of lemon, put to it fome mulh- room catchup, the crumb of a roll grated fine, and Haifa pint of oyfters, with a pint of cream, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Put the fauce on the fire to thicken, and having put the veal in the diflr, pour the fauce over it. You may make ufeof oyfters dipped in butter and fried,- and thin flices of toafted bacon, for a garnifib. ■ Leg of Veal daubed. ‘ Lard and braze it with all forts of roots and fpices, and reduce the fauce to a jelly. You may ferve it up either hot or cold. To drefs Veal d la Bourgeoife. Lard pretty thick flices of veal with bacon, and feafon them with pepper, fait, beaten mace, cloves, nutmeg, and chopped parfley. Then cover the bottom of the ftewpan with flices of fat bacon, lay the veal upon them, cover it, and fet it over a very flow fire for eight or ten minutes, juft to be no more than hot. Then brifk up your fire, and brovv-n your veal on both ' fides. Pour in a quart of good broth or gravy, cover it clofe, and let it ftew gently till it be enough. Take out the flices of bacon, Ikim off all the fat clean, and beat up the yolks of three eggs with fome of the gravy. Mix all togetlxr, and keep it ftirnng one way till it be Imooth and thick. Then take it up, lay the meat in your diflii, pour the fauce over it, garnifh with lemon, and fend it up to table. LoutMADE DISHES, 39 Loin of Veal in Epigram. Roaft a fine loin of veal, take it up, and carefully take off the fkin from the back part of it without breaking. Cut out all the lean meat; but be fure to leave the ends whole, in order to hold the following mince-meats: Mince all the meat very fine with the kidney part, moif- ten it with a little veal gravy, and the gravy that comes from the loin. Put in a little pep- per and fait, fome lemon peel fhred fine, the yolks of three eggs, a fpoonful of catchup, and thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour. Give it a fhake or two over the fire, put it into the loin, and then pull the Ikin over. If the Ikin fliould not quite cover it, give it a brown with a hot iron, or put it into an oven for a quarter of an hour. Garnifli with barberies and lemon, and fend it up to table. To roaji Sweetbreads with Afparagus.' A couple of good fweetbreads will be fuffi- cient for this fmall difh. Blanch them, and lay them in a marinade. Spit them tight upon a lark-fpit, and tie them to each other, with a flice of bacon upon each, and covered with pa- mper. When the fweetbreads are nearly done, take off the paper, and pour a drop of butter upon them, with a few crumbs of bread, and roaft them of a nice colour. Take two bunches of afparagus, and boil them, but not quite fo. much as when boiled to eat with butter. Difh up your fweetbreads, with your grafs between them. Take a little cullis and gravy, with a bit of flialot and minced parfley, and boil it a few40 MADE dishes;’ few minutes. Squeeze in the juice of a le- mon or orange, and fend it up to table. Sweet- breads are very ufefulln many diflies, as in pies, ragoos, fricaffees, See. and to ufe alone, either* fried, roafted, broiled, or otherwife. They muft be foaked in warm water an hour or two, then fcalded about an hour or two in warm water, which is commonly called felting or blanching. This will make them keep longer, and prepare them for any ufe you may haveoc- cafion to apply them to. Sweetbreads a la Daithe.- Put three of the fineft and largefb fweetbreads you can get into a faucepan of boiling water for five minutes. Then take them out; and,' when they are cold, lard them in a row down the middle, with little pieces of bacon, and then a row on each fide with lemon-peel, cut the fize of wheat flraw. Then a row on each fide ofipickled cucumbers, cut very fine. Put them in a toffing-pan with good veal gravy, a little juice of lemon, and'a fpoonful of brown- ing. Stew them gently a quarter of an hour, and a little before they are ready thicken them with flour and butter. Difli them up, pour the gravy over them, and lay round them bunches- of boiled celery, or oyfter patties. Garnifh; with- ftewed'fpinach,‘green-coloured parfley, and ftick a-bunch of barberries in the middle of each fweetbread; This is a pretty corner difli* for either dinner or fupper. Sweetbreads d la Dauphine. Lard the fineft fweetbreads you can get, and* open them in fuch a manner tliat you can fluff. inI i i i i 3^4ADE DISHES. 41 in forcemeat. Three will make a fine difh. Make -yont forcemeat with a large fowl or young cock ; Ikin it, and pluck off all the flefh. lake half a pound of fat and-iean bacon; cut them very fine, and beat them in a mortan Seafon it with an anchovy, fome nutmeg, a httle lemon-peel, a very little thyme, and fame pailley. Mix them up with the yolks of two fin your fweetbreads, and fallen them with fine w’Qoden fkewers. Put layers of bacon at the bottom of a llewpan, ancl'feafon them with: pepper, fait, mace, cloves, fweet herbs, and a large onion fliced. Upon that lay thin flicesof veal, and'then lay on your fweetbreads. Cover it clofe, let it fland eight or ten minutes over a flow fire, and then pour in a'quart of boiling water or broth. Cover it clofe, and let it llev/ two hours very foftlyl Then take out the- fweetbreads, keep- them hot, drain the gravy,, Ikirn off alt the fat, boil it till it wafles to about half a pint, put in the fweetbreads, and give them two or three minutes flew in the gravy. Then lay. them in the dilh, pour the gravy over them,.garnifli with lemon, and fend them up toi table.. Sweethr^adi ragooedl Rub them over with the yolk of an egg, ftrew them over with bread crumbs, and parfley,. tliyme, and fweet marjoram, all Hired fmall, and fome pepper and fait. Make a roll of force- meat like a fweetbread, put it in a veal caul, and roaft them in a Dutch oven. Take forne brown gravy, and put to it a little lemon pickle, fome mufhroom catchup, and theend-ofa lemon. Boik the. ■ 142 MADE DiSHEy. the gravy; and when the fweetbreads are enough, lay them in the di(h, with the forcemeat ia the middle. Take out the end of the lemon, pour the gravy into the difh, and fend it up to table. Sweetbreads as Hedge-Hogs. Having fcalded your fweetbreads, lard then* with ham and truffles, cut in fmall pieces. Fry them a fhort time in butter, and let the pieces flick out a little to make the appearance of briftles. Simmer them in the fame butter, with broth and a little white wine, and a very little fait and pepper. When they are done, fkim and ftrain the fauce, add a little cullis, and ferve them up. You may ufe any other fauce that you like better. Sweetbreads being of a very infipid tafle of tl'vemfelves, make it a general rule to ferve a fliarp relifhing fauce with them, fuch as cullis fauce, fricaflee, or fweet herbs. ‘ Sweetbreads forced. Take three fweetbreads, put them^ into boiling water for five minutes. Beat the yolk of an egg a little,-and rub it over them with a feather. Strew on bread crumbs, lemon peel, and parfley fhred very fine, nutmeg, fait, and pepper, to your palate. Set them before the fire to brown, and add to them a little veal gravy. Put in a little mufhroom powder, ca- per liquor, or juice of lemon, and browning. Thicken it with flour and butter, boil it a little, and pour it into your difh. Lay in your Iweet- breads, lay over them lemon-peels in rings, cue like ftraws, garnifh with pickles, and fend tliem up to table. Shoulderf i MADE DISHES, Shoulder of Veal d la Piedmonto'ife. Having cut the fkin off a flioulder of veal fo that it may hang-at one end, lard the meat with bacon and ham, and feafon it with pepper, fait, mace, fweet herbs, parfley, and lemon-peel. Cover it again with the Ikin, ftew it with gra- vy, and when it is juft tender enough take it up. Then fake fome forrel, fome lettuce chop- ped fmaJl, and ftew them in butter, with parfley, onions, and muftirooms. When the herbs are tender, put to them fome of the liquor, fome fweetbread, and fome bits of ham. Let all ftew together a little while; then lift up the Ikin, Jay the ftrewed herbs over and under, cover it again with the Ikin, wet it with melted butter, ftrew it over with crumbs of bread, and fend it to the oven to brown. Serve it up hot, with Half roaft either a neck or breaft of veal; then cut it into fix pieces,, and feafon it with pepper, fait, and nutmeg. Put to a pound of '' rice a quart of broth, fome mace, and a little fait. Do it over a ftove or very flow fire till it is thick ; but butter the bottom of the pan or dilh you do it in. Beat up the yolks of fix eggs, and ftir them into it. Then take a little round deep dilh, butter it, lay fome of the rice at the bottom, then lay the veal on a round heap, and cover it all over with rice. Walh it over with ' the yolks of eggs, and bake it an hour and half. Then open the top, and pour in a pint of rich good gravy. Send it to table, ganiilhed with a Seville orange quartered. fome good gravy in the dilh. ^ Pillaw of Veal. \MAD£ DISHES. 44 Veal Blanqucts. Having roaflccl a piece of a fillet of veal, cut oft the Ikin and nervous parts,and cut it into litt/c thin hits. Put fome butter into a ftewpan over the fire, with fome chopped onions, and fry them a little. Then add a duft of flour, ftir it together, and put in fome good broth or gravy, and a bundle of fweet herbs. Seafon it with fpice, make it of a good tafte, and then put in your veal, the yolks of-two eggs, beat up with cream and grated nutmeg, fome chopped par- ftey, a flialoti fome lemon peel grated, and a little juice of lemon. Keep it ftirring one way,, and when it is enough, dilh it upj and fend it: to table. Bombarded VeaL Cut five lean pieces off^ a fillet of vcalj as thick as your hand. Round them up a little, and lard them very thick on the round fide with little narrow thin pieces of bacon, and lard five flieeps tongues, being firft boiled and blanched ; lard then here and there with very lirtle bits of lemon peel, and make a vvell-feafoned force- meat ot veal, bacon, ham, beef fuet, and an an* chovy beaten well. Make another tender force- meat of veal, beef fuet, muihrooms, fpinach, parfley, thyme, fweet marjoram, winter favory, and green onions. Seafon with pepper, fait, and mace. Beat it well, make a round ball of the other forcemeat, and ftuft it in the middle of this; then roll it up in a veal caul, and bake it. What is left, tie up like a Bologna faufage, and boil it; but firft rub the caul with the yolkr MA»E DISHES. 45 of an egg. Put the larded veal Into a ftewpan with fome good gravy, and’ftew it gently till it-be enough. Skim off the-fat, put in fome truffles and. morels, and fome muflirooms. Your forcemeat being baked enough, lay it in the middle, the veal round it, and the tongues fried, and laid between. Cut the boiled into flices, fry them, and ftrew them all over. -Piit on them the fauce, garnifh with lemon, and fend them up to table. You may add fweet- breads, cockfcombs, and artidioke bottoms, if you think proper. - yf Harrlco of Veal. Half roaft a neck or breaft of veal; if the neck, cut the hones (hort. Put it into a llewpan rjuft covered with brown gravy, and when it is nearly done, have ready a pint of boiled peas, 'fix cucumbers pared, and two cabbage lettuces quartered, ftewed in brown gravy, with a few forcemeat balls ready fried. Put them to the veal, and let them juft fimmer. When the veal is put into the difli, pour the fauce and the peas over it, and lay the lettuce and balls round It. V?al Rolls. Cut ten or twelve little thin llices of veal; put on them fome forcemeat, according to your fancy, roll them up, and tie them juft acrofs the middle with coarfe thread. Put them on a hird-fpit, rub them over with the yolks of eggs, flour them, and bade them with butter. Half an hour will do them. Lay them in a difli, and have ready fome good gravy, with a few truffles and morels. Garnifli with lemon, and fend them up to table. The ' / •11 L ' /■ 46 MADE DISHES. 5The heji fVay to drefs a Calf's Head. Scald off all the hair of a calf’s head, and clean it well. Cut it into two, take out the brains, and boil the head very white and ten- der. Take one part quite off the bone, and cut it into nice pieces with the tongue; dredge it with a little flour, and let it flew on a flow fire for half an hour, in rich white gravy made of veal, mutton, and a piece of bacon, feafoned with pepper, fait, onion, and a very little mace. It muft be {trained off before the haih is put in, and then thicken it with a litile butter rolled in flour. The other j^art of the head mufl: be ta- ken off in one whole piece. Stuff it with nice forcemeat, roll it like a collar, and then flew it tender in gravy. Put it into the nfiddle of a difh, and the hath all round it. Garnifli it with forcemeat balls, and the brains made into litile cakes dipped in butter and fried. You may add wine, morels, truffles, or what elfe you pleale, if you choofe to add to its richnefs. t Scotch CJlops white. Cut your collops off the thick part of a leg of veal, of the flze and thicknefsof a crown-piece. Put a lump of butter into a toffing-pan, and let it over a flow fire, for a bnfk fire will difcolour your collops. Before the pan is hot, lay in the collops, and keep turning them over till you fee the butter is turned to a thick white gravy. Put your collops and gravy into a pot, and fet them upon the hearth to keep warm. Put cold butter again into your pan every time you fill it, and fry them as above, and fo continue till you .rMADE DISHES. you have finiflied. When you have fried them, pour your gravy from them into your pan, with a terf-fpoonful of lemon pickle, mufliroom catchup, caper liquor, beaten mace, chyan pep- .per, and fait. Thicken with flour and butter, and when it has well boiled, put^ri the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and mixed with a tea- fpoonful of rich cream. Keep lhaking your pan over the fire till your gravy looks of a fine thicknefs, and then put in your col lops, and fhake them. When they are quiie hot, put ' them on your dilh with forcemeat balls, and ftrew over them pickled muflirooms. Garmfh i with barberries and pickled kidney-beans, and •fend them up to table. For brown collops, cut them in the fame manner as you did for white collops; hut. bio vn your butter before you lav in your colloos. Fry them over a brifk fire, fhake and turn ihem, and keepfthem on a fine froth When they are of a light brown, put them into a pot, and fry them as the white ones. Whtp you have fried them all brovyn, pour all the gravy from them ^ into a clean tolfing-p.an, with half a pin*" of gravy made of the bones ahd bits you cut the collops off, two fpoonfuls of lemon pickle, a large one of catchup, the fame of browning, half an ounce of morels, half a lemon, a little anchovy, chyan, and fait to your tafte. Thicken it with flour and butter, and let it brnl five or fix minutes. Then put in your collops, and fliake them over tlie fire; but take care that they do not boil, as that will make them hard. Scotch Collops brown. tOt \ - -c4^ MADE DISHES. „ When they'have fimmerecl a little, take tliem out Tvith an egg fpoori^ lay them on your clHh, ftrain your gravy, and pour it hot 'on them. Lay over them forcemeat balls, and little flices of bacon curled round a fkcvver and boiled. Serve them up v^'iih a few mufhrooms over them, and garnifhed with lemon and barberries. Scotch Collops the French JVay. Cut collops pretty, thick, and five or fix inches long, from a leg orVeal. Rub them over with the yolk of an egg, put pepper and fair, and grate a little nutmeg on them, and a little fhred parfley. Lay them on an earthen difh, and fet them before the fire. Bafie them with butter, and let them be of a fine brown. Then turn them on the other fide, rub them as .above, and brown them the fame way. When they are thoroughly enough, make a good brown gravy with truffles and morels, difh up your collops, lay truffles and morels, and the yolks of hard eggs boiled, over them. Garnifli with lemon and crifp parfley, and fend them up to table. Gigot of Mutton with SpanlJJo Onions. Take a leg of mutton that is cut with part of the loin, that being called by the French a Gi- got. Let it hang two or three days, and then pnt it into a pot juft big enough to hold it ; pour in a little broth, and then cover it with water. Put in about a dozen of Spanilh onions, with the rinds on, three or four carrots, a tur- nip or two, fome parfley, and any other herbs you like. Cover them down clofe, and ftew theta49 MAD£ DISHJES, them for three or four hours; but take your onions out after an hour's ftewing, and take the firft and fecond rinds off. Put them into a ftewpan, with a ladle or two of your cullis, a jnulhroom or two, or truffles minced, and a little parfley. Take out your mutton, and drain it clean from the fat and liquor. Then feafon your fauce and make it hot; fqueeze in a lemon, pour the fauce over it, and fend it up to table with the onions round it^ Leg of Mutton Modina-Fujhton. Bone a leg of mutton quite to the end, which you mu ft leave very fhort. Boil it in three parts water and one broth, and then take it out. Cut the upper part erofs-ways, into which ftuff butter and bread crumbs, feafoned with pepper, fait, and fweet herbs chopped. Then put it into a ftewpan with a little of the broth, and a little white wine. Add the juice of a Seville orange to the fauce, and when it is done, dilh it, and ferve it up. Split Leg of Mutton and Onion Sauce. Split the leg from the fhank to the end, and Itick a fkewer in to keep the nich open. Bafte It with red wine till it be half roafted; then take the wine out of the dripping-pan, and put to it an anchovy. Set it over the fire till the anchovy is diflbl'ved, rub the yolkof a hard egg »n a little cold butter, mix it with the witie^ and put it into your fauce-boat. Put good onion fauce over the leg when it is roafted, and lend It up to table.50 MADE DISHES. V o/* Afutton a la Dauhe. Lard a leg of mutton with bacon, half roaft it, and then put it into a pot that will juft hold it, with a quart of mutton gravy, half a pint of vinegar, fome whole fpice, fweet-marjoram, winter favory, and fome green onions. When it is tender, take it up, and make the fauce with ibme of the liquor, muflirooms, fliced lemon, two anchovies, a fpoonful of colouring, and a piece of butter. Pour fome intq a boat, and the left over the mutton. Leg vf Mutton a la Mode. Lard a leg of mutton quite through with large pieces of bacon rolled in chopped fweet herbs and fine fpices. Braze it on a pan of the fame fize with flices of lard, onions, and roots, and ftop the fteam very clofe. When it is done, add a glafs of white wine, and ftrain the fance. Leg of Mutton d la haut Gout. Hang up a leg of mutton for a fortnight, and then ftuff every part of it with fome cloves of garlick ; rub it with pepper and fait, and then roa^ it. When it is properly done, put fome godd gravy and red wine into the difh, and fend it up to table. ‘ > Leg of Mutton forced. Raife the fkin of a leg of mutton, take out -the lean part of it, and chop it exceedingly fine; with an anchovy. Shred a bundle of fweet herbs, grate a penny loaf, half a lemon, fome nutmeg; pepper, and fait, to yourtafte. Make them into a force- li • c- MADE DISHES. a forcemeat, with three eggs, and a large glafs of red wine. Fill the fl?.in with the forcemeat, but leave the bone and fhank in their places, and it will appear like a whole leg. Lay it on an earthen dilh, with a pint of red wine under it, and fend it to the oven. It will take two hours and an half. When it comes out, talcc off the fat, ftrain the gravy over the mutton, lay’ round it hard yolks of eggs, and pickled mulhrooms. Send it up to table, garnillied with pickles. * ’ ’ TTakc all the fkin and fat ofF a leg of muttoiT, cut it very thin the right way of the grain, then butter your ftewpan, and lhake fome flour into it. Slice half a lemon and half an onion, cut them very fmall, a I'mall bundle of fweet herbs, and a little blade of mace. Put all together with your meat into the pan, ftir it a minute or two, and then put in fix fpoonfuls of gravy. Mince an anchovy fmall, and mix it with fome butter and flour. Stir it all together for fix mi- nutes, difli it up, and fend it to table. ' Take off the fat, Ikin, and lhank-bone of a leg of mutton. I.ard the meat with bacon, and feafon it with pepper, fait, and a round piece, of about three or four pounds, of beef,' or leg of veal, alfo larded. Have ready boiling fome hog’s lard, flour your meat, and give it a colour in the lard. Then take out the meat, and put it into a pot, with a bundle of fweet herbs, fome parlley, an onion fluck with clpvcs, twoorthree^ of JWutton ragooed. Leg of Mutton a la Royale. V>2$2 i^ADE DISHEa. lilades of mace, fome whole pepper, and three quarts of gravy. Cover it clofe, and let it boil foftly for two hours. In the mean time, get ready a fweetbread fplit, cut into quarters and .broiled, a few truffles and morels lie wed in a quarter of a pint of llrong gravy, a glafs of red wine, a few mulhrooms, two fpoonfulsof catch- up, and fome aTparagus tops. Boil all thefe -together, and then lay the mutton in the middle of the difli. Cut the beef or veal into flices, .mahe a rim round your mutton with the flices, and pour the ragoo over it. When you have taken the meat out of the pot, Ikim all the fat off the gravy, flrain it, and add as much to the other as will fill the dilh. Garniih with lemon^ ■And fend it up to table. Shoulder of Jlfutton in Efigram. Having roafled your fhoulder almoft enough, •.take off the fkin about the thicknefs of a crown piece very carefully., and with it the fhank-bone at the end. Seafon that Ikin and fhank-bone with pepper and fait, a little lemon-peel cut fmall, and a few fweet-herbs and crumbs of bread. Lay this on the gridiron, and let it be of a fine brown. In the mean time take the reft of the meat, and cut it like a halh about the bignefs of a fliilling. Save the gravy, and put it to it, with a few fpoonfuls of ftrong gravy, half an onion cut fine, a little nutmeg, a little pepper and fait, .a little bundle of fweet-herbs, ibme gerkinseut very fmall, a few mufhrooms, two or three truffles cut fmall, two fpoonfuls of cither red or white wine, and throw a little flour pver the meat. Let all thefe flew together very foftly for five or fix minutes; but take care notL ' - G 3. outr MADE DISHES. 5^ . nor to let it boil. Takeout the fweet herbs, and put the hafli into a difli; lay the broiled upon it, and ferve it up. ' Shoulder of Mutton furprized. Half boil a (Iroulder of mutton, put it into a* tofTing-pan, with two quarts of veal gravy, four ounces of rice,«a little beaten mace, and a tea- fpoonful of mulhroom powder. Stew it till the rice is enough, which it will be in about an hour, and tlien take up your mutton, and keep it hot. Put half a pint of cream to the rice^ and a piece of butter rolled in fiour« Shake it well, and boil it a few minutes. Lay your mut- ton in the dilh, and pour your gravy over it.. Garnilh with either pickles or barberries, and fend it up to table. I^eck oj Mutton, lardtd with H-ant and Anchovies-, Take the fillet of a neck of mutton, and larcf k quite through with ham and anchovies, firft tolled in chopped parfley, fhalots, fweet herbs, pepper, and fait. Then put it to braze or flew in a little broth, with a glafs of white wine. When done, fkim and ftrain the fauce, and add a little cullis to give it a proper confiftence.. Squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, pour it - upon the meat and fend it up to table. d^eck of Aiuttony called the IJaJly Dl/do. Provide yourfelf with a large pewter or filver difli, made like a deep foup-difli, with an edge about an inch, deep on the inlide, with' a lid made to fit it, and a handle at top, fixed fo faft, that you. may lift it up full by that handle with-1 / 54 MADE DISHES. out any danger of its falling. This dilh Is cal- led a Necromancer. 'Fake a neck of mutton of about fix pounds, take olF the fkin, cut it into chops of a moderate thicknefs, flice a French roll thin, peel and flice a large onion, pare and flice three or four, turnips, lay a row of mutton in the difli, on that a row of roll, then a row of turnips, and then onions; put a little fait, then the meat, and fo on.- Put to it a finall bundle of fweet herbs, and two or three blades of mace. Fill the difli with boiling wa« ter, and having covered it clofe, hang it on the back of two chairs by tlie rim. Take three | fheets of brown paper, tear eadh fheet into five , pieces, and draw them through your hand. 'j Light one piece, and hold it under the bottom i of the difli, moving the paper about as faft as it I burns; light another, till all are burnt, and your x meat wall Ire enCi:"b; Fifteen minute* | wui be fufficient to do it. Send it to table hot ^ in the dilh. s Saddle of Mutton d St. Mcnehaut. j Having taken the flcin off the hind part of a chine of mutton, lard it with bacon, feafon it ‘ with pepper, fait, mace, beaten cloves, nutmeg, young onions, fweet herbs, and parfley, all chopped fine. Put layers of bacon in a large oval or gravy pan, and then layers of beef, till the bottom is covered. Put in the mutton, then layers of bacon on that, and a layer of beef. Pour in a pint of wine, and as mudigood gravy as will flew it. Put in two or three fhalots, and cover it clofe. Put fire over and under it, if YOU have a clofe pan, and let it flew for two ^ hours. '•r^s^made dishes. k ] hours. As Toon as it is done, take it out, ftrevv crumbs of bread all over it, and put it into the oven to brown, or brown it before the fire.. Strain the gravy it was dewed in, and boil it till there be only a fufficient quantity for fauce. Lay the mutton in a difh, pour in the fauce, and fend it up to table. * A'lutton the 'Jurk 'ijh PFay. ^ Cut the meat in dices, and wadi it with vi- negar. Put it into a pot with fome whole pep- per, rice, and two or three onions. Stew them very dowly, and fkim them frequently. As foon as it is tender, take out the onions, putfip- pets into the didi under them, and ferve them up. Alutton a la Maintenon. Take a kg of muttori, and cut fome dior? fteaks from it. Make a forcemeat with crumbs of bread, a little chopped fuet, or a bit of butter, lemon-peel grated, parfley dired fine, pepper, fait, and nutmeg, mixed up with the yolk of an egg. Pepper and fait the (leaks, and lay on the forcemeat. Butter fome half dieets of writing- paper, and in each wrap up adeak, twidingthe paper neatly. Fry them, or do them in a Dutch oven. Put a little gravy into the didi, and fome in a boat; garnilh with pickles, and’fend them up to table. Bafque of Mutton. Take a copper di(h of the fize of a fmalt punch-bowl, and lay the caul of a leg of veal into it. Chop exceedingly fmall the lean of a leg of mutton that has been kept a week. Then take half its weight in beef marrow, the crumb D4 • of hV f 5^ Made dishes, of a penny loaf, the rind of half a lemon grated, half a pint of red wine, the yolks of four eggs, and two anchovies. Mix them well together, , and lay them in the caul in the infide of the ■difli. Faflen the caul, bake it in a quick overr, and when it comes out, lay your difli upfjdc down, and turn the whole out. Pour fome brown gravy over it, and put fome veniforr fauce into the difh. Garnifli with pickles, and fend it up to table. A Harr ICO of Mutton. Cut a neck or loin of mutton into thick chops, flour them, and fry them brown in a little butter. Then take them out, and put them on a fleve to drain. Put them into a ftewpan, and cover them with gravy. Put in a whole onion, with a turnip or. two, and flew them tender.. Then take out the chops, drain the liquor through a fleve, and Ikim off all the fat. Put a little butter into the ftewpan, and mix it with a fpoonful of flour. Stir it well till it is fmooth, then put in the liquor, and dir it well all the time you are pouring it in, or it will get into ' lumps. Then put in your chops with a glafs of Lifbon. Have ready fome carrots, about three quarters of ar. inch long, and cut them round with an apple corer, fome turnips cut with a turnip fcoop, and a dozen fmall onions blanch- ed. Put them to your meat, and feafon with pepper and fait. Stew them gently for a quar- ter of an hour, and then take out the chops with a fork. Lay them on the difh, and pour the fauce over them. Garnifh with beet root, and fend them to table. This is a very pretty difh for fupper. I) / CMADE DISHES ) k A Hodge-podge of Mutton. Take ofFthe fat of a-neck or loin of muttOn,. and cut it into (leaks. Put them into a pitcher,* with (brae lettuce, turnips, carrots, two cucum- bers quartered, four or five onions, and a little pepper and fait. Stop the pitcher very clofe, but do not put any water into it. Then put the pitcher into a pan of boiling water, and let it boil four hours, and keep the pan fupplicd' with frefh boiling water as it vvaftes. T. ake it- O out of the pitcher, and ferve it up:- Take fix mutton rumps, and boil them for a'- quarter of an hour. Then take them out, and' cut them in two, and put them into a ftewpan,. with half a pint of good ^ravy, a glafs of white wine, an onion ftuck’with cloves, and a little ^ O M'/l Mutton Rumps a la Braife,/ 5^ MADE DISHES, To force a Quarter of Lamb. Cut a long flii on the back fide of a large leg of lamb, and take out the meat; but be careful that you do not deface the other fide. Chop the meat fmall with fome marrow, half a pound of beef fuet, fome oyfters, an anchovy waflied, an onion, fome fweet herbs, a little lemon peel, and fome mace and nutmeg. Beat ihefe all to* gether in a mortar, and (luff up the leg in the iliape it was before. Sew it up, and rub it all over with the yolks of eggs well beaten. Spit it, flour it all over, lay it to the fire, and bafte it with butter, and an hour will roafl: it. In the mean time, cut the loin into fleaks, feafon them with pepper, fait, nutmeg, lemon peel cut fine, and a few herbs. Fry them in frelh butter till they are of a fine brown ; then pour out all the butter, put in a quarter of a pint of ' white wine, fhake it about, and then add half a pint cf ftrong gravy, in which has been boiled fome good fpice, a quarter of a pint of oyflers and their liquor, fome mufhtooms, and a fpoon- ful of their pickle, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and the yolk of an egg finely beaten. Stir all thefe together till they be properly thick, and then lay your leg oHamb in the dilh, and the loin round it. Pour the fauce over them, garnilh with lemon, and fend it up to table. Lamb Chops en Cafarole. Put fome yolk of eggs on both fidcs fome chops cut off a loin of lamb, and flrew bread crumbs over them, with a little cloves and mace, ’ pepper and fait mixed. Fry them of a nice eI k t I A MADE DISHES. ■r nice light brown, and^put them round a difli as clofe as you can ; but leave a hole in the mid- dle to put in the following fauce. Take all forts of fweet herbs and parfley finely chopped, and ftcwthem a little in fome good thick gravy. Garniih with crifped parfley. Take fome lambs ftones, and ikin and fplit them. Lay them on a dry cloth with thefweet- breads and liver, and dredge them well with flour. Fry them in boiling lard or butter till they be of a light brown, and then lay them on a fieve to drain. Fry a good quantity of parfley, and Jay your bits in the difli, and your parfley in lumps over it. Pour melted butter round them, and fend them up to table. Having blanched your fweetbreads, putthenv a little time into cold water. Then put them into a ftewpan with a ladle of broth, fome pep- per, fait, a (mall bunch of green onions, and a blade of mace-. Stir in a bit of butter with fome- flour, and flew them all about half an hour,. Have ready two or three eggs well beaten in cream, with a little minced parfley and nutmeg. Put in fome ready boiled tops of afparagus, and- put them into your other articles; but take great care that it does not curcfle. Add fome lemon 01 peas, young goolebernes, or kidney beans. D 6 / Ta To drefs Lamb's Bits. Lamb's Sweetbreads. \ 'V • ■%! _ 1 j P MADE DISHES. o Chine of Pork. Hang up a chine of pork for four or five days, and then make four holes in the lean. Stuff it with a little of the fat leaf chopped very fmall, fome parfley, thyme, a little fage and lhalot cut very fine, and feafoned with pepper, fait, and nutmeg. You may fluff it as thick as you choofe. Put fome good gravy into the difh, for fauce ufe apple-fauce and potatoes, and fend it up to table. To harhacue a Pig, Having managed a pig, of nine or ten weeks^ old, in every refpedl as for roafling, make a fluffing with a few fage leaves, the liver of the pig, and two anchovies boned, wafhed, and cut very fmall. Put them into a mortar with fome crumbs of bread, a quarter of a pound of butter, a very little chyan pepper, and half a pint of Madeira wine. Beat them to a pafte, and'few it up in the pig. Lay it down at a great dif- tance from a large brifk fire, and finge it well. Put into the dripping-pan two bottles of Ma- deira wine, and bafle it well all the time it is roafting. As foon as it is half roafted, put into the dripping-pan two French rolls, and if there be not wine enough in the dripping-pan, put in more. When the pig is nearly done, take out the rolls and fauce, and put them into a faucepan, with an anchovy cut fmall, a bunch of fweet herbs, and the juice of a lemon. Take up the pig, put an apple in its mouth, and a roll on each fide. Strain the fauce over it, and fend it up to table. A Pig 1 in i 4 ri<MADE DISHES. 6l A Pig au Pere Duillct. Having cut off the head, and quartered the pig, lard the quarters with bacon, and. feafon them with mace, doves, pepper, nutmeg, and fait. Put a layer of fat bacon at the bottom of a kettle, lay the head in the middle, and the quarters round. Then put in a bay leaf, an onion lliced, lemon, carrots, parfnips, parfley, and chives. Cover it again with bacon, flew it for an hour, and then take it up. Put your pig into a ftcwpan or kettle, pour in a bottle of white wine, cover it clofe, and let it flew an hour very foftly.- If you intend to ferve it up cold, let it ftand till it be cold, then drain it well, and wipe it to make it look white. Lay it in a difh with the head in the middle, and the quarters round, and throw fome green parfley all over it. Indeed, either of the quarters, laid in water-creflTes, is- a pretty little difh. If you intend to ferve it up. hot, while your. pig. is Hewing in the wine, take the firft gravy it was flewed in, and ftrain it; fkiin off all the faty take a fweetbread cut in five or fix flices, fome: truffles, morels, and muflirooms. Stew thefe all together till they are enough, then thicken it with the yolks of two eggs, or a piece ofibut- ter rolled in flour, and when your pig is enough, take it out, and lay it in the difh. Put the wine it was flewed in to theragoo, then pourallover P*g5 garnifli with lemon, and fend it to table. Pullets a.la St. Menehout. j Trufs the legs in the body, flit them all along the back, and fpread them open on a table. TakeMADE DISHES. 6t Take out the thigh-bones, and beat them with a rolllng-piu. Then feafou them with pepper, fait, mace, outmeg, and fweet herbs. Take a pound and a half of veal cut into thin fiices, and put it into a flewpan of a convenient lize, to ftew the pullets in. Cover it, and fet it over 'a Hove or flow fire ; and when it begins to flick to the pan, ftir in a little flour,, and (hake the pan about till it be a little brown. Then pour in as much broth as will ftew the pullets, ftir it together, put in a little whole pepper, an onion, and a little piece of bacon or ham. Put in your pullets, cover them clofe, and let them ftew half an hour. "1 hen take them out, lav them on the gridiron to .brown on the infide, ftrew them over with the yolk of an egg, fome bread crumbs, and bafte them with a little butter. LfCt them be of a fine brown, and boil the gravy till there is about enough for fauce ; ftrain it, put in a few mufhrooms, aitd a final 1 piece of butter rolled in flour. Lay the pullets in the difh, pour in the fauce, garnifti with lemon, and fend them to table. ^ Chicken pulled. A chicken that has been rather under roafted is heft for this purpofe. CutoflF the legs, rumps, and fide-bones together, and pull all the white part in little flakes, free from any fkin Tofs it up with a little cream, thickened .with a piece of butter mixed witK flour. Stir it till the but- ter is melted, and add to it mace finely pound- ed, fome whole pepper, fait, and a little lemon juice. Put this into a difh, Jay the rump in the middle, the legs at each end, peppered, failed, and broiled, and fend them up to table.I [ MADE DISHES, 63 To drefs Chickens the Scotch I-Vay. You muft firft Tinge your chickens, wafli, and then dry them in a clean cloth. Charter them, and put tHem into a faucepan with juft water enough'to cover them. Put in a little bunch of parfley, and Tome chopped, and a blade or two of mace. Cover them clofe down. Beat up five or fix eggs with the whites, and pour them into the liquor as foon as it boils. As foon as they are enough, take out the bunch of parfley, and fend them to table with the liquor in a deep dilh. V/hile they are doing, take care to properly Ikin them. Chickens in jdjpic. Take two fmall chickens, and put into them the pinions, livers, and gizzards, with a piece of butter, and fome pepper and fait. Cover them with fat bacon, then with paper, run a long (kewer through them, tie them to a fpit, and roaft them. When they are cold, cut them up, put them into the following fauce, Ihake them round in it, and let them lie a few mi- nutes before they are diflied. Take as much cullis as you fliall want for fauce, beat it with fmall green onions chopped, or flialot, a little tarragon and green mint, pepper and fait. Fowls Jiuffed. Bone your fowls, fill them with the follow- ing forcemeat, and roaft them. Take half a pound of beef fuet, the meat of a fowl cut very j fmall, and beat them in a mortar, with a pound of veal, fome truffles,'morels, and muflirooms, ' cutI) r ( rl . . < . 64 MADE DISHES. cut fmall, a few fweet herbs, and parfley fhred* fine, feme grated nutmeg, pepper, fait, and grated lemon-peel. Have ready forfauce, fome* good gravy, with truffles and morels. You may lard the fowls, if you pleafe. Yo marinade a FovjL Take a large fowl, and with your finger raife the {kin from the breaft-hone. Cut a veal fwcetbread very fmall, a few oyfters, a few mufhroomSj an anchovy, fome pepper, a- little nutmeg, fome lemon-peel, and a little thyme. Chop all together fmall, and mix it with the yolk of an egg. Stuff it in between the fkin and flefii, but take care that you do not break the fkin,. and then fluff what oyflers you pleafe into the body of the fowl. If you; choofe it, you may lard the bread of your fowl with ba- con. Paper the bread, and road it. Make a good gravy, garnifh with lemon, and fend it up to table. Furkey a la Dauhe, ■ Having cut the turkey down the hack jud enough to enable you to bone it, without fpoil- ing the look of it, duff it with forcemeat made of oyders chopped fine, crumbs of bread, pep- per, fait, flialots, a very little thyme, parfley, and butter. Fill it as full as you like, few it up, and tie it up in a clean cloth. Then boil it till it be white ; but be careful not to do it too much. You may ferve it'up with oyderfauce, or make a rich gravy of the bones, with a piece of'veal, mutton, and bacon, feafoned with pep- per, fait, dialots, and a little bit of mace. Strain itoff through a fieve, and-dew your turkey m it, Imade DISHilS. 65 i ft, after it is half-boiled, jufl: half an hour. Diih it up with the gravy after it is well Ikimmed, drained, and thickened with a few inufhrooms dewed white, or dewed palates, forcemeat balls, fried oyders, or fweetbreads, and pieces of le- mon ► Twk ’ies and Chickens. • Take a turkey, and as many chickens as you like, feafon them with fait, pepper, and cloves, and boil them ; and to every quart of broth, put a quarter of a pound of rice, or vetmicelil. Te glaze a Turkey. Pick, draw, and finge a young turkey, but do not let it be too fmall. Lay it a little time over a clear charcoal fire, and turn it often. Prepare a ragoo of fweetbreads, take off" the tur- key, fplit it down the back, fill it with the ra- goo, few it up, and lard it with bacon. At the bottom of a deep dewpan put fome dices of ham, veal, and beef. Lay the turkey upon thefe, and drew over it fome fweet herbs, cover^ them clofe, and let them dew over a dow fire, "When they are enough, take off the dewpan,. take out the turkey, and then pour into the turkey a little good broth. Stir it about, drain off the liquor, and Ikim off the fat. Set it over the fire again, and boil it to a jelly. Then, put in the turkey, and fet the pan over a gentle fire or dove, and it will be foon w’^ell glazed. Pour fome effence of ham into the difh, and put in the Turkey. Turkey a la Hdie. Having truffed a turkey with the legs in-** wards, flatten it as much as you can,, and put.i 66 MADE DISHES. into a fiewpan, with melted lard, chopped par- lley, fhalots, mufhrooms, and a little garlic. Give it a few turns on the fire, and add the juice of half a lemon to keep it white. Then put it into another ftewpan, with llices of veal, a nice of ham, the melted lard,and every thing as ufed before, adding whole pepper and fait. Cover it over with flices of lard, and flew it gently about haJf an hour over a flow fire. Then put to it a glafs of wine, and a little broth, and finifh the brazing. Skim and ftrain the fauce, add a little cullis to it, reduce ii to a proper confiftence, and then fend it up to table, ; Ducks d la A^ode. ' • Take two ducks, flit them down the backs, and bone them carefullv. Make a forcemeat of the crumb of a penny loaf, four ounces of fat bacon fcraped, a little parfley, thyme, lemon- peei, two flialots cr onions fhred very fine, with pepper, fait, and nutmeg, to your tafte, and two eggs. Stuff your ducks with this, and few them up. Then lard them down each fide of the breafl: with bacon, dredge them well with flour, and put them into a Dutch oven to brown. Then put them into a ftewpan with three pints of gravy, a glafs of red wine, a tea- fpoonful of lemon-pickle, 'a large one of wal-? nut and mufitroom catchup, one of browning, and an anchovy, with chyan pepper to your tafte. Stew them gently over a flow fire for an hour; and when they are enough, thickerv your gravy, and put in a few truffles and mo- tels. Strain your gravy, and pour it upon them. Ducklings >4f madje dishes. 6) \ Ducklings rolled. Cut a pretty large duckling into two, bone it thoroughly, and lay on a forcemeat made with the breafts of roafted poultry. Roll it up, tie flices of bacon round it, and boil it in a little broth, with a glafs of white wine, a bundle of fweet herbs, and two cloves. \V^ien it is done, gently fc)uecze out the fat, and wipe the duck clean. Send it up to table with what fauce you like beft. To marinade a Goofe. Take all the bones out of your goofe, and make the following forcemeat. Take ten or twelve fage leaves, two large onions, and tw’oor three large fharp apples. Hired very fine. Mix thefe with ,the crumb of a penny loaf, four ounces of beef marrow, a glafs of red wine, hslf a nutmfs: jrr.ated. nepper, fait, and a little lemon-peel fhred fmall. Make this into a light Huffing, with the yolks of four eggs, about an hour before you want it, and then put it into the.goofe. Fry the goofe of a good brown, then put it into a deep ftewpan, with, two quarts of good gravy, and cover it clofe. Having let it flew two hours, take it out, and Ikim off the fat. Add to it a large fpoonful of lemon pickle, one of browning, one of red wine, an anchovy Hired fine, beaten mace, pepper and fait to your palate. Thicken it with flour and butter, give it a boil, dilh up your goofe, ftrain your gravy, and pour it over it, Pigeons 'S.LI I 1 68 MADE DISITES. .1 Pi^forts cn Compete, Skewer fix young pigeons as for boilings Grate the crumb of a pepny loafj take half a pound of fat bacon, Ihrcd fome fweet herbs and pariley fine, two fhalots ora little onion, a little lemon-peel, and a little grated nutmeg ; ffeafon it with pepper and fait, and mix it up with the yolks of two eggs. Put this forcemeat into the crawS' and bellies of your pigeons, lard them down- the breaft, and fry them brown with a little butter. Then put them into a ftewparr, with.= a pint of ftrong brown gravy, ar. gill of white wine, and flew them three quar-^ ters of an hour.. Thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour, feafon it with fait and chyan pepper., put the pigeons in the dilh, and ftrain the gravy over them. Send them up hot to table, with fome forcemeat balls laid round them., Pigeons a la Soujfel. Having boned four pigeons, make a force-, meat as above directed. Stuff them, and put them into a ftewpan with a pint of veal gravy. Stew them very gently half an hour, and then take them out. Wrap them all round with a veal forcemeat, rub tliem over with the yolk of an egg, and fry them in good dripping of a nice brown. Take tlie gravy they were ftewed in, fkim ofl^the fat, thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour, the yolk of an egg, and a gill of cream beat up. Seafon it with pepper and fait, mix all together, and keep it ftirring one way till it is fmooth. Strain it into yourdifh, and put on the pigeons. Garnifh with plenty of erifped parfley. ^ Pigeons.-f MADE DISHES,. 69 Pigeons d la Duxelle. Take four or five pigeons, cut off their feet and pinions, and fplit them down the breaft ; then take out the livers, and flatten them with a cleaver. Make a hot marinade of forae fcrap- ed bacon, feafoned with a mufliroom or two, green onions, pepper, fait, thyme, parfley, and a little nutmeg. Fry all for a few minutes, and let the pigeons be heated through in it, and let them remain till you put them upon your gridiron.' Take a thin flice of ham for each pigeon, and put them with .the ham always at • top ; that is, when you turn your pigeons, turn your ham upon them. For your fauce, take a ladle of gravy, fome fweet bafil, a little thyme, parfley, and flialot, minced very fine, and a few flices of muflirooms, boiled all together a few minutes. Difh them up with their breaft’ downwards, let your ham continue upon them, and pour your fauce over them, with the juice of an orange or lemon. Pigeons Surtout. Force your pigeons, lay a flice of bacon on their breafts, and a flice of veal beaten with the back of a knife, and feafoned with mace, pep- per, and fait. Fallen it on with two fmall hewers, which will be better than tying it. Roaft them on a fine bird fpit, bade them with a piece of butter, then with the yolk of an egg, and afterwards with fome crumbs of bread,, a little nutmeg, and fweet herbs. When they are enough, lay them in your dilh, and pour on them fome good gravy, feafoned with truffles, morels, and raulhrooms. ^ ^ ^ , ■ • •• ji P Upton /A i hX ) rI 70 MADE DISHES/ A Pupton of Pigeons, Roll out a favoury forcemeat like a pafte, and put it into a butter difh. Put a layer of very thin bacon, fquab pigeons, fliced fweet- breads, afparagus tops, mufliroonis, cockfcombs, a palate boiled tender and cut into pieces, and the'yolks of hard eggs. Make another force- meat, and lay it over like a pie. Bake it, and when it is enough, turn it into a difli, pour gravy round it, and fend it up tOj^table. Rabbits pulled. Having half boiled your rabbits, with an onion, a little whole pepper, a bunch of fweet herbs, and a lemon-peel, pull the flelh into flakes, and put to it a little of the liquor, a piece of butter, mixed with flour, pepper, fait, nut- meg, chopped parfley, and the liver boiled and bruifed. Boil this up, and keep fhaking it round. To Jiorendlne Rabbits. Take three young rabbits and fkin them, but leave on the ears. Walh and dry them with a cloth. Take out the bones carefully, leaving the head whole, and then lay them flat. Make a forcemeat of a quarter of a pound of bacon- feraped, which anfwers the purpofe much bet- ter than fuet, as it makes the rabbits look ^ whiter, and eat tenderer. Add to the bacon the crumb of a penny-loaf, a little lemon- thyme, or lemon-peel Hired fine, parfley chop- ped fmall, nutmeg, chyan, and fait, to your tafte. Mix them up together with an egg, and fpread it over the 'rabbits. Roll them up toF made dishes. 71 the head, fkewer them ftraight, and clofe the ends, to prevent the forcemeat coming out. Skewer the ears back, and tie them in feparate cloths, and boil them half an hour. When you dilh them up, take out the jaw-bones, and flick them in the eyes for ears. Put round them forcemeat balls and mufltrooms. In the mean tinae, prepare a white faucc made of veal gravy, ' a little anchovy, the juice of half a lemon, or a tea Ipaonful of lemon pickle. .. Strain it, and take a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour, fo-as to make-the fauce .pretty thick. Keep ftirring it while^the flour is diflfolving, and beat the yolk of an egg. Put to it ferae thick cream, nutmeg, and fait. Mix it with the gravy, and let it flmraer a little over the fire ; bur do Hot let it boil, as that will curdle the cream. Pour it over the rabbits, and fend it up to table. . .. - \ , Rabbits en Cajprolle, Divide a couple of rabbits into quarters, flour them, if you do not lard them, and fry them in butter. Put them into a ftewpan, with fonie good gravy, and a glafs of white wine. Seafon them with pepper and fait, and a bunch of fweet herbs. Cover them .down clofe, and let them flew till tender. Then take up the rabbits, flrain the fauce, thicken it with flour and but- ter, and pour it over the rabbits. Portuguefe Rabbits^ Trufs your rabbits chicken fafhion, the heads cut off, and the rabbit turned with the back up- wards, two of the legs ftripped to the claw-end, . and fo trufled with two'lkewerk. Lard them, and T- ' ) r . 1 AI mm 72 MADE. DISHES. and roafi: them, and put what faucc you plcafc to them. T'o hsdge-podge a Hare, Cut your hare ihto pieces, as if you intended it for ftewing, and put it into a pitcher, with two or three onions, a little fait and pepper, a bunch of fweet herbs, and a piece of butter. •Stop the pitcher veryclofe,to prevent the fleam from getting out, fet it in a kettle full of boiK ing w'ater, keep the kettle filled up as the water wafles, and let it flew four or five hours. You may, if you choofe it, when you put the hare into the kettle, put in a lettuce, cucumber, tur- nips, and celery. Y(7 jug a Hare, This is done in nearly the fame manner as the above, with this difference only, that fome people lard the hare, here and there, with bacon. Pheafants a la Braze. Cover the bottom of your flewpan with a layer of beef, a layer of veal, a fmall piece of bacon, part of a carrot, an onion fluck with cloves, a blade or two of mace, a fpoonful of black and white pepj>er, and a bundle of fweet herbs. Then put in your pheafant, and cover it with a layer of beef and veal, and a fvveet- bread. Set it on the fire for five or fix minutes, and then pour in two quarts of boiling gravy. Cover it clofe, and let it flew an hour and a half very gently. Then take up your pheafant, and keep it hot. Let the gravy boil till it is reduced to about a pint, then flrain it off, and put it in again. Put in the veal fwcetbread that wasI p MADE DISHES was {lewed-with the pheafant, fome truffles and morels, the livers of fowls, artichoke bottoms, and fome afparagus tops, if you Iiave any. Let thefe limmer in the gravy five or fix minutes, and then add two fpoonfuls of catchup, a fpoori- full of browning, and a little piece of butter rol- led in flour. Shake all together, then put in your pheafant, with a few muflirooms, and let them flew about five or fix minutes more. Take up your pheafant, pour the ragoo over it, lay forcemeat balls round it, garnifii with lemon, and ferve it up. Take two roarted partridges, and the flefli of a large fowl, a little parboiled bacon, fome mar- row or fuet finely chopped, a few muflirooms and morels cut very fine, fome truffles, and ar- tichoke bottoms. Seafon them with beaten mace, fait, pepper, a little nutmeg, fweet herbs chopped fine, and a crumb of a twopenny loaf foaked in hot gravy. Mix all well together, Vvith the yolks of two eggs, and make your panes on paper, of a round figure, and the thick- nefs ot an egg, at a proper diflance from one another. Dip the point of a knife in the yolk of an egg, in order to fliape them, bread them neatly, and bake them a quarter of an hour in ' a quick oven. Obferve to boil the truffles and morels tender in the gravy you foak the bread Partridges in Panes. in E FRYING/ ■TRYING. FRYING. ■*^0 fry filh properly, they muft be firft dried in a cloth and then dredged with flour. The dripping or hogslard, of which you muft put plenty in your pan, muftalwajs boil before your fifh be put in. Hogslard, for frying, is preferred to butter, as, the latter frequently makes the fifli foft, and is apt to burn and blacken them. Your fifli, when fried, fliould be put to drain, either in a difli or hair fieve, that when you fend them up to table, they may not appear or eat greafy. If you make ufe of par- fley, pick it very clean, and wafli it well in cold water, before you throw it into the pan of boiling fat, where you muft not let it remain too long. It will then be of a fine green, and jcat very crifp. To fry Beef Steaks. Fry fome fteaks, cut out of the mitldle of the rump, in butter. When they are done, put a little good fmall beer into the pan, a little nut- meg, a flialot, fome walnut catchup, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Shake it round the pan till it boils, and pour it over the fteaks. -Pickled muflirooms, or oyftcrs, may be added, if you chufe. Fro/ Cutlets. Your cutlets muft be about the thicknefs of a half crown ; but the length of them is of no confequence. Dip them in the yolkof an egg, ' and drew over them crumbs of bread, a few fweet herbs, fome lemon peel, and a little grat- ed — II i FRYING. ' eJ nutmeg. Fry them In frefli butter. In the mean time make a little gravy, and when the meat is done, take it out, and lay it in a difh before the fire. Then lhake a little flour into the pan, and ftir it round. Put in a little gravy, fqueeze in a little lemon, and pour it over the veal. Garnifh with lemon, and fend it up to table. Grafs Lamb Steaks. Cut a loin of lamb into fteaks, pepper and fait, and fry them. When they are enough, put them into a difli, and pour out the buttetk Shake a little flour into the pan, pour in a little beef broth, a little catchup and walnut pickle. Roil this up, and keep ftrrring it all the time. Put in the fteaks, give them a ftiake round, garnifli with crifped parfley, and fend them up to table. To fry 'cold Veal. put your veal into pieces of about the thick- nefsof halfa crown, and of what length you think proper. Dip them into the yolk of an egg, and then in crumbs of bread, with a few fweet herbs and fhred lemon-peel ; grate a little nutmeg over them, and fry t^iem in frelh but- ter. The butter muft be made juft hot enough to fry them. In the mean time, make a little gravy of the bone of the veal; and when the meat is fried, take it out with a fork, and lav it in a difla before the fire- Then fhake a little flour into the pan, and ftir it round. Then put m a httle gravy, fqueeze in fome lemon, and }X)ur It over the veal. Garnifh with lemon, and ferVC It up, E 2 To I / ‘ i , r Lfrying, • 76 To fry a Loin of Lamb. Cut a loin of lamb into chops, and rub them over on both fuies with the yolks of eggs; fprinkle over them fome bread crumbs, a little parfley, thyme, marjoram, and winter favory, and lemon peel very finely chopped. Fry them in butter till they be of a fiice brown, garnifli with plenty of crifped parfley, and fend them up to table. To fry Lamb's Rumps. Braze or boil youfirumps, and make a light batter of flour, one egg, a little fait, white wine, and a little oil. FVy them of a good brown co- lour, and ferve them up with fried parlley round them. You may put to them any fauce you like befl. ' / , . ■. r" , To fry a Neck or Loin of Lamb. Having cut your, Ueck or loin into (leaks, beat thei',) with a rolling-pin, feafon them with a little fait, cover them clo'e, and fry tfiem in half a pint of ale. When they are done enoughj take them out of the pan, lay them in a'‘platc before the fire to keep hot,.and pour all out of the pan into a bafon. Then put in half a pint of white wine, a few capers,, the yolks of two eggs finely beaten, ,with a little nutmeg,and fait. Add to this the liquor they w'ere)fried in, and keep ftirring It one wav.alifhc time till it be thick. Then put in the lamb,’keep fliaking the Iamb for a minute or two, lay the fteaks in the difli, and pour the fauce over them. G.ar- nifh with fome parfley crifped before the firq, and fend them up to table. - .> To77 13R0ILING. Having quartered your chicken, rub the quartets with the yolk of an egg, and flrew on them bread crumbs, pepper, fait, nutmeg, grat- ed lemon-peel, and chopped parfley. Fry them. Thicken fome gravy with a little flour, and add chyan, mufhroom powder, or catchup, with a little lemon juice. Pour it into the difli with the chickens. ' I "HE principal mat,ter in broiling is to have a clear tire. Turn your meat often wltile it is broiling, which will prevent its burning or getting fmokey. You muft have a difli placed over fome hot coals, in order to keep it hot as fall as it is broiled ; for no n.eat of any kind is good unlefs it be carried hot to table ; and for this purpofe, many cooks fend up only a fmall quantity at a time, and that as fooii as it is broiled. A rump is generally ufed for Aeaks, which mud be cut about iialt an inch thick. Having got a clear fire, rub yourgiidiron well vvith lay them on a hot difli, with a piece of butter between each Heak. Sprinkle a little pepper and lalt ovei them, and let them fland two or BROILING. 7^7 broil Beef Steaks. beef fuct, and when it is hot, lay on your fleaks. As foon as they licgm to brown, turn them, and when the other iule is brown alfo, three1 i ’ . * ***- 7^ BROILING. three minutes. Then flice a /halot very thin into a fpoonful of water. Lay your fteaks upon the gridiron, and keep turning them till they be enough. Put them on your difli, pour the lhalot and water among them, and ferve them up. Brcaji of Aiutton grilled. Take a hreafl of mutton, half boil it, fcore it, pepper and fait it well, and rub it with the yolk of en egg ; llrew on chopped parfley and crumbs of bread, and broil it or roaft it in a Dutch oven. Serve it up with caper fauce. To broil Mutton Steaks. Cut fome Peaks from the loin, about half an' inch titick, and take olP the Ikin, and part of the fat. As foon as vour srridiron is hot, rub it with a little fuet, lay on your fteaks, and turn them freoucP.tly, Icn tne rat that hreps from them fiiould occafion the fire to blaze, which will frnoke and fpoil them ; but this may in fome mcafure be prevented by putting your grid- iron on a flant. When they are enough, put them into a hot difti, rub them with a little but- ter, flice a lhalot very thin into a fpoonful of water, and pour it on them, with the like quan- tity of catchup. Garnifh with'fcraped horfe- radifli and pickles, and fend them up hot to table. To broil Pork Steaks. Wh.cn your pork fteaks are enough, for they require mored>roiling than mutton chops, put in a little good gravy. Strew over them a little fage rubbed very fine, which gives tliem a very agreeable tafte. Remember not to cut thern too thick. •1( ( T'o broil Chickens, Having flit your chickens clown the back, fcafon them with pepper and fait, and lay them on the gridiron over a clear fire, and at a great diftance. Let the infide continue next the fire till it is nearly half done ; tlien turn them, tak- ing care that the flefhy fides do not burn, anci let them broil till they are of a fine brown. Take fome good gravy fauce, with fome mufh- rooms, and garnifli with lemon, the liver broil- ' ed, and the gizzard cut, flafhcd, and broiled, with pepper, and fait. Or you may broil your chicken in the following manner; cut it down the back, pepper and fait it, and broil it. Put over it white mufliroom fauce, or melted butter with pickled muflirooms. ‘To broil Pigeons^ In order to broil pigeons nicely, you mufl: take care that your fire is clear. Shred fome parfley fine, take a piece of butter as big as a walnut, with a little pepper and fait, and put it into their bellies. Tie them at both ends, and broil them. Or, having firlf feafoned them with pepper and fait, you may fplit and broil them. Put a little parfley and butter into the difla, and lend them up to table. Partridgcs broiled with fwat JJerbr^ Having trufled your partridges as for boiling, fplil them down the back, and marinade them about an hour, in a little oil, pepper and fait, and all forts of fweet herbs chopped. I’hen roll them in paper, with all the feafoning, and broil E 4 them i\ %• L n f k>\ So STEWING, MINCING, them flowly. When they are done, take off^ the paper,* mix the herbs with a little good cul- lis, add the fqueeze of a lemon, and lerve it up with the birds. STEWING, MINCING, and HASHING. To Jiew a Rump of a Beef. > TTAVING cut the meat cleanTrom the bone, -*■ '*■ put it into yourftewpan, and cover it with an equal quantity of gravy and water Put in ' a fpoonful of whole pepper, a bundle of fweet herbs, two onions, fome fait, and a pint of red wine. Cover it clofe, and fet it over a hove or flow fire for fome hours, fliaking and turning it four or five times, and ftirring it till dinner be jeadv. Cut ten or twelve turnips into flices the broad way, then quarter them, and fiy them in beef dripping till they be brown. Take care to let your dripping boil before you put them in, and when done drain them well from the fat. Lay the beef in your foup dilh, toafl: a little biead very nice and brown, which cut three corner wavs, and lay them and the tur- nips into the diflt. Skim the fat off clean, firain in the gravy, and ferve it up, having firfl: fea- foned it with pepper and fait to your taffe. If you have the convenience of a flove, you may put the di(h over it for four or five minutes^ which will give the liquor a fine flavour of the turnips, make the bread tafte better, and be a great addition to the whole. re / ( s' A.8l AND HASHING. To fiCVJ a Lamb's Head. Firfi: wafli it ami pick il very clean, and then lav it ill water tor an hour. Take out the brains, and whh a lliarp knife carefully extra6t the tongue and the bones; but take particular care that you do not break the. meat. Then take out the eyes. Take two pounds of Vial, anvl two pounds of beef fuet, a very little thvme, a good piece of lemon peel finely minced, a nutmeg grated, and two anchovies. Chop all thefe well together, grate two dale rolls, and mix all with the yolks of four eggs, have enough of this meat ro make about twenty balls. 7'ake half a pint of frefii muilirooms,clean peele'd and wafii- ed, or pickled cockles. Firfi fiew youroyfiers, and put to them two quarts of g'avy, with a bla Icor two of mace, and then mix all thefe to- gether. Tie the head with packthread, cover it dole, apd let it fiew two hours. In the ineaa time, beat up the brains with foine lemon peel finely minced, a little chopped paifley, half a grated nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg. Fry the brains in little cakes in boiling drippin.r^ then fry the balls, and keep thein° both ho°t! Take half an ounce of truffles and morels, and firain the g. avy the head was fiewed in, put it to tlie truffles and morel?, with a fevv mufii- rooms, and lioil all togcth.er. d'hen put in the reft of the brains that are not fried and fiew them together a minute or two. Pour this over the head, lay the fried brains and ball, round it ganiiih with lemon, and CnJ it up to table.82 STEWING, MINCING, Fillet of Veal Jiewcd. Stuff it, and half bake it with a little water in the difh. Then ftew it with the liquor and fome good gravy, and a little Madeira When it is enough, thicken it with flour, and add catchup, ^hyan, a little fait, and juice oforange or lemon. Then boil it, difh it up, and fend it to table. To Jievj a Breaji of Veal in its own Sauce. Put a bread of veal into aftewpan of its ow’n length, with a little broth, aglafsof white wine, a bundle of fweet herbs, a few muHirooms, a little coriander tied in a hag, dice roots, onions, pepper, and fait. Stew it flowly till very tender. When it is done enough, drain and fkim the fauce, pour it over the meat, and fend it up to table. To flew Chickens. Having half boiled two fine chickens, take them up in a pewter difh, and cut them up, fe- parating every joint one'from the other, and taking out the bread bones. If the liquor the chickens produce is not fufficient, add a few fpoonfuls of the water in which they were boil- ed, and put in a blade of mace, and a little fait. Cover it clofe with another dilh, and fet it over a dove or chafing difh of coals. Let it dew till the chickens are enough, and theji fend them hot to table. This is a pretty difh for any fick perfon, or for a lady who lies in. In the fSme manner you may drefs partridges, moor-game, or rabbits.83 AND hashing. To Jlcw a Turkey. Bone a fmall turkey, and fill it with the fol- lowing forcemeat. Take half a pound of veal, the meat of two pigeons, and a pickled tongue boiled and peeled. Chop thefe all together, and beat them in a mortar, with fome marrow from, a beef bone, or a pound of fuet from a loin of veal. Seafon them with two or three cloves, two or three blades of mace, half a nutmeg dried before the fire and pounded, and fome fait. Mix all thefe well tc^cther,fill the turkey,and fry it of a fine browiT. Put it into a pot that will jull hold it, lay fome fkewers at the boti- tom of the pot to keep the turkey from fticking^ ami put in a quart of gix>d l>eef gravy. Cover it clofe, and let it flew for half an hour very gently. T hen put in a glafs ofred wine,a fpoon- ful of catchup, a large Ipoonfulof pickled mufh* rooms, fome truflBes, morels, and a piece of butler rolled in flour. Cover it clofe, and let it flew half an hour longer. Fry fome hollow Fienclx rolls; then take fome oyflers, flew them in a faucepaa with their own liquor, a bit of mace, a little white wine, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Let them flew till pretty thick, and then fill the rolls with them, "Lay. tlie turkey in the dilh, pour the fauce over it, lay the rolls on each fide, and fend it up to tabic. To Jhw Giblets^ Havmg cut the neck into four pieces, and- pinions' in two, flice the gizzard, clean it well, and flew them in two qtiaits of water, or mutton broth, with a handful of fweet fterbs, E 6 an.84 ' STEWING, MINCING, an anchovy, a few pepper corns, three or four cloves, a fpoonful of catchup, and an onion. As foon as the giblets are tender, put in a fpoonful ot good cream, and thicken it with flour and butter. Lay fippets round afoup-difli, pour in the whole, after ftraining it, and fend them up to table. To Jltw a Hare. Paunch and cafe your hare, cut it as for eat- ing, and put it into a large faucepan, with three pints of beef gravy, a pint of red wine, a large onion ftuck with cloves, a bundle of winter fa- vory, a flice of horfe-radifli, two blades of beaten mace, an anchovy, a fpoonful of walnut catchup, one of browning, half a lemon, and chyan and fait to your tafle. Put on a clofe cover, fct it over a gentle fire, and flew it for two hours. Then take it up into a foup difh, and thicken your gravy with a lump of butter rolled in flour. Boil it a little, and ftrain it over your hare. Garnifh with lemon cut like flraws. ToJicw Partridges. Trufs your partridges in the fame manner as for roafling, fluff the craws, and lard them down each fide of the breafl. Then roll a piece of but- ter in pepper, fait, and beaten mace, and put it into the bellies of the biids. Sew up the vents, dredge them well with flour, and fry them of a fine light brown. Put them into a flewpan with a quart of good gravy, a fpoonful of Madeira wine, the fame of catchup, a tea-fpoonful of ler mon-pickle, half the quantity of mufliroom powiier, an anchovy, half a lemon, and a fprig85 AND HASHING. of Tweet marjoram. Cover the pan clofe, and flew them half an hour; then take them out, and thicken the gravy. Boil it a little, and pour it over the partridges, L,ay round them artichoke bottoms, boiled and quartered, and the yolks of four hard eggs. You may flew woodcocks in the fame way. ToJitw Pheafants. Put your pheafant into a flewpan with as much veal bioih as will cover it, and let it ftew till there is juft enough of liquor left for fauce. Then Ikiin it, and put in artichoke bottoms parboiled, a little beaten mace, a glafs of wine, and fome pepper and fait. If it is not thick enough, pur in a piece ot butter rolled in flour, and fqueeze in a little lemon-juice. Take up vour pheafant, pour the fauce over it, and put forcemeat balls into the difli. To mincc Veal. Cut your veal as fine as poflible, hut do not chop it. Grate a little nutmeg over it, flired a little lemon-peel very fine, dredge a little flour over it, and throw a very little fait on it. To a large plate of veal, take four or five ipoonfuls of water, let it boil, and then put in the veal with a piece of butter as big as an egg. Stir it well together, and it will be done enough as foon as it is all thorouglily hot. Have ready a very thin piece of bread toafted brown, and cut into three- corner fippets. Lay it round the plate, and pour in the veal. Juft before you put it in, fqueeze in half a lemon, or put in half a fpoon- ful of vinegar, } To86 STEWING, MINCING, ' * To hajh M 'tun. Having cut your mutton into fmall pieces, and as thin as you can, ftrew a little flour o.er it, and put it into foinegiavv, in which fwcet herbs, umoii, pepper, and fair, have been i)oiled> and flraine Put in a piece of butier roll d .17 fl( ur, a little lalt, a lhalot cut fine, a tew Caitt rs aiul gerkins finely ehoppe 1, and a gla's of r d' wine, or w'alnut pickics, t ycu like 11. Tufs all together for a minute or two, and have ready fome bread toaflfd and cut into ihin fippets; Jay thele round the d*llt, and 'pour in your hath. Garnifh with pickfes and horfe-radilh, and fend it up to table. T’j haJJy cold Afution. With a fliarp knife cut vour mutton into little pieces, as thin as poffible, and then boil the bones with an onion, a little fweet herbs, a blade of mace, a very little whole pepper, a little fait, and a piece of ctuff toafied very ciifp. Let it boil till there be no mo'C than juft fufficient for fauce. Then (train it, and put it into a faucepan, with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and as loon as the meat is ho", it will be enough Seafon'it with pepper and fait, and have really fome thin bread toallcd brown, and cut into any form you bell like. Lay thefe round the dilh, and pour the halh upon them^ You may put in any kind of pickle you like, and garnilli with fome of them. To haJh a Calf's Head. Having cleaned the head exceedingly well, boil it a quarter of an hour, and when it is cold cutAND hashing. 87 cut the meat into thin broad flices. Put it Into a toffing-pan with two quarts of gravy. When it has ftewed three quarters of an hour, add to it an anchovy, a little beaten mace, chyan to your tahe, two fpoonfuls of lemon pickle, two meat fpoonfuls of walnut catchup, halt an ounce of truffles and morels, a flice or two of lemon, a bundle of fweet heibs, and a glats of white wine. Mix a quarter of a pound ot but- ter with flour, and put it in a few minutes be- fore the head is enough. Put the brains into hot water, and beat them fine in a bafon. Add to them two eggs, onefpoonful of floui, a bit of lemon peel thred fine, a little parfley chopped fmall, a little fack, and orange-flovver-water/ Lay a flieet of puff pafle at the bottom of your difh, and put in the ingiedients, and cover it with another Iheet of puff pafle. Bake it in a flack'oven, and lerve it up het, with fugar fcraped on the top of it. To hajh Fowls. Having cut your fowl into pieces, put to it feme gravy, wflh a little cream, fome catchup, or mulhroorn powder, grated lemon-peel, fome nutmeg, a few oyflers and their liquor, and a piece ot butter rolled in flour. Keepftirring it till the butter is melted, and then lay fippets round the difli. To haJh Ducks* Having roafted two ducks till they be nearly three parts done, take them up, and let them fland to cool, d hen cut the brealt into thin flites, and take care of the gravy. The legs will ferve88 STEWr>TG, MINCING, k ferve for another difli. which you may drefs by wrapping them in a c.iul with a good force meat, and Itrve them up with cull^ f.iuce. hoi the fillets, cut cucutnlv is, and marinade them a! out an hour, with a little vinegar, fait, and an onion diced, d lien take out the onion, Itjuc ze the cucumherc in a doth, and put them into a dewpan with a bit of butter, a dice of ham, a little broth, dnur, and vtal gn\y B) f it dowly, fkimit well, take out the ham, and put the meat to it to warm, without hoiUng. You may do the fame with chi pped truffles, or mudi- rooms, or anv thing die in feafon. You may hadi a cold roaded duck in this manner. To hajh a Hare. Cut your hare into fmall pieces, and if you liave any oi the pudding left, rub it Imali, and put to it n gill of red wine, the fame quantity of water, half an anchovy chopjied tme, an an- chovy duck with fejur cIo\es, and a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in dour. Put thefe all together in a faucepan, and let it over a dow fire, fhakingit often, fo that the whole may be equally heated. When it is thoroughly hot, for you mud take care never to let a lulh boil, as that will harden the meat, take out the onion, lay fippels in the dilh, and pour your hadi over them. To haJh a TToodcock. Having cut up vour woodcock as for eating, work the entrails very fine witlr the bick of a fpoon, and mix it with a fpoonful of red w nc, the lame ot water, and half a (pocnlulo alegar. Cut an onion into dices, pull it into rings, and j,*ragoos and fricasees. 89 roll a little butter in flour. Put them all into your tolfing-p»i, and lhake it over the fire till It boils. Then put in your bird, and when it is thoroughly hot, lay it in your difli, with Tip- pets round it. Strain the fauce over the A^ood- cock, and lay the onions in rings. A partridge may be halhcd the fame way. RAGOOS AND FRICASEES. Breajl of Veal ragooed. Roast hair the befl end of a neck of veal, flour it, and flew it gently with three pinta of good gravy, an onion, a few cloves, whole pepper, and a bit of lemon peel. Turn it while it is flewing, and when it is very tender, (train the fauce. If it be not thick enough, mix a little more flour (mooth, and add catchup, chyan, truffles, morels, and pickled mufhrooms. Boil it up, and put in bard yelks of eggs. hlech of Veal ragooed. Cut a neck of veal into fleaks, and flatten them with a rolling pin, feafon them with (alt, pepper, cloves, and mace. Lard them with ba- con, Icmon-ptel, and thyme, and dip them in the volks of eggs. Make a meet of ftrong cap- papei up at the four corner.^, in the form of a dripping pan. Pm up the corners, butter the paper and the giidiron, and fet it over a char- coal fire. Put in your meat, let it do leiiurely, keep It bafliug and turning to keep in the gravy,90 RAGOOS AND FRICASEES. and have ready a pint of flrong gravy again(1 it is enough, Seafon it high, put in uiulhiooms and pickles, and forcemeat-balls dipped in the yolks of eggs, oyfters ftewed and tried to Jay round and at the top of your diflj, and then fend it to table. If it be for a brown ragoo, put in red wine; if for a white one, put in white tvine, with the yolks of eggs beat up with two or three fpoonfuls of cream. To ragoo Ox Palates. Boil four ox palates till they be tender, clean them well, and cut them fome into long and fome into fquare pieces. Put them into a rich Cooley thus made: put a piece of butter into your ftew-pan, and melt itput a large fpeon- fuJ of flour to it, and ftir it till it be fmooth.. Put to it a quart of good gravy, a gill of Lif- bon, and three flialots chopped ; put in fome lean ham cut very fine, and lialf a lemon. Let it boil twenty minutes, and then ftrain it through a fieve. Put this and vour palates into a pan, with fome forcemeat balls, truffles, and morels, and pickled or frefh mufhrooms ftewed in gravy. Seafon it with pepper and lair to your tafte, and tofsthem up five or fix minutes. You may ul'c either lemoa or beet-root for garnilh. To ragoo Lamh. Cut the knuckle bone off a fore quarter of Iamb, lard it with little thin bits of bacon, flour it, fry it of a fine brown, and then put it into an earthen pot or ftcvvpan, put to it a quart of broth or good gravy, a bundle of herbs, a little mace, two or three cloves, and a little whole pepper*k ?' RAGOOS AKD FRICASEES, 9I . pepper. Cover it clofe, and let it flew pretty faft for half an hour. Pour the liquor all out, flrain it, keep the lamb hot in tlie pot till the lauce be ready. Take half a pint of oyfters, flour them, try them Imown, drain out all the fat clear that you fried them in, and tkim all the fat oft the gravy. Then pour it to the oyf- ters, put in an anchovy, and two fpoonfuls of cither red or white wine. Boil ail together till there be only juft enough for fauce, add fomc frelh muihrooms, if you can get them, and fome pickled, with a fpoonful of the pickle, or the juice of half a lemon. Lay your lamb in the difli, pour the fauce over it, garnifh with lemon, and ferve it up. To rogoo Partridges. i Trufs your partridges, and roaft them, with* out making uie of any flour. Make a lauce of the livers pounded, and add two or three chick- ens livers. Put them into a ftewpan with a green onion or two, a mulhroom. fome parfley, pepper, and fait. Boil all in cullis a few mi- nutes, and ftrain them. Cut the partridges as for a fricaflTce, and put them to the lauce. Let ^ i boil juft long enough to heat the meat through. Put in a little orange peel, a bit of minced Iha- lot, and a I'ttle parfley. Squeeze in a good deal of orange juice, difli it up, and garnilh with ‘ oranges quartered. ‘ ' Tq fr lea [fee Tripe. Get fome nice white tripe, cut it into flips, put It imofome boiled gravy with a little cream, and a bit of butler mixed with flour. Stir it till the92 RAGOOS AND PRICASEES. » the butter be melted, and add a little wliitc wine, lemon-peel grated, chopped parfley, pep- per, fait, and pickled muriiiooms, or lemon- juice. Shake all together, and give it a gentle ftevv. *TofticaJJce Ox Palates. Having well cleaned your palates, put them into a ftew-pot, cover them with water, and fet them in the oven for three or four hours. V^'hen they come from the oven, ftripofF the Ikins, and cut them into fquare pieces. Seafon them with mace, nutmeg, chvan, and lair. Mix a fpoonful of flour with the yolks of two eggs, dip in your p.nlates, fry tliem of a light brown, and then put them in a fieve to drain. Have ready half a pint of veal gravy, with a little caper liquor, a fpoonful ot browning, and a few mulhrooms. Thicken it well with flour and butter, pour it hot on your dilli. and lay in your palates. Garnlfli v/ith baibeirits and fried paifley. T'o fr'icajjec Pigeons. Cut your pigeons in the fame manner as chickens for ft icalfeeing, fry them of a light brown, put them into fome good mutton gravv, and flew them near half an hour. Put in half an ounce of morels, a fpoonful of browning, and a flice of lemon. Take up your pigeons, and tliicken your gravy ; flrain it over your pi- geons, lay round them forcemeat balls, and garnifli with pickles. To f r '4' ''{■ )■ f r 1? IRACJOOS AND FRICASEES. ^3 i ‘ ( •>* r To fricaJJ'ce Eggs. ' Having boiled your eggs pretty hard, flice them. Take a little veal gravy, a little cream and flour, and a bit of butter, nutmeg,' fait, pepper, chopped parfley, and a few pickled niulhrooms. Boil this up, and pour it over the eggs. Put a hard yolk in the middle of the difli, with toafted fippets. To fricajfee Chickens. Having Ikinned your chickens, and cut them into fmall pieces, vvalh them in warm water, and dry them very clean with a cloth. Scafon them with pepper and fait, and put them into a ftewpan with a little water, and a good piece of butter, a little lemon pickle, or half a lemon, a glai's of white wine, an anchovy, a little mace and nutmeg, an onion fluck with cloves, a bunch of lemon thyme, and fweet marjoram. Let thefe flew together till your chickens arc tender, and then lay them on your dilh. Thicken the gravy with flour and butter, and drain it. Beat the yolks of three eggs a little, and mix them with a large tea-cuplul of rich cream, and put it into your gravy. Shake it over the hre, but do not let it boil, and pour it over your chickens. . / To ficajjce Rabbits while. Cut up your rabbits, puJ: them into atqfling- pan, with.a pint ol veal.gravy, a tea fpooiiful of lemon pickle, an anchovy, a dice pt lemon, a little bfaf.en mace, ch\an pepper, and fait, and ■dew them over a flow Hie. When they are • enough, I r1 \ 94 RAGOOS AND FRTCASEES. enough, thicken your gravy with flour and but- ter, and ftrain it.' Theti add the yolks of two eggs mixed with a large tea-cupful of cream, and a little nutmeg grated in it. Take care not to let it boil, as that will fpoil it. T'o fricaffee Rabbits brown. Having cut them as for eating, fry them of a light brown in butter, and put them into a tof- fing pan, with a pint of water, a tea-fpoonful of lemon pickle, an anchovy, a flice of lemon, a large fpoontul of mufliroom catchup, the fame of browning, with chyan pepper, and fait to your tafte. Stew them over a flow fire till they be enough ; thicken your gravy and firain it, ddh up your rabbits, and pour the gravy over them. Lamb Cutletsfricajjeed. Take a leg of lamb, and cut it into thin cut- lets crol.s the grain, and put them into a ftew" pan. Make fome good broth with the bones, lhank, See. enough to cover the cutlets. Put it into the flewpan, and cover it with a bimdle of fweet heibs, an onion, a little clove and mace tied in a muflm rag and ftew them gently for ten minutes. Then take out the cutlets, fkirn off the fat, and takeout the fweet lierbs and mace. Thicken it with butter rolled in flour, feafon it with fait and a little chyan pepper ; put in a few mufhrooms, truffles, and morels,dean walked ; fome forcemeat balls,^ three yolks of eggs beat up in half a pint of cream, and tome nutmeg grated. Keep ftirring it ono vyay till it be thick and fmooth, and then put m your cutlets. ) 1rOTTING AND COLLARING. 95. cutlets. Give them a tof's up, take them out with a fork, and lay them in a dilh. Pour the fauce over them, garnilh with beet root and le- luon, and lend them up to table. Lamb Stones and Sweetbreads fricajjeed. Blanch, parl'oil, and llice fome lamb flones, and flour three or four I'weetbreads; but if they be very thick, cut them in two. Take the yolks of fix hard eggs whole, a few piftachio nut kernels, and a few large oyfters. Fry all thefe till they are of a fine brown, then pour out all tlie "Utter, and add a pint of drawn gravy, the lamb fiones, lome afparagus tops about an inch ion., fomegr.nccl nutmeg, a little pepper and fart, two fiialots fhred fmall, and aglafs of white wine. Stew all thefe together for ten minutes, and then add the yolks of three eg'rs finely beaten, with a little cream, and a little beaten iTiace. Stir all together till it is of a fine thick- nels, then garnirti with lemon, and fend it up to table. POTTING AND COLLARING. To pot Beef. Ttwelve Rpnnds of beef, and rub into It a pound of brown fugar, and an ounce of lalt-petre. After it has lain twenty-four a doth *h' " ‘‘'■y ■' Lnnl; 't 'o your tafte with P Pper, lalt, and mace, cut it into five or fix pieces.^6 POTTING AND COLLARING. i pieces. Then put it into an earthen pot, with a pound of butter in lumps upon it, let it m a hot oven, and let it ftand three hours. 1 hen take it out, cut ofFthe hard outfides, and beat it in a mortar. Add to it a little more pepper, fait, and macc. Then oil a pound of butter in the eravy and fat that came from your beet, and put it in as you find neceffary; but beat the meat very fine. Then put it into your pots, prefs it clofe down, pour clarified butter over it, and keep it in a dry place. If you with to pot your beef fo as to imdate venifon, proceed in the following manner, l ake a buttock of beef, and cut the lean of it mto pieces of about a pound weight each To eight pounds of beef take four ounces ot faltpetre, the fLe quantity of bay-falt, half a pound of white fait, and an ounce of fal-prunella. Beat all the falls very fine, mix them well together, and rub them into the beef. Turn it twice a day for four days fuccelfively. After that put it into a pan, and cover it with pump water, an a little of its own brine. Send it to the oven, and bake it till it is tender; then drain jt from the Etavy, and take oat all the Iknl and finews. Pound the meat well ,m a mortar, “ broad difli, and mix on it an ounce of cloves and mace, three quarters of an ; and a nutmeg, all heat very fine. Mix the whoW well whh the meat, and add a,little clarified freft . "it- Then prefs it dowu into butter to inoiften it. i “t.n \ , r „ pots very hard, fet them at ten oven iuft to fettle, and then cover them two inches thick with claiified hed cold, cover pots over yvith whi p 1Hi AND CULLISES, roll fome of it in fmall round balls, and fomo in long pieces. Roll them in flour, and fry them of a nice brown. If they are for the ufe of white fauce, inftead of frying, put a little water into a faucepan, and when it boils put them in, and they will be done in a few minutes. To make a Lemon Pickle. Grate ofFthe outward rinds of a fcore of le- mons, and quarter them, but leave the bottom? whole. Rub on them equally half a pound of bay-falt, and fpread them on a large pewter difh. Either put them into a cool oven, or let thern dry gradually by the fire, till all the juice is dried into the peels. Then put them into a well glazed pitcher, with an ounce of mace, half an ounce of cloves beat fine, an ounce of nutmeg cut into thin flices, four ounces of gar- lic peeled, half a pint of muftard feed a little hrviifed, and tied in a muflin rag. Pour upon theni two quarts of boiling white wine vinegar, dofe the- pitcher well up, and let it fland five or fix days by the fire. Shake it well up every day, then tie it clofe, and let it fland three months to take oft'the bitter. When you bottle it, put the pickle and.lemon in ahairfievcj prefs them well to get .out the liquor, and let it fland another day. Then pour oft'the fine, and bottle it. Let the bther fland three or four days, audit will refine itfelf. Pour it oft^ and bottle it, let it fland again, and bottle it, till the whole is refined. It may be put into any white fauce, without fear of hurting the co- lour ; and is very good for fifli-faiice and made H di flies.vour. Always put it in before you thicken the ■I f 14^ SAUCES, gravies, difhcs. A tea fpoonful is enough for white, and two for brown fauce for a fowl. It is a moft ufeful pickle, and gives an agreeable fla- fauce, or put in any cream, left the fharpnefs fhould curdle it. To make a white Cullis. ■Having cut a piece of veal into fmall bits, put it into a jflewpan, with two or three llices of lean ham, and two onions* quartered. Putin fome broth, and feafon it with mufhrooms, parfley, green onions, and cloves. Let it flew till the virtues of all are pretty well extra<51ed. Then take out all your meat and roots, put in a few crumbs of bread, and let it flew foftly. Take the wliite part of a young fowl, and pound it in a mortar till it is very fine. Put this into your cullis, but do not let it boil; and, if it does not appear properly white, you muft add to it two dozen of blanched almonds. When it has flewed till of a good rich tafle, flrain it off. jt^ rich Cullis. Put two pounds of leg of veal, and two flices of lean ham, into a ftewpan, with two or three cloves, a little nutmeg, a blade of mace, fome parfley roots, two carrots cut in pieces, and fome flialots. Put them over a flow tire, cover them clofe, and let them do gently for half an hour, taking care that they do not burn. 1 hen put in fome beef broth, and let it flew till it is as rich as required, and then drain it off for ufe. This is a proper cullis for all forts of ragoosand rich fauces. A FamilyMl A Family CuUis, AND CULLISES « Roll a piece of butter in flour, and Air it in your ftewpan till the flour is of a fine yellow co- lour. Then put in fome thin broth, a little gravy, a glafs of white wine, a bundle of fweet herbs, two cloves, a little nutmeg or mace, a few muflirooms, and pepper and fait. Let it Aew an hour over a flow fire, then Ikim all the fat clean off, and ftrain it through a fine fieve. Broil a jack, or pike, till it is properly don's, then take off the fkin, and feparate the flefh from the bones. Boil fix eggs hard, and take out the yoJks, Blanch a few almonds, beat them to a pafle in a mortar, and then add the yolks of the eggs. Mix thefe well with butter, then put in the fifli, and pound all together. Take half a dozen onions, and cut them into a ftewpajj, and put into it a piece of butter to brown, and put in the roots when it boils. Turn them till they are brown, and then pour in a little broth to moiflen them. When it has boiled a few minutes, ftrain it into another faucepan, and then put in a whole leek, fome parfley, fweet bafil, half a dozen cloves, fome muflirooms and truffles, and a few crumbs of bread. V/hen it has ftewed gently a quarter of an hour, put in the filh. &c. from the mortar. Let the whole flew fome time longer, but be careful that it does not boil. When it is fuffi- ciently done, ftrain it through a coarfe fidVe. This is a very proper fauce to thicken all made difties. A Fijh Cullh. flices, two parfnips, and three carrots. Set on H2 THE148 DIFFERENT METHODS THE DIFFERENT METHODS OF DRESSING FISH. a large eel open, take out the bone, <iiiu the meat quite clean from it. Chop it fine with two anchovies, fome lemon-peel cut fine, a little pepper and grated nutmeg, with fome parfley and thyme cut fmall, and the yolk of an egg boiled hard. Mix them all together, and roll them up in a piece of butter. Then take a large piece of fine falmon, or a falnion- trout, and put this forcemeat into the belly of the filh. Sew it up, and lay it in an oval fiew- pan that will juft hold it. Then put half a pound of frelh butter into a ftewpan, and when it is melted, fhake in a little flour. Stir it till it is a little brown, and then put to it a pint of fifh broth, and a pint of Madeira. Seafon it with pepper, fait, mace, and cloves, and put in an onion, and a bunch of fweet herbs. Stir it all together, and put it to the filh. Cover it very clofe, and let it ftew. When the filh is almoft done, put in fome frelh and pickled mulhrooms, trufiles, or morels, cut in pieces, and let them ftew till the fifli is quit done. Take up the falmon carefully, lay it in a dilh, and put the fauce over it. Having cut your falmon into thick,pieces, flour and broil them. Lay them in your dilh, and ferve them up with plain melted butter in a boat.. Salmon d la Braze. ‘To broil Salmon.I A OF DRESSING FISH. To roll a Salmon. 'rv >: Take a fide of falmon, when fplit, the bone taken our, and fcalded. Strew over the infide lome pepper, fait, nutmeg, mace, a few chopped oyflers, parfley, and crumbs of bread. Roll it up tight, put it into a deep pot, and bake it in a quick oven. Make the common fifli fauce,. and pour over it. little pepper over it. Ufe what fauce you like. meg, pepper, fait, a bunch of Iweet herbs, and an onion ftuck with cloves. Put them into a ftewpan, with half a pint of white wine, and a quarter of a pint of water. Cover them clofe, and Jet them fimmer five or fix minutes. Then fqueeze in the juice of a lemon, put in a few oyfiers, and their liquor ftrained, a piece of but-* ter rolled in flour, and a blade'or two of mace, ^ver them clofe, and let them ftew foflly. Tx/L ^ often, to prevent its burning. When the filh is enough, take out the onions and fweet herbs, lay the cod in a warm dilli, pour the fauce over it, and fend at up to table, Ood s Head and Shoulders, To drefs dried Salmon. • Lay your dried falmon in foak two or three hours, then lay it oii the gridiron, and lhake a To Jievj a Cod. Seafon fome flices of cod with grated nut- i it ! flJ50 DIFFERENT METHODS it on your fifh-plate. Throw a good handful of fait into your water when it boils, with a glafs of alegar ; then put in your fifh, and let it boil gently for half an hour ; if it be a large one, it will take three quarters of an hour. Take it up very carefully, and flrip off the fkin very nicely, ^et it before a brilk fire, dredge it all over with flour, and bafle it well with butter. When the froth begins to rife, throw over it fome very fine white bread crumbs. You muft keep bailing it all the time to make the froth rife well. When it is of a fine white brown, difh it up, and garnilh it with a lemon cut in flices, fcraped horfe-radifh, barberries, a few fmall fifli fried and laid round it, or fried oyfters. Cut the roe and liver into flices, and lay over it a little of the lobfter in lumps out of the fauce, and then fend it up to table. Yo crimp Cod. Having cut a freflr cod into flices, put It Into pump water and fait. Almofl: fill a filh-kettle with fpring water, put in fait enough to make it tafte brackilh, and then fet it over a ftove. M-ake it boil quick, then put in the flices of cod, and keep them boiling, and fkim them very clean. Having let them boil eight or ten minutes, take them out, and lay them on a fi(h-plate. You may ferve them up cither with fljrimp or oyfter fauce. To broil Cod. Cut a cod into flices of about two inches thick, and dry them and flour them well. Make a good clear fire, rub the gridiron wnh aOF DRESSING FISH. * 1^1 . piece of chalk, and fet it high from the fire. Turn them often till they are quite enough, and of a fine brown ; but take very great care that you do not break them. You may fend Fre/7} Cod with Jweet Herhs^ Having cut a fmall cod into five or fix pieces, bone it, and marinade it with melted butter, the juice of a lemon, chopped parfley, fhalots, and fweet herbs. Then lay it on the difh you intend for table, with all the marinade both under and over, and ftrew' it over with bread crumbs. Bafle it with melted butter, bake it in the oven, and ferve it with any fauce you Put your fifh all night into water to foak, and, if you put a glafs of vinegar to it, it will draw out the fait and make it eat frcfli. Bofl it the next day, and when it is enough, break it into flakes on the difli. Pour over it parfnips boiled and beat fine with butter and cream, Steep them as you do the fait cod, and boll tiiem in a large quantity of milk and water. -When they are very tender and white, take them up, and drain the water out. Then pour the egg fauce boiling hot over them, and fend them up to table. them up with lobfteror flirimp fauce. Fo drefs fait Cod. though egg fauce is more generally ufed. Fo drefs Cod Sounds. K Tqi i. r j Iji DIFFERENT METHODS *To drefs a TTurbot with Capers. Having wafliccl and dried a fniall turbot well, put into a ftew'pan I'ome thyme, parfley, fvvcct herbs, and an onion fliced. Then Jay the turbot into the lUwpan, which fhould be juft large enough to hold it, and ftrew over tlie filh the fame herbs that are under it, with fome chives and fweet balil. Then pour in an equal qiian- iky of white wine, and white wine vinegar, till the fifh is covered. Strew in a little bay fait, with fome whole pepper, and fet the ftewpan ■over a gentle ftove, encreafing the heat by de- grees, till it is enough. Then take it off the fire, but do not take out the turbot. Set a fauce- pan on the fire with a pound of butter, two anchovies fplit, boned, and w'afiied ; tWo large fpoonfuls of capers cut kmall, fame whole chives, a little pepper, fait, grated nutmeg, a little flour, a fpoonful of vinegar, and a little water. Set the faucepan over the ftove, and Jccep fhaking it round for fome time, Having then put on the turbot to make it hot, put it into a dlfli, and pour fome of the fauce over it. Lay horfe-radilh round it, and pour what fauce remains into a boat. In the fame way you may drefs foies, flounders, large plaice or dabs. To fry Trout. Having fcalcd, gutted, and waftied them well, dry them, and lay them feparately on a board before the fire, Duft them well wdth flour a fevv minutes before you fry them, aitd do them of a fine brown in roaft dripping, or rendered fuet. Serve them up with melted but- terL. ri WEOi.Jli*! OF DRESSING FISH. ter and crirped parfley. Perch are fried in the- fame manner. To Jlew Trout. 'Stuff a fmal] trout with grated bread, a piece of buttery chopped parfley, lemon peel grated,, pepper, fait, nutmeg, favoury herbs, and yolks of eggs, all mixed together. Put it into a flew- pan, with a quart of good boiled gravy, fome Madeira, an onion, a little whole pepj)er, a few cloves, and a piece of lemon-peel. Stew it in this gently till it is enough, andthen add a little - flour mixed with fome cream, and a little catchup.- Give it a boil, and fqueeze in fome lemon-juice. K'5 T$. To drefs Carp. ^ve the blood when you kill your carp, and - Iple and clean them well. Have ready fome' rich gravy made of beef and mutton, feafoned with pepper, fait, mace, and onion. Strain it ott before you flew your fifh in it, and boil^ your carp.before you flew it in the gravy; but take cafe not to boil them too much before you- put them into the gravy. Let it flew on a flow nre about a (j^uarter of an hour, and thicken the lauce with a good lump of butter rolled in flour,, ijarnilh your difh with fried oyflers,, fried toafts cut into angles, pieces of lemon, fcraped horfe-radifli and the roes of the carp cut into, pieces, fome fried, and others boiled. Squeeze- the juice of a lemon into the fauce jufl before you lend it up to table. ^154 DIFFERENT METHODS . fry Carp, Having fcaled, gutted, and cleaned a brace of carp, dry them well in a cloth, flour them, put them into a frying-pan of boiling lard, and do them of a fine brown. Fry the roes, and fry feme thin flices of bread cut cornerwife. Lay the fifh on a coarfe cloth to drain, then put them into the dilh, with the roes on each fide, and the toaft: between. You may ferve them up with anchovy fauce. Jiew Carp, Scale, gut, and wafh your carp. Put them into a ftewpan, with two quarts of water,'half a pint of white wine, a little mace, whole pep- per, a little fait, two onions, a bunch of fweet 'herbs, and a flick of horfe-radifh. Cover the pan clofe, and let it fland an hour and alialf over a flow fire. Then put a gill of white wine into a faucepan, with two anchovies chopped, an onion, a little lemon-peel, a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour, a little thick cream, and a large tea-cup of the liquor the carp was ftewed in. Boil them a few minutes, drain the carp, and add to the fauce the yolks of two eggs mixed with a little'cream. When it boils up, fqueeze in the juice of half a le- mon, difh up your carp, and pour your fauce hot on them. To fry Tench. Having gutted, waflied, and dried your tench well in a cloth, flit them down the back, fprinkle a little fait over them, dredge them «v; ..V ' with 'T \ IOF DRESSING FISH; *55 ■with flour, and fry them of a fine brown in boiling lard. Make your fauce of an anchovy^ naufiirooms, truffles, and capers, all chopped fmall, and flewed in gavy, with the juice of a lenjonj and a little filh cullis. To Jiew Tench, Tench are flewed in the fame manner as be- fore direfled to flew carp. To Jhw Seals. Take the flefli from the bones of your foals, and cut each of them into eight pieces. Put a quart of boiled gravy into a flewpan, a quarter of a pint of Madeira or white wine, fome vvhite pepper pounded, grated nutmeg, and a piece of lemon-peel. Stew thefe together near an hour, and add fome cream, and a piece of butter mixed in flour. Keep the fauce flirting till it boil, put in the fifli, and flew it a quarter of an hour. Take out the lemon-peel, and fqueeze in fome lemon-juice. The fifh may be flewed whole in the fame fauce; or they may be cut as before directed, and a little gravy made with the bones and head. » To fry Soals.. Having fcaled and trimmed your foals pro- periy, (kin the black fide, and mix fome bread crumbs with a very little flour. Bafle the foals wuh beaten eggs, flrew them over with the bread crumb and fry them of a good colour in and up with ancliovy fauce, and garnifli with fried parfley,..V. 1 ,: '15^ DIFFERENT METHODS 7o marinade Seals. , ^ ^ " . Bol] them in fait and water, bone and drain them, and lay them on a difh with their bellies upwards. Boil fome fpinach, and pound it in a mortar. Then boil four eggs hard, chop the yolks and whites feparate, and lay green, white, and yellow among the foals, and ferve them up with melted butter in a boat. Seals d la Franfotfe. Skin and clean a pair of foals, and put them into an earthen dirti, with a quart of water, and half a pint of vinegar. Let them lie two hours, and then take them out, and dry them with a cloth. Then put them into a ftewpan with a pint of white wine, a quarter of a pint of water, a very little thyme, .a little fweet marjoram, winter favory, and an onion Buck with four cloves. Put in the foals, fprinkle in a very little bay-falt, cover them clofe, and let them frmmer very gently till they are enough. Then take them out, and lay them in a warm difli before the fire. Strain the liquor, and put into it a piece of butter rolled in flour, and let it boil till of a proper thicknefs. Lay the foals in a difli, and pour the lauce over them. In the fame manner you may drefs afmall tur- bot, or any flat fifli. To drejs Sturgeen. Having wafhed your fturgeon clean, lay it all night in fait and water, and the next morn- ing take it out, rub it well with alegar, and let it lie in it for two hours, Plave ready a fifh kettleOF DRESSING FISH, 157 <*- kettle full of'boiling water, with an ounce of bay fait, two large onions, and a few fprigs of fweet marjoram. ' Boll the fturgeon till the bones will leave the filh, then take it up, take the (kin off, and flour it well. Set it before the fire, bafte'it with freflt butter, and let it ftand till it is of a fine brown. Then dilh it up, and pour into the difh any fauce you like. To boil Sturgeon. Put your fturgeon into as much liquid as will ftew it, being half fifti broth or water, and half white wine, with a little vinegar, fliced roots, onions, fweet herbs, whole pepper, and fome fait. When it is done, garnifti with green par- fley, and ferve it up with caper or anchovy fauce, or any other fauce you like better. To Jiew Flounders or Plaice. Thcfe fifli are ftewed in the fame manner as before diredled to ftew foals. As to frying or boiling them, that bufinel's is too fimple to need any defcription here. Fofricajfee Flounders and Plaic^. Having cleaned the fifli, and taken off the black* {kill, but not tlie white, cut the flefti Irom the bones into long flices, and dip them into yolk of egg. Strew over them fome bread rafpings, and fry them in clarified butter. When they are enough, lay them upon a plate, and keep them hot. To make your fauce, take the bones of the fifli, and boil them in fome water. 1 hen put in an anchovy, fome thyme, parflcy, a little pepper, fait, cloves, and mace.158 DIFFERENT METHODS mace. Let thcfe fimmer till the anchovy h diffoived, and then take the butter the fifh was fried in, and put it into a pan over the fire. Shake fonie flour into it, and keep ftirring it while the flour is fliaking in. T. hen firain the liquor into it, and let it boil till it is thick. Squeeze fome lemon juice into It, put the flfli into a Vlilh, and pour the faucc over them, T'o broil A4ackarel. Firft clean your mackarel well, then fplit them down the back, and feafon them with pepper, fait, fome mint, paifley, and fennel, all chopped very fine. Flour them, and fry them of a fine light brown, and put them on a difh and flrainer. Ufe fennel and butter for fauce, and garnifli with parfley. To fry Whitings. Having waflied, gutted, and Ikinned them, turns their tails into their mouths, dry them in a cloth, and flour them well all over. Fill the frying pan with lard enough to cover them, and when it boils, put them in, and fry them of a fine brown. Lay them on a coarie cloth to drain, and then put them on a warm difh. Make flrrimp, oyfter, or anchovy fauce. To broil Whitings or Haddocks. Gut, wafli them, dry them well with a cloth, and rub a little vinegar over them, as it will keep on the Ikin better. Dull them well with flour, rub your gridiron with butter , and let it be very hot when you lay on the filh, otherwife they will flick. Turn them two or threeI ( ■» k ,<OP.lDRESSING FISH. I59 three times while doing. When they are enough, lay pickles round them, with plain melted butter, and fend them up to table. T’o Jlcw Pike. Having made a brown with butter and flour, add a pint of red wine, a bundle of herbs, four cloves,' twenty-four fmall onions half boiled, pepper, and'fait, and then tlie pike cut into pieces. Stew it flowly till the filh is done. Take out the bundle of herbs, and add a piece of butter. When it is ready to ferve, add two chopped anchovies, and a fpoonful of capers. Garnifh with fried bread, and pour the fauce over the fifh. You may add artichoke bottoms, mufhrooms, &c. if you pleafe. To fry Perch. Scale, gut, and wafh your perch clean. Score them at fomc diftance on the fides, but not very deep. Dry them well, flour them all over, and fry them in oiled butter. When they aie of a fine brown, lay fome crifped par- fley round the fifh, and lend them up to table with plain butter; or you may make for them the following fauce. To two ounces of brown- ed butter put foipe flour, a few chives chopped , fmall, fome paifley, a few mufhrooms cut fmall, and a little boiling water. Lay the perch in this liquor after they are fried^and let them flew gently for four or five minutes. Then lay them in a warm difh, add two large fpoonfuls of capers cut fmall, thicken it with butter and flour, and pour it over them. Tel6o different ■METHODS «»' , 'To drefs Perch in PFatcr Souchy. Scale, gut, and warti your perch, and put fome fait into your water. When it boils,'put in your fifli, with an onion cut in flices, and feparated into round rings, and a handful of parfley. Put in as much milk as will turn tlie water white. When the perch is enough, put ithem in a foup-dilh, and pour a little of the water over them, with the parfley and the oni- ons. Serve them up with parfley and butter in a boat. If you do not like the onions, they may be omitted. Trout may be boiled in the fame manner. To Jlew Eels. Having fleinned, gutted, and walhed your cels very clean in fix or eight waters, cut them in pieces about as long as your finger. Put juft water enough for fauce, and put in a fmall: onion ftuck with cloves,.a fmall bundle of fweet herbs, a blade or two of mace, and fome whole pepper in a thin muflin rag. Cover it clofe, and let them ftew very foftly. Put in a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little chopped parfley. When you find they are quite tender, and well done, take out the onion, fpice, and fweet herbs. Put in fait enough to feafon it,, and dilh them up with the fauce. To fricajfee Eels. Skin three or four larch eels, and notch them from end to end. Cut them into four or five pieces each, and lay them in fome fpring water for half an hour to crimp them. Dry themI OF DRESSING FISH. them in cloth, and tofs them over the fire a few minutes in a bit of frefh butter, a green onion or two, and a little parfley minced ; but take qare, that the colour of neither is altered by burning your butter. . Pour in about a pint ot wliite wine, and as much good broth, fome pepper, fair, and a blade of mace. Stew all to- gether about three quarters of an hour, aiul thicken it with a bit of*l)utter and flour. Beat the yolks of four or five eggs fmooth, with tvvo or three fpoonfuls of broth ; grate in a little nutmeg, and put in a little minced parfley. Jufl before you wajit to ferve it up, let your eels be boiling hot, and then pour in your eggs, &c. but take care that you do not let it curdle, by keeping it too long on the fire after the eggs are in... Tofs it over the fire for a moment, add the juice of a lemon, and ferve it up. Tench cut in pieces may be done in the fame manner. Having fkinned and cleanfed your eels, rub them with the yolk of an ec?. flrew nvpr tViom To hroil Eels. and ferve them up with parfley and butter. w 1r 162 DIFFERENT METHODS fried parfley, and ferve it up with a relifhing fauce, T'o pitchcock Eels. Having fkinned, gutted, and waflied your cels, dry them with a cloth. Sprinkle them with pepper, fait, and a little dried fage, turn them backward and forward, and Ikewerthem. Rub your gridiron with beef fuet, broil them of a good brown, put them on your difh with melted butter, and garnifh with fried parfley. To fricajjee Oyjiers. Put a little butter .into a ftewpan, a flice of ham, a bundle of fweet herbs, and an onion ftuck with two cloves. Stew it a little on a flow fire, then add a little flour, fome good broth, and a piece of lemon-peel. Then put fcalded oyfters to it, and fimmer them a little. When it is ready, thicken it with the yolks of , two eggs, a little cream, and a bit of good but- ter. Take out the ham, bundle of herbs, onion, and lemon-peel, and fqueeze in a lemon. 'To drcjs Herrings. The general method of drefling herrings is either to broil or fry them, and ferve them up with melted butler. Herrings with Mujiard Sauce. Having gutted and wiped your herrings very clean, melt fome butter, and put to it chopped parfley, flialuts, green onions, pepper, and fait. Dip the herrings in this, and roll them in bread crumbs. Then hroil them, and ferve them with a fauce made of melted butter, flour, broth, a li^e anOF DRESSING FISH. 163 a little vinegar, pepper, and fait. When done, put to them as much muftard as you think proper. . To fry Herrings. Scale, gut them, cut off their heads, walh them clean, dry them in a cloth, flour them, and fry them in butter. Peel and cut thin a good many onions, and fry them of a light brown with the herrings. Lay your herrings in the difli, and the onions round them, and put butter and muftard in a cup. To bake Herrings. Clean your herrings well, lay them on a board, take a little black and Jamaica pepper, a few cloves, a good deal of fait, and mix them together. Rub it all over the fifli, lay them ftraight in a pot, cover them with alegar, tie flrong paper over the pot, and bake them in a moderate oven. If your alegar is good, they will keep two or three months. They may be ferv- ed up either hot or cold. To bake Sprats, Having rubbed your fprats with fait and pep- per, to every two pints of vinegar put one pint of red wine. Diflblve a pennyworth of cochi- neal, and lay your fprats in a deep earthen difli. Pour in as much red wine, vinegar, and cochineal, as will cover them. Tie a paper over them, and fet them in an oven all night. They will keep fome time, and eat well. To make an Eel Pie. Skin, gut, and wafh your eels very clean, and cut them into pieces about an inch and a . . » ' half %164 DIFFERENT METHODS half long. Seafon them with pepper, fait, an J a little dried fage rubbed finall. Put them into a difli with as much water as will juft cover them. Make a good pufF-pafte, lay on the lid, and fend the pie to the oven, which muft be quick, but not fo quick as to burn the cruft. Salmon Pie. Make a good cruft, take a piece of frcfti fal- •rnon, oleanfe it well, and feafon it with pep- per, fait, mace, and nutmeg. Put a piece of butter at the bottom of your difti, and then lay in the falmon. Melt butter in proportion to the fize of your pie, and then take a lobfter, boil it, pick out all the flefla, chop it fmall, and mix it well with the butter. Pour it over your falmon, put on the lid, and bake it well. Turhot Pie, Parboil your turbot, and then feafon it with a little pepper, fait, cloves, nutmeg, and fweet herbs cut fine. When you have made your pafte, lay the turbot in your dilh, with feme yolks of eggs, and a whole onion, which, laft muft be taken out when the pie is baked'. Lay plenty of frefh butter on the top, put on the lid, and bake it., Lobjler Pie. Having boiled two or three lobflers, take the meat out of the tails, and cut it into different pieces- Then take out all the fpawn, and the meat of the claws; beat it well in a mortar, and feafon it with pepper, fait, two fpoonfuls of vinegar, and a little anchovydiquor. Melt half ^ a poundI OF DRESSING FISH. j6^ n pound of frefh butter, with the crumbs of a halfpenny roll rubbed through a fine cullender, and the yolks of ten eggs. Put a fine pufF- pafte over the dilli, lay in the tails firfi:, and then the reft of the meat on them. Put on the lid, and bake it in a flow oven. To drefs a Turtle. Kill your turtle, which we will fuppofe to be ot about thirty pounds weight, the night be- fore you intend to drefs it. Cut off the head, and let It bleed three or four hours. Then cut off the fins, and the callapeefrom thecallapafti, and take care you do not burft the gall. Throw all the inwards into cold water; but keep the guts and tripe by themfelves, and flip them open with a penknife, wafh them very clean in folding water, and ferape ofF all the inward ifan, As you do them, throw them into cold water, walh them out of that, and put them into frelh water, and let them lie all night, fo dmg the fins and edges of the callapalh and thi hack t e bones, and fet them over the fire, with the fins, in about a quart of water. Put in a little rn^ace, nutmeg, chyan, and fait. Let it flew ■ about three hour^ then flrain it, and put the fins by for ufe. The next morning, take fome of the meat you cut off the fhoulders, and chop It fiMll, as fo^r faufages, with about a pound of beef or veal fuet. Seafon with mace, nutmeg fweet marjoram, parfley, chyan, and fait t your tafte, three or four daffes of ■ wnc, and fluff it under the two flefliy parts of the meat. If you have any left, ]ky h over, to prevent j'- 'I'i _y\ ti66 DIFFERENT METHODS , prevent the meat from burning. Cut the re- mainder of the meat and fins in pieces, about the fize of an egg; feafon it pretty high with chyan, fait, and a little nutmeg, and put into the callapafh. Take care that it be fewed or fecured up at the end, to keep in the gravy. Then boil up the gravy, and add more wine, if required, and thicken it a little with butter and flour. Put fome of it to the turtle, and fet it in the oven, with a well buttered paper over it to keep it from burning; and when it fs about half baked, fqueeze in the juice of one or two lemons, and ftir it up. The callapalh, or back, will take half an hour more baking than the callapee, which two hours will do. The guts mufl: be cut in pieces two or three inches long, the tripes in lefs, and put into a mug of clear water, and fet in the oven with the calla- pafh. When it is properly drained fronj the water, it is to be mixed with the other parts, and fent up very hot to table. To drejs a Mock Turtle. Take a calf’s head, fcald off the hair as from a pig, then clean it,, and cut ofi^ the horny part in thin flices, with as little of the lean as pof- fible. Chop the brains, and have ready between a quart and three pints of firong mutton or veal gravy, with a quart of Madeira wine, a large fpoonful of chyan, a large onion cut very fmalJ, half the peel of a large lemon Hired as fine as poflible, a little fait, the juice of four lemons, and fome fweet herbs cut fmall. Stevv all thefe together till the head is very tender, w'hich will require about an hour and a half. Then haveI TO DRESS ROOTS. 15^ ready the back {hell of a turtle, lined with a pafle made of flour and water, which muft firft be fet in the oven to harden, then put in the ingredients, and fet it in the oven to brown. When that is done, lay the yolks of eggs boiled hard, and forcemeat balls round the top. Some parboil the head the day* before, take out the bones, and then cut it into flices. - TO DRESS ROOTS and VEGETABLES. Ttf drefs Cabbages. TJA.VING cut your cabbage into quarters, boil it in plenty of water, with a handful of fait. When it is tender drain it on a fleve, but never prefs it. Savoys and greens are boil- ed in the fame manner; but they Ihould be al- ways boiled by themfelves. To drefs BrocoU. Strip off all the branches till you come to the top one, and then carefully peel oflT the hard outfide (kin that is on the ftalks and little branches, and throw them into water. Throw a little fait into a ftewpan, and put in your brocoli as foon as it boils. When the flalks are tender, it will then be enough. Put in a piece, of toafled bread, dipped in the water the bro- coli was boiled in, at the bottom of your dilh, ^ and put your brocoli on the top of it. Send it up to table laid in bunches, with butter in a boat. To f dL L- \j68 TO DRESS ROOTS ■ ' . To drejs Cauliflowers. Cut ofF the ftaljcs, but leave a little green on. Boil them in fpring water and fait, and about a quarter of an hour wi’l do them ; but take care that they do not boil too fait, as that will fpoil them. Some people boil them in milk and water, without fait. To drefi Spinach. Spinach muft he clean picked, and wafhedin feveral waters Put it into a faucepamthat will juft hold it, throw a little fait over it, and co- • ver the pan dole, but put no water in, and fhake the pan often When the fpinach is fhrunk, and fallen to the bottom, and the IF- ’ quor that comes out of it boils up, it isenough. Throw it into a clean fteve toidrain, and give it a fqueeze between two plates. 'Put it oiVai plate, and ferve it up With butter in a boat, but never pour any over it. Sorrel is ftcwW’ in the fame manner. To drefs French Beans. If vour French beans a"e not very fmall, fplif and quarter them, and chrovv them into fait and water. Boil them in plenty of water, with fome fait, and take them up as foon as they are tender. All forts of greens fhould boil as quick as poflible, as it preferves their colour. • To drefs AJparagus. Having fcraped ^our alparagus, tie them in bundles, cut them even, and throw them into water. Tie them up into little bundles, and putDOTTING AND COLLARING.' ^"7 cfofe, and fet them in a dry place. It will keep good a great while, if made agreeable to thefe direilions. To pot a Hare. Cafe your hare, and wafli it pcrfc(£l:ly clean. Then cut it up as you do for eating, put it into a pot, and feafon It with pepper, lalt, and mace. Put on it a pound of butter, tie it down dole, and bake it in a bread oven. When it comes out, pick the meat clean from the bones, and pound it very fine in a mortar, with the fat from your gravy. Then put it clofe down in your pots, and pour clarified butter upon it. To collar a Hare.' Having boned your hare, lai^ilflt with thick pieces of bacon, and feafon it. with fpices and- falt. You may put into it a forcemeat, or not, juft as you like. Roll it up very tight, and tic it fafte together. Braze it withflices of veal, half a pint of white wine, a pint of broth, and cover it over with llices of bacon. You may put fuch meat and feafoning to make jelly (of the braze afterwards as you like. Serve up the hare cold with it, either whole or in.llices. To collar Beef. , Bone a piece of a thin flank of-beef, and cut off the Ikin. Sait it with two ounces of falt- petre, the like quantity of fal-prunella, andalfo ofbay-falt, half a pound of coarfe fugar, and two pounds of common fait. Beat the liard fairs very fine, and mix all together. Turn it every day, and rub it well with the brine for eight days; then take it out, walh it, and wipe F iti jgS POTTING AND COLLARING* it dry. Take a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the like quantity of mace, twelve corns of all- fpice, and a nutmeg beaten very fine, with a. fpoonful of beaten pepper, a large quantity of chopped paifley, and fome fweet herbs flired fine, i'prinkJe this mixture on the beef, and roll it up very tight ^ then put a coarfe cloth round it, and tie it very tight with beggars tape. Boil it in a copjier of watery and, if it is a large collar, it will take fix hours boiling, but a fmall one will be done in five. When it is done, take it out, and put it into a prefs; but', if you have not that convenience, put it between two boards, with a weight on the uppermoft, and Jet it remain in that 'ftate till it is thoroughly cold. 1 hen take it out of the doth, cut it into thin flices, lay them on a di/h, and fend them up to table. Raw parfley may be ufed as a gar- nifh. Breajl of Muiten collared. Take a breafl of mutton, Ikin and bone it, and roll it up in a collar like a bread of veal. Put a quait^of milk and a quarter of a pound of. butter in the dripping-pan, and bade the meat* ■with It w'cll while it is roading. Put fome good gravy into the didi and into a boat, with fome canant jelly in another boat, and ferve it up. To collar a Breajl of V?al. Bone the fined bread of veal you can pro- cure, and ruh it over with the yolks of two eggs; diew ovec it fome crumbs of bread, a little grated lemon peel, a little peppei and lalt, and a handful of chenped paiJley. Roll it up “ hafd,1 P0TTIN50 AND COLLATING. Wd, and bind it tight witli packthread.'Wrap it in a cloth, boil it an hour and a half, and then take it up, and fet it to cool. As foon as it has cooled a little, take off the cloth, and cut oft the packthread carefully, left you open the veal. Cut it into five flices, lay them on a difli wnth the fwecthread boiled, and cut-in thin flices, and laid round them with ten or twelve foicemeat balls. Pour your white fauce over it, and garnilh with barberries or green pickles. Make your white fauce in the following man- ner. Take a pint of good veal gravy^ put to it a fpoonful of lemon pickle, half an anchovy, a tea-fpoonfiil of mufhroom powder, or a few pickled mulhrooms. Give it a gentle boil,, and then put in half a pint of cream, and the yolks of two eggs finely beaten. Shake it over the fire after the eggs and cream’ are in, but do not - let it boil, as that wdl curdle it. ‘ To collar a Pig, Take a fine young roafting pig, kill it as be- ‘^'■aw it. VVafh It clean, np it open from one end to the other, and take out all the bones Rub it all over' with pepper and fait, a little cloves and mace hnely beaten, fix fage leaves, and fweet Lerbs popped (mall. RqU up your pig right and bind .t with a fillet, f ill the pof yot inteud to boil It in With foft water, a bunch of f weet pepper-corns, lome cloves, mace' a handful of fait, and a pint of vinegar. When the liquor boils, put in your pig; boil it till it iS tender, and then take it up. When it i. al- ^ ^ . nioft /,-i }i iBiit I ■ i> 1^00 riES AND TAKTS. moft cold, bind it over again, put it into an earthen pan, pour over it the liquor your pig was boiled in, and always keep it covered. When you want it for ufe, take it out of the pan, untie the fillet as far as you want to cut it, and thencut.it into flices, and lay them in your diflt. Garaifli with parfley, and fend it up to table. , I ' PIES AND TARTS. To make Pajie for large Pies, T>EFOREjWe enter on the making of pies, it may not be improper to give fome in- firu<5lions for making the different forts of pafie. The method of making Meat, Poultry, G ime, and Fifh Pies, will be found in the preceding •chapters, under the heads of beef, mutton, 8cc. To make a good pafte for large pies, put the yolks of three eggs to a peck of flour, pour in fome boiling water, then put in half a pound of fuet, and a pound,and a half of butter. Skim off the butter and fuet, and as much of the li- quor as will make it a light good cruft. Work it up well, and roll it out. To make a P»ff pajie. Rub a pound of butter into a quarter of a peck of flour, and make it up in a light pafte with cold water, juft ftifF enough to w’ork it up. Then roil it out about as thick as a crown piece, and put a layer of butter all over. Sprinkle on a little flour, double it up, and roll it out again. Double it, and roll it out three times, and it will then be a good pulF-pafte. ToI«1 riES AND TARTS. I To make a Jhort Cruji. Put fix ounces of butter into eight of flour, and mix it up with as little water as poffible, fo as to have it a ftiffifli pafte. Beat it well, and roll it thin. This is the beft cruft for all tarts that are to be eaten cold, and forpreferved fruit. Bake it in a moderate ovon. To make a Pajie for Cujiards, Put fix ounces of butter to half a pound of flour, the yolks of two eggs, and three fpoon- fuls of crearh. Mix them together, and let them ftand a quarter of an hour. T.'hen work it up and down, and roll it very thin. 1 To make a Pajle for Tarts. Mix three quarters of a pound of butter with one pound of flour, and beat it well with a rol^- ling pin. To make a crifp Pafie for Tarts. Beat the white of an egg to a ftrong froth, put in by degrees four ounces of double refined fugar, with about as much gum as will lie upon a fixpence, beaten and lifted fine. Beat it half an hour, and it will be then fit for ufe. Beef Steak Pie. Beat forne rump fteaks with a rolling-pin, and then feafon them with pepper and fait to your palate. Make a good cruft, lay in your fteaks, and then pour in as much water as will half fill the difli. Put on the cruft, lend it to the oyen, and let it be well leaked. F 3 A Lamh Si\ PiES and TART5. ' ... jd Lamb P e^ Having out your Jamb into fmall piects,fea- ibn it with pepper, lalf, cloves, mace, and nut- *iieg, finely beaten. Mako a good pulF-pafte iTuil, lay it into your dilh, then put in your meat, and llrew on it fome ftoned raifins and currants clean waflred, and add Tome fugar. Then lay on fome forcemeat balls madefweet, and, if in the fummer, you may put in fome artichoke bottoms boiled ; but, in the w-inter time, you may ufe fcalded grapes. Add to thefe fome Spanilh potatoes boiled, and cut into pieces; lome candied citron and orange, fome lemon peel, and three or four blades of mace. Put butter on the top, clofe up your pie, and bake it. Againft it is done, have ready thefol- lowiirg. Mix the yolks of three eggs with a pint of wine, and fUr them well together over the fire one way, till it is of a proper thkknefs* Then take itofF, put in fugar enough tofweeten it, and ftjueezc in the juice of a lemon. Raife the lid of your pie, put this hot into it, clufc it up again, and fend it to table. To make a fine fvjcct Veal Pic, Seafon your veal with fait, pepper, cloves'^ mace, and nutmeg, all beaten fine. Cut your meat into little pieces, and having made a good puff pafte cruft, lay it into your ddh. Then lay in your meat, ftrew on it fome currants and ftone raifins clean walhed, and fome fugar. Then Jay on it fome forcemeat balls made fweet, tyid in the fummer fome artichoke bot- toms boiled,, and fcalded grapes in the winter.t i 1' ! II PIES ANT> TARTS. '163 Boiil S;>3nifli potatoes cur in pieces, candied ci- tron, can<licd orange, and lemon peel, and three or four blades of mace. Put butter on tile top, dole up your pie, and bake it. Have ready againd ir comes out of the oven, a caudle thus made. Take a pint of white wine, and mix in it the yolks of three eggs; flir it well together over the fire one way all the time, till it 'be thick. Then take it ofF, flir in fugar enough to fweeten it, and fqueeze in the juice of a lemon. Pour it hot into your pie, and dole it up again. Wfavoury Lamb Pie. Cut your meat into pieces, and feafon it to your palate with.pepper, fait, mace, cloves, and nutmeg, finely beaten. Having made a good pufF-pafte.cruft, put your meat into it, with a .few lamb-ftones and fweethieads feaFoned like your meat. Then put in forrre oyflers and forcemeat balls, hard yolks of eggs, and the tops of afparagus two inches long, firfl boiled green. Put butter all over the pie, put on the lid, and fet it in a quick oven an hour and -a half. In the mean time,; take a pint of gravy, the oyfler liquor, a gill of red winej and a little grated nutmeg. Mix all together with the yolks of two or three eggs finely beaten, and keep iHrring it one way all the time. When Jt boils pour it into your pie, put on the lid again, and fend it up to table. I To make a Vcni/on PaJIy, Bone a neck and brcaft of venifon, and fea- lon theaa well with pepper and ‘fait. Put them F 4 int» it .i104 flES AND TAAT8. into a deep pan, with the bcA part of a neck of mutton diced and Jaid over tliem. Pour in a glafs of red wine, put a coaife paAe over it, and bake it two hours. Tlien lay the venifon in a difh, pour the gravy over it, ami put on it a pound of butter. Make a good puff-pade, and lay it near half an inch thick round the edge of the difh. Roll out the lid, which muft be a little thicker than the pafte on the edge of the dilh, and lay it on. Then roll out another lid pretty thin, and cut it into flowers, leaves, or what- ever form you pleafe, and lay it on the lid. It may be eaten either hot or cold. Chejh 'ire Pork Pie. Skin a loin of pork, cut it into fleaks, and fealon it with fait, nutmeg, and pepper. Make a good cruft, put a layer of pork, then a layer of pippins pared and cored, and a little fugar, enough to fweeten the pie, and then a layer of pork. Put in half a pint of white wine, lay fome butter on the top, and clofe your pie. It will take a pint of wine, if your pie be a large one. Sucking Pig Pie. Having boned your pig thoroughly, lard the leg and Ihoulders with bacon leafoned with fpices, and fweet herbs chopped. Put it in a raifed cruft of its own length, and feafon it with fpiccs, fweet herbs chopped, and a pound of butter. Cover it over with thin flices of bacon, then finilh the pie, and bake it abowt three hours. When it is nearly done, add to it two g^fliesT t f PIES AND TARTS. glaffes of white wine, and let it be fervcd' up cold. To make an Apple Tart. Scald eight or ten large codlings, and Ikin them as loon as they are cold. Beat the pulp very fine with a fpoon, and then mix the yolks of fix eggs, and the whites of four. Beat all to- gether as fine as poflible, and put in grated nut- meg and fugar to your talte. Melt fome frelh butter, and beat it till it is like a fine cream. Then make a fine putF-paflc, cover a tin patty- pan with it, and pour in the ingredients, but do not cover it with the pafte. Bake it a quar- ter of an hour, then flip it out of the patty-pan on a dilh, and ftrew over it fome fugar finely beaten and lifted. To make an Apple Pie. Having laid a good pufF-pafte round the fides of the dilh, pare and quarter your apples, and and take out the cores. Lay a row of apples thick, throw in half the fugar you intend to ufe, throw over it a little lemon-peel minced fine, and fqueeze over them a little lemon ; fprinkle in a few cloves, and then put in the reft of your apples and your fugar. Sweeten to your palate, and fqueeze a little more lemon. Boil the peelings of the apples and the cores in water, with a blade of mace, till it is very good. Strain it, and boil the fyrup with a little fugar, till it is confiderably reduced in quantity. Pour 'it into your pie, put on ihe upper cruft, and bake it. You may beat up the yolks of two eggs, and half a pint of cream, v\ith a little nut- meg and fugar. Put it over a flow fire, and F 5 ' keep 4PIES AND TARTS. io6 keep flirting it till it is ready to boil. Then take off the lid, and pour in the cream. Cut the cruft into little three corner-pieces, flick ^em about the pie, and fend it to table cold. You may, if you think proper, when you make pour pie, put in a little quince or mar- malade. A pear pie may be made in the fame manner, but you muft omit the quince. To make a Cedl'ing Pie. Take fome fmall codlings, put them into a pan with fpring water, lay vine leaves on them, and cover them with a cloth, t^'rapped round the cover of the pan to keep in the fleam. As ioon as they grow foft, peel them, and put them fn the fame water as the vine leaves. Hang them high over the fire to green, and, wherr you fee them of a fine colour, take them out of the water, and put them into a deep difli, with as much powder or loaf fugar as will fweeten them. Make the lid of a rich puff-pafte, and bake it. When it comes from the oven, take off the lid, and cut into little pieces, like fip- pets, and flick them rtm^d the infide of the pie, with the points upwards. Then make a good cuftard, and pour it over your pie. Make your cuftard thus. Boil a pint of cream with a flick of cinnamon, and fugar enough to make it a little fweet. As foon as it is cold, put in the yolks of four eggs well beaten, fet it on the fire, and keep ftirring it till it grows thick ; but take care not to let it boil, as that will curdle it. Pour this into your pie, pair thin a little lemon, cut the peel like flraws, and lay it on'the top-of your pies. — i ■ -i To{ i PIES AND TARTS. 107 To make a Cherry Pie. Having made a good cnift, Jay a little of it round the fides of the difh, and throw fugar at the bottom. Then lay in your fruit, and fome ' -fugar at the top. You may, if you pleafe, add fome red currants, which will give an additional flavour to your pie. Then put on your lid, iflnd bake it in a flack oven. You may make plumb or goofeberry pies in the fame manner Orange or Lemon Tarts. Having rubbed half a dozen large oranges or lemons with fait, put them into water, with a handful of fait in it, for two days. Then change them every day with frefh water, without fait, foi a fortnight. Boil them till they are tender, and then cut them into half quarters oorner- • wife as thin as poflUble. ’^ke half a dozen pip- pins, pared, cored, and quTrtered, and put them into a pint of water. Let them boil till they break, then put the liquor to your oranges or lemons, half the pulp, of the pippins well bro- ken, and a pound of fugar. Boil thefe toge- ther a quarter of an hour, then put it into a pot, and fqueeze into it the juice of either an orange or a lemon, according to wnich of the tarts you intend to make. Twofpoonfuls will be fufii- cient to give a proper flavour to your tart. Put • fine thin pufF-pafte into your patty-pans, which muft be frnall and fhallow. Before you put your tarts into the oven, take a feather or bruft and rub them over with melted butter, and then fift foiue double-refined fugar over them, which will form a pretty icing, and make them nave a very agreeable appearance. F 6 r# I i • t I >108 PIES AND TART^. To make a Tart de Mot. Having made a puff-pafte, lay it round your dilh, and then put in a layer of bifcuit, a layer of butter and marrow, and then a layer of all forts of fweetmeats, or at lead as many as you have, and continue to do fo till your difh is full. Boil a quart of cream, and thicken it with four eggs, and a fpoonful of orange-flower water. Sweeten it with fugar to your palate, and pour it over the reft. It will be fufficiently baked in half an hour. To make a Mince Pie, Boil a neat’s tongue two hours, then fkin it, and chop it as fmall as poflTible. Chop alfo very fmall three pounds of beef fuet, three pounds of good baking apples, four pounds of currants, clean wafhed, picked,’and well dried before the fire, a pound of jar-raifms ftoned and chopped fmall, and a pound of powder fugar. Mix them all together with half a pound of mace, as much nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the fame quantity of cinnamon, and a pint of French brandy. Make a rich pufF-pafte, and as you fill up the pie, put in a little candied ci- tron and orange cut into fmall pieces. A Partridge Pie. Trufs two brace of partridges in the fam» manner as you do a fowl for boiling. Put fome ^ flialots into a marble mortar, with fome parfley cut fmall, the liver of the partridges, and twice the quantity of bacon. Beat thefe well toge- ther, and feafon them with pepper, fait, and a » blade or "two of mace. When thefe are all poundedPIES AND tarts. I09 pounded to a pafte, add to them Tome frefli mufhrooms. Raife the crufl for the [)ie, and cover the bottom of it vvith the fealoning. fheti lay the partrides, without any (luffing in them, and put the remainder of tlie feafoning about the Tides, and between the partridges. Mix to- gether fomc pepper and fait, a little mace, fome lhalots (hred fine,fre(h muffirooms, and a little bacon beat fine in a mortar. Strew this over the partridges, and lay on fome thin flices of bacon. Then put on the lid, fend it to the oven, and two hours will bake it. "When it is done, remove the lid, take out the flices of ba- con, and (kim off the fat. Pour in a point of rich veal gravy, fqueeze in the juice of an orange, and fend it hot to table. To make a Chicken Pie. 4 Having covered the bottom of yourdi(h with a puff-palte, upon that, round the Tides, lay a tliin layer of forcemeat. Cut two fmall chick- ens into pieces, and feafon them high with {>ep» per and fait. Put fome of the pieces into the difh, then a fweetbread or two cut into pieces, and well feafoncd ; a few truffles and morels, fome artichoke bottoms quartered, yolks of eggs boiled hard, chopped a little, and ftrewed over the top. Then put in a little water, and co- ver the pie. When it comes from the oven, pour in a rich gravy, thickened with a little flour and butter. You may add frefli mufh- rooms, afparagus tops, and cockfcombs, if you wifli to make your pie richer.i*0 PIES AJWD TART5. ^ G 'tblet Pie. Clean two pair of giblets well, and put all but the livers into a faucepan, with two quarts t)f water, twenty corns of whole pepper, three blades of mace, a bundle of fweet herbs, and a large onion. Cover them clofe, and let them Hew very gently till they be tender. Cover your dilh with a good cruft, lay at the bottom a fine rump fteak, feafoned with pepper and fait. Put in your giblets, with the livers, and ftrain the liquor they were ftewed in. Then feafon it with fait, and pour >it into your pie. Put on the lid, and bake it half an hour. ' A Pigeon Pie. Having picked and cleaned your pigeons very nicely, and feafoned them with pepper and fait, ^ put a large piece of butter, with pepper and fait, into each of their bellies. Then cover your dilh with a pufF-pafte cruft, lay in your pigeons, and put between them the necks, giz- zards, livers, pinions, and hearts, with the yolk of a hard egg, and a beef fteak in the middle. Put as much water as will nearly fill the difli, lay on tlie top-cruft, and bake it well, Duck Pie.. Having fcakled two ducks, and made them very clean, cut off the feet, pinions, necks, and Ireads. Take out the gizzards, livers, and hearts, pick all clean, and fcald them. Pick out the fat of the infide, lay a good puff pafte cruft all over the dilh, feafon the ducks, botli infide and out, with pepper and fait, and lay them X %PIES AND TARTS. m them III the clifh, with the giblets at each end, properly feafoned. Put in as much water as will nearly fill the pie, lay on the cruft, and let it be well baked. • , ( ' A Gooje Pie. Having quartered your goofe, feafon it well with pepper and fait, and lay it in a raifed cruft. Cut half a pound of butter into pieces, and put it in different places on the top. Then lay on the cruft, and fend it to. a moderately heated oven to bake. A Rabbit Pie. Quarter a couple of young rabbits; take a quarter of a pound of bacon, and pound it in a marble mortar, with the livers, fome pepper, fait, a little mace, fome parfley cut fmall, fome chives, and a few leaves of fweet bafil. When thefe are all finely beaten, make the pafte, and cover the bottom of the pie with the feafoning. Then put in the rabbits, pound more bacon in a mortar, and with it fome frcfti butter. Cover the rabbits with this, and lay over it fome thin dices of bacon. Put on the lid, and fend it to the oven. It will take two hours baking. When it is done, remove the lid, take out the bacon, and feum off the fat. If there is not gravy enough in the pie, pour in fome rich mutton or veal gravy 'boiling hot. PUD.PUDDINGS. liz PUDDINGS. V)|^E need not here mention, that the cloth in which you boil puddings fliould be perfe£Hy clean ; but it may not be amifs to tell the cook, that the cloth Ihould be dipped in boiling water, and dredged with flour. A bread pudding may be tied loole; but a batter pudding mufl: be tied clofe, and no pudding muA be put into the pot Dll the water boils. Puddings may be boiled in a balcn ; in which cafe, butter the bafon, and let it have plenty of wafer, and turn it frequently. As Toon as you think it is enough, take it out of the pot. and Jet it ftand a fhort time to cool. 1 hen take off the firing, wrap the cloth round the bafon, and laying the difh over it, turn the pudding into it, in doing which •you niuft take care that you do not break the pudding, as every light pudding is very liable to that accident. In making a batter pudiling, begin with mixing the flour well with a little milk, after which gradually put in the ingre- dients, and thus your pudding will be perfeitly fmooth, and without lumps. In making all forts of puddings, drain the eggs when you beat them, fo that they may have neither tread- les nor lumps in them. Bread and cuftard pud- dings that are to be baked require time, and a moderate oven to raife them ; but batter and rice puddings require a quick oven. Before you put in the pudding, remember to butter Xhe difh or pan. VealrUDDINGS. »ii3 A Veal Suet Pudding. ' Cut the crumb of a three-penny loaf into /lices. Boil and pour two quarts of milk on the bread, and then put to it one pound of melted veal fuet. Add to thefe one pound of currants, half a nutmeg, (ix eggs well mixed together, and fugar to your tafte. This pudding may be either boiled or baked; but take care to butter well the infide of the difli. % Beif Steak Pudding. Make a good cruft with dripping,, or mutton fuet, if you have it, fhred fine. Make a thick; cruft, take a piece of fait beef, which has been twenty-four hours in foft water. Seafon it with a little pepper, put it into the cruft, roll it up clofe, tie it in a cloth, and boil it. If it be atxjut four or five pounds, boil it five hours. Pork Pudding. Having made a good cruft with dripping or mutton fuet fhred fine, take a piece of fait pork, , which has been twenty-four hours in foft wa- ter, and feafon it with a little pepper. Put it into the cruft, roll it up clofe, tie it in a doth, and boil it. It will require five hours boiling, if .it be about four or five pounds weight. You may make a mutton pudding in the fame man- ner, only cut it into thin fteaks, feafon them with pepper and fait, and boil it three hours, -if it be large ; but if it be fmall, two hours will do it. Indeed, the time of boiling muft be re- gulated by the fize of it. A Hunting'^14 PUDDINGS. A Hunting Puddings Beat up the yolks of ten eggs, and the whites of fix, with half a pint of cream, lix fpoonluls of flour, a pound of beef fuct chopped linall, a pound of currants well wafhed and picked, a pound of jar raifins ftoned and chopped fmall, two ounces of candied >citron, orange and le- mon, flired fine, two ounces of fine fugar, a ipoonti^l of rofe-water, a glafs of brandy, and half a nutmeg grated. Mix all well togetlier, tie it up in a cloth, and boil it four hours. Re- member to put it in when the water bolls, and keep it boiling all the time. A Cu^ard Pudding, Boil a pint of thick cream, with a bit of citt- namon in it, and put to it a quarter of a pound of fugar. When it is cold, put to rt the volks of five eggs w'ell beaten, andfiir it over the fire till it is pretty thick, but take care not to let it boil. When it is quite cold, butter a cloth, well, duft it with flour, tie the cuftard up in it very clofe, and boil it three quarters of an -hour. When you take at up, put it into a bafon to cool a little, untie J:he cloth, lay the difli on the bafon, and turn it up. You will break the pudding, if you do not take off the cloth care- fully. tGrate over it a little fugar, put melted butter and a litlic wine in a boat, and fend it Up to table. A boiled Almond Pudding. Take a quart of cream, a penny loaf grated, one nutmeg, fix fpoonfuls of flour, half a pound ofPUDDINGS. of almonds blanched and beat fine, half a dozen bitter almonds, ftrain iiito them two eggs well beaten, put in fugar to your tafte, and add a little brandy. Boil it half an hour, pour round it melted butter and wine, and ftick it with flit and blanched almonds. An Almond Pudding baked. Boil the fliins of two lemons till they are very tender, and then beat them very fine. Beal halfa pound of almonds in rofe-water, and a pound of fugar, very fine. Then melt half a pound of butter, and let it Hand till it is quite cold. Beat the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of four. Mix them, and beat them all together, with a little orajige flower water, and fend it to the oven to bake. An Apple Pudding baked. Boll and pound well half a pound of apples, and mix half a pound of butter well beaten with them before they are cold. Put to them with their whites, well beaten and. Brained, half a pound of fugar pounded and fifted, and the rinds of two lemons well boiled and beaten. Shift tlie pt'el into clean water twice in the boiling; then put a thin cruft; at tdie bottom and rims of your difh, and bake it half an hour. A Bread Pudding. Boil half a pint of milk with a little cinna- mon, four eggs well beaten, the rind of a lcm#n grated, half a pound of luet chopped fine, and as much bread as neceflary. Pour your milkPUDDINGS. 116 on the bread and fuet, keep mixing it till cold, then put in the lemon-peel, the eggs, a little fugar, and lome nutmeg grated fine. You may cither boil or bake this pudding. A Rice Pudding. ^ Having put a quarter of a pound of rice into a fiiucepan, with a quart of new milk, and a flick of cinnamon, ftir it often to prevent it picking to the pan. When it is boiled to a pro- per thicknefs, pour it into a pan, ftir in a quar- ter of a pound of trefh butter, and fweeten it to your tafte. Grate in half a nutmeg, add three or four fpoonfuls of’rofe water, and ftir them all well together. When it is cold, beat all up, eight eggs, with half the whites. Then butter a difh, pour it in, and bake it, with a puffipafte all over the difli. A plain cheap Rice Pudding. Tie in a cloth a quarter of a pound of rice, half a pound of raifins ftoned, and boil them two hours; but take care, when you tie it, that you give the rice a good deal of room to fwell. When it is enough, turn it into a dilh, and pour over it melted butter and fugar, with a little nutmeg grated in it. A ground Rice Pudding. Having boiled a quarter of a pound of ground rice in water till it is loft, beat the yolks of four eggs, and put to them a pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of fugar, and a quarter of a pound of butter. Mix them all wdl together, and either boil or bake it. You may put in currants and fweetmeats, if you pleafe. A Batter4* yf Batter Budding, Beat up the yolks of fix eggs and the whites of three, and mix them with a quarter of a pint of milk. Put to it the remainder of a quart of milk, fix fpoonfuls of flour, a tea-fpoonful of fait, and one of beaten ginger. Mix them all together, boil them an hour and a quarter, and pour melted butter over the pudding. You may, if you pleafe, put in half a pound of prunes or currants, and two or three more eggs. A Marrow Pudding. Having grated a penny loaf into crumbs, pour on them a pmt of boili^ig hot cream. Cut very thin a pound of beef marrow, beat four eggs well, ahd tl^n put in a glafs of brandy, with fugar and-'nutmeg to your tafte. Mix them all well together, and either boil or bake it. Three quarters of an hour will do it. Cut two ounces of citron very thin, and, when you ferve it up, ftick'them all over it. An Orange Pudding, Boil the rind of a Seville orange very foft, and heat it in a marble mortar, with the juice. Put to it two Naples bifcuits grated very fine, half a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of fugar, and the yolks of fix eggs. Mix them well together, lay a good pufF-pafle round the edge of the diflt, and bake it half an hour in a gentle oven. A lemon pudding is made in the fame manner, only ufing lemon inflead of orange. A Gtofe- r \Sl8 PUDDiKGSi 1 A Goofeberry Pudding. I Scald a piht of green goofeberries, and rub ♦ them through a lieve. Put to them half a ^ pound of fugar, an equal quantity of butter, two or three Naples bifeuits, and four eggs well beaten. Mix it well, and bake it half an hour. i'-" A green Codling Pudding, Green about a quart of codlings as for a pic, and rub them through a hair fieve, with as 'much of the jihce of beets as will green your ! pudding. Put in the crumb of a halfpenny loaf, half a pound of butter, and three eggs well beaten. Beat them all together, with half a t pound of fugar, and two fpoonfuis of cyder. ; i.ay a good pafte round the rim of thedilh, and ^ H pour in the pudding. A faking Pudding. Boil a quart of cream, and let it ftand till almoft cold. Beat four eggs a full quarter of an hour, with a fjxionful and a half of flour., and then mix them with your cream. /\dd fugar and nutmeg to your palate, tie it clofe up in a cloth well buttered, let it boil an hour, and, then turn it carefully out. A Spoonful Pudding, To a fpoonful of flour, and a fpoonful of eream or milk, put an egg, a little nutn^eg, ginger, and fait. Mix all together, with a few « currants, if you choofe, and boil it in a wooden « diilr half an hour. A Tork- firt» I'^DDINOS** ri^ A Yor\fhire Pudding. Beatup five eggs in a quart of milk, and mix them with flour till it is of a good pancake bat- ter, and very fmooth. Put in a little fait and fome grated nutmeg and ginger. Butter a drip- phjg or frying-pan, and put it under a piece of beef, mutton, or a loin of veal, that is roafting, and then put in y(jur batter. When the top- fide is brown, cut it in fquare pieces, turn it, and let the under fide be brown. Put it in a hut difli, as clear from fat as you can, and fend it hot to table. A Potatoe Pudding. Having boiled a quarter of a pound of pota- toes till they are foft, peel them, and mafh them with the back of a fpoon, and rub them through a fieve to have them fine and fmootli. Then take half a pound of butter (nelted, half a pound of fine fugar, and beat thetn well toge- ther till they are fmooth. Scir lix eggs, well beaten, into a glafs of lack or brandy ; and, if you think proper, you may put in half a pint of cuw;ants Boil it half an hour. Pour over it melted butter, with a glafs of wine in it, and fweeten it with fugar. Apple Dumplings. Pare and take out the cores of your apples, fill the hole with quince, orange marmalade,or fugar, which you like beft. I'hen take a piece ^ of cold pafte, and make a hole in it, as if you were going to make a pie. Lay in your apple, and put another piece of pafte in the fame form, andI - — u I2« rUBDINGS; and clofe it up round the fide of your apple. This is much preferable to die method of ga- thering it in a lump at one end. Tie it in a cloth, and boil it three quarters of an hour, Dama/cene Dumplings. Make a good hot pafte cruft, roll it pretty thin, lay it in a bafon, and put in as many da- mafeenes as you pleafe. Wet the edge of the pafte, and clofe it up. Boil it in a cloth an hour. Pour melted butter over it, grate fugar round the edge of the difti, and fend it up to table whole. Hard Dumplings. Make a.little fait, flour, and water, into a ' pafte, and roll them in balls the fize of a tur- key’s egg. Roll them in a little flour, throw them Into boiling water, and half an hour will boil them. If you choofe it, youhnay put into them a few currants. They are beft boiled with a good piece of beef. Norfolk Dumplings. ■ - ' Make half a pint of milk, two eggs, and a ^ little fait, into a good thick bitter with flour. ' Drop your batter into a faucepan of boiling water, and two or three minutes will boil them. Be particularly careful that the water bods faft when you put the batter in. Then throw them into a fieve to drain, turn them into a d'rlh, and ftir a piece of frelh butter into them. J Millet Pudding. Spread a quarter of a pound of butter at the bottom of a difli, and lay into it fix ounces of lUillctjrPUDDINGS. Ml millet, and a quarter of a pornid of fugar. Pour over it tlrree pints of milk, and fend it to the oven. A Plumb Puf^ding. 'Of fuet, currants, and raifins ftoned, take one pound of each, the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of four; the crumb of a penny loaf grated, one pound of flour, half a nutmeg, a tea-fpoonful of grated ginger, a little fait, and a fmall glafs of brandy. Fir ft beat the eggs, and ' then mix them with fome milk. Add the flour and other ingredients by degrees, and as much more milk as may be neceflary. It muft be very thick and well ftirred, and will take five hours boiling. A Suet Pudding. Shred a pound of fuet fine, take a quart of milk, four eggs, two tea-fpoonfuls of grated gin- ger, a little fait, and flour enough to make it a thick batter. It muft be boiled two hours. They may be alfo made into dumplings, when lialf an hour will be fufficient to boil them. Teaji Dumplings. Having made a light dough, as for bread, with flour, water, yeaft, and fait, cover it with a cloth, and fet it half an hour before the fire. Make the dough into little round balls, as big as i large hen’s egg, flatten them with your hand, put them into a faucepan of boiling wa- ter, and a few minutes wift do them. Take care that they do not fail to the bottom of the pot or faucepan, as that will make them heavy, and be fure to keep the water boiling all the G - . time.I [ JUBDINGS. time. When they are enough, take them up, and lay thim in your dilh, with melted butter in a boat. The doughi you get at tlie baker’s Will do as well, and fave you the trouble of then drain them, and put them into a clean tub or large pan. Then kill your hog, and fave two quarts of the blood ; and keep ftirring the blood till it is quite cold. Then mix it with •fon with a‘large fpoonful of fait, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, mace, and nutmeg together, an equal quantity of each. Dry them, beat them well, and mix all together. Take a little winter lavory, fweet marjoram, •thyme, and penny royal, flripped of the halks, and chopped very £ne, jull enough to feafon theni, and give them a flavour, but no more. The next day, take the leaf of the hog, and cut it into dice, wafli the guts veiy clean, then tie one end, and begin to fill them. Mix in the fat as you fill them, and be fure to put in plenty of fat. Fill the (kins three parts full, tie the other end, and make your pudding what length you pleafe. Prick them with a pin, and put them in a kettle of boiling water. Boil them •foftly an hour, and put them on clean fit aw to drain and dry. inakiag it yourfelf. To make Black Buddings. Boil a peck of groats halt an hour in water. your gloats, and ftir tltem well together. Sea- Peas Pudding. As foon as the peas are boiled tender, take them up> untie them, and ftir in a good piece123 rUDDINGS. of butter, a little fait, and a good deal of beaten pepper. Then tie it up again, boj it an hour To a pint of cream, and the fame quantity of milk, put a little fait, and fweeten it with loaf fugur. Make it ix)il, and then nut in fomc fine flour, and keep it continualK ftirring while you are putting in the flour, ilL it is thick enough, and (ufficiently boiled. Pour it out, and flick the top full of little bits of butter. Boil two ounces of fago with fome cinna- mon, and a bit of lemon peel, till it is foft and thick. Grate the crumb of a hairpenny roll, put to it a glafs of red vvine, four ounces of cliopped marrow, the yolks of lour eggs well beaten, and lugar to your tafle. Wlien the fago is cold, put thefe ingrediems to it, and mix it all well together. Bake it with a pufl-pafle ; and, when it comes from the oven, cut citron into pieces, and blanched almonds into flips, and flick them over the pudding. micelli in a pint of milk till it is foft, with a ft'ck of cinnamon, take out the cinnamon, and p jt in half a'pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of butter melted, and a quarter of a pound of fugar, with the yolks of four eggs w’ell beaten. Bake it, without a pafte, in an earthen difh. longer, and it will be ready to ferve up. J Hajiy Pudding. A Sijgo Pudding. A Vermictlli Pudding. Having boiled a quarter of a pound of ver- Gz SOUPS124 SOUPS AND BROTHS. ] SOUPS AND BROTHS. TN making any kind of foups in which herbs are ufed, iememl)er to lay the meat in the bottom of your pan, with a large lump of but- ter. Having cut the roots and herbs fmall, flrew them ever the meat, and let the pan on a very flow fire. This will draw all the virtues out of the different ingredients, will produce a good gravy, and a very different effedi in point of flavour, than if at firfl you had put in the water. Fill your pan with water as foon as the gravy is almofl dried up. Take ofi^ the fat as fbon as it begins to boil, and then fellow thedi- re6Uons for making the fort of foup you wifh to have. Green peafe, intended for foup, re- quire hard water; but foft water is preferable for old peafe foup. In making white foup, let it be taken off the fire before you put in the cream. As foups are foon cold, always difh them up the laft thing. Take care that all the greens and herbs you ufe in foups are well waflied and clean picked, and that any one thing has not a'predominant tafte over another, but that it has a fine agreeable relifh, and that all the taftes be united. Gravy Soup, or Soupe Sanle. Put at the bottom of a ftewpan fix good raftiers of lean ham, then put over them three pounds of lean beef, and cover the beef with three pounds of lean veal, fix onions cut in flices, two carrots, and two turnips lliced, two heads of celery, a bundle of fweet herbs, )■ 1 I iSOUPS AND BROTHS. 12^ fix cloves, and two blades of mace. Put a little water at the bottom, draw it very gently till it flicks, and then put in a gallon of boiling wa- ter. Let it flew two hours, feafon it with fait, and drain it off. Then have ready a carrot cut in fmall pieces of two inches long, and about as thick as a goofe quill, a turnip, two heads of leeks, two heads of celery, two heads of endive, cut acrofs, two cabbage lettuces cut acrofs, a little forrel and chervil. Put them into a llew- pan, and fweat them gently a quarter of an hour. Then put them into your loop, and boil it up gently for ten minutes. Put it into your tureen, with the cruft of a French roll. Vermicelli Soup. Having put four ounces of butter into a large tofting-pan, cut a knuckle of veal and a fcrag of mutton into fmall pieces about the'^fize of walnuts. Slice in the meat of a lhank of ham, with three or four l)lades of mace, two or three carrots, two parfnips, two larj^e onions, with a clove ftuck in at each end. Cut in four or five heads of celery wafhed clean, a bunch of fweet herbs, eight or ten morels, and an anchovy. Cover the pan clofe, and fet it over a flow fire, without any water, till the gravy is drawn out of the meat. Then pour the gravy into a pot or bafon, let the meat brown in tlie fame pan ; but take care it does not burn. Then pour irt four quarts of water, and let it boil gently till it is wafted to three pints. Then drain it, and put the gravy to it. Set it on the fire, add to it two ounces of vermicelli, cut the meed part of a head of celery, put in chyan pepper and G 3 faJt126 SOUPS ANU BROTHS. fait to your tafte, and let it boil about four rni- nutes. If it is not of a good cidour, put in a Jittle browning, lay a French roll in the foup- dilh, pour in the foup upon it, and lay forne of the vermicelli over it. Soup CreJJy. Cot’a pound of lean ham into fmalJ bits, and put It at the bottom of a ftewpan, with a French roll cut and put over it. Cut two do- zen heads of celery fraall, fix onions, two tur- nips, one carrot, cut and wafhed very clean,fix cloves, four blades of mace, and two handfuls of water-crelfes. Put them all into a Oewpan, with a pint of good broth. Cover them clo:e, and Iweat them gently for twenty minutes ; then hll it i p with veal broth, and flew it four hours. Rub it through a fine ficve, put it in your pan again, and feafon it with fdt and a little chyan pepper. Give it a fnnmer up, and ib.':*! it hot to table. Vyith iome French roll toafted haid in it. Boil a handful of creffes in water till tender, and put it over the bread. Soup avd Boutlhe. Put into a ftewpan five pounds of brifket of beet rolled tight with a tape, with four pounds of the leg ot mutton piece of beef, and about feven or eight quarts of water. Boil thefe up as quick as poffible, and fkim it very clean. Add a large onion, fix or feven cloves, fome whole pepper, two or three carrots, a turnip or two, a leek, and two heads cf celery. Cover it clofe, and flew it gently fix or feven hours. About an hour before dinner, flrain the foup ^throughG 4 ia \ SOUPS AND BROTH'S. I2'f through a piece of dimity that has been dipped in cold water, putting the rough line upwards. Have ready boiled carrots, cu jike little wheels, • turnips cut in balls, fpmach, a lit le chervil and forrel, two heads of endive, and one or two of celery cut in pieces. Pur thele i ito a tureen, with a Dutch loaf, or a French roll dried, af- the crumb is t?ken out. Pour the fouo to thefe boiling hot, and add a little flit an I c'lvan, ‘ Take the tape otf the bouillie, and fcve it in a feparate dilh ; malhed turnips, and fliced car- rots, in two little dilhes. The turnips and car- rots fhould be cut with an inftrument that may be bought for that purpofe. Afacaronl $oup. Take three quarts of ftrong broth, and one of gravy, and mix them. Boil half a pound of iinall pipe macaroni in three quarts of water, with a little butter in it, till it is tender. Then ftrain it through a fieve. Cut it into pieces of about two inches in length, put it into your foup, and boil it up ten minutes. Send it to table in a tureen, with the cruft of a French roll toafted. . i Dauphin Soup. Put a few flices of lard at the bottom of a faucepan, fome fliced ham and veal, three oai* ons fliced, and a carrot and parlhiD- Soak it over the fire till it catches, then add weak broth or boiling water, and boil it on a flow fire till the meat is done. Pound the breaft of a roafted fowl, fix yolks of hard eggs, and as many fweet ftimonds. Strain your broth. Soak your bread128” SOUPS AND BROTHS. in broth till it is tender, vvjrm your cull is with- out boiling, and mix it with as much broth as "Will give it a pretty thick confiflence. Soup d la Relne. To a knuckle of veal, and three or four pounds of lean beef, put fix quarts of water, with a little fait. Skim it well as foon as it boils, and then put in fix large onions, two car- rots, a head or two of celery, a parfnip, one leek, and a little thyme. Boil them all toge- ther till the meat is boiled quite down, then ftrain it through a hair fieve, and let it ftand about half an hour. Then fkim it well, and clear it off gently from the fettlings into a clean pan. Boil half a pint'of cream, and pour it on the crumb of a halfpenny loaf, and let it foak well. Blanch and beat half a pound of almonds as fine as poflible, putting in now and then a little cream to prevent them oiling. Then take the yolks of fix hard eggs, and the roll that is foaked in the cream, and beat them all together quite fine. Then make your broth hot, and pour it to your almonds. Strain it through a fine hair fieve, rubbing it with a fpoon till the goodnefs is gone through into a ftewpan, and add more cream to make it white. Set it over the fire, keep fiirring it till it boils, fkim off the froth as it rifes, and foak the tops of two French rolls in melted butter, in a ftewpan, till they are crifp, but not brown. Then take them out of the butter, and lay them in a plate before the fire. A quarter of an hour before you fend it to table, take a little of the hot foup, and put it to the roll in the botiom of the tureen. Put yourSOUPS AND BROTHS. your foup on the fire, keep fiirring it till ready to boil, then put it into your tureen, and fervo h up hot. Be careful to take all the fat olF the broth before you put it to the almonds, or it will fpoil it, and take care it does not curdle. Transparent Soup. Take a leg of veal, cut the meat from it inta fmall pieces, and break the bone into feveral bits. Put the meat into a large jug, and the bones at top, with a bunch ot fweet herbs, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and half a pound of Jordan ajmonds finely blanched aitd beaten. Pour on it four quarts of boiling water, and let it fiand all night, coveredclofe, by the fire fide. The next day put it into a well-tinned fauce- pan, and let it boil llowly till it is reduced to two quarts. Be careful, all the time it is boil- ing, to Ikim it, and take olFthe fat as it rifesi Strain it into a punch-bowl, and, when it has fettled two hours, pour it into a clean faucepan, clear from the fediments, if any, at the bottom, Add three ounces of rice, or two ounces of vermicelli, boiled in water. Calf’s Head Soup, Having walhed a calf’s head clean, ftew it witli a bunch of fweet herbs, an onion fluck with'cloves, mace, peail barky, and Jamaica' pepper. When it is very tender, put to it fome ilewed celery. Sealon it with pepper and falt„ dilh it up with the head in the middle, and fend it to table. G5 Hart u1^0 SOUPS AND BROTHS. Hare Soup. Cut a large old hare into fmall pieces, and put it into a mug, with three blades of mace, a little fait, two large onions, a red herring, fix morels, half a pint of red wine, and three quarts of water. Bake it three hours in a quick oven, and then flrain it into a toffing-pan Have ready, boiled in water, three ounces of French barley, or fago. Then put the liver of the hare two miriutes into fcalding water, and rub it through a hair fieve with the back of a wooden fpoon. Put it into the foup with the barley or fago, and a quarter of a pound of but- ter. -Set it over the fiie, and keep it ftirring, but do not let it boil. Almond Soup. Having blanched a quart of almonds, beat them in a marble mortar, with the yolks of fix hard eggs, till they become a fine pafte. Mix them by degrees with two quarts of new milk, a quart of cream,^ and a quarter of a pound of double refined fugar beat fine. Stir all well to- gether, and when it is well mixed, fet it over a flow fire, and keep it fiirring quick all the time, till you find it is thick enough ; but take great care that it does not curdle. Then pour ^it into your difh, and ferve it up. Gihlet Soup. Put about two pounds of ferag of mutton, the fame quantity^of ferag of veal, and four pounds of gravy beef, put into two gallons of water, and let it flew yery foftly till it is a ftrongSOUPS. AND BROTHS. ftrong broth'. Then let it ftand till it is cold, and Ikim ofFthe fat. Scald and clean two pair of giblets, put them into the broth, and let them fimraer till they are very tender. Take out the giblets, and i\rain the foup through a cloth. Put a piece of butter rolled in flour into a ftewpan, and make it of a light brown. Chop fmall fome pariley, chives, a little penny-royal, and a little fweet marjoram. Put the foup over a very flow fire. Put in the giblets, fried but- ter, herbs, a little Madeira wine, fome fait, and a little chyan pepper. Let them fimmer till the herbs are tender, put the giblets into the difh, and fend them and the foup up to tabic.' Green Peas Soup, Shell a peck of peas, and boil them in fpring water till they are foft. Then work them through a hair fieve. Put into the water the peas were boiled in, a knuckle of veal, three flices of ham, two carrots, a turnip, and a feW' beet-leaves cut fmall. Add a little more water to the meat, fet it over the fire, and let it boil an hour and an half. Tiien flrain the gravy into a bowl, mix it with the pulp, and put in a little, juice of fpinach, which mufl: be beaten, and Iqueezed through a cloth. Put in as much as will make It look of a pretty colour, and then give it a gentle boil, which will take ofF the talte of the Ipinach. Slice in the whiteft part’ of a head ot celery, put in a lump of fugar the fize of a walnut, ciit a flice of bread into little fquare pieces, a little bacon in the fame manner^, and try tltein of a light brown in frefh butter. Cut a large cabbage lettuce into llices, fry it G 6 after I I it' 11 132 SOUPS AND BROTHS. after the other, and put it into the tureen with the fried bread and bacon. Have ready boiled, as for eating, a pint of young peas, and put them into the foup, with a little chopped mint. Common Peas Soup. j To a quart of fplit peas put a gallon of foft water, and a little lean bacon, or roaft-beef bones. Walh a head of celery, cut it, and put it in with a turnip. Boil it till it is reduced to two quarts, and then work it through a cullen- der with a wooden fpoon. Mix a little flour and water, boil it with the foup, and flice in another head of celery, chyan pepper, arvd fait to your tafte. Cut a flice of bread into fmall dice, fry them of a light brown, put them into your difli, and pour the foup over them. Portable Soup. Take three large legs of veal, one of beef, and the lean part of half a ham, and cut them into fmall pieces. Put a quarter of a pound of butter at the bottom of a large cauldron, then lay in the meat and bones, with four ounces of anchovies, and two ounces of mace. Cut off the green leaves of five or fix heads of celery, wafh them very clean, cut them fmall, and put them in, with three large carrots cut thin. Co- ver the cauldron clofe, and fet it over a mode- rate fire. When you find the gravy begins to draw, keep taking it up till you have got it all out, and then put in water fufficient to cover the meat. Set it on the fire again, and let it boil flowly four hours. Then flrain it through a hair fieve into a clean pan, and let it boil three ht f I SOUPS AND BROTHS 133 1 three parts away. Then ftrain the gravy that you drew from the meat, into the pan, and let it boil gently, obferving tofkim the tat otf as it rifcs, till it looks thick like glue. Great care mufl: be taken, when it is nearly enough, that it does not burn. Put in chyan pepper to your tape, then pour it on flat earthen dilhes a quar- ter of an inch thick, and let it ftand till the next day. Cut it out with round tins a little larger than a crown piece; lay the cakes on dtfhes, fet them in the fun to dry, and take care to turn them often, Frofty weather is the beft feafon for making this foup. When the cakes are dry, put them in a tin box, with writing* paper between every cake, and keep them in a dry place. Gentlemen’s families fliould not be without this foup; for by pouring a pint of boiling water on one cake, and a little fait, it will make a good bafon of broth, and alfo gravy for turkies or fowls. As it will keep a great while, it is extremely ufeful to travellers. Blanch and beat a pound of fweet almonds in a mortar with a very little water to keep them from oiling. Put to them all the white part of a large roaft fowl, the yolks of four poached eggs, and pound all together as fine as poflible. Take three quarts of fcrong veal broth, let it be very white, and Ikim off the fat. Put it into a ftewpan with the other in- gredients, mix them well together, and boil them iottly over a flove, or on a clear fire. Mix the white part of another roaft fowl pound** ed very fine, and feafon with pepper, fait, nut- Soupe Lorraine. meg. i I134' SOUPS AND BOOTHS. meg, and a little beaten mace. Put in a bit of butter as big as an egg, a fpoonful or two of the foup drained, ami fet it over the flove till it is quite hot. Cut two French rolls into thin flices, and fet them before the fire to crifp. Take one of the hollow rolls, winch are made for oyfter loaves, and fill it with the mince. Lay on the top as clofe as poffible, and keep it hot. Strain the foup through a piece of dimity into a clean faucepan, and let it Itcw till it is of the thicknefs of cream. Put the crifped bread in the di(h or tureen pour the fauce over it, and put in the middle the minced meat and the roll. Soupe Ma 'igre.' Having put half a pound of butter into a deep ftewpan, fliake it about, and let it Hand till it has done making a noife. Peel and cut fmall fix middling-fized onions, throw them into the pan, and thake them about. Take a bunch of celery, clean wafhed and picked, and cut in pieces about two inches long ; pick and ■wafli clean a large handful of fpinach, wafh and cut fmall a good lettuce, and chop fine a bundle of parfley. Shake all thefe well together in the pan for a quarter of an hour, and then (hake in a little flour. Stir all together, and pour two quarts of boiling water into the ftewpan. Put ' in a handful of dry hard cruft, a tea-lpoonful of beaten pepper, three blades of mace beat fine ; ftir them all together, and let them boil foftly for half an hour. Then take it oflF the fire, beat up the yolks of two eggs, and ftir them in, with a fpoonful of vinegar. Pour it into the foup-difb, and ferve it up.SOUPS AND broths. 13^ Egg Soup. Having beat the yolks of two eggs in a dirti, with a piece of butter the fizeofa common egg, take a tea-kettle of boiling water in one hand, and a (poon in the other. Pour in, by degrees, about a quart of water, and keep ftirring it well all the time, till the eggs are well mixed, and the butter melted. Then pour it into a fauce- pan, and keep ftirring it till it begins to fim- mer. Take it off the fire, and pour it out of one veffel into another, till it is quite fmooth, and has a good frotli. Then put jt on the fire again, keep ftirring it till it is quite hot, and then pour it into your foup-dilh. Rice Soup. To two quarts of water put a pound of rice and a little cinnamon ; then cover it clofe, and let it fimmer very foftly till the rice isquite ten- der. Then take out the cinnamon, and fweeten it to your palate, grate in half a nutmeg, and let it ftand till it is cold. Beat up the yolks of three eggs with half a pint of white wine, mix them well, and ftir them into the rice. Set them on a flow fire, and keep conftantly ftir- ring them, to prevent their curdling. When it boils, and is of a good thicknefs, take it up, and fend it to table. Onion Soup, Brown half a pound of butter with a little flour; but take care it does not burn. When it has done hifling, llice a dozen of large white onions, fry them very gently till they are ten- der. )136 SOUPS AND BROTHS, t der, and then pour to them, by degrees, two quarts of boiling water, fliaking the-pan well round as it is pouring in. Put in a cruft of bread, let it boil gently half an hour, and fea- ; fon it with pepper and fait. Take the top of a French roll, dry it at a tire, put it into a fauce- pan with fome of the foup to foak it, and then put it into the tureen. Let the foup boil Ibme ; time after the onions are tender, as it will add ^ much to tne richnefs of the foup. Scram it off, and pour it on the French roll. - j Ecel Soup. t A pound of eels will make a pint of good foup ; or take any greater quantity of eels, in propention to the quantity of foup you intend to make. To every pound of eels put a quart of water, a cruft of bread, two or three blades of mace, a little whole pepper, an onion, and a bundle of fweet herbs. Cover them clofe, and let them boil till half the liquor is wafted. Then ftrain it, toaft fome bread, cut it fmall, lay the ' bread into your difh, and pour in the foup. If ^ you find your foup is not rich enough, you may let it boil till you think it is properly thick. Milk Soup. [ Put two fticks of cinnamon, two bay-leaves, a very little balket fait, and a very little fugar, into two quarts of milk. Blanch half a pound of fweet almonds, beat them up to a pafte in a marble mortar, and mix fome milk with them by degrees. Grate the peel of a lemon with the almonds and a little of the juice. Then ftraia it through a coarle lieve, mix it with the milk that is heating in the ftewpan, and let it boil up. jSOUPS AND BROTHS. I37 up. Cut fome flices of French l)reacl, and dry them before the fire. Soak them a little in the milk, lay them at the bottom of the tureen, and pour in the foup. Chicken Broth. Flay an old cock, or a large fowl, pick off all the fat, and break it to pieces with a rolling pin. Put it into two quarts of water .with a good cruft of bread, and a blade of mace Let it bod foftly, till it is as good as you would have it, and it will take five or fix hours doing. Then pour it oflF, put a quart more boiling wa- ter to it, and cover it clofe. Let it boil foftly till it is good, and then ftrain it off. Seafon it with a very little fait. When you boil the chicken, fave the liquor, and when the meat is eaten, take the bones, break them, and put them to the liquor in which you boiled the chicken, with a blade of mace, and a cruft of bread. • Veal Broth. Stew a knuckle of veal in about a gallon of water, two ounces of rice, or vermicelli, a little fait, and a blade of mace. Strong Beef Broth to keep for Ufe. Take the ferag end of a neck of mutton, and part of a leg of beef, and break the bones in pieces. Put to it as much water as will cover it, and a little fait. When it boils, Ikim it . clean, and put into it a whole onion ftuck with cloves, a bunch of fweet herbs, fome pepper, and a nutmeg quartered. Let thefe boil till the meat is boiled in pieces, and theftrength boiled out of it. Strain it off, and keep it for ufe. Cmmon ■aL.-^3^ ' SAUCES, GRAVIES, Common Beef Bi oth. Break tl'.e bone of a leg of beef in two or three plates, put it into a gallon of water, with two or^rhiee blades of mace, a litile parfley, and a criill I t bread. Boil the beet very tender, flia ii rhe broth, and pour it into a tureen ; if you t hoofe it, the ii < at iiiav be put along with the broth. Put into a plaie fome bread toafted, ,and cut into fquares. Alutlon Broth. Put a ferag of mutton into three or four quarts of water, and boil it. bkim it as loon as it boils, and put to it a carrot, a turnip, a cruft of bread, an onion, and a fiuall bundle of herbs, and let them ftew. Put in the other part of the neck, that it may be boiled tender, and> ■when it is enough, take out the mutton^ and ftrain the broth. Put in the mutton again, with a few dried marigolds, chives, or voung onions, and a little chopped parfley. Boil thefe about a quarter of an- hour. The broth and mutton may be ferved together in a tureen, or the meat in a feparate difh. The broth may be thickened with either crumbs of bread, or oatmeal. Send up malhed turnips in a little difli. SAUCES, GRAVIES, AND CULLISES. Ham Sauce. T>EAT fome thin flices of the lean part of a dreffed ham with a rolling-pin to a mafh, and put it into'a faucepan, with a tea cupful of gravy. \f I I y I AND CULLISES. I39 gravy. Set it ©ver a flow fire, and keep flirring it to prevent its flicking at the bottom. When it has been on fome time, put in a bunch of fweet herbs, half a pint of beef gravy, and fome pepper. Cover it clofe, let it flew over a gentle fire, and when it is quite done ftrain it off. This is a very good fauce for any kind of veal. EJfence ef Ham. Cut three or four pounds of lean ham Into pieces about an inch thick, and lay them in the bottom of a flewpan, with flices of carrots, parfnips, and three or four onions cut thin., Let them flew till they flick to the pan ; but take care that tljev do not burn. Then, by degrees, pour on fome flrong veal gravy, fome frelh muflirooms cut in pieces, or mufhroom powder, truffles, morels, cloves, bafil, parflev, a cruft of bread, and a leek. Cover it down clofe, and when it has fimmered till it is of a good thicknels and flavour, flrain it off. A Sauce for roajl Meat tn general, Wafli an anchovy clean, and put to it a glafs of red wine, fome cravy, a fhalot cut fmall, and a little lemon juice. Stew thefe together, ftrain it off, and mix it with the gravy that runs from the meat. Caper Sauce. Take'fome capers, chop half of'them very fine, and put the reft in whole. Then chop fome parfley, with a little grated bread, and put to it fome fait. Put them into butter melt- ed very fmooth, let them boil up, and then pour them into a lauce-boat. —”»■ II—rh \ \ I ?*4° SAUCES, GRAVIES, Jinchovy Sauce. Put an anchovy into half a pint of gravy, With a quarter of a pound of butter, rolled in a Jittle flour, and ftir all together till it boils. If you chufe it, you may add a little lemon-juice, catchup, red wine, or walnut liquor. Shalot Sauce. Put five or fix lhalots, chopped very fine, into a faucepan with a gill of gravy, a fpoonful of vinegar, and fome pepper, and fait. Stew them for a minute, and then pour them into a dilh or fauce boat. Fgg Sauce. Boil two eggs till they are hard. Firfi chop the whites, tlien the yolks, but neither of them very fine, and put them together. Then put them into a quarter of a pound of good melted butter, and fiir them well together. Lemon Sauce. Pare the rind off a lemon, cut it into flices, take the kernels out, and cut it into fmall fquare bits. Blanch the liver of a fowl, and chop it fine. Mix the lemon and liver together in a boat, pour on I'ome hot melted butter, and ftir it up. Mread Sauce. Put a large piece of crumb from a dale loaf into a faucepan, with half a pint of water, an onion, a blade of mace, and a few pepper-corns in a bit of cloth. Boil them a few minutes, tlien take out the onion and fpice, mafli the breadAND CULLHE8. 141 i bread very fmooth, and add to it a piece of but- ter and a little fait. Fennel S luce. Boil a bunch of fennel and parfley, chop it very fmall, and ftir it into fome melted butter. Goofeberry Sjuce. Put fome fcalded goo'eberries, a little juice of forrel, aiid a little ginger, into fome melted butter. Afint Sauce. Warti your mint perfectly clean from grit or dirt, then chop it very hne, and put to it vinegar and fugar. Shrimp Sauce. Put half a pint of Ihrimps walhed very clean into a ftewpan, with a I'poontul of anchovy li- quor, and half a pound of butter melted thick. Boil it up for five minutes, and fqueeze in half a lemon. Tofs it up, and pour it into a lauce- boat, ‘ Oyjier Sauce. Preferve the liquor of your oyfiers as you open them, and ftrain it through a fine lieve. Walh the oyfters very clean, and take off the beards. Put them into a ftewpan, and pour the liquor over them. Then add a large fpoonful of anchovy liquor, half a lemon, two blades of mace, and thicken it with butter rolled in flour. Then put in half a pound of butter, and boil it up till the butter is melted. Then take out the mace and lemon, and fqueeze the lemon-juice into the fauce. Give it a boil, ftirring it all the time, and pour it into your fauce-boat. ' ' Sauce 1 .1^142 SAUCES, GRAVIEJ, Sauce for fVild Fowl. Take a proper quantity of veal gravy, with fome pepper and fait, fqueeze in the juice of two Se ville oranges, and add a little red wine, and let the wine boil fome time in the gravy. This is a good fauce for wild ducks, teal, &c. A general FJh Sauce. * Take fome mutton or veal gravy, and put to it a little of the liquor that-.drains from your fifli. Put it into a faucepan, with an onion, an anchovy, a fpoonful of catchup, and a glafs of white wine. Tincken it with a lump of butter rolled in flour, and a fpoonful of cream. If you have no cream, inftead of white wine you may ufe red. Pontiff Sauce. Put two or three llices of lean veal, and the fame of ham, into a ftewpan, with tome lliced onions, carrots, parfley, and a head of celery. When It is brown, add a little white wine, fome good broth, a clove of garlic, four fhalots, two cloves, and two flices of lemon peel. Boil it over a flow fire till the juices are extradfed from the meat; then fkim it, and ftrain it through a fieve. Juft before you ufe it, add a little cullis, with fome paifley chopj ed very fine. Affic S. uce. Infufechervil, tarragon,burnet, garden-crefs, and mint, into a little cullis for about an hour. Then ftrain it, and add a fpoonful of garlic vi- negar, with a little pepper and fait. To• AND CtJLLISES. *To make a rich Gravy* Gut into fmall bits a piece of lean l>eef, a piece of veal, and a piece ot mutton. Fake a large faucepan with a covtr. lay your .beef at the bottom, then your mutton, a very little piece of bacon, a flice or two of carrot, fome mace, cloves, whole black and white pepper^ a large onion cut in llices, a buiidle of Iweet herbs, and then lay on your vral. Cover it clofe, and fet it over a flow fire tor fix or^fev- n minutes, and fhake the faucepan often. Then duft fome flour into it, and poui in boding wa- ter till the meat is foinetlimg more than cover- ed. Cover your faucepan clofe, and let it flew till it is rich and good. Then fealbn it with fait to Vour tafte, and ftrain it off. Thi* gravy will anfwer almofl; everv purpofe. muke a common Gravy. Take a piece of chuck or neck beef, and cut it into fmall pieces Tfien flieiv fome flour over it, mix it well with the meat, and put it into a faucepan, with nuch water as will cover it, an pnion, a littic allfpice, a little pepper, and fome fait. Cover it clofe, and when it boils fkim it. Flitn throw in a hard cruft of bread, or fome rafpings, and let if flew , till the gravy is rich and good, and then ftrain it off. " Brown Gravy. Put a piece of butter, about the fize of a hen’s egg, into a faucepan, and when it is melted lhake in a little flour, and let it be brown. Then by degrees ftir in the following ingredients.144 SAUCES, GRAVIES, F j ingredients. Half a pint of water, and the fame i quantity of ale or fmall beer that is not bitter ; . j an onion, and a piece of lemon-peel cut fmall, | three cloves, a blade of mace, fome whole pep- ' per, a fpoonful of mufhroom pickle, the fame « quantity of catchup, and an anchovy. Let the whole boil together a quarter of an hour, then drain it off, and it will be a good fauce for va- rious purpofes. } To make Browning. , Beat fmall four ounces of triple-refined fu- gar, and put it into a frying-pan, with an ounce of butter. Put it over a clear fire, and mix it j well together. When it begins to be frothy by the fugar diflblving, hold it higher over the i fire ; and when the fugar and butter is of a deep brown, pour in a little red wine, and ftir it well together. Then add more wine, about a pint in all, and keep ftirring it all the time. 'Putin half an ounce of Jamaica pepper,'fix I ■cloves, four flialots peeled, two or three blades of mace, three fpoonfuls of catchup, a little 1 fait, and the rind of a lemon. Boil them flowly j about ten minutes, and then pour it into a ba- | fon. When it is cold, fkim it very clean, and bottle it up for ule. Forcemeat Balls. ' | Cut fine half a pound of veal and the fame quantity of fuet, and beat them in a mortar. Shred fine a few fweet herbs, a little dried mace, ’a fmall nutmeg grated, a little lemon-peel cqt very fine, fome pepper and fait, and the yolks . [ . of two eggs. Mix all thefe vrell together, then roU . JI Ui. TO DRESS ROOTS l6f put them into a flewpan of boiling water with fome fait. Let the water keep boiling, and when they are a little tender, take them up ; for, if you boil'them too much, you will fpoil both their colour and flavour. Lay them on a toafl; that has been dipped in the water the afpa- ragus was boiled in. ^Pour over them melted butter, or put butter into a bafon, and fend them up to table. c • To drefs Peas. Do not fhell your peas till juft before you want them. Put them into boiling water with a little fait, and a lump of loaf fugar, and when they begin to dent in the middle, they arc enough. Strain tliem into a fieve, put a good lump of butter into your difh, and ftir them, till the butter is melted. Boil a fprig of mint by itfelf, chop it fine, and lay it in lumps round the edge of your difti. To drefs Garden Beans. Beans muft be boiled in plenty of water ; and, like peas, ftiould be fhelled only juft be- fore they are wanted. Put a good quantity of fait into the water, and boil them till they are all tender. Boil and chop parfley, put it into good melted butter, and ferve them up with boiled bacon, and the butter and parfley in a boat The bacon muft not be boiled with the beans. To drefs Artichokes. Having twifted the ftalks off your artichokes, put them into cold water, and waih them well. 1 Put ✓ 1 tr tlyO ' DIFFERENT METHODS Put them into boiling water with the top downwards, in order that all the grit and fand may boil out. They will require an hour and a half, or two hours boiling. Put melled but- ter into little cups, and ferve them up. To fricajjce Artichoke Bottoms. Take either dried or pickled artichoke bot- toms ; but, if you ufe dried, you muft put them in warm water three or four.hours, fliift- ing the water two or ihree times. Have ready a little cream, and a piece of frefli butter, ftir- red together one way till it is melted. 1 hen put in the artichokes, and difli them up as foon as they are hot. To drefs Turnips. Pare your turnips thick, and when they are boiled, fqueeze them* and mafh them fmooth. Heat them with a little cream, and a piece of butter. Put to them fome pepper and ialt, and ferve them up. It will be perhaps .better to omit the pepper and fait, and leave the com- pany to pleaie their own palates. To drefs Carrots. If your carrots are young, you need only wipe them after they are boiled , but if they are old you muff fcrape them before they are boiled. Slice them into a plate, and pour melt- ed butter over there. Young fprmg carrots will be boiled in half an hour, large ones in an hour, and old Sandwich carrots will take two hours.171 T« DRESS ROOTS, To drefs Potatoes. Cover the faucepan clofe, boil'them in very little water, and when the Ikin begins to crack, they will be enough. Drain out all the watcr^ and let them ftand covered a little. To drefs Par/nips. They mud be boiled in plenty of water, and when you can run a fork into them eafily, they will be enough. They may beferved up either whole with melted butter, or beat fraiooth in a bowl, heated with a little cream, butter, and Hour, and a little fait. To fricafjee Mujhrooms. Having peeled your Mulhrooms, and feraped the infide of them, throw them into fait and water. If they are buttons, rub them with flannel; take them out, and boil them with frelh fait and water. When they are tender, put in a little fhred parfley, and an onion duck with cloves, and tofs them up with a good lump of butter rolled in a little flour. You may put in three fpoonfuls of thick cream, and a little nutmeg cut in pieces; but be fure to take out the nutmeg and onion before you fend jt to table.172 TO MAKE PANCAKES % MAKE PANCAKES and FRITTERS. Pancakes. Having beat fix or eight eggs well to- gether, leaving out half the whites, flir them into a quart of milk. Mix your flour firft with a little of the milk, and then put in the reft by degrees. Add two fpoonfuls of beaten ginger, a glafs of brandy, and a little fait, and iVir all well together. Put fome butter into a Pcwpan, and then pour in a ladleful of batter, which will be fufficicnt to make a pancake, and keep moving the pan round, that the batter may fpread properly. Shake the pan, and turn the pancake, as foon as you think one fide is done enough. When both fides are done, lay it in a difli before the fire, and proceed in the fame manner till you have fried as many as you choofe. Strew a little fugar over them, and fepd them up to table. Cream Pancakes. Put the yolks of two eggs into half a pint of cream, with two ounces of fugar, and a little beaten cinnamon, mace, and-nutmeg. Proceed in every other refpe£l as above diredied. R 'ice Pancakes. Mix three fpoonfuls of flour of the rice with 3 quart of cream, fet it on a flow fire, and keep flirring it till it is as thick as pap. Pour into it half a pound of butrer, and a nutmeg grated. Put it into an earthen pan, and as foon as it is >. cold.1'73- AND FRITTERS. cold, ftir in three or four Ypoonfuls of flour, a little fait, feme fugar, and nine eggs well beatenv Mix all well together, and fry them nicely. New milk muft heufed, when you cannot get cream ; but, in that cafe, a fpoonful more of rice murt be added. To make plain Fritters. Put the crumb of a penny-loaf grated into a pint of milk, and mix it very fmooth. When it is cold, put in the yolks of five eggs, three ounces of lifted fugar, and a little grated nut- meg. Fry them‘in the fame manner as pan- cakes, and ferve them up with melted butterj wine, and fugar. nipple Fritters. Pare and core fome of the larged apples you can get, and cut them into round flices. Take half a pint of ale, and two eggs, and beat in as much flour as will make it rather thicker than a common pudding, with nutmeg and fugar to your tafte. Let it Ifand three or four minutes to rife. Dip your flices of apple into the batter, fry them crifp, grate over them fome fugar, put wine fauce in a boat, and fend them up to table. Cujiard Frittert. Having heat up the yolks of eight eggs with a fpoonful of flour, half a nutmeg, a little fair, and a glafs of brandy, add a pint of cream, fweelen it, and bake it in a fmall dilh. When it is cold, cut it into quarters, and dip them in batter made of half a pint of cream, a quarter of a pint of milk, four eggs, a little flour, and a I 3 little I* ■» •*74 TO MAKE PANCAKES little ginger grated. Fry them in good lard or «lripping, and when done, ftrew grated fucar ever them. ^ Royal Rriiters. Put a quart of new milk intoafaucepan, and pour in a pint of fack or wine as foon as it be- gins to boil. Then take it ofF, and let it hand five or fix minutes, Ikim off the curd, and put Ic into a bafon. Beat it up well with fix eggs, and feafon it with nutmeg. Then beat it with a whifk, and add flour fufficient to give it the ufual thicknefs of batter. Put in fome fugar, and fry them quick. German Fritters, Pare, quarter, and core fome well-tafted crlfp apples; take the core quite out, and cut them into round pieces. Put into a ftewpan a quar- ter of a pint of French brandy, a table fpoonful of fine fugar pounded, and a little cinnamon. Put the' apples into this liquor, and fet them over a gentle fire, fiirring them often ; but take care not to break them. Set on a flewpan with fome lard, and when it boils, drain the apples, dip them in fome fine flour, and put them into the pan. Strew fome fugar over the diih, and fet it on the fire.' Lay in the fritters, ftrew a little fugar over them, and glaze them over with a red hot falamander. Kice Fritters. Having boiled a quarter of a pound of rice in milk till it is pretty thick, mix it with a pint ef cream, four eggs, fome fugar, cinnamon and nutmeg, V-and fritters. nutmeg, fix ounces of currants wafliecl and picked, a littJe fair, and as much, flour as will make it a thick batter. Fry tlie.m in litHe cakes in boiling lard, and ferve them .up with fugar and butter. ’ ^an fey Fritters, Having poured a pint of boiling milk on tlie crumb of a penny loaf, let it (land an hour, and then put in as much’ juiceot tanfey to it as will give it a flavour. Add to it a little juice of fpinach, to give it a green colour. Put to it a fpoonful of ratifia-water, or brandy, Iwecten it to your tafte, grate the rind of half a lemon, beat the yolks of four eggs, and mix them all- together. Put them in a flewpan, with a quar- ter of a pound of butter, and ftir it over a flow fire till it is quite thick. ' Take it olP, and let it Hand two or three hours. Then drop, a fpoonful at a time into boiling lard. When they are done, grate fugar .over them, and put wine fauce in a boat, and fend them up to tabic. ' Rifpberry Fritters. Grate two Naples bifeuits, or the crumb of a f rench roll,! and put to it a pint of boiling cream. When it is cold, add to it the yolks of four eggs well beaten up. Mix all well toge- ther with fome rafpberry juice, and drop them into a pan ot boiling lard in very fmall quanti- ties. Stick them with blanched almonds fliced, and ferve them up. t Strawberry Fritters. Having made a hatter with flour, a fpoonful 'of iweet oil, another of white wine, a littbi 14 rafped*7^ TO MAKE CAKES, rafped lemon-peel, and the whites of two or three eggs, make it j)rctty loft, fo as juft to drop with a fpoon. Mix it with fome large ftraw- berries, and drop them with a fpoon into the hot fritters. When they are of a good colour, take them out, and drain them on a fievc. When they are done, ftrew fome fugar over them, and glaze them, Currant Fritters. Stir into half a pint of ale that is not bitter as much Hour as will make it pretty thick, and put in a few currants. Beat it up quick, have the lard boiling, and put a large fpoonful at a time into the pan. CAKES, PUFFS, AND BISCUITS. Fo make a Plum Cake. '"I "O three pounds of flour put an equal quan- tity of currants, three quarters of a pound of almonds, blanched and a little beat, half an ounce of them bitter; a quarter of a pound of fugar, the yolks of feven eggs, and the whites of fix; a pint of cream, two pounds of butter, and half a pint of good ale yeaft. Mix the eggs and the yeaft together, and ftrain them. Set the cream on the fire, and melt the butter in it. Stir in the almonds, and hall a pint of fade, part of which muft be put to the almonds whde beating. Mix together the currants, flour, and fugar, with nutmeg, cloves, and mace, to your palate. Stir thefe to the cream, and put ki the yeaft.PUFFS, AND BISCUITS. I77 Shreivjbury Cakes. Having beat half a pound of butter to a cream, put in half a pound of flour, an egg, fix ounces of loaf fugar beaten and fifted, half an ounce of carraway feeds, mixed into a pafte, and roll them thin. Cut them round with little tins, or a fmall glafs, prick them, lay them on flieets of tin, and bake them in a flow oven. A Bride Cake.. To four pounds of fine flour well dried, put the like quantity of frefli butter, two pounds of loaf fugar, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and the fame quantity of nutmeg, both finely pounded and fifted. To every pound of flour put eight eggs; wafh and pick four pounds of currants, and dry them before the fire ; blanch a pound of fvveet almonds, and cut them length-^ ways very thin ; of citroij, candied orange, and candied lemon, a pound each, and half a pint of brandy. Firfl work the butter with your hand to a cream, then beat in your fugar a quarter of an hour,-beat the^whitcs of. your eggs to a very ftrong froth, and mix them with your fu- gar 2md butter. Beat your yolks at leaf! half an ;.our, and mix them^with your cake. Then put in-your flour, mace, and'nutmeg, and keep beating it till your oven is ready. I^it in your brai'dy, and beat in lightly your currants and almonds Tie three liieets of paper round the bottom of your hoop, to keep it- from running out, and rub it well with butter. Put in your cake, and lay in your fweetmeats in three lay- ers, with cake between every layer. After it is J 5 riferi Ir T J? 1TO MAKE CAKES, I rifen and coloured, cover it with paper before your oven is flopped up, and bake it three hours. A Found Cake. Beat a pound of butter, in an earthen pan, with your hand, one/way, till it refembles a fine thick cream. Then beat up with the but- Ur twelve eggs, with one half their whites; and beat in alfo a pound of fugar, a pound of flour, and a few carraways. Beat all well to- gether with your hand, or with a large wooden fpoon, for an hour. Then butter a pan, put it in, and bake it an hour in a quick oven. You may, if you think proper, put in a pound of clean-wallied and picked currants. Heart Cakes. With your hand work a pound of butter to a cream , then put to it twelve eggs, with only fix of the whites, well beaten, a pound of dried flour, a pound of fifted fugar, four fpoonfuls of good brandy, and a pound of currants walked, and dried before the tire. As the pans are Ail- ed, put in two ounces'of candied orange and citron, and continue beating the cake till you put it into the oven. This quantity will he fulBcient to All three dozen ^of middling-liztd A common Seed Cake. Take a pound of butter beat to a cream with the hand, a pound ar.d a quarter of flour, three quarters of a pound of dump fugar pounded, the yolks of ten eggs, and the whites of four. thele well together, and put to them an ounce ofPUFFS, AND BtSaUlTS. T79 of carraway feeds bruifed. Butter the pan or hoop, and lift the fugar on the top. A rich Seed Cake, Tak a pound of butter, a pound of flour- well dried, a pound of loaf fugar beaten and lifted, eight eggs, two ounces of carraway feeds, one nutmeg grated, and its weight of cinnamon. J Having beaten your butter to a cream, put in your fugar, beat the whites of'your eggs half an hour, and mix them with the fugar and but- ter. Then beatHhe volks half an hour, and put to them the whites. Beat in your flour, fpices, and feeds, a little before it goes to the oven. Put it in the hoop, and bake it two hours in a quick oven. The ingredients will take two hours, in order to be beaten up pro- perly together. A good Family Cake. Take rice and wheat flour, of each fix oun- ces, the yolks and whites of nine eggs, half a p'.und of lump fugar pounded and lifted, and half an ounce of carraway feeds Having beaten this one hour, bake it for the fame tinre in a quick oven. This is a verv light cake, and is very proper for young people and delicate fto- machs. Almond Cakes. Blanch and beat two ounces of bitter, and one pound of fv\’eet almonds; take a little rofe or orange-flour water, and the white of an egg ; half a pound of ioaf-lugar flfted, eight yolks and three whites of eggs, the juice of half 16 a lemon jTO MAKE CAKES, iJo ' a lemon, and the rind grated. Bake it in one large pan, or in feveral fmall ones. Bath Cakes. Rub half a pound of butter into a pound of flour, and put to it a fpoonfal of good barm, and, with fome warm cream, make it into a light pafte, and fet it to the fire to rife. When you make them up, take four ounces of carra- way comfits, w'ork part of them in, and drew the reft on the top. Make them into round cakes, about the fize of a French roll, bake them on Iheet tins, and fend them in hot for breakfaft. Icings for Cakes, Pound and fift fine a pound of double-refined fugar, and mix with it, in an eaithen pan, ihs whites of twenty-four eggs. Whifk them well for two or three hours, till it looks white and thick, and then, with a bunch of feathers, fpread it all over the tops and fides of the cake. Set it at a proper diftance before a clear fire,' and keep turning it continually, that it may not change colour; hut a cool oven is bed, in which aii:hour will harden it. You may alfo make your icing in the following manner. Beat the whites of three eggs to a flreng freth, beat a pound of Jordan almonds very fine wi.h lofe water, and mix your almonds and eggs lightly together. Then beat a pound of loaf fugar very fine, and put it in by degrees. W hen your cake is enough, take it out, Jay on your icing, and proceed as above directed. AlmondPUFFS, AND BISCUITS. l8l jilmond Puffs. Blanch and beat very fine two ounces of fweet almonds with orange-flour water.' Beat the whites of three eggs to a very high froth, and then drew in a little fiftccl fugar. Mix your almonds with your fugar and eggs, and then add more fugar till it is as thick as pafte. Lay it in cakes, and bake it on a paper in a cool oven. Lemon Puffs. Having beaten and fifted a pound of double- refined fugar, put it into a bowl, with the juice of two lemons, and beat them well together. Then, having beaten the white of an egg to a very high froth, put it alfo into your bowl, and beat it half an hour. Put hi three eggs, and two rinds of lemons grated. Mix it well up, duft fome.fugar on your paper, drop on the puflfs in fmall drops, and bake them in a mode- rately heated oven. jTo make JVafers. Beat the yolks of two eggs in a pint of cream, and mix it as thick as a pudding with well-dried flour, and fugar and orange-flour water to your tafte. Put in a fufficient quantity of warm wa- ter to make it as thin as fine pancakes. Mix them very fmooth, and bake them over a ftove. Butter the irons when they ftick. To make common Bifcuils. Beat eight eggs half an’hour, and put to them a pound of fugar beaten and fifted, with the lind of a lemon grated. Whifli it an hour, or till^ l8z TO MAKE CAKES, &C. till it looks light, and then put in a pound of flour, with a little rofe-water. Sugar them over, and bake them in tins, or on paper. Naples Bifcuits. ' ' Mix a pound of fott fugar finely fifted with three quarters of a p'.mnd of very fine flour. Sift 'it three times, and then add fix eggs well beaten, and a fpoonful of#rofcrwater. When the oven is almofl: hot, make them, but take care that they are not made up too wet. Savoy Bifcuits. Having beaten the whites of eight eggs till 'they bear a ftrong froth, pur the yolks to them, with a pound of fugar, and beat them all toge- ther a quarter of an hour. When the oven is ready, add a pound of fine flour to the other "ingredients. Stir them till they be well mixed, lay the bifcuits upen the paper, and ice them. Bake them in a quick oven. , ’To make Gingerbread. Mix three quarts of fine flour, two ounces of • beaten ginger, a quarter of an ounce of nut- meg, cloves, and mace, beat fine, then add three 'quarters of a pound of fine fugar, two pounds of treac le, and fet it over the fire, but do not let it boil. Mck three -quarters of a pound of but- ter in the treacle, put in fome candied lemon and t>range-peel cut fine, and let it ftand in a quick oven one hour. i. TOTO MAKS CHEESECAKES. 183 ro »:^Z’.’CHEESECAKES a«d^CUSTARDS. ^0 make common Chcefecakes. Beat eight eggs well, while a quart of milk is on the fire, and when ^t boils, put in the eggs, and ftir them till they- come to a curd. Then pour it out, and when it is cold, put in a little fait, two fpooufulsof rofe-water, and three quarters of a pound of currants, well waflied. Put it into pufF-pafte, and bake it. If you ufe tin patties to bake in, butter them, or you will not be able to take them out; but if you bake them in glafs or china, only an upper cruft will be neceflary, as you will not want to take them out when you fend them to table. I Elegant Chcefecakes. Warm a pint of cream, and put to it'five quarts of n\ilk warm from the cow. Then put runnet to it, and ftir it well. As foon as it is curdled, put the curd in a linen bag or cloth, and let the whey properly drain from it, but do not fqueeze it much. Then put it into a mor- tar, and break the curd as fine as butter. Put to the curd half a pound of fweet almonds blanched, and half a pound, of mackaroons, both firvely beaten. Put in nine eggs well beaten, a whole nutmeg grated, two perfumed plums diflblved in rofe or orange-flower water, and half a pound of fine fugar. Mix all well toge- ther ; then melt a pound and a quarter of but- ter, and ftir it well in. Make a pufF-pafte as lollows; i 1184 TO MAKE CHEESECAKES follows: Wet a pound of fine floMr with cold water, and roll it out. Put into it by vlegrees a pound of frelh butter, and diake a little flour over each coat as you roll it. Make it juft; be- fore you want to ufe it. If. you choofe it, you may put in a little tindlure of faffron to give them a high colour. Rice Chcefecahes. Plaving boiled a quarter of a pound of rice till it be tender, drain it, and put in four eggs well beaten, half a pound of butter, half a pint of cream, fix ounces of fugar, a nutmeg grated, and a glafs of ratafia water or lirandy. Beat them all together, and bake them in raifed crufts. Almond Chcejecokes. Blanch four ounces of Jordan almonds, and put them into cold water. Beat them with rofe-water in a marble mortar or wooden bowl, with a wooden peftle : put to it four ounces of fugar, and the yolks of ^our eggs finely beaten. Work it in the mortar or bowl till it becomes while and frothy. Then make the followmg rich puff-pafte: Take half a pound of flour, and a quarter of a pound of butter; rub a little of the butter into the flour, mix it ftiff with a little cold water, then roll your pafte flraight out, ftrew over it a little flour, lay over it, in thin bits, one third of your butter ; throw a little more flour over the butter; do fofor three times, then put your pafte in your tins, fill them, and grate fugar over them. Bake them in a moderately heated oven. CitronAND CUSTARDS. 1*^ Citroji Cheefecakes. Having boiled a quart of cream, let it ftand till it is cold, and then mix it with the yolks of four eggs well beaten. Then fet it on the fire, and let it boil till it curds. Blanch fome al- monds, beat them well with orange-flower wa- ter,. put them into the cream, with a few Na- ples bifcuits and green citrons fhred fine. Sweeten it to your taftc, and bake them in tea- cups. Lemon and Orange Cheefecakes. Boll the peel of two large lemons till they be quite tender, and then pound it well in a mortar with four or five ounces of loaf fugar, the yolks of fix eggs, half a pound of frefla but- ter, and a little curd beat fine. Pound and mix all together, lay a puff-pafte in your pattvpans, fill them half full, and bake them. Orange cheefecakes are made in the fame method, only with this difference, that the bitternefs muff be taken out of the peel by boiling it in two or three waters. A common Cujiard. Sweeten a quart of new milk to your taffe, grate in a fmail nutmeg, beat up eight eggs with only four whites, ftir them into the milk, and add a little rofe-water. Bake it in china bafons, or put them in a deep china difh. Pre- pare a kettle of boiling water, fet the cups into it, and let the water come above half way; but do not let it boil too faff, for fear of its get- ting into lite cups. Colour them at top with a hot iron. Cujiardsi86 TO MAKE CHEESECAKES. Cujlards to bake. Having boiled a pint of cream \villi mace ai;id cinnamon, let itftand till it be cold. Then take four eggs, leaving out two of the whites, a little rofe and orange-Sower water and fack, with nutmeg and fugar to your palate. Mix them well together, and bake them in cups. Almond Ciiflardst Boil a pint of cream in a toffing-pan, with a flick of cinnamon, a blade or two of mace, and let it lljand to cool. Blanch two ounces of al- monds, beat them fine in a marble mortar with fome water. If you like a ratafia tafte, put in a few apricot kernels, or bitter almonds. Mix them with your cream, fweeten it to your tafte, fet it on a flow fire, and l^eep ftirring it till it is pretty thick. Bake it in cups. Orange Cujlards. ^ Boll half the rind of a Seville orange till it be tender, beat it very fine in a mortar, and put to it a Spoonful of brandy, a quarter of a pound of loaf iugar, the juice of a Seville orange, an.d the yolks, of four eggs Beat them all well to- gether for ten minutes, a^d then pour in by de- grees a pint of boiling cream. Keep beating them till they are cold, then put them intocuf* taid cups, and fet them in an ea.rthen difli of hot vyater. Let them ftand'till they are fet, then rake them out, aigd flick preferved orange on the top. They m^y bp. tateai either hot or cold. LemonTO MAKE CREAMS. I Lemon Qujiards. Firft beat the yolks ot ten eggs, and ftrain them, and then beat tiieni with a pintof cream. Sweeten the juice of two lemons, boil it v\ith the peel of one, and flrain it. As foon as it has cooled, ftir it to the cream and eggs ; put it on the hre again, Hir it till it nearly boils, giate -over it the rind of a lemon, and brown with a falamander. Kice C'tJIards* Boil a blade of mace and a quartered nutmeg in a quart of cream, and ftram it. Then add to it Ibme whole rice boiled and a little brandy. Sweden it, ftir it over the fire till it thickens, and ierve it up in cups or a'dilh. It may be fent to table either hot or cold. TO MAKE CREAMS AND JAMS. ‘' Orange Cream. TpARE the rind of a Seville orange very fine, -f’ and fqueeze the juice of four oranges. Put them into a ftewpan wdth half a pint of water, and eight ounces of -Tug ir. . Beat the whites of five eggs, mix them into it, and fet them on. a flow fire. Stir it one way till it grows thick and v#iitq, flrain it through a gauze, and ftir it till it is cold. T^hen beat the yolks of five eggs very fine, and put them into your pan W'ith the cream. Stir it over a gentle fire till it nearly boils, then put it into a bafon, and ftir it till it is cold, W'hen you may put it into you? glafles. I 0i ‘ of two eggs finely beaten. Stir it gently over ICO TO MAKE CREAAfS Burnt Cream. Boil a pint of cream with fugar and a little Jemon-peel fhred fine. Beat the yolks of fix, and the whites of four eggs feparately, and when the cream is cold, put in your eggs, with a fpoonful of orange-flower water, and one of fine flour. Set it over the fire, keep ftirring it till it is thick, and then put into a difli. When it is cold, fift a quarter of a j)ound of fugar all over it, and brown it with a hot falamander, till it looks like a glafs plate put over your cream. Spanljh Cream. Take three fpoonfuls of flour of rice Cfted very fine, the yolks of three eggs, three fpoon- fuls of water, two of orange-flower water, and mix them well together. Put to them one pint of cream, and fet it upon a good fire, ftirring it till it be of a proper thicknefs. Then pour it into cups. Ptjiachio Cream, Take out the kernels of half a pound of PI- ftachio nuts, beat them in a mortar with a fpoonful of brandy, and put them into a tof- fing-pan, with a pint of cream, and the yolks a flow file till it is thick, but do not let it boil. Pour it into a china foup-plate, and wh^ it is. cold, ftick fome kernels, cut longways, all it, and fend it to table. Whipl C’ eam. Beat the whites of eight eggs well, and mix them with a quart of thick cream, and half a pint overAND JAMS. jilnt of fack. Sweeten it to your tafte with double-refined fugar. Whip it up with a whilk, and fome lemon-peel tied in the middle of the whilk. l ake the froth with a fpoon, and lay it in your glalTes or bafons. I his does well over a tart. Ice Cream. Pare, flone, and fcald twelve ripe apricots, and beat them fine in a marble mortar. Put to them fix ounces of double refined fugar, and a pint of fcalding cream, and work it through a hair fieve. Put it into a tin that has a clofe cover, and fet it in a tub of ice broken fmall, ^nd a large quantity of fait put among it. When you fee the cream grows thick round the edges of your tin, ftir it, and fet it again till it grows quite thick. When your cream is all frozen up, lake it out of the tin, and put it into the mould you intend it to be turned out of. Then put on the lid, and have ready an- other tub, with ice and fait in it as before. Put your mould in the middle, and lay your ice tinder and over it Let it fland four or five hours, and dip your tin in warm water when you turn it out; but, if it be fummertime, do not turn it out till the very inft nt you want it. If you have not apricots, any other fruit will anfwer the purpofe, provided you take care to them very fine in the moitar. Goofeberry Cream. Put two quarts of goofeberries into a fauce- pan, juft cover them with water, fcald them till they are tender, and then rub them through • a fieve with a fpoon to a quart of pulp. HaveTO MAKE CREAMS tQO 4 ready fix eggs well beaten, make your pulp hot, and put in one ounce of frcfh butler. Sweeten it to your tafte, put it Qver a gentle fire till they are thick ; but take care that they do not boil. Then fiir in^a gill of the juice cf fpinach, and when it is almoft cold, llir in a fpoonful of orange-flower water or fack. Pour it into bafons, and ferve it up cold. ’To make black Currant "Jam. Having gathered your currants when they are full ripe, pick them clean from the ftalks, bruife them well in a bowl, and to every pound of currants put a pound and half of loaf fugar, finely beaten. Put them into a preferving pan, boil them half an hour, flcim and ftir them all the time, and then put them into pots. Cherry yam. _ Take fome cherries, boil and break them. Take them ofF the fire, and let the juice run from them. To three pounds of cherries, boil together half a pint of red currant juice, and half a pound of loaf fugar. Put in the cherries as they boil, fift in three quarters of a pound of fugar, and boil the cherries very fall for,jnore than half an hour. Put on brandy-paper when they are properly cooled. ■ Goof cherry Jams. Cut into halves and take out the feeds of •fome large full grown goofeberries, but not too ripe. Put them into a pan of cold fpring wa- ter, lay fome vine leaves at the bottom, then fome goofeberries, then vine leaves, till all the fruit \AND JAMS. fruit is In the pan. Cover it very clofe, that no fteam can evaporate, and fet them on a very flow fire. When they are fcalding hot, take them otf, then fet them on again, and fo on. They niuft t.e thus treated till they are of a - good green. Then lay them on a fieve to dram, and beat them in a marble mortar with their weight in I'ugar. Take a quart of water, and a quart of goofeberries, boil them to a mafh, and fqueeze them. To every pint of this liquor put a pound of fine loaf fugar, and boll and Ikim it. I'lien put in the green goofeberrles, and let them boil till they be thick and clear, and of a good green. Apricot Jam. Cut fome fine lich apricots Into thin pieces, and infule them in an earthen pot till they are tender and dry Put a pound of double refined fugar, and three fpoonfuls of wafer, to every pound and an half of apricots. Then boil your fugar to a candy height, as hereafter direfttfd in the chapter of candying, and put‘it upon your apricots Set them over a flow fire, and flir them till tliey appear clear and thick, but take care that they do not boil. Then put them into your glafles. Red Rafpberry Jam. Ral^erries for this purpofe muft be'gather- ed when they are npo and dry. Pick them very carefully from the ftalks and dead ones, and crufli them in a bowl with a filver or wooden fpoon, as pewter is apt to turn them of a purple colour. Having cruflied them, ftrew in their ownl9^ BLANC MANGE, ' own weiglit of loaf fugar, and half their weiglit of currant juice, baked and {trained as for jelly. Then boil them half an liour over a clear flow fire, fkimthem well, and keep flirting them all the time. Then put them into pots or glaffes, with brandy paper over them, and keep them for ufe. As foon as you have got your berries, remember to ftrew in your fugar; do not let them fland long before you boil them, and it will preferve their flavour. BLANC MANGE, JELLIES, AND SYLLABUBS. » » To make Blanc Mange. ■pUT two ounces of ifinglafs, a flick of cin- namon, a little lemon-peel, a few corian- .der feeds, and two or three laurel leaves, into a ilew-pan, with a quart of new milk, and fweeten it to your palate. Add to it fix bitter almonds cut in fliecs. Boil it gently till the ifinglafs is dilTolved, and then flrain it through a fine fieve into a bowl. Let it fland till it is half cold, and then pour it off from the fet- tlings into another bowl. Let your moulds be ready, fill them, and let them fland to be cold. When they are thoroughly cold, raH'e them with your fingers from the fides, dip the bot- , tom of the mould into warm water, and turn them out into a difh. Garnifli with jellies of different colours, or currant jelly, Seville oranges cut in quarters, flowers, or any thing?),., JELLIES, AND SYLLABUBS. IQJ elfe you fancy. When you want to colour your Wane mange green, jufl when it is done, put in a little fpinach juice, but take care that it does not boil after it is put in,‘ as that will curdle and fpoil the whole. If you wifh to laave it red, put in a little bruifed cochineal ; if yellow, a little faffron ; if violet colour, a little fyrup of violets ; and thus you may have difi'e- rent colours in the diOi, fuch as plain white, green, yellow, red, and violet. Let your mould for the whltH’be deeper than the reft ; put it in the middle of the diih, and the others round it. HartJJjorn Flummery. Put four ounces of hartftiorn ftiavings into a faucepan with two quarts of fpring water, and let it fimmer over the fire till it is reduced to a pint; or put it into a jug, and fet it in the oven with houfehold bread. Strain it through a fieve into a ftewpan, blanch and beat half a pound of fweet almonds with a little orange- fiower water, mix a little of your jelly in it, and fine fugar enough to fweeten it. Then ftrain it through a fieve to the other jelly, mix it well together, and when it is blood warm, put it into moulds or half pint bafons. When it is cold, dip the moulds or bafons in warm water, and turn them into xT dilh. Mix fome white wi e and fugar together, and pour them into the difti. If you pleafe, you may ftick al- monds in them. French Flummery, Beat an ounce of ifinglafs fine, put it into a quait of cieam, and boil it gently for a quarter ^ of35LANC MAKGE, 194 of an hour, but keep flirring it all the time. Then take it ofF fvveeten it with fine powder ■fugar, put in a fpoonful of rofe and another of orange flower water, flrain it through a fieve, and flir it till half cold. Put it into a mould or bafon, and when cold, turn it into a difh,r and garnifli with currant jelly. 'Calf^s Feet Jelly. i Take out the large bones of two calves feet, cut the meat in fmall pieces, and put them into a faucepan with three quarts of water, a little lemon-peel, and a flick of cinnamon. Boil it crently till it is reduced to a quart, and remem- ber to try it with a fpoon, in order to fee when it is flrong enough. Strain it ofF, and let it fettle half an hour. Then fkim it very clean, and pour it from the fettling into a flewpan. Put in half a pint of mountain or Lifbon wine, fweeten it to your tafle with loaf fugar, fquecze foui lemons, or two lemons and two Seville oranges, flrain the juice to keep out Jhe feeds, and put it in with a lemon peel, and a very little fafFron. Boil it up a few minutes, then 1>eat up the whites of eiglit eggs to a high froth, and mix them well together with the jelly. Then boil it up for five minutes. Have your bag ready with a bowl under it, pour your jelly gently in, that it may run pretty fafl through at the lirft, and as it runs pour it in. again (eve- ral times, till it is as clear as you would have it. When it is .all run ofF, fill your glafFcs Tvith a fpoon. HartjhornjelCies, and syllabubs. 195 Harijhorn Jelly. i ■ Put three quarts of water and half a pound of hartflrorn fhavings into a faucepan, with a lemon peel, and a ftick of cinnamon. Boil it fently till it is a ftrong jelly, which you may now by taking a little out in a fpoon, and let it cool, as before dire6led. Then ftrain it through a fine fieve into a ftewpan, put in a pint of Rhenifli wine, fwceten it with loaf fu- gae to your palate, fqueeze in the juice of four lemons, or two lemons and two Seville oranges, firain the juice to keep out the feeds^ put them in, with a little faffron, and boil it up. Beat up the whites of eight eggs to a high froth, mix them well in the jelly, and boil it up for five minutes. Then take it off" the fire, and proceed in the fame manner as before dire£tx?d. Remember to put your fugar and lemon in, to make it palatable, before you put your eggs in ; for by putting in fugar and lemon afterwards, you will prevent its clearing properly. ' Orange Jelly. Put two quarts of fpring water into a fauce- pan, with half a pound of hartlhorn fhavings, or four ounces of ifinglafs, and boil it gently till it becomes a ftrong.jelly. Tuke- the juice , of three Seville oranges, three lemons, and fix China oranges, the rind of one Seville orange, and one lemon, pared very thin. Put them to your jelly, Iweeten with .loaf fugar to- your tafte, beat up the whites of eight eggs to a froth, mix them well in, and boil it for ten minutes. Then run it through a jelly-bag till it is very • K 2 i clear.-1<)(> BLANC MANGE, > -clear, put it into your moulds, and let it ftaiid till it is thoroughly cold. Then dip your moulds in warm water, and turn them into a China difh, or flat glals. You may make ufe -of flowers for your garnifli. Black Currant ^elly. Gather your currants when they are full . •ripe, on a dry day, and flrip them of the flalks. Put them into an earthen pan, and to every ten quarts put in a quart of fpting water. Tie pa- per over them, and fet them in the oven for two hours. Then fquecze out the juice through a fine cloth, and to every pint ot juice put a pound of loaf fugar broken to pieces. Stir it and boil it gently for halt an hour, and fkim it well all the time. While it is hot put it into gallipots, put brandy papers over it, tie another paper over that, and keep it in a cocl dry place. Bed Currant Jelly. Gather your currants as above dire£led, and to every gallon of red put a quart of white. Put them into a preferving pan, cover them clofc, and fet them over a flow fire ; ftirring them to prevent their burning at the bottom, till the juice is out. Or you may put them inm an earthen pan, tie a paper over them, and fet them in a warm oven lor an hour, Th^” them into a flannel i>ag, and wdien the juke is all ran out, to evei-i' pint put a pound of loaf fugar broken into final 1 pieces. Put it over a gentle fire, and ftir it till the fugar is melted, or it will burn at the bottom. Skim it well, and boil it gently half an hour. While it is hot,I t I % «"%are Hill, tile fulls, \m. Titp,. u in ibe oven for tile juice ilircii«i It ot juice pit i pm kir it ffr,3iKllkirait hot put it into It, tie another uxliq place- ijiijrt ij- ivckM’®! of »te- coter the® f £rc;lli^'"o 3ltliel»«^"'' .rtliel"''^ . :,r %> F' iflt JELLIES, AND SYLLARUBS. 197 })ut it into your gallipots or glaffes, and when it is cold, i>ut brandy papers over it, and tie an-* other paper over that. Put them in a cool and dry place. folid SylUhiib. Put a pint of mountain to a quart of rich' cream, the juice of two lemons, the rind of one grated, and fvveeren'it with powder fugar to your tafte. Whip it well, take off the froth as it rifes, lay it on a hair ficve, and pot It in a cool place till next day. Then malte your glalTes better than half full with the thin, and with a fpoon put on the froth as high as you can. It will look clear at the bottom, even af-. ter it has been kept feveral days. Syllabub under the OjZv. Having put a bottle of red or whiW wine, ale or cyder, into a china bowl, fwceten it with fugar, and grate in fome nutmeg. Then liold it under the cow, and milk into it till it has a fine froth on the top. Strew over it a handful of currants cleaned, wafhed and picked, and plumped before the fire. CANDYING AND DRYING. To prepare Sugar for Candying. ■pRUIT Intended for candying mud be firfl: preferved, and dried in a ftove, or before the file, that none of the fyrup may remain in it. Sugar intended for the ufe of candying K 3 muft [n i : Hi - k > 198 CANDYING AND DRYING. muft be thus prepared. Put into a tofling-pan a pound of fugar with half a pint of water, and fct it over a very clear fire. Take off the fcurn as it rifes, boil it till it looks fine and clear, and take out a little in a filver fpoon. When it is cold, if it will draw a thread from your fpoon, it is boiled high enough for any kind of fweet« meat. Then boil your fyrnp, and when it be- gins to candy round the edge of your pan, it is candy height. It is a great iniftake to put any kind of fweetmeat into too thick a fyrup, efpe- cially at the firft, as it withers the fruit, and the beauty and flavour are thereby both deftroyed. To candy Melons. Having quartered your melons, take out all the infide, and put into it as much thin fyfup as will cover the coat. Let it. boil in the fyrup till it is thoroughly tender, and then put it away in the fyrup for two or three days, but mind that the fyrup covers it, and that it may penetrate quite through. Then take it out, and boil your fyrup to a candy height; dip in your quarters, and lay them on a fieve to dry either before the fire, or in a flow oven. Lemon and Orange Peel candied. Cut your oranges or lemons lengthways, and take out all the pulp and infide (kins. Put the peels into hard water and firong fait for fix days, and then boil them in fpring water till they are tender. Take them out, and lay them on a fieve to drain. Make a thin fyru{i with a pound of loaf fugar to a quart bf water, ami boil them in it for half an hour, or till they look clear. Make I - -Mr IK 4 fugar. CANDYING AND DRYING. ig^ Make a thick fyrup of double-refined fugar, with as much water as will wet it. Put in your peels, and boil them over a flow fire till you fee the fyrup’ candy about the pan and the peels. ^ Then take them out, and fprinkle fine fugar over them. Lay them on afieve,and dry them before the fire, or in a cool oven. Cajfia candled. Pound a'little mulk and ambergreafe with as much of the powder of caffia as will lie on two Ihillings. Having pounded them well together^ take a quarter of a pound of fine fugar, and as much water as will wet it, and boil it to a can- dy height. Then put in your powder, and mix them well together. Butler fome pewter fau- cets, and when it is cold turn it out., Angelica candied. Gather your Angelica in April, cut it in lengths, and boil it in water till it becomes ten- der. Having put it on a fieve to drain, peel it,, and dry it in a clean cloth, and to every pound of flalks take a pound of double-refined fugar ■finely pounded Put your flalks into an earthen pan, and ftrew the fugar over them. Cover .them clofe, and let them fland tw'odays. Then put it into a preferving-pan, and boil, it till it is. clear. Then put it into a cullender to drain,, flrew it pretty thick over with fine powder fu- gar, lay it on plates, and dry it in a. cool oven,, or before the fire> To dry Cherries. Put a pound of loaf fugar to four pounds of cherries, and put as much water as will wet the/ 200 CANDYING AND DRYING. N fugar. When it is melted, make it boil. Stone your dierrics, put them in, and make them boil. Having Ikimmed it two or three times, take them off, and let them ffand in the fyrup two or three days. Then take them out of the fy- rup, boil it up, and pour it over the cherries; but do not t)oil the cherries'any more. Let them fland three or four days longer, then take them out, lay them on a fieve to dry, and put them in the fun, or in a flow oven. When they are dry, lay fome white paper at the bot- tom of a fmali box, then a row of cherries, then paper, till they arc all in, ‘and covered with paper. To dry Damfons. Make a thin fyrup, boil and Ikim it well, and then put in fome of the fineft damfons you can get. Take out the ftones, and give them a boil, and let them (land in the fyrup till next day. Then make a rich fyrup with double-re- fined fugar, and as much water as will wet it. Boil it to a oandy height. Then take your damfons out of the other fyrup, and put them into this. Give them a fimraer, and put them away till the next day. Then put them one by one on a fieve, and dry them in a cool oven or Hove, or before the fire, and mind to turn them twice every day. ’ When dry put them in a box with white paper between them, and keep them in a place that is cool and dry. Ts dry Peaches. > Pare fome of the cleareft and ripeft peaches you can procure, and put them into pure water. Take ¥I K 5 every CANDYING AND DRYING. 20l Take tlieir weight in double-refined fugar, and of one half make a very thin fyrup. Then put in your peaches, and boil them till tliey look clear. Then fplit and fione them, boil them till they are very tender, and put them on a fieve to drain. Boil the other half of the fugar almoft to a candy-, then put in your peaches, and let them lay all night. Then lay them in a glafs, and fet them in a ftove till they are dry. If they be fugared too much, wipetliem a little with a wet cloth, and put them between paper into boxes. To dry Apricots. Pare feme fine ripe apricots very tliin, and 'fione them. Put them into a preferving-pan, and to every pound of apricots allow a pound of double-refined fugar pounded. Strew fome among them, and lay the lefi over them. Let them hand twenty-four hours, and turn them three or four times in the fyriip. Then boil them pretty quick till they are clear, and put them away in the ftii-up till they are cokl. When they are cold, put them on glaffes, and dry them in a cool oven or ftove, turning them often. When they are properly dried, put them in boxes as before diredlcd. To diy Plums. Take fome fine and clear-coloured large pear plums, weigh them. Hit them up the fides, put them into a broad ftewpan, and fill it full of fpring water. Set them over a very flow fire, and take care that the fkins do not come ofF. When they are tender, take them up, and to202 TO MAKE ALL SORTS ' every pound of plums put a pound of powdered fugar. Strew a little at the bottom of a large bowl, then lay your plums in one by one, and ftrew the refl: of the fugar over them. Set them into your flove all night, and the next day, with a moderate hie, heat them,*and fet them into your llove again. Let them hand two days more, turning them every day. Then tahe them out of the fyrup, lay them to dry, and treat them as above diretSled. Any other fort of plums may be dried in the fame manner. TO MAKE* ALL SORTS OF PRE- SERVES, &c. T'o preferve Goojehcrries Vi'hole. ■plCK ofPthe black eyes, but not the flalks, from the largell; prelcrving goofeberries you con procure. Set them over the hre in a pot of water to fcaid, cover them very clofe, but do not let them cither boil or break, and when they are tender, take them up, and put them ^ into cold water. To a pound of goofeberries take a pound and a half of double-rehned fu- gar. Clarify the fugar with water, a pint to a pound of fugar, and when the iyrup is cold, put the gcofebei l ies fingle in your prelerving pan, put the fyrup to them, and fet them on a gentle fire. Let them boil, but not fy fa.ft as to break them; and when they have boiled, and you perceive that the fugar has entered them, take them off, cover them with white paper, and fet them203 OF PRESERVES, &C. them by till the next day. Then take them “ out of the fyrup, and boil the lugar till it be- gins to be ropy. Skim it, and put it to them again. Then let them on a gentle hre, and let them fimmer gently till you perceive the (yrup will rope. T hen t.ike them ofF, and fet them by till they are cold. Cover them with paper, then boil lome goofeberries in fair water, and when tlie liquor is Urong enough, drain it out; Let it ftand to fettle, and to every pint take a. pound ot double-refined fugar •, then make a .jelly of it, put the goofeberries in 'glalTes when tliey are cold,, cover them with the jelly the next day, paper them wet, and then half dry the paper that goes in the infide, as it doles down better, and then white paper over the glafs. Set it in a dry place, or a dove. Currants prefa-ved for Tarts, Put any quantity of currants you pleafe into, a.preferving pan, with a pound of fugar to every pound and a quarter of currants, and a fuffi- cienl quantity of currant juice to dilTolve the fugar. Skim it as foon as it bolls, put in your currants, and boil them till they are. very clear., Put them into.a jar,, cover them with brandy- paper, and keep them in a dry place.. Red Currantsprefervcd in Bunches. ^ ■ Having doned your currants, tie them’in bunches to bits of dicks, fix or feven together; Allow the weigfitof currants m fugar, v/hich make into a fyrup. Boil it high, put. in the currants, give them a boil, fet them by, and the next day take them.out. When the fvrup bolls ... K6 putJ-1 204 TO MAKE ALL SORTS put them in again, give them a boil or two, and then take them out. Boil the fyrup as much as is neccflary, and when cold, put it to the currants in glafles. You muft take care that the currants be equally difperfed. To -prefa vc Codlings all the Tear, For this purpofe, the codlings muft be ga- thered when they are about the fize of a wal- nut, with the flalk and a leaf or two remaining on each. Put fome vine leaves into a pan of fpring water, and cover them with a layer of codlings, then another of vine leaves, and thus proceed till the pan is full. Set it on a flow fire, having firft covered it to keep the fleam in. foon as they become foft, take off the Ikins witli a penknife, and then put them in the fame water with the vine leaves. Take care tliat the water is cold, othervvife it may crack them. Put in a little roach aJlum, and fet them over a flow fit^^till they look green, which will be the cafe in three or four hours. Then take them out, and lay them on a fieve to drain. Make a good fyrup, and give them a gentle boil once a day for three days. Then put them into fmall jars, and cover them clofc with brandy paper. ' jdpple Marmalade. • Put fome apples into water, fcald them till they are tender, and then drain them through a fieve. Put three quarters of a pound of iu- gar to a pound of apples; put them into a pre- *ferving-pan, let them fimmer over a gentle fire, fkimming them all the time. Put them into potsOF PRESERVES, &CC. 20^ pots or glaffes, as foon as you find them of a proper thicknefs. Quince Marmalade. Take a pound of douhle-refined fugar, and a pound and a half of quinces. Make It into a fyrup, boil it high, and then pare and flice the fruit. When it begins to look clear, pour in half a pint of quince juice, or pippins, if quinces be fcarce. Boil it thick, and take off the fcum. To make a juice, pare the quinces or pippins, cut them from the core, beat them in a ftonc mortar, and firain the juice through a thin cloth. To every half pint, put more than a pound of fugar, and let it ftand at leaff four hours before it is ufed. Apricot Marmalade. Boil fome ripe apricots in fyrup till they will mafii, and then beat them in a mai blc mortar. Add half their weight of lugar, and as much water as will diffolve it. Boil and fkim it well, boil them till they look clear, and the fyrup like a fine jelly. Then put them into your fweetmeat glaffes. To preferve Damfons. Having picked the fialks from your dani- fons, prick them with a pin, put them into a deep pot, and with them half their weight of loaf fugar pounded. Set them in a moderate oven till they arc foft, then lake them off, give the fyrup a boil, and pour it upon them. Do this two or three times, then take them care- fully out, and put them into the jars, in which you▼7 1 2o6 to make all sorts you intend to keep them. Pour over them rendered nu tton fuet, tie a bladder over them, and put them into a cool place to keep for ufe. To preferve Sirazvberries. ' i Your Hrawberries, vvhich for this purpofe muft be of the finelh Icarlet fort, mult be ga- thered on -a dry day, with their ftalks on, be- fore they are too ripe. Lay them feparately osi a China diflt, beat and lift twice thfir weight of double-1 ehiied fugar, and Ihevv it over them. Then take a few ripe fear let ftrawherries, cruflr them, and put them into a jar, with their weight of double-iehned fugar finely pounded. Cover them dole, an<l let them fiand in a ket- tle of boiling water till they are foft, and the fyrup IS come our of them. 1 hen Ifraiii them through a muflin rag into a tofling-pan, boil and fkiih it-well, am) when it is cold put in your whole llruwberi ies, aiul fei them over the fire till tliey are mdk warm. Then take them 'off, and let them flaiid till they are quite cold. 'I’hen fet them on again, and make them a little hotter, and lepeat the fame till they look clear ; but take care not to let^tliem boil, as that will take off their fiaiks. Vv lien the ftrawherries are cold, put them into jelly glaffcs, with the ftalks downwards, and fill up wour gialfes with the fyrup. Tie them down clofe, with brandy paper over them. Syrup of QuinceS-. Plaving grated your quinces, extradl their juice bv^Tielilng their pulp in a cloth. Set the juice in the fun to fettle, or before the fire, in ^ orderOF PRESERVES, 5cc. 207 •rder to clarify it. Put a pound of fugar boiled brown to every four ounces of the juice. If the putting in the juice of the quinces (hould check the boiling ot the (ugar too much, give the fyrup fomc boiling till it becomes pearled. Then take it oft' the tire, and when it is cold, put it into your bottles. To preferve RafpberrlesT Rafpberries intended for this purpofe mufl be gathered on a dry day, when they are juft turn- ed red, with their llalks on about an inch in length. Lay them one by one on a difti, and ftrew over tiiem their weight of double refined fugar pounded and lilted. Put a quart ot red- currant jelly juice, with its weight ot double- refined fugar, to every quart of rafpberries. Boil and ftcim it well, then put in your rafp- berrics, and give them a IcalJ. Then take them otF, and let them ftand two hours. Set them on again, and make them a little hot- ter. Proceed in this manner two or three times till they look clear; but be careful that they do not boil, as that vvill take oft' the ftalks. When they are tolerably cool, put them into jclly-glafles, with the ftalks downwards. White rafpberries are preferved in the fame manner, only that inftead of red you muft ufe white- currant jelly. To preferve IValnuts green. Having gathered your walnuts, which muft be done when they are not much larger than a common ftzed nutmeg, wipe them very clean, and lay them tor twenty-four hours in ftrong fak ■k2o8 to make all sorts fait and water. Then take them out, and wipe them very clean. Then throw them into a flevvpan of boiling water, and, having let them boil a minute, take them out, and lay them on a coarfe cloth. Take three pounds of loaffugar, put it into your preferving-pan, fet it over a charcoal fire, and put as much water as will juft wet the fugar. Let it boil, and then have ready ten or twelve whites of eggs ftrained and beat up to a froth. Cover vour fu- gar with froth as. it boils, and Ikim it; then boil it and fkim it till it is clear as cryftal. I hen juft give your walnuts a fcald in the fugar, take them up, and lay them to cool. Put them into your preferving pot, and pour your fyrup over them. To prcferve TFalnuts while. Pare your walnuts till the whites appear, throw them as fall as you do them into fait and water, and let them lie till your fugar is ready, which muft he prepared in the fame manner as dire6led in the preceding articles. Juft give them a boil in the fugar till they are tender, then take them out, and lay them in a difti to cool. As foon as they are cool, put them in your preferving-pan, and when the fugar is as warm as milk, pour it over them. When quite cold, tie them down with^brandy paper. . To preferve Cucumbers. Take fome fmall cucumbers, and large ones that will cut in quarters; but let them be as green and as free from feeds as you can get them. Put them into a narrow-mouthed jar i»OX' PRESERVES, 6cc. 20() in rtrong fait and water, with a cabbage leaf to keep them from riling. Tic a paper over them, and let them in a warm place till they are yel- low. Then wafli them out, and fet them over tlie fire in frefh water, with a little fait, and a frelh cabbage leaf over them. Cover the pan very clofe, but be fare that you do not let them boil. If they are not of a tine green, change your water, v/liich will help them ; then make them hot, and cover them as betore. When you-tind them of a good green, take them off the lire, and let them (land till they are cold. Then cut tlie large ones into quarters, take out the feeds and loft parts, put them into cold wa- ter, and let them fland two days; but change the water twice a day, to take out the fait. Put a pound of fingle refined fugar into a pint of water, and fet it over the fire. When you have fkimmed it clean, put in the rind of a le- mon, and an ounce of ginger, with the outfide feraped off. Take your fyrup off as foon as it is pretty thick, and as foon as it is cold, wipe the cucumbers dry, and put them into it. Boil the fyrup once in two or three days for three weeks, and ffrengthen the fyrup, if required, for the greateft danger of fpoiling them is at firft. When you put the fyrup to your cu- cumbers, take care that it be quite cold." To preferve Fruit green. Take fomc green pippins, pears,'plums, apri- cots, or peaches, and put them into a preferving pan. Cover them with vine leaves, and then with clear fpring water. Put on the cover of the pan,'and fet tliem over*a very clear fire. Take210 TO MAKE ALL SORTS T ake them ofF as foon as they begin to fim- mer, and take them carefully out with a flice. "1 hen peel‘and pteferve them as other fruit. ' ' Afannalade of Oranges. China oranges muft be made ufe of for this purpofe. Cut them into quarters, and fqueeze out the juice. Take off the hard parts at both ends, and boil them in water till they are quite tender. Squeeze them to extradt the water, and pound them in the water to a marmalade to fift. Mix it with an equal weight of raw fu- gar, and boil it till it turns to fyrup. One pound of marmalade will require two pounds of fugar. To preferve Morelia Cherries. Having gathered ’your cherries when they are full ripe, take off the ftalks, and prick them with a pin. Put a pound and a half of loaf fu- gar to every pound of cherries. Beat part of your fugar, drew it over them, and let them ftand all night. Diflblve the reh of your fu- gar in half a pint of the juice of currants, fet it over a flow fire", and put in the cherries with the fugar. Having given them a gentle fcald, take them carefully diK, boil your fyrup till i^ Is thick, and then pour it pn your chcriies. To preferve Green-gage Plums. Plums for this purpofe mufl be of the fmeft fort, and'gatheied juft before they are ripe. Put them into a pan with a layer of vine leaves un- der them and over them ; then a layer of plums on that, and proceed in this manner till your panh m f . • OF PRESFRVES, &IC. 211 pon is almoft full Then fill it with water, and fet them on a How fire. When tliey are hot, and the fldns begin to rife, take them off, take off the Ikins carefully, and put them on a lieve as you do them. Then put them into the ‘ fame water, with a layer of leaves as before. Cover them clofe, that no ftcam may get out, and hang them aconfiderable difiance from the ^ fire till they appear green, which will require five or fix hours. Then take them up carefully, and lay them on a hair fieve to drain. Make a good fyrup, and boil them gently in it twice a day for two days. Then take them out, and put them in a fine clear fyrup. Cover and fe- cure them as you do other things of this nature. Conferve of Red Rofesy or any other Flowers, Pick your rofe buds, or any other flowers, of which you intend to make a conferve, cut off the white part from the red, and fift them in a fieve to takeout the feeds. Then weigh them, and to every pound of flowers take two pounds and a half of loaf fugar. Beat the flowers very fine in a marble mortar, then by degrees put the fugar to them, and beat it well till they arc properly incorporated together. U hen put it into gallipots, properly fecure it from the air, and it will keep fome years. Conferve of Orange Peel. Having grated the rinds of fome Seville oranges as thin as you can, weigh them, and to every pound of orange rind add three [xrundsof loaf fugar. Pound the orange rind well in a marble mortar, mix the fugar bv degrees with them, XTO PREPARE PICKLES 212 them, and beat all well together. Put it into gallipots, and tie it down fo as properly to pre- vent the air getting to it. Syrup of Citron. Take fome citrons, pare and flice them, and lay them in a china bowl with layers of fine fugar The next day pour off the liquor into a glafs, and clarify it over a gentle fire. Then bottle it up for ufe. T'o PREPARE PICKLES of ALL SORTS. jThe Preparation of Vinegars. ’’I^INEGAR bemg an jindifpenfable ingre- . dient in the bufinefs of pickling, we fhall endeavour to give the cleareft and concifeft di- redlions for making it; but before we proceed to that bufinefs, it may not be improper to give a word or two of advice to the young pra6li- tioner. Pickles being a very necelTary article in all families, it is proper that the houfekceper Ihould always make her own, in order to avoid buying them at fhops, where they are often' very improperly prepared, and ingredients made ufe of, which, though they may make the pickles pleafing to the eye, are often very defirudive to the conftitution. Well glazed ftone jars are bed to keep in all forts of pickles, and though they are more expenfive on the firft purchafe, yet, from their uiefulnefs and durability, they are in the end much cheaper « than213 Ot ALL SORTS. than earthen veffels, it having been found from experience, that fait and vinegar will efcape through earthen veffels, and thereby leave the pickles dry. Never put in your fingers to take out any pickles, but make ufe of a wooden fpoon kept clean for that purpofe. Be careful that your pickles are at all times covered with vinegar, and tie them down clofe after you take any out. White Wine Vinegar. Though it fhould feera by the name given to this vinegar, that it is made from white wine only, yet the following diredlions for pre- paring it will fliew the contrary. When you brew in the month of March or April, take as much fweet wort of the firft running as will be neceffary to ferve you the whole year. Boil it without hops for half an hour, and then put it into a cooler. Put fome good yeaft upon it, and work it well. When it is done working, break the yeafl into it, and put it into a calk, but be careful to fill the calk, and fet it in a place where the fun has full power on it. Put no bung in the bung-hole, but put a tile over it at night, and when it rains. Let it ftand till it is quite four, which will be in the begin- ning of September. Then draw \t off from the fettlings into another callc, let it ffand till it is fine, and then draw it off tor ufe. If you have any white wine that is tart, put it into a callc, and treat it in the fame manner; or you may do cyder the fame way. A calk of ale turned four, makes ale vinegar in the fame manner ; but none of thefe are fit for pickles to keep i214 TO PREPARE PICICLES keep long, except the white wine vinegar firft mentioned. Elder Vinegar. Put two gallons of white wine vinegar, and the like weight of the pips of elder flowers, into a flone jar. Let them fteep, and ftir them every day for a fortnight. Then flrain the vinegar from the flowers, prefs them clofe, and let it fland to fettle. Pour it from the fettlings, and put a piece of filtering paper in a funnel, and filter it through. Then put it in pint bottles, cork it clofe, and keep it for ufe. Tarragon Vinegar. Take fome green tarragon, and pick the leaves off the {talks, juft before it goes into bloom. Put a pound weight to every gallon of white wine vinegar, and treat it in the fame manner as elder vinegar. \ Sugar Vinegar. Make this vinegar in the month of March or April in the following manner. To every gallon of fpi'ing water you ufe, add a pound of coarfe Lifbon fugar; boil’it, and keep ficimming it as long as the feum will rife. Then pour it it into a cooler, and when it is as cold as beer to work, toaft a large piece of bread, rub it over with good ycaft, and let it work as long as it will. Then beat the yeaft into it, put it into a calk, and fet it in a place where the rays of the fun have full power on it. Put a tile over over the bung-hole when it rains, and alfo every night; but take It off in the day-time, < and...m <v \ OF ALL SORTS. and when It is fine weailier. When you find it is four enough, which will be in tlie ninnili of Augurt, (but if it is not four enough, let it fland till It i.>) draw it ofF, put it into a dean cafk, ami throw m a handlulof ifinglal;,. Let it ftand till it is fine, and then draw it otf for life. T’o pickle Cucumbers. Take the fmalldl ciicurnbers you can get, hut let them be as fiee troin fpots as poffible. Put them into firon" ale and water tor nine or O ten days, or till they become yellow, and ftir them at leaf! twice a day, or they will grow >-foft. Should they become perfedly yellow, pour the water from them, and cover them with plenty of vine leaves. Set your water over the fir-e, and when it bolls, pour it upon them. Proceed in this manner till you per- ceive they are of a fine green, which they will be in four or five times. Be careful to keep them well covered with vine leaves, witli a doth and difli over the top, to keep in the ftemn, which will help to green them the fooner.' When they are greened, put them in a hair fieve to drain, and then prepare the fol- lowing pic-kle. To every two quarts of white wine vinegar, put half an ounce of mace, ten or twelve cloves, an ounce of ginger cut into flices, an ounce of black pepper, and a handful of fslt. Boil them together for five minutes, pour it hot upon your pickles, and tie them down with a bladder for ufe. You may pickle them with ale vinegar, or diftilled vinegar, and three or four cloves of garlic or ihalots may be added.2i6 TO PREPARE PICKLES. Cucumbers pickled in Slices, Slice fomc large cucumbers, before they are too ripe, of the thicknefs of crown pieces. Put them into a pewter difli, and to every twelve cucumbers flice two large onions thin, and fo on till you have filled your difh, with a hand- ful of fait between each row. Then cover them with another pewter dilh, and let them Hand twenty-four hours. Then put them into a cullender, and let them drain well. Put them into a jar, cover them over with white wine vinegar, and let them ftand four hours. Pour the vinegar from them into a faucepan, and boil it with a little fait. Put to the cucumbers a little mace, a little w'hole pepper, a large race ... of ginger fliced, and then pour on the boiling vinegar. Cover them clofe, and when they are cold, tie them down. In two or three days they will be fit to eat. • - To pickle Walnuts. Choofe your walnuts in the fame manner as before dire6led. Pare them as thin as you can," and as you pare them, throw them' into a tub of fpring water. Put into the water a pound of bay fait, and .let them lie in it twenty four hours, when you muft take them out. Put them into a ftone jar, and between every layer of walnuts put a layer of vine leaves, as allo-at the bottom and top. Fill it up with cold vi-> negar, and let them fiand all night. Then pour that vinegar from them into a faucepan, put into it a pound of bay fait, and fet it on the fire. Let it boil, then pour it hot on your ’ nuts.OF ALL sorts. I V ' L 2l>% nuts, tie them over with a woollen cloth, and let them ftand a week. Then pour that pickle away, rub your nuts clean with a piece of flan- nel, and put them again into your jar, with vine leaves, as above, and boil frelh vinegar. To every gallon of nutmeg fliced, cut four large races of ginger, a quarter of an ounce of mace, the fame of cloves, and a quarter of an ounce of whole black pepper. Then pour your vinegar boiling hot on your walnuts, and cover them with a woollen cloth. Let them ftand three or four days, and repeat the fame two or three times. When cold, put in half a pint of muftard-feed, and a large ftick of horfe-radifti fliced. Tie them down clofe with a bladder, and then with a leather. They will be fit to cat in a fortnight. Stick a large onion with cloves, and lay it in the middle of the pot. If you pickle your walnuts for keeping, do not boil your vinegar ; but then they will not be fit to eat under fix months. After they have flood one year, you may boil the pickle, and they will Iceqj good and firm two or three years. To pickle Onions. ■ Peel fome fmall onions, and put them into fait and water. Shift them once a day for three days, and then fet them over the fire in milk ami water till they be ready to boil. Dry'them, and pour over them tlie following pickle, when it has boiled, and flood to be cold. Take double-diftillcd vinegar, fait, mace, and one or two bay leaves. If you ufe any other vinegar, they will not look white. To i / \ taw..21.8 TO prepare pickles 'To pickle Alan goes. You mufl procure cucumbers of the largefl fort, and taken from ilie vines before tlicy arc too ripe, or yellow at the ends.' Cut a piece out of the fide, and with an apple feraper or tea-fpoon take out the feeds Then put them into very flrong fqlt and water for eight or nine days, or till they are' very yellow. Stir them well two or three times each day, and put them into a pan, with a large quantity of vine leaves Toth over and under them. Beat a little roach alum very fine, and put into it the fait and wa- ter they came out of. Pour it on your cucum- 'hers, and fet it upon a very flow fire for four or -five hours, till they are pretty green. Then take them out, and drain them in a hair fievc, -and when they .are cold, put to them a little hoife-radifli, fome muflard-feed, two or three heads of garlic, a few pepper corns, a few green cucumbers fliced in fmall pieces, then horfe-.. radifl), and the fame as befdfe, till you have filled them. Then take the piece, you cut out, •and lew it on vVith a large needle and thread, and do all tlic rcll.in the lame manner. Make the following pickle. To every gallon of ale- gar put an ounce of mace, the fame of cloves,^ two ounces of fliced ginger, ihe fatpe of long pepper, Jamaica-'pepper, and black pepper, three ounces at muitard feed tied up in a bag, four ounces of garlic, and a flick rjf h’orfe-r?- dill) cut in fliccs. Boil them five minutes in the alegar, then pour it u|>on your pickles, and tie. them down fo as to prevent the air getting to them. To219 OF ALL SORTS. .To pickle French Beans. Gather your beans of a middling hze, pour fome boiling-hot water over them, and cover them clofe. The next day drain them and dry them. Then pour over them a boiling-hot pickle of white wine vinegar, Jamaica pepper, black pepper, a little mace, and ginger. Repeat this two or three days, or till the French beans look green. Then put them carefully by for ufe. To pickle Red Cabbage. Having lliced your cabbage crofsways, put it on an earthen difli, and fprinkle a handful of fait over it. Cover it with another dilh, anil let it Hand twenty-four hours. Then put it into a cullender to drain, and lay it in your jar. Take enough of v/hite vinegar to cover it, a little cloves, mace, and allfpice ; put them in whole, with a little cochineal finely bruifed. Then boil it-up, and pour it either hot or cold on your cabbage. Cover it clofe with a clotli till if is cold, if you pour on the pickle hot, and tie it up clofe, that no air can get to it. ^ ‘ To pickle Gc) kh s. Take five hundred gerkins, and have ready a large earthen pan of fpring water and fait. To every gallon of water, put two pounds of fait; mix it well together, ami throw in your ger- kins. Walli them out in two liours, put them to drain, let them be drained very dry, and put them into a jar. In the mean time, get a boil- metal pot, with a gallon of the bell white wine vinegar, .half aii ouncc of cloves and mace, one - L 2 ounce \220 TO PRESERVE PICKLES ounce of allfpice, one ounce of muflard-fced, -a little flick of horle-radifh cut in fliccs, fix bay leaves, a little dill, two or three races of ginger cut in pieces, a nutmeg cut in pieces, and a handful of fait. Boil it up in the pot all together, and put it over the gerkins. Cover them clofe down, and let them fland twenty- four hours. Then put them into your pot, and iimmer them over the ftovetill they are green ; but be careful not to let them boil, as that will fpoil them. Then put them into your jar, and cover them dole down till they are cold. Then tie them over with a bladder, and leather over .that, and put them in a cool dry place. pickle Radi/h Pods. Make a pickle ftrong enough to bear an egg, with fpring water and bay fait. Put your pods into it, and lay a thin board on them to keep them under the pickle. Let them ftand ten days, then drain them in a fieve, and lay them on a cloth to dry. Take as much white wine vinegar as you think will cover them, boil it, and put your pods in a jar, with ginger, mace, cloves, and Jamaica pepper. Pour your vine- gar boiling hot on them, cover them with a coarfe cloth three or four times double, that the fleam may come through a little, and let them fland two days. Repeat this two or three limes. When it is cold, put in a pint of muf- tard-feed, and fome horlc-radilh, and cover them as before diredled. To pickle Mufhrooms. Cut off the ftalks of fome fmall buttons, rub offf r i OF ALL SORTS. 22t’ o^F the fklns with flannel dipped in fait, and tlirow them into milk and water. Drain them out, and put them into a ftewpan, with a hand- ful of fait over them. Cover them clofe, and put them over a gentle ftove for five minutes, to draw out all the water. Then put them on a coarfe cloth to drain till they are cold. To make MuPoroom Pickle, Put a gallon of the heft vinegar into a cold ftill, and to every gallon of vinegar put half a pound of bay fait, a quarter of a pound of mace, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, and a nutmeg cut into quarters. Keep the top of the fiill covered with a white cloth, and as the cloth dries, pul on a wet one ; but do not let the fire be too large, left you burn the bottom cf the ftill. Draw it as long as it taftes acid, and no longer. When you fill your bottles^ put in your mufhrooms, here and there pot in a few blades of mace, and a flice of nutmeg. Then fill the bottles v/ith pickle ; melt fome mutton fat, drain it, and pour over it. You muft put your nutmeg over the fire in a little vinegar, and give it a boil. While it is hot,, you may flice it as you pleafe ; when it is cold^ it will crack to pieces inftead of flicing. To pickle Samphire. Put fome green famphirc into a clean pan, throw over it two or three handfuls of fait, and cover it witli fpring water. Let it lie twenty- four hours, then put it into a faucepan, throw in a handful of fait, and cover it with good vi- negar. Cover the pan clofe, and fet it over as L 3 flow r •V .222 TO PREPARE PICKLES flow fire. Let it Hand till it is juft green an(J crifp, and then immediately take it ofF, for ftould it remain till it be foft, it will be fpoil- cd. Put it into your pickling pot, and cover it clofe. As fopn as it is cold, tie it down with a bladder and leather, and keep it for ufe. To pickle Capers. The tree that bears capers is called the caper (lirub or bufti, of which they are the flower- buds They are common in the weftern parts of Europe, and we have them in fome of our gardens,' but Toulon is the principal place for them. Some are lent us from Lvons ; but they are flatter, and not lo Arm. Some come from Majorca ; but they are fait and difngreeable. They gather the buds from the bloflbms before tliey open, then fpread them upon the floor of a room, v.'here no lun enters, and there let them lie till they begin to wither. They then throw them into a tub of ftiarp vinegar, and,, after three days, they add a quantity of bay fait. When this i.s diflblved, they are fit for p.acking for falc, and are fent to all parts of Eu- rope. 'J'he fiueft capers are thofe of a moderate fize, firm, and dole, and fuch as have the- pickle highly flavoured. Thole are of little va- lue, which are foft, flabby, and half open. To pickle Beet Roots. Thcfe roots are generally ufed as a garnifti for made cjilhes, and are thus pickled. Having firft boiled them tender, peel them, and, if agreeable, cut them into fhapes. Pour over them a hot pickle of white wine vinegar, a little jrepper, gmger, iuid fliccd hoifs'radilh.OF ALL SORTS, 7(7 make JValnut Ketchup, ‘ Grind lialf a bufliel of green walnuts, before the fliell is formed, in a crab-mill, or beat them in a marble mortar. Then fqueezeout the juice, through a coarfe cloth, and wring the clotli \vell to get all the juice out. To every galloix of juice put a quart of red wine, a quarter of a pound of anchovies, the fame of bay fait, one ounce of allfpice, two of long and black pep- per, half an ounce of cloves and mace, a little ginger, and horfe-radifh cut in flices. Boil all together till reduced to half the quantity, and then pour it into a pan. When it is cold, Ivattle it, cork it tight, and it'Will be fit for ufe in three months, if you have any pickle left in the jar after your walnuts are ufed, to every gallon of pickle put in X.sko heads of garlic, a quart of red wine, and of cloves, mace, long, black, and Jamaica pepper each an ounce. Boil them all together, till it is reduced trj half the quantity, pour it into a pan, and the next day bottle it for ufe. To make Alujliroom Ketchup. Gatlier a bufhel ot the large flaps of mufli- rooms when they are dry, and bruile them with your hands. Put fome at tlie bottom of an earthen pan,fti'e\v lome ialt over tliem, then mufhrooms, then Ialt, till you h. ve done. Put in half an ounce of beaten cloves and mace, the lame of allfpice, and let them llaiul five or fix days, remembering to ftir them up every day. Then tie a paper over them, and bake them L 4 four224 PREPARE PICK-LES four hours in a flow oven. When you have fo done, ftrain them through a cloth to get all the liquor out, and let the liquor (land to fettle. Then pour it clear from the fettlings; to every gallon of liquor add a quart of red wine, and, if not fait enough, a little fait, a race of ginger cut fmall, half an ounce of cloves and mace, and boil it till about one third is reduced ; then ftrain it through a fieve into a pan ; the next day pour it from the fettlings, and bottle it for ufe. To make JVfuJhroom Powder. Cut off the root end and peel fome of the largeft and thickefl button muflirooms you can procure. Wipe them clean with a cloth, but do not wafh them. Spread them on pewter diflies, and put them in a flow oven to dry. Let the liquor dry up in the mufhrooms, as it will make the powder much flronger.. When they are dry enough to powder, beat them in a mortar, and fift them through a fieve, with a little chyan pepper and pounded mace. Put the powder into fmall bottles for ufe. Be care- ful to cork them tight. To pickle Artichoke Bottoms. Boil fome artichokes till you can pull off the leaves, then take off the chokes, and cut them from the ftalk. Take great care that you do not let the k'dfe touch the top. Throw tliem into fait and water for an hour, then take them out, and lay them on a cloth to drain. Put them into large wide-mouthed glaffes, and put a little mace and fliced nutmeg between them. Fill them either with diftilled vinegar, or fugar vinegarOF ALL SORT'S; vinegar and fpring-water. Cover them with; mutton fat, and tie them down clofe. T0 pickle Najiurtlum Buds. Gather the little nobs as foon as the bloflbms. are gone off, and put them into cold fait and? water. Shift them once a day for three days- fucceffively, then make a cold pickle of white wine vinegar, a little white wine, flialot, pep- per, cloves, mace, nutmeg quartered, and hoi fe— radifli. Then put in your buds, and; tie them- up clofe» ' T'o make Caveach. Tliis is made of mackarel, which you' muff cut into round pieces, and divide into five or fix. To fix large mackarel you may take one- ounce of beaten pepper, three large nutmegs, a- little mace, and a handful of fait. Mix your fait and beaten fpice together ; then make two» or three holes in each piece, and thruft the fea- foning into the holes with your finger. Rub each piece all over with the feafoning, fry them brown in fweet oil, and let them ftand tdl they are cold. Put them into a jar, cover them with vinegar, and pour fweet oil over them.. They are very delicious, and if well covered,, they will keep a long time. ’To pickle Salmon,. Scale, gut, and wafli your falmon very clean. Put your fifh into-a kettle of fpring water boil- ing, with a handful of fait, a little allfpice, cloves and mace. If it be Imall, three quarters- of an.hour will boil it; but if it be large, it L 5,. will'226 TO PREPARE PICKLES will take an hour. Then take cut the falmon, and let it Hand till it is cold. Strain the liquor through a fieve, and when it is cold, put your lalinon very dole in a tub or pan, and pour the liquor over it. When you w'ant to ufe it, put it into a dilh, with a little of the pickle, and ufe fennel for your garnilh. To pickle Oyjiers. Put into a pan one hundred of the fineH and largeft rock oyflers you can procure, with all their liquor with them ; but take care you do not fpoil their beauty by cutting them in open- ing. Wadi them clean out of the liquor fe- parately, put the liquor into a Hewpan, and give it a boil. Then flrain it through a lieve, and let it Hand half an hour to fettle. Then pour it from the fettlings into a Hewpan, and put in half a pint of white wine, half a pint of vinegar, a little fait, half an ounce of cloves qnd mace, a little allfpice and whole pepper, a jiutmeg cut in thin dices, and a dozen bay leaves. Boil it up five minutes, then put in your oyHers, and give them a boil up for a mi- nute or two. Put them into fmall jars, and when they are ccld, put a little fweet oil at the top, and tie them down with a bladder and leather. Keep them in a cool dry place, and when you ufe them, unt’e them, flcim off the oil, put them in a diflt with a little of the li- quor, and garnifli them with green parfley. If you want oyHer fauce, take them out, and put them into good anchovy fauce, with a fpoonful of the pickle. For fifli, or poultry, put them into a white fauce, having HiH waHied them in wartn w'ater.Beat very fine half an ounce of pepper, half an ounce of nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of mace, half an ounce of faltpetre, and a quarter of a pound of common fait. Wafli and clean a hundred of fine fmelts, gut them, and lay them in rows/ina jar, and between every layer of fmelts ftrew the feafoning, with four or five bay leaves. I'hen boil fome red wine, and pour it over them. Cover them with a plat», and when they are cold, -tie them down clofe. Anchovies are not near fo good as fmelts done iu this manner. 'Tc pickle Sturgeon. i Cut a (lurgeon into handfome pieces, wafla it well, and tie it up with bafs Make a pickle of half fpring water and half vinegar ; make it pretty fait, with fome cloves, mace, and all- fpice in it. Let it boil, and then put in your llurgeon, arid boil it till it is tender. Then take it up‘, and let it (land till it is cold. Strain the liquor through a fieve, and then put your Ifur- geon into a tub or pan as clofe as you can. Pour the liquor over it, and cover it dole* When you ufe it, put it into a dilh, with a little of the liquor, and garnilh it with green fennel or paifley. l ake care that you fallen it down fo clofe, as not to let in any air. L 5 THE2a8 PREPARATION OF HAM3, THE PREPARATION OF HAMS, TONGUES, BACON, &c. T'o cure Pork Uams. j^avin6 killed your hog, cut the leg and part of the hind loin in Tuch a manner as to appear a handfome ham. Rub it well with common fait, and let it lie on a board twenty- four hours. For every ham take four ounces of bay fait, two ounces of faltpetre, and two ounces of fal prunella; beat them fine, and mix them with half a pound of coarfe fugar, and two pounds of common fair. Rub the hams well with it, and lay them in a falting pan, or hollow tray. Rub them with the brine every day for a fortnight, then take them out, and wipe them dry with a cloth. Smoke them with a faw-duft fire, mixed with three or four handfuls of juniper berries, till they are tho- roughly dry. Then hang them in a cold dry place j but take care not to let them touch the wall, nor each other. Neats tongues may be cured in the fame manner, and boiled out of the pickle, or dried and fmoked. . To cure Beef Hams. The leg of a fmall fat Scotch or Welfli ox is befl for tins purpofe; it muft be cut ham fa- Ihion. Beat fine four ounces of bay-falt, two ounces of faltpetre, and two ounces of fal pru- nella. Mix them with half a pound of coarfe fugar, two pounds of common fait, and a hand- ful of juniper berries briiifed. This quantityTONGUES, BACON, &C, 22g will be fufEcient for about fifteen pounds of beef; but if your joint be large, you mufl; in- creafethe quantity in proportion. Rub the in- gredients well into it, and turn it every day for a month. Then take it out, and rub it with bran or faw-duft. Dry it in the fame manner you do pork hams, and hang it in a cool dry place. You may either cut a piece off for boil- ing, or cut it into ralhers, as you have occafion for it. Jldutton Hams. Cut a hind quarter of mutton like a ham, and take an ounce of faltpetre, a pound of coarfe fugar, and the like quantity of common fait. Mix them, and rub your mutton well with them. Then lay it in a hollow trav with the Ikin downwards, and bafle it every day for a fortnight. Roll it in faw-duft, and hang it in wood fmoak for a fortnight. Then boil it, hang it in a dry place, and cut railiers of it as you want, which eat much better broiled than any other way. *To plcklc Tongues. Scrape and dry your tongues clean with a cloth, and fait them well with common fair, and half an ounce of faltpetre to every tongue. Lay them in a deep pan, and turn them every- day for a week or ten days. Salt them again, and let them lie a week longer. Then take them out, dry them with a cloth, flour them and hang them up. * To pickle Pork. Cut your pork into pieces of a fize propor- tioned to your powdering tub, and rub them alls 230 PREPARATION OF HAMS, all over with faltpetre. Then mix two thirJs' ' ©f common fait with one third of bay fait,-and rub every piece well with it. Lay the pieces iii your tub as clofe as pofTible, and throw over them a little common fait. To make Hung Beef.. Hang up the navel piece of beef in your cel- lar as long as it will keep good, and till it begins to be a little fappy. Then take it down, and' wafh it in fugar and water, one piece after an- other, for you mull divide it into three pieces. Dry and pound very fmall a pound of faltpetre, and two pounds of bay fait. Mix with them two or three fpoonfuls of brown fugar, and rub it well into every part of your beef.* Then ftrew a fufficient quantity of common fait all over it, and let the beef lie clofe till the fait is- diflblved, which will be the cafe in about fix or feven days. 1 hen turn it every other day for. a fortnight, and after that hang it up in a warm but not in a hot place. It may hang a fortnight^ in the kitchen, aqd when you want it, boil it ' in bay fait and pump water till it is tender. It will keep, when boiled, two or three months, rubbing it with a greafy cloth, or putting it two or three minutes into boiling water, to take ofF the mouldinefs. To make Yorkjloire Hung Beef.. Cut a buttock or ribs of beef in two, and bruife fine half a pound of bay fait, four ounces of faltpetre, four ounces of lal prunella, and two handfuls of juniper berries. Mix them with a pound of coarie fugar, and three pounds ofTONGUES, BACON, &C. 23f of common fait, which will be a fiifficient quantity for twenty pounds weight. Rub the heef well with thefe ingredients, Jay it in a hol- low tray or pan, and turn and rub it with the pickle every day for a fortnight. Then take it out, dry it with a cloth, and hang it up to the kitchen cieling, or in a chimney where a mo- derate fire is kept, till it is properly dried. You may boil part of it when occafion requires, or you may cut it up in ralhers and broil it, but remember to dip it firfl into warm water, which will make it eat much better. ’To make Bacon. Having rubbed the flitches well with com- mon fait. Jet them lie fo that the brine may run from them. In about a week, rub off all the fait, and put them into a tub. Rub the flitches with one jxjand of faltpctre,, pounded and heated, and the next day rub them with fait, dry and hot. Having let them lie a week, often rubbing them, turn them, and let them lie three weeks or a month in all, rubbing them well. Then dry them, and hang them up for ufe. To make kVeJiphal'ia Bacon. Take a gallon of pump water, two pounds of hay fait, the fame quantity of white fait, a pound of faltpetre, a pound of coarfe fugar, and an ounce of focho tied in a rag. Boil.thefe well together half an hour, and let it fland till it is cold. Then put into it the fide of a fine hoo-, and Jet it lie in the pickle for a fortnight. Then take it out, rub it over with faw-dufi, and dry it232 preparation of hams, it in the fame manner as before direfled for hams. You may make Weftphalia hams the fame way, and you may prepare tcngues in the fame pickle; but remember to put them in pump v/ater for fix or eight hours j and before you put them into the pickle, waih them well out, and dry them with a cloth. To make fine Saufagcs. Pick part of a leg of pork or veal clean from Ikin or fat, and to every pound, addtw® pounds, of beef fuet. Shred both very fine, and mix them well with fage leaves finely chopped, pepper/ fait, nutmeg, pounded cloves, and a little grated lemon peel. Put this clofe down in a /ot. When you want it for ufe, mix it with the yoik of an egg, a few bread crumbs* and roll it into lengths. To make Oxford Saufiages^ Take a pound of young pork, fat and lean, free from Ikin or griftle, a pound of lean veal, and the fame quantity of beef fuet, all chopped fine together. Put in half a pound of grated bread, half the peel of a lemon fhred fine, a nutmeg grated, fix fage leaves wafhed and chop- ped vQX'f fine, a tea-fpoonful of pepper, two of fait, fome thyme, favory, and marjoram, Hired fine. Mix thefe well together, and put it clofe down in a pan. When you ufe it, roll it out the fize of a common faufage, and fry them of a fine brown in frelh butter, or broil them over a dear fire. To233 MADE WINES, &C. To make common Saufages. Chop very fine three pounds of nice pork, fat and lean together, but free from fkin and grif- tles. Seafon it with two teafpoonfuls of fait, one of beaten pepper, fome fage Ihrcd fine, about three teafpoonfuls, and mix them well together. Clean fome guts very nicely, and fill them, or put them down in a pot. THE PREPARATION OF MADE WINES. To make Smyrna Raijzn PVine, 'T^O an hundred pounds of raifins put twenty- four gallons of water, let it ftand about fourteen days, and then put it into your calk. After it has continued there fix months, put a gallon of brandy to it, and bottle it as foon as it is fine. Common Ra'ijtn Wine. Put two hundred weight of raifins, ftalks and all, into a hoglhead. Having filled the calk with water, let the raifins fteep a fortnight; but obferve to ftir them every day. Then pour off all the liquor, and prefs the fruit. Put both together in a nice clean veffel, juft big enough to hold it, for it muft be full. Let it ftand till it is done hiffing, or making the leaft noife. Then ftop it clofe, and let it ftand fix months. You may then peg it, and if you find it quite clear, rack it off into another veffel, ftop it clofe.i 1 ' I w 234 THE PREPARATION clofe, and Jet it JTand tliree montlis longer' 1 lien liottie it, and racic it off into a decanter wlien you ufe it. Hcd Currant TVine. You miifl: gallier your currants when they are full ripe, and choofe a fine dry day for that purpofe. Strip them, put them into a large pan, and bruife them with a wooden peftle. Let them (land in a tub twenty-four hours to ferment, then run it through a hair fievc, bu.t do not let your hand touch the liquor. To every gallon of this liquor put two pounds and a half of white fugar, fiir it well together, and put it into your veffeJ. To every fix gallons put in a quart of brandy, and let it ffand fix weeks. If it be then fine, bottle it ; if it be not, draw it off as clear as you can into another veffel, or large bottles, and put it into fmall: bottles in a fortnight. ^ Grape TVine. Bruife the grapes, and to every gallon oF ripe grapes put a gallon ot foft water. Let them fiand a week without flirring, and then draw the liquor off fine. To every gallon of wine put three pounds of lump fugar. Put it into a veffel, but do not flop it till it has done bif- fing. Then fiop it clofe, and it will be fit to bottle in fix months. Orange Wine. Put into fix gallons df fpring water twelve pounds of the befl powdered fugar, with the whites of eiglit or ten eggs well beaten. Boil it li!OF MADE WINES. 235 it three quarters of an hour ; and when cold, put into it fix fpoonfuls of yeaft, and the juice of twelve lemons, which, being pared, muft ftand with two pounds of white lugar in a tan- kard. In the morning fkim oft the top,^ and then put it into the water. Then add the juice ' and rinds of fifty oranges, but not the white part of the rinds, and let it work all together two days and two nights. Then put to it two quarts of Rhenifla or white wine, and put it into your cafk. Elder Wine. Thefe berries muft be picked when they are full ripe, and on a dry day. Put them in a ftone jar, and fet them in the oven, or in a kettle of boiling water, till the jar is hot through. Then take them out, ami firain them through a coarfe cloth, wringing the berries. Put the juice into a clean kettle, and to every quart of juice put a pound of Lifbon fugar. Let it boil, and fkim it well. When it is clear and fine, pour it into a jar. As foon as it is cold, cover it dole, and keep it till you make raifin wine. Then, when vou tun your wine, to every gal- lon of wine, put half a pint of the elder fyrup, Afcad Wine. There being fcvcral forts of mead wines, it will be neceffary to mention three of them fe- paratcly. While or Sack Adead is made in the following manner. Put a gallon of the bell: honey to every five gallons of vvater. Set it on the fire, and boil it well one hour, remember- i rgto fliim it well. Then take it oft the firo, and236 THE PREPARATION and fet it by to cool. Take two or three races ^ of cinnamon, and two nut- megs. Bruife thefe a little, put them into a Holland bag, and let them ftand in the hot li- quor till it is nearly cold. Then put as much ale yeaft to it as will make it work, keep it in a warm place, as they do ale, and when it has worked well, put it into a calk that will juft hold it. In two or three months you may bot- tle it ofF: cork it well, and keep it for ufe. Walnut Mead. Put feven pounds of honey to every two gallons of water, and boil it three quarters of an hour. To every gallon of liquor put about twenty-four walnut leaves, pour your liquor boiling hot over them, and let it ftand all night. Then take out the leaves, and pour in a cupful of yeaft. Let it work two or three days, and then make it up. After it has ftood three months, bottle it, cork it tight, and keep it for ufe. Cowjllp Mead. , Put twenty-four pounds of the beft honey to ten gallons of water, and boil it till near one gallon is wafted, obferving to Ikim it well. Cut ten lemons in halves, and put them to three quarts of the hot liquor. Put the reft of the liquor into a tub, with five pecks of cow- flips, and let them ftand all night. Then put in the liquor, with the lemons, fix large fpoon- fuls of good ale yeaft, and a handful of fweet- brier. Stir them all well together, and let them work three or four days. Then ftrain the li- quorOF MADE WINES. 237 quof from the ingredients, and put it into a cafk. Let it ftand fix months, and then bottle it for ufe. Gotfeberry IVine. Goofel)errics for this purpofe muft be gather- ed when they are half ripe, and in dry wea- ther. Pick the fineft, and bruifc a peck in a tub with a wooden mallet. Then take a horfe- hair cloth, and prefs them as much as poffible, without breaking the feeds. When you have preffed out all the juice, to every gallon of goofeberries put three pounds of fine dry pow- der fugar, and ftir it all together till the fugar is diflblved. Then put it into a veflel juft big enough to hold it. If it be ten or twelve gal- lons, let it ftand a fortnight; if a twenty-gal- lon calk, five weeks. Set it in a cool place, then draw it off from the lees, clear the veffel of the lees, and pour in the liquor clear again. If it be a ten-gallon calk, let it ftand three months ; and if a twenty-gallon, four months. Then bottle olF, as before directed. Mountain Wine. Tick all the ftalks out of fome fine Malaga raifins, chop them very fmall, and put ten pounds of them to every two gallons of fpring water. Let them ftcep three weeks, ftirring them frequently during that time. Then fqueeze out the liquor, and put it into a veffel that will juft hold it, but do not ftop it till it has done hiffing. Then bung it up clofe, and it will be fit lor ufe in about fix-months. CherryTHE PREPARATION 238 Cherry W^mc. Gather your cherries when they .are full ripe, pull them off the ftalks, and prefs them through a hair fieve. Put two pounds of lump fugar finely beaten to every gallon of liquor- . Stir it togedier, and put it into a vefiel jull big ^enough to hold it. When it has done working and making a noife, flop it clofe for three months, and then bottle it off for ufe. Black Cherry Brandy. Procure eight pounds of the fineft black mo- Toon cherries, and eight pounds of fmall black cherries. Pick them, and bruifethem in a mor- tar, or you may ufe them whole, it you pleafe. Put them into a cafk, and pour fix gallons of brandy over them. Put in two pounds of loaf fugar broken to pieces, a quart of fack, flir all well together, and let it ftand two months. Then draw it off into pint bottles, cork it tight, and keep it for ufe. It is much finer when made with Morelia cherries. Birch [Vine. \ The proper feafon for extrading the liquor from the birch tree is the beginning of March, while the fap is riling, and before the leaves ffioot out; for when the lap is come forward, and the leaves appear, the juice being long di- gefled in the bark, grows thick and coloured, which before was thin and clear. T he method of c.xtraiffing the juice is by boring holes in the body of the tree, and putting in foffets, whicli are commonly made of the branches of cider, ^ *.1 A IOF MADE WINES. ■239 tlic pith being taken out. You may, without hurting the tree, if it be large, tap it in feveral places, four or five at a time, and by thole means procure from difterent trees feveral gal- lons everyr day. If you have not enough in one day, the bottles in which it drops mud be corked clofej’ and rofined or waxed. At any rate, however,'' make ufe of it as foon as you can. Take the fap and boil it as long as any feum rifes, fkimming it all the time. 'I’o every gallon of liquor put four pounds of good fugar, and the thin peel of a lemon. Boil it after- wards half an hour, fkimming ifwell. Then pour it into a clean tub, and when it is almoft cold) fet it to work with yeafi fpread upon a toaft. Let it ftand five or fix days, Birring it often. Then take a cafk jufi: big enough to hold the liquor. Fire a large match dipped in brimftone, throw it into the cafk, and Bop it clofe till the match is extinguiflted. Tun your wine, and lay the bung on foftly. rill you find it has done working. Slop it dole, keep it three months, and then Bottle it for ufe. Balm PKlne. Bci.l twenty pounds of lump fugar in four gallons and a halt of water one hour gently, and put it into a cub to cool. Bruife two pounds of tire tops of green balm, and pqt them into a barrel with a ht.ije i\ew yeafi, and when the li- quor is nearly cold'pou.r it on the balm. Stir i.t well together, and let it Band twenty-four hours, Birring, it frequently. Then bung it up, and let it Band fix weeks. Their bottle it oB^ puf^a lump of fugar into each bottle, cork240 -THE PREPARATION it tight, and the longer it is kept, the better it will bcr Rafpberry fVine, Bruife fome fine rafpberries with the back of a fpoon, then ft rain them through a flannel bag into a ftone jar. To each quart of juice put a pound of double-refined ftagar, ftir it well toge- ther, and cover it clofe. Let it ftand three days, and then pour it ofF clear. To a quart of juice put tw'o quarts of white wine ; then bottle it oflF, and it will be fit to drink in a week. Rafpberry Brandy. Pick two gallons of rafpberries clean from the ftalks, bruife them with your hands, and put them into a calk. Put to them eight gal- lons of good brandy, two pounds of loaf fugar finely beaten, and a quart of fack. Stir all well up together, and let it ftand a month. Then draw it off clear into another calk, and when it is fine, bottle it: cork the bottles well, and keep it for ufe. Orange Shrub. Take twenty gallons of water, and break into it, in fmall pieces, one hundred pounds of loaf fugar. Boil it till the fugar be melted, Ikim it well, and put it in a tub to coal. When ccJd, put it into a calk, with thirty gallons of good Jamaica rum, and fifteen gallons of orange juice: but mind to ftrain all the feeds out of the juice. Mix them well together, then beat up the whites of fix eggs very well, ftir them well in, let it ftand a week to fine, and thenOF MADE WINES. . 24.I Jraw it ofF for ufe. The fame rules will hold good for the makingt)f any quantity youpleafe, Damfon Wine. Having gathered your damfons on a fine day, and when they are ripe, weigh them, and bruifc them. Put them into a ftone ftein that has a cock in it, and to fixteen pounds of fruit boil two gallons of water. Skim it. pour it over the fruit fcalding hot, and let it fiand two days. Then draw it off, and put it into a veflel, and ,to every two gallons of liquor put five pounds of fine fugar. Fill up the veffel, and flop it clofe. Keep it in a cool cellar for twelve months, then bottle it, and put a fmall lump of fugar into each bottle. Cork them well, and it will be fit for ufe in two months after. Cowflip, or Clary Wine. Put twelve pounds of fugar, the juice of fix lemons, and the whites of four eggs well beat- en, into fix gallons of water. Let it boil half an hour, and Ikim It well. Take a peck of covvflips, (if they be dry, half a peck will do) and put them into a tub with the thin peelings of fix lemons. Then pour on the boiling li- quor, and ftir them about. When almofl cold, put in a thin toaft, baked dry, and rubbed with yeaft, and let it ftand two or three days )to work. If you put in, before you tun it, fix ounces of fyrup of citron, or lemons, with a quart of Rhenilli wine, it will be a great addi- tion. The third day ftrain it off, and fqueeze the covvflips through a coarfc cloth ; then ftrain it through a flannel bag, and tun it up Lay M th'eft 42 THE PREPARATION OF the bung loofe two or three days, to fee If it works ; and, if it does not, bung it down tight, let it ftaiid three months, and then bottle it for ufe. ^ t t ‘F THE PREPARATION OF CORDIAL WATERS. -Cordial Poppy Water. T>EFORE we proceed to the preparation of cordial waters, it may not be amifs to pre- mife a few particulars. If you make ufe of a limbec, be careful to fill the top with cold wa- ter, when you fet it on, make a pafte of flour and cold water, and clofe the bottom of your Hill with it. Be particularly careful not to let your fire be fo hot as to endanger its boiling over, as that will weaken the fpirit of your wa- ter. The water on the top of your Hill Ihould be frequently changed, and never fufFered to be fcalding hot, which will prevent your ftill dropping gradually. If you ufe a hot ftill, when you put on the top, dip a cloth in white lead and oil mixed together, and lay it well over the edges of your ftill, and a coarfe cloth over the top. Make a flow fire under it, but mind and keep it very clear; and when your cloth is dry, dip it in cold water, and lay it on again. If your ftill be very hot, wet another cloth, and lay it round the top. When you ufe a worm-ftill keep your tub full to the top with water, and change it often, to prevent its growing hot. When the young praditioner hasCORDIAL WATERS. 243 ^ has ftrongly fixed thefe preliminaries in his wind, he may then proceed to the preparation of Cordial Poppy water, and the other articles hereafter mentioned. Put a peck of poppies, and two gallons of very good brandy, into a wide-mouthed glafs, and let them ftand forty- eight hours. Then drain out the poppies, take a pound of raifins of the fun ftoned, an ounce of coriander feeds, and an ounce of liquorice diced. Bruife them all together, and put them into the brandy, with a pound of good Tpowder fugar. Let them ftand four or eight weeks, ftiaking it every day, and then ftrain it off and bottle it clofe for ufe. To make Afilk Watei\ Take of rue, carduus, and wormwood, each tw'o large handfuls; four handfuls of mint, as much balm, and as much angelica. Cut thefe a little, and put them into a cold ftill, and put to them three quarts of milk. Let your fire be quick till your ftill drops, and then llacken it. You may draw off two quarts; the firft quart will keep all the year. To make Aqua 'Mlrabilis'. Take cloves, mace, nutmeg, cinnamon, ga- lingal, cubebs, and .cardamums, of each four drams; put:to them two pints of the juice of celendine, one-pint of the juice of fpearmint; the juice of balm, flowers of melilot, cowflip, rofemary, borrage, buglofs, and marygolds, of each fix drachms; feeds of carraway, corian- der, and fennel, of each four drachms; four quarts of the beft faeje, and two quarts of white M 2 wine;244 the preparation of wine; the ftrongeft brandy, angelica water, and rofe-water, of each a quart. Bruife the Ipices and feeds, and fteep them with the herbs and flowers in their juices, waters, fack, white wine and brandy, all night. In the morning, diftil it in a common ftill pafted up ; and from this quantity you may draw off two gallons at leaft. Sweeten it to your tafte with fugar- candy, bottle it up, and keep it in a cool place. "Jo make Treacle PVater. Take four pounds of the juice of green wal- nuts; balm, marygold, rue, and carduus, of each three pounds; half a pound of roots of but- ter bur ; one pound of roots of burdock ; ange- lica and maftic wort, of each half a pound ; leaves of fcordium fix handfuls; Venice treacle and mithridates, of each half a pound ; old Canary wine two pounds; white wine vine- gar, fix pounds ; and juice ot lemon, the fame quantity. Diflil this in an alembic.' To make Angelica Water. Wafli eight handfuls of the leaves of ange- lica, cut them, and lay them on a table to dry. As foon as they are dry, put them into an ear- then pot, and put to them four quarts of ftrong wine lees. Let it fland twenty-four hours, but ftir it twice in that time. Then put it into a warm flill, or alembic, and draw it off. Cover your bottles with a paper, and prick holes in them, and let them fland thus two or three days Then mix all together, and fweeten it; and when it is fettled, bottle it up, and flop it cloic • CT^CORDIAL WATERS. 24^ To make Fever IVatcr. Take ten green walnuts, two ounces of car- duus feeds and marygold flowers, and three ounces of Virginia fnake-root; carduus water and poppy water, one quart of each, and one ounce of hartfhorn. Slice the walnuts, and fteep all in the waters a fortnight. Then add to it half an ounce of London treacle, and diftil the whole in an alembic pafled up. Red Rofe-bud Water. Take four gallons of rofes, and wet them in near two gallons of water. Then diftil them in a cold ftill. Take the fame ftilled water, and put into it as many frefti rofes as it will wet. Then diftil them again. In the fame manner you may diftil mint, balm, parfley, and penny- royal waters. Black CherryJWater, Bruife fix pounds of black cherries, and put to them the tops of rofemary, fweet marjorum, fpearmint, angelica, balm, and marygold flow- ers, of each a handful; dried violets an ounce ; anife-feeds and fweet fennel feeds, of each half an ounce. Bruife the feeds well, and cut the herbs fmall Mix all together, and diftil them off in a cold ftill. Peppermint Water. Cot your peppermint, which muft be gather- ed when it is full grown, and before it feeds, into Ihort lengths. Fil[ your ftill with it, and cover it with water. make a good fire M 3 under24^> the preparation of / under it, and when it is near boiling, and the- Hill begins to drop, if your fire be too hot, draw- a little from under it, to keep it from boiling over, or your water will be muddy The flower your flfill drops, the clearer and flronger vour water will be ; but do not reduce it too low. Bottle it the next day, let it Hand three or four days to take off the fiery talfe of the Hill, then cork it well, and it will keep a long time. Orange or Lemon Water. Take the outer rinds of fifty oranges or le- mons, put them into fix quarts of brandy and one quart of fack, and let them fleep in it ona night. The next night diftil theifi into a cold fiill, and draw it off till it begins to tafte four. Sweeten it to your tafte with double-refined fugar, and mix the fit ft, fecond, and third run- nings together. If it be lemon water, it fhould be perfumed witli two grains of ambergris, and one of mufk. Grind them fine, tie them in a rag,' and let It hang five or fix days in each bottle, or you may put to them three or four drops of the tindture of ambergris. Toke care that you cork it well, and it will remain good a great while. Nutmeg TWatcr. Put one pound of nutmegs beat up in a mor- tar to two gallons of brandy, ar.d the fame quan- tity of w'ater. Let it ftand all night, and then chaw it off in a warm ftill.' LIyJierical fVater. Take feeds of wild parfnip, betony, and roots of lovage, of each two ounces j roots offingle pionyCORDIAL WATERS.’ 247 piony four ounces ; of mifletoe of the oak three ounces; myrrh a quarter of an ounce, and caf- tor half an ounce. Beat all thefe together, and add to them a quarter of a pound of dried mille- pedes. Pour on thefe three quarts of mugwort water, and two quarts of brandy. LiCt them Band in a dole veflel eight days, and then If ill it in a cold ftill palled up. You may draw olF nine pints of water, and fweeten it to your talle. Mix all together, and bottle it up. Surfeit I'VateVt Take chives, fage, balm, mint, rue,Roman wormwood, fcurvy-grafs, brook lime, and wa- ter crelTes, of each one handful; green merery two handfuls ; poppies, if frelh, half a peck; but, if they be dry, ufeonly half the quantity ; cochineal and falFron, fixpennyworth of each ; annifeeds, carraway feecfs, coriander and car- damum feeds, of each an ounce ; two ounces of fcraped liquorice ; a pound of fplit figs, the fame quantity of raifins of the fun ftoned, an ounce of juniper berries bruifed, an ounce of beaten nutmeg, an ounce of mace bruifed, and the fame of fwcet fennel feeds alfo bruifed, with a few flowers of rofemary, marigold, and fage. Putall thefe into a large (lone jar, put to them three gallons of French brandy. Cover itclofe, and let it fkand near the fire for three weeks. Stir it three times a week, and be fure to keep it clofe Hopped, and then drain it off. Bottle your liquor, and pour on the ingredients a bottle more of French brandy. Let it Hand-a week, llirring it once a day, then dift.il it in a cold Hill, and you will have a fine white furfeit M 4 water. ■ i I' f iV 6 •? i 1 IV t I I i _ 248 THE PREPARATION, &C. water. Though this is bcfl: made in fummer, yet you may make it any time of the year, if you live in J.ondon, v/here the ingredients are always to be had either in a green or drv ftate. ^ Roje JVater. Rofes for this purpofe muft be gathered on a fine day, when they are full blown. Pick off the leaves, and to a peck put a quart of wa- ter. Then put them into a cold ftill, make a flow fire under it, and the flower you diftil it the better it will be. Then bottle it, and you may cork it after two or three days. Lavender Whaler. Take two pounds of lavender pips, and put them into tw'o quarts of water. Put them into a cold flill, and put a flow fire under it. Diftil it off very flowly, and put it into a pot till you have diftilled all your water. Then clean your ftill well out, and put your lavender water into it, and diftil it off again flowly. Put it into your bottles, and cork it well.( 249 ) A CATALOGUE OF THE Various Articles in Seafon in the different Months of the Year. JANUARY. MEAT. - ■DEEF Mutton Houfe-Lainb Pork Veal POULTRY, &c. Pheafant \ ^ Turkeys Partridge J Capons Hares Pullets Rabbits Fowls Woodcocks Chickens Snipes Tame Pigeons Carp FISH. Turbot Tench Tliornback Perch Skate Lampreys Sturgeon Ecis Smelts M 5 Craw-fifhr 250 A CATALOGUE OF THE Craw-fifh Whitings Cod Lobfters Soles Crabs Flounders Prawns Plaice Oyfters VEGETABLES. Cabbage Cardoons Savoys Beets Cole worts Parfle Sprouts Sorrel Brocoli, purple and Chervil ' white Celery Spinach Endive ' Lettuces Mint Crefles Cucumbers in hot Muftard houfes Rape Thyme Radifli Savory Turnips Por-Marjoram Tarragon Hyfop Sage Salfifie Parfnips be had^ though not Carrots Seafon T urnips Jerufalem Artichokes Potatoes Afparagus Scorzonera Skirrets Mulhrooms FRUIT. Apples Services Pears IVIedlars Nuts Almonds Grapes iy><ARTICLES IN SEASON. 2^1 FEBRUARY. MEAT. Beef Houfe-Lamb Mutton Pork Veal 1 POULTRY, &c. ' . Turkeys Pheafants Capons Partridges Pullets W oodcocks Fowls Snipes Cliickens Hares Pigeons Tame Rabbit? FISH. Cod Lobfters Soles Crabs Sturgeon Oyfters Flounders Prawns Plaice Tench Turbot Perch Thornback Carp Skate Eels Whitings • ^ Lampreys Smelts Craw-filh VEGETABLES, &c. Cabbage * Sorrel Savoys Celery Coleworts Chard Beets Sprouts Lettuces Brocoli, purple and Crefles Tvnite Burnet M6 'Muftard25a /A CATALOGUE OF THE Muftard Rape Radifhes Turnips Tarragon Mint Afparagus Kidney Beans Carrots Turnips Parfnips Potatoes Cardoons Beets Parfley Chervil Endive Pears Apples Tan fey ' Thyme Savory Marjoram Alfa may he had Forced Radifhes Cucumbers Onions Leeks Shalots Garlick Rocombole Sallifie Skirret Scorzonera Jerufalem Artichokes FRUIT. Grapes MARCH. MEAT. Beef Houfe-Lamb Mutton Pork Veal Turkeys Pullets POULTRY, &c. Capons Fowls ChickensARTICLES IN SEASON. 55? Chickens Pigeons Ducklings Tame rabbits FISH. Carp Flounders Tench Lobders Turbot Soles Thornback Whitings Skate Crabs Eels Craw-filh Mullets Prawns Plaice VEGETABLES. Carrots Cabbages Turnips Savoys Parfnips Spinach Jerufalem ai tichokes Turnips Onions T arragon Garllck Mint Shalots M11 (h rooms Brocoli Lettuces Cardoons Chives Beets CrelTes Parlley Murtard Fennel Burnet Celery Thyme Endive W'inter-favory Tan lev Pot-marjoram Rape Hyfop Radifhes Fennel Coleworts Cucumbers Borecole Kidney-beans FRUIT. Apples Forced firawbcrries Pears^54 A catalogue of Beef APRIL. MEAT. Mutton Veal Lamb Pullets POULTRY, &c. Pigeons Fowls Rabbits Chickens Leverets Ducklings Crabs FISH. Soles Chub Skate ' Tench ' ‘ Mullets Trout Smelts Craw-fifli Herfings Salmon Lobfters Turbot - Prawns Coleworts VEGETABLES. Endive Sprouts Sorrel Brocoli Burnet Spinach T arragon Fennel Radilhes Parfley Lettuces Chervil All forts of fm all fall ad Young onions Thyme Celery All forts of pot-herbs Apples FRUIT. Forced cherries and Pears Apricots for tarts MAY25s ARTICLES IN SEASON, MAY. MEAT. Beef Mutton Veal Lamb POULTRY, &c. Pullets Ducklings Fowls Turkey poults Chickens Rabbits Green ge; ;fe Leverets fish: Carp T urbot Tench Herrings Eels Smelts Trout J,obfters Chub , Craw-fifli Salmon Crabs Soles Prawns VEGETABLES, &c. Early potatoes Lettuces Carrots CreflTes Turnips Aluftard Radi flies All forts of fmall { Early cabbages Cauliflowers Artichokes Spinach Parfley Sorrel Barley Mint Purflane Fennel herbs Thyme Savory All other fweet herbs Peafe Beans Kidney beans Afparagus T ragopogon Cucumbers, See,0 2^6 A Pears Apples Strawberries Cherries CATALOGUE OF FRUIT. And melons With green apri( Goofeberries And currants for Beef Mutton JUNE. MEAT. . Veal Lamb Buck ' POULTRY, &c. Fowls Turkey poults Pullets Plovers Chickens Wheat-ears Green geefe Leverets Ducklings Rabbits Trout FISH. Mullets Carp Mackarel Tench Herrings Pike Smelts Eels Lobfters Salmon Craw-fifh Soles Prawns Turbot VEGETABLES, &c. Carrots Parfnips Turnips Radilhes Potatoes Onions257 ARTICLES IN SEASON. Beans Parfley Peafe Purflane Afparagus Rape Kidney beans Crefles Artichokes All other fmall fallad^ Cucumbers ing' Lettuces Til y me Spinach All forts of pot-herbs FRUIT. Cherries Pears Strawberries Some peaches Goofeberries Nedlarines Currants 'Grapes Apricots Melons Apples Pine apples JULY. MEAT. Beef Mutton Veal Lamb Buck Venifon POULTRY, &c. Pullets Wheat-ears Fowls Plovers Chickens Pigeons Green geefe Young partridges Ducklings Turkey poults Ducks Phealants Leverets Rabbits FISH.I 258 A CATALOGUE OF Cod FISH. Flounders Haddocks Eels Mullets Lobfters Mackarel Skate Tench Thornback Pike Salmon Herrings- Carp Soles Prawns Plaice Craw-fifli. .VEGETABLES, &c. Carrots Finocha Turnips Chervil Potatoes Sorrel Radifhes Purflane • Onions Lettuce Garlick CreflTes Rocoiubole All forts of fmall fallad Scorzonera herbs. Sal fi fie Mint Mufhrooms . ' Balm Cauliflowers Thyme Cabbages All other pot-herbs - Sprouts Peafe Artichokes Beans Celery ' Kidney beans Endive Pears , FRUIT. Apricots Apples Goofeberries- Cherries Strawberries Peaches Rafpberries Hedtarines Melons Plumbs Pine ApplesI K it AKTICLES IN SEASON* 259 august. MEAT. Beef Mutton Veal Lamb Buck Venifon POULTRY, &c. Fowls Green geefe Pullets Turkey poults Ducklings Rabbits Leverets Pigeons ' Pheafants Wheat-ears Wild Ducks Plovers Chickens FISH. Cod Herrings Haddock Pike Flounders Carp Plaice Eels Skate LobBers 'I hornback * Craw-fifli Mullets Prawns Mackarel OyBers VEGETABLES, &c. Carrots Peafe Turnips Beans Potatoes Kidney beans Radifhes Mu 111 rooms Onions Ai tichokes Gai lick Cabbage Shalots Cauliflowers Scorzonera Sprouts Salfifie Beets Celery irasii. ICelery Endive Finocha Parfley Lettuces A catalogue of All forts of fmall fallad’ Thyme . Savory Marjoram All forts of fwcet herbS’ FRUIT. Peaches Filberls NecSlarines Mulberries Rums Strawberries Cherries' Goofeberries Apples Currants Pears Melons Grapes Figs Pme Apples SEPTEMBER. Beef MEAT. Lamb Veal Pork Mutton Buck Venllbn Geefe POULTRY, &c. Hares Turkies Rabbits Teals Chickens Pigeons . Discks I.arks Pheafants Pullets Partridges FowlsARTICLES IN SEASON-. 26l FISH. Cod Smelts Haddock Salmon Flounders • Carp Plaice Tench Thornbacks Pike Skate Lobfters Soles ' Oyfters VEGETABLES. Carrots Sprouts Turnips Cauliflowers Potatoes Cardoons Shalots Endive Onions Celery * Leeks Parfley Garlick Finocha Scorzonera Lettuces, and all forts Salfjfie of fmall fallads Peafe Chervil Beans Sorrel Kidney beans Mulhrooms Artichokes Beets Thyme, and all forts ef foup herbs Cabbages FRUIT. Peaclies Medlars Plums Quinces Apples Lazarolcs Pears Currants Grapes Morello cherries Walnuts Melons Filberts Hazel nuts Pine Apples I y'q,6z A CATALOGUE OF Beef Mutton Lamb Geefe T urkies Pigeons Pullets Fowls Chickens Rabbits Wild ducks Teals Dorees Holobets Bearbet Smelts Brills Gudgeons Pike Carp Cabbages Sprouts Cauliflowers Artichokes Carrots OCTOBER. MEAT. Veal Pork Doe Venifon POULTRY, &c. Widgeons W oodcocks Snipes Larks Dotterels Hares Pheafants Partridges^ FISH. T ench Perch Salmon trout Lobfters Cockles Mufcles Oyfters VEGETABLES. Parfnips Turnips Potatoes Skirrets Salfifie Scorzoncra y 1 ■ ^0^ befits Stale's Garlict Ctleiy bndiffi Teack Gap Fip ServicfJ iMuttcii Ottfe Fowls CFidens Pullcfs n 'i^ns h4 I \ articles tn season. 263 Scorzonera Leeks Shalots Garlick Rocombole Celery •Endive Cardoons Chervil Finoclia Chard beets' Corn fallad Lettuces All forts of young fallad Thyme Savory ■ All farts of pot herbs FRUIT. Teaches Grapes Figs Medlars Services Quinces Black and white bullace Walnuts Filberts Hazle-nuts Pears , Apples NOVEMBER. , MEAT. Beef Houfe-lamb Mutton Doe venifon Veal POULTRY, &c. Geefe Woodcocks Turkies Snipes Fowls Larks Chickens Dotterels Pullets Hares Pigeons Rabbits Wild ducks Partridges Teals Widgeons Pheafants I iA CATALOGUE OF 264 Gurnets I3orees HoIoI)ets Bearbet Salmon Salmon trout Smelts Carp FISH. Pike 'lench Gudgeons Lobfters Oyflers Cockles Mufcles VEGETABLES, &c. Carrots Turnips Parfnips- Potatoes Skirret Salfifie Scorzonera Onions Leeks Shalots Rocombole Jerufalem artichokes Cabbages Cauliflowers Savoys Sprouts Coleworts Spinage Chard beets Cardoons Parfley CrefTes Endive Chervil Lettuces All forts of fmall fallad herbs Thyme, and all other potherbs FRUIT. Pears Apples Bullace Chefiiuts Hazle-nuts ' Walnuts Medlars Services Grapes DECEMBERI ' DECEMBER. MEAT. Houfe-lamb Mutton Pork Doe venifon POULTRY, &c. Woodcocks Snipes Larks Wild ducks Teals W idgeons Dotterels Partridges Pheafants Gcefe Turkies Pullets Pigeons Capons Fowls Chickens Hares Rabbits Wi > ■ \ Turbot Gurnets Sturgeort Dorees Holobets Bearbet Smelts Cod FISH. Codlings Soles Carp Gudgeons Eels Cockles Mufcles Oyfters VEGETABLES, &c. Cabbages Savoys Brocoli, purple and white Carrots Parfnips Turnips Lettuces Crefles All forts of finall fallad N Failley •jr' { 1 1 4A CATALOGUE, &C. 266 Potatoes Skirrets Scorzouera Salfifie ' Leeks Onions Shalots Cardoons Forced afparagus Garlick Rocombolc Celery . Endive Beets Spinach Parfley Thyme Al] farts of pot herbs Apples Pears Medlars Services FRUIT. Chefnuts Walnuts Hazle-nuts Grapes directions[ 267 ] DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. as the indifpcnfahle province of a cook, yet it is certainly of the houfekeeper, who is of- ten obliged to take her place at the head of tlie table, where every eye is upon her, who never tail either to applaud or condemn her, accord- ii^ to the manner in which Ihe difeharges that office. We {hall therefore lay down a few ge- neral rules, accompanied with pruaical obferva- j’ w^^ich we hope will not fail of making this difficult matter very eafy and familiar. The beft way of cutting up a hare, fee No. i, is to put the point of the knife under the (boulder at and cut through ail the vvay down to the rump, on one fide of the back bone, in the When you have done thus, cut it m the fame manner on the other fide, at an equal difiance from the back bone, hv whtnN _ Ti? cut up a Hare, ^HOUGH carving may not be confidered268 DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. Ihoulder mull' be cut off in the circular dotted line e, g. Put the head on a clean pewter plate, fo as to have it under your hand, and turning the nofe' to you, hold it Heady with your fork,.fo that it may not flip from under the krrife. You mull then put the point of the knife into the fkull, and thus the head may be eaflly divided into two Remember, when you help a perfon to any part of a hare, to give with it a fpoonful of pudding. The method of cut- ting up-a hare as above dircdled, can only be done when the hare is young. If it be old, the befl method is, to put your knife pretty clofe to the back-bone, and cut off the leg ; but, as the hip-bone will be in your way, turn the back of the hare towards you, and endeavour to hit the joint between the hip and the thigh-bone. When you have feparated one, cut off the other, and then cut a long narrow flice or two on each fide of the back-bone, in the direction h. Then divide the back-bone into as many parts as you pleafe; all which may be eaflly acquired by a little attention and pradlice. A Goofe. See Plate No, 2. Pot the neck end qf the goofe before you, and begin by cutting two or three long flices, on each fide of the breaft, in the lines b, quite to the bone. T hen take off the leg, by turning the goofe up on one fide, putting the fork through the fmall end of the I'eg-bone, and prelfing it clofe to the body, which, when tbo knrfe has entered at dy will eaflly raife the joint. Then pafs the knife under the leg, inDIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 269 the dire6lion e. If the leg hangs to the car- cafe at tlie joint e, turn it back with the fork, and, if the goofe be young, it will ’eafily fepa- rate. Having thus taken off the leg, proceed to take off the wing, by paffing the fork through the fmall end of the pinion, preffing it clofe to the body, and entering the knife at c, and paf- ling it under the wing in the diredlion r, d. This is a nice thing to hit, and can be acquired only by praftice. When you .have taken off the leg and wing on one fide, do the fame on the other. Then cut off the apron in the line, g; having done which, take off the merry- - thought in the line r, All the other parts are to be taken off in the fame manner as di- rected for a fowl in the following article, which fee. A goofe is feldom quite diffeCled, like a fowl, unlefs the company be very large.. The parts of a goofe moft efleemed are, llices from the breaft * the flefhy part of the wing, which may be divided from the pinion ; the thigh- bone, or drumftick, as it is called ; the pinions, and the fide-bones. If fage and onion be put into the body of the goofe, which is not now fo much in fafliion as formerly, when you have cut off the limbs, draw the'-ftuffing out with a fpoon from whence the apron is taken, and mix at with the gravy, which Ihould firft be poured hot into the body of the goofe. ul Roajled Fowl, See 'P'ate^ No 3. The fowl is here reprefented as laying on its fide, with one of the legs, wings, and neck- bone taken off. A boiled fowl is cut up in the N 3 ' fame270 directions for carving. fame manner as one roafted. In a boiled fowl, legs are bent inwards, and tucked into the belly; but previous to its being fent to table, the Ikewers are withdrawn. The moft con- venient method of cutting up a fowl, is to lay It on your plate, and, as you feparate the joints, m the lines a, put them into the dilh. 1 he legs, wings, and merry-thought, being removed in the fame manner as direded for cutting up a goofe, the next thing is to cut ofF the neck-bones. This is done by putting in . tlie knife atand pafling it under the long broad part of the bone in the line g, b, then lifting It up, and breaking off the end of the Inorter part of the bone, which adheres to tlifr breaft-bone. All the parts being thus feparated from the carcafe, divide the breaft from the back, by cutting through the tender ribs on each fide, from the neck quite down to the vent or tail. Then lay the back upwards on your plate, fix your fork under the rump, and placing the edge of the knife in the line b, e, c, and preffing it down, lift up the tail, or lower part of the back, and it will readily divide, with the help of your knife, in the line b, e, c. In the next place, lay the lower part of the back upwards in your plate, with the rump from* you, and cut off the fide-bones, or fidefmen, as they are generally called, by forcing the knife through the rump bone, in the line <■,/, when your fowl will b« completely cut up.• A Ptg. See Plate^ No. 4. It is not the cuftom at prefent to fend a pig up to table whole, but is ufually cut up by the cook, whotakesofi the head, fplits the body down the back, and garniflies the dilh with the chops and ears. Before you help any one at table, firfi: feparate the ilioulders from the carcafe, and then the legs, according to the diredlion given by the dotted line c, dy e. The moft delicate part of the pig is that about the neck, which' may be cut oflF in the line /, g. The next beft parts are the ribs, which may be di'vided in the line, fly by iAc, and the others are piec&s cut from the legs and flioulders. A pig, indeed, produces fuch a variety of delicate bits, that the palate of almoft every one may be fuited. A Pheafant. See Plate^ No. 5. * The bird appears, in the reprefen ration here given, in a proper hate for the fpit, with the head tucked under one of the wings. When laid in the dilli, the Ikewers drawn, and the grd carried to table, it muft be thus carved Fix your fork in that part of the bfeaft where the two dots are marked, by which means you will have a full command of the bird, and can turn It as you think proper. Slice down the breaft in the lines «, by and then proceed to take off the leg on one fide, in the diredion dy e, or m the circular dotted line b, d This done, cut off the wing on the fame fide, in the line, f, d. When you have feparated the leg and • V272 DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING, and wing on one fide, do the fame on the other, and then cut off, or feparate from the breaft- bone, on each fide of the breaft, the parts you before fliced or cut down. Be very attentive in taking off the wing. Cut it in the notch a j for if you cut too near the neck, as at_^, you will find yourfelf interrupted by the neck- bone, from whence the wing muft be feparated. Having done this, cut off the merry-thought, in the line/, by palling the knife under it towards the neck. With refpe6t to the re- remaining parts, they are to be cut up in tlie lame manner as directed for a roaft fowl. The breaft, wings, and merry-thought, are the parts moft admired in a pbeafant. A Partridge. See No. 6. This is a reprefentation of a partridge as juft taken from the fpit; but before it be ferved up, the Ikewers muft be drawn out of it- It is cut up in the fame manner as a fowl. The wings muft be taken off in the lines a, and the merry-thought in the line c, d. The prime parts of a partridge are the wings, breaft, and merry-thought. The wing is confidered the beft, and thetipiofit reckoned the moft deli- cate niorfel of the wlfole. ■ - Pigeons. See No. 7 and 8. Thefe are the reprefentations of tvvo pi- geons, the one with the back, the other with the breaft uppermoft. Pigeons are fometimes cut up in the fame manner as chickens; but as theJ i DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 27^ M the lower part, with the thigh, is in general inoft preferred, and as, from its fmall fize, half a one is not too much for moft appetites, they are feldom carved now, otherwife than by fix- ing the fork at the point o, entering the knife juft before it, and dividing the pigeon into two, cutting away in the lines b, and a, c. No. 7, at the fanie time bringing the knife out at the back, in the diretSlicn and a, c, No. 8. A Fore Sluartcr of Lamb. See No. 9. A fore quarter of lamb is always roafted,' and when it comes to table, before you can help anyone, you muft feparate the flioulder from the breaft and ribs, by paffing the knife under, in the diredlion c, g, e. The fhoulder being then taken oft', the juice of a lemon, or Seville orange, ftiould be fqueezed upon the part it was taken from, a little lalt added, and the fhoulder replaced. The griftly part muft then be fepa- ratcd from the ribs, in the line /, g, and then all the preparatory Bufinefs to ferving will be done. The ribs are generally moft efteemed, and one, two, or more, may be eafily feparatcd from the reft, in the line a, b\ but to thofe who prefer the griftly part, a piece or two may be cut oft" in the line f, &c. If your quarter be grafs Iamb, and runs large, you may put the fhoulder into another dilh, and carve it in the fame manner as a fhoulder of mutton ufually is. / Haunch iI) you, put in the point of the knife at c, and cut \ ! 2^4 directions for. carving. A Haunch of Venifon. See Plate, No. lo: Cut down to the bone, in the line b, c, a. Then turn the diHi, with the end towards it down as deep as you can, in the diredion c, d, fo that the two ftrokes will then form the refemblance of the letter T . Having cut it thus, you may cut as many dices as are necef- fary, according to the number of the company, cutting them either on the right or left. As the fat lies deeper on the left, between d and a, to thofe who are fond of fat, as is the cale with moft admirers of venifon, the beft flavoured and fattefl: dices will be found on the left of the line c, d, iuppofing the end d turned towards you. In cutting the dices, remember that they mud; not be either too thick or too thin. With each dice of lean, add a proportion ot fat, and put a fufficient quantity of gravy into each plate. Currant jelly fliould always be ferved up with venifon, as. moft people in general like it. We might enlarge this article condderably, by deferibing the difierent methods of carving the various joints of butcher’s meat; but, as we fuppofe every houfekeeper fs well acquaint- ed with that budnefs, we forbear entering, on. fo unueceffary a detail. FINIS.BOOKS PRINTED FOR J. SCATCHERD. No. 12, Ave-Maria-Lane. NECESSARY FOR ALL YOUNG PERSONS. This Day is Publijhed. . THE DAILY COMPANION; with Chriftiaa Supports under the Troubles of this World ; to com- fort and fuccour all thofe who in this tranfitory Life arc in Trouble, Sorrow, Need, Sicknefs, or any other Adverfity. To which are added, Prayers and Medi- tations fuitable to.all Perfons afflidfed in Mind, Body, or Eftate. Price 8d. bound. THE FIFTEENTH EDITION. THE DEVOUT SOUL’S DAILY EXERCISE; in Prayers, Contemplations, and Praifes. Containing Devotions for Morning, Noon, and Night, and every Day in the Week; with Prayers and Thankfgivings foi Perlbns of all Conditions, and upon all Occafions. By R. Parker, D. D. Price 8d. bound. DIVINE BREATHINGS, or a Pious Soul thirft- ing after Ctirift, in Meditations, &c. Price 8d. bound. This Day is Publijhed^ price One Shilling Bound, Neceflary for all Families. THE FIFTH EDITION. A COMPANION TO THE ALTAR; fhewing the Nature and Neceffity of a Sacramental Prepara- _tion, in order to our worthy receiving the Holy Com- munion ; wherein thofe Fears and Scruples of Eatine and .Drinking unworthily, are proved groundlefs and unwarrantable. To which is added, The Service of the Holy Communion, with Prayers for Morning and Evening, before receiving the Sacrament, and Meditations pro- per to be read at and after the Holy ServiceI V j I BOOKS PRINTED FOR J. SCATCHERD, No. 12, Ave-Maria-Lane. Z)^; /'i Publifljed^ Price 4/. ^VALUABLE SECRETS in ARTS and TRADES- Or, APPROVED DIRECTIONS FROM THE BEST ARTISTS. Containing upwards of one thoufand Approved Re- ceipts for the various methods Of preparing the LapU Lazuli, t(X make Ultramarine. Of the Art of Gilding. The Art of dying Wood, Bones, &c. The Art of Calling in Moulds. Of making ufeful Sorts of Ink. The Art of making Wines. Of the Compiofition of Vinegars. Of Liquors, ElTential Oils, itc. Of the Confectionary Buhnefs. The Art of preparing Snuflfs, See. Of taking out Spots and Stains. Art of Filhing, Bird-catching, &c. And other Subjects, curious, entertaining,' arid ufeful. Of Engraving on Biafs, Copper, or Steel. Of the Compofition of Metals. Of the Compofition of Varnilhes. Of Maftichs, Cements, Sealing- Wax, fitc. See. Of the G lafs Manufaftory, various Imitations of Precious Stones, and French Pafte. Of Colours and Painting, ufeful for Carriage Painters. Of Painting on Paper. Of Compofition for Limners. Of tranfparent Colours. Colours to dye Skins or Gloves. To colour or varnilh Copperplate Prints. Of Painting on Glafs. Of Colours for all Sorts for Oil, Water, and Crayons. A NEW EDITION IMPROVED. Tbis Day is Publijhed, Pric» u. neatly bound in red, A SPELLING DICTIONARY or THE ENQLISH LANGUAGE. On a new Plan. For the ufe of young Gentlemen,Ladies,and Foreigners. Publifhed by the King’s Authority. To which is prefixed, a Compendious Englifh Gi •ammar, with a concife Hiftorical Account 'of the Language ; and at the end are added, Rules for fpeak- ingand writing Englifli, aftd Diredions for addrejing Per/ons of jDiftin^iion. * • /