I 6o A TREATISE upon Befides tbefe things, the kind of roller is to be con- (idered, which ought to be made of the thinneft PP^elch flannel, not thicker thancoarfe linen, with advantages no linen can have; it not^only being fofter, fitting eafier. even that could have prevented it. It accordingly gradually be- came fore, and was painful to tl^ bigheft degree, fo that flie often fat fereaming out aloud for ho^rs ^together, unable to pat her foot to the ground, though the "mm was dreffed only with ccratiim alb. or a fatiirnine cerate, and fometimes with different kinds of poultices; and Ihe kept the limb as quiet as her fituation would allow of. Not knowing what to do better, I determined to try my own method, being fatisfied that tumid legs will often bear rolling when aft’effed with ulcers, though they would never endure it be- fore. I drefl'ed it with a powerful digefHve, and rolled it up mo- derately tight, though it was fwelled to a greater fize than any leg I ever faw ; notwithdanding it had, forfome time, been refted great part of the day on a chair. It had broken into a fmall, fhul fore, of an irregular fliape, without tlie Itaft appearance of red fiefh, and the Ikin was difcoloured half round the leg, which was exceedingly varicofe ; it difeharged a fcalding ichor, that de- liroyed the Ikin wherever it ran, increafing the fize of the fore, and was getting daily more painful. Having drefl'ed it as above-mentioned, (lie was now permitted ami encouraged to walk, and became eafier from the hour the roller was applied, which continued to agree perfedUy well. The leg remained pretty eafy throughout the cure, except for feme time after it was drefl'ed, when fliarper applications had been ufed, but continued fo fpread till the ulcer became clean, and a copious dif- charge was produced ; which did not exceed ftven or eight d.ays at the mofl. After this, it was no longer painful, difeharged ■ laudable pus, and in about a fortnight’s time, began to heal very kindly, and continued to (lo fo till h was perfedly well.