SIMPLES. [book VII. 70 Comm. Greeks and Romans did not use the frog as an article of food. (Vol. I, 166.) Bdellium; botli tlie Scythian and Arabian are possessed of powers which prove emollient of indurated tumours, more especially the recent. The Arabian is also diuretic, lithon- tripticj and digestive. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscorides, as Dr. Ainslie remarks (Mat. ' * ' Ind. i, SO), has sufficiently M'ell described this article; and yet he adds afterwards, it is a lamentable fact that the actual tree from Avhich bdellium is got has not hitherto been clearly as- certained by botanists. He rejects the conjecture of Sprengel, altliough supported by the high authority of Ksempfer and Rumpliius that it is procured from the Boi'assus flabelliformis, and also that of ISIattliiolus, who maintained that it is procured from the dwarf ^;a/?w, or Chamoerops humilis. Upon the whole, the opinion of Virey, founded on the authority of Forskael, that it is got from some species of Amyris, seems to be the most probable. Dr. Pereira gives the following account of this article : " The term Bdellium is applied to two gummy resinous substances. One of these is Indian bdellium, or false myrrh, the bdellium of Scripture, which is obtained from Amyi'is {Balsamodendron ?) Commiphora. See further Royle (Hindoos Med. p. 90.) The other kind is called African Bdellium, and is obtained from the Heudolotia Africana." (Mat. Med. 1634.) On the Bdellium, see further what we have said in the Appendix to Dunbar's Greek Lexicon. The ancients would appear to have been well acquainted with both these kinds of bdellium; at aU events they were acquainted with the Indian, for Dioscorides has described it. He repre- sents the bdellium to be calefacient, emolhent, and dissolvent, and recommends it for dissolving hard tumours, for promoting menstruation in pessai'ies, and fumigations, and as an emetic, diuretic, and expectorant (i, 80.) Tlie Arabians were evidently still more familiar with the bdellium tliau their Grecian masters; but have supplied little or no additional information respecting it. See in particular Serapion (De Simpl. 117), and A\'icenna (ii, 2, 112.) Celsus recommends it frequently as an ingredient in external applications. As far as we h.ave been able to dis- cover, it does not occur in the works of Hippocrates.