577 EMOLLIENT PLASTERS. SECT. XVIII.] a misuomer are called by the general name of malagmata or emollient plasters, although their power be the reverse of softening. "When the viscera are in a hot state, as in ardent fevers, those from saffron, oil of roses, the juice of linseed, endive, knot-grass, hog's lard, or Htharge are to be applied; but when in a cold state those from opobalsam, Indian leaf, sowbread (cassamum), and pepper. In expectorations of blood, astringent and desiccative applications, composed from alum, willow, and bitumen, are to be applied to the breast; and in consumptions, those from bay berries, horehound, cardamom, and lye. The malugma from melilots. Of saffron, of Celtic nard, of cyperiis, of cardamom, of iris, of myrrh, of each, oz. ij ; of melilots, lb. j; of ammoniac perfume, lb. j ; of wax, lb. iij ; of turpentine, lb. j ; of oil of privet, lb. iij; of glaucinum, lb. ij ; of bdellium, oz. vj. Some add also of cyphi, oz. ij ; of wine, q. s. The malagma Polyarchium, from Galen's work, ' according to the parts.' Of wax, of turpentine, of bdellium, of ammoniac perfume, of cardamom, of cyperus, of each, one mina; of meli- lot, of amomum, of Indian nard, of saffron, of myrrh, of frank- incense, of the wood of cinnamon, of each, dr. xxv; of oil of privet, hemina j ; of Italian wine, q. s. Prepare and use sometimes unmixed and sometimes diluted with the cerate of privet. The Polyarchium, otherwise. Of xylobalsam, of costus, of t iris, of cyperus, of myrrh, of the schoenanth, of cardamom, of ; frankincense, of spikenard, of mastich, of storax, of bdellium, I of amomum, of Indian leaf, of saffron, of cassia, of pellitory, • of long birthwort, of each, oz. j ; of ammoniac perfume, oz. iss; < of roasted rosin, oz. iij ; of turpentine, lb. j ; of stag's marrow, ! oz. ij ; of wax, lb. ij ; of opobalsam, oz. vj ; of wine, oz. viij. The malagma Philagrianum. Of saffron, oz. iss ; of aloes, of : ammoniac perfume, of bdellium, of storax, of each, oz. j ; of ■ the fat of geese, oz, ij; of the medicine oesypum, oz. iv; of J palm-nuts, oz. ij ; of wax, lb. j; of nard, oz. vj; of the oint- r ment of apples, oz. vj ; of wine, what will be sufficient for tri- turating the dry things. T/ie fragrant malagma. Of saffron, of aloes, of mastich, of wormwood, of storax, of wild vine, of sowbread, of cloves, of nr. 37