528 TROCHISKS. [book vir. Comm. This famous medicine was expelled from the ' British Phar- macopoeia ' about the middle of the last century. When its rejection was proposed by Dr. Heberden^ the College divided upon the question, and there were found to' be 13 votes for retaining, and 14 for rejecting it. Its medicinal virtues had been previously questioned by Capivaccius, Trincavallius, and Julius Alexandrinus. It is still retained, however, in the 'Codex Medicamentarius' of Paris; and, we understand, is much used by the Greek physicians in Constantinople. A formula for a theriac is contained in the Greek Pharmacopoeia of the present day. Although it still retains the name of " Theriaca Andro- machi," it consists of but a very small number of ingredients in comparison with the original preparation. Dr. Mead says of it, " The physicians in Italy and France very commonly prescribe the broth and jelly of viper's flesh to invigorate and purify the mass of blood exhausted with diseases or tainted with some Aacious and obstinate ferment." (On Poisons.) Upon the virtues of viper's flesh, Duemerbi'oeck expresses himself in the following terms: " Carnes viperinas ac serpentinas adversus multa venena eximiam antidotalem vim obtinere adeo notum est ut absolute negari non possit, idque non tantum liquet ex Galeni testimoniis verum etiam ex quotidian^ experienti^. Sic Hartmannus scribit se propriis oculis vidisse, a quodam experto medico tribus diebus continuis intra corpus gravissima quaedam venena assumpta eademque paulo post sine uUa noxa, ab exhi- bito pulvere cum astantium admiratione iterum expulsa fuisse." (De Peste, iii, 5.) SECT. XII. ON TROCHISKS, OR TROCHES. Trochisks are so named from their form. There are three kinds of them, For some of them are to be swallowed, some injected, and some rubbed in. Of those which are swallowed, some are for restraining the belly, or a flow of blood, or any other discharge, by their cooling, astringent, obstruent, or desic- cative qualities, such as that from Egyptian thorn, that from seeds, and the like. Some are anodyne, either by deadening the sensibility, such as the saff'ron, or by dispelling, like those from aromatic substances. Some act as deobstruents on tlie