[book VII. 214 SIMPLES. Comm. the particles of burnt copper that fly off when hammered. ' Dioscorides calls it astringent and cpulotic : when drunk with honeyed water, he says, it is phlegmagogue; some give it in flour as a pill; it is mixed, he adds, with ophthalmic remedies, drying defluxions, and removing asperities of the eyelids. The stomoma, he says, is inferior to the squama sens as a purgative, (v, 89, 90.) Our author's account of these sub- stances is boiTowed from Galen. Aetius also copies from Galen. Oribasius gives a fuller description of them^ differing very little from that of Dioscorides. The Arabians treat of all these substances, as usual, borrowing freely from Dioscorides, and not adding much of their own. See in particular Avicenna (ii, 2, 231) ; Serapion (c. 404); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. vi, 48); Averrhoes (Collig. v, 43.) They prescribe the squama £eris internally as a purge, and say of it that when the palate is smeared with it vomiting is excited. These substances occur in the Hippocratic treatises and in the works of Celsus. They have not been used medicinally in this country for some time past. The Hindoos use the preparations of copper both internally and externally, according to Dr. Royle. (Hindoo Med. 90:) AsvKciKavOov, Leucacanthon, W7iite Acanthus (called also Polygonaton and Ischias); its root is of a cutting nature and desiccative in the third degree, and it is heating in the first. Comm. COMMENTARY. We Can Only determine for certain that it '—'—' belonged to the Carduinece, but can scarcely ventui'e to fix the genus, so loose is the description which the ancient authors have given of it, and so various the conjectures of modern commentators and herbalists respecting it. Upon the whole, the preponderance of the authorities is in favoiu' of the Cirsium tuberosum. Dioscorides says of it, that its root is intensely bitter, and that the decoction of it with wine relieves chronic pleurisy and sciatica, ruptm-es and sprains, and further, that it relieves toothache, (iii, 19.) Galen recommends it in cseliac and stomach affections and hemoptysis ; as a cataplasm to swellings, and a cure to toothache when used as a gargle. Aetius gives the same character of it. The Arabians ascribe the same virtues to it, and also hold it to be alcxipharmic. See in particular Avicenna (ii, 2, 80, 071) and Rhases (Cont.