269 SECT. Ill,] SIMPLES. rroot is stronger, so that when drunk with dark and austere mine, it cures the female flux. But that which has a hlack rroot is also * somewhat detergent, so as to cure alphos with rwater, and alopecia, when rubbed in with liquid pitch. Commentary. It is quite manifest that the plant here Comm. ^described comprehends the two well-known species of the' ' ^Water-lily, now named Nymphaa alba and Nuphar luteum. IThe two species, the one having a white root and the other la black, are no doubt mere varieties. Our author abridges ihis account of this article from Galen, who, in his turn, )borrows freely from Dioscorides. (iii, 138-9.) For the Arabians, «ee Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 493) ; Serapion (De Simpl, c. 1144); Avicenna (ii, 2, 508); Avei-rhoes (CoUig. v, 42.) [The Arabians administered it in the same cases as the Greeks, land also recommend the syrup for coughs and pleurisy, and (Bay of the plant that it induces sleep and cures acute vertigo, (but is debihtating. They compare the nature of the nymphsea 60 that of the mandragora. Though the two Water-Hlies have dong ceased to hold a place in our Dispensatory, they are still lased medicinally by the oriental nations. See Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 411.) Ea(^0tov (paaydviov, Xanthium, Clutburr, has fruit of discutient powers. I Commentary. It would seem to be the Xanthium struma- Comm. ■Hmto, a plant of the natural order of Ambrosiece. Our author ' ' ' lyakes his brief notice of it from Galen. Dioscorides gives a Hfcunute description of it, but merely mentions its being used n>r a dye and a cataplasm for sweUings. (iv, 186.) It does ot occur in the works of Hippocrates or Celsus, nor, as far as e can discover, in those of the Arabians. rnipig rj t,vpLQ, Xyris, Wild Corn-flag, is possessed of attenuating, discutient, nd attractive powers, and of truly desiccative, especially the ied, so that it is diuretic, and cures scirrhus of the spleen. Commentary. It is the Iris faeiidissima. It is still used me- Comm. icinally in dropsy and scrofula. See Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 161) id Gray (Suppl. to the Pharmacop. 25.) Dioscorides recom-