SECT. III.] 65 SIMPLES. place in our Dispensatories. The modern Greek Pharmacopoeia Comm. I contains the two species which are described by the names of' ' .Artemisia Absinthium and Artemisia contra. The latter is the ; santonicum, its hame being an abbreviation of contra vermes. :See Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 705.) BaXai'Oc; MupEj/zt/cr), Glans tmguentaria. Nut Ben; its inner and, as it were, fleshy fparts have detergent and incisive powers along with astrin- ggency: and therefore when drunk with honeyed water, to the aamount of a drachm weight, it occasions vomiting and loosens tthe lower belly. But when taken with oxycrate it is of use '^or obstructions of the viscera. It proves detergent in affec- ■tions of the skin when rubbed in with vinegar. Its bark is ■very astringent. Commentary. There can be no dispute that this is the Comm. iben nut, the term ben being derived from the Arabians. The ' " ' ee from which it is procured is said to be the Hyperanthera Tinga Vahl. See Ainslie (Mat. Med. i, 197.) It is further aUed Myrobalanum, but the coincidence of name must not [elead the reader to identify it with the myrobalans of the abians, of which we shall have occasion to give some account n another place. Pliny gives an interesting account of it, '.'epresenting the Arabian as being the best oil in quality, and she Troglodytic or Ethiopian, as the worst. (H. N. xii, 47.) Being principally used in unguents, it has often got the name of glans unguentaria. Dioscorides writes fully of its medicinal inroperties, recommending it in particular inwardly, as an lEmetic and pui'gative, and externally, as an application to arious cutaneoiis diseases, such as psora and leprosy (iv, 157.) oelsus recommends it in several places as an ingredient in moUient ointments, more especially for indurations of the pleen (iv, 9; v, 18, 4.) The Arabians, especially Avicenna and <5erapion, treat of it at great length, but in nearly the same erms as Dioscorides and Galen. Of late years nut ben" has •een excluded from our Dispensatories; but our older authori- ies in modern times confirm the characters of it given above com Dioscorides, that is to say, that it acts both as an emetic And a purge, but in the latter capacity slowly and with pain. ,|lee Hill (Mat. Med. 4, 94) ; Rutty (Mat. Med. p. 52.) in. 5