[book VII. COLLYRIA. 556 cations, and hypersarcoma. Of calamuie, dr. x ; of chalcitis, dr. XX; of pepper, gr. xv ; of Celtic nard, dr. j ; triturate the calamine and chalcitis with wine, and when dried add the other things and reduce to a fine powder. The liquid collyriUm from wild carrot. Of the juice of wild carrot, of germander, of cresses, and sometimes of othonna, equal parts. The o.thonna is the great celandine. Another, for sycosis, encanthis, and sarcoma. Of roasted misy, dr. vj ; of copperas, dr. iv; of Attic honey, sext. j. The liquid collyrium j^cmchi^estus of Erasistratus, having M'onderful efficacy, in complaints of the eyes, tonsils, pudenda, and suppurated ears. Of copper, dr. vj; of roasted misy, of myrrh, of each, dr. iij ; "of saffron, dr. iss; of pepper, dr. j ; of Chian wine, and of Cretan must, of each, hemin. iss. Having triturated all the things in the wine until dry, pour in the must and boil to the consistence of honey. Affi/lutinanis for defluxions of the eyes. Of Samian earth, of manna, of frankincense, of myrrh, equal parts. Adding to it the white of an egg, apply to the forehead spread upon linen. Another.—Of the seed of henbane, dr. j; of opium, dr. j ; of myrrh, dr. ij ; of saffron, dr. j ; of pollen, dr. iv ; the yelks of two roasted eggs. Mix with the white of an egg. Commentary. Gorrseus derives the word collyrium from KoXoj3») ovpa, i. e. cauda trunca, being expressive of their conical shape. (Defin. Med.) Blancard prefers the derivation from KuAvu) and povq. (Lexicon Modicum.) Oribasius states that collyria were applied—to the eye, to the uterus, and to fistulous ulcers. (Med. CoU. x, 23.) It is obvious, therefore, that the ancients used the word in a more general signification than the moderns do. Le Clerc gives the following description of the ancient collyria : " Les uns, qui etoient composes de matieres seches, em-ent le nom de ^ijpoKoXXoupio, collyres sees. Les autres, ou il n'entroit que des matieres liquides, s'appellerent uypoKoXXoupia, collyres humides ou liquides. Les ingrediens des premieres, qui etoient les memes que ceux des collyres entieres, etoient des poudres metalliques, de ceruse, de pompliolyx, d'antimoine hrule, de vert- de-gris, de chalcitis, de cadmia, et autres semblables. II y entroit aussi des poudres tirces des plantes, quelques sues