602 PESSARIES. [book vii. upwards when prolapsed. The materials of the astringent have been already pointed out in the chapter on Collyria and Trochisks. The pessary is to be made of the thickness of of bath sordes, and a little thicker; and then some wool, like a narrow tent, is to be doubled and dipped in the medicine, and applied to the mouth of the womb, having a long thread attached to it to draw down the pessaiy readily Avhen it is thought proper.—The Saffron Pessary, for inflammations, eversions, hai-dness, and inflation of the womb : Of white wax, of calf ^s marrow, of each, dr. xvj j of stag's marrow, dr. xj; of the grease of geese, dr. viij ; of the grease of fowls, dr. viij; of mastich, dr. iv; of the medicine oesypum, dr. iij ; of honey, dr. ij; of safi'ron, dr. viij; of rose oil, q. s. Triturate the saffron with the milk of a woman.—The Golden Pessary, an excellent emollient: Of saffron, dr. j ; of unwashed wool (oesypum), dr. j ; of stag's marrow, dr. ij; of turpentine, of wax, of the grease of geese, of each, dr. iij ; the yelks of sixteen eggs roasted ; of oil, of iris, of roses, q. s.—The Libanian Pessary, being emmenagogue, and agreeing excel- lently with affections of the womb : Of nard ointment, oz. vj ; of Tuscan wax, oz. v ; of the ointment of lilies, oz. iv; of fresh hog's lai'd, oz. iij; of the grease of geese and of domestic fowls, of stages marrow, and of the ointment of amaracus, of each, oz. ij ; of bull's tallow, of turpentine, of oesypum, of each, oz. j. It is dissolved in a double vessel, as are all the other pessaries.—The Pessary Enneapharmacus : Of the ointment of roses, of that of ricinus, of turpentine, of wax, of honey, of the grease of geese and of oxen, of stag's marrow, and of butter, equal parts.—The Titian emollient Pessary : Of wax, oz, vj ; of Colophonian rosin, oz. ivss; of bull's tallow, oz. iv; of ammoniac perfume, oz. iv. Triturate the ammoniac with water. —The Egyptian Pessary : Of honey, of turpentine, of butter, of oil of roses or of lilies, of saffron, of each, p. j; and when there is no inflammation and the parts are foul, of verdigris, p. ss.—The Pessary called Genitura, for conception : Of butter, oz. vj ; of the medicine oesypum, of stag's marrow, of the grease of geese and of domestic fowls, of turpentine, of aloes, of each, oz. iij ; of Tuscan wax, oz. vj ; of oil of roses, lb. ij; of myrrh, of cassia, of each, oz. ij ; of spikenard, oz. j; of honey, q. s.