479 SECT. III.] SIMPLES. ener of all the internal viscera, is useful in mental diseases, dropsy, jaundice, marasmus connected with obstructions, espe- cially when combined with gum lac. He says it is most useful in chronic diarrhoea when taken in an aromatic wine and with Indian spikenard, and also in uterine fluxes, dyspepsia, and other complaints of a similar nature. He praises it most especially as a stomachic. He states, that of all the kinds of rhubarb, the Turkish possesses the purgative quality in the highest de- gree. Of the other Arabian authorities, Averrhoes is one who gives a very distinct account of the true purgative rhubarb. (Collig. V, 42.) Mesne describes three species of the Rhabar- barum, or Rhaued, namely, Indianum, Barbarum, and Turci- cum, to all of which he ascribes purgative powers, and recom- mends them as being possessed of hepatic, stomachic, and de- obstruent properties, which render them particularly serviceable in dropsy, obstructions of the spleen, and jaundice. The dose of the infusion, he says, is from one to ten drs.; and of the pounded, from one to three. He appears not to have been acquainted with the Rhaponticum (De Simpl. v), whereas Avicenna and Serapion would seem not to have known the other. It may be proper to mention, in conclusion, that the Rheum rhaponticum is the common culinary or tart rhubarb of tliis country. According to Loudon, it was introduced in 1573, but it is most probable that we owe the introduction of it to the Romans. But it is time that we should draw this Appendix to a close. And now we trust it will not be thought out of place to con- clude with Professor Beckmann's eloquent eulogy on the Litera- ture of the Arabians in his celebrated work on the History of Inventions and Discoveries.^ " What a noble people were the Arabs ! We are indebted to them for much knowledge and for many inventions of great utility ; and we should have still more to thank them for were we fully aware of the benefits we have derived from them. What a pity that their works should be sufi'ered to moulder into dust, without being made available ! What a shame that those acquainted with this rich language should meet with so little encouragement ! The few old translations which exist have been made by persons who were not sufficiently acquainted