SIMPLES. SECT. III.] 39 wards that an inferior kind is also obtained from a tree of the Comm. reed tribe in Lybia, near Ammon. The reed which produces " * ' the better kind is now called the Ferula tingituna. Whether the inferior kind be the commercial ammoniacum of the present day, which is procured from the Dorema ammoniacum, does not appear certain. Dr. Hill holds that the ancients were ac- quainted with the two kinds which we have. In the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia it is questioned whether it is the product of the Heracleum gummiferum, or Ferula orientalis. The thymiama, or mffimenium, was the finest kind of ammo- niac, and was so called from being used in religiovis rites. Dioscorides recommends ammoniac for many medicinal pur- poses, both internally and externally; as for loosening the bowels when taken in a draught; for asthma and other affec- tions of the chest when given as a linctus with honey; for indurations^of the'spleen and liver when applied in the form t of a cataplasm; and for nebulce of the cornea, (iii, 88.) Galen gives nearly the same characters of it. Serapion quotes 1 Dioscorides and Galen, and adds a few other particulars of not much importance from Arabian authorities, such as that it is diuretic and emmenagogue, and expels humours from the body, (c. 268.) Rhases, Avicenna, Ebn Baithar, and Haly Abbas supply no additional information of any interest under this fchead. Averrhoes commends it as a medicine which softens and dissolves hard tumours. (Collig. v, 42.) 'A^o'pyj?, Amurca, the Lees of Oil, is of the second order of intensely ^calefacient, and desiccative medicines. By these means it cures i;lcers in dry bodies, but increases and exasperates those others. CoMMENTAKY. The amurca, as Dioscorides states, is the Comm. sediment of strained oil. Celsus mentions it often as a strona: """""^—' a •external application, in which form it is greatly commended by Dioscorides in various affections. He says it is an article in Ncollyria and plasters. He also speaks of its being used as an injection into the rectum, the urethra, and the vagina, in diseases tof these parts.