APPENDIX TO [book vii. 464 According to the latter it is a grainy mass, like the vetch, "white, inclining to yellow, which is brought from Barea and Chorasan, and of which a wine is made with honey. He quotes Paulus (by some mistake we suppose) as saying of it that it is refrigerant, extinguishes inflammation, and is slightly desiccant. It suppresses fluxes of blood, fattens, cures im- petigo, and is aphrodisiac. Serapion's authorities give a more lengthy description of it, but do not supply many more par- ticulars. Rhases, one of them, calls it the fat of the earth, and the rock of the earth, and another calls it pigeon-'s root. They all agree that it makes an excellent wine, which forms semen, fattens the body, and is aphrodisiac. They also state that it stops fluxes, and causes vomiting. Ebn Baithar's account of it is nearly the same as Serapion's. He says it is called honey earth in Andalusia, (i, 274.) Sprengel suggests—• how correctly we leave it to our readers who are better acquainted with the productions of the East than we can pretend to be, to determine—that it is the Garcinia Mangostena, or Mangosteen, a fruit which has the reputation of being the finest in the world. The description of it, given by Serapion, as far as we can judge of it from the barbarous Latin transi lation, would certainly seem to agree in some striking points with that of the mangosteen. Compare it with ' Loudon, Encycl. of Gardening,' 1531. Meisce, or Mes. See Serapion (De Simpl. c. 116); Avicenna (ii, 2, 481); Ebn Baithar (ii, 465.) It is described at some length, and in nearly the same terms by all these authors. They call it a small grain like a vetch, of a green colour, and say that some used it for fasils, and that it was wholesome but not very nutritious. They say of it that it is cold, and rather desiccant, useful in catai'rhs and coughs, and as a plaster to bruised and torn parts. In our edition of Serapion it is marked as manffo in a very old looking hand-writing, and it is recognised as the Phaseohs mango by Sprengel (R. H H. i, 266), and by the German translator of Ebn Baithar. Horon, or Bombax. See Serapion. (De Simpl. 66) and Ebn Baithar (i, 305.)