21 SECT. III.] SIMPLES. to the Parnassia pahtstris. (iv, 30.) Our author would appear Comm. to have confounded these two articles together, and to have ' ' ' applied to the latter the characters which Dioscorides gives to the other. The modern herbalists agree with the ancients in commending the couch-grass as being diuretic and lithon- triptic. None of the commentators or herbalists have given a satisfactory account of the esculent grass of Galen. The Arabians treat of the grasses very confusedly. See in parti- cular Avicenna (ii, 2, 704) ; Rhases (Contin. 1. ult. iii, 50); Serapion (c. 119.) In the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia the Triticum repens stands for the a. (p. 72.) Apuleius say& "Graeci agrostem Latini gramen appellant." ''Ayyrovaai, Anchusae, Alkanet; there are four varieties, all of which are not possessed of the same powers. For that which is called onoclea has a root which is astringent and somewhat bitter; whence it is useful in splenitic and nephritic cases. It is a : suitable remedy for erysipelas when applied with polenta. The . leaves are less cooling and desiccative than the root, and, t therefore, they are also' drunk for diarrhoea. The lycapsos ' being more astringent, agrees in like manner with erysipelas. * The onochilos (or alcibiadios) being posses'-ed of. stronger ! medicinal properties than these, is beneficial for the bites of ^ vipers, when applied as a cataplasm, as an amulet, and when I eaten. The fourth variety being smaller than the others, has > scarcely got a name : but being more bitter than the alcibia- I dios, it is applicable in cases of the broad lumbricus when t taken in a draught to the extent of an acetabulum. Commentary. The first species is either the Anchusa tine- Comm. / toria L., or the Litliospermim tinctorium; the lycapsos, the ' * ' lEchium italicum L.; the alcibiadios, the Echmm diffusum, and tthe fourth species the Lithosj)ermum fruticomm. There is con- ssidcrable difficulty, however, in determining the alkanets of the >ancients. Our author, in his account of them, follows Galen, »who, in his turn, copies from Dioscorides. Avicenna, Rhases, >and Haly Abbas borrow all they say of them from Dioscorides land Galen. The only one of these substances that is retained iin our modem Pharmacopoeias is the Anchusa iinctoria, and it "13 used only for colouring. The medicinal virtues of the