60 SIMPLES. [book VII. Comm. is recommended for ardour of the stomach, inflammations of the eyes, buboes, and quinsies. The Arabians in treating of the Aster atticus copy from Dioscorides. See in particular Avicenna (ii, 3, 357) ; Serapion (De Simpl. 96); Rhases (Contin. 1. ult. i, 95.) It is not found in the works of Celsus. It held a place in our modern Dispensatory down to a late date. See Quincy (116.) 'KarpayakoQ, Astragalus, Wild Liquorice, is a small shrub, having astringent roots, and is desiccative in no contemptible degree. It pro- motes the cicatrization of old ulcers, and when di'unk with wine stops the discharges of the bowels. It is mostly pro- duced in Phseneum of Arcadia. Comm. Commentaky. That the astragalus belongs to the vetch tribe can admit of no doubt, but the particular genus and species have never been determined. All the authorities, both ancient and modern, recommend it as an astringent both exter- nally and internally. We cannot find it in the works either of Hippocrates or Celsus. Our author manifestly borrows from Dioscorides. (iv, 62.) The Arabians do not appear to treat of it. Bitumen; it is desiccant and calefacient in the second degree : it is therefore agglutinative of fresh wounds. Comm. COMMENTARY. The asphaltus, or Bitumen judaimm, held * ' a place in the Matei'ia Medica from the days of Hippocrates down to a very recent period. It got the name of Jew's pitch, from its having been principally procm'ed from Judaea, where it is found floating on the surface of the Dead Sea, or Lacus Asphaltites. Some commentators have been puzzled by Dios- corides representing the colour of the finest asphaltus as purplish, but it is to be borne in mind that the ancients ap- plied this term not to a scarlet red but to any rich dark-blue colour, such as that of the sea. All the authorities, ancient and modern, represent it as being emollient, discutient, and emmenagogue. Serapion gives a very interesting account of it. (ยง 177.) See also Avicenna (ii, 2, 114); Rhases (Cout. 1. ult. i, 88); also Celsus (v, 6.)