594 [book VII. OINTMENTS. grease of fowls, oz. iv; and when the oil is again filtrated, it is to be deposited in a vessel. Some also expose it to the sun after boiling forty days. Another oil of cucumbers, more efficacious. Of the juice of elaterium, sext. iij ; of round and of long birthworh, of storax, of elecampane, of hyssop, of iris, of colocynth, of pennyroyal, of origany, of cyperus, of frankincense-tree, of centaury, of bay-leaves, of each, oz. ij ; of oil, sext. v. Having mixed, boil until but little of the juice remain. The cypnnum, or oil of privet, from the works of Posidonius. Of oil, sext. j ; of cyperus, of elecampane, of iris, of each, lb. j; of sampsuchum, of hyssop, of the seed of chaste-tree, of sage, of each, oz. iij; of the flower of privet, lb. j. All the other things having been previously macerated in wine for one day, are to be boiled with the oil for six hours. To the pure filtrated oil the privet is added, if the green be at hand, with its tender branches not bruised, but otherwise the dried are to be pounded with a little water, and boiled for an hour and a half. But if you wish to give it colour after taking it from the fire, add of pure verdigris, lb. iss. Posidonius, wishing to avoid the acri- mony of the verdigris, directs, after the boUing, to leave the oil for three days in a vessel not tinned, and it will acquire the colour, with its powers unimpaired. Another formula for the oil of privet. Of citron-leaves, of bay-leaves, of iris, of cyperus, of sage, of each, oz. iij ; of frankincense-tree, of the long birthwort, of the seed of chaste- tree, of each, oz. iv; of elecampane, of rosewood, of each, oz. vj ; of rue, oz. ij ; of cypress, oz. ij ; of oil, sext. j. Having first macerated these things in wine, boil with oil; and having j filtrated, add again of xylobalsam, of xylocassia, of each, oz. iv j of sampsuch, of cumin, of myrtle, of storax, of mastich, of each, oz. iij ; of opoponax, oz. ij ; of the flower of privet, oz, yj; of verdigris, oz. j. The amaracinum, or oil of marjoram. Of elecampane, lb. x j of xylobalsam, lb. xx; of cyperus, lb. viij ; of the schoenanth, of rosewood, of savin, of each, lb. viij ; of opoponax, of seed of amaracus, of each, lb. ij ; of primary oil, sext. Ixxx j of fragrant oil, sext. V. All the other things, being first macerated in wine, are to receive the first addition, but the second addition is to be the sa^an; and the former articles are to be boiled