SIMPLES. SECT. III.] 297 supina. (iv, 60, 61.) Galen describes only one variety, and Comm. merely recommends it as being a vulnerary herb. Ebn" ' Baithar's description of this plant is entirely made up from Dioscorides and Galen, (i, 498.) We are inclined to think that it is the plant described in the translation of Avicenna under the names of Pasties columbarum, s. palea. He recom- I mends it as an application to erysipelas, (ii, 2, 551.) See also Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 530.) On its use by the Hindoos, see .Ainslie (Mat. Ind. ii, 314.) Persica {the Peach ?), is an Egyptian tree, the leaves of which lare desiccative and astringent, and therefore stop hemorrhage. Commentary. It has been generally acknowledged as the Comm. peach tree, but, as Alston and Woodville state, this supposition ' * ' iis attended with many difl&culties. Sprengel is by no means ddecided; but, upon the whole, inclines to the Cordia Myxa. ith this opinion we are not disposed to agree, as we have tated in another place. See under Myxa. We would esitatingly, then, admit it as the Persica vulgaris, Miller, ioscorides merely recommends the dried powder of the leaves a good styptic in cases of hemorrhage. Galen and the her Greek authorities give the same character of it. The abians, in like manner, follow Dioscorides. See Avicenna •n, 2, 22.) Petasites, Butter-burr, is of the third order of desiccants; lence it is used for ill-conditioned and phagedsenic ulcers. Commentary. Dioscorides's description of this plant with Comm. ts petasiform leaf, leaves no doubt of its being the Tussilago '—"—' letasites. He recommends it only for malignant and phage- lainic ulcers (iv, 106.) Galen and the other Greek authoi'ities ;ay the same of it. We have not been able to find it in the vorks of any of the Arabians except Ebn Baithar, who, under his head, merely gives extracts from Dioscorides and Galen, t is still used by the country people as an application to foul leers. It was retained in the Dispensatory as late as the ime of Quincy. I