[book VII. 126 SIMPLES. Comm. merely a mixture of vinegar and water^ rendered more agree- able to the palate by some aroraatics. See Harduin ad Plinii (H. N. xix, 29.) Respecting this beverage Seth states, as his own opinion, that it is wholesome, especially when used by persons of a hot temperature of stomach; that it quenches thirst; whets the appetite ; increases the alvine and frequently the renal discharge. Fermentum, Leaven; it also is composed of opposite ingre- dients; for it is possessed of a cold acidity and putrefactive ("fermentative?") heat, and moreover of salts and flour. It is, therefore, heating and discutient in no ordinary degree. Comm. COMMENTARY. On the ancient modes of preparing Fer- ' • ' mentum or Leaven, see' Geopon.^ (ii, 31); and Pliny (H. N, xviii, 26.) The kind in most common use was prepared from millet and must, or the fresh juice of the grape. Our author's description of its medicinal powers is taken from Galen. Aetius treats of it in nearly the same words. Dioscorides praises the leaven of wheat as being heating and epispastic, and suiting with complaints of the heels, phymata, and furunculi. (ii, 107.) Serapion under this head gives two ex- tracts from Dioscorides and Galen, followed by one from Abenmesuai (the elder Mesne?), who recommends it in the fevers of childi'en for quenching thirst. (De Simpl. 29.) Rhases gives a formula for a draught to be prepared from leaven, which he in like manner praises as being wonderfully effica- cious in the fevers of children. (Cont. 1. ult. i, 306.) Jusculum, Broth, loosens the belly if drunk by itself or with wine, when made from fresh fish; but particularly that which is simply prepared from hakes, scorpion-fishes, rainbows, perches, and other tender fishes which dwell among rocks, with water, oil, dill, and salts. In like manner, also, the broth of the Crustacea, especially of the Tellinae (limpets), the Charaae (cockles), and Conchylte (oysters). The broth of an old cock, boiled with salt to a great degree, is laxative; but that of a hen, on the other hand, is astringent. Comm. COMMENTARY. The account here given of the broth of ' ' ' fishes is taken from Dioscorides (ii, 35.) Galen directs the