[book VII. ANTIDOTES. 524 oz. ss ; of long birtliworth, oz. ivj and of round, oz. vj. One sci'uple is to be given as a dose every day to the patient, \v:hen digestion is accomplished. We must begin at the autumnal equinoxj which is about the 24th of the month of September j and it is to be taken regularly for fifty days, and then inter- rupted for fifteen days; and this is to be done until the whole 365 days be completed! It is to be given up during the whole of the dog-days, that is, from the 24th of June to the end of August. The patient must abstain from vener.y, from flesh, par- ticularly that of swine, and from pickle, sauce, beet, caiTot, mint, and from boiled lettuces and pompions; from fishes, as the mullet, gomphi (gobii ?), moUusca, and the testacea; from all the legumes, and in short from all things which furnish a thick chyme, and from black wine, and from much wine of any kind. He is to bathe every day, and take exercise either on foot or on horseback, or in a vehicle. Those who are of a drier habit have not been injured by a less restricted diet. The podagric antidote of Agapetus. Of Indian leaf, of rheum barbarum, of safi^ron, of spikenard, of troglodytic myiTh, of costus, of germander, of each, oz. ij ; of hepatic aloes, oz. v; of St. John's wort, of pteony, of each, oz. iij ; of long birthwort, of valerian, of spignel, of vervain mallow, of pimpernel, of each, oz. iv. The mode of using it is the same as that of corallium. The podagric remedy, called atactos. Of Indian leaf, of spignel, of vervain mallow, of the pimpernel having the blue flower, of madder, of mastich, of safiron, of cassia, of hepatic aloes, of gentian, of germander, of each, oz. j ; of cloves, of white and of black pepper, of each, oz. ss; of spikenai'd, of myrrh, of rheum barbarum, of the root of p£eony, of the long birthwort, and of the round, of each, oz. ij. To be used in like manner. The podagric antidote of Proclus, ansioering also vnth ischiatic disease. Of germander, oz. k; of centaury, oz. xn] ; of birthwort, oz. vij ; of gentian, oz. vj; of St. John's wort, oz. V ; of Macedonian stone-parsley, oz. iv; of spignel, oz. iij ; of agaric, oz. ij ; of valerian, oz. j ; of Attic honey, two heminae. The composition from seven ingredients for the same inirposes. Of St. John's wort, of long birthwort, of each, oz. j; of centaury, of ground pine, of agaric, of each, oz. iij ; of germander, oz. vj ; of gentian, oz. v. Some add likewise, of stone-parsley, oz. j ; of honey, dr. v. The dose is dr. j.