[book VII. 152 SIMPLES. Aetius and other of the authorities, say that calamint-water, when injected into the ear, kills worms in it. Galen and Dioscorides both affirm that when taken internally and applied on a pessary, it procures abortion. All agree that it is also beneficial in asthmatic complaints. Avicenna gives a lengthy and very elaborate account of the three species of calamint; but it can hardly be said that he adds anything of importance to the information which he drew from his Grecian masters. He agrees with them that it is diuretic and emmenagogue, and holds that it is anaphrodisiacal, and removes the pollutio nocturni somni. He also, like them, commends it as a deob- struent in jaundice and other obstructions of the ^dscera. He praises it as a stomachic, (ii, 3, 154.) None of the other Arabian authorities treat so fully of this article as Avicenna. Rhases, however, is worth consulting. (Contin. 1. ult. i, 466.) The calamint, that is to say, the first species of Dioscorides, would appear to be the " mentastrum" of Celsus, who recom- mends it as a remedy in the bites of venomous animals, (v, 277.) It also occurs in the ' Flora Hippocratica.^ See Dierbach. The three kinds of calarainth were long retained in the Materia Medica of the moderns. See Tournefort's Materia Medica (i, 6, 4.) More recently only one kind was used. See Quincy. Of late all the kinds have been nearly discarded from our Dispensatories, but are still to be found in the shops of apothecaries. See Gray^s Supplement to the Pharmacopoeia (p. 47.) Calamus Aromaticus, Sweet-cane, is heating and desiccant in the second order. It also consists of subtile particles, and has some astringency. It is, therefore, diuretic, and is mixed up with stomachic remedies, and those prepared for the hver and womb. The species called phragmitis is detergent, but the leaves of it ai-e green and moderately cooling, and the bark of it, when burnt, is heating and desiccant in the third degree. The root of it, when applied with bulbi, is said to extract darts and thorns. CoMMENTABY. Having shown above that the acorus of the ancients is the Acorus Pseudacorus, we need have little hesi- tation in stating that we agree with the older authorities, who