298 SIMPLES. [book VII. , TltTpO(Tt\ll>OU, Petroseliimm, Stone Parsley ; the seed is hot and desic- cative in the third degree, being incisive; and hence it occa- sions copious urinary and menstrual discharges. It is also carminative. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is the spccics of Parsley called the Mace • ' ' ' donian, and known by the different botanical names of Petro- selinum Macedonicuni, Bubon Macedonicum, and Athomanta Macedonicum. As Miller remarks, " the Macedonian parsley is a stranger to our country, and not to be found except in curious botanical gardens." (Gardener's Dictionary.) It is cultivated, however, on the continent, and its seeds are still to be found in the shops of our apothecaries. See Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 79.) It had not wholly disappeared from our English Dispensatory in the time of Quincy (145.) Our author borrows his characters of it from Galen. Dioscorides says its seeds are fragrant, aromatic, diuretic, and emmeua- gogue; that it is beneficial in flatulence of the stomach and colon, and in tormina, for pains of the side, of the kidnej s, and of the bladder when taken in a drink; and that it is an ingredient in diuretic antidotes, (iii, 70.) It occurs in the works of Celsus, who mentions it as an ingredient in a con- fection for colic, and in other cases, (iv, 14, &c.) Galen has a curious passage on the places where this plant was cultivated for the market in his time. (De Antidot. i.) The Arabians in general treat of it along with other species of parsley under the head of Apium. See Avicenna (ii, 3, 55); Serapion (c. 290) ; Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 69); Averrhoes (CoUig. v, 42); Ebn Baithar (ii, 388.) The Arabians do Httle more than repeat the characters of it given by their Grecian masters. nauKtSavoi', Peucedanum, Hog's-fennel; we use the concrete juice and sap as being considerably heating, discutient, and atteuuaut, both when smelled to and in a potion for affections in the lungs and chest occasioned by thick humours, and also for scirrhous spleen. When put into a tooth eaten with cai'ies it straightway allays the pain; and it agrees Avith nervous affections. The root promotes the exfoliation of scales of