SIMPLES. [book VII. 340 Comm. 633); Serapion (De Simpl. 290.) The latter describes it as a species of apium whicli grows in water. Sitrapov, Sisarum, Garden Parsnip ; the root, when boiled, is sto- machic and diuretic, being heating in the third order. The seed consists of subtile particles, and is powerfully discutient. It is, therefore, given to persons affected with hiccough and tormina, in wine. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is the Pastinacu sativa or Garden Parsnip, ' " ' according to Sprengel. In the translation of Rhases it is said to be the same as niyella, but this would seem to be a mistake. (Contin. xxxvii.) Dioscorides briefly says of it, that it is pala- table, stomachic, diuretic, and a whetter of the appetite, (ii, 139.) Galen says it is calefacient, with a certain degree of bitterness and astringency. It appears certainly to be the siser of Pliny and Celsus, the latter of whom places it in his list of diuretics, (ii, 31.) The Arabians, in treating of it, copy from Dioscorides and Galen. See in particular Avicenna (ii, 2, 652.) From the account we have given of this article it will be seen that recent authorities hold that it is not the same as the Sium Sisarum, Skerret, as has been generally held, but the Parsnip. It would follow from this that it is identical with the tXa^o'/Boo-Koc of Dioscorides (iii, 73), which we must say that we are scarcely prepared to join Sprengel in admitting. After mature dehberation, then, we fear we must rank this with the undetermined articles in the ancient Materia Medica. Sisymbrium, Wild Mint, called also Cardamine, because it is like the Cardamus. When dried, it belongs to the first order of calefacients and discutients; but when in a humid state, to the second. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscoridcs says of his first species that it '—'—' resembles the garden mint, and Pliny states that it degenerates into calamintha or wild mint. It would appear, then, to he a species of mint. Stackhouse inclines to this opinion. (Index to Theophrastus.) The other, called also cardamine and sium, can be no other than the Nasturtium officinale.