619 SECT. XXVI.] WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. The denarius was the chief silver coin among the Romans. Comm. .\.s a weight it was the 7th part of a Roman ounce. It is ' ' from this standard that both the value of the Roman weights :iud coins are deduced. The industrious, learned, and honest Mr. Greaves affirms fhat having in Italy and elsewhere perused many hundred ')enarii consulares, he found, by frequent and exact trial, the best of them to amount to 62 grains English. The Roman ounce is certainly our avoirdupois ounce; but I must own that I have differed in a small matter from Mr. Greaves in settling the quantity of Troy grains contained in an ounce avoirdupois. The denarius, according to my sup- position, will come out 62|| grains. That the denarius was the 7th part of the Roman ounce is ' clear from multitudes of passages. Celsus (v, 17): Sed et ; antea sciri volo in uncia pondus denariortun esse septem. Celsus divided the denarius into six parts, which he called, • unciae; imcia being a general word for the division of any : integer. This was done in imitation of the Greek physicians, ' who, after the manner of their country, divided their drachma iinto 6 oboli. The common mark of the denarius was an X or X, in imita- ttion of which, among the Latin physicians, it grew to an *. Of the Roman Pondo. The pondo argenti, amongst the 1 Romans, is a sort of numeral expression of sums of money, fand is different from the common libra which consisted only l of 84 denaiii, or 96 drachms, for as, <ss, pondo, and mina, ■ amongst ancient authors generally pass for the same. Pondo is an indeclinable word, and when it is joined with I numbers it signifies libra; but when it is joined to other ^weights, it stands for the same thing as aradnrj, or oXkjj in the < Greek, signifying the same with pondus, or weight in general. Of Roman Weiyhts. The Romans used the libra, which they rdivided into 13 unciae, or ounces, and the later Greeks, in Limitation of them, had their litra, which they divided after the »8ame manner. They divided their ounce into 3 duellce, and likewise into f!6 sextulce (sextula among the Greeks was called i^ayiov, and 'Corruptly, araiyiov). Another division of their ounce was into 14 aicilici. They likewise divided their ounce into 7 denarii.