438 APPENDIX TO [book VII. stating that with, the original of the last eight Ijooks of Aetius we have no personal acquaintance further than from a cursory examination of these MSS. during a very brief visit to Oxford in 1845. In the MS. named ' Canon. Gr.' (109), the nuces IndiccE are called Kapva IvSiKa. From what we have stated above, it must now be obvious that we have arrived at the po- sitive conclusion that the vaaKa(f)dov of the Greek Mat. Med. was not mace. (See the Commentary on this article.) Nux Indica. According to Sprengel (R. H. H. i, 268) the first mention of the Cocos nucifera, or cocoa-nut, occurs in the Itinerary of Abuzeid and Wahab. No mention of it is made in the works of the Greek writers on medicine. The Arabians describe it minutely as an article of food, so that it ought to have been noticed by us in our Commentary on the 81st sect, of Book I. Rhases treats of it very fully as a dietetical article, and also as a medicine, saying of it that it purges away the tapeworm, that the oil of it is useful both internally and externally in pains and fl[atulence of the back, loins, knees, and in hemorrhoids ; and he further quotes Bemasuy in confirmation of this character of it. All his authorities held it to be a hot and dry medicine. (Cont. 1. ult. i, 506.) Avicenna gives, almost word for word, the same account of it. The flesh of the cocoa-nut, he says, is in- tensely white, and its juice sweet; and when there is not much juice in it, we are to understand that it is old. The inner bark, he says, is to be taken off, as being wholly indigestible. He recommends it in exactly the same complaints as Rhases does, only as a vermifuge he does not say that its oil brings away the tapeworm, but ascarides and lumbrici. (ii, 2, 498.) Serapion gives a somewhat fuller description of the cocoa-nut, which he knew to be the fruit of a palm-tree, but otherwise his account of it is the same as that of the two authorities already quoted. Of his Arabian authorities, one says that it is laxative, and another that it is astringent. (De Simpl. 228.) Haly Abbas recommends the Nux Indica as a comforter of the nerves in hemicrania, paralysis, and epilepsy. (Pract. ii,38,248.) Mesue notices the " oleum ex nuce Indica,'^ which, he says, is useful in nervous pains, purges the lungs and chest, clears the voice, fattens, and engenders semen. (Dc Olcis, i.) Ebn Baithar