,SECT.m.] SIMPLES. 135 Commentary. The authorities are divided betweeu the Comm. iThapsia Garganica aad the Thapsia Asdepiwn. Old Gerard ' ' .gives it the name of deadly carrot, but Parkinson that of ^scorching fennel. Theophrastus mentions that it purges iupwards and downwards. (P. ix, 10, 24.) Pliny describes it las a very acrid poison. (H. N. xxiii, 43.) See Dioscorides .^iv, 154.) Serapion states that it is a violent emetic and -cathartic, and operates powerfully as an external application. IThe thapsia has long ceased to be employed in medicine; even )old Culpeper calls it " a venomous foreign root, and therefore lao more of it.'" Getov, Sulphur; it likewise is possessed of attractive powers, is lot, and consists of subtile particles, so as to be an antidote against many poisonous animals, more especially the sea-turtle and dragon, either sprinkled dry or mixed with saliva, or with hhe urine of a child, or oil, or honey. It is also a wonderful remedy for scabious complaints. Commentary. Sulphur was extensively used in medicine Comm. ^rom the earliest times. Pliny gives a very full and inter- ' * ' -■sting account of it. (H. N. xxxv, 50.) The sulphur vivum, fif which mention is so often made in this work, was evidently aiative sulphur, that is to say, the prismatic sulphur of Jameson. l?he sulphur ignem expertum was clearly the factitious sulphur tr brimstone, namely, that which is procured from pyrites by tublimation. We need scarcely mention that sulphur was ixtensively used as an application in cutaneous diseases, and »aore especially scabies. It was also given internally in iJatarrhs and other complaints of the chest. See Dioscorides hnd Pliny. The words of the latter are well worth quoting a the present instance. " Natura ejus calfacit, concoquit, led et discutit collectiones corporum : ob hoc talibus emplastris nalagmatisque miscetur. Renibus quoque et lumbis in dolore mm adipe mire prodest impositum. Aufert et lichenas a ■acie cum terebinthi resina ct lepras. Harpacticon vocatur a leleritate avellendi, avelli enim subinde debet. Prodest et ruapiriosis linctum. Purulenta quoque extussientibus, et lontra scorpionum ictus. Vitiligines vivum nitro mixtum atque