SECT. SIMPLES. 449 particularly recommends it in are, palpitation of the hearty fevers, weakness of the stomach, and this both in liniments and in draughts. The white, he says, is useful in hot fevers, (ii, 2, 649.) He quotes Galen under this head, but his trans- lator is sensible of this being a mistake. Serapion describes the white, the yellow, and the red kinds of sandal-wood, and gives a very circumstantial account of them. He says sandal- wood is brought from Sini (China ?). The various authorities quoted by him concur in giving the different kinds of sandal- wood the same characters as Avicenna, representing it as Ijeing useful in complaints of the stomach, and in cardiac disease; and mixed with camphor and rose oil as an external application in hot vertigo when rubbed into the temples. They also agree in representing it along with other cooling plants as being serviceable in gout. The sandal-woods, in short, they all hold to be cold in the third degree and dry in the second. !De Simpl. 346.) Rhases gives a brief account of the red and white sandal-woods, which his authorities recommend in weak- ness of the stomach, and pain of the head; and also for palpi- tation of the heart in fevers, when rubbed over the stomach, and for erysipelas when rubbed into the face. (Contin. 1. ult. li, 1, 609.) Azedarack. Avicenna describes it as being a well-known tree, having fruit like the Lotus Arbor {Celtis Australis ?). He says it is a very large tree, and that its flower is hot in the third degree, and dry in the end of the first, and that it is possessed of deob- struent powers; and the decoction of its leaves kills lice in the hair and strengthens it. Its fruit is bad for the stomach and best. It is anthelminthic, and useful in colics and in pituitous i'cvers along with fumitory and myrobalans. (ii, 2, 17.) Rhases ^ives the same account of the assedarach, (Contin. 1. ult. i, 89.) It is barely mentioned by Serapion as being a large tree, but >ve have not been able to discover it in his Mat. Med. The \rabian authorities of Ebn Baithar give an elaborate account )f it, representing it as being dangerous to persons who take it n large doses, but in smaller ones useful for various pui-poses, iiid more especially for promoting the growth of the hair, i, 30.) There can be no question that it must have been the Melia azedarach or " bead tree.'' Dr. Ainslie says of it that "in I"- 29