624 WEIGPITS AND MEASURES. [bookvii. Comm. sextarius is divided into two hemince, or cotylcp. It is also ' ' divided into four quartarii which are the half of a hemina. A sextarius is also divided into 8 acetabula. The parts of the sextarius were .like those of the as, uncia, sextans, quadrans, triens, quincunx, semis, septunx, bes, dodrans, dextans, deunx, by which words a certain number of cyathi is meant, a cyathus being the 12th part of the sextarius. The sextarius castrensis was double of the urbicus. Hemina, the half of the sextarius, contains 2 quartarii, 4 acetabula, 6 cyathi, 24 ligulse. Quai-tarius, as we have said, was the fourth part of the sex- tarius. The acetabulum was the half of the quartarius. Cyathus was the 12th part of the sextarius. The ligula, or lingua, contained one 48th of the sextarius. Cochlear, cochleare, and cochlearium, often denote a spoon, and sometimes a measure equal to the ligula. There was also among the Romans a libra mensuralis, which the Greeks called XtVpa /xeTpiKt], and distinguished from the X/rpo aTaO/niKi], or libra ponderalis. This consisted of 12 ounces, and was divided as the as. It was made commonly of horn, and divided by 12 lines, marking the ounces. This libra men- suralis weighed 10 ounces of oil, and of wine, 11 oz. 2 scr., 1 obolus, and 1 siliqua, according to the ponderal libra. The ancients all along supposed the weight of oil to be, to that of wine, as 9 to 10. This proportion of the specific gravity of these two liquors holds in this computation; for 11 oz., 2 scr. 1 ob. 1 sil., make 1600 siliquse; and 10 ounces make 1440 siliquBe; and dividing both by 160, makes it as 9 to 10. Ac- cording to this weight of wine assigned by Galen, the libra mensuralis contained 19'085 solid inches, somewhat less than 2 of our pint, wine measure. But the Roman measures vary- ing, in all appearance this originally was designed to contain 12 ponderal ounces of water, according to which weight it would be equal to 20-612 sobd inches, the difference between the two being only 1'527 solid inches. Roman Measures of Capacity for things dry. The modius was the third part of the amphora, or quadrantal, which was one half of the medimnus. The semimodius contained 8 sextaru. Sextarius and hemina are also measures of dry things, as so also quartarius, acetabulum, cyathus and concha.