[book VI r. 180 SIMPLES. Comm. bringing away a watery discharge, and kills the foetus in utei'o ^ ' when applied on a pessary, (iv, 170.) Galen and Aetius and Oribasius state its characters in brief terms, like our author. It would appear, in fact, to have been little used in medicine. The Arabians confound the thymelcea, chamelaja, and chamaeleon together, so that there is great difficulty in malving out what were their exact views on the Thymelacea:, Indeed, the genera of this tribe of plants are still with difficulty distinguished from one another. See Lindley's Vegetable Kingdom, 530. Ko/c/cog /3a</)i/coc, Granum tinctorium, is desiccative without pungenc3\ agrees, therefore, with large wounds and wounds of the nerves when triturated with vinegar or oxymel. Comm. Commentaby. It is VermUion or Scarlet grain, being the ' • ' product of a little hemopterous insect called kermes or Coccus ilicis. See Theophrastus (H. P. iii, 16), and Pliny (H. N. xvi, 12.) It was anciently used in dyeing, but is now super- seded by the cochineal. An interesting account of kermes and cochineal is given by Beckmann. (History of Inventions.) Dioscorides and the other authorities, like Paulus, commend it as a vulnerary medicine, especially in wounds of the nerves. The Arabians, in treating of the kermes, merely repeat what Dioscorides and Galen had written on this head. See in par- ticular Serapion (De Simpl. 321) ; Avicenna (ii, 2, 718); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 740.) Kojc/cOjUJjXEa, Prunus, the Plum; its fruit loosens the belly, if fresh, in a greater degree, or if dried, in a smaller. The decoction of it in gargles, cures inflammations about the uvula. The gum of the tree has the powers of an incisive and attenuate substance, so that some relate that when di'unk with wine it proves lithontriptic. With vinegar it is said to cure the lichen of children. The fruit of the wild plums is manifestly astringent, and constipates the belly. This plant in Asia is called Prumnum. The dried garden plums, now called damascenes, appear to be similar, as Galen says. Comm. COMMENTARY. Without doubt it is the Prunus insiticia or Bullace tree, a well known species of plum. The Damask-plmns