;cT. X.] EMETICS. 507 vsteras of Materia Medica. The earlier modern writers on Comm. icdicine recommend it freely as an emetic. See Guido de ' ' ' iiuliaco. (vii, 1.) But of all the medicines of this class the white hellebore > as undoubtedly the most powerful, and in important cases \'iis the most generally used. We must, therefore, take this »pportunity of describing the forms in which it was adminis- cred. Hippocrates appears to have been familiarly acquainted \ ith it as a medicine, and to have administered it very freely. Vretseus concludes his work with a spirited eulogium on icllebore; " But in all inveterate chronic diseases, when other oraedies have failed to produce the effect, this alone is to be Icpended upon for the cure. For, in power, white hellebore . sembles fire, and with still greater powers hellebore, by per- ading the inward parts, produces freedom of respiration from !)struction, a healthy colour from paleness, and plumpness of lody, in place of emaciation." But on the modes of adminis- L'liug hellebore, the fullest and most accurate of the ancient luthorities is Oribasius, whose interesting account of it we -liall now attempt to give in an abridged form. His description ^ mostly taken from Archigenes, Herodotus, and Antyllus. II e sets out, then, with giving directions about preparing the nitient for entering upon a course of hellebore. This consists rincipally in putting him upon a regulated diet, and adminis- ring occasionally some of the gentler emetics, especially the >ue from radishes. He, then, describes at considerable length the marks by which good hellebore may be recognised. When i)roken, he says, it ought to be white in the inside; and when t aken into the mouth it ought to be felt hot and acrid, but at first of a sweetish taste ; thereafter gradually becoming more Hmulant, and provoking a great flow of saliva, and that fre- ;uently attended with vomiting. He recommends the foUow- Kig preparation of hellebore as being efficacious and perfectly ife : A pound of hellebore is to be macerated for three days III six heminse of water, which we are to boil at a gentle fire until a third part of the water is consumed, when the hellebore is to be expressed; then two hemintc of honey are to be added to the decoction, which is to be again boiled until it 110 longer stain the finger. Of this preparation, the dose, to rlxose who do not require strong purging, is two cochlearia,