ECT. III.] SIMPLES. 81 the cleavers, and is desiccative and subacrid. The flower of it suits with hemorrhages and burns. Commentary. The very name^ Galium verum, now gene- Comm. rally given to the yellow bed-straw, implies that it is generally ' * ' admitted to be the galium of the ancients. Dioscorides, be- sides assigning to it the virtues enumerated by our author, states, that it is aphrodisiacal (iv, 94.) It was principally celebrated, however, as a styptic, and this character it con- tinued to hold as long as it obtained a place in the Dispensa- tory. See Quincy. For the Arabians, see Avicenna (ii, 3 317); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 327); Ebn Baithar (ii, 239.) They all merely copy from Dioscorides and Galen. We have not been able to find it in the works of either Hippo- crates or Celsus. Galiopsis (called also Galiobdolon), is like the nettle, but smoother and fetid, and acts as a discutient and emollient application to indurated tumours. It also agrees with spread- ing ulcers in the form of a cataplasm. Commentary. Our old herbalists generally held the gali- Comm. opsis of Dioscorides to be a species of Lamium. (See Gerard ' " ' and Parkinson.) But whether it be that or a species of figwort (the Scrofularia peregr-ina) cannot be positively deter- mined. Rutty says the Lamium maximum of C. Bauhin has all the marks which. Dioscorides gives to the galiopsis. It was used only externally in applications to foul ulcers, and this character secm'ed it a place in our Dispensatory until recent times. See pai'ticularly Dioscorides (iv, 94.) Few of the other authorities have noticed it. Garura, Brine of Pickled FisJi, is powerfully calefacient and desiccative, and is therefore used as an external application to putrid ulcers, and is administered as an injection in dysen- tery and ischiatic diseases. Commentary. " Garum est exquisiti liquoris genus, intes- Comm. tinis piscium c{eterisque qua; abjicienda sunt sale maceratis." ' * ' IRendtorpi Notce ap. Fabricii Bibl. Gr. iv, 333; Geopon. XX, 46; Pliny (H. N. xxxi, 43); Athenseus (Deipnos. ii); Apicius (e. vii.) Coray defines it, " the juice or brine of ni. 6