45 SIMPLES. SECT. III.] ascribe cholagogue powers to it when administered internally. Comm. See Dioscorides (iii, 163); Galen (De Simpl. v) ; Aetius (i); ' Oribasins (Med. Coll. xiii); Ebn Baitbar (ii, 579) ; Rbases (Cent. 1. ult. i, 59.) The last two merely give extracts from Dioscorides and Galen. Androsaces, is a bitter and acrid herb, discutient and desic- cative. It and its fruit, when drunk, are diuretic. Commentary. This is a Syrian plant, which, although Comm. both Matthiolus and Gerarde pretend to give figures of it, ' ' ' has never been satisfactorily determined. Serapion and Avi- cenna have completely omitted treating of it, and Rhases merely says of the androsafes, by which he probably meant the androsaces, that it is decidedly heating with moderate astringency. (Cont. 1. ult.) Our author seems to copy from Dioscorides (iii, 140.) ' Avtfxuyvr], Anemone, Wind-flower; all the varieties of it have powers ' which are acrid, detergent, epispastic, and open the mouths of ■ vessels: whence they increase phlegm, remove leprosy when 1 applied, and attract milk. CoMMENTAKY. The wind-flowcrs, so celebrated in ancient Comm. ] poetry, being a numerous genus, there has been some difficulty ' * ' in determining exactly the species described by Dioscorides. I He mentions two, the cultivated and the wild, and divides ' each into two varieties, according to the difference of colour i in their flowers. The former may be set down as the A. ( coronaria, and the other as the A. nemorosa. The latter only i is indigenous in this country, but the other is commonly cul- ttivated in gardens. He recommends them principally as i external applications, as for foul ulcers, in collyria for inflam- 1 mation of the eyes, and in pessaries to promote menstruation. (ii, 207.) Galen and the succeeding authorities follow him. The anemone is not to be found in Celsus. For the Arabians, see Avicenna (ii, 2, 655) ; Serapion (c. 73) ; Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. iii, 48) ■ Ebn Baithar (ii, 100.) They do little more than copy from Dioscorides. The^. pratensis occurs in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia (132.)