PLASTERS. SECT. XVII.] 567 liemin. xii. Triturate during the lieat of the dog-days until the vinegar is cousumedj then add, of the thickest decoction of dried figs, oz. ix; and having mixed, form trochisks and dry. In using it, triturate of the trochisks, oz. ij, with vinegar, and ,mix, of rosin, oz. iij ; of Tuscan wax, oz. ij ; of oil, oz. ij. The plaster from darnel. Of pitch, lb. ij ; of pine-rosin, oz. ix j of Tuscan wax, oz. v; of oil, oz. iij ; of strained bitu- men, oz. ij ; of the flour of darnel, sext. j ; of vinegar, q. s. The plaster from the juice of mulberry-tree. Of litharge, of dried pitch, of buU's-seam, of each, oz. viij ; of turpentine, oz. iij ; of wax, oz. v; of scraped verdigris, of opoponax, of galbanum, of each, oz, j ; of the oleum ricininum, oleum susinum, or very old oil, hemin. j ; of liquid pitch, hemin. j ; of the juice of the mulbeiTy, the fruit of which is called syco- mora, hemin. j. The double-coloured plaster, or dichromos. Of burnt copper, of fissile alum, of ammoniac perfume, of each, oz. j; of wax, lb. j ; of Colophonian rosin, lb. j ; of swine's scam, lb. j ; of vinegar, q. s. The Indian agglutinative plaster, for spreading ulcers and htenioptysis. Of Avax, of roasted rosin, of dried pitch, of the liquid Zacynthian bitumen, of each, lb. j ; of ceruse, of chalcitis, of misy, of melanteria, of fissile and of round alum, of the gall omphacitis, of the rind of the pomegranate, of each, oz. vj ; of vinegar, q. s. The jjlaster from the ashes of asps, for discussing strumce and gout. Of turpentine, of Asian stone, of Judtean bitumen, of each, dr. ccclx; of wax, of bay-berries, of ammoniac perfume, of aphronitrum, of the fat of calves, of each, dr. cccxl; of the lapis pyrites, of quicklime, of each, dr. cxl; of the ashes of asps, dr. cxl; of old oil, hemin. ij. Sprinkle the ashes upon the medicine when cooled. It is prepared also without the ashes, because some have an aversion to them, and it is no less cflBcacious. The desiccative and discutient plaster, called lemia or lioness. Of ammoniac perfume, of plumbago, of each, dr. c ; of mustard, dr. viij ; of the root of chamajleon, dr. xvj ; of Colophonian rosin, dr. c; of squama seris, of the root of soapwort, of euphor- bium, of verdigris, of each, dr. viij; of birthwort, dr. xvj; of pellitory, dr. viij; of old oil, hemin. j; and of the oil of