250 SIMPLES. [book vii. the decoction of it wheii drunk is serviceable in hepatic com- plaints. Its leaves and flowers cleanse foul ulcers and remove eschars. That species which is called Heraclium and Spumosum, has seeds which purge phlegm. Comm. CoMMENTAiiY. In the Fifth Book we have treated fully of " ' the different species of poppy known to the ancients. See also Schulze (Toxicol. Vet.) The Rheeas would seem to be the Papaver dubiuin, the sativum is the P. R/ueas. The Papaver cornutum appears to be the Glauc'mm luteum, Scop. The P. spitmeum may be the Gratiola officinalis, Angl. Hedge Hyssop. ' The ancients distinguished two kinds of the inspissated juice of the poppy: the one was the juice obtained by wounding the poppy-heads, and was called /.n'jKwvog oirog, and ottiov ; the other was an expressed juice, much weaker than this, called fir\Ku)viov. The second sort is not known at present. We will treat more fully of opium under that head, and therefore we shall dismiss the present subject with a briefer notice than we should otherwise have thought it necessary to bestow ujDon it. The views of the Arabians regarding the different kinds of poppy may be best learned from Avicenna (ii, 2, 563.) | He copies, however, almost all his information from Dioscorides. He recommends the application of the Papaver cornutum in diseases of the eje, with certain cautions, explained under opium. He follows Dioscorides in strongly commending the leaves of the same as an application to foul ulcers, when he says they have the effect of removing all the eschars upon the sores. Dioscorides, by the way, mentions that the veterinarians used the horned poppy for removing the albugo and nebulje on the eyes of cattle. Pie speaks favorably of the effects of the poppy in general for the cure of hot catarrhs, defluxions on the breast, and haemoptysis. See further Serapiou (c. 72); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 533); Averrhoes (Colhg. v, 42.) The last of these joins Avicenna in approving of the poppy for af- fections of the chest. Ebn Baithar, in different parts of his great work, treats of the several species of poppy noticed under this head. M^Ao, Mala, Apples; a common property of all apples is that of aa excrcmentitious and cold juice, but those which are chssolved and watery are coldei' and more humid than the others. The