[book VII. SIMPLES. 330 Comm. The Arabians treat of it along with the absinthium. It is * * not to be found in the works of Hi]3pocrates and Celsus. Seseli, Hard Meadow Saxifrage (?) or Hartwort; the root, and more especially the fruit, is considerably heating with tenuity of parts, and is also diuretic. It agrees with epilepsy and orthopnoea. Comm. COMMENTARY. Our author, it will be remarked, gives only ' ' ' one species of Seseli, which there can be no doubt is the same as the Seseli Massiliense of Dioscorides (iii, 53), about which, notwithstanding its being long held to be an important article in the Mat. Med., there is considerable difference of opinion. We, for reasons which we have not room to state, were in- clined to refer it to the Laserpitium Siler; but the authority of Clusius, Lewis, and Sprengel has determined us to recog- nise it as the Seseli tortuosum. The other two species we are quite satisfied are the Bupleurum fruticosum and Ligusticum Peloponnesiacum. Compare Sprengel ad Dioscor. (1. c.) with Gray (Suppl. to the Pharm. 80.) Dioscorides represents the first species as being a diuretic, expectorant, and uterine medicine. He says it was given not only to women, but to goats and other animals to assist parturition. Of the other two species, he merelj'^ says that they are possessed of the same virtues. Galen, Aetius, and Oribasius merely give the general cha- racters of the first species, in nearly the same terms as our author. This, beyond dispute, is the " Sil" of Apicius (c. 34), and of Celsus (v, 23.) The latter merely mentions it as an ingredient in the celebrated antidote of Mithridates. (Ibid.) "We can find little or no additional information respecting it in the works of the Arabians. See Avicenna (ii, 3, 636); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 654) ; Averrhoes (CoUig. v, 43); Serapion (De Simpl. 190.) Aben Mesuai, one of Serapion^s authorities, thus sums up its characters : it is hot and dry in the end of the second degree; cuts and dissolves viscid and congealed phlegm, and therefore opens all the pores and passages which are shut up; provokes urine and the menstrua; and is bene- ficial in asthma and all cold pituitous ailments. The seeds of seseli held a place in our Dispensatory as late as the times of j Quincy (158), and of Lewis (ii, 866.)