SIMPLES. SECT. 111.] 251 sweet are watery^ but not sensibly cold. Those which are austere are colder than the sweety but less humid. Those which are acid are also coldj and cut the thick humours in the stomach. The sour, such as Quinces, and that species of them called Struthia, are of a cold and terrene temperament, and, on that account, prove astringent of the belly, and aggluti- native of wounds. Thus the leaves, juices, and baxks of trees differ from one another. Commentary. By Mala, as Macrobius states, the ancients Comm. understood all kinds of fruit which have their hard part or kernel in the middle, and their esculent part without. (Satur- nalia, iii, 19.) The malum cydonium is undoubtedly the Quince. ' The Stnithia is a species of it. See Dioscorides (i, 160); Pliny (H. N. XV, 10) ; Casiri (Bibl. Arab. Hisp. i, 339.) These, namely, the Struthia, according to Harduin, are the same as c our Pear-quince; it is an astringent, stomachic fruit. There is more diflSculty in determining for certain what the Malum Persicum was. Stackhouse makes it to be the Citrus auran- s Hum, or Orange, but we are disposed to think that the evidence , preponderates in favour of the opinion of Matthiolus, R. Stephens, and Harduin, who held that it is the Peach [Amyg- I dalus Persica.) That species, or rather variety, which Pliny ( calls Duracina, was probably the Nectarine, as Harduin suggests. ' The Malum Armeniacum, or praecocia, was undoubtedly the ; Apricot. See Harduin in Plin. H. N. (xv, 31); Casiri (Bibl. . Arab. Hisp. i, 330); and Gesner (Lex. Rust.) Contrary to the «opinion of the etymologists, we have long thought that the 1 English name is a corruption of the Latin prcecocia. See, i however, Loudon (Encyc. of Garden. 806.) We have given ttheir characters as articles of food in the First Book. As to ttheir medicinal powers, little need be added to our author's • account of them, as it agrees entirely with that of the other • authorities. See in particular, Dioscorides (i, 160, 166); Galen (De Simpl. vii); Avicenna (ii, 2, 562.) Galen makes mention of the quince and pear-quince as being preserved with honey. He recommends the leaves, the juice, and the rind of apple trees in general, as being possessed of acid and austere qxialities, and thus agglutinating wounds, restraining the defluxions of incipient inflammations, and strengthening the stomach and bowels when they have lost their tone. Dioscorides and, after-