531 ;SECT. XIT.] TROCHISKS. TJie trochisk of the Amazons. Of the seed of parsley, of anise, (of each, dr. vj; of the hair of wormwood, dr. iv; of myrrh, of ipepper, of opium, of castor, of each, dr. ij ; of cinnamoii, dr. vj. 'Mix with water. The trochisk from bitter almonds. Of anise, of the seed of ^parsley, of asarabacca, of bitter almonds, of the hair of worm- vwood, equal parts; form, with water, trochisks of dr. j each. (Give to those who are free from fever in wine and honey, and tto those who have fever in water and honey. The splenic trochisk from heath. Of the fruit of heath, . iv ; of white pepper, of Syriac nard, of ammoniac perfume, f each, dr. ij. The ammoniac is dissolved in water, and dded to the powders, and trochisks are formed containing a irachm each. The dose is one trochisk, with one cyathus of Dxymel. The trochisk from alkakengi. Of the seed of the cultivated incumber, stripped of its bark, oz. iv; of the seed of henbane, ttf hemlock, of each, oz. ij; of fennel, of the seed of dock, of affron, of pine nuts, of bitter almonds, of opium, of each, oz. j; tf alkakengi, sext. iij ; of wine, q. s. The trochisk of Philip, for dysentery. Of the flowers of the did pomegranate, of acacia, of the juice of hypocistis, of j'pium, of sumach, of frankincense, of myrrh, of saffron, of all, of aloes, of Pontic rhubarb, of the rind of pomegranate, if myrtles, of each, dr. iv. Mix with austere wine, and form nto trochisks of three oboli each. Give to those who are free rom fever with wine, and to those in fever with hydromel. The trochisk of Mma. Of alum, of aloes, of myrrh, of opperas (blue vitriol ?) of eaeh, oz. iss; of pomegranate rind, if saffron, of crocomagma, of each, dr. vj, in wine. The preparation of the crocomagma. Of saffron, oz. ij ; of OSes, of starch, of myrrh, of aloes, of frankincense, of gum, of ach, oz. j ; of costus, of spikenard, of each, dr. j, in wine. In be prescription for oil of saffron another mode of preparing rocomagma is described. The trochisk Nere, from the v)orks of Hera. Of myrrh, of 'loes, of saffron, of each, dr. viij; of fissile alum, dr. c. Mix i ith water. The sigillum of Polyides. Of fissile alum, dr. iij; of frankin- ense, dr. iv; of myrrh, dr. viij; of copperas (chalcanthum ?),