SECT. III.] 211 SIMPLES. cure of cutaneous diseases, and internally as an astringent. Comm. The Arabians, in like manner, prescribe it in these cases, and ' ^ ' in general copy from Dioscorides in treating of the different species of dock. See in particular Avicenna (ii, 2, 53); Serapion (c. 3); Ebn Baithar (i, 324.) The last of these treats fully of the rumices, but does not seem to describe any species not noticed by the Greeks. Ah/hojviov, Limonium, Sea Lavender; its fruit being austere, is given to the amount of an acetabulum, with wine, in caeliac and dysenteiic affections, in hsemoptysis, and for the uterine dis- charge. Commentary. Our author's account of the limonium is Comm. borrowed fi'om Dioscorides, who describes the plant as having ' ' ' I leaves like beet, but more slender and longer, a slender straight > stem, like that of the lily, filled with red fruit of an astringent \ taste. Like our author, he recommends it in cases requiring s astringents. As far as we can judge, the characters here given i it by Dioscorides apply very well to the plant called sea I lavender or red behen, namely, the Statice lAmoniwn, L. (Compare Parkinson (Theatre of Plants, 1334) and Gray ( (Suppl. to the Pharmac.) witli Dioscorides (iv, 16.) There seems no necessity, therefore, for following Gesner in trans- iferrLng it to the Pohjgonum Bistorta. The other authorities, 'both Greek and Arabian, follow Dioscorides closely in treating 'of the limonium. See Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 423) ; Avicenna !(ii, 2, 453); Ebn Baithar (ii, 452.) The German editor of the 'last of these, we are glad to find, agrees with us in referring ttlxis article to the Statice Limonium. Lichen; that upon rocks, which is like moss, being pos- sessed of detergent and, at the same time, moderately refrige- rant and desiccative powers, cures lichen, and is anti-inflam- cnatory; and, as Dioscorides says, also stops hemorrhages, lihe lichens of horses, when triturated with vinegar, are said ;o cure epilepsy and the bite of every venomous animal. Commentary. Our author's account of the vegetable is Comm. ibridged from Dioscorides, who, as stated by him, recommends "—'—'