1.3 SECT. II.] SIMPLES. itemperaments of the bodies which they nourish, appear already ssweet; but all such as are not allied appear unsavoury until iprepai-ed, for those -which are hot require to be corrected by L-cold, and those which are sufficiently cold by the mixture of ccalefacient food and by heat. In like manner such things »as are terrene and drier than proper, are to be corrected by ibumidity; and those things which are humid and watery, by ^drying; that which is sweet therefore, in addition to being anore or less hot, is necessarily more or less humid. But nwhen this bitterness arises from being over-roasted, as in lime land ashes, it is necessarily rendered dry and hot. For this ireason every bitter tiling is of such a nature as to prove '.detergent, and is calculated to break down and to cut viscid iand thick humours, and such are ashes and natron; but that ibitter sap is dry and terrene, may be collected from the cir- ;cumstance, that bitter things are of all others the least j)rone (to putrefaction, and do not engender worms nor other animals ;3uch as are usually formed in roots, herbs, and fruits when ihey become putrid; for we see that such animals and putre- ifactions take place in humid bodies. Those things which are mtensely bitter (I call those things such which have no other manifest quality) are uneatable, not only by men, but by lalmost all animals, because every living creature is more ol* f.ess humid, and bitter things are dry in like manner, as ashes and cinders. As, therefore, that which is truly sweet is lautritive, and that which is purely bitter iniiutritive, so those :hings which are intermediate are nutritive indeed, but less so bhan the sweet. The salt juice is allied to the bitter, for both are cerrene and hot; but they differ from one another perceptibly i.n this, that the bitter is more attenuated and wrought by the iieat and dryness; and thus, too, of salts, such as are hard, denser, and more terrene (as are almost all the fossils), are i ess calefacient and attenuating; but such as are brittle and oorous are at the same time more attenuating and hotter; and acme of them are bitterish, being intermediate between the hard salts and aphronitrum ; and if you will warm any saltish thing :o a great degree it will straightway become bitter. Thus, the ivater of the Lake Asphaltitis, which they call the Dead Sea, oeing contained within a hollow and hot place, and overheated py the sun, becomes bitter, and for this reason it becomes more