[book vii. 120 SIMPLES. Comm. and its leaves as possessing discutient powers when applied to ~' swellings and tumours, (iv, 75.) Galen is at great pains to explain its modus ojjerandi agreeably to Ms theory of the action of medicines. Vipera, the Viper; its flesh is decidedly hot and dry in. temperament, so that it cleanses the whole body by the skin. Wherefore many persons afi'ected with elephantiasis, by eating or drinking of it have been cured. Those M'hich hve by the sea-side, or in other dry situations, rather occasion thirst. Comm. COMMENTARY. As stated by us in the Fifth Book, the " ' ' Echidna Asiatica of Nicander is the Coluber' jEgyptius, and the E. Europa^a the C. Berus. The ej^tc, probably is the C. Amodytes. Dioscorides recommends vipers, having their head and tail cut ofl", and the entrails taken out, boiled with oil, wine, a little salts and dill, for nervous affections and scrofula. He gives no credit, however, to the vulgar belief of his time, that living upon vipers prolonged life, or that they prevented lice from forming on the body. He describes dis- tinctly the process of preparing salts from vipers, but says they have not the same efficacy as the flesh, (ii, 18.) The Arabians display much more credulity than Dioscorides, in describing the medicinal virtues of vipers, ascribing to them wonderful powers, not only of preserving life, but even of re- storing youth. See in particular, Avicenna (ii, 2, 608), and Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 731.) Galen gives a very lengthened disqmsition on the medicinal virtues of vipers. (De Simpl. xi.) Aetius abridges the same, (ii, 160.) See Oribasius (Med. Collect. XV, 2.) We shall have occasion, however, to treat further of the medicinal properties of the viper when describing the composition of the theriac; and, instead of collecting the sentiments of the ancient authorities on this head, we shall in this place merely subjoin the opinion of a modern author, who appears to have been famiUar with the use of it: " The poA>'der of vipers is very much enlivened with the volatile salt where- "vvith the vipers abouud, Avhich enables it to force its virtues through the pores, though never so close shut, to the more remote parts of the body. It is a singular medicine to cure scabs, itches, and erysipelas, and particulai-ly the leprosy. If