[book VII. 342 SIMPLES. Comm. purgative, but one not in general to be depended upon, as different preparations of it act witb different degrees of activity. They recommend it as an external application in cases of leprosy, scabies, and other cutaneous diseases. One of Serapion's Arabian authorities gives a very minute descrip- tion of the different varieties of it. He says the dose of it is from 6 to 20 grs. In large doses, one of Rhases's authorities states that it brings off' bilious and bloody discharges, but in small doses, it is said to be dim'etic without acting upon the bowels at all. An overdose, Avicenna remarks, may prove fatal. Mesne treats of it at great length and with much judgment, giving very minute directions about the choice of the different kinds of it, and the correction of any bad qualities they may possess. Scandix, Shej)herd's-needle, is a wild potherb, heating and desiccative in the second order. It is diuretic, and removes visceral obstructions. Comm. COMMENTARY. We have treated of this potherb in Book I. '—'—' It is the Scandix australis. Our author takes his character of this plant from Dioscorides. (ii, 167.) Galen infers from its being slightly acrid and bitter, that it is diuretic and de- obstruent. None of the Arabians, we believe, treat of it, Tpth the exception of Ebn Baithar. (ii, 23.) ^/ct'y/coc, Scincus, Skink; the parts about the kidneys are drunk to occasion erection of the privy member. The seed of lettuce, when drunk with water, is supposed to counteract them; and likewise the decoction of lentils with honey. Comm. COMMENTARY. The Skink is a small animal, lilce a lizard, of the shape of a crocodile, and from ten to twelve inches in length. It was described by Ray and Gesner under the name of Crocodilus terrestris. Its Linnsean name is Scincus officinalis or alge7'iensis. Dioscorides calls it a land crocodile, and recom- mends it in the same complaints as our author. He concludes by saying of it that it is an ingredient in antidotes; and, in fact, its principal use was in the composition of the famous Theriaca. Such of the Arabians as notice it give it the same medicinal cha-