502 LINIMENTS. [book vir. Comm. cinnamomi, nardi, xylobalsami, mastichse chise, asari^ croci, a a dr. vj." Galen remarks, however, that the proportion of aloes is too great, and recommends us to substitute xc or Ixxx dr. instead of the quantity directed. (De comp. Med. acc. loo.) Mesne describes the composition of 6 hierae, Haly Abbas of 5, and Serapion of a much greater nxunber. But for variety, Myrepsus surpasses all the other authorities. He describes the composition of 30 hierae. The following is his receipt for the Hiera Picra Galeni: " R. Aloes flavae, dr. xivss.; cinnamomi, croci, costi, floris junci odorati, xylobalsami, cassise fistulas purae, mastiches, asari, rosarum, amomi, absinthii, a a dr. j ; Tere subigendo cum mollis Attici q. s." Moses Charras's receipt for it is very little different. (Eoyal Pharm. i, 20.) SECT. IX. ON LINIMENTS TO BE APPLIED TO THE ANUS, AND PURGATIVE APPLICATIONS TO THE NAVEL. A liniment to the anus for the discharge of flatulence. Rue is triturated with honey so as to from one juice, and the inner parts of the fundament rubbed with it. It becomes more efficacious if a small quantity of cumin and natron, or the juice of sowbread be added. It is daubed upon flocks of wool and introduced; or a suppository is formed with the addition of honey. For the flatus escapes freely, affording relief. A limhnent to the anus, evacuating the belly; called Cheza- nanche. Alum being triturated with honey is to be boiled untd. it become yellowish, and the anus is to be rubbed with it. It forces a free evacuation of many things, but not without trouble. An apjjlication to the navel as a laxative of the bowels. Of sowbread, dr. iv; of natron, dr. iij ; of black and white helle- bore, of each, dr. ij ; of colocynth, dr. iij ; of scammony, dr. ij; of the juice of elaterium, dr. iv; of granum Cnidium, dr. iv; of fatty dried figs, oz. ij ; of the gall of bulls, oz. j. Another very excellent one : of elaterium, of lathyrides, of galbanum, of sow- bread, of black hellebore, of each. dr. iv; of the medullary parts of colocynth, dr. viij ; of fresh wild cucumber, of