SIMPLES. 178 [hook vir. Comm. Galen, may be decidedly determined to be either the Vmca ' * ' major or minor. It, according to Galen, is possessed of acrid and caustic powers. Tlie Arabians would appear not to dis- tinguish properly the clematis from the hedera. See Serapion (c. 41), and Avicenna (ii, 2, 169.) The modern Greek Phar- macopoeia contains the C. erecta. KXti'OTroSioi', Clinopodium, Field Basil, is possessed of heating and desic- cative powers, not caustic however, but of the third degree. Comm. COMMENTARY. It may with considerable confidence be set ' ' ' down as being the Chnojjodium vulgare, although doubts have been started on this head. See Parkinson (Theatre of Plants, 23), and Sprengel (Ad Dioscorid.) Our author follows Galen very closely. Dioscorides represents it to be diuretic and emmena- gogue (iii, 99.) We have not been able to discover any traces of it in the Mat. Med. of the Arabians, nor in Hippocrates. Ki'i'ktoc, Cnicus, Bastard Saffron; its seed is used only for pm-gings, but if applied externally it belongs to the third order of cale- facients. Comm. COMMENTARY. The preponderance of authority is decidedly ' * ' in favour of its being the Carthamus tinctorius, a plant which held a place in our Dispensatory with its ancient characters down to recent date. (See Quincy, 167.) Dioscorides men- tions of it that it is used as a pothei'b, and as a medicine for opening the bowels. Galen gives it exactly the same chai'ac- ter as our author. The Arabians give rather a confused account of it by treating of it along with Atractylis, which they held to be the wild cnicus. See in particular Avicenna (ii, 3, 159.) All the Arabians hold that it is not only laxa- tive, but also powerfully alexipharmic. They call it Kartam or Cartamus. See further Serapion (c. 202), and Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. iii, 46.) Koy^JXta, Conchyli a; their powers resemble those of the buccinae. Comm. COMMENTARY. This name was applied to various Testacea, or Shell-fish. See Harduin (Ad Plinii H. N. ix, 60); Athensei