-EOT. III.] SIMPLES. 413 U'reater celaucline in jaundice, in toothache, and in affections Comm. of the eyes. It long held a place in our Dispensatory, re- taining its character for curing jaundice and removing films from the eyes. See Quincy (117.) Even at the present day rustic farriers use the acrid juice of the celandine for removing films from the eyes of cattle. The chelidonium majus occurs in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia. (46.) XeXiSoVec, Hirundines, Sivallows; when burnt their ashes, if rubbed in with honey, cure inflammatory cynanche. They also con- rribute to acuteness of sight. Commentary. It is the Hirundo rustica. Celsus also re- Comm. commends the ashes of swallows in cases of cynanche and diseases of the eyes, (iv, 4.) Dioscorides speaks of their use in these and in other cases, (ii, 6.) Galen gives the same account of them as our author. The Arabians repeat the de- scriptions given by Dioscorides and Galen. See Serapion c. 443); Avicenna (ii, 2, 347)j Khases (Contin. 1. ult. i, 741); Ebn Baithar (i, 375.) XoAtj, Felj Bile, or Gall, is the hottest of all animal juices, but differs according to the colour^ for the yellow is hotter than •^lie pale, and the violet-coloured than the yellow ; and also according to the difference of the animals which produce it; forasmuch as that of swine is the weakest of all, so that it igrees with ulcers in the ears, and does not prove pungent; but that of sheep is more acrid, and still more that of goats, to >\hich the galls of bears and oxen are allied. But the gall of lulls is stronger, and still more so that of the hyaena, next :hat of the fish called callionymus, and that of the scorpion tvhich answers in suffusions, dimness of vision, and leucomata, md likewise that of the sea-tortoise. The gall of the wild ^oat is believed to cure nyctolopia. The gall of all fowls is nore acrid and desiccative than the gall of quadrupeds. But )f them the best is the gall of cocks and partridges. Those )f hawks and eagles are in so far more acrid and corrosive, md of a \'iolet colour, but sometimes black, Co MMENTAHY, Our author's account of the medicinal pro- Comm.