SIMPLES. SECT. III.] 233 Haly Abbas (Pract. ii, 46, 487); Ebn Baithar (i, 187.) Rhases Comm. I marks what it is : " Nitmm appellatur Arabice natrum et est' ' ' > simile sali gemmse.^^ (Cont. 1. ult. ii, 508.) They used it ex- rternally for the cure of prurigo and scabies, and as an appli- i cation to diseased joints, and along with figs to remove . dropsical swellings. They recommend an injection of it into t the ear for the cure of deafness. The aphronitrum, or African unitrum, is said by Avicenna to be possessed of emetic powers, aand that it was more incisive of gross humours than the other ■vyarieties of it. It was used by them in cases of poisoning Iwwith mushrooms, cantharides, and bull's blood; and as an ■application to the bites of mad dogs. Mesne, with his wonted fcprecision, states its powers very distinctly, recommending it, ■when given by the mouth, in clysters, and in suppositories as mmx evacuant of crude and viscid phlegm, for colic and affections fcof the stomach. Like Avicenna, he says that it will sometimes fcoccasion vomiting. His commentator, Costa, has many in- pgenious observations on the ancient nitrum, which will be miound veiy interesting to those who desire to become better Bttcquainted with, this subject. Haly Abbas states that friction Bmth it before the hour of invasion will prevent an attack ■bf ague. I Aoy^ iTtg, I Lonchitis, Rough Spleemvort ; the root of that species fcrhich has triangular seed, like a spear, resembles that of the ■parrot, and is diuretic. But the green leaves of that species ■^hich resembles the scolopendrium, are agglutinative of wounds; ^nd when diied, and drunk with vinegar, they cure indurated pleens. Commentary. Our author's account of th.e two species of Comm. •onchitis is taken from Dioscorides. Of these, the former, which ' ' ' as been conjectured to be the Serapias Lingua, he says is diu- jtic. The other, which would seem to be the species of asjndium, ) which the name is still appropriated, he calls vulnerary and iti-inflamraatory, and recommends for reducing the size of ic spleen. Galen and the other authorities give a similar ;count of it. Such of the Arabians as treat of it follow ioscorides.. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 336.)