;t. IV.] SIMPLE PURGATIVES. 485 it in affections of the spleen with oxycrate.—The juice of the bark of the root of the Elder-tree, when dnink to the amount of two ounces with Avine, evacuates water. Commentary. The philosopher Aristotle thus explains his Comm. ideas respecting the action of purgatives : " When purgatives ' ' ' are conveyed to the stomach, and are there dissolved, they are carried by the same passages as the food, and when they can- not be digested, but their prevailing power remains unsubdued, they return, and carry with them whatever opposes them, and this is called purging." (Problem. 43,) See also Alexander Aphrodisiensis (Probl. ii, 58.) Hippocrates administered purgative medicines freely and boldly, but at the same time he cautions against the unseason- able and rash administration of them in several parts of his works. We do not j&nd any theory, however, of the modus operandi of purgatives, nor any general remarks on the cases in which they ai'c applicable, in any of the Hippocratic treatises which are now acknowledged to be genuine. Some ingenious remarks, however, may be found on this subject in the work 'De Nat, humana,' Celsus has a chapter on purgative medicines which contains much curious and valuable matter. He says the more ancient physicians gave various purgative medicines very freely, such as black hellebore, polypody, squama seris, the milky juice of lactuca marina [euphorbia paralias ?), the milk of asses, with a little salt; but he holds that purgatives hurt the stomach, and are not to be given when any fever is present. The rules, which he lays down for the administration of them, are highly judicious, and deserving of consideration. He approves of them when the head feels heavy, when the eyes are misty, when there is obstruction of the bowels, and when there is pain there or in the hip-joint, when the stomach is oppressed with bile or phlegm, and when there is dyspnosa, when vene- section is indicated, but the powers of the system will not admit of it, and in several other cases, (v, 12.) He mentions that Asclepiades totally rejected the use of purgative medicines. (i,3,) Galen has devoted a complete treatise to the discussion of the question regarding the modus operandi of purgatives. He decidedly inclines to the theory that every purgative by some