WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 620 [book VII. Comm. Then they divided it into 8 drachms. The 12th part of an ' ' ounce they called dimidia sextula. It was likewise divided iulo 24 scrupukiy or rather scriptula, called by the Greeks, jpa/jfxaTu. The denarius was divided into 3 victoriati, not only as a piece of money but as a weight. The denarius was also divided into 6 sextantes, in imitation of the 6 oboh of a drachm; ac- cording to which division a sextans would contain, in English Troy weight, about 6i grains. Celsus mentions the quadrans denarii and the triens denarii. The value of the Roman pound is determined, as in the tables, from the value of the denarius, nz. 524<5| Troy grains; according to the common reckoning it is 5356; this small difference proceeds from assuming the avoirdupois ounce to the Troy ounce precisely as 51 to 56. Greek Weights. The talent was the greatest weight as well as the greatest sum of money among the Greeks. And this ponderal talent was divided, as the nummary talent, into 60 mince, and every mina into 100 drachmce. A drachma was i of the ounce and ^ part of a mina. The Greeks used the expression TpiVov riixi^payjiov to signifj^ 2i drachms. The old division of drachma was into 6 oboli. An obolus contained 6 •^aX/cot, or, as the Latins call them, <Breoli. An »;yutw|3oXov, or semiobolus, contains 1 siliqua and a half, and 4 areoli, according to Cleopatra, but 3 only according to Diodorus (Ap. Svddam.) XoXkoc, or sereolus contained the 6th part of an obolus, and 7 XETTTct, according to Suidas. The KiitTov was the 7th part of an sereolus, and was called by the Latins minuta, and sometimes minutia, and is not divided into any lesser weight. The Greeks used the ovyyla, and divided it as the Romans did. They used the Kepariov, in Latin, siliqua, which was the of a drachma. The medical weights were the mina, of 16 Roman ounces, as appears from Dioscorides and Galen, and Cleopatra (in Cos- meticis) who tells you that mina, as a weight, contains 16 ounces, 138 drachms, 384 scriptula, 768 oboli, 1053 lupim, 3304 siliquse, 6144 aereoU. But when Celsus and Scribonius Largus make use of a denarius of about 63|§ gi'ains, the