503 EMETICS. SECT. X.] scammony, of grauum Cnidium, of each^ dr. ij ; of spurge, dr. ij ; of turpentine^ dr. iij ; mix these with the gall of bulls, and use as a liniment. Some, by mixing with them of wax, oz. vij, and of Sicyonian oil, q. s., make it of the form of a plaster. Commentary. It is clear that the Uniments applied to Comm. the anus were a sort of suppositories. The Chezananche is described in much the same terms as our author's by Myrepsus. The rest of his compositions of this class are also very similar to our author's, (xxvi, 2.) Actuarius gives a full account of them. (Meth. Med. v, 9.) Purgative applications to the navel were much trusted to by the ancient physicians as laxatives, but they are now seldom used. The late Dr. Kerr, of Aberdeen, however, sometimes had recourse to them, and spoke highly of their efficacy. SECT. X. ON EMETICS, AND THE MODE OF ADMINISTERING HELLEBORE. Persons in health have recourse to emetics when the system is loaded with too much food or humours, and those in acute diseases, when troubled with phlegm or the like. But neither persons in health nor those in acute diseases should be per- mitted to use emetics, but only in chronic affections, more especially in cases of indurations, and for such matters as re- quire to be dislodged by forcible means, as in gout, epilepsy from the stomach, elephantiasis, dropsy, melancholy, and the like. They are improper in spittings of blood, weakness of the stomach, and suffocative complaints. The readiest of the emetics is the oil of privet (oleum Cyprinum), the fingers or some feathers being dipped in it and pushed down the throat. And dr. vij of Celtic nard taken in honeyed water evacuate up- wards poAverfully. In like manner v or vj dr. of betony drunk in honeyed water, and three green leaves of the daphnoides pounded and eaten. And an obolus of elaterium taken in a draught of water, purges phlegm and bile upwards ; and fifteen grains of stavesacre with thick honeyed water. Of plants with bulbous roots, those usually eaten if taken raw, and the boiled