SECT. II.] 15 SIMPLES. quality, and therefore at once we abstain from tnem, because we repose confidence in the sense of smell. And of fragrant : things, such as have become putrid and offend the smell, we ! straightway throw away, and do not attempt to taste; and in - short, with regard to almost all things, the smell and taste are ; found to agree; and we refer each of them to two classes, I calling the most of those substances which have smell, odorous, and fetid, and considering the odorous analogous to sweet t things, and the fetid to such as are not sweet to the tongue, 1 it would appeal' that from bodies which have no smell r there is but little emitted, or at least that it is disproportionate t to their bulk, as is the case with salt and sour things in par- ticular ; for the substance of sour things is of a dense aud . cold nature, so that it is natural that what is emitted from them should be small in quantity, thick, and terrene in its parts, so as not to reach the brain in respiration. Hence it is not safe to judge of theii' temperament from the smell as it is f from the taste: for we know that things which are inodorous f consist of thick particles, but it is not apparent how they are as to heat and cold; and that fragrant things consist of subtile particles, and are hot in their nature; but it is not shown by the smell but by the taste what is the degree of their tenuity and heat. The inequality of their substance is the cause why fragrant things give no certain indication of temperament; and therefore it is not safe to judge of all the qualities of the rose ifrom its smell; but in taste all the parts of the bodies which are tasted fall equably upon the tongue, and each excites a sensation agreeably to its nature, namely, the sour part in it which is terrene consists of thick particles and is cold; the ■bitter, which consists of subtile parts and is hot; and third, Ithe wateiy, which is necessarily cold. It is not safe then, as has been said, to form a judgment of all the powers of simple substances from the smell; but it is still more impracticable to estimate simple medicines from their colours ; for hot, cold, dry, and humid substances are found of every colour. And yet from the colour of every kind of seeds, roots, or juices it 18 possible to derive a certain indication of their temperament. For example, onions, squills, and wine, the whiter they are, ire the less hot; but such as are of a yellowish and interme- diate colour are hotter. And wheat, vetches, and kidney-