SIMPLE PURGATIVES. SECT. IV.] 483 the half.—The flower with the fruit of Tragoriganum is given to the amount of two drachmSj in honeyed water, to the same class of persons as the black hellebore. It is more stomachic than the hellebore, but less purgative.—Four drachms of Chamelsea (mezereon ?) boiled in two heminse of honeyed water, until reduced to a fourth part, purge like hellebore. Some ad- minister chamelsea by making it into pills with a double quantity of wormwood.—Aristolochia, birthwort, purges like colocynth, one drachm of the species called clematis being i^iven in honeyed water.—The dried root of Polypody when pounded and sprinkled on honeyed water, or triturated along vnth. it, has the same effects as colocynth. Medicines which evacuate black bile. Medicines which eva- cuate black bile are to be given in an especial manner to melanchoKc persons, to such as are easily moved to paroxysms, to passionate persons, to misanthropists, to persons of soli- tary habits, or to such as during convalescence require purg- ing, during the heat of autumn, in dry habits, and to such as are not muscular.—Epithymum, dodder of thyme, is the best of those medicines whicb evacuate black bile. It is to be given to the amount of five dracbms triturated with a hemina of milk. Epithymbrum, or the substance which grows upon savory, evacuates in like manner with the epithymum, but is weaker. Pennyroyal, when taken to tbe amount of an acetabulum, in honeyed water, evacuates black bile.—The Heracleatic Tragori- ganum in the same dose evacuates like pennyroyal. But both must be dried. Alypum, the seeds of it have been said to purge black bile when given in the same quantity as the epitbymum with salts and vinegar; but, as Dioscorides says, it occasions slight ulceration of the intestines. It is, I think, tbat substance which is now called alypias. It is to be given in honeyed water. —Parthenium (matricaria ?), feverfeio, when dried and drunk in like manner, evacuates the same humours. Alypon, madwort, drunk with salts, purges in like manner. Medicines which evacuate phlegm. We are to administer phlegraagogues in cold habits j to aged persons, in winter; in paralytic and apoplectic cases; for loose oedematous swellings; to such persons as have great collections of phlegm in the