[book VJ]. PERFUMES. GOO leafj of cypress-seed, of ammoniac perfume, of pine-nuts, of the moss of trees (splanchnon), or, instead of it, of two large onyches, of carpobalsam,'of each, oz iij; of cassia, of ^iris, of seseli, of sphagnon (muscus arboreus?), of cyperus, of carda- mom, of sweet-cane, of each, oz. v; of dried roses, of saffron, of spikenard, of savin, of the root of kingspear (hut some use the juice), of each, oz. iv; of lacaphthus (it is the hark of a pine or of some other tree), oz. ix; of costus, of the flower of schoe- nanth, of each, oz. ij j forty large juniper-berries and fifty small; of amomum, of turpentine, of pui-e palm-nuts, of each, lb. j ; of dried figs without their stones, of dried grapes without their stones, of each, lb. ij; of scummed honey, lb. v. Posidonius adds, likewise, of fragrant wine, sext. iij. Another cyphi, called the lunar, consisting of twenty-eight ingredients. Of bdellium, of elecampane, of each, oz. vij; of schoenanth, oz. ij ; of the moss of trees, oz. v; fifty small juniper-berries ; of cardamom, oz. v ; of rose-wood, oz. vij ; of cassia fistula, oz. v ; of spikenard, oz. ij ; of cyperus, oz. v; of the root of kingspear, of savin, of each, oz. iv; of cypress- seed, of Celtic nard, of malabathrum with the leaves, of dried roses, of each, oz. iij ; of costus, of saffron, of each, oz. ij; of ladanum, of myrrh, of each, oz. vij ; of fatty dried figs, of grapes deprived of their stones, of each, lb. ij; of pine-nuts, oz. viij ; of turpentine, lb. j ; of storax, oz. vij ; of fatty palm- nuts, lb. j ; of honey, lb. v; of fragrant wine, q. s. Commentary. See Aetius (xiii, 37); Oribasius (Synopsis, iii); Myrepsus (i, 299); Actuarius (Meth. Med. v, 6.) These are sweet-smelling compositions which were used as restoratives, or in order to sooth. The following suffitus of Oribasius is soporific : Of storax, of amomum, of costus, of ammoniac per- fume, of Scythian bdellium, of the root of mandrake, of the juice of poppy. The cyphoid antidotes of Myrepsus are very multifarious compositions, consisting of a great variety of aro- matics, mixed up with honey and fragrant wines. Similar preparations are described by the Arabians among the confections and antidotes. See Avicenna, Scrapion, and Haly Abbas.