[book VII. 88 SIMPLES. discutient. It^ therefore, agrees with fissures and condylo- mata. • ^Commentary. See Dioscorides, with the commentaries of Matthiolus and Sprengel. Suffice it to say, that the Sordes balneorum was nothing but the sweat scraped from the bodies of persons who were shampooed, in an apartment of the bath for this purpose, namely, in the Laconicum. (See Book I, 68.) Of course it would consist of nothing but animal sweat, mixed up perhaps with either natron or the flower of beans, which was generally used during the process. The Sordes gymnasior~um is also in like manner treated of by Dioscorides, and it must have been the sweat collected from the statues and walls of the gymnasia. Dioscorides recommends it for crude boils (phy- mata), desquamated surfaces, and old sores. The Sordes pales- tr(B must have been pretty much the same as the Sordes bal- neorum, and accordingly it was used in a similar manner. The Sordes ex gymnasia occurs in Celsus's list of emollients (v, 15); and is treated of likewise by the Arabians. It appears singular that mankind should have so long retained a fancy for such an application, considering how easy it was to find a more agree- able substitute for it. Glycyrrhiza, Liquorice, is of a tepid and humid tempera- ment, lia\ang also some astringency. Hence it smooths aspe- rities, not only in the trachea but also in a scabious bladder. It also quenches thirst. Comm. Commentary. It would appear to have been rather the Gly- cyrrhiza glanduUfera than the G. glabra. The latter, according to C. Bauhin, contains more saccharine matter than the G. of the ancients. Dioscorides, in his usual empirical style, enumerates with considerable judgment the cases in which it may be ad- ministered with advantage; such as asperities of the trachea (hoarseness) in the form of a linctus, for ardour of the stomach, ulcerations of the bladder and kidneys, and so forth (iii, 9.) All the ancient authorities, from Dioscorides downwards agree in stating that liquorice quenches thii'st; and this we be- lieve is still the popular opinion in this countiy, and was the professional, down to a late date. See Rutty (]\Iat. INIed. p. 221.) The glycyrrhiza occurs in the works of Hippocrates,