459 SIMPLES. SECT. III.] doubt, we think, that it is the pastinaca secacul, Russel; that is to say, the Tordilium orieutale, secacul dictum of Miller. (Gard. Dictionary,) They agree in saying that it is decidedly aphrodisiac, more especially when preserved with honey. Avicenna concludes his notice of it with stating that buzeiden is used instead of it. In another part of his work he gives very sensible directions for preparing secacul conditum, that is to say, " preserved secacul." (v, 1, 8.) Although, as we have stated above, we think there is little or no doubt that the secacul was a species of tordylium, it is proper to acknowledge that the learned commentators on Mesne are much divided in opiaion respecting it. (De Electariis, i, 95.) Buzeiden. See Serapion (De Simpl. 260); Avicenna (ii, 3, 95); and Ebn Baithar (ii, 183.) Avicenna describes it as being an Indian medicine possessing virtues resembling those of beer. He says it is hot in the second degree, and dry in the first; is at- tenuant, proves serviceable in pains of the joints and in gout; is aphrodisiacal and alexipharmic. (ii, 295.) Serapion calls it a species of satyrion (orchis?). He calls it an Indian medicine, little used in his country. He says it resembles hermodactyls in the cure of arthritic diseases or of gout, and that it engenders semen, but hurts the testicles. Its bad effects are best corrected by mustard; its dose two drachms. Ebn Baithar, in this instance, suppHes no additional information. After what we have stated of it, we need have no hesitation in agreeing with Sprengel that it is the orchis morio, or at all events some species of that genus. As Serapion does not quote any Greek authorities under this head, it may be in- ferred that he held it to be distinct from the orchis of Dios- corides and his followers. Several species of this genus are still used in India as medicines. The famous salep is pro- cured principally from the 0. mascula. See Royle, Lindley, and Pereira. Mial, or Storax humida. The liquid Storax is described distinctly by Avicenna, who states that one species of it exudes from the tree and the other is got by boiling; that the former is of a lighter colour and is highly valuable, whereas the other is darker and is less