510 [book VII ANTIDOTES. M. album exhibendum est." (Med. Meth. iii, 10.) He gives the following prescription for making a preparation of helleljore: " Nonnulli ex recentioribus parant elleborum accipientes, 5iss; vini dulcis aromaticij lb. j; turiSj jiss; hyperici, sj; sacchari, jij; bulliant ad consumptionem mediatatis. Cujus decocti dani uncias tres." He likewise approves of giving hellebore by boiling it in oil. (Hiid.) The following is a very simple receipt for the preparation of the mel helleboratum or honey of hellebore : " Take of the roots of white hellebore, dried and sliced, one pound; of clari- fied honey, three pounds j of water four pints. After steeping the roots three days in the water, boil them a Uttle while, then boil the liquor, well pressed out and strained, with the honey to a due consistence." Dr. Pemberton (London Dispensatory, a. d. 1746.) By due consistence is meant the consistence of honey. SECT. XI. ON THE DIFFERENT KINDS OF ANTIDOTES. The Preface of Galen's work on Antidotes. Those composi- tions which cure affections not when they are applied externally, but when taken internally, are named antidotes by the ancients. There are tliree different kinds of them. The first are those which are administered for deleterious substances; the second, for those animals called venomous; and the third are the remedies for affections occasioned by bad articles of food. Some antidotes profess to fulfil all these three purposes, such as the one called theriac. The preparation of the hedychroum, which forms an iU' gredient of the theriac. Of the bark of the root of aspalathus, of calamus aromaticus, of costus, of asarabacca, of xylobalsam, of valerian, of amaracus, of mastich, of each, dr. vj ; of carpo- balsam, dr. ij ; of marum, dr. xvj; of the flower of the rush, dr. ij ; of cinnamon, dr. xxiv ; of amomum, of cassia, of rheum, of each, dr. ^dij ; of Indian nard, of the cassia leaf (mala- bathrum), dr. xij ; of myrrh, dr. xxiv; of saffron, dr. xij; mix with fine wine, and form into trochisks, having smeared the finger with opobalsam. The preparation of trochisks of squills. Having covered over