SECT. VI.] PURGATIVES. 497 SECT. VI. ON THE MANAGEMENT OF THOSE WHO TAKE PURGATIVE MEDICINES; AND WHAT IS TO BE DONE TO THOSE WHO ARE NOT PURGED BY A PROPER DOSE OF PURGATIVES. In general when any of the drastic purgatives is to be taken, the medicine is to be given to the patient with an empty stomach, and after digestion has been performed j and he is to be prevented from sleeping until it has been wholly purged off, and if possible he should make moderate motion, and abstain during the time from all food and drink, until the purging is over. From the ivorks of Philagrius. But if he cannot endure abstinence from food, either because the mouth of the stomach is troubled with bile from long fasting, which has preceded, or any such cause, we must give him bread out of dUuted wine, or the juice of ptisan, or of chondrus, not after the evacuation has begun, lest it spoil in the stomach, but straight- way after the medicine has been taken; for in this way by its weight it contributes to the speedy evacuation of the medicine. But if, after taking any of the laxative medicines, one does not purge nor evacuate, provided the case be not at all serious, we need not be very solicitous about it; but if the greatness of the disease be urgent, or the patient experiences acute tearing pains with distension of the belly, we must necessarily ad- minister a clyster. But if even thus the belly is not evacuated, and there is a pungent pain and disorder of the body, he is to be bathed and rubbed freely with oil; or if he feels full and hea^y, a vein must be opened, more especially if he is of a sanguineous habit of body, and if his eyes be red and promi- nent, not naturally but incidentally, owing to his having drunk the medicine. "When none of these symptoms trouble him, but he experiences a gnawing and lancinating pain, he may take food immediately after the bath, and drink wine freely, and in the meantime he is to receive a clyster, if he does not settle; and again he is to be bathed. The oil used in the clyster, should be that of rue or prepared from some other of the carminative medicines. in. 32