136 SIMPLES. [book VII. Comm. ex aceto tritam et illitum tollit, item lendes in palpcbris, aceto sandarachato admixto." We have not found the acetum san- darachatum mentioned by any other writer j from its name, it was no doubt composed of vinegar and arsenic, that is to say, realgar. Serapion, in treating of sulphur, confines himself entirely to Greek authorities (407); and so in like manner Avicenna (ii, 2, 612), and Rhases (Cont. ult. 694.) Lupinus, Lupine; that which is edible is possessed of em- plastic powers ; but the bitter is detergent, discutient, and desiccative, without pungency. It kills worpis, both Avhen applied externally and when taken in infusion, and it cleanses' the bowels when drunk with rue and pepper. It also cleanses the skin, and discusses tumours when applied with oxymel.- The wild is more bitter and stronger than the cultivated in all respects. Comm. COMMENTARY. Two varieties of the lupine, the sativus and ' * ' sylvestris, were used in medicine from the days of Dioscorides down to our Quincy. Though the former of these, which was the one principally used, be well known, there is some doubt as to the species; whether it was the pilosus, or the hirsutus, or, what is more probable, whether it comprehended both. Dioscorides and Galen agree in enumerating a long hst of cases to Avhich the lupine is applicable, but as our author's account embraces the sum of what they have written on it, we need not enter here into an exposition of their opinions. Suffice it to say, that as an emmenagogue and deobstruent it was much relied upon internally, and applied in a great variety of external complaints in fomentations. The same virtues are ascribed to it by the Arabians, who, however, sup- ply no additional observations of any importance. Avicenua's account of its medicinal powers is particularly full, (ii, 2, 440.) Rhases derives almost all his information from the Greeks. (Cont. 1. ult. i, 435.) Serapion copies altogether from Dioscorides and Galen (De Simpl. 74.) 0jjXw7rr£pov, Which some call Nymphtea or FilLx, Female Fern, is like the