SIMPLES. [book vn. 170 I the leaves in diseases of the eyes (iv, 111.) Galen notices it Comm. a potiou. One of Serapion's authorities^ Abugerig, in like " ' manner, recommends it in diseases of the chest. Buccinse (a species of shell-fish); their shell when burnt is possessed of sufficiently desiccative powers without pungency, they therefore agree with malignant ulcers, and are to be used for putrid ulcers with vinegar, wine, or oxymel. That part of them which is as it were their flesh when alive, if boiled in.\" oil, renders the oil an useful injection for relie\dng earache. Comm. COMMENTARY. Sprcngel makes them to be the Buccina ' ' ' Harpa and Lapillus. They are noticed among the articles of food in the ninety-first section of the First Book. Dioscorides correctly remarks that a species of quicklime is got from their shells. He recommends it as a dentifrice, and as an appli- cation to burns, (ii, 5.) Galen very properly inculcates the necessity of getting them finely levigated before applying them to sores. Aviceuna treats of the buccina along with other Crustacea under one head. His information is almost entirely borrowed from Dioscorides and Galen, (ii, 2, 539.) See also Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 324.) Eicinus, Palma Christi; its fruit, which is also purgative, has detergent and discutient properties, and so also has its leaf, but weaker. We have already spoken of its oil. Comm. COMMENTARY. There can be no doubt that the k'iki or Kporuv ' was the Ricinus communis, the Castor-oil plant, or Palma Christi. It is mentioned by Plerodotus (Euterpe, 94) and in several passages of the Hippocratic treatises. See fficonom. Hippocrat. (318.) It does not occur, however, in the works of Celsus. Dioscorides informs us that it is called croton, from its resemblance to the dog-tick, and it is worthy of observation that both the plant and the dog-tick bear the name of Ricinus in Latin. See Pliny (H. N. xi, 34, and xv, 7.) Dioscorides says that the oil is used for lamps and plasters, and also as a purgative and emetic; but that it is a very loathsome and harsh medicine when administered internally. He further M mentions the seeds as being used in cutaneous diseases, and ^