294 [hook vu. SIMPLES. TlETrXoc'. Peplus, called by some Papaver spumosum. And this shrub has a juice and purges like the spurges. TIettXiov, Peplium; this too has a juice, and grows by the sea-side; for the most part, it is of no use, but the seed of it purges flatus like that of the peplus. Comm. COMMENTARY. There Can be no doubt that they are two " • ' species of the Euphorbia or Spurge; probably the E. Peplus and E. Peplis, that is to say, the petty spurge, and small purple sea spiu'ge. These articles are frequently mentioned as drastic purgatives in the Hippocratic collection. (Epidem. xi., &c.) Ruffus Ephesius gives them the character of being safe phlegmagogucs and cholagogues. (De Med. Purgant.) Diosco- rides gives them the same characters, (iv, 65, 66.) They are also mentioned by Pliny (H. N. xx, 20), but are not noticed •> by Celsus. Galen gives their seed the character of purging, and at the same time of expelling flatulence. All the Greek au- thorities on the Mat. Med. down to Actuarius (Mat. Med. v), give them exactly the same character. The Arabians briefly say of them that they purge like the Tithymalle. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 103,104.) We may be allowed to mention, that although the E. Peplis and Peplus be now excluded from our Dispensa- tory, they are still to be found in the shops of the apothecaries. We concur in the opinion thus stated by Boerhaave while treating of spurge root: " We have declined these rough medicines too hastily." (Mat. Med.) See further Rutty (Mat. Med. 520.) nETTtp, Piper, Peppei-; its root resembles the costus in power. But the fruit of it, while yet germinating, forms the long pepper, being more humid and hot. But that which is as it were the unripe fruit is the white pepper, being more acrid than the black, because it is over-heated. Both are heating and desic- cative. Comm. COMMENTARY. SoHnus givcs the following account of it: ' ' ' " Quod incorruptum est Piper album. Quorum cutcm rugo- sam ct torridam calor fecerit. Piper nigrum. Qui demum