SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 375 any doubt. Dioscorides, Pliny, AiDuleius, and, in a word, Comm. most of the ancient authorities, like our Paulus, describe seven ' ' medicinal species, to wliich "we may venture to give the follow- ing names in the botanical nomenclature of the present time. I. Euphorbia char acias. %. E. myrsinites. 3. E. par alias. 4. E. helioscopia. 5. E. cyparissias. 6. E. dendroides. 7. E. platyphyllos. See Sprengel (Ad Dioscor.) ; Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 277) ; German Translation of Ebn Baitliar (ii, 525); Miller (Gard. Diet.) Besides these^ the medical authors treat of several other species of spurge by particular names, as lathyris, peplis, thymelsea, &c. The tithymallus was called "lactuca marina" by the Romans (Celsus v, 7), and also " lactaria" and " lactuca caprina." See Pliny, who gives a full account of the spurges. (H. N. xxvi, 39, 46.) These plants are treated of at so great a length by Dioscorides and the other authorities, that we cannot possibly find space for an exposition of their particular views. All, however, agree in giving them nearly the same characters as our author, who, in the present instance, is indebted in part to Dioscorides, and in part to Galen. Several of them are noticed by Hippocrates. For the Arabians, see Serapion (De Simpl. 360); Avicenna (ii, 3, 421); Ehases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 718) ; Averrhoes (Collig. V, 42); Ebn Baithar (1. c.) They recommend them in the same cases as the Greeks, without supplying any new views of much importance. They prescribe a few drops of the juice of spurge poured upon a fig as a phlegmagogue. They further recom- mend them in malignant ulcers and those attended with caries of the bones. And here, by the vay, we may be allowed to mention that a modern authority confirms what the ancients say of the efiicacy of the spiu'ges in this case. See Hildanus (x, c. ii, 2.) In the present age, we have discarded such purga- tives as the spiu'ges, whether wisely or not we will not take upon ourselves to say. Calx, Lime; the Calx viva {Quicklime) burns strongly so as to form eschars ; when slacked, it forms eschars at first, but not so after some days. It contracts, however, and wastes the flesh. When washed it loses it pungency, if this is often done with water; but if in sea-water, it becomes decidedly detergent.