[book VII. 332 SIMPLES. Comm. COMMENTARY. All the authorities acknowledge it as the '—1—' Sesamum orientale. Pliny ranks it among the summer corn of India. He says, that an oil is procured from it, and that it forms a good application to burns. (H, N. xviii, 22 j xxii, 64.) This account of it in fact is condensed from Dioscorides, who recommends both the plant and the oil in various external complaints, including burns, inflammations of the eyes, the bites of venomous animals, &c. (i, 41, ii, 121); Celsus ranks it among his emollients, and recommends it as an hepatic, (iv, 8.) Galen and Aetius give nearly the same ac- count of it as our author. The Arabians treat of it at great length, both as an article of food and of medicine. See Serapion (De Simpl. 86); Avicenna (ii, 2, 642) ; Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 650); Averrhoes (CoUig. v, 42); Ebn Baithar (i, 254.) They all recommend it for the same purposes as the Greeks, and as a good application to fissures and suggillations. Seps (which some have called the Chalcidic Lizard), when drunk in wine cures those who have been bitten by it. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is called tvyviQ by Aristotle. (H. A. viii, '—^—' 23), and hence it has got the name of Zygnis tridaciyla. Solinus says of it, " Ictus sepium putredo sequitur." (Polyhistor. 0. 40.) Our author's account of it is taken literally from Dioscorides. (ii, 72.) It is briefly noticed by Aetius, but we have not found it treated of by any of the Arabian autho- rities on the Mat. Med. except Ebn Baithar, who merely gives an extract from Dioscorides under this head, (ii, 199.) Saliva; that of men in a fasting state is particularly dis- cutient and detergent; it therefore clears away the lichen of children when the parts are anointed with it. It also con- cocts furunculus when applied along with wheat that has been masticated in it. It removes hypopion. It is likewise most destructive to those venomous animals which prove fatal to men. Comm. COMMENTARY. Our author's account of the medicinal pro- '—•—' perties of Saliva is abridged from Galen, who gives a very elaborate disquisition on the virtues of it. Pliny's statement is