SIS ANTIDOTES. [book vii. scr. iss ; of the seed of fennel, scr. iij; of cassia, scr. iss ; of schoenanth, scr. iiiss; of cinnamon, scr. iij; of tlie juice of hypocistis, scr. ivss; of sulphur, scr. v ; of poppy-seeds, scr. v; of pellitory, scr. iij ; of stone-parslej'^, scr. iss ; of lUyrian iris, scr. vijss; of the seeds of henbane, gr. xiijss; of spikenard, scr. vijss; of the seeds of rue, scr. iss ; of dill, scr. iij j of car- damom, scr. iij; of dried roses, scr. ivss; of the flower of nerium (it is, as it were, the flower-cup from which the rose of the rose-bay emerges), and of the rose of it, of each, scr. iij ; of Pontic rhubarb, scr. vj; of gentian, scr. vj ; of hedychroum, scr. iss ; of tragacanth, scr. xv; of buckthorn, scr. vj ; of the leaves of citron, scr. vj ; of the seed of basil, scr. iss; of anise, scr. iij; of euphorbium, scr. iij ; of Indian leaf, scr. ij; of Celtic nardj scr. vj ; of spignel, scr. iij ; of costus, of myrrh, of each, scr. vj ; of bdellium, scr. xvj; of the juice of southern- wood, scr. xiij ; of Syriac sumach, scr. xxvss; of asarabacca, of the belly of a cormorant, of the jasper-stone, of each, scr. iij; of pepper, scr. xv; of castor, scr. iss ; of Cimolian earth, scr. vj; of sison (bishop's Aveed?), scr. ix; of storax, scr. ix; of opo- balsam, scr. xij ; of the herb seseli, scr. iss; of honey, oz. xxviij; of wine, q. s. The medicine from the flesh of quinces. Three pounds of clean quinces are boiled in three sextarii of old Avine, then pounded, and there is added to them, of pepper, of anise, of lovage, of each, when triturated, oz. j. Some also add, of ginger, oz. ss; and others, instead of the Avine, use vinegar. The medicine from the juice of quinces of approved efficacy for anorexia and dyspejjsia. Of the juice of ripe quinces, sext. ij; of fine honey, sext. ij ; of vinegar, sext. j; of ginger, oz. iij; of white pepper, oz. ij : boil to a proper consistence. Galen prepares it for those afli"ected with cold. But, he says, when bile prevails, prepare it without the pepper and ginger. The jireparation of a tablet from quinces. Six pounds of clean quinces are boiled in wine until they become soft. Then being strained and triturated, some add, of honey, lb. viij, and boil at a sIoav fire, stirring with a piece of reed until the Avhole Avill not stain the hand; and then they add the fol- lowing things bruised: of pepper, oz. iij ; of anise, oz. iij; of stone-parsley, oz. j. Some also add of ginger, oz. j, and of raastich, oz. j. When mixed, they ai-e formed into