012 [book VII. ANTIDOTES. it may be used for persons bitten by venomous animals, and those who have taken anything poisonous, after seven years, a quantity of it, to the size of a filbert, being drunk twice a day, in three cyathi of wine. In like manner, to those who are in a dangerous state from some obscure cause, when the disorder in the body imitates the quality of a mortal poison, as is the case particularly in pestilential diseases, it is to be given once a day. But in all other affections, it is to be used from the tenth to the twentieth year. For coughs, pains of the chest or side, it is to be given at night, if free from fever, with wine and honey; but if feverish, with hydromel, to the extent of an Egyptian bean. In all cases of haemoptysis, it is to be given morning and evening, to the size of an Egyptian bean; if recent, in oxycrate ; or, if chi'onic, in the decoction of comfrey. In cases of flatulence, tormina, or cseliac affections, it is to be taken iu the morning, to the size of an Egyptian bean, in hot water. It excites an intense appetite, and removes rigors, coldness, and vomiting of bile when drunk before the attack. It promotes menstruation, and expels the foetus when dead, if drunk to the size of an Egyptian nut with honeyed water, or sweet wine, in which rue or dittany has been boiled. In the case of loss of voice, it is drunk alone, and with double the quantity of tragacanth in wine and honey, or sweet wine, being retained under the tongue and allowed to melt. For diseases of the spleen or liver, it is given with oxycrate; but if they are in a scirrhous state, with a cyathus and a half of osymel, or vinegar of squills. For nephritic complaints, it is given with oxymel to the size of an Egyptian bean. In dysenteric cases it is given to the same amount, with the decoction of sumach, morning and evening. For dimness of vision it answers excel- lently thus : Mix oz. ij of the antidote, and of opobalsam, with one cyathus of honey, and after a little anoint with it. It is also used as a dentifrice. Many, for the sake of prophylaxis, take it at new moon to the size of a Grecian bean, after digestion, with a cochleare of honey and two cyathi of water. In like manner they use it when upon a journey they suspect that the air or water is bad. Theriac salts. Take four female vipers recently caught; and then putting into a mortar one Itahan modius of ammoniac or common salt, pound into thick pieces, along with it, of gen-