346 [book VII. SIMPLES. Comm. COMMENTARY. We arc inclined to set down the two va- rieties of tliis substance as being Allium sativum and ai-enarium. See Parkinson (vii, 39), and Sprengel (Ad Dioscor, ii, 181). Dioscorides gives a lengtby statement of the medicinal virtues of the garlic, which, as Galen somewhere says, was the great theriac of rustics. Dioscorides says it is the best of all medi- cines in the bites of vipers when taken along with wine, and that it forms an excellent cataplasm for the bites of mad dogs. He also recommends it as an application to various cutaneous complaints, such as leprosy and furfures; as an emmenagogue, both in the form of a hip-bath and fumigation; as a diuretic and remedy in dropsical diseases, (ii, 81.) Galen, like our author, merely states the general characters of the two species. It is frequently mentioned in the works of Hippocrates and in those of Celsus. The latter ranks it among the things " mali succi," and calls it acrid, flatulent, heating, laxative of the bowels, &c. (ii, 21, 26, et alibi.) The Arabians treat of it at great length. See Serapion (De Simpl. 331); Averrhoes (Collig. V, 42); Avicenna (ii, 2, 72); Ehases (Cont. 1. ult. i. 36.) They recommend it in eructations, in dropsy as a laxative and diuretic, and as an emmenagogue. They say a clyster of it relieves sciatica, and a gargle of it is useful in toothache, and clears the voice. Avicenna affirms, from per- sonal experience, that it is an excellent medicine in the case of persons stung by venomous reptiles. Rtiifus, as quoted by I' Serapion, says it is hurtful to the ears, the liver, the lungs, and the kidneys. Fresh garlic, he says, is diuretic, loosens the bowels, and is vermifuge. Another of his authorities says, raw garlic is vermifuge, and useful in strangury. 2/copSo7rpa(TO)', Scordoprason, Garlic-leek, in taste and powers is compounded of the garlic and leek. Comm. COMMENTARY. We are disposed to set it down as being '—>—' Allium Scorodoprason. None of the authorities supply any interesting information under this head. 2/COp7riOEtSECj Scorpioides, Caterpillar, is heating in the third order, and desiccative in the second.