SIMPLES. 477 SECT. III.] the authorities quoted under Chrysocolla. It was used medi- cinally by the Hindoo physicians. See the Susruta (pluries), Wise (Hindoo System of Medicine, 117); Ainslie (Mat. Ind. 576); Royle (Mat. Med. 97.) Hager Alcazaha. It is difficult to determine precisely what this precious stone was, although it is pretty minutely described by Serapion. He says it is brought from Yemen, and is of divers colours, from white to black, and that it occasions disturbed dreams when worn as an. amulet: he recommends it, however, to be thus used by infants, and says a vessel prepared from it, if used for holding any article of food or drink, prevents sleep. (De Simpl. 401. Lapis Lazuli. We have in so far treated of this substance under Cyanus in the preceding Commentary, It was used, like the other pre- cious stones, as an amulet, but was more particularly celebrated as a melanogogue medicine. It was further said to be useful in asthma, and as an emmenagogue. See Serapion (De Simpl. 369); Avicenna (ii, 256). A modern authority describes it thus: " It is a stone like a sapphire, or the flowers of cyanus adorned with golden stones or flowers, harder than the Armenian stone. It is in. virtue like the Armenian stone, but weaker; it purgeth chiefly melancholy. It is worn about the neck for an amulet to drive away frights from children,^'' &c. Schroder, (Chymic. Dispensat.) Berengemish, or Ozimim Gariofilatum. Serapion, after quoting a description of it from Isaac ebn Araram, says of it, that it is hot and dry in the end of the second degree, is useful in coldness of the stomach, promotes digestion, is a hepatic and cordial medicine, dispels melan- choly, renders the eructations fragrant, &c. His other au- thorities recommend it in similar cases. (De Simpl. 156.) Avicenna gives a similar account of it in all respects, (ii, 3, 254.) We suppose there is no doubt that it is the clove basil, or Ocimum gariofilatum of Miller; or, according to Sprengel, the 0. monachorum.