306 SIMPLES. [book VII. Comm. COMMENTARY. It lias been usually taken for the C'onval- " ' laria Polygonatwn, whicli lias obtained the same character as a medicine in modern works on the Mat, Med. See Rutty (M. M. 403) and Gray (Suppl. to the Pharraacop. 23.) Our author copies almost word for word from Galen, who, in liis turn, borrows from Dioscorides. None of the Arabians have noticed it, as far as we can discover, except Ebn Baithar, who merely gives the descriptions of it by Dioscorides and Galen. It is not to be found in the works either of Hippocrates or Celsus. YioXvyovov, Polygonon, Knot-grass, has some astringency, but a cold watery principle of the second order is what prevails in it. When applied cold externally, it therefore relieves ardor of the stomach, erysipelas, and hot inflammations. Being of such a nature it repels defluxions, and thereby appears to be desic- cative. The male is stronger than the female. Comm. Commentabv. Of the two species described by Dioscorides, the mas is undoubtedly the Polygonum aviculare, and the feminine probably the P. maritimum. How the latter could be the Hippuris vulgaris, as several of the older commentators on Dioscorides had supposed, we are at a loss to comprehend. Two plants so dissimilar as the knot-grass and the mare^s-tail, could never have been classed by the ancients as male and female. Dioscorides gives a most interesting exposition of the medicinal powers of the former species, but as our author borrows from him, we need not dwell upon the other. It is possessed of an astringent and refrigerant power, and its juice (decoction) is suited to cases of haemoptysis, fluxes of the belly, chorea, sti-angury, and so forth, (iv, 4, 5.) Galen taxes Dios- corides with not stating precisely what the particular cases of strangury are in which it is applicable. Otherwise his cha- racters of this article agree exactly with those of Dioscorides and our author. Celsus ranks "herba sanguinalis, quam GrjEci TToXu yocov vocant," among things which are at the same time gently repressing (astringent?) and emollient, (ii, 33.) The Arabians who treat of the polygonum follow Dioscorides. See in particular, Avicenna (ii, 3, 725) and Ebn Baithar (ii, 195.) Our quaint old herbalist Culpeper, under the head of knot-grass, assigns to it exactly the same medicinal ^irtues as