[book VII, 121 SIMPLES. on which account it readily becomes carious, but it preserves the heat. Comm. COMMENTARY. Without doubt the Amomum Zinyiher. Dioscorides after describing the country of the ginger, and the characters of the best kinds of it, states its medicinal powers to be heating, digestive, mildly aperient of the bowels, and stomachic; and recommends it in nebulse of the cornea, and adds of it, that as an ingredient in antidotes and otherwise it resembles pepjjer (ii, 189.) Galen writes very elaborately in explanation of the action of ginger on the animal frame; and, in accounting for the differeuce between it and pepper and other articles of the same class practically, his conclusions re- gai'ding it are the same as our author's. Aetius and Oiibasius copy from him. Serapion, after quoting the opinions of Dioscorides- and Galen, gives a very sensible account of the vir- tues of giuger from Mesue and another unknown authority. Mesne s.ays it is beneficial in obstructions of the liver, arising from coldness and humidity; that it softens the belly, heats the stomach and the Avhole body; promotes digestion; is alexipharmic and aphrodisiacal; removes phlegm (water brash?) and is beneficial in obscurity of vision. The unknown autho- rity says it improves the memory, and removes the humidity in the stomach, arising from the eating of fruit, such as melons and the hke (De Simpl. 336.) In the works of Mesue, now extant, ginger is not treated of. llhases gives very interesting extracts from Dioscorides, Galen, and various Arabian authors Of the latter, one says of ginger, that it softens the belly, and another that it binds it. (Cont. 1. ult. i, 762.) Avicenna quotes Dioscorides as stating that it is aperient, and Alcanzi as , holding that it is astringent. He agrees with the latter, that ginger binds the bowels, when their loose state arises from in- digestion and viscid humours. He agi'ees also with the other authorities, that it is stomachic and aphrodisiac, (ii, 2, 735.) Zythus, Ale, is of a compound nature; for it is acrid, as being formed by a putrefaction ("fermentation?"), and cold, as being possessed of an acid quality. It tlierefore produces bad chyle.