104 SIMPLES. [book VII. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dierbach inclines to the Holcus Sorghum, a ' * species of millet called Sorgo or Guinea corn. Most of the other authorities refer it to the Panicuni Italicum. (See Spreugel, Schneider, and Parkinson.) We have treated of it among the articles of food in Book I. As a medicine, it is principally in the form of a fomentation that it is prescribed by Dioscorides and the other authorities. Galen does not speak very favorably of the cataplasm prepared from it. The Arabians treat of it in much the same terms as the Greeks. See Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 532), Avicenna (ii, 2, 288), and Serapion (c. 102.) They all speak of it as being a very in- ferior article of food; and as a medicine, recommend it only in a fomentation. It was retained in our English Dispensa- tory down to a late date. See Quincy. To this day it is much prized by the native practitioners of Hindostan. See Ainslie (Mat. Ind. 124.) Cedrus, Cedar (?), or Juniper ; the shrub, which resembles juniper, and the tree are calefacient and desiccative in the third degree; but the oil prepared from them, which they caU cedrsea, touches upon the fourth, being composed of suflficiently subtile particles. It therefore corrodes soft flesh readily, and without pain; and the hard flesh, more particularly of dead bodies, it dries and preserves from putrefaction. It kills lice, nits, ascarides, worms in the ears, and has many other powers. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscorides describes two species, the lai'ger ' ' being probably the Juniperus Phoenicea, and the smaller the Juniperus communis. The apKevBoQ was a species of the same genus. Pliny calls the pitch of the tree by the name of Cedria, and the oil by that of Pisselceon. Is the cedria the gum vernix, called sandarax by the Arabians ? We will dis- cuss this question in the Appendix to this Book, when we come to treat of the substances introduced into the Materia Medica by the Arabians. Dioscorides says of the fruit of the cedar or juniper, that it is calefacient and bad for the stomach, that it is useful in coughs, as an emmenagogue, and alexipharmic. (i, 105.) Galen says the fruit is edible, but apt to occasion headache and pain of the stomach. (De Simpl. vii.) The