[book VII. SIMPLE PURGATIVES. 482 macliics, or along with lioney. It is also formed into pills with gum.—The medullary part of the fruit of the Colocynth evacuates especially bile and mucous matters, not from the blood like hellebore and scammony, but from the neiTes and nervous parts, when given to the amount of one drachm in two cyathi of honeyed water which has rue boiled in it. But it is to be triturated for a long time, because otherwise its rough particles sticking in the internal parts produce ulcerations and nervous aflFections by sympathy. It is to be given to those who have affections of the head, namely, when the meninx or the perici'anium is affected, such as those labouring under vertigo or hemicrania, or those troubled with cephalsea; also in epilepsy, apoplexy, cynic spasms, chronic defluxions on the eyes, orthopnoea, asthma, and chronic coughs; likewise in arthritic cases to those who have affections about the kidneys or bladder.—Elaterium evacuates like scammony. Such as is green like leeks, light, and not older than a year, is to be chosen; and it is to be given to the amount of three oboli, tri- turated with one hemina of milk.—Tithj^mallus, spurge, eva- cuates bile like elaterium and scammony. Four or five drops of the juice are given, mixed with polenta and quickly swallowed. For if retained long in the mouth they ulcerate the tongue and surrounding parts.—Lathyrides (a species of spurge) pui'ge bile like hellebore and scammony. They are to be given to the amount of seven, eight, or as many as fifteen grains to such as are robust and require much purging, who are to be directed to chew them. But those who are weaker and have bad stomachs, must swallow them whole.—The dried tops of the Peplium are to be given to the amount of eight oboli in honeyed water. They evacuate bile like hellebore, and occasion the breaking of wind.—Agaric has similar powers to the colocynth, but acts slowly and is not prejudicial to the stomach. It is given to the amount of two drachms with honeyed water. It should be veiy white, brittle, and not very woody nor carious.—lUyrian Iris purges in like manner when given to the amount of eight oboli in honeyed water. It ought not to be old nor carious.'—The small Centamy by purging bile and mucus is particularly adapted for cases of ischiatic disease. The decoction is to be drunk of a drachm and a half of centaury, boiled in a hemina of water until it be reduced to