SECT. III.] 353 SIMPLES. J in ferariis repermntur, qnte vocant pompliolygem et spodon. Comm. Difltereutia quod pompliolyx lotura, paratur, spodos illota est." ^"^^ ' (H. N. xxxiv, 33.) The name, in modem times, lias been ap- plied to burnt ivoiy. See Gray (Suppl. to Pharm. 260), and Platearius (De Simp. Med. 250.) The ancient spodium was an impure oxyd of zinc. The term, however, was sometimes applied to other recrements, as we are informed by Pliny (1. c), and Dioscorides (v, 85.) He gives a more minute description of the preparation of it and of pompholyx. The Arabians treat of both under the general name of Tucia or Tutty, which was long re- tained in modern times. They used it very freely in diseases of the eyes, and also in those about the genital organs. See Serapion (c. 422); Avicenna (ii, 2, 695); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 730); Haly Abbas (Pract. ii, 45, 474.) The spodium occurs frequently as an ingredient in the coUyria and ointments de- scribed by Celsus (v, 6), &c. We need scarcely remind the reader that tutty ointment has continued to be used as an ophthalmic even to oiu' own times. The spodos of the Hip- pocratic writers would appear to have been applied in a more general sense to various recrements of the metals. (De Ulceri- bus.) The spodium of the Arabians would seem to have been the ashes of the privet. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 609); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. 675.) Staphylinus, Carrot, is diuretic and promotes menstruation, particularly the seed and root. But the leaves being possessed of detergent powers agree with phagedsenic affections when applied green along with honey. The wild is for all purposes stronger than the cultivated. Commentary. As Sprengel states, it is undoubtedly a Comm. variety of the Daucus Carota, L., or Wild Carrot. Diphilus, —»—' as quoted by Athenseus, says that it is acrid, nutritive, mode- rately stomachic, laxative, flatulent, indigestible, diuretic, and aphrodisiacal. (Deipnos. ix, 2.) Pliny mentions that it proves useful in strangury, dropsy, and several other complaints. (H. N. XX, 15.) Plinius Valerianus says of it that it had been given in diseases of the liver, spleen, loins, and kidneys, in hydromel. (iv, 32.) Our authoi-'s account of its medicinal properties is mostly condensed from Dioscorides. He recommends it strongly as a diuretic, emmenagogue, and aphrodisiac, and says of it, "I- 23