SIMPLES. iSECT. III.] 235 J itlian tlie other. (De Simpl. ix.) Oribasius and Aetius in like Comm. imanner follow Galen. Celsus recommends lycium strongly in ' ' ' iiulceration of the throat, (iv, 4, 3.) As far as we have been iable to discover, it does not occur in the works of Hippocrates. IThe Arabians treat fully of this article. See Rhases (Cont. 1. ault. i, 429); Avicenna (ii, 2, 390); Serapion (c. 7); Averrhoes '(v, 42.) "We do not find that they supply any new views re- igarding its medicinal virtues. In the modern Greek Pharma- >copoeia the extract of catechu is set down as being the Lycium [Indicum. We agree, however, with the authorities quoted liibove regarding it. Lysimachium, Moneywort; its prevailing power is astrin- :gency ; hence it agglutinates woiuids, and is styptic, both titself and its juice. It algo relieves dysentery when drunk and anjected. Commentary. The L. of Dioscorides and our author is Comm. unost probably the Yellow Loose-strife of our English herba- ' ' ' lists, namely, Lysimacliia vulgaris, L. Our author abridges Dioscorides, who recommends it as an astringent in various eases, such as haemoptysis, dysentery, fluor albus, hemorrhage from the nose, and as a vulnerary and styptic herb, (iv, 3.) Bjalen and Aetius treat of it in nearly the same words as our fcuthor. We have not been able to find it in the works of the i^jabians, except Ebn Baithar, and yet we do not assert that t may not be treated of under some name which we have |ot been able to interpret, Ebn Baithar merely quotes Dios- ^ orides and Galen. The lysimachia, although not now in- luded in our Dispensatories, still holds a place in the shops f the apothecaries, with the character of being astringent. 'Ce Gray's Supplement, &c. (48.) Lychnis, Campion; the seed of that species which is used )r garlands is hot and desiccative, according to the second rder complete. Commentary. This plant is the Lychnis coronaria ofd )ioscoridcs, and still retains this name. Dioscorides recora-"~ lends it in the case of persons stung by scorpions. The wild chuis of Dioscorides may be either the Lychnis dioica or