SIMPLES. SECT. III.] 415 Chondi-us, is like wheat, but more glutinous than it. Commentary. In the First Book we have explained its Comm. nature. (Vol. I, 123.) It would appear to have been the article ' ^ now called Fmro, being prepared from the spelt wheat, ex- , actly as pearled barley is from barley. See Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 16.) XpvCTo/coXXa, ChrysocoUa; one kind of it is found in metal mines, and 1 another is prepared in a mortar of red copper with a pestle of t the same, it being triturated with the urine of a boy not come tto puberty during the heat of the dog days. It therefore is {detergent, having discuticnt and desiccative powers greater tthan those of the kind found in metal mines, so that it con- isumes flesh without being pungent. It therefore agrees with i ill-conditioned ulcers. By burning it you may render it less I pungent. Commentary. In order to understand this very complicated Comm. asubject, it wiU be necessary in the first place to give an ex- " * ' iposition of what the ancients themselves have written upon it. IDioscorides writes thus of the ChrysocoUa: " The best is the JArmenian, which is of an intense leek colour; the second in 1'quality is the Macedonian; and then the Cyprian, of which the kind that is pure must be selected; but that which is full of earth and stones must be rejected. The aforesaid article is to be worked thus : Having pounded it, throw it into a mortar, and having poured in water, rub strongly with the flattened hand to the mortar; then allowing it to settle, strain; and toouring in more water, again rub, and do this alternately until It becomes clean and pure; then having dried it in the sun, lay past for use. But if you wish to burn (calcine ?) it, do so in the following manner: Having triturated it sufficiently, put it into a pan, place upon the coals, and do otherwise as we previously said in the former cases. The chrysocoUa has the power of deterging ulcers, repressing and cleansing fungous flesh; is styptic, calefacient, mildly septic, with a certain amount of pungency. It belongs to the class of medicines which excite vomiting, and which may prove fatal to life.'' (v, 104.) This chrysocoUa is evidently the same as that which