SECT. III.] 53 SIMPLES. of its temperament it stops hemorrhages, and agrees with most of them. For it is desiccant without being stimulant, and cooling without being narcotic. Commentary. The greater plantain of Dioscorides was Comm. probably the Plantago major, which, in all ages down to the present times, has been so celebrated as a vulnerary herb. Our author's account of its virtues is taken either from Dioscorides or Galen, for, in the present instance, there is scarcely a shade of diflference in opinion between these two authorities. The lesser plantain of Dioscorides is either the lanceolata or maritima, probably the former. . (ii, 152.) See Macer Floridus. Avicenna and Serapion copy word for word from Dioscorides and Galen. None of the plantains are men- tioned by Hippocrates. Celsus places the ''plantago" in the list of substances which are both astringent and cooling, (ii, 33.) None of the species of plantago here described occur 1 in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia. Arum, WaJcerobin, is of the first order in heating and (drying, being formed of a terrene substance that is hot and (detergent. Its roots are hotter. But the dracunculus is s stronger. Commentary. We have all along assumed, with our older Comm. herbalists, that this is the wakerobin or cuckow-pent, namely, ' * ' the Arum maculatum L. Pliny and Mesne are the only ancient authors who have noticed its purgative powers. Our uthor's account of its faculties is much the same as that given by Dioscorides, Galen, and Oribasius, and its ancient character ' as been amply confirmed by modern authority. The Arabians reat of it fully, but rather confusedly, under the name of Luf. ee Avicenna (ii, 2, 432); Serapion (c. 43) ; Ebn Baithar (ii, 246.) Even at the present day it is not wholly excluded from Ithe Materia Medica. See Pereira (M. M. p. 811.) We have ttreated of its congener, the dragon herb, as an article of food, m another place. See Book I, 114. Arsenic, is possessed of caustic powers. It is used also for lepilatories, but if the application be allowed to remain long