- ECT. xvi.J COLLYRIA. 557 il'lierbes, et quelques gommes, comrae du saffran, des roses, Comm. (Ill sue de chelidoine, et" de fenouil, de Valoes, de Ij), myrrh, de ' " ' /'opium. Ou meloit toas ces ingrediens et oa ea formoit des laasses que Toq faisait secher, et dont on faisait de la poudre loi-squ'on vouloit s'en servir. Les collyres liquides etoieat -culemeut composes de matieres liquides. Oa preuoit, par N;emple, du miel d'Attique, qui etoit estime le meilleur, de opobalsamum, avec diafiel de vipr'e,. de perdrii^, ou de quelque autre animal, et du sue de fenouil. On faisait de cela un melange, dont on laissoit tomber quelques gouttes dans les yeux de ceux qui avoient la vue foible, ou quelque suffusion comme.n5ant." (Hist, de la Med. iii, ii, 1.) The Ophthalmic CoUyria are treated- of with extraordinary accuracy and minuteness of detail in books iv and v of Galenas work 'De comp. med. sec. locos.^ Notwithstanding the success with which the surgery of the eye has been culti- vated of late, we are confident that the oculists of the present day might derive still further improvement from an attentive study of these books. It is to be remarked that several of his .'ollyria, as well as those of Celsus, contain opium, so that the ise of the vinum opii in modern practice is not an original invention. Many of them contain very powerful escharotics, >such as copper and arsenic, which indicates a great degree of 1 boldness in ancient practice. Why is arsenic never used now ffor the cure of complaints of the eye? Our author's account fof them, which is mostly taken from Galen, is very accurate (<and deser\dng of consideration. All the collyria of Celsus are ocular remedies. As he states, Ithey consist principally of soothing and refreshing medicines kvariously mixed. I Scribonius Largus describes fully the composition of collyria, |>which he divides into the soothing and the acrid. The former rconsist of saffron, gum, tragacanth, calamine, antimony, opium land the like. The latter contain such ingredients as these, Iburnt coppei', verdigris, chalcitis, misy, alum, ammoniac, and Igalls. I Myrepsus gives prescriptions for 87 ocular collyria, of every loossible variety of character. I For the Arabian collyria, see particularly Serapion. (De ftintidot. vii, 34.) Camphor is an ingredient in many of them.