374 SIMPLES. [book VII. Comm. tion. He also mentions its being taken in ulceration of the " ' chest and chronic coughs, (xxiv, 120.) Galen, Aetius, and Oribasius give its characters in nearly the same terms as our author. Tor the Arabians, see Avicenna (ii, 3, 246); Serapion (De Simpl.); Rhases (Cont 1. ult. i, 294); Averrhoes (ColUg. V, 42) J Ebn Baithar (i, 333.) Though these authors, and especially Avicenna, treat at great length of this article, it does not appear that they applied it in many more cases than as they had been taught by the Greeks. They recommend it, how- ever, with oil of roses, as an application to burns, and as an ingredient in coUyria. They say the oil of it cures fetor of the breath and the perspiration, and of the alvine discharges. They all commend it as being diuretic, emmenagogue, and promoting impregnation. They fui'ther represent it as being an excellent expectorant in diseases of the chest. Upon refer- ence to Quincy (i, 4, 219), it will be seen that in his time the fenugreek still maintained the characters assigned to it by the ancient authorities. It has now disappeared from our Dis- pensatory, but is still retained in the Greek Pharmacopoeia. (Athens, 1837.) Ti9vfA.a\Xoi, TithymaUi, Spurges; all the species of it are of the fourth order of calefacients, with acrimony and strong bitterness; but the root being weaker, wlien boiled with vinegar, allays the pains of carious teeth. The juices being stronger are applied to the hollow of teeth; but if they touch the rest of the body they bui'n it; and therefore they remove the hairs if rubbed in for a short time. They also remove myrmecia, acrochordones, and the like, and clear away affections of the skin, and cure ill-conditioned and phagedaenic ulcers. There being seven species of this plant, the strongest are the Characias {Wood Spurge), and the Myrsinitis {Myrtle-leaved Spurge), and that growing upon rocks, Arboreus {Tree Spurge); but next in order are, that species which resembles Pettymullein {Broad-leaved Spurge), and the Cyparissias {Cypress Spurge), and then tlie Maritimus {Sea Spurge), and the Helioscopius {Sun Spurge or Wartivort.) Comm. COMMENTARY. That the TithymaUi of the ancients are all ~^—' referable to the genus Euphorbia or Spurge, cannot admit of