435 SECT. III.] SIMPLES. aromatic odour." (Mat. Med. 698.) And of the Zerumbet tlie same author says : " Cassamunar root is considered by English druggests to be identical with Zerumbet root. (Private infor- mation ; also, Gray, Pharmacop.) It appears to me to be \hQ Turmei-ic-coloured Zeduary of Ainslie (Mat. Ind. i, 490.) Is it the product of Zinziber Cassamuniar Roxb.? The Zerum- bet root which I received from my friend Dr. Royle is very similar in shape to a curved and arched piece of long turmeric." (Mat. Med. 698.) Dr. AinsHe gives an interesting disquisition on the Zeduary of which he describes three species : 1. Zed- uary Ksempferian [Kcempferia rotunda.) 2. Zeduary Zerumbet [Curcuma Zerumbet.) 3. Zeduary turmeric-coloured [Curcuma and Amomum Zeduaria.) We shall now be better able to ascertain the meaning of the ancient descriptions of these sub- stances. Serapion describes separately the Zerumbet Zeduaria and Ze^'imbet, but in such terms that one is at a loss to see any real distinction between them. (De Simpl. 173, 271.) He calls Zeduary an odoriferous tree for which cinnamon is often substituted. He refers to Galen and Paulus, but what pas- sages in their works he alludes to it is not easy to discover. He describes it as being a great tree which grows on Mount Lebanon, and produces no fruit, but has the odour of citron, and is hot and dry in its nature, and is astringent so as both to open and astringe the bowels. Mesarugie, one of his authorities, compares its virtues to those of nutmeg; praises it as being sternutatory, and also stomachic and hepatic. This, without doubt, is the Zeduary, and the Zarnabum of Avicenna, who describes it separately from the Zerumbet, but mentions that the latter is much the same as the Zeduary. (ii, 3, 736, 738.) Rhases, in Uke manner, compares the Zerumbet to the Zed- uary as being possessed of similar powers. He treats most fully of the former, recommending it as being alexipharmic, a good application to apostcmes, &c. (Contin. 1. ult. ii, 765.) Ebn Baithar treats fully of the Zerumbeth, which he describes minutely, and compares it to the great Cyperus. He says it is called camphor-root in the West. He calls it alexipharmical, cordial, intoxicating; an excellent medicine in inflation of the uterus, and possessed of emmenagogue and diuretic powers. He says it is good in affections of the liver and surrounding parts. It is said to determine downwards when applied to the