242 SIMPLES. [book VII. Comm. in use, namely, the concrete, jvdee of tlie Frawinus Ornus. Actuarius had, no doubt, learned the use of it from the Ara- bians. (Meth. M. V, 8.) We will treat of the true manna more properly in the Appendix to this section, among the medicinal substances introduced by the Arabians. Foeniculum, Fennel, is heating in the third degree, but desic- cative in the first; it therefore forms milk and relieves suffu- sions of the eye. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscorides gives a fuller exposition of the ' * ' medicinal properties of this substance [Anethum Foeniculum) than any of the other authorities on the Mat. Med., represent- ing it as being possessed of powers to promote the secretion of milk; as being useful in complaints of the kidneys and bladder as a diui'etic, and in those of the uterus as an emmeuagogue; as being alcxipharmic, and as a suitable application to the bites of mad dogs; and an excellent ingredient in coUyria, and more especially the gum of it, which is produced on the plant in Spain, (iii, 74.) Galen, in the main, gives it the same cha- racters, holding it to be diuretic, emmenagogue, and a suitable ingredient in collyria. Aetius and our author follow Galeu. It occurs frequently in the Hippocratic treatises. (551, &c. ed. Foes.) Celsus ranks it among his diuretics (ii, 31), and among the articles which at the same time repress and mollify (ii, 33.) The Arabians treat fully of the fennel in nearly the same terms as the Greeks. See Avicenna (ii, 3, 374); Serapion (c. 334) ; Averrhoes (Collig. v, 43); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 393.) They all represent it as being diuretic, emmenagogue, alcxi- pharmic, and an excellent application in diseases of the eyes. They quote Democritus (?) as stating that vipers and other venomous creatures rub their eyes upon fennel to improve their sight. This species of fennel, namely, the Foeniculum vulgare, is not now employed as a medicine in this country. The other species, Foeniculum dulce, or Sweet Fennel, although Matthiolus takes it for the ancient Marathron, would seem to have been unknown to the ancients. The former species, how- ever, held a place in our Dispensatory down to a recent period. See Quincy (77.) It still holds a place in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia (68.)