SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 409 roots, tlie flowers, and the stem are calcfacient and attenuant. Comm. that both when drunk and in a hip-bath they promote the ' ' ' evacuation of the menses, foetus, calculi, and urine; that they are drunk for tympanitis and ileus : cure jaundice and diseases of the liver; and that the decoction is used in a fomentation for complaints about the bladder. He says the chamomiles cure fistula lachrymalis in a cataplasm, and aphthte as a masti- catory, and that the oil prepared in a manner described by him, is useful in intermittent fevers when the body is rubbed with it. (iii, 143.) Aetius strongly recommends the whole body to be rubbed with oil of chamomile in such cases to promote perspii'ation. According to Galen this is the evavOtfxov of Hippocrates. (Morb. Mulier., i, 625.) We cannot find it in Celsus. Galen, in the preliminary dissertation to his * Mat. Med.,^ strongly eulogises the oil of chamomile as being cal- cidated to soothe pain, relieve contracted parts, soften hardened, and to dispel fevers not accompanied with visceral inflammation, (iii, 133, ed. Basil.) The Arabians appear to have been very partial to this plant, of which they treat at great length. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 118); Serapion (De Simpl. 22); Rhases (Contin. 1. ult. ii, 154, i, 156); Averrhoes (Collig. v, 42); Haly Abbas (Pract. ii, 34.) In a word, they entirely concur in the characters given to the chamomiles by Dioscorides and Galen. Chamjepitys, Ground Pine, heats in the second order, but 'b-ies in the third. It is therefore a cathartic and detergent jf the viscera, especially of the liver. It is diuretic and em- menagogue, agglutinates large wounds, and cures putrid ulcers. It also discusses scirrhous swellings, and the decoction of it is useful in ischiatic diseases. Commentary. It appears probable that our author's plant Comm. Is Ajuya chamcejAlys, but here commentators arc by no means ' * ' Mgreed. It is briefly mentioned by Nicander (Alex. 65), and by (Jelsus as a medicine which opens the pores or mouths of vessels v, 4), but it does not occur, we believe, in the Hippocratic I reatises. Of the three species described by Dioscorides, the fii'st is probably this plant, the second is a species of tcucrium, and the liml ajuya iva. His characters of the first agree in the main Aith those given to it by our author, who, as well as Galdn,