i;cT. X.] EMETICS. 509 )iled gently upon the coals until only a third remain; then, Comm. .;\nng strained it, we add to the decoction two pounds of ' ' ' •umraed honey, and boil to the consistence of honey. It may )e given as a linctus to the amount of a large spoonful, or nixed with hot water in a draught, when it will not superin- lace spasms, contractions, or hypercatharsis. To those who "and in need of more violent concussion, who are of a strong uibit of body and possess fortitude, and vomit readily, it is riven cut into pieces; and to persons of still greater determi- lation, or who have been accustomed to it, in the form of a Ifted powder. It is to be cut into pieces of the size of malt )!• bran, and taken in ptisan or barley-water, a draught of mead )r plain water being swallowed after to wash it away. The aaximum dose of it is dr. iiss. Hellebore may also be lounded and sifted in a fine si^eve, when the larger particles aay be given in halica (barley-water ?) or pottage; but the mailer particles may be formed into pills with boiled honey, iii, 131.) Macer Floridus concludes that scr. ij. is a sufficient lose of the white hellebore. (De Herb, vir.) The Arabians give this medicine in the same forms and mder the same circumstances as the Greeks. They estimate lie dose of it at from dr. j to dr. ij. Mesne forbids it to be riven in the form of a powder. He and Haly Abbas, how- ver, recommend it in pills with hiera, colocynth, agaric, and arious aromatics for the cure of elephantiasis and melancholy. Serapion states that there is great danger of its inducing con- ulsions if improperly administered. Avicenna^s account of he modes of giving it is very interesting. Upon this subject we shall give the observations of the lebrated Prosper Alpinus : " EUeborus albus inter medica- iicnta vomitoria perpetuo apud omnes gentes prsecipunm ocum obtinet, fuitqae in usu elleborismus, id est, purgatio per Uebomm album, admodum familiaris apud antiquos, ad morbos anatu difficillimos tollendos, cujus quidem usu complures ab iffectibus fere prorsus insanabilibus sanabantur, atque ita cito, •t probe, ut ese sanationes miracula viderentur; unde olim uitiquorum illorura medicorum laus insigniter augebatur. \'unc vero nou siae ajgrotantium damno, atque magno artis ncdicaj dedecorc, ipsius usus apud omnes fere medicos obso- cvit, qui nunc neque audent, neque sciunt, quomodo veratrum