SIMPLES. 397 SECT. III.] iSee in particular Dioscorides (i, 10.) Galen ascribes to it Comm. (diuretic powers (De Simpl. viii), and Pliny emmenagogue ' ' ' (H. N. xxi, 80.) The Arabians give it tlie same characters. jSee Avicenna (ii, 2, 255); Serapion (De Simpl. 62); Ebn IBaithar (ii^ 265.) Bergius in like manner states its virtues tthus : " Vii-tus : emmenagoga, abortiens, diuretica, sanguinem samovens." See also Rutty (Mat. Med.) Recent authorities, hhoweverj are not so lavish in its praises. See Pereira (971.) Folium, Leaf, the leaf of the Malabathrum, which has been jaJready treated of. Commentary. Apicius, in like manner, uniformly calls the Comm. deaf of the Malabathrum by the name of Folium. We still ' ' ' lincline to the opinion which we deliberately formed and ex- pressed some years ago, that it was the leaf of the cassia or fsrild cinnamon tree. We refer to a learned disquisition on it ^3y Olaus Celsius, in his ' Hierobotanicon,^ and to Geoffroy Treatise on Fossil, Veg., and Anim. Subst. 318.) The ^. of jlDioscorides is quite a different substance, being the same as i: he \iv6t,<i)aTig, which see. <l>WfCOC, I Fucus marinus. Seaweed, cools and di-ies in the second t )rder, having also a moderate degree of astringency. ' I Commentary. Various species of Fuci are described by Comm. ( L heophrastus and Dioscorides, but so briefly, that it is scarcely ' ' j )Ossible to determine them exactly. It is deserving of re- j aark, however, that Galen, Aetius, and Oribasius describe . species of Fucus, under the head of Ceruse, wliich is there- ore supposed to have been a preparation of lead. The ' rticle, however, which our author here treats of is nnques- ionably the vegetable, as is evident from Aetius. (p. 24, ' d. Aid.) Dioscorides says it is possessed of an astringent ower, which is efficacious in cataplasms for the cure of gouty iFections and inflammations. These iilants are to be used in moist state before they are dried. He adds, that Nicander lys the purple fucus is theriacal, and that some persons took s root to be the fucus which women use for painting their ices, (iv, 98.) Pliny gives a very similar description of the