SIMPLES. 131 SECT. III.] chat the ancient opinions regarding the origin of amber, are Comm. ;aow looked upon as being not far removed from the truth. ' ' ' Lumber, although now in a fossil state, is supposed to have . loeeri an exudation from some tree of the genus Pinus. See 'Pereira (jNIat. Med. 223); and the Appendix to this section. 'HjutpoKaWig, Hemerocallis, Lily of the Valley; its root has powers like bhose of the lily, and, like it, is useful for burns. Commentary. This is undoubtedly a plant of the lily Comm. rribe ; • probably the Lilium bidbiferwn. Dioscorides, besides " * ' ecommending it in bm'ns, like our author, says of it that rhen dinink and applied in a pessary of wool it produces .ischarges of water and blood; and that its leaves form.an xcellent application to the inflammations of the breasts after ai'turition, and to those of the eyes. Our author follows ualen. Serapion treats of it under the head of Lilium. "(189.) 'H-iiiiovlTig,. Hemionitis, Moon Fern, is possessed at the same time of t^tringency and bitterness. It therefore relieves aff'ections the spleen when taken with vinegar. Commentary. Galen calls it also by the names of Scolo- Comm. idrium and Asplenivm. (ii, 292, ed. Basil.) Dioscorides '—'—' i.)scribes it so as to leave no doubt of its being a cryptogamous I i nt. It is a species of the Scolopendrium. The other autho- les praise it in enlarged spleen. 'HTTOp, Ii Hepar, the Liver; if that of a mad dog be roasted and Vten, it is said to relieve those who have been bitten by him. pie sanies of a boiled goat's liver relieves nyctalopia when Mected into the eye. They also direct the vapour of it when Idling to be received into the eyes, and also to be eaten, key say that it rests epileptics if eaten, and that the liver of 13 buck-goat does the same. The liver of a lizard when put j.:o carious teeth relieves the pain. That of the wolf is added lithe hepatic medicine prepared from eupatorium. The liver an ass when roasted is of use to epileptics when eaten ig. That of a bear when dried in its fresh state and