357 NhXT. III.] SIMPLES. J interest respecting it. It does nofc occvly in the works of Comm. Ifippocrates nor of Celsus, nor have we heen able to detect it ' in those of the Arabians, except Ebn Baithar, who quotes only Dioscorides and Galen under this head, (ii, 19.) IrpovOiov. It appears singular that our author should have omitted the Struthium, which is noticed in this place by Dioscorides and Galen. This is the celebrated soap-plant used by the fuUones or cleansers of cloth in ancient times. The reader will find a very interesting disquisition on it in Beckmann's ' History of Inventions.' We think there is every probability that it was the Saponaria officinalis. Dioscorides vepresents it to be diureticj emmenagogue, and lithontriptic, a remedy for diseases of the chest, the liver, the spleen, and for jaundice; a discutient application to indolent tumours, I sternutatory, and a masticatory, (ii, 192.) By the way, he famous writer Lucian mentions an amusing example of its ise as a masticatory. (De Alexandro.) Galen states its virtues u general terms; he says it is acrid and detergent, and hence t acts as a sialogogue. We have not been able to find it in he works of Hippocrates. See Pliny (T. ii, 341, 161, 410, ed. larduin) and Celsus (v, 18.) The Arabians treat of it very illy. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 133); Serapion (De Simpl. 362); thases (Contin. 1. ult. iii, 38.) They all hold it to be emetic, nd when it cannot be procured they recommend in its place (ux vomica. They also recommend it for all the medicinal urposes enumerated by Dioscorides. The soap-wort has been sed medicinally in modern times. See Culpeper (172), Lewis M. M. 339), and Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 115.) Quincy ives a very confused account of it. (138.) In the modern h-eek Pharmacopoeia it is still retained. (144.) Stocchas, Cassidony, or French Lavender; it is deobstruent ttenuaut, detergent, and strengthens all the viscera and the hole habit of the animal. Com MENTAKY. It appears to be the Lavandula Stoechas, or Comm. rench Lavender. See Tournefort (M. M.) Pliny says that """^—' is an odoriferous herb of a bitter taste. He adds that it romotcs menstruation and relieves pains of tlic breast. (H. N.