SECT. III.] 55 SIMPLES. Avicennam), also describes tlie A. Indica. The famous Moxa Comm. is prepared from the lanugo or downy substance which adheres ' ' to the under surface of the leaf of the artemisia. See Barrow's ' Travels in China/ Woodville, Miller, and Pereira. That the artemisia long retained the character which Dioscorides gave it, of possessing powerful virtues as an eramenagogue and a lithontriptic, is e\adent from what is said of it in the work of Macer Moridus. Except as furnishing the moxa, (and it is now beheved to be got from a particular species, the A. moxa) the species of artemisia here treated of are now wholly discarded from the practice of medicine. Panis, Bread; in a cataplasm it is more discutient than can be accounted for from the properties of wheat, owing to its containing salt and leaven. For the leaven is attractive of 1 the deep-seated humours. Commentary. We have given some account of the kinds Comm. ' of bread used bv the ancients in the 78th sect, of the First' * ' Book. Oribasius gives an excellent description of the mode t of preparing the bread poultice and its uses. He directs us 1 to dissolve the bread in water until it acquires the consistence ( of gruel, and then, having added oil or butter to it, to boil it ' to the proper consistence. He adds, that it is the best of all . applications with which he was acquainted for promoting sup- j puration. His account of the different kinds of cataplasms 1 is most ample and interesting. (Med. Collect.) '' A-aapov, Asarum, Asarabacca, has the same powers as the sweet flag, I: but more intense. Commentary. This plant, which is certainly the Asarum Comm. lEuropceum, or common Asarabacca, is said by Dioscorides to '—•—' ' be diuretic, heating, and emetic, answering well with dropsi- cal cases and chronic sciatica and promoting menstruation; its roots drunk with mulse to the amount of six drachms, he says, purge like white hellebore, (i, 9.) Galen seems to have over- looked the importance of this article, for he is nearly as brief as our author in treating of it; and Aetius and Oribasius follow him. Serapion, Rhases, and Avicenna recommend it in the