249 SIMPLES. SECT. IIJ.] I Galen says of the medlar, that it is acid and austere, and Comm. ■ barely esculent, and that it restrains fluxes. (De Simpl. vii.) ' ' ' The other Greek and Arabian authorities give the same account of it. See in particular, Avicenna (ii, 2, 742) and Ebn Baithar (i, 532.) The Arabians prepared an ointment from it for ! making the hair black and curled. Casiri (Bibl. Arab. Hisp. ; 330.) The terra azarolus is borrowed from the Arabic. See .Avicenna (1. c.) Medium; the powers of the root are contrary to those of tthe fruit, for the former is austere and astringent of fluxes, sso as to restrain the female fluor. But the seed even promotes nmenstruation, being possessed of attenuating and incisive ppowers. I Commentary. The description of this article given by Comm. ■DDioscorides is sufficiently precise to decide its belonging to the ' * ' B^enus Campanula. It was at one time generally referred to Itithe species called Medium, but, as Sprengel remarks, the ap- ^npearance of the leaves does not agree with those of the medium. ibthorp, therefore, in his ^ Flora Graeca,' has decided that it - the C. laciniata. (i, 141.) Dioscorides and Galen agree in iiving it the same medicinal powers as our author. We are it a loss to determine whether or not it occurs in the Materia Fedica of the Arabians, with the exception of Ebn Baithar, ho merely gives the descriptions of it by Dioscorides and ialcn. (ii, 541.) Papavera, Poppies; there are several species, but of the rarden poppy, which they call Thylacitis, the seed is edible, md when eaten with bread is moderately soporific. That pecies which is called Rheeas, because its seed soon falls off^, s stronger than the garden. It is therefore not eaten by itself, )ut a small quantity of it is mixed with much honey. That \ hich lias a sessile head has seeds which are black and strongly nedicinal, being considerably cold. That the top of M'hich •i longer and more contracted, is the most strongly medicinal f all, so as to induce torpor even to mortification. For it and ts juice, which is called, excellentiam, opium, belong to the jurth order of congealing medicines. But that variety which s called Cornutum is possessed of detergent powers, so that