218 SIMPLES. [book VII. Comm. indeed, he avowedly copies from Dioscorides. (Med. Collect, xi.) ' * ' Our author's account is mostly taken from Galen. On the Thus see further Pliny (H. N. xii, 30) and Rhases (Contin. xxxvii, ยง 716.) Most of the ancient authorities affirm that it acts beneficially in mental disease, that it sharpens perception, and improves the memory. They also recommend it in fumi- gations for removing the pestilential constitution of the atmo- sphere, as we have stated in the Second Book. Symeon Seth, mostly borrowing from Galen and our author, says, under the head of frankincense, that it is of a di'ying nature, with a certain astringent quality; that it binds the bowels; in fumi- gations helps coughs and defluxions ; is emmenagogue both when drunk and applied per vaginam; that in fumigations it is possessed of powers for averting the pestilence ; and hence in a pestilential season that houses should be dihgently fumi- gated with it, in order to correct the pernicious quality of the air. The Arabians used it very freely as an ingredient in their applications to ulcers, including those of the eyes. See Avicenua (U, 3, 525) and Serapion (c. 278.) Averrhoes, like preceding authorities, recommends the bark in fluxes, htemo- ptysis, and ulceration of the intestines. (CoUig. v. 42.) The frankincense occurs fi'equently in the treatises contained in the Hippocratic collection, and in the works of Celsus. The latter used all the kinds mentioned by the Greeks, such as, " thus masculum," " fuligo thuris/^ and " cortex thuris." These he uses for the same purposes as the Greeks, that is to say, fox suppressing bleeding, concocting pus, cleansing sores, and so forth. Ai-yvvq, Fuligo, the Soot arising from certain kinds of substances when they are bui'nt, such as frankincense, myrrh, turpentine, storax, liquid pitch, and cedar, is desiccative, terrene, and attenuate: but there are varieties of it agreeably to the material that is burnt. It is used for ophthalmic remedies and those for adorning the eyebrows. That which is most used is the soot from frankincense, as being the mildest; and again, that from the pine, wild pine and pitch tree, as being the strongest. It is applied, tlierefore, for baldness of the eyebrows, and for watery and ulcerated canthi of the eyelids, and weeping eyes.