[book vir. 34 SIMPLES. Comm. alcyonia, as likewise do Avicenna (ii, 2, 605) and Rhases (Cont. " * ' 1. ult. i, 1, 677.) Celsus prescribes it several times as a cor- rosive, causticj and cleansing medicine, (v, 6, 7, 18.) We believe it does not occur in tlie Hippocratic treatises. ''AA/Ur/, Muria, Brine; that whicli is unmixed with other matter has properties like salts, only weaker from the mixture with water. But the brine of pickled fish and of pickled olives is possessed of very detergent powers, and therefore is injected in ischiatic and dysenteric complaints. Comm. COMMENTARY. Regarding the nature of this article, there can ' '' ' be no doubt. Galen recommends the brine from pickled fish as a wash for putrid ulcers both of the mouth and rectum. DioscorideSj in addition, recommends it for such cases as sea- water is useful in, when poured upon the part, (v, 126.) 'AXo'f,, Aloe, Aloes, is heating in the first degree, and desiccative in the third. It is stomachic, detergent, discutient, and ecco- protic. When washed it is less detergent, but more stomachic; it is anti-inflammatory, and promotes the cicatrization of ulcers, especially those about the anus and pudendum. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscoridcs is the first author who gives a * ' distinct account of this important article. He describes two vai'ieties of the juice (gum-resin), namely, the arenaceous and the hepatic. He says that it closes up the mouths of veins in hemorrhoids ; but, according to Avicenna and Mesne, it pro- duces the contrary ejffect. Hence, says Mesne, it is hurtful in hemorrhoids and afi'ections of the fundament. (De Simpl. i.) Galen properly remarks that it is at the same time stomachic and eccoprotic. Didymus mentions the hepatic aloe (Geopon. vi, 6), as do several of the medical authorities. It is marked by Dr. Pereira as being the Aloe hepatica vera and Aloe indica (Ph. Ed.), being the liver-coloured socotorine aloe. That is to say, the hepatic is merely a vai'iety of the socotorine aloe. See also Dr. Royle (M. M. 598.) Isidorus says of aloes : " In India et Arabia giguitur, arbor odoris suavissimi et summi." (Orig.) Averrhoes says it is an excellent purgative wluch evacuates the stomach and liver. He commends it as an application to