[book VII. 210 SIMPLES. Comm. COMMENTARY. It appears pretty certain ttat it is the * ' Charlock, that is to say, either the Ruphanus Raphanisirum or Sinajn Arvense. Both are known by the Enghsh name of CJiarloch. It is rather a potherb than a medicine. AdtraQov, Lapathum, Dock, is possessed of moderately discutient powers; but the oxylapatluim is also somewhat repellent. The seed, particularly of the oxylapathum, being astringent, cui-es diarrhoeas and dysenteries. The leaves, in so far, have opposite qualities to the seed; for they, when eaten, loosen the belly, whereas it, when drunk, proves astringent. Comm. COMMENTARY. Of the Rumices, the Oxylapathum, or Rumex ' ' ' acutus, was the species most used in medicine, and is the only one particularized by our author, with the exception of the hippolopathum already described. Of the four other species described by Dioscorides, the o^aXlg is pretty generally ac- knowledged as the Rumex acetosa. The others cannot be determined with any degree of accuracy. See Sprengel, Sibthorp, Matthiolus, Parkinson, Gerard, and Rutty. Dios- corides gives the first of his species much the same characters as our author, recommending it most especially as a discutient application to leprosies and scrofulous tumours. He also speaks favorably of it as applied on a pessary in the fluor albus. The roots, he adds, boiled in wine, cure jaundice, and act as lithontriptics, emmenagogues, and alexipharmics. He further speaks of the dock as being appended in the form of an amulet for scrofulous swellings, (ii, 140, 141.) Galen and the other Greek authorities treat cursorily of the lapatha, like our author. They occur in the works of Hippocrates and of Celsus ; the latter ranks the lapathum among tlie ai-ticles of food which contain bad juices (ii, 21), are bad for the stomach (ii, 25), and are laxative of the bowels (ii, 29.) Pliny's account of the lapatha is mostly taken from Dioscorides. (H. N. xx, 85.) The term rumex, now generally applied to the genus dock, is taken from Pliny (xix, 60.) The dock is recommended by Africanus in jaundice, dropsy, and for the cure of leprosy, lichen, and alphos. (Geopon. xii, 38.) Macer, in the tenth century, describes it under the name of paratella, and, like the more ancient authorities, commends it externally for the