SECT. III.J SIMPLES. '203 the cyclaminus held a place in the Dispensatory, and retained Comm. all its ancient characters, (i, 4, 293.) Orfila ranks it with the ' " ' , acrid poisons (iii, 3.) See further (ii, 243.) Cuminum, Cumin, belongs to the third order of heating . mediciaes, and is diuretic and carminative. Commentary. The C. of our author is no doubt the Cy- Comm. 1 minum sativum of Dioscorides, i. e. Cuminum Cyminum L. ■ The two vaiieties of the wild cumin of Dioscorides have never ; been satisfactorilj^ determined. See Parkinson, Matthiolus, ; and Sprengel. Dioscorides represents it as being calefacient, : astringent, desiccative, and relieving tormina and flatulence, ; and describes a variety of cases in which he calls it applicable. (iii, 61.) Galen says it is diuretic and carminative, being I calefacient in the third degree. Aetius and Oribasius give it 1 much the same character. Celsus assigns to it diuretic powers, t (iv, 9.) The Arabians treat of it at so great length, that we can s scarcely do justice to their views on this head. See Rhases ((Cont. 1. ult. i, 212); Serapion (c. 287) ; Avicenna (ii, 2, 136); . Averrhoes (Collig. v, 42) ; Ebn Baithar (ii, 394.) Avicenna <says the immoderate use of it renders the face pale. This pro- I perty of cumin is alluded to by the poets as well as the medi- cal authors. See Horace (Epist. i, 19, 18); Persius (Sat. v.) This character of it is confirmed by modern authority. See 'Matthiolus (Ad Dioscor. 1. c.) ; Bodaeus a Stapel (in Thcophrast.) Cumin now barely holds a very undistinguished place in our Mat. Med. (See Pereira, 1057.) Rubus caninus. Hip-tree or Dog-rose; the fruit is no bad lastringcnt; the leaves are moderately astringent; but we must rguard against the woolly part of the fruit, as it is injurious to ithe trachea. Commentary. Dioscoridcs's description is not so precise Comm. AS to enable us to pronounce decidedly what it was; but we ' '—' lincline with several of the best authorities to refer it to the Ro*a canina, or Hip-tree. Galen, our author, and the other Break authorities, follow Dioscorides.