[book VII. SIMPLES. 202 M. the medicinal virtues of the former species, which was the Cy- clamen Europmim, recomiuencliug it as being phlegmagogue, hydragogue, emmenagogue, and alexipharmic; as an ei-rhine in diseases of the head, and a suppository per vaginam. His other species, which he describes as having leaves like the ivy, and which some of the commentators set down as being the Lonicera Periclymenuin, and others as the Solanum Dulcamara he recommends in splenic affections, in orthopnoea, and reten- tion of the lochial discharge, (ii, 193, 194.) Pliny recommends also the second species as a remedy for coughs (H. N. xxv, 68.) Harduin agrees with Dodonseus in holding it to be the Dulca- mara. The scholiast on Theocritus recommends the cyclaminus as an application to chilblains. (Ad Idyll, v.) Galen writes of it in such terms as shows that he looked upon it as a veiy im- portant article. He says it promotes menstruation, both when taken internally and when applied per vaginam; and that it cures jaundice, not only by purging the viscus, but by evacuat- ing the whole body with sweats; he also recommends it as an external application in hardness of the spleen. The other species he praises in asthma. The other Greek authorities supply nothing of much interest under this head. The Arabians treat of it largely, but somewhat confusedly. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 6, 61, 271); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. 281); Mesne (De Simpl. 26); Serapion (c. 259.) A-\acenna directs it to be given to the extent of three drachms with wine or mulse in cases of jaundice, and the patient is to be then covered up with many clothes, when he will sweat out the bile from his body. He says it purges the body, not only when given by the mouth, but in a suppository, and when rubbed into the skin. Rhases (1. c.) describes it under the names of Falamios, or Panis por- cinus, whence the English name Sow-bread. His extracts from Dioscorides, Galen, Oribasius, and Bimasay comprise all the information on the subject possessed by his Grecian masters and his countrymen. Mesne gives a very elaborate article on the Sow-bread, which, like Avicenna, he praises as a general purger of bile, when taken by the mouth, in a suppository, and as a liniment rubbed into the belly; he also praises it as an emmenagogue, both when taken by the mouth and when ap- plied as a pessary, and as a tried remedy in jaundice and induration of the spleen. Even as late as the days of Quincy,