SIMPLES. 451 SECT. III.] reference is here made to Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. iii, 31), but we can find no notice of the Diudar there, nor in any part of the works of Rhases. Ebn Baithar's account of this article is taken literally from Avicenna. Dr. Royle has ingeniously pointed out the correspondence both of name and characters between the Diudar of the Arabians and the Firms Beodara. (Antiquity of Hindoo Med. 36.) See also Lindley (Veget. Kingd. 228.) Sandaracha, or Gum vernix. It is to be remarked, on the outset, that Serapion and Avicenna in treating of the vernix do not make any reference to Dioscorides and Galen, as is their wont, from which it may be inferred that they did not recognise it as one of the articles which had been described by their Grecian masters. Serapion's Arabian authorities on this head are, Albugerig, Aben Mesuai, Badegoras, Mesarugie, Abrix, Alabari, Rhases, and Isaac Eben. They agree in recommend- ing it in fumigations for catarrhs, for stopping immoderate menstruation, drying fistulse ; as an anthelminthic, and remedy for hemoptysis and hemorrhoids. One of his authorities (Isaac Eben) describes it as being a gum of a yellow colour, like the karabe, and says it is brought from the land of the Christians. He adds, respecting the karabe, that Galen says it is the gum haur romane (populi Romanse [?]). Whether by this he meant amber, we shall inquire presently. Avicenna says of the sandaracha or vernix, that it is hot and diy in the second degree, and that it has some astringency, and the power of stopping hemorrhages. He says it is used for removing obesity, for drying fistulse, that the smoke of it cvires catarrhs, and is the best of all remedies for toothache ; that it cures palpitation ^ as well as the karabe, stops fluxes of blood, cures humid «■ asthma, and is used by wrestlers to strengthen the breath. M It is good, he concludes by saying of it, in diseases of the <■ spleen, and its fumes cure old sores and hemorrhoids. (ii,2, 619.) M It may be proper to remark here, that although Avicenna ap- ^1 plies the term sandarach both to realgar and gum vernix he does not fall into the mistake of confounding these substances with ■M one another. This will be clearly seen by comparing ii, 2, 48, 'm> with 1. c. The Latin translation of the chapter in Rhases's