SIMPLES. SECT. III.] 439 gives an interesting account of the cocoa-palm both as a medi- cine and an article of food. He says its milk is at times in- toxicating and aphrodisiac, and that it is useful in certain com- plaints of the urine, in ttenia and other intestinal worms. The reader will find it interesting to compare the above account of the cocoa from the ancient authorities with what Ainslie says of it in his work, ' Materia Indica/ i, 451 ; and Dr. Lindley iu his late admirable pubhcation on the ' Vegetable Kingdom/ (136.) Bdellium. It has been supposed that under this head Avicenna (ii, 2, 112), and other oriental writers, have included either that species of Palm called Borassus flabelliformis ; or another con- gener, Hyplmne Thebaica. See Sprengel (R. H. H. i, 272); Ainshe (Mat. Ind. i, 452); Eoyle (Antiq. of Hindoo Med. 90); Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 136.) The term, however, was applied to other substances, as we have stated under the proper head. Tamarindi. There is no doubt that we are indebted to the Arabians for our first knowledge of this important medicine. Serapion, iu describing this article, quotes only from Arabian au.thorities, which implies that he held the Greeks to have been unac- quainted with it. Its leaves are said to resemble those of the willow. His first authority, Abohanifa, says it grows iu Caisaria; and his next, Aben Mesuai, says its fruit, which is of a ruddy colour, and has much pulp, is brought from India. In temperament it is said to be cold in the third degree, and has the power of purging yellow bile gently, and of repressing its pungency; of stopping vomiting, and removing pruritus. His other authorities, Abugerig, Mesebab, and Mesarugie, give a similar account of it. (De Simpl. 348.) Rhases writes of it in nearly the same terms : thus, he says, it extinguishes yellow bile, opens the bowels, removes thirst and vomiting, and strengthens the stomach. Its action is said to be similar to that of piTines. (Contin. 1. ult. i, 699.) On his own authority Rhases says of Tamarinds in another place, that they are of a cold nature, loosen the bowels, repress intense bile and blood. (Ad Mansor. iii, 49.) Avicenna calls Tamarinds cold and dry in the second degree, says they are laxative, and more attcnuant