[book vii. EMETICS. 508 Comm. but to robust persons, the quantity called a mystrum. Another of Ms authorities, Antyllus, directs us to allow five drachms of the shavings of hellebore to macerate for three days in half a hemina of rain-water, after which it is to be strained and heated in a double vessel. Oribasius also mentions that the medicine may be given in a coarse powder. He afterwards lays down the rules of treatment when the action of the medi- cine superinduces dangerous symptoms. We need not go over this part minutely. Suffice it to say that, according to cir- cumstances, he directs us to provoke vomiting by tickling the throat with feathers dipped in one of the emetic oils; to open the bowels with oily clysters; and to rouse the patient when in a state of stupor, by stimulants, restoratives, shaking him, pincliing him, or tossing him in a garment. He recommends hellebore in cases of mania, melancholy, inveterate pains of the hip and other joints, epilepsy, catalepsy, vertigo, chronic headache, lethargy, leprosy, and other cutaneous diseases. He also praises it as a remedy in hydrophobia. (Med. Col- lect, viii.) Aetius states that hellebore is given in infusion, in decoc- tion, and in substance, either cut into pieces or pounded and sifted. "When administered in pieces it soon begins to act as a purgative, generally Avithin two hours, bringing away bile and phlegm without much trouble, and after four or five hours the medicine itself is generally vomited up, and the purging stops. When given in a fine powder it acts violently but slowly, so that four or five hours have generally elapsed before its operation commences. He adds that in all its forms it evacuates bile and phlegm, but that it is attended with danger of bringing on convulsions or hypercatharsis. On the infusion he remarks, that it suits with old persons and children, to those who have a feeble constitution, and for the cure of ele- phantiasis. Pive drachms of cut hellebore are to be allowed to macerate for three days in half a hemina of rain-water, after which it is to be strained and heated, when the whole of the infusion is to be taken. The decoction he recommends to be given to persons of a firmer habit of body, and in cases of mania and melancholy. It is to be thus prepared: A pound of hellebore, cut into pieces, is to be allowed to macerate for three days in two sext. of rain-water; after which it is to be