2 [book VII. SIMPLES. ■wittout heating j but that wliich is acrid^ resembles the acid in being attenuant and purging, but differs from it in this, that the acid is cold, and the acrid hot; and, further, in this, that the acid repels, but the acrid attracts, discusses, breaks down, and is escharotic. In like manner, that which is bitter cleanses the pores, is detergent and attenuant, and cuts the thick humours without sensible heat. What is watery is cold, incrassate, con- denses, contracts, obstructs, mortifies, and stupefies. But that which is salt contracts, braces, preserves as a pickle, dries, without decided heat or cold. What is sweet relaxes, concocts, softens, and rarefies: but what is oily humectates, softens, and relaxes, SECT. II. ON THE ORDER AND DEGREES OF THE TEMPERAMENTS. A moderate medicine which is of the same temperament as that to which it is applied, so as neither to dry, moisten, cool, nor heat, must not be called either diy, moist, cold, or hot; but whatever is drier, moister, hotter, or colder, is so called from its prevailing power. It will be suflScient for every useful purpose to make four ranks according to the prevailing tem- perament, calling that substance hot, according to the first rank, when it heats, indeed, but not manifestly, reqmring reflection to demonstrate its existence : and in like manner with regard to cold, dry, and moist, when the prevailing temperament requires demonstration, and has no strong nor manifest vii'tue. Such things as are manifestly possessed of drying, moistening, heating or cooling properties, may be said to be of the second rank. Such things as have these properties to a strong, but not an extreme degree, may be said to be of the third rank. But such things as are naturally so hot as to form eschars and burn, are of the fourth. In like manner such things as are so cold as to occasion the death of a part are also of the fourth. But nothing is of so di'jdng a nature as to be of the fom'th rank, without burning, for that which dries in a great degree burns also; such are misy, chalcitis, and quicklime. But a substance may be of the third rank of desiccants Avithout being caustic, such as all those things which are strongly astringent, of which kind are the unripe juice of grapes, sumach, and alum.