[book vii. SIMPLES. 396 Comm. induce headaches, and when eaten in great quantity intoxicate ; ' and that the dried dates when eaten are useful in haemoptysis, stomachic and dysenteric diseases, and complaints of the blad- der, when applied in a powder as a cataplasm with the quince and cerate of wild vine-flowers, (i, 148.) Celsus recommends a decoc- tion of dates as an astringent gargle, (v, 22, 9.) Galen has a most interesting article on the palm, which he recommends in gene- ral as being possessed of an astringent quaUty, in hepatic and stomachic affections, both internally and externally. Serapion, Mesne, and Rhases likewise recommend it in such cases. Rhases gives a most copious account of this subject borrowed from various sources. One of his authorities says, dates spoil the teeth and create obstructions in the liver and spleen. Another says they create semen, and are useful in phthisis. (Cont. 1. ult. i, 531.) Avicenua recommends them generally as astringents, and particularljr in fluxes of the womb and in hemorrhoids, (ii, 2, 87.) Ebn Baithar copies mostly from Rhases under this head, (i, 211, 496.) The composition of palm-oil is described by Dioscorides. (i, 54.) It is the only preparation from the palm which is now retained in the Phar- macopccia. Phormium, is possessed of attenuating, detergent, and at- tractive powers. Its seed, therefore, attenuates leucoma, and extracts sharp-pointed weapons of wood. Comm. COMMENTARY. Our author's account of it is taken from " * ' Galen. It would appear to be a variety of the op/iuvoi', i. e. Salvia Horminum L., Purple-top Clary, as is stated by Sprengel. (Notse in Dioscor. iii, 135.) We can find nothing interesting regarding it in the other authorities. Valeriana, Valerian, has a root which resembles the nard, but is weaker for most purposes, only it is more diuretic hke Celtic. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is the Valeriana officinalis, or perhaps the ' * ' V. Dioscoridis. We have mentioned akeady that the an- cient nards were various species of valerian. All the ancient authorities describe it as being diuretic and emmenagogue.