[book VII. SIMPLES, 230 Comm. sita difficultas lapidis ex herba nascentis." (H. N. xxvii, 74.) " ' ' Dioscorides describes it minutely, and, like our author, calls it lithontriptic and diuretic, (iii, 148.) Serapion and Avicenna give it the same characters, which it maintained in modem times, as long as it held a place in the Dispensatory. See the works of Parkinson, Culpeper, and Quincy. Lini Semen, Linseed, is heating in the first order, and holds the middle rank of diluents and desiccants. "When eaten, it is flatulent, even although roasted. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is the seed of the Linum usitatissimum, ' • ' Angl. Linseed. Dioscorides gives a long account of its medi- cinal virtues, recommending it externally for ephehdes, vari, and other complaints, and internally as an expectorant and aphrodisiacal medicine. He further commends it as an enema in pains of the bowels and womb, and as a hip-bath in inflammations of the uterus, (ii, 125.) Galen, like our author, treats of it in very general terms. The Arabians, and especially Avicenna, give a more circumstantial account of it. (ii, 3, 598.) See Serapion (c. 21); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. 426.) Like Dioscorides, they recommend it as an external appHcation to apostemes of a hard character, and internally for the cui'e of diseases of the chest and intestines. Mercurialis, the herb Mercury, is considerably laxative of the belly, and applied in cataplasms it is discutient. It ought to be known that when its seed is rubbed upon those preter- natural excrescences of the body, which the vulgar call narphia, it is found to make them disappear. But the seed must be green, and they must be often rubbed with it. Comm. COMMENTARY. Most of the botanical authorities agree that " ' ' it is the Mercurialis annua, L. It occurs frequently in the Hippocratic treatises as an article of diet and gentle laxative. Dioscorides, who, describes it in two separate places of his Materia Medica, (iii, 130 and iv, 188), speaks of it as being a laxative pot-herb, and a medicine of which the decoction in water proves cholagoguc and hydragogue. He also alludes to the popular notion that the leaves of the female plant. AivolCwaTiQ,