SECT. XXIV.] G03 PESSARIES. Commentary. The pessaries of the ancients bore no re- Comm. semblance to the instruments of box-wood and other solid * ' materials now used to prevent prolapsus of the uterus. Those of the ancients were medicated ointments or liniments, which were generally applied to the natural parts upon wool, most commonly for the purpose of correcting the menstrual discharge. A modern authority describes them in the following terms : " Pessaries are made like a finger, of medicines for the womb, taken into a long bnen bag, well-waxed, or incorporated with honey, ladanum, galbanum, wax and juices. They are in shape like a suppository, but longer and thicker." Schroder (Chym. Dispensat. p. 134). They Mere also frequently resorted to for the wicked purpose of producing abortion. Hippocrates, in his Oath, obligates the medical apprentice not to give such a pessary to a woman. Pessaries of this description consisted of strong stimulants, such as cantharides, elaterium, colocynth, &c. The emmenagogue pessaries were formed of such-like ingredients, weakened by mixture with others of less activity. Celsus gives a very distinct account of pessaries. He says of them : " Sed alia quoque utilia sunt; ut ea, quae foeminis subjiciuntur; neaaovQ Grseci vocant. Eorum hsec proprietas est: medicamenta composita molli lana excipiuntur, eaque lana uaturalibus conditur." (v, 31.) He gives formulae for seven pessaries. One, for expelling the dead foetus, consists of pome- granate rind pounded with water, (v, 21.) Pessaries are treated of at great length by Oribasius, Aetius, and Actuarius, and preparations are described for every imagin- able condition of the uterus. Aetius gives formulae for pessaries to procure sterility, the ingredients of which, for the most part, are powerful astringents and bitters. But Myrepsus is the most copious writer on this subject,for he describes the prepa- ration of forty-five pessaries (ยง 38). Their ingredients, of course, are various, according to the purpose for which they are to be applied. The Emmenagogue consist of cumin, ginger, birth- wort, the pulp of colocynth, castor, musk, rue, &c., mixed up with wax, suet, or honey. As there is nothing original in the views of the Arabians, we need only say with regard to them that they prepared and ap- plied pessaries on the principles laid down by their Grecian masters. See, in particular, Rhases (Cont. xxii) ; Aviccnna (iii, 21, 2); Scrapion (dc ^gritudinibus Matricis.)