SIMPLES. 280 [book VII. Comm. of the present opportunity to supply some important informa- tion regarding the ancient use of opium in the practice of medicine. Though mention is made of " the juice of the poppy," and of " meconium" as soporifics in the works of the Hippocratists (De Mulieribus, ii), it does not appear that these articles were much in use until a later age. " The juice of the poppy" is noticed likewise by Theophrastus (Fr. 20, 35), and the process of gathering this juice is briefly alluded to by him (H. P. ix, 8, 2); but the nature of his work did not lead him to say anything of its medicinal uses. There can be no ques- tion, we presume, that the " papaveris lacryma" of Celsus was opium, i.e. the concrete juice of the poppy. He prescribes it on many occasions, both externally and internally. For example, as an ingredient along with hyoscyamus, burnt lead, and other ingre- dients for an emollient plaster to be applied in ai'tliritic pains (v, 18, 29, 35), and as an injection with alum, acacia, and henbane in earache (vi, 7); as an ingredient in various coUyiia for complaints of the eyes (vi, 6) ; as an injection in complaints about the anus (vi, 18), and in many other cases. The famous Methodist, Ceehus Aurelianus, is very guarded in his use of opiates, and he appears to approve of the opinion of those who held that poppy does not induce sleep, but oppression of the senses; " papavera autem pressuram non somnum faciunt." (i, 1.) See also Pass. Tard. (i, 5.) Dioscorides, then, is the first authority that gives a detailed account of opium and its uses in medicine. Treating of the cultivated poppy, he says, that its juice is very congeaUng, incrassative, and desiccative, when taken in small quantity, to the size of a vetch, is anodyne, soporific, concoctive, and is useful in coughs and cseliac affections. Taken in greater quantity, it proves in- jurious, inducing lethargy and death; it is beneficial in head- ache when rubbed in with rose oil; and in earache when in- jected with almond oil, safiron, and myrrh; in inflammations of the eyes with the roasted yelk of an egg and saffron; and for erysipelas and wounds with vinegar; for gout with a woman's milk and saffron ; and when apphed as a suppository per anum it induces sleep. The best kind is that which is dense, has a heavy stupefying smell, is bitter to the taste, readily incorporating with water, smooth, white, not rough, nor grumous, nor moulding like wax in the process of straining;