.'j59 PLASTERS. lT. XVII.] ;ind fractures are recent, and to co-operate with them, sponges >oaked in oxycrate are to be bound on, above the pledgets, and lie to be loosened on the thii'd day, and the same pledgets ..iid not others, again applied. The emollient, epispastic, dis- cutient, and suppui-ative are applied after the use of cataplasms Mid cerates. But the suppurative agree best at the com- mencement and in cases of extreme pain. Of the boiling of tliem we will speak afterwards. Tlie plaster tetrapharmacon, basilicon. Of wax, of Colo- [jlionian rosin, of pitch, of bull's suet, equal parts. The plaster from the juice of linseed for discussing and break- "ig. Of old oU, lb. ij j of wax, oz. xx; of Colophonian rosin, of ixxmge, of each, lb. iss; of litharge, lb. j; of ceruse, oz. vj ; f the juice of linseed, oz. vj; of pollen, oz. j; of frankin- onse, oz. iv. Tlie plaster from honey. Of litharge, of wax, of oil, of each, 1). iv; of turpentiue, lb. ij ; of honey, of axunge, of each, lb. j. Another. Of litharge, lb. vj; of oil, lb. vss; of Colophonian osin, lb. viiss j of wax, lb. iiiss ; of honey, lb. iij. T7ie diachylon, or jilaster from juices. Of litharge, lb. vj j tf oil, in summer, lb. \\], but in winter, lb. ix; of fenugreek, ■xt. ss; of Hnseed, sext. ss ; of marsh-mallows, lb. iij. Boil he marsh-mallows and seeds in sext. xx of water, until but Httle be left, and of it, mix lb. iv to the oil, and boil until he bubbles cease; then sprinkle with the Htharge finely levi- ated, and boil at a gentle fire until it no longer stain. The plaster from pollen. Of fine flour, of ammoniac per- ime, of each, lb. j ; of pine-rosin, of wax, of axunge, of each, ij. iij ; of the juice of linseed, q. s. The botanicon, or plaster from herbs. Of dock, of sordid oil, i' the anchusa called the Chserospelethos (it is the Onoclean), f the plantain which has seven fibres (Plantago major?), ■f each, oz. iij; of oil, lb. vj; of axunge, lb. vj. The herbs, leing boiled in the oil, are thrown away, but the other things re melted in the oil. The jiluster from king's-spears. Of the juice of the root of isphodel, 11). j; of oil of roses, of oil of camomile, of the fat f geese, of each, oz. ij ; of axunge, oz. iij ; of wax, oz. iv. The leaven-plaster for breaking abscesses. Of leaven, of xunge, of each, oz. vj ; of salts, oz. iv; of pine-rosin, oz. iij ;