TROCHISKS. 529 iECT. XII.] spleen, kidneys, and liver, such as that from bitter almonds. Of those which are injected, some are for blunting acrimony, :is in dysentery^ such as those from pompholyx, starch, and Samian earth, injected with the juice of ptisan, or the like. Some act as astringents upon the alvine discharges, or a flow >f blood, as those from alum, acacia, and omphacium, such as ihat of Philip ; or that consisting of Egyptian thorn, injected \nth the juice of roses or of plantain. Those that are caustic agree with spj-eading dysenteries, being composed of sandarach, arsenic, quicklime, and burnt pepper; but they are to be in- jected with the juice of lentils or of rice, the intestine being first washed out with salt water, and the patients having eaten and drunk beforehand, so that none of the powers of the medi- cine may be carried up to the stomach. Those trocliisks which are injected prove serviceable principally in aflFections below the navel, for their power does not reach higher up. Those which are rubbed in are possessed of similar powers to those which are injected. But the astringent ones are applicable in herpes, exanthemata, intertrigo, hemorrhage, and ulcers at- tended with discharges, such as that of Andron and that of Polyides. Those possessed of blunting powers agree with car- Ijuncle, and ill-conditioned ulcers, such as the white trochisks, and that from lotaria. Those which burn as those mentioned above, like the Faustian, are applicable in spreading ulcers in the pudenda and anus, and for pterygia and sarcomata. The trochisk aste)\ Of safi'ron, of castor, of spikenard, of cassia, of myn'h, of Lemnian earth, of the bark of mandragora, of each, oz. iv ; of carrot, of parsley, of anise, of seseli, of the seed of henbane, of storax, of each, dr. viij. Triturate with wine. The trochisk trigonus. Of the seed of parsley, of the seed of henbane, of each, dr. ij ; of anise, dr. viij ; of opium, dr, iij. Triturate with water. The trochisk from seeds. Of anise, of bishop's weed, of the seed of fennel, of each, dr. iv; of the seed of parsley, of opium, of the seed of henbane, of each, dr. ij. Triturate with water. The trochisk croceus, or sqfron trochisk. Of anise, of the ^eed of Cretan carrot, of each, dr. iv; of myrrh, of castor, of each, dr. ij; of saffron, of opium, of each, dr. iij ; of the seed III. 34