SIMPLES. [book vu. 184 Comm. Ebu Baithar treats of it at very great length. Serapion says that, being a drastic purgative, it ought not to be given during the heat of summer, or cold of winter; for that, at these sea- sons, Hippocrates had forbid to administer purgatives. Pliny recommends it in injections for diseases of the intestines, kidneys, and loins. He says that an embrocation of it with oil cures pains of the spine and hip-joint, and is useful in jaundice when followed by oxymel. (H. N. xx, 7, 8.) Marcellus, the Empiric, says of it that it purges phlegm, yellow and black bile, when given with oxymel. (c. 30.) Ruffus Ephesius says of colocynth, that it purges phlegm and pure bile : in a word, he adds, it is useful in asthma, pleurisy, chronic head- ache, vertigo, and dimness of vision. (De Med. Purg.) Arbutus, the Arbute Tree, is of a sour quahty, both the tree and its fruit, which is called memyccElon. It is hurtful to the stomach, and occasions headache. Comm. COMMENTARY. Apuleius says " Comaron Graeci, Romani ' ' ' fragum vocant." It is the Arbutus Uneclo or Wild Strawberry Tree, which must not be confounded with the Fragaria vesca, L., Angl., Wood Strawberry. It seems difficult to account for its holding a place in the ancient Materia Medica, since all the authorities, like Paulus, speak unfavorably of its medicinal powers. See Dioscorides and Galen. A Gummi, Gum, is of a desiccative and emplastic nature, and manifestly cures asperities (hoarseness?). Comm. COMMENTARY. For an account of the ancient gums see ' " ' Phny (H. N. xiii, 20.) He says the best kind is got from the Egyptian thorn or Acacia; this must have been either the Acacia vera, L., or Acacia Senegal. Galen delivers the medi- cinal character of gum in the same terms as om- author, and the other Greek authorities do the same. Dioscorides recom- mends the gum of the acacia (guoi-arabic ?) as possessing emplastic powers, and for blunting acrid medicines when mixed with them. He adds that, when mixed with the white of an egg, it prevents blisters from rising on burnt parts, (i, 133.) The Arabians concm' in recommending gum-arabic as being