SIMPLES. [book VII. 72 Comm. ral literature of this subject, we must refer to our discussion ' on it in the Appendix to Dunbar's Greek Lexicon. The betony held a place in the Materia Medica down to a very late period. Both Dioscorides and Pliny recommend it in haemo- ptysis and purulent affections of the chest, and it enters as an ingredient into several of Myrepsus's antidotes for dysenteiy and csehac affection. Celsus mentions it only in one place, where he says of it, that it is an useful application to the stings of venomous snakes (v, 27, 10.) For the Arabians, see in particular Serapion (322), and Averrhoes (Coll. v, 42.) Our old herbalists and other modern authorities who treat of betony, praise it as a vulnerary herb, and as being possessed of diuretic and emmenagogue faculties. Tussilago, Coltsfoot, it is also called Bechicon; it is so named from its proving useful for coughs, and orthopnoea in fumigations j and it is composed of a hot and watery substance. Comm. Commentary. It is the Tussilago Farfara, or Coltsfoot. Both * ^ ' Dioscorides and Galen recommend it in fumigations for the cure of coughs, and this reputation it has retained down to the present day. Though now expelled from our Dispensatories, a patent medicine, prepared from coltsfoot, is still in considerable celebrity. It is retained in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia (p. 67.) BX/rov, BHtum, Elite, is an esculent potherb, which is humid and cold in the second degree. Comm. COMMENTARY. The blite, or Amaranthus Blitum, has been '' long celebrated as a culinary and medicinal herb. (See vol. i, 114.) Galen and Dioscorides, like our author, treat of its medicinal poAvers in very brief terms. For the Arabians, see Avicenna (ii, 2, 518) ; Serapion (De Simpl. 148); Averrhoes (Collig. v, 41); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 128) ; Ebn Baithar (i, 154.) These Arabian authorities commend it strongly as an appHcation in diseases of the skin, and in phthiriasis, and also in alopecia and apostemes. Archigenes, as quoted by Rhases, says, the blite is more laxative than the mallow. It is treated of by our older herbalists ; but has long since ceased to occupy a place in our Dispensatories.