399 SIMPLES. SECT, in.] sum, pvirum, ad similitudinem Hammoniaci.^^ Now, in Dr. Comm. Duncan's edition of the Edinburgh Dispensatory (1811), it is said * in like manner that " Galbanum agrees in virtue with gum ammoniac;" and from this casual coincidence in the descriptions of the ancient and modern galbanums, we infer their identity. It would appear to be now settled, that galbanum is the pro- duct of different umbellifers, the most common of which is the Opoidia galhanife)'a. See the late publications of Koyle, Lindley, and Pereira. Dioscorides describes it as being pos- sessed of a heating, fiery, epispastic, and discutient power, in pessaries and fumigations as promoting menstruation and the expulsion of the foetus; he recommends it externally, for furunculi and other complaints of the skin, and internally for chi'onic coughs, dyspnoea, asthma, ruptured and sprained parts ; its vapour rouses in cases of epilepsy, hysteria, and vertigo, and drives away venomous animals. It is used in toothache for filling the hollow of the teeth, (iii, 87.) Galen and the other Greek authorities treat of it in general terms, like our author. It occurs in the works of Hippocrates, and in those of Celsus, who recommends it in nearly the same cases as Dioscorides, as in furunculus, difl&culty of breathing, and so forth. (See v, 18, et pluries.) For the Arabians, see Avicenna (ii, 2, 312); Serapion (c. 320.) They borrow their account of its medicinal virtues from Dioscorides, recommending it as an alexipharmic, an application to tumours, and a remedy in certain diseases of the chest. Avicenna says it is less powerful than sagapenum. The Arabian authorities of Ebn Baithar do not supply any- thing of much importance in addition to what is furnished by Dioscorides and Galen. Chalcitis, is possessed of astringent, acrid, caustic, and escharotic powers. In subtility of particles it is intermediate between misy and sori; but when burnt its parts become still finer. Commentary. We will fir.st give an abstract of the informa- Comm tion furnished by the ancient authorities themselves reeardinir'—•— this much-disputed article in their Materia Medica, and reserve what we have to say as to the substance itself to the conclu- sion. Galen is the author who has given the fullest account