;ect. hi.] SIMPLES. 159 Kflp7rrJ(Ttoi', Carpcsiiim, is aromatic, and consists of subtile particles. Kt therefore clears away visceral obstructions, proves diuretic, itnd removes calculi of the kidneys. Co.\iMENTARY. The Arabians identified this substance with Comm. iheir own Cubebce. See Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 243), Avicenna ' ' ' iii, 3, 134), and Serapion (c. 188.) But we will show in another place that this was a mistake on their part. Nothing aatisfactory has been ascertained regarding it, and we have 10 pleasure in dwelling upon the conjectures of the commen- lators on Dioscorides and of the herbalists. Kapuov, Nux Juglans, Walnut; the tree has some astringency in the ;hoots, but more in the bai'k of the nuts. The juice of them, iherefore, when boiled with honey, becomes a stomachic medi- dne. The rind of it, when burnt, consists of subtile particles, end becomes desiccant without pungency; but the edible art of it being oily, is readily converted into bile. The oil >Drmed from them consists of subtile particles, and discusses twellings and gangrenes. Walnuts which are rancid from age rove detergent of cutaneous affections. But the Pontic, iilled the slender nut, is colder and austere, but in other re- ects is like the large. CojiMENTABY. We have treated of this article in the portion Comm. i our work devoted to dietetics. See Book I. We shall' * ' erely repeat that the two species of nuts described by Paulus d other ancient authorities are evidently the Nux Juglans, r walnut, and the Nux Avellana, or filbert. This is very ident from Galen's description of them. (Opera, ed. Basil, 88.) Our author copies closely from him. Dioscorides teats of the nuces still more circumstantially, recommending !iem both internally and e.vternally as being vermifuge, and .ring ill-conditioned ulcers, and many other diseases. The .bert, when triturated with axunge or bear's grease, he re- mmends for the cure of baldness, (i, 178, 179.) The abians, under this head, do little more than condense the bi-mation supphed to them by their Grecian masters. See particular llhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 505), Avicenna (ii, 3, 42, 4), and Serapion (c. 163.) Serapion states that the nux