291 SECT. III.] SIMPLES. and disciitient. The bark of the root being weaker than the }n\ce, is somewhat detergent and incarnative, but the fruit of it is emmenagogue. The species of Panaces which are called Asclepium and Chironium, are more heating than the former, and hence their leaves and fruit are used for ill-conditioned ulcers and phymata. CojiMENTAKY. Dioscoridcs decides that the Heraclium is the Comm tree which produces the famous ojjoponax. It has now got the scientific name of Opoponax Chironium, Koch. See Pereira (Mat. Med. 1040), and Lindley (Veg. King. 776.) Dioscorides gives a most excellent account of the process by which the opoponax is collected, and describes the marks by which that which is genuine may be recognized. He ascribes to it cale- facient, attenuant, and emollient powers, and recommends it in a great variety of cases, such as periodical fevers, rigors, convulsions, bruises, pains of the sides, tormina, strangury, scabies vesicce; as an emmenagogue, and a medicine which destroys the foetus; as a liniment in sciatica; a good applica- tion to the holes of carious teeth; as forming a good plaster to bites of mad dogs; as an incarnant when applied to ulcers connected with exposure of the bone; and as being alexipharmic, and remedial in hysterical convulsions, and in many other cases, (iii, 48.) Galen also gives an interesting accovmt of opoponax, which he represents as being hot in the third de- gree, and drying in the second. He recommends it particularly in iU-conditioned ulcers complicated with exposure of the bone. He says the frait of the tree is emmenagogue. Aetius treats of it in similar terms. The Arabians treat of this article at considerable length, as usual following in the footsteps of Dioscorides. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 521); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 521) ; Serapion (De Simpl. 252); Averrhoes (Collig. v, 42.) They recommend it in hardness of the spleen, in pleuritic pains, and chronic coughs. They say it softens hardness of the uterus, and is useful in stillicidium urinse. Both when taken by the mouth and in a suppository, they say it occasions abortion. Avicenna says that galbanum is used as a succcda- neum for it, and that gum ammoniac is nearly allied to it. The authorities are much divided whether the Asclepium be Cachnjs Libanotis, or Echinophora tenuifolia. The for-