SIMPLES. 44 [book VII Portulaca, Purslain, is cooling in the third degree, but humectates in the second; and by these powers it relieves heat of the stomach when applied to the abdomen, and disjjels defluxions. By its viscidity it smooths the teeth when set on edge by acids; and by its astringency it relieves dysentery and hemorrhages. Comm. COMMENTARY, Aetius, like our author, describes the pui-s- ' ' ' lane {Portulaca oleracea) as a cooling and sub-astringent herb. Both he and our author copy from Galen, who writes earnestly in commendation of this plant, which retained its place in our English Dispensatories down to a late date. Dioscorides like- wise writes fully on its virtues, recommending it as a cooling and astringent medicine, externally, in pains of the head, in- flammations of the eyes &c., and internally, for inflammations of the bowels, intestinal worms, haemoptysis, hemorrhoids, and various other cases, (ii, 150.) Celsus also calls it an astrin- gent and cooling herb, (ii.) For the Arabians, see Serapion (c. 349); Avicenna (ii, 2, 534.) ; Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 563); Averrhoes (CoUig. v, 42.) They treat of it in nearly the same terms as the Greeks. Androssemum, Tutsan, or Park-leaves, (or St. John's wort?); there are two varieties of it, the one of which is called ascyiTon and ascyrroides, being a species of hypericon, but the other is named dionysias. Their fruit is purgative, but then- leaves moi'e desiccant. Comm. COMMENTARY. Our Tutsan or Park-leaves has been gene- ' '' ' rally set down as this plant, but Sibthorp, who viewed the plants of classic lands on the spot, inclines to the Hypericum ciliatum. The truth of the matter we believe to be that as the Hypericum is a numerous genus, and the species have a close resemblance to one another, they were often confounded together by the older authorities. Both Culpeper the herbalist and Rutty have expressed their wonder that so important an article as the androsmmum should have been lost sight of in recent times. Pliny, and all the medical authorities, recom- mend it strongly as an application to burns and ulcers, and