[book VII 58G ACOPA, ETC. without being sensible of it. And goat's dung, applied wit!, vinegar, is more efScacious than mustard, especially in diseases of the hip-joint. The liniment from vjriting-ink acting as a rubefacient, espe- cially in cases of hemicrania. From the works of Alexander. Of euphorbium, of writing-ink, of each, dr. iv; of troglodytic myrrh, of crocomagma, of white pepper, of each, oz. iij ; of saffron, dr. ij ; of vinegar, q. s., so that these things may he properly triturated, and become of the consistence of the sordcs in baths; and then anoint with it, beginning from the middh of the eyebrow to the whole temple, especially if it be bare ol' hairs; and after it cools, anoint again, and when the remed\^ acts properly, let the man be put into a bath. Comm. COMMENTARY. Le Clerc says of the Acopa: " On les ' ' ' appelloit acopa comme qui diroit, Unguens qui Stent les douleurs, ou la lassitude, parcequ'on s'en servoit principalement pour le delasser, ou pour apaiser les douleurs qu'on sent apres Ic travail et la fatigue." (Hist, de la Med.) Galen explains th;it although this class of ointments derived their name from their being originally used as soothing applications to parts which were pained from severe exertion, they came afterwards to be applied for various other purposes, as for removing all deep- seated pains, indurations, contractions, and the like. Their consistence, he says, is nearly the same as that of the liquid cerates or the ointments made from wax and oil. According to their qualities, he adds, they have the epithets of emollient, calefacient, anodyne, relaxant, or alterative, applied to them. He describes, in prose and verse, the composition of an almost countless variety of these preparations. (De med. sec. gen. vii.) Celsus says of the acopa : " Acopa quoque utilia nerns sunt." He gives formulae only for two acopa, which consist of ai'omatic and stimulant medicines mixed with oil or some fragrant ointment, (v, 25.) Oribasius divides them into three kinds, the emollient, the calefacient, and the scarifacient; the last being a near approach to sinapisms. On the acopa see further Scribonius and Actuarius. The liniments of the ancients seem to have been very much the same as those of the moderns. Celsus says of them: " ''Eyy^piara autem Grseci vocant liquida qui illinuntur."