281 SIMPLES. SECT. III.] when laid in the sun softenings and when applied to a lamp Comm. not burning with a smoky flame, and after being extinguished ' ' preserving its powers in its smell. He then mentions several ; modes of adulterating it which were practised in his time, and i then adds, it is roasted for ophthalmic medicines upon a recent : shell imtil it becomes soft and of a tawny colour. Erasistratus ;says that Diagoras condemned the use of it in diseases of the tears and eyes, as inducing dimness of sight and coma. And iAndreas says, that if it had not been adulterated those that irubbed it in would have been deprived of sight by it. But ^Mnesidemus says, that the only proper use of it is by the >smell, as thus disposing to sleep, for that otherwise it proved idnjurious; but these statements are false, as is proved by ex- iperience ; for the operation of the medicine is attested by its seffects. He concludes by describing the modes by which »pium and meconium were prepared, but it will be sufiicient (for our purpose to state that his description of the former of these is exactly the same as the method now commonly prac- fttised. See Ksempfer (Amsen. Exost. 643), and Pereira (M. M. B1274.) The meconium was the expressed juice of the leaves md head, and is not now in use. Dioscorides states that it is nuch weaker than the other, (iv, 65.) Pliny^s description of he opium and meconium is obviously taken from Dioscorides, >r both these authors must have copied from some pre- •cding authority. He thus describes the meconium: " cum apita ipsa et folia decoquuntiir, succus meconium vocatiu-, iiultum opio igna^dor." (H. N. xx, 76.) Opium it is certain as freely used by the Empirics, and accordingly it will be jund that it is a very common ingredient in the prescriptions f Scribonius Largus, and Marcellus the Empiric. The latter ives several formula3 for collyria, in which opium occurs, and c is at pains to state that it is the concrete and not the ex- ressed juice which must be used. (De Medicamentis, viii.) le also prescribes it internally for pains of the kidneys (xxvi), s an enema in colic (xxix), and in many other cases. Galen ould appear to have had very sound opinions respecting the use f opium in the treatment of diseases. He professes, indeed, ever to have had recourse to it when he could help it. (Dc omp. raed. sec. loc. iii); but yet he prescribes it in cseliac id certain stomach affections (ibid, viii), and even in intense I