338 SIMPLES. [book VII. Comm. treated of by us, were varieties. The stalk, the leaves, and the juice are all treated of by Dioscorides, in his chapter on Silphium, wherein he has given so full an account of them that we dare scarcely venture upon an abstract of it. He says of the varieties of the juice, that the Cyrenean is the most fragrant, so that when tasted it scarcely affects the breatli, whereas, the Median and Syrian are weaker, and have a more offensive smell. He says of it, that of the different parts of it, the most efficacious is the juice, then the leaves, and then the stalk. He recommends it, both externally and internally, for a great variety of medicinal purposes, in diseases of the eyes, in toothache, as an application to the bites of venomous animals, as an application to gangrene, corns, and callus; in affections of the bronchi, and of the tonsils, in cynanche, catarrhs, pleurisy, jaundice, and dropsy; in rigors, along witlx pepper, frankincense, and wine, in csehac affections, and in short, in a great many other complaints, (iii, 84.) But long before his time the silphium had been introduced into the practice of medicine, and used in procidentia and other com- plaints. See Hippocrates (De Fistulis; de ratione vict. in acut., &c.) It is indisputably the laser and laserpitium of the Latin authors. See in particular Celsus (iv, 3); Pliny (H. N. xxii, 49.) The latter passes an elaborate encomium upon it, founded, however, for the most part on the contents of Dios- corides's chapter on the Silphium. From it the identity of the Greek silphion and the Roman laser is clearly made out. Passing by Galen, Aetius, and Oribasius, who supply nothing very interesting on this head, we now turn to the Arabians. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 9, 52, 474); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 50) ; Serapion (De Simpl. 251); Averrhoes (Colhg. v, 42); Ebn Baithar (i, 84.) Avicenna describes two varieties of the Assa seu Laser, namely, the foetida and the odorifera, the virtues of which he gives in nearly the same terms as Diosco- rides. He says distinctly that the fetid or black kind is not used in the cooking of food. He praises them as procuring eructations and acting as carminatives, and as proving sto- machic. There appears to be a disagreement among the Arabian authorities of Serapion regarding the virtues of the assa, some of them representing it as ^ood for the stomach and liver, and others as bad. One of them, Habix, mentions that it was