[book VII. 246 SIMPLES. Comm. proves vermifuge, not only when eaten, but when applied ex- ' ' ' ternally to the belly; for it was formerly shown that a bitter juice floes this. Nor that it removes leprosy^ clavus, and myr- mecia, need it seem wonderful to one who remembers what was formerly said. And thus it relieves orthopnoea, and promotes menstruation, when it is restrained by the thickness and viscidity of the humours; and, in a word, when we wish to incide, cleanse, dry, and heat, it is a most useful medicine. (De Simpl. viii.) Having given so full an exposition of Galen's views, we must be brief on those of the other authorities. The gith occurs in the Mat. Med. of Hippocrates, but is not to be met with in the works of Celsus. For the Arabians, see Avicenna (ii, 2, 516); Bhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 496) ; Serapion (c. 328.) They all follow closely in the footsteps of Dioscorides and Galen. Though the gith has ceased for some time past to be used in medicine, it is still sometimes sought after as a spice. See Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 123.) Mel, Honey, is heating and desiccant in the second order, and is also considerably detergent. ^Vhen boiled it becomes less acrid, detergent and cathartic, but more nutritious. But bitter honey, like tliat in Sardonia, is of mixed powers, being terrene and hot. The Sacchar (Sugar) which is brought from Ai'aby the Blessed is less sweet than that with us, but is possessed of equal powers, with the additional advantage of not injuring the stomach and occasioning thirst like it. Comm. Commentaby. On the use of honey, see Book I, s. 69. ' " ' " The honey of reeds" is mentioned in a fragment of Theo- plu'astus. (ed. Heinsius.) It is distinctly noticed by Dioscorides (i, 104), Strabo (Geogr. xv), PHny (H. N. xii, 17), Galen (Med. Simpl. vii), Oribasius (Med. Collect, xi), Isidorus (Orig. xvii, 7), Alexander Aphrodisiensis (Probl.), and Symeon Seth (in voce Sacchar.) It is alluded to by Statins in the following line: " Et quas praecoquit jEbusita cannas."—Silv, i, 6, 15. Lucan also mentionsit. (Pharsal.iii, 237.) AUthe Arabian medical authors, in a word, make frequent mention of it. It is obvious, however, as isremai'kedbyllarduin, Salmasius, Freind, Millward, and Sprengel, that the ancient sugar was a concretion formed