APPENDIX TO 472 [book VII. Dodonseus and Parkinson, it is the pea whicli the latter de- scribes and represents under the name of pisum cordatum vesicarium. See Theatre of Plants (1378.) Ribes. This has been supposed the ribes or raspberry, but it is now well ascertained that it is a species of Rheum, namely the Rheum Ribes. See Sprengel (R. H. H. i, 257.) Serapion gives a full account of it; he represents it to be a cold, astringe.nt plant, and recommends it in various complaints, such as cholera, smallpox, measles, and in hemorrhoids, (De Simpl. 241.) Avicenna briefly recommends it in nearly the same complaints, (ii, 2, 581.) See also Ehases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 582.) Ebn Baithar gives a full and very interesting description of it. He says it grows in alpine localities in Syria, and in the northern countries, but not in Spain; that it has large, broad, round leaves, and tender reddish spots. He calls it bitter and astringent, and recommends it in palpitation of the heart, vomiting, and marasmus. He also praises it in hemorrhoids, and the red flux (monorrhagia) of women; and further com- mends it in measles, smallpox, and plague. Dr. Eoyle says (M. M. 521) that the Rheum Ribes is "the Riwas of Serapion, who mentions it as making a good sherbet." Does he allude to the chapter on the Ribes quoted above? Aurantium. When we stated in another place (Vol. 1,134) that no ancient author had noticed the orange, we were unacquainted with the works of Ebn Baithar, and of D'Hanvantare, the author of the Susruta. In the latter work the orange is enumerated with acid fruits, of a somewhat indigestible nature. (140 et alibi.) Ebn Baithar says of the orange that it produces an oil which is useful in flatulence and pains of the joints. The rind of the fruit, he says, is carminative and anthelminthic, an antidote to poisons, and removes spots from clothes. The Hindoos have been long familiar with the Citrus aurantium. See the Susruta and Wise's Hindoo Medicine (p. 191.) Lhnon. We are now inclined to think that we were mistaken in