[book VII. SIMPLES. 248 KTau<pvWoi', Apiastrum, Baum; its action is in every respect like that of horehound. Comm. COMMENTARY. According to Dioscorides, Baum {Melissa officinalis), when its leaves are taken in a draught with wine, or when applied as a cataplasm, is alexipharmic in the case of persons stung by scorpions or venomous spiders, and of those who have been bitten by mad dogs ; the decoction in the form of a fomentation (or effusion) does the same; it makes a good hip-bath for promoting menstruation; is a gargle for toothache and a clyster for dysentery; its leaves, in a draught, cure those who have taken poisonous mushrooms, and those suffering from tormina ; it forms a linctus in orthopnoea, and along with salts a discutient application to scrofula and ulcers; and as a cataplasm it soothes pains of the joints, (iii, 108.) Our author borrows from Galen, who, like him, gives its characters in general terras. Aetius, under this head, copies from Galen, and Oribasius from Dioscorides. We believe it is not to be found either in the works of Hippocrates, or those of Celsus. Serapion gives a full account of it, first quoting from Dioscorides and Galen, and then from Abenmesuai and Isaak ebn Amran; the former of whom says it is exhi- larating, and the other that it is useful in a cold and humid intemperament of the stomach, promotes digestion, proves cordial, &c. (c. 23.) Mf^ai/cuXoc, Memsecylus, being the Fruit of the Arbute, has been treated of under the letter K. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is, as here stated, the fruit of the wild ' Strawberry-tree, that is to say of the Arbutus Unedo, L. MECTTTtXa, Mespila, Medlars (called also Tricocca); their fruit being decidedly sour and scarcely edible, proves astringent of the bowels : and its shoots and leaves are also decidedly sour. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscoridcs describes the two species of ' ' ' Medlar in such distinct terms as leaves no doubt that they are the Mespilus Azarolus and Germanica. He represents theii' fruit as being esculent and slightly astringent, (i, 169, 170.)