SIMPLES. JSECT. III.] 329 Apium, Parsley, is hot to such a degree that it promotes the vurinary and menstrual discharges. It is also carminative and eespecially the seed of it. CoMJiENTARY. There seems little or no doubt that it is Comm. the Common Parsley, namely, Apium petroselinum, which ""^^ ' long held a place in our Dispensatory, and retained in it its ancient characters. Dioscoridcs recommends it in a great many cases; for inflammations of the eyes in cataplasms; for heat of the stomach; as a diuretic and antidote to venomous animals ; and for various other medicinal purposes, (iii, 77.) Galen and the other Greek authorities merely state its virtues in general terms. The Arabians treat of it under Apium, not distinguishing it very accurately from its congeners. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 55) ; Serapion (c. 290); Averrhoes (CoUig, v, i-2); Ehases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 69.) Serisj Endive, is a bitterish potherb, being considerably •efrigerant and diluent. It has also some astringency. Commentary. It comprehends the Cichorium Intybus and Comm. he C. Endivia. It is now known by the names of the Endive, " '' ' )r Garden Succory. We have treated of it as an article of ood in the First Book, and as a medicine it is not deserving )f much notice, after what we have said of its congener under he head of Cichorium. It was generally held to be a good lepatic medicine. See Dioscorides (ii, 125) ; Galen (De Simpl.) ; Avicenna (ii, 2, 229); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i. 266.) 2t()ii|)oi', Seriphon, is heating in the second degree, but desiccative n the first, being like wormwood, only it is less astringent ind more calefacient than it. It is also anthelminthic, and to 1, considerable degree bad for the stomach. Commentary. From Dioscorides's description we may con- Comm. idently refer it to the Artemisia maritima, Angl., Drooping-'—*—' 'oivered Sea Wormwood. Dioscorides gives it exactly the amc characters as our author, namely, that of being bitterish, stringent, and a good vermifuge, (iii, 24.) Galen says of it, hat it is more powerfully anthelminthic than the aljsinthium.