212 SIMPLES. [book VII. Comm. it for stopping hemorrhfiges, and also for dispelling phlegmons and curing lichens : he addSj that it cures jaundice and removes defluxions of the mouth when rubbed in with honey, (iv, 53.) To which of the Lichenales of modern botanists it is applicable is somewhat doubtful: whether to the Sticta pulmonacea, as Matthiolus held; to the Peltidea ciphthosu; or to the Peltigera canina. Compare Sprengel (Ad Dioscor. 1. c.) with Lindley (Veg. King. 48), and Parkinson (1315.) This is also evidently identical with the second species of lichen described by Pliny. (H, N. xxvi, 10.) His former species is the Marchantia conica, L. (Ibid.) See Harduin (apud 1. c.) The Xfiy^rivEQ 'nnrMv are the well-known callosities forming at the knees of horses, called spavins in English. See further, Haa'duiu ad Plin. H. N. xxviii, 49. They are thus described by Cailius Aurelianus: " Sunt autem squamulae anteriorum crurum sub armorum partibus in ipsis animalibus (equis) nata; has Gr£Eci lichenas vocant, sive chelidonas, nos vero impetigines vel hirundines." (Tai'd. Pass, i, 4.) The Empirics gave them for the cure of epilepsy. (Ibid.) See Avicenna (ii, 233) and Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. 271.) AsovToneraXov, Leontopetalum, Lion's-lea/; its root is heating and desic- cative in the third degree, and is possessed of discutient powers. Comm. COMMENTARY. Although Dioscoridcs has described this '—^—' plant with more than his wonted accuracy, there is still some uncertainty regarding it, some holding it to be the Leontice Leontopeialon, and others the Corydalis bulbosa. The latter would appear to agree better in character with the description of Dioscorides than the other. See Lindley (Veg. King. 436.) The other authorities treat of it in very general terms, like our author, except Oribasius, who gives a pretty minute de- scription of it, like Dioscorides. It is noticed by Ebn Baithar (ii, 186), who, however, does not supply much additional in- formation. Dr. Sontheimer sets it down for the Leontice Leontopeialon. Asir'tSiov, Lepidium, Pepperwort (by some called Iberis), belongs to