SECT, nr.] SIMPLES. 319 portions to be clipped off with a pair of scissors, and the re- Comm. mainder compressed and pounded in a shade in a mortar, until"—'—' they form into a ball. He recommends them in diseases of the eyes, headache, affections of the ears, gums, anus, and womb, &c., also when sprinkled in powder on intertrigo, and as an ingredient in the ointments called calliblejjhara. (i, 130.) We need not devote time to the exposition of what the other authorities have written on this subject. See Celsus (pluries); Galen (De Simpl. viii, et alibi); Avicenna (ii, 2, 568); Rhases (Cent. 1. ult. i, 585); Serapion (De Simpl. 108). The Arabians say of rose-water that it is stomachic and hepatic; and of rose- oil, that it relieves inflammation of the stomach and loss of its tone. They recommend rose-water further both in syncope and in heemoptysis. Like the Greeks, they make it an ingre- dient in theii- coUyria to the eyes and eyelids. Rhases and Avicenna give particular directions for preparing an ablution with roses to remove fetid perspiration. PoSm jo/'^a, Rosea radix, is heating in the second degree^ and is at- tenuating and discutient. Commentary. The older commentators and herbalists are Comm. )y no means satisfied that it was the Rhodiola Rosea, or rose- rood; but the later authorities are pretty much agreed upon his point. See Sprengel (in Dioscor. iv, 45) and Lindley Veg. Kingd. 631). Dioscorides merely recommends it along v'ith valerian as an application to the forehead and temple n cephalalgia. The other authorities, Hke Paulus, are content vith barely stating its general characters. Mala Punica, Pomegranates; the prevailing quality of all he species of them is an astringent power, by which they act s refrigerants and desiccants. But the sweet have this pro- perty in a less degree than the others. The austere are more cfrigerant, but are of a drier nature and stomachic. Those /hich are acid are cooling in a greater degree, but have also oraethmg mcisive in their nature. The kernels are more stnngent and desiccative than the juice, but still more so the