343 SECT. III.] SIMPLES. racter as the Greeks, that is to say, they represent it to be Comm. strongly aphrodisiac. See in particular Avicenna (ii, 2, 596) ' ' ' and Ebn Baithar (ii, 33.) The latter gives a lengthy and in- teresting account of it. Rhases briefly notices it without saying anything of its medicinal uses. (Contin. 1. ult. ii, 681.) In the East the skink is still eaten as a restorative and aphro- disiac. See AinsKe (Mat. Ind. ii, 378.) Squilla, the Squill, is possessed of incisive powers, and is calefacient and desiccative in the second order. It is better to take it roasted or boiled. Commentary. It is the Scilla maritima. It is mentioned Comm. by Hippocrates, and was a favorite medicine of the ancient * physicians. Dioscorides's chapter on the Squill contains much valuable matter. His description of the process of baking squills is so like that given in Pemberton^s edition of the ' London Dis- pensatory,' that one may take the latter as a translation of it: "Scillce coctio, the baking of squills. Inclose the squill in paste of wheat flour, having first separated the outer skin and the hard part, from which the fibrous roots grow; then bake the squill in an oven till the paste is dry, and the squill is rendered soft and tender throughout,'^ He recommends it in cases requiring a copious evacuation of urine, such as dropsies, diseases of the stomach, those cases in which the food floats on the stomach, in jaundice, chronic coughs, asthma, &c. He also, says of it that it is alexipharmic. (ii, 303.) Celsus frequently prescribes " scilla cocta," as in tympanites and in anasarca, (iii.) It is frequently recommended and described, in a word, by all the authorities, Greek, Roman, and Arabian, in the same class of cases. See Galen (De Simpl. viii); Aetius (i); Oribasius (Med. Coll. 13); Apuleius (De Herbis); Columella (De R. Rust, xii, 33); Serapion (De Simpl. 304); Avicenna (ii, 3, 590); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 680); Mesne (De Simph vi); Ebn Baithar (ii, 316, 309); Averrhoes (CoUig. v, 43) • Haly Abbas (Pract. ii, 43). Serapion's account of its medicinal properties is particularly full. It is given, he says, as a laxative in fevers, and in dropsy as a diuretic; as a remedy for indigestion, for jaundice and tormina of the bowels; for an old cough, asthma, and spitting of blood; and for cleansing the breast of gross