APPENDIX TO [book VII. 454 characters of the gum poplar, as given by Dioscorides and Galen, hy no means accord with those of amber (succinum.) See further under Electrum, Sandarach, and Ambra grisea. It is proper to mention that although our opinion with regard to the Karabe be as we have stated, most of our modern autho- rities have set it down as being indentical with the succinum. See Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 215); Eoyle (Mat. Med. 648); Pemberton (Dispensatory, 103.) We are persuaded, however, that whoever will carefully read the ninth chapter of the first part of Avicenna^s work " on Cordial Medicines," must agree with us that he held the Karabe and Ambra to be totally dif ferent substances, and a careful study of Mesne (De Electariis) will confii'm this conclusion. The gum or resin of the black poplar is mentioned by Schroeder. (Chemical Dispensat. 442.) Tem,bul and Fau/el. We treat of these substances under one head for a reason which will become apparent before the conclusion of our article upon them. Tembul, according to Avicenna, is cold in the first degree and dry in the second; it is astringent and desic- cant; it strengthens the gums, and for this purpose is constantly chewed by the Indians ; it also strengthens the stomach, and for this purpose also is frequently chewed by the same people, (iij 3, 699.) Haly Abbas gives a very similar account of it; he says it is brought from India, and that seafaring men made much use of it, because they lived much upon fish. (Pract. ii, 36, 307.) Ebn Baithar treats of it at great length. One of his authorities, Abuthanifa, says it improves the state of the mouth. Elmasudi gives an interesting description of it; he says it renders the breath fragrant, improves the mouth, and even the mind, and he says fm-ther of it that it reddens the teeth. Elgafaki says it cures bleeding and swelling of the tonsils, being of an astringent and desiccant nature. Elscherif calls it hot in the first, and dry in the second degree, and says it produces exhilaration of spirits, and cures flatulence. He describes minutely the Indian mode of using it. The author himself under this head warns his readers not to confound the plant used in his time for the tembul, with the true tembul, which he says was seldom brought from India in his days because it lost its virtues by being cai-ried to a distance, (ii, 200.)