>jECT. III.] SIMPLES. 427 i?.t is certain that tliese Bezoars were much used in medicine by tthe Arabians as they are in the East at the present day; and \Yet, as far as we have been able to discover, they are not de- wcribed in any of the Arabian works on the Mat. Med., with :lhe exception of Ebn Baithar, and his account of them is very ndistinct and unsatisfactory. We may gather from his de- cription, however, that the term was applied to more substances ;han these alvine concretions. One of his authorities speaks of the best kind beiug found in the heart of the stag. Like all lis countrymen, he recommends the bezoar as an amulet and m antidote to poisons. (119.) Indeed the term Bezoar would , ippear to have been used as signifying alexipharmical. See ! Vncenna (ii, 2), and Serapion (c. 441.) Frequent mention of I t occurs in the works of the Arabians, See Haly Abbas i pluries) j Ehases (Cont, 1. ult., and xxxv, 6, 8, 1) ; Avicenna iv, 6, 1, 4.) Camphora. This article is so important, that we shall be excused if we iwell upon it at some length. It is well known to be a secre- ion procured from several trees of the genus Laurus in the .ast; but more particularly from the tree which has been amed Cami^hora officinarum. Serapion is the ancient autho- ity who gives the fullest account of Camphor. In the first ilace, owing no doubt to his using some interpolated transla- ion of Dioscorides into Syriac, he quotes him as stating that it s procured from India and China and is produced in most bundance during seasons when there is much thunder. One f his Arabian authorities, Isaac Ebn Amram, gives a dis- '■• net account of the origin of camphor and a description of the ualities of the different kinds of it, with a brief notice of the tode of clarifying it by sublimation, which is the process by hich it is still produced. As to its medicinal virtues, he holds 1 to be cold and dry in the second degree, and says it is appli- iible in cases of inflammations, vertigo, and cholera; in fumi- ■ations with myrrh, rose-oil, and sandal-wood; that it is naphrodisiac, induces premature hoariness of the hair; that u a masticatory with lettuce, it cures the hot intemperament f the brain and induces sleep; removes vertigo j stops hemor- liagcs from the nose and all fluxes in general; and, in short. 4.