581 SECT. XIX.] ACOPA, ETC. humectative. He describes the composition of these prepara- Comm. tions with liis usual accuracy and minuteness. ' ' ' Celsus gives a full account of the malagmata. He says plasters, malagmata, and pastils differ, inasmuch as malagmata consist principally of aromatics, whereas, the other two are rather formed from metallic substances. In general, he says, they are rather calefacient than refrigerant; some, however, are refrigerant, and are used as applications to the joints in gout. A few are not only calefacient but also epispastic. He gives prescriptions for 35 malagmata. He makes no men- tion of epithemes. (v, 17, 2.) Scribonius Largus, likewise, treats fullj'' of the malagmata (ยง cclv-cclxvii). Oribasius states that there are three varieties of malagmata : the first consisting of dry things, namely, roots and herbs; the second kind, of metallic substances, or a certain proportion thereof; and the third, of juices, suet, and tears. (Med. Collect. X, 28.) A full account of them is given by Actuarius (Meth. Med. vi, 9) and Myrepsus (ยง xi, xxxiv.) The following epitheme is said to be powerfully purgative: " Of scammony, of elaterium, of spurge, of each, dr. viij ; of white and of black hellebore, of builds gall, of each, dr. iij ; of the root of the wild cucumber, of the leaves of wormwood, of each dr. x; of Tuscan wax, dr. viij ; of turpentine rosin, dr. iv; of Attic honey, oz. viij; of red nitre, oz. j.^' (Myrepsus, 1. c.) The following is a malagma for luxated joints and contu- sions : " Of galbanum, oz. j ; of saffron, dr. ij ; of ammoniac perfume, of pure wax, of each, oz. iss ; of dried pitch, lb. iss; of very acrid vinegar, coch. iss." (Ibid.) SECT. XIX. ON RESTORATIVE OINTMENTS (aCOPa), LINIMENTS, CALEFACIENT PLASTERS (dROPACES), AND SINAPISMS. The acopa are so named for having been first invented for the feeling of lassitude, as a tensive, ulcerative, and osseous lassitude ; but they agree with many other complaints. Some, then, are calefacient, some emollient, and some stimulant. The calefacient are prepared from pepper, pellitoiy, the seed of rosemary, and the like. They agree with affections of the