SIMPLES. 112 [book VII. Comm. COMMENTARY. Our author borrows his description of the ' ' ' Epimedium Alpinum, or Barren Wort, from Dioscorides ; and none of the others supply any additional information respect- ing it. ETTf^tr/XiC, Epimelis, Crab-tree, called also Unedo by the Italian hus- bandmen. It is a sort of wild apple, the fruit of which, being sour, is bad for the stomach, and occasions headache. Comm. COMMENTARY. It appears, from Dioscorides (i, 170), that ' ' ' it is a species of Medlar. Probably, then, it was the Mespilus Germanica. Dioscorides, Galen, and all the other authorities that treat of it give it the same character as our author. As a medicine, it has the same characters as the other Medlars. 'ETTtTra/crlc^ Epipactis (called also Helleborine, or Bastard Hellebore), is drunk as an antidote for deadly poisons, and for diseases of the liver. Comm. COMMENTARY. The oldcr herbalists, supported by the j ' ' authority of Anguillara, incline to refer this article to the i genus Hei-niaria, or Rupture Wort. The epipactis, it would | seem, is still in great repute throiighout Greece, as being alexipharmic, and curing complaints of the liver. Our author \ and all the others who notice it take its medicinal characters 1 from Dioscorides. (iv, 107.) As far as we have been able to j discover, it is not noticed by Hippocrates, Celsus, nor any of the Arabians. 'EjO£/3i'i'0oc, Cicer, Vetch or Chick-pea, a common kind of pulse ; is flatu- lent, nutritious, a proper medicine for the bowels, diuretic, engenders milk and semen, and proves emmenagogue. The kind called Arietiuum is more diuretic than the others. A decoction of them, more especially the black sort, breaks down stones in the kidneys. The species called Ervinum, is hotter than the others, and bitterish. The wild are in every respect stronger than the cultivated. omm. Commentary. It comprehends several species of the Cicer. ~^ ' The Kpiog is undoubtedly the Cicer arietanum. The two other species cannot be so readily determined. Probably they