[book VII. SIMPLES. 150 Comm. COMMENTARY. Under this head we cannot do better than * ' in the first place copy the account of the ancient cadmia given by the learned and accurate Geoffrey. " The name Cadmia has been applied to several things. Dioscorides understood by Ka^/iika the recrements which arise from brass while melting in the furnace. Galen applied it to two substances, one which comes from brass (chalcos ?), which is the same with the cadmia of Dioscorides; the other a native substance found in the island of Cyprus, which he terms XiOoj^rtg or stony. Pliny, besides the factitious cadmia of Dioscorides and Galen, mentions another by the name of Lapis cerosus, which he says was an ore out of which copper was made, and this perhaps is the same with the Cadmia lapidosa of Galen." (ii, 3, 6.) The botrj'ital or clustered cadmia was Tutty, or the Cadmia fornacis seu factitia. It is the Zinci Oocydum impurum. The Capnitis and Placitis were merely varieties of the same, the former being in the shape of a fine powder, collected at the mouths of the fur- naces, and the latter consisting of coarser and heavier grains. The minerals from which all these preparations of cadmia were prepared, are the two varieties of calamine, now called by mineralogists "the siliceous oxide of zinc" and "the carbonate of zinc." See Cleavland's ' Mineralogy' (656, 657.) Dioscorides gives a very distinct description of the cadmia. which he re- commends principally in the composition of ophthalmic reme- dies (v, 84.) Galen's account of it is to the same effect, and is couched in his peculiar logical language. (De Simpl. ix.) The Arabians give a confused description of cadmia and the other mineral substances used by the Greeks in medical practice. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 163, 164); Serapion (418); Rhases (Cent. 1. ult. i, 150.) For an elaborate disquisition on the cadmia of the ancients, we beg to refer to Beckmann's ' History of In- ventions.' KaKKoXia, Caccalia ; its powers and use are like the Cacanus. Comm. COMMENTARY. See under Cacanus. KaXo/itaypwcrrtc, Calamagrostis, is desiccative; wherefore, its juice and the decoction of the roots of it are mixed up as ingredients Avith ophthalmic remedies; but its seed is dim'etic and stomachic.