[book VII. 272 SIMPLES. Comm. gums, with honey, (v, 5.) This account of it is copied Ute- ' rally by Serapion. (De Simpl. c. 35.) See also Avicenna (ii, 3, 723) and Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 745.) This would certainly appear to us to be the ffinanthe of Celsus, who gives it a place among the diuretics, (iii, 21.) With regard to the herb of the same narae^ which, as our author remarks, is described by Dioscorides, various conjectures have been advanced. It is certain that it cannot be the (Enanthe crocata, but may be the O. Pimpinelloides. "We have nothing to add to the account of its medicinal powers given by our author from Dioscorides. In fact, with the ex- ception of Oribasius, whose description of the articles in the Materia Medica is professedly taken from Dioscorides, we are not aware that any other ancient authority has noticed it. We may mention, in conclusion, that the (E. Pimpinelloides^ although it has no place in our Dispensatory, is still not un- known to the collectors of drugs. See Gray (Suppl to the Pharm. 79.) It grows in abundance on a spot in Banchory Ternan, and we have ascertained that it is not wholly innocuous even to cattle when eaten by them, Olvoq, Vinum, Wine, belongs to the second order of heating and desiccative medicines. But that which is considerably old belongs to the third, and the sweet wine to the first. Comm. COMMENTARY. We have treated fuUy of the ancient Wines * ' in Book I. For an ample enumeration of their medicinal properties, the reader is particularly referred to PHny (H. N. xxxiii, 19 et seq.), and to Dioscorides (v, 1-16.) It being out of place for us to give a long commentary under this head, we shall merely give a succinct exposition of it from Aetius. Wine, he says, is of the second class of calefacients; but that which is moderately old, is of the third; as in like manner the new and sweet is of the first. Their dryness is analogous to their heat. Since we find many varieties in wine, we shall describe them as briefly as we can. Of all wines, then, those which are at the same time red and thick ai'e the most suited for the formation of blood, requiring but little change in order to be converted into blood. Next in order to these are such as are dark, sweet, and thick at the same time; then