I a place in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia (109.) 358 SIMPLES. [book vii. Comm. xxvii, 107.) Dioscorides recommends it for diseases of the ' ' ' chest and for antidotes, (ii, 28.) Galen has some very sensible remarks on its qualities as perceived by the taste, and recom- mends it in the same cases as our author. See also ' De Antidot.' (i.) Avicenna and Rhases recommend it for epilepsy and melancholy. According to the Arabians it is pm-gative and alexipharmic, but Dr. Hill denies that it possesses these powers in any considerable degree. It still held a place in our Mat. Med. when Lewis wrote, (ii, 389.) It is retained in the modern Greek PharmacopCEia. SrpariojTjje, Achillea, Yarroio; that which grows in water is possessed of cold powers, but the land has astringency; hence it agglu- tinates ulcers. Some use it for hemorrhages and fistulse. Comm. COMMENTARY. The land is decidedly the Achillea Mille- ' ' 'folium, the river the Pistia Straliotes. The millefoil got the name of Achillea from being supposed the herb used by Achilles in dressing wounds. V. Eustathius (ad Iliad, xi, ad finem.) Our author copies almost word for word from Galen, who, however, is equally indebted to Dioscorides for the characters of the yarrow. Regarding the water plant, Dioscorides says that it preserves wounds free from inflammation, and cures erysipelas and oedema in a cataplasm with vinegar, (iv, 100, 101.) These plants are not to be found in the works of Hippocrates, Celsus, nor of the Arabian authorities, as far as we can discover, with the exception of Ebn Baithar, who merely gives extracts under this head from Dioscorides and Galen (ii, 30), and of Rhases, who merely quotes Galen. (Cont. 1. ult. 637.) The Pistia Straliotes is still used by the Hindoo physicians as a demulcent in dysuria, and as a cataplasm for hemorrhoids. See Lindley (Veg. King. 125.) The yarrow held a place in' our Dispensatory with its ancient character down to a late !|| date. See Quincy (93) and Lewis (M. M. 108.) It still holds Strychnos, Solanum (?), Nightshade (?), or Alkekengi, i. e." Winter Cherry; the garden and esculent sort is astringent and cooling in the second degree. The haUcacabum is like I