389 SECT. III.] SIMPLES. "YtTOKICTTJCj Hypocistis, is the juice of certain substances like pomegra- nate-flowers, growing under the roots of the cistus, otherwise called cistharus, being an active remedy for all cases of de- fluxions by drying and strengthening the parts. Commentary. TJie Undergrowth of the Cistus. The term Com is applied both to the parasitic plant, which grows on the roots ' ^ of the Cistus Ladanifera, and also, as is evident from the words of our author, to the inspissated juice of the same. The plant is the Cytinus Hyijocistis. Dioscorides describes it accurately, and also the process for preparing the juice of it. He says it is possessed of the same medicinal powers as acacia; but is still more astringent and desiccant, being efficacious in caeliac affections, dysenteries, haemoptysis, and the female flux, both when taken by the mouth, and in clysters, (i, 137.) Galen Aetius, and the other Greek authorities state its properties in general terms, like our author. It occurs in one of the Hip- pocratic treatises (De Nat. Mulieb.), and is set down by Celsus as an ingredient of several of his antidotes, but more especially of that most famous one ascribed to Mithridates. (v, 23.) The Arabians assign it exactly the same characters as the Greeks. See Avicenna (ii, 2, Hi); Serapion (c. 115); Rhases (Cont. i 1. ult. ii, 754, i, 108, ii, 119); Averrhoes (CoUig. v, 42.) All I concur in giving it the character of being an astringent and 1 tonic medicine, both internally and externally. As late as the ttime of Quincy, the hypocistis continued to occupy a place in <our Dispensatory, and it was retained as an ingredient in the ^Theriac of Andromachus or Venice Treacle (as it was latterly icalled), as long as that once-celebrated composition held a place in the Pharmacopoeia. See Moses ChaiTas (R. Phar. 114.) It still retains in the shops the same character for astringency it received from the ancients. See Gray (Suppl. to harmacop. 38.) 'Y7rO(/)Ol(TTO»^, Hypopheestum, is a species of thorn used by the fullers, like the hippophaes. The juice of the head, leaves, and roots )f it when dried, and taken to the extent of three oboli with lioneyed water, evacuates water and phlegm. It agrees princi- pally with orthopnoca, epilepsy, and aff'ections of the nerves.