289 SECT. III.] SIMPLES. aud cicatrization of ulcers. He recommends tlie ashes of all Comm. burnt shells as a dentifrice, in which case they do not require * " ' to be finely levigated as they should be when applied to sores. (De Simpl. 11.) This article is not treated of by Dioscorides, the reason of which probably is, that in his time the word narpea was a term applied to the whole class of the ocrrpaKo^eptia. See Commentary (i, 91.) They are treated of in the same terms by the Arabians as by the Greeks. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 529); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 224) ; Serapion (c. 443.) Urina, ?7?-ine; all kinds of it are hot and acrid, but that of man is weaker than the urine of other animals, with the ex- ception of castrated boars, but it is considerably detergent; and it is said that some who have drunk it in the plague have re- covered. It also cures leprosy, putrid ulcers, achores, and furfures; and likewise sprains of the feet when not inflamed. That of boys not come to puberty is stronger, and from it the chrysocolla is formed. The urine of mules suits with arthritic remedies. That of goats and of camels is laxative of the belly, and hence is given in dropsical complaints. Commentary. The account given by our author of the comm. medicinal properties of Urine is abridged from Dioscorides and '—*—' Galen. Galen rejects, with disgust, the internal use of it. Some, he says, have given the urine of a boy for the cure of orthopnoea; but he justly remarks that there is no want of other remedies for this affection, and that in fact the article in question has no peculiar virtue in the complaint. Most of the jther authorities, however, sanction the use of it in this case, as for example, Dioscorides, Avicenna, and Rhases. They also recommend urine to be drunk for the cure of the bite of the viper, for deadly poisons, and incipient dropsies. Dioscorides recommends the sediment of urine as an application to erysi- pelas ; upon which practice Galen remarks that when the affection is still hot such an application must be quite un- suitable; but that when cooled, it or any other discutient is indicated. Those who desire to know more fully the views of the ancients on this subject, are referred to Dioscorides. (ii, ;)9); Galen (De Simpl. 10); Serapion (c. 448); Avicenna (ii, 2, 716); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 749); Haly Abbas (Pract. ii. 517) ; III. 19