[book VII. APPENDIX TO 'Continens/on Sandaraclij is so particularly barbarous, tliat some passages of it are scarcely intelligible to us, albeit we have spent more time than most people in poring over these most unclassical productions. It is clear, however, that his Arabian authorities recommend vernix in exactly the same cases as Serapion and Avicenna do, namely, in fumigations for asthma and coryza, as a drying application to fistulse and hemorrhoids, as a stimulant in diseases of the eyes, and as a remedy for de- fluxion and fluxes of blood from the womb. (Contin. 1. ult. i, 610.) Dr. Lewis, treating of the Juniperus, says, " In the warmer climates, particularly on the coasts of Africa, there exudes from a larger species of juniper a resinous juice which concretes into semi-pellucid, pale, yellowish tears, resembling mastich, but larger; the sandaracha and gummi juniperi of the shops, called by some, from the use to which it is principally applied, vernix. It has been given internally against hemorrhages, old fluxes, and ulcerations; but is principally employed externally in cor- roborant, nervine, and traumatic applications." (Mat. Med. ii, 24.) Recent authorities have decided that the gum sandarach is not the product of the juniperus communis, as usually supposed, but of the Callitris quadrivalris. See Pereira (Mat. Med. 727); and Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 229.) On the vernix see further Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 201.) Is this the same as the Cedria of the Greeks and Romans ? See Dioscorides (i, 105) ; Galen (De Simpl. vi.) We ai-e in- clined to think that it either was the same, or, at all events, that both were procured from trees of the same genus. See the description of the Cedria given by Pliny (H. N. xxiv, 11) with the notes of Harduin. We have stated under Ced?-us that it generally signifies a large species of juniper. And fui'ther, upon comparing the medicinal uses of the cediia as given by Pliny (who follows Dioscorides closely) with those of ' the Sandarach as given above from the Arabians, no one can doubt that they must apply to the same thing, or at least to substances of a like kind. The cedria must not be confounded with cedrium described by Pliny. (H. N. xvi, 21.) The latter would appear to have been a liquid procured from the wood by distillatiou or boiling. There ajjpears much probability in the conjecture of Berzelius that the cedrium was a sort of pyrolig-