[book vit. 268 SIMPLES. next to it, that of calves. That of bulls and of buck-goats is more acrid and desiccative. That from the limbs is more fatty and emollient; but that from the spine is harder and drier. Comm. COMMENTARY. According to Aristotle, the MaiTOw is a superfluity concocted from the nutritive blood of the bones. Pie states that the spinal marrow is considerably different from that of the other bones. (De Partibus Animalium, ii, 7.) Pliny, copying from Dioscorides, thus deHvers the general characters of marrows : " Omnes molliunt, explent, siccant, calefaciunt." (H, N. xxviii, 39.) Dioscorides, Galen, and Serapion concur in giving the preference to the marrow of stags. Dioscorides gives minute directions for preparing it to keep, (ii, 95.) He says that smearing the body with stag's marrow drives away venomous reptiles. (Ibid.) The Arabians recommend a suppository from marrows as a remedy for scirrhus of the uterus. See Avicenna (ii, 3, 485), Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 460.) Fungi, Mushrooms, are of a decidedly cold and humid tem- perament. Some of them prove fatal when eaten, more par- ticulai'ly those which have a putrid quality mixed with their nature. Comm. COMMENTARY. We havo already treated of mushi-ooms as ' * ' articles of food (i, 77), and as poisons (v, 54); and shall, there- fore, be excused saying anything more of them in this place. In fact, we cannot see with what propriety the ancient autho- rities assigned them a place in the Materia Medica, since, as far as we can recollect, they never prescribe them medicinally. Muo(TtJr»j, Is described under Alsine. Myxa, the Sebesten-plum; the fruit of this tree is smaller than the bullace-plum, but of similar powers. Comm. COMMENTARY. It would appear indisputably to be the Sebesten-plum, or fruit of the Cordia Myxa. Whether or not this tree be also the Persea of Dioscorides (i, 187), has been much disputed. See Sprengel (in Dioscor. 1. c.) and Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 628.) We ai-e inclined to doubt their identity,