223 SIMPLES. SECT. III.] lluratecl clay, and not a stone. Dr. Jameson conjectures tliat it Comm. may have been Fuller's earth. Dioscorides recommends it as ' * ' u liniment in defluxions of the eyes, (v, 149.) The Morochthus, according to Sprengel, is called Speckstein land Seifenstein in German. It consists of talc, argil, and iiiUca, with a small proportion of iron and manganese. Dr. Hill says it is an indurated clay, and is now known by the laame of French chalk. Dioscorides recommends it in hsemo- titysis, csehac affections, and pains of the bladder; and for the unre of fluor albus on pessaries, (v, 151.) Avicenna speaks lavorably of it also in. fistula lachrymalis. (ii, 2, 431.) The Achates, or Agate, is well described by Orpheus, and ?ecommended as a remedy for fever and various other com- blaints. It does not seem to be noticed by the medical authoiities. The ancients were acquainted with several varieties of Jasper. eee Pliny (H. N. xxxvii, 37.) They contained talc and various fcher ingredients. Dioscorides recommends it solely as a ihylactery or amulet to expedite delivery, (v, 159.) Galen and vvicenna speak of its being useful as an amulet in affections the stomach and bowels. The latter calls it Lapis aneseb. 14, 2, 408.) Even in modern times the Jasper has been cele- rated as an amulet. See Andreas Laurentius (De Mirab. jtrum. Sanat. 69), and Hill (Mat. Med. 276.) The Judaic-stone appears to be the Tecolithos of Pliny. It now ascertained that it is formed from the quiUs of the •ichinus Marinus, impregnated with calcareous earth, silica, ad perhaps some magnesia. Most of the ancient authorities •mmend it as a lithontriptic. V. Harduin in Plin. H. N. xxvii, 68. Dioscorides recommends it not only as a lithon- ptic medicine, but a remedy for dysuria in general, (v, 154.) lien and Serapion also affirm that they had experienced good ects from it when given in calculus of the kidneys or bladder, ■c in particular Serapion (c. 390.) Rhases, however, aflirms ;it he had ti-ied the lapis vesicse, by which he probably means is article, but had not found it to be lithontriptic. (Cont. lit. 414.) Dr. Hill says it is, undoubtedly, diuretic, but it is t so certain that it is lithontriptic. The Pyrites, when burnt, forms an oxide of copper with phur. From our author's account, it is evident that the