SMEGMATA. 539 S£CT. XIII.] of the seed of the chaste tree, of pennyroyal, of the flour of beans and of lupines, of each, oz. vj ; of the black chamaeleon, of sulphur, of gum, of frankincense, of pepper, of the root of the wild cucumber, of horehound, of Cimohan earth, of pseony, of the shell of the cuttle-fish, of the leaf of fenugreek, of costus, of cumin, of euphorbium, of spikenard, of each, oz. iij. But Alexander adds the following things : of bitter salts, of salts from nitrous fountains, of Tragessean salt see PHn. xxxi, 6r^), of each, lb. j; of adarce, oz. j; of liquid alum, of Celtic, of cnicus, of granum Cnidium, of dried grass, of dried bryony, of each, oz. iij. The abstergent application from pompions [smegma peponaton). Of frankincense, of mastich, of ammoniac perfume, of each, oz. j ; of tragacanth, oz. iss; of the juice of wild grape, oz. ix; of the fresh seed of pompion, oz. iij; of similago, sext. v; the whites of xxi eggs, of iris, oz. iv. Some also use of black hellebore, oz. ij. Othenvise, that of Onto. Of bean meal, one modius; of similago, sext. iv; of trefoil, of nutben, of Illyrian iris, of each, lb, iv j of ammoniac perfume, lb. j ; of costus, lb. j; the whites of seven eggs, of the flesh of pompions, sext. ij; of the juice of unripe grape, sext. ij. Mix, and ha^dng formed trochisks, dry, then ha^dng pounded and strained, use. Othenvise. Of tragacanth, of frankincense, of mastich, of ammoniac perfume, of each, dr. x; of the juice of unripe grape, dr. V; of similago, sext. v ; of the white of an egg, oz. j; of the flesh of pompions, oz. j. Prepare as above described. A desiccative smegma for defluxions of the head. Of the tawny-coloured Alexandrian natron, oz. v; of common salts, roasted, oz.iss; of Cappadocian salts, oz. j. Having mixed these with the strongest vinegar, put into a linen bag, and burn in a furnace until it be reduced to cinders. Then having cooled it, rub with it triturated, adding a little wine in the bath. The soap of Constantine. Of dried roses, of aloes, of galls, of pomegranate rind, of Indian leaf, of sarcocolla, of each, oz. iij; of the flowers of the wild pomegranate, of myrrh, of sandarach, of spikenard, of each, oz. ij; of costus, oz. j ; of Gallic soap, lb. j. Mix with the decoction of lupines. T?ie depilatory powder for the gout. Of mastich, of male