TROCHISKS. 532 BOOK VIT, dr. ij; of the flowers of tlie cultivated pomegranate^ dr. xij; of tlie gall of bulls, dr. vj (others use dr. xvj); of aloes, oz. j. Mix with austere wine. The trochisk of Pasion. Of squama seris, dr. xij ; of burnt copper, of sal ammoniac, of round alum, of scraped verdigris, of frankincense, of each, dr. viij; of wine, q. s. The trochisk Andronius. Of the flowers of the cultivated pomegranate, dr. x ; of myrrh, dr. iv; of galls, dr. viij; of round bu-thwort, dr. iv; of copperas, of safi'ron, of fissile alum, of crocomagma, of misj^, of frankincense, of each, dr. ij. Triturate with astringent wine or vinegar. The trochisk of Fausiinus. Of arsenic, dr. xij ; of sandarach, dr. vj ; of quicklime, di\ viij ; of burnt paper, dr. j. Mix with the j uice or decoction of myrtles; make into trochisks, and inject along with the decoction of myrtles, of lentUs, and of the roots of bramble. The trochisk from paper. Of burnt paper, lb. ij ; of quick- lime, of arsenic, of sandarach, of each, oz. j. Mix with the juice of plantain. Tlie trochisk called Thronus Marcellius. Of burnt paper, dr. x; of sandarach, of arsenic, of squama seris, of fissile alum, of each, dr. iv ; of the flowers of the wild pomegranate, dr. iij ; of opium, dr. ij ; of quicklime, dr. iij ; of omphacium, dr. j ; of the juice of hypocistis, dr. iij. Mix with myrtle wine, and form troches of four drachms each. When you have boiled the pomegranate rind, myrtles, and roses to a third part, give one trochisk, or simply dr. iv to six cyathi of wine. The trochisk from cork. Of burnt galls, of burnt paper, of burnt cork, of burnt bread, of each, dr. xv. In another pre- scription there is added of burnt hartshorn, dr. xv; of arsenic, dr. ij; of sandarach, of quickhme, of each, dr. xv; of acacia, of ceruse, of each, dr. v; of litharge, dr. iij. Triturate in wine. The trochisk BitMjnus. Of pomegranate rind, dr. x ; of cala- mine, oz. iij ; of birthwort, of galls, of the root of all-heal, of iris, of copperas, of fissile alum, of chalcitis, of xa\sy, of squama Eeris, of manna (and some also of costus), of each, oz. iss. Mix with vinegar. The trochisk from castor, for ulcers, spreading sores, and de- fluxions. Of safi'ron, of aloes, of frankincense, of each, oz. j J of the flowers of the cultivated pomegranate, of fissile alum, of