i;cT. III.] SIMPLES. 417 ssome also tlie substance which, is prepared in a bronze (copper?) Comm. tmortar with a copper pestle by means of the urine of a boy, ' • ' iwhich some value according to the differences of the verdigris. IBut it is better to prepare it in summer, or at least in hot weather, pounding the urine in the mortar. And it answers •more excellently if the bronze, of which you make the mortar, be red, and the pestle too, for more is thus rubbed off by the I: tui'ning round of the pestle when the bronze is of a softer laatiu'c. This medicine is most suited to malignant sores, both iby itself and mixed with other substances. He concludes by Saying of the fossil chrysocoUa, that the more desiccative the i^ess stimulant it is, as being so much the more attenuated; ^nd that when burnt (calcined), it becomes still more attenu- ated. (De Simpl. ix.) It is clear from this statement that JGralen inchided under his list of Simples both the fossil chry- Bocolla and the kind prepared from verdigris. Aetius merely bbridges the account of the chrysocolla given by Galen, (ii, 81.) yLnd as Oribasius professedly copies his descriptions of the ibssils used in medicine from Dioscorides, we need not say nything further of his account of chrysocolla, than that it oincides entirely with that of Dioscorides. (Med. Coll. xiii.) elsus ranks it with the corrosive (v, 6) and the caustic sub- tances. (v, 8.) We now turn to the Arabians. Avicenna, in lie first place, treats of this substance under the name of hrysocoUa, of which he describes two species; the one, the arti- cial, made with the urine of a boy in a bronze mortar, as 1 ready explained; the other the fossil, of which he says lie ill now treat. He describes its general characters, namely, liat it is abstergent, caustic, septic, and so forth. Referring > Dioscorides and Galen, he calls it an emetic and astringent ledicine, and good for malignant sores, (ii, 2, 358.) He here refers to sect. 696, where he treats of tincar, of which he ivs that it consists of two kinds, the fossil and the factitious, lie latter of which is called the gold-solder (capistrum auri). t is useful, he says, in toothache and carious teeth. Averrhoes inscribes it under the names of La9acolaap, i. e. Consolidatura uri; in Arabic, Cumbur. He gives exactly the same account f the two species as Galen. H^ says the factitious kind is est prepared in a mortar of red bronze with the urine of a Dung person ; which species is more efficacious than the other, in. 27