247 SECT. III.] SIMPLES. upon the surface of reeds by the heat of the sun, and consequently Comm. it was different from the sugar of the moderns, which is formed ' by boiling. Symeon Seth says of sugar that it is heating and humid in the first degree, detergent, and diaphoretic like honey. Mesne recommends it for the composition of electu- aries. T)r. Hill states that although the Bambu be the sugar- cane with which the ancients were most familiar, it would ap- pear that the " tenera arundo" of Lucan was rather the com- mon sugai'-reed of our times. Fraxinus, the Ash, is a well-known tree, the leaves of which, when taken in a draught, agree with the bites of vipers. Its bark, when bui'ut and rubbed in with water, removes leprosies. The sawdust of the wood when drunk is said to be deadly. Commentary. There can be no doubt of its being a species Comm. of Fraxinus, or perhaps both the F. Ornus and F. rotundifolia. ' " ' Our author's account of it is taken literally from Dioscorides. (i, 108.) Avicenna mentions it as a vulnerary herb, and re- commends it in the same cases as Dioscorides does, (i, 108.) MtXtXairov, Ivlelilotum, Melilot, is possessed of mixed powers, being as- tringent, discutient, and digestive. Commentary. It is the Melilotus officinalis, L. Dioscorides Comm. says of it, that it has some styptic power, and is an emollient of ' ' ' all kinds of inflammations, especially about the eyes, womb, I anus, and testicles, when boiled with must and applied, or along 1 with albumen of an egg, flour of fenugreek, &c.; that it cures I mcliceris when recent, achores, and pain of the stomach, and «earache when injected into the ear, and headache when used I as an embrocation with vinegar and oil of roses, (iii, 41.) • Galen and the other Greek authorities state its application in general terms like our aiithor. For the Arabians, see Avicenna (ii, 2, 44.5); Averrhoes (Collig. v, 42); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 165); Serapion (De Simpl. 18.) They scarcely suggest any new cases for its administration, but borrow what they say of its medicinal powers from Dioscorides and Galen. The melilot was used in medicine, and held a place in our English Dispensatory even as late as the time of Quincy. (118, 204.)