588 [book VJI. ACOPA, ETC. Comm. silentio transirCj quam graviter erratum sit a Georgio Baglivi, qui Oribasii meminit, utpote primi ex Arabibus, qui de usu vesicantium scripsitj quum eundem et Gra^cum fuisse, et Grsecorum idiomate scripsisse^ nemo non noverit. Is profecto aliquid suggerit de eo vesicantium genere, quae dropaces et sinapismi dicuntuTj qui ex sinapi^ pipere, pyrethro et ejusmodi acribus medicamentis conficiebantur, et semel quidem cantha- ridum mentionem facitj neutiquam vero^ quod scio, de his loquitur tanquam de medicina^ qua ad vesicas in cute excitandas utebantur. ^tius quidem dropacis formam exhibuit, quae tres cantharidum drachmas recipit, unde dropax exulcerans vulgo audit." Oribasius gives, from Antyllus, a most interesting and judi- cious account of the sinajnsm. He says that it does not suit with acute diseases, or, at least, only when the patient is of an inert constitution, and the sensibility is obtuse. It is applicable, however, he says, in almost all chronic diseases when other remedies have failed, except in the case of au nicer in the lungs or liver, or when the disease is seated iu a cartilaginous part. He recommends it in all cases of dimi- nished sensibility. The only acute diseases in which he re- presents it as applicable are lethargy, catochus, carus, or fevers attended with loss of heat and diminished sensibility. Like our author, he directs us to prepare the sinapism with diied figs and mustard. Aetius, upon the authority of Archigeues, details its medicinal properties in nearly the same terms. Both Aetius and Oribasius represent goat^s dung, pounded with vinegar, as being equally efficacious as the sinapism, and applying particularly to ischiatic diseases. Myrepsus's accouut agrees exactly -oiith that of our author. He mentions that some macerate the figs in vinegar instead of water, but says that it renders the preparation weaker. The Arabians pre- pared the sinapism exactly as the Greeks, and applied it in similar cases. See Mesne (De Unguentis, i.) I