313 SIMPLES. SECT. III.] Greek or Arabian authorities supply any additional informa- Comm. tion respecting it. See in particular Avicenna (ii, 2, 620); ' ' ' Serapion (De Simpl. 56.) The " filicula" of Celsus (ii, 12) would appear to us to have been rather the Polypodium than the Filix Mas. In the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia it is marked as being the Aspidium Filix Mas. YlvKVOKO^lOV, Pycnocomon, is possessed of discutient, attractive^ and acrid powers. The leaves of it, thereforCj discuss phyma and furun- culus. The fruitj in addition to these properties, also extracts sharp-pointed weapons. Its root purges yellow bile. Commentary. Although Dioscorides has given a pretty Comm. minute description of it_, there are few articles in the ancient ' * ' Mat. Med. about which there is so much uncertainty. See the Index Latinns to Parkinson^s ' Theatre of Plants/ and Sprengel (in Uioscor. iv,173.) The latter decides that it is neither the Leonurus Marrubiastrum nor the Succisa pratensis as had been supposed. Whether it may be the Cephalaria Pycnocomon we are unable to determine, as we have no acquaintance with this plant. Our author borrows his medicinal characters of it jfrom Dioscorides (1. c.) Galen does the same. The Arabians have not noticed it, as far as we can discover. Ylvp^Bpov, Pyrethrum, Pellitory; the root has caustic powers, and allays the pain of teeth affected with cold ; and before the occurrence of periodical rigors it is rubbed in with oil, and re- lieves those who are affected with torpor and paralysis. Commentary. It seems to be the Anthemis Pyrethrum, comm. although Sprengel is not quite satisfied. It was much used in '—*—' stimulant embrocations. Dioscorides, Galen, Macer, and Serapion, and, in a word, all the authorities, recommend it strongly as a phlegmagogue for toothache. Dioscorides says further of it, that when rubbed in with oil, it is sudorific, being serviceable in chronic rigors, for parts which have lost their natural heat and are paralysed, (iii, 37.) Celsus also mentions it in a list of stimulants, to be applied externally for tooth- ache (vi, 9), and ranks it among his caustics, (v, 8.) The Arabians treat of it at considerable length, but borrow much