SIMPLES. [book VII. llti Comm. modactylus in gout and foul ulcers. An anonymous authority " ' ' makes it to be aphrodisiac. (Cout. 1. ult. 362.) See also Haly Abbas (Pract. ii, 43.) It is particularly to be remarked that the Arabian authorities all notice three varieties of the hermo- dactyl root, the white, the red, and the black; and restrict the medicinal use of the H. to the first of these, and condemn the two others as being deleterious. Nicholaus Myrepsus (i, 1) and Actuarivis (De Compos. Med. i), however, prescribe also the red, which the learned Fuchsius, in his annotations on the former, sets down as being the behen rubrum. We know not what are his grounds for this opinion. It is the white variety which lias been always used medicinally. See Boer- haave, Quincy, and Pereira. We would beg particularly to refer our readers who wish to obtain the modern hterature of this subject, to the Materia Medica of Pereira (p. 949.) 'EpTTuXAoC, Serpyllum, Wild Thyme, is heating, so as to promote the! urinary and menstrual discharge. Comm. COMMENTARY. All agree that the Tliymus Serpyllum is pos- ' ' ' sessed of diuretic and emmenagogue powers. Dioscoridesj recommends it in tormina, convulsions, &c., and as an alexi- pharmic. The others, like our author, treat more briefly of itj in general terms. Serapion and Avicenna borrow freely fromi Dioscorides. The Serpyllum held a place in our Dispensatoryl with its ancient characters down to a very recent date. Seel Quincy and Rutty (Mat. Med.) The latter, however, questionsj its identity with the ancient Serpyllum. Epu^poSai'ov, Erythrodanum, Madder, is the Rubia Tiuctorum. Bein, sour and bitter, it purges the spleen, liver, and kidneys, so to occasion a discharge of bloody urine. It acts as an emm nagogue, and cleanses the sordes of the skin. Comm. COMMENTARY. There seems scarcely any reason to hesital " in admitting it to be the Rubia Tinctorum, madder and dyer'^ madder. Dioscorides holds it to be powerfully diuretic, inso- much as sometimes to occasion a dischai'ge of blood in tin urine. He recommends it in sciatica and paralysis; as aii alexipharmic medicine, and as producing abortion, menstrua