PLASTERS. [book VII. 572 The preparation of the medicine called the liquid cesypum. Of melilot, oz. iv; of cardamom, oz. ij ; of unscoured wool, oz. vj : having macerated in sext. ij of wine for tliree days, boil until little is left; and having filtrated mix with the wine, oz. iij of oil, and boil until little of the wine remain, and then add of Colophonian rosin, oz. x; of tiu'pentine, oz, x. Some add like- wise of wax, oz. X, and of the herb hyssop, oz. j, and boil with the others. Others clean the wool in wine, and having dried the wine with the sordes, which they call pinon, at the time of using, add of it, oz. iij, and the other things as mentioned. On the mixture of to ax to oil. If you wish to prepare oint- ments like those called Acopa, add four parts of the oil to the wax; but if, as in fractures, you wish to make a soft cerate, make it double. When we wish to give the medicine the form of a plaster, then we mix equal parts of oil with wax, if the atmosphere be of a moderate temperature. But if the wax be old or dry, and the atmosphere cold, then there must be a little more of the oil than of the wax; when the wax is soft and tlie atmosphere warm, the wax should be a little less than the oil. This little should be the twelfth part on each side of the middle, for in this case you will mix xj or xiij oz. of oil to the pound of wax. From the works of Antyllus, on the boiling of those medicines which are the ingredients of plasters.—Litharge. In the boil- ing of the medicines, the litharge Avill be boiled with the oil; but the lithai'ge having been previously triturated, is to be triturated again with the oil, so as to become viscid, and then it is to be boiled at a gentle fire, stirring incessantly. At first, then, it swells and bubbles; but when nearly boiled suflB.- ciently, it becomes of a more feculent colour. It has attained its measure of boibng when the swelling subsides, and it no longer stains. The molybdsena is to be boiled in a similar manner to litharge ; but the measure of the boihng of it is not only when it ceases to stain, but when it changes from a fiery colour to a yellow and strongly florid. Burnt copper in boihng is not to be put in at the commencement, but when the plaster is half boiled : the measure of the boiling, unless a small quan- tity only is put in, is when its colour predominates and renders the plaster yellow; sori and diphryges are put in during the boiling. The measure of the boiling of the diphryges, like the