SECT. III.] 67 SIMPLES. yeai's from our Britisli Dispensatories. Our continental Comm. brethren still make use of it. The modern Greek Pharma-" " copceia does not retain the leaves. Balsftmumj Balsam-tree; that part of it which is like its wood is desiccant and heating in the second degree. It is also composed of subtile particles, but the juice of it is much more so. Its fruit is possessed of similar powers, but its particles are less subtile. • Commentary. This clearly is the Balsamum Gileadense, or Comm. Balm of Gilead, being procured, as Dr. Pereira states, from the ' ' Balsamo-clentlron Gileadense, a middling-sized tree growing in Arabia. He says, it is rarely or never employed by Europeans ; but is adapted to the same cases as the terebinthinates. The Asiatics use it for its odoriferous as well as its medicinal pro- perties. Dioscorides certainly writes strongly in its favour, recommending it as a detergent application to sores and com- plaints of the eyes, and internally as an emmenagogue and diuretic, and as an antidote to poisons and venomous animals. Galen treats of it much more reservedly (i, 18.) The balsam occurs in Celsus's list of articles which concoct and promote suppuration (v, 3.) The Arabians fully coincide with the character of it given by Dioscorides. See in particular Serapion (c. 160); Avicenna (ii, 2, 81.) Though this article has almost ceased to be employed in the practice of the scientific physician, it was the instrument by which one of the most successful pieces of empiricism was perpetrated in the begin- ning of this centmy. We allude to Dr. Solomon's celebrated Balm of Gilead. BaXwrj), Balote, by some called Black Horehound; it is possessed of ! acrid and detergent powers; therefore, when applied with .! salts, it relieves the bite of mad dogs. CoMMENTAKY There appears little reason to doubt that Comm. t this is the Balloie nigra, or stinking horehound of our her- ' ' Ibalists. Our author's account of it is abridged from ! Dioscorides. It is not treated of by Galen, Aetius, nor