[hook VII. 458 APPENDIX TO Mahaleb. See Serapion (De Simpl. 44); Rhases (Contin. 1. ult. i, 442); Avicenna (ii, 2, 471.) It appears to be undoubtedly the Prunus Mahaleb, that is to say, the Cerasus Mahaleb of Miller, Angl., "rock," or "perfumed" cherry. Serapion. applies to it what Dioscorides and Galen had written on the phillyrea; after which he gives the opinions of several Arabian authorities who recommend it as a medicine to expel the superfluities of the system and intestinal worms, and as being useful in gout, and as a lithontriptic. One of them, Isaac ebn Amram, describes the varieties of it very circumstantially. Avicenna and Rhases give a similar account of it. Jesemin and Zambach. See Serapion (De Simpl. 176); Rhases (Contin. xxii, 838; 1. ult. i, 369); Avicenna (ii, 2, 611); and Ebn Baithar (591.) Serapion describes them under the same head, the one as having a white flower, and the other a yellow^ of which the latter is the weaker in its powers. It is got, he says, from Babylonia, where there is another species which has a sky- blue colour. His authorities recommend it principally in phlegmatic complaints, and more particularly in those of old persons, and as an application in impetigo and other cutaneous diseases of a like nature. He says it induces headache when administered to persons of a hot temperament. Avicenna gives a very similar account of these two plants, and neither Rhases nor Ebn Baithar supplies any additional information regarding them; the latter, however, gives a very interesting account of them. He says of the yellow species that it was used for dyeing the hair. Like the others, he speaks favorably of it, and especially of its oil in complaints of a cold nature. The latter species, in all probability, was the jasminum sambac, still well known in the East as a perfnme. See Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 651); Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 59); and Sprengel (R. H. H. i, 242.) Whether the other be the humile or officinale, we are unable to determine. Secacul. See Serapion (De Simpl. 89) and Avicenna (ii, 2, 663.) From the description which they give of it, there cau be no