147 SIMPLES. SECT. III.] iomcwhat sour. It is, therefore, detergent, and exudes the hick and viscid humours at the same time that it contracts >odies, and is astringent. It therefore purges deep-seated mmoxirs, and is not against persons affected with vomiting of jlood. CoJiMENTARY. From our author's account of it, it would Comm. .eem to be the same as the fasil, or kidney-bean; but Dios- orides clearly distinguishes between them, (iv, 119.) Dodonseus ; ad refeiTed it to the Menyanthes trifoUata, or bog-bean ; nut this opinion is rejected by Sprengel. He inclines to the ihrydalis claviculaia, Pers., but is not decided. We rather icline to the opinion of Dodonseus, on the ground that its ledicinal character, as given by Galen and our author, applies !ry well to the Menyanthes trifoliata. It is not treated of by etius, nor can we find it in the Mat. Med. of the Arabians. 'r ' Irea, Sahx, the Willow; the leaves and flower are possessed of ssiccant powers without pungency. It has also some astrin- ency; but the bark is drier, and when burnt, the ashes of it e powerfully desiccant, for they remove clavi and myrmecia th vinegar. \ Commentary. Several species of the Salix are described Comm. ' Theophrastus and other ancient authors. Milligan refers at of Celsus to S. alba, fragilis, and purjmrea; but to de- ae the species, which are so numerous in this genus, is futile. |tit that the Alba was one of the medicinal willows of the icients, can admit of no doubt. See Parkinson (1430.) loscorides says the fruit and leaves, and bark and juice of 3 willow tree are possessed of an astringent power, and ac- dingly he recommends them both externally and internally various complaints for which astringents arc indicated, such liajraoptysis, and as a fomentation in arthritic complaints. ; also mentions the ley of it when prepared with vinegar for ; removal of callus and corns, (i, 35.) Galen also gives a y elaborate statement of its medicinal virtues; he says it desiccative without pungency, and has some astringency; I he recommeuds it strongly in the same cases as Dioscoridcs i our author; indeed, the latter merely abridges Galen.