8 SECT, nr.] SIMPLES. j 13 iiave but varieties produced by cultivation. We have treated Comm. 1 of them among the articles of food, in the 79th section of the ' " ' 1 First Book. As a medicine, Dioscorides recommends them especially in a cataplasm for inflammations of the testicles, -scabies, achor, lichen, cancerous and ill-conditioned ulcers. ^All kinds of vetches, he says, are diuretic, and prove useful mhen given with rosemary, for jaundice and dropsy, (ii, 126.) Galen gives the chiches the same character, and further holds Ithem to be lithontriptic. (De Simpl. v.) Aetius follows him iblosely. (i.) The Arabians in addition say that chiches are lanthelminthic, diuretic, and purgative, and that they are useful an arthritic diseases. See Serapion (80); Avicenna (ii, 2, 128); :and Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 209.) Avicenna, in particular, ?ives a long list of their medicinal virtues. In addition to those ib-eady stated, he joins Hippocrates in holding chiches to be iiphrodisiacal j and hence he says procreating animals, such as camels, are fed with them. He joins the others in holding ihem to be deobstruent, lithontriptic, cathartic, and diuretic. Chiches long held a place in our Dispensatory with the cha- racters given to them by Dioscorides and Avicenna. See auincy (111) and Rutty (122.) Tlu-ee sorts were used in aodern as in ancient times, namely, the white, the red, and i<he black, but, as Quincy remarks, their medicinal virtues are lU pretty much the same. ''Epio, Lana, Wool; that which is unscoured is useful for embro- cations, for the CEsypum is digestive, like butter. That which scoured is simply the vehicle for other applications. That hich is burnt has acrid, hot, and desiccative powers, with 6me tenuity of parts so as to melt down the flaccid flesh of h-cers. I< Commentary. Dioscorides, Galen, Serapion, and the other Comm. |ttthontics give nearly the same account of the medicinal pro- Tsrties of wool. Enca, Heath, is possessed of discutient powers without ingency. Its flower and leaves are principally to be used. Commentary. Sprengel and Schneider agree that it is the CoM^r Wtca arborea, but the description of it given by Dioscorides