[book VII. SIMPLES. 402 Comm. misy, soH, and chalcitis, we have to state it as our deliberate " ' opinion^ that, provided the authority of Galen be held decisive of the question, there can be no hesitation in coming to the conclusion that they were merely varieties of the chalcanthum, arising principally from age or differences in the proportion of the ingredients entering into its composition. (See below.) Probably then the chalcitis was a specimen of pure sulphate of copper which had contracted an efflorescence from age. The misy or zeg viride of the Arabians no doubt owed its colour to a predominance of the sulphate of iron; while in the sori we may suppose that zinc or other impurities gave it its pecu- liar characters. Atramentum Sutorium, Copperas or Vitriol, is water con- creted in the metal mines of Cyprus, having a very strong astringency with no contemptible degree of heat; and of all substances it is the most effectual for pickling and di'ying humid flesh. In process of time it changes to chalcitis. Comm. COMMENTARY. No person who reads the account of this " ' ' substance given by Dioscorides and Pliny can doubt of its being blue vitriol, or an impure sulphate of copper procm'ed by the evaporation of water found in mines of copper. Pliny's description of it is quite characteristic : " Color est cceruleus, perquam spectabili nitore vitrumque esse creditur." He also states that it is the same as the "atramentum sutorium." (H. N. xxxiv, 32.) Celsus says the same of it, and ranks it with styptics (v, 1) ; with coirrosive substances (v, 6); with caustics (v, 7, 8); with escharotics (vi, 11); and recommends it when strongly heated or roasted to remove callus (v, 28, 12), and for other purposes. Whether the blue chalcitis of Hippo- crates (De Ulcer. 13), alluded to in the preceding article, be blue vitriol as some have supposed (Pereira, Mat. Med. 494), we cannot pretend positively to determine, but we think it probable. Galen describes most graphically his visit to the copper mines of Cyprus, where, among other strange sights, he witnessed the process of procuring chalcanthum. He mentions that a specimen of it which he carried with him in the course of twenty years was converted into chalcitis on its surface, while its centre remained chalcanthum, and that he meant to