201 SECT. III.] SIMPLES. Kvavoq." (Ad Dioscor. V, 105.) From what has been stated, any comm. person acquainted wit]! mineralogy can have no difficulty in ' « ' deciding that the cyanus and armenium were varieties of the mineral called "blue copper" by Jameson, that is to say, the "blue carbonate of copper" of Cleaveland (566.) For further information regarding it, we would refer to Matthiolus and Sprengel (Ad Dioscor. 1. c), Beckmann (Hist, of Invent.), and our article under this head in the Appendix to Dunbar^s Greek Lexicon. Our author copies his account of it from Galen. Dioscorides recommends it only as an external application, possessed of repressing, moderately septic, escharotic, and ulce- rative powers, (v, 106.) The Arabians, who, however, evidently do not distinguish properly this mineral from the lapis lazuli, recommend it as an emmenagogue and purgative. When boiled with lentils, Avicenna says, it acts as an emetic in the • 1 case of a person who has swallowed any poison. He also pre- scribes it in asthma and pain of the kidneys. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 56); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 692); Serapion (c. 389,) 'The later Greek writers on medicine, like the Arabians, con- ffound this substance with the lapis lazuli. See Theophanes :Nonnus (c. 125, 143); Myrepsus (i, 30.) The former of tthese prescribes it as a specific in the plague. In modern t times also the cyanus or blue copper has been confounded with t the lapis lazuli. See Lewis (M. M. ii, 50.) Cyclaminus, Sow-bread, is possessed of various powers; for lit cleanses, incides, opens the mouths of vessels, and discusses; 'lie juice of it, therefore, when applied to hemorrhoids opens tliem, and it discusses hardness along with other things. Along with honey it agrees with suffusions and purges by the nose. When rubbed into the epigastrium, it loosens the belly ! and kills the foetus. The whole root, though weaker than the j juice, is also strong, so that when drunk with honeyed water I to the amount of three drachms, it purges the internal parts. I To the skin it also px'oves detergent. The root of the other I species of sow-bread (called Cissanthemon) is of no medicinal , ise, but its fruit is drastic, so that when drunk it acts like he former. Commentary. Dioscorides treats at considerable length of Comm.