SIMPLES. 139 SECT. III.] diuretic and emraenagogue, and says that it destroys the foetus Comm. in utero, clears out the viscera, and is useful in discharges ' ' ' from the chest and lungs. Oribasius gives it the same cha- racter. Aetius, from personal experience, as he says, writes of its vii'tues more elaborately than any other ancient author. Thus he gives a prescription for a di'aught composed of oxymel and finely powdered thyme, which he says proves beneficial in arthi'itic diseases by purging bile and the acrid humours, both by the belly and by the bladder. He recommends similar compositions in sciatica, pleuritic pains, meteorism of the hypochondiia, and tympanitis. He prescribes, in like manner, thyme and oxymel to melancholic persons, to those disordered in mind, and possessed with morbid apprehension; and in gout, when given with undiluted wine. He also re- commends it to be givea in swellings of the testicles, to the patient fasting, in undiluted wine. The Arabians write fully ■ on this head, but borrow almost all their information from Dioscorides and Galen, and make no reference to Aetius. ' See in particular Avicenna (ii, 3, 328), and Serapion (De ' Simpl. 281.) They all agree in giving it the character of ! being diuretic, emmenagogue, anthelminthic, and phlegma- Thymbra, Savory; the wild has the same powers as t thyme. The garden is in all respects weaker, but is better f for food. Commentary. The ancients made use of Savory {Satureia Comm. Thymbra) as a condiment. Aristophanes (Nubes, 430.) Dios- '—'—' rcorides recommends it in the same cases as thyme, and all tthe others write of it in much the same terms. Symeon JSeth says it promotes digestion, is emmenagogue, diaphoretic, sand carminative. Macer Floridus affirms that it is aphro- Idisiacal, and produces abortion in pregnant women when II applied on a pessary. It long held a place in the Dispensatory »with the character of being "warm and discussive." See ^Quincy (127.) i gogue. Thymelsea, Spurge-flux; from it the Granum Gnidium is iproduced, which has similar powers to it.