SIMPLES. 109 SECT. III.] into this country by the "Romans for tlieir H. niger. The Comm. H. officinalis, Salisb., which Dr. Sibthoi-p brings forward in ' ' ' its place, is a distinct species. See Alston^s Lectures (42); also the Greek Pharmacopoeia, Athens, 1837, (p. 77.) 'EX Elichrysum, Shrubby Everlasting or Eternal Flower (called also Chrysanthemon and Amarantum), is a plant used for gai'lands, having capillary leaves of a golden appearance. When drunk with wine it is suitable for dysuria, the bites of reptiles, ischiatic disease, and fractures. It also promotes menstruation, and dissolves coagula when drunk with wine and honey, and relieves catarrhs. Commentary. Linnseus makes the ancient Helichrysum Comm. identical with his Qnaphalium. (Gener. Plant. 946.) Accord- ' ' ingly Sprengel, in his R. H, BT, refers it, with Cordus and Sibthorp, to the Gnaphalium SttBchas. But in his edition of Dioscorides he rather inclines to the Tanacetum annuum. Dr. Hill says of the tansy: " It has been greatly celebrated as an uterine, a vulnerary, and a diuretic. It is recommended in suppressions of the menses, and in cases of the gravel, and other nephritic complaints." This agrees so well with the cha- racters of the elechrysus as given by Dioscorides and Paulus, that we are inclined to identify this article with the Tanacetum annuum. It is proper to admit, however, that the virtues which Dioscorides ascribes to the elechrysus are asciibed by old Gerard to the cudweed. It is one of those articles in the ancient Materia Medica which can never be satisfactorily determined. See further, Parkinson (p. 695) and Lewis's Dispensatory (i, 411.) 'EX^iVtj, Helxine, or Parietaria, Fellitory of the Wall (called also ' Perdicium, Parthenium, Sideritis, and Heraclea); its powers are detergent and slightly astringent, with a coldish humidity. The Helxine, called also Cissampelos, is possessed of discutient powers. Commentary. This is evidently the second species of Comm. Dioscorides (iv, 86), who represents the leaves as being cooling ' ' '