[book vri. 16S SIMPLES. indurated uvula. The entire head of the anchovy {smaris), when burnt, is useful in alopecia when applied with bear's grease. The burnt head of a mouse Avhen applied with honey does the same thing. The dried head of the kite without its featherSj when drunk in water to as great an amount as can be lifted with three fingers, relieves gouty affections. They say that the head of a lizard extracts sharp-pointed things, and removes myrmecia, acrochordon, and clavus. Comm. COMMENTARY. Our author's account of the medicinal pro- perties of Heads is taken from Galen. See also Aetius and Serapion. Dioscorides treats of the different articles sepa- rately, and not under a general head like Galen and his suc- cessors. (See ii, 31, 32, &c.) The Arabians merely copy from Dioscorides and Galen, especially the latter. See in particulai" Serapion (c. 571.) Galla, Gall; that sort called Omphacitis is a very sour medicine, and hence it proves desiccant, repels defluxions, contracts and astringes relaxed and debilitated parts. It agrees also witli all cases of defluxion. It is to be placed in the third rank of desiccants, and the second of refrigerants. The other sort, which is yellow, porous, and large, is desic- cant indeed, but less so than the other, inasmuch as it is deficient in astringency. In a decoction it reheves inflam- mations of the fundament and prolapsus ani when burnt. Extinguished in vinegar they become styptic. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscorides describes two species of galls, of ' ' ' which the better kind, called omphacitis, consisted of small, hard, and solid pieces without perforations, and is not to be confounded with the o/nfaKiQ, or cupula of the acorn, mentioned by Paulus. (iii, 62.) See also Theophrastus (Hist. Plant, iii, 9), Pliny (H. N. xvi, 9), and Serapion (De Simi^l. c. 237.) Galls Avere much used by the ancient physicians in all cases requiring powerful astringents. According to Dr. Hill, the Galke oniphacitce of the ancients were the same as the Aleppo galls now in use, and the other kind, sometimes called Onociae, the same as the European. Dioscorides describes the gall as the fruit of the oak, an error which is to be found, as Dr. Pereira remarks, in the works of comparatively recent writers.