SECT. III.] 95 SIMPLES. mentioned by our anthors. Avicenna recommends the fresh Comm. skin of a goat as an application to poisoned wounds, (iij 2, 539.) " * 1^'nCTCtf.ll'OV, Dictamnum^ Dittany, consists of more subtile particles than pennyroyal, but resembles it in other respects. That variety called Pseudo dictamnum is weaker. Commentary. That the Dictamnus Creticus, so celebrated Comm. even in poetry (Virg. ^u. xii, 413) as a vulnerary herb, was a species of Origanum, has been long known and acknowledged. Until of late years it held a place in our Dispensatories under the name of dittany of Candy. It was always held to be alexi- pharmic, and as such it is commended by Dioscorides. Such, he adds, is the power of this herb that by the smell and touch it kills venomous reptiles; and the juice of it when poured into a wound inflicted by an iron instrument or the bite of a veno- mous animal immediately cures it. (iii, 34.) Galen would appear to have been sceptical as to the great medicinal powers said to be inherent in this plant, for he dismisses it with a brief notice to the effect that it is more attenuant than the pennyroyal, but like to it otherwise. See also Celsus {y, 25.) The Arabians follow Dioscorides, and represent it to be diuretic and emmenagogue. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 461) and Serapion (De Simpl. 310.) They describe it along with the penuyroyal. The bastard dittany has been pretty generally recognized as the -Dictamnus Fraxinella, See Parkinson, Miller, and Pereira (ii, 1652, ed. sec.) The last of these authors remarks regarding it, that " it was formerly much used in medicine^ but of late years lhas fallen into almost total disuse." Not very many years ago, however, it was in great repute as being diuretic, emme- nagogue, alexipharmic, anthelmintic, &c. See Alston's Lectures (i, 434.) It is still esteemed by the Arabians and Persians as a ttonic and stimulant. Ainslie (Mat. Med. 63.) AiovuCTt'ac, Dionysias, is treated of under Androsiemum. Diphryges, Husk of Brass, is possessed of mixed powers.