[book vii. 22 SIMPLES. Comm. Lithospevmum, or of any species of Echium, are scarcely recog- nized. Indeed, as tlie Ancliusa tinctoria is retained in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia, and as it is tliere stated to be a common plant in Greece, we need have no hesitation in ad- mitting it to be the common anchusa of the ancients. ''ASojO/CIJ, Adarce is a sort of froth of salt water, collecting about rubbish and weeds. It is veiy acrid, and heating almost to burning when applied externally Avith other things; for it cannot be taken internally. Comm. COMMENTARY. The description of this substance given by " * ' Dioscorides, Galen, and the other authorities is substantially the same as our author's, from which all we can gather is that it was a saline concretion formed about reeds and herbs in salt lakes. But even Matthiolus confesses that he never could satisfy himself that he had found the substance in question, and no modern authority on the Materia Medica has treated of it. Dioscorides compares it to the alcyonium, from which we think it probable that the adarce may have been applied to some species of this zoophyte. See Alcyonium. Dioscorides recommends it for the cure of lepra and sciatica (v, 136.) The Arabians borrow fi'om him under this head. See in particular Avicenna (ii, 2, 17); Serapion (c, 378.) It is not mentioned by Celsus. ''A.^'iavTov, Adiantum, Maiden-hair, is desiccative, attenuant, and mode- rately discutient; and with regard to heat and cold, it holds an intermediate place. It, therefore, cures alopecia, discusses swellings, proves lithontriptic when taken in a draught, di'ies up expectorations from the lungs, and stops defluxions of the belly. Comm. COMMENTARY. Theophrastus says that it derives its name ' ' ' from its propei'ty of not being wet in rain. He adds, that it promotes the growth of the hair. (H. P. \ai, 13.) Nicander says the same of it. (Ther. 846.) According to Apuleius, it is the same as the callitrichou, polytrichon, and asplenon. There can be no doubt that it is the A. Capillus Veneris L. Dioscorides describes another species by the name of rpi^J/naj'sc, which