316 [book VII. SIMPLES. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscorides, like our author^ describes two species, of wliicli the former is certainly the Rhajjhanus sativus, and the other probably the R. maritimiis. Dioscorides gives so long a catalogue of the medicinal properties of the former or common radish, that we can scarcely ventm'e upon an expo- sition of it. He says of it, that its seed is emetic, diuretic, and a cleanser of the spleen, when drunk with -vinegar; that it is beneficial in cynanche, and alexipharmic both when taken internally and applied externally. Florentinus (Geopon. xii, 22) and Pliny (H. N. xx, 13) praise the radish as an antidote to poisonous substances and venomous animals. It was much used by the ancients aa an emetic, and for this purpose it was taken before a meal as described by Celsus. (i, 3.) See also Dioscorides (1. c.) and Pliny (1. c.) Hence it is frequently prescribed by Nicander, as a remedy in the case of poisoning, as in that by henbane, and in that by mushrooms. It is also recommended in these and similar cases by Scribonius Largus (Compos. 198.) The radish we are confident is the "radicula" of Celsus, who presciibes it for various purposes, as being laxa- tive, diuretic, and, as we formerly stated, emetic. (See Vol. II, 31, &c.) The Arabians attach much importance to this article, but do not supply much information regarding it but what they acknowledge to be derived from the Greeks. See Serapion (c. 307) ; Avicenna (ii, 2, 574); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 571) ; Averrhoes (ColUg. v, 42); Ebn Baithar (ii, 246.) They agree in stating of it, that taken before other food it renders vomit- ing easy; and after food that it loosens the bowels. AU re- commend it in cases of poisoning. They also prescribe it as a deobstruent in obstructions of the liver and in jaundice. The radishes, the garden and the wild, retain their ancient charac- ters in the works of our old herbalists, and even in the time of Quincy they stiU held a place in our Dispensatory, although, as he says, " little used in medicine." (i, 5, 409.) 'Pj/01', Rheum (called by some Rha), is composed of a terrene, cold, and subtile substance, and of a vaporous, hot, and slightly acrid one. Hence it reUeves sprains and ruptures, and orthopnoea, and also lividities, by its discutient powers; and by its astringency, spitting of blood, c:eliac and dysenteric affections. By both it cm-es hepatic coinj)laints.