SIMPLES. SECT. III.] 253 by him to produce tlie discharge of the urine. But when Comm. • taken immoderately, the meum occasions headache, (i, 3.) In ' " ' I the above extract, hv " diseases of constriction" Dioscorides i alludes to a well-known dogma of the Methodists. It would : appear^ then, that he was imbued with the principles of that ; sect. None of the other Greek authorities treat of it so fully 8 as Dioscorides. As far as we have discovered, it does not coccur in the works of Hippocrates, nor in those of Celsus. For rthe Ai-abians, see Avicenna (ii, 2, 454) ; Serapion (De Simpl. 1182); Ehases (CoUig. 1. ult. i, 477); Averrhoes (CoUig. v, 42.) TThey do nothing but copy from Dioscorides. In the works oof all our old herbalists and authorities on the English Dispen- psatory, down to the days of Quincy and Lewis, the meum pretains a place with all its ancient characters. I Milax or Smilax, Bindweed ; both the smooth, and the rough Mpecies which twines round trees, are possessed of acrid and pieating powers. I Commentary. The two species here noticed are most pro- Comm. p)ably the Smilaw aspera and Convolvulus sepium. Dioscorides ' ' ' Kommends the former of these principally as being alexipharmic, und the latter as being soporific, (iv, 142, 143.) Galen and ■the other Greek authorities, like our author, merely give their Keneral characters. The Arabians would seem to confound Bt with the other climbing herbs. See Serapion (De Simpl. 1); Avicenna (ii, 2, 724.) M/(jv, Misy, is one of the escharotic and caustic medicines, with a rong astringency. It is less pungent than chalcitis, owing ) the greater tenuity of its parts. And Galen says that lalcitis and sori, in the course of time, change to misy, the lange beginning at the surface. Commentary. It appears strange that this mineral should Comm. 3W be so little known, seeing it was well known as late as '—"— le days of Boerhaave, and is still used medicinally in the ast. Boerhaave says of it, "Misy, a yellow mineral very much sembliug the marcasite or mundick of our mines, but lighter, id of a less compact nature . . It is a vitriohc mineral, and i!