SIMPLES. 275 SECT. III.] Oudypa, Onagra, Tree Primrose (called also CEnothera and CEnothyris), is a sort of plant resembling a tree, the root of which, when appHed as a cataplasm, proves soothing to the bites of venomous animals. Commentary, It Avould appear to be either the CEnothera Comm. Onagra, Tonrnefort, or the Epilobium ungustifolium L., Narrow- ' " ' leaved Willow-herb, as Sprengel supposes. Dioscorides describes it minutely, but, hke our author, merely recommends it in malig- nant sores, (iv, 116.) Galen strangely, as we would suppose, ! says of it, that its juice is of a venous nature, and of the same i power as wine. As far as we ha^e been able to discover, it is ; not to be found in the works of Hippocrates, Celsus, or any of X the Arabians. It is worthy of remark that the Epilobium f angustifolium, although it does not hold a place in our Mat. ■Med., is still known to the vendors of medicines, and retains t the characters which it obtained from the ancients. See Gray 1 (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 84.) This confirms the conjecture that tthe onagra is this plant. We would further mention, as con- firmatory of this opinion, that the E. august, has been cultivated about gardens in this country from time immemorial, so' that there is every reason to believe that it had been introduced by the Romans, no doubt on account of its supposed efldcacy in .medicine. "'Ovo/ua rj OvO|Utc, Onosma, or Onomis, Stone Bugloss (called also Phlomitis or Ononis), is acrid and bitter, and hence the leaves of it when nk with wine kill and expel the fostus. Commentary. That it was a species of Anchusa, or one of Comm. Its congeners, is obvious, from the description of it given by '—•—' ioscorides, who says, the stalk, the fruit, and the fiower, are tsrery like to the anchusa. It seems probable, then, that it was ome species either of Anchusa or Lithospennum. The Onosma Df Linnseus, as Sprengel justly remarks (Ad Dioscor. iii, 137), .s altogether a plant of a different character. Dioscorides, ike our author, says it has great powers in procuring abortion; ay, that it was alleged that if a pregnant woman walked upon he plant she would miscarry. (1. c.) It is said that Ai-etceus ecommends it in nephritic complaints. Pscudo-Dioscor. Euporist. ii, 112.) Galen and the other authorities who