SIMPLES. 194 [book VII. Commentary. The Brassica sativa of the ancients no doubt comprehended several species of cabbage. Dioscorides dwells largely on its medicinal properties, but in nearly the same terms as our author. He calls it laxative and alexi- pharmic, and recommends it as an application to erysipelas, epinyctis, and leprosy; with salts, he says, it breaks anthrax, and when boiled and mixed with milk, it is a good appli- cation to spreading gangrene. The Brassica sylvestris (which Sprengel inclines to set down as being the Brassica incana, Zenor.), he says, is agglutinative of wounds, and dis- cutient of swellings and inflammations. Its cyme, he says, is not unpleasant to the taste. To the sea-cabbage [Convolvulus solclanella) he assigns the same characters as our author, (ii, 146, 147, 148.) Galen gives nearly the same account of the three species of brassica. In the Hippocratic ti-eatises, the decoction of cabbage is recommended as an injection to the womb. (De Mulieb. ii.) According to Celsus, the brassica when half raw is laxative, but when twice boiled, astringent, (ii, 29, 30.) The Arabians treat of the different kinds of brassica at great length; as usual, drawing largely from the stores of the Greeks. One of the Arabian authorities quoted by Rhases, says its seed, if applied per vaginam post coitum, wi^A. prevent impregnation, and that the decoction of it expels the tape- Avorm. Another of the same authorities recommends a de- coction of it as an application to the joints in gout, and to blistered surfaces after burning, more especially when its ashes are mixed up with the white of an egg. (Contin. 1. ult. i, 198.) See in like manner, Serapion (c. 32) and Avicenna (ii, 2, 139.) As we have stated in our commentary on the 95th section of the First Book, all the ancient authorities held that the cabbage counteracts the intoxicating powers of wine. The brassicse held a place in our Dispensatoiy, and retained their ancient character down to a comparatively recent date. See Parkinson, Culpeper, and still more recently Quincy. (116.) They are still much prized as medicines by the Arabians and Persians. See Ainslie (M. Ind.N Kparaioyoi'oi', Cratseogonon; the fruit of this herb is acrid to the taste and cold like millet.