SIMPLES. 205 SECT. III.] I Our author's account of its medicinal uses is taken from Galen, Comm. aand is confirmed by Serapion, Avicenna, and RLases. All of ' ' ' tthem, however, are indebted to Dioscorides, who gives it the cchai'acter of being calefacient, anastomotic, and diuretic, i-e- ccomraends it in uterine complaints as an emmenagogue, in ulcers Dof the mouth, and as an ingredient in emollient plasters, (i, 4.) }A modern author. Dr. Hill, gives it nearly the same character fkas the ancients; he calls it stomachic, deobstruent, emmena- ggogue, and diuretic. It likewise occurs in the Materia Medica jof Tom'nefort, who also calls it deobstruent and emmenagogue. [Quincy gives a confused account of it under the name of [Cyprus (Engl. Dispens. i, 1, 69); see also Lewis. Dioscorides idescribes also an Indian species having a root resembling tginger. Both Matthiolus and Sprengel are inclined to refer to Ithe Curcuma. We shall have occasion to notice it afterwards, iwhen describing the substances introduced into the Mat. Med. )by the Arabians. ILigustrum, Privet; its leaves and tops are possessed of lixed powers, being discutient and astringent, and desiccative dthout pain or pungency. Hence the decoction of it, when oxu-ed on a part, is useful for burns, and agrees with inflam- lations of a hot nature. When chewed it also relieves aphthae, nd is mixed up with splenic remedies. Commentary. We must decline entering upon the gene- Comm. al literature of this subject, which has created a good deal of' * ' iscussion. Suffice it to say, that we have now no hesitation a deciding it to be the Laiosonia inermis, namely, the plant Vom which the henna of Egypt is obtained. See Lindley's ■ eg. King. (575.) It is used by females for staining their lands and feet of an orange colour. Dioscorides mentions- hat an infusion of its leaves in the juice of saponaria, or seap- ort, was used for painting the hairs yellow. He says of the intment prepared from it (unguentum cyprinum), that it is alcfacicnt, emollient, and fragrant, (i, 124.) Galen, Aetius, ud Oribasius give it the same characters as our author. The a-abians describe it under the name of alcanna, whicli seems to e henna with an Arabic prefix. See in particular Serapion De Simpl. 110), and Avicenna (ii, 2, 50.) Both copy freely •om Dioscorides and Galen. They say its virtues in female