SECT. III.] 85 SIMPLES. pose it an argil. The purple Cimolian earth of the ancients Comm. was our steatitis or soap-rock. From Dioscorides's account of" * ' the Melian earth, it appears to have consisted principally of alum, and was different from the Terra Melia of Theophrastus. The Ampelites would seem to have been a bituminous earth, formed from stone-coal, probably resembling cannel coal. The Armenian earth, as Matthiolus remarks, was different from the Armenian bole now brought from the East. The ancient is described to be a very dry clay, having the appearance of stone, and very triturable, like lime. It was much, celebrated as a remedy for the plague. See Galen, Aetius, and Serapion, It was introduced into practice by Galen. It is clear, as Dr. Hill remarks, that it was the yellov) Armenian bole which Galen used; the red being first used by the Arabians. Dr. Hill found it an excellent astringent and absorbent. The Eretrian earth was an impure argil, of a snow-white colour, Geber makes frequent mention of magnesia. Ty]paQ o(j)e(i)g, Senecta Serpentis, the Slough of a Sei'pent, is decidedly desiccative : when boiled with vinegar it, therefore, cures toothache. That of the asp, when triturated with, honey and rubbed in, sharpens the powers of vision. CoMMENTAKY. Galcu and Serapion likewise recommend Comm. the skin of a snake, when boiled in wine or vinegar, as a " ' ' remedy for earache and toothache. See also Haly Abbas (Pract. ii, 49, 530.) Dioscorides gives nearly the same account of it, only he recommends the cast skin of the viper as an ophthalmic remedy, (ii, 19.) The serpent's slough is still used medicinally in the East. See Ainslie (Materia Medica, ii, 291.) Vermes teiTeni, Earthworms, when pounded and applied • to wounded nerves, have immediately the most wonderful effects, CoMMENTAKY. Dioscoridcs says that earthworms, pounded Comm. and applied, agglutinate divided nerves, and stop tertians; * that, when boiled with the grease of a goose, they cure affec- tions of the cars when injected; that, in like manner, when boiled in oil and injected into the opposite car, they relieve