[book VII. 530 TROCHISKS. of parsley, of storax, of eacli, dr. iv ; of tlie seed of henbane, dr. vj. Triturate with water. Tlie trochisk from roses. Of acacia, of gum, of the flower of roses, of pomegranate flowers, of the juice of hypocistis, of galls, of each, dr. iij; of the juice of green roses, of the seed of plantain, of each, dr. j ; of Indian buckthorn, dr. j. The trochisk from corallium. Of the seed of henbane, of frankincense, of each, dr. viij ; of Samian earth, of corallium, of Sinopic vermilion, of opium, of each, dr. iv ; of starch, of the flowers of the wild pomegranate, of each, dr. ij. Mix with the juice of knotgrass. The trochisk from amber. Of fleawort, oz. v; of mastich, oz. iv ; of the scrapings of amber, of iris, of saffron, of each, oz. ivj of opium, oz. ij. The trochisk from Egrjjjtian thorn. Of Egyptian thorn, of sumach, of frankincense, of acacia, of stone-alum, of the juice of hypocistis, of galls, of Lemnian earth, of coralHum, of com- frey, of Samian aster, of aloes, of Cretan cistus, equal parts. Mix with wine. The trochisk which Galen entitles the aphrodisiasticum clidion. Of the flowers of the cultivated pomegranate, of Egyptian thorn, of the flowers of the wild pomegranate, of the juice of hypocistis, of acacia, of each, dr. vj ; of buckthorn, of Pontic rhubarb, of opium, of each, dr. iv; of myrrh, dr. ij. Mix with myrtle wine, or the decoction of roses or of myrtles. The clidion of Oribasius, for dysentery and cceliac affection. Of the immature gall, dr. viij; of opium, dr. iv. Form into pills with water, and give three or four. The trochi.sk from hartshorn for dysentery and hcemoptysis. Of snails, dr. xij; of burnt hartshorn, of roasted galls, of roasted acacia, of each, dr. v ; obol. xij; of black myrtles, dr. XV; of dried opium, of the juice of hypocistis, of each, dr. v; of the cenanthe, dr. v ; of the juice of the root of mandi-agora, of terra aster, of each, dr. xij; of the sumach used for condi- ments, dr. xiv; of roasted pomegranate rmd, di-. vij ; of frankincense, dr. viij ; of the roasted bark of pine, dr. xiv; of the seed of henbane roasted, dr. x; of the rhus coriaria, sext. ii; of dark-coloured wine, what will be sufficient to boil the sumach until the wine become thick. When it is strained, add the other things, and form the trochisks.