SIMPLES. 403 SECT. III.] keep it until its centre should change likewise, and until the Comm. chalcitis should be converted into misy. Dioscorides describes " ' several varieties of the chalcanthum, one of which is called pedum, being procured by natural evaporation; and another ephthon or coctum, as being procured by boiling. The best kind, he says, is blue, heavy, compact, and translucent. He says it is astringent, heating, and escharotic; kills the lum- bricus latus when taken to the amount of a drachm; that it is emetic, cui'es those who have swallowed mushrooms when drunk with water, and that it purges the head when a piece of wool smeared with it is introduced into the nostrds. (v, 114.) Oribasius gives a -minute description of the chalcanthum, but it is confessedly taken from Dioscorides. (Med. Coll. 13.) Aetius says distinctly that the water running from the copper mines of Cyprus concretes into chalcanthum, and that it changes into chalcitis. He, in fact, evidently borrows from Galen. Avicenna, as formerly stated by us, gives a description of this substance along with misy, sori, and chalcitis, under the general head of " atramentum sutorium." (ii, 3, 47.) He also treats of it separately under its proper name, but his account of it is entirely made up from Dioscorides. (166.) Serapion's, in like manner, is copied from Dioscorides. (c. 386.) Haly Abbas's chapter on the vitriols is so barbarously trans- lated, that we cannot pretend to unfold his account of this substance. (Pract. ii, 47.) Though, as we have stated above, we think there can be no doubt that the chalcanthos of Dioscorides and Pliny was an impure sulphate of copper pro- cured from the " waters of cementation" issuing from copper mines, it is proper to mention that after mature consideration of the subject, with the assistance of an esteemed authority on the Materia Medica in London, we have arrived at the con- clusion that either the term must have been applied loosely to other metallic sulphates, or the ancient sulphate of copper must have contained a very large admixture of the sulphates of iron and of zinc. Probably, then, the term chalcanthos was used anciently in as loose a manner as the terms vitriol and copperas have been in modem times. (See Tournefort's Mat. Med.) It is further deserving of remark under this head, that the description of the impure sulphate of copper, which is given in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia, corresponds exactly