SIMPLES. 231 SECT. III.] when applied to a woman^s pai'ts of generation after her Comm. menstrual period, will promote conception of a female, while ' ' ' those of the male plant will promote conception of a male. It does not occur in the works of Celsus, nor^ as far as we can discover, in those of any of the Arabians, with the exception of Aven'hoes, who calls it a gentle purgative of the same class as Cassia fistula, tamarinds, and the like, and says it evacuates yellow bile and phlegm; and boiled in wine proves an excel- lent application to large sores, and in particular to the ulcers produced by burns. He further recommends its leaves boiled in vinegar for diseases of the spleen, and its flower in a masti- catory and errhine. (Colhg. v, 42.) What our author says of its -sdrtues in the diseases called narphia, by the vulgar, is taken from Aetius (i), where, however, the reading is carphia. Galen says of it, " everybody uses the herb mercury for purg- ing the belly." (De Simpl. Med.) Notwithstanding this testi- mony, which is, in fact, confirmed by that of all the ancient writers who have treated of it, Bergius says, " Virtus suspecta: vis emolHens nondum rite nobis constat." However, Moses Charras, who appears to have written from experience, affirms of it that " it loosens the belly, and provokes the menstruums. The dose is from oz. j to iij." (Roy. Pharm. 106.) Alston likewise acknowledges its laxative powers. Dr. Hill says of it, " This plant is of an emollient nature, and is eaten by many people in the manner of spinach, which, when cultivated in the garden, it greatly excels. If eaten largely it gently opens the bowels." (Mat. Med.) It held a place in our Dispensatory as late as Quincy. (106.) Nitrum, Nitre (or Soda ?), is possessed of intermediate powers between the aphronitrum and salts. When burnt it becomes more attenuate and discutient. If taken internally it cuts and attenuates the thick and viscid humours more than any other. The Chalestrajan (so called from Chalestra, a place in Thessalonica) is more acrid and desiccative, so that it is used for defluxions from the head, and for arthritic com- plaints. Commentary. The following extract from Pliny's descrip- Comm, tion of the nitrum clearly indicates the substance to which he