519 SECT. XI.] ANTIDOTES, cakes of half an ounce each, and are composed along with bay-leaves. Another medicine from quinces, having the pieces bruised, but entire. Of clean quinces cut into pieces, lb. viij are boiled in sext. viij of wine moderately, so that they may not be dissolved. Then there are mixed with them of despumated houey, lb. viij; of pepper, oz. viij; of stone parsley, of anise, of each, oz. iij ; of ginger, oz. v; of spikenard, oz. iss; of cloves, oz. j. When all these things are pounded and mode- rately boiled to the consistence of broth, take them off, and ha-vang cooled it, add the pieces of quinces to the broth. Tlie antidote from three jjeppers. Of common, of white, and of long pepper, of each, dr. vij; of ginger, of anise, of thyme- tops, dr. ij ; of honey, q. s. Anothei', of Oribasius. Of white pepper, oz. ij ; of black and of long pepper, of spikenard, of cinnamon, of bishop's weed, of walnut, of hyssop, of seseli, of carrot, of stone-parsley, of each, oz. j ; of ginger, dr. iv ; of honey, lb. iij. Another. Of common pepper, oz. iij; of white pepper, oz. j ; of long, oz. j ; of stone-parsley, of cinnamon (or double the quantity of cassia), of ginger, of each, oz. j j of honey, oz. xxj, or q. s. ; and have also mixed of the corymbi of thyme, oz. j. Tlie diospolites. Of cumin, which has been macerated in water and toasted, oz. j ; of pepper, of ginger, of each, oz. ij; of green rue, oz. iss ; of natron, dr. iiss. Mix with honey. The medicine from calamint. Of stone-parsley, of penny- royal, of seseli, of calamint, of each, oz. iij; of parsley-seed, oz. j; of the corymbi of thyme, oz. j ; of lovage, oz. iv; of pepper, dr. xij; of honey, q. s. The medicine from citron, for those of sloio digestion. Of vinegar, heminai iij ; of the flesh of citron, lb. j ; of hyssop, of rae, of origany, of each, a fasciculus ; having been allowed to macerate for a night and a day in the vinegar, they are to be boiled to a third, and being expressed, are to be thrown awaj'. But with the vinegar is mixed of honey, sext. j ; and then it is to be boiled to the consistence of honey. "When it acquires consis- tence, there is to be added to it, of asarabacca, of spignel, of white pepper, of each, oz. ij. The dose is a spoonful in the 1 morning and at bedtime.