SIMPLES. SKCT. II.] 11 1 again to the same juice from which it was formed, I mean ithat of the unripe grape. But vinegar differs thus far in 1 power from the juice of the unripe grape, that the vinegar has ! acquired a certain degree of acrimony from the putrefactive Iheat (" fermentation ?"); but the juice of the unripe grape has 1 no acquired heat, and therefore none of the acrimony of vine- < gar; wherefore, vinegar is more attenuating than the juice of tthe unripe grape, as the sensation bears testimony to the truth f of what has been said ; but the acrimony of the vinegar is not s sufficient to overcome the coldness arising from its acidity j it sserves, however, to make it more penetrating; for inasmuch as 1 heat is more penetrating than cold, so does the acrimony of \ vinegar the more readily pass the pores of sensible bodies, r and thus acrimony takes the lead, but coldness follows at no i: great interval. And it is this mixed and almost indescribable sensation which prevents us from calling vinegar simply cold; ffor we perceive in it a certain fiery acrimony. But the cold- mess, from the accompanying acidity, straightway obtunds and e extinguishes the acrimony, and therefore there is a much ggreater sensation from the coldness than from the heat; for ssome persons by drinking oxycrate in the summer season are iisensibly cooled, and remain free from thirst. But since thirst larises from two distinct causes, either from a deficiency of jmoisture or an excess of heat, that arising from dryness is not rcured, but that occasioned by heat is removed by it; for [vinegar by itself does not moisten, but is decidedly refrige- rrant. Thirst, therefore, arising from a hot intemperament, or ifrom a hot and dry one, is not to be cured by drinking rvinegar; but when humidity and heat meet together, the ^proper cure of such a kind of thirst is vinegar; but otherwise lin the case of those who are thirsty in ardent fevers and all )other hot diseases, and in those during summer and hot weather, their state is a compound of heat and dryness, so that Ithe proper cure for it is a composition of vinegar and water; (for the vinegar is decidedly refrigerant, and by its tenuity 'readily diffusible, and the water, in addition to its property of <coohng, is the most moistening of all substances, for nothing is more moistening than water. But as an external application for heat of the hypochondrium, the juice of unripe grapes is "preferable to vinegar, because it has no violent and offensive