SIMPLES. [book VII. 244 Comm. alludes to tlie mineral pinguent of our author, which he calls ' Tinctura Inda. (ii, 2, 689.) We beg .to refer our readers to Beckmann's ' History of Inventions' for much curious informa- tion under the head of Indigo. avrrjpio, Atramentum metallicum, is powerfully astringent with sub- tilty of parts. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscoridcs gives a pretty circumstantial " * ' description of three or four varieties of it, and yet none of them can be recognized with any degree of certainty. One thing only is certain, that they must all have contained more or less of copper, being found in mines of copper. As far as we can judge, the mineral named " ferruginous arseniate of copper" by Cleaveland, is the most likely to be the melanteria of Dioscorides. He says it has the same caustic powers as misy. (v, 117.) Galen calls it only powerfully astringent and of subtile parts; and hence Sprengel inclines to set down his melanteria as being different from that of Dioscorides; but between the action of a strong astringent and a weak caustic, the distinction is not great. In describing the melanteria, Aetius follows Galen, and Oribasius Dioscorides. There is no mention of it in the works of Hippocrates, Celsus, and Pliny. The Arabians confuse their description of it by mixing together those of misy, chalcitis, and sori along with it, under the head of Atramentum sutorium. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 47.) Serapion also fails to give any distinct account of it. (De Miner.) MfXav w y^a(j)()/iiev, Atramentum scriptorium. Writing Ink; this, too, is decidedl desiccant; but when dissolved in oxycrate and rubbed in, it straightway reUeves burns. Comm. COMMENTARY. Writing Ink. Dioscorides describes the ' ' composition of two different kinds of ink; the former consist- ing of the soot of pines with gum, and the other containing the soot of rosin, bull's glue, and copperas. For a fuller ac- count of the inks used by the ancients, see Pliny (H. N. xxxv, 6), Oribasius (Med. Collect, xiii), Isidorus (Orig. xix), and Montfaufon (Paljeog. Gr?eca, c. i.) Dioscorides says of it that it is adapted to the healing of putrid ulcers and burns, when