505 -KCT. X.] EMETICS. itlier spontaneously or by one or two injections^ according to ills strength. But tlie most efficacious mode is this: having ^ut the roots of the hellebore into pieces resembling the seeds of Indian corn (for when reduced to a downy powder it occa- sions suflPocation by its powerful action), give to those who are of a weaker constitution dr. ij, at most, or, at least, dr. j of the hellebore, in the juice of ptisan, of halica, or the like ; but to those who are stronger, it is to be given in hot water or honeyed water. The purging begins after three or four hours ; but when it is longer of commencing, it operates more effectixally. When the vomiting is slow of beginning, give honeyed water to drink, and let the patient be compelled to vomit by insert- ing feathers dipped in oil into the throat. If even thus he \vill not vomit, let him be put into the bath. When vomiting commences, if it go on properly, we need not interfere ; but if lancinating pains or convulsions supervene, we must give a mixture of water and oil to drink. For thus is an evacuation downwards occasioned (which otherwise sometimes takes place when hellebore has been administered), and they bear the con- centration of the medicine better. When the patient falls into deliquium animi he is to be resuscitated by strong-smelling things and the like. Any other symptoms which may happen f 0 occur ai-e to be treated in a suitable manner.* When the urging is excessive, they are to be allowed to take food and <leep, and do otherwise as mentioned in describing the treat- ment of hypercatharsis. But if it continue, cupping-instru- ments are to be applied over the stomach, and hgatures tied i ound the limbs. When the evacuation proceeds properly we must give to drink a moderate quantity of honeyed water, in order to wash away the superfluous particles of the medicine. After a little while, give some food of easy digestion. When pprehcnsions are entertained of the administration of helle- jore by the mouth, and the medicine is by all means required, Antyllus uses the following injection : having allowed two drachms of white hellebore to macerate in a sextarius of water for a day and a night, on the day following we are to boil the hellebore in the water until but a half remain. Then we are to inject it by the anus so as to produce vomiting. It purges upwards somewhat more feebly than when the medicine is hank. After sufficient purging, an acrid suppository is to be