III I- 28 SIMPLES. [book vii. Comm. Celsus (v, 2) belong to this place, or not rather to the acacia, " * ' as Milligan suggests, we cannot determine for certain. Modern authorities have confirmed the characters which the ancients ascribed to it. (See Rutty, M. M. jj. 70) j Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. p. 45.) A.KCU>6lOV, Acanthium, is composed of fine particles, and has heating powers, therefore it is a remedy for convulsions. Comm. Commentary. Gerrard and our other herbalists delineate and ' " ' describe this plant under the name of the cotton -thistle, meaning either the Onojjordon acanthium or 0. Illyricum, cotton-thistle. Dioscorides affirms that it is of service to persons affected with tetanus, and upon liis authority all the others, both ancient and modern, ascribe virtues to it in this case. The reader may be amused by comparing what Gerarde and Culpeper have written of it with the ancient descriptions of Dioscorides and Pliny. The cotton-thistle was long used as a potherb. See Beckmann (History of Inventions, under Artichoke) ; and Loudon (Encycl. of Garden, p. 736.) ''A-KnvOa XiiiKT?, Spina alba, the Wfiite-thorn. Its root is desiccative and moderately astringent, therefore it relieves stomachic complaints, haemoptysis, and toothache ; but its seed, consisting of fine particles, and being of a hot nature, when drunk relieves con- vulsions. Acantha ^gyptia, or Arabica, the EgyjAian or Arabic thorn, is possessed of very astringent and desiccative powers. Whence it restrains a flow of blood and other dis- charges. Comm. COMMENTARY. Respecting the two thistles here described, " ' we may refer the fonner, with Sibthorp, to the Cirsium Acarna, and the latter, or Arabian, to the Onopordon acanthium. All the authorities follow Dioscorides in giving its characters, (iii, 12.) See Avicenna (ii, 2, 671-3); Serapion (c. 130); Averrhoes (Colbg. V, 42); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 670.) ''Kkivoq, Acinus; it resembles basil, and is moderately astringent, therefore it restrains alvinc and uterine discharges, when