349 -SIMPLES. ^i;cT. in.] kinds of liquid myrrh, which he calls Stacte; the finest was Comm. that which runs fluid from the tree without cutting. The other " ' w as a fluid myrrh, taken out of the midst of the larger pieces i)f the sohd kind. See Hill (Mat. Med.) The account which Pliny gives of myrrh is highly interesting, but does not con- lain much that would answer our present purpose. (See H. N. \ii, 33-6.) Celsus makes mention of the stacte (v, 23), and prescribes the myi-rh frequently as a concocting and aggluti- nating substance. Galen describes it in two of his works. (De Simpl. 109, and De Antidot. T. ii, 433, ed. Basil.) Our author's account of this substance is condensed from the former of these works. Aetius in like manner borrows from him, as Oribasius does from Dioscorides. For the Arabians, ee Avicenna (ii, 2, 4-68); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 474); Aver- rhoes (Collig. v, 42); Serapion (De Simpl. 292); Haly Abbas (Pract. ii, 41); Ebn Baithar (ii, 496.) Our limits prevent us From venturing upon an exposition of what these authors have «-ritten upon this subject, but this is the less to be regretted, IS we do not find that they add anything of much practical mportance to the information supplied by their Grecian masters, rhey confirm, however, by their authoritj^, all that the Greeks lad stated regarding the virtues of myrrh as an emmenagogue md a medicine capable of accelerating delivery. They are also igreed that it is diuretic and expectorant. One of Serapion's luthorities says it evacuates fluids from the belly when applied is a plaster. Another of them says that in a masticatory it 'vacuates the brain. It would appear that the Boeotian myrrh mentioned by dioscorides, Galen, and our author, was the Alexanders or myrnium Olusatrum. SjUVpi'tOV, Smyrnium, Alsander (called also Hipposelinum and Apium ilvestre) is heating and desiccative of the third order, being tronger than parsley, but weaker than stone-parsley. It is, lierefore, emmenagogue and diuretic. Commentary. This, it would appear, is not the Smyrnium Comm. )lusatrum, but either the Smyrnium Dioscoridis, or, as supposed '—'— y Dodonseus, the perfoliatum. In another place we have set it