m;ct. XX.] OINTMENTS. <ix hours, but this only three. Some dip it and add of verdi- 4iiSj oz. iij. Tfie irinum, or oil of iris. Of iris, of rosewood, of cyperus, ■ f each, lb. v; of opoponax, oz. iij; of alkanet, oz. ij; of oil, >ext. XXX; of water, sext. xv. Some add also, of the schoe- iiunth, oz. vj j of cassia, oz. iij ; of xylobalsam, oz. vj; of Celtic lard, oz. vj. All these things, being bruised, are to be first macerated in water and oil for five days, and then boiled in a ilouble vessel for six days, and laid up. The crocinum, or oil of saffron, in which is contained the omposition of another a'ocomagma. Of the fragrant oil of unripe olives, lb. j ; of calamus aromaticus, oz. v; of troglo- (l)i:ic myrrh, oz. v; of cai'damom, oz. vij; of Cilician saffron, (jz. vj. The first addition is to be of the calamus and myrrh, \vhich, being triturated with wine, are to be macerated for lu'ee days, and three times a day stirred with a spatula of )alm: then they are to be boiled with the oil. The second (Idition is to consist of the cardamom which has been mace- ;ited in the water for one day before; and the third, of the .iffron in wine. Some add other five ounces of the myrrh vith the saffron. Having filtrated, the pure oil is laid up. The whole deposit of the articles is formed into trochisks, which, being dried, constitute what is called the crocomagma. The Menclesium. It is so called because it was invented in I'igypt where Mendes is worshipped. It receives of the oil of icorns, lb. x (in another formula, sext. x) ; of myrrh, of cassia istula, of each, oz. iij; of turpentine, lb. x (in another formula, ext. x); of cinnamon, oz. iij. This is not boiled, but the Iry things being put in, are stirred for sixty days : then the urpentine being melted, is added to part of the oil, and ifterwards stirred for sixty days, in which state it is laid up. The marciatum. Of mastich, of wax, of storax, of each, )Z. iij ; of the medicine oesypum, oz. ss ; of opobalsam, oz. iss; if oil of nard, of gleucinum, of oil of unripe grapes, of each, )Z. iij ; of stag's marrow, oz. iss ; of turpentine, oz. j. The oil of unripe olives. The first addition.—Of rosewood, )f the branches of palms, of melilots, of iris, of the schoenanth, )f xylobalsam, of dried roses, of sweet-cane, of each, oz. iij; of )il of unripe olives, lb. x ; of the juice of unripe olives, sext. x. The second addition.—Of Indian leaf, of amomum, of spike-