SKCT. III.] 185 SIMPLES. beneficial in hot coughs, in ulcers of the lungs, and for clear- Comm. ing the voice; they also held it to be stomachic and theriacal. """"^ See Avicenna (ii, 3, 310); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 345); and Serapion (c. 229.) Kovta, Lixivium, Lye; the washings, as it were, of ashes are so named. The most detergent and desiccative of all are those made from the ashes of figs and of the spurges, so that they ai'e possessed of almost septic powers. If a little quicklime be added to the ashes it renders the lye caustic, which is then called protostactos, being mixed up principally with medicines administered by injection. But the strongest of all is that prepared from quicklime alone. Commentary. We have given some account of the Lixi- Comm. vial Ashes or Lyes of the ancients in the 9th section of Book VI. They were all of them preparations of potass mixed up with various impurities. The term was applied not only to the solution, but also to the dried cineres of the same. Even qmcklime is sometimes called by this name : Kov'ia rj acrjStcrrog. (Scholiastes in Theocrit. Idyll, i.) The Cinis lixivius of the fig-tree is the one most frequently mentioned of them. See Phny (H. N. xv, 18); Geopon. (v, 33); Dioscorides (i, 186) ; Serapion (183); and Avicenna (ii, 2, 188.) AAdcenna recom- mends the lye of the mezerion in quinsy and afi"ections of the eye. See also Ehases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 214.) The protostactos was a composition of potass and lime. (See Book VI, s. 9.) On the alkalies or Cineres lixivii of the ancients, see further, Dutens (Decouvertes attrib. aux Modern. 187.) Conyza, Fleabane ; both species of it are desiccant and cale- f facient in the third degree. Hence, even the oil in which it i is boiled stops periodical rigors ; and the flowers have similar i powers. The decoction of them promotes menstruation, and f expels the foetus. That which grows in moist situations is t more fetid and has weaker powers. CoMMENTAiir. There is considerable difficulty in deter-Comm. r mining exactly the conyzee of the ancients. See Parkinson ""^^ (Theatre of Plants, i, 44), and Sprengel (Ad Dioscor. iii, 126.)