SIMPLES. 447 SECT. III.] bath, and to get cold water dashed over his body. (De Simpl. 088.) Aviceima's description of tlende is mostly taken from Serapiou, He directs it to be administered only in a cold country, and along with substances calculated to restrain its \iolent operations, such as starch and saffron. He says it purges humours and phlegm from the. joints, (ii, 2, 215.) We have not been able to discover any traces of it in the works of Haly Abbas, Rhases, Mesne, nor Averrhoes. Ebn Baithar, hoMCver, treats of it fully. He says, or at least his German translator makes him say, that it is the Ricinus, and not an Euphorbia, as some had supposed. He gives a minute description of three kinds—the Chinese, the Indian, and the Arboreus; and of these the first is said to be the best and strongest in its purgative operation. It is said to be hot, sharp, and oily, and to purge the body effectually, especially the humours in the joints. It is not given, he says, in hot countries, such as Irak, the sea-coast, the land of Egypt, and Yemen, because fluxes in these countries are common, and owing to the relaxation of the body, it cannot bear this violent medicine. One of his authorities, Honain, wisely remarks that in all hot countries severe medicines ought to be avoided. ^Minute directions are given for counteracting its deleterious effects. It is said to act as a hot drastic purgative, and to excoriate the intestines. Its bad effects are best counteracted by an ernetic, butter, gum lac, and other demulcents. We used to think there could be little or no doubt but that Sprengel was right in referring it to the strychnos colubrinus; but of late, certain authoiities, for whom we feel much respect, have held it to be the Croton Tiglium. See E-oyle (Antiq. Hind. Med. 36; Mat. Med. 552); Pereira (739); and Sontheimer apud Ebn Baithar. We still think that the lignum colubrinum is at least as applicable to the dende. It has been used medi- cinally in modern times. See Hill (Mat. Med. 693); Gray (Pharmacop. 58); and Pereira (922.) Pereira mentions that lie had analysed it, and found that it contains nearly the same ingredients as St. Ignatius' Bean. Dr. Lindley calls the tree, which furnishes the lignum colubrinum, the Strychnos ligustrina, and mentions of it that it had been used in paralysis of the extremities, and as an anthelminthic. (Veg. Kingd. 603.) Dr. ; Royle mentions (M. M. 1. c.) that when in India the seeds of