[book VII. 534 TROCHISKS. vinegar what will be sufficient for the trituration of the tro- chisk. The trochisk melanclilorus, or black-coloured. Of rayrrhj of • aloeSj of burnt squama eetis^ of arsenic, of fissile alum,- and of round alum, of iris, of chalcitis, of misy, of fossil salt, of cop- peras, of ceruse, of natron, of litharge, of the root of all-heal, of calamine, of pomegranate rind, of galls, of round birthwort, of the squama stomomatis, of scraped verdigris, ofeach,oz.j; of vinegar, q. s. It is formed into a plaster thus : of the trochisk, oz. ij; of Colophonian rosin, of wax, of oil, of each, oz. yj; of vinegar, what will be sufficient for the trituration of the trochisk. The trochisk pantolmius, for chironian and malignant ulcers, and for discharges. Of cassia, of burnt copper, of ceruse, of litharge, of scraped verdigris, of fissile alum, and of round, and of liquid, and of the plinthitic alum, of the root of all-heal, of the long and of the round bii'thwort, of pomegranate rind, of copperas, of purslain, of the iris called astragalitis, of chalcitis, of misy, of ammoniac perfume, of sal ammoniac, of verdigiis, of iron, of squama seris, of aloes, of diphryges, of frankincense, of galls, of sarcocolla, of burnt lead, of olive leaves, of sori, of ' myrrh, of liquid melanteria, of the flowers of the wild pome- granate, of the Egyptian thorn, of sulphur which has not been touched with the fire, of natron, of red sumach, of Syriac sumach, of chrysocoUa, of elm-leaved sumach (rus coriaria), of I acacia, of the spuma salis, of omphacium, of arsenic, equal j parts. Triturate during the heat of the dog-days with vinegar | for thirty days. The trochisk of Nymphodotus. Of aphronitrum, oz. j j of Alexandrian natron, of Gallic soap, of each, oz. j ,■ of Cappa- docian salt, of mastich, of galls, of each, dr. iv; of rose leaves, of amomum, of starch, of each, oz. j; of Indian leaf, dr. 3; of fissile alum, of costus, of each, dr. ij ; of myrtle wine, q. s. Tlie trochisk from thapsia, for hemicrania. Of the juice of thapsia (deadly carrot), dr. xvj ; of myrrh, dr. viij ; of opopo- nax, of euphorbium, of each, dr. vj ; of natron, of the Partliic juice, of each, dr. iv; of pepper, of sagapen, of each, di'. ij; of vinegar, q. s. In using it, rub it in with vinegar, and after six hours wash it ofi". If you wish to use in a reduced state, mix with equal parts of cerate, and spread it, allowing it to remain 1 for a day and a night. '