SIMPLES. 328 [book VII, that it cures opisthotonos when drunk with austere wine; but Galen, in his treatise ' De Theriaca/ says, that the trifolium, which is like the hyacinth, when it becomes pregnant with the spring, has a seed like the wild cnicus, and that when the decoction of it is poured upon the bite of the phalangium or viper it cures the same; but when applied to a sound part, he says, that it induces an affection similar to that of those who have been bitten by one of those creatures. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is Very difficult to determine; and it would be useless to mention the variety of conjectures which have been advanced respecting it. Sprengel inclines to think that it was a species of tulip, and suggests that it probably was the Tulipa Gesneriana. This is the species which Dioscorides further distinguishes by the name of Trifolium. The other named by him Erythronium is probably the Erythronium Dens Canis. What confirms this conjecture very much is, the cir- cumstance that the Dens Canis is stiU reputed to be aphrodisiac, as the Erythronium is reported to be by Dioscorides. (iii, 134.) See Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 204.) Galen gives nearly the same account of it as our author. The Arabians scarcely appear to distinguish it properly from the oi'chis, but otherwise they give the same characters of these plants as the Greeks. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 706, 707); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 7, 14.) Lacerta, the Lizard; the liver and head have been treated of in their proper places. When an entire one has been cut in pieces and applied, it cures persons bitten by scorpions. Comm. COMMENTARY. It seems not unlikely that it may have '—•—' been the Lacerta Gecko. See the translation of Ebn Baithar by Sontheimer (ii, 3), where the chapter of Dioscoiides on the Saura, is arranged under this head, along with another to the same effect from Avicenna. Dioscorides, and indeed all the authorities who treat of it, recommend it for the bites of scor- pions. Pliny recommends it in complaints of the eyes. (H. N. xxix, 38.) The Arabians recommend it in the same cases as the Greeks, and also say of it, that its liver soothes the pains of toothache, and that its urine and blood are use- ful in the ruptures of children. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 639.) In the East it is still used medicinally. Ainslie (Mat. Ind. ii, 276.)