SIMPLES. [book VII. 234 AvKOXplQ, LycopsiSj Hound's-tongue; having an astringent I'oot, Dioscorides says^ that when applied with polenta in a cata- plasnij it agrees with erysipelas^ and that if rubbed in with oil it is sudorific. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is either the EcMum Italicum, L., or ' ' the Lxjcopsis echioides, h., probably the former. Our author, as he acknowledges, borrows from Dioscorides. Galen, Aetius, and Oribasius, as well as Hippocrates and Celsus, do not treat of it at all. If the Arabians notice it, they do so under the head of Anchusa. AvKlOV, Lycium, Buckthorn, is composed of heterogeneous powers, one part of its ingredients being heating, attenuate, and dis- cutient, and the other, or terrene part, being cooling and gently astringent; so that it is desiccative in the second degree, and calefacient and refrigerant in an intermediate degree. They use it, therefore, as a detergent in obstructions of the pupil, and as an astringent in cteliac and dysenteric cases and ill-conditioned ulcers; and in inflammations as a disciltient. The Indian is the best. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscorides givcs a sufficiently distinct de- ' " ' scription of the tree which produces the lycium, so as to leave no doubt that he points to the Rhamnus infectorius. The Lycium Indicum of the same author, is now satisfactorily de- termined to be the product of the Berberis Lycium. See Royle (Antiq. of Hind. Med. 32), and ' Linn. Transact.' (xvii, 83); also Pereira (Materia Medica, 1152.) Dioscorides recommends the former of these as an astringent for the cure of various complaints, such as obscurities of the cornea, psoriasis, and pruritus of the eyelids, purulent ears and tonsils, ulcers of the gums, chapped lips, fissure of the anus; in cajliac and dysenteric affections, both in draughts and clysters; in haemoptysis and coughs; in female fluxes, hydrophobia, and so forth. The Indian, he states, cures inflammation of the spleen and jaundice, prevents menstruation, purges water, and is a counter-agent to deadly poisons, (i, 132.) Galen's account of it being nearly the same as our author's, we need not expound at any length. He holds that the Indian species is fai- stronger