SIMPLES. [book VII. IS Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscorides and most of the subsequent ' ' authorities, with the exception of Patdus, describe two species, the mas. and the femina. The one without doubt is the Artemisia Abrotanum; the other probably the Santolina Cha- mcecyparissus. The use of southernwood is as ancient as Hippocrates, but Galen is the ancient author who has treated of its faculties most elaboratelJ^ He recommends it strongly both, externally in fomentations, and internally as an anthel- minthic. For the latter purpose it is praised by the natural historian ^lian (H. A. ix, 33), and by most of the medical authorities on the Materia Medica, both ancient and modern. As an application in ophthalmy, along with the pulp of a roasted quince, it is highly spoken of by Galen and the others. Galen says, that friction with the oil of southernwood is useful in intermittents, and this character of it is confirmed by all the authorities down to recent times. Avicenna joins Dioscorides in praising it as an emmenagogue, and says, that it produces abortion, (ii, 266.) Aetius is fuller than the others on the vir- tues of the lixivial ashes of southernwood, recommending them pai'ticularly in diseases of the anus and in alopecia. Celsus ranks it among the cleansing medicines (v, 5.) Pliny makes mention of a vinous tincture (xiv, 19.) See also Dioscorides (v, 49.) MacerFloridus, a comparatively modern authority, joins the more ancient authorities in commending it as an antidote to narcotic poisons. He also says, that a vinous tincture of it is useful in sea-sickness. Serapion, after quoting freely from Dioscorides and Galen, under this head adds, upon "an unknown authority," that, when boiled with oil and rubbed over the stomach, it cures coldness of the same. (De Simpl. 317.) In the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia (Athens, 1837), the two species of wormwood are described by the names of Artemisia Abrotonum and Arte- misia contra. See further Pereira (M. M. 1356.) Agallochum, is an Indian wood resembHng the thyia, of an aromatic nature. When chewed it conti'ibutes to the fragrance of the mouth. It is also a perfume. Its root, when drunk to the amount of a drachm weight, cures waterbrash and loss of tone in the stomach, and agrees with hepatic, dysenteric, and pleuritic complaints.