SECT. III.] SIMPLES, 107 Paulus, gives the opinions of two Arabian authorities, Damas(?) Comm. and Chuz, the former to the effect that it is useful in palpita- ' ' ' tion of the heart and fetor of the mouth, and the other, that it cures scabies and pruritus. (Cont. 1. ult. i, 74.) 'E\Xe(iopog, HelleboiTis, Hellebore; both kinds are calefacient and desic- cative in the third degree. It (the white) is also acrid and detergent; and hence it agrees with leprous affections of the skin. The black, when introduced into fistulse, makes the callus cast off in three days. CoMMENTAKY. Those who wish to see the general litera- Comm. ture of this interesting article may find our opinions briefly stated under the proper head in the Appendix to Dunbar's 'Lexicon.' In this place it will be sufficient to mention that we have come to the conclusion that the Helleborus albus of the ancients was identical with our Veratrum album. Hip- pocrates makes mention of both species; when he simply uses the term heUeborus, he means the white, as in Aphor. v, 1, and iv, 15, 16. He also recommends the niger as well as the albus in melancholy and quartans (Epist. 1288, ed. Foes.) Areteeus, at the conclusion of his work, as it has come down to us, pronounces a strong eulogy on hellebore, which he calls the great remedy in cases of elephantiasis. Dioscorides re- commends it as an emetic, emmenagogue, and sternutatory, (iv, 148-9.) Mesne and Serapion mention it as an emetic, but concur with Hippocrates in stating that it sometimes in- duces convulsions if administered unguardedly. Haly Abbas gives exactly the same account of it. Averrhoes mentions that in his time the Lapis lazuli was used as a purgative in place of hellebore, (v^ 42.) Rhases concurs with the Greek authorities in praising its effects for the cure of epilepsy, melancholy, arthritis, and mania. Macer Floridus praises it in the cure of epilepsy, mania, quartans, &c. We would now beg to be allowed to depart from our general rule, and to quote some modern opinions in illustration of the ancient on this important subject,—the more important from hellebore forming, as is supposed, one of the ingredients in the cele- brated patent medicine eau medicinale. Conrad Gesner, an I upright and learned physician, as Bergius calls him, had great