SIMPLES. SECT. III.] 37 otherwise, it cannot be satisfactorily determined. Most pro- Comm. bably, it was the same as the sampsuchus, namely, the Origa-' * ' num Marjorana. Dioscorides strongly recommends the ointment as an emmenagogue, and for A^arious other purposes, (i, 78.) For the Arabians, see Avicenna (ii, 2, 466); Serapion (c. 286); Ehases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 439.) ' A-f-iapavTOV, Amarantum, Amaranth, is attenuant and inpisive, and there- fore when taken with wine it promotes the menstrual discharge, and dissolves coagulated blood when taken with wine and honey. It dries up all defluxions, and is bad for the stomach. Commentary. The old herbalists describe a plant under Comm. the English name of Flower-gentle, which they represent to be " ' ' this article, but it cannot be satisfactorily determined. Our author borrows from Galen and Aetius his account of its medicinal properties, which certainly appears rather contradic- tory. How a plant, which they represent as being of a drying nature, should at the same time act as an emmenagogue, does not well appear. Our English herbalist Gerarde sagaciously remarks that it has probably got the character of stopping bleeding solely from its ears being red, as if, forsooth, all red things must act in this way; although, as he adds, Galen had laid it down as a rule (Simpl. 2, 4) that no inference with regard to the virtues of substances can be drawn from their colours. But see under helicrysus, which Dioscorides holds to be the same plant. 'Ayu|3po(Tia, Ambrosia; when applied as a cataplasm it has astringent and repellent powers. Commentary. Ambrosia, as Pliny remarks (H. N. xxvii, 11), Comm. is a vague name which has been applied to various plants. ' Our old herbalists describe a plant under the English name of Oak of Cappadocia, which they represent as the A. of Dioscorides. He gives it the same medicinal character as our author (iii.) Galen and Aetius do the same. It probably is the Ambrosia marilima, a plant not yet wholly unknown to the shops. See ' Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. p. 70.) We have not found it ' described by any of the Arabians except Ebn Baithai- (i, 80.)