SIMPLES. 91 SECT. III.] been guilty of the mistake of writing gordylion for tordylion. Comm See the chapter of Dioscorides on the tordylium (iii, 56.) " ^ Pollen, Fine Flour, resembles starch in its properties, but is weaker. Commentary. On the medicinal properties of pollen, see Comm. Pliny (H. N. xxii, 60), who, however, borrows all his informa- " " ' ; tion from Dioscorides (ii, 107.) Both recommend the pollen 1 used for glueing books, in haemoptysis. Gypsum, Parget, or Mineral White, in addition to its desic- i cant, is possessed of obstruent powers. Hence it agrees with 1 hemorrhages, along with pollen and the white of an egg. ' "When burnt it has no longer its obstruent powers, but it is I more desiccant and repellent, especially with oxycrate. Commentary. We have treated pretty fully of this article in Comm. I another place (Vol. II, 233.) It is the sulphate of lime, of which * ^ ' t selenite or the foliated sulphate of lime is a sub-species. In the s shops, when pulverized, it is known by the names of mineral 1 white and stucco. Dioscorides merely says of its medicinal {powers, that it is styptic and emplastic, and restrains bleeding sand sweats. Galen is somewhat fuller in his account of it, t recommending it, with the fine flour of wheaf, which is found J sticking about the walls of mills, and the down of a hare, for 5 stopping bleeding. Aetius and our author copy closely from (Galen. Serapion borrows both from Dioscorides and Galen t (c. 379.) Avicenna recommends it with Armenian bole, lentils, fmyrtle-water, and some vinegar, as an application to the fore- Fhead in bleeding from the nose, (ii, 3, 284.) Rhases copies rverbatim from Galen, Dioscorides, and our author. (Cont. 1. Quit, i, 235.) Averrhoes recommends it in the manner described »above from Galen as a styptic. (Collig. v, 43.) Celsus prescribes ilit for stopping colliquative sweating in cardiac disease (iii, 19.) I Tedee, Dead Pines, have certain acrid, concoctive, and dcter- ■tgent powers. Hence boiled in vinegar they cure toothache