307 ^ECT. in.] SIMPLES. Dioscorides does to the Polygonum Mas and although the Comm. Polygonum aviculare was ejected from our Dispensatory more ' * ' tlum a hundred yeai's ago, it is still to be found in the shops of our apothecaries, where it has the reputation of being " a ulnerary and astringent herb.^' Gray (Suppl, to the Phar- macop. 42.) Polycnemon, is heating and desiccative in the second degree, so as to agglutinate wounds. Commentary. It has been supposed to be the Mentha Comm. m-vensis, but nothing is known of it for certain. Nicander ' ' ' notices it in two places. (Alex. 57, and Theriac. 359.) Dioscorides calls it a vulnerary herb, and a remedy for stran- gury and inward bruises, (iii, 98.) Galen gives the same account of it as our author. The Arabians do not appear to have treated of it. XloXviroSiov, ii Polypodium, Polypody, is possessed of considerably desic- jccative powers without pungency. "When drunk it purges k' downwards. |, Commentary. Dioscorides says of the root of the tt. {Poly- Comm. , podium vulgare), that it is purgative, and is given to evacuate" ' ' I phlegm and bile; that it makes a good application to sprains Si and fissures in the hands, (iv, 185.) Galen and the other ! Greek authorities merely state its properties in general terms, like our author, Avith the exception of Ruffus, who treats of it more elaborately. He says it evacuates phlegm, bile, and w ater; that it should be taken in mulse or water before a meal, when it will purge gently, and thus prove an excellent 'axative, especially to children; but that in disease it is not .1 purgative possessed of much efficacy. (Opera, 14.) The Arabians, and especially Mesue, seem to have attached more i mportance to it. See Mesue (De Simpl. 5); Serapion (c. 248) j Avicenna (ii, 2, 535); Averrhoes (Collig. v, 42); Ebn Baithar (i, 227.) Mesue recommends it in joint diseases, colic, hard- ness of the spleen, fevers connected with black bile, and fissiu-es f)f the hands. The polypody retained its place in the Dispen- atory with its ancient characters as late as the time of Quincy (137), and even in the age of Lewis it had not been wholly