574 [book VJl. PLASTERS. therefore, to be addctl at the end of the boiling. Wax is not boiled alone by itself, for it burns, neither with liquid rosin nor liquid pitch, for it remains disunited. But it is added to pure oil or oily matters boiled with the metals, or to rosin and ' pitch, previously boiled and thickened with other things which are to be added. Dried rosin is added with wax. The liquid, before all other things, is boiled by itself, unless a very small quantity is used. Pitch is added before all other things. The li measure of the boiling of the liquid is its acquiring consistence; but of the dry especially, if boiled with vinegar, when it ceases to bubble and swell. The pitch of ships, when triturated and separated by a sieve from its recrements, is sprinkled upon a plaster when boiled; but if soft, it is dissolved with the oil. The former method is the more correct, because in the second the weight is not preserved. Bitumen (asphaltos) is boiled by being added at the commencement. But it is not to be levi- gated, because it contains asperities like grains of figs. It is, therefore, to be broken into large pieces and boiled in Adnegar, not stirring it lest it bubble. I, says Timocrates, have suc- ceeded by boiling it in oil. Bee-glue (propolis) is to be softened and boiled. For, by the boiling, it is not entirely incoi'porated. But if the plaster receives, as an ingredient, common wax, the bee-glue, like the galbanum, is to be pounded with the Avax and added. Ammoniac is added about the middle of the boiling. But if it can be levigated, it should be sprinkled in the state of a powder, but if not, it may be triturated with some liquid ; but if it be a plaster for fresh wounds, it is to be triturated with vinegar or wine ; but if for fistulas or strumse, by all means with vinegar. If it be a soft plaster (such as those for the fundament), it is to be triturated with water; then, being levigated, it is to be added to the other things when cooled that they may not boil. Opoponax is added much later than ammoniac : it requires but very little boiling; but it must be frequently triturated with wine or vinegar. Galbanum does not bear boiling. But when the plaster has attained such a consistence that it does not stain, it is to be taken off the fire, and it is to be softened and added, Sagapenum is pounded in a moi'tar, and when it becomes tender it is softened with the plaster after being removed from the fire. Aloe is sprinkled after the boiling. Poppy-juice is macerated for one