215 SIMPLES. SECT. III.] 1. ult. i, 118.) The use of it in medicine is as old as the Comm. Hippocratic age. See Dierbach's Materia Medica Hippocr. ' ' ' AevKag, Leucas, is heating and desiccative in the third degree^ but its prevailing property is aci*imony. Commentary. It appears certainly to be a species of Comm. Lamium, either the album or the maculatum. See Parkinson * ' (Theatre of Plants, 672) and Sprengel (Ad Dioscor.) Diosco- rides commends it as an application to venomous animals, especially those of the sea. (iii, 103.) The other authorities treat of it in general terms, like our author, who copies almost word for word from Galen. Aeu/cotov, Viola alba. Stock Gillyflov)er; the whole plant is detergent and attenuating, especially its flowers, and those in particular which are drier, so that it promotes menstruation, kills and ejects the foetus; and if their powers are blunted by a mixture with water, they will answer with inflammations, particularly those of the uterus. The roots being possessed of similar powers, are composed of more gross matter, and are more terrene. But with vinegar they relieve indurated phlegmons. Commentary. That the plant here described was stock. Comm. i. e. Cheirantlms Cheiri, is unquestionable. Dioscorides evi- ' ' ' dently included also another plant of the same order under this head, which, as stated by Sprengel, may probably be a variety of the Matlhiola incana. He gives nearly the same account of its medicinal virtues as our author. Dioscorides says it kills the foetus in utero when applied on a pessary; and Galen and Aetius ascribe the same powers to it when taken in a draught. By the Arabians it is obscurely treated of, their authorities in general seeming to confound it with the violet. See Rhases (Ad Mansor. iii, 21) ; Ilaly Abbas (Pract. ii, 37, 226) ; Ebn Baithar (i, 403.) The last of these does little more than copy from Galen and Dioscorides. It is not contained in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia. It is the Viola lutea of our herbalist Gerard, and held a place in our Dispensatory as late as Quincy.