POTIONS. [book vn. 546 swim on the top and is separated, then cool and cover it up carefully. The composition of rhodostactum. Of the juice of roses without their nails, sext. ij ; of honey, sext. j. Boil, scumming it, until the fourth part be consumed. The -preparation of rhcptes. Of the juice of pomegranate, sext. iij; of honej'^, sext. j. Boil to a third part. Comm. COMMENTARY. We shall in the first place give some account of the Propoma. It was a draught generally containing wine, which was taken at the commencement of the supper, or prin- cipal meal of the ancients. Horace alludes to it in the follow- ing lines: " Anfitlius forti misccbat mella Falerno, Mendose: quoniam vacuis committere veriis Nil nisi lene decet: leni prascordia niiilso Prolueris melius." (Lib. ii, Sat. 4.) Catius here condemns the practice of using strong wine for the composition of the Propoma. Old Falernian wine was thought the best. Thus Macrobius says of it: " Mulsum quo probe temperes, miscendum esse novo Hymetto et Falerno vetulo." (Saturn, vii, 12.) " To the Propoma," says Athenseus, " were added pepper, Indian leaf, myrrh, cyperus, and Egyptian ointment." (Deip. ii, 35.) A long list of receipts for Propomata is given by Myrepsus (ยง 38.) Most of them contain wine, honey, and aromatics. See a learned Dissertation on the Propoma by Casaubon (in Athen. Deipnos. ii, 17); also Lister (in Apicii Op. i, 1.) It will be proper here to give some account of the medi- cated wines, or, as we would now call them, the Vinous Tinctures, of the ancients. Dioscorides details the composition of them very fully in the fifth book of his ' Materia Medica.' The fol- lowing is his prescription for the wine of squills: Take a mina of squills, and having pounded it, sift, and bind it in a thin piece of linen; then put it into 20 sextaiii of good fresh must, and allow it to macerate for three months j afterwards strain the wine into another vessel, and cover it up carefully. The wine of quinces is to be prepared by putting 12 min?e of quinces, deprived of their seeds, into a cadus of must, and