[book VII. 274 SIMPLES. Comm. Dioscorides and most of tlie ancient authorities recommend ' * tliem as a stimulant application to various tumours. Our autlior's account of them is abridged from Dioscorides, who further recommends them in n cataplasm v?ith ?alts and vine- gar for achores, furfures, and epinyctis, and as an application to the bites of mad dogs, (i, 185.) They are the Grossi Ficulnei of the Arabians, who treat of them under the general head of figs. See Avicenna (ii, 3, 276.) Holostium, is possessed of desiccative powers with astrin- gency. Hence they use it for fractures. Comm. COMMENTARY. There are few articles in the Materia Medica """T ' of the ancients about which there is so much doubt. See Parkinson (Theatre of Plants), and Sprengel in Dioscor. (iv, 11.) It has been set down as the. Holosteum mnbellatum, but all upon mere conjecture. Our author here copies from Galen, who in his turn borrows from Dioscorides. We are not aware of "its being described by any of the Arabian authorities, nor have we found it in any modern Dispensatory. OfK^a/ciov, Omphacium is the Juice of the Unri2)e Grape, being con- siderably astringent and desiccative in the third degree. Hence it applies to defluxions, and especially those of the stomach. Comm. COMMENTARY. The juice of unripe grapes is called Agresto " " ' in Italy, where it is still used in affections of the throat. Dioscorides recommends it in such cases. Pliny says of it, "Prodest dysentericis, sanguinem excreantibus, anginis." (H. N. xxiii, 4.) This is a literal translation from Dioscorides, who recommends it in these cases, and also for various others in which astringents are indicated, such as aphthse, loose gums, fistulas, old ulcers, spreading sores, and as an application to asperity and ulceration of the eyehds. (v, 6.) Celsus prescribes the omphacium in a variety of cases, as a cleansing medicine, (v, 5), as one that con-odes (v, 6), and as one that determines outwai'dly. (v, 12.) None of the other Greek authorities nor the Arabians supply any additional information of interest after Dioscorides.