[book vii. SIMPLES. 208 Comm. also Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. S, 20) • Serapion (c. 63); Averrhoes ' * ' (Coll. V, 43.) All speak favorably of these medicines in diseases of the kidneys and bladder. Lagopus, is possessed of desiccative powers and dries up fluxes of the belly. Comm. COMMENTARY. This plant, the description of which is passed * over by Dioscorides as being well known, may be set down among the articles of the ancient Materia Medica, which are least known to us. We may just mention regarding it, that some take it for Trifolium arvense, and others for Lagurus ovatus. Dioscorides calls it an astringent of the bowels, and mentions that it was used as an amulet in buboes, (iv, 17.) Galen, Aetius, and Oribasius briefly notice it as a desic- cative medicine. We have not been able to find this article in the Mat. Med. of the Arabians, but are aware that it may be concealed under some of their odd corruptions of the Greek terms. It seems probable that this is the lagopyrus of Hippocrates. (De Ulcer.) Ladanum; it is formed from the Cistus called Ladanus; the goats feeding upon it bring away upon their beard and thighs the fatter and more juicy part of the herb. Ladanum, when collected, is an excellent medicine, hot in about the second degree, and consisting of subtile particles. It is mode- rately emollient, discutient, and digestive ; it therefore agrees with uterine affections in particular. It has also some astrin- gency, and hence it strengthens hairs which are falling out. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dierbach and Sprengel agree with the elder " * ' commentators in calling it the Cistus Creticus. See also Eoyal Pharm. (i, c. 20.) Dr. Lindley says of the ladanum, that it is a resinous balsamic substance obtained from Cistus Creticus, and other species of the genus ; he adds, that it has been esteemed as a stimulant and emmenagogue, and recom- mended in chronic catarrh. (Veg. King. 350.) Dioscorides men- tions that it was procui'ed either from the beards of goats which had browsed upon it, or by scraping the tree with thongs. Dioscorides, Pliny, and Galen dehver its medicinal characters