^EGT. XVII.] PLASTERS. 561 boiling in wine, and the bread is soaked in it; on the day tallowing, the litharge and ceruse are triturated in the water, and afterwards the oil is added and boiled until it ceases to stain ; and then the other things are added. Being removed i'rom the fire, the bread is added and stirre'd strongly. To these are then added, of scraped verdigri's, of the flower of salt, of each, oz. yj ; of iris, of birthwort, of each, oz. yj; of turpentine, lb. j. T7ie plaster Pelarion, from the dross of silver, for excoria- tions and the like. Of wax, of the fat of bulls, of each, oz. v; of the dross of silver, oz. yj j of Colophonian rosin, oz. iv; of pitch, of oil, of each, "oz. ij ; the dry dross is triturated in wine or the juice of fenugreek, ^hen.the dross is not at hand we may use molybdsena. The plaster from marshmallows, in gouty cases and other indurations. Of the juices of fenugreek, linseed, and marsh- mallows, of each, lb. iij ; of oil, lb. ij; having boiled it until the juice be consumed, add of Colophonian rosin, lb. j; of turpen- tine, lb. j ; of the tear of ivy, oz. iij. When dissolved, having taken it from the fire, add of wax, lb. j, of galbanum, oz. iv, ')oth pounded together, and having dissolved} stir with a spatula. The plastei' kissinon, or ivy plaster, for wounded nerves and /nmctures, especially chronic. Of red squama, oz. ivss ; of frankincense, oz. j ; of misy, oz. iss; of chalcitis, dr. iv; of \'inegar, vj. Triturate in the summer sun until consumed, when having dissolved, of wax, oz. viij; of oil, oz. xviij ("deest aliquid") ; mix. But if a nerve be divided and laid bare, instead of the galbanum, add of turpentine, oz. ij. The melanchlorus, for the same purposes, and for bleeding mounds. Of pomegranate rind, of burnt copper, of galls, of round birthwort, of sal ammoniac, of squama seris, of fissile and liquid alum (but some instead of the liquid use the round), of iris, of misy, of copperas, of chalcitis, of scraped verdigris, of calamine, of aloes, of myrrh, of frankincense, of the root of all-heal, of litharge, of ceruse, equal parts. All of which are triturated in the sun during the season of summer, with vine- i:ar for a sufficient number of days, and formed into trochisks. It is made into a plaster thus : of the medicine, oz. ij; of wax, oz. vj ; of oil, oz. viij ; when for wounded nerves the oil is to be old, but otherwise the common. III. 36