SIMPLES. [book vri. 3G8 Comm. Materia Medica^ translated by Goade (337.) See under ' ' ' Chalcitis. Dioscorides calls it blackish, fetid, and nauseating, and possessed of caustic powers ; he recommends it in tooth- ache, as an application to vari, as an injection ivith wine in sciatica, &c. (v, 118.) Galen says it is not soluble like misv and chalcitis, but does not materially differ from them in medicinal powers. Celsus prescribes it along mth opium, pepper, and galbanum as a stuffing to carious teeth, (vi, 9.) Avicenna, like Galen, says it is insoluble in water, and, like Dioscorides, he prescribes it in sciatica and diseases of the teeth, (ii, 3, 47.) We have stated above that Serapion de- scribes the sory along with the other two under the general head of vitriolum, and the specific name of Zeg rubeum; and that he merely translates Dioscorides and Galen, (c. 386.) Rhases, in like manner, gives from Dioscorides and Galen a description of misy, sory, and chalcitis under the general head of vitriolum. He calls the sory, vitriolum rufium, and, like Dioscorides, recommends it in carious teeth and in sciatica. His only Arabian authority, Bimasui, says of the vitriolum that it dries the lungs strongly, and in this way may prove fatal. (Cont. 1. ult. i, 747.) It is the vitriolum rubeum of Averrhoes. (Collig. v, 43.) In the most barbarous translation of Haly Abbas it is scarcely possible to extract any proper meaning from his description of the three vitriols. (Pract. ii, 48.) The lengthy account which Ebn Baithar gives of them is mostly made up of extracts from Dioscorides, Galen, and Avicenna. (ii, 510.) Some have thought the soiy of Pliny different from that of the others, but, as far as we can see, without any good reason. Like Dioscorides, he recommends it in diseases of the teeth and spreading ulcers of the mouth. He says it is a thing so offensive to the stomach, that the very smell of it will sometimes excite vomiting. (H. N. xxxiv, 30.) Salsamenta, Pickles; their flesh is possessed of acrid and desiccative powers. They are given, therefore, to persons bitten by the viper prester, that they may eat as much as possible, and drink of wine freely, and vomit. They also ai-e suitable to the regimen of acrid food; and are apphed with advantage to persons bitten by dogs and other reptiles.