ssECT. XI.] ANTIDOTES. 527 less when the pain is dull and chronic. He says, it ought not Comm. tto be given in cases of difficult parturition, unless when it is " ' wished to rouse the expulsive faculty, or when the foetus is dead. According to his account, the composition has not san-ived at perfection, when it is four years old, and it retains its poAvers until after forty years. Haly Abbas sums up the medicinal properties of the theriac 1/with stating that it dries the natural humidity, strengthens the mscera, cleanses the organs of food and respiration, and ex- apels superfluities from the brain. Hence he pronounces it to ibe a remedy for all the diseases which attack the human body. (Prjict. X 4.) Serapion describes the following methods of trying whether tthe theriac be good : 1st. Give of it to the amount of a drachm kfto a person who has taken a powerful emetic or cathartic, such las white hellebore or scammony, and if it counteract the effect Diof the medicine that has been taken, we know that it is enuine. 2d. As Galen directs, having got a wild cock, allow lit to be stung by a venomous reptile, and then give it a proper idose of the theriac. If the fowl escape unhurt we are sure ;hat the medicine is good; but if he die we know that it is not ' ifco be depended upon. 3d. Give a poisonous substance, such opium, to a cock or a dog, and then administer the theriac, ilthe powers of which may be judged of from the result. Moses Charras, who published ' The Royal Pharmacopoeia' ibout the end of the seventeenth century, thus enumerates the edicinal uses of the theriac of Andromachus : " Treacle being omposcd of a great quantity of hot medicaments, ought to be i^ery much esteemed for the cure of cold diseases, and of all those here the natural heat is feeble and languishing, especially, among ;he rest, of palsies, epilepsies, convulsions, and all cold diseases of he head. It is proper against all weaknesses and want of re- ;ention in the stomach and intestines; against the diarrhoea, dy- ■jentery, lientery, morbus cholera, and all sort of colics ; against cs, and particularly the quartan ; against the worms; against dl sorts of poison, the pestilence, smallpox, the measles, and all pideraic diseases; against the biting of mad dogs and all sorts )f venomous animals ; against want of sleep, and griping pains n children ; against hysteric passions, the jaundice, and an iu- nite sort of other diseases. (P. i, c. 20.)