543 EOT. XIV.] LINIMENTS. bark of green walnuts, hemin. v; of honey, hemin. j j it is boiled like that from mulberries. The compound one from walnuts. In the commencement, lucl at the acme of inflammations in the mouth, mix of saffron ;iucl of alum, of each, oz. j; of myrrh, dr. ij; and in the de- cline add, as a discutient, of natron, dr. j ; of sulphur, dr. j, to the aforementioned proportions of the juice and of honey. The preparation from the juice of pomegranates. Of the j juice of sweet pomegranates, without their kernels, sext. iv; of ;the juice of acid pomegranates, sext. ij; of honey, sext. j; of I the Minnsean myrrh, dr. viij ; of crocomagma, of galls, of each, (dr. viij; of fissile alum, dr. iv; of lUyrian iris and of om- jphacium, of each, dr. viij. Prepare like that from mulberries. The same otherivise. Of the juice of sweet pomegranate 1 bruised with their kernels, sext. vj ; of fine honey, sext. j ; of '.fissile alum, oz. j ; of myrrh, oz. ss. The preparation from must. Of must, sext. vj ; of galls, of ifissile alum, of each dr. ij ; of saffron, of myn-h, of each, dr. j. llf you mean it for a demulcent, let the must be sweet, but if las a repellent, austere. The middle state has intermediate {properties. The Egyptian stomachic. Of honey, lb. j ; of oil, oz. viij ; cof turpentine, oz. ij; of saffron, dr. iv. They are melted in a cdouble vessel. The stomachic medicine, fi'om besasa. Of anise seed, of parsley sseed, of the schcenanth, of the seed of bishop^s weed, of fissile salum, of lUyrian iris, of besasa (which some call harmala, it is tthe wild rue), of cinnamon, of troglodytic myrrh, of saffron, of gall, of each, oz. j; of long birthwort, of cassia, of croco- ziagma, of dried roses, of each, oz. j; of costus, of the fresh ashes of pigeons, oz. iij ; of Indian nard, of amomum, of each, oz. ss; of honey, q. s. Commentary. Celsus thus sums up the general properties Comm. of these preparations : " Gargarizationes autem aut Isevandi —''—' causa fiunt, aut reprimendi, aut evocandi. Lsevant, lac, cremor vel ptisanse, vel furfurum: reprimit aqua, in qua vel lenticula, vel rosa, vel rubus, vel cotoneum malum, vel palmulse decoctse sunt: evocant, sinapi, piper." (v, 22.) Galen treats of these compositions very systematically, and