[book VII. COMPOUND PURGATIVES. 494 of the juice of roses, half a sextarius; of honey, half a sextarius; and having boiled it until it acquire consistence, add scamnionv to the amount of oz. iss. A purgative medicine from quinces. Of roasted quinces, oz. iv; of pepper, oz. ss; of scammony, dr. j; of honey, oz. v. Having triturated it, give one spoonful, according to the strength. The stomachic jmrgative from citrons. Boil of the bark of a citron, and of the flesh of the same, lb. j, in a sextarius and a half of water, until a third be left; add half a sextarius of honey, and having boiled until it acquire the consistence of honey, sprinkle of the powder of long pepper, oz. j; of scam- mony roasted in leaven, oz. j. Tlie purgative called Buccellatus. Of baked scammony, oz. j; of pepper and of parsley-seed, of each, scr. j; of fennel, of anise, of each, oz. j; of honey, lb. j; having roasted it mo- derately, give in hippocras to the amount of one ounce. Purgative olives. Of scammony, oz. j; of pepper, oz. j; of dodder of thyme, of toasted cumin, of stone-parsley, of rue, of the green leaves of mint, of each, dr. iv; of laserwort, dr. j ; of dates, oz. v; of honey, oz. v; of vinegar, two heminse; of pickled olives (namely of schistous), one sextar. Some add a moderate quantity of fish-sauce. The dose is v, vij, or ix. A purgative trochisk. Of scammony, dr. iv; of euphorbium, dr. iv; of the cassia-leaf (malabathrum), dr. ij; of pepper, dr. ijj of honey, lb, j. The dose is oz. j. A purgative and stomachic posca. Of cumin, of fennel, of each, oz. j; of pennyroyal, of parsley, of anise, of each, oz. ss; of dodder of thyme, of scammony, of each, oz. j; of salts, oz. ij. The full dose is two scruples in the oxycrate. Some add also of euphorbium, scr. iv. A purgative wine for dropsical cases. Of squills, oz. iij; of parsley-seed, oz. vi; of pepper, dr. j; of the root of capers, dr. iv; of the granum Cnidium stripped of its bark, di-. j; of the leaf malabathrum, two balls; of wine, twelve heminse; of honey, oz. iij. Having pounded the squills, macerate in wine, and mix the other things when triturated. Purgative salts. Of common salts toasted, dr. vj; of parsley- seed, of ginger, of dried bread, of each, scr. yj; of anise, of pepper, of each, oz. ss; of scammony, of dodder of thyme, of each, oz. j. The dose is one spoonful.