APPENDIX TO 436 [book VII. soles of the feet in complaints of the head, to prove useful in leprosy when rubbed into the part affected, and to remove im- potence. He also treats separately, and at considerable length, of the Zeduaria nigra, (ii, 95.) Fi'om the above account it will be seen that these two substances were nearly allied to one another, and in fact there is no doubt that the one was often taken for the other. See further Moses Charras (Royal Phar- macop. 68); Gray (Pharmacop. 26.) The Zeduary was often used as a succedaneum for the costus (Pemberton, Dispensatory^, 340) in the composition of the Mithridate, and hence these two substances have been sometimes erroneously taken for the same. See also Manardus ad Mesne (De Trochiscis, 154); and Quincy (English Dispensatory, 483.) Amomum Grana Paradisi. There seems to be no doubt that this is the article which Ebn Baithar means to describe (i, 372). He calls it a spicy plant which comes out of Yemen and India. He describes two kinds, and says of them that they are hot, fragrant, and astringent, and hence prove stomachic and promote digestion. He says they are useful in epilepsy and faintings, and cure headaches in a sternutatory. He describes the smaller kind as being weaker but more attcnuant than the larger. We are not aware of the grains of paradise, or Guinea grains, as they are sometimes called, being described hj any other of the ancient authorities. We need scarcely remark that they are now well known, and occasionally used in the practice of medi- cine. See Gray (Suppl. to Pharm. 27) ; Pereira (Mat. Med. 697); Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 167.) Macis and Nux moschata. We have shown in the proper place that the Macer of the Greeks and Romans was not mace. The Arabian authorities, it is true, in describing Mace quote what the Greeks had written on Macer, but this does not prove their identity, for many such instances of confused reference occur in their works. Avicenna says, upon the authority of Mesne, that mace is the cortex (meaning, of course, the involucre) of nux moschata. He recommends it as a good stomachic, hepatic, and uterine medicine, and says it proves an asti'ingent in fluxes of the