SECT, vir.] 499 HYPERCATHARSIS. SECT. VII. ON THE TREATMENT OF HYPERCATHARSIS. In cases of hypercatharsis the body is to be rubbed and bathed in hot water, and before the bath a thin, pale-coloured and yellow wine is to be given (for such is the most speedily distributed), and bread soaked in it, and pomegranates. But if the evacuation continue, the limbs are to be bound with ligatm-es, extending from above downwards, and tightened so as to intercept the blood and spirits. A moderate quantity of the theriac from the flesh of vipers is also to be given. For it soon passes to the skin, and quickly gives a counter-deter- mination to the defluxion of fluids upon the belly, and blunts the poisonous and deleterious property as it were of the cathai'tics. When in want of it we may use the theriac trochisks, and also that from seeds, and the antidote called Philonius. Cupping-instruments are also to be applied over the stomach, and cataplasms from polenta, and wine and honey; after which we must use the astringent epithemes. But they will derive the most sensible advantage from frictions of the whole body, and draughts of the aforesaid medicines. They must abstain from very cold and very hot air; for the one occasions a determination from without inwards, and increases the discharge, and the other dissipates and reduces the strength. But if the evacuation is increased by irritation in the bowels, we must apply cataplasms of the afore-mentioned things, and injections of emollieuts, such as the fat of geese, sweet wine, nard, and the like. Commentary . Oribasius remarks, that when an overdose Com of a purgative medicine has been taken, it purges first yellow '—^ bile, then black bile, and at last blood. He recommends us, in cases of hypercatharsis, to give a hot draught, to apply tight ligatures and violent friction to the extremities, and cupping- instruments to the hypochondrium and back. When the patient can readily be made to vomit, he directs us to produce this operation by the administration of a copious draught of tepid water, and by putting a feather or the fingers down the throat. This is in accordance with Cclsus's rule of practice: " Longas dejectiones supprimit vomitus," (ii, 8.)