228 SIMPLES. [book vii. • Comm. cases. The Eagle-stone was retained in the English Dispensa- tory with all its ancient characters as late as Quincy. (165.) The Thy.ites, according to FuclisiuSj was a Turquoise; but Matthiolus is of a different opinion. Sprengel thinks it may have been a species of turquoise, although not the common one. Dr. Hill says it contains a small quantity of copper, which rendered it a valuable ingredient in collyria.' It is pre- scribed for this purpose by Dioscorides. (v, 153.) The Amiantus is composed of talc, calcareous and siliceous earth, clay, and a small proportion of iron. It is often confounded • with the Alumen plumosum of the ancients, to which it is com- pared by Dioscorides. He does not mention any medicinal use to which it was apphed, but merely states of it that it was used for forming the linum asbestinum. (v, 155.) See further Harduin in Phn. H. N. (xxxvi, 31.) The Supphirus of the ancients is supposed by Beckmann to have been the Lapis lazuli. (History of Inventions.) This opinion is now pretty generally established, and yet there is a difficulty attending it; for the Arabians, in treating of the Lapis lazuli, do not quote the descriptions of the sapphirus given by Dioscorides and Galen, but apparently refer to the cyanus. Dioscorides recommends the sapphirus as an alexi- pharmic, and a remedy for internal ulcerations and diseases of the eyes, (v, 156.) Galen merely recommends it as an antidote to the stings of scorpions. Rhases, under the head of " Lapis lazuli," quotes Dioscorides as saying of it that it promotes the growth of the eyelashes, that it resti'ains fungous flesh, is sep- tic, caustic, and ulcerative; and Galen, as saying of it, that it has abstergent powers, with a moderate degree of attenuating and styptic ^drtues; that it may be mixed in collyi'ia for the eyes, and especially for the eyehds when affected with sharp humours, which it represses, and also prevents the growth of the hairs. (Cont. 1. ult. i, 404.) See also Serapion (c. 389); Averrhoes (CoUig. v, 43); and Haly Abbas (Pract. ii, 45.) The Calais of Pliny and the ancients is said by Dr. Hill to be the Turquoise, or Gemma Turcica, which consists principally of lime and iron. See the Thyites. The Memphites contains bitumen and ethereal oil. It is the retinasphaltum of Mr. Ilatchctt, or retinite of Jameson. (Mineral, iii, 478.) According to Dioscorides, when rubbed