[book VII, SIMPLE PURGATIVES. 486 specific property attracts, and as it were, sucks to it the humour to which it has a natural alliance, in like manner as the magnet attracts iron. He di\ddes Purgatives into Chola- gogueSj Melanogogues, Hydragogues, and Phlegmagogues. He rejects the hypothesis of Erasistratus, who maintained that each medicine converts the juices presented to it, into its own specific nature: thus that cholagogues convert them into yellow bile, melanogogues into black bile, and so forth. Although Galen flatters himself that he effectually demolishes this hypothesis, we have long looked upon it as a very plausible one, and believe that at the present time the prevailing opinion in the profession inclines much in that direction. For example, the green and dark discharges which are brought off by mer- curial purgatives, are now generally supposed to be occasioned by the fluids in the secretions entering into combination with the medicine administered. It is to be regretted that no ancient author has given us a clear exposition of the hypo- thesis of Erasistratus. Galen gives a long list of cases, in which pm'gatives prove beneficial, such as eiysipelas, epilepsy, apoplexy, gout, rheumatism, melancholy, and many chronic complaints. He insists strongly on the benefit derived from cholagogues for the cure of jaundice. (De purg. Med. vi.) Antyllus, in an extract preserved by Aetius, espouses the theory which maintains the specific operation of purgatives, and that they act by attracting the humours to which they are allied. He recommends them for various complaints, as niabgnant cutaneous diseases, spontaneous ulceration, and rheumatic affections, (iii, 23.) The account of this subject, gi^^en by Oribasius, is taken from the works of Galen and Ruffus. It is too lengthy for our limits. Ruffus directs the surgeon to consider well the patient's constitution, and regulate the dose of the medicine accordingly, as there is a great difference in the susceptibility of persons to be acted upon by purgatives. The following is a list of the purgatives described by Ruffus in this fragment: Polypody, iris, ccilocynth, phacoides (a species of spurge olive ?), peplos, peplium, aloe, hippophaes, hippophtestum, clematis, pycnocomon, vines, thyme, epithyrae, marjoram, Greek savory, poppies, cucumber, the smaller heliotrope, the lesser sesa- moides, the tithyraalli or spurges, the chamelBea, lathyris,