APPENDIX TO [uooic vn. 426 In this country it is used as a perfume only; on the continent it is employed in medicine. It appears to be the indurated faeces (perhaps somewhat altered by disease) of the animal. Mr, Beale collected some of the semi-fluid faeces, and found that the dried mass had all the properties of ambergris. It is a solid, opaque, grayish, striated substance, having a pleasant musk-like odour, and which is derived from the squid {scepia moschata) on which the animal feeds." Pereira (Mat. Med. 1392.), No one who compares this account of ambergris with what is said of it in the extracts we have given from Serapion and Avicenna under Electrum, can entertain a doubt that these authors were well informed as to the nature of this substance. Ebn Baithar gives a similar account of the origin of ambergris. He says, it is furnished by sea monsters which swallow it and vomit it up again. It swims on the surface of water, and the blackish kind is of little value. He calls it the most excellent of all aromatics, and praises it for strengthening the heart and brain, and for ciuing cramp and similar complaints. Among other powers which it possesses, it is said to be intoxicating, (i, 210, 405.) See also Haly Abbas (Theor. v, 33.) The Greeks and Romans would appear to have been unacquainted with this species of Amber until after the Arabian period. It is accui'ately described by Symeon Seth, as we have already stated above in the commentary on Electrum. He holds it to be a good cordial and stomachic medicine. Bezoar. As this article is now but little known in this country, it may be proper to prefix some account of it fi'om recent autho- rities. Lewis writes of it thus: " La2ns Bezoar orientalis, oriental Bezoar stone, supposed to be produced in the pylorus or in a cavity at the bottom of the fourth stomach of an animal of the goat kind, which inhabits the mountains in different parts of Persia." (Mat. Med. 317.) But Bontius is, perhaps we may say, the most accurate of the modern authorities who have described the oriental bezoars. He describes them as being alvine concretions which form in goats or gazelles, and have generally a little piece of chaff as a nucleus. He had also seen them taken from the bodies of monkeys. (]\Ied. Ind. c. 45.) See further Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 179, 136.) Now,