SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 145 <]inih, the root of which contains juices which are extracted ike those of Thapsia." One obolus of the juice mixed with :he floui" of tares, purges phlegm and bile; and the whole )laHt,Vhen dried, becomes purgative. Commentary. Without entering into the discussion re- Comm. .>ardiug this plant, we shall merely observe that we are dis- ""^^ losed to agree with those who refer it to a species of spurge, .amely. Euphorbia spinosa. Dioscorides describes it as being fiolagogue, hydragogue, and phlegmagogue. (iii, 159.) It does ot appear that it is treated of by Galen, nor by the Arabian uthorities. Ins, Fleur-de-hjs, is calefacient, consists of very subtile par- cles, and is detergent and digestive. It therefore agrees ith coughs, renders expectoration easy, cures tormina, and ;eanses Foul ulcers. When drunk with honeyed water it eva- lates the bowels. Commentary. Probably it comprehends the Iris Germa- Comm. (Ca and /. Florentina. It is the first article treated of by oscorides, who gives a full account of it, and concludes by w^mg that the different species of it are useful for many pur- ses. He recommends them as an external application in taneous diseases and ulcers, and as being soporific and alexi- rarmic j when drunk with wine as proving emmenagogue, and applied in pessaries, malagmata, and acopa. The others at of its virtues less copiously, with the exception of apion and Avicenna. One of Serapion's Arabian authori- Aben Mesuai, says it purges yellow bile and black bile, IS deobstruent in obstructions of the liver. He also men- s It as a sternutatory and masticatory. (De Simpl. 189.) cenna's characters of the Iris are in the main derived from corides, but altogether his description of it is very in- sting. He recommends it very particularly in diseases of rectum and uterus, both when administered internally and hip-bath. He also represents it as proving useful in orrhcea, and in the pollutio nocturni somni. He con- ies by calling it a general alexipharmic (ii, 2, 349.) The of the Florentine Iris or Flower de Luce, was used in practice of medicine down to a late date. See Quincy and haave. It is still kept in the shops, and has the charac- 10