325 SIMPLES. SECT. III.] Arabians. Dioscorides says it has the same general powers as Comm. arsenic (yellow orpiment), and recommends it externally in ' ' ' ^ alopecia, leprosy, phthiriasis, hard boils, ulcers in the nose and ! mouth, other exanthemata and condylomata; and also internally ) in cases of empyema with mulse ; in fumigations with resin in t' chronic cough, when its steam is inhaled into the mouth by i: means of a syphon. He concludes by saying of it, that in a 1 linctus with honey it clears the voice, and along with dry }. 'pitch makes an excellent pill for asthmatics, (v, 121.) Galen, ) . Aetius, and Oribasius give but a very brief and general account 1 of it. Celsus places it in his lists of cleansing and corroding ! > substances (v, 5, 6), and often prescribes it as a septic and !j (caustic application. Avicenna treats of the white, the yellow, > ; and the red arsenic in the same chapter. What he says of 3 t the last, or realgar, is taken from Dioscorides. (ii, 3, 48.) f ' Serapion also treats of the yellow and red arsenic in the same 6 I chapter, and merely gives extracts under this head from }i IDioscorides and Galen. See further Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, ) t610) ; Averrhoes (ColHg. v, 43); Haly Abbas (Pract. ii, 48, '503); Ebn Baithar (i, 527.) The last of these gives an inter- esting description of three kinds of arsenic, namely, the yellow, the red, and the white. The red of course is the article now under consideration. He says of the yellow and red, that when calcined they become white, and when melted with a certain red ore lose their disagreeable smell. The white is said to be I mortal poison. The yellow and the red he recommends in ihagedsenic sores of the mouth and nose and elsewhere, and as in inhalation in asthma and orthopnoea. Sandyx, or Siricon, consists of subtile parts, and has desic- ative powers, but not heating. Commentary. Galen says that when ceruse is burnt, that Comm. s to say, calcined, it becomes sandyx. (De Simpl. ix.) See also '—*—' Pliny (H. N. xxxv, 23.) He calls it burnt ceruse mixed with m equal proportion of rubrica. See also Alston and Sprengel. dioscorides treats of it under the same head as ceruse, and de- cribes the process by which the latter is converted into sandyx. 'he Arabian authorities, in like manner, treat of it along with eruse. See Serapion (c. 378) ; Avicenna (ii, 2, 117.) From