538 SMEGMATA. [book VII. The Rhodian styptic for spreading ulcers and fungous flesh. Of unripe gallsj dr. vj; of galls burnt, and extinguished in wine and dried, dr. xij; of the black squama aeris, or, if not, of the red, dr. viij; of copperas, dr. xxiv; of fissile alum, dr. xx^ij ; triturate for a sufficient number of days. The powder called flavus. Of bunit chalcitis, dr. xl; of burnt copperas, dr. viij; of burnt misy, dr. x; of burnt cop- per, dr. V. The powder called psams. Of misy, oz. v; of galls, oz. iv; of chalcitis, oz. ij; of squama seris, oz. ij ; of copperas, oz.j; of scraped verdigris, oz. ij. The caustic pov;der called heliocaes. Of arsenic, lb. j; of calx viva, lb. ij. Triturate with water dming the dog-days, then dry and use. The florid powder. Of cyperus, dr. viij ; of myrrh, dr. xij ; of sandarach, dr. iij ; of the flowers of roses, dr. ij ; of saifron, dr. ij ; of crocomagtna, of fissile alum, of Illyrian iris, of each, dr. ij. The powder from paper, principally for spreading ulcers of the mouth and those of the pudendum. Of squama seris, of burnt paper, of each, dr. viij; of arsenic, of sulphur vivum, of each, dr. xij; of burnt lead, dr. \]. For the more humid morti- fications use it dry, but for such as are dry mix it with rose-oil, and sometimes with honey along with rose-oil. The powder from butcher's broom {oxymyrsine), for the same purposes. Of elm-leaved sumach, oz. ij ; of the leaves of butcher's broom, of sandarach, of each, dr, viij; of the dried leaves of willow, of pomegranate rind, of each, dr. y] ; of fissile alum, of chrysocolla, of aloes, of crude chalcitis, of squama seris, of arsenic, of common salts, of each, dr. iv. The powder of Massaliotes. Of roasted natron, of chrysocolla, of Asian stone, of sandarach, of misy, of chalcitis, of fissile alum, of diphryges, equal parts. Use dry. The dry abstergent application [smegma) called the ^scu- lapian. Of bay berries, of Alexandrian natron, of roasted salt, of Cappadocian salt, of ammoniac perfume, of aphronitrum, of pumice-stone, of each, lb. j ; of black hellebore, of fuller's herb, of peUitory, of the burnt lees of wine, of stavesacre, of mustai-d, of cyperus, of fissile alum, of the schoenanth, of iris, of galls, of each, oz. vj; of sampsuchum (a Species of marjoram), lb. j;