SIMPLES. [book VII. 30 same virtues to it as our author. See particularly Dioscorides (i, 2) ; Avicenna (ii, 2, 45) ; Rhases (Cent. 1. ult. 21) ; Serapion (c. 269.) In the modem Greek Pharmacopoeia it is identified with the KoXafiog aptJfiariKO^ (p. 32.) Locustse, Grasshoppers, in fumigations relieve dysuria* espe- cially of women. The wingless grasshopper, when drunk in wine, relieves the bite of scorpions. Commentary. It is quite certain that the 'AKplg of the Greeks, and the Locusta of the Romans was a species of locust or grasshopper. See Harduin (adPlin. H. N. xi, 35.) Without doubt, then, it was the Gryllus migratorius L. The wingless locusta mentioned by our author is the insect in its larvous state. Our author copies from, and abridges, Dioscorides (ii, 56) ; and Avicenna does the same (ii, 2, 388.) Celsus treats of the locusta only as an article of food (ii, 28.) In this way, as is well known, the locilsts were much used by the ancients. They are not noticed, however, either as an article of food or of medicine in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia. ''Aktt/ /jieyaXrj, Sambucus, the Elder-tree, and X-a/^iaiaKTr], Sambucus humihs vel Ebulus, Dwarf-elder, are possessed of desiccative, moderately discutient and agglutinative powers. When eaten or drunk they occasion a discharge of water from the bowels. Commentary. The two species of elder, namely, the Sam- bucus nigra and Ebulus, are much commended by the ancients for the cure of dropsy. As Dioscorides states, the elder is hydragogue, but disagrees with the stomach. He further recommends a hip-bath made of water in which elder has been boiled, for obstructions and hardness of the uterus (iv, 161.) Galen and the other Greek authorities treat of it in general terms hke Paulus. The Arabians in treating of it generally borrow from Dioscorides and Galen. See particularly Serapion (c. 284.) It appears to be the acte of Rhases (Cont. 1, ult. i, 23) ; and is the aktha of Ebn Baithar, according to his German translator. Dr. Sontheimer, in which opinion we fully agree with him. The Sambucus of Avicenna (ii, 2, 611) is