ANTIDOTES. [hook VII. 51C and to children, the size of a chick-pea. It is an excellent anodyne and soporific medicine. The Athanasian anodyne and pleuritic antidote, from Ori- basius. Of cassia, dr. viij ; of spikenard, of amomum, of saffron, of opium, of storax, of mjTrh, of costus, of each, dr. iv; of despumated honey, q. s. The dose the same as that of the antidote of Philo. The antidote from two peppers of similar powers. Of cardamom, of castor, of opium, of each, dr. iij ; of myrrh, of costus, of white and of long pepper, of galbanum, of each, dr. iij ; of saflFron, dr. iij. Mix with well-boiled honey, and give to the size of a bean. The antidote from poppy-heads and rob. Having mace- rated, in a sextarius of rob, eight or ten green, but not waterjf heads of poppy the day after they are gathered, and an ounce of liquorice for one day, boil until they are dissolved; and after they have acquired a moderate consistence, take from the fire, and put into a vessel, and use in the case of watchfulness, accompanied with fever, and when there is a thin defluxion from the head upon the chest. The antidote from poppy-heads and honey. Boil the poppy- heads, as mentioned above, and the ounce of liquorice in oz. j of rain-water or spring-water until dissolved; and having squeezed it out, add to the decoction half a sextarius of honey and boil until it acquire consistence. Give it in those cases which, along with a mitigation of pain and the production of sleep, require purgative and detergent medicines, for the parts within the thorax, or about the lungs and kidneys. The compound antidote from poppy-heads. Take of the water in which poppy-heads have been boiled, according to the above-mentioned proportion, sext. j ; of sweet wine, two heminse ; of honey, lb. j; of saffron, of the juice of hypocistis, of each, dr. iv; boil to a proper consistence. That which is prepared from honey, poppy-heads, and quinces is more grate- ful to the stomach. It becomes more efficacious if along with the poppy-heads some melilot and liquorice be also boiled in the water. A simple linctus or lohock from horehound, princijmlly for consumptions. Boil a pound of the hair of horehound in six heminae of water until but a third remain; then throw away