[book VII. SIMPLES. 362 Storax, is calefacientj emollient, and digestive. It there- fore is useful in coughs, catarrhs, and defluxions; and promotes menstruation both when drunk and applied on a pessary. Comm. Commentary. It is clearly our officinal storax, or Styrax officinale. Dr. Pereira has given the ancient history of this substance so correctly, as to leave us httle further to add under the present head. (Mat. Med. 931.) As he states, the storax has been described by Hippocrates, Theophrastus, Pliny, and Dioscorides. The several varieties described by the last of these. Dr. Pereira ingeniously refers to kinds of storax, with Avhich we are still acquainted. The Styrax Calamita is mentioned by our author in the eleventh Section j according to him it is but a variety of the amygdaloid storax, which was formerly imported enveloped in a monocotyledonous leaf. Dioscorides's description of its medicinal properties agrees well with our author's, but is considerably fuller, (i, 79.) Galen and the other Greek authorities treat of it like our author. Celsus prescribes it frequently as an emollient, discutient, con- coctive, and suppurative medicine, (v, 18, 22, c. &c.) The Arabians treat of it at considerable length, but do not add much of any practical importance to what had been written on it by Dioscorides and Galen. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 423); Serapion (c. 46); Averrhoes (Collig. v, 42); Rhases (Cont. L ult. i, 687) ; Ebn Baithar (ii, 428.) Upon the whole, Serapion's account appears to us most interesting. His Arabian autho- rity, Isaac Eben Amram, mentions that it was used by the Christians in their churches for fumigations. Avicenna, accord- ing to Dr. Hill, is the only one among the Arabians who dis- tinguishes the solid storax, which we have been treating of from the liquid, or Styrax liquidus. It is quite a differeut substance, being procured from the Liquid amber orientale, according to Dr. Lindley. (Veg. King. 253.) Eicus, Figs; those which are dried possess heating powers in about the second degree. But those which are fatty rather digest hard tumours; those which are more acrid prove deter- gent and discutient. The decoction of them, when made of the consistence of honey (which some call sirseou), is similar