SECT. III.] 47 SIMPLES. 'A-VTippivov or 'Avappivov, Antin'inon, or ABarriuon, Snapdragon, has properties re- sembling tliose of tlie buboniurQj but weakerj whence you may learn its properties. Commentary. Galen writes of this article, Antirrinum Comm. i Orontium, or Calfsnout, as being of no nse in medicine. (De ' * ' : Simpl. V.) Dioscorides, also, mentions it only as an amulet land external application, (iv, 131.) It is scarcely noticed by tthe other authorities. According to Pliny, it is emmenagogue. tSerapion has omitted it. ''KvujviQ or ''Q,v(i}viq, Anonis, or Ononis, Rest-harroio, has heating powers, especially jin its root. Its juice, when drunk with wine, promotes the secretion of urine, is Hthontriptic, breaks eschars, and soothes pains of the teeth. Commentary. Our author abridges his account of the Comm. Ononis antiquorum from Galen. All in fact borrow from ' " ' Dioscorides, who further mentions of it, that it was sometimes ased as a pickle,, (iii, 18.) It would appear to be the Onobes jf Rhases (Cont. i, 520), who gives the characters of it from 3-alen. Serapion and Avicenna have omitted it. Modern au- horities enumerate it among the five aperient roots. It is inly of late years that it has been expelled from our Pharma- sopoeias. Even yet it is not wholly unknown to our apothe- ;aries. See Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. p. 94.) Two species if the Anonis, the antiquorum and spinosa, occur in the modern Jreek Pharmacopoeia (p. 119.) ' KirapivTi], Lappa, Cleavers (which some call philanthropon, others phalocarpon), is moderately detergent and desiccative; it also onsists of subtile particles. Commentary. All the herbalists and best commentators Comm. 'gree that it is the Galium aparine. (See Gerarde, Sprengel, ' * ' 'ad others.) According to Dioscorides a decoction of its •aves is useful to persons bitten by plialangia and vipers, when inink with wine ; an injection of the same into the ears ires earache ; and when mixed up with axunge it dis- isses scrofulous tumours. Galen and the subsequent autho-