400 [book VII. SIMPLES. Comm. of the nature and formation of the misy^ sori, and chalcitis (see Opera, cd. Basil, T. ii, 127); but as his description of them is lengthy, we prefer giving the abstract of the same furnished by Aetius. It is to be borne in mind then that what follows is upon the authority of Galen, who nsited the copper-miues of Cyprus for the express purpose of ascertaining the nature of the misy, sori, and chalcitis. " At thQ mine in Cyprus, in the mountains of the Soli, there was a great cave dug in the mountain, at the right side of which, that is to say, on our left hand as we entered, there was a passage into the mine iu which I saw certain specimens of the three substances stretched upon one another like zones, the lowest being that of so7-i, upon it chalcitis, and then that of misy. In process of time the chalcitis changes into misy by degrees, and the sori can change into chalcitis, but requires a much longer space of time. So that it is no wonder that these three substances should be possessed of homogeneous (similar) powers, as differing from one another only in tenuity and density of their parts, the grossest being the sori, and the finest the misy, whereas chal- citis possesses an intermediate power. When burnt they be- come more attenuant, but less styptic." (p. 30, ed. Aldi.) Galen (1. c.) states distinctly that the misy is an efflorescence which forms upon the chalcitis, similar to the verdigris which forms upon copper (or bronze), and that the three substances in question are convertible into one another. He also states that a specimen of chalcanthos, when long kept, turus to chalcitis. Pliny gives a very confused account of the misy, sori, and chalcitis, which betrays evident marks of a very imperfect acquaintance with the subject; but it is quite obvious that he meant to describe the very same substances as those which Dioscorides and Galen describe under these names, as is ob- vious from his ascribing the same medicinal powers as they do to each of these articles. (See H. N. xxxiv, 29, 30, 31, with the notes of Harduin.) Dioscorides gives but a very brief description of these substances, with the origin of which he most probably was not so well acquainted as Galen. He de- scribes the best kind as being like bronze or copper (^aX/fo£t§»;), friable, free of stones, not old, and having long and glancing fibres. He says of it that it has styptic, heating, and escha- rotic powers, and that it clears away impuiities about the