SECT. XVII.] PLASTERS. 575 (lay iu a little water, and is tlien levigated in a mortar^ and in this state the plaster is poured upon it. Thapsia is sprinkled last, or triturated with some fluid. Bdellium being levigated, is sprinkled after the plaster is taken from the fire; but if it is of a fatty nature, and cannot be levigated, it is to be pounded like sagapen, and made into the form of a plaster, and softened with the plaster after the boiling. Frankincense ;ind manna are sprinkled at the end of the boiling, becoming i;lutiuous, with a little honey, vinegar, water, or wine, if t he plaster admit a liquid. Myrrh is added when the boiling is over. None of the seeds, roots, and herbs can endure boil- iug; but when levigated, and while they remain in the mortar, the other things are poured upon them in a state of solution. Commentary. The following are the general directions Comm. given by Celsus for the formation of plasters : " Emplastrum " hoc modo fit : arida medicaraenta per se teruntur; deindc inixtis his instillatur aut acetum, aut si quis alius non pinguis humor accessurus est, et ea rursus ex eo teruntur; ea vero ([uee liquari possunt, ad ignem simtil liquantur, et si quid olei inisceri debet, tum infunditur: interdum etiam aridum ali ![uod ex oleo prius coquitur." He describes the composition -f 28 plasters, (v, 19.) The composition of plasters is treated of by Galen at so sveoi length that it is quite out of the question to attempt jven an abstract of his account of them. His accuracy of Ictail and attention to minutiae are almost inconceivable. See Mie fii'st four books of his work (De Med. sec. genera.) Our uithor, as usual, is much indebted to him. For further information regarding the emplastra of the indents, see also Haly Abbas (Pract. x, 18) ; Mesne (De lingucntis); and Myrepsus (§ x.) Myrcpsus, as usual, is riost copious: he gives formula; for 199 plasters. The diachylon plaster is described by Galen and Mesne, but s the ingredients of theirs are nearly the same as in that of iir author, we need not give their formulaj. Tlic yEf/yptiacum, which is still celebrated as a remedy in •ortain cases is thus described by Mesne : " Take of verdigris, h: V; of honey, dr. xiv; of very acrid vinegar, dr. vij : boil