412 [book Vll, SIMPLES. Comm. tinction between tlie last and the first two. He commends " " ' the mezereon particularly in dropsy, (ii^ 2, 455.) The above sketch, it will be remarked, clearly proves the identity of the y^a/jLeXaia of the Greeks, and the Mezereon of the Arabians. We admit, however, that it does not prove their identity with the Daphne Mezereon. To us it appears, however, that the physiological effects of the mezereon, as described by our best authorities of the present day, correspond very well with the effects of the chamelsea or mezereon as described by Dioscorides and Serapion. In particular compare Pereira (805) with Serapion (1. c.) It is proper to mention, however, that Sibthorp held the y^. to be Daphne oleoides. Both the Daphne Mezereon, and D. Gnidium are retained in the modem Greek Pharmacopoeia. (108.) XsXtSoi'lOl', Chelidonium, Columbine or Celandine; the great is cale- facient in the third order, and powerfully detergent. The juice of it contributes to acuteness of sight. The root when drunk with anise removes icteric obstructions, and also when taken with wine. When masticated it cures toothache. The smaller species, which belongs to the fourth order of calefa- cients, is more acrid, so as to ulcerate the skin in a cataplasm. It also removes leprous nails. The juice of it purges by the nose. Comm. COMMENTARY. That the first specics is the Chelidonium ' • ' majus L. admits of no dispute. The other would seem to be the Ranunculus Ficaria, or Fig-wort. PUny praises it as an application to strumous tumours, and a remedy for impair- ment of sight. From the experiments of Orfila, it appears that the C. magus acts as a very acrid poison. Dioscorides describes the great celandine very minutely, and recommends it in jaundice and toothache, (ii, 201.) He gives the same character of the less as our author, (ii, 212.) Galen and Aetius treat of them like our author. Neither of them is to be found in the works of Hippocrates. Celsus prescribes the juice of the " chelidonia" as an application to enlarged tonsils, (vi, 14.) Both species are distinctly treated of by the Arabians. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 295, 727); Serapion (c. 196); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 300.) They all recommend the juice of the