322 SIMPLES. [book VII. PwTTOC, The Sordes, from copper statues or vessels, in wliich a con- siderable quantity of oil lias been kept, having also some verdi- gris, is discutient, moderately desiccative and emollient. It therefore discusses unconcocted phymata. But the sordes in the palestra (which some call paton), has been described under the head of sweat. The sordes in the ears is said to cure whitlows. Comm. COMMENTARY. Sprengcl gives a long dissertation on the sordes palestrae. (Ad Dioscor. i, 36.) Suffice it to say in this place that it was collected from the bodies of the wrestlers in the palestra, and consisted of oil, sweat, dust, and any powder used for cleansing the skin. Sprengcl, from a passage in the works of Tlieophrastus (H. P. v, 9), infers that the sordes gymnasiorum were collected from statues made of cedar, but he appears to have overlooked the account of it given by our author, from which it must be obvious that it was collected from statues of copper, or rather of bronze. The sordes balneorum, which is treated of by Dioscorides (i, 34), will be readily under- stood from the description which we have given in another place (Vol. I, 68), of the preparatory process which the bathers went through before going into the bath. It must have consisted then of human sweat and other impurities extracted from the skin, mixed up with soda, flour of beans, or any other substance used in cleansing the skin by means of the comb (strigil.) Dioscorides says it is heating, emollient, and discutient, and is used as a hni- ment to fissures and condylomata. These articles are treated of by most of the other authorities. On the sordes palestrae, see in particular Galen. (T. ii, 136, ed. Basil.) For the Arabians see Avicenna (ii, 2, 648), and Serapion (De Simpl. 169). ^ayairrivov, Sagapenum, Sagapen, is the juice of a sort of ferula, being hot and attenuate. It is also somewhat detergent, so as to agree with cicatrices in the eyes and sufi'usions. Comm. COMMENTARY. It lias ucvcr bccn disputed, as far as we are ' aware, that the ancient sagapenum was the same substance as the modern. However, it is not even yet well ascertained by what tree it is furnished, but it is generally supposed to be either the Ferula Persica or F. Szoioitsiana. See Lindley