[book vir. APPENDIX TO 478 Behen. Serapion briefly describes two varieties of it consisting of fibrous rootSj being brought from Armenia, and having a good smell with some viscidity. Both kinds, he says, are hot and humid, and increase the secretion of semen. (De Simpl. 223.) See also Avicenna (ii, 2, 82), and Ehases (Contin. 1. ult. iii, 29.) Avicenna holds that it is also cordial in addition to its power of forming semen. It is the Centaurea Behen L. Spinachia, We have already treated of the spinach {Spinachia oleracea) as a dietetical article introduced by the Arabians. (Vol. 1,113.) According to Avicenna it is laxative of the bowels, useful in orthopnoca, and other diseases of the chest. It is noticed in like terms by Serapion (De Simpl. 140) ; by Ehases (Contin. 1. ult. i, 671.) Ebn Baithar says of spinach that it is an excellent potherb, and useful in diseases of the neck and chest, being much used for this purpose by the inhabitants of Nineveh, who are very sul)ject to such complaints. Rhabarbarum. We have stated under Rheum in the preceding Commentary (317), that it was the rheum rhaponticum, which is the only species of the rheum described in the regular treatises on the Mat. Med. of the Greeks and Romans. Our author, however, would seem to allude to the Rheum barbarum or purgative rhubarb, at Book I, 43, and VII, 11. Although it is stated by some learned authorities that the rheum of Trallian (viii, 3) was a species of the Bhabarbarum, we are satisfied from a careful examina- tion of the passage, that it was the rhaponticum. There can be no doubt that the general use of the purgative rhubarb was introduced by the Arabians, of whom Ebn Baithar is by far the most copious and instructive under this head. He states decidedly that there are four species of rhubarb, three of Avhich are perfectly distinct. On the first species, by which he evidently means the R. Rhaponticum, he gives extracts from Dioscorides, Galen, Oribasius, and Paulus. He says the older physicians knew nothing of the virtues of the purgative kinds of rhubarb until they were discovered near to his time. He says the purgative rhubarb acts as a deobstruent and strength-