SIMPLES. 31 ;SECT. III.] mot the elder, but the jasmine. We have not been able to Comm. I detect the other in his Book on the Mat. Med., but can" ' ' sscai'cely suppose that he has entirely overlooked it. "AXsc, Sales, Salts, have desiccant and astringent powers. Where- ffore they consume whatever humours are in the body, and also ^contract by their astringency. Whence they form pickles, and preserve substances from putrefaction. Roasted salts are more idiscutient. Commentary. For an account of the factitious salts of the Comm. lancients, see in partictdar PHny (H. N. xxxi, 39.) Sprengel' ' ' remarks that the aXog ayr^vri, or spuma maris, is merely the skum or down of salt, which sticks to rocks in such situations -is salt is usually formed in. The aXog avOog, or Jlos salis, lae adds, is a very different substance, being a native, impure carbonate of soda; containing also magnesia, lime, and some eerrene admixture, to which it owes its colour. When de- prived of its carbonic acid it becomes caustic, and was then ailed a(p^oq virpov by the ancients (v. a(f)p6viTpov.) The sal immoniac of the Greeks was a native fossil salt, and consider- Itbly different from ours. Geoffroy seems to agree with ialmasius, that it was the sal gem. Dr. Hill also maintains ihat it was only a pecvdiar form of the sal gem. See also [sameson^s 'Mineral.' (iii, 15.) In fact, from Dioscorides' de- icription of the ammoniac salt, nobody can avoid seeing that it as merely a variety of the common fossil salt. He treats of the edicinal faculties of the salts at so great length that we dare ot venture to copy his account of them. It is literally trans- .ted by Pliny (xxxi, 45.) He recommends them internally the mouth and in clysters, and externally in fomentations, iths, and fumigations. Serapion quotes the whole of Dios- 'rides' chapter on Salts without supplying much additional brmation of his own. He describes minutely the process F roasting salts in an earthen vessel, and covering them up th coals, and thus applying heat to them. The sal ammo- ac he describes, from Arabian authorities, as being a white id salt, extracted from hard clear stones, and being saltish, th much pungency (c. 409.) We never could altogether iitisfy ourselves whether or not this be the same as the sal