SIMPLE PURGATIVES. 487 SECT. IV.] agaric, and eiiphorbium. His description of the operation of Comm. each medicine bespeaks a good acquaintance with the subject. ' " ' (Med. Collect, vii, 26.) See also Actuarius (Meth. Med. iii, 7.) Haly Abbas makes some acute remarks on the action of Ca- thartics. Every purgative, he says, attracts the humour, to which it is allied. Different opinions, he adds, have been entertained regarding the modus ope)-andi in this case. Some maintain that, when such a medicine is swallowed, it goes to the members where its cognate humour is lodged, from which both are expelled by the expulsive faculty of the part, and return to the bowels together. This theory, however, he rejects. He mentions further that others maintain that the medicine attracts its pecuKar fluid, as a magnet does iron; and of this theory he adopts a modification. He states it as his opinion that, when such a medicine has been swallowed, it attracts its cognate fluid from the surrounding parts, to which all the similar fluids in the body ai-e afterwards determined, being conveyed thither by the veins. He gives a full account of all the purgatives known in his time. (Pract. iii, 53, 54.) Much the same theory is ad- vocated, and fully explained by Serapion. (De Antidot. vii, 10.) Avicenna and Rhases object to the doctrine of Galen that he appears to have maintained that there is a peculiar alliance between a purgative medicine of a certain class and the fluid or humour which it attracts, whereas they argue that, as there is no aUiance between the magnet and the iron which it attracts, so is it in like manner with purgatives and the pecTiliar fluids which they evacuate. This, however, is only a more precise exposition of the theory advanced by Galen. Rhases (Cont. xii, 1); Avicenna (i, 4, 4.) The ancient theory is very acutely stated by Averrhoes (Collig. v, 21.) See also Mesne (Canones universales.) There appears to be some originality in the theory of Mesne. He says that a pur- gative medicine operates by occasioning a preternatural increase of the vital, or, as it is now called, animal heat of the part to which it is applied, whereby its attractive powers are increased. He maintains very ingeniously that purgation is an act of Nature, that is to say, an operation of the vis medicatrix natwrcR, and that the medicine is merely the instrument of Nature in this case, for, he adds (as Hippocrates says), it is Nature, and not tlic pliysician, that cures diseases. A pur-