-SECT. 111.] SIMPLES. 143 verdigris, which is not very unlike that which is now practised Comm. : in France. He also makes mention of another species, ' • ' ! namely, the jErugo Scolecia, with which we are now unac- L quainted. He gives an interesting account of the cases in V which it is applicable, (v, 92.) Galen also writes of it with :gi'eat precision. He says, when lightly appHed it relieves fun- gated sores; and when diluted with cerates, it cleanses them. (De Simpl. ix.) The other Greek authorities give much the j.same account of it. The Arabians treat fully of the two kinds, flwhich they call uEmgo rasilis and subtilis, but borrow almost laJI their information from Dioscorides and Galen. Like the Greek authorities, they apply it principally in intractable ulcers and in diseases of the eyelids. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 739), and Serapion (De Simpl. 383); Haly Abbas (Pract. ii, t44); Ebn Baithar (i, 540.) 'iTTTro/ca/iTrog, Hippocampus, is a sea animal, the ashes of which when )bumt thicken the hair in alopecia, along with liquid pitch. Commentary. It is, indisputably, our Syngnathus Hippo- Comm. mmpus. ^lian relates that it has proved useful in cases of' " ' uydi'ophobia. (Hist. Anim. xiv, 20.) Our author boiTows Tom Dioscorides (ii, 3.) The Arabians do not treat of it. iTTTroXttTra^ov, Hippolapathum, Horse Burdock, grows in marshes, being ce the Bui'dock. Commentary. This article, which would seem to be the Comm. lumex Hydrolcqmthum, is treated of in the same brief terms ""^^ ' the other authorities. See Dioscorides (i, 141.) iTTTTOjuapaflpoj/, Hippomarathrum, Horse Fennel; that variety which resem- oles the Cachrys is more desiccant than the common Fennel, t is, therefore, astringent, lithontriptic, and emmenagogue; jftut that species which has seed like coriander seed, is also wke it in other respects, but weaker. ]' Commentary. There is little doubt that the former Comm. pecies is the Cachrys Sicula. The other is undetermined. |i)ur author copies closely from Dioscorides (iii, 76) ; and the