132 SIMPLES. [book VII. triturated with wine is drunk for the bites of reptiles. The liver of the cormorant, when dried and taken in a draught, makes calculi be discharged. Comm. Commentaky. We liave treated of the livers of animals ' * 'in the dietetical part of the Fii'st Book. See also in parti- cular Galen and Serapion. Our author copies from the former, who in his turn follows closely in the footsteps of Dioscorides. Senecio, Groundsel, has mixed powers, being refrigerant and moderately discutient. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscoridcs recommeuds it [Senecio vulgaris) in inflammatory complaints, and also says of it that when drunk with must it relieves the pains of the stomach pro- ceeding from bile. Galen and the other authorities, hke Paulus, treat of it in general terms as an antiphlogistic appU- cation. Apuleius recommends it in sciatica (75, 5.) In modern times it had the character of being emetic, but the ancient authorities do not say that it has this property. Hpu-yytoi', Eryngium, Eryngo, is calefacient in no imperceptible degree, and has no little heat and subtdity of parts. Comm. COMMENTARY. That it is a species of Eryngium or sea ' * ' holly seems indisputable. It may either be the maritimum, the planum, or the campestre, all of which are brought into view and figm-ed by our careful herbalist Parkinson. (Theatre of Plants, 986.) Dioscorides's description of its locahties would seem to agree best with the campestre; he calls it calefacient, and says it is diuretic and emmenagogue, removing tormina and flatulences, and proving serviceable in hepatic diseases, and as an alexipharmic. He adds, that it is related of it that it discusses hard tumours, both when appended as an amulet and in a cataplasm; and that the root of it cures opisthotonos and epilepsy when drunk with hydi-omel. (iii, 21.) Galen and the other Greek authorities treat of it in general terms like Paulus. The secacul of the Arabians has been taken for this article, but erroneouslj'-, as Matthiolus ha> well remarked. (Ad Dioscor. iii, 21.) But Serapion treats ot it under the name of Iringi, as being a white variety of the