^ECT. XVI.] 549 COLLYRIA. substances for a longer time, and the juicy substances for a shorter. At last, after sufficient tritur-ation, we must add the uum, and ha^dng formed them, lay them up in copper vessels especially, or in glass. Those prepared from juices are to be used immediately, but the metallic improve by keeping. Of the xerocoUyria, some melt down, and absterge callus, sycosis, pterygium, and scabious affections, being composed of chalcitis, \erdigris, and misy. Some occasion a discharge of tears, agreeing with obstructions and dimness of sight, and are com- posed of these things, pepper and spikenard. Some are prophy- lactics for preventing influxes, such as those from Phrygian stone, sarcocolla, glaucium, aloes, calamine, antimony, and saffron. xVll these medicines are to be applied to the eyes in a state of the finest powder. But the hygrocollyria are prepared from Attic honey, opobalsam, oil of the most subtile kind from age, tthe juice of fennel, the galls of different animals, the Cyrenaic jjuice, and many other things. Those things which are at- ttenuant, calefacient, and purgative are useful for dimness of sight, and incipient suffusions. These and all acrid things are tto be used when the head is free from plethora, and when the atmosphere is serene and pure, and the wind is northerly, and not very hot nor very cold. Those preparations called agglu- ttinants are made from such things us are obstruent, aggluti- mative, constringent, refrigerant, styptic, or desiccative, such as pollen, manna, Samian earth, myrrh, shells, acacia, opium, with the white of an egg. They are glued to the forehead when the humour is not under the scalp, but external to it. The collyrium monemeronfor incipient and old ophthalmies. Of acacia, dr. xxxvj ; of gum, dr. xxxij ; of calamine, dr. xxiv; of burnt and washed copper, dr. viij; of opium, dr. j. Triturate lin austere wine. It is discutient and desiccative. 77/e collyrium cJdacitm Of sinopic vermilion, of the im- mature gall, of saffron, of the flower of fresh roses deprived of their nails (which we call the pouch), of gum, of each, oz. iv; Df opium, oz. j. Triturate with Aminsean, Falernian, or Chian austere wine. But the wine must not contain salt water. The colhjrian cygnarium. Of calamine, burnt and washed, 3Z. vj ; of washed cemse, oz. iv; of pompholyx, oz. iv; of itarch, oz. ij; of tragacanth, of roasted opium, of gum, of each, )Z. ij. Triturate with rain-water.