SKCT. 111.] 283 SIMPLES. do not contain anything of much interest, (c. 374.) Rhases's C chapter upon the poppy contains many extracts from the Greek authorities on opium, with a few from Arabian wi'iters, whichj however, contain nothing of much interest after what we have given from Dioscorides and Avicenna. Like Serapion, he says, from half a scruple to a scruple is a dose, and that two . drachms Avill prove fatal. His authority. Mesne, says it forms •semen. Another of them, Joannitius, seems to say that it 1 binds the bowels in general, but yet has some laxative power. (Cont. 1. ult. i, 533.) In the ' Book of Experience,^ as quoted by Ebn Baithar, poppy-juice is I'ecommended in complaints of I the eyes, and in pains of the head when applied to the fore- Ihead. One of his Arabian authorities mentions its good t effects in diarrhoea; and it is also spoken favorably of as an aapphcation to burns. Ebn Baithar's account of this article is cotherwise mostly made up from Dioscorides. 'Oirog, Succus Cyrenaicus, Medicus, and Syriacus, are so named er excellentiam, being considerably hot and flatulent. The Cyrenaic is hotter and more attenuate than any of the others. Commentary. The high interest which attaches to these c icles might well dispose us to wake our classical recollections, n order to illustrate the nature of them, if the narrow limits ) which we feel that we are restricted did not restrain us from uch an undertaking. We beg, however, to quote the words of one )f our ablest authorities in illustration of this subject. Dr. jindley, treating of the plants which yield assafojtida, says, assafcEtida is the milky juice of various species of Ferula in- labiting Persia and neighbouring countries. Of these, F. assa- rctida is the plant described by Ksempfer. (Amasn. Exot. 535) ; )ut F. Pcrscia and others, are no doubt also the origin of this I rug. The Asa dulcis or Laser Cyrcnaicum was yielded by a rhapsia, and probably Thapsia Gurganica. This dnig was n high reputation among the ancients for its medicinal uses; t had miraculous powers assigned to it—power to neutralize he effect of poison, to cure envenomed wounds, to restore sight 0 the blind, and youth to the aged; these were only a part f its reputed properties ; it was also reckoned antispasmodic, eobstruent, diuretic, &c., &c. So great was its reputation,