SIMPLES. SECT. III.] 61 ' Aa(f>6SsXog, Asplioclelus, Kingspear; its root is possessed of detergent and discutient powers. When burnt its ashes become more cale- facient, desiccative, and attenuate. It therefore cures alopecia. Commentary. All the ancient authorities, including Hippo- Comm. crates and Celsus, treat of the Aspodelus ramosus, or King-' ' ' spear, and in general are agreed in recommending it internally as being emmenagogue and diuretic, and externally as an application to alopecia or porrigo decalvans. The author who treats of it most elaborately is Dioscorides, who recommends it for the purposes we have mentioned, and as an alexi- pharmic, as a cure for toothache, and many other cases, (ii, 199.) Our author follows Galen. For the Arabians, see Avicenna (ii, 273); Serapion (c. 221); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 26.) They all copy from Dioscorides and Galen. It was sometimes used as a culinary herb. See Vol. I, p. 118. Our old herbalists repeat its ancient characters as a medicine. See Gerard (i, 70.) It has been discarded from the Pharmacopoeia for some time past. AxpaKrvXlq, Atractylis, Wild Cnicus, or Distaff-thistle; .it is of the thorny tribe, being possessed of desiccative and moderatelj^t^eating powers. Commentary. In another place (Vol. I, p. 113) we have Comm. treated of the atractylis as a culinary herb, agreeing with ' ' ' Sprengel in referring it to the Carlina lanata. The commen- tators on Dioscorides, however, are greatly at variance with regard to it; most of the old herbaHsts agree with Belon and Fuchsius in holding it to be the Carduus benedictus, or blessed thistle. See Gerard's Herbal (ii, 489.) We cannot help remarking, however, that the virtues of the Carduus benedictus as given by Quincy (English Dispensatory, i, 2) by no means agree with those assigned to the atractylis by Dioscorides; he holds it to be alexipharmical. (iii, 97.) Our author copies from Galen. The Arabians supply no additional information. See iu particular Avicenna (ii, 2, 159.) Arpct^a^tC, Atriplcx, Orache, moistens in the second degi'ee and cools