SIMPLES. f SECT. II.] 9 i any of the qualities mixed with it^ or by a combination of both, that the substance which is made trial of exerts its .action. Therefore, chalcitis, misy, copperas, the flakes of I copper, sori, and, in addition to them, the armeniacum pictorium (Ai-menian pigment), mercury, and other astringent substances 1 which are also at the same time pungent, act by both their {properties upon the bodies to which they are applied; but we ;,are not thereby informed whether they burn by their astrin- {. gency or by then* acrimony; for such substances, when taken i into the body, being composed of gross particles, and rather Ihot in their powers, having become ignited in the course of t time, according to the change which they undergo in the body I of the animal, ulcerate and burn the parts about the stomach i like heated stones or irons ; and owing to their weight they are incapable of being distributed over the body. It is better, t therefore, after much observation, to look out for something tthat is pureh'^ astringent, and when you have found such a 5 substance, make haste to try it in the manner you have fformerly heai'd described; such as having tasted the flowers [Iof the wild pomegranate, galls, or the flowers of the cultivated ^pomegranate, hypocistis, acacia, sumach, or the like, if the ! substance appear intensely sour, and it is manifest that it f contains no other quality, you must prove the action of iastringency from it. A sour substance then is terrene and ; cold, and its quality may necessarily be removed in three ways ; ^either by being heated, or moistened, or by undergoing both : these changes at the same time. If only heated, it will meither become more humid nor softer; but becoming harder tit will have acquired sweetness, as is the case with acorns and 'chesnuts, as they are called. But if only moistened, and if ithe humidity is of a thick nature and watery, it becomes laustere; for the astringent part being dissolved renders the 'juice austere, it being the property of a watery fluid to obtund the powers of every juice. If a subtile and airy fluid be super- added, it will become acid, for coldness being attenuating 'will render the former quality acid. When moistened and 'heated at the same time, if with a watery humidity, it will •occasion a change to sweetness ; but if with an airy, to fatness; for the fruits of such trees as appear sweet to us when npened, are, when newly formed, sour and dry in their con-