103 SIMPLES. SECT. III.] double the quantity of salt and some mustard, in the form of Comm. a pill, of the size of a tare. Like our author, he states that " ' ' it is emmenagogue, and proves fatal to the foetus when applied in a pessary. Galen and the other authorities on the Materia Medica give it nearly the same characters. Theophrastus states that it is the most durable of all medicines, and that the oldest is the best. (H. P. ix, 14.) It is said by Hippocrates, that if a woman or she-goat, giving suck, partake of elaterium, it will affect her young. (Epid. vi, 5.) Galen in his com- mentary remarks, that other purgatives have the same effect when given similarly. (Op. t. v, 218, ed. Basil.) The Arabians ^ also show a good practical acquaintance with this substance. Thus, for example, Avicenna praises it strongly in affections of the chest attended with difl&culty of breathing, and more espe- cially in cases of dropsy. He recommends it also in the form of a clyster for the cure of diseases of the joints and sciatica, and speaks of a plaster of it for the gout. He directs a pill to be prepai-ed from it with double the quantity of salt. He states con-ectly that it occasions evacuations of phlegm and blood; that it is diuretic, and emmenagogue, and kills the child in a suppository, (ii, 3, 177.) Mesne also writes of the wild cucumber and elaterium with great precision, recommending the latter internally as an emetic, a phlegmagogue, and a hy- di'agogue, more especially in dropsy. He also recommends it in jaundice, and engorgement of the liver and spleen ; and states that it is most beneficial in sciatica when administered in a clyster or applied as a plaster. He speaks highly of the efficacy of the roots of the wild cucumber when applied to the head, in a cataplasm for hemicrania, and as an errhine in the same complaint. (De Simpl. ix.) Serapion also, in treating of the wild cucumber, gives interesting extracts, both from Greek and Arabian authorities, respecting the medicinal powers of elaterium. (De Simpl. 204.) Ebn Baithar gives a most ample accoiint of it. (ii, 276.) EXar?;, Abies, the Fir; this tree is calefacient and desiccative, like the black poplar. Its resin will be treated of among the resins. CoMMBNTARY. Without doubt it is the Pinus Abies, Jj. The Comm. other authorities in general do not treat of it, except under the ' ' '