SIMPLES. [book VII. 410 Comm. Aetius, and OribasiuSj evidently copy from him. The other two species, he says, are possessed of similar powers. All the Arabians concur in representing it as being diuretic, emme- nagogue, a medicine that expels the foetus, and a laxative. See Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 153); Avicenna (ii, 2,131); Serapion (c. 179); Averrhoes (Collig. v, 33.) Avicenna in particular recommends it for the cure of sciatica and gout, and for this virtue it was celebrated as long as it retained a place in our Dispensatory. See Quincy (116.) It was an ingredient in the famous Portland powder. It is still to be found in the shops, where it bears the names of Iva arthritica and Teua'ium chamcepitys. See Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 49.) Xa^aiSpwi//, Chamaedi'ops ; some call this plant Chamsedrys, and some Teucrium, being possessed of similar powers to the Chamaedrys. Comm. COMMENTARY. According to Dioscorides it is the same as ' ' ' the Xa/iaiSpu?. Chamsesyce, Ground Fig, has detergent and acrid powers, so that the twigs and juice of it remove myrmecia and acro- chordones. They therefore clear away thick cicatrices in the eyes with honey, and cure dimness of vision and incipient suf- fusions. Comm. COMMENTARY. From the place assigned to it by Dioscorides * " ' it was CAadently a spurge. It is acknowledged to be the Euphorbia chamcecyce. Our author appears to have boiTowed the characters which he gives it from Dioscorides. (iv, 167.) Galen and the others do the same. It does not occur in the works either of Hippocrates or Celsus, nor have we been able to find it in those of the Arabians. We are not aware of its having been used by modern authorities. XayueXata, Chamelaea, Mezereon, or Spurge Olive, is possessed of deter- gent powers. It therefore cleanses foul ulcers and eschars with honey. Comm. COMMENTARY. Notwithstanding the difference of opinion '—•—' which has prevailed among the commentators regarding this plant, we see no good grounds for doubting that it was the