177 SECT. III.] SIMPLES. stomachic, in various cases, both internally and externally, for Co binding the bowels in dysentery, as a cataplasm in cardiac af- '~ fection, and as a remedy for gout and oi)hthalmy. (ii, 159.) Celsus also ranks the iutybus and ambubeia, which are the wild and garden succory, with astringents, (ii, 30.) Galen and the other Greek authorities give it the same general characters. The Arabians treat of the seris and intybus at greater length, and seem to confound the latter, or endive, Avith the taraxacon (Leontodon taraxacum?). See in particular Avicenna (ii, 2, 229, 683.) He recommends the latter most particularly as a deobsti'uent in obstructions of the liver and other viscera; he speaks favorably of it as a plaster in palpitations of the heart, and as a gai'gle along with Cassia fistnla in inflammations of the throat. All the Arabians recommend both species as antidotes to the bites of venomous animals. See Avicenna (1. c), Serapion (c. 143), and Ehases (Cont. 1. nit. i, 266.) The wild succory (Cichorium Intybus) is still sometimes employed iin medicine. Dr. Pereii'a says, "the medicinal properties of ' Cichorium Intybus are analogons to those of Taraxacum Dens- lleonis." (Mat. Med. 698.) It occurs in the modern Greek j Pharmacopoeia. KX Clematis, Virgin's-boioer, (called also Myrsonoides, Daph- inoides, and Polygonoides,) has twigs as long as the thickness cof a May-rush, (holoschsenus,) and petals like the bay, and is oof a desiccant nature; it, therefore, stops diarrhceas, dysen- fcfceries, and pains of the teeth, and is useful for the bites of fcvenomous animals. The other species of clematis twines feround trees like ivy, being of an acrid and caustic nature. Its ■Bruit, when drunk with water, evacuates bile and phlegm piownwards; and its leaves in a cataplasm, remove leprosy. I Commentary. The former species, distinguished by the Co ■Bynonyme of Daphnoides, is the clematis described by ■Dioscorides (iv, 179), and is the second species of Galen, who ' expresses himself contemptuously of Pamphilus for con- bunding the two species together. It is clearly a species of lematis, either the vitalba or cirrhosa. All agree in recom- nending it as a safe astringent. The other species described )y Dioscorides (iv, 7), and which is the former species of in. 12