SIMPLES. 5SECT. III.] 239 Commentary. There seems no reason to doubt tliat it ap- Comm. plies to Malva sylvestris, but probably comprebended other ' ' ' ^species. Dioscorides describes minutely the cases to which it •is applicable, namely, as a cataplasm in incipient fistula lachry- ■malis, with oil for achores and furfures, and also so prepared for burns and erysipelas j its decoction as a hip-bath in diseases )of the uterus; and as a suitable enema in pains of the bowels, jwomb, and anus; its broth he praises in cases of poisoning, as ^producing evacuation of the stomach, and says it is beneficial to loersons stung by phalangia, and attracts milk to the breasts; tis fruit, when the reed of the wild lotus is mixed with it, lillays pains about the bladder, (ii, 144.) Galen and the other Greek authorities treat of it as a medicine in more general f:erms, representing it to be gently discutient and demulcent. t[t occurs in the works of Hippocrates and Celsus; the latter oraises it as a pot-herb, and recommends it as a gentle laxative, rvii, 27.) The Arabians treat of it fully; but have little to 4dd to the excellent description of its medicinal powers given yy Dioscorides, whom they all copy. One of Serapion's authori- ses briefly commends it as a demulcent in affections of the ihest and bladder, and as a cataplasm in hot apostemes. (c. 149.) Avicenna's account of it is highly interesting, but too ungthy for our purpose. He recommends it internally in ^pmplaints of the lungs and liver, and externally as an emol- ient appHcation in a variety of cases, (ii, 2, 194.) ^ Mamiras, is a sort of radicle of a herb, having, as it were, lick knots, which are believed to attenuate cicatrices and leuco- ata, being of a decidedly detergent power. Commentary. This article is not mentioned by Dioscorides, Comm. liny, Galen, Oribasius, nor, we believe, by any of the Arabian ' * riters, with the exception of Avicenna, who calls it abstergent id cleansing, and I'ccommends it for clearing away albvigo of the e, and for cleaning the nails ; he adds of it that it is useful in undice and pungent pain of the belly, (ii, 2, 479.) It further curs in one of the antidotes of Nicholas Myrepsus (c. 138), icre, his commentator says, the description of it given by !' lulus applies very well to the root known officiually by the me of Doronicum.