284 SIMPLES. [book VII. Comm. that the princes of Cyrene caused it to be struck on the re- verse of their coins; and the Cyrenean doctors were reckoned among the most eminent in the world." (Veg. King. 776.) See further Pereira (Mat. Med. 1041), and most especially Sprengel in Dioscor. (iii, 85.) From what we have stated, our readers will readily comprehend that the Median and Syrian juices were varieties of the gum resin of Ferula assafoetida; while the Cyrenean juice was the gum resin of a congener, namely (as stated above), the Thajjsia Garganica, called silphium by the ancients. That the Cyrenaic juice was the product of the silphium, is positively stated by Strabo. (Geogr. xvii, 3.) We shall reserve what we have to say on its medicinal properties till we come to that article. It is the laser and laserpitium of the Roman authors. It occurs in the Hippocratic collec- tion. (Do Morb. iv.) By the Arabian authors it is generally treated of under the name of Assa, and hence its modern ap- pellation. OpiyavoQ, Origanum, Origany, or Wild Marjoram; all the species of it are possessed of incisive, attenuant, desiccative, and cale- facient powers in the third degree. Comm. COMMENTARY. Apuleius enumerates three species and re- ' * ' commends them for coughs, (c. 122.) Galen and Dioscorides also describe the same number of species, which may be referred—the 1st, to the Origanum Heracleoticum, L.; the 2d, to the 0. onitis; and the 3d, to O. sylvestre album. Dioscorides de- scribes the particular uses of these plants so fully that we cannot find room for his separate articles on each. Suffice it to say, that he sets down the first as being laxative, emmeua- gogue, and expectorant, (iii, 29, 30, 31.) Galen, Hke our au- thor, merely states the properties of the Origana in general terms. The Arabians call the origanum diuretic and vermi- fuge. They copy, as usual, from the Greeks. See Serapion (c. 310), Avicenna (ii, 2, 526), and Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 125.) The Origanum Smyrnceum occurs in the modern Greek Phar- macopoeia (121.) OpEOffeXn'o)', Apium montanum. Mountain Parsley, has powers like those of parsley, but stronger.