SIMPLES. [book VII. 226 M. commended by Dioscorides for hemorrhoids and as a dentifrice. (V, 145.) The Alabastrites is a thick concrete gypsum. See Kidd's 'Mineral.' (i, 63.) Galen says of it, that when bm-ned it is adapted for medicinal use, and that it is sometimes administered in a draught to persons affected with stomach complaints. Dioscorides speaks of its being applied externally in such cases along with wax; calls it discutient, and says it represses the gums, (v, 152.) It would appear that this article is the Lapis eburneus of Rhases, who calls it an astringent and dentifrice. (Cont. 1. ult. i, 395.) Geoffroy says that the Smiris is the Emery of the shops. It is held by the mineralogists to be a variety of Corundam. See Clcaveland's ' Mineral.' (278.) A specimen of it, from the Isle of Naxos (which may be supposed a good representation of the ancient Smiris), was found by Tennant to consist principally of alumine, with small proportions of silex and oxide of iron. Dioscorides recommends it in looseness of the gums, and as a dentifi'ice; he ranks it with septic and caustic substances, (v, 165.) The Stones in Sponges consist principally of the muriate of lime. They were much commended as lithontriptics. See Dioscorides, Pliny, Galen, and Avicenna. The Ophites is a pellucid stone, so called from its serpentine streaks. It was that variety of serpentine called verde antico. See Jameson's 'Mineralogy,' According to Dioscorides, it was useful as an amulet in the case of persons stung by snakes, and was also reported to be useful in lethargy and headache, (v, 161.) Galen holds it to be lithontriptic. (De Simpl. viii.) The Arabians copy from Dioscorides and Galen. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 406.) The Ostracites appears to have been petrified oysters. Dioscorides recommends it in menorrhagia, in inflamed breasts, and spreading sores, (v, 164.) Galen also recommends it for clearing the cornea. (De Simpl. viii.) See in like man- ner Avicenna (ii, 2, 393.) The Geodes contains iron, argil, and silica. It is nearly allied to the Eagle-stone, and hence it is often called the Bas- tard Eagle-stone. See Hill's 'Theophrastus.' Dioscorides recommends it as an ophthalmic remedy, and as a liniment for