SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 207 nally. (T. ii, 451, eel. Basil.) Of tlie Arabians, Avicenna gives Comm. tlie fullest exposition of its remedial powers, but he copies ' " ' 1 closely from Dioscorides, recommending it as a cold and nar- , cotic application in the same cases as Dioscorides. He says it stops bleeding, congeals the blood, and induces torpor, (ii, 2, ( 662.) See also Serapion (c. 347.) It is, most probably, the c cicuta of Celsns, who places it in his list of emollients, (v, 15.) lit occm's also in the Hippocratic Collection, where both its 1 leaves and seeds are recommended in fomentations. (De Steril.; (ide Fistulis, &c.) Strobilus, the Wild Pine; the bark and leaves have powers like the pine, but more acrid and drastic. As to the fruit, which is called strobilus, the green has some bitterness and acrimony, with humidity, and hence it is applicable for pro- moting expectoration from the chest. The esculent kind, when soaked in water, so as to lay aside its acrimony, becomes of a good temperament, being free from pungency and emplas- "^Cj and hence it smooths asperities. CojiMENTAUY. It here signifies the Finns s^lvestris, or Comm. ild-pine; but it is commonly put for the Nux Pinea, or the ' " ' Jones of the Pinus Pinea, called in the shops Pignoli pines, and he seeds pine-nuts. Athenseus says that Theophrastus called he tree irivKri and the fruit kwvoq. Diphilus, as quoted by .he same, calls the pine-nuts nutritious, and says that they ubricate the trachea, and promote expectoration. (Deip. ii.) -alen, Serapion, and the other authorities also commend them n similar cases. Dioscorides treats of this subject in the 86th, <>7th, and 88th chapters in the First Book, but not under the ame head as our avithor. He recommends the difi^erent icles in neai'ly the same cases as Paulus and the other thorities. The fruit of the wild pine he commends as a emulcent in affections of the bladder and kidneys, and as a dative in pains of the stomach. Celsus prescribes " nuclei X pinu silvestii duodecim," among his remedies for ulcerated liidneys. (iv, 10.) Avicenna treats of the subject under differ- poit heads, like Dioscorides, whom he closely follows, (ii, 2, 280, 31, 555, 693.) He recommends these articles in diseases ' the chest and kidneys. He calls the fruit aphrodisiacal. See