SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 129 cutaneous complaints. The small Sunflower also removes these complaints and kills worms if drunk with the fruit along ■ with nati'on, hyssop, and cardamom. Commentary. Dioscorides calls the great Sunflower {Helio- Comm. tropium Europmim) phlegmagogue and cholagogue, and says it >is useful in the bites of scorpions, both internally and exter- aally. He adds, that it was used as an amulet to produce :iterility. He also recommends it in intermittent fevers, and ■IS a cataplasm and fomentation to various tumours, sprains, &c. lEe adds, that it is emmenagogue, and procures abortion Vhen powdered and applied on a pessary, (iv, 190.) None of he other Greek authorities, as far as we have been able to liscover, have treated of either of the heliotropes; and if the ii-abians describe them, we have not been able to discover mder what name it is. The lesser heliotrope is probably the ilroton tinctorius, ''JiXsKTpov, Electrum, Amber; they say that it is the tears of the ipplar, which are discharged into the river Po, and get con- reted into a golden-coloured substance. This, being pulverized id drunk, stops defluxions of the stomach and bowels and Jiiischarges of blood. Commentary. It is well known that the ancient authors Comm. .1 general represent amber as an exudation from the poplar ' " ' fi'ee, commonly found on the banks of the Po. Some of riem, however, such as Lucian (De Electro), held that it is a ituminous substance. See also Theophrastus (De Lapidibus, [iith the annotations of Hill.) Serapion says of it, that it is jixmed in the sea as mushrooms are formed on land; and len the sea is troubled it casts forth large stones, and with lem are cast out crusts of amber. He also gives an account, lich is not very intelligible in the Latin translation, of its sing swallowed up by a fish, from which, when killed, amber j IS prociu"ed. What is of a citrine colom', he says, is good; t what is white, like an ostriches egg, is bad. Upon the |»thority of Aben Mesuai (Mesne the elder?), he calls it a hot I d dry medicine, and says it strengthens the brain, all the ^iseSj and the heart, and is useful to old persons and men of a d temperament. (De Simpl. 196.) Avicenna's accoimt of it is III. 9