SIMPLES. 29 SECT. HI.] taken in a draught; and when applied as a cataplasm, is of use for erysipelas and phygethlon. Commentary. Our old herbalists describe it under the Comm. name of wild basil, meaning perhaps the Ochnum pilosum, and ' ' there seems little reason to question their authority in this instance. Neither Galen nor Serapion has described it. In- deed we are not aware that any of the Arabians has described it except Ebn Baithar (ii, 254) ; neither have we found it in • the Hippocratic collection, nor in the works of Celsus. Kkovitov or YYa^^aXia-yy^iq, Aconitum, Wolfsbane, is possessed of septic and deleterious properties ; it is, therefore, not to be taken internally, bxxt externally it may be applied to flesh requiring erosion. The lycoctonon, being possessed of the same properties as the (former, is particularly fatal to wolves, as the other is to panthers. Commentary. The two species of aconite described by Comm. IDioscorides (iv, 77), and the other authorities, are generally '——' ssupposed to be Doronicum Pardalianches and the Aconitum INapellus. In the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia, the Neo- montanum is substituted for the former of these. The '•/ca/tjtiapov of Hippocrates would seem to be the latter. It has been already treated of among the poisonous substances in the Fifth Book (§ 45.) It was used only as an anodyne, and principally in complaints of the eyes. Avicenna in treating of the aconites, boiTOWS closely from Dioscorides (ii, 3, 361, 676.) He says of the lycoctonon, that it is not administered either internally or externally. Rhases says of the aconite, ithat it was used to relieve pains of the eyes. (Cont. 1. ult. i, 0.) ' A/copov, Acorum, Sioeet Flag, heats and dries in the third degree. We se its root for a diuretic, and for scirrhus of the spleen. It Iso attenuates a thickened cornea. Commentary. It appears indisputably to be the Acorus Comm seudacorus, as even Gerarde the old herbalist has clearlv'—'—' tated, and not the Acorns verus, as Dr. Hill and others have aintained. All the ancient authorities ascribe much the