SIMPLES. 3o4 [book VII. Comm. that applied per vaginam it procures the expulsion of the foetus, (iiij 53.) Galen and Aetius give nearly the same account of it as our author. The Arabian authorities speak of it in the same terms. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 287) ; Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. m, 18); Serapion (c. 265.) The commentator Eustathius mentions its aphrodisiacal properties. (Ad Iliad, xviii, 560.) According to Dierbach, the a. of Hippocrates comprehends both the Duucus Carota and guttatus. It would appear to us that this is the " Pastinaca agrestis" of Celsus (ii, 31), although liis editor. Dr. Milhgan, decides otherwise with regard to it. In confirmation of om' opinion we refer to Pliny (1. c), and to Beckmann's ingenious disquisition on om' kitchen vegetables in his 'Hist, of Invent.' He seems clearly to make out that the daucus, staphylinus, carota, and pastinaca were all merely varieties of the Daucus Carota. He is in some doubts, however, whether the "pastinaca" was not also sometimes appHed to the parsnip. See, however, under Daucus. Stachys, Base Horehound, is a shrub resembling horehound, and is calefacient in the third degree. It therefore promotes menstruation, kills the foetus, and expels the secundines. Comm. CoMMENTAiiY. It is the Stachys Palestina, or Base Hore- '—«—' hound. Our author gives exactly the same account of its medicinal properties as Dioscorides and Galen, the latter re- marking of it that it not only promotes menstruation, but is a drug used for procuring abortion. Pliny, by confounding TrpaffOf and irpaaiov, says of it that it resembles the porrum instead of the marrubium; so that his celebrated editor, Harduiu, holds that the stachys of PHny is different fi-om that of Dioscorides. (Ad H. N. xxiv, 86.) It is quite clear, however, that the plants are identical, and accordingly Phny, hke the other, says of his stachys, that it is emmenagogue. The Arabians do not seem to treat of it. Adipes, Fats, or Grease; all kinds dilute and warm tlic human body, but their powers vary according to the different temperaments of animals. That of swine, then, is the most humid of all, its powers being like those of oil. Hence it