APPENDIX TO 450 [book vir. India tlie bark of the melia azedaracli has been ascertained to possess powerful tonic and antifebrile virtues," and that " it is ordered for almost every purpose that the cinchona is in Europe." (Mat. Ind. i, 70, ii, 454.) See further on the tree. Miller (Dictionary) ; Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 464); and Crantz (Mat. Med. iii, 40.) The last of these says of it, that he had " read in the Encyclopedia (! !) that it kills lice, &c." The aze- darach is frequently noticed in the Susruta. See also Wise's Book of Hindu Medicine. (119.) Anacardium. On this see Serapion (De Simpl. 356); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 47); and Avicenna (ii, 2, 40.) Of these authorities Ancenna describes it most minutely. They all recommend it in mental diseases, and especially in loss of memory, and say it is useful in coldness of the nerves, in paralysis, and spasms. Avicenna re- commends it as a fumigation to hemorrhoids. Without doubt it is the Semicarpus Anacardium, or " marking nut tree" of com- merce. It has been used in modern practice, but has now fallen into disuse. See Hill (Mat. Med. 490.) Ehases quotes Galen on the anacardium, referring, as we suppose, to his •■^pvao^aXavoQ. (De Comp. Med. sec. gen. viii.) That the latter was the semicarpus anacardium seems not unlikely. See Sprengel (R. H. H. i, 209.) It is briefly noticed also by Myrepsus and Actuarius under the name of ^avQo^akavoq. And further, it is deserving of remark that anacardia occm-s as an ingredient in one of our author's antidotes (c. 170, Ed. BasU.) To say the least then, it appears doubtful whether the Greeks were wholly ignorant of these substances as stated by Matthio- lus. (Comment, in Dioscor. 189.) Diudar. Avicenna says of it that it belongs to the genus abhel (sabina ?) and is called the Indian pine; that it is pungent, and contains, a milk which is hot and occasions thirst. He adds that it is good for relaxation of the nerves, paralysis, &c., also for cold apostemes (chronic inflammations ?) of the brain, apoplexy, and catalepsy. He concludes by stating of it that it is lithontrip' tic, binds the bowels, and that its decoction removes relaxation of the anus, (ii, 2, 213.) In the Glossarium of Avicenna (1. c.)