ECT. III.] SIMPLES. 303 63); Rhases (Contin. 1. ult. i, 341); Averrlioes (Collig. 42); Comm. Ebn Baithar (ii, 137.) They borrow freely from the Greeks,' ' ' and further recommend the different parts of the pine very much in diseases of the kidneys and bladder, especially calculus aud hseraaturia, Ylnvovaa, Pityusa; some say that this is a species of spurge, because it has a jmce and purges like them. Commentary. There can be no doubt of its being the Comm. Euphorbia Pityusa. It is briefly noticed by all the other" * ' writers on the Mat. Med. as possessing the same virtues as the spui'ges in general. Ylkdravoq, Platanus, the Plane Tree, is possessed of a humectating and refrigerant power. Hence the green leaves are of use in in- cipient inflammations. But the bark and spherical balls are more desiccative, so that when one has been boiled in vinegar it relieves toothache. They also cure bums by fire along with fat. The burnt bark is more desiccative and detergent, so as to cure leprosies and humid ulcers. Commentary. It is the Platanus orientalis, L. The seed Comm. forms into spherical balls, which are called Pilula by Pliny. He recommends them for the bites of serpents and for burns; also when pounded with acrid vinegar, as a styptic for stop- ping bleeding. (H. N. xxiv, 29.) Phny, however, merely copies from Dioscorides, who further recommends the leaves boiled in wine in defluxions of the eyes, and as an application to swellings and inflammations ; and its rind boiled in vinegar as a gargle in toothache, (i, 107.) Our author is evidently much indebted to Galen, who commends it for the same medi- cinal purposes, and warns his readers to guard against the down which grows on its leaves, as it may prove prejudicial to the windpipe, eye, or ear, if admitted into them. (De Simpl. nii.) Aetius, like our author, copies very closely from Galen. Not much additional information can be drawn from the Ara- bians, who, under this head, do little more than copy from Dioscorides and Galen. See Avicenna (ii, 3, 209) ; Serapion ;c. 142); Ebn Baithar (ii, 422.) a