SIMPLES. [book VII. 20 Ayrjparnv, AgeratuTOj Maudlin, is possessed of cliscutient and slightly anti-inflammatoiy powers. Comm. COMMENTARY. Our modern herbalists are generally agreed " ' ' that this is our maudlin^ that is to say, the Achillea Ageratum,, and the commentators on Mesue hold that it is his eupa- torium. Yvom Dioscorides down to modern times it has been commended as a diuretic medicine and an emollient of the uterus. Dioscorides, however, seems to say that it is heating, whereas Galen represents it as mildly anti-inflamma- tory. Perhaps there is some error in the text of the former, (iv, 59.) We do not find it in the works of Hippocrates, nor in those of Celsus, nor have we found it treated of by any of the Arabians, except Ebn Baithar, who merely gives extracts from Dioscorides and Galen (ii, 57.) ''Ayi'oc y] Xu'yoc, Vitex, the Chaste-tree, heats and dries in the third rank. It consists of fine particles and dispels flatulence, ■whence it is believed to contribute to chastity, not only when eaten and drunk, but also when strewed under one. Its seed also, when drunk, acts as a deobstruent of the liver and spleen. "When toasted it is less flatulent and more distributable. Comm. COMMENTARY. The anaphrodisiacal powers of the Vitex ' Agnus Castus, or chaste-tree, are noticed by most of the medical • authorities, and by iElian (H. A.ix,36.) But modern authorities question its claims to this character. Until lately, however, it held a place in our Pharmacopoeia. Om* author abridges Dioscorides (1,134), and Galen (De Simpl.) For the Arabians, see particularly Avicenna (ii, 2, 43), and Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. 31.) It occurs in the works of Hippocrates. Gramen, Grass, that of Parnassus is particularly useful; it is desiccative, moderately cooling, consists of fine particles, and is somewhat sour; it, therefore, is an agglutinant of bloody wounds, and its decoction is lithontriptic. r Commentary. Dioscorides treats separately of the agrostis, VyOMM. * ^ ^ n e '—^—' which probably is our couch-grass, or Triticum repem, and or the agrostis in Parnasso, which has been very doubtfully referred