SECT. III.] 337 SIMPLES. Silui'us, the Shad-fish, pickled and eaten, clears the trachea when in a humid state. In a cataplasm it extracts sharp weapons of wood. Commentary. Artedi calls it, Silurus cirris quatuor in Comm. mento,—yXacic (Aristot.); glanus et glanis (Plin.); Angl. ' • ' " the Sheat-fish" (Descr. spec, pise.) In the Linnsean arrange- ment it is called Silwns glanis. "We have treated of it as an article of food in Book I. Dioscorides recommends it as a medicine in the same cases as our author, and also says of it that its brine is useful in dysenteric affections as a hip-bath, by determining the defluxion to the surface, and that in clysters it cures sciatica, (ii, 29.) We have not "been able to find any account of it in the works of the Arabians, with the exception of Ebn Baithar, who .gives a pretty full account of it from both Greek and Arabian authorities, (ij 245.) Blatta Pistrina, or the moth found in -bakers^ shops, the entrails of which, when boiled and pounded, cure earache. Commentary. It is evidently the Blatta orientalis. Pliny Comm. and Dioscorides also recommend it in cases of earache, (ii, 38.) ' " ' None of the other authorities make much account of it. Silphium or Laserpitium, Laserwort, is an excellent cale- facient medicine; but it is also flatulent and indigestible. When applied externally to the body it is more active, and especially its juice, being possessed of attractive powers. It has also some purgative property. Commentary. It has long appeared to us that one passage in Com the works of Dioscorides is of itself quite decisive of the question "—^ as to the identity of the ancient silphium and our assafoetida. Treating of the gum-resin, sagapenura, he says, " in smell it is intermediate between galbanum and the juice of silphium." (iii, 85.) Now, in Duncan's Edinburgh Materia Medica, it is said of sagapenum, that " it holds a kind of middle place between assafoetida and galbanum.-"' (Sixth edition, 387.) Its juice, that is to say, its concrete juice, or gum-resin, was assa- foetida, of which the Cyrenaic and Median juices, ah-eady III. 22