SECT. 111.] 46.5 SIMPLES. vAbutanifa, one of Serapion's authorities^ says that some medical men had informed him that cotton grows on trees like [quinces. So at least yve understand the passage; but as it is werj cui'iousj and also veiy obscure, it may be well to give the Xiatin translation: "Dixerunt mihi quidam medici de kelbe quod colon nascitur inter eos in arboribus quae sunt sicut irbores antipsicorum.-"^ Compare Pliny (H. N. xii, 10.) The ext of Serapion's authorities; Aben Mesuai, recommends the nice of it in the diarrhosa of children. Mescha says its seed s beneficial in coughs and good for the breast. Albasari says f it that it is good for clotheSj and that its juice is an ex- lellent application in cutaneous diseases of the face. Rhases 10, as quoted by him, recommends it in the same cases, and ther says of it that it is aphrodisiac. Ebn Baithar's authori- es also give an interesting account of it, recommending it in uch the same cases as those of Serapion, namely in infantile arrhcea, and as an application to cutaneous diseases; and he ;her states that it was used to burn warts, no doubt like 6 raw flax, often mentioned in the works of Hippocrates, e leaves are said to have been useful in uterine complaints, d in gout mixed with, rose-oil. Clothes prepared from it e much praised by the author. There can be no doubt from 'hat we have stated, that it must have been the Gossypium boreum or herbaceum, most probably the latter. See Meyen jeogr. Botany.) From Ainslie's Mat. Ind. it will be seen at oil prepared from the former is still used for cleaning the n of spots, and that the leaves are given for the cure of rrhoea. (ii, 284.) Musa. Ii See Serapion (De Simpl. 84); Avicenna (ii, 3, 484) ; Ebn paithar (ii, .535.) According to Serapion's first authority, nben Mesuai, it is hot in the middle of the first degree, and loistening in the end of it, little nutritious, and has the roperty of being useful in heat of the breast, lungs, and uidder, and softens the bowels; if much used, it creates load on the stomach, and obstruction in the liver, and if ken by a person of a cold temperament in great quantity, he ight to take hydromel, oxymcl, or prepared ginger with it. nother of his authorities, Sindaxar, says it promotes the ••I. 30