[book vii. 254 SIMPLES. Comm. is reduced by calcination to a colcothar." (M. M. 184.) Dr. Ainslie, treating of the preparations of copper employed in medicine by the natives of India, says, " Misy is the name of an oxide of copper used by the natives of India against the tooth- ache, and to stain their teeth black." (Mat. Ind. i, 513.) Dr. Royle, treating of the misy and sory of Dioscorides, states that they had been supposed by Rossius to be sulphurets of copper, " but it is remarkable that mis is a Persian name for copper, and that missy is a name frequently applied in India to sulphate of ii'on." (Antiq. of Hindoo Med. 102.) From these descriptions of it we find some difficulty in deciding what mineral substance it was; but see under Chalcitis. The following is Dioscorides's de- scription of the misy : " Of a golden appearance, hard, shining like gold Avhen broken, and glancing like stai's." (v, 116.) He says it has the same powers as chalcitis. Galen gives an elaborate description of misy and its cognate fossils sory and chalcitis, but says little more than our author re- sj)ecting its medicinal powers. (De Simpl. viii.) The other Greek authorities supply nothing additional of any great interest under this head, Serapion describes the three sub- stances we have mentioned under the general head "de vitreola," calling the sorj^ Zeg rubeum, the chalcitis colcothar, and the misy Zeg viride. His account of them is taken entirely from Dioscorides and Galen, (c. 386.) Avicenna confounds them and other metallic preparations under the name of " Atramentum sutorium." He throws no light on the subject, (ii, 2, 47.) See Rhases (Cont 1. ult. 747.) Averrhoes, under the head of Alceg, i. e. Vitriolum, gives a translation of Galenas description already noticed. (CoUig. v, 43.) Misy occurs in the works both of Hippocrates and Celsus. The latter uses it as a caustic, (v, 8, 9.) MoXwjSSaD/a, Plumbago, has similar powers to htharge, but removed from the middle temperament to the colder. Comm. COMMENTARY. Several varieties of the Molybdaina are de- " ' scribed by Dioscorides, from which it would appear that the ancients applied the term to more than one mctalhc substance; the variety resembhng litharge being most probably graphite or plumbago; and the one of a leaden colour, being the mo-