SECT. III.] 285 SIMPLES. Commentary. Dioscorides says of this article {Selinum Comm. Oreoselinum ? or Athamunta Libanotis ?), that it is diuretic ' ' and eramenagogiie, and an ingredient in antidotes, and in diuretic and heating remedies, (iii, 69.) Galen and the other Greek authorities treat of it in general terms along with its congeners; and the Arabians do the same under Apium. See in particular Avicenna (iij 3, 55) ; Serapion (De Simpl. : 290); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 69.) Serapion's Arabian autho- ! rities represent the Apium montanum as being laxative, car- iminative, deobstruent, diuretic, and, in some cases, emetic. ' The Athamanta Libanotis is still to be found in the shops of the J apothecaries, where it retains its ancient characters. Gray (Suppl. to the Pharmacop. 81.) Some of the commentators (on Dioscorides take it for the article we are treating of. Orobanche, Holly Rose, belongs to the first order of the (desiccative and cooling temperament. Commentary. It appears unquestionably to be the Oro- Comm. iJftawcAe Caryophyllea. See Sibthorp. (Fl. Grseca. i, 440.) ' * ' ll Dioscorides merely states of it, that it was eaten as a potherb [iboth raw and boiled. The other authorities treat of it very Is succinctly. We have not been able to discover any traces of li'it in the works of the Arabians. Ervum, Bitter Vetch, or Tare, is heating in the first degree, land desiccative in the second. It is also bitter, and therefore iiis incisive, detergent, and deobstruent. When taken in too jgreat a dose it occasions bloody urine. Commentary. It is the Ervum Ervilia, Bitter Vetch. Comm. EDioscorides enumerates its medicinal virtues at considerable ' • ' klength, recommending it as being good for the bowels, and Idiuretic, but in large doses inducing bloody discharges from 'the belly and bladder; as being a cleansing application in ob- stinate diseases of the skin, and in carcinoma and gangrene; as being alexipharraic and forming a good fomentation for chilblains and pruritus, (ii, 131.) Our author copies word for word from Galen. The Arabians treat of it at much greater Icugth, but add little to what Dioscorides had dehvcred under