[book VII. 140 SIMPLES. Commentary. The confusion about tlie Thymelsea and Chamelsea of the ancients naay be partly removed by the fol- lowing account of the matter given by Alston. There are three species of Laureola, 1st, the L. officinalis, or L. Mas, Dwarf Laurel, or Spurge Laurel, which grows in hedges and woods in England; 2d, the Chamelaia, or Laureola femina namely, the true Mezereon, or Sjmrge Olive, Avhich grows plentifully in Germany; 3d, the Thymelaja, Spurge Flax, or Mou7itain Widow Wail, which grows in the south of France. We will treat further of the Chamelsea, or Mezerion, in its proper place. Sprengel is decidedly of opinion that the Thy- melsea of the ancients is Daphne Gnidium, L., or flax-leaved daphne, and one of the latest and best authorities on the Mat. Med. comes to the same conclusion respecting it. Dr. Pereira says, " Daphne Gnidium is the 9u^<f Actio, or Thymelsea of Dioscorides, whose fruit is the kokko<: kv'i^ioq, or Gnidium berry, used by Hippocrates. Its properties are similar to those of the D. Mezereon." (Elements of Mat. Med. 807.) For an account of its effects on the animal economy, see Orfila (Toxicol, ii, 3.) We will treat of its medicinal virtues under Coccus gnidius. 'iSa ta pi^<Xj Idsea Radix, Jdcean Root; being sour as to taste and powers, it agrees with hemorrhages and rheumatic affections when drunk or applied externally. Commentary. As may be seen upon referring to Bauhiu, Woodville, Sprengel, and Pereira, several of the authorities have been disposed to hold this plant for the Arbutus Uva Ursi; but the probability is that it was the Laurus Alexandrina, or Uvularia amplexifolia. Dioscorides recommends it in fluxes from the bowels and womb, and in all kinds of hemorrhage, (iv, 44.) Pliny translates the chapter of Dioscorides. (H. N. xxvii, 69.) Our author copies from Galen; and Oribasius, in like manner, borrows his description of the plant from him. As far as we can discover the Idsea Radix is not ti-eated of by the Arabians; and even in the days of Matthiolus it had dis- appeared from the Mat. Med. 'l(>pWQ. Sudor, Sweat; it is troublesome to collect by itself; but