101 SECT, nr.] SIMPLES. Oleum Cicinum, i. e. oil of the palma christi, now called castor Comm. oil, is often mentioned by the ancient authors. Dioscorides '—'—' states that it is purgative and anthelminthic. Aetius states that linseed oil mKf often be used instead of it. Almond oil he particularly commends in complaints of the ears. The oil of Sesame, he says, resembles common oil, being a gentle pur- gative ; it is the gingilie oil of the modern Hindoos. Serapion recommends the oil of olives as an astringent application to stop profuse perspiration, to remove scabies and other cutaneous complaints on the head, to cure aphthae and ulcers of the mouth, and for various other complaints. He, however, merely copies from Dioscorides, (i, 136.) But of all the ancient authorities. Mesne is the one who gives the fullest account of the composi- tion and medicinal powers of the oils. Some of them are not described by the Greeks before his time, as far as we know. ^ We shall give a specimen of a few of his prescriptions. His oil of mandragora, which he recommends for extinguishing in- flammation and procuring sleep, is prepared from equal parts of the juice of its berries and oil of sesame boiled in a double vessel until the juice be evaporated. Add, he says, a little juice and boil again, do so a third time, and lay it aside. For Ithe oil of mandi-ake a much more comphcated receipt is given by Myrepsus (xvi, 50), which held its place in our Pharma- copoeia down to the days of Quincy. (Complete Dispensatory, -527.) The oil of eggs, which Mesue commends strongly from xperience for cleansing the skin, curing cutaneous eruptions, nakmg hair grow, and curing maHgnant ulcers, he directs to )e prepared thus : about thirty yelks of eggs hardened by )0iHng, and broken down into pieces, are to be fried in an arthen fryingjian that has been leadened, stirring with a rooden or iron ladle until they grow red, and their oil is poured ut, which they yield the more largely if compressed with the idle. This oil of eggs is described in similar terms by Moses ban-as, in the Royal Pharmacopoeia (p. 200), and is a popular jmedy m Scotland to this day. Mesue describes the composition f an oil of frogs, which he recommends much for sootliing the ams of arthritis, and the burning heat of ardent fevers, also 10 oil of vipers, of wolves, and many others, which will be more 'opcrly treated of by us in section xx of this Book. The oils e also well described by Aetius (i) and Myrepsus (De Oleis )