SECT. III.] 365 SIMPLES. Spondylium, Cow-parsnip; the fruit and root are possessed of acrid and cutting powers, so as to cure asthma, epilepsy, and jaundice. The root, when stripped of its bark and put into a fistula, removes its callus. The juice of the flowers of it are injected into the ears as agreeing with chronic ulcers. Commentary, There seems no reason to doubt of its being Couu. the Heracleim Sphondylium. Dioscorides and Pliny recom- ' ' ' mend it as an application to fistulous ulcers, and in the other cases mentioned ])y our author. Galen and Oribasius give it the same characters as our author. We have not met with it in the works of Hippocrates, Celsus, and Aetius. Avicenna draws the characters which he gives it entu'ely from Dioscorides, (ii, 2, 643.) Ebn Baithar, in describing it, merely gives ex- tracts from Dioscorides and Galen, (ii, 24.) Rhases does the same. (Cont. 1. ult. i, 636.) The sphondylium is described as a medicinal herb, possessed of the virtues ascribed to it by the ancients, in the works of our old English herbalists, but it has long ceased to occupy a place in our Dispensatory. Neither is it to be found in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia. Lentiscus, the Lentisk, in all its parts, belongs to the full second order of desiccants. As to heating and cooling, it holds m intermediate place. It is astringent to such a degree as to ipproach nearly, in this respect, to the juice of the hypocistis. Commentary. It is the Pistacia Lentiscus, L., according Comm. 0 the admission of all the commentators. We need scarcely "—•—' nention that it is the tree from which mastich is procured, Hippocrates was well acquainted with the medical use of it. ^liny says that it acts as a diuretic, but occasions constipation <f the bowels. He also mentions that it was used in toothache, .nd that a decoction of its leaves in a gargle fastened loose eeth. (xxiv, 28.) The same is stated of it by PHnius Valerianus i, 36), and by Dioscorides (i, 89.) Nay, it would appear, from he following epigram of Martial, that peculiar virtues were scribed to a toothpick made of the mastich tree : " Dentiscalpium Lentiscum melius: scd si tibi frondea cnspis Defuerit, denies penna levare potest."- (xiv, 22.)