[book vji. APPENDIX TO 466 growth of the foetus in utero. A third, named Alchalcbemen, says it is a good medicine for the chest and the kidneys, and is diuretic. The book on ancient medicine, as quoted by hira, says of it that it is aphrodisiac, and heavy on the stomach; and Avicenua's account of it is so similar that it would not be worth while to give an exposition of it. Ebn Baithar describes it minutely as being a species of Palm. Its medicinal charac- ters, as stated by him, are nearly the same as those given above from Serapion. There can be no doubt that it is the Musa ])aradisiaca, or common plantain tree. On it the reader may find it interesting to consult Ainslie (Mat. Ind. 316), and Loudon (Encycl. of Garden. 1530.) The plantain tree is briefly noticed by Theophrastus (H. P. iv, 5), but does not occur in the works of the Greek and Latin physicians. Granum Kelkel, or Alkelkel. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 302); Serapion (De Simpl. 275); Rhases (Contin. 1. ult. i, 378); Ebn Baithar (ii, 315.) Serapion's authorities say of it that it is hot and moistening, increases the secretion of semen, especially when taken with the oil of sesame; that when taken in too large a dose, it induces cholera, and after other food occasions vertigo. The account of it given by Rhases and Avicenna is httle diflPerent. The latter says of it that it is fattening, and comforts relaxed bodies. Ebn Baithar gives a very minute description of it; he says he planted it in his own country, and that it produced fruit. He ascribes the same good and bad effects to it as Serapion. When roasted, he says, it does not engender bad chyme. Its seeds are said to be aphrodisiac. We suppose there is httle or no doubt that it is the Cassia tora. On the modern use of it by the Hindoos, see Ainshe (Mat. Ind. ii, 405.) Lehibach, or Lahiba. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 425) ; Rhases (Contin. 1. ult. i, 389.) Rhases quotes Galen as saying of it that it has powers hke horehound. We are at a loss to say what substance he alludes to among the Simples of Galen. Another authority quoted by him seems to say that a portion of it flung into a lake containing fish, will make them swim on the surface, aud Avicenna confirms this statement. Avicenna further says it