SIMPLES. ■SECT. III.J 141 is mixed witli tlie powder of those who exercise themselves in tlie palestra, whicli powder, being only repellent before, thus ! becomes altogether discntient. It is, therefore, a powerful I remedy for inflamed nipples, and for extinguishing the heat in r them. It also answers with buboes; but if too dry it niust 'be softened with oil of privet or oil of roses. Commentary. Sioeat, or the matter of Perspiration. Comm. " Sweat," says Galen, " is one of the fluids formed in the " * ' animal body, consisting of the same materials, and having the same mode of formation, as the urine, for both are formed from the liquids drunk, these being heated, and acquiring also some bihous property. But the sweat is more elaborated, as having passed through so many intervening bodies to the skin." (De Med. Simpl. x.) This is a very ingenious account of the nature of the sweat and upine, which, it is certain, bear a close analogy to one another, and are often vicarious dis- charges. Thus, in cases of suppression of urine, the perspira- tion has often an urinous taste and smell. But this is not ithe place for enlarging further upon this subject. Our author's jaccount of the medicinal properties of sweat is taken from alen. (1. c.) All the other authorities, in like manner, copy Srom him. See in particular Serapion (De Simpl. 466), and A.vicenna (ii, 2, 648.) 'Fir ^ Viscum, Birdlime, is heating with acrimony. It attracts, therefore, the deep-seated humours powerfully, and is dis- Butient, like the Thapsia, but is much more inefficacious chan it. CoiMMENTAUY. The Viscum, or Birdlime, is got from the Comm. joranthus Europceus, or Misseltoe. The Viscum quercinum " ' ' leld a place in the Materia Medica from the earliest times lown to a very late date. Dioscorides mentions that birdlime s also got from the apple tree, the pear ti-ee, and other trees, md is found upon the roots of certain shrubs. Pliny describes Khe ordinary mode of preparing it. (H. N. xvi, 94.) Dioscorides |jrecommends it pnncipally as an agglutinative and attractive tpplication to indolent tumours and sores. When mixed with bhe caustic ley (quicklime and potass) he says birdlime in- reases its efficacy. With orpiment and sandarach, and applied