SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 225 The Gagate is a fossil, bituminous substance, containing Comm. carbon and ethereal oil. It is jet. The Tliracian-stone was ' ' ' similar to it; indeed, we suppose, a variety of it. The Gagate was used by the ancients as a test of epilepsy, and a restorative from hysterical fits. Galen gives an interesting account of his experience in the medicinal use of gagate and Thracian- stone, the result of which is, that he found gagate rather to weaken than increase the powers of the bitumen which he had picked up upon the shores of the Dead Sea; but that as a desic- cant, it operated beneficially in the cure of sores, and that not only of recent, but also of sinuous ulcers. (De Simpl. ix.) He mentions that he could not discover the river Gagas in Lycia, from which, according to Dioscorides, this stone derives its name. (Ibid.) There is an interesting description of the Thracian-stone in a passage of Nicander quoted by Galen, under this head, Theriac. (45.) The Arabians who treat of it merely copy from the Greeks. See Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. 399, 400), and Avicenna (ii, 2, 407.) Mesne gives a formula for an oil of gagate. (De Oleis, i.) Aristotle suggests that perhaps the Magnet is animated. (De Anima.) To comprehend his reasons for maintaining this singular opinion, it would be necessary to understand his theory of motion, as fully exposed in his ' Auscultationes Naturales.' Lucretius, with considerable ingenuity, attempts to explain the manner in which the magnet attracts iron, (vi, 1000.) Plato (in Timseo) and Hippocrates (De Steri- libus) also allude to its attractive property. Galen recom- mends it in dropsies. Dioscorides, Galen, and the other Greek authorities treat of it in a very cursory manner, merely stating of it that it has the same virtues as the haematite. The Arabians, more especially Scrapion, give a much fuller description of it, which at all events identifies the Magnetis or Heraclean- stone of the ancients with our loadstone, that is to say, the magnetic oxide of iron. It was used by the Arabians as an application to poisoned wounds. See Scrapion (De Simpl. 394); Avicenna (ii, 2, 4G3.) It was used in the practice of medicine from the earliest date. See Hippocrates (De Sterilibus.) Ebn Baithar recommends it in pains of the head and feet, if 1 taken hold of, and in cramps. He copies Aetius. (ii, 25.) The Arabian-stone is a species of white marble. It is re- in. 15