SIMPLES. SECT. III.] 115 Accordingly, Bergius, Tom-nefortj Humelbergius, and Geoffroy Comm. ai'G decidedly of opinion that they were identical. Prosper ' " ' Alpinus, in like manner, says of it " hermodactylus qui est radix colchici Grsecorum." (De Med. Meth. iii, 9.) See also Hil?s Mat. Med. On this side of the question we further beg ; to quote the authority of Dr. Paris : " The active ingredient 1 of the Eau medicinale has been discovered to be the Colchicum . Autumnale or meadow-saffron; upon investigating the pro- I parties of this medicine, it was observed that similar effects in t the cure of the gout were ascribed to a certain plant called her- nmodactylus by Oribasius and Aetius (Paulus iEg. ?), but more iparticularly by Alexander of Tralles, a physician of Asia Minor, in the fourth century -, an inquiry was accordingly instituted tafter this unknown plant, and upon procuring a specimen of •it from Constantinople it was actually found to be a species of colchicum." (Pharmacologia, 58.) We have already given a II account of the administration of hermodactyls in gout. 3ok III, 78.) Alexander of Tralles, as far as we know, bhe earUest authority that treats of the hermodactylus by ne, and he recommends it for the cure of arthritic dis- cs, (xi.) Our author is the only one of the Greek writers 0 admits it into the Materia Medica. The Arabians treat it fully, but some of them confusedly, by mixing up the jient descriptions of the ephemeron and colchicum with it. us Serapion, after quoting, as already stated, Dioscorides's iount of the colchicum, gives the opinions of various Arabian ;horities, all of whom concur in representing it to be a cale- ient herb, and most of them in recommending it in diseases the joints. (De Simpl. 194.) Mesne recommends it as a legraagogue in diseases of the joints, when given internally :h cumin, ginger, pepper, myrobalans, &c.; and externally in ; form of a cataplasm. He also states it to be a good appli- ion to foul ulcers. (De Simpl. vii.) Avicenna quotes no eek authority in his chapter on Hermodactylus but Paulus, m which it may be inferred that he did not identify it with 5 colchicum of Dioscoridcs, like Serapion. He recommends Especially in gout, both internally and in the form of plaster, 2, 343.) E/hases refers to no other Greek authorities on s head except Paulus and Alexander, but quotes the opinions several Arabians, all of whom agree in recommending her-