SECT. 111.] SIMPLES. 367 of the stomach, lungs, Hver, and kidneys, and as being pos- Comm. sessed of diuretic, emmenagogue, carminative, subastringent, md other powers. Its decoction, he says, is useful as a hip- )ath in inflammations of the womb, (i, 16.) Galen gives a similar account of its virtues. (De Simpl. viii, and De Antidot. i.) The other Greek authorities treat of it very succinctly. Is aot this the "flos junci rotundi" of Celsus ? (v, 24.) Accord- ng^to Dierbach and, indeed, all the best authorities, it is the T. evoafxog of Hippocrates (De Mulieb. i. 111), who recom- nends it along with other aromatics in diseases of the uterus. The Arabians display an intimate acquaintance with the choenanths. See Avicenna (ii, 3); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i 681)- >erapion (De Simpl. 103); Averrhoes (CoUig. v, 42 ) • Ebn '.aithar (i, 19.) The last of these gives a particularly full ccount of it, mostly from Arabian authorities. They all gree in representing it as being diuretic, emmenagogue, and lexipharmic, and in recommending it particularly in apostemes t the anus, and in scabies. Its oil, they say, is efficacious I removing lassitude. The schcenanth held a place in oui- dispensatory as late as the times of Quincy (i, 1, 12) and -ewis (u, 20.) Upon consulting the modern authors quoted Jove, It wm be seen that it is still weU known in the East. Sori, resembles misy in its powers, consisting of much •osser particles. Commentary. We feel that we must still add something Comm ^ what we have said of this substance under the head of ' tsv. The following description of it, by a great modern ithonty, who appears to have been well acquainted with it ^serves not to be overlooked : " Rusma or Sory. A mixt meral, blackish, hard, heavy, and of a cavernous or spongy ructure, of a disagreeable smell, and nauseous, vitriolic taste- Ld often covered with dusty efflorescences on the surface' 18 composed of vitriol, sulphur, and an earthy matter. The cents called it sory. We have it in our Derbyshire mines t It IS not regarded. It was used as a depilatory by the •eeks, and is so by the Turks at this time. Taken inwardly vomits instantaneously and very roughly; it contains a preous vitriol, and hence its emetic quality.-—Boerhaave^s