SIMPLES. 296 [book VII. Comm. COMMENTARY. It appears to be the Cucurhita Pepo, L. See Book First, sect. 80. Alexander mentions that the seed of the pepo is possessed of an emetic quahty. (vii, 14.) Dioscorides and Avicenna agree in ascribing the same property to its root. The Arabians treat of this article at considerable length, re- commending it externally as an application to obstinate diseases of the skin; and internally as an excellent diuretic and laxative medicine. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 89), Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. iii, 20), and Serapion (De Simpl. 251.) It is clear from Avicenna's section on the Pepo, that the term was also appUed to the melon. Indeed, as we have stated more than once be- I fore, it is difficult to distinguish the summer fruits of the ancients from one another. TlspiKXy/xevov, Periclymenon, Woodbine ; the leaves and fruit are possessed at the same time of incisive and heating powers, so as to oc- casion a discharge of blood by urine when drunk for seven days. The seed is desiccative, and if drunk for forty days, relieves affections of the spleen and dyspnoea. Comm. COMMENTARY. There can be no doubt that it is either the ' * Lonicera periclyinenuin, or the L. caprifolium, that is to say, either the Woodbine or the Honeysuckle. Sprengel decides in favour of the latter. Dioscorides recommends it in nearly the same cases as our author, and also says of it, that it accele- rates delivery in labour, (iv, 14.) Oui' author's account of it is condensed from Galen. It is not found in the works of Celsus. The Arabians give rather a confused account along with other climbing plants. See Serapion (c. 41.) Ilept(TT£f)EWl', Verbenaca, Vervain, is so desiccative and astringent that it agglutinates wounds, and therefore stops hemorrhage. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is undoubtedly the Verbena officinalis. " - According to Apuleius,it is styptic, agglutinative, and abstergent. He recommends it as an application to the bites of serpents, phalangia, and mad dogs. Dioscorides, and most of the suc- ceeding authorities down to ]\Iacer, recommend it internally for the cure of jaundice, and externally for foul ulcers. He describes two species, of which the second is the Verbena