266 SIMPLES. [book VII. Comm. as its medicinal powers agree well with those assigned to the ' • ' article in question by Dioscorides. (Compare the latter, Mat. Med. iii, 81, with Gray's Supplement to the Pharmacop. 80.) Dioscorides says, the pith of it, while green, relieves spitting of blood and cseliac affections, and is given with wine to per- . sons bitten by vipers, and restrains bleeding from the nose , when introduced as a tent; that the seed relieves tormina, and produces sweating when rubbed in with oil, but that its steins induce headache, and are prepared for pickles. (Ibid.) Our author borrows almost word for word from Galen. We have not been able to discover it in the Materia Medica of the Arabians, but can scarcely believe that it had been wholly overlooked by tliem. Ebn Baithar, in fact, under the head of Kana, sets down the descriptions of the Narthex given by Dioscorides and Galen. Torpedo; when applied to the head, whUe still aKve, in cases of headache, it procures relief to the pain, probably by its peculiar property of producing torpor; and the oil in which the living animal has been boiled, when rubbed in, allays the most violent pains of the joints. It is said to re- medy prolapsus ani when applied. Comm. COMMENTARY. Without doubt it is the Raia Torpedo, L., ' ' ' or Cramp-fish. See Artedi (Ichthy.) Frequent mention is made of this fish in the works of the ancient writers on Natural History. See in particular the poetical descriptions of Claudian (Idyll.) and Oppian (Halieut, ii.) Galen repeat- edly speculates on the nature of the singular power which it possesses of stupefying every animal which touches it. He denies that it has any narcotic effect as a medicine, unless when applied alive. (De Simpl. vii.) Serapion copies his ac- count of it. His translator renders it Piscis stupefaciem. (c. 437.) See Haly Abbas (Pract. ii, 49, 533.) Averrlioes compares its narcotic powers to magnetism. (Colhg. v.) We have given some account of its application in this way else- where. See Book III, 6. Narcissus, Daffodil; its root is possessed of desiccative