SECT. ]II.] S35 SIMPLES. ^tKvog, Cucumis, the Cucumber; the esculent, when green, is cool- ing and diluent in the second degree ; and the flesh of it soothes hot inflammations.' The seed is detergent and incisive, promotes the discharge of urine, and clears the body. But uhen dried, both the seed and root prove desiccative in the first order, and more detergent. The juice of the fruit of the ■wild cucumber is called Elaterium. That of the root and leaves is like to elaterium, bat weaker. The root is detergent, discutient, and emollient, but the juice is desiccative. CoMMENTAKY. We have already stated more than once that Comm. the 2. of the Greeks or Cucumis of the Latins was applied ' " ' to several species of the summer fruits. Our author, we pre- Lime, applies it here to the Cucumis sativus. His account of its medicinal qualities is abridged from Galen. Dioscorides calls the seed of the Cucumis sativus moderately diuretic, along with must answering well in ulcerations of the bladder, and says that its leaves, in a cataplasm with wine, are useful in the bites of dogs. The Arabians give the same ac- count of it, but evidently mix it up with the characters of the ,ourd, as given by their Grecian masters; it is, therefore, limost impossible to discover when they are treating of the )ne and when of the other. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 89) ; Sera- )ion (De Simpl. 143); Averrhoes (Collig. v, 42); Ebn Baithar ii, 360.) The seeds of the cucumber long held a place in our nodern Dispensatories, and were ranked as one of the greater •old seeds. See Quincy (107) and Lewis (Mat. Med. i, 380.) 'Elaterium, or the fruit of the wild cucumber, was much ised by the ancient physicians from Hippocrates downwards, rheophrastus and Pliny affirm that it is the most durable of dl medicines, and that it had actually been known to retain ts virtues for two hundred years. It was given internally as I hydragogue, and applied externally in cases of lichen, scabies, mpetigo, and the like. Of it, however, we have treated fully mder elaterium, as a medicine in this section, and as a poison n Book V (64.) Dioscorides gives an account of the virtues if its leaves and roots, the juice of which he recommends as .n external application in leprosy and other cutaneous diseases, .nd as an hydragogue and cholagogue in dropsy. Galen treats J.