SIMPLES. [ilOOK VII. 94 and the chamsedaphne are possessed of the same powers; but the latter is edible. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscorides describes the virtues of the baj'^- ' ' ' tree {Laurus nobilis) at considerable length, representing it to be heating and emollient^ and hence he says, the decoction of it makes a good hip-bath in diseases of the womb and bladder; the green leaves, he adds, are sub-astringent, and hence prove useful when applied to the stings of wasps and bees. He re- commends the berries in phthisis and other complaints of the chest, as alexipharmic, and as forming a good appUcation to leprosy, and as an injection in earache and deafness. The bark, he says, is lithontriptic, kills the fcetus in utero, and proves useful in hepatic diseases, (i, 106.) Galen briefly calls it diuretic and emmenagogue. The Arabians follow Dioscorides. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 444.) The Laurus still holds a place in the Materia Medica, although now seldom used. See Pereira (p. 800.) The concurrent authority of the commentators and herbaUsts has settled that the Laurus Alexandrina was a species of Ruscus, probably the R. hypophyllum. The chamse- daphne was also a species of Ruscus, perhaps the racemosus. The daphnoides is generally held to be the mountain laurel of Parkinson, i. e. the Daphne Alpina. All the other authorities treat of these plants in nearly the same terms as our author. They are all generally held to be emmenagogue and diuretic. Pellis, Skin; that of a sheep newly taken off and still warm, when applied to those who have been scourged with rods, cm*es them wonderfully. The skin of the hippopotamus, when burnt and triturated with water and apphed, disperses hard tubercles. That of the viper, when triturated and applied in cases of alopecia, promotes the growth of the hair in a wonderful degi-ee. The leather of old shoes burnt has desiccative ashes; hence it cures sores in the feet from friction, if not in an inflamed state ; and also burns, intertrigo, and protuberances. Comm. COMMENTARY. We have mentioned, in the Fourth Book, ' " ' that the fresh skin of a newly-killed sheep was esteemed an excellent application to parts which had been bruised or cut by scourges, (See Vol. II, 46.) Dioscorides and most of the other authorities recommend the ashes of old shoes in the cases