SIMPLES. 117 SECT. III.] ation, and tlie lochial discharge when applied as a pessary. Comm. He adds, that it cures alphos (mikl leprosy) in a cataplasm ' * ' with vinegar, (iii, 150.) Our author borrows from Galen, who sets it down as being deobstruent, diuretic, and emmeuagogue. Aetius uses nearly the same words as our author in treating of it. All the Arabians follow the "Greeks in giving madder the character of being diuretic and deobstruent when given internally, and emmeuagogue and alexipharmic when applied externally. See Avicenna (ii^ 3, 573), llhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 590.) The Arabian writers mention that a bread was some- times prepared from madder in times of famine. (Casiri, Bibl. Arab. Hisp., 336.) It is still sometimes given as an emme- nagogue, notwithstanding that Dodonseus questioned the truth of Dioscorides^s opinion as to its possessing the powers of occa- sioning bloody urine and a discharge of the menses. (De Purgant. 97.) Our old herbalists, Parkinson and Gerard^ dispute whether Dioscorides or Dodonseus is to be followed in this instance. The Rubia Tinctorum holds a place in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia. Erysimum, Hedge-mustard; its seed is fiery and heating, ••equally as cresses. Wherefore, when boiled in leaven and ►.added to linctuses, it purges the chest. It also softens in- durations, and in the form of a cataplasm is of use for latent fcancers. Commentary. We may pretty confidently set it down as Comm. fithe Erijsimum officinale, Hedge-mustard. Our author abridges '—"— iGalen, who, in the present case, borrows almost everything |from Dioscorides. Aetius copies from Galen even more closely lithan our author. The Arabians, in like manner, borrow every- p:hing from Dioscorides and Galen under this head. See in iiarticular Serapion (De Simpl. 357.) It is worthy of remark 1 ;hat Dr. Hill gives the same medicinal character to the hedge- mustard which Dioscorides gives to the Erysimon, which it Ivill be admitted forms a strong presumption of their identity; jit all events, they were evidently congeners, a fact which is kiot disputed by those who question their identity. Sec Rutty fMat. Med.) and Sprcngel (f^d Dioscor.)