414 SIMPLES. [book vn. Comm. perties of bile is abridged fi-om Galen. Bile is au article which, although now excluded from the British Pharmacopoeias, still holds its place in the Continental. Scarpa recommends the gall of certain animals for the removal of albugo. Pliny thus states its vii'tues as a medicine: "Vis ejus excalfacere, mordere, scindere, extrahere, discutere. Minorum animalium subtQius intelligitur, et ideo ad oculorum medicamenta utihus existimatur." (H. N. xxviii, 40.) See Dioscorides (ii, 96.) A-\dcenna calls it a hot, abstergent medicine. Of quadrupeds, he says, the strongest is that of a calf, and the weakest that of a sheep. He treats largely of the subject, but draws libe- rally from Dioscorides and Galen (ii, 2, 250.) See also Serapion (De Simpl. 459) ; Haly Abbas (Pract. ii, 50); B,hases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 291); Ebn Baithar (ii, 510.) The gall of a buU is retained in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia. Xoi'Sfx'A?/, Chondrile, Gum Succory, being a species of Endive, is bit- terish, and is therefore so far more desiccative than it. Comm. COMMENTARY. Without doubt it is the Chondrilla juncea, ' • ' or Gum Succory. It produces a gum similar to Lactucarium, for which it is still cultivated in Lemnos. See Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 708.) Dioscorides describes another species which is supposed to be Ajjargia tuberosa. Dioscorides describes ac- curately the gum of the former species which he compares to mastich, and says of it that when applied on a linen cloth with myrrha to the size of an oHve it is emmenagogue; that along with natron it cleanses mild leprosy; that the gum is used for glueing the hairs of the eyelashes; that the fi'esh root does the same when a needle is dipped into it and applied to the hairs; that it is beneficial in the bites of the viper ; and that its juice is an astringent of the bowels. He describes the second species as being also glutinous, (ii, 160.) Galen and the other Greek authorities treat only of the former species, and that in very brief terms. Neither of them are described either by Hippocrates or Celsus. We find difficulty in dis- covering traces of it in any of the works of the Ai-abiaus, except Ebn Baithar (i, 395.) The Chondrilla juncea is still not wholly unknown in the shops. See Gray (Suppl. to Pliar- macop. 63.)