271 SIMPLES. SECT, m.] •under the head of Cornu vel Sorbas. {ii, 2, 315.) Serapion Comm. 1 treats of the Soi-ba, but does not seem to apply the name to ""^^ tthe article we are treating of. See De Simpl. (c. 109.) 'OOovva, Othonna; some say that it is the juice of a herb growing in .Arabia, where it borders with Egypt, and others that it is an lEgyptian stone. It is detergent and pungent, clearing away eeverything that obscures the pupil. CoMMENTAKY. The Tagetcs Erecta, African or French Comm. IMarigold, seems likely enough to be this herb. Regarding tthe stone of the same name, nothing is known for certain. lOur author borrows from Dioscorides. Galen does not treat tof this article at all in his work on Simples. The Arabians aappear to have been ignorant of it. 'Oii'ai'^rj, CEnanthe, the Wild Vine; ample experience has shown that tthe flower of the wild vine is considerably astringent, and that lit acts as a tonic, particularly in affections of the belly. Dios- corides describes another having powers quite opposite to this; iiid hence, he says, that it expels the secundines, and cures >traugury and jaundice. Commentary. The former is evidently the flower of a wild Comm. ;pecie3 of the Vitis Vitifera, L. It is still used for giving a " " ' favour to wine. Dioscorides gives an ample account of its uedicinal virtues. Its power, he says, is astringent, and lence it is stomachic and diuretic, restraining fluxes of the jelly and spitting of blood; it acts beneficially when applied Iry, as a cataplasm for loss of appetite and acidity of the tomach; it forms an embrocation with vinegar and rose-oil n headache ; a cataplasm that restrains inflammation, when pplicd to recent wounds; to incipient fistula lachrymalis, and ilcers in the mouth, and spreading ulcers in the pudenda, rhen rubbed in with honey, saffron, rose-oil, and myrrh : it s made an ingredient of pessaries for restraining bleeding, lid for defluxions of the eyes and burning of the stomach it s applied as a cataplasm with the flour of wheat and wine : hen burnt upon heated coals in a shell it forms an ophthalmic pplication, and cures whitlow, pterygia, loose and bloody