90 SIMPLES. [book VII. Comm. cinal cotton-weed of the ancients shall be called Otanthus " • maritimus, Link. Our author borrows from Dioscorides and Galen, who both give exactly the same character of this plant, and this it retained down to a very recent period. See Quincy. ToyyvXiQ, Rapum, Turnip; the root and seed are flatulent, promote the formation of semen, and rouse to venery. Comm. COMMENTARY. The predominance of authority has deter- ^^'^ ' mined us, after a good deal of consideration, to set this do\m as the Brassica Napo-brassica, the navew, or French turnip. All the authorities, in a word, from Dioscorides downwards, held it to be aphrodisiacal. Dioscorides holds it to be a sove- reign remedy for chilblains in fomentation, cataplasm, or prepared thus : a turnip is to be scooped out in the middle and filled with rose-cerate, which is to be melted by placing the turnip in hot ashes, when it forms an excellent application to ulcerated chilblains, (ii, 134.) Pliny likewise says of the tur- nip, " Est et rapo vis medica. Perniones fervens impositum sanat," (H. N. xx, 9.) A roasted turnip is still a popular remedy in Scotland for chilblains. Galen, Aetius, and Oribasius give brief descriptions of the gongylis, and from them our author copies. Celsus treats of the napus and rapum only as potherbs. The Arabians give a confused account of the matter ; Avicenna under brassica, and Serapion under rapa. (De Simpl. 191.) Rhases, translating the 134th chapter of Dioscorides, renders gongyle by Rapa rotunda. (Cont. 1. ult.557.) Altogether it appears to us strange that some of our late authorities should have re- ferred the gongylis to the Brassica oleracea. See Dierbach (Mat. Med. Hippocrat.) The introduction of the different varieties of the latter into gardening is a very curious but diffi- cult subject. See Beckmann (Hist, of Invent.), and Loudon (Encyc. of Garden. 674.) Top^vkiov, Gordylium (called also by some Seseli), is hot, diuretic, and emmenagogue. The root of it, when taken in a linctvis, with honey, promotes expectoration. Comm. COMMENTARY. Most probably it is a species of Seseli. Either our author or some copyist of his works has evidently