558 PLASTERS. [book VII. SECT. XVII. ON PLASTERS, AND THOSE THINGS WHICH ARE ADDED TO THE BOILING OF THEM, FROM THE WORKS OF ANTYLUS, AND, On the proportion of tvax to oil. Of those medicines which are the ingredients of plasters, some are terrene, as the metals, and some are kinds of stones and earth, as lees, ashes, and shells; some are oily, some tears, some soluble, some inspissated juices, some liquid juices; also a few admit seeds, herbs, and roots. Of plasters themselves, some are vulnerary, and are called bloody, agglutinative, and plasters for fractures, which must be composed of desiccants, not in the extreme, but in the second order complete, and the commencement of the third. Such are willow, oak, cypress, the barks of pine and pitch-tree, myrrh, rosemary, bitumen, aloes, birthwort, the ashes of the wood of vine, ceruse, litharge, and the most of the metals. They are boiled until they do not stain. The cicatrizing plasters are also composed of desiccants, but more so than the agglutinants. Such are, bui'nt copper, the squama seris and feiTi, verdigiis, chalcitis, the flower of burnt copper, alum, gall, molybdsena, calamine, pumice-stone, and the shells. The discutient are formed from the calefacient and moderately desiccative, such as birthwort, thapsia, old oil, and the oil of radishes, honey, opobalsam, pitch, turpentine, galbanum, burnt salts, and the flower of salt. The emollient are formed from litharge, fats, maiTow, old oil, bee-glue, ammoniac, storax, galbanum, bdel- lium, mastich, turpentine, the root of marsh-mallows, and of the wild cucumber. The desiccative are made of sulphur, natron, salts, ashes, bitumen. The epispastic are formed from salts, natron, bee-glue, verdigris, leaven, dung, sulphur, turpen- tine. The digestive are composed of wax, ladanum, dried grape, amomum, saffron, frankincense, pitch, Egyptian mastich, storax, myrrh, galbanum, butter, oesypum, fats, verdigris. The suppurative are formed from water and oil, pollen, wheaten bread, chondrus, butter, the fat of swine and of calves, frank- incense, pitch, rosin. The paregoric are made of litharge, ceruse, oil, dill, camomile, starch, white wax. The bloody- plasters (as they are called) are to be applied when the wounds