APPENDIX TO 4G0 [book VII. esteemed. Some, he says, held it to be beneficial in cerebral diseases, but this opinion he rejects, as it induces vertigo. See under Storax. He quotes only from Arabian authorities, (ii, 3, 423, 615.) Both kinds of storax are treated of largely by Serapion. (De Simpl. 46), and are noticed by Rhases. (Contin. 1. ult. i, 687.) It is still disputed what tree it is which produces the Liquid Storax. According to Sprengel and most modern authorities, until of late, it was held to be the Altingia excelsa. Dr. Pereira, however, shows that this is a doubtful point, and men- tions that Dr. Lindley holds that the liquid storax of the shops is produced by the liquid ambar orientale. But in his recent publication on the ' Vegetable Kingdom,' Dr. Lindley says, " Liquid storax is thought to be yielded by the Dammar pine." (p. 229.) Landerer has recently shown that it is obtained from Storax ofiBcinale. (Pereira, Mat. Med. 1325, 2d ed.) Kadi. It is described by Serapion as being a plant which grows in Arabia, from which the aromatic oil of Kadi is formed. He gives a curious description of it, but does not mention any medi- cinal purposes to which it was applied. (De Simpl. 40.) It would appear that it is also described by Ebn Baithar (i, 337.) He describes it as being a species of palm, which it resembles in all respects, and says that a fragrant oil is prepared from it. Its country is Arabia. He quotes on it Rhases, in his 'Continens' and ' Treatise on Smallpox,' but we have been unable to dis- cover the passages which he refers to. His authorities de- scribe, in glowing colours, the virtues of this substance, and more especially of its wine, in smallpox. What species.of palm it was we are unable to say decidedly. Meizaragi. Serapion gives a full account of it upon the authority of Abugerit and Abir, who agree in recommending it in arthritic diseases. They give minute directions for using it in electuaries, pills, and decoctions. Its dose with sugar is' one drachm. They mention that, when put into rivers, it intoxicates fish. (De Simpl. 365.) Avicenna describes the MehezeJiereffi, as being a tree like csula {spurge ?) ; and says it is hot and dry iu