SIMPLE PURGATIVES. 488 [book VII. Comm. gative medicine, then, he argues, acts by rousing the expulsive power of Nature. He joins the preceding authorities, how- ever, in illustrating the attractive power of purgatives, by com- paring it to the property which the magnet has of attracting iron, and amber of attracting straws. Purgative medicines, he says, have the faculty of clearing away the humours from the different parts of the body; from the stomach and intestines they do so readily; from the meseraic veins less easily; still more difficultly from the liver, and with the gi'catest possible difficulty from the joints, especially when the humoui's are impacted there. He forbids purgatives to be given in the extremes, either of hot or cold; in this practice observing the rule of Hippocrates. In hot weather, he says, emetics, and not purgatives, are indicated. The directions which he gives for correcting the noxious qualities of purgative medicines are highly important, but they are too lengthy for our limits. Aromatics added to purgatives, he says, dispel flatus ; bitters do the same, and strengthen the stomach; saltish things increase theii* pur- gative powers; unctuous, by lubricating the intestines, accelerate their operation, and render it easier; and sweet substances render them less nauseous, and diminish their acrimony. On the ancient arrangement of purgative medicines Dr. Pai'is makes the following pertinent remark: " It is impos- sible to concede to the opinion of Dr. Hamilton, that the diff'erent species of purgative medicines do not possess dis- tinct powers over the different species of matter to be evacuated ; on the contrary, there is reason for reviving the ancient theory, too inconsiderately abandoned, and which ac- knowledged these different distinctions in the operations of cathartic medicines under the appropriate names of hydragogues, cholagogues, &c." (Pharmacop.) Dr. Alston likewise writes thus : " We have a very learned essay in confirmation of the ancient doctrine of the specific operation of purgatives by Dr. G. Martyn (Lond. 1740, in 8vo.) I shall not enter into the controversy, but only observe that there is nothing impossible, yea, nor improbable in the theory." (Lectures.) See a leai'ned dissertation on the action of purgatives in Mangeti' Bibliotheca Anatomica,' i, 159. We may mention further that Dr. ]\Turray in his Materia Medica inclines to the Galenic theory of the specific operation of purgatives, (c. viii.)