SIMPLES. 189 SECT. III.] being a remedy against the bite of asps. (H. N. xxix, 17.) Comm. The Arabians copy all that the Greeks had recorded respect- ' " iug the medicinal virtues of bugs, without making any addition. : See in particular Avicenna (ii, 2, 370.) Coris, the herb; some call it Hypericum {St. John's Wort). ] It is acrid and fragrant; but the fruit of it, in a draught, ] promotes the urinary and menstrual discharges. It is also a ! remedy for the bites of venomous spiders; and in cases of 1 opisthotonos it is rubbed in with oil. Commentary. It is Hypericum Coris. This name is taken Comm. tfrom Pliny, who recommends it in strangury and pleurisy. ' ' (xxvi, 54.) Our author's statement of its medicinal powers is r abridged from Dioscorides. (iii, 164.) Galen does not treat of iit by name, but ascribes nearly similar powers to hypericum. ^We cannot find it described in the works of the Arabians. oppiavvov r] Kopiov, Coriandrum, Coriander, is composed of opposite powers. IFor' it consists of a terrene part formed of subtile particles, rwhich is bitter, and of a watery juice, which is tepid (mild?), lit has also a small degree of astringency, so as to accord with iinflammations and cases of erysipelas, which are not of too lihot a nature; and it also discusses the softer tumours with fcsome of the other subtile remedies. The seed, when drunk ■in small quantity with sweet wine, expels worms; but when ■.taken in larger doses it disturbs the understanding. I Commentary. It certainly is the Coriandrum sativum. Comm. ■Dioscorides says that its action is refrigerant, but Galen insists ' ^ ' Ithat it is calefacient. Symeon Seth, Mesne, as quoted by fcSerapion, and most of the ancient authorities adopt the opinion Rbf Dioscorides. Our modern views would seem to correspond Abetter with those of Galen ; coriander-seed being now gene- ■rally looked upon as an aromatic stimulant, and as being Bcarminative and stomachic. Galen's remarks under this head liaxe highly interesting. The coriander was used in the age of ■Hippocrates. (359, etc. ed. Foes.) Celsus, like Dioscorides, Baolds it to be refrigerant. (84, ed. Milligan.) He also calls Mtt diuretic. (Ibid.) The Arabians say that when the juice is