[book vix. SIMPLES. 312 Comm. discover any traces of it in the works of the Arabians. Its leaves are still kept in the shops of apothecaries^ and are held to be sternutatory. Gray (Suppl. to Pharm. 80.) nreXdia, Ulmus, the Elm, is possessed of desiccative and detergent powers, so as to agglutinate wounds; but the bark of it still morOj if, when in a fresh state, it be wrapped like a bandage about the wounds. It also cures leprosy with vinegar, and the roots of it are possessed of the same powers, so that frac- tures which will not unite are to be bathed with the decoction of it. Comm. COMMENTARY. Most probably the Ulmus campestris. Our ' * ' author's statement of its medicinal virtues is closely copied from Dioscorides (i, 112.) Galen and most of the authorities represent it to be an agglutinative medicine. Pliny, like the others, recommends it as an application to leprosy. No men- tion of it occurs in the works of Celsus. The Arabians treat of it fully, but in the main follow Dioscorides. See Avicenna (ii, 3, 71, 96, 212); Ehases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 350.) They re- commend it in all cases requiring astringents and abstergents. Filix, Fern, is desiccative in its powers, and bitter. Hence it destroys the foetus, and kills the broad intestinal worm when taken to the amount of four drachms in honeyed water. Be- cause it is moderately astringent, it di'ies up ulcers without pungency. Comm. COMMENTARY. Apuleius says, " Grjeci pterin, Latini filicem '—'—' nominant.^' (De Herbis.) We need not hesitate to refer it to the Aspidium Filix Mas, which has been long celebrated as a vermifuge medicine. See Book IV, 67, of this work, and Rutty (Mat. Med. 201.) Dioscorides recommends it merely as an anthelminthic medicine, and as one which is calculated to promote convalescence in diseases of the spleen. For the former purpose he directs it to be given with scammony or white hellebore, along with a diet consisting principally of garlic, (iv, 183.) Galen acutely remarks, that there is no wonder that it should be anthelminthic, seeing it is possessed of a bitter taste with some astringency. None of the other I