SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 301 i The liquid pitch of the ancients was evidently tar; the dry Comm. was the same boiled until it became hard. The latter is often " ' ' called TTaXtjUTTt'o-ffa. See Dioscorides (i, 94, 97) and Pliny (xxiii, 1.) IllffCTEAatO)', Oleum picatum. Pitched Oil, is formed from liquid pitch consisting of a more attenuate substance than it. CoMMBNTARY. According to Sprengel, the tt. of Dioscorides Comm. is the same as Tar-iuater, so celebrated as the grand panacea ' * ' by Dr. Berkley in his ingenious work called ' Siris.^ It is called opoTTi'ffo-j} by our author in another place, (iii, 74.) The Pissasphaltum of the ancients, according to Dr. Hill, was the Fix Mineralis, or Earth Pitch of the moderns. YliaTCLKia, Pistachia, Pistachio Tree ; its fruit when eaten is moderately stomachic, and removes obstructions of the liver, and more specially a decoction of the light and aromatic parts of it in \nne. It also relieves those who have been bitten by reptiles. Commentary. We have treated of the Pistachio nuts in Comm. he First Book. They are the fruit of the Pistachia vera. It'—' ' 3 hardly worth while to give the opinions of the other autho- •ities under this head, as none of them supply any additional nformation to that given by our author. See Dioscorides i, 167.) We may just mention in this place, that the oil of )istachio nuts was much used as an application to the cica- rices of small-pox. See Rhases (Contin. xxxii, 2.) Pityides, the Fruit of Pines, being possessed of mixed powers, he astringent and acrid, hence it assists expectoration from he chest. Commentary. Pliny restricts it to the fruit of the Pinaster Comm. )r Wild Pine, but the Greeks apply it to the fruit of all the "—^^—' )ine tribe. Pliny, like our author, recommends it as a remedy or coughs. Here, however, as is usual with him, he merely ranslates Dioscorides (i, 87.) Our author is principally in- lebted to Galen. (De Simpl. viii.) Celsus places the " nuclei /inei" in his list of things which are particularly good for the I tomach. (ii, 24.) The Arabians treat of these under the