ANTIDOTES. 525 sKCT. XI.] Commentary. Celsiis thus defines the nature of antidotes : • Autidota raro, sed prjBcipue interdum necessaria sunt, quia -ravisismis casibus opitulantui". Ea recte quidem dantur coUisis l orporibus vel per ictus, vel ubi ex alto deciderunt, vel in vis- rum, laterum^ fauciura, iuteriorumque partium doloribus ; inaxime autera desideranda sunt adversus venena, vel per mor- sns, vel per cibos, aut potiones nostris corporibus inserta." He ^■ives prescriptions for three antidotes. They consist principally )f stimulant and aromatic medicines, mixed with, honey and .\ ine. (v, 23.) Most of the antidotes treated of in this chapter are copied from . ialen's work ' De Antidotis,' but our author, in many instances, las used the liberty to introduce various alterations, either with he view of simplifying or improving upon the formulae of i alen. Mesne also treats fully of antidotes in his work, ' De l^lectariis,' wherein he substitutes a considerable number of Vvabic articles for those used by the Greeks. Serapion describes liese compositions with extreme prolixity. (Tract, vii.) But \ liat shaU we say of Myrepsus, who gives prescriptions for 511 utidotes ? Of these, and such like multifarious compositions, t would be idle to attempt any general analysis, and therefore . e shall pass by all the articles treated of in this chapter un- loticed, with the exception of the Theriac, which was so cele- Irated in the records of ancient medicine, that we think our- Ives called upon to give some further account of it. Galen evotes two distinct treatises to the consideration of the cele- brated theriac from vipers, besides giving a general description f it in his work on antidotes. Our author's account of it is lerely an abridgment of his. Galen mentions that Mith- i dates, king of Pontus, had, by repeated experiments upon onderaned malefactors, acquired a most thorough knowledge of he proper antidotes for almost every venomous reptile and oisonous substance, and hence he constructed the composition earing his name, which was long esteemed as a general anti- ote to deleterious substances. From it Andromachus, the chief liysician to the emperor Nero, formed his famous theriac, having Ided the flesh of vipers, and otherwise altered some of the ingre- lents in the theriac of Mithridates. The prescription for it was •anslated into verse by Damocrates, and the poem, consisting of 74 lines,is preserved in Galen's work, 'De Antidotis.' As stated