SECT. XV.] POTIONS. as when we would use the medicines wliich are tlie ingredients of them by the mouth. Those prepared from water^ or the juices we use in febrile cases, or as sweeteners, when the disease does not admit the use of wines, and sometimes as agreeing with the affections, as apomel for a sialogogue; diuretic, laxative of the bowels, or attenuant of humours ; and hydromelon and hydro- rosaton in cases of thirst, ardent fevers, resolutions, and derangements of the stomach j and omphacomel, myrteton, rho- dostacton, and rhoita, in cseliac and dysenteric cases, and for vomitings and other defluxions. They are frequently used as washes in affections of the mouth. The hydromelum from the juice of apples. Of the juice of clean quinces bruised, sext. ij ; of honey, sext. iij ; of water, sext. vj. Boil, scumming it until it be reduced to a third part. Another.— Of clean quinces cut into pieces, lb. v. Boil in sext. j of well-water until they become soft. Then re- moving them from the fire, after they become cold, strain, and having filtrated the apples throw them away. Having measured the water, mix with it half the quantity of honey, and boil again, scumming it until the eighth pai-t be consumed. Some compose the hydromelum in like manner from sweet apples. The comjwsition of the hydrorosatum. Of roses deprived of their nails (the white parts of the leaves), lb. iv ; of water, sext. V ; of honey, sext. ij. Tlie preparation of the Rhodomelum. Of.the juice of quinces, sext. j ; of roses, lb. iij; of honey, sext. iij ; of water, sext. v. But since the apples are not found at the same season with the roses, these are to be added to honey at the proper season, and when the apples appear, the composition is to be com- pleted. The preparation of the omphacomel. Of the juice of unripe grapes, sext. iij ; of honey, sext. j. Having mixed, expose it to the sun for forty days, or boil. The pi-eparalion of Myrteta. Of the juice of myrtles, sext. iij ; of honey, sext. j. Boil till the third is consumed. Apomel from the works of Phulagrius. Of white honey- combs filled with honey, lb. jj of spring water, lb. iiiss; having broken down the comb and united them, boil the water with the honey until the scum of it and the waxy part i". 35