32 SIMPLES. [book VII, Comm. ammoniac of tlie Greeks. Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. 600) and ' * ' Avicenna (ii, 2, 608) are brief and indistinct in describing the sal ammoniac, but probably refer to the true sal ammoniac. Ebn Baithar minutely describes several kinds of it. Pliny also has a description of a factitious salt, which it would appear could be nothing else than our sal ammoniac. (N. H. xxxvi, 45.) Stillj however, we need have no hesitation in setting down the ammoniac salt of the Greek medical authors as being a variety of the sal gem. This is the conclusion which Beckraann arrives at regarding it: he. holds, however, that Geber and Avicenna were certainly acquainted with our ammoniac salt. (History of Inventions.) AXOata rj ' E(5'i(yicog, Althcea or Ebiscus, Marsh-malloivs, is a species of wild mal- lows. It is discutient, relaxant, anti-inflammatory, soothing, and ripens tumours (phymata). But the root and seed have all the other properties in a more intense degree, and are also detergent of alphos. The seed is lithoutriptic. Comm. COMMENTARY. This must either be the Lavatera arborea or ' " ' Althma officinalis. Dioscorides is much fuller than our author in enumerating its properties, but upoii the whole they agree very well as to its general character. Besides the cases in which our author recommends it, Dioscorides speaks highly of the decoction of it when drunk with wine in dysuria, the grievous pains of calculus, dysentery, and other acute affec- tions. He also advises the mouth to be rinsed with it in cases of toothache (iii, ] 53.) It would be useless to go over the other authorities, who supply no new views. Even our modern herbalists all agree in repeating the praises of the marsh-mallow as delivered by Dioscorides. For the Arabians, see Avicenna (ii, 2, 72) ; Serapion (c. 76) ; Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 26); Averrhoes (CoUig. v, 42.) This genus of the MalvacecB does not seem to be noticed either \)j Hippocrates or Celsus. The Althaa officinalis occurs in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia, published at Athens in 1837. ii ' KXij.iov, Halimon consists of heterogeneous particles, being saltish and sub-astringent. But the greater part of it is of a hot