376 SIMPLES. [book VII. Comm. COMMENTARY. It appears from Dioscorides that the Lime used by the ancient physicians, was prepared by calcination from shells, pebbles, or marble, which last is the best of all. Phny, Vitruvius, and Palladius say, that the best lime is got from hard, white stone. Lime was much used as a caustic and stimulant application. The ''Aa^earoQ of the Greek Mat. Med. invariably, we believe, signifies quicklime, and is never apphed to the mineral which now bears that name. Dioscorides says, all kinds of quicklime have a fiery, biting, caustic, and escha- rotic power; when mixed with other things as suet or oil, it becomes digestive, emollient, depilatory, and epulotic; and that which is recent and free from water is more eflaca- cious. (v, 132.) Pliny recommends it in the same cases, and also as an application to luxations and strumas. (H. N. xxxvi, 57.) See also Plinius Valerianus (iii, 20.) Celsus places it in his list of corrosive and caustic substances, (v, 6, 8.) Our author's account of this article is condensed from Galen. Aetius and Oribasius give nearly the same account of it as Dioscorides and Galen. Quickhme was used as a medicine in the Hippocratic age. (See Erotianus.) For the Arabians, consult Avicenna (ii, 2, 144); Rhases (Cent. 1. ult. iii, 20, i, 445) ; Serapion (De Simpl. 412); Haly Abbas (Pract. ii, 44); Averrhoes (Collig. v, 43); Ebn Baithar (ii, 387.) All these authorities, including even the last, who is by far the most original of their writers on the Mat. Med., borrow under this head almost all their information from Dioscorides and Galen. Avicenna praises it as an application to burns. TpayaKavOa, Tragacantha, Tragacanth, has similar powers to gum. Comm. COMMENTARY. The aucicnt Tragacanth was identical with '—»—' the modern, which is yielded by Astragalus verus, and similar spiny species. See Lindley (Veg. King. 548.) According to Sibthorp, the Astragalus aristatus is the one which most com- monly grows in the Peleponnesus, and he holds that it pro- duces the T. of Dioscorides. (Prod. PL Grsec. ii, 90.) Dioscorides, Uke our author, states, that in virtue it resembles gum, and recommends it in ophthalmic remedies, for rough- ness of the windpipe, loss of speech, and epistaxis, in a Unctus with honey. He also recommends it when allowed to melt be-