579 SECT. XVIII.] EMOLLIENT PLASTERS. The malugma, from goat's dung, of Oribasius, for splenic affections, dropsies, and scirrhous liver. Of oil of privet or very old oil, lb. iij ; of wax, lb. iiss; of tbe dung of goats, of bay-berries stripped of their bark, of Illyrian iris, of eacb, sext. j ; of turpentine, lb. j ; of mustard, of natron, of cyperus, of the seed of radish, of the bark of the root of capers, oz. iij; of the medullary part of colocynth, oz. ij ; of fenugreek, oz. j. Sometimes the diy things are added to the soluble and some- times they are mixed with vinegar. But if there is a flux of the bowels, the colocynth must not be added. The malagma spongiola, from goat's dung, for dropsies. Of Brutian pitch, lb. iiss ; of natron, lb. j ; of the medullary part of colocynth, of pellitory, of opoponax, of granum cnidium, of each, oz. iij; of bark of the root of capers, of frankincense, of iris, of the fat of bulls, of elaterium, of squama seris, of parsley-seed, of the seeds of spurge (lathyrides), of each, oz. vj; of bay-berries, sext. ss; of the flour of fenugreek, oz. ss ; of buirs gall, oz. ij ; of oil of privet, sext. ss; of wax, lb. j; of roasted rosin, lb. iij j of mountain goat's dung, of the seed of rosemary, of cyperus, of cardamom, of each, oz. vj. The malagma from bay-be^Ties. Of wax, of rosin, of pitch, of bay-berries, of bull's fat, of each, lb. j ; of natron, of ammo- niac perfume, of each, oz. vj ; of vinegar, q. s. The malagma from seeds. Of cardamom, of cyperus, of savin, of natron, of bay-berries, of cassia, of melilot, of fenu- greek, of Celtic nard, of parsley-seed, of sampsuchum, of anise, of the root of panacea, of frankincense, of ammoniac perfume, of turpentine, of each, oz. iij; of honey, of wax, of nard, of each, lb. j; of the fat of bulls, lb. j. The fetid malagma for pleurisy. Of pine rosin, lb. j; of wax, of green rue, of oil of privet, of each, oz. vj ; of sulphur vivum, of opoponax, of sagapen, of each, dr. iv. Some add also of galbanum, dr. iv. Ttie malagma from sampsuchum. Of wax, lb. j ; of turpen- tine, lb. ij; of sampsuchum (maijoram ?), of bay-berries, of fenugreek, of each, sext. j ; of nard, q. s. The malagma of Apollophanes for hepatic diseases. Of wax, dr. Ixxx ; of turpentine, of manna, of each, dr. xl. Pound with the lees of iris-oil and anoint the mortar. The malagma copton, for hardne.is of the stomach and liver.