SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 411 Daphne Mezereon, which we believe to have been naturalized in Comm. this country by the Romans for its medicinal uses. Dioscorides ' ' says of its leaves that they are like to those of the olive, but more slender and thick, biting to the taste and scarifying the trachea. Its leaves, he adds, purge phlegm and bile down- wards, especially if taken in a pill with double the quantity of southernwood mixed with one part of the chamelsea; let it be taken in water or honey as a pill; but it is insoluble, for it is evacuated as it was taken; the powdered leaves mixed up with honey cleanse foul ulcers, and such as are covered with eschars, (iv, 169.) We do not meet with it in the works of Hippocrates nor of Celsus. Galen and the other Greek authorities treat of it in very general terms like our author. Beyond all doubt is this the mezereon of Serapion, who commences his chapter on it by giving extracts from the descriptions of the chameltsa given by Dioscorides, Galen, and our author. He then gives a very lengthy account of it from Arabian authorities, first fi'om Alcanzi and next from Aben Mesuai, which we regret that our necessary limits prevent us from giving a proper abstract of. He says that persons of a gross constitution, and more especially old men, bear this medicine best, and he re- commends us to administer it with myrobalans, or tamarinds, or prunes. He further directs it to be given in water that has been boiled. Altogether there is not a more important chapter in Serapion than the one on Mezereon. (c. 373.) Mesne also gives a very interesting account of the mezereon, which he illustrates with extracts from Dioscorides and Galen on the chamelffia. He assigns to it powers to purge yellow and black 1)ile, and says that its greatest use is in dropsy. It is also, he says, anthelminthic. He recommends tents smeared with it lor fistuljE and sinuous ulcers. (De Simpl. 22.) Haly Abbas also gives an excellent account of it, representing it as a medi- cine which purges phlegm, yellow and black bile. (Pract. 2, 54, 564.) Ukases describes the two chamseleons and the chamelBea together under the head of Laureola. He quotes '■' the Book of Poisons" as stating that in the dose of two drachms it proves fatal. He gives quotations from Dioscorides, Galen, and our author. (Cont. .1. ult. i, 413.) Aviccnna, in jMilike manner, describes the two chamseleons and the chamelaea Miunder the head of mezereon, but eridently recognised the dis-