216 SIMPLES. [book VII. Populus alba, the White Poplar; tlie tree being composed of a watery, tepid, and terrene substance, lias detergent pro- perties. Comm. , .COMMENTARY. There can be no doubt of its being the P.opulus alba, L. Dioscorides says of it, that its bark, when taken in a draught, cures sciatica and strangury; that it is said to prevent conception; and that it is a remedy for earache and other complaints, (i, 109.) Our author copies from Galen. The Arabians, untler this head, are ser\ale copyists from the Greeks. See Serapion (c. 30); Avicenna (ii, 2, 333); and Ebn Baithar (i,-340.) AijSai^wric, Rosmarinus, Rosemary; there are three varieties of it, one of which is sterile, and the other two bear fruit. They are possessed of detergent, incisive, discuticnt, and emollient powers. The juice of them, with houej^, cures dimness of sight occasioned by thick humours. A decoction of that variety, which is used for garlands, proves serviceable in jaundice. Comm. Cosimentary. Dioscorides, like our author, describes three species, of which the first bears a fruit called caclirys, a term previously used by Theophrastus and Nicander, and from which the plant has now got the scientific appellation of Cachrys Libanotis. The root of this plant is still kept by our apothecaries, although it has long ceased to hold a place in our Dispens.atory. See Gray's Suppl. to the Pharmacop. (80.) The second species is probably the Ferula nodiflora. The third cannot he satisfactorily determined. Our old English herbalists give the libanotis the name of " herb frankincense." (See Parkinson and Gerard.) These libanotides, however, must be distinguished from " the libanotis, called rosmarinus by the Romans," which was the well-known Rosmarinus officinalis, and of which the flower, known by the name of anthos, was in frequent use as a medicine in the age of Sydenham, and still retains a place in our Dispensatory. We have been obliged to enter with more length than usual into the general literature of this subject, to prevent the mistake of confounding