437 SIMPLES. SECT. III.] bowels and in dysentery (ii, 2, 448.) The nutmeg, or nucleus of tlie myristica officinalis, he says, is of the size of a gall, brittle, having a fine rind (involucre), and a sharp smell. He recom- mends it as a styptic in complaints of the liver, spleen, and stomach, and in difficulty of urine. In oils he says it is a sedative of pain, and also in pessaries, and it stops vomiting, (ii, 2, 495.) He quotes no Greek authorities under this head. Rhases, in his 'Continens,' says bi'iefly of the nux moschata, that it resembles cloves, and is good for the stomach and liver. (1. idt. 507.) In his other work (Ad Mausor. iii, 30,) he calls it hot and dry, and recommends it as an astringent in coldness of the stomach and liver. Mesue, in his electuary of lignum aloes, which he recommends for affections of the heart, stomach, and coldness of the liver, mentions nutmeg and mace as two of its ingredients. (De Electariis, i.) The ancient writer, however, who gives the fullest account of these articles is Sera- pion, who under this head quotes only from Arabian authorities, namely, Aaron, Isaac ebn Amram, Aben Mesuai, Miseaben, Albasari, and Rhases. They all agree in representing them to be aromatic and astringent, useful in flatulence and other com- plaints of the stomach, in fetid breath, indigestion, and en- largements of the spleen and hver. (De Simpl. 161.) Ebn Baithar's extracts under this head are principally from Rhases and Avicenna. He evidently disapproves of the opinion of those that held Macer and Mace to be identical. On the nutmeg and mace we would beg to refer to Ainslie (Mat. Ind. 202, 249.) It will be there seen that the Hindoos still use these articles as cardiac, hepatic, and stomachic medicines. It appears doubtful to lis whether the Greeks and Romans were at all acquainted with the nutmeg. For w^e have always suspected the genuineness of the last chapter but one of Aetius, which contains a number of Indian aromatics not to be found else- where in the works of the Greek authorities. Our siaspicions, which are of old date, have been much strengthened by the discovery that many of the formulae contained in that chapter as given in the Latin translation are wanting in the two MSS. of Aetius in the Bodleian Library at Oxford. This we have I)ositively ascertained through the kindness of Dr. Greenhill, who examined this part of these MSS. at our request to ascer- tain the fact. It may be well to take this opportunity of