317 SIMPLES. SECT. III.] Commentary. Our author manifestly copies from Galen; Comm. and whoever will carefully compare liis account of it with ' ' ' Dioscorides's chapter on Rha, cannot fail to come to the con- clusion that both apply to the same substance, namely, the Rheum Rhojwnticum. We therefore shall confine our attention in this place to it, reserving to the Appendix what we have got to say on the knowledge possessed by the ancients of the purgative rhubfirb. Dioscorides says of it, that its prevailing power is astringency, with a certain degree of heat; and he recommends it to be taken in a draught for flatulence of the stomach, atony, all kinds of pain, spasms, diseases of the spleen, liver, and kidneys, tormina, aff"ections of the chest and bladder, distension of the hypochondria, diseases of the uterus, sciatica, hjcmoptysis, asthma, hiccough, dysentery, cseliac affections, intermittents, and the bites of venomous animals; also for Kvidity and leprosy when rubbed in with vinegar, and for dis- cussing all chronic inflammations in a fomentation, (iii, 2.) Galen's account of it, as already stated, is exactly the same as our author's. Oribasius evidently takes his description of it ; from Dioscorides; and Aetius, like our author, as clearly 1 abridges Galen. There is no mention of the Rhd in the ' works either of Hippocrates or of Celsus. Pliny's descrip- ition of it (he calls it Rhuconia) is manifestly imitated from ] Dioscorides. (H. N. xxvii, 105.) As already stated, we shall preserve our exposition of the views of the Arabians to the : Appendix. 'Vr\Tivai, Resinfe, Resins, are all calefacient and desiccative; but the turpentine holds the first place, being discutient, emollient, and attenuating, and also detergent, whereby it cures itch; and that of larch is like to it. The resin of the pitch-tree, nd still more that of the wild pine, are more acrid, but either more discutient nor attractive. Those of the pine nd fir hold an intermediate place. Commentary. On the formation of Resins see in particular Comm. leophrastus (H. P. ix, 2) and Phny (H. N. xxiv, 22.) Pliny thus sums up his account of them: " Summse species duse j ^icca et liquida. Sicca e pinu et picea; liquida e terebintho, liirice, lentisco, cupresso." The Resina sicca pini is the Piv ■irida of the Old London Pharraacopojia, or the Fix Abietina