504 [book VII. EMETICS. roots of narcissus purge upwards. And tKe upper part of the root of parsley, namely, that which is exposed to the air, when eaten, purges upwards. Some call it cliamseraphaiium. The under part of the root purges downwards. When the whole is eaten it purges both upwards and downwards. Ra- dishes purge less than the aforementioned, but more usefully. They are to be taken when very acrid and fresh, and cut into small parts; and having allowed them to soak in oxymel for two or three hours, as many of the pieces as possible are to be swallowed, so that one may vomit three or four times after supper, and once if fasting. But after, large draughts of oxymel are to be swallowed ; and after walking about for two hours, and drinking tepid water, one may compel one's self to vomit by inserting the fingers or some feathers into the thi'oat. Modes of administering hellebore. Hellebore is to be given in protracted and severe complaints, and when all hope from other remedies is precluded, because the disease has proved stronger than them all. It is to be given in continued diseases, as dropsy, elephantiasis, cachexia, paralysis, and the hke; and in certain complaints which attack at intervals, as epilepsy and gout. There being many modes of administering hellebore, the simplest, and rather the preparative for a course of helle- bore, is this method : having perforated radishes with a reed, pieces of the dried roots of the finest white hellebore are to be inserted into the perforations, and having been allowed to re- main for one night they are to be removed. Having cut the radishes in pieces they are to be given with oxymel, in the manner described, to the patient who has been accustomed be- fore to emetics, and after au interval of the number of hours mentioned, he is to be forced to vomit. The established mode of administering hellebore is as follows : having allowed two ounces of the best hellebore to macerate in a hemina of water for five days, boil until only a third part of the water remain, and having expressed the hellebore, mix with the water an equal quantity of honey, and boil it until it thicken; and after the patient has been exercised with vomits in the manner described, give it to him when fasting, and after digestion has been performed, and the contents of the bowels evacuated,