SIMPLES. SECT. III.] 79 Biyonia, Bryony; the White Vine is so named. Commentary. See under o^itteAoc- Mesue recommends Comm. it as a plilegmagogue, deobstrnent^ and diuretic medicine; for epilepsy-j vertigo, coldness of the nervesj coughs, asthmas, especially in a hnctus, in pleui-isy, and as an external appUca- tion to hard aspostemes, inflammations of the spleen, in the form of a plaster, with figs and wine; for the removal of whitlow, spiculse of bones, thorns, and the like. In a draught, he says, it proves emmenagogue and procures abortion. He also commends it as a cosmetic in diseases of the face. Both internally and externally he praises it in scrofula. He adds fui'ther, that it is useful in the cure of persons who have been bitten by venomous animals. In a word, no ancient author has bestowed so flattering an eulogium upon bryony as Mesue (De Simplicibus.) We need scarcely say that bryony [Bryonia dioica or alba) is now regarded in the light of a poison rather than a medicine. See Orfila (Toxicol. Gen. i, 679), and Chris- tison on Poisons (p. 445, First edition.) Lac, Milk; every sort of milk consists of three substances, a cheesy, a serous, and a fatty part, which last is contained in greatest abundance in the cow^s milk, and from it butter is formed. Whey is possessed of detergent properties, and hence it loosens the belly if separated by boiling. The cheesy and thick part is more compact, and on that account blunts acrid humom's. When milk is boiled either by hot pebbles or any other way, it is an excellent remedy for dysenteries and other acrid defluxions on the bowels. The whole contents of milk are suitable applications for acrid humours of the eye, and all other acrimonies. The milk of a woman is of the best regu- lated temperament; after which the goat's, and then that of the ass and sheep; and last of all the milk of cows. Commentary. We have treated of the properties of milk Comm. so fully in the First Book that we need not enlarge on the subject in this place. Our author's account of it is abridged from Galen. Dioscorides, Galen, Celsus, Serapion, and most of the authorities, recommend milk as a remedy when acrid substances, such as cantharides or arsenic, have been swallowed.