305 SIMPLES. SECT. Ill,] dently the first species of Dioscorides, namely, the Teucrium Comm. Polium. The other is the Teucrium Creticum. Both these ' * ' plants retained a place in our Dispensatory down to the days of Qnincy (118), and both of them are still to be found in the shops of the apothecaries. Gray (Pharmacop. 49.) See further Parkinson (Theatre of Plants, 23), and Rutty (Mat. Med. 403.) Dioscorides says of both, that their decoction taken internally IS beneficial to the bites of venomous reptiles, in cases of dropsy, jaundice, and diseases of the spleen along with vinegar; that it loosens the belly and is emmenagogue, but induces headache and is bad for the stomach; that in fumigations and placed Ijelow a couch, that they drive away reptiles; and in a cataplasm are vulnerary. Galen, Aetius, and Oribasius, give them nearly the same characters. Celsus barely notices it once as one of the ingredients in the celebrated theriac of Mithridates, (v, -^3.) The Ai'abians treat of the two species at greater length than the Greeks. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 537) ; Rhases (Cont. L ult. i, 558); Serapion (c. 165) ; Averrhoes (Collig. v, 42.) They agree with the Greeks in considering it diuretic, emme- lagogue, and a gentle purgative, and recommend it further as jeing anthelminthic and a remedy in cases of protracted fever. Serapion, by the way, quotes Dioscorides as calling the polium tphrodisiacal, but there is nothing in the chapter of Dioscorides m the poley to this effect. rioAuyaXoi/, Polygalon, the Milkwort, has leaves which are moderately lustere. When taken in a draught it seems to engender milk, jeing of a hot and humid temperament. Commentary. That it is the Polygala amara seems quite Comm. ertain. Dioscorides and Galen treat of it in nearly the same ' ' ' anguage as our author. We have not been able to find it in he works of the Arabians except Ebn Baithar, who merely opies Dioscorides and Galen, (i, 186.) noXu-yovaTOVj Polygonaton, Solomon's Seal, is a mixture of astringency, crimony, bitterness, and a certain indescribable nauseous prin- iple, and therefore it is not much used. Some sprinkle the oot of it upon wounds, and clear away spots on the face with it. nr. 20