SIMPLES. 220 [book vir. Commentary. T^e ancient Litharge was nowise different from the modern^ being a secondary product in the cupellation of argentiferous lead. It was, therefore, a protoxide of lead. The varieties of it known to the ancients, and their modes of prepai'ing it, ai'e circumstantially described by Pliny (II. N. xxxiii, 35), Dioscorides (v, 72), and Oribasius (Med. Collect, xiii.) It was used by the Hippocratists in the practice of medicine. (De Morb. Mulier. ii.) It is the " Spuma Argenti" of Celsus, who notices it in various parts of his works as a cooling and cleansing medicine, (v, 290.) Dioscorides merely says of it, that washed litharge seems to suit ophthalmic remedies, iin- seemly cicatrices, winnkled faces, and maculfe. (v, 102.) Our author condenses what Galen says under this head. The Arabian authorities treat of it fully, but supply little or no ad- ditional information respecting it. See Serapion (De Simpl. 410); A^dcenna (ii, 2, 460); Averrhoes (ColHg. v, 43); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 428.) Thej'^ recommend it generally as an astringent in fetor of the arm])its, to restrain copious perspi- ration, to dispel extravasated blood, and remove unseemly cicatrices, and especially the marks of vai'iolse and morbilli. It does not appear that any of the phj'^sicians administered it in- ternally ; but A^dcenna mentions that he had known women give it in fluxes and ulceration of the intestines. Ebn Baithar is very full on this head (ii, 513.) One of his Arabian authorities, Ibn Ben Amram, recommends it in diarrhoea, as a clyster to stop the discharge; and mixed up with vinegai' and rose-oil, it is said to be useful in congenital hernia and other complaints about the scrotum. A'iOot, Lapides, Stones; all kinds are desiccative like earth; but the Hajmatites, or Blood-stone, is astringent and desiccative in a considerable degree, so that it agrees with trachoma of the eye- lids, and if they are free from inflammation it is to be used with water; but if inflamed, with an egg. It is drunk also with advantage for spitting of blood; and it restrains the fun- gous flesh of ulcers. The Schistos or Scissilis has similar pro- perties, but is weaker: and after it the Galactitcs, or Milk- stone. The Melititis, or Honey-stone, has also a certain degree of heat. The Moroxus (called also Leucographis), being so