SECT. XXVI.] WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 609 SECT. XXVI. ON WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. The weight is determined by the degree of heaviness; the measure by the capacity of the vessel: but the vessel is the measure either of a diy or of a liquid quantity. So then there are three differences of a measured quantity: first, that of weight J second, that of a dry substance, and, as it were, of such things as can be heaped; and third, that of a liquid. There being many and almost infinite varieties of weights and measures according to the practice of places, and of those who use them, we shall treat only of those which are familiar to all. On the characters used by the Greeks for indicating weights and measures. But since some do not indicate these by whole letters, but by characters, it will be better for us, in imitation of the ancients, to explain these characters in the first place. First, then, the letter ^ having alpha placed above it, signifies chalcus (i. e. (sreus), thus ^; but if the has o, chus (i. e. congius), thus -y^; but if ot, choenix, thus ^"'j but if rj, cheme, thus yji ; K if it has £ placed above it, and a straight line obliquely intersecting the lower curvature of it indicates ceration (i. e. siliqua), thus 1^'; but if the K has v, cyathus, thus IjL", and if o cotyle (i. e. hemina), thus l^". The circum- flex line not surrounded by anything, and placed altogether obliquely, indicates obolus, thus <■ ^ ; but if there are two lines not surrounded, they signify two oboli, thus ^—^, which make a gramma (i. e. scrupulum), which is indicated by -y having p near it, intersected by a straight line, thus y^. Two lines united at one extremity so as to make an angle, like the two wings which join the straight line of the letter K, indicate drachma (or drachm), which is synonymous with holca, thus <. But the holca is properly indicated by X with o in its middle, thus X. But if the X has t, it indicates libra (a pound), thus X. Some, however, indicate a pound, by another line inter- : secting the line of the X obliquely, thus ,\. But F having the letter o within its angle, signifies uncia (an ounce), thus lo. ' The letter having v in its middle, indicates mna, or mina, ' thus p.; but if the ^ has v, it indicates mysti-um, thus p. • but if ui. 39