155 SECT. III.] SIMPLES. find that the Mylabris does not occur in the modern Greek comm. Pharmacopoeia. '—•'—' Cannabis, Hemp; the fruit is carminative and desiccative, : so as to dry up even the semen. The juice of it when green lis useful for pains of the ears and obstructions of them. Commentary. It appears evidently to be the Cannabis Comm. usativa, or Hemp. The species sylvestris of Dioscorides, is the " * ' .Althcea Cannabina. See Sprengel (ad Dioscorid. iii, 155), and IParkinson (Theatre of Plants, 307.) Dioscorides recommends tthe latter in the form of a cataplasm to soothe inflammations and discuss tumours. Our author copies from Galen, who, like him, only describes the saliva. The Arabians describe both species with moi'e accuracy than the Greeks. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 170, 656), Serapion (207.) Avicenna calls them car- icninative and desiccative ; and hence he holds that they dry up the semen. He says a middling dose proves laxative of the nowels. KaVWTTOV, Canopum, the Flower of the Elder-tree, which has been i lready treated of. KoTTl'tOV, Fumaria, Fumitory (called also Capnos), and is so named because the juice of it provokes a great discharge of tears; and it sharpens the vision. It is also acrid and bitter; hence ; occasions a discharge of much bilious urine, and cures ob- ifcnictions and atony of the liver. It also strengthens the «:omach and softens the belly. CoMMENTAiiv. All the commentators seem agreed that it is Comm. le Fumaria officinalis, except Sibthorp, who prefers the F. ' '' ' i.rviflora, Lam. Our author's account of it is mostly taken ora Dioscorides and Galen. The others give nearly the same scription of its medicinal virtues. See particularly Serapion . 71), and Avicenna (ii, 2, 275.) They represent it as being stomachic and hepatic medicine, gently purgative and iiretic. Fumitory is described as a medicinal herb by all ir old herbalists, and held a place in the Dispensatory down a late date. See Quincy (125.) The F. officinalis is still tained in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia.