585 ACOPA, ETC. -ECT. XIX.] lustead of the fruit of tlie fir, adding an equal quantity of the fruit of the black poplar, prepare the other things in like manner. Tlie liniment of Zosimus, celebrated for tremblings. Of pine rosin, oz. xvj ; of wax, oz. iv; of old oil/lb. j ; of opoponax, oz. ij ; of adarce, oz. j ; of euphorbium, oz. j ; of natron, oz. iv ; it" tender aphronitrum, oz. iv. Triturate the natron, euphor- bium, and adarce with wine, then add the opoponax, and tri- tiu'ate together. Melt the soluble substances separately with alkanet, that they may acquire colour, and having cooled, mix. The dropax, or calefacient plaster Gallus. Of Oribasius. Of i he Colophonian rosin which is redolent, of frankincense, of pine rosin, and of that which is called the woody, being found uuly in Italy, of the pitch of ships, of dried .pitch, of each, lb. ivj of wax. lb. iv; of roasted rosin, oz. xv; of Brutian [)itch, lb. ij ; of natron, lb. j; of bitumen, of galbanum, of udarce, of peUitory, of each, oz. vj; of opoponax, of euphor- bium, of white hellebore, of pepper, of each, oz. iv; of sulphur \ iTOm, oz. rij; of castor, of ammoniac, of the wild grape dried, of each, oz. ij ; of Sicyonian oil, lb. j ; of opobalsam, oz. vj. Otherwise, a simple drop)ax. Of wax, lb. j ; of dried pitch, lb. iss ; of Brutian pitch, lb. j ; of pine pitch, lb. iss ; of roasted rosin,lb. j, oz. iij. Having first prepared the part with natron, apply. Tlie preparation of a sinapism. On the preceding day, dried figs are to be macerated in tepid water, and next day they are to be properly filtrated and strongly pounded. Then some iicrid mustard, such as the Syriac and Egyptian, is to be tritu- rated separately, pouring on it a little of the infusion, and 'nixing and forming into a mass; if we wish to form a strong anapism, joining two parts of mustard to one of dried figs, but I f weak, in the inverse proportion; and if a moderate one, ; nixing equal parts. If the mustard before it is triturated, be allowed to macerate in vinegar, as some do, it becomes weaker. After the mustard has been cleared away, and the bath used, if the pain continue violent, or if redness and blisters super- \enc, we are to wet a cloth in the juice of mallows, or of fenu- :^reek, with oil of roses, and apply. Then we may use the rose cerate with ceruse. But in cases of paralysis, when the sensi- bility is impaired, care must be taken, and the part frequently uncovered and examined, for often they are burnt immoderately