PESSARIES. SECT. XXIV.] 601 SECT. XXIII. THE PREPARATION OF MASUCHA, WHICH SOME CALL MASUAPHIUM. Of melilots, oz. x; of the wood of balsamum^ of rose-wood, of savin, of myrrh, of amomum, of the schoenanth, of bay- leaves, of the fat of myrrh {stacte), of storax, of calamus aroma- ticiis, of sampsuchum, of each, oz. ij; of iris, oz. v; of Indian leaf, of saffron, of each, oz. j ; of opobalsam, oz. ss; of gum, lb. j ; of dried roses, oz. vj; of wine, q. s. Commentary. See Aetius (xiii, 118); Myrepsus xxi, 14); Comm. Actuarius (Meth. Med. v. 8.) The following is Myrepsus's formula for the suffimentum called Masucha : Of yellow aloes, of bay-leaves, of costus, of amomum, of cardamom, of cassia, of carpobalsam, of ladanum, of each, lb. iss; of myrrh, of iris, of melilot, of Indian leaf, of roses, of the leaves of olive, of Celtic nard, of each, lb. ss oz. iij ; of saffron, oz. iij ; of galbanum, oz. ss ; of gum, lb. iss; of fragrant wine, q. s. SECT. XXIV. ON PESSARIES, FROM THE WORKS OF ANTYLLUS. Pessaries are applied to the womb. There are three different kinds of them; for some are emollient, some astringent, and some are anastomative, i. e. they open the mouths of vessels. We use the emollient in inflammations of the womb, in ulce- ration and coldness of it, in ascension upwards, eversion and inflation thereof. They are prepared from Tuscan wax, the oil of privet and of lilies, the fat of geese and of fowls, un- salted butter, burnt rosin, stages marrow, fenugreek, and the like. The anastomative, or those which open the mouths of vessels, are used when we wish to recall the menstrual purga- tion that has been stopped, or to correct the state of the womb when it is shut up or contracted. These are prepared from honey, mugwort, dittany, the juice of cabbage, liquorice, the juice of horehound, rue, scammony, or the like. The astrin- gent are used in cases the reverse of those for which the anastomative are applied; for they restrain the female dis- charge, contract the womb when it is open, and impel it