SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 475 and other pui-poses. He remarks, that Ebn Sina (Avicenna) says, that silk as an article of clothing prevents the formation of lice. Raw silk has been used as a medicine in modern times. Moses Charras, in his ' Royal Pharmacopoeia/ writes thus of it: " Many writers have attributed great virtue to raw silk. But although the use thereof had been at all times unknown in physic, my judgment is that it is too fragrant, that it has too much beauty, that it affords too many conveniences to human hfe, that there are too many wonders in the first original, pro- gress, labour, and metamorphosis of the worm which produces it, to be despised." He adds, " that is called raw silk which was never boiled, but is still as it were in the grain, out of which the worm has been but newly taken." He says further of the com- position, whereof raw silk is an ingredient, namely, Confectio alke)"mes regia, " This confection is, without question, one of the best cordials that ever Galenic physic invented. For it repairs and recreates the vital and animal spirits, it ceases palpitations of the heart and swooning-fits; it fortifies the brain, &c." (R. P. 149.) A still more recent authority on pharmacy, says of raw silk, Seriam, that it is ^'cordial, restora- tive, one drachm in powder." Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 215.) Hyacinthus. This is one of the precious stones which often occurs as an ingredient in the Arabian formulae for antidotes. Ebn Baithar remarks, that it is not described by Dioscorides nor Galen. He mentions three kinds, a yellow, a red, and a black, of wliich the red is the noblest. Its powers, he says, are increased by fire. It was used as an amulet, and was held to be cordial and alexipharmic; and, in fact, Ebn Baithar says it is possessed of many virtwes. From his mentioning of it, that, when rubbed, it attracts straw, there seems every reason to suppose that it was tom-maline. Some have taken the hyacinth of the Greeks and Romans for the same, but Heeren rather supposes it to be the ruby. It is brielly noticed as a cordial by A^dcenna, Mesne, and Serapion. The last of these gives nearly the same account of it as Ebn Baithar; that is to say, both had copied from the same authorities. He particularly mentions it as being an excellent phylactery to guard the body during thunder-storms. (De Simp]. 398.) The Confectio de Hyacintho has been very