380 SIMPLES. [BOOK vn. Comm. bclly, and that it is used as an alcxipharmic. (iv, 133.) Galen ' " ' and the other Greek authorities call it acrid to the taste and hot in the third degree. For the reason already stated we shall not enter upon an exposition of the views of the Arabians in this place. Pili, Hairs, when burnt have similar powers to burnt wool. Comm. COMMENTARY. Our author foUows Galen. The Arabians """^^ ' recommend burnt hairs as an appHcation to foul ulcers, and the bite of a mad dog. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 191), and Haly Abbas (Pract. ii^ 53, 552.) Tpuywi/ daXaaali], Pastinaca marina; its sting when pressed upon a weak tooth breaks it, and makes it fall out. Comm. COMMENTARY. We have treated of the Pastinaca marina ' ' ' in Book V. Scarifications of the gums with the sting of this fish in cases of dilScult dentition are recommended by Mar- cellus Sideta and Pliny (H. N. xxxii, 26.) Tpi)^ Oll'OU, Fsex Vini, the Lees of Wine, when unburnt is compounded, being decidedly desiccative and discutient. But astringency is superadded according to the species of wine from which it is formed. It is, therefore, to be used in complaints of a humid nature and fluxes. It discusses phygethla, and extin- guishes the milk in over-distended breasts. The burnt lees become caustic, so as often to be mixed with caustic appH- cations. It, therefore, removes leprous nails with rosin, and dyes the hair yellow, when rubbed for a whole night with oil of lentisk. When washed it is used as an ingredient in the detergent remedies of the eyes; that of vinegar is stronger in every respect than the lees of wine, and more astringent. Comm. COMMENTARY. The Ices of winc and of vinegar are strong " • ' preparations of potass, and were among the most powerful caustics with which the ancients were acquainted. Hence Celsus ranks " fsex combusta" among the " adurentia." (v, 8.) Dioscorides is the ancient author who gives the fullest descrip- tion of this article. He says the best is that procured from'