ANTIDOTES. 513 <V.GT. XI.] tian, lb. iss; of rouucl birthwort, lb. iss ; of the hair of the small centaiuy, lb. ij; of cardamom, of horehound, of each, oz. \ j; of water germander, of parsley, of Cretan germander, of each, lb. j; of the seed of garden rue, sext. ij: unite these with a sufficient quantity of Attic honey, and throwing the half of them into a new pot, and then the four vipers alive, add to them fresh tender squills, cut into small pieces, and then join to them the remaining half of the mixture formerly mentioned. Then having covered up the pot carefully, make tliree or four perforations in its lid to allow the vapour to escape, that it may indicate to you the progress of the operation of roasting. \t first much smoke will be seen issuing, fuliginous and very turbid, indicating that the fire is acting upon the animals. You must then take care lest you inhale any of this smoke, which is ifected with the exhalation from the vipers. When this apour has ceased, you may see a fine flame issuing through he holeSj by which you may know that they are properly jasted. Then having removed the pot from the fire, and illowed it to cool for a whole day and night, take out the ashes, iound them carefuUy, and sift them along with these mixtures : )f the seed of wild rue, of Cretan hyssop, of each, oz. ix; of the eed of fennel, of Celtic nard, of Scythian base horehound, of ach, oz. vj ; of Macedonian stone-parsley, of Indian leaf, of ach, oz. iv; of amomum, of grapes, of the seed of horminum oasted, of each, oz, iij ; of the shoots of marjoram, of the shoots )f thyme, of each, oz. ij ; of juniper berries, of white and of ong pepper, of each, lb. j ; of the root of laserwort, oz. x; of •oriander seed, of ginger not perforated, of the seed or root of atyrium, of pennyroyal, of the seseli of Marseilles, of mint, of ach, oz. vj ; of cassia fistula, oz. ij ; of cinnamon, oz. j. I, how- ver, have made the preparation, so that I did not burn the iiimals, but mixed the trochisks from them, as related under he theriac, with those things which are burnt along with the ipers, that the bitterness which they have in them may belaid side during the burning. I added just such a proportion of he trochisks as I conjectured to agree with the contents of lie four vipers. And truly in this way they turned out xcellent. The Mithridutic antidote from scinks. Of troglodytic lyrrh, of ginger, of cinnamon, of each, dr. x ; of spikenard, of HI. 33