SIMPLES. ^ECT. III.] 267 ;)o\vers so as to agglutinate large wounds^ even to the division uf tendons. It is also somewhat detergent and epispastic. Commentary. There seems no reason to doubt that it is Comm. the Na7'cissus poeticus. Dioscorides says of it, that its root, ' ' ' w hen boiled and eaten or drunk, proves emetic; that triturated \\ ith honey it is a good application to burns; that in a cata- plasm it agglutinates nerves that have been cut asunder; that it reheves sprains and chronic pains about the joints, in a ntaplasm with honey; that it clears ephelis and alphos, u ith nettle-seed and vinegar; that it cleanses foul ulcers, and Ijreaks apostemes which are difficult to ripen; and that in a L-ataplasm, with the flour of darnel and honey, it extracts thorns, (iv, 158.) Galen and the other Greek authorities ve its virtues in brief terms, like our author. The Arabians, s they are wont, copy freely from Dioscorides and Galen. See AAacenna (ii, 2, 503); Serapion (c. 188) ; Rhases (Cont. I. ult. i, 489) J Ebn Baithai' (ii, 552.) Rhases and Avicenna iscribe to it strong powers as an uterine medicine, stating of t that it produces delivery of the foetus either dead or alive; hat it promotes the dilatation of the mouth of the womb, and eheves pains of it. The narcissus occurs in the lists of uedicines used both by Hippocrates and by Celsus. Our old lerbaUsts, Gerard and Parkinson, repeat the characters of the larcissus given by the ancient authorities; but it has long ;eased to have a place in our Dispensatory. Neuras (called also Poterium), is desiccative without pun- gency, so as even to agglutinate divided tendons. The roots lave the same effects both when applied externally and Avhen irunk. Commentary. There are few articles in the Materia Comm. vTcdica of the ancients which it is more difficult to determine. "—*— ■^prengel conjectures that it was the Astragalus Poterium. )ioscorides says its roots exude tears like gum, and that they re highly beneficial in wounds of the nerves, (iii, 18.) Galen, iid all the other Greek authorities that treat of it, give exactly he same account of it as Dioscorides. We have not been able o find it in the works of the Arabians. Our old English crbalists give a figure and description of it, as being a species