573 PLASTERS. SECT. XVI].] squama, is to be when its colour predominates. With regard to the sori, there is no i^articular measure, except the common one, to make the pLaster of such a consistence that it does not stain. The chalcitis is boiled like copper, and the measure of it is the degree to which it renders the plaster of a deeper yellow and more ruddy colour. The flower of copper is like popper, and is regulated by the common measure of boiling. Copperas (blue vitriol ?) is added in the middle of the boihng, and when boiled it gives a stronger shade to the colour of the plaster; and if not prevented by other circumstances, it renders t he plaster black; misy is added in the end, but there is no particular measure with regard to it; arsenic and sandarach are added at the end of the boiling; burnt lead is put in at the middle of the boiling ; ceruse is put into white plasters at the end, for thus it preserves their colour and whitens them still more, but it is added to the black at the commencement, for by being more boiled it becomes blacker; verdigris is added to the green plasters after the boiling ; and, in some cases, it is not put into the pot at all, but being triturated with vinegar, and remaining in the mortar, the other things are mixed with it: to those of an apple colour (pale red ?) it is added when the pre- paration is half boiled; for when it undergoes moderate boiling, it puts on the apple colour; but in those which are to have a double appearance, and double colour, we must boil the verdi- gris immediately after the commencement j when the boiling is persevered in, it first puts on the apple colour, then the double appearance, and at last its colour becomes yellow; alum is added for the most part after the boiling, but there is no measure of its l)oiling; vermilion is added at the end; calamine and pompholyx ire added at the commencement; salts and natron are added at the middle of the boiling; sulphur at the end, the boiling of it blackens the plasters. All earths and stones are added at the f-nd for the most part: pumice-stone, too, at the end. Burnt shells are added at the end. Oil, if added at the commence- ment to rosin and liquid pitch, prevents the plaster from acquiring consistence. The oil, therefore, is to be added after it has acquired consistence. Other fatty substances which do not contain salt, are to be added at the middle of the boiling. Of ointments, the Irinum bears boiUng, the Cyprinum and llosaceum less; the others, none at all. The ingredients are,