381 SIMPLES. SECT. III.] (old Italian wine, or, failing it, from any similar wine ; and that Comm. Ithe fsex aceti is possessed of intense powers. Some, lie says,' * ' Iburn it upon fresh shells, and some upon heated coals. He J says it is possessed of strongly caustic, detergent, escharotic, sstyptic, A'ery septic and desiccative powers. The faex, must Ibe used when recent, for it soon evaporates, and hence it imust not be left uncovered, nor without its vessel. It is washed like pompholyx. The unburnt, he adds, discusses t tumours by itself, and with myrtle; when applied as a cataplasm lit represses defiuxions of the belly and stomach; and when applied iin like manner to the lower part of the abdomen and genitals, I lit mitigates the female fluor; it dissipates hard tumours which ■tare not i;lcerated; when rubbed in with vinegar, it represses ■swelled breasts ; the burnt with rosin, removes leprous nails; Brubbed in with oil of privet for a whole night, it makes the ■ihairs yellow; when washed, it is applicable in diseases of the ■ieyes, like spodos, and thus clears away cicatrices and clouds ■on the eye, (v, 131.) Pliny recommends it likewise as an ^mpphcation to various cutaneous diseases, and complaints of Hbe eyes. He commends it as an antidote to mushrooms. ^Tnc lees of vinegar, he says, are more escharotic. Its strength, le says, is increased by being burnt. When applied on a ent it cleans the genital organ of females. (H. N. xxiii, 32.) >ee in like manner Plinius Valer. (iii, 51.) Avicenna directs is to keep the lees in a close vessel, and not expose them to he air. He says that the fsex aceti is a medicine of great -owers, and stronger than any of the others. In short, his ccount of the lees of wine and vinegar is almost entirely lorrowed from Dioscorides (ii, 2, 241.) Rhases, in like manner, opies from Dioscorides and our author. (Cont. 1. ult. i, 296.) lee Serapion (De Simpl. 36) ; Ebn Baithar (i, 419.) TpwyXoSurrjc, Troglodyta, is a Sparrow, the smallest of all birds, with the xception of the one called regulus; and living principally in edges. This animal when pickled, and eaten either roasted r raw, breaks down stones in the kidneys; and its ashes when umt, if taken in a draught, do the same thing. Commentary. We have mentioned in Book III, that Comm. lis small species of sparrow was supposed to possess great """^^—' 1