[book VII. SIMPLES. 314 Comm. from Dioscorides. See in particular A^dcenna (ii, 2, 547) ; ' ' ' Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 553); Avcrrhoes (Collig. v, 42.) They all in particular recommend it as a sialogogue in cases of toothache. We need scarcely remark that the pellitory (now called Anacyclos Pyrethrum) still holds its place in the Dispen- satory as a sialogogue and masticatory. We see no good reason^ therefore, for questioning its identity with the pyrethrum of the ancients, more especially as it still retains a place in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia. Triticum, Wheat, is heating in the first degree, but is inter- mediate between dry and humid substances. It is also some- what glutinous and emplastic. Comm. COMMENTARY. Without doubt it is the Triticum aestivtim. ' " ' We have treated largely of it among the dietetical articles in the First Book, and have also treated of the farina, leaven, and pollen of wheat separately. We need not, then, enlarge further upon this article at present. Coagulum, Rennet; all sorts of it are possessed of acrid, attenuating, discutient, and decidedly desiccant powers. But that of hares is represented as curing epilepsy if drunk with vinegar, and as curing the female discharge, and pronng a solvent of coagulated milk in the bowels, and of blood in hke manner. Some say that it restrains spitting of blood from the chest. The rennet of a horse is described as proving service- able in cseliac and dysenteric afi^ections. That of the seal is said to have the properties of castor. Comm. COMMENTARY. Our author's account of the medicinal pro- ' ' perties of Rennet is taken from Dioscorides and Galen. Indeed he has copied from the latter almost word for word. The Arabians treat of the rennets very fully and with much judg- ment. See in particular Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 231); AA-icenna (ii, 2, 115); Serapion (De Simpl. 444) ; Ebn Baithar (ii, C04.) They follow Dioscorides very closely, among other things re- commending rennet to be applied on a pessary for promoting the menstrual discharge, and for the hysterical convulsion. AU rennets, they say, are alexipharmic, and especially those of YliTva