[book vir. SIMPLES. 416 Comm. Theophrastus has described as " being found in great quantity ' ' in gold mines and the parts around them." (De Lapid. 47.) Now we may here say at once that every person conversant with mineralogy, must recognise the chrysocolla, described above, as being the mineral called "common copper-green" by Jameson, being an impure carbonate of copper. For a clear description of it, see Cleaveland (Mineralogy, p. 570.) This, it will be remarked, is the only substance to which Dioscorides applies the name of Chrysocolla; but in a pre- ceding chapter, treating of the varieties of verdigris, he says, " There is a certain kind of verdigris made by the goldsmiths, by means of a mortar and pestle, of Cyprian copper and the urine of a young person, with ivhich they solder gold." (v, 92.) Now to this variety of the verdigris, as we shall soon see, the name Chrysocolla (from its being used in soldering gold) was also applied by the writers subsequent to Dioscorides. Thus Pliny (H. N. xxxiii^ 26, 27, 28) first gives a very elaborate de- scription of the true chrysocolla; and then in the following chapter he briefly notices the other kind, which he says was also called " santerna," and was prepared from Cyprian verdi- gris, the urine of a boy, with the addition of nitrum (soda?) pounded in a Cyprian mortar with Cyprian copper or bronze. This, he adds, forms a solder to gold. This, however, he does not say was ever used in medicine. The former kind or true chrysocolla of Dioscorides, he says was used in medicine for cleansing wounds along with wax and oil, and also in a dry powder; that it was given in a linctus with honey for orthopnoea and angina; that it was used as an emetic; was added as an ingredient to coUyria for specks on the eyes, and to green plasters for relieving pain and contracting cicatrices. This chrysocolla, he says, in conclusion, the physicians call acesis (a term, by the way, synonymous with medicinal), and was different from the orobitis which he had previously de- scribed as being artificially tinged with a herb called by him "lutum," meaning thereby, we suppose, woad, or the Isalis tinctoria. (1. c.) Galen describes the two kinds together, and treats of their medicinal powers as follows: This medicine, chrysocolla, is one of those that consume the flesh, and is not strongly pungent; but it is moderately discutient and desic- cant. Wherefore some call only the fossil by this name, but