SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 63 being a composition of nitric acid and a vegetable alkali, but Comm. that whicb is called natron, being a native combination of' ' ' cai'bonic acid and an alkali (natron or native carbonate of soda.) And tbey called the harder and more stony lumps nitrum or litrum, and the more spongy and softer aphronitrum or aphroHtrum; and spuma nitri or litri, the superficial efflo- rescence of the nitrum and floury part, which was easily scraped off." (Ad Xenoc. et Galen, de Al. ex Aquat.)—From this account - it appears that the firmer and harder lumps of the native car- bonate of soda were called nitrum; the softer and more spongy pieces aphronitrum, and those kinds which had a bright florid appearance externally and readily crumbled down into a powder, the spuma nitri. Dioscorides gives a more lengthy account of its medicinal properties than either Galen or our author, not only recommending it externally as a stimulant and dis- cutient apphcation to various cutaneous diseases and the bites of mad dogs, but also internally as an antidote to poisonous mushrooms, buprestis, bulFs blood, &c. (v, 129.) Serapionhas a very interesting chapter on nitrum and aphronitrum, but it is in a great measure made up from Dioscorides and Galen (c. 411.) For a further account of the ancient nitrum, see under Litnim in this section. "We may just mention in this place that the aphronitrum would appear to have been merely Afruvi nitrum, that is to say, a variety of the nitrum or natron found in Africa. 'A^^pcic, Pyrum silvestre, the Wild Pear; its properties are like those of the common pear, but more intense. It therefore agglu- tinates large wounds. Commentary. Dioscorides mentions that it is a species of Comm. wild pear. He recommends it as an antidote to mushrooms. ' ^ ' (i, 168.) Serapion and Mesne give it the same character. Absinthium, Wormwood; it is heating in the first degree, 'but drying in the third, being possessed at the same time of astringent, bitter, and acrid qualities. It therefore evacuates bilious humours in the stomach by the bowels and by urine, ut in collections of phlegm it is of no service, owing to its