SIMPLES. [book VII. 74 ]iovy\w(T<Tov, Buglossum, Bugloss, is humid and hot in its temperament. Hence when added to wines it is said to produce hilaritJ^ Comm. CoMaiENTAUY. The Borage, or Anchusa Buglossum, long held " ' ' a place in the Materia Medica. From Dioscorides down to Boerhaave, it had the reputation of being a good cordial. See Dioscorides (iv, 126); Avicenna (ii, 2, 375.) We beheve it is not met with in the works either of Hippocrates or Celsus. BoUl'ElOl', Bunium (or Arctium), Rape; it is hot, diuretic, and emme- nagogue; and the Pseudobunium in like manner. Comm. COMMENTARY. We treated of this article, which, notwith- " " ' standing the disagreement of the commentators and herbalists, we are willing to believe to be the Bunium Bulbocastanum, or Earth-nut, as a culinary herb in the First Book. The pseudo- bunium may be the Pimpinella tenuis. Dioscorides represents it to be diuretic, calefacient, possessing powers to promote the loclual discharge, and useful in affections of the spleen, kid- neys, and bladder (iv, 123.) Galen and the other authorities give the same account of it as our author. It long held a place in oui' modern Dispensatories. BoUTTpJJdTig, Buprestis, Burncow, is an insect resembling the Cantharis, and may therefore be prepared like it. Comm. COMMENTARY, Whatever doubts others may have enter- ' ' tained respecting the Buprestis of the ancients, we are well satisfied that it was the Meloe vesicatoria. We have treated fully of it as a poison in the Fifth Book § 31. Occasional mention of it is made in the Hipprocratic treatises. (De Mulieb. i, et alibi.) Botirwpoj', Butyrum, Butter, is possessed of digestive and moderately discutieut properties when applied to soft bodies; it is there- fore of use for buboes and parotis; it attenuates the gums, more especially of children during the time of dentition, and in a linctus it concocts humours lodged in tlie chest. Comm. COMMENTARY. Tliough it Certainly be true, as stated by ' '—' Bcckmann (History of Inventions), that the Greeks and llomans