SIMPLES. 165 SECT. III.] I Arabians treat fully of it. See Aviceuna (ii, 3, 160, 668.) Comm. He and the other Arabians borrow nearly all their information from the Greeks. Even Ebn Baithar contains little that is original under this head, (ii, 94.) We observe, by the way, that his translator, Dr. Sontheimer, marks it as the Pinus Cedrus, but this it clearly cannot be. Centaurium, Centatcry; the root of the great centaury is acrid and heating, Avith a terrene astringency. It therefore promotes menstruation, kills and expels the fcEtus, agglutinates wounds, relieves haemoptysis, and other affections of the chest. The root of the small centaury is possessed of no powers, but the branches are strongly desiccative, and without pungency. Hence they are apphcable in those cases in which the great centaury was mentioned as being useful; and in ischiatic complaints the decoction of it given in an injection evacuates bile and sometimes blood, which affords great relief. Commentary. The Centaurea Centaurium, L., and the Comm. Erythrcea Centaurium, Pers., would appear to be the greater " ' and less centaury of the ancients. See Parkinson, Sprengel, and the other commentators on Dioscorides. Pliny describes t three sorts, but would seem to have fallen into a mistake as t to the meaning of a passage in Theophrastus. See Harduin ad Plinii H. N. xxv, 32, and Parkinson (Theatre of Plants, 273.) Dioscorides recommends the greater centaury in the isame cases as our author, who abridges him and Galen under Ithis head. He says very particularly of it, that it produces menstruation, and expels the fcetus when applied in the form f a collyrium (tent) to the vagina, (iii, 6.) The Arabians ^ive it the same characters as their Grecian masters. See Vvicenna (ii, 2, 158), Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 176), and Sera- (ion (c. 202.) Serapion and Mesne likewise recommend the sser centauiy in sciatica, either in a potion to the amount )f two drachms, or in a clyster to the amount of three junces, with oil of sesame. Galen, has a whole book on lie virtues of the lesser centaury, in which there is a pre- cription for an extract of it. The ancients had great faith 11 it for the cure of hydrophobia. According to Galen,