592 [book VII. OINTMENTS. they insolate it for ten days, clianging them three times after every three days like the lilies. And in laying them up, they add a few completely dried. The melinum, or oil of apples. This is prepared from Cydo- nian apples or quinces, which are to be rubbed externally -witli a piece of cloth and cut into pieces with their bark; and then lb. iij of them are to be added to x Italian sext. of oil of unripe olives, and insolated for forty days. TTie sesaminwn, or oil of oily-grain. The oil of sesame is prepared from oily grains bruised, softened, and squeezed in strainers with screws, or from the oily part separated in hot water and laid up in vessels of glass. The raphaninum, or oil of radishes. And this is prepared after the same manner in Egypt from the seed of the radishes with small roots, pounded, and the oil separated. The ricinum, oil of Palma Christi, or castor-oil. This also is prepared after the same manner in Egypt from the seed of the ricinuSj which is called croton, similarly pounded or le\i- gated. The agirinum, or oil of the black poplar. It is found in the season of spring when there is much rosin in the seed. For breaking down the grains of black poplar, they add oz. iv of them to sext. j of sweet oil and insolate for forty days, or boil in a double vessel for three hours, and thus filtrate and lay up. The amygdalinum, or oil of almonds. This is prepared Hke the aforementioned, pure bitter almonds being bruised, a httle water poured in, and the oil separated as described above. Some add oz. ij of pounded almonds to an Italian sextarius of sweet oil, and boil in a double vessel. The oil of almonds, which is called metopium. The Egyp- tians, who invented this oil, called it metopium, because it contains galbanum, and the shrub from which the galbanum is got is called metopium. It admits the following things: of the oil of unripe olives, sext. xx; of bitter almonds, lb. ij; of cardamom, lb. j; of the schoenanth, of calamus aromaticus, of carpobalsam, of each, lb. j ; of myrrh, of galbanum, of each, oz. vj ; of turpentine, lb. ij ; of fragrant wine to soak the dry articles, sext. iv; of Attic honey, lb. iij. The rosin and galba- num being triturated and dissolved in part of the oil, we put them into the other things boiled, and then add the honey.