[book VII. SIMPLES. 154 Comm. fraxinus, sambuchus, and ligustrum, it is evidently different ' * ' from tlie ancient cantharis, and j^et their effects upon the human frame would appear to have been veiy much alike. It appears to be now agreed upon by all competent judges that the medicinal cantharis of the ancients is the Mylabris Cichorii or M. Fusselini, which is still used for forming blister- ing plasters by the profession in Constantinople and by the native practitioners in Hindostan. See Ainslie (Mat. Ind., i, 622), Royle (Antiq. of Hindoo Med.), and Pereira (1834.) The Buprestis, however, which also is included by Dioscorides in his Materia Medica, can have been no other than the Meloe , vesicatorius. See Book V of this work. It is the teUini fiy of the Hindoos. See Ainslie (Mat. Ind. ii, 417.) The ancients prepared the cantharides for medicinal use in the same manner as the Spanish fly is now prepared, namely, by killing them with the fumes of vinegar. Dioscorides says can- tharides are septic, ulcerative, and calefacient, and hence are mixed up with the medicines that cure cancerous diseases, leprosy, and lichen agrius; they are also emmeuagogue when applied in a pessary; and some, he adds, relate that cantha- rides are beneficial in dropsies, by acting as diui'etics. Their wings and feet are further said to be antidotal, that is to say, Ave suppose, to counteract the operation of the body of the insect, (ii, 65, 66.) Galen treats of the cantharis and buprestis in very nearly the same terms as Dioscorides. Instead of using only the wings and feet, as mentioned by Dioscorides, he says that he used the whole insect. (De Simpl. xi.) In moderate doses he held it to be a safe diuretic, (ii, 463, ed. Basil.) Aetius and Oribasius give nearly the same account of the cantharis as Galen. Cantharides are frequently men- tioned in the Hippocratic treatises (De Nat. Mulier. 565, ed. Foes; De Intern. Affect. 552), and in the works of Cekus. (199, ed. Milligan.) Aretseus is the first author, as far as wc know, who notices the external use of cantharides as a rube- facient. (De Curat. Morb. Chron. i, 4.) The Arabians, in treating of cantharides, borrow nearly all the information they give from Dioscorides and Galen. See Serapion (c. I ll)) Avicenna (ii, 2, 201), Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 162.) Rhases on his own authority, afErms, that administered in smiJl doses cantharides cleanse the kidneys. We are rather surprised to