APPENDIX TO 440 [book vii. than pranes, and contain less juice : that they stop excessive vomiting, and thirst in fevers, and brace the stomach when it is relaxed. They are beneficial, he adds, in syncoptic fevers, and other disorders in which it is necessary to open the bowels gently, (ii, 3, 691.) Mesne describes Tamarinds as being acidulous dates, or the fruit of wild palms growing in India. He gives a very minute description of them, which we need not copy. As to temperament he says, they are cold and dry in the second degree; and in order to coiTect their bad effects in cold affections of the stomach, he directs them to be mixed with mace, spikenard, mastich, fennel, parsley, endive, &c. He further directs their action to be increased by giving them in the whey of goats, the infusion of fumitory or of hops. He gives very minute directions for preparing Tamarind whey, both simple and compound. As to its virtues, he says, it brings away bile, represses the ebullition of it, and the heat of the blood, is beneficial in inflammation of the liver and stomach, quenches thirst, removes all heat connected with it, is useful in jaundice, stops vomiting, and is a good medicine in acute fevers which require to be repressed. Being of a weak nature. Tamarinds, he says, require to be given to the amount of from two to five ounces. (De Simpl.) Ebn Baithar's description of Tamarinds is full and accurate, but does not contain anything of importance in addition to the information which we have extracted from the other avithorities who preceded him. (See Vol. I, 312.) Myrobalani. "We have stated under the head of Balanus, that the Greek authorities before the Arabian period were entirely unacquainted with the stone fruits which now bear the name of Myrobalans. As these substances are now scarcely known in this country, we shall find it convenient again, in the present instance, to give, in the first place, a brief account of them from modern authori- ties. They are well described by Geoffroy, Alston, the Com- mentators on Mesne, and many other writers on the Mat. Med. They held a place in the British Dispensatory as late as the time of Quinc\^, and are described by Boerhaave in his Mat. Med. They have not lately been used in the practice of medi- cine either in Europe, or by our English physicians in the East Indies, as far as we have been able to learn. Five species Jire