385 SIMPLES. SECT. III.] ofteu heard of powdered glass having been used by emxnrics, Comm. and certainly in some cases with good effect, to remove opaci- ' ' ties of the cornea. See also Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 260.) Tuber Terrte, Tmffle, is composed of a very terrene sub- stance, with a slight degree of attenuating power. Commentary. We have treated of Truffles in the 77th Comm. section of Book I. It is the Tuber Cibarium L. Hydrargyrum, Mercury, is scarcely used for medical pur- poses, being deleterious. But some having burnt it, so as to reduce it to ashes, and mixed it with other articles, have given it to drink in cases of colic and ileus. Commentary. We have given some account of the ancient Comm. opinions on this subject in Book V. TVom the statement of our author it will be perceived that the Greek physicians made little use of this important article in the practice of medicine. Rhases, Avicenna, Haly Abbas, and Serapion recommend it as an application for scabies, lice, and malignant ulcers. Avicenna says the vapour of it induces paralysis, tremblings, spasms, and contractions of the hmbs. He adds that the vapour of it is destructive of sight, and brings on fetor of the breath (ii, 2, 46.) Serapion gives exactly the same account of it. (De Simpl. 385.) See also Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 75); Haly Abbas (Pract. ii, 48, 501); Ebn Baithar (i, 553.) Galen admits that he had no experience of it as proving destructive, either in- ternally or externally. (De Simpl. ix.) It is remarked by Dutens that Dioscorides's description of the method of prepar- ing mercuiy from cinnabar is the first account of the process of distillation which we possess, (v, 70.) Pliny copies the same, (H. N. xxxiii, 8.) 'YSpOTTETTEpt, Hydropiper, Water-pepper, is a hot herb, but not so much so as pepper. When applied green along with its fruit it dis- cusses hypopia and scirrhous tumours. Com mentary. It is the Polygonum Hydropiper, known by Comm. Ithe vvdgar name of Arse-smart. The other authorities recom- HI. 25