[book VIl. SIMPLES. 148 Comm. Aetius copies from Galen almost -word for word. The Ara- " " bians treat fully of it; but in the same terms as their Grecian masters. See Khases (Cont. 1. ult. 2, 250); Avicenna (ii, 2, 319, 677) ; Serapiou (De Simpl. 136); Ebn Baithar (i, 122.) In the modem Greek Pharmacopoeia both the Saliar fragilis and alba stand for the ancient 'iria. ly^OvoKoXXa, IchthyocoUa, Fish-glue; its powers are emplastic and desic- cant. It answers well for the composition of cephalic and ag- glutinative plasters, and of those which are prepared for leprosy; also for removing wrinkles from the face. Comm. COMMENTARY. That described by Dioscorides and our ' • ' author was got from the Acipenser Huso. The large fish de- scribed by Herodotus, and Eustathius, in his commentary on the work of Dionysius the geographer, under the name of Antacseus, was, most probably, nearly the same as the Huso. See the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia (83.) Ai-tedi makes the Huso, Ichthyocolla and Antacceus to be varieties of the species of Acipenser, which he calls Acipenser tuberculis carens. It would appear to be the o^vpw'y^og of jElian. (H. A. xvii, 32.) He makes mention of its gluten or isinglass. Our author's ac- count of its medicinal virtues is mostly copied from Dioscorides. The others supply no additional information. The Arabians treat of it under the general head of gluten, aud recommend it in the same cases as the Greeks, quoting Dioscorides, Galen, and Paulus. Serapion and Ehases recommend it in haemoptysis. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 202); Serapion (c. 138) ; Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 336.) Cacanus j its root is moderately desiccative and not pun- gent, also emplastic, and hence it relieves roughness of the windpipe in a linctus with wine, and when chewed like traga- canth and liquorice. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is not mentioned by Dioscorides, Pliny, Theophrastus, Aetius, or any other ancient author but Galen and Paulus; nor has any one of the commentators noticed it. We are unable, therefore, to determine anything for certain