501 SECT. VIII.] ANTIDOTES. dr. xvj ; of eupliorbiunij of the medullary part of colocynth, of aloes, of saflFron, of gentian, of stone-parsley, of ammoniac perfume, of sagapen, of each dr. viij ; of opoponax, of poley, of cinnamon, of myrrh, of spikenard, of the flower of the rush, of pennyroyal, of each dr. iv; of long find of round birthwort, of each dr. ij; of honey, q. s. The dose is two, three, or four scr., with honeyed water and salts. Tfie hiei-a of Galen. Of germander, of long pepper, of white pepper, of cassidony, of black hellebore, of scamraony, of spikenard, of baked squills (and some of dodder of thyme), of each dr. x^j ; of myrrh, of saffron, of ammoniac perfume, of euphorbium, of each dr. viij. Mix with honey. The hiera of Ruffus. Of sicyonia, or the medullary part of colocynth, dr. viij; of germander, dr. x; of sagapen, dr. viij; of stone-parsley, dr. v; of round birthwort, dr. v; of white pepper, dr. V; of cinnamon, dr. iv; or of cassia, dr. viij ; of base hore- hound, of saffron, of poley, of myrrh, of each dr. iv; of honey, q. s. Tlie hiera of Archigenes. Of horehound, of agaric, of germander, of the medullary part of colocynth, of cassidony, of each dr. x; of opoponax, of sagapen, of stone-parsley, of round birthwort, of white pepper, of each dr. v; of cinnamon, of spikenard, of myrrh, of the cassia leaf (malabathrum), of saffron, of each dr. iv; pound the dry things together, and strain. The opoponax, sagapen, and myrrh, being bruised, are to be put into a mortar to macerate with honeyed water for one night; then triturate and add the dry things; then mixing them with the finest honey lay them up in a glass or leaden vessel. This is the common method with all the hierse. The full dose of them is dr. iv. Add to it also of salts, di*. j ; of honey, two cyathi; of water, q. s. If we wish to make those compositions of this class which have not scammony more purgative, we must add to each of them an obolus of it. Commentary. The hierse, for the most part, consist of Comm. drastic purgatives, combined with aromatics. There is a great '—•—' variety of these compositions described in the works of the ancient writers on pharmacy. Galen makes mention of an aloetic hiera, which was much used by the celebrated Archi- genes. The following is his prescription for it : " R. Aloes, dr. c;