SIMPLES. 169 ;ecT. III.] fVe need scarcely say that the excrescence is now well ascer- Comm. liiined to be the production of a hymenopterous insect on the ' ' ' ^uet-cus infectoria. Dioscorides treats largely of the cases in Ihich galls are applicable^ concluding with the renaark that neir use is indicated whenever it is wished to astringe, re- raiuj or dry. (ii, 146.) Our author's description of their i cdicinal properties is mostly taken from Galen. Nearly the i.me may be said of Aetius and Oribasius. The Arabians^ in eeating of them, borrow all the information which they give om the Greeks. See in particular Avicenna (ii, 2, 308), ihases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 234), Serapion (c. 98.) KrjTTEO, Cepea, resembles the Purslain. The leaves of it in an in- sion relieve scabious bladder when drunk; and the root of when taken in a draught with rock asparagus, relieves ..•angury from obstruction. I CojMmentaky. Little is known for certain of this herb; but Comm. !3 most probable conjecture that has been made regarding it ""^"^ ' • that it is the Sedum Gepcea, L. Our author's account of it taken literally from Dioscorides. Galen does not treat of it, ■ r have we been able to trace it out in the Materia Medica • the Arabians. Our old herbalists treat of it very hesitat- i;ly under the head of brooklime. See Gerard and Parkinson. Cera, Wax, being of a moderate temperament, forms the iiis of many other medicines. By itself it is slightly deter- ' it, and has some discutient and calefacient powers. "oMJiENTAKY. This article is so well known that it requires Comm. illustration. Dioscorides describes very circumstantially ' '' ' process for bleaching wax and making it white. It was with salt water and natron in a manner quite different II the process now pursued for this purpose, (ii, 105.) The bians treat fully of it, but without making any addition of li importance. See in particular Serapion (c. 10) and cenna (ii, 2, 462.) Avicenna says that wax, when applied he wound inflicted by a poisoned arrow, prevents it from \<s, foUoAVcd by any bad effects. He recommends it as an ctoraiit in diseases of the chest, both in a Hniment and in