COLLYRIA. 555 sKci'. xvr.] The collyrium malabathrinum, called also isotheon. Of cala- mine, dr. xvj ; of copper, burnt and washed, dr. xiv; of opium, of Indian bucktliorn, of Indian leaf, of Indian nard, of saffron, of aloes, of each, dr. ij; of ceruse, dr. viij ; of castor, dr. ij ; of myrrh, dr. iv; of acacia, of antimony, of each, dr. xl. With water. To be used with an egg. The thicker collyrium from ivine. Of calamine, of the lapis liEematitis, and schistos, of each, dr. xl; of burnt copper, dr. xxx; of chalcitis, dr. xxxij ; of the seed of poppy, dr. xiij. Having boiled the poppies in water, and strained the juice, add and tri- turate with palm wine or Aminsean, Another from loine. Of burnt copper, of the calamine called placitis, of each oz. ix; of bloodstone, washed, oz. vj; of saf- fron, of myrrh, of aloes, of ammoniac perfume, of each, oz. iij ; of Indian buckthorn, of spikenard, of each, oz. j ; of white pepper, gr. cl; of the yellow acacia, oz. ix; of gum, oz. iij. Triturate with Falernian or Aminsean wine. The collyrium from tioo stones for asperities. Of lapis hjematitis and schistos, of cassia, of each, dr. xviij ; of copper, of calamine, of opium, of scraped verdigris, of each, dr. ix; of gam, dr. ix; of burnt chalcitis, dr. vj. Water. Xei'ocollyria. Tlie prophylactic of Galen. Of Asian stone cut into small pieces and burnt in a pot, until it become red- hot and extingmshed in butter not old, and then again burnt and extinguished in Falernian wine; and a third time burnt and extinguished in honey, and dried, lb. j ; of burnt copper, of white pepper, of Indian leaf, of each, oz. j; of antimony, oz.iss: and when all the things are levigated, and you wish to lay up the medicine, add of the juice of balsam, not thick (for this prevents the preparation from getting dry) but of the most transparent, oz. j. Apply it to the eyelids only, not allowing the pencil to touch the coats, but so that it may only reach the eyelids when opened. They are to be anointed, not once, but often before food and after it, and more especially if a sense of ophthalmy be present. It preserves in a wonderful manner, before every other medicine. The dry collyrium, from, saffron. Of sarcocolla, dr. viij ; of saffron, dr. iv; of glaucium, dr. iv. Anoint often in the day. Some also add aloes. Another dry collyrium for xerophthaliny, sycosis, moriifi-