421 SIMPLES. SECT. 111.] refrigerants. With regard to heating and moistening powers it holds an intermediate place. CoAiMENTARY. Sprengel remarks, that there can be no Comm. difficulty about it; it is the Plant ago Psijllium L. Dioscorides ' and Pliny recommend it pounded with hog's lard as an appli- cation to malignant ulcers; Phny also says that its seed is a good application to the bites of serpents. (H. N. xxvi, 66.) Dioscorides says it cures tumours, arthritic diseases, in- testinal hernia, and other complaints, with rose-oil, vinegar or water. It is, he says, a powerful refrigerant, (iv, 70.) Galen ! and the other Greek authorities give its characters succinctly i like our author. Celsus puts it in his list of agglutinative sub- I stances (v, 2.) The Arabians recommend it for the same ] purposes as the Greeks, and also for allaying the inflammation (of acute fevers. See Avicenna (ii, 3, 533) ; Serapion (De S Simpl. 230); Ebn Baithar (i, 132); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 567); IMesue (De Simpl. 20.) We have treated of it as a poison in ^Book V. ยง 40. According to Crantzits poisonous qualities have been exaggerated by Dioscorides. (Mat. Med. iii, 117.) Ac- ' cordingly we do not find it treated of by the late writers on toxicology. Although it has long ceased to occupy a place in our dispensatory, it has been celebrated in modern times for its medicinal virtues. Platearius commends it highly as a cooUng and astringent medicine, in acute fevers, dysenteries, hemorrhages, &c. (De Simpl. Med.) Prosper Alpinus mentions that the modern Egyptians make frequent use of its mucilage as a medicine, and hence he finds fault with Dioscorides and .Mesue for setting it down as a poison. (De Med. iEgypt.); and llutty (Mat. Med. 415.) Its seeds form with boiling water a rich mucilage, which it appears is still much used in India, in catarrh, gonorrhoea, and nephritic affections. Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 643.) A recent authority on pharmacy says of it that its seeds are mucilaginous and purgative. Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 44.) Psoricum, is formed by mixing two parts of chalcitis with )ne of Utharge, triturating them in vinegar, and, having put hem into a new pot, by burying them in dung for forty days. It becomes more desiccative, more subtile, and less pungent than chalcitis.