309 sixT. m.] SIMPLES. tion, they rouse in cases of uterine suffocation^ and expel the -ocundines. Commentary. The shell-fishes which supply the purple Comm. dye. It is got from vai'ious fishes^ but more especially the ' * ' Ihlix ianthina, Murex brandaris and ti'unculus. For an ac- count of them, see particularly Aristot. (Hist. Animal, 14)j aud Pliny (H. N. ix, 60.) Our author borrows from Dioscorides Uii, 4), and Galen (De Simpl. xi.) We have not been able to Jetect this ai'ticle in the works of the Arabian authorities. ITora/ioyEtTWi', Potamogiton, Pondweed, is cooling and astringent, like Poly- I. gonum, being possessed of similar powers to it. Commentary. It is the Potamogiton nutans, L. Dioscorides Comm. says of it, that it is cooling and astringent, and is applicable j| in cases of pruritus, and in spreading and inveterate ulcers, (iv, 99.) In some of the editions of his works, another species iis described and recommended in dysentery, coHc, and the red tfluor of females. It cannot be so decidedly determined. Galen J and the other authorities treat of it in general terms, like our »author. Such of the Arabians as treat of it borrow from 1 Dioscorides. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 352.) XloTeppwv, tPoterrhium, (called by some Phroenium); its roots when cut into slices agglutinate divided tendons and wounds; and the decoction of it when drunk relieves affections of the nerves. Commentary. Matthiolus confesses his ignorance of it. Comm. Sprengel is inclined to think that it is the Astragalus Poterium, '—"—' Pall, But Dr. Lindley holds it to be Astragalus Creticus. I (Veg. King. 548.) Dioscorides says it has stalks like those of utragacanth, and accordingly Linnseus holds this plant to be a i(species of tragacanth. He recommends it in exactly the same leases as our author. Galen describes it by the name of Neuras. I'We have not been able to detect it in the works of the Ara- iibians. ripao-ioi', Marinabium, Horehound, is calefacient in the second degree; I but more desiccative. It removes obstructions about the Kver aud spleen, and those of the chest and lungs. It also pro-