SLMPLES. 151 t.jiUT. rri.] Commentary. This is decidedly the Calamagrostis Epi(/eios Com Eoth. or Small Reed. Dioscorides says it proves destructive ' ^ to cattle when eaten by them, especially the variety which grows in Babylon by the wayside. Parkinson (Theatre of Plants, 1181) figures and describes a species of reed-grass, beariug a considerable resemblance to our Epiffeios, but of more luxuriant growth ; which, he says, Lobel calls Cala- magrostis forte Babylonica. Neither Galen nor Aetius treat of it. The Arabians briefly notice it under the head of Theil or Gramen, but merely copy from the Greeks. See Serapiou (De Simpl. 119), and Avicenna (ii, 3, 704.) KaAa|iiV0T), Calamintha, Calamint, is of a hot and drying temperament m the third degree, consists of subtile particles, is acrid, and much stronger than mint; for it is a sort of wild mint. It, therefore, attracts readily the deep-seated fluids to itself, and hence evacuates dropsies, and discusses swelling of the whole body, and stops periodical rigors, when strongly rubbed in externally with oil, and when taken internally in a draught. WVhen applied in a clyster it removes pains of the hip-joint, and clears away impurities from the skin. Commentary. Apuleius says, " Grseci calaminthen Latini Gomm tnentham vocant, alii nepetam," (De Herbis.) R. Stephens ' ^ iays, " CalamiuthtE Dioscoridi tria sunt genera, quorum pri- num nihil aliud quam vulgare Calainenthum ; secundum Latine Nepeta appellatur; tei'tium est nostra herba Cataria, 'herbe du chat" Sprengel makes the first species of Dios- orides to be the Melissa Cretica^ L.; the second, the Thymus ^epda, Scop. ; and the third, the Melissa ultissima. Our uthor's calamint is evidently the first species. Galen, Dios- orides, Aetius, and Serapion, like Paulus, describe it as a hot nd acrid medicine, which proves useful in diseases of the Dints. They all, also, say that it is emmenagogue; and ecomraend it as a discutient and expectorant medicine, )ioscoride3 and Aetius recommend it in elephantiasis, for ttenuatlng and cutting the gross humours which give rise to le disease. All agree iu praising calamint in the cure of itermittent fevers. Dioscorides recommends it as a vermifuge hen given with salts and honey. Dioscorides, and, after him..