III- 11 SECT. III.] • . SIMPLES. 161 marginal reference of Avicenna. Symeon Seth says of tlie Comm. caryophyllon tliat it is hot and dry in the second^ or^ perhaps, ' ' ' in the third degree; is the.fruit of a tree, and is stomachic, hepatic, and cordial; removes nausea connected with humidity, but is bad for the bowels, (c. 15.) The caryophyllon also occurs in one of the antidotes of Myrepsus. (c. 22'.) • Ebn • Baithar, however, is the ancient authority who gives the fullest account of cloves, which he represents as being -useful in diabetes^ and strangury, in black bile, diarrhoea, and chronic coughs. He says in particular that they are uterine and aphrodisiac, and'hence warm the uterus and promote impreg* .nation. He also holds that they are stomachic, carminative, •find hepatic, (ii, 281.) ILdaaa/Liov, ' Cassamum; some say that it is the fruit of the balsam-tree, of which we have treated under that word. Cassia, is heating and desiccative in the third order, consists of sufficiently subtile particles, is acrid, and moderately as- tringent. It is therefore incisive and discutient, imparts strength to the organs, and is also emmenagogue. CoMMENTAKY. Salmasius contends that the ancient Cassia Comm, was the same as our cinnamon. See Needham (ad Geopon. '—'— ni, 13), and Celsus (Hierobot. in voce Kiddah.) Stackhouse ffirms, however, that the ancients were unacquainted with the Laurus Cinnamonmm. He refers it to the Laurus gracilis. Comment, in Theophrast.) Sprengel, in his R. H. H., makes to be the Laurns Cassia, which has now got the scientific .;ime Cinnamomum Cassia. The close connexion between the ■innamon and cassia has occasioned difficulty in distinguishing hem from one another, down even to the present times. They are often sold for one another in the Indian bazaars. I'he Cassia lir/nca of tlie ancients would appear to have been he same thing as the Cassia bark of the moderns. Accord- iig to Ainslie, the odour of it is very like cinnamon, but ainter. (Mat. Ind. 35.) The Cassia Fistula was merely he bark rolled up into fistula, or pipes. The Greeks, as we hall show in another place, Avere unacquainted with the true