[book vn. SIMPLES. 282 Comm. paius of tlie eyes (Meth. Med.ii), although in general he condemns the application of it in collyria. (Meth. Med. iii; and De Comp. m. s. 1. ii.) Tie often mentions that castor counteracts the preju- dicial effects of opium. (De med. sec. loc. iii, and viii.) Of all kinds of opium he pronounces the Theban to be the best. (De Antid. i.) Avicenna, besides treating of opium as a poison, and giving the general properties of poppy, under that head, has a very interesting chapter on opium in his Mat. Med. He defines opium to be the juice of the black Egyptian poppy dried in the sun. He says it proves fatal if given in a larger dose than two drachms; but the proper dose he states to be the size of a tare. He states in parenthesis that opium is also formed from the juice of the wild lettuce (lactucarium?). |$ He calls it narcotic and sedative of all pains, whether taken internally or rubbed in. It is useful, he says, in apostemes, especially in those of an inflammatory nature. He says of it, that it dries up ulcers ; with the yelk of an egg forms a Uniment for gout; it proves soporific if a cloth smeared with it be placed below the head; allays pain if injected into the ear affected, along with mjTrh aud saflron ; allays chronic pains of the head, and sometimes cm-es them; soothes the pains of ophthalmy, and the apostemes of the eyes, with the milk of a woman; but yet he adds, that many of the ancient authorities had cou- demned the use of it in such cases as proving injurious to the sight; it allays incessant coughs, and often cures that kind which is noisy; improves the stomach in peculiar cases, when debili- tated by excess of heat and humidity, is braced by it; but in many constitutions, opium, so administered, impairs digestion; it stops diarrhcEa; is useful in dysentery, and in ulcerations of the intestines. It proves fatal, he says, by congealing the vital powers and extinguishing the innate heat; and its anti- dote is castor. He concludes by saying, that three times the amount of the seed of hyoscyamus, or double of the seed of mandragora may be given as a substitute for it. (ii, 3, 519.) Haly Abbas treats of opium more briefly, stating in general terms that it is a soporific and sedative medicine. He seems to say that from half a drachm to a drachm will prove fixtal. (Pract. ii, 40, 318.) Serapion's account of opium is mostly made up of extracts from Dioscorides and Galeu, with a few brief notices of the opinions held by Arabian authorities, which