SIMPLES. [book VII. 390 Comm. COMMENTARY, It is the i7r7roi/)at(Trov of Dioscorides and Pliny. They recommend it in epilepsy. Like the whole tribe of car- duinse it is difficult to define. Sprengel determines it to be the Cirsium stellatwn, Allien. Our author copies its characters from Dioscorides. (iv, 160.) Pew of the other ancient autho- rities have noticed it and it has been completely lost sight of in modern pharmacy. I anWTTOV, Hyssopum, Hyssop, is calefacient and desiccative in the third degree. It also consists of subtile particles. Comm. COMMENTARY. Iiito the much Controverted question re- ' garding the hyssopus of the ancients, it is not our present pur- pose to enter, and we shall content ourselves in a great measure with giving a brief exposition of its characters and medicinal virtues as delivered by the Greek, Roman, and Arabian authorities. It occurs repeatedly in the Hippocratic treatises, as, for example, at ' De Diseta' (ii, 26), where it is said of it that it is hot and purges pituitous matters. Celsus mentions it in various passages; thus he calls it bad for the stomach (p. 83), says it is diuretic (p. 86, 172), rouses the senses (86), is hepatic (86), and useful in coughs (160, ed. MUligan.) The following is an abstract of Dioscorides's important chapter on the Hyssop. It is a well-known herb, of two kinds, for one is the mountain, and the other the garden; the best is the Cilician. It has an attenuant and heating power; when boiled with figs and water and drunk along with honey and rue, it is useful in pneumonia, asthma, chronic cough, catarrh, and orthopnoea; it is anthelminthic, in a linctus with honey; its decoction brings off thick humours from the bowels when drunk with oxymel; it is eaten along with green figs pounded for moving the bowels ; but it purges more strongly when cress, iris, or hedge-mustard is mixed with it; it im- proves the colour of the skin; it is applied as a cataplasm with figs and natron for affections of the spleen and dropsy, and with wine for inflammations; it discusses suggillations when applied with boiling water; it is a most excellent gai'gle in cases of quinsy with the decoction of figs; it soothes the pains of toothache when the mouth is rinsed with a decoction of it, and it dissolves flatus about the ears in the form of steam, (iii,