SIMPLES. 2-13 SECT. III.] Maffri'^r/j Mastiche, Mastich ; the Cliian is heating and dessicaut in the second degree; but it is possessed of complicated powers, being at the same time astringent and emollient; hence it agrees with inflammations of the oesophagus and stomach, and those of the intestines and liver; but the Egyptian, being darker, is more desiccant and discutient, and less astringent; wherefore it discusses furunculi. Commentary. Mastich is correctly described as the resin Comm. of the lentiscus by Dioscorides (i, 90), and Pliny (H. N. xxiv, ' " ' 28.) Both mention that it is used in the formation of agglu- tinative plasters for the cure of trichiasis. Serapion joins the Greek authorities in recommending it for hcEmoptysis. Its use in medicine is as old as the time of Hippocrates. The " resina ex lentisco^^ is an ingredient in one of the discutient plasters recommended by Celsus for the cure of phymata. (v, 18, 23.) Honain, one of Serapion's authorities, recommends it in in- flammations of the stomach, and in cough. Another of them says of it, that when mixed with aloes it forms a good mastica- tory, (c. 183.) Me A a)', Atramentum; the Indian, as Dioscorides says, is of the class of slightly refrigerating medicines, and of those which oc- casion the rupture of phlegmons and swelhngs, and cleanse ulcers, CoMMENTAEY, Dioscoiides describes two distinct substances Comm. by the name of 'Iv^ikov. The one is the vegetable pigment,' ' ' still called Indigo; the other Avas probably a red mineral of copper, some variety, we suppose, of the mineral called "tetrahe- dral red copper ore" by Jameson, or " red oxide of copper" of Phihps. Dioscorides recommends it in much the same cases as our author, (v, 107.) The other Greek authorities scarcely treat of it. Our author seems evidently to refer to Indian ink. The Arabians confound together the dye-producing plants, and accordingly treat of the woad (Tsatis tinctoria) along with the plant which produces indigo. See Serapion (c. 47), and under Isatis in this section, Averrhoes's descrip- tion is very indistinct, so that it is difHcult to know what to make of his Indicum. (Collig. v, 42,) Avicenna in one place