[book VI]. SIMPLES. 156 KoTTTrapiCj Caparis, Caper-tree; its root detergeSj purges, incides, and discusses by its bitterness and acrimony. It also contracts, astringes, and condenses by its sourness. It therefore cures indurated spleens when drunk and when applied externally. It is also emmenagogue, and occasions a discharge of phlegm. It cures ill-conditioned ulcers, and relieves pains of the teeth, dispels tumours and alphos, and kills vermin in the ear. The leaves and fruit of it are possessed of similar powers, but weaker. Commentary. It is the Capparis spinosa, namely, the plant which produces our officinal capers. Dioscorides and Serapion mention that pickled capers act as a gentle laxative, but say that they are bad for the stomach. The Arabians held that they are good whetters of the appetite. Casiri (Bibl. A. H. 337.) Galen gives a very elaborate article on the \artues of capers, which, he says, are the best medicine which we pos- sess in scirrhous enlargement of the spleen. He says it clears away the humours by the belly and by urine, and also acts as an emmenagogue. Their taste, he says, is a combination of bitterness, acrimony, and sourness. He concludes by stating that capers produced in very wann climates, such as Arabia, are much more acrid than in his country. (De Simpl. vii.) The Arabians held that capers are aphrodisiacal and alexi- pharmic. See Rliases (Contin. 1. ult. i, 164), Avicenna (ii, 2, 138), and Serapion (c. 291.) Nasturtium, Cress; the seed of it is caustic like mustard. When applied externally, therefore, it proves rubefacient, in- cides also the thick humours when drunk with other things. And the dried herb is possessed of similar powers, but the juicy one is more moderate; it therefore is eaten raw. Commentary. It was indisputably a species of cress, pro- bably the Lepidium sativum. We have treated of it as an article of food in Book I. Our author's account of it is mostly derived from Galen. Symeon Seth, with most of the authorities, calls it aphrodisiacal. Macer says, on the con- trary, that its powers are equal to those of rue for repressing venereal desires. Dioscorides calls it alexipharmic, and says