SIMPLES. ?SECT. III.] 255 llybdate of lead, or "yellow lead-spar" of Jameson. It is named Comm. iGalcna by his translators, but whether it, that is to say, the " ' ssulphnret of lead, was also comprehended under it we are Hiinable to determine. The molybdsena occurs in the works of iHippocrates. Dioscorides recommends it as being iucarnative land epulotic in plasters. Galen and the other Greek autho- rrities treat of its medicinal powers succinctly like our author. MSTone of the Arabians appear to have distinguished the molyb- IJsena properly from litharge. Mo'Xv/BSoc, Plumbum, Lead, is possessed of refrigerant powers, and has Idilso a considerably humid substance congealed by the cold. If Iwine, the oil of unripe grapes, or any of the cooling juices be ■rabbed with it, it wiU make an excellent application for ulcerous ■iinflammations about the pudenda and anus. A plate of lead ■Fforn upon the loins restrains libidinous dreams ; and a piece Bfcf lead put upon ganglia discusses them. Burnt lead being niore desiccative, is also somewhat acrid. If washed it becomes ■tesiccative without pungency, and makes a good application IlDbr ill-conditioned ulcers. H Commentary. We have already treated of this article as a Comm. H«pison. (Book V, 62.) The ancients distinguished lead into two ' ' ' Btinds, the black and the white. Of these the latter is the Hiame as the cassiteros, that is to say, tin. The other compre- ■jtended several of our native ores of lead. Both kinds are escribed in the works of Hippocrates and of Celsus. (v, 26, v, s, &c.) See also particularly, Pliny (xxxiv, 47) and Isidorus )rig. xvi, 21), who have given accurate descriptions of the iicient varieties of lead. Dioscorides, Galen, and Serapion x,v(ic in describing it as a powerfully cooling or refrigerant ledicine. Galenas account of it is lengthy but interesting. Je Simpl. ix.) Oribasius says that it forms an excellent )plication to irritable and malignant sores. Dioscorides re- )mmends washed lead very much in rheums of the ej'^e. He ives a veiy circumstantial description of the process of pre- iring washed lead. He further says of it, that it is a good yptic, and an excellent application to fuiigated sores, hemor- loids, condylomata, and ulcers about the anus. Averrhoes eats of it in nearly the same terms as our author. (CoUig. v,