[book vit. SIMPLES. 300 ni7yai'o»', Ruta, Rue ; the wild belongs to the fourth order of cale- facients and desiccants; but the cultivated to the third, dividing and discussing the thick and viscid humoui's. It also promotes the uxinary discharge, and is composed of subtile parts and carminative ; hence it restrains venereal appetites. Comm. Commentary, The wild rue is the Peganum Harmala, L. ' • ' The other species is the Ruta graveolens. According to Florentinus, it kiUs the foetus in utero (Geopon. xii, 25.) Dioscorides's two chapters on the Peganum are so long that we can scarcely attempt an abstract of them. Both species, he says, are caustic, calefacient, ulcerative, diuretic, emmena- gogue, astringent, and alexipharmical. (iii, 45, 46.) It occurs in the Hippocratic treatises, and in the works of Celsus. Our author abridges the interesting account of it given by Galen. The Arabians treat of the two species very elaborately, but in the main follow Dioscorides. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 571); Serapion (c. 300); Averrhoes (Collig. v, 42.) We may just mention that the Ruta graveolens still retains its place in our Mat. Med., and that the seeds of the other, Peganum Harmala, are still kept in the shops. See Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 116.) The Turks use its seeds as a spice, in like manner as they were used in the time of Pliny. (H. N. xx, 51.) Pix, Pitch; dry pitch is desiccative in the second degree, but less calefacient, while the liquid is contrariwise. They have some detergent and digestive powers, and also discutient and acrid. They therefore remove leprous nails, cleanse lichen, and digest swellings. But the liquid is more powerful, so as to be serviceable in a linctus for asthma and empyema. The dry is more agglutinative of wounds. Comm. Commentaey. Pliny says of pitch, " Phthisicis etiam '——' cyathi mensura quidam dederunt, et contra veterem tussim." (H. N. xxiv, 24.) Averrhoes also recommends it in such cases. (Collig. ii, 42.) See, however, more fully on the virtues of pitch, Dioscorides (i, 94), who recommends the Hquid pitch in phthisis, empyema, coughs, asthma, and cases of difficult expectoration; also as an external application to leprous nails, hard tumours of the uterus, fissures of hands and feet, &c.