[book tii. 372 SIMPLES. Comm. Herbis, 56.) Dioscorides, like our author, recommends it for ' " ' reducing tlie spleen, both when given internally and when ap- plied externally in a cataplasm, and also as an application to the bites of venomous animals, (iii, 110.) Our author borrows from Galen. We have not been able to discover it in the works either of Hippocrates or of Celsus. Neither have we found it in the works of the Arabians. Dr. Sontheimer, the German translator of Ebn Baithar, identifies the Teucrium Marum with the Chumcedrys of Dioscorides, and the T. flmum with his Teucrium. (ii, 466.) It is long since the Teucrium Marum disappeared from our Dispensatory, but it is still not wholly unknown in the shops of the apothecaries, where it is reputed to be emmenagogue. The T. flavum is also to be found in the shops, and has still the reputation of being useful in diseases of the liver and spleen. See Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 49.) Cinis, Ashes; all kinds have not exactly the same tempera- ment, but they vary according to the difference of the M'ood that has been burnt. The ashes, then, of sour things, such as the oak and the ilex, have no small degree of astringency, so that they will restrain hemorrhage when no other remedy is at hand. That from acrid substances, such as the ashes of the fig and the spurge become more acrid and detergent. Comm. COMMENTARY. These Cinercs were pearlashes^ consisting ' ' ' of the carbonate of potass mixed with various impurities. Galen remarks, that they are the residue of vegetable sub- stances which have been bui'nt, being composed of contrary qualities, for that they have something terrene in them, and also something of a fuliginous nature. When, then, they have been dissolved in water and strained, what remains is terrene and devoid of pungency. Our author boii'ows from him his particular characters of the different cineres. They were much used by the ancient physicians as caustic and stimulant applications. Rhases says that they possess an igneous natvu-e, and are useful in dissolving soft tumours. (Ad Mansor. iii, 47.) See also (Cont. 1. ult. i, 214.) In the latter work he boiTows principally from Galen and our author. Avicenna recommends the ashes of mezereon in quinsj^, and as a stimulant to the