157 .•SECT. III.] SIMPLES. ^1 cof it, that in fumigations it drives away venomous reptiles. Comm. lit occurs in the Flora Hippocratica. See Dierbach. The' • ' .Arabians treat of it very elaborately. See Rhases (Cont. 1. xilt. i, 472), Avicenna (ii, 2, 503), and Serapion (c. 359.) They aagree that it evacuates bile both upwards and downwards, that it is aphrodisiac and alexipharmic. The cress (^Nasturtium), uuntil veiy lately, was admitted into our Dispensatory. See LGerai'd, Pai-kinson, Culpeper, and Quincy. KapSajuaijUOi', Cardamomum, Cardamum, is also acrid, but weaker than the ardamus. It has also some bitterness, by which it destroys i ntestinal worms, and with vinegar clears away scabies. Commentary. The ofi&cinal cardamom of the present time Comm. laas now got the scientific name of Elettaria Cardamomum," * ' ittnd as far as we can see there is no reason to doubt its being identical with the cardamomum of the ancients. There are, laowever, several varieties of the cardamom which are not satisfactorily defined, any more than the four species men- idoned by PHny. (H. N. xii, 29.) See Ainslie (Mat. Ind. 32), md Pereira (Mat. Med. 694.) Dioscorides recommends it for aaiious paurposes, both externally and internally; for epilepsy, )OUghs, ischiatic disease, nephritis, and as an alexipharmic md lithontriptic medicine, (i, 5.) Galen is more guarded in jnumerating its virtues, and all the other Greek authorities bllow him. The Arabians rather imitate Dioscorides. See iivicenna (ii, 3,156), and Serapion (c. 64.) One of Serapion's abian authorities, Isaac eben Amram, describes two species, e greater and the lesser, a distinction still recognized. We ed scarcely add that it is well known at the present day, d is used for various purposes both in this country and in .e East. Kaptc, Squilla, a Legless Lobster, when triturated and drunk with ,6 root of bryony it kills lumbrici. I Commentary. The squilla belongs to the order of fiaXaKo<T-Comm. a/ca. (See Book I, 91.) The present article we suppose is ' " ' tie Cancer Squilla, L. It is treated of very cursorily by the ;her authorities.