86 SIMPLES. [book VII. Comm. toothache ; and that they promote the flow of urine when " * ' pounded and dmnk in wine, (ii, 72.) Galen commends earth- worms as being diuretic when drunk in must. He mentions further, that, according to the report of certain physicians, earthworms have been given internally and applied externally without burning or boiling. Of all the ancient authorities, Aetius is the fullest on the medicinal virtues of earthworms, (ii, 168.) The Arabians do little more under this head than copy the descriptions of them given by Dioscorides, Galen, and Paulus. Avicenna recommends them, when pounded and drunk in wine, not only as being diuretic but also lithontriptic. (ii, 2, 198.) The Lumbrici terrestres, or earthworms, are described and very much commended for their medicinal virtues in Quincy's 'Dispensatory' (p. 140), and Lewis's 'Materia Medica' (ii, 76.) Tlyapra, Gigarta vinacea, Grape-stones, are desiccative in the second degree, but refrigerant in the first. Being, therefore, cooling, they agree with all defluxions. Comm. COMMENTARY. Galen mentions Grape-stones as sour and ' ^ ' astringent remedies, and, therefore, applicable in all defluxions from the bowels. Avicenna recommends the ashes of grape- stones with vinegar in torsion of the nerves, and along with oil for contusion of the limbs and softening of the joints, (ii, 2, 723.) See also Rhases (1. ult. Cont. i, 745.) Tiyy'idiov, Gingidium, Toothpick Fennel, is possessed of no manifest heat, but is desiccative in the. third degree, and astringent. It is, therefore, stomachic. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscoridcs says of the Daucus gingidium, ' ' that it is a good potherb, and that as a medicine, when taken in a decoction with wine, it is diuretic and lithontriptic (ii, 166.) Galen defines its virtues to be considerable astringency with slightly heating powers. The others treat of it in like terms. Few if any of the Arabians have noticed it. T\avKiov, Glaucium, Horned Poppy, is rather disagreeably astringent,