[book VII. 544 POTIONS. Comm. at great lengthj in tlig sixth book of his work, ' De Comp. Med. sec. loo.' The far greater number , of our author's prescrip- tions are copied from it. Myrepsus likewise gives a long list of such like compositions (ยง ix.) See also Aetius (viii.) SECT. XV. ON DELICIOUS AND OFFICINAL POTIONS. Of delicious officinal potions, some are composed of wine, having certain articles added to it, such as pepper, wormwood, sowbread, and many other things, from which they sometimes receive their appellation, sometimes having honey mixed with them and sometimes not; and some are composed from water in which have been boiled apples or roses, with certain juices, such as those of unripe grapes, pomegranates, and myrtles. On this account the finest scummed honey is mixed with them for the sake of preservation, sweetness, aud sometimes of utility. The austere and vinous hydromel brought from Cebyra in small vessels is an exception; for I have known it formed without honey, as the apomel is made from honey alone and water, without any other substance. But those things which are prepared from wine, which are called propotions (or " whets"?) receive sext. j of scummed honey to four of wine and are made without being boiled. Those which are prepared from water and juices, if boiled, receive one part of honey to three of the liquor, about two parts of which are consumed in the boiling ; but if they are not boiled they receive one part of honey to two of the liquor. . Those things which are not boiled are to be isolated for a sufficient time, and particularly the omphacomel. Those from water require to be boiled, because from their weakness they are readily changed. They are all to be laid up in small pitched earthen vessels, Avhich are to be carefully covered up and deposited in situations above ground until they are concocted. They are to be used as attenuants, and well mixed with water. But the omphacomel after being boiled like must, and settling, is to be covered up. Those composed from wine we use principally in cases which are free from fever, or for the rehsh ouly (with the exception of those which are prepared from scammouy, the granum Cnidium, or the like purgatives); or in such affections