>ECT. XIX.] ACOPA, ETC. 587 V, 243.) In consistence and qualities they nearly resembled Comm. he acopa, being composed of a large proportion of oil with, a" ' ' small quantity of wax or houey. Myrepsus gives prescriptions ibr a considerable number of them. The dropax is thus described by Le Clerc: " On etendoit line certaine quantite de cette emplatre sur la toile, ou a peau; on appliquoit cela sur quelque partie du corps, on le levoitj ou on l^arrachoit, et on Tappliquoit derechef, reiterant souvent la meme chose, pour faire rougir la partie, dans le dessein d^attirer en dehors les humeurs, ou les sues qui servent a la nourriture des parties, ou dans la vue d'ouvrir les pores. Pour rendre cette emplatre plus efficace on y ajoutoit quelque- bis des poudres acres, comme du pyrethre, du poivre, du sel, du soufre. On emploit aussi le dropax pour faire tomber, ou poiir arracher le poll de quelque partie." (Hist, de la Med.) Heyschius appears to have confounded the dropax with the psilothron or depilatory. The former was merely a sort of calefacient plaster, and was applied to parts not covered with liairs. Oribasius says of it that it is prepared like the malagma. When it is desired to make it calefacient, he directs us to add to it pellitory, the seed of rosemary, and bitumen; when desiccative, the sulphur vivum, salts, and the ashes of vegetables ; and when it is wished to make it of such a nature as to scarify the parts, he directs us to add to it limnesium (adarce) and spurge. The part to which it is to be applied, he says, if weak, should be shaven, but in the more obust, and when a stronger application is required, it need not be shaven, unless it is to be applied to the head, chin^ or pubes. Myrepsus commends the following dropax: "Take of l^itumen, oz. ij ; of wax, oz. j, sext. j ; of dried pitch, dr. j ; of june-rosin, of natron, of each, oz. j ; of sulphur vivum, of pelli- ijry, of white hellebore, of adarce, of each, sext. j ; of stavesacre, 'f spurge, of each, dr. \ ; of oil, q. s." Certain forms of the dropax seem to have been allied to the blistering plasters of the modems. On this subject wc cannot do better than copy the remarks of Dr. Clinch, in his Preface to Ruffus Ephesius: '■ Quantum usus cantharidum, ex quibus hodierna vesicantia iibique fere componuntur, veteribus innotuit, vir Doctissimus lohannes Freind luculenter satis explicuit. Ncquco autemhic