[book VII. SIMPLES. 206 Comm. complaints are similar to those of the Sangtiis Draconis. AU ' * ' praise it as a vulnerary herb^ and a good application in cases of burning. They further commend it in pleurisy and quinsy as a plaster. Ebn Baithar treats of it at very great length, (i, 338.) It would appear that the privet is still used as a medi- cine and dye by the native physicians of Hindostan. See a very interesting account of it in Ainslie's Mat. Indica (ii, 190.) JLvTiaog, Cytisus; its leaves are of a gently discutient and tepid nature^ like those of melons. Comm. COMMENTARY. After maturely weighing the opinions which ' * ' have been held respecting this classical herb, we have no hesi- tation in agreeing with those who refer it to the TVee-medick {Meclicago arborea L.) Dioscorides says its leaves are cooling and discutient when applied externally, and diuretic when taken in decoction, (iv, iii.) Galen and the other Greek au- thorities treat of it very succinctly, like our author. Avicenna briefly recommends it as a diuretic medicine, and one which is applicable in diseases of the spleen, (ii, 2, 24.) Cicuta, Hemlock ; that it is possessed of extremely cold powers is obvious. Comm. COMMENTARY. It appears unquestionably to be the Conium ' " ' maculatum, Stoerck and Bergius, contrary to the opinions of the ancient physicians, affirm that it is aphrodisiacal. This, however, seems doubtful. We have treated of its effects as a poison in the Fifth Book. As a medicine it does not appear to have been much used latterly, although Dioscorides says that its inspissated juice is of great use in the healing art, being mixed with wine in anodyne coUyria, and used as a cataplasm for the cure of erysipelas and herpes. He also speaks of its being applied as a cataplasm to the testicles for the removal of the pollutio nocturni somni, and with the view of inducing im- potence j and to the breasts, in order to dispel milk and render them atrophied, (iv, 79.) Galen, Aetius, and Oribasius, like our author, merely state of it, in then' works in the Mat. ]\Ied., that it is possessed of intensely refrigerant powers. It would appear that Galen was in the practice of administering it inter-