SIMPLES. 33 SECT. III.] temperament^ with an undigested sap. It therefore promotes the formation of milk and semen. Commentary. Our author abridges the characters of this Comm. substance, which probably is the Atriplex Halimus, from Galen ' ' ' or Dioscorides (i, 1.26.) It is the sea-purslane of our English herbalists. For the Arabians,, see particularly Avicenna (ii, 2, 470.) Alcsea, Vervain-malloio, is a species of wild mallows. When drunk with wine it removes dysenteries and gnawing pains of the belly, more particularly its root. Commentary. All the authorities agree in giving this Comm. article, which evidently is the Malva Alccea, Vervain-mallow, the ' * ' general characters of the mallow. See particularly Dioscorides (iii, 154.) It does not occur in the works either of Hippo- crates or Celsus, nor, as far as we know, in those of the Arabians. 'AA/ci/ov/a, Alcyonia; they are detergent and discutient of all matters, being possessed of an acrid quality; but the kind called mile- sium (it is vermiform and purple) is the best : wherefore, when burnt, it cures alopecia, and cleanses lichen and alphos. That which has a smooth sm'face is most acrid, proving not only detergent, but likewise excoriating; but that which re- sembles unwashed wool is the weakest of all. Commentary. For an account of the alcyonia, see Aristot. Comm. (Hist. Anim. ix, 15); Pliny (N. H. x, 47, and xxxii, 27.) ' According to Sprengel, the A. consisted of the bones of fishes which the kingfishers had swallowed and vomited up. The term, however, was also applied to a kind of zoophytes, five species of which are described by Dioscorides and Pliny. The Ist species is the Alcyonium cotoneum, Pall.; the 2d, the A. papillosum; the 3d, the A. palmatum; the 4th, the Spongia stuposa, Ellis, or Spongia panicea, Pall. ; and the 5th, the A. aurantium, Pall. (Mat. Med. v, 135.) Geoffroy says that the alcyonia " are of a substance much like gum tragacanth, and when mixed in broth of warm milk they swell and make a nch soup." The zoophytes called alcyonia are a kind of spongy substances, containing a soi-t of living jelly in their ' interior. Our author abridges Dioscorides^ account of the HI- 3