224 SIMPLES. [BOOK vri. Molaris nearly resembled it, and the same may be understood from Pliny. It will, of course, be understood tbat it is the cop- per pyrites, and not the iron. This is very obvious from the description of it f^iven by Dioscorides. He calls it heating, detergent, and a cleanser of obscurities of the eyes, and recom- mends it for repressing fungated ulcers. When burnt, he adds, some call it diphryges. It is described imder the name of marchasita by Serapion (c. 395), Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 419), and A\acenua (ii, 2, 46i.) They aU recommend it Avitli vinegar in leprosy and other obstinate diseases of the skin. The Phrygian-stone was a pumice with alum and some other ingredients. Dioscorides says it has astringent, cleansing, and moderately escharotic powers, and proves a remedy for burns, (v, 110.) Galen professes to have had great experience of it in diseases of the eyes. (Ed. Basil, t. ii, 122, 208.) See also Avicenna (ii, 2, 405.) The Ageratus does not occur we believe in Dioscorides or Pliny. Galen calls it a stone which the curriers of leather use. He says it is astringent and acrid, and recommends it particularly in inflamed uvula. Avicenna copies fi'om him. (ii, 2, 409.) The Anthrax or Carbuncle of the ancients comprehended the ruby and a multitude of other gems of the same colour. It was scarcely used in medicine. De Boet says that the Asian-stone is light and spongy, and contains alum, nitre, and salt. Dioscorides calls it slightly septic and discutient, and recommends it as an application to old, and more especially fungated, ulcers, and those of a malig- nant nature. The flower of it, by which was meant an efilo-- rescence on the surface of it, he says does good in phthisis. He further says of it, that a hip-bath prepai'ed with it is highly beneficial in the cure of gout, (v, 141.) Galen and the other authorities treat of it in more general terms. (De Simpl. ix.) See also Serapion, who merely copies from Dioscorides and Galen, (c. 393.) The Amethyst of our times is the same gem that the ancients knew by this name. Except that it was suspended from the neck as an amulet to prevent drunkenness, wt; iu-e not aware that it was used in medicine. See Pliny (H. ^ xxxvii, 40) ; Marbodeus (De Lapid. 4.)