320 [book VII. SIMPLES. outer membrane or rind called Malicorium. The flowers called Cytini liave similar powers. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is evidently the Punica granaium L. " ' Woodville says, "Hippocrati arbor audit <ti'S>j unde cortex fructus a'lSiou." They frequently occur in the Hippocratic treatises. (De Diseta, ii, &c.) Cytini is generally put for the flowers of the cultivated pomegranate, and balaustia for those of the wild. The bark of the root called malicorium by Celsus was much used. Pliny, like the medical authorities, speaks of them aU as being excellent asti'ingents. He recommends them particu- larly in cseHac aff"ectious and haemoptysis. (H. N. xxiii, 57.) The most interesting of the ancient authorities on this head is Dioscorides, who says of the sweet pomegranate that it en- genders heat and flatulence in the stomach, and hence is un- suitable in fevers ; and of the acid, that it relieves ardor of the stomach, and is more astringent and diuretic, being unsavoury and styptic; that the vinous has an intermediate nature; that the kernel of the acid pomegranate, when dried in the sun and sprinkled on food and boiled with it, restrains fluxes of the stomach and bowels ; that when macerated in rain-water and druuk, it is beneficial in htemoptysis, and in a hip-bath is suitable in dysentery and other fluxes; and that the expressed juice of the kernels, when boiled and mixed with honey, is suitable to ulcei's in the mouth, on the pudendum and anus; for pterygia on the fingers, spreading ulcers, fungus, earache, and complaints in the nose, and more especially those of the acid pomegranate, (i, 141.) He also treats separately of the flowers and the bark, recommending the latter as an anthelmin- thic medicine. Galen and the other Greek authorities treat of the pomegranate in nearly the same words as Paulas. It would exceed our limits to give a notice of the various cases in which Celsus prescribes this medicine. Suffice it to say, that he calls it stomachic, cooling, and styptic, and recommends the flowers, the bark, and the root for these and various other purposes. For the Arabians see Avicenna (ii, 2, 109,313); Serapion (De Simpl. 139); Rhases (Contin. 1. ult. i, 443); Averrhoes (CoUig. V, 43) j Ebn Baithar (i, 499). One of Serapion's authorities, Ruff"us, recommends the acid pomegranate in cardiac disease, and another, Aben Mesne, in cholera and syncope,