SIMPLES. 193 SECT. III.] Escargot, or Vinegar Snail. The snail was esteemed a delicacy Comm. by the Roman gourmands. See Varro (de R. R. iii, 14) and Pliny (H. N. ix^ 25.) The use of it, however, was forbidden by the Mosaic law. In one of the Hippocratic treatises, the cochleae are recommended for procidentia ani. (De fistul.) Pliny, in like manner, recommends them in dysentery. (H. N. vii, 30.) Dioscorides and Galen give nearly the same account of their medicinal properties as our author. The latter says that they are difficult to digest, but very nutritious when digested. Celsus, on the other hand, ranks them among the weak articles of food. Horace seems to say that they whet the appetite. Testis marcentem squillis recreabis et AM Potorem cochlea.—Satir. Kpavea, Cornus, the Cornel; the fruit of the tree being sour, proves strongly asti-ingent of the belly when eaten. The leaves and shoots, by their sourness, are strongly desiccative, so as to agglutinate the largest wounds of hard bodies. Commentary. It is the Cornus Mas. Dioscorides recom- Comm. mends it as an application to lichen, (ii, 72.) Our author ' abridges Galenas account of it. The Arabians speak favorably of it in the same cases as the Greeks, and also recommend it for cholera, diabetes, and vomiting. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 315), Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. 357.) K.pa/.i[3r), ' Brassica, Cabbage; that sort which is esculent has desic- cative powers both when eaten and when applied externallj^, but it is not sensibly acrid. It therefore agglutinates wounds ; and ill-conditioned ulcers, and cures tumours which arc difficult to discuss. It is also somewhat detergent, by which propertj^ it cures leprosy. Its seed when drunk kills worms, and especially the seed of the Egyptian cabbage does this. The ashes of its stalks when burnt are possessed of caustic powers, and with grease are applicable in chronic pains of the sides. The wild is stronger than the garden cabbage in all respects; 1 hence it cannot be taken internally without inconvenience. 1 The sea-cabbage being saltish and bitterish loosens the belly. 13