SIMPLES. [book vii. 392 Comm. the many eminent scholars who deny this, we hesitatingly ' " answer this question in the affirmative, for the two following reasons : first, the medicinal characters of the ancient hyssop, as given by Dioscorides, Mesue, and the other Greek and Arabian authorities, agree with those of the Hyssopus officinalis, as given by modern writers on the Materia Medica. See Plate- anus (de Simpl. Med.) ; Tournefort (Mat. Med. 223) ; Boerhaave (Mat. Med. 148); Alston (Mat. Med. ii, 152); Hill (Mat. Med. 364); Culpeper (Compl. Herbal. 95); Ainshe (Mat. Ind. i, 177); Rutty (Mat. Med. 145); Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 47.) But, secondly, it is incumbent upon those who deny the identity of the ancient and modern hyssop to show when and how the H. officinalis came to be substituted for a plant, the characters of which it noM' bears. But, further, no competent judge, we believe, will dispute that the hyssop must have been brought to Britain, and naturalized here by the Romans. Is it likely, then, that they would have brought a plant not described by their learned men at home, and not the one Avhich had the chai'acter of being possessed of so many virtues ? If, as Sprengel and others have maintained, the Origanum yEffi/ptiacvm be the true hyssopus of the ancients, why was not it introduced into this country and not the Hyssojms officinalis ? Since then the H. officinalis is what our Roman conquerors brought us for their hyssop, we may be pretty confident that it truly is the ancient plant, the name of which it bears. <I>aKoi, Lentes, Lentils, (?) are desiccants of the second order, being intermediate as to cooling and heating qualities. They have also some astringency. They therefore dry the body and bind the belly; but the decoction loosens it. The first water, there- fore, is thrown away when it is taken to restrain the bowels. The Lens pahistris, Duck-meat, moistens and refrigerates in the second order. Comm. COMMENTARY. See Book I, 79. It is, undoubtedly, the '—•—' Cicer Lens. The Lens palustris is the Lenuia minor, Angl. Duck-meat. Our author borrows from Dioscorides, Avho treats of the virtues of the lentil more fully than it would seem to deserve. It is simply a vegetable astringent, (ii, 129.) The