I SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 361 ibeen described by them tinder any other name. But its Comm. vaiieties differed mucli from one another. The Alumen ' " ' iplumosum, called rpiyuTig by the Greeks, was no doubt the .Hair salt of "Werner, which, according to the analysis of IKlaproth, contains a large mixture of the sulphates of mag- jnesia and iron. Geoffroy remarks that "of liquid alum two kinds are taken notice of by the ancients; the one pure and |tthe other impure. The solid or concreted kind was by the cients distinguished, according to the figiire of its parts, into sile and round. The fissile natural alum was either in form a compact, uniform globe, or appeared divided, into small llftiairs or filaments. The round kind was of a more rare texture." he Alumen Jameni of the Arabians was the plumose alum, liny and Octavius Horatianus recommend alum as an appli- ation to burns when pounded with oil. Alum was used in ;he practice of medicine from the earliest times. Hippocrates irescribes it in ulcers of the womb, diseases of the gums, and various other purposes. (Epid. vii, De Mulieb., De Ulcer., ,) Our author borrows from Galen. Dioscorides gives a st elaborate description of the different kinds and of their ses in medicine. They are all possessed, he says, of a heating )Ower, and also of an astringent, and hence they clear the ob- curities of tbe cornea, melt down fungous flesh on the eyelids md elsewhere, the schistose being more powerful than the ound; they stop mortifications and hemorrhages, repress laccid gums, strengthen loose teeth with vinegar or honey; .re beneficial in aphthcS; and, in short, he states mx>st iiinutely the various purposes to which alum may be applied. )n the alumen see also Pliny (H. N. xxxv,52) and Celsus(iv,18), ith the note of Milligan. For the Arabians consult Avicenna ii, 2, 68); Avcrrhoes (Collig. v, 43) ; Serapion (De Simpl. 30) ; Haly Abbas (Pract. ii, 44) ; Ehases (Cont. 1. ult. 38); Cbn Baithar (ii, 83.) All of these authors, even including the Fist, do little more than copy from Dioscorides and Galen indcr this head. Geber, however, treats of the subject with ome appearance of originality, and describes the kinds of alum ith considerable accuracy. (Invention of Verity, c. 4.) The rocess of burning alum for medicinal purposes, which is barely lluded to by Dioscorides, is described by Geber and by crvitor. (i.) .1