SECT. III.J 363 SIMPLES. in powers to honey. The powers of the green are weaker, but both loosen the belly. The figs of the wild tree are possessed of acrid and discutient powers like those of the cultivated. Commentary. See Book I (s. 81.) Phny enumerates the Comm. medicinal properties of figs at great length. Ripe figs are ' ' said to be diui-etic, laxative, and diaphoretic. Externally they were used as an application to boils and scrofulous swellings. (H. N. xxiii, 63.) See also Dioscorides and Serapion, both of whom give the characters of figs in nearly the same terms as Pliny. No ancient author, however, has treated so elaborately . of figs as Avicenna (ii, 2, 276.) His account of them is so i lengthy that we dare not venture upon an analysis of it. Ficus, the Fig-tree, is of a heating and attenuating tempera- iment, so that the juice of it and the sap of the leaves are not (Only pungent and strongly detergent, but also occasion ulce- ration, open the mouths of vessels, and remove myrmecia. It also cathartic. The wild-fig, called caprificus, is in every aspect more powerful than the cultivated. Commentary. See the authorities referred to in the pre- Comm. cceding article. Pliny recommends the juice of the caprificus ' * ' oor wild fig-tree {Ficus Carica), as an application to leprosy, psora, and lichen. All the authorities, Greek, Latin, and Arabian, praise it as an apphcation to the wounds of venomous animals. The wild fig-tree is the 'EptVaoc of Homer, V. Eustath. ' Comment, in Iliad.' (vi, 433.) The commentator describes Accurately the process of caprification. ^vKOfxopnq, Sycomorus, the Sycamore; the fruit is innutritive, and bad for the stomach. The juice of the tree has powers which are smollient, agglutinative of wounds, and discutient of tumours. It is taken in a draught and rubbed in for the bites of reptiles, for scirrhous spleens, pains of the stomach, and rigors. Commentary. Of course there can be no doubt of its being Comm. ,he Ficus Sycomorus. Galen, Dioscorides, and Serapion detail — ts medicinal properties in nearly the same terms as our author. \ N'othing else of any interest can be gathered from the others f indcr this head.