SIMPLES. 199 SECT. 111.] meats, it would appear that its powers had been overrated. Comm. See Pereira (Mat. Med. 696.) It was much used by the ancients as a perfume. See Beckmann's ' Hist, of Inventions/ Job. BodtEus a Stapel (Ad Theophrast. H. P. vi, 6), and Hertodt's ' Crocologia/ as quoted by him. Its medical use, he adds, has always continued among the Orientals. Cepa, Onion, is of the fourth order of heating medicines, its substance consisting of thick matter, and hence when applied to hemorrhoids it opens them. It is also sufficiently detergent, and removes alphos with vinegar; and in alopecia it occasions a more rapid growth of hair than alcyonium. Its juice is useful in suffusion and dimness of vision from thick humours. Commentary. It is the Allium Cepa, or onion. Galen, Comm. Dioscorides, and Serapion recommend it as an application in ' * ' cases of alopecia or Porrigo decalvans. Dioscorides says that some applied it as a suppository to promote the discharge of blind piles, and he mentions its being introduced into the nose to promote the discharge from it. As a cataplasm with salt, rue, and honey, he recommends it for the bites of rabid dogs. He says it concocts and breaks hard tumours. Upon the whole, Galen, Aetius, Oribasius, and our author, do little more under this head than abridge the more ample account of it given by Dioscorides. Celsus calls it an aperient of the bowels (ii, 29) and a diuretic (ii, 31.) He recommends it to be chewed in paralysis of the tongue, (iv, 3.) The Arabians treat of it at great length. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 119); Bhases (Cont. 1. ult. iii, 18); Serapion (c. 354.) They speak favorably of it as a rubefacient, and all ascribe great powers to it as an alexi- phai-mical medicine. Faba, the Bean, is not far removed from a middle tempera- ment as to cooling and drying. Its flesh is also somewhat detergent. It agrees, therefore, with expectorations from the chest and lungs. Its outer skin having also some astringency renders the whole bean, when boiled in oxycrate, a suitable remedy for cseliac and dysenteric affections. In a cataplasm