[book VIl. SIMPLES. 370 and desiccative, when green, in the first, but when dried, in the second. The fruit, when diied, belongs to the third order of desiccants. It is, therefore, diuretic and useful for the spleen. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is the Pistacia Terebinthus L. Dios- ■~' corides states that its fruit is hot, diui'etic, and aphrodisiacal. He recommends it internally for the bites of the phalangia. Of the turpentine resin we have treated under the head of the Resinse. The ancients, as we have stated, were very familiar with the hrown or black rosin, called colophony, (i, 91.) Accord- ing to Dr. Hill, the Chian turpentine rosin was the turpentine of the ancients. Pliny likewise recommends it in retention of urine, and as a gentle laxative. He adds, " venerem excitat." (H. N. xxiv, 18.) Our author's account of it is condensed from Galen. The turpentines, and more especially the resin, are frequently prescribed by Celsus. They occm* also in the Hippocratic treatises. Turpentine was much used in applica- tions to cutaneous diseases and ulcers. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 303) and Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 342.) Serapion treats of this article under the same head with the lentiscus. He copies from Dioscorides. (De Simpl. 153.) See Ebn Baithar Cicadae; some, having dried them raw, give them to di-ink in colic aflFections to the number of three, five, or seven, with an equal number of grains of pepper. Others roast them and give them to drink to those who have affections of the bladder. Comm. COMMENTARY. The Tfrri^ of the Greeks and the cicada of ' the Romans was not the grasshopper, as has been often re- presented, but the insect which has been more properly called the tree-hopper in Enghsh, namely the cicale of the Itahans. The species here noticed was most probably the Cicada orni. Dioscorides merely recommends them in diseases of the bladder, (ii, 56.) Pliny gives a very interesting description of them, but it contains nothing which, in a medical point of view, would suit our present purpose. (H. N. xi, 32.) Onx author foUows Galen. (De Simpl. xi.) They do not occm- in the works of Celsus, nor have we been able to discover traces of them in any of the Arabians, with the exception of Ebn (ii, 144.)