172 SIMPLES. [BooKvn. Comm. One of his authorities, Constautinus, calls it the juice of a ' * ' plant, possessed of styptic powers, and therefore used as an as- tringent both internally as a suppository, and externally when.: so applied. (De Simpl. 341.) Avicenna recommends it simi larly, but gives no description of it. (ii, 3, 627.) It is to b borne in mind that besides the vegetable cinnabar, the ancientB described two other substances under this name, viz., the native mineral cinnabar or sulphuret of quicksilver, and a factitious cinnabar, which was their Sal Atticum. See HiDl (Mat. Med. 60), and GeoflProy (215.) The dragon's blood i? retained in the modern Greek Pharmacopccia, where it is. set down as the product of the Calamus Draco. lLivvaiJ.(t)iJ.ov, Cinnamomura, Cinnamon, is composed of extremely subtile parts, yet is not extremely heating, but only in the third de- gree. But of those in the same rank of calefacients none M so desiccative owing to the tenuity of its parts. The cinna>| momis is a sort of weak cinnamon; but some call it pseudo- cinnamomum. Comm. COMMENTARY. Sprengel and Dierbach acknowledge it a# ' ' ' the Laurus Cinnamomus. We have stated, however, undei| Cassia that Stackhouse is of opinion that the ancients were| unacquainted with our Laurus Cinnamomus; but we see noj good grounds for this opinion. We shall give the words Sprengel: " Cassia lignea nostratum et cassia cinnaraomea* eadem esse \identur, unde et cassiam ipsam ex eadem arbore provenire, quae ciunamomum largiatur, veteres jam statuerunt." (ad Dioscor. i, 13.) Dioscorides recommends cinnamon in uteriui affections, that is to say, for promoting the flow of the mensc- and for the expulsion of the foetus. We need scarcely men- tion that this use of it has been revived of late. He also holds it to be alexipharmic, recommends it in coughs, dropsies, and diseases of the kidneys and bladder; in complaints of the eye?., and in the formation of elegant ointments; in short, he adds, it is a medicine much in use. (i, 13.) Galen and the other Greek authorities give its medicinal characters in more gene- ral terms. The Arabians treat of it at great length, and mon especially Avicenna, who recommends it in the same cases a* Dioscorides, namely, as a diuretic, emmcnagogue, and alexi-