198 SIMPLES. [book VII. Crocus, Saffron, is of the second order of heating and of the first of desiccative medicines. It is also astringent and digestive. Commentary. Without doubt it is the Crocus sativus. Dioscorides gives an interesting account of the different varieties of it which were used in his time. Suffice it to say, that the best decidedly was the Cicilian, from Mount Corycus, which is often alluded to by classical authors. See Pliny (xxi, 6); Celsus (v, 22) ; Statius (Silv. v, 3, 41); Galen (De Antid. i.) With regard to its action on the animal economy, he mentions that Thessalus held that it is merely fragrant, while some, on the other hand, maintained that it is a deadly poison in doses of dr. iij, but that in truth it is diuretic and sub-astringent, and therefore applicable to erysipelas and defluxions of the e3'^es, as a cm'e for surfeit, and for producing a discharge of urine (i, 25.) See, in like manner, Pliny (1. c.) It occurs in the Hippocratic treatises, and in the works of Celsus, who calls it purgative, emollient, and discutient. (196.) By the way, we may mention that bj^ purgative, Celsus evidently means cleansing in external applications, as is evident from the sub- stances with which it is enumerated, namely, verdigris, orpi- ment, &c. His editor, Dr. Milligan, therefore evidently mistakes the meaning of his author. (1. c.) Galen and his followers call it heating in the second degree, and drying in the first, with some astringency. The Arabians adopt the views of the Greeks as to its virtues, but prescribe it in a great many more cases than their predecessors. See Serapion (c. 173) ; Rhases (Cont. 1. nit. i, 241); Avicenna (ii, 2, 126.) Thus they held that it is both aphrodisiacal and cordial, and recommend it accordingly. They also used it in cases of difiicult labour, and as a deobstinient in obstructions of the liver and spleen. One of Ehases's authorities says that in doses of three di-achms it proves fatal. Another of them says of it, that it improves the breathing and appetite. Symeon Seth says that it is stomachic and improves the colour. He, Serapion, and other of the ancient authorities, affirm that in lai'ge doses it occasions involuntary laughter, immoderate mirth, and the other effects which result from intoxicating liquors. From late experi-