SIMPLES. SECT. III.] 295 caclucus torretur fervido sole, vocamen trahit de colore. At Comm. quod ex ipsa arbore stringitur, ut est, album Piper dicitur." ' • ' (Polyhist. 65.) This is not quite a correct account of the matter. Black pepper is the fruit gathered before it is ripe, and dried in the sun. White pepper is the fruit of the same plant, gathered after it is fully ripe and freed of its ex- ternal coat by maceration in water. Isidorus says further, " quod immatuiTim est piper longum vocatur." (Orig. xviii, 8.) It is now ascertained that the Piper longum is a distinct species. Frequent mention of the peppers is made in the Hippocratic treatises. (De Morb. Mul., &c.) Dioscorides gives an excel- lent account of the pepper, and on the whole a very correct one, except that he does not recognize the P. longum as a dis- tinct kind from the black and white varieties. He says of it in general terms, that it is calefacient, diuretic, digestive, and ' detergent of obscurities of the cornea, and recommends it in i a great variety of cases, beginning with its use as a remedy in i intermittent fevers, (ii, 188.) The use of peppers for the cure ) of intermittents is strongly recommended by Stephanus in his ) commentaiy on Galen. (Therap. ad Glauc.) Celsus prescribes 1 pepper for a great many purposes, as being calefacient, diuretic, > opening the pores, &c. (v, 4, &c.) Galen, in treating of the I pepper in his work on Simples, merely says of its medicinal ipowers, that it is strongly calefacient and desiccative. Aetius land the other Greek authorities copy from Galen. Aviceuna treats separately of the Piper and the Piper longum, and although in one place he quotes Galen as saying that the latter is a variety of the former, he speaks of them as if he held them to be distinct plants. He says of the former, that it increases the appetite, promotes digestion ; and of the other, that it is aphrodisiac. He says the white kind is the most stomachic; but the long the most laxative. On the whole, he agrees with Dioscorides and Galen as to its medicinal uses, (ii, 2, 549, 550.) See further Serapion (c. 357), llhascs (Cont. 1. ult. i, 556), Averrhoes (Collig. v, 42.) ritTrtiii', Pepo, Pompion, is possessed of detergent powers. Hence that part which is as it were the flesh of it, cleanses away "reckles and the like. But the seed of it removes obstructions >f the kidneys.