SECT. III.] 445 SIMPLES. great importance in addition to what is stated above on the authority of Serapion, Avicenna, and Rhases. He would appear moreover to confound the manna thuris with the manna of the ash. Like the other authorities, he holds manna to be a gentle cholagogue, and says it softens the throat, the chest, the bowels, and quenches thirst. The dose from six to fifteen drachms. (De Simpl. 8.) We have not found any- thing further of interest in the works of Averrhoes, Haly Abbas, and Ebn Baithar. The last of these says the Ros Melleus is a substance which falls upon trees in Chorasan; that it is useful in ardent fevers, moistens the chest, proves more detergent than sugar, cools thirst, improves the memory, purges yellow bile, &c. He evidently alludes to the true manna of the ash. Actuarius mentions cassia fistula and manna as two purgative medicines which may be safely given to children and pregnant women. (Meth. Med. v.) Turpeth. There can be no doubt that it is the Convolvulus Turpethum. llhases recommends turpeth for purging crude and recremen- titious humours from the knees and other joints. His two authorities, Mesne the elder, and Chuz, give it the same charac- ter. (Contin. 1. ult. i, 729.) Avicenna, after describing it, re- presents it as being efficacious in diseases of the nerves and joints, as being phlegmagogue, and if mixed with ginger, as bringing away crude humours, (ii, 2, 701.) Serapion con- founds it with the tripolium of Dioscorides and Galen, as we have stated under that head. Upon the authority of Aben ^fesuai he assigns it the property of pxirging viscid phlegm, but says that it brings on mental depression by its horrid taste, and, therefore, it ought not to be taken alone. Other Arabian authorities, quoted by him, give it the same character. He describes the medicine very minutely, and the marks by which we may determine whether it be sound or not. The dose is from one to two drachms. (De Simpl. 337.) Haly Abbas treats of it in his chapter on purgatives, but confines himself principally to a description of the medicine itself. (Pract. ii, 2, 557.) The ancient author avIio has treated most fully of turpeth, is Mesne tlie younger in his work 'De Simpl.-" (11.) He gives a circumstantial description of it, and full directions