SECT. 111.] SIMPLES. 71 Btrrovt/c?/, Bettonica, Bettony, is a lierb having sleuder branches like those of the pennyroyal, but still more slender, and is pos- sessed of scarcely any quality to the taste. It grows mostly in rocky situations, and is used for the composition of nephritic medicines. There is among the Romans another herb called bettonica, to which Dioscorides gives the name of cestrum j but others name it psychrotrophon, because it delights in cold situations, ha^dng no resemblance to the aforementioned, ex- cept its medicinal powers. In addition to its action as a diuretic, it is useful for many other purposes; for its root in particular, when drunk with hydromel, occasions vomiting, and the leaves open the bowels. Commentary. Dr. Alston says, " There is a Libellus c (De Betonica) atti'ibuted commonly to Augustus's physician, Antonius Musa, by some to L. Apuleius, of which there are said to be very ancient MMS." We have seen the work mentioned by Alston. It is published Tiguri, a.d. 1537, with notes by Humelbergius. It is a small work, occupying scarcely fom* leaves in octavo. The author commences with a dedication to Augustus, in which he informs the emperor that the betony is useful for forty-seven complaints, which he pro- ceeds to enumerate, after giA'ing a short description of the herb. He says of it, " Cestron vocatur, etiam psychotrophon, siquidem frigidis reperitur in locis, radicibus tenuibus, thyrso tenui ultra cubitum quadrangulo, foliis quercui similibus, boni odoris, semine in summitate thyrsi spicato, modo thymbraj." The following are some of the cases in which he recommends it: For fractures of the head, as an external ap- plication ; for pains of the eyes in a fomentation ; for pains in the teeth, boiled in old wine or vinegar; for consumption and difficulty of breathing; for complaints of the liver, spleen, and kidneys; as a purgative when given to the amount of four drachms in eight cyathi of hydromel; for calculus; for dropsy; to prevent intoxication; as an antidote to poisons and the bites of venomous reptiles and mad dogs; for gout, &c. Many different opinions, as stated by Sprengel, have been entertained respecting this herb. Perhaps, as he suggests, it may have been the Rumex Ilyilrohqmthim, or Aquaticus. The (ccorptug of Dioscorides he thinks is the B. alapccurus. But for the gene-