134 SIMPLES. [book VII, Comm. either alone or with oxycrate, wine, or honey; and after the ' ' ' purging takes place the broth of a hen or of fishes is exhibited to dilute its acrimony and pungency, (v, 19.) Avicenna borrows largely from Dioscorides, but supplies some additional remarks of his own by no means devoid of interest and im- portance. He recommends sea water for chilblains, for killing lice, and discussing extravasated blood. He also, copying from Dioscorides, praises it in pruritus, scabies, and impetigo. Epileptics, he says, are benefited by tepid salt water, but injured by hot. The vapour of salt water, he adds, is beneficial in vertigo and dropsies, (ii, 2,58.) From Rhases's very lengthened dissertation on this subject we can only find room for a few extracts. Upon the authority of Johannitius (Serapion ?), he states that the use of salt water to one unac- customed to it proves laxative and pinches the belly, but to one accustomed to it, it proves astringent. Another of his authorities, Judteus, says salt water proves beneficial in pain of the head and chest, in dropsy, and a watery stomach. He also states of salt water, that although at first it proves laxative, the continued use of it brings on constipation, because, he says, its salt dries, astringes, and strengthens the belly. (Confc. 1. ult. i, 70.) QaX'iKTpov, Thalictrum, Meadow Rue, has desiccant powers, without pun. gency. It therefore heals chronic ulcers. Comm. COMMENTARY. Sprengel confidently pronounces it to * ' the Thalictrum minus, L., that is to say, the lesser meadow of our herbabsts. See Parkinson (265.) Dioscorides an Galen state its medicinal properties in the same terms as o author. It is the Thalitruum of PUny, who Hkewise praises it as an application to ulcers. (H. N. xxvii, 112.) We have not been able to find it described by any of the Arabian authorities on the Mat. Med. except Ebn Baithar, and it has had no place in our English Dispensatory for many ages past. Thapsia, Deadly Carrot, is acrid and strongly calefacient, with some humidity. It therefore attracts strongly the deep- seated fluids, and dispels them when attracted.