ECT. III.] SIMPLES. 133 Vster Atticus. He merely translates the words of Dioscorides Comm. nd Galen. (De Simpl. 96.) We cannot find any mention' ' ' :.f it in the works of the other Arabians, except Ebn Baithar, .'ho also does little more than copy from Dioscorides and xalen. The eryngo long retained its place in our Dispen- latory, indeed it can scarcely be said to be yet formally ex- ■ elled from it. Pereira briefly notices the Eryngium campestre. ct is the Eryngium maritimum, however, which is described in i.-ie Edinbm-gh Mat. Med. Quincy, by the way, in imitation [f Serapion, confounds the Eryngo with the Aster Atticus. 'Complete Engl. Disp. 113.) Boerhaave gave .'the candied ")ot and decoction of eryngo as an attenuant and deobstruent I obstructions of the viscera, and for coughs; and Tournefort lakes mention of the same as being in common use in his lays. (Mat. Med. 98. Engl, edition.) Aqua Marina, Sea Water, is acrid, moderately calefacient, ad desiccantj it is bad for the stomach when taken in a yaught, disorders the bowels, and proves phlegmagogue. If Inured hot on a part it attracts and discusses. I( Commentary. The ancient authorities who have vrritten Comm. »ost learnedly on this important, although common-place * nticle of the Mat. Med., are Dioscorides, Avicenna, and ■nases. Sea water, says Dioscorides, is heating, acrid, and li,d for the stomach, for it disorders the belly, bringing away wlegm and bile. When poured hot on a part it attracts and Hoscusses, suiting with afiections of the nerves and chilblains be- Hgi'e they become ulcerated. It is proper for mixing with raw ftrley-meal, and is suitable for plasters and discutient malag- Htnta. Eor evacuating the bowels it is injected in a tepid Bdte, and for tormina in a hot. It is a suitable fomentation He cases of scabies, pruritus, lichen, enlarged tonsils, and jHr'gid raammee. In hot fomentations it dispels lividities, and iKaseful in the bites of venomous animals, such at least as luce tremblings and rigors, but especially of scorpions, ilangia, and asps, and if, in such cases, one go into a hot h, it proves useful; and in chronic cachexiee of the body and •ves the bath of it is useful. Its hot vapours soothe dropsies, daches, and dullness of hearing. It is given as a purge