SIMPLES. C6 [book VII. BacchariSj Spikenard, is a fragrant lierb^ like cinnamon^ used for garlands. It is acrid; and its root when boiled is deobstruent, diuretic, and emmenagogue. But its leaves being asti'ingent are beneficial in fluxes. Comm. Commentaky. Regarding tbis mucb disputed article, tbe predominance of authority, as we think, is in favour of its being some species of Conyza. Old Gerard gives it the EngUsli names of ploughman^s spikenard and cinnamon-root, an^ repeats the characters of it given by the ancient authori- ties. It has been long since expelled from our Dispensatories. Galen, in his Commentary on the Glossa Hippocratica, mentions that the name is applied botli to a herb and a Lydian ointment. It does not occur in the works of Celsus nor in those of the Arabians. Our author draws his characters of it from Dioscorides, who recommends it, among other purposes, as being emmenagogue and promoting parturition (iii, 44.) BaAaucrrtoi', Balaustium, the Flower of the Wild Pomegranate; it is power- fully astringent, having also desiccant and cold powers. It heals superficial sores, and stops defluxions. Comm. COMMENTARY. Bulaustinc, or the Flower of the double Wild Pomegranate, is an astringent medicine much used by the ancient physicians. Dioscorides recommends it principally as an anthelminthic to kill the broad ascaris, by which he meant the taenia. (See ii, 147.) Galen writes very elaborately on this article, contending that it is a good example of a plant possessed of an astringent quality, and stating that it was in general use with this intention externally in intertrigo and other ulcers, and internally in cases of hjemoptysis, dysentery, and in all defluxions from the stomach or womb. The Arabians give a similar account of it, and further recom- mend balaustine as a whetter of the appetite, and a restorative fr'om the ill efi'ects of intoxication, and a medicine calculated to stop vomiting. See in particulai* Serapion (129), and Avicenna (ii, 2, 109.) Although modern authority is not wanting to confirm what the ancients have stated regarding the efficacy of balaustine as an astringent in diarrhoea, dysenteiy, and menorrhagia, it has been excluded of late