SIMPLES. SECT. III.] Ill Commentary. It is not well determined wtetlier it be a .Comm. species of Cfithmum, Herniaria, or Salsola. Dioscorides makes " * ' it to be a pui'ger of phlegm, bile, and water; and all the other : authorities, both Greek and Arabian, give it the same cha- 1 racters in the main. It does not appear that the Arabians • have noticed it; neither do we find it in the works of Hippo- 1 crates or Celsus. In the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia it is ■ set down as being the Pimpinella Saxifraga. '^TTlOvi-lOV, Epithymum (vel Cuscuta minor ?) Dodder of Thyme, is desic- i cant and calefacient in the third degree, being more drastic • than thyme. Commentary. Dioscorides says oi the Cuscuta Epithymus, Comm. I or lesser dodder of thyme, that it purges phlegm and black " " ' ' bile, and agrees particularly with melancholic and flatulent I cases, (iv, 176.) Aetius, likewise, calls it a melanogogue 1 medicine. Galen and Oribasius give exactly the same cha- r racter of it as our author. Serapion gives a most graphic (description of this singidar parasitic plant, in the present i instance quoting solely from Arabian authorities. They agree bin general that it is deobstruent, cathartic, and emmenagogue, iand join in recommending it particularly in jaundice, obstruc- :tions of the liver and spleen, and in the fevers of children. (De Simpl. 39.) Mesne, also, gives nearly the same charac- >ters of it; he mentions of it that it is a weak and slow purge, ; unless taken in a large dose, and, therefore, he recommends •it to be given -with Indian myrobalans, black hellebore, mulse, jsalts, or the like. (16.) See also Avicenna (ii, 2, 226) and IRhases (Cont. 270.) It held a place in our Dispensatory, with H;he character of being a cleanser, down to a late period. See IRutty (Materia Medica, p. 80.) ; Quincy (Complete Engl. ^Dispens. p. 117.) E7ri/jr?'Siov, Epimedium, Barren Wort; its powers are moderately refri- •gerant, with a watery humidity. When applied in the form lof a cataplasm it preseiTcs the breasts in a right state. It is lalso said to prevent conception when taken in a draught.