SIMPLES. 315 SECT. III.] the kid, of tlie antelope, and of the camel. As stated by us Comm. in the Fifth Book, the ancients administered rennet in cases ' ' ' of poisoning with curdled milk. It appears remarkable that an article unquestionably capable of being applied to so many medicinal purposes as rennet, should have been entirely ex- cluded fi'om om* modern Dispensatories. Panniculus, Rags; when those from wool are burnt they have similar powers to burnt wool. Linen, when burning, sends forth a subtile smoke, so as to prove deobstruent in catarrhs, and agree with risings of the womb. "When burnt, its powers are nearly the same as those of wool. Commentary. These things are so well known as not to Comm. require fui'ther illustration. " ' Rhamnus, Buckthorn, is desiccative in the second degree, but cooling in the first. Hence it cures herpes and erysipelas when not very hot. Its tender leaves are to be used. Commentary. This appears to be the first species of Comm. Dioscorides, which we may decide to be the Lycium Europceum. ' The second is the Lycium Afrum. The third is not well ascer- tained, but probably is a species of paliurus. See Parkinson - (Theatre of Plants, 1006), and Sprengel (Ad Dioscor. i, 119.) Dioscorides recommends the leaves of all the three kinds for herpes and erysipelas, and also mentions that the twigs of them were placed in doors and windows to avert sorcery, (i, 119.) Galen and the other Greek authorities treat of this article in nearly the same terms as our author. Pliny recommends it as a cooling and refrigerant application. (H. N. xxiv, 76.) The Arabians borrow their account of it entii'ely from Dioscorides and Galen. See in particular Serapion (De Simpl. 230); Rhases (Cent. 1. ult. i, .591); Avicenna (ii, 2, 315) ; Ebu Baithar (ii, 223.) Va^avog, Rhaphanus, Radish, is heating in the third degree, and de- siccative in tlie second. The wild is more powerful. The . seeds of both are stronger, and tlierefore they discuss hypopion and other lividities.