SIMPLES. [book VI]. 318 Comm. of the New. The Resina liquida laricis is now generally called by the name of Venice Turpentine. The Resina lentisci is well known by the name of Masiich. The Colophonian rosin, which is often mentioned in this work, is the same as the black fiddler's I'osin. The Cypress rosin does not appear to be much known now. Pliny correctly observes that all these resins act on the bowels and the urine. The mode of burning or roasting resin is described by Dioscorides. (i, 93.) He gives a very interesting account of the resincB in general, Avhich he represents to be emollient, calefacient, dissolvent, cleansing, suited for coughs and consumptions, in electuaries by themselves or with honey, clearing away matters from the chest; and as being diuretic, digestive, laxative of the bowels; adapted for the operation on trichiasis (see Book VI, 8), and for leprosy, with verdigris, copperas, and natron; for purulent ears with honey and oil, and for itching of the pudendum. They are mixed, he adds, with plasters, liniments, and acopa, and relieve pleuritic pains either when rubbed in or applied by themselves, (i, 91.) All the other authorities prescribe the resins freely, but none give so full a description of them as Dioscorides. See, however, Celsus (pluries), who appears to have been par- ticularly fond of them. He recommends turpentine rosin with butter and honey in phthisis (iii, 22), in dyspnoea (iv, 4, 2), and in vaiious other cases. Our author's account of them would seem to be principally taken from Galen. The Ai'abians, as usual, copy from the Greeks, and supply Httle additional of their own. See Avicenna (ii, 3, 242); Serapion (De Simpl. 325); Averrhoes (Collig. v, 42); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 580, &c.); Ebn Baithar (pluries.) All the resinae here described occur in the modem Greek Pharmacopoeia (160, 161.) 'Po'Sa, Rosae, Roses, are naturally composed of a wateiy substance, which is heating, astringent, and bitter. The flowers are stUl more astringent, and hence are desiccative. Comm. COMMENTARY. It Comprehended the R. lutea, Derlech, R- ' " ' arvensis, and probably other species of the Rosa, L. Diosco- rides gives a careful exposition of the particular uses of Roses in medicine. He says they are cooling and astringent. In preparing the flowers for use, he directs the nails or white