138 SIMPLES. [book VII. Comm. COMMENTARY. The Cultivated kind is certainly the Lactuca sativu : the wild the L. virosa. The ancients, as we have stated in another place, were well acquainted with the hypnotic powers of lettuce. See Celsus (ii, 32); Dioscorides (ii, 164); Athen. (Deipnos, ii, 80, ed. Schweig.); Pliny (xix, 38); Galen (De Alim. Facul. ii, 40); Geopon. (xii, 13); Aetius (i, 108); Symeon Seth (De Alimentis); Macer Floridus (De Herb, vir.); Serapion (De Simpl. ex Plant.) According to Dioscorides, it is also anaphrodisiac, and removes the pollutio noctumi somni. One of Serapion's Arabian authorities commends it in jaundice; and another of them says that it dispels the impleasant effects produced by intoxication. (De Simpl. 240.) Avicenna's account of its medicinal virtues is very interesting, but is in the main derived from Dioscorides and Galen. He represents it to be an eminently cold, that is to say, a sedative plant, and recom- mends it in all complaints of a hot nature, in watchfulness, alienation of mind, and in coup de soleil. He also speaks highly of its milk in hot atFections of the eyes, (ii, 2, 441.) E,hases likewise gives an excellent description of its powers, but in nearly the same terms as Avicenna. He makes it to be soporific, anaphrodisiac, and alexipharmic. (Cont. 1. ult. i, 386.) Dioscorides states that the wild lettuce is a hydragogue purgative, and we may mention that the late Dr. ColUn, of Vienna, gave it with great success in dropsies. Avicemia says the wild, in virtue, resembles the black poppy. We need scarcely say that both the L. sativa and virosa have, of late years, been restored to the Materia Medica. Upon reference to the works of Orfila, Paris, Pereira, and other authorities of the day, it will be seen that the ancients had correctly stated the medicinal virtues of both species. Thymus, Thyme, heats and dries in the thii'd degree. It also incides viscid and thick humoui's. Comm. COMMENTARY. We have httle hesitation in describing it ■""^—' to be the Thymus vulgaris. Dioscorides states that thyme is expectorant, diuretic, emmeuagogue, and discutient; and all the authorities, down even to modern times, confirm this cha- racter of it. Galen says it is to be placed in the third order of desiccants and calefacients. He recommends it as being