278 SIMPLES. [book VII. ^CoMM. pura and raurex. (ii, 10.) Aviceima gives a very accurate account of this article under the name of Blade Byzantie; but except that he does not attribute the fragrancy of the shell to the nard it feeds on, his description is nowise dissimilar to that by Dioscoiides. The medicinal virtues which he assigns to it are exactly the same, (ii, 3, 78.) Serapion gives a hteral translation of the chapter of Dioscorides on the onyx. (De Simpl. 443.) One of Ehases's authorities says of the Blactice Byzantice, that they are of a hot and dry temperament, being possessed of astringency and subtilty of pai-ts, and that they are stomachic, hepatic, emmenagogue, and cordial. (Cont. 1. ult. i, 127.) From the above account of this article, it will readily be seen that it is the cover of the Sirombus lentiginosus. "'Oi'wi'tc, Ononis, Restharrow, has a root which is desiccative in about the third degree, but the bark of it is detergent and incisive; and hence it is lithontriptic. Comm. COMMENTARY. See ''Avwi'ig. Acetum, Vinegar, is possessed of mixed powers, namely, cold and hot, both arising from tenuity of parts; but the cold ^ prevails over the hot. It is a desiccant of the third rank. t Comm. COMMENTARY. It is also called y'XvKadioi', as the Schohast t ' " on Nicander says, per euphemismum, from yXvKvg, sweet. But f- we are rather inclined to think that it is the diminutive of yXeuKoc, must, vinegar being the juice of the grape which has lost its strength. Hence Phny calls it " vitium vini." All the ancient authorities maintained that vinegar is at the same time refrigerant and discutient. Galen discusses the questiou regarding the nature of it at great length and -with much in- genuity. (De Med. Simpl. i.) He, Pliny, and Celsus mention the fact that an eflfervescence is produced when it is poured on earth, meaning, no doubt, certain carbonates. PHny and Celsus commend it in the strongest terms as an antidote to the sting of the asp. Serapion and the other Arabians copy Galen's account of it. Symeon Seth gives an interesting abstract of the ancient opinions on this subject. Dioscorides and Avicenna recommend it as an application to ecchymosis