SECT. 111.] 273 SIMPLES. those which in colour are red and black, in consistency thick^ Comm. and have some acid quality at the same time. Less than " ' these ai'e the white, thick, and austere, in regard to nutritive powers. But of all others the least nutritious are those which . are white in colour and thin in consistency, being in so far like to water. But the sweet are sooner digested and more : readily diflPused over the system than the austere, being of a more heating nature, and they are more laxative of the bowels. But those which are very thick are more slowly digested and ; more slowly distributed; but when the stomach is strong so ; as to digest them properly, they furnish more food to the body 'than any other; and it is clear that they bind the bowels and . are not of a diuretic nature, engendering a thick humour in ^some. And some from them have obstructions of the liver, 'f ;spleen, or kidneys, and hence those become affected with E 1 dropsy or calculus who use them much, and especially old > imen. But of all wines, the best, and best fitted for persons iin good health, and to those who are convalescent from dis- eeases, is that which is red in colour, thin in consistence, and fgently astringent, (i.) "'OiavTTog, GEsypum, Unscoured Wool, is treated of under wool. Commentary. The ffisypum was the sordes collected from Comm. iwool. It was used medicinally in the Hippocratic age (De " * ' Morb. Mulier. ii), and continued to hold a place in the Materia VMedica down to a late date. See Rutty's Mat. Med. (357.) 'Tt would appear, from Dioscorides^s description of the mode of )rcparing it, that it was the scum collected on the surface of .vater by boiling wool in it. (ii, 66.) See also Phny (H. N. vxix, 2.) The ancients used it frequently in the practice of uedicine. See in particular Dioscorides (1. c.) and Avicenna ii, 2, 355.) ''OXvvQoi, Grossi Ficulnei, Green Figs, are possessed of acrid and liscuticnt powers, owing to the juice which is in them. When )oiled, therefore, they discuss hard swellings ; but when raw hey remove myrmecia and thymi. Commentary. They are the unripe fruit of the fig tree. Comm. 111. 18 '--^ !'