292 SIMPLES. [book vii. ^CoMM. mer of these would appear to be the Libanotis of the ancient Mat. Med., and therefore the latter would seem to have pre- ferable claims. Dioscorides recommends it externally as a discutient application to ulcers and tumours, and internally with wine as being an antidote to reptiles, (iii, 49.) Sprengel inclines to think that the Chironium is the Hypericum origanifolium, Willd. Why modern botanists have applied the specific term Chironium to the first of these plants, we are at a loss to explain. Dioscorides recommends it both internally and externally for the bites of reptiles. Galen and the other authorities treat of it in general terms, like our author. The Arabians in like manner give its medicinal pro- perties under the head of Panaces. HcLTrvpoQ) Papyrus, when unburnt is only simply the vehicle of other substances. But when burnt it is desiccative like burnt paper, but tbe ashes of the papyrus are weaker. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is marked Cyperus Papyrus by Linnaeus. From burnt papyrus and bui'nt paper prepared from it, the ancients procured an impure carbonate of kali, which they used as a caustic. It is frequently mentioned by Celsus. PHny says of it, " Charta quee fit ex Papyro, cremata inter caustica est." (H. N. xxiv, 51.) See also Dioscorides and Galen. The papjTus was much used by the ancients for dilating fistulas in the same manner that prepared sponge now is. Avicenna re- commends it for this purpose, and also as a styptic to stop the flow of blood. Its ashes, he says, stop the spitting of blood, (ii, 3, 536.) See also Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 132), and Ebn Baithar (ii, 244.) Paronychia, Mountain Knotgrass, is so named because it cures paronychia (whitlow). Its powers are those of an attenuate and desiccative substance without pungency. Comm. COMMENTARY. The commcntators are divided between the ' ' ' Paronychia Hispanica, Cand., and the Draba verna, or Whitlow- grass. See Sprengel (Ad Dioscorid. iv, 54); Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 105.) Dioscorides and Galen join in commending