SIMPLES. 146 [book VII. Comm. ter of being a drastic hydragogue. Gray, Siippl. to Phar- macop. (251.) It retains a place in the Modern Greek Pharmacopoeia. Isatis, Woad; the garden species -which dyers use, is of a desiccative nature, having also some astringency. By means of these powers it agglutinates even the large wounds of hard bodies, is of use in hemorrhages, discusses oedematous swellings, and opposes the progress of all malignant diseases. The wild is more pungent, and on that account being more desiccant, it the more strongly resists all humid gangrene, but for all otlier purposes it is worse as being pungent. Owing to its strong powers, it is useful in aflections of the spleen. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dr. Martyu says, "The Woad is called Isatis and Glastum, and affords a blue tinctiu'e." (Ad Virg. Ec. iv, 43.) See also Miller, Pai'kinson, and Gerard. It is the Isatis Tinctoria. The second species of Dioscorides, or Sylvestris, is the Saponaria Vaccaria, L., but the passage is probably spurious. Our author's account of the Isatis is abridged from Galen, who has an elaborate article under this head. Aetius copies still more closely from Galen. Both these authorities direct bread or barleymeal to be mixed with its pounded leaves when they are otherwise too strong. Of the Arabians, Avicenna gives the most accurate account of it under the head of Nil seu Glastum sativum et sylvestre. In its external usi he follows Dioscorides and Galen, and joins Rhases in recom- mending it internally as an emetic for the cough of children, ulcers of the lungs, and pleurisy arising from black bile. He further commends the wild species in affections of the spleen, (ii, 2, 505, 290, 299.) Serapion and Rhases give a confused account of the Isatis, under the head of Indicum. (De Simpl- 47) ; (Cont. 1. ult. 370.) The Woad held a place in om- Dis- pensatory down to a recent date. See Quincy (91.) Woad and indigo were long used together in dyeing, which pro- bably is the reason of these two articles being confounded together by certain of the ancient authorities. IffOTTUpOV »J (f)U(JloXoV, Isopyrum or Faseolus, (Bog Bean ?) ; its seed is bitter audi