432 APPENDIX TO [book VII. This account we are inclined to think must refer to senna, (ii, 2, 651.) Rhases gives almost exactly the same description of the sahane. (Contin. 1. ult. i, 596.) In his Avork 'Ad Mansor.' (viii, 54), he gives the account of /Se«e. quoted above from Serapion, and again at 'Divis.' (i, 144.) Haly Abbas describes it accurately in his chapter on Purgatives. (Pract. ii, 54.) He recommends it as a medicine wliich purges both yellow and black bile, and is useful in gout and rheumatism, and in colics when mixed with raisins, oil of almonds, &c. Mesne describes senna as the folliculus of a plant resembling the tare. The best part of the plant, he says, is the folliculus (legume ?), and next the leaves; and both these parts are said to be best when of a green colour. As senna has a tendency to weaken the stomach by its operation, he recommends it to be mixed with ginger, sal gem, Indian salt (sugar?), and cordials. He quotes Galen (through some mistake, as is generally sup- posed) as recommending it boiled in the soup of fowls. He also speaks of giving it in whey^ or in milk, or in mustj that is to say, the fresh juice of the grape. The last of these pre- parations he praises as cleansing the brain and senses, and creating joy. He also speaks favorably of a decoction of it with prunes and spikenard. As to its virtues, he says it readily purges black and adust bile, cleanses the brain, heart, Hver, spleen, the senses, and lungs, proves deobstruent and dispels sorrow. He also speaks favorably of the leaves when applied to the head in the bath as improving the senses of sight and hearing, and as proving a remedy to fevers arising from black bile, and to chronic fevers. (De Simpl. xv.) Ebn Baithar gives an interesting description of it. He says in Arabia it is used as a dye, and that its leaves are mixed with those of the plant now called Laivsonia inermis. He calls it cholagogue and melanogogue, says it penetrates the inferior extremities, and purges them in cases of gout. He also praises it in scabies, epilepsy, and a great many other diseases. By some mistake he quotes Paulus. He says it is better in decoction than in powder. The dose of the latter is from two to three drachms, of the former from four to seven drachms, (i, 57.) Actuarius says of sene, that it purges moderately in doses of one drachm. (Meth. Med. v, 8.) Se7ie occurs as an ingredient in several of the antidotes of Myrepsus, as c. 112, 465, 472. Under