[book VII. SIMPLES. 288 considerably desiccative powers, especially, they say, those of men. The ankle-bone of a sow when burnt, is said to cure flatulence and tormina. And some cure epilepsy and arthritis by giving burnt bones to drink. The burnt ankle-bone of an ox is said to fasten loose teeth; but if drunk with honey, it removes round worms, and with oxymel it reduces the spleen, and when rubbed in relieves leuce. It is also an aphrodisiac. The burnt thigh-bones of an ox if taken in a draught, stop hemorrhages and fluxes of the bowels. ' Comm. COMMENTARY. The Other authorities give nearly the same ' ' ' account of their medicinal properties. See Galen (De Simpl. 11) J Serapion (c. 464); Avicenna (ii, 2, 528.) The Arabians borrow from Galen and our author. ''OarpaKa, Testae, Shells, from furnaces, when triturated, are possessed of desiccative and detergent powers. Hence they are used as a dentifrice, and when rubbed in with vinegar cure itch, exan- themata, and gouty complaints, and with cerate dispel enlarged scrofulous glands. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is now well ascertained that burnt shells '—*—' consist principally of lime. They, may, therefore, be supposed to form a good stimulant application to certain cutaneous diseases and tumours of an indolent nature, as recommended by our author and Dioscorides. (v, 177.) Oribasius says, that they are very efficacious in repressing fungous flesh when sprinkled in the form of a fine powder. *0(TTpia, Ostrea, Oyste7'S; the burnt shell is possessed of similar powers to the buccina, but is not of so gross a consistence. It is used, therefore, as a detergent to the face, and whitens the teeth. When washed it is freed from pungency, and is useful for incarnating and cicatrizing ulcers attended with a copious discharge. Comm. COMMENTARY. Galen givcs the same account of the bui'nt "—shells of oysters or snails. He says, that if a shell be washed and burnt it imparts an empyreuma to the water, which ren- ders it heating and attenuant; whereas, what remains is devoid of pungency and terrene, and it is useful for the filling up'