379 KCT. III.] SIMPLES. he done until the skin and fibrous part of the grain drop ofi". Comm. Crcop. iii, 8.) Pliny, however, seems to make it a peculiar ' ' ' >pecies of grain. " Far sine arista est: item siligo. Adji- ciuntur his genera, bromos, siligo excepta, et tragos, externa omnia ab Oriente invecta, oryzse similia." (H. N. xviii, 20.) Chilen and Oribasius call it spelt deprived of the hull. Dioscorides also describes a shrub of this name, which there can be no doubt is the Ephedra distachya. He describes it as being very styptic to the taste, and recommends it in cseliac affections and in fluor albus. (iv, 51.) It appears singular that none of the other authorities, as far as we can discover, has noticed it, with the exception of Ebn Baithar, who merely ! gives a translation of the chapter of Dioscorides on it. (ii, 156.) ' The Asiatic Ephedras were formerly kept in the shops as styptics. See Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 234.) Tp/yXa, Trigla, the fish Surmullet, when frequently eaten, occasions dimness of vision. When cut in pieces and applied raw, it ares the bite of the sea-dragon, of the scorpion, and of the -pider. Commentary. It is the Mullus barbatus L. According Comm. to Coray (Ad Xenocrat.), it is the Surmullet. R. Stephens like-"—*—' iwise calls it by this name. It is the " Barbatulus mullus" of (Cicero. (Paradox, v, 2.) We have treated of it as an article of bod in the First Book. Dioscorides, Galen, and all the au- thorities that notice it, give it the same characters in a raedicine as our author. It does not appear that the Arabians describe it. TjOtTToXtOV, TripoUum; the root is hot in the third degree and acrid. Commentary, We shall have an opportunity in our Ap- Comm. pcndix to discuss the question, whether or not this be the " " ' Turpeth of the Arabians, as has been often stated. We may i ust mention in this place, that Sprengel is inclined to refer it to the Plumbacjo Europcea, a plant which seems to agree very w ell with the characters of the present article, inasmuch as its root is peculiarly acrid. See Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 041.) Dioscorides says of it, that its root is hot to the taste, and that lien drunk with wine it discharges water and urine from the