[book VII- 186 SIMPLES. M. The preponderance of authority seems to lead to the conclu- sion that they all were species of .Inula, namely, the greater /. viscosa, Act., the lesser Inula saxatilis, and the tliird, /. oculus Christi. The conyzse were employed in medicine at a very early period, being frequently mentioned in the Hippo- cratic treatises. See Dierbach, who, however, has decided differently from us as to the plants to which the conyzse are referable. He mai'ks the fetid conyza as being Ambrosia maritima, and the fragrant as Inula bifrons. The greater conyza of Dioscorides would appear to be the cunilago of Pliny (H. N., XX, .63), where see'the note of Harduin. Our authoT follows Dioscorides and Galen, who agree in the main as to the medicinal properties of these plants. All the authorities concur in opinion that the greater conyza is emmenagogue, and procures abortion in pessaries. Ebn Baithar seems to treat of it rather confusedly under the head of Thuback. (ii, 150.) Few, if any, of the other Arabians have noticed it; and it is not contained in the Greek Pharmacopoeia. Stercus, Dung ; all kinds of it are of a heating, desiccative, and discutient nature, but they differ from one another ac- cording to the temperament and diet of the animal which voids it. The dung, then, of dogs fed on bones, when dried, cures dysenteric affections if taken in a draught with dirided milk (lac scissum), and old ulcers, if mixed Avith suitable medi- cines. In cynanche and inflammations about the tonsils, it is rubbed into the parts mixed with honey. These complaints are greatly relieved by the dung of children who have not been permitted to take too much food. The dung of wolves and the whiter sort which is found upon certain shrubs, is an admirable remedy for colics, and that, not only in a draught, but also when appended as an amulet. It may be fastened either with the wool of a sheep recently killed by a wolf, or the skin of a stag. Goat's dung, being more acrid and discu- tient, discusses scirrhous tumours when applied external^, more especially upon hard flesh. When burnt it is more detergent and attenuate. The dung of oxen has some attrac- tive poM'ers, and, therefore, cures the stings of wasps and bees. And if the whole body of persons affected with dropsy be