r. ITT.] 173 SIMPLES. luu-mic medicine, and also as a stomachic and deobstruent in Comm. ' igestion of the liver. He also holds it to be cordial and ' ' ' )ectorant. (ii, 2, 134.) Serapion professes to borrow his ac- iiuit of cinnamon from Dioscorides and Galen; but the lact which he gives from the latter, is not to be found in >s works as they now exist. In it cinnamon is commended being an aromatic medicine, applicable in complaints of the iiiach and liver, in affections of the eyes, and as an umenagogue and diuretic. (De Simpl. 266.) Rhases copies lu Dioscorides, Galen, and our author. (Cont. 1. tdt. i, 213.) Ktp/CEO, Circea, Enchantei''s Nightshade; its root, which is desiccative ul fragrant, when drunk with wine, cleanses the uterus, fruit, when taken in gruel, promotes the formation of milk. Commentary. The commentators are much divided re- Comm. ( cting it. Sprengel inclines to the Cynanchus niger. Lobelius k it to be the Solanum Dulcamara. One thing is certain, at it was quite different from any known species of the odern genus Circcea. See Parkinson (351.) Both Galen d our author, in treating of it, borrow from Dioscorides, the imer of these professedly. We have not been able to detect in the Mat. Med. of the Arabians. Pumex, the Pumice-stone, is detergent, and more particularly the teeth, not only in power, but also by its asperity. It is ^0 joined to the medicines used for the incarnation of ulcers, d to the abstergent plasters applied to the skin. If burnt, parts became finer, but it is then pungent; but if washed lays aside its pungency. Commentary. There can be no doubt that it was Pumice. Comm. imice, according to the latest analysis, is found to contain " ' ' ica, argil, magnesia, soda, oxyd of manganese, and some ter. For an account of it, see Pliny (H. N. xxxvi, 42.) He .ommends it in diseases of the eyes. It appears evident, wever, that he had copied from his contemporary, to whom is so frequently indebted, we mean Dioscorides, who gives similar description of pumice, and also recommends it in oases of the eyes, more especially in opacity of the cornea.