[book VII. 386 SIMPLES. Comm. mend it as a stimulant application to discuss tumours and ' • ' suggillations. See in particular Dioscorides (ii, 190), and Galen (De Simpl. viii.) The Arabians treat of it succinctly in mucli the same terms. See Rhases (Cont. 1. vdt. i, 5ol)j Avicenna (ii^ 2, 551.) Aqua, Water; the best, and that which is unmixed with other matters, is cooling and diluent by its own proper sub- stance. Having got acquired heat, as long as it preserves this it heats, but when it becomes cold, it cools. That which has a certain admixture, such as of natron or bitumen, acquires the property of the substance which is mixed with it. Rain water has some astringency, for which it is mixed with oph- thalmic remedies. The qualities of the best water have been enumerated in Book I. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is fuUy treated of by us in Book I. See in " * ' particular Pliny (H. N. xxxi, 21); Avicenna (ii, 2, 58); and Rhases (Contin. 1. ult. i, 706.) Hyoscyamus, Henbane, that species which has black seed, and that which has yellow, are deleterious. The fittest for medicine is that species, the seed and flower of which are white, being of the third order of refrigerants. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscoi'ides describes with considerable pre- ' * ' cision three species of hyoscyamus, deriving their specific differences from the colour of the seed, the fii'st being black, the second yellow, and the third white. The first two he rejects as being highly dangerous, by inducing delirium and sleep. The first of these we are inclined to think must be Hyoscyamus niger, a well-known plant, which was most probably naturalized in this country by the Romans for medicinal pur- poses. The second was probably a variety of it, or H. aureus; and the third the H albus. He gives minute directions for preparing the juice of it, which he recommends as an ingredient in anodyne collyria, for hot and acrid rheums, earache, and complaints about.the uterus; and with flour for inflammations of the eyes, feet, &c. Its seed, he says, is applicable for j coughs, catarrhs, defluxions, and pains of the eyes; for raenor- I