[book vxi. OINTMENTS. 596 nard, of costus, of cloves, of cassia, of cassamum, of each, oz. iij (in another formula also, of arnabo, oz. iij) ; of wine, q. s. The third addition.—Of frankincense, of ammoniac perfume, of storax, of bdellium, of myrrh, of mastich, of each, oz. iij ; of wine, q. s. ; of white wax, oz. v; of opobalsam, oz. vj (some make it oz. viij). The articles of the first addition are to be first macerated for one day in the juice of unripe olives and the oil; but those of the second in another vessel, in Aminsean or some other old and fragrant wine, stirring eveiy day with a spatula of palm three times for three days ; after which boil in a vessel lined with tin ; first, the articles of the first addition until little remain of the unripe olive juice : then, immediately add those of the second with the wine. But it is better, having first filtrated, to add these things to the pure oil; and when boiled until little of the Avine be left, in order that the oil may not be burnt, take it off the fire and filtrate, and add again to the pure oil the succulent articles of the third addition, which have been previously triturated in a mortar with wine such as I mentioned, all except the storax, for it, if added with the other things, is straightway dissolved. And they are to be boiled upon coals until the preparation appears to be in a proper state, Avhen it is to be taken off the fire and allowed to cool. Next day, having filtrated the oil carefully, and warmed it sufficiently upon the fire, add the wax, and when it is taken off, stir with a spatula. After it is cooled add the opobalsam, and lay it up in vessels of glass. The gleucinum, or oil of must. The first addition.—Of oil, sext. X ; of Aminaean must, sext. vj ; of rose-wood, oz. iv ; of palm-branch, oz. vj; of the schoenanth, oz. vj ; of melilots, oz. iv; of roses, oz. j ; of myrrh, oz. iij ; of bay-leaves, oz. ij; of frankincense-tree, oz. vj ; of xylobalsam, oz. \]; of elecampane, oz. vj ; of long birthwort, oz. iij ; of ii'is, oz. iij. Macerate these things in the must. The second addition. —Of Celtic nard, oz. iv; of cassamum(or sow-bread), oz.ij; of cyperus, of cassia, of spikenard, of asarabacoa, of amomum, of costus, of sampsuch, of each, oz. iij ; of calamus aromaticus, of cloves, of Indian leaf, of each, oz. j ; of carda- mom, oz. iv. Macerate in fragrant wine. The third addition.—Of mastich, oz. iv; of troglodytic myrrh, of bdellium, of each, oz. ij ; of ladanum, oz. iij ; of hquid