36G [book VII. SIMPLES. Comm. Dioscorides is the author who has written most elaborately on this article, which he recommends in haemoptysis, diarrhoea, dysentery, menorrhagia, prolapsus uteri and ani, in aflfections of the mouth, as already stated, and, in a word, he concludes by saying of its oil, that it is beneficial in all cases requiring astringency. (1. c.) Galen also gives a veiy sensible account of this tree, which he represents to be an astringent of the same class as hypocistis. Celsus prescribes it on various oc- casions, as, for example, a decoction of its leaves to suppress immoderate suppuration, (vi, 18.) He ranks it among the astringent and emollient substances, (ii, 33.) All the Arabians treat largely of it, but copy most of their information from Dioscorides and Galen. See Avicenna (ii, 3, 458); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 457) ; Serapion (De Simpl. 159) ; Averrhoes (Collig. v, 42); Ebn Baithar (ii, 518.) In particular all re- commend it as a dentifrice and odontalgic, and we need scarcely mention that it still is used in the East for these pur- poses. See Paris (Pharm. t. ii, 323) and Pereira (1184.) It is stated in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia that it is cultivated in Chios. Juncus, the Rush; its flower is moderately calefacient, but astringent in a less degree, and is not removed from the nature of attenuating substances. Hence it is diui'etic, em- menagogue, and deobstruent in fomentations, potions, and cataplasms. The root of it is more astringent, but the flower hotter. The marsh-rush consists of two varieties. The fiiiit of the oxyschoenus or Hard-rush, as it is called, is soporific, but that of the holoschoenus less so, and it also occasions head- ache. Both varieties, if toasted and drunk with wine, dry up fluxes of the belly and restrain the female discharge. Comm. COMMENTARY. It requires some attention not to confound "—•—' the Schceni with one another. The Schcenanthus, then, is decidedly the Andropogon Schcenanthus, or Lemon-grass. See Dr. Eoyle (Antiq. of Hindoo Med. 82) and Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 113.) The a. eXeta is the Schcenus Holoschoenus ; the oXoayroLvoQ, the Schainus mariscus; and the o^vcry^oivoQ, the Juncus acutus. The first of these is the species most cele- brated as a medicine. Thus it is the schoenus of Dioscorides, who represents it as being useful in vomiting of blood, pains