[book VII. SIMPLES. 108 Comm. confidence in the white hellebore, which he took himself, and * ^ administered freely to his patients with great success. He says of it, " recreat et roborat, et hilariorem facit, et acuit ingenium, quod in me et aliis ssepissime expertus scribo. Ego, si vixero, in ellebori historic multa proferam quae medici ad- mirentur." The following is his formula for preparing it: R Hell. alb. dr. ij, vini cretici oz. vj, stent in maceratione, per mensem, additis, si placet, aromatibus. Of this preparation, from 6 to 9 scr. were given according to circumstances. Baglivi calls hellebore the " Hercules remediorum, pluriumque domitor incurabilium morborum." Platearius, treating of hellebore, says that the ancients used it as a purge, in like manner as scammony is now used, for that men's bodies, in former times, were stronger than now; such a medicine would require to be given with great caution. He says of it, that it purges phlegm and black bile. The white, he adds, is a more violent medicine than the black. (De Simplici Medicina.) For a great many years past, with the exception of the partial administration of the eau medicinale in cases of gout, the internal use of the veratrum may be said to have been quite lost in the practice of medicine, and that, not only in this country, but also in the land of Hippocrates and Dioscoi'ides. In the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia it is directed to be kept as a poison, (p. 76.) Mesue, Serapion, and many of the authorities recommend the black hellebore in melancholy. That it was either the Helleborus niger, or the species o?7- entalis, Toumefort, and not the Veratrum album which was commonly administered in Anticyra, in cases of mania and melancholy, is clearly proved from Dioscorides (iv, 149.) He further states of it that, applied per vaginam, it procures menstruation, and kills the foetus; he recommends it for the cure of scabies, alphos, lichen, and leprosy; he also speaks favorably of it as an external application to fistulse, dropsies, toothache, and diseases of the ears. Galen recommends both species equally in nearly the same class of complaints. Notwithstanding the high authority of Pereira, who main- . tains the contrary, we do not see the least reason to doubt that the black hellebore of the ancients was our Helleborus niger, or Christmas rose. See Gerard (Paradisus, p. 386) and Parkinson (p. 311.) Without doubt it was introduced