SIMPLES. 364 [book VII. ^V/U.(j)VTOV, Symphytum, Comfrey; the rock comfrey is composed of opposite powers. For it has some incisive powers by which it cleanses the pus in the chest and the kidneys; and it has also some constringency which renders it a suitable remedy for haemoptysis, sprained and ruptured parts, the red flux in women, and intestinal hernia. It contains also some hot humidity, by which it quenches thirst and cures asperities in the trachea. The other species, called the Ch-eat Comfrey, is glutinous and prurient like squills. It is used for the same purposes as the rock. Comm. COMMENTARY. The second species is indisputably the ' * ' Symphytum officinale, a plant which the Romans, no doubt, naturalized in this country. The other has been the subject of more controversy. See Parkinson (526) and Matthiolus and Sprengel (Ad Dioscor. iv, 9.) We are satisfied that it was the Coris 7nonspeliensis. Our author manifestly abridges Galen, who bon-ows from Dioscorides, but improves what he takes. They all agree in commending both as being possessed of great virtues as expectorant and vulnerary medicines. Dios- corides particularly commends the latter as an application to inflammations about the anus in a cataplasm, with the leaves of senecio. Neither of these plants is mentioned by Celsus, nor, we believe, by Hippocrates. Avicenna wi'ites hesitatingly about them, but in the main agrees with Dioscorides with regard to their medicinal ^^rtues, more especially in haemoptysis, ulcers of the intestines, menorrhagia, and as an application to external injuries, (ii, 2, 634.) The Arabians in general seem not to have attached much importance to the Symphytum, for, after a cursory examination while writing this article, we have not been able to find it in any of the others except Ebu Baithar, who merely gives extracts from Dioscorides and Galen, under the present head. Apuleius mentions that the Latin name of the Symphytum is consoHda. De Hill calls it a famous vulnerary both internally and externally, and as such it is highly commended by all our older herbalists. See Parkinson, Culpeper, and Gerard. It would appear also that the other species, the Coris monspeliensis, was employed in the medicine of the Spanish monastic orders as an efficacious vulnerary. See Lindley (A'^eg. Kingd. 645.)