APPENDIX TO [book vii. 434 Aben Mesabali^ who recommends it in flatulent colic and eruc- tations. (De Simpl. 333.) Avicenna, having described it, de- livers the same account of its medicinal powers as Serapion, that is to say, he holds it to be hot and dry in the second de- gree, of subtile parts and carminative, says that it renders the breath fragrant, is good for the stomach, promotes digestion, is useful in colic and pains of the kidneys, and is aphrodisiacal. (ii, 2, 314 ; v, 2, 6.) The same account of it is given by " the Son of Mesne," in the ' Continens' of Ehases (1. ult. i, 323.) In the pharmaceutical work of Myrepsus there is an " antidotus a Galanga," which is said to be beneficial in afi"ections of the stomach and spleen, and in indigestion; also for singultus, acidity of the food in the stomach, cachexia, dropsy, and cold- ness of the whole body : it contains cloves, ginger, cinnamon, galangal, &c. (i, 63; also, 222.) Ebn Baithar ascribes the same virtues to it as Scrap ion ; thus he says it is a wonderful aphrodisiac, promotes digestion, cures colic, is carminative, and so forth. Although now little used, galangal root is not yet wholly unknown to the writers on the Materia Medica. Dr. Pereira says of " I'adix yalangoi officinalis; its odour is agree- ably aromatic, its taste peppery and aromatic. It is the rhizome of the Alpinia Galanga Roxb." (Mat. Med. 698.) See also Lewis (Mat. Med. 452); Hill (Mat. Med. i, 447) ; Quincy (72); Gray (Suppl. to the Pharmacop. 26) ; Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 166.) There are two species of galangal, which Dr. Lindley refers to the alpinia racemosa and galanga. He says of them, " the warm and pungent roots of the greater and lesser galangals are not only used by the Indian doctors, but are considered useful in coughs, given in infusion." (Ibid.) On the Galangal see further Ainslie (Mat. Ind., i, 140.) Zeduaria and Zerumbeih. In order to understand this subject it will be necessary in the first place to see the descriptions of these sub- stances given by modern authorities. Dr. Pereira says of the former of these : " The Zeduary root {Radix Zeduaria officinalis) of English druggists appears to me to agree with Professor Guibourt's description of 7-otind Zeduary (Zeduaria rotunda). It is the sliced tuber of Curcuma Zeduaria Box. It has a warm, aromatic, bitter taste, and an