SIMPLES. 3o0 [book VII. Comm. clown as the latter^ and treated of it as an article of food. (Vol. I, ' * 114.) All the authorities give it nearly the same character as our author. See Dioscorides (iii, 72); Galen (De Simpl.); Avicenna (ii, 2, 55.) All agree that it is an excellent diuretic and emmenagogue. It is the olusatrum of Scribo- nius Largus. Sonchns, Sow-thistle, is astringent and sensibly cooling both when applied externally and eaten. But when di'ied, it is moderately calefacient. Comm. COMMENTARY. It would appear to be the Sonchus oleraceus, ' * ' but this is not quite certain. Dioscorides describes three species, of which the first two are, perhaps, but varieties of the Sonchus oleraceus, although some of the authorities would refer the first to some distinct species, not well determined. Galen and our author describe only one species, which would certainly appear to have been the S. oleraceus, a well-kno'wn plant, which held a place in our Dispensatories until a late date. See Quincy (i, 11, 510.) Dioscorides calls it sub- astringent, and recommends it in a cataplasm for heat of the stomach and inflammations, and its juice for stomach-ache and to attract milk; when applied on wool, he says it reheves inflammations of the anus and uterus; and that its root and stem are useful to persons bitten by scorpions, (ii, 158.) Galen merely states its temperament and qiialities in general terms. We are not aware that it is described by any of the Arabians, with the exception of Ebn Baithar, who merely gives the descriptions of it from Dioscorides and Galen, (i, 211.) STTopyaviov, Sparganium; this also is possessed of desiccative powers. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is the Sparganiwn simplex. PHny re- —' commends it as an antidote to the sting of serpents. (H. N. XXV, 63.) He, as usual, borrows from Dioscorides. (iv, 21.) Galen treats of it as briefly as our author. Few, if any of the other authorities, notice it. Its congener, the S. ramosum, is still kept in the shops with the reputation of curing the bite of the viper. See Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 15.)