[book VII. EMETICS. 506 introduced so as to occasion the discharge of the injection and stop the vomiting. After the discharge of it, an injection of honeyed water is to be given once or twice in order to was]i out the gut. The same person says : A suppository is made ol' white hellebore, pounded and strained, and mixed with boiled honey, which purges like the injection of hellebore. But the following is a better method; for we have it in our power to regulate the purging: The quantity is to be dr. ij of hellebore, and the suppository is to be wrapped round, or bound witli some flocks of wool firmly. The head of this ball of wool is to be allowed to hang out of the anus, in order that after suffi- cient purging it may be in our power to remove the supposi- tory. This method purges elfectually, and neither occasions convulsive suffocation nor any other dangerous symptom. Comm. COMMENTARY, The gcntlc cmetics used by the ancients ' ' ' on ordinary occasions have been treated of in Book I. We have now to give some account of the more drastic emetics. Galen and Oribasius recommend, as effectual emetics, the bulb of the narcissus, the seed of the anagyrus, and the fleshy part of nut ben. The Unguentum irinum and the U. cypri- num are stated by Aetius and most of the other authorities to be safe and effectual emetics. Aetius also commends the decoctions of hyssop and of thyme, the seed of bastard saffron pounded with oily grain, the oils of sesame, radishes, and narcissus, and the leaves of the daphnoides. Nitre or an im- pure carbonate of soda was also a medicine in general use as an emetic. The Lemnian earth was often given as an emetic, being a sort of red ochre. Avicenna and Rhases make mention of a species of black turbith, called gilbenec, which they de- scribe as an effectual emetic, but somewhat unsafe. See the Appendix. Avicenna says that tickling the throat with a feather, smeared in the oil of sesame, readily excites vomiting. He remarks that vomiting is promoted by motion and stopped by rest. The bulbus emeticus was in general use to produce vomiting. Serapion directs us to give it boiled along with honey He also commends the nux vomica as an emetic when given along with a small quantity of salt. We need scarcely say that it is now seldom or never given for this pm'pose, although it still holds a place in some of the continental i