[book vit. EMOLLIENT PLASTERS. 580 Of bee-glue, oz. vj ; of storax, oz. ij ; of mastich, oz. j ; of tur- pentine, oz. ss ; of the lees of nard, q. s. The malagma from wild vine. Of wild vine, of aloes, of saffron, of acacia, of fissile alum, of dried roses, of the juice of wormwood, of galls, of the oil of unripe olives, of Syrian sumach, of manna, of each, dr. j ; of myrtle-oil, of wax, of each, lb. j ; five large palm-nuts; of Aminsean wine, q. s. The Anhjllian tnalayma. Of fissile alum, oz. ss ; of aloes, oz. j ; of mastich, scr. vj ; of wild wine, scr. viij ; of the oil of unripe olives, scr. viij; of dried roses, scr. viij; of Syriac sumach, scr. x; of the Egyptian thorn, scr. x; of the flowers of the wild pomegranate, scr. xx; of galls, scr. xv; of wax, oz. V; of oil of apples, q. s. The malagma from grape stones. Of saffron, of sandyx, of wild vine, of each, oz. j ; of dried alum, oz. iv; of the flowers of the wild pomegranate, of oil of unripe olives, of the flower of roses, of dried myrtles, of each, oz. ij ; of white wax, lb. j ; of oil of apples, lb. ij ; of quinces, oz. iv ; ten Nicolan palm nuts; of Aminsean wine, q. s.; of dried grape stones, oz. viij. In using, take of the medicine, oz. iij : of Avax, oz. j. The malagma from dill. Of green dill, oz. vj ; of melilot, oz. ijj of chamomile^ oz. ij; ten green heads of poppy. Having boiled, mix of the decoction, lb. iij ; and as much of oil; and when the decoction is consumed, add of fresh hog's lard, lb. ij j and separately triturate of the inner part of baked squill, oz. ij; and of stag's marrow, oz. ij. Mix all together. The malagma ambrosia, for stoj)ping fevers. Of litharge, lb. j; of fresh hog's lard, oz. vj; of the juice of linseed, oz. vj ; of white wax, oz. ix; of oil of roses, lb. j ; of honey, oz. iij; of saff^ron, oz. j. Some add also the raw yelks of ten eggs. Commentary. Le Clerc thus describes these preparations: " Ce qu'on appelloit malagma ne diff'eroit fort de I'emplatre. Galien declare (Pharmac. gen. vii, 5) qu'il est indifferent qu'on se serve du terme de malagme, ou de celui d'emplatre." He adds, " Ce qu'on appelloit epitheme etoit aussi k peu pres le meme chose." (Hist, de la Med.) According to Galen, the malagmata derived their name from being used as emollient applications to parts in an indurated state, and were all mode- rately calefacient, being in general neither desiccative nor