SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 423 ciysipelas, the leaves of beet being laid on the place. Pliny, Comm. and Dioscorides recommend them for affections of the eyes. ' ' ' Avicenna recommends the white of an egg with melilot in ulcers of the intestines. He says eggs boiled in vinegar are useful in diarrhoea and dysentery. He recommends a supposi- tory of the albumen of an egg in' prolapsus ani, and other affections of the fundament. Like' the .preceding authorities he speal^s favorably of it as an application to the eyes, (ii, 2, .320.) See also Ebn Baithar (i, 193)Serapion (c. 446); llhases (Ad Mansor.; Antid. iv.) ''Qki/xov, Ocimnm, Basil, belongs to the second order of calefacients^ and has also some recrementitious' humidity^ hence it is of no use when taken internally; but when applied externally, it is' discutient and digestive. Commentary. It niost probably is the Ocimum Basilicum. Comm. Dioscorides not only recommends it for many medicinal pui- ' ' poses externally, but also says of it that it loosens the bowels, is carminative, diui'etic, and creates milk, but is of difficult I digestion; the seed, he adds, when taken in a draught, is I beneficial in melancholy, dysuria, and flatulence, and it is also \ sternutatory, (ii, 170.) Our author follows Galen very closely. I Aetius also condemns the internal administration of basil, but i praises highly a decoction of it as a fomentation to the eyes, i and particularly those of children. Oribasius as usual follows I Dioscorides, and, therefore, like him approves of the internal ' use of it. It occui's in the works both of Hippocrates and Celsus, the latter of whom says of it that it moves the bowels, and is diuretic, (ii, 29, 31.) The Arabians treat of it still more fully than the Greeks. Avicenna says it is a cordial medicine, that it generally binds the bowels, but also moves them, if there be humours in them, that it is useful in ha^mo- j)tysis and in difficulty of breathing, (ii, 2, 101.) See also Serapion (c. 167); Ebn Baithar (i, 110); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. ii, 121.) The basil held a place in our Engbsh dispensatory down to the times of Quincy and Lewis, It holds a place in the modem Greek Pharmacopoeia, where it is stated that it I is indigenous in Persia, and only cultivated in gardens in Greece, (p. 27.)