[KOOK VII. 526 ANTIDOTES. Comm. by Galen,itwa^ composed of inspissated juices, liquid juices, barks, roots, flowers, seeds, and flesbes. Of the vegetable substances which entered into the composition of it, it is difHcult to re- mark any one general charactei*, although one can have no difficulty in perceiving that by far the greater number of them are hot, volatile stimulants, which, agreeably to the ancient views of practice, as explained by us in the Fifth Book, were supposed to counteract the frigidity of poisons. It was, no doubt, with the same intention that Andromachus added the flesh of vipers, from which, as a modern author, Moses Charras, remarks, a volatile salt and oil are procured. In preparing the vipers, Galen directs us to cut ofi" the head and tail to the- ex- tent of fom* fingers' breadth, and then to take out their entrails and fat, and boil them until the backbone be separated from the flesh, when the latter is to be taken out and formed into trochisks, with crumb of bread. We need not occupy time with detailing all the other steps in the formation of this mul- tifarious composition, as our author's account is sufficiently ample and accurate. Galen expresses great confidence in it, especially as an antidote to poisons, and a remedy for invete- rate diseases of the skin, such as leprosy and elephantiasis. It derives its name, he says, either from its being used as a remedy for the stings of venomous animals {O^pia), or because the flesh of such a reptile, namely, the viper, entered into the composition of it. The Greek authorities subsequent to Galen repeat his directions for forming this celebrated medicine, and any altera- tions which they make in it are not very important. The Rheum barbarum instead of the Rha Ponticum appeai-s in the prescription given by Myrepsus. Like his predecessors, he praises the theriac not only as an antidote to poisons, but as a preservative from pestilential diseases. Actuarius, who describes it very accurately,pronounces it to be the best of all the antidotes. Averrhoes's treatise on the theriac is interesting and worth consulting, although his views are upon the whole much in accordance with those of Galen. He seems to have referred its action as a medicine to its power in rousing the vital heat of the system ; and hence he very properly forbids it to be administered in all cases of an inflammatory and bilious nature. He therefore condemns the use of it in pleurisy un- J