SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 89 Celsus, and the Arabians. As they all give it the same cha- Comm. racterSj we need not occupy space with extracts from them. See ' " ' particularly Serapion (De Simpl. 147); Ebn Baithar (ii, 66.) According to the Greek Pharmacopoeia the G. glabra is the species now used in Greece. TXvKVaL^TI], Glycyside, Pceony, (called also Pentorobon and Pajonia); its root is acrid, somewhat bitter and desiccative, having also some astriugency. Hence it excites the menstrual discharge, and cleanses the kidneys and liver when drunk, to the size of an almond, with wine ; but if the wine be austere it restrains alvine defluxions. When appended as a periapt, it cures the epilepsy of children. Commentary. Sprengel makes the two species described Comm. by Dioscorides to be the Pceonia officinalis and Corallina. We ' ' have mentioned in the Third Book that it has been much cele- brated both in ancient and modern times as a cure for epilepsy when appended as an amulet. See Andreas Laurentius (De Mir. Strumar. Curat, pp. 40,63), and Macer (De Viribus Herb.) Quincy, in his ' Complete English Dispensatory^ (London 1769), says of the root of peony, "the good ' women highly esteem necklaces made of it to hang about their (children's necks for convulsions and difficult breeding of the ■ teeth." Considering the faith which many educated persons ' now repose in the virtues of galvanic rings and garters, the ; present generation has little ground for laughing at the credu- i lity of our forefathers, with respect to amulets and other phylac- tteiies. On the PcEonia, see particularly Dioscorides (iii, 147); • Galen (De Simpl. v); Serapion (c. 61); Ebn Baithar (ii, 240.) IThe Pceonia officinalis is still retained in the Greek Pharma- ccopoeia (p. 121.) Tva(pa\iov, Gnaphalium, Cudweed, is so called because its soft leaves ave been used in place of combed wool (gnaphalum.) They "e white and moderately astringent, and are, therefore, drunk ith austere wine for dysentery. Commentary. There has been a great shifting of names Comm. 'by botanical authorities of late, with regard to the Gnajihalia and the cognate genera. It seems now agreed that the medi-