SIMPLES. SECT. III.] 127 broth of fish to be prepared in the following manner : first Comm. pour in plenty of water, then add of oil q. s. with a little " ' ' dill and leek; then, Avhen the fish are half boiled, spriakle a little salt. (De Alim. Facult. iii); (Meth. Med. ix.) Apicius , in the tenth chapter of his work, gives fourteen difli'erent re- < ceipts for prepai'ing soups from fishes. Most of them contain ' -vvine, honej^, vinegar, and oil, with pepper, lovage, cumin, ] rue, &c., among the ingredients which enter into their compo- ! sition. On the fishes mentioned under this head, see Book I (SO.) The Arabians generally condense the substance of 1 Dioscorides's two chapters on Garum and Jus into one, under the title of Muria. See Serapion (184), and Avicenna (ii, 3, 486.) Serapion's Arabian authorities recommend it as a . gentle purgative and phlegmagogue in sciatica, both when , given by the mouth and in clysters. One of them says of it, that it makes the pustules of smallpox come out, -when the ; eruption is slow in taking place. Mentha, Mint, is hot, consists of subtile particles; its powers re acrid in the third order, with some half-concocted fluids; |t'it therefore provokes to venery. It has, likewise, some bitter- i^aess, by which means it kills intestinal worms; and by its wotimess its restrains recent discharges of blood. CoMMENTAiiY. Wc uccd have no hesitation in referring it Comm. [with all the best commentators to the Mentha sativa, L. ' * ' )ioscorides says it has calefacient, astringent, and desiccative )owers; and hence, he adds, it stops the discharge of blood [Ivhen di'unk with vinegar, and kills the round worms, (iii, 36.) [ALCCording to him, it stimulates the male to venery, but pre- 'ents conception in the female when applied on a pessary before coition. He fm-thcr says of it, that it stops hiccup, iromiting, and cholera, when taken in a draught along with |iihe juice of an acid pomegranate. He also recommends it, in the prm of an external application, for headache, complaints of the ureast, and other cases. Galen pronounces mint to be one of |fbe most attenuate articles in the Mat. Med. He agrees with \)ioscorides that it is useful in hfemoptysis; and that it is I'nthelrainthic and aphrodisiac. The author of the Hippocratic