SECT. III.] 229 SIMPLES. smootHly upon places about to be burnt or cut, it renders tlieui Comm. insensible without danger, (v, 157,) ' ' The Seleniies consists principally of a compact lamellated gypsum. According to Eustathius, it is the same as the ' Lychnitis, which Dionysius the geographer, describes as re- sembHng fire in lustre. (Orbis. Descrip. 328.) It is soft, pellucid, and colourless. Dioscorides describes it minutely, and mentions of it that it was given as a draught to epileptics, and used as a phylactery by women. He adds, that it was also appended to trees in order to make them keep their fruit, (v. 158.) Khases, under the head of "lapis lunaris," copies {his chapter of Dioscorides. (Cont. 1. ult. i, 405.) The Lapis Specularis was the same as the Moscovy talc. It was much used by the ancients for windows in place of glass. It is a variety of selenite, or sparry gypsum. See Kidd and Jameson. We have treated of it under the head of Gypsum in the Fifth Book. The Smaragdus of the ancients is unquestionably referable to our emerald, but there is every reason to believe, also com- prehended coloured ciystals and certain stones of the jasper kind. It does not occur in the works of Dioscorides or Galen; and, as far as we know, Aetius is the first medical author who describes it. He says of it, that when roasted and levigated with Attic honey, it cures dimness of vision; that it is most useful in elephantiasis, both externally and internally; and that as an amulet it restrains bleeding, (ii, 39.) We are not aware that any other ancient authority, whether Greek, Roman, or Arabian, has noticed it. We will treat of the Bezoar-stone and Gall-stone of the bull in the Appendix to this section. Ai0o(T7r£p^oi' (called also Xuoairopnov rj i^puKXeiov), Lithospermon, Gromvjel, is the seed of the herb called Aegonychus, of a stony hardness, and white, Avhicli, when drunk with white wine, proves lithontriptic and diuretic. Commentary. Without doubt it is the Lithospermum Comm. offidnak, or Gi'omwel. Pliny expresses himself respecting it"—'—' in the following terms: " Nec quidquara inter hcrbas majorc quidera rairaculo aspcxi. Tantus est decor, velut aurificum arte alteruis inter folia candicantibus raargaritis : tarn exqui-