SIMPLES. 9(i [book vu. being somewhat astringent and moderately acrid. It is there- fore a good application for malignant ulcers. Comm. CoMMENTAiiY. Dioscorides gives a very circumstantial de- ' • '• scription of thrpe varieties of this substance, which for many years has'been lost sight of. Matthiolus calls it the Husk of Bronze^ and Sprengel says it is called Kiqifermulm in Germany. Rutty ranjcs it- among the obsolete medicines of the ancients. (Mat. Med. pr. 27.) Rhases treats of it. '(Cont. ult. 356.) See Serapioi^ (c. 418.) Dipsacus, Teasel; the root of this thorn is desiccant in the second degree, and is also somewhat detergent. Comm. COMMENTARY. The root of the Dipsacus fullonum, or '—»—' manured teasel, is praised by Dioscorides as an application to ' fissures and fistulte of the anus, and it held a reputation in these cases -down to a late period. See Rutty (Mat. Med. 168.) Dioscorides further mentions its use as an amulet in quartans, for which also it was long celebrated; for our Quincy speaks of " the superstition of some people of his day in using it as a charm against agues." (Complete Dispensatory, 117.) li'or the Arabians, see particularly Serapion (c. 106) and Ebn Eaithar. It is not noticed by Hippocrates nor Celsus. AopUKI'lOV, Dorycnium, Shrub Trefoil {?), i^ of a similar temperament with the poppy and mandragora, that is, immoderately cold. When taken in a small quantity it occasions torpor, and in lai'ger doses it proves fatal. Comm. COMMENTARY. In the Fifth Book we have stated the difiB- '—V—' culty of determining what it was. Authorities are di\dded between the Convolvulus Dorycnium L. (Angl. Shrubby Bind- weed), the Solanum Sodomoeum, andiAtropa Belladon7ia. Dios- corides says of it that it is soporific, and when taken in large doses proves fatal; he adds, some affirm that the seed of it is sought after for philtres, or love potions, (iv, 75.) Galen gives nearly the same account of it under the name of Doryc- nidium. The Arabians would appear not to have admitted it into the Mat. Med., for the Doronicou of Serapion is a difl'ereut plant, (c. 335.)