WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. [book vii. 612 Comm. Arbutlmot (On Ancient Coins, Weiglits, and Measures); Milligan (Prsefatio et Notse in Celsum); Poucton (Metrologie); Raper (Philosopli. Transact. London, 1770, 1771) ; J. F, Wurm (De Pond. &c.); Conger (Weights, Measures, &c. of the Greeks and Romans.) Since a proper knowledge of this subject is indispensably necessary, in order to attain a practical acquaintance with ancient pharmacy, we shall not scruple to avail ourselves freely of the information contained in the works of the modern authorities referred to above. It will be seen, that in the following sketch, we have followed Arbuthnot very closely ; indeed, it is proper to mention, that when we origi- nally wrote this, our concluding Commentary, we were not acquainted with the labours of Wurm and Conger. We now remark that, although the later authorities agree with Arbuthnot on general principles, they differ from him on a few points, as will be perceived upon a comparison of his tables with those of Conger. The discrepance between them, we find, arises from two causes, only one of which, it will be observed, is of any practical importance. First: Arbuthnot mixes the fractional with the decimal mode of computation, whilst Conger uses the decimal method alone. Second : They give different estimates of the length of the Pes. For example, Arbuthnot states the contents of the ligula to be ^ pint, and the decimals '117^ solid inch; whereas Conger rates it at the decimals '62 pint, or the decimals '69 solid inch. Now the 48th part of a pint equals the decimal '6, which, when added to the former deci- mals •117 solid inch, amounts to "717 : the difference between this number and "69 is "027, which being multiplied succes- sively by the tabular values of the ligula, cyathus, acetabulum, &c., and the product divided by the number of solid inches in a pint, gives 12 pints, or 1 gal. 2 qts. as the difference between Arbuthnot's and Conger's contents of the amphora. By Arbuthnot's table the contents of the amphora is 7 gal. 1 pint, 10-66 solid inches; by Conger's, it is 5 gal. 2 qts. 1 pint, and the decimal -64 of a pint. For example, gal. qts. pis. sol. inch. Arbuthnot's amphora =7 0 1 10'66 Conger's " =5 2 1 Difference 12 0 10-66