SECT. III.] 167 SIMPLES. medicinal hartshorn of the ancients, but that the moderns Comm. have commonly used the horns of the fallow-deer instead. ' ' ' See HiU's Materia Medica (835.) aaia, Cerasia, Cherries; the sweet are more laxative, the austere more stomachic, hut the acid agree best with pituitous and foul stomachs, owing to their being incisive. The gum of the tree smoothes asperities of the trachea, and relieves calculous aflections when di'unk with wine. Commentary. This unquestionably is the Prunus Cerasus, Comm. L. We have given some account of cherries in the portion of our work devoted to ancient dietetics. Galen, in his work on Simples, treats of them with great precision; he remarks that in some the austere quality, in some the sweet, and in others the acid prevails, and that when unripe the sour is pre- dominant. In fact, our author's account of them is manifestly abridged from Galen. Aetius and the other authorities, in like manner, copy from Galen. See also Serapion (c. 145.) K parojvia, Ceratonia, Carob-tree, and the fruit of it {siliqua) are pos- sessed of desiccant and astringent powers, with a certain share of sweetness. Commentary. It is unquestionably the Ceratonia Siliqua, L., Comm. or Carob-tree. We have given some account of it among the ' * ' articles of food in Book I. All the other authorities on the [ Materia Medica give it nearly the same characters as our ► author. The writer who is fullest on this head is Avicenna, who treats of it under the name of Carob, i. e. Siliqua. (ii, 2, 193.) See also Serapion (c. 135), and Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. I i, 366.) Our modern herbalists treat of it in nearly the same y terms as the ancients. See Parkinson (236.) It is still used H on the Continent and in Asia as an inferior article of food, H. and holds a place in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia. H. K£(^aAoi, M Capita, Heads; those of pickled herrings, when burnt, ac- li quii'c a dcsiccative power without being very acrid. They Hi therefore relieve fissures about the anus, and chronic cases of