SECT. II.] SIMPLES. 3 Commentary. The following is a list of tlie ancient au- Comm. tliorities on tlie Materia Medica and Pharmacy : Hippocrates ' * ' (pluries); Dioscorides (de Materia Medica); Celsns (v); Scribo- nius Largus (pluries); Marcellus Empiricns; Pliny (H. N. plui'ies) j Rei Rnsticse Scriptores; Apuleius (de Herbis); Antonius Musa (de Herba Betonica); Macer Ploridus; Galenus (de Simpl.; de Comp. Med. sec. loc.; de Comp. Med. sec. gen.); Aetius (i and ii); Oribasiiis (Med. Collect, xi et seq.); Sextus Platonicus (de Med. ex animal.) ; Zosimus Panopolita (de Zythorum confectione); Actuarius (Meth. Med.); Myrepsus (pluries); Psellus (de Lapidibus) j Rhases (Contin. liber ult.; ad Mansor. iii); Avicenna (ii, et alibi); Serapion (de Simpl.; de Antidot.); Mesne (de Simpl.); Haly Abbas (Pract. ii and x); Averrhoes (Collig. v); Albengnefit (Libellus de Simpl. med. virt.); Geber . (Chemia); Servitor (de Preepar. Med. i. e. xxviii Albucasis); Baitharis Prsefatio ap. Casiri Biblioth. Arab. Hisp. p. 276 ; Ebn Baithar (Uebersetz von Sontheimer); Bei B-usticse Scriptores Ai'abici ap. Casiri B. A. H.; Alchindus (Libellus de Med. compos, grad.) Hippocrates, although he appears to have been familiarly acquainted with the properties of most of the vegetable sub- stances of the Old Worldj still employed in the practice of medi- cine, has left no regular treatise on the Materia Medica and pharmacy of his time. Theophrastus has treated more fully and ingeniously of botany and vegetable physiology than any other Greek writer; but except in two or three instances he scarcely alludes to the medicinal powers of the articles which he describes. In short, Dioscorides is the first and great autho- rity on the Materia Medica,—his contributions to which, can never be too liighly appreciated ; for, as Alston justly remarks, the science in anqient times remained ever after in nearly the same state as he left it. The genius of Galen, it is true, shed a considerable degree of lustre over the subject by his philo- sophical theory regarding the general actions of medicines; but his descriptions of particular substances, and even his de- tail of their properties, are mostly borrowed from Dioscorides. The Greek authors, subsequent to his time, can scarcely be said to have added one single article to the list of medicinal substances described by him. Aetius, however, although he