[book VII. 536 SMEGMATA. roundj triangular, square, long, or otherwise, -which being spread upon paper, and dried out of the sun, and at a distance from the fire, to the end they may be dried in all parts alike, may be put up in boxes or pots for use." (Royal Phar. ii, 21.) Troches are pharmaceutical preparations still frequently used. According to the directions in the ' Edinburgh Dispensatory,' " they are composed of powders made up with glutinous sub- stances into small cakes, and afterwards dried." There is this diflference, however, between the troches of the moderns and the trochisci of the ancients, that all the former are given internally, whereas many of the ancient trochisci were used as external applications. Of this description are five out of the sis pastilli described by Celsus. Le Clerc says of them: " lis differoient des emplMres, et des collyres, en ce qu'il n'entroit aucune matiere huileuse dans les trochisques et quails servoient pour le dedans aussi bien que pour le dehors." (Hist, de la Med.) SECT. XIII. DRY APPLICATIONS AND ABSTERGENTS (SMEGMATA.) Of dry applications or powders, some suit with ulcers, and some are applied to the skin. Of those which suit with ulcers, some act as incarnants of hollow ulcers, and some restrain fungous flesh, and some are cicatrizing, some caustic and septic, and some styptic. The incamative applications act either by cleansing foul ulcers, such as those from tares, bu'thwort, iris, all-heal, myrrh, frankincense, and aloes; or by drjdng the superabundant discharge, as those from copper, diphryges, squama jeris, burnt paper, the bark of pine and thorn. But these promote cicatrization, either by blunting acrimony and pungency, such as those from pompholyx, starch, ceruse, sphecla (impure potass), the lapis specularis, burnt oysters, terra Samia, and the like, and the compositions from them pos- sess similar powers. Of repressing medicmes, some are mild, such as those from squama Eeris, those from misy and chalcitis, when burnt, and galls ; but those from copperas, verdigris, misy, and chalcitis, not burnt, are stronger. The caustics and septics are prepared from quicklime, arsenic, sandarach, and