SIMPLES. SECT. III.] 191 a part requires to be heated, or a deep-seated humour at- tracted to the surface, one has recourse to the costus. It is therefore diureticj emmenagogue, and anthelminthic. It has also some flatulent powers, so that it excites to veuery when drunk with wine and honey. It suits with ischiatic and paralytic affections, and with periodical rigors when rubbed in with oil. Commentary. We should occupy more space than we can Comm. afford to devote to it if we were to enter into a disquisition on ' " ' the general literature of this article. Those who feel curious to know our opinions on this subject, are referred to the Appendix to Dunbar's Lexicon, already frequently quoted by us. Much interesting information respecting the costus has been supplied by very recent writers. See Royle (Ant. of Hindoo Medicine, 88), Ainslie (Mat. Ind. 152), and Pereira (Mat. Med. 699.) Dr. Lindley says of it, "Dr. Falconer has ascertained that the costus of the ancients is the root of his Auklandia Costus, a plant inhabiting the moist open slopes surrounding the vale of Cashmere. In Cashmere the plant is not held in repute as a medicine, but is chiefly employed for protecting bales of shawls from the attacks of moths."^ (Vegetable Kingdom, 708.) We may add, that although the zediiary be not the same as the costus, as has '■■ been supposed, there can be no doubt that it was often used lin place of the costus. (See M. Charras' Pharm.) More I recently, we have reason to think, our costmary, Balsamita I vulgaris, was used as a succedaneum for the ancient costus. t Compare Parkinson (80) with Hill (M. M. 624.) The three 1 kinds of costus described by Dioscorides, namely, the Arabian, tthe Indian, and the Syrian, would appear to have been only 1 varieties of the same substance. He says it is possessed of (calefacient, diuretic, and emmenagogue powers, and is useful iin uterine affections, in pessaries, fomentations, and fumiga- t tions. He recommends it as being alexipharmic, expectorant, laphrodisiacal, vermifuge, a good application externally in p paralytic cases; and, in short, he gives it nearly the same r characters as our author, who evidently copies from him and [Galen. Aetius and Oribasius do the same. The Arabian cauthorities on the Mat. Med. in like manner, do little more Itlian quote what Dioscorides, Galen, and our author have