[book VII, 36 SIMPLES, Comm. Commentaey. Many of the older commentators supposed '' this to be the plant which produces turbit, but we shall have occasion to discuss this question when treating of the additions to the Materia Medica made by the Arabians. What this article really was is very uncertain. Pliny and all the medical authorities mention its purgative powers. See in pai'ti- cular Dioscorides (iv, 177), from whom our author endently copies. Alysson, Madwort, is so called because it is of use to those who have been bitten by mad dogs. Being possessed of dis- cutient, detergent, and desiccative powers, it removes obstruc- tions of the kidneys, and cleanses ephelis. Comm. COMMENTARY. It was supposed by the earlier herbalists ' " ' and commentators that the A. of Galen is a different substance from that of Dioscorides. The former (which is also our author's) is a species of horehound, to which the herbalists give the distinctive name of Galen's madwort. It is the Marrubium Ahjssum. That of Dioscorides has been conjec- tnred to have been some species of Veronica, but, in fact, there is no certainty on this point, and we must own om' inability to perceive the difference between it and the A. of Galen. Dioscorides recommends his plant in ephelis and hydrophobia, (iii, 95.) See also Avicenna (ii, 2, 26.) 'AAw7r»j^, ' Vulpes, the Fox; the whole animal, if boiled alive or dead, renders the oil discutient, when it attracts the deep-seated fluids to the surface. Wherefore, when arthritic patients are put into a hip-bath of this oil for a considerable time it re- moves the complaint entirely, if at its commencement, and moderates it if protracted. Comm. COMMENTARY. Galen and Serapion give nearly the same " ' ' account of the medicinal properties of the Canis vulpes as our author. Amaracus, Marjoram; it is calefacient in the third degree, and desiccative in the second. Comm. COMMENTARY. That it was somc species of marjorain appears quite certain from the ancient descriptions of it; but,