[book VIr. SIMPLES. 68 Comm. Oribasius, neither is it found in Celsus. Avicenna and Ebn ' Baithar we believe are the only Arabians who notice it, and they copy from Dioscorides (ii, 2, 553, and i, 166.) Baro?, Rubus, the Bramble; its shrubby part is moderately asfringent and desiccant, and therefore agglutinates wounds and stops defluxions. The root, in addition to its astringency, is attenuate in no small degree. It therefore breaks dovA u renal calcuh. Its ripe fruit is hotter, and has a moderate astringency. It is therefore edible; but the unripe is sour and powerfully desiccant, more especially if dried. In like manner also the flower. Comm. COMMENTARY. The first spccics of bramble described by Dioscorides is probably that well-known one the Rubus fruti- cosus, the other is the Rubus Idceus, or raspberry bush. The B. 'l^aioQ of Dioscorides was supposed by Ruelhus and others to be the Fragaria or Strawberry, but with this supposition we cannot agree. Strawberries are not noticed by any Greek writer, but are first mentioned by Ovid (Met. i, 104) j and then by Pliny (H. N. xxv, 62.) The j.Lopov ^aruSeg, of which mention is occasionally made by our author, was the fruit of the bramble, being so called, according to Eustathius, from its resemblance to mulberries. (Ad Iliad, xiii, 121.) Om- author abridges Galen, who is at great pains in defining the powers of the batoSj which he makes out to be moderately astringent and desiccative ; and hence he pronounces it to be useful in dysentery, fluxes of the bowels, atony, haemoptysis, and in cal- culus as a lithrontriptic. Dioscorides indulges in a still more lengthened exposition of its virtues, recommending the decoc- tion of it as an astringent in looseness of the bowels, and in fluor albus, as an antidote to the sting of the serpent Prester; its leaves when chewed, to strengthen the gums and cure the aphthae of children, and externally, for the cure of herpes, achor, procidentia ocuH, and many other diseases (iii, 36.) It is briefly alluded to by Celsus in treating of lientery (iv, 16.) The Arabians, as usual, copy from Dioscorides and Galen. See Serapion (De Simpl. 124); Avicenna (ii, 2, 572.) The rubi held their place and ancient chai'acters in our Dispensatories