455 SIMPLES. SECT. III.] Faufel, or Avellana Indica, is described by Serapion's autho- rities as being like the nutmeg, and as having a slight degree of heat with some bitterness. Its virtues are said to be like those of the sandal tree. It is recommended as an application to hot apostemes. Some of his authorities call it hot and dry, and all seem to agree in holding it to be astringent. One of them, Mesarugie, says that it suits with toothache and scabies of the eyebrow. Mesne says it strengthens the teeth, re- presses the gums when swelled, and is useful in swelling of the eye. (De Simpl. 345.) Avicenna describes it as being cold with some astringency, and as being useful in hot apostemes of a gross nature, and inflation of the eye. (i, 2, 256.) Ebn Baithar calls it a palm, and says of it that it is a gentle pur- gative, makes the breath fragrant, is a cordial, and strengthens the gums and teeth, (i, 267.) Now there can be no doubt that the former of these is the piper betel, and the latter the areca catechu. The nuts of the latter, which modern authorities describe as resembling the nutmeg, are cut into slices, and along with the leaves of the betel constitute the famous masticatory of the East called betel. For an account of these two substances, consult in particular Ainslie (Mat. Ind. i, 268, 465); Royle (Antiq. of Hindoo Med. 85); Pereira (M. M. 616) j Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 137); Meyen (Geograph. of Botany, as edited by the Hay Society.) Chubabe, or Cubebee. Avicenna under this head refers to the carpesium of Galen, but it CAddently was a different substance. Some, he says, had called it refrigerant with some heat, but he holds it to be truly hot and dry in the second degree. He calls it aperient and attenuant, and recommends it in putrid ulcers of the members and gums, as a medicine which clears the voice when 1 held in the mouth, and as a deobstruent of the liver in en- ; yorgement thereof; as a cleanser of the urinary passages, as a diuretic medicine which promotes the discharge of gravel and ' stones of the kidneys, and of the bladder, and he adds, " Spu- ■ turn masticantis cam delectat eam cum qua habetur coitus.'' (ii, 2, 134.) Rhases also, through some mistake, quotes Galen under this head, and gives exactly the same account of its