102 SIMPLES. [book VII. EAaio^tEAj, Elseomeli, Honeyed Oil. In Sj'ria, an oil thicker and sweeter than honey, flows from a certain trunk; when drunk to the amount of two cyathi with a hemina of water, it produces a dis- charge of crude and bilious matters from the bowels. Those who have taken it become torpid; yet one need not be alanned, but only rouse them. Comm. COMMENTARY. Pliny describes it as a natural exudation ' * ' from trees on the maritime coasts of Syria. He adds, it is fat, thicker than honey, thinner than resin, of a sweet taste, and is used in medicine : " Manat ex arboribus pingue, crassius melle, resina tenuius, sapore duici, et hoc medicis." (H. N. xxv, 7.) He states in another place that it is a nauseous purgative, (xxiii^ 56.) Dioscorides gives the same account of it as our author, and describes an oil to be prepared from it. Avicenna and Rhases recommend it as an application to ulcerated scabies. It appeal's singular that this natural substance should have been entirely lost sight of in modern times, inasmuch that unless we adopt the conjecture of Alston, that it was some species of manna, we must admit ourselves entirely igno- rant of it. EXoTJj'piOP, Elaterium ; the juice of the fruit of the wild cucumber is so called, being in the second order of calefacients. It pro- motes the menstrual discharge, and destroys the fcetus when applied in a pessary, by its extreme bitterness. "When rubbed in with milk it evacuates by the nose. When administered in an injection, it occasions a discharge downwards of phlegm, and sometimes of blood. Comm. COMMENTARY. It would appear that Hippocrates apphed " * ' the term to all drastic purgatives. See Eustathius, Ihad. (xviii, 564.) By Dioscorides and all subsequent authorities, it i restricted to signify the fecula of the Momordica Elaterium, o wild cucumber. It was much used by the ancient physician in the cure of dropsy, as we have stated in the Third Book Dioscorides correctly states that it evacuates bile and phlegm both upwards and downwards. He recommends it pai'ticularl in cases attended with difficulty of breathing. As an emetic he directs us to administer it in oil, or with the ointment o iris. As a purgative, he recommends it to be given wit!