[book vir 388 SIMPLES. Hypericum, St. John's Wort, consists of two species, the first of wliicli, called Androssemum or Ascyron, has been treated of. The other is heating and desiccative, consisting of a sub- tile substance. Hence the whole fruit of it is diuretic and emmenagogue. When applied green along with its leaves it cicatrizes wounds. It cures sores when sprinkled diy upon them. It is also given to drink in ischiatic complaints. Comm. COMMENTARY. There is some difficulty in determining the ' * ' species. Sibthorp decides in favour of the Hypericum crispum. The other authorities, namely, Dioscorides, Galen, and Aetius, give it the same characters as our author. Celsus recommends it in calculus, (v, 31.) The Arabians in like manner commend it as being emmenagogue and diuretic. See Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 371) ; Averrhoes (Collig. v, 43); Avicenna (ii, 2, 354); Serapion (c. 267.) Rhases says it is called "herba sancti Joannis,^' and hence the modem term St. John^s wort. 1 Trr}Koov, Hypecoon, is cooling in the third degree, being neai'ly hke poppy. Comm. COMMENTARY. The Hypecoum procumbens would seem to ' * ' answer very well with the characters of it given by Dioscorides and the other authorities. It is a genus closely allied to the poppies. The other writers on the Mat. Med. treat of it in the same brief terms as our author. See Dioscorides (iv, 68); Ebn Baithar (i, 63.) YTT()y\waaoi', Hypoglosson, is a shrub; the root and juice of it ai'e pos- sessed of emollient powers. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is the Ruscus Hypoglossum. It appeai-s to "—'—' have been little used. We are not sure that it is mentioned at aU by the Ai-abians, except Ebn Baithar, who copies literally from Dioscorides and Galen (i, 98); and the Greeks all treat of it briefly like our author. Dioscorides mentions its being used as an amulet in headache ; and that its root and juice formed ingredients in softening plasters, (iv, 130.) It is not even yet whoUy unknown to the shops. See Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 24.)