200 [book VII. SIMPLES. it cures inflammations and swellings, and dispels tlie milk in tlie breasts. Comm. COMMENTARY, We have stated in the First Book the dif- ficulty of determining exactly the nature of the ancient faba. See Parkinson (Theatre of Plants, 1054) and Dickson (Hus- bandry of the Ancients.) Dioscorides describes two species, the Egyptian and the Greek, of which the former, there can be httle doubt, is the Nelumbium speciosum. See Sprengel (Ad Dioscor. ii, 128), and Lindley (Veget. King. 414.) The other, as we formerly stated, was probably a variety of our small bean. The characters of both are fully stated by Dioscorides, from whom Galen and our author borrow largely under this head. They treat, however, only of the Greek bean. Dioscorides says the Egyptian is astringent and stomachic; that the flour of it made into a poultice, answers in dysenteric and colic affections, and in earache. The Arabians give a very full ac- count of the two species of bean, both as articles of food and as medicines. See in particular, Avicenna (ii, 2, 241); Serapion (c. 97); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 279.) Avicenna and Rhases agree in commending beans for spitting of blood, and other affections of the chest. JLvavog, Cyanus, is possessed of acrid, purgative, and discutient powers, greater than those of the cinnabar. It has also some astringency. Comm. COMMENTARY. Matthiolus determines it to be the Lapis ' ' ' Lazuli, and Sprengel agrees with him that it was a mineral containing copper and some impurities, and nearly alHed to the L. Laz. Serapion describes the ap^ilviov by the name of Lapis Lazuli, and, in fact, the ap/xeViov and KvavoQ seem to have been nearly the same thing. He recommends it as a purgative which evacuates black bile. Ehases, in his chapter on the Lapis Lazuli, gives the observations of Dioscorides and Galen on the apixiviov, and in his chapter on the Lapis Armenus, he compares it to the Lapis Lazuli (Cont. 1. ult. i, 393, 404.) The following is Spren gel's account of the arme- nium and cyanus: " Armenium est cuprum carbonicum terreum, lapidi Lazuli simile. Id in australibus petris arenosis, has ipsas penetrans mineram teris arenosam format. Ea vocatur