398 SIMPLES. [book VIT. Comm. " Phycos thalassion, id est, Pucus marinus." (H. N, xxvi, G6.) ' ' Galen treats of it in nearly tlie same language as our autlior. It would appear to be tlie Muscus marinus of A\dcenna, who borrows the description which he gives of it from Dioscorides, (iij 2, 452, and 711.) Our old English herbalists, Parkinson and Gerard, repeat the characters given to the fuci by the an- cients, but these articles were long omitted from our Dispen- satories, until of late some of them were readmitted, when it was ascertained that they contained iodine. We have known old practitioners, who used the Fucus vesiculosus, or Sea Wrack, very extensively as an application to scrofulous sores. See further Pereira (562), and Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 7.) Beckmann gives a very ingenious disquisition on the Phycos thalassion of the ancients, Avhich he makes out to have been our Archil or Lichen roccella, a sea-weed which has been exten- sively used, both in ancient and in modern times for the dyeing of wool. (History of Inventions.) It must be to it that Horace alludes when he speaks of " lana medicata fuco," in his famous ode on Regulus. f Phyllites, Hart's Tongue, is somewhat sour, and from this quality it naturally proves a remedy for diarrhoea when drunk. Comm. COMMENTARY. There seems little reason to doubt that it is "—" ' the Scolopendrium officinale, or Spleenwort. It is the Lingua Cervina of Parkinson (Theatre of Plants, 1047.) Both Galen and Dioscorides, like our author, recommend it in fluxes of the bowels, as being possessed of astringent powers. It is not met with in the works either of Hippocrates or Celsus. It was re- ^ tained in the Dispensatory in the time of Quincy (88, 123), and even at the present day it is not an entire stranger to the shops. See Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 12.) Galbanum, is heating almost in the third degree, and is de- siccative almost in the second, being possessed of emollient and discutient powers. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscoridcs says of Galbauum, that it is the "—•—' juice of a Ferula growing in Syi'ia, by some called metopium. PUuy describes it thus: " Quod maxime laudant, cartilagiuo-