570 PLASTERS. [book VII. other scirrhous sioellings. It is called pmnjmthes. Of litharge, lb. j; of old oil, sext. j; of squama ajris, oz. j; of burnt coppoFj oz. j ; of sanguis dracouis, scr, xviij ; of a living magnet, oz. j ; of Phrygian stone, dr. vj; of the stone pyrites, of calamine, of scraped verdigris, of frankincense, of each, oz. j j of diphryges, oz. ij ; of aloes, oz. iss; of galbanum, oz. iss; of the Scythian stone onites, scr. xviij ; of the blood- stone, oz. j ; of bee-glue, lb. j, scr. xxviij ; of wax, oz. xvij; of the stone perdicites (another edition has perdiciaton), oz. j; of betony, oz. j, scr. viij ; of gentian, oz. j ; of long and of round birthworth, dr. iv; of the black chamasleon, oz. j; of dittany, scr. xij ; of dried rosin, lb. j ; of the fat of the ostrich, lb. j. Triturate the stones with the litharge, adding of the flower of salt, lb. ij, gradually until the whole be con- sumed. TJie plaster from filberts, of tried efficacy, for tophi of the joints. Of protostacton {" a mixture of lime with some lixi- vial ashes "), oz. vj ; of the inner part of filberts, oz. ij; of aphronitrum, oz. vj ; of old oil, lb. j ; of gallic soap, oz. iv; of honey, oz. viij ; the whites of six eggs ; of svax. oz. x; of turpentine, oz. ij. Triturate with the protostacton. An admirable anodyne cerate from the torpedo, for gout. On the fifth day of the month of March, put into a pot under ground of common oil, sext. ij, boil with the wood of vine, and when it boils, add of the sea-fish torpedo, lb. j; and of the blood of the mole, which some call madaniuda, oz. iv, and boil until the flesh of the fish be dissolved or toasted; then, having strained, add of oil and of wax what will be sufficient to give it consistence, so that the cerate may be very tender, which, having spread upon a linen rag, apply. The plaster from the urine of a mule, for gout. Of the urine of a male mule, sext. iv ; of litharge, lb. ij ; of old oil, one mina. Plaving triturated all the things for a long time until they be- come of the consistence of the lees of baths, boil till it cease to stain. The plaster from the flower of Asian stone, of Philagrius, for scirrhus. Of the root of hog's fennel, of the flower of Asian stone, or, if it is not at hand, of salts, of ammoniac perfume, of unsecured wool burnt, of each, oz. j; of round bii'thwort, of pumice-stone, of dog's dung, of so-aped verdigris, of squama