97 SECT. III.] SIMPLES. ^paKOVTlOV, Dracontium, or Dracunculus, Dragon-herb, somewhat resem'- bles the Wake-robin (Arum), but is more acrid and bitter than- it, and also hotter, and consists of more subtile particles. It has also some astringency. The root of it, therefore, when taken in a potion cleanses the bowels, and is an excellent appli- cation to malignant ulcers; and the leaves in like manner. But-the fruit of it is stronger. Commentary. We have treated of the Dragon-herb {Anmi Dracunculus) as an article of food in another place. (Vol. I, p. 114.) Dioscorides gives so circumstantial a description of its medicinal properties that we cannot find space for it. Suffice to say, he uses it internally in diseases of the chest, and as an aphrodisiac, externally, in various cutaneous diseases, in coUyria, in injections into the ears, and as an alexipharmic. (ii, 195.) Galen embodies the substance of Dioscorides's empirical de- scription of its virtues agreeably to his own system, recom- • mending it principally as a deobstruent internally, and an appli- (cation to sores and cancerous tumours externally. Aetius also J gives an elaborate description of its powers. Oribasius merely t states in general terms that it is calefacient and attenuant. . Apuleius recommends it for the bite of the asp. Mesue ascribes to it powerfully cathartic and carminative powers. His account of it is very elaborate, and deserving of more attention than we can aiford room to bestow ijpon it. He recommends it in the ■form of a suppository to relieve hemorrhoids and flatiilence. (De Simpl. 24.) Avicenna borrows largely from Dioscorides. (ii, 2, 432.) Rhases copies from Dioscorides, Galen, and ribasius. (Cont. 1. ult. i, 257.) Serapion does the same. IDe Simpl. 43.) It remains to be mentioned that Dioscorides, Dribasius, Mesue, and Avicenna, besides the species of dracun- ■ulus which we have been treating of, also describe another by e name of the Lesser. It is supposed to be the Arum Italicum. e dragon-herb held a place in the Dispensatory down to a ery late date. Boerhaave calls it a powerful diuretic and omoter of the menses. Quincy says it is reckoned alexi- iharmic. ApuoTrrtptc, DiTopteris, Oak-fern, is sweet, acrid, and bitterish, and its )ot has some sourness. It is septic, and hence it is depilatory.