371 SIMPLES. SECT. III.] Baithar, who, in treating of them, merely gives extracts from Comm. Dioscorid.es and Galen, (i, 555.) " ' TsvtXov, Beta, Beet, is of a nitrous natvire. Hence it is detergent and discutient, and pm'ges by the nose; but especially the ■white species. When boiled it becomes anti-inflammatory and slightly discutient. Commentary. It evidently is the Beta vulgaris L. The Comm. white and black kinds were, we presume, merely varieties; " ^ ' but this does not seem sufficiently clear. See Parkinson (Theatre of Plants, 752) and Lewis (Mat. Med.) Dioscorides recommends the beet for various medicinal purposes, for clear- ing the head by occasioning a discharge from the nose, as a remedy for earache; a decoction of its leaves for eruptive diseases and chilblains; and also as an application to exanthe- mata, bui'ns, and erysipelas, (ii, 49.) Galen gives the same account of it as our author. Aetius is fuller; he further recommends it particularly as a deobstruent in diseases of the liver and spleen. The beet is mentioned as an edible plant by Hippocrates. (De Vict. Acut.) See also Celsus (ii, 18.) Serapion (c. 148) and Avicenna recommend the leaves of beet as an application to burns and impetigo, (ii, 2, 636.) See also Rhases (Cent. 1, ult. i, 127.) All the authorities say that the beet is possessed of nitrous properties, by which they probably mean saline, the ancient nitrum being a species of native soda, resembling salt. It is now well known that beet- root by boiling yields a saccharine salt in considerable abun- dance. The beet held a place in our Dispensatory as late as the time of Lewis. We have treated of it as an article of food in Book I. Teucrium, Tree Germander, is a calefacient of the second order, and a desiccant of the third. Its powers are also in- cisive and subtile, and hence it cures the spleen. Commentary. It is not well decided whether it be tlie Comm. Teucrium Marum or the Teucrium flavum. Pliny's account of' '—' it is very confused, and Harduin thinks that his T, is the hemionitis of Dioscorides. (Ad H. N. xxv, 20.) Apuleius, in like manner, identifies the hemionon and the teucrium. (De