378 [hook VII. SIMPLES. Comm. They are emmenagogue, and are given in coughs and ' ' pneumonia in a linctus with honey. It makes an agree- able potion, and hence is given to persons affected with nausea, indigestion, and acid eructations, and who are sub- ject to anxiety, nausea, and heat of the hypochondria. In a cataplasm with polenta they also discuss tumours, (iii, 32.) Galen and the other Greek authorities treat of it very briefly. Celsus calls it diuretic and discutieut. (iii, 21, &c.) We have not been able to find these plants in the works of the Arabians. Tpt'jSoXoc, Tribolus, the CaltroiJ, is moderately refrigerant; the land species is strongly desiccative, but the water slightly so, and it is moistening. Both are befitting remedies in incipient inflam- mations and other influxes. The fruit of the land caltrop, consisting of subtile parts, breaks renal calculi. Comm. COMMENTARY. It sccms to be clearly made out that the " " ' one is the Tribulus terrestris, and the other the Trapa nutans. According to Pliny, their juices are anti-inflammatory, and form a proper application to phlegmons and ulcers; an in- gredient in collyria; discuss strumse, and prove lithontriptic. (H. N. xxii, 12.) He borrows this account of them, however, mostly from Dioscorides. (iv, 15.) Our author manifestly copies from Galen, and both Aetius and Oribasius do the same. We have not found them in the works of Hippocrates and Celsus. The Arabians treat of them at more length than the Greeks. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 382); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 721) ; Serapion (c. 112); Ebn Baithar (i, 307.) They recom- mend both species as being aphrodisiac, Uthontriptic^ and diuretic. Both the species here described, that is to say, the Trapa nutans and Tribulus terrestris, although they have been long excluded from our Dispensatories, are still not wholly un- known in the shops. See Gray (Suppl. to Pharm. 84, 117.) Tpayog, Tragus, a species of Frumentacea, is like far (spelt), but more indigestible and laxative. Comm. COMMENTARY. The method of prepai-ing it is thus described " ^ ~' in the Geoponica. Spelt is to be steeped and stripped of its hull, and dried in the warm sun ; then tlie same thing is to