SIMPLES. 221 SECT. III.] much softer than the others, and possessing no active qualitj^, is much more mild, and occasions less pain ; it is, therefore, used as an apph cation to the soft parts of the body with cerate for the cicatiization of ulcers. The greenish Jasper, being possessed of stronger poAvers, attenuates cicatrices and pterygia. The Green Jasper is useful in stomach complaints, when appended as an amulet, and when worn in a ring. That called the Judaic-stone breaks renal calculi, and hence the moderns have called it Tecolithos. The Pyrites acts as a powerful discutient of tumours and coagula; and when it is not at hand, the Molaris may be used instead. The Phrygian, in addition to being powerfully desiccative, has also some astringency and pungency ; hence it is repellent and discu- tient, and is therefore mixed up with ophthalmic remedies. The Ageratus, being possessed of astringent and discutient powers, is of use in inflammations of the vivula. The flower of the As^ian-stone is composed of so subtile parts that it cor- rodes flabby flesh without pungency. The Gagate-stone, being considerably desiccative, agrees principally with chronic cases of emphysema. The Magnet (called also the Heraclean-stone) has similar powers to the Haematites. The Arabian-stone is hke ivory, desiccative and detergent. Some give those afl'ected with stomach complaints a draught composed of burnt Ala- baster. The Smeris, Emery, having detergent powers, cleanses the teeth. The stones found in Sponges break down renal calculi; and those formed on the Argsean mountain of Cap - padocia are possessed of similar powers, and in like manner the stone called Ojjhites, which is appended as an amulet with ad- vantage to those bitten by the viper. The Ostracites and Geodes are said to be considerably desiccative so as to cure inflammatory swellings. The Eetrimentum Naxite coiis, filings of the Naxian Whetstone, is said to be refrigerant, so as to repress the breasts of virgins, and the testicles of children. The filings of the Cos oleraria, being detergent, suit with alopecia. It is said that the Hieracites and Indian-stone, when appended as amulets, stop the discharge of blood from hemorrhoids, and that the Sapphire, when drunk, relieves persons bitten by the scorpion, and the Aphroselinum, epileptics. The Armenian-stone purges tlie belly downwards, but is prejudicial to the stomach.