SIMPLBS. ^ECT. III.J 287 TriorcJiis, is more desiccative than the former. It therefore discusses oedematous swellings, cleanses foul and putrid ulcers, and cures herpes. When dried it is more desiccative. Owing to its sub-astringency, it binds the belly when drunk with wine. CoMMENTAKY. The modern botanists have described many Comm. species of it, and it is difficult to determine from among them those which are applicable to the two species described by Dioscorides and our author. Sprengel is pretty confident that he former is the Orchis papilionacea. He is undecided re- specting the Sarapias, but we may venture to refer it to the Orchis Morio. Regarding the medicinal virtues of the former of these, Dioscorides merely relates the vulgar belief, namely, that one of its bulbous roots had the virtue of rousing to \ enery, and the other of blunting the venereal appetite, and that the one promoted the generation of male children, and the other of female. However nonsensical all this may appear, flie same properties are ascribed to the orchis by our herbalist ulpeper. (130.) The other orchis he represents as being an igredient in applications to fistulse, mortifications, ulcers of the louth, and so forth, (iii, 31, 32.) Galen attempts to explain he reputed aphrodisiacal virtues of the orchis upon its sensible [ualities. Our author copies from him. The Arabians de- cribe these two plants under the names of Testiculus Vulpis and Cesticulus Canis, or Chasi altaleb and Chasi alchelb. See Vvicenna (ii, 2, 706) ; Rhases (Cent. 1. ult. i, 714) ; Serapion De Sim pi. 90, 91.) They ascribe the same real and imaginary lowers to the two species as the Greeks had done. ''Offtptc, Osiris, Toad-flax, from which besoms are made, is bitter and cmoves obstructions in the liver. Commentary. Dioscorides briefly notices this plant {Osyris Comm. /ba?), and recommends it in jaundice. Our author copies lite- ally from Galen, as does also Aetius. Oribasius borrows from )ioscorides. It does not appear to be treated of by the v^rabian authorities at all. OaTci, Ossa, Bones, when burnt are possessed of discutient and