SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 77 Sabina^ Savin, being like the Cypress, it is heating and desiccative in the third degree; and consisting of subtile par- ticleSj it is possessed of subtilizing and discutient powers if drunk. It is applied to mortifications like the Cypress. Commentary. The two species of savine described by Comm. ' Dioscorides are probably the Sabina cypressifolia and tamaris- " ' (cifolia. He recommends it principally as an external applica- ttion to spreading sores and carbuncles. He says it produces ) bloody water and abortion when drunk in wine, and when : apphed externally, or in the form of fumigation, (i, 104.) All tthe ancient authorities, including Macer Floridus (but his > works, we are well aware, are not generally reputed genuine), Ihold it to be an uterine medicine. Its medicinal and delete- rrious powers are given in like manner by the Arabians. See m particular Avicenna (ii, 2, 6); Serapion (c. 255); Ebn. Baithar (i, 5.) Apuleius praises it strongly in jaundice. We need scarcely mention that savin still retains its place in our Dispensatory, being, according to Pereira, " the most certain and powerful emmenagogue of the whole Materia Medica." With regard to its action on the animal economy, " it ope- ates,^^ according to Sundelin, as quoted by Pereira, " as a pacific excitant and irritant on the kidneys, and yet more obviously on the uterus." All this shows how correctly the ancient authorities had judged of its powers. Bretannica, Water-dock, is possessed of astiingent and ag- glutinative powers, and in appearance resembles the Wild- dock. The juice of it cures mortifications in the mouth. Commentary. It would not be worth while, even if this Comm. ?vere the proper place, to touch upon the lengthened contro- ' * ' f/ersy which has prevailed among the old herbalists and bota- aical authorities with regard to this plant. Whoever would vish to investigate the subject may consult Professor Hunting's slaborate work ' De Vera Herba Britannica,' (Amst. 1698,) and l^prengeVs ' Annotations on Dioscorides' (iv, 2.) Suffice it to ay, that, in all probability, the plant in question was some pecies of water-dock. All the authorities who treat of it give