ANTIDOTES. 500 [book Vll. Hippocrates and Aetius, in cases of excessive purging from the administration of medicine, recommend the bath and a Hght- coloured wine before and after it. Avicenna lays down the rules of treatmeat with great pre- cision, but they are mostly the same as our author's. After fric- tion, cupping, tight ligatures, and restorative draughts have been tried, should the excessive purging continue he recom- mends us to administer narcotics, (i, 4, 7.) See, in like man- ner, Rhases (Contin. xiii, 1, 3), and Serapion (de Antid.) But Mesne is the author who has treated of all the symptoms connected with hypercatharsis at the greatest length. He recommends us to reserve narcotics as an ult'mium remedium, as from the unseasonable administration of them much harm might result. He directs us to add cordials and aromatics to the narcotics. When the tenesmus is severe he directs us to stop it by suitable enemata and suppositories. For the debility and lassitude occasioned by too great purgation he recommends a tepid bath of sweet water, and friction with warm oils. (Canones Universales.) SECT. VIII. — ON THE ANTIDOTES CALLED HIER^. The hiera of Antiochus. Of germander, of agaric, of the medullary part of colocynth, of cassidony, of each dr. x; of opo- ponax, of sagapen, of stone-parsley, of the species of birthwort called clematis, of white pepper, of each dr. v; of cinnamon, of spikenard, of troglodytic myrrh, of the leaves of saffron, of each dr. ivj of honey, q. s. —Another hiera. Of the medullary part of colocynth, dr. xx; of baked squills, of agaric, of am- moniac perfume, of the bark of black hellebore, of scammony, of St. John's wort, of each dr. iij; of dodder of thyme, of dried polypody, of bdellium, of aloes, of germander, of horehound, of cassia, of each dr. viij; of troglodytic myrrh, of opoponax, of sagapen, of stone-parsley, of the common long, and white pepper, of cinnamon, of saffron, of castor, of the long bnth- wort, of each dr. iv; of honey, q. s. The hiera of Justus. Of dodder of thyme, dr. xij; of hore- hound, of cassidony, of germander, of black hellebore, of scammony, of agaric, of long pepper, of baked squills, of each