[book vir. SIMPLES. Comm. myrtle from our author. He says it is a powerful astringent, ' " both internally and externally. Aetius abridges him, as Oribasius does Dioscorides. Celsus notices the berries and boiled leaves of myrtle frequently as astringent and cooling articles. The Arabians treat of them very fully. See Avicenna (ii, 3, 446) • Rhases (Cent. 1. ult. i, 475); Serapion (De Simpl. 92); Averrhoes (Collig. v, 42); Ebn Baithar (i, 38.) Avicenna recommends the decoction of its leaves as an astringent in profuse sweats, fetor of the armpits, in hot apostemes, erysipelas, herpes, &c. He also prescribes it in ulcers of the hands, and in burns. He says it cures ophthalmy, and proves stomachic and cordial. All the Arabians give it the character of being alexipharmic. It is useful, according to Avicenna, in heat of urine, and immoderate flow of the menses. He says it is useful also in cases of ununited fractures Avhen poured upon the place; stops the flow of blood from the nose, and cures furfures and other ulcers of the head. Abenmesuai, one of Serapion's authorities, says of the juice of myrtle, that it is useful in the cure of pains of the breast and lungs, in cough, and looseness of the bowels; that it is a cordial, and strengthens the internal viscera. Myrtle-berries vrere used as astringents in fluxes down to a late period. See Quincy (94.) MwXu, Moly, Allium hirsutum. Wild Garlic (some call it Ruta silvestris, others Armalan, and the Syrians, Basanan) ; it belongs to the third order of calefacients, and is composed of subtile particles. Hence it cuts thick and viscid humours, is discutient and incarnant. Comm. COMMENTARY. It was the specics of garlic now called " • ' Allium Moly, Mbnch. Mention is made of this plant by Homer as a charm against incantation. (Odyss. x, 1. 302.) It is probably the same as the inwXvla of Hippocrates. (See Dierbach.) Dioscorides merely recommends nioly pounded with the ointment of iris as a pessary to promote the menstrual discharge, (iii, 47.) On the 7noIy, see PUny (H. N. xxv, 8.) Galen and the other Greek authorities mention it in nearly the same terras as om author. It does not occur in the works of Celsus, nor have Ave been able to find it in those of the Arabian authorities.