76 SIMPLES. [book VII. Comm. and cicatrizing ulcers, (ii^ 81.) Pliny's account of milk being ' ' mostly taken from Dioscorides^ we sliall not dwell upon it. He is original^ however, in stating that most butter is got from cow's milk. (H. N. xxviii, 35.) Celsus merely enume- rates butter among the articles which incarnate and fill up sores, (v, 14.) Galen states that butter is contained in greatest quantity in the milk of cows, and hence it derives its name. That it has concoctive powers with a small portion of discu- tient, and is of intermediate powers with regard to softness and hardness of the body, by which he means that it has no powers to discuss preternatural tumours of very hard bodies, but that it concocts and discusses soft inflammations, such as parotis, bubo, boils in the mouth, and many others of a like nature. He recommends it also in dentition and inflammatoiy affections of the mouth in children, He also mentions it as a useful expectorant in pleurisy and pneumonia, both when drunk and in the form of a liuctus. (De Simpl. ix.) Aetius copies the description which he gives of butter from Galen, (ii, 104.) Oribasius borrows from Dioscorides. (xv, 2.) Ehases quotes Dioscorides, Galen, Oribasius, and Paulus, and gives nothing of his own. (1. ult. 133.) Avicenna also recommends butter in exactly the same cases as Dioscorides and Galen, (ii, 2, 110.) Serapion literally translates Dioscorides and Galen. (De Simpl. 457.) HovfdaX/Liov, Buphthalmum, Oxeye, has a flower like that of the camomile, but much larger and more acrid. It is there- fore discutient, so as to cure indurations when mixed with cerate. Comm. COMMENTARY. The old herbalists were much puzzled what ' • ' to make of the Buphthalmum, some contending for its being Helleborus niger, some a species of Consiligo, some a Chrysan- themum, and so forth. See Gerard (Herbal) and Sprengel (Ad Dioscor.) It would seem likely that it is the Anthemis Valentina. Our author borrows all that was worth copying in the chapter of Dioscorides (iii, 146.) Galen expresses himself respecting it in nearly the same terms as Dioscorides. For the Arabians, see Avicenna (ii, 2, 97.) It is not mentioned in the Ilippocratic collection.