[book VII. 382 SIMPLES. Comm. powers as a lithontriptic. Drelincurtius calls it the ^\^■en. (Mangeti Bibl. Chirurg. 254.) We, however, arc inclined to think that it was the Accentor modularis or hedge-sparrow. Our author, as far as we have been able to discover, is the only one of the authorities who has included this animal in the Materia Medica; but he borrows his description of it from Aetius, (iii, 3, 11.) Tupoc, Caseus, Cheese; that which is new made, and soft, has re- pellent powers, cooling gently, so as when applied to agglu- tinate wounds. That called oxygalactinus acquires slightly discutient powers in addition, and is more agglutinative of wounds. Old cheese, especially such as is fatty, becomes dis- cutient, so as to be a fit application to tophi in arthritic com- plaints, particularly along with the decoction of swines' flesh pickled and fat. Comm. COMMENTARY. Our author's account of the medicinal pro- * ' perties of Cheese is mostly abridged from Galen. The kind called oxygalactinus is the same, we suppose, as the Caseus acidus cum oxymelite" of Pliny. (H. N. xxviii, 34.) Galen says that it was used about Pergamus; see also Dioscorides (ii, 79.) According to Avicenna, fresh cheese is a good appli- cation to recent ulcers, and old cheese to ill-conditioned ulcers. He recommends cheese with the brine of bacon as a discutient application to arthritic chalk-stones. He speaks favorably of fresh cheese as an aj^plicatiou in ophthalmia, (ii, 2, 123.) He treats more fully of this article than any other writer on the Mat. Med., with the exception of Ebn Baithar, who gives a long dissertation on the properties of cheese, both as an article of food and as a medicine, (i, 239.) Serapion merely gives extracts from Dioscorides and Galen. (De Simpl. 157. Hyacinthus, Hyacinth; its root being bulbous-shaped be- longs to the first order of desiccants and the second of refrigerants. If applied in a cataplasm with wine, it is believed to keep children long from coming to puberty. The fruit is gently detergent and astringent. It is, therefore, given in