SIMPLES. 341 SECT. III.] Dioseorides says of the former speciesj tliat it is useful in stran- Comm. guiy, calculus, tormina, and singultus; and that in a cataplasm it relieves headache, is useful in the stings of wasps and bees, and stops vomiting. His other species he recommends as an application to certain diseases of the skin, (ii, 155.) Galen, in like manner, treats of the two species in nearly the same terms as our author, whose description of the former species, by the carelessness of transcribers, is given under the head of the preceding article, Sisarum. The Arabians treat both of the sisymbrium and the nasturtium, but it is not clear that they apply these terms to the same substances as Dioseorides does. Scammonia, Scammony, has the properties of heating, dis- cussing, and clearing away bilious matters, more especially the juice of it, which discusses phymata, kills the foetus when applied in a pessary, and I'emoves leprosy. As an embrocation with vinegar and rose-oil, it cures chronic headaches ; and the root, when di'unk, acts as a purgative both by itself and in decoction. Boiled with vinegar and barley-flour, it is applied to diseased hip-joints. Commentary, Without doubt it is the Convolvulus Scam- Comm. mania. Dioseorides likewise describes another species, which ""^ Sprengel supposes to be the C. farinosus, L, The scammony is called ^ciKpv kq/kjjvoq by Nicander, and Suk^vSiov by Alex- ander, (i, 10.) All the Greek, Latin, and Arabian authorities who make mention of it, state that it is a powerful purgative, which evacuates phlegm and bile. Marcellus Empiricus cor- rectly remarks, that it does not answer when the stomach is weak, Celsus prescribes it for the broad intestinal worm, and in other cases, (iv, 17.) It also occurs in the Hippocratic collection. This is an ai-ticle which the Arabians treat of very fully. See Serapion (De Simpl. 303); Avicenna (ii, 2, 628); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult, i, 612); Haly Abbas (Pract, ii, 54, 554); Mesne (De Simpl. i) ; Averrhoes (CoUig. v, 42); Ebn Baithar (ii, 27.) The last of these writes of it at very great length. Hidy Abbas says scammony purges bile, attracts humours from the distant parts of the body, but is injurious to the stomach and liver. Avicenna and Serapion agree that it hurts the stomach, liver, and heart. They also state that it is a