SECT, m.] SIMPLES. 27 Commentary. Dioscorides describes the acacia as being Comm. a thomy tree or sbrubj not erect, having a white flower and" " ' fruit hke lupine, inclosed in pods, from which is expressed the juice that is afterwards dried in the shade (i, 133.) It was much disputed among the older commentators on Dioscorides whether or not this description applies to the Acacia vera ; but since the time of Prosper Alpinus, it has been generally- decided in the affirmative by all scholars, with the exception of Dierbach, who contends in favour of the A. Senegal, with- out any good reason, as far as we can see. This gum was used medicinally by the authors of the Hippocratic collection, who prescribe it as an astringent in hemorrhages, for which pui'pose it is also recommended by Celsus (v. 1.) Serapion and the others merely copy from Dioscorides and Galen. See in particular Avicenna (ii, 3, 3.) Urtica, the Nettle; the fruit and leaves are composed of fine particles, and are desiccative without pungency ; they dis- ; pel and cleanse swellings, loosen the bowels, are moderately I flatulent, and therefore incite to venery. Com MENTARY. This article is either the Uvtica dioica, or Comm. ; the pilulifera; or both species were comprehended, under it. '—»—' In the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia, the pilulifera stands 5 first (p. 164.) Galen, like our author, calls it aphrodisiacal. Macer Floridus recommends it strongly as being calefacient 1 and stimulant. Both Dioscorides and Galen agree in com- ! mending it as an expectorant when the chest is loaded with : thick humours. The Arabians treat of it at considerable I length. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 714) j Serapion (c. 150); Ehases ' (Cont. 1. ult.; 152.) ''AKavOog, Acanthus, Bears-breech (called also Melamphyllon and I Ptederos), has discutient and desiccative powers. Commentary. It is the plant which our English herbalists Comm. describe by the name of Bears-breech, now called the' ' ' Acanthus mollis by botanists. Dioscorides recommends it as being diuretic, and astringent of the bowels (iii, 17.) Our author follows Galen. Whether " gummi acanthinum" of