3.51 SECT, in.] SIMPLES. ■ Genista^ Broom, by wliicli they bind vines; the fruit and I flower of itj when drunk with honeyed water to the amount of Ifive oboli, purge upwards, like white hellebore, without danger. ]But the fruit also purges downwards. The twigs remedy iischiatic diseases. Commentary. Without doubt it is the Spartium junceum. Comm. It is the genista of the Latins, as Silvius states in his com- " * ' i^mentaiy on Mesue. He says that it is a powerful diuretic, land its seeds are stiU sometimes used with this intention, esue further commends it as an emetic in gout and other hiitic diseases. Dioscorides and Pliny give nearly the ame account of its medicinal properties as our author. Dios- orides further commends it in sciatica and cynanche, and when 'vBn as a clyster in the former complaint, (iv, 155.) It is not asy to ti'ace it in the works of the other authorities, except bn Baithar, who copies principally from Galen or Dioscorides. (i, 489.) Lapis specularis, which some use instead of specula in heir windows, and hence it has been called diaphanous, eing of the nature of gypsum, it has powers like burnt shells r oysters. Commentary. It is the Gypsum speculare or Selenite, as Comm. s evident from our author's description of it. Seneca says "—'—' hat in his time it had come to be used in windows from its ansparency. (Ep. 60.) See further, Pliny (H. N. xxxvi, 45.) ,ee Book V, 58. The Arabians praise its virtues in the cure all fluxes; and Agricola mentions that in his time it was ' equently given for the cure of dysenteries. Spongia, Sponge; the recent, which still preserves the smell if the sea, when applied with water, wine, or oxycrate, agglu- inates wounds; but if burnt, it has acrid and discutient powers, VTien burnt with asphaltos or liquid pitch, and applied hot, it tops hemorrhages. Commentary. Aristotle, Pliny, Philoponus, Phile, and Comm. v.vicenna acknowledge the animal nature of sponges, and yet """"^—' , e find it stated in most of our modern treatises on natural