209 SECT. III.] SIMPLES. iu much tlie same terms as om* author. Dioscorides recom- Comm. mends it not only in uterine diseases, but also as a diuretic. " He also speaks favorably of it as an ingredient in anodyne and expectorant plasters, (i, 138.) See Galen (ii, 160 ed. Basil.) The Arabians treat fully of it, but borrow almost every word they say respecting it from Dioscorides and Galen. See A\'icenna (ii, 2, 422); Serapion (c. 43); E-hases (Cent. 1. ult. i, 361); Averrhoes (Collig. v, 42.) The labdanum was retained in the Dispensatory as late as the time of Quincy, who has given an accurate account of it. (70.) It is also very correctly described by Tournefort, both in his voyage to the Levant and in his Mat. Med. (363.) Its use, however, is now obsolete. See Pereu'a (1263.) In Pemberton's edition of the Dispensatory, there is given a formula for the composition of a " stomach plaster," one of the ingredients of which is labdanum. (359.) We would vote for its being restored to the Pharmacopoeia. AaOvpiQ, Lathyris, is a species of spurge, and some say that its juice purges in a similar manner. Its seed in particular has pur- gative powers. Commentary. There can be no doubt, from our author's Comm. brief notice of it, that it is the Euphorbia Lathyris, L. Diosco- ' * * rides says of it that it evacuates phlegm, bile, and water. He mentions that its leaves were boiled along with a fowl or pot- herbs to loosen the bowels. Galen and the other Greek authorities treat of it in brief terms, like our author. The Arabians treat of it at greater length, recommending it strongly in diseases of the joints, gout, and sciatica. They also mention its being a remedy for dropsy. They say it acts as an emetic. They direct its seeds to be boiled in the broth of an old cock, and taken. See in particular Avicenna (ii, 2, 473) ; Serapion (c. 354.) It is not met with in the works either of Hippocrates or of Celsus. It does not occur in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia, but is briefly noticed in Dr. Pereira's Materia Medica (777.) Au/Lixpavri, Lampsana, Nippleivori, when eaten supplies bad juices to the body. In a cataplasm it is detergent and discutient. III. ■ 14