APPENDIX TO [book VII. 428 that it is a common ingredient in all fumigations and ointments. Riiases, as quoted by liim^ pronounces camphor to be cold and attenuate (volatile ?) ; says it is calculated to remove hot intern- perainents in the head and the ■whole body; when too much used that it induces insomnolency ; that it brings on coldness of the kidneys and bladder; coagulates the semen, and engenders coldness, and principally in the colder members of the body. Another Arabian authority, Meseab, calls it cold and dry in the third degree, and recommends it in epistaxis as a masticatory with raisins. Mesarugie, another authority, says, in large doses it induces indigestion and stops the formation of semen. Another of his Arabian authorities, Aben Mesuai (Mesne the elder ?) says, it is astringent of the bowels, induces prema- ture hoariness- of the hair, and is useful in hot apostemes. Aben Amram, as quoted by him, says, Camphor is cold in the third degree, and is useful when applied to inflamed parts with rose-water, and comforts the members of the body and the senses ; and is useful in cholera along with other astringents. He gives a quotation from the ' Medicina Antiqua^ to this effect, that camphor is an astringent of the bowels, and that its use induces hoariness of the hairs. (De Simplicibus, 344.) Avicenna's account of it is much more succinct; he describes several species of it; says it is procured from a very large tree capable of giving shelter to a multitude of animals ; that he had often seen the wood of it, and that it was white, brittle, light, and contained in its pores some vestiges of camphor. He holds that its nature is cold and dry in the second degree. He recommends it in exactly the same cases as Serapion does, namely, in inflammatory complaints, epistaxis, hot vertigo, and acute ophthalmy. He also, like Serapion's authorities, holds that it is anaphrodisiac and represses fluxes, (ii, 3, 130.) Rhases gives a brief account of camphor upon the authority of Misib, Mesarguil, and Bimasui; the first of whom merely re- commends it in fluxes; the next relates of it that an acquain- tance of his took six drachms of camphor at one dose, which impaired his digestion and brought on impotence without in- ducing any other complaint; the third, like some of Serapion's authorities, represents it to be cold and dry in the third degree, and recommends it for fluxes, and further says that it induces premature hoariness of the hair. (Contin. 1. ult. i, 147.) In