SECT. XX.] OINTMENTS. 597 storax, of male frankincense, of each^ oz. iv; of opobalsam, oz. vj (some add also of saffron, oz. ij). Prepare like the oint- ment from unripe olives, except the wax. But here the articles of the two additions are to be macerated for seven days. The nardinum Cyzicenum, or nard oil of Cyzicus. The first iddition.—Of primary oil, sext. x; of rose-wood, of cyperus, of iecampane, of iris, of xylobalsam, of birth wort, of cardamom, )f the schcenanth, of each, oz. vj; of sampsuch, oz. iv; of savin, oz. ij. Some add also of calamus aromaticus, oz. ij. These thing are to be macerated in sext. iv of fragrant wine. The second addition.—Of cassia, of cassamum, of arnabo, of each, oz. ij; of spikenard, oz. iij; of cloves, oz. j; of costus, (f amomum, of each, oz. ij (some add also of Celtic nard, )Z. ij). These things are to be macerated in wine. The third addition.—Of troglodytic myrrh, of aloes, of frankincense, of each, oz. ij ; of storax, oz. iij; of mastich, oz. iv; of opobalsam, oz. vj (some add also oz. j of saffron, triturated in wine). Prepare this also as said above. The decamyron, or oil containing ten ingredients. Of spike- nard, of Indian leaf, of euphorbium, of pepper, of costus, of idarce, of each, oz. j ; of mastich, oz. iss; of opobalsam, oz. vj ; )f oil of nard, lb. j ; of wax, oz. vj. The pentamyron. Of storax, oz. j ; of mastich, oz. ij ; of white wax, oz. iij ; of opoponax, oz. iv ; of nard, oz. v. The foliatum, or ointment of Indian leaf Of Indian leaf, )Z. iij; of amomum, oz. j ; of cassia, oz. vj ; of ladanum, oz. j ; if white pepper grains, xl; of troglodytic myrrh, dr. j. These kings being bruised and sifted are to be again triturated in a uiortar, with the addition of one pound of oil of nard. To ender the medicine darker, triturate the burnt barks of walnuts u a mortar, and add ; then mix of opobalsam, cochl. iij, and use. Commentary. The preparation of oils and ointments is Comm. fully treated of by Dioscorides in the first book of his Materia " * ' Medica; and in like manner by Pliny (H. N. xv, 7, and siii, 2.) See also Avicenna (v, 1, 10, 11); Serapion (vii, 25); rialy Abbas (Pract. x, 19); and Mesne (De Unguentis et De Oleis.) Notwithstanding the importance of these articles for medi- ' inal and pharmaceutical purposes, we think it unnecessary to