SIMPLE PURGATIVES. 480 [book vii. either with languages or the sciences. On that account they are for the most part unintelligible, uncertain, in many places corrupted, and besides^ exceedingly scarce. Even when ob- tained, the possessors are pretty much in the same state as those who make their way with great trouble to a treasure, which, after all, they are only permitted to see at a distance through a narrow gate. Had I still twenty years to live, and could hope for an abundant supply of Arabic works, I would learn Arabic. But o /3i'oe (B^ayr^vq, 7J Si TSy^vt] naK^r\." SECT. IV. ON SIMPLE PURGATIVE MEDICINES. Give of aloes one drachm, with honeyed water,in the morning. But they who administer it in the evening or after food occa- sion mischief, for it makes the food spoil. It evacuates yellow bile, less if given to the extent of three oboli, for in that case it proves solely and entirely eccoprotic. But purgative medi- cines being generally bad for the stomach, aloes alone is stomachic. Those who cannot endure the bitterness of it may take it formed into pills. It is manifest that purgative medi- cines do not evacuate by any one simple temperament such as heat (for then all hot things would be evacuants, such as pep- per), but by some specific property of their whole substance in like manner as the magnet attracts iron. Of purgative medi- cines those which are simply laxative have been treated of in the Krst Book. We are to use drastic purgatives either in order to transfer some matter, or to dislodge aud remove an indurated diathesis, or as an alterative to the system, and in order to change the temperament of it, or to displace any offending humour. There are certain mixed modes compli- cated of the afore-mentioned. Purgative medicines are to be given to those whose powers are firm aud their understanding strong; to such as have passed the first stage of life, and have not yet come to the last; to those who have a strong stomach, and have collections of superfluous matters in the body, and ai'e not very sanguineous. The best seasons for purging, if there be no urgent necessity, are the spring and the autumn.