356 [book vii. SIMPLES. Comm. COMMENTARY. This is evidently the sulphuret of antimony, ' * ' The native antimony is so rare a mineral that it is not likely the ancients had any acquaintance with it^ and the factitious antimony is, not described by any ancient author. For an account of the ancient antimony, see in particular Dioscorides (v, 99) and Pliny (H. N. xxxiii, 33.) It was much used 1)y the ancients in the composition of the medicines called calU- blephara. " Vis ejus astringere et refrigerare principalis autem circa oculos." Pliny (1. c.) In the Old Testament the Jewish women are censured for this use of it. None of the Greek or Latin authors speak of giving it internally except Serapion, who quotes Badigorus (Pythagoras ?) as stating that it proves a remedy for epilepsy and gross superfluities, (c. 249.) In its calcined state it was made into pastils of a square form, and hence the metal itself is called TeT^aywvov by Hippocrates, as has been supposed by his expositors. See Galen (Eseg.) and F(3es (CEcou. Hippocrat. 371.) Hippocrates recommends it as a medicine for purging the head (De Intern. Afl:ect.), that is to say, as an ingredient in caputpurgia, or errhines, to the use of which he was partial. (See Vol. I, pp. 59, 60 of this work.) But with the authorities subsequent to him its prin- cipal use would seem to have been confined to coUyria. See in particular Haly Abbas (Pract, ii, 48) ; Averrhoes (Collig. v, 43.) Celsus frequently uses it for this and other purposes. Stoebe, Knapweed; the fruit and leaves are desiccative in the third degree, being possessed of astringent powers. Hence they agglutinate large wounds; and the decoction of them relieves dysentery, hemorrhages, and discharges of pus from the ear; and in a cataplasm it is of use in suggillations of the eye from a blow. Comm. COMMENTARY. There has been considerable difference of '—•—' opinion among modern authorities on this head, as is fully stated by Parkinson (Theatre of Plants, 998), and by Spreugel (Ad Dioscor. iv, 12.) We acquiesce in the judgment of those who hold it to be the Poterium spinosum. See Galen (De Antidot. 426, T. ii, ed. Basil.) Our author^s notice of it is mani- festly taken from Galen, who, in his turn, is much indebted to Dioscorides. (iv, 12.) None of the others add anything of