^KCT. XVII.] PLASTERS. 5/1 ■.enii, of misy, of each, scr. xviij ; of castor, scr. xviij ; of myrrh, oz. iij; of the most acrid vinegar, oz. iij ; of wax, oz, xiiss; of pine rosin, of Brutian pitch, oz. xviiiss, scr. vj; of old oil, and of the most acrid vinegar, q. s. The same, of Galen. Of wax, of turpentine, of each, lb. j ; of Asian stone, of manna, of each, oz. iij ; of oil of privet, oz. ij; of the honnet-maker's water, q. s. The arthritic plaster from the flower of salt, in the decline of the complaint. Of turpentine, of roasted rosin, of pine rosin, of wax, of each, lb. j; of dried pitch, of fissile alum, of the fiower of salt, of each, lb. ss. Boil in a double vessel. An incarnative plaster for ulcers. Of rose-oil, of turpentine, f honey, of each, oz. ij ; of ceruse, of butter, of each, oz. j. Some add also of frankincense, oz. j. The Italian plaster for cleansing and incarnating foul ulcers. Having boiled the tender bark of the wild fig in oil, throw it away, and having melted in the oil a sufficient quantity of dark yellow wax, use on a pledget. The erective plaster. Of satyrion, of the testicle of a stag, of the tail of a skink, of each, dr. ij ; of the seed of rocket, of peUitory, of the seed of rosemary, of wax, of each, dr. iv; of tur- [)eutine,oz.j; three eggs of troglodytic sparrows, ("wrens?^') three swifts, of oil of bay, or of iris, q. s. The swifts are soaked alive in vinegar for forty days, the vessel being buried in dung. The golden plaster for bloody tvounds. Of frankincense, of lissile alum, of each, oz. ij ; of Colophonian rosin, of common rosin, of each, lb. j ; of oil, oz. iij ; of arsenic, oz. ij. Triturate the arsenic in the vinegar. The plaster for fractures, of Oribasius. Of Brutian pitch, 11). j, oz. iv; of litharge, lb. j, oz. ivj of frankincense, oz. viij ; (jf turpentine, oz, v j of bull's suet, lb. j, oz. iv ; of galbanum, i)f opoponax, of each, oz. j ; of wax, oz. iv; of old oil, lb. j ; of \ inegar, oz. v. A jjlasler for fractures with a loound and without a wound. From Heraclilus. Of dried pitch, miua j ; of litharge, mina j ; of manna, minass; of calves' suet, mina j ; of Tuscan wax, oz. Nxvj ; of opoponax, dr, viij; of scraped verdigris, of Cyprian opper, of each, the fifth and tenth part of a mina; of turpentine, luin, iss ; of copper, oz. j; of oleum ricini (castor oil), or old oil, licm. j; of vinegar, hcmiu, ss.