93 SIMPLES. SECT. III.] aphrodisiacal; the seed of the wild is wholly devoid of flatulent properties, is diuretic and emmenagogue; and so in like man- ner the stem. Commentary. Of the three species of Dauciis described by Comm. Dioscorides (iii, 76), the leaves of the first are compared by ' • ' him to those of the fennel; the leaves of the second to those of the wild parsley; and the leaves of the third to those of coriander. The first is the species which was long known in this country by the name of Candy carrots, and which has ob- tained various names of late years from our botanical authori- ties. It seems now settled that it should be called Athamanta Cretensis. " The second," says our indefatigable herbalist, old Parkinson, whose practical acquaintance with all sorts of plants entitles his opinion to high consideration, " is acknowledged to be so like the first that the climate and country only make the t difi'erence." It is now called Athamanta cervaria. The third, I or coriandei'-leaved daucus, as the same authority clearly indi- t Gates, was probably a species of seseli. It, however, is not 'very certainly determined. The following description of their ) medicinal vu*tues by our Quincy may be said to embody the * concurrent opinions of all the ancient authorities, Greek, 1 Roman, and Arabian. " The seed is aperient and good in I disorders of the kidneys ; as also to hasten delivery, and bring r away the after-birth. It is likewise accounted a good alexiphar- ; mic, and proper against the bites of venomous creatures." See Avicenna (ii, 2, 214, 287); Ebn Baithar (ii, 462); Celsus (v, -23); Hippocrates (De Ratione Vict, in Acut.); also under tStaphylinus. Laurus, T7ie Bay-tree; its leaves are powerfully desiccant and ccalefacient, but its fruit still more so. The bark of its root, Vbeing bitter and sub-astringent, proves lithontriptic and cures Ihepatic affections when di'unk to the amount of three oboli "with fragrant wine. Ad<j)vr] TToa, H Laurus herba (Ruscus ? Butcher's-broom ?), called also ■Alexandrina, is hot, acrid, and somewhat bitter; it therefore ■ promotes the menstrual and urinaiy discharges. The daplmoides