lOG SIMPLES. [book VII. Comm. (wlio it may well be supposed had devoted great attention to the study of its virtues)_, it is possessed of bitterness with some astringency, and is most especially excellent as a deobstruent in obstructions of the liver and sciri'hus of the spleen. He mentions that some gave it in a potion for nervous affections, and that in a clyster it relieves sciatica by occasioning evacua- tions of bile. He also recommends it strongly in the form of a fomentation to ill-conditioned and obstinate ulcers. The lesser centaury {Erytlircea Centaurium, Persoon) still continues to hold a place in oux Dispensatory, but, as Dr. Pereii'a re- marks, " is rarely used by medical practitioners; yet it might be used as an indigenous substitute for gentian." (Materia Medica, 809.) In the days of Quincy it retained all its ancient characters. (Engl. Dispens. 103.) Galen's tract on it must liave been in great repute anciently, since Serapion has given a translation of the whole of it. It is retained in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia. poc aiyoQ, Cornu Capri, Goatshorn, and K. tkcKpov, Cornu Cervi, Harts- horn, cleanse the teeth when burnt, and restrain the progress of foul ulcers. The hart's horn, when pulverised and then applied, fastens loose teeth j when washed sifter burning, it relieves dj'^sentery, cseliac affection, spitting of blood, and jaundice, when given to the amount of two spoonfuls. It is also mixed up with ophthalmic remedies. The horn of a bull, when taken in water, restrains hemoi'rhages. Comm. Commentaky. Dioscorides, Galen, and Serapion speak of ' * ' the medicinal properties of horn in nearly the same terms as our author. We need scarcely say that the stag's or hart's horn has been much used in modern times for the preparation of ammonia, which is hence called the spirit of hai'tshorn. Dioscorides recommends hartshorn when burnt until it become white, and cleaned like calamine, in affections of the eyes. It will now be readily understood, that when so treated it is reduced to a phosphate of lime. Avicenna further prescribes it for removing the swelling of dropsy; and, hke Dioscorides, he recommends it in jaundice, (ii, 2, 178.) We would remark, in conclusion, that it was the red deer which furnished the