252 SIMPLES. [book vii. Comm. wards more Mly, Avicenna state that the immoderate use of " ' ' fruit is flatulent, and superinduces nervous debility. Dioscorides desci'ibes accui'ately the mode of preparing a wine from quinceSj which, he says, is possessed of the same medicinal po-\vers as the parts of the quince. He also makes mention of an ointment prepared from it. Avicenna represents aU the fragrant kinds of apples as being cordial and alexipharmic, and strengtheners of the stomach. One of Rhases's authorities gives an inte- resting account of the medicinal powers of apples as cordials, stomachics, and astringents. (Cont. 1. ult. i, 441.) MrjA aia riEpcriKj/, Malum Persicum, the Peach; the shoots and leaves are manifestly bitter, and therefore kill worms when triturated and applied to the navel. The fruit of it, which forms the edible peach, is humid, and cold in the second degree. Comm. COMMENTARY. See uudcr MijXa. M/jAam 'AQixiviaK-q, Mains Armeniaca, Apricot; the fruit, which some. call PrEECocia, is possessed of the same powers as peaches. Comm. COMMENTARY. See uudcr M^Aa. Mijov, Meum, Spignel; its roots are hot in the third degree, but dry in the second. It is therefore diuretic and emmenagogue, but occasions headache when taken often. Comm. COMMENTARY. Without doubt it is the Meum Athaman- ticum, which is the same as the Ligusticum Meum of Hooker, Angl., Spignel, Men, or Bald-money. Our author and most of the other authorities copy closely from Dioscorides, who describes the roots of the meum as being fragrant, and heating the tongue. These, he says, being boiled in water or given in powder without boiling, prove soothing in diseases of con- striction about the kidneys and bladder, relieve dysuria, flatu- lence of the stomach, tormina, hysterical aflfections, and pains of the joints. When pulverized and administered with honey, they are useful in pectoral defluxions as a liuctus, and in a hip-bath promote the flow of the menses. When applied as a cataplasm to the region of the pubes in infants, they are said