jSECT. in.] SIMPLES. 153 irefer the present article to the Acorus Calamus. Dr. Eoyle, Comm. ihowever, holds that it was the Andropogon Calamus aroma- ' ' Hicus. See Hindoo Med. (34) and Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 133.) IThe (ppay/iUTriQ of Dioscorides and our author is decidedly the .Anmdo Phragmites, or Common Reed. Our author follows the idescription of them given by Dioscorides and Galen, and more L^sspecially the latter. Galen says of the aromaticus that it is jcQore desiccative than calefacient, and that it has some volatility^ like all the aromatics. Aetius, in like manner, copies mostly &om Galen. The Arabians, in treating of these reeds, borrow iblosely from Dioscorides. Thus Avicenna, among other virtues F/yhich he holds that they possess, commends them as ]>eing liuretic, emmenagogue, and alexipharmic. (ii, 3, 64.) The ;;alami do not occur as articles of medicine in the Hippocratic iiollection. The Calamus Alexandrinus of Celsus (v, 24), was lao doubt the C. aromaticus. Although a native of India, as Dioscorides states, it is likely that the Romans would get it bhxough Alexandria. It occurs in the modern Greek Phar- laacopoeia, and is now found growing in Laconia. Erucae, Caterpillar; those upon potherbs, when rubbed in iith oil, are said to preserve from the bites of venomous nimals. Com MENTARY. The mctamorphosis of Caterpillar is ac- Comm. laarately described by Theophrastus (C. PI. v.) See also """^^ ' fcristotle (H. A. v, 20), and Pliny (H. N. xi, 32.) Our author's l^count of these erucse is taken word for word from Diosco- des (ii, 64.) Few of the other authorities treat of them. Cantharides; those foimd among wheat, have pale, transverse ines, and being suffocated by the steam of hot vinegar, are ';d for many p\irposes. For, with cerate, they cast off abious nails, and relieve clavi and scabious affections. They .! also corrosive and caustic. Some mix a small quantity of <;m with diuretic remedies, and give them in this form. Commentary. Dioscorides and Galen direct the species Comm. 'lich is found among corn to be used medicinally. As the eloe vesicatorius is commonly found upon trees, such as the