[book VII. 232 SIMPLES. Comm. applies it: " Non est differeiida et iiitri natura, non multum a sale distans. Exiguum fit apud Medos, canesceutibus siccitatc convallibus, quod vocant halmyrhaga. Optimum copiosumque in Litis Macedonise quod vocant Clialestricum, candidum, purumque, proximum sali. Lacus est nitrosus^ exsUiente e medio dulci fonticulo. In ^Egypto autem conficitur multo abundantius, sed deterius. Fit pajne eodem modo quo sol, nisi quod salinis mare infunduntj Nilum autem nitrariis." (H. N. xxxi, 46.) Compare tlie above witli the following account of the native cai'bonate of soda: " In Egypt it is plentifully found in wliat ai'e called the Lakes of Natron. These lakes, six in number, are westward of the Nile, not far from Terrana, in a valley surrounded by limestone. The car- bonate and mui'iate of soda exist together in these waters; but when the water is diminished by natural evaporation, these salts ai'e deposited in distinct layers." (Broguiart, inCleaveland's Mineral., 133.) It would be superfluous to bring any further proof that the ancient nitrum generally applies to our natron or the native carbonate of soda. Were the Greeks, Romans, and Arabians then entirely ignorant of saltpetre or the nitrate of potash ? This seems incredible, considering how largely it is distributed in Europe, Asia, and Africa; and, therefore, we cannot bring ourselves to think that this mineral can have entirely escaped the observation of the ancients; and if this were the proper place for such a disquisition, we believe that we could state satisfactory reasons for drawing the con- clusion, that "^nitrum'' was applied to it as well as to the other mineral. But at the same time, as mentioned above, we are quite satisfied that by litrum and nitmm the medical authors generally, if not universally, meant the native carbo- nate of soda. Dioscorides, with regard to its medicinal powers, merely states of it that it has alterative or metasyncritic powers, (y, 129.) We have given his views respecting the Aphronitrum under that head. Our author abridges Galen's account of it, but omits to mention, as stated by Galen, and also by Aetius, that the different kinds of nitre were popularly used as counter-agents in cases of poisoning by mushrooms. All the Arabians treat largely of this substance generally under the name of baurach. See Avicenna (ii, 3, 84) ; Bhascs (Cont. 1. ult. iii, 115); Mcsuc (De Simpl. xvii) ; Serapion (c. 401);