SIMPLES. SECT. III.] 453 ueous acid. Pliny says it was used for embalming dead bodies. (1. c.) Karabe, or Populus. Avicenna describes it as being the gum of a tree called haur romana (populus Romana?), resembling vernix, of dif- [erent colours, and when of a ruddy colour attracting chaff and other small objects. He says the gum is like the flower of the tree in virtues but colder, being astringent in the case of all fluxes, especially bleeding from the nose, and hemoptysis. He agrees with Rhases and Serapion that it is a good periapt in cases of hot apostemes. He recommends it as a good cor- dial medicine, and one which is useful in aff'ections of the stomach and bowels, (ii, 2, 364.) He treats of the other parts of the poplar separately, and also gives a distinct chapter on Ambra, and in his work ' De Med. Cord.' he treats separately of Ambra and Karabe. Serapion under the head of haur romi first gives abbreviated translations of Dioscorides's and Galen's descriptions of the black poplar {aiyupoq), and then a trans- lation of an extract said to be from Paulus, but whicb we cannot trace in the works of our author. In that extract Karabe is called the gum of tbe haur romi; it is said to be astringent, and to be confounded by some with the sandarach, and that it was called the funeral gum because the Latins used it in burials. He concludes by giving extracts from several Arabian authorities regarding its medicinal characters, which agree in the main with those given above from Avicenna. (De Simpl. 276.) He gives a perfectly distinct chapter on Ambra (c. 196.) Rhases has a chapter on the " haur seu fagus," which, except that it does not contain the pretended extract from Paulus, is made up from almost the same authorities as the one of Serapion which we have just discussed. Karabe, it is said, is the gum of the tree. (Contin. 1. ult. i, 356.) Although there is a good deal of confusion in the accounts of Karabe contained in these extracts, wc think it impossible to avoid drawing the conclusion that the authorities meant to apply it to the resin of some balsam poplar, probably some variety of the Populus nigra, or dilutata. It would be a great mistake then to identify the Karabe with amber. Indeed, Ebn Baithar distinctly says that amber is not the gum of the black poplar as had been supposed, which he clearly establishes by showing that the