SIMPLES. [book VII. 260 spleen, draughts taken with them being found to be service- able in such cases, (i, 116.) None of the other authorities give by any means so satisfactory an account of this subject as Dioscorides. Galen, Aetius, and Oribasius evidently follow him. Celsus ranks the "tamarix" among his articles which repress and soften, (ii, 33.) It occurs in the works of Hippo- crates. (See Dierbach.) For the Arabians, see Serapion (c. 31); Avicenna (ii, 2, 684); Ehases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 700); Averrhoes (Collig. V, 42.) Serapion, after quoting the sections of Dios- corides and Galen on the tamarix, says of it, on the authority of Mesarugie, that it dries up all ulcers, especially those from burns. He also relates, on the authority of Alchazi, the case of a woman who was cured of a leprosy, by means of it. Avicenna and Rhases say of it, that its fruit is beneficial in chronic coughs. Avicenna says it cures the bite of the viper. The curious reader will find it interesting to compare the medicinal characters of the tamariscus as given in our Enghsh Dispensatory by Quincy, with those given it by the ancients, as stated above. (134.) Mupio(^i)XXov, Millefolium, Millefoil, is desiccative to such a degree as to agglutinate wounds. Commentary. It appears to be the Myriophyllum sjncatujn, Angl., spiked water millefoil. At least the description of it given by Dioscorides evidently points to some species of myriophyllum. He recommends it as a cataplasm with vinegar to recent ulcers; and says of it, that it is drunk with water and salts in cases of falls, (iv, 113.) Galen and the other Greek authorities, like our author, merely mention it as a vulnerary herb. We have not found it in the works of Hippocrates or Celsus, nor in those of the Arabians, with the exception of Ebn Baithar. (ii, 500.) Myrrha, Myrrh, belongs to the second order of calefa- cients, and is also distinguished for tenuity of parts to a certain degree. The root of it is fragrant and sweet. It is emmenagogue, and promotes expectoration from the chest and lungs.