219 sKCT. m.] SIMPLES. Commentary. Little need be said ui^der this head. Pliny Comm. recommends it along with vinegar as an application to erysi- " ' pelas. Galen recommends it in the same cases as our author. He defines the soot to be the remains of the fire which con- sumed the materiel Serapion's account of it is entirely taken from Galen. Dioscorides (i, 84) and Oribasius (Med. Collect, xi) describe more minutely than any of the others the pro- cess for preparing the Fuligo Thuris. It was used principally in ulcers of the eyes. The soot of storax and myrrh, as Serapion says, is prepared agreeably to the same process as that of frankincense. AiyuoTj/coi', Ligusticum, Lovage; the root and seed of it are heating to iich a degree as to promote menstruation. It is also very (■arminative. Commentary. We have always thought that the Ligusticum Comm. Levisticum had been introduced into this country by the Romans, ' ' ' iu order to supply them with an article fi'equently used by them at home, as a condiment. See the works of Apicius (pluries.) 'loscorides describes it minutely, and recommends it in a reat variety of complaints, as an emmenagogue and diuretic, ') promote digestion and dispel flatulence. He also mentions hat it was often used as a condiment in place of pepper, (iii, ■l.) Galen and the other Greek authorities treat of it very succinctly. The Arabians ascribe to it anthelminthic and 'lexipharmic powers. See in particular Avicenna (ii, 2, 377); Ithases (Cont. 1. ult. iii, 17.) It is not met with in the works )f Cclsus, nor, as far as we can discover, in those of Hippocrates, fjovage held a place in the Materia Medica with all its ancient •liaracters down to a late date. See the works of Parkinson, ierard, Culpeper, Rutty, and Quincy. It holds a place in the nodcm Greek Pharmacopoeia (97.) AiOdpyvpog, Spuma Argonti, is of the middle order among me- jj| allic substances ; we therefore often use it as the vehicle for M -ther remedial powers. It is moderately desiccative, detergent, And astringent; hence it is used for excoriations of the thighs ^rom friction.