SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 359 the garden, having a diuretic fruit like the grape of a vine. The bark of the root of the Strychnos somnifera when drunk with wine to the amount of a dram is soporific. And it has a diuretic seed, being of the third order of refrigerants; hence when drunk in greater quantity than twelve clusters it occa- sions madness. The fourth species is not used internally, but . when applied externally it cures spreading ulcers, belonging to the second order of refrigerants and desiccants. Commentary. We must not ventiu-e upon the discussion Comm. of disputed points respecting the Strychni of the ancients, for ' which we beg to refer om' readers to the Appendix to Dunbar's Greek Lexicon, and we shall merely state our conclusions so far as they are interesting to the professional reader. Of the four species described by Dioscorides, the 1st, or Strychnus ! hortensis, is the Solanum nigrum, or its variety S. miniatum; \ the 2d, or Halicacabum, is the Physalis alkekengi; the 3d, or IS. somniferum, is the Physalis somnifera; and the 4th, or '. Furialis, is the Solanum Sodomceum. Several learned autho- irities, however, have taken the last for the Atropa Belladonna. I Our author in the main follows Dioscorides, who treats of the ivii'tnes of the Strychni at so great length that we dare not at- Itempt to follow him in the present instance. The first he does mot administer internally, but recommends it very largely as lan external application for erysipelas, herpes, headache, heat J of the stomach, aff'ections of the eye, the siriasis of children, earache, the fluor albus, &c. The second, he says, resembles fcthe first in virtue. The third, he says, has the same powers as the juice of the poppy. The fourth brings on phantasies and delirium, and in large doses proves fatal. The best ouuter-agent to it is undiluted wine drunk and afterwards |»vomited. (iv, 72-5.) Celsus frequently prescribes "solanum Ijfquam oTovy^vov Grseci vocant," and ranks it among those hings which repress and soothe, (ii, 33.) He recommends it as an application in phrenitis and various other diseases, (iii, 18.) Galen and Aetius give nearly the same account of it lis our author. Oribasius confessedly borrows his description from Dioscorides. The Arabians treat fully of the solanum, )f which Avicenna mentions that there are five species, (ii, 2, il6.) Sec Scrapion (De Simpl. 138) ; llhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, ;G2); Averrhoes (Collig. v, 42); Ebu Baitliar (ii, 212.) The