456 [book VII. APPENDIX TO medicinal powers as Avicenna. (Contin. 1. ult. i, 242.) Serapion under this head gives Dioscorides's description of tlie wild myrtle with further references to Galen and Patdus, but con- cludes by saying that he was sensible Dioscorides had not treated of cubebs. (De Simpl. 288.) Ebn Baithar mentions that certain of the authorities had taken it for the carpesium. He says it renders the breath fragrant and cures affections of the bladder. He further quotes Ebn Sina (Avicenna?) as stating that it enhances the delight of coitus, (i, 344.) By the way, Dr. Pereira mentions that the Indians still take them to excite the sexual feelings. We would beg to refer for further information on this subject to his excellent account of the Piper Cubeba. (754.) See also Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 204), and Royle (M. M. 562.) Usnen. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 713) ; Serapion (De Simpl. 257); Ehases (Contin. 1. ult. i, 753.) This term is used rather vaguely by the Arabian authors, but there can be no doubt that it comprehended the salsola fruticosa. They call it ab- stergent, cleansing, and aperient, and recommend it as an emmenagogue, and in difficulty of urine and dropsy. Rhases says it is of a hot and dry nature, and is purgative, deobstruent, and corrosive. (Ad Mansor. iii, 22.) The confectio de usnen of Serapion containing fourteen other ingredients mostly of an aromatic nature, is recommended by him for debility of the stomach. (De Antidot. 71.) Fayara, or Fagre. See Serapion (De Simpl. c. c); Avicenna (ii, 2, 260); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 312.) Serapion's authorities compare it to the vetch, and say of it that it is hot and dry in the second degree, and is stomachic. Isaac ebn Amran describes it as having a small, black, round grain within, and a red one without, as forming a good gargle in fsetor of the mouth, and entering as an ingredient into powders and ointments. Avicenna's de- scription of it is to the same effect; he says, however, that it is hot and dry in the third degree. He recommends it as an astringent, stomachic, and hepatic medicine. Rhases's account