[book VII. SIMPLES. 192 Comm. written on the subject. See Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 23G) ; " " ' Avicenna (ii, 2, 161); Serapion (c. 318.) Avicenna and Rhases agree that it dries up humid ulcers when sprinkled over them. One of Rhases^'s authorities states that the oil of costus is useful in relaxation and coldness of the nerves, and in sciatica; and that a fumigation made with it by means of an instrument for the purpose (per embotum), kills the foetus, and promotes menstruation. All join in giving it the character of being alexipharmic. The costus, as far as we have been able to discover, does not occur in the works of Hippocrates. Celsus mentions it along with other aromatics (iv, 14, et alibi). It is often noticed as a precious ointment and aromatic by the classic authors. See Pliny (H. N. xii, 24); Columella (xii, 20); Propertius (iv, 6, 5); Lucan (ix, 917); Horace (Carm. iii, 1, 44); Ovid (Met. x, 308.) KoruXjjSwv, Cotyledon, Navel-ivort, is cooling, repellent, detergent, and discutient. It is believed that when the leaves of it are eaten along with the root, they prove lithontriptic and diuretic. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscorides describes two species, which are " " ' the Cotyledon umbilicus, and the C. serrata. Our author's description applies to the former of these, and is abridged from Galen. Galen further recommends it strongly as an application to inflammatory erysipelas and erysipelatous in- flammation, the nice distinction between which he has stated under coriander, and in his work Therap. ad Glauc. (ii.) See Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 138.) Ko^Xi'ai, Cochleae, Snails, when burnt are of a moderately desic- cative nature, and somewhat heating. They are useful in dysenteries when mortification has not yet taken place, if to four parts of them, one part of white pepper, and two parts of galls be added. Unburnt, they are triturated and applied whole to the belly in dropsical complaints, and to the joints in arthritic, with advantage, being allowed to remain until they drop off" spontaneously; and upon the whole they diy strongly deep-seated humours. Comm. COMMENTARY. The K. y(epaaiog is the Heli.v Pomatia,