SIMPLES. 443 SECT. III.] prescribed preparation for complaints of the eyes, and for tertian and bilious fevers. The Kebulic, he says, are phlegmagogue, and especially the prepared kinds ; they improve the sight, cleanse and comfort the stomach, and are useful in dropsy and chronic fevers. The Black bring away black and adust bile, are useful in melancholy and palpitations, clear the colour, cure leprosy, remove sadness, and are beneficial in quartans. The dose from two to five drachms. (De Simpl. ii.) He treats separately of the Embhc and Belleric, but we need not enter upon his account of them. And here we would refer our readers to Costa's commentary on this part of Mesne, as containing all the inter- esting information which can be gleaned from ancient authors on the subject of myi-obalans. For the other Arabians, see Haly Abbas (Pract. ii, 54) ; Averrhoes (Collig. v, 42); Ebn Baithar (pluries); and Avenzoar (Antidot.) None of these supply much that is important after what we have given from the other authorities. Of the Greek writers on medicine, Actuarius is the only one that gives any distinct account of myrobalans, and he professes to derive his information from " the wise barbarian doctors," meaning the Arabians. He first describes the Citrine, the Kebulic, and the Black or Indian, and represents them as possessing purgative powers, combined with some astringency and tonicity. Besides these three kinds he mentions, as pos- sessing purgative powers of a like nature, two medicines, which he calls empelilez and empletze, by which he no doubt meant Emblic and Belleric. (Meth. Med. v, 8.) The five kinds of myrobalans, namely, the Citrine, the Kebulic, the Indian, the Belleric, and the Emblic, occur in one of the antidotes of Nicolas Myrepsus, who recommends them in various remittent and intermittent fevers, (i, 24.) Myrobalans have always been much esteemed by the Hindoo physicians. See the Susruta, and Wise's Book on Hindoo Medicine (pluries.) Manna. Though the Arabians would certainly appear to have been the first to introduce the substance now used medicinally under this name, it is impossible to beUeve that the Greeks and Romans can have been wholly unacquainted with it. It, we need scarcely inform our professional readers, is procured principally from the Ornus Europcca or flowering ash, either by incision,