SECT. III.J 69 SIMPLES. down to a late date. See Quincy (p. 94.) Even yet several of Comm. the rubi are still kept in the shops for medicinal purposes. See ' ' ' Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. p. 89.) Ranunculus, Croivsfoot, consists of four varieties, aU of which are possessed of powerfully heating and desiccant powers, and also of acrid and caustic, so as to occasion ulceration with pain J but when moderately used, it proves only detergent of the skin. The dried root is a sternutatory. Commentary. According to Sprengel, the first species is Comm. the Ranunculus Asiaticus; the second, the R. lanuginosus ; the " third, the R. muricatus; and the foui-th, the R. aquatilis. Galen recommends it as a powerful escharotic, and our author e^ddently copies from him. Dioscorides gives a similar account of the ranunculi, recommending them for the removal of leprous nails, psora, stigmata, and other tumours, as a fomentation to chilblains, and as an application to remove toothache. The Arabians treat of the ranunculi in the same terms as the Greeks, copying their medicinal characters from Dioscorides and Galen. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 368), and Ebn Baithar (ii, 343.) Neither of them gives anything original of his own, nor from any Arabian authority. The ranunculi, we need scarcely mention, have now been discarded by the regular practitioner; but yet several of them are still kept in the shops, and have the reputation of being excellent vesicants. Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. p. 122.) In like manner old Culpeper affirms that the crowsfoot is an efi'ectual and a much safer blister than cantharides (p. 59.) The modern Greek Pharmacopoeia does not contain it. Ba'rpa^oi, Tlanse, Frogs; they are eaten when made into a soup for the bites of venomous animals; when burnt, theii- ashes become very desiccant; and stop hemorrhages, and cm'c alopecia, along with liquid pitch. Commentary. Dioscorides, Galen, and Serapion recom- Comm. mend them in the cases mentioned by our author. The '—•—' species with which they must have been most familiar is the green frog. "VVc have stated in another place that the