SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 217 the ccichrys with the rosmarinus, which might be readily done, Comm. if tlie distinction now adverted to had not been clearlj'^ pointed '"^^ ' ont. Dioscorides recommends the hbanotides for various mecyi- cinal purposes, as being emmenagogue, diuretic, and discxitient. Our author^s character of them is mostly taken from Galea. - . The Arabians treat obscurely and confusedly of this subject. Se& particularly AAaceuna (ii, 2, 67) ; Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 71) ; Serapion (c. 327.) Rhases says of the rosemary, tllat it is calefacient and attenuant, and hence proves carminative, diuretic, and emmeuagogue. In the modern* Greek Pharma- copoeia the Rosmarinus officinalis stands as the representative of the Ai|3ovwTic. (Athens, 1837.) Al^aVUiTOQ, Thus, Frankincense is heating in the second order, and ' desiccative in the first. It has also a slight snb-astringency. ' The bark of it is perceptibly astringent. It is, therefore, desic- ( cative in the second degree complete. Consisting of thicker ! matter than the frankincense, and being less acrid, it cures 1 hijemoptysis, dysentery, csehac and stomachic affections, both I externally and when taken internally. The green shoot of it i is heating and desiccative in the third degree. It is also > somewhat detergent, by which property it cleanses and fills . ulcers in the eyes. Commentary. It is still by no means satisfactorily deter- Comm. rained what tree it is which produces the frankincense; but the best authorities are now inclined to think that it is the Boswellia turifera. See Pereira (Mat. Med., 1185); Ainslie (Mat. Ind. 78); and Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 459.) Dioscorides says the best kind of incense is " the male," by which the • ancients meant the purest kind of it, or that consisting of the :larger grains. See Gray (Pharmacop. 200.) The Indian is •of an inferior quality. He calls it heating, astringent, and cleaming ; and recommends it in hemorrhages, recent wounds, 'burns, chilblains, and other diseases of alike nature. He gives minute directions for the use of it in fumigations. The bark of the frankincense tree he recommends in fluxes and hcmor- irhages, and in ulcers of the eyes. The manna of frankincense will be explained by us luidcr that head. (Mat. Med. i, 81-3.) Oribasius gives a perfectly similar account of the frankincense;