SIMPLES. 162 [book VII. Comm. Cassia Fistula. Dioscoricles describes several varieties of it ' " ' which cannot now be readily recognized. He calls it heating, diuretic, desiccant, and mildly astringent, and recommends it as an emmenagogue, and for various other medicinal purposes. He concludes by saying it may be used in place of cinnamon, and that it is useful for many purposes, (i, 12.) Galen and the other Greek authorities treat of it brieflj'', in nearly the same terms as Paulus. All the Ai-abians treat of it fully. See in particular Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. 183), Serapion (c. 301), and Aviceuua (ii, 3, 151.) Avicenna describes circumstantialljf several kinds of cassia, which he says is closely allied to cin- namon in nature and in virtues. He recommends it in dis- eases of the eyes and uterus, and joins Serapion in holding it to be .ilexipharmic. The only Ai'abian authority quoted by Rhases under this head (namely, Misib) calls it stomachic, hepatic, and attenuant. The same authority is quoted by Serqpion. Another of Serapion's authorities says it has strong powers for procuring abortion. The cassia occm's in the works of Hippocrates, and in those of Celsus. The latter ranks it in his list of discutients. (v, 11.) Galen states that, in the absence of cinnamon, a double dose of cassia or of carpesium may be used in place of it. (ii, 434, ed. Basil.) It is described by Theophrastus (H. P. ix, 5), and Phny (xi, 43). Kacrropiov, Castorium, Castor, is heating and desiccative, with excessive tenuity of parts, by which, in addition to its other actions, it is rendered a suitable remedy for alFections of the nerves pro- ceeding from a collection of humours. It also readily warms parts which are immoderately cooled, both when appHed ex- ternally and when drunk, without at all injuring any other part, even if they should be in a state of moderate fever, as in cataphora and lethargy. It is likewise emmenagogue, and expels the secundines. In affections of the brain and lungs it is a very efficacious remedy, even when inhaled in respiration. Comm. COMMENTARY. All the ancicnt authorities describe the ' ' ' Castor as being the testicles of the beaver [Castor Fiber, L.) Matthiolus, we believe, was the first to rectify this error. It is a substance contained in follicles situated between the amis and genital organs. The use of castor in hysteria is men-