SECT. IIT.] 49 SIMPLES. I a tirocinio namim. Additur autem in malagmata ad dis- Comm. .cutiendas coUectiones.'' (H. N. xxiv, 26.) Aranea, the Spider, wlien softened into a plaster, and ap- ] plied to the forehead and temples, is said by Dioscorides to iremove the periodical attacks of tertians. Its weh, when ap- iplied, stops hemorrhage, and preserves superficial sores from i inflammation. Commentary. Dioscorides describes two species, which Comm. iprobably are the Aranea retiaria, and the Aranea domestica.' ' ' SSerapion gives the same account of their medicinal properties. IThey appear to have been principally used externally, as an »anti-inflammatory application. Argemone, Prickly Poppy, is possessed of detergent and cdiscutient powers. Commentary. Of the two species described by Dioscorides, comm. the former, which is the Papaver argemone, is recommended ' ' ' by him in nebulae and albugo of the eye, and its leaves as a soothing cataplasm for inflammations. The other, which may be the Gexhm urbanum, or avens, he also recommends principally as an external application in sores and aff'ections of the eyes ; . but adds of it, that when drunk with wine it is useful in the ase of persons stung by venomous animals, (ii, 208.) Galen and the succeeding authorities treat of it more cursorily; and ithe Arabians would seem not to treat of it at all, with the ex- eption of Ebn Baithar, who merely gives translations of what ioscorides and Galen had written of it. (i, 28.) Api'crapoi', Arisarum, Friar's Cowl, is smaller than the wakerobin, ut much more acrid; and has a root of the size of an olive. Commentary. Our herbalists give the name of Friar's Cowl Comm. ;:o this plant, which even they admit to be possessed of insig- ' * ' aificant powers. It is the aris of Pliny. (H. N. xxiv, 16.) Its Dotanical name is Arum arisaron. Dioscorides calls it an acrid nedicine, and recommends it solely in collyria. (ii, 198.) The f^rabians appear to have confounded it with the arum, under HI. 4