PLASTERS. [book vir. 5C4 Tfie plaster coracon from oxymel, for the pudendum and spreadinff sores. Of galls, oz. ij; of squama seris, oz. iss; of chalcitis, of frankincense, of eacli, oz. j. Triturate with vinegar for a sufficient number of days; tlien mix of honey, oz. v. But having made separately a cerate from oz. ij of myrtle or rose oil, and of the seam of bulls, oz. viij ; of wax, oz. iv; of turpentine, oz. j; having mixed, triturate together, and use like that from paper, both by means of an instrument for extracting pus and by a pledget. The plaster from vinegar and oil. Of litharge, p. j ; of oil, of vinegar, of each, p. ij, some make it iij. The plaster from agate, bc'ng discutient and emollient. Of agate stone, half burnt, oz. iss; of wax, oz. v ; of roasted rosin, oz. iij ; of oil, oz. j. The plaster Isis, for blood?/ wounds, being agglutinative, incar- native, and cathartic. Of squama teris, of burnt copper, of round birthwort, of each, dr. viij; of fissile alum, dr. vj; of ammoniac salts, dr. viij; of frankincense, dr. viij; of ammo- niac perfume, dr. viij; of myrrh, dr. xij ; of aloes, di'. xij; of galbanum, dr. xij; of the juice of the root of di'acunculus, dr. A^ij J of wax, lb. j; of Colophonian rosin, lb. ij; of old oil, oz. iij J of vinegar, q. s. TTie piaster' Athena, for foul ulcers, infarctions, and wounded nerves. Of pomegranate rind, of burnt copper, of galls, of round and long birthwort, of sal ammoniac, of ammoniac per- fume ; of squama seris, of fissile alum and of round, of iris, of misy, of copperas, of chalcitis, of scraped verdigris, of calamine, of aloes, of myrrh, of frankincense, of bee glue, of galbanum, of each, oz. j ; of wax, dr. cc, of pitch, dr. cc; of Colophonian rosin, dr. c; of oil, oz. vj ; of vinegar, q. s. The agglutinative plaster from dittany, for the bites of dogs and all sorts of ulcers. Of litharge, lb. ij ; of squama seris, oz. iss; of old oil, sext. ij; of diphryges, oz. iij ; of gentian, oz. iss; of birthwort, of scraped verdigris, of each, oz. iss; of dittany, of burnt copper, oz. iss; of Colophonian rosin, lb. j ; of manna, of galbanum, of aloes, oz. iij ; of ammoniac perfume, oz. vj; of bee glue, oz. ij; of common wax, oz. viss. The oil must first be boiled with the litharge, until it cease to stain. Then taking it off the fire, we are to add the verdigris and squama, and again boil until it cease to stain; and again taking it off the fire, add