SIMPLES. 59 SECT. III.] spleen (whence it derives its name), in strangury, jaundice, and Comm. calculus. Galen briefly assigns it the same character, which is ' ' ' repeated by Aetius and Oribasius, as well as by our author, and also by Avicenna (630.) We cannot find it mentioned by Serapion or Ehases. It held a place in our Dispensatory in the time of Lewis. (Materia Medica a.d. 1791.) Uva passa, the Raisin ; the cultivated is possessed of diges- tive, astringent, and slightly discutient powers; the wild is possessed of strongly acrid, so as to be strongly phlegmagogue and detergent. Commentary. Dioscorides treats much more fully of the Comm. medicinal powers of raisins than Galen and our author, recom- ' ' mending them in affections of the windpipe, chest, kidneys, and bladder; for dysentery when eaten with their stones by themselves, or when fried along with millet flour, barley-meal, and eggs; in masticatories with pepper; in inflammation of the testicles, when applied in a cataplasm with the flour of beans and cumin; for epinyctis, carbuncle, fevers, putrid and gangrenous sores about the joints, without their stones, when pounded with rue; for gout in a cataplasm with opoponax, and for the removal of loose nails, (v, 4.) Avicenna and Rhases briefly quote Dioscorides, and supply nothing additional. They hold, like the Greeks, that in particular cases raisins prove injurious to the urinary organs. Symeon Seth mentions that the Egyptians prepared a very sweet wine from raisins and honey. (De Alimentis.) 'Aarrjp 'ArriKog, Aster atticus, Starivort, is also called bubonium, because it is believed to cure buboes, not only when applied for this pur- pose but even when appended as a periapt. It is possessed of mixed powers, being discutient and cooling. Commentary. Our author^s account of the starwort. Aster Cqmm. amyllus, is taken from Galen, who in his turn copies from '—«—' Dioscorides. In the common editions of Dioscorides there is a passage under this head (which although quoted by Serapion (§ 9G), is scarcely considered genuine by Sprengel, seeing it is not alluded to by Galen or Pliny), in which the Aster atticus