222 SIMPLES. [book VII. Commentary. The following account of the stones used by the ancients in the practice of medicine is derived from a careful study of the ancient writers on this subject, especially Theophrastus, Pliny, Orpheus, and Psellus. We have also availed ourselves freely of the labours of the modern commen- tators who have written on these ancient authors, namely, De Laet, De Boet, Marbodeus, Hill, and others. For a fuller description of some of the articles, we would beg to refer to our Appendix to Dunbar's English and Greek Lexicon. The Hcematites or Blood-stone was so called from its coloui', or because it was used as a styptic for stopping hemorrhages, as stated by Galen. It consists principally of the oxide of iron. Professor Cleaveland says it contains from 60 to 80 per cent, of iron of excellent quality. It was used for the cure of ophtlialmy. See Dioscorides (v, 143); Galen (De Simpl. ix); Serapion (De Simpl. 421.) They also recommend it in me- norrhagia. Alexander praises it in haemoptysis. Averrhoes recommends it in diseases of the eyelids and eyes. (Collig. iv, 43.) Dr. Hill says it is accounted astringent and desiccative. He adds, "it is given from 10 to 25 grains in hemorrhages.and in distemperatures of the eyes." Besides this, the ancients were acquainted with another Blood-stone which they call Heliotrope. The Schistos is only a variety of the haematites, having a fibrous appearance and ochre colour. Pliny says it is used in diseases of the eyes. The Lapis Melitites of Pliny is supposed by Dr. Kidd to have been borax, or the borate of soda. PUny recommends it mixed with wax for ulcers of the throat. (H. N. xxxx^i, 33.) See Isidorus (Orig. xvi, 4.) It seems likely that it was the same as the tincar of the Arabians, although on this point we do not venture to pronounce a decided opinion. One of Serapion's authorities speaks highly of it in caries of the teeth, and says it kills the worms in them. Is this the original of the popular behef, that toothache is connected with worms in the teeth ? (De Simpl. 423.) The Galactites most probably consisted principally of chalk. Matthiolus and Sprengel mention that it is found in Saxony. Dr. Hill remarks that it is, properly speaking, a species of in-