SECT. III.] 383 SIMPLES. cases of jaundice with wine, being more desiccative but less refrigerant. Commentary. Without doubt, as Sprengel and Matthiolus Comm. state, it is the Hyacinthus orient alts L. Pliny, Dioscorides, ^"'^ ' and Avicenna enumerate its medicinal properties neai'ly in the same terms as our author. They further recommend it as a theriac and alexipharmic. It has long been unknown to British Pharmacy. ''YaKoQ, Vitrum, Glass, when pounded and drunk with a thin white wine is said to break down stones in the bladder. Commentary. Aristophanes, we believe, is the first writer Comm. who makes mention of glass, since the Orphic remains, in which it is noticed, are now generally supposed of a later date. In his comedy of " Acharnenses," an ambassador from the court of Persia is made to say that he had drunk imdiluted wine out of vessels of glass and gold. (Acharn. 1. 74.) In his " Nubes" he mentions burning min'ors of glass. It is also mentioned in the Timseus of Plato. Pliny gives an interesting account of the invention of glass. (H. N. xxxvi, 65.) Glass appears to have been in common use about his time and afterwards, for we find Dioscorides directing to keep certain medicines in vessels of glass ; and Actuarius recommends to have pots-de- chambre made of glass in order to facilitate the observations upon the urine. From a passage in Pliny it would appear that imitations of the precious stones were commonly made in glass in his time with foil or the like placed under it. (H. N. xxvii.) On the glass cups of the ancients, see Strabo (xvi) ; Athen. (xviii, 28, ed. Schw.); and Salmasius. (Ad SoHn. 769.) From the following passage in the works of Lactantius it appears that glass was used by the ancients in windows : " Manifestius est, mentem esse, qua; per oculos ea quae sxmt opposita transpiciat quasi per fenestras perlucente Aatro aut s speculari lapide obductas." (De Opificio Dei, 8.) We need I scarcely say that glass has been found in the ruins of Pompeii ( of late much more plenteous than was expected from the ideas 1 which were formerly entertained of its scarcity in ancient t times. The hyalus or vitrum, however, was a term applied