SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 461 tlic third degree, and intoxicates fisliwhen thrown into a river, lie adds, that it is carminative and phlegmagogue, and is useful iu gout, sciatica, and arthritis, (ii, 2, 480.) "We need have no hesitation in agreeing with the best ■lutliorities, that it is cocculus indicus, or the seed of Menis- jjcrmicm cocculus L., i. q., Anamirta cocculus of Lindley. (See Veg. Kingd. 309.) He saj^s of it, that it contains a most \ cnomous principle, the picrotoxine, and that in its pericarp is found the not less formidable alcaloid menispermine. See also Gray (Pharmacop. 119), and Ainslie (Mat. Ind. ii, 132.) Both these authors mention of it, that it is used to intoxicate lish. See, further, an excellent account of the cocculus indicus in Pereira (M. M. 1326.) It was used by the Hindoo physi- cians for the cure of nervous diseases. See Wise (System of Hindoo Med. 557.) Dr. Royle is somewhat doubtful whether the cocculus was known to the Arabian physicians, but upon the whole inclines to this opinion. (Mat. Med. 249.) Nux Vomica. "We have briefly treated of the Nux Vomica as a poison in mother place (Vol. II, 241.) "We have now to say of it, that t was also used medicinally as an emetic. For example, Haly \bbas treats of it in his chapter on Medicines which procure \"omiting. (Pract. ii, 65; see also Pract. x, 12.) Serapion, in ike manner, treats of it in his chapter on Emetic Medicines, vii, 36.) Thus he gives the following formula for an ;metic: "B- Concarned (cardamomi?), nucis vomicae, seminis aphani, omnium an ^j. Terantur et dentur in potu cum iqua melUs ej; decoctione anethi." Serapion treats of it also n his work ' On Simples,' where he states, that " easy vomit- iig" may be induced by administering it agreeably to the ormula which we have just quoted from his other work. He • Ids, that perhaps it will also loosen the bowels. Abram, iiother of his authorities, likewise says, that given to the amount if two di achms, with two drachms of dill or of fennel seed, and run'k with warm water, it will produce vomiting and loosen lie bowels. (De. Simpl. 163.) Ebn Baithar's authorities give n interesting account of the Nux Vomica, from which it is lear that it was frequently used as an emetic, along with fen- ■el, natron, mustard, &c. in hydromel.