[book VII. 92 SIMPLES. when the mouth is rinsed with the vinegar; but if a little honey is added, they bring away phlegm. When made into a linctus they promote the discharges from the breast. Comm. COMMENTARY. This term properly signifies a small torch used in performing lustrations, but here it is used for a small slip taken from a pine-tree. The tree from which the tedas were taken was the Pinus Cembro; this Matthiolus, Harduin, and our old herbalists have clearly made out. See in parti- cular Parkinson (p. 1537.) Gerard calls it by the English name of torch-pine, and, evidently copying from Dioscorides, adds, " the torch-pine, cut into small pieces and boiled in vinegar, is a remedy against the toothache, if the teeth be washed with the decoction." (p. 1361.) The other authorities treat of it in general terms, under the head of Pinus. Damascena, Damascenes, will be treated of with Plums. Aojuaffffwi'ioi', Damasonium, Water-plantain, has certain detergent powers, and proves lithontriptic, and occasions a metastasis of the con- tents of the intestinal canal to the urine. Comm. COMMENTARY. There can be no doubt that it is the Alisina " ' of Dioscorides, and therefore probably the elegant water plant now called Alisma Plantago. On this point see Gerai'de, Par- kinson, Cordus, and Sprengel. Dioscorides recommends its root in cases of poisoning by the sea hare, the red frog, and by opium; in tormina and dysentery when drunk by itself and with carrot; and in convulsions and hysterical complaints. He adds, that the herb binds the belly, is emmenagogue, aud softens swellings when applied, (iii, 159.) Galen states that he had never any experience of it in the cases mentioned by Dioscorides ; but that he had found it possessed of lithontriptic powers. The other Greek authorities follow him. The Arabians copy from both. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 244, 249); Ebn Baithar (ii, 513.) Aad/coc, Daucus, Carrot (called also Staphylinus), consists of two varieties. The root of the cultivated carrot is flatulent and