424 [iJOOK VIJ. APPENDIX TO Ocimoides, -which some call PhiletEerium. Its root is use- less, but the seed is composed of subtile matteij and is desic- cative without pungency. Comm. COMMENTARY. Matthiolus held it to be a species of lychnis, ' " but this opinion is rejected by Dodonajus. Sprengel agrees with Lobehus and Dalecampius in referring it to the Saponaria ocimoides. This is one of the most disputed articles of the ancient Mat. Med. Of the conjectures which have been made respecting it, the most probable then is that it was either a species of Lychnis or Saponaria. See Parkinson (Theatre of Plants, 630, 760.) We are disposed to acquiesce in opinion with those who hold it to be the Saponaria ocimoides. Dioscorides says of it, that its seed when drunk in wine is calculated to benefit those who have been stung by scorpions, and is useful for the bites of all other kinds of reptiles, and that it is given in sciatica with myrrh and pepper, (iv, 28.) Galen states its character in nearly the same terms as oui* author. It is not described by Aetius, by Hippocrates or Celsus, nor, as far as we can discover, by any of the Arabians, with the exception of Ebn Baithar, whose notice of it is entirely made up from Dioscorides and Galen, (i, 93.) It has been long unknown to our Dispensatory, and does not occur in the Pharmacopoeia of the modern Greeks. APPENDIX TO THE THIRD SECTION. On the Substances introduced into the Materia Medica by the Arabians. Having thus given a brief account of all the Simple Sub- stances described by the Greek and Roman writers on the Materia Medica, we ai-e now called upon to supply what infor- mation we can procure regarding the additions made to their list by the Arabians. This, we need scarcely say, is a field of research, which, having been hitherto but little cultivated, is attended with difficulties of a particularly formidable nattu'C; for, although we have been enabled to avail ourselves of the . learned labours of Professor Sprengel, Dr. Royle, Dr. AinsUe,