327 SECT. III.] SIMPLES. ^apKOKoXXa, Sarcocollaj is tlie tear of a Persian tree^ being emplastic and desiccative without pimgency, and therefore it agglutinates ■wounds. Commentary. There is not, we presumej the shghtest reason Comm. to doubt that the ancient Sarcocol was the same as the modern, ' ' ' namely, the gum of the Pencea Sarcocolla. Dioscorides men- tions only its external use in agglutinating wounds and re- straining defluxions on the eyes, (iii, 89.) The Greeks con- fined the use of it to external applications; but the Arabians sometimes administered it internally as a purge. Thus Serapion, Rhases, and Avicenna say that it purges crude humours and gross phlegm, especially from the joints. They recommend it with honey as an application in diseases of the ear. They say it corrodes putrid flesh, and heals recent wounds, and restores parts that are distorted. See Avicenna (ii, 3, 593) j Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 617) ; Serapion (c. 15.) Even as late as the time of Dr. Lewis the sarcocol was still retained in our English Dispensatory with the characters assigned to it by the Greeks and Arabians, Of late years it has been entirely omitted. Saxifraga, Saxifrage, is diuretic and lithontriptic. CoMMENTAKY. There has been great diversity of opinion Comm. respecting it, as Sprengel has shown in a very learned dis- '—*—' sertation. (Ad Dioscor. iv, 15.) It is, therefore, by no means certain that it is the Pimpinella Saxifraga, but we incline to this opinion. Apuleius says that it is lithontriptic, and in- deed it appears to have derived its name from this real or sup- posed property. The chapter of Dioscorides on it is of doubtful authenticity. It is not contained in Galen's work on Simples. We doubt also if it is to be found in the works of the Arabians. Not many years ago the Burnet saxifrage held a place in the Dispensatory with the character of possessing the virtues ascribed to this article by the ancients. See Quincy (147.) ^arvpiov, Satyrion, or Trifolium, is of a humid and hot temperament, and flatulent; hence it is a provocative to venery. Some say