OINTMENTS. ECT. XX.] .593 When all the things are properly mixed, and while it is still tepid, we remove it from the fire and strain it, for it becomes thick when it cools. The balaninum, or oil of acorns. The oil of acorns is prepared like the oil of almonds, from the acorns of oaks. The caryinwm, or oil of ivalnuts. This is prepared like the 'foresaid, fi'om old walnuts. Laurinum, or oil of bay. The plain oil is formed in the same manner from the fruit of bay, but the mixed is prepared thus: of ripe olives, sext. j is added to sext. ij of bay-berries, and all pounded and expressed. Some mix equal parts of each. The lentiscimim, or oil of lentisk. And this is prepared in the same manner as the oil of bay, from the fruit of lentisk, in two ways, by itself and with olives, not ripe but sour. The mastichinum, or oil of mastich. The most simple kind is formed of Chian mastich, oz. j, being added to an Italian sextai'ius of oil of unripe olives, and boiled in a double vessel. Some add also, of wormwood and of storax, of each, oz. j. A more complex oil of mastich. Of oil, sext. l ; of elecam- pane, lb. v ; of xylobalsam, lb. x; of the schoenanth, lb. v; of cardamom, lb. vij ; of mastich, lb. v; of the wood of mastich, lb. viij ; of turpentine, lb. iij ; of the hair of wormwood, lb. j ; ijf fragrant wine, sext. v; of water, sext. j. The dry things l)eing previously macerated in wine for three days, are mixed with the oil and the water, and boiled for six hours, and Oien the masticb and turpentine are added, and being pro- perly mixed are filtrated, and when cooled are put into a vessel. TTie simple sicyonian, or oil of cucumbers. This is prepared by adding oz. ij of the dried root of the wild cucumber to an Italian sextarius of oil, and boiling in a double vessel. The compound oil of cucumbers. Of oil, sext. x; of the scraped root of the wild cucumber, lb. j ; of wild thyme, of inelilot, of each, oz. v; of fatty dead pines, of marsh-mallows, of each, oz. v; of asplenium, oz. vj ; of fenugreek, sext. ij. The fenugreek is first soaked in the water for one day and then filtrated, and is added to the things mentioned with oil ■ind sext. ij of wine; and when all are boiled, there are added )i stag's marrow, triturated with a little oil, oz. iv ; of tlie III. 38