SIMPLES. 43 SECT. III.] to abscesses, and various schiiTous tumours, {v, 18, 7.) It does Comm. not occur, we believe, in tbe Materia Medica of Hippocrates;' • ' lat least we have failed to detect it while writing this article. Anagallis, Pimpernel; both kinds are of sufficiently deter- fgent powers, having some hottish and attractive properties, sso that they extract thorns; and the juice of it purges by tthe nose. Commentary. These two well-known plants, namely, the Comm. cAnagallis arvensis and ccerulea, are included in all the ancient ' * ' lists of medicinal herbs, and were only of late excluded from )Our British Pharmacopoeias. All the authorities, ancient and lodern, give them the same characters as Dioscorides, to whom lOur author is principally indebted, (ii, 209.) He says they are ieful in diseases of the kidneys and liver. (1. c.) The ana- ;gallis does not occur in the works of Celsus. For the Arabians, bee Serapion (c. 155); Avicenna (ii, 3, 33.) They all copy (from Dioscorides and Galen. Even Ebn Baithar supplies lothing of much consequence, (i, 90.) Anagyi'us, Stinking-bean Trefoil; is a strong-scented' and fccrid shrub of hot and discutient powers, but the seed con- iiists of more subtde particles, and is emetic. Commentary. Dioscorides and Pliny recommend the Ana- Comm. \iyris f(Btida for promoting the pains of labour, and the expul- * ' |don of the placenta after delivery. It is curious to remark lat our old herbalists ascribe the same virtues to it. It was lerefore to our forefathers in the profession what the ergot f f rye is to the present generation; being, according to Galen, acrid, diaphoretic, and heating substance, its action must, in laany respects, have resembled the ergot. With the exception Tf Oribasius, who merely copies Dioscorides, we are not aware Jf any ancient writer that treats of it, with the exception of iibn Baithar, and he also merely copies the descriptions of it luven by Dioscorides and Galen. Though excluded from our Mspensatory, this article is not wholly unknown to the shops. Vec Gray (Suppl. to Pharm. 93.)