[book VII. 496 COMPOUND PURGATIVES. of it to the patient, who has been formerly restricted to a simple diet, to the size of eight, ten, or at most fourteen filberts; and let him drink hot water. Comm. COMMENTARY, It may be proper in this place to apprize the ' ' ' reader of the reason why he will not find the remainder of the work so copiously illustrated by notes as the preceding parts of it. The combination of simple medicines in pharmaceutical prepara- tions is so arbitrary, and so little regulated by any fixed principle, that it is seldom we can find any two authors exactly agreeing as to the ingredients which enter into any one preparation. Now to follow all the ancient writers on pharmacy through all their complex formulae, and point out every little difi'erence which prevails among them, would be a very wearisome task, and one which would scarcely recompense us or our readers for the time and attention which such an undertaking would necessarily demand; and neither is it much required, since, as will be seen, our author's system of pharmacy is sufficiently copious and ac- curate for all practical pui'poses. We shall therefore be content with giving a general explanation of each class of these medi- cinal preparations, and only offer some occasional remarks on a few of the more important articles. Under this head we shall give some account of the Halatia Cathartica, or Purgative Salts of the ancients. The a\eg Koivai Trt(j)pvyjuivai are the same as the sal commune frictum of Apicius. Humelbergius thus explains it: "fricti, id est cremati et torrefacti." The following is Apicius's receipt for the " Sales conditi ad multa Of common salt roasted, lb. j ; of sal ammoniac roasted, lb. ij ; of white pepper, oz. iijj of ginger, oz. ij; of bishop's weed, oz. iss; of thyme, oz. iss; of parsley-seed, oz. iss. The purgative salts of Aetius contain sal ammoniac mixed up with many purgative and cordial medicines, such as scammony, laserwort, parsley-seed, ginger, pennyroyal, spike- nard, and pepper, (iii, 109.) These are the ingredients of a sal purgatorius recommended by Actuarius. (Meth. Med. v, 10.) Myrepsus gives prescriptions for various purgative and sto- machic salts. They all consist of sal ammoniac, or common salt mixed with scammony and aromatics in different propor- tions. (Sect, ii.) See also Haly Abbas. (Pract. x, 10.)