SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 149 respecting it. But as Dioscorides and Pliny ascribe nearly Comm. ' the same medicinal powers to the Cacalia as our author does to ' ' ' the Cacanus, it seems not improbable that they may have been . identical. Our author evidently borrows from Galen. Cancamum; it is the tear of an Arabian wood, resembling imyrrhj fragrant, and hence used in perfumes. It has the power >;of extenuating fat bodies, and is detergent and deobstruent. Commentary. Dioscorides treats of it in the portion of his Comm. Kwork devoted to aromatics, calling it the tear of an Arabian ' ' iiwood, having some resemblance to myrrh, which was used lin fumigations with myrrh and storax. He calls it emmena- r^ogue; mentions that it is given in asthmatic, epileptic, and ijplenetic cases; says it is useful as a cleanser in diseases of bhe eye; but that it is most particularly applicable for fungous [^ums and toothache, (i, 23.) Galen has omitted it from his Mat. Med. Of the Arabians, Avicenna is the authority who has treated of it most distinctly. He calls it a gum of a bad taste rlfhich is brought from the region of the west. (This account of Khe country which produces it may warrant suspicion that he Lad confounded it with some other gum, the production of Italy mx Spain.) He says of it, that some had confounded it with Mondaracha (gum vemix ?). In giving its medicinal virtues, he wopies closely from Dioscorides (ii, 2, 382.) It is doubtful, wom this imperfect description of the Cancamum, what sub- Kance it apphes to; probably either to Gum anime or to Crum mdemi. There seems no good ground for referring it, as some Biave done, to Lacca; nor to some nondescript species of the ■i(?nym Katef, as Sprengel does. (Ad Dioscor. 1. c.) im, H< Cadraia, Calamine; both kinds of it are desiccant, but that Hihich is called Botryitis, consists of the more subtile particles, id the Placitis, of the gi'osser. When calamine is burnt, it •comes desiccant and detergent, without pungency, and is so useful for sores requiring to be filled up, about the eyes id in the whole body, more particularly those on softer dies, which are more humid, for those upon harder bodies juire stronger means.