348 [book VIJ. SIMPLES. Smilax or Taxus, the Yew, is a tree of deleterious pro- perties. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is the Taxus baccata, L. See Book V. ' '' ' (48.) It appears remarkable tliat Dioscorides should have allowed this article a place in the Materia Medica, seeing that he himself says that he had noticed it merely to guard against it. He says that in Narbonia (Languedoc or Savoy), the yew-tree was possessed of such a power as to prove fatal to persons sitting or sleeping in its shade, (ii, 80.) We have stated, however, elsewhere (v, 48) that great difference of opinion has prevailed regarding this reputed noxious power of the yew. Myrrha, Myrrh, is of the second order of calefacients and desiccants. It, therefore, agglutinates wounds of the head when sprinkled upon them. It has also some bitterness ; and hence it kills worms and the foetus; and it is detergent, and, therefore, is mixed with ophthalmic remedies. It is likewise expectorant without roughening the trachea. Boeotian myrrh has calefacient, emollient, and solvent powers. Comm. COMMENTARY. That this is the same as our myrrh is in- —*—' disputable, and the best botanical authorities are now pretty well agreed that it is the product of a dwarf shrub, to which they have given the name of Balsamodenclron Myrrha. See Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 460); Pereira (Mat. Med. 1187.) It is mentioned in what is perhaps the oldest literary production in existence (Genesis xxx\di, 25), and is frequently noticed as a medicine in the works which bear the name of Hippocrates. (De Superfoet.; de Muliebr.) See further 'OEconom. Hippocrat.' (347) and Dierbach (Arsn. des Hipp. 224.) In short, this gum-resin was much used in the ancient practice of mediciue. According to Dioscorides it is calefacient, soporific, agglutina- tive, desiccative, and astringent. He recommends it in chronic coughs and asperities of the trachea. He also states that it was used in ulcers of the eye and other complaints of a like natui'e. He further says of it that it is authelminthic; that it cures fetor of the mouth, and likewise of the armpits when used as an ointment with liquid alum; that in a gargle with oil it strengthens the gums and teeth. He describes two