171 <1CT. III.] SIMPLES. iut very briefly as a purgative having detergent and discu- Comm. lent powers. Aetius and Oribasius appear to have over-' ' ' utoked it. Mesne commends it as a pui-gative in cases of colic ttended with flatulence. He says it produces vomiting and .ainful dejection of the bowels^ but that its operation occasions . discliarge of phlegm and bile, which often proves effectual in ■iseases of the joints. (De Simpl. 28.) He calls it by the lames of Albemesuch, Qranum regwn, and Kerva. Avicenna vys of the oil, that it is laxative, and is a good application to aabies and other cutaneous diseases, (ii, 5.33.) It is deserving 'remark that the Grana regia of Uhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 339), t'e applicable to the Laihyris, and not to the Cici. Indeed Mesne ! mbles together liis description of these two substances. (1. c.) 'e have mentioned ah-eady that the Oleum Cicinmn or Cast or- I, was used as a purgative by the ancient physicians. Dr. Hill lys of it, "the ancients obtained an oil by expression, and also • boiling, from the seeds ; they called it Oleum Cicinum; they led it, for burning in their lamps, and in some of their oint- )3nts and plasters. Dioscorides commends it internally l ainst worms ; and Piso tells us that it is sometimes used in ?e same manner in the Brazils, with success.^' i Cinnabaris, Sanguis Draconis, is possessed of moderately I xid powers M'ith some astringency. I [.Commentary. "We must refer to what we have stated in Comm. I itother work, which we have ali-eady often quoted, for the I meral literature of this subject. It will be sufficient in this •e to state that the substance here treated of under the lie of Cinnabaris is indisputably the Sanguis Draconis, or icrete juice of the Dracoena Draco. This is obvious from iscorides's description of it, who says that it is of a deep ur, and hence some had thought it the blood of the igon. (v, 109.) See further, Pliny (H. N. xxxiii, 38), and • very interesting note of Harduin, in which the origin of confusion of the dragon's blood with cinnabar is fully ex- ined. Serapion treats of the Sanguis Draconis as the pro- ■tion of a tree, and quotes a description of it from )scorides and Galen. What vegetable substance in their t. Med. Serapion refers to, we are at a loss to decide.