491 SECT. IV.] SIMPLE rURGATlVES. On Melanogogues. The other Greek authorities treat of Comm. nearly the same number of Melanogogues. They are treated of methodically by Galen, Oribasius, and Aetius. The Alypias is supposed by Bernard (Nota in Nonni Epit.), and Prosper Alpinus, to have been the turbith; but, as is now maintained, erroneously. See SprengeVs Notes on Dioscorides (iv, 177) and the preceding Appendix. The following is Mesue's list of Melanogogues: Clemeiiter. Staechas. Aqua lactis. Fumaria. , , Epithymus. Melauogoga^ Thymus leviter, magis phleg. Poiypodiura. Jus gallorum plileg. cum phleg. ^ melanogogum cum melanogog. Fructus et Flores Valenter. ''Balanus Myrepsica. Centaurium. Colocynthis. Coccum Gnidium. Genista. Kicinus. Senna. {Armenus lapis. Cyanus lapis. Nitrum. Salis genera. Of these medicines, the only one which we owe to the Arabians is Senna. Mesne, it is true, quotes Galen as an authority on it, but this is most probably a mistake, as no mention of it is now to be traced in any part of his works. Averrhoes, ac- cordingly, ranks it among the newly-discovered medicines. He says, that it is both phlegmagogue and cholagogue. Serapion and Rhases give nearly the same account of it. They state the minimum dose of the powdered leaves at one drachm, and of the decoction at five drachms. Mesue directs us to prepare a vinous tincture by infusing the leaves in musk. He recom- mends us to coiTCct its nauseousness and unpleasant effects by the addition of ginger, and other cordials. He says that it cleanses the liver and spleen. Actuarius briefly notices it. He says it evacuates bile and phlegm, (Meth. Med, v, 8.) See Appendix. The Arabian authors represent the lapis lazuli to be the same as the lapis armenus of the Greeks. We have stated what we believe to be the truth of the matter in the preceding commentary. Margravius, in his enumeration of melanogogues, makes a distinction between them: Melanogoga— Sunt India; balani, lazuli lapis, arnienusque, Senna, polypodium quernuin, hcUcborusque, cpithymuni.