82 SIMPLES. [book VII. Comm. pickled fishes." (Ad Xenocrat. Fragment.) Sauce prepared ' " ' by macerating the intestines of the tunny was particularly esteemed. Ceelius Aurelianus praises that from the silurus. (Tard. Pass, ii, 1.) Dioscorides recommends the sauce of pickled fishes as a cataplasm to persons bitten by dogs, and as an injection in dysentery lind sciatica (ii, 34.) All the other authorities that treat of it give it the same character. See Aetius (ii); Avicenna (ii, 3, 486); Serapion (c. 184.) It occurs in the works of Celsus (ii, 31), and also frequently in those of Hippocrates. Foes gives a learned dissertation on this article in ' Qiconom. Hippocrat.' Tei'Tiavii, Gentiana, Gentian; the root is sufficiently efficacious in sub- tilising and cleansing, and as a detergent and deobstruent medicine. Comm. CoMMENTAiiY. Dioscorides states that the gentian (GcH^iawa ' ' ' lutea ?) has a heating and astringent faculty; that it is a re- medy in cases of persons bitten by venomous animals, witli pepper and rue; that it is useful in hepatic and stomachic affections; that it procures abortion when apphed in a colly- rium ; that it is a vulnerary herb, and is used for many ulcers and other cutaneous affections, (iii, 3.) Galen justly remarks that it owes its attenuant and deobstruent powers to its being intensely bitter. (De Simpl. v.) Apuleius, like Dioscorides, recommends it as an application for the bites of sei'pents. Hence it always obtained a place in the Theriac. See Celsus (v, 33.) Serapion says it is the best of all remedies in cases of hydrophobia, and this character it has obtained in modern times. Avicenna gives a very circumstantial account of it, enumerating all its virtues as stated by the Greek authorities, namely, its abstergent, attenuant, deobstruent, diuretic, and emmenagogue powers, and recommends it particularly as an application to parts stung by venomous animals, (ii, 3, 381.) Ebn Baithar gives very interesting extracts from Ai-abiau authorities on this head, (i, 360.) It is found in the Hip- pocratic collection. In the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia it is stated that the G. lutea grows in the Alps of Switzer- land. This would seem to imply that it is not a native of Greece.