SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 137 ; feru in all its properties. When drunk with wine it kills the ' broad and round worms. It also destroys the foetus in utero. Its leaves, when eaten, soften the belly. CoMMENTAKY. There seems every reason to refer it to the Comm. . Asplenium Filix foemina, Bernh., or Polypodium, L. Theo- ' • ' i phrastus recommends it as a vermifuge medicine. (H. P. ix, . 20.) Galen, Avicenna, and all the authorities that treat of lit, concui' in assigning to it this faculty. Dioscorides also f sets it down as a medicine calculated to induce sterility and I occasion abortion. The powder of it is recommended as an 1 application to ill-conditioned sores. In the days of Quincy it still held an equivocal place in the Dispensatory. GXaCTTTt, ■Biu'sa Pastoris, Shejjherd's Purse, is possessed of acrid powers, sso that when drunk it breaks internal abscesses, and occasions aa flow of. the menses ; and if injected by the anus it relieves iischiatic disease by occasioning a bloody discharge. It other- wise purges bile upwards and downwards when drunk to the lamount of an acetabulum. CojiMENTAUY. Sprcugel holds that the G. of Dioscorides Comm. is the Thlaspi Bursa Pastoris. Dioscorides describes another " species, which is either the Iberis umbellata, or the Viola laiifolia. Phny recommends the Thlaspi as a phlegmagogue and cholagogue. (H. N. xxvii, 113.) Dioscorides assigns it ^the same character, and also holds that it is emmenagogue. ■Our author copies closely from Galen. Avicenna dwells at iconsiderable length upon the virtues of Thlaspi, calling it lemetic and purgative, and also anthelminthic, emmenagogue, .nd carminative. The Thlaspi arvense held a place in the Ispensatory, with all the characters of the ancient T., down to a late date. See Quincy (Compl. Engl. Dispens. 66.) Lactuca, Lettuce, is a juicy and cold potherb, yet not ex- kremcly so, but of the temperament of spring water. It ktherefore suits with hot inflammations, and also quenches thirst. "When taken in an infusion it stops gonorrhoea and libidinous dreams. The wild lettuce is less cooling and "'lucnt than the other, and is also more juicy.