310 [book vii. SIMPLES. motes menstruation. In a cataplasm it is detergent and dis- cutient, and otherwise it is detergent and incisive. Comm. COMMENTARY. The Marrubium vulgare. Dioscorides has ' '' ' an elaborate section on the virtues of tliis article, which he re- commends particularly in phthisical, asthmatic, and catarrhal complaints, as being an excellent expectorant, for promoting the menstrual and lochial discharges, as an alexipharmic, &c. He adds, however, that it is unsuitable in affections of the kidneys and bladder, (iii, 109.) Galen writes thus of it: " Horehound, as it is bitter in taste, so, by general admission, it has the virtue corresponding to that taste, being a deob- struent of the liver and spleen, clearing away matters about the chest and lungs, and promoting menstruation." He also men- tions its use in a cataplasm and in other cases, as stated by Dioscorides. Aetius and Oribasius state its virtues in nearly the same terms. It is the " Marrubium" of Celsus, who pre- scribes the juice of it in phthisis (iii, 22), in paralysis (iii, 27), in ulcers of the throat (iv, 4), and for other purposes. For the Arabians, see in particular Serapion (c. 198) ; Avicenna (ii, 2, 553); Averrhoes (ColUg. v, 42.) Avicenna recommends it as deobstruent, emmenagogue, and an application to the eyes. Serapion also praises it as a deobstruent, and recommends it particularly in ulcers of the lungs, asthma, and such like com- plaints. It Avould seem to deserve the chai-acters which the ancient authorities give it from Hippocrates down to Macer Floridus and Serapion. See Eutty (Mat. Med. 309.) Even yet it holds a place in the Dispensatory. Ylpaaov, Porrum, Leek, consists of unwholesome juice and is acrid; but Dioscorides says, that it induces disagreeable dreams, agrees well with the bowels, is diuretic and attenuant. It is also de- tergent, for it proves expectorant Avhen boiled in ptisan. The seed of it is mixed with nephritic remedies. But the leaves have some astringency, and therefore the juice of it proves styptic. Comm. COMMENTARY. Without doubt it is the Allium Pornmi, L. "—'—' Diphilus, as quoted by Athenseus says, " it is attenuaut, nutritious, and flatulent." (Dcipnos, ix, 3.) Dioscorides re- commends it in the cases enumerated by our author, and also