[book VII. 270 SIMPLES. Comm. mends it as a vulnerary, and application to swellings and boils; ' ' ' and further prescribes it internally in bruises, ruptures, sciatica, and diarrhoea. Its seed, he says, is very diuretic, and reduces enlarged spleen when drunk in vinegar, (iv, 22.) Galen notices it in the same brief terms as our author. We have reason to believe that it is not wholly overlooked by the Arabians, but we cannot find it, while writing this, in their authorities on the Materia Medica, not even in the copious hst of Ebn Baithar. Xiphium, Bulbous Iris; its root is possessed of attractive, discutient, and desiccative powers. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscorides gives such a minute description ' " ' of it as clearly identifies it with the Gladiolus communis. He recommends it on his own authority as forming an excellent cataplasm with wine and frankincense for extracting stings and thorns, for discussing the tumour called phygethlon, and as an emmenagogue in pessaries; and says it was reported to be aphrodisiac, and a suitable draught in the intestinal hernia of children, (iv, 20.) . Galen, like our author, merely states its medicinal virtues in general terms. The Arabians treat of it under the general head of Lilium,, along with Iris. See Serapion (c. 189.) His account of it is made up entirely of extracts from Dioscorides and Galen. It is also briefly noticed by Ebn Baithar. (i, 423.) His German translator sets it down as the Gladiolus Byzantinus. We have not had time and patience to hunt out any other notices of it in the writings of the Arabian authorities on the Materia Medica, Its name in the barbarous translations of their works is Kasiflon. "Or,, Sorbus, the Service Th-ee (the fruit of which is by some called oa, by others ova, Sorba); it is possessed of astringent powers, but less than the medlar. Comm. Commentaky. It is the Sorbus domestica. All the ancient —*—' authorities recommend the fruit as an excellent astringent. Dioscorides prescribes it with this intention both in fruit and in decoction, (i, 173.) Our author's account of it is taken pretty closely from Galen. Avicenna treats of it confusedly