[book vn. 448 APPENDIX TO the croton tiglium were given him as the dund of the Arabians. Is it not more probable that they were merely meant as the succedaneum of the dende ? Fel. Serapion treats of this substance under the same head with two others, bel and sel. The bel has never been well ascer- tained, but Sprengel and Ainslie are agreed that the sel is the ^gle marmelos, on which see Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 458.) And now with regard to the Fel, Serapion describes it as a fruit having an external covering like a filbert, containing a grain like that of the larger pine, its colour being intermediate between yellow and white, and it, he adds, is the part which is administered. He says it relieves the inflation of hemor- rhoids, (c. 261.) Avicenna gives exactly the same account of Fael, which in the glossarium is described as being " radix seu fructus nenufaris Indi." He calls it a well-known Indian medicine, useful in relaxation of the nerves, and in inflation of hemorrhoids. He says his virtues are like those of the apples of mandragora. (ii, 2, 251.) Rhases, in like manner, says briefly of Fel that it is a well-known Indian medicine, having powers like those of mandragora. (Contin. 1. ult. i, 298.) Dr. Ainslie writes of it thus : " The croton nuts were known to the Arabian physicians by the name of fell (Serapion 261), and were formerly brought to England under the name of Molucca grains." (Mat. Ind. 106.) Sprengel also in his R. H. H. refers the Fel to the Croton Tiglium. Dr. Hill says of the Molucca grains : " The grana tiglia are of the ricinus kind; they are the nucula cathartica quarta Moluccana purga- toria," &c. See further p. 540, and Geofi"roy (iii. 5, 30.) Certainly it appears to us that the medicinal virtues of the Fel, as given above by Serapion, Rhases, and Avicenna, do not agree well with the known powers of the croton tiglium. We cannot, however, pretend to determine what substance the Fel was. Santalum rubrum. Avicenna describes the two kinds of sandal wood {lignum pterocarpi santalini) still well known in practice. He says it is a cold and dry medicine, which repels determinations to parts, and this more especially the red. The diseases he most