302 [book VII. SIMPLES. Comm. general head of pinus. See in particular, Avicenna (ii, 2, 301) ' " ' and Averrhoes (CoUig. 42.) The latter enlarges on the virtues of them beyond his wqntj ascribing to them powerful effects in disinfecting a pestilential state of the air, in resis- ting putrefaction, preventing impregnation, and procuring abortion. He also calls them vermifuge. niTvoKa/nirai. Erucse pinorum, the Canker-worms of Pines, are possessed of the same powers with cantharis and buprestis. Comm. Commentary. We have treated of the Erucce pinorum in ' •> ' the Fifth Book. As they were seldom or never used in the practice of medicine, it is difficult to see why they should have been allowed a place in the Mat. Med. Tl'iTvog (p\oLog, Pini cortex, the Bark of Pine; its prevaHing power is as- tringency, by which it proves a useful application for intertrigo and burns. In a potion it restrains the belly. The leaves of it are also agglutinative of wounds. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is the Pinus Pinca, L., Stone Pine. Our —1—' author would appear to have condensed and abridged the more lengthy account of this article given by Dioscorides. He says it is a species of the same genus as the picea, and that the bark of both being astringent, is a suitable application to excoria- tions, to superficial ulcers and burns, with litharge and the manna of frankincense; that it stops hepatic diseases when pulverized with copperas; in a fumigation promotes the ex- pulsion of the foetus and secundines, and in a draught binds the belly and proves diuretic. The leaves he recommends ex- ternally as a soothing application in cases of inflammation and toothache, and internally with hydromel in diseases of the liver. (M. M. i, 86.) Of the fruit of pines, and of the torch prepared from it (S^'Sioc), we have treated in their proper places. Galen's notice of this article is to the same effect as our author's. Frequent mention of the pine occurs in the works of Hippo- crates and Celsus. The latter recommends its flowers in diseases of the liver, (iv, 8.) The Arabians treat of the pine, and the virtues of the different parts of it, at great length. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 280, 301, 555, 693); Serapion (De Simpl.