SIMPLES. 105 SECT. 111.] 'EX evtov, Inula^ Elecampane (?); it is calefacient and desiccative with some recrementitious humidity. When mixed with linctuses it promotes expectoration, and it acts as a rubefacient to the parts it is appHed to. Commentary. All the other authorities give the elecampane Comm. [Inula Helenium) much the same characters as our author." ' ' Dioscorides says the root is calefacient, and proves diuretic and . emmenagogue; that in a linctus, with honey, it is useful in ( coughs, orthopnoea, and the like; and, further, that it is car- ! minative and alexipharmic. The leaves he recommends in a cata- ■ plasm with wine for ischiatic disease, and in powder for hsemop- ■ tysis. (i, 27, 28.) Galen's character of it mainly agrees with • that of Dioscorides, that is to say, he recommends elecampane, ■ inteiTially, in chest complaints, and externally as a rubefacient in ^ sciatica, hemicrania, and a disposition of the joints to disloca- I tion. The Arabians give it all the characters ascribed to it by I the Greeks, namely, of being diuretic, emmenagogue, expecto- r rant, carminative, alexipharmic, and rubefacient externally; « and, further, hold of themselves that it is cordial. See ; Avicenna (ii, 2, 235), and Ehases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 237.) Serapion g gives us the following extract from Hunain's ' Translation of 1 Hippocrates' (Himain ex verbo Hippocratis) : " Elecampane I drives away anger and sorrow, strengthens the mouth of the s stomach, clears the chest, expels the superfluities in the veins >by the menses and urine, and more especially a^vsdne made ifrom it." (De Simpl. 138.) In fact, as we ought perhaps to > have mentioned, the helenium is a Hippocratic herb. (Nat. ItMul. 572, ed. Foes.) It was also well known to Celsus (v, 11 ' et alibi.) The elecampane still retains its place in our Dispen- asatory and also in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia (p. 76.) The other species described by Dioscorides as the Egyptian i elecampane, and which he recommends solely as being alexi- 0 pharmic, is held by Sprengel to be the Teucrium Marum. llParki nson, however, supported by high authority, seems to y make out a strong case for the Cistiis HeliantJiemum, or rock ■•rose (p. 655.) Old Gerard, on the other hand, adopts the M'opinion of those commentators who referred it to the Marum. ,l(p. 67.) The Teucrium Mai 'um also holds a place in the ■ modern Greek Pharmacopoeia.