[book VII. 19G SIMPLES. Comm. the Seed of fennelj and is diuretic, detergent, flatulent, " " ' bad for tlie stomach, and digestive of swellings. He further recommends the flour of barley for discussing boils and in- flammations, vrhen boiled with figs and honeyed water. See further (ii, 108.) Galen, Aetius, and Oribasius, treat of it in nearly the same terms as our author. The Arabians give nearly the same statement of its virtues as a medicine. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 530.) He recommends barley-water very much as a drink in fevers, being, as he says, diluent and cooling; in hot fevers it is to be given pure, and in cold, with parsley and fennel. Ebn Baithar treats of it at great length. Crimnon, B7-an; the thick part of the flour of wheat and of spelt is so named, being more nutritious than polenta, but more indigestible. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is, properly speaking, groats or coarse meal; it was also applied to spelt and other species of grain coarsely ground. See Dioscorides, from whom our author's account of it is principally taken. Both Dioscorides and Galen recommend the coarse meal of spelt which has been toasted for binding the belly. From the coarse meal of wheat, pap or porridge, they add, is prepared. LiHum, the Lily ; its flower is of a mixed temperament, being composed of a subtile part, a terrene, and a certain wateiy substance of a moderate temperament. Hence the oil com- posed from it being of a discutient and emollient nature agrees well with inflammations of the uterus. The root of it and its leaves are desiccative, detergent, and moderately discutient, and hence are useful for burns. The juice of it is serviceable for wounded nerves, with oxymel. Comm. COMMENTARY. Without doubt it is the Lilium candidum. ' ' Dioscorides praises the seed of the lily, given in wine, as an antidote to poisonous serpents ; and, by the way, the same character is given of it byWalafridus Strabo in the ninth century, and by Macer Floridus in the tenth. Dioscorides further recom- mends it as an application to burns, ulcers, erysipelas, and so forth. He fm'ther describes a species of lilium with purple (ii, 97.)