SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 19 Commentary. It is probably the lignum aloes or Aloexylon Comm. Agallochum, Lour., although there has been considerable dif- ' ' ' ference of opinion on this point. See Gerarde^s ' HerbaF and the commentators on Dioscorides and Mesne. Our author's description of it is taken from Dioscorides (i, 21.) The Ai-abian authorities and Simeon Seth describe several varieties of it; the most excellent of which is said to be the Indian. At all times it has been much used in India as a perfume. See in particular Avicenna, who gives an elaborate dissertation < on the different kinds of agallochum or xylaloe, found in India, : and the modes of preparing it (ii, 2, 733.) See also Sera- • pion (De Simpl. 197) ; Ebn Baithar (ii, 224); and Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 27.) It does not occur in the Hippocratic ' treatises, nor in the works of Celsus. Although not retained : in our Dispensatory, it is still kept in the shops of the apothe- i caries, and has the reputation of being cordial and alexiterial. J See Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. p. 91.) Agaricum, Agaric, is a root or an excrescence from the t trunk of a tree, of a porous consistence, and composed of aerial sand terrene particles. It is of a discutient nature, cuts thick I:humours, and clears away obstructions, of the viscera particularly. Commentary. It appears to have been the same as the Comm. }Boletus igniarius (touchivood or spunk), which is stiD retained in '—v—' our modem Dispensatories. It is a fungous excrescence which igrows on the trunk of the oak, larch, cherry, and plum. 1 Dioscorides and most of the ancient authorities speak highly ■'of it as a styptic. Dioscorides also commends it in stomach ^complaints, but Aetius maintains that it is prejudicial to the pstomach. Galen calls it cathartic, and speaks highly of its fvirtues in the cure of jaundice and other hepatic affections. (De Simpl. v.) For the Arabians, see Avicenna (ii, 2) ; >Serapion (De Simpl. 78); Rhases (Contin. 1. ult. i, 28.) They irecoramend it in jaundice, like Galen, and in complaints of Ithe lungs, melancholy, protracted fevers, and in other cases, ttt is now seldom used, being found to act harshly both as Jau emetic and a cathartic. We have treated of the poisonous ©garici in another place (v, 64.) The Boletus Laricis occurs mn. the modem Greek Pharmacopoeia. (Athens, 1837.)