SIMPLES. [book VII. 352 Comm. history that the ancients supposed them to be vegetables. Ebn Baithar, we believej stands alone among the ancient authorities in maintaining that there is no truth in the opinion that the sponge is an animal, but that, on the contrary', it is decidedl}^ a vegetable which grows from the rocks, (i, 45.) Avicenna recommends the use of sponge in the same cases as our author does. Serapion gives nearly the same account of it. He says that the stones found in sponges are lithontriptic. Of the two species described by Dioscorides, the hard is the S. fasci- culata, Pall., and the soft the 8. officinalis. He recommends sponge tent for dilating fistulous ulcers. He says they may be applied like tents to sores; that with vinegar they restrain hemorrhages j and that burnt sponges are useful in dry ophthalmy, and whenever you want to deterge or astringe; but that when washed, they apply better in ophthalmic reme- dies ; and that, when burnt with pitch, they are suitable in hemorrhages, (v, 137.) In the Hippocratic treatises this term is generally applied to the tonsils or glands of the neck, as at ' Epidem.' (iv.) But in one passage of a work, certainly not genuine, it appears to be used for the sponge. (De Morbis, ii.) Celsus prescribes a sponge squeezed out of oil, vinegar, or cold water as an application to relieve the swelling and heat of the gout (iv), and for other medicinal purposes. Galen gives an interesting article under this head, and describes an inge- nious process by which, he says, that he had known a hemor- rhage stopped. A sponge dipped in asphaltus, or, in the absence of it, in tar, having been laid on the bleeding place, it was set fire to until it formed an eschar on the surface, while the remainder of it was left as a farther cover to the vessels. (De Simpl. xi.) The Arabians treat fully of the " Spongia maris," and quote what Dioscorides and Galen had written respecting it. Avicenna decidedly says that sponge was supposed to be an animal possessed of motion. He and Rhases recommend it principally for cleansing sores and stopping bleeding, (ii, 2, 595, and Cont. 1. ult. 676.) 27ro'8toi', Spodium has similar powers to the pomphohrx. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is nearly the same as the Pompholyx. '—'—' PHny thus states the diff'erence between them : " Etiamnum