>ECT. XII.] 535 TROCHISKS. The trochisk called subdititious, for dysentery and pains of the anus. Of terra aster, of stai'cli, of each, oz. iij ; of saffron, oz. ij ; of acacia, of tragacanth, of each. oz. j; of castor, of frank- incense, of buckthorn, of each, oz. 9s; and in hotter tempera- ments, also, of opium, oz. ss; mix with the juice of fleawort, and form into oblong trochisks. Commentary. Celsus informs us that they are the same Comm. as the pastilli of the Latins. He thus describes their general' " ' properties : " Pastilli haec ratio est: arida medicamenta con- trita humore non pingui, ut vino vel aceto, coguntur, et rursus coacta inarescunt, atque, ubi utendum est, ejusdem generis humore diluuntui'." He gives prescriptions for six trochisks. (v. 20.) Galen remarks that trochisks derive their name from their spherical shape. He treats of them at great length in the fifth book of his work ' De Comp. Med. sec. gen.' Many of our author's receipts are copied from him. . For an account of the Arabian trochisks, see in particular Serapion (vii, 18); Haly Abbas (Pract. x, 14) ; and Mesne (i, 8.) The following is Mesue's formula for the trochisks of camphor : " The trochisks of camphor, for ardent fevers, heat of the blood and bile, warm intemperament of the liver, in- satiable thirst, jaundice, consumption, and hectics.—R. Of rose leaves dr. iv; of spodium, of liquorice aa, dr. ij ; of yellow saunders, dr. iiss; of the seeds of citrons, melons, cucumbers, and gourds, of saflPron, of tragacanth, of gum, of spikenard, aa dr. j ; of lignum aloes, of cardomum, of starch, of camphor, aa dr. j ; of white sugar, of manna, aa dr. iij. Mix with the mucilage of fleawort and water of roses." Myrepsus's formula for the same is little different. He describes the composition of 136 pastils. Moses Charras gives the following account of trochisks : ''They are also called pastils, rolls, cakes, and lozenges. Trochisks were invented as well to preserve a long time the virtue of certain medicaments as to unite together tlie virtue of several. To which purpose having finely powdered the ingre- dients, which are to be powdered, they are to be incorporated with some juice, syrup, or other viscous liquor, to make there- with a solid paste, out of which are formed little trochisks, flat,