SKCT. III.] 293 SLMPLES. it for the cure of whitlow. Galen argues that it acts in this Comm. case by being possessed of discutient powers. We have not' " ' been able to detect it in the works of the Arabians. Neither Hippocrates nor Celsus has noticed it. riEVTa^uXAog, Quinquefolium, Cinque/oil, is desiccative in the third order, but by no means acrid. It is therefore greatly in use. Commentary. Although this article be minutely described Comm. by Dioscorides (iv, 42), Theophrastus (H. P. ix, 13), and by ' ^ ' Democritus (Ad Geopon. ii, 6), there has been considerable difference of opinion respecting it. See Parkinson, Sprengel (Ad Dioscor. 1. c), and Rutty (Mat. Med. 382.) We think that 1 the well-known plant Potentilla reptans, Angl. common creeping I Cinquefoil, answers well to the descriptions above referred to. Dioscorides recommends it for a great many purposes : its decoc- t tion for the cure of toothache, and mortifications in the mouth as la wash; for roughness of the windpipe as a gargle; for diarrhoea land dysentery; as a discutient application to many tumours land cutaneous eruptions; in intermittent fevers, epilepsy, and, iin short, as our author remarks, it would appear to have been I much used in ancient times. Galen, like our author, merely s states its general properties as a medicine, without defining the I particular cases in which it is applicable. It is the cinque- f folium of Celsus, who places it in his list of things which are gently repressing and emollient, (ii, 33.) It occurs in the Hippocratic treatises. It is recommended by Apuleius for pains of the bowels, epistaxis, angina, &c. For the Arabians, see Avicenna (ii, 2, 545); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 544); Ebn Baithar (i, 174.) They do little more under this head than repeat the cases in which it is recommended by Dioscorides. The cinquefoil is highly commended by aU our old herbalists, Parkinson, Gerard, and Culpeper, and it held a place in our English Dispensatory down to the time of Quincy, who, treat- ing of it, says, " Schroder runs through most chronical distem- pers in commendation of it, says that it is astringent and vulnerary, that it cures coughs, &c." (137.) Quincy here does not seem to have been aware that Schroder was merely con- firming the character of it as given by Dioscorides and Ebn Baithar. A