SIMPLES. 276 [book VII. Comm. notice it, do so in nearly the same language as our author. We have not been able to discover any traces of it in the works of the Arabians. Onobrychis, Cockshead, is possessed of aromatic and dis- cutient powers. It therefore discusses pliymata, cures strangury, and proves sudorific. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscorides describes it as having leaA'es ' * ' like the lentil, or a little longer, a stalk a fathom long, a pur- ple flower, and small root, and grows in wet and uncultivated grounds. This description seems clearly to point to the Ono- bnjchis sativa, a plant of the tribe Fabacece. Dioscorides holds it to be diuretic and sudorific, and discussive of tumours, (iii, 160.) It appears to have been generally used as a diuretic. Pseudo-Dioscor. (Euporist. ii, iii.) Galen gives exactly the same account of it as our author; indeed, both borrow from Dioscorides. The Arabians would appear to have rejected it from their Mat. Med. Although it has long ceased to occupy a place in the Dispensatory, the sainfoin, or cockshead, is still known to the vendors of medicines, and retains its ancient characters of being " ripening, discussive, useful in strangury." Gray (Pharmacop. 96.) Our old herbalist, Culpeper, ascribes to it the same virtues. (Complete Herbal, 52.) ''Ovoi, Aselli, Millepedes, or Slaters; those found under water-vessels, which roll themselves into a ball when touched, are possessed of discutient and desiccative powers. Therefore, when drunk with wine they cure dysuria and jaundice, and in cases of cynanche they are rubbed in with honey : and for earache they are triturated with rose oil, and being warmed in the shell of a pomegranate are injected into the ear. Comm. COMMENTARY; The Millepedes are thus described by ' • ' Marcellus Empiricus : " In locis humidis et sordidis sub lapidibus inveniuntur besfciolse multipedes quae contactte contra- liuntur et rotimdantur." (De Medicamentis, c. xxxv.) They are the Porceliones of Cielius Aurelianus (i, 4), who calls them- " animalia qua? himiectis et aquosis locis ssepe nascuntur, a Grc^cis appellata onisci." (Tard. Pass.) Almost all the ancient