SIMPLES. [book VII. 304 Hvev/jKjjv, Pulmo, Lungs; those of lambs and swine are believed to cure tbe skin wbich has beeiuchafed by shoes. But the lungs of a fox when dried are said to cure asthmatics. The Pulmo marinus, when fresh and pounded, cures gout and chilblains. Comm. Commentary. Dioscorides, Galen, and Serapion give nearly the same account of the medicinal properties of lungs. The Pulmo marinus is the species of Medusa which bears this scientific name. Our author and all the others follow Dioscorides in defining its medicinal properties, (ii, 39. noXe^wi'toi', Polemonium, Greek Valerian (called by some Philetserium), is attenuate and desiccative. Hence some give the root of it in wine for ischiatic disease, dysentery, and scirrhus of the spleen. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is the Polemonium cceruleum, Greek Vale- ' * ' rian. It occurs in the Hippocratic treatises (Hippiatr. 108, ed. Basil), but is not found in the works of Celsus. Dioscorides recommends it to be given for the bites of venomous reptiles, for dysentery, dysuria, sciatica, and diseases of the spleen, and also as a masticatory for toothache. He further mentions that it was used as an amulet for the sting of the scorpion, (iv, 8.) Our author copies from Galen, as does also Aetius. We have not been able to trace it in the works of the Arabians, with the exception of Ebn Baithar, whose account of it is made up entirely of extracts from Dioscorides and Galen, (i, 186.) Though it disappeared from our Dispensatory long ago, its root is still to be found in the shops of our apothecai'ies, where it retains the character of being astringent, vulnerary, and anti-dysenteric. See Gray (Suppl, to Pharm. 55.) ndXioi', Polium, Foley; the smaller, which we use for antidotes, belongs to the third order of calefacients and desiccants. It therefore removes obstructions of all the viscera, and proves diuretic and emmenagogue. While green it agglutinates large wounds, and when dried it cures ill-conditioned ulcers if sprinkled upon them. Comm. COMMENTARY. The specics indicated by our author is evi-