73 SIMPLES. SECT. III.] BoXjSoc, Biilbus; the esculent is possessed of a certain degree of bitterness^ and at tbe same time of astringency, and is desic- cative and agglutinative of wounds, and also detergent. The emetic is hotter in its properties. Commentary. We have mentioned in the First Book that Comm. Harduin considers the esculent bulbus to have been a species * ' of onion, but that Sprengel refers it to the Muse art comosum. In addition to the reasons there mentioned for preferring the conjecture of Harduin, we have to add the account of it given by the Scholiast on Theocritus: j3oXj3og aSoc jSoravjjg ofxQiaQ Kpofifivw YioXyiKw. (Idyll, xiv.) There is also a good deal of uncertainty with regard to the emetic bulbus; but the pre- dominance of authority is in favour of its being the Hyacin- thus comosus. The fact of the matter, however, we believe to be that various plants having bulbous roots are possessed of emetic powers, and that the name emetic bulbus was often ap- plied in a loose manner. Dioscorides merely says of its medicinal properties, that when eaten by itself, and when its decoction is drunk, it cures diseases of the bladder and produces vomiting (ii, 200, 201.) Galen and the succeeding authorities, like our author, treat very succinctly of it. The Arabians, also, merely copy from Dioscorides and Galen. See particularly Avicenna (ii, 2, 85); Serapion (c. 355.) BoTpvg, Botrys, Goosefoot; some call it Ambrosia, and others Mug- wort. It is a plant sufficiently fragrant, and when drunk with wine cures orthopncea. Commentary. There seems no reason to doubt that this Comm. is the plant described by our old herbalists under the name of * ' ' Oak of Jerusalem. It has now got the scientific name of Chenopodium Botrys. It is briefly recommended in orthopncea by Dioscorides (iii, 120), and Pliny (N. H. xxvii, 31.) It is not noticed by Galen, Aetius, Oribasius, Celsus, nor we believe by any of the Arabians, with the exception of Ebn Baithar, yet it held a place in our English. Dispensatory as late as the time of Quincy. Bubonium, has been described under Aster Atticus.