S5ECT. III.] 331 SIMPLES. Sepia, the Cuttlefish; its shell has powers like those of an oyster, but is attenuant and more detergent; hence, if burnt, it attenuates pterj'gium along with fossil salts. When unburnt it clears away sycosis when rubbed upon the part, and proves detergent to the skin. Commentary. It is the Sepia Loligo, L. We need scarcely Comm. mention that the shells of fishes consist principally of lime. " ' ' As represented by the ancients, therefore, they form a deter- gent application to the skin. All the authoiities recommend it in nearly the same cases, namely, as an ingredient in stimu- lant collyria, and in obstinate cutaneous diseases, and as a dentifrice. See Dioscorides (ii, 23); Galen (De Simpl.); Celsus (v, 29); Aetius (ii, 190.) Aetius gives the fullest ac- coxint of this article. (1. c.) Sesamoides; the seed of the white species heats, is deter- gent, and procures the rupture of abscesses. Commentary. This article, which occurs in the Hippocra- Comm. tic treatises, and of which two species, the great and the small, are described by Dioscorides, has been the subject of mi\ch controversy. See Parkinson, Sprengel, and Dierbach. We are Avilling to acquiesce in Sprengel's decision regarding them, namely, that they are the Reseda Mediterr.anea and canescens. It appears that they were used principally in com- bination with hellebore, and that the one evacuated upwards, and the other downwards. (Dioscor. iv, 150, 151.) RuflPus treats only of the small, which he represents to be cholagogue and phlegmagogue, when its seed is taken to the amount of an acetabulum, (De Med. Purg.) It does not occur in the works of Celsus, and does not seem to have been much in repute. Galen gives nearly the same account of it as Dioscorides. We have not found it in the works of the Arabians, with the exception of Ebn Baithar, one of whose Arabian authorities speaks of its being used In pai-alysis. ;i, 252.) Sesamum, Oily-grain, is glutinous and fatty in no small legree ; hence it is emplastic, emollient, and moderately cale- acieut.