360 [book VII. SIMPLES. Comm. cliaracters which they give of these plants agree in the main so -well with those given to them by the Greeks, that we need not stop to note slight differences. The Latin writers of the middle ages call solanum by the name of maurella. See Macer Floridus. He says of the strychnos that it is possessed of powerfully narcotic properties. The Solanum nigrum held a place in our Dispensatories, and retained the characters trans- mitted down with it from antiquity as late as the end of the last century. See Lewis (M. M.) All our old herbahsts, Gerard, Parkinson, and Culpeper, speak of its virtues in the same terms as Dioscorides. Our toxicologists have decided that it is a powerful narcotic. See Orfila. The Physalis somnifera is stUl used in India as an application to inflammatory tumours. See Lindley (Veg. King. G21.) The alkekengi is still admitted to be possessed of a diuretic power, as stated by Dioscorides. (Ibid.) We are not aware of the Solanum Sodomseum haAing ever been used medicinally in modern times, but we need scarcely say that of late years the Atropa Belladonna has oc- cupied no undistinguished place in our Dispensatories. On I the Strychnos furiosa as a poison, see Vol. II, p. 324. SrvTTTTjpi'a, Alumen, Alum ; all kinds of it are very sour, and consist of gross particles. But the alumen scissile, or Stone Alum, consists of more subtile parts than the others. After it is the Alumen rotundum, or Round Alum, and the astragolotum. The Alumen liquidum, or Liquid Alum, consists of gross pai'ts ; and so also the varieties called placitis and plinthitis. Comm. COMMENTARY. After having read much that has been ' ' ' written by the best authorities both ancient and modern upon this subject, we still approach the discussion of it with very great diffidence. Having dehberately considered what Beckmann has vrritten regarding the ancient alum, we cannot agree with him in setting it down as being copperas or the green sulphate of iron. The ancients, indeed, may not always distinguish accu- rately the latter from " the sulphate of alum and potash," but considering how common this mineral is in the countries bor- dering upon the Mediterranean, we cannot conceive how the ancients could possibly have remained ignorant of it, and wc need scarcely add that it has never been pretended that it has i