[hook vu. 408 SIMPLES. to the amount of an acetabulum, it kills the broad intestinal worms. It is also useful in dropsical complaints. Comm. COMMENTARY. We stated in the Fifth Book, Sections 37, ' 46, that we were inclined to refer the black chamseleon to the Carthamus corymbosus, and the white to the Carlina acaulis, and we see no good reason for changing this opinion. Some good authorities, however, prefer the C. gummifera. See Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 708.) The virtues, however, which Dr. Lindley ascribes to the C. acaulis, agree very well with those of the ixia, or white chamseleon, as stated by the ancient authorities ; whether, however, it produces the gum resembhng mastich, as the white chamseleon is described by Dioscorides as doing, we are not so sure. Parkinson says it produces such a gum " sometimes, and in some places." (Theatre of Plants, 968.) See also Gerard (1157.) Dioscorides recom- mends its root as a vermifuge; in dropsy and dysuria when taken in wine, (iii, 8.) The root of the black chamseleon he recommends with other articles for the cm*e of hchen, for toothache, and various other jjurposes. (9.) Our author bor- rows mostly from Galen under this head. Aetius remarks that the root of the black species is poisonous, and hence is to be applied only externally in scabies, lichen, leprosy, and the like. This species is noticed in the Hippocratic works. (De Ulcer.) The other occurs in the works of Celsus, who prescribes it as an ingredient in a malagma for gout, (v, 18, 33.) The Arabians treat elaborately of both species. See Avicenua (ii, 2, 197, 455) ; Serapion (c. 274, 275) ; Rhases Cont. 1. ult. ii, 208) ; Averrhoes (Collig. v, 42.) Upon the whole their characters of them agree with those by Dioscorides and Galen. Xa/iutjUJjXov y) ''AvBtjui^, Chamsemelum, or Anthemis, Chamomile, heats and dries in the first order. It is also attenuant, discutient, relaxant, and aromatic. Comm. COMMENTARY. It certainly applies to the Anthemis nobilis, '—-—' but probably is not restricted to it. It appears to be the av6s/.iov of Theophrastus. (H. P. vii, 8, 14.) It is the aV0f/t(C of Dioscorides, who describes three species, which it has been found very difficult to distinguish and identify. He says the