[book vij. 174 SIMPLES. Comm. and likewise as an ingredient in applications to sores, and as a " ' dentifrice, (v, 121.) Galen, after some preliminary discussion whether pumice be a metal, a stone, or an earth, proceeds to state its medicinal properties, in which he agrees with.: Dioscorides, most especially commending it as a dentifrice (De Simpl. ix.) We may just mention in this place that, modern authorities do not think so highly of this substance as a dentifrice. See Jameson's ' Mineral.' (i, 333.) The Arabians under this head merely copy from Dioscorides and Galen. See in particular Serapion (De Simpl. 417.) Pumice ancientlyi was used for polishing the leather with which books were? bound. (Catullus, Epig. i.) Theophrastus (De Lapidibus),;^ states that pumice is formed by the action of fire ; and M. Dolomieu suspects that it is a vitrified granite or gneiss. The pumice, for some time past, has ceased to hold a place in our Dispensatory. Neither is it to be found in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia. ^ Kccrrdc >i JLiaaapog, Cistns, Rock-rose; it is an astringent shrub, and of gently- cooling poAvers. Its leaves and shoots are so desiccative as toj agglutinate wounds ; but the flowers are of a more diying nature, being about the second degree, and hence when drunk" they cure dysentenes and all kind of fluxes. Externally they relieve putrid ulcers. i\ Comm. COMMENTARY. Stackhouse marks it simply as the Cistus, L., " * ' called by Miller the Rock-rose (Index to Theophrastus.) Woodville calls it the C. Creticus (Medical Botany.) Dioscorides describes two species of it, which probably are the C. salvifo'i lius and C. villosus. Galen particulai'ly commends the fo mer in uterine diseases. He also treats under this name a much more celebrated species of the cistus, namely, th Ladaniferus, of which we will have to give some accot under 'La^avov. Aetius and Oribasius are the copyists of Gale The Arabians treat separately of the Cistus and Ladam recommending the former as a powerful astringent, both external ulcers and in those of the intestines and worn Avicenna speaks favorably of it in deafness and other affec- tions of the ear. (ii, 3, 111.) Serapion would appear to have con- founded it vdth the Kiaaoq (ivy); or at least he has given a