533 TROCHISKS. :cx. XII.] castor, of manna, of scraped verdigris, of each, oz. j ; of sinopic vermilion, lb. j. Mix with old wine. The trochisk from castor, for colics. Of myrrh, of castor, of each, scr. vj ; of saffron, of opium, of each, scr. ix ; of anise, of parsley seed, of carrot seed, of each, oz. ss; of the seed of hen- bane, scr. xviij. The trochisk from wine and oil, for the fundament and puden- dum. Of ceruse, oz. x; of litharge, oz. v; of frankincense, of the dross of lead, of fissile alum, of each, oz. ij. Triturate Avith wine that does not contain salt water. At the time of using it, mix with wine and rose oil, or wine and myrtle oil. The trochisk from Phrygian stone, for the pudenda. Take tliree Phrj^gian stones burnt and extinguished, and mix the first with butter or rose oilj the second with wine; and the third with honey, to the extent of oz. ij; add, of the flower of )ses, oz. iv; of pomegranate rind, oz. j. The trochisk from lotaria to the fundament and pudendum. Of •erase, of starch, of glaucium, of saffron, of alum, equal parts. I'liturate with the juice of lotaria or wine. The ivhite trochisk. Of terra aster, oz. iv; of pompholyx, )f ceruse, of starch, of each, oz. ij; of opium, scr, iv. Mix \ ith water. The trochisk from halicacabus, or winter cherry. Of litharge, I r. xxiv; of ceruse, dr. xij or xxj; of winter cherry, dr. viij ; ;■ copperas (chalcanthum), dr. iv; of fissile alum, dr. iv; of crmilion enough to give it colour. Mix with water. The trochisk from the tivo hellebores, and also from the two 'cacias. Of the black and of the yellow acacia, of artificer's :lue (in another prescription of fish-glue), of each, oz. iv; of mmoniac perfume, of glaucium, of aloes, of each, oz. ij ; of lale frankincense, of black and of white hellebore, of each, z. j. Mix with vinegar of squills, and at the time of using it issolve either in the same or in common vinegar, and anoint cfore and after the bath. The trochisk Criogenes. Of myrrh, of burnt copper, of )und birthwort, of scraped verdigris, of the squama stomomatis, f the straight vervain, of round alum, of each, oz. j; of vine- Iar, q. s. The vervain is to be gathered when the sun is in I'.ries. It may be made into a plaster thus: take of the 1