[book VII. SIMPLES. 80 Comm. Dioscorides says whey is beneficial in cases of melancholy, " ' epilepsy, lepra, elephantiasis, and exanthemata in all parts of the body. He recommends new milk as a gargle in all ulce- rations of the mouth, and in defluxions on the bowels with ulceration and tenesmus. He says, the milk of sheep, cows, or goats stops them, when boiled with pebbles, and injected either by itself or with ptisan, or the decoction of chondrus ; it is also injected, he adds, in ulcerations of the womb. A woman's milk, he says, when sucked from the breast, relieves erosion of the stomach and phthisis; it suits the cure of those who have drunk of the sea-hare, and is otherwise useful as an application to the eyes, and to the gout. All kinds of milk, he adds, are inapplicable in diseased spleen, diseased liver, vertigo, epilepsy, all nervous affections, fevers, and headaches, unless when the schiston is given to move the bowels. What the schiston was we have explained in the First Book (ยง 88.) AU the other authorities, whether Greek or Arabian, in treat- ing of milk, follow Dioscorides and Galen. See in particular Serapion (De Simpl. 457.) Celsus entertained nearly the same views, with regai'd to milk, as the Greek authorities. Thus he recommends it in phthisis, and as an antidote to various poisons, but condemns it in headaches and acute fevers. Hippocrates prescribes milk in various instances, and seems to have been very partial to the use of it. He recom- mends the schiston, prepared with pebbles, in affections of the bowels. (Epidem. vii.) Mustella, the Weasel; when burnt, its ashes are discutient. Wherefore when rubbed in along with vinegar it relieves gout and rheumatism; when prepared and dried it answers with epilepsies. Comm. COMMENTARY. According to Sprengel, the FaX?? is a species ' ^ of mustella, but neither the M. communis, called weasel in English, nor the M. Furo, or Ferret. Our author's description of its medicinal virtues is taken from Dioscorides. FaXtOf, Galium, Yellow Ladies' Bedstraw, or Cheese Rennet; it derives its name of Galium from its. coagulating milk. It resembles