SECT. XIX.] ACOPA, ETC. must have sinapisms applied to the legs and arms. Sinapisms are to be entirely proscribed when there is continued fever or an ulcer; also in affections of cartilaginous parts, and such as have no flesh. For the parts which are devoid of flesh are sometimes burnt black when sinapisms are applied to them. Tlie acopon called Bromion. Of wax, of Colophonian rosin, of common rosin, of each, lb. j ; of hog^slard, oz. iv; of butter, oz. vj; of marshmallows, of fenugreek, of linseed, of each, lb. ij ; of oil, lb. j; of galbanum, oz. iiss. Having boiled the juice with the oil until the most of the juice be consumed, add the other things with wax and galbanum. The complex acopon. Of the juice of marshmallows, of fenugreek, of linseed, of rue, and of cumin, of each, lb. ij ; of stag's maiTOw, lb. j; of old oil, lb. j ; of the fat of geese, of opobalsam, or nard, of each, lb. j ; of wax, of Colophonian rosin, of common rosin, of each, lb. iss ; of euphorbium, of turpen- tine, of opoponax, of each, oz. vj ; of castor, oz. iij ; of the herbs from which the juice is formed, of each, lb. j, is to be taken and boiled like the former. The acopon of Azanites. Of hog's lard, lb. ij ; of the fat of bulls, of rosin, of Colophonian rosin, of the medicine oesypum, of wax; of each, lb. j ; of galbanum, oz. iij. The acopon of Basilius. Of marshmallows, of chamomile, of melilot, of linseed, of fenugreek, of each, oz. iss; of amomum, oz. iij. These things are macerated in sext. viij of the wine of Ascalon or the Cilician for three days, and boiled to a milky consistence. Then lb. v of the juice, with lb. ivss of old oil are boiled until a moderate quantity of the juice remain ; and then there are added to it of butter, oz. vj; of turpentine, oz. iv; of the fat of geese, oz. xv ; of stag's marrow, triturated with a little oil, oz. v; of white wax, lb. iij. The acopon Lysiponium. Of pepper, of castor, of storax, of mastich, of aloes, of elecampane, of iris, of each, oz. iv ; of euphorbium, of costus, of ammoniac perfume, of myrrh, of marjoram (sampsuchum), of frankincense, of cyperus, of cassia fistula, of the seed of rosemary, of each, oz. iij ; of adurce, of amomiim, of bdellium, of xylobalsam, of each, oz. ij ; of Indian leaf, of spikenard, of pellitory, of saffron, of each, oz. j ; of opobalsam, lb. j j of the ointment of nard, of the ointment of privet, of glcucinum, of each, lb. ij; of wax, lb. j.