SIMPLES. [book VII. 16 beans, and chick-peas, the root of iris, that of kingspear, and many others, are similarly affected. In each genus, for the most part, such things as are gold coloured, red, and of a bright yellow, are hotter than the white, so that if any con- jecture can be formed therefrom of the powers of medicines, it is so far well. It is best then, as has been often said and demonstrated, to determine the powers of each by exact expe- riment, for by this you cannot be deceived; but before ascertaiaing their powers by experiment, the taste wiU give many indications, in which it will be assisted in a small degree by the smell." {Prcefatio in Aetium.) For a fuller account of the subject, the reader is referred to the first five books of Galen's work 'On the Powers of Simples;' to the first tractate of the Second Book of Avicenna; and to the introductory part of Serapion's work ' On Simples.' A useful abstract of the ancient opinions is given in the small tract of Albengnefit. The nature of the tastes is ingeniously discussed in the ' Timteus' of Plato, and by Theophrastus (de Causis Plantarum, at.) Alkhendi's theory of the action of com- pound medicines appears to be ingenious ; but it is complex and difficult to explain, being founded upon the principles of geometrical properties and musical harmony. The' Chemia' of Geber contains a very interesting abstract of the knowledge possessed by the ancients regarding the recondite nature of substances, that is to say, on alchemy, but suppHes Httle or. no information on the Materia Medica or Phai'macy. Before concluding our present commentary, it may be proper to remark, as tending to show the importance of the Galenical theory of the action of medicines in the literature of medicine, that not only was it generally adopted by most of the Greek and Arabian authorities subsequent to Galen, but it prevails in the works of all our old herbalists, as, for example, Gerrard, Parkinson, Culpeper, and of the other writers on the Materia Medica, down to the days of Quincy. We may also take the present opportunity to state that in the works of the ancient authorities, we have detected a few traces of the singular doctrine of signatures, as it has been called, but that with the exception of Geber, who can scarcely be held to be a medical writer, we have