SECT. III.] 395 SIMPLES. The mullein occurs in the Hippocratic treatises (Morh. Mulier.), Comm. but we do not find it in the works of Celsus. Pliny describes the verbascum in nearly the same terms as Dioscorides. (H. N. XXV, 7-i.) See also Apuleius (De Herbis, 71.) The Arabians follow Dioscorides in delivering its medicinal properties. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 98); Ebn Baithar (i, 184.) The verbascum held a place in the Dispensatory as late as the time of Lewis, (ii, 417.) The V. Thapsus, nigrum, and Lychnitis, although now irejected from om- Dispensatory, are still retained in the shops. :See Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 91.) It is said that the juice of their leaves, which is acrid and bitterish, is used to poison imice and fish. Lindley (Veg. King. 683.) In the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia, both the Verbascum Thapsus and thapsi- forme stand for the female phlomos. (166.) (Called by some Rhus), is a herb like the Darnel. It has aastringent powers, and when drunk with austere wine stops all flfluxes. Palma, the Palm-tree, has a fruit which, when ripe, is mode- rrately hot, stomachic, and tonic, when taken internally or ap- )plied externally. The rest of the palm-tree is sufficiently lastringent, and hence is mixed up as an ingredient with ■itomach and liver remedies. But the most astringent part HS the involucrum or cover, as it were, of the friiit while ii^rowing. Commentary. The herb is undoubtedly the Loliumperenne. Comm. ~ The tree is the Phmnix Dactylifera. We would refer to the Hierobotanicon' of Olaus Celsius and our own article on bhis head, in the Appendix to Dunbar^s Greek Lexicon^ for the i;eneral literature of this interesting subject. We need not iwcU particularly on the medicinal virtues of the herb, as all he authorities are agreed that it is applicable in such cases as istringents are indicated. See in particular Dioscorides (iv, 43.) V decoction of different parts of the palm-tree was much used )y the ancient physicians as an astringent. PHny recommends i particularly in discharges from the uterus and bowels. (H. N. xiii, 53.) He borrows, however, from Dioscorides, who re- ommends it as an astringent in these and various other cases, uch as hemorrhoids and wounds j he adds, however, that they