SIMPLES. [book VII. 100 same degree of coldness as of astringency; the fruit when perfectly ripe is moderately hot, but the unripe is more as- tringent and cold. The tear of Ethiopian olive resembling the slender ammoniac, is possessed of detergent powers. It is used, therefore, for cicatrices, albugo, and dimness of vision, and for the pains of the teeth when put into the carious hole. But some say that it is the wild olive that does this. Oil from fully ripe olives is sweet and moderately hot, and rather of a moistening nature. But the unripe has just as much astringency as coldness. The washed is freer from pungency. As to the old, the older it is so much the hotter and more dis- cutient is it, more especially if it consist of subtile particles at first. This is ascertained from its being pure and transparent, and from a small quantity of it being sufficient to anoint a lai'ge part of the body, aud from its being readily drunk in by the skin. Such in particular is the Sabine. That from the wild olive is at the same time detergent, astringent, and drying, as an oil. Castor oil has the same powers as old oil. The other kinds, such as that of sesame, or of radish and the like, derive pecuUar properties from the substance they ai'e formed from. Comm. COMMENTARY. We have treated of the olive as an article of food in another place. (Vol. I, 135.) The Ethiopian or wild olive comprehended several species of the Elceagnus. The tears of it, mentioned by Dioscorides and our author, and likened to gum ammoniac, are now uukno^vn. Some, as Par- kinson remarks, have supposed it our gum elemi, but that is probably a mistake. AU the authorities, Greek, Latin, and Arabian, mention it as a sour, astringent medicine. Samonicus calls it " succis oleaster acerbis." Abu I'Fadli calls it a power- ful astringent. (Apud Celsii Hierobot.) The leaves of the cultivated olive Dioscorides says have the same kind of powers as the wild, but in an inferior degree, and hence, from their greater mildness, they are more suitable for ophthalmic remedies; he also recommends the juice of the green olive in pityriasis, psora, and other cutaneous diseases, (i, 136.) We need not follow out what has been written by the others on this subject. ''EXaiov. For an account of the oils used by the ancients in the practice of medicine, see in particular Dioscorides (i, 39 et seq.), Galen (De Simpl. vi), and Mesne (De Oleis. The