LINIMENTS. 5-42 [book VII, are requiredj such, as the dry applications, namely, ompliacium, the gall omphacitis, the juice of sumach and of hypocistis, and alum, the bark of pine and of the frankincense-tree, and the flowers of the wild pomegranate tree; and, in a word, all the astringents, with the exception of those which are unsavoury and deleterious; and the liquid applications, such as the juice of the blackberries, both of the brambles and those called mul- berries: also the juice of the bark of green walnuts and of pomegranates, more especially such as are acid, and of quinces and Aminean must. Honey is mixed at the commencement solely for the preservation of the medicines. But when the humour lodges in the part, digestive and moderately-repellent articles are to be mixed, such as saffron, myrrh, and the juice of liquorice. And during the whole time that intervenes be- tween the acme and decline, a compound of both kinds is to be used, I mean, the repellent and discutient; and at first the repellent are to be the prevailing ingredients, but afterwards the discutient. In the decline we must use discutients, which have no astringency, such as natron, aphronitrum, origany, hyssop, thyme, calamint, iris, besasa and the Hke. The liquid application then should be rob, that from, boiled must, that from dried figs and palm-nuts, and the sweet must itself with honey. When but a little of the inflammation remains, we are to mix also some sulphur vivum. We must first boil the juice with honey, to the consistence of the more liquid honey, and then sprinkle the powders finely levigated, and afterwards boil moderately until the whole are properly united, and then it is to be laid up in vessels of glass. The simple liniment to the mouth from mulberries. Of the juice of mulberries, sext. iij; boil until a third part be con- sumed, add of honey, sext. j, and boil to the consistence of honey. The compound one from mulberries. Of the juice of mul- berries, hemin. vj; boil to the consistence of the sordes in baths, then mix, well tritm-ated, of saff"ron, di*. j; of myrrh, dr. ij; of the juice of unripe grape, dr. j ; of fissile alum, three oboli; of honey, one hemina; and boil to a proper thickness. Of the bramble-berries. The composition from bramble- berries is prepared in like manner, being more astringent. The simple one from walnuts. Of the juice of the pounded