SIMPLES. [book VII. 418 (CoUig. V, 43.) Serapion in the porHon of his work devoted to minerals^ writes tlius of Tincar, i. e. Borax. " Ebn Amrain says of itj it is of the species of saltSj and is found with the taste of baurach (nitrum ?), and has some bitterness; and it is either fossil or factitious. And the fossil is in the banks of the sea; it is hot, dry, and subtile ; is useful in toothache, and kills the worm in them, and in stopping the throbbing in them it has wonderful powers. Rhases and Aben Mesuai say of it, that the basis (radix) of it is the urine of a boy, we mean of the factitious, and it is the solder of gold (chrysocolla.) It Avoidd appear to be the chrysocolla which is described by Haly Abbas (Pract. ii, 48, 495), but we must admit ourselves incapable of interpreting correctly his meaning as expressed in the barbarous translation of his works. Ebn Baithar first treats of chryso- colla under the name of Tankar in an extract from the works of Ebn Amram which we have given above as quoted by Serapion. (i, 21.4.) And again in the 2d volume (434), he first gives descriptions of the chrysocolla in extracts fi'om Dioscorides and Galen, and concludes with the remark that some people called it the tankar chrysocolla, but that the chry- socolla of Dioscorides and Galen was a totally different article from the tankar. Rhases gives merely extracts from Dioscorides and Galen. (Cont. 1. ult. i, 25.) He calls it adhesio auri. From what has been stated above, we now draw the following conclusions regarding the matters treated of under this head; 1. That the mineral known by the names of " copper green," " mountain green," " native carbonate of copper," was the true chrvsocolla of Dioscorides, the said term signifying Gold solder. 2. That Dioscorides further describes a preparation of ver- digris which was also used for soldering gold, to which the name chrysocolla was likewise applied by Pliny, Galen, and others. 3. That under the names of T'mcal, Tankar, and Borax, the Arabians described a species of salt, which most probably was our Soda; Biboras, to which they sometimes applied the name chrysocolla from its being used in the sol- dering of gold, but their best authorities (as for example, Avicenna, and Ebn Baithar) were well aware that this borax was a totally different substance from the chrysocolla of Dios- corides. The name borax is probably a corruption of Baurach, which is the term applied by the Arabians to the nitrum of