PLASTERS. 576 [book VII. Comm. to a proper consistence. Some also add dr. iiss of triturated " * ' frankincense." The following is an itch ointment by Mesne: " Take of ceruse, of litharge, of aloes, of saffron, of calamine, of mercury extinguished, equal parts; make into an ointment, with oil of oleander and vinegar, q. s." An itch ointment of Myrepsus consists of the fresh leaves of the bay-tree boUed with oil, and having wax and sulphur added to it. We can say, from ample experience, that such an ointment is a most effectual remedy for scabies. The preparation of the basilicon, as directed by Avicenna, is a nearer approach to the modern ointment of that name than our author's : " Of rosin, of pitch, and of wax, equal parts, prepare with olive oil." SECT, XVIII. ON EMOLLIENT PLASTERS AND EPITHEMES. Of those applications called emollient plasters, or malag- mata, some are applied to the middle parts of the body when in a state of chronic inflammation, or indurated, or in a hot or cold state, or affected with defiuxions; and some to the ex- tremities when infarcted, or to the nerves when affected with cold; or they are serviceable to the other parts when scirrhous. These have been treated of in the section on Plasters, and will be treated of in that on Acopa. Of those which agree with the middle parts of the body (which are properly called epithemes), those applied for the stomach and liver, of whatever kind they are, must require a strengthening power from astringents; for with- out these there will be danger to the life, the functional opera- tions of these parts being extensive; and, therefore, they are principally composed of aromatics. When the stomach then is affected with dyspepsia, atony, or inflation, those from seeds, and from melilots, aloes, and wormwood, from sampsuchum (marjo- ram), nard, and mastich are to be applied. To the liver, those from nutben, ammoniac, fats, and chamomile ointment; and to the spleen, those from quicklime, arsenic, capers, willows, carda- mom, verdigris, ammoniac, and vinegar are to be applied. For defiuxions about the belly, those from wild vine, alum, apple ointment, and other astringents are to be used. And these by