ANTIDOTES. [book VII. frankincense, of shepherd's pouch, of opobalsam, of schoenanth, of costus, of cassidony, of seseli, of galbanura, of turpentine, of long pepper, of castor, of hypocistis juice, of storax, of the leaves of malabathrum, of each, dr. iv; of black cassia, of poley, of white pepper, of water germander, of carrot-seed, of carpo- balsam, of cyphi, of bdellium, of Celtic nard, of gum, of stone- parsley, of opium, of cardamom, of the seeds of fennel, of gentian, of rose-leaves, of each, dr. viij ; of dittany, of anise, of sweet flag, of valerian, of each, dr. iij; of Athamantic spignel, of acacia, of the belly of a scink, of the seed of St. John's wort, of each, dr. iss; of wine and honey, q. s. Prepare it in like manner as tlie theriac. Galen says, that it applies to the same cases as the theriac, with the exception of those who have been bitten by the viper, for there the theriac is more efficacious. The antidote from different kinds of blood being a remedy against all venomous animals and deadly poisons. Of white and long pepper, of costus, of sweet flag, of valerian, of anise, of Cretan dittany, of each, dr. ij; of amomum, of opobalsam, of the seed of wild rue, of the seed of fennel, of Ethiopian cumin, of dill, of the dried blood of a male duck, of the blood of a kid, of the blood of a goose, of the blood of a female duck, of the seed of the wild rape, of each, dr. iij ; of gentian root, of trefoil, of the schoenanth, of frankincense, of dried roses, of each, dr. iv; of cinnamon, dr. ij ; of water ger- mander, dr. viij ; of stone-parsley, of poley, of myrrh, of nard, of each, dr. vj ; of cassia, dr. iij ; of Cyrenaic juice, dr. iij ; of cassidony, di'. v; of asarabacca, dr. ij; of ammoniac perfume, dr. iij ; of Athamantic spignel, dr. ij; of agaric, dr. ij ; of car- pobalsam, gr. xx; of boiled honey, q. s. Simple oxymel. Of the most acrid white vinegar, sextar.j; of water, sextar. ij ; of honey, sextar. j ; boil to the consistencer of the most liquid honey, despumating the honey. T/ie vinegar of squills. Of white squills cut into pieces, dried in the shade for forty days, and again cleaned, one mina; of good vinegar, sextar. xij. Put them into a vessel, cover it up, and allow to remain in the sun for sixty days; after which the squill is to be expressed and thrown away, and the strained \'inegar laid up in a vessel. Some add one raiua of squills to sextar. vj ; others add the same quantity of green