467 ascT. III.] SIMPLES. is emetic and hydragogue. We would refer it with Sprengel (R. H. H. i, 249) to the Mussaenda frondosa. Gilbenee. Avicenna compares its seed to turbith, and its operation to ' hellebore. He says when given to the amount of half a ( drachm it operates as an emetiCj and that one drachm may ] prove fatal. He mentions the case of a paralytic person who itook it, and having vomited was thereby cured. He {^.dds of iit that it also acts as a purgative (ii, 2, 282.) It is evidently Ithe gilbeuce of Uhases, who in like manner describes it as a ] powerful emetic, the operation of which resembles hellebore, ^and is useful to paralytics. More than a drachm of it, he isays, given in a dose, may occasion death. (Ad Mansor. iii, 30.) lit appears decidedly-to be the Cerbera manghas L., i. e. Arbor ilactaria, Rumphius. See Sprengel (R. H. H. i, 252) ; Ainslie ((Mat. Ind. ii, 261.) Dr. Lindley says of it:' " The kernels of iCe)'bei'a manghas are emetic and poisonous; the milky sap is g)urgative; the leaves and bark are used in Java as a substitute Ifor senna." (Veg. Kingd. 600.) tKustberhcsh. Avicenna gives a description of it which appears to us very msatisfactory, but which determines Sprengel to refer it to he Tamarix orientulis. He calls it hot and dry in the second legree, and attenuant. (ii, 2, 371.) Nefrin, or Nerfin. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 506); Serapion (De Simpl. 187.) Vvicenna compares it to the narcissus, and says it resembles he jasmine in virtue, but is weaker than it. He recommends t in coldness of the nerves, and as a cure in noises and pains )f the ears, and in toothache. He also recommends it ex- ornally in headache, inflammations of the tlu-oat and tonsils, ind for stopping vomiting and hiccup. Serapion compares it o the rose and jasmine, and recommends it in pleurisy and )ains of the womb. Rhases, as quoted by him, says that in ;horasan he had seen it given to the extent of two drachms s a purgative. It seems highly probable that it is the iVc?'- issus orientulis.