48 SIMPLES. [book VII Comm. rities seem to attach less importance to it. (iii, 94.) We cannot find it in Serapion, Rhases, Avicenna, nor Haly Abbas ; but it is treated of by all our older Herbalists^ and has found a place in many modern pliarmacoposias. It is not contained, bowever, in tbe modern Greek Pharmacopoeia. ''Attiov, Pyrum, the Pear, is unequal as to temperament, consisting partly of terrene and partly of watery matter. When eaten, therefore, it is stomachic, and quenches thirst. When applied as a cataplasm it dries and cools moderately. Comm. COMMENTARY. Our author copies the characters of the " *—' Pyrus communis from Galen and Aetius. We have treated of it as an article of food in the First Book. Both Dioscorides and Pliny make mention of perry. Dioscorides says, that pears prove prejudical to hungry persons when eaten, (i, 167.) 'Kttokvvov or KwoKpa^ujSj), Brassica canina, Dog's-bane; it is also called cynomoron, be- cause it proves quickly fatal to dogs. But it is also deleterious to men, being very fetid and hot, without being desiccant. Hence, when applied externally as a cataplasm it is discutient. Comm. Commentary. Our author borrows his account of this ' * ' article very closely from Galen. It is clearly a poison rather than a medicine. In fact, it is classed by Schulze among the ancient poisons. (Toxicol, veterum.) Orfila also treats of it among the acrid poisons (p. 82, Eng. ed.) It seems doubt- ful whether it be the Periploca Grceca, as we formerly stated it to be (II, 242); the Cynanchus erectus, as Sprengel supposes; or one of the species of Apocynum. Having no practical ac- quaintance with these herbs, we cannot pretend to give any decided opinion on the subject. Apochyma, is the old pitch scraped from ships. It is solvent, desiccant, and discutient of tumours. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscorides calls it also Zwiriaaa. It con- "—•—' sists, as he explains, of the wax and pitch of ships which had been macerated in salt water. PHny says of it, " Zopissam eradi navibus diximus cera marino sale maceratA. Optima hsec