SIMPLES. SECT. III.] 277 authorities on the Materia Medica from Dioscorides down- wards, recommend them in the same cases as our author does. In fact, almost all the authorities take the characters of the millepedes from Dioscorides. (ii, 37.) See in particular Serapion (De Simpl. 4, 29), A^dcenna (ii, 2, 718.) They par- ticularly commend the use of them in jaundice. In English they are called Slaters or Cheslops. They held a place in the Edinburgh Dispensatory until after the edition of it in 1811, In fact, the highest modern authorities testify to the medicinal virtues ascribed to them by the ancient authorities. Moses Charras, who makes frequent mention of them, says, that a volatile salt is obtained from them which is highly diaphoretic. Dr. Hill calls them aperient, attenuant, and detergent. Dr. Mead recommends them strongly for their diuretic property. He directs us to put them into wine, and afterwards to strain off the liquor, and sweeten it with honey or sugar. [Monita et iprcecepta.) It would appear that they are still used in France i as diuretics. In Dr. Pemberton's edition of the London Dis- ipensatoiy, 1746, it is directed to inclose them in a thin canvass t cloth, and suspend them within a covered vessel over the steam (of hot spirit of wine, by which they will be killed and ren- k dered friable. Lister calls them lithontriptic. Onyches, are the covers of Indian shell-fishes. These, in a »fumigation, rouse those affected with uterine suffocation and I epileptics. But when drunk they disorder the belly. Commentary. Dioscorides says of the Onyx, that it is the operculum of a shell-fish, like that of the Purpura, being found in India in the lakes that produce nard; and that it acquires an aromatic smell from the shell-fishes feeding on the nard j it 'is gathered, he adds, when the lakes are dried up by the drought; the kind brought from tlie lied Sea is different, being whitish and fatty; the Babylonian is black and smaller, but both form a fragrant fumigation, resembling castor some- hat in smell. He concludes with stating, regarding their edicinal properties, that both rouse persons in hysterical con- vulsions, and also in epileptical, when appHed in fumigations; that taken internally, they soften the belly; and that the hell-fish itself, when burnt, has the same powers as the pur-