SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 321 which attends it. AU praise it as a stomachic, more especially Comm in the loss of appetite attending pregnancy, and in vomiting. Rhases and Avicenna say that pomegranate wine relieves in- toxication. Both the sweet and the acid are held to be diuretic but especiaUy the latter. The flesh of the sweet purges yellow bile and strengthens the stomach. They all represent the rind as being anthelminthic. On this use of it, see Book IV 58 and Pereii-a (Mat. Med. 1101). It has been a question,' by the way, whether the malicorium or of the Greeks,'was the rind of the fruit or the bark of the root. We used to think it the former, but the examination of a passage in A^acenna (1. c.) has satisfied us that the latter was also some- times included. In the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia both the bark of the root and the rind of the fruit are described, the term atSiov being restricted to the latter. Povg (5vp(joSe^iKri, Rhus Coriaria, Sumach; the fruit and juice of it come prin- cipally to be used by physicians, being considerably astringent and desiccative of the third order, but detergent of the second Commentary. It is the Rhus Coriaria, or Elm-leaved c.mu. humach. This also was much used as an astringent. Pliny briefly says of it, "vim habet astringendi refrigerandique" The Arabian writers on husbandry mention that in times of famme bread was sometimes made from sumach. Dioscorides says of It that its leaves are astringent, being applicable in the same cases as acacia. He recommends it in dysentery when given by the mouth, in a lavement and hip-bath, as an injection in cases of purulent discharges from the ears, and for many 3ther practical purposes. He concludes with mentioning that It bears a gum which is put into the holes of carious teeth to •eheve pain, (i, 147.) Celsus notices it but once, and then as m application to aphthous ulcerations of the mouth (vi 11 ) f t IS mentioned as an astringent medicine and condiment in he Hippocratic treatises. (De Mulieb. and de Liquid, usu ) .alen, and the other Greek authorities after him, merely state t.s general properties as a medicine. The Arabians treat of r under he name of sumach, which it still retains. See De Simpl. 22o); Ebn Baithar (ii, 46, 163) 21