>SECT. TII.] SIMPLES. 237 J lOribasius. The Arabians treat at great length of the different Comm. Iloti, and more especially of the L. Arbor, with which they miist' ' ' haA^e been familiai-ly acquainted. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 298, 513) j ^Serapiou (c. 120); Uhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 487); Ebn Baithar ii, 539.) They all recommend it as a powerfxal astringent in looseness of the bowels, bloody flux, menorrhagia, ulcers of ithe bowels, and in asthma and affections of the chest. One lof Serapion's authorities calls it stomachic and a whetter of Ithe appetite. The lotus occurs in the Hippocratic treatises; indeed, from the fable of the Lotophagi, contained in the Ddyssey of Homer, there can be no doubt that the lotus had oeen known and used as an article of food long before the time bf Hippocrates. Ma/CEp, Macer is a bark brought from India, being desiccative in ihe third order, and intermediate as to heating and cooling nroperties. It consists of subtile particles, and is astringent; |'.ence it agrees with CEeliac and dysenteric complaints. CoMMENTAK^. Under this head we cannot do better than Comm. luote the words of an excellent living authority: " Macer, a" * ' lark from the Barbaric region, has been thought to be Wrightia antidysenterica, supposing this to be the macre de- Cribed by Crist. d'Acosta. (Clus. Exot. 266.) Though macer I always described as a bark, I had given me as such the pghly aromatic leaves of Rhododendron lepidotum under the tame of talisfur. Mafur and mafurbooz are in Persian works ipsigned as the Greek names of talisafar, under which name ne macer of Dioscorides is alluded to by Avicenna." (Antiq. of lindoo Med. 91, by Dr. Royle). Though the macer of le Greeks, then, was different from mace, there can be no >ubt that the Arabians confounded the two substances to- ther. Thus Avicenna, in his chapter on mace, quotes the ords of Paulus on the macer. (ii, 2, 448.) Serapion in like anner, under mace, which he correctly describes as the rind • membrane of the nutmeg, gives the characters of macer f>m Dioscorides. (De Simpl. 2.) M Malabatlirum ; the leaf of it has powers like the spikenard.