259 SECT. Ilt.J SIMPLES. •and of this there can be no question, if the authority of Pliny Comm. be held of any weight in this case, for he evidently distinguishes ' • ' between the persea and myxa. (H. N. xv, 11, 12.) Neither Celsus, Galen, Aetius, nor Oribasius has noticed this article by name. The sebesten-plum is described by the Arabian autho- rities without their making any reference to the Greek autho- rities, as is their wont. See Serapion (c. 8); Avicenna (ii, 3, 638); and Rhases (Contin. 1. ult. iii, 43.) The barbarous translation of Avicenna begins thus, under the head of sebesten: " Sebesten et nominatur mukeita." For mukeita we suppose the proper reading would be myxa. The Arabians describe the sebesten-plum as being a mild laxative fruit, which quenches .thirst and soothes the breast. It is praised by Serapion as a laxative and cooling remedy in coughs; as a refrigerant medicine for ardor urinse, and an anthelminthic. The sebestens con- tinued long to hold a place in our English Dispensatory, and retained the character which the ancients had given them. See Quincy (130.) Mupi'/crj, Myrica, the Tamarisk, is possessed of incisive and detergent powers, without being manifestly desiccative ; it has also some astringency. The decoction of it, therefore, when drunk, is useful in diseases of the spleen; and it likewise cures the tooth- ache. The fruit and bark of it nearly approach to galls in powers. The ashes of the tree are more desiccative. Commentary. We may briefly say that we agree with the Comm. I authorities who refer it to the Tamarix Gallica, L. Dioscorides,"—'—' I Galen, Averrhoes, and Serapion, like our author, recommend it as a powerful astringent which may be substituted for galls. Dioscorides accordingly enumerates a variety of cases in which it is applicable, such as in remedies for affections of the mouth and eyes, spitting of blood, cseliac disease, fluor albus, jaundice, and the bites of venomous spiders, and to discuss swelHngs in the form of a cataplasm. He further recommends its decoction in wine for reducing the enlarged spleen; as a gargle in tooth- ache ; a hip-bath in fluxes, and as a fit lotion for kilHng lice and nits: the lixivial ashes of it, he adds, restrain a discharge from the womb : some, he says, form goblets out of the trunk of it, which they use as drinking-cups in diseases of the