SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 405 by the authorities on the Materia Medica. The ancients, it Comm may be proper to remark cursorily in this place^ were ac- " ' quainted with the formation of brass, which they made by compounding together copper and cadmia. See Watson's 'Chemical Essays/ and Beckmann's 'History of Inventions.' Brass was their aurichalcum or orichalcum. The Jis ustum, according to Geoffroy, " is copper reduced to a calx or crocus, either by itself or mixed with sulphur or salt, by a long calcination in a reverberatory fiirnace." " The Squama ceris, or flake of copper," he adds, "is little different from the ^s ustum, being only the particles of burnt copper which fly off when it is hammered." He says of the Flos ceris, " it is nothing but copper reduced to small grains like millet seed, which is done by poming cold water upon melting copper, which thereupon immediately flies every way into grains." In short it was fine granulated copper. These preparations of copper are described by aU the ancient authorities. See in particular Dioscorides (v, 87, 88), who describes the process of making the flos aeris very minutely. He recommends it as a detergent and caustic medicine for various purposes, such as removing dimness of the cornea, wasting polypi in the nostrils, and protuberances about the anus; and also for the cure of deafness when blown into the ear with a syringe in the form of a powder, and in complaints of the gums and tonsils. He also says that given to the amount of three oboli it evacuates thick humours. He also describes several processes for burning the copper, and recommends the ses ustum as a cleansing and detergent medi- cine for various ulcers, especially those of the eye, and also as an emetic when taken in a draught with hydromel, or in a linctus with honey. None of the other Greek authorities treat so fully of these preparations as Dioscorides. Celsus prescribes them frequently as caustic and corrosive substances, (v, 6, 7, et pluries.) The Arabians used these articles not only as external applications, but as emetics and purgatives. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 231); Serapion (c. 414); Ehases (Cont. 1. ult. iii, 48); Averrhoes (Collig. v, 43) ; Haly Abbas (P ract. ii, 48); Ebn Bait.har (ii, 551.) The flowers of copper, and burnt or calcined copper, are noticed in the works of all our earlier writers on medicine, and recommended to be administered