241 SECT. III.] SIMPLES. cularly comraeuds the narcotic and soporific powers of this Comm. medicine. He says that it exerts its action in a suppository. ' ' The milky juice of it^ he adds, evacuates phlegm and yellow bile. He states that if a young person, by mistake, partake of its berries, they bring on vomiting, purging, and perhaps death. The seed mixed with sulphur vivum, is said by him to stop monorrhagia. Like Dioscorides, he says, that mandi-ake evacuates the stomach and bowels like hellebore, (ii, 2, 357.) Averrhoes briefly says of its apples, that they are soporific, and that its bark is desiccative, but its root weaker, (v. 42.) See also Ehases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 416.) Servitor describes both a concrete and an expressed juice of mandragora. The former, which he calls lachiyma, he says could not be procured every- where. Even the non-professional writers allude to its sopori- fic powers. Thus Lucian speaks of uVo |Uav8payopac KaOivSew. (Timon.) Pollux says that it produces heaviness of the head, that is to say, stupor. Our old herbaUsts, Turner, Gerard, Parkinson, and Culpeper, mention the soporific powers of the mandrake, but in such a way as implies that they had not much practical acquaintance with it. By the days of Boerhaave and Quincy, its internal use had been abandoned, both in this country and I on the continent. Although it has now disappeared from our Dis- j pensatories, we see no good reason why its well-regulated use rmight not be revived. That the ancients have described its i operation on the animal economy correctly, is admitted by our 1 latest writers on Toxicology and the Materia Medica, See the ♦ works of Orfila, Christison, and Pereira. In conclusion it may be proper to state, that the modern Arabians and Persians still use the mandragora as a narcotic and antispasmodic. See Ainslie (Mat. Ind. i, 1, IIG.) It is not contained in the Crreek Pharmacopoeia of the present day. Mtti'va Xi(5u.vov, Manna Thuris, has similar powers to frankincense, but en- feebled and gently astringent. Commentary. Gesner says of it, "Manna thuris est Comm. fragmina minora corticis ramentis permista." (Lexicon Rus- '—' ticum.) Dr. Hill calls it the fragments of the cluster frank- incense broke off" in the carriage. It is singular that the [rreek and Roman writers make no mention of the manna now III. 16