ANTIDOTES. SECT. XI.] 523 pepper, of Cretan carrot, oftlie seed of the garden cucumber, of the seed of fennel, of the seed of leeks, of Macedonian stone- parsley, of pellitory, of ginger, of the Indian leaf, of each, oz. j; of honey, q. s. The antidote from tecolithos, or lapis Judaicus. Of spike- nard, of hyssop, of lapis Judaicus, of each, scr. viij; of pepper, 8cr. xij ; of ginger, of stone-parsley, of costus, of saxifrage, of each, scr. yj; of cassia, of parsley-seed, of each, scr. iij ; of cyperus, scr. vj; of the scrapings of ivory, scr, iv; of the wood of cardamom, scr. vjj of gromwell, scr. iv; of honey, q. s. The antidote from the seed of the luild mallow. Of the seed of the garden cucumber, dr. xij ; of the seed of henbane, dr. vj ; of the seed of hemlock, dr. iij (but some use vj); of opium, of fennel, of the seed of the wild mallow, of saflFron, of each, dr. iij ; of parsley-seed, dr. vj; of cassia, dr, iv; almonds, x; walnuts, x; filberts, x; of asarabacca, dr. iv; mix with Cretan must, and give three oboli, if the patient be free from fever, with rob. But some mix it with honey. A nephritic medicine from dessert-fruits, for ulceration of the I bladder and kidneys. Of the white grape, deprived of its 1 stones, of fresh pine-nuts, of each, oz. ij ; of the seed of cu- (cumber, stripped of its bark; of myrtles deprived of their i bones; of bitter almonds, of fatty dates, of parsley-seed, of J poppy-seed, of saffron, of each, dr. j; of myrrh, oz. ij. Give a t drachm of it in must to the patient, fasting. The satyriac antidote. Of ginger, of the superior satyrion ((herb dogs-tooth ?), of each, dr. viij, of the tail of a sciuk, of •■spignel, of asarabacca, of stone-parsley, of cardamom, of seseli, > of each, dr. iv ; of the seed of rocket, of cinnamon, of each, dr. liij of all-good (horminum), of white pepper, of the seed of bastard saffron, of each, dr. ij ; of the schoenanth, of spikenard, •of each, dr. j, of goat^s blood, a mysti'um (spoonful). A drachm is given with wine, but to those who are weaker, with milk. Pills from anjlomacer for dysenteries. Of xylomacer, of Kopiuiu, of Pontic rhubarb, of each, scr. y]; of gall, of myrrh, of ieach, oz. j ; mix with palm wine. Remedies for the gout. The antidote from corallium. O rheum barbanim, of pajony, of troglodytic myrrh, of spikenard, Df each, oz. ij; of Indian leaf, oz. j; of cloves, gr. xv, of the )iraperiicl liaving the purple flower which they call corallium,