122 [book VII. SIMPLES. Comm. authority for its use iu protracted fevers. Both the echini ' disappeared from our Dispensatory a considerable time ago. Echium, VijJef's Bugloss, (some call it also Dorias, and others Alcibiadium,) is a prickly herb, which not only relieves those who have been bitten by reptiles when drunk in wine, but, if taken beforehand, it preserves them from being injured. Comm. COMMENTARY. It appears to us quite clear that this article ' ' ' is the Echium vulgare or Viper's Bugloss, which we have no doubt was introduced into Britain with other medicinal herbs by the Komans, for it is never found I'emote from cultivated places, and therefore we believe it not to be truly indigenous. Some have taken it for the Echium rubrum, from Dioscorides having described the flowers as being purplish, whereas, pur- plish signifies a bright blue, and not red as is supposed. Parkinson thus describes the colour of the flowers of the Echium vulgare: " The flowers are of a purplish violet colour, in them that are fully blown, but more reddish while they are in bud; but in some places of a paler purple colour," &c. (p. 413.) We, then, have no hesitation in acknowledging it as the Echium vulgare. Our author boi-rows his account of its medicinal powers from Dioscorides. (iv, 27.) The Arabians would seem to confound it with the Anchuste, to which it is closely allied. Our old herbalists, in treating of the viper's bugloss, follow Dioscorides; but it has long ceased to hold a place iu our Dispensatory. It still, however, is known in the shops, where its root retains the character of being aperient and slightly astringent. See Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. p. 54.) '^Ei^j/yua rj alpaiov, Defrutum, Boiled Must; it is moderately heating and diges- tive, and is also emplastic and free from pungency. Comm. COMMENTARY. Pliny gives thefoUowing account of it:" Sirasum " * ' quod alii hepsema, nostri sapam appellant, ingenii, non naturae opus est, musto usque ad tertiam partem mensurse decocto: quod ubi factum ad dimidiam est, defrutum vocamus." (H. N. xiv, 11.) Harduin states that the Hepsema is called Rob or Sa2m semplex. (1. c.) Moses Charras gives the following direc- tions for preparing it: Of the new juice of white grapes