495 ->ECT. v.] COMPOUND PURGATIVES. The podagric purgative from hermodactylus. Of hermo- Llactylus, oz. iij; of anise, of Ethiopian cumin, of bishop's weed, of the clusters of thyme, of white pepper, of ginger, of each, scr. iij; of dodder of thyme, oz, ss ; the dose is scr. iv; some i;ive scr. \]. It is administered in the morning with hippocras, lioneyed water, or strong wine heated. The same purgative otherwise. Of hermodactylus, oz. j; of [Ethiopian cumin, of anise, of agaric, of ginger, of each, scr. yj; of mastich, scr. ij; of spikenard, scr. ij; of musk, one siliqua; of cnicus, scr. ij. The dose is scr; iv with hydromel. We reject scammony, because it is bad for the stomach. But if more evacuation be required, mix with the dose three siliquse of scammony; give after the bath. Pills from the lapis Armenicus, given principally in arthritic cases. Of aloes, oz. iv; of scammony, oz. vj; of agaric, oz. j; of dodder of thyme, oz. j; of lapis armenicus, scr. xij; of cassia, oz. j; of spikenard, oz. j; of baked squills, oz. ij; of saffron, scr. xij; add to rhodomel. The dose is scr. ij. The purgative from coronopodium, applicable in the same cases as that from hermodactylus, a stomachic. Of ginger, scr. ij; of pepper, scr. j; of agaric, scr. j; of the internal part of cnicus, scr. iv; of the root of buckthorn plantain (corono- [lodium), scr. vj; the dose is scr. iij, but to those persons whose Ijelly is difficult to move, twenty-three siliquse, which make altogether seven oboli, or nearly eight. After evacuation, liaving bathed, let them take eggs and bread for food. That from Cyrenaic juice, for quartans. Of Cyrenaic juice, of pepper, of ginger, of the leaves of rue, of each, dr. j. The lose is the size of a filbert. A purgative pap, useful in cases of oedema and aggravated elephantiasis, and when one wishes to dislodge a thick and viscid humour. Having cut up two colocynths, evacuate the seed, and allowing the medullary part to remain, fill them with sweet oil, and covering them up with their proper covers allow them to remain a night and a day. On the following day, having evacuated the oil, boil the colocynths in water until they are reduced to a soft consistence; then throw them away, and the oil being mixed with water, add to it three oboli of l)lack hellebore, and of scammony, dr. j; but boiling along with them a pap of sirailago, or dried bread pounded, and then give