[book VII. 190 SIMPLES. Comm. taken to the extent of four ounces, it proves destructive of life. ' • ' Avicenna (ii, 2, 143) ; Serapion (c. 44); and Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. ij 229.) They also hold that it is possessed of soporific powers. They prescribe it for the cure of epilepsy, in which case they say it checks the aura which ascends from the stomach to the brain. The Coriandrum sativum holds a place in the modem Greek Pharmacopoeia. (58.) It is also stiU retained in our Materia Medica. See Pereira (1073.) KopuSoc ^7 KojOuSaXXoc, Alauda, the Lark; this bird when boiled with plaia broth is of use in colic affections. But one must eat it perseveringly and frequently with the broth. Comm. COMMENTARY, No one can doubt, from the ancient de- ' * '' scriptions of it, that it was the Alauda cristata. Galen remarks, that it is correctly described by Aristophanes, in his 'Birds;' and that it is noticed by Theocritus. (Idyll, vii.) It is also mentioned by Aristotle and j331ian in their works on Natural History. Pliny calls it Galerita. Galen says there is a herb of the same name. Like our author, he praises it when given in broth, for the cure of colic. Both, however, copy from Dioscorides. (ii, 59.) It is not noticed in the works of Hippocrates and Celsus. It would appear that it is the hanabroch of Serapion, who, in describing it, merely gives extracts from Dioscorides and Galen. (436.) It is also briefly noticed by Ebn Baithar in nearly the same terms as Serapion. (ii, 329.) K Coronopus, Buck's-horn Plantain; the root of it is believed to be useful in colic affections when eaten. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is the Plantago Coronopus, called in " ' ' English Buckshorn Plantain. See Parkinson, Gerard, and Quincy. Dioscorides says it is used as a potherb, and that it is given as a medicine in colic, (ii, 157.) None of the others supply any additional information regarding it worth quoting. KooToc, Costos, is possessed of a small degree of a bitter, but a greater degree of an acrid and hot quality. Wherefore, when