SIMPLES. [book VII.' 130 Comm. mostly made up from Serapion. Amber, he says, in my ' ' opinion, is an emanation from a fountain in the sea. He also • repeats the account from Serapion, of its being procured from the belly of a fish which has swallowed it and dies. He must allude to the ambergris which is procured from the sperm- whale. He determines it to be hot in the second and dry in the. first degree. He recommends it in exactly the same- cases- as Serapion. He makes mention of a species used for dyeing the hair black, (ii, 3, 63, and 364.) Rhases merely gives its medicinal character, which is the same as that quoted above from Serapion. (Cont. 1. ult. 44).) But no ancient writer has- given so full and correct an account of amber as Symeon Seth. He says it abounds in various places, and that there . are fountains of it as of pitch, bitumen, and the like ; that the best kind is of a grayish colour (grisea ambra ?) and fat, which, is sold in a certain city of India, called Silachetum. The ambergris or ambra-grisea, is found in a city of Arabia Fehx, called Syachria. The worst kind, he says, is black, and is col- lected from fishes that have swallowed amber at its fountains. It has, he adds, calefacicnt and incisive powers, and therefore some add it to stomachic remedies. It strengthens the head and heart; and when smelled to in drinking accelerates in- toxication, and stiU more so if added to the wine. (De Alimeutis, xiii.) Psellus saj^s, it cm'es dysury when appended as an amulet, removes fever, stops defluxions of the stomachy and sharpens the sight. (De Lapidibus.) Having been led^ along in the present instance by the ancient autliorities wh have given the most correct description of amber, we omitte to mention at the commencement, that Dioscorides desciib the electrum under the head of populus, as being said to b the tears of poplars which have dropped into the Po, an become coagulated. He adds, it is of a f-'agrant smeU whe rubbed, and of a golden colour; and when triturated an drunk, it stops defluxions of the stomach and belly, (i, 110. See also Pliny (H. N. xxxvii, 11), who supposes amber a exudation from pines, and gives otherwise a very authenti and interesting account of its origin. He makes mention o amber being used as an amulet in diseases of children, ■ practice which, hke other superstitions of the like kind, lin been transmitted to modern times. We need scarcely remar'