SIMPLES, SECT. III.] 12.3 I perfectly ripe, lb. xxx; boil it over a gentle fire in an earthen Comm. . glazed vessel, or a copper vessel tinned within, until a third ' ' ' part of the juice only remains. But if you desire a defrutum, ':. boil it only to the consumption of the third part." (Roy. Phar. {p. 70.) The following prescription, taken from a still later i writer, will further be useful in illustrating the meaning of a j; term which often occurs in the course of this work, but which i has now fallen into disuse. " The Simple llob or Sapa. Take i of juice newly expressed from generous and white grapes any I quantity, and boil it over a slow fire, until one pint of it only r remains out of three, or it becomes of a honey consistence." iQuincy's Dispensatory (432.) Few of the other authorities ; treat of this article at all, and those that do, despatch their ■ notice of it in few words. Thus, for example, Avicenna says of rob, that it is expectorant, and hence it is made an ingre- i; dient in the syrup of poppies; and that it is usefid in pain of the kidneys and bladder, (ii, 2, 570.) Zt'fa, Far, Sjjelt, has powers like the kinds of wheat, holding an lintermediate place as to he^iting and cooling; it is also gently idesiccative and emplastic. CoMMENTAKY. This, as wc havo explained elsewhere (Vol. I, Comm. 123), is the Tritimm Spelt a, to which our older herbalists give " * ' Ithe names Greek Wheat, Spelt Wheat, or Spelt Corn. That Ithe Zeia of the Greeks Avas identical with the Fay- of the iRomans, is proved beyond all dispute from a passage of kAsclepiades preserved by Galen. (De Locis AfFectis, ix.) The iiterm spelta is derived from the latino-barbarous translations of tehe Arabians. See Serapion (122), who quotes under this <head the chapter of Dioscorides on tragus, which was spelt de- ■iprived of its hull. The other authorities say little of spelt as II medicine; but commend it highly as an article of food. fcSee Vol, I, 1. c.) Avicenna describes it by the name of WLharcoman (ii, 2, 323); and Rhases by that of haratinam (Cont. fl .. ult. i, 352.) S' . . Ztyyt/3£p, U Zingiber, Ginger; its root is powerfully heating, but not on Vtts first application, as it contains some crude and thick juice,