SIMPLES. [book VII. 50 Comm. the name of Luf. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 132); and Ebn Baithar (ii, 449.) AptcrroXo^i'a, Aristolochia, Birthwort; all kinds of it are hot, consist of subtile particles, and are detergent, bitter and subacrid; and are most useful remedies. The round consists of more subtile particles, and is every way more di'astic. The clematitis is fragrant but weaker. The long is, in other respects, inter- mediate between these, but no less hot than the round. Comm. COMMENTARY, Three specics of the Birthwort, the Aris- tolochia longa, rotunda, and clematis, have been described by the authorities from Dioscorides downwards. The first two still retain their places in our Pharmacopoeias, but are seldom used. Dioscorides recommends them, especially as uterine medicines, for promoting menstruation, the lochial dischai'ge, and the expulsion of the foetus. He also says it is useful in affections of the chest, the spleen, and in other diseases, (iii, 4, 5.) The toxicologists from Nicander downwards recommend the birthwort as an antidote to poisons. See also Theophr. (H. P. ix, 15); and Apuleius (De Herbis.) Mesne describes it as being phlegmagogue, cholagogue, and emmenagogue. He also re- commends it in a fumigation along with arsenic for asthma, (De Simpl. ii, 27.) Avicenna treats of it at great length, re- commending it strongly as an uterine and alexipharmic medi- cine, (ii, 2, 49.) See also Rhases (Cont. 1. ult, i, 77); Averrhoes (CoUig. v, 42); Serapion (c. 171) ; Ebn Baithar, pluries. Pliny describes a fourth species under the name of Pistolochia, Modern authorities confirm the bu'thwort's cha- racter as to its being powerfully emmenagogue. See Quincy, Lewis, Pereira, and the other writers on the Materia Medica. Juniperus, the Juniper, heats and dries in the third degree. The fruit is equally calefacient, but desiccant only in the first degree. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscoridcs describes two species of it, the * ' ' major and the minor, which probably are to be referred to the Juniperus macrocarpa, Sibth., and the /. oxycedrus. He calls them acrid, diuretic, and calefacient, and further recommends them in diseases of the chest, in the hysterical convulsion, and