406 SIMPLES. [book VII. Comm. both internally and externally. See Platearius (De Simpl. Med.) The process of preparing calcined copper is minutely described by Moses Charras in his ' Royal Pharmacopoeia/ published at Paris in 1676. They are briefly described by Dr. Hill, who says of the ses ustum that " it was much used externally by the ancients." (Mat. Med. 32.) Neither of these preparations of copper occurs in the Complete English Dispensatory of Quincy, published in 1763. They ai-e omitted also in Pem- berton's London Dispensatory, pubhshed in 1746. They would appear, however, to have been longer retained in use by the Continental physicians, since a formula for preparing the Calx ceris is given in Crantz's Mat. Med. (ii, 91. Vienna, 1765.) He says that the Flos aris, and Squama teris, were preparations not in use. Rutty ranks them among the ob- solete medicines of the ancients. A formula for yEs ustum is given in Gray's Suppl. to Pharmacop. (p. 24.2.) It is the same as that of Dioscorides. (v, 37.) Chamajdrys, Germander, is heating and drying in the third degree. It therefore melts down enlarged spleens, proves diuretic and emmenagogue, and removes visceral obstructions. Comm. COMMENTARY. It clearly is the Teucriwn Chamcedrys L. '—'—' Theophrastus says that its fruit pui'ges bile. (H. P. ix, 10.) Dioscorides commends it in spasms, scirrhous spleen, dysuria, and incipient dropsy; and as an emmenagogue; and, by the way, Dr. Hill confirms this account of it. Galen and all the other authorities treat of it in nearly the same terms. We have not been able to find it in the works of Hippocrates. For the Ai^abians, see particularly Serapion (c. 180); Avicenna (ii, 2, 132); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 152.) One of Serapion's Arabian authorities recommends the syrup in chronic coughs, dyspepsia, and incipient dropsies, and the decoction in black jaundice. Avicenna joins both Dioscorides and Serapion m regard to the virtues which they ascribe to it. Wliether or not this be the " trixago" of Celsus (iv, 6) has never been satisfactorily determined. The Arabian translators adopt this name. It has still the reputation of being a pectoral medicine. Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 661.)