SIMPLES. [book VII. 78 Comm. it much the same character as our author. See particularly ' ' ' Avicenna (ii, 2, 102); Serapion (c. 223.) It held a place in our English Dispensatory as late as Quincy, who represents it (" the hydrolopathum, supposed to be the Bretannica of the the ancients") as a specific for scurvy. BpO/UOC, Avena, Oats, has powers resembling those of barley. It is desiccative, and moderately discutient without pungency. It has also some astringency, whence it cures diarrhoeas. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is not wcll ascertained whether this be ' ' an Avenu or Secale. The chapter of Dioscorides under this head is probably spurious. Our author abridges Galen. It is not treated of by Celsus nor the Arabians. Bpu'ov, Bryum j the sea-bryum or lichen is cooling and astringent, and is therefore useful when applied as a cataplasm to hot inflammations; that kind which is called splanchnon, being found on oaks, white poplars, and pitch-trees, is at the, same time discutient and moderately emollient, more especially that upon cedars. Comm. COMMENTARY. It appears evident that it is a species of Lichen or Usnea, but what species is not clear. The term usnea is borrowed from the Arabian authors. Our author copies closely from Galen. Dioscorides recommends it as an as- tringent principally in affections of the womb, in the form of a hip-bath or fumigation. Avicenna (ii, 2, 713) and Serapion (c. 247) briefly notice several species of usnea without appearing to identify it with the bryon of the Greeks. Rhases, however, is quite aware of their identity. (Contin. 1. ult. i, 753.) Avicenna says it is emmenagogue, and pro- cures the delivery of the foetus either dead or alive. He adds that, in a dose of 10 drs. it acts as a deadly poison. Serapion recommends it principally as being diuretic and em- menagogue. Several species of the genera lichen and usnea are still to be found in the shops, and have the reputation of being powerful astringents. See Gray (Suppl. to the Phar- macop. pp. 11, 12.) i