SECT. III.] SIMPLES. as being alexiphai-mic. (i^ 103.) The other authorities, both Comm. Greek and Arabian, copy closely under this head from him. ""^^ ' See in particular Avicenna (ii, 2, 359) ; and Ebn Baithar (ii, 189.) The vernix is a resinous gum, which is procured from the juniper ; it is called Sandarax by the Arabians, and is to be cai-efully distinguished from the sandaracha or sulphuret of ai'senic. They recommend it in haemoptysis. See Serapion, Rhases, and Avicenna. Of the juniper, see further under KeSpoc, and appendix under Sandaracha.. ''Ap/ClOl', Arcium (called also Prosopites) ; its leaves are like those of • the colocynth, but larger and harder. It is discutient and , desiccantj and has some stypticity. Wherefore, its leaves c cure old sores. Commentary. The ancient descriptions of this plant seem Comm. tto point to the burdock, which, however, owing to a confusion of names, has been called the Arctium lappa. Dioscorides re- commends it internally in diseases of the chest, and externally as a cataplasm to old ulcers, (iv, 105.) This is the same as the second arctium of Galen, who recommends it in the same cases as Dioscorides. Apuleius, hke Dioscorides, says it is useful in cases of strangury. Our old herbalists treat of the virtues of the burdock in the same terms as the Greek and loman authorities. The Arabians, as far as we can discover, o not treat either of the arcion or the arction, with the ex- eption of Ebn Baithar, who merely gives extracts from Dioscorides and Galen, and seems puzzled to distinguish the <c\vo plants from one another, (i, 25.) In the modern Greek Dispensatory both the Arctium bardana and the A. lappa are ■t down as corresponding to the apKEiov. ''ApKTlOV, Arctium, Lappa, is like the verbascum ; its roots are tender, Vhite, and sweet: it consists of subtile particles, and is pos- ■ essed of desiccant and moderately detergent powers. Commentary. This, Avhich is treated of under the same Comm. lame by Dioscorides (iii, 104), and is the former arctium of' ' walen, is probably the Verbascum sanguineum. The description it given by Galen, at all events, points to some species of