[book VII. 540 SMEGMATA. frankincense^ of stavesacre, of wLite hellebore, of Htharge, of each, oz. iij; of Indiau leaf, of starch, of black hellebore, of the flower of Asian stone, of eachj oz. j ; of alcyonium, of roasted pumice-stone, of Cimolian earth, of sampsuch (marjoram), of each, oz. iij; of spikenard, oz. j; some also add of aloes, oz. j. HaAdng pounded them, keep the powder in a vessel; and when going to use it, put the juice of rice and of ptisan in a pot, and after it boils add of the powder, oz. iss ; of Gallic soap, oz. iss; of arsenic, of fissile alum, of each, oz. iss; of sandarach, oz. iss; of recent quicklime, lb. j. Use this unguent thrice a month, on the 9th day of the moon, the 19th, and the 29th, for a whole year, and afterwards once a month on the 29th day of the moon. Commentary. The terms are thus explained by Blancard: " Diapasnia. Plinio, medicamentum aridum ex siccis pulveribus conflatum inspersile, quod aut vestibus ad gratiam odoris, aut ulceri vulnerique varia ratione, aut potui etiam ad luxum inspergitui", ^lawaa^ia, Karcnraaixa, KardiraaTOv (pa^fiaicov. Oribasius non male discrimen inter has voces ex Antyllo ponere mihi videtur ut kjjnrucFiiaTa sint, quae sudoribus cohibendis, et commovendo pruritui adhibentur : quse Symjmsmaia et asiier- ffines Aurelianus nominat: KUTairaafiaTa sunt qu£e ulceribus superponvmtur, ^jj'pia etiam dicta : ^la-naafxara vero conciliandse in vento fragrantite." (Lexicon Medicum.) The different forms of medicines are thus characterized by Dr. Blomfield : " Quatuor sunt (pafnaKwv genera, quorum principue mentio fit apud auctores Grsecos : (^lapixaKa yrpiara, TracTTci, TrXaara, et Tricrra vel TTOTi^o, quibus interdum additm* quintum genus, rd fipcicrl/na, et sextum iirwddi, prout eis ad miguendum, inspergendum, em- plastro obtegendwn, bibendum, edendum, vel incantandum ute- bantur." (Glossarium ad iEschyh Prometh. 1. 488.) Theocritus uses the word iTrlwaaTov in its medical sense. (IdyU. xi, 2.) He says, no medicine, either in the form of ointment or powder, is a remedy for love. Le Clerc thus explains the medicines of which we are treating : " Les poudres s'appelloient en Grec ^ripia 6v ^vpd c'est h dire, medicamens sees. On les appelloit Diapasmata, Catapasmata, Catapasta, Symi)asmata:' He says of the Smegma: On s'en servoit particulierement pour net- toyer le peau, pour oter le demangeaison, &c." He adds: