SIMPLES. [book VI]. 1; 236 Comm. Agrostemwia githago ; it is said by Dioscorides to be a cliola- * ' gogue, and a remedy in the case of persons stung by scorpions, (iii, 104-5.) Galen and the other authorities merely state the Ijjl characters of the Lychnis coronaria in general terms. We have not found this article in any of the Arabians, not even in Ebn I Baithai'. ' Lotus, Bird's-foot Trefoil (?); the cultivated species is by some called trifolium. It is possessed of detergent and mode- rately desiccative powers, and is of a proper temperament as to heat. The seed of the wild lotus belongs to the second order of calefacients, and is also somewhat detergent. The seed of the Egyptian lotus is also made iuto bread. The Lote, or Nettle-tree, consists of subtile particles, and is moderately desiccative and astringent. Hence it is applicable for the female fluor, and for fluxes of the bowels, both when drunk with wine or water, or when used in an injection. It also strengthens the hairs that are falling out. Comm. COMMENTARY. We need not enter further into the literary ' ' ' history of this interesting subject, which we have given a1 some length in the Appendix, already so often referred' to, than to mention that the Lotus, called also Trifolium, is referable to the Melilotus officinalis, and probably some of its congeners, and the Lotus Arbor to the Zizyplms Lotus, with perhaps some other trees of the same tribe. Dr. Lindley says of it, "The Lote-bush, which gave its name to the ancient Lotophagi, is to this day collected for food by the Arabs of Barbary, who call it sadar, and its berries nabk." (Veg. Kingd. 582.) The wild lotus of Dioscorides and the other authorities has never been satisfactorily determined. Perhaps it was the species of melilotus named ccerulea. The Egyptian lotus, there can be no doubt, was the Nymphoia Lotus, L. Dioscorides gives a striking description of this last, which, he says, the inhabitants of Egypt use for making bread; and it is deserring af remark that the rhizomes of the nymphaja are still roasted and eaten by the Negroes of Senegal. See further imder Nymphoea in this section. Our author's characters of tlie other loti are copied from Dioscorides or Galen, who agree, in the main, under this head. See, in like manner, Aetius and m If