128 SIMPLES. [book vir. Comm. treatise ' J)e Dicetd' wHle^ like Dioscorides, he gives mint the " * ' credit of promoting the urinary discharge and stopping vomit- ing, says, that talcen in great quantity it weakens the semen and stops erections. Aristotle likewise holds the opinion that mint is anaphrodisiac. (Bibl. ii, 20.) Aetius, seemingly with the desire of reconciling these great authorities, maintains that mint indeed generates much semen, but of a feeble nature. (Tetr. iv, 4, 26.) Ludovicus Nonnius, by the way, also attempts to account for the difference among the profes- sional authorities on this point. (De re Cib. i, 15.) See also Rutty, (Mat. Med. 323), and Parkinson (35.) The Arabians in treating of it follow Dioscorides and Galen closely, and add little or nothing of their own. They all agree with Dioscorides, that it is aphrodisiac and stops vomiting. See in particular Serapion (290), and Avicenna (ii, 2, 188.) We need scarcely mention that this species of Mentha is now re- jected from our Mat. Med., but that three other sjpecies of it are still retained. HSucrapoi' J* Y{b\tKivoQ, Hedysarum, French Honeysuckle, is bitter and subastringent. It is therefore stomachic, when taken in a liquid form, and. clears away visceral obstructions. Comm. COMMENTARY. There has been great difference of opinion " * ' among the commentators and herbalists respecting this herb; but we are inclined to decide, with considerable confi- deuce^ that it was the Hatchet Vetch, or Coj'onilla securiclaca. Dioscorides says of it that it is stomachic and alexipharmic, and that, in a pessary, it prevents conception. Our author abridges Galen, and Aetius does the same; and so likewise Oribasius. We have been unable to find it in the Mat. Med. of the Arabians, with the exception of Ebn Baithar, wh 1 merely copies from Dioscorides (i, 80.) HXtorpoTTiof, Heliotropium, Sunflower; the large one (called also Scor- piurus) is possessed of calefacient, desiccant, and detergent powers. Its decoction when drunk brings away phlegm and bile. Its fruit in a cataplasm dries myrmecia and such like