238 [book VII. SIMPLES. CoMMENTAKY. Dr. AinsKo, treating of the Cassia Lignea, or Cassia bark, says, " the narrow-pointed leaves of the Lauras Cassia, as well as the oblong, ovate, shining leaves of the Cin- namon-tree, are sold in the Indian bazaars under the names of Ittwangajmtery and tejpat, from a notion that they are the leaves of the Laurus Cassia. In commerce these leaves are called Folia Indica, or Malabathra, a name which more espe- cially applies to the leaves of the Laurus Cassia." (Med. Ind. § 35.) GeoflFroy, Sprengel, and Royle also agree in holding the Cassia, or Cinnamon-leaf, to be the Folium Indicura. Dr. Sontheimer, then, in his translation of Ibn Baitar, makes it to be a peculiar species of Laurus, calling it Laurus Malabathrum, and Dr. Pereira does the same. In the modern Greek Phar- macopoeia, the query is put whether the Cassia-buds be the product of Laurus Cassia, or L. Malabathrum. Isidorus says of it, " Folium dictum quod sine ulla radice innatans in Indias littoribus colligitnr." (Orig. xviii, 9.) It is always simply called Folium by Apicius. Horace applies the word to an oint- ment. " Malabathro Syrio capillos," (Od. ii, 7) ; on which passage his commentator, Porphyrion, remarks, " Malabathrum unguenti speciem esse scimus." This is the Unguentum Malabathrinum of Dioscorides. (i, 76.) The ancients, as Dr. Hill remarks, have said much of the Adrtues of Malabathrum. They call it stomachic, sudorific, and cephahc. Dioscorides ascribes to it all the virtues of the Indian spikenard; but he says it possesses them in a superior degree. He also mentions it as a scent, (i, 11.) Galen and the other Greek authorities, like our author, dismiss it with a brief notice, comparing it to spikenard. The Arabians treat of it at greater length, but do little more, after all, than copy the characters of it given by Dioscorides. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 253) ; Serapion (c. 53.) It occurs only once in the works of Celsus (v, 23), as an ingre- dient, in one of his antidotes; and does not occur at all, we believe, in the Hippocratic Collection. MaXa^»j, Malva, Mallows; the wild is moderately discutient and emollient; but the garden, as being more moistening, is also weaker. Its fruit, however, is as much stronger as i is drier.