SIMPLES. SECT. III.] 57 (H. N. xxvii, 18.) Until lately it held a place in our modern Comm. Dispensatories, -with the characters given it by the ancients. ' " ' See Qiiincy (p. 59); Rutty (Mat. Med. p. 44) ; Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. p. 57.) ''AaKvppov is treated of under Androssemon. Commentary. We have stated under dv^poaaifiov the dif- Comm. ficidty there is in distinguishing the different species of Hyjje- ' * ' ricum described by the ancients. We cannot pretend to decide whether the present article be the androscemum or the pei'foratum. Dioscorides recommends the ascyrron as an emmenagogue, in sciatica, and as an application to burns, (iii, 163.) The Arabians treat of it only as being identical either with the hypericum or the androssemum. See Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 59); Avicenna (ii, 2. 354.) 'AcTTraXa^oc, Aspalathus, Rose-wood, is composed of heterogeneous ingre- dients, having acrid and astringent powers, and hence it is desiccant. On this account it is useful for mortifications and defluxions. Commentary. We must not enter into the discussion re- Comm. garding this article ; suffice to say, that we have now arrived ' ' ' at the conclusion that it was either the Lignum rhodium, or a substance so near to it in qualities, that the latter came to be substituted for it. We need scarcely say, that there is great difference of opinion among the botanical authorities what tree or shrub it is which produces the Lignum rhodium. Upon the whole the predominence of evidence is in favour of some species of Cytisus. Dioscorides recommends the aspala- thus when boiled in wine as a gargle in aphthaj, as an injection in spreading and impure ulcers of the genital organs [chancres ?), in dysuria, flatulence, and other complaints, (i, 19.) Now it will be observed that the distilled oil of Lignum rhodium has been recommended in similar cases by modern authorities. See Moses Charras (Royal Pharmacopoeia, Chemical, iii, 1, 24.) The Arabians give the aspalathus the same characters as the Greeks. Sec Avicenna (ii, 2, 200); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 251.) The aspalathus of Celsus (v, 24)