[book VII. ANTIDOTES. 520 The picra of Galen. Of aloeSj dr. c; of xylobalsam, of mastichj of saffron, of spikenard, of asarabacca, of cinnamon, of each, dr. vj : some add also, of scboenanth and of cassia, of each, dr. vj. Give dr. j in hydromel. The picra from oxymel for stomach complaints, colics, affec- tions of the uterus, and dr-opsy. Of aloes, oz. iv; of Indian leaf, oz, ij ; of costus, of cassia, of amomum, of iris, of each, dr. j ; of the bark of the root of fennel, lb. j; of mastich, of Celtic nard, of ginger, of each, dr. j ; of pepper, di'. j ; of spignel, di'. j; of vinegar, sext. iss ; of honey, sext. iss. The fennel being first boiled in the vinegar is thrown away, then the honey is added, and after boiling to the consistence of honey, the other things are sprinkled in powder. A7i excellent composition from the liver of a wolf. Of gentian, of gi'ound-pine, of stone-parsley, of horehound, of the gall of a bear, of mustard, of ceterach, of the root of panax, of rubrica, of madder, of cabbage-seed, of long birthwort, of white pepper, of spikenard, of costus, of the seed of rocket, of the seed of eryngo, of poley, of viper's bugloss, of hemp-agrimony, of juniper-berries, of the liver of a wolf, of elecampane, equal parts. Mix with well-boiled honey. The dose is the size of a filbert, with boiled wine and honey. TJie antidote Theodoretus loith anacardia. Of anacardia, oz. iss; of saSi'on, of cassia, of Indian leaf, of spikenard, of cloves, of spignel, of agaric, of schcenanth, of Pontic rhubarb, of dodder of thyme, of each, dr. iv; of sweet-flag, of pepper, of each, oz. iss ; of aloes, oz. iij ; of saxifrage, of mastich, of Illy- rian iris, of each, oz. iss; of nutben, oz. j ; of honey, lb. vj, or q. s. The Theodoretus without anacardia. Of aloes, dr. Ix; of agaric, dr. xxiv; of saffron, of cassia, of Pontic rhubarb, of sweet-flag, of cinnamon, of mastich, of each, dr. x ; of costus, of the seed of rue, of white pepper, of each, dr. viij; of spikenard, dr. iij ; of xylobalsam, of asarabacca, of germander, of spiguel, of each, dr. iv; of honey, q. s. Some here add two anacardia. The dose is dr. ij, with honeyed water. The crjphoides for hepatic affections and complaints in the chest. Of the flesh of dried grape, dr. xxv ; of saffron, di-. j; of calamus, dr. ij; of bdellium, dr. iiss; of cassia, dr. iss; of cinnamon, three obeli; of nard, three oboli; of sweet rush,