SIMPLES. SECT. III.] 213 the foixrtli order of calefacients, being like the cress in powers, hut less desiccative. Commentary. Our author^s account of this plant (which Comm. is Lepidium latifolium, Pepperwort) is mostly taken from ' Galen. Dioscorides says it is made into a pickle with milk, and that the power of its leaves is acrid and ulcerative, and hence it is used in a cataplasm for sciatica. He says further of it, that it is also applicable in diseases of the spleen, removes leprosy, and that its root would seem to soothe pains of the teeth when appended to the neck as an amulet, (ii, 205.) It is to be remarked that Dioscorides always speaks of the virtues of amulets in ambiguous terms. It is described by the Ara- bians under the name of Sitarig or Scitaragi. See Rhases (Contin. 1. ult. i, 655) and Avicenna (ii, 2, 657.) Avicenna's desciuption of it is somewhat confused, and cannot be easily reconciled with that of Dioscorides, but with regard to its medicinal virtues, they are quite agreed. Bimasuy, one of E/hases's authorities, says of it, that its seed is like the seed of nasturtium, but not so heating. Beckmann mentions that the Lepidium latifolium was at one time used as a kitchen vege- table, and was called, in England, poor man's pepper. (Hist, of Invent.) Aettjc, Squama, Flake; aU kinds are strongly desiccative and astringent, and pungent in no inconsiderable degree. But the squama seris [Flakes of copper) is more desiccative, con- sists of more subtile particles, and has also some verdigris, more especially that from Cyprian nails, which is hence called clavaris. The squama ferri is possessed of more astringency, and still more that which is formed from the edge of sharp instruments, called stomoma, hence it is better for ill-con- ditioned ulcers. But the squama teris cleanses and melts down flesh more. Commentary. The squama ajris was a black per-oxyd of Comm. copper. The squama ferri, a black oxyd of iron. The stomoma """^ was the chalybs or steel. See Dioscorides (v, 89), with the Commentaries of Matthiolus and Sprengel, and also the Appendix to Dunbar's Lexicon. GeoflFroy says of the squama sens, that it is little different from the jcs astum being only