1-60 SIMPLES. [book VII. Comm. avcUana is useful in catarrhs, and as an application in cases ' * of alopecia. Here, however, he professes to borrow from Dioscorid.es. Avicenna and Rhases recommend the oil of the. hazel-nut in herpes esthiomenos, erysipelas, and fistida lachry- malis.. They speak favorably of both as a remedy for the bites of venomous animals. Tliey also are agreed that the walnut is expectorant. Kapuo^wXXov, Caryophyllum, Cloves; they are not the substance which their name might imply, but, as it were, the_ flowers of a tree which are brought from India; like chaff, black, nearly a' finger's length, aromatic, acrid, bitterish, hot, and desiccative in about the third degree. They serve many useful purposes , for condiments and other medicines. . Comm. COMMENTARY. From our author's description there cannot be the least hesitation on our part in acknowledging it to be the Caryophyllus aromaticus, L. {i. q.), Eugenia Caryophyllata, Thunberg, that is to say, the Clove-tree. We are equally well convinced that no mention of this article is to be found in the works of Dioscorides, Pliny, Theophrastus, Galen, Aetius, i Oribasius, nor, in short, in those of any preceding author. ' Whence Paulus drew his knowledge of it cannot now be ascertained. The Arabians display a very correct acquaint- ance with it. Avicenna, in treating of it, refers to no other Greek authority but Paulus. After describing it in much the same terms as our author, he states it to be hot and dry in the third degree, says it renders the breath fragrant, improves the sight, and is useful in pterygium; is stomachic and he- patic, and removes vomiting and nausea, (ii, 2, 311.) Serapion, in treating of the Gariofilus, first quotes from a translation of Galen the description of the Garyophyllon given by Paulus, which he affirms is taken line for line from Galen. This is evidently a mistake, founded on some erroneous translation of Galen into Arabic. He then gives its characters from several Arabian authorities to the effect that it is stomachic, hepatic, cordial, aphrodisiacal, and digestive; and says that it is brought from India, (c. 319.) Rhases says cloves are hot and dry, and are both stomachic and cordial. (Ad Mansor. iii, 22.) We have not been able to find the passage in the ' Continens' where they are treated of, there being some mistake in the