I SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 37a sight. The aqua cineris, he Bays, is one of the septic medi- Comm. cines. (ii, 2, 188.) The burnt lees of wine belong to this class. See Kovi'ai and Tpw^ oivov. TtjXe^ioi', Telephium, Orpine, is a calefacient of the first order, but a desiccant of the second. It is also detergent; and hence it is a suitable appHcation to putrid ulcers, and cures leuce and alphos with vinegar. Commentary. We think with Sibthorp and Sprengel, that Comm. it is not the Sedum Telephiwn, but the Cerinthe minor. See ' ' ' also Parkinson (520.) Dioscorides recommends it principally in the forms of leprosy, (ii, 217.) Galen's characters of it agree with those of our author. It does not occur in the works either of Hippocrates or of Celsus, neither have we been able to observe any distinct traces of it in those of the Arabians, unless, which seems highly probable, it be the thelopium of Ebn Baithar, as his German translator conjec- tures, (ii. 164.) TijXic, Foenum Graecum, Fenugreek, is heating in the second order, but desiccative in the first; hence it expedites the progress of all hot phlegmons ; and those which are less hot, and such as ; are scirrhous, it cures by discussing them. Commentary. Without doubt it is the Trigonella Fcenum Comm. I Grcecum. It occurs in the works of Hippocrates. (De Mulieb. " • ' i, 617.) It is, unquestionably, the " Foenum Grsecum" of Celsus, who enumerates it as an ingredient in an emollient pessary (v, 21), and in a soothing cataplasm, (ii, 33.) It is prescribed repeatedly by Aretseus, both internally and exter- nally. Dioscorides recommends the powder of it in the form of a cataplasm to various inflammations, both internal and external; as an ingredient in a medicated bath for diseases of the female organs, and as a pessary in the same, an injec- tion of its decoction for tenesmus and fetid discharges from the bowels, and for other purposes, (ii, 125.) Pliny gives a full account of its medicinal virtues, in which a considerable por- tion but not the whole is derived from Dioscorides. He says that Damon gave its seeds in a draught to promote menstrua-