[book VII. 240 SIMPLES. Mai'Spa-yopoc, Mandragora, Mandrake, belongs to the third order of cold medicines. But its apples have a certain share of heat and humidity, and hence they are possessed of a soporific power. The bark of the root of it being stronger is not only cooling, but also desiccant; but the inner part of it is weak. Commentary. Waiving disputed points regarding the ancient Mandragora, we shall merely mention in this place that we believe the M. Mas of Dioscorides to have been Man- dragoras vernalis, Bertolin, and the M. Femina M. autumnalis. The ancient authors make frequent mention of its nai-cotic and soporific powers. Celsus du'ects its apples to be placed below the patient's pillow in cases of obstinate insomnolency. (iii, 18.) Dioscorides, in like manner, says, its apples are nai'cotic when smelled to, and also their juice; that if persisted in, they will deprive the person of his speech. He mentions mandrake as as ingredient in anodyne collyria and pessaries, and says that in an enema it induces sleep. He recommends the wine of mandragora to be given to patients before they are subjected to the operation of cutting or burning. He gives niinute directions for making the various preparations of mandragora. He concludes his chapter on it by giving from information an account of another species of mandragora, called morion, which he represents as being powerfully narcotic; and hence as being administered by medical men when about to operate by cutting or burning. This plant we agree with Dodonieus and Cordus in thinking must have been the M. of Theophrastus, namely, the Atropa Belladonna. Considering the diligence of the ancient herbalists, it is not likely that they should have whoUy overlooked so prominent and important an article as the Bella- donna. The objections stated to this opinion by Parkinson (Theatre of Plants, 314) do not appear to us of much force. The account of mandragora given by Pliny is mostly taken from Dioscorides. (H. N. xxv, 94.) Our author and Aetius bor- row almost word for word from Galen. Isidorus says of it, " Cujus cortex vino mixtus ad bibendura iis datur quorum corpus propter curam secandum est, ut soporati dolorem non seutiaut. Serapion in like manner describes it as a powerful narcotic, and says that it was administered before the performance of amputation to diminish sensibility, (c. 333.) Avicenna parti-