468 APPENDIX TO [book vit. Muluchia. Avicenna (ii, 2, 194); Serapion (De Simpl. 149) ; Ebn Baithar (ii, 537.) Avicenna's description of this article, -which he also calls " Olus Judaicum," would seem to decide that it is the Corchorus olitorius or Jews' mallow. The other two authorities quoted above are not so precise in their description of it. It is more properly an article of food than of medicine. See Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 372), and Ainslie (Mat. Ind. ii, 387.) Moschus. Musk, the inspissated secretion of the follicle in the pre- puce of the Moschm moschiferus L., would appear to be first mentioned in the works of Aetius (xvi, 122), who gives for- mulae for vai'ious fumigations (sufFumigia) containing a great many aromatics, and among them musk. But as Ave have already had occasion to state, we entertain strong suspicions that the concluding chapters of this author may be spurious. Indeed, as this important article is not noticed by authors sub- sequent to Aetius, such as Oribasius, it would ajDpear to us that this circumstance is the strongest possible presumption, that the passage in Aetius had been added after the Arabian period of medicine. There is one notice of it also by our author, but it also has a suspicious appearance, (p. 292, ed. Basil. See also 296.) Serapion gives a long account of it, first upon the authority of Abuhanifa, who calls the animal the musk gazelle, and says its habitat is in the countries of Tumbasci and Sini, by which he probably means Thibet and China. Of these the better kind, he says, is that procured from Thibet, as the animal in that country lives on fragrant herbs, and the inhabitants are better acquainted with the process of extracting it from its follicles. And, moreover, he says, the Sinenses (Chinese ?) are apt to adulterate their musk. The animal which produces musk, he adds, does not dilfer in figure, colour, nor horns from other gazelles, and the best musk is procured after it is full grown. He then gives an anatomical description of its canine teeth, and of the modes of catching it by snares, gins, and by shooting it with arrows; and also the manner of extracting the musk from the animal after its death. But the best musk, he says, is procured from the animal when it is in a state of orgasm, and rubs its follicles against a rock