5-18 COLLYRIA. [book VII SECT. XVI. ON COLLYRIA AND AGGLUTINATIVE APPLICATIONS. The materials from which ophthalmic medicines are composed are various. For inspissated and liquid, seeds, fruits, the parts of herbs, and metals are ingredients in them. Of these, some sooth acrimonies, and are, as it were, obstruents, such as pom- pholyx, spodium, starch, lead, Samian aster, calamine, all washed substances, and the white of an egg. These are to be used after evacuation of the head, for if there should be plethora of it, there will be danger of the coats of the eyes being ruptured by distension. The opposite class of collyria being of an acrid nature, are deobstruents and evacuants of the humours permanently lodged there; such as the CjTenaic and Median juices, sagapen, euphorbium, and the like. Some are de- tergents of foul ulcers, such as the squama seris, copper, chalcitis, misy, sori, the flowers of copper, and antimony burnt. AlUed to these are those called abstergents, such as arsenic, sandarach, the flower of Asian stone. Some are astringent, and of these such as are moderately astringent are of extensive use for ophthalmies, ulcers, and defluxions, as the leaves, fruit, and flowers of roses, spikenard, Indian leaf, saffron, glaucium, and hypocistis. Those possessed of a stronger astringency are mixed with those remedies which are used for sharpening the sight, such as omphacium, acacia, the flowers of the wild and of the cultivated pomegranate, and galls. Some are concoctive and discutient, such as myrrh, saffron, castor, rosemaiy, and the juice of fenugreek. Of compound ophthalmic medicines, some are simply called plasta, some xerocoUyria, and some hygro- collyria. The first class admit of all the materials formerly mentioned, and agree with all states. They are to be prepared most commonly in spring, for in summer then- strength is apt to evaporate, and in winter the articles being constricted do not mix properly, They are to be rubbed with the addition of a fluid, but not in great quantity that the metallic parts may not subside, nor the aromatic float on the surface, but in small quantities, so that it may be rubbed until it is like the sordes of baths. Rain-water should be used, because it is finer and moderately astringent. But if not, those things are to be levigated and triturated with wine or some juice; the metaUic