SIMPLES. 356 SECT. 111.] blunts sharp pains. That of goats is drier and sooner coagu- lated, and therefore is used as an injection to those who have I sharp pains in the rectum. That of geese is hotter and more 1 attenuate; that of domestic cocks and hens being intermediate. ' That of lions is the hottest of all and the most attenuate, hence i it is most discutient. That of oxen has an intermediate tem- iperaraent between swine and lions. That of bears cures I alopecia, that of foxes, earache; as that of vipers is said to ^remove hairs and prevent suffusions from forming. Upon the iwhole, that of males is the hotter and more desiccative, and of 1)them those which have their testicles more than those which Ijhave been cut, and of those which are full-grown than that of tthe others. All sorts of grease when long kept become hotter. Commentary. Fats. Our author's account of their medi- Comm. ■inal properties is sufficiently ample. For further information, ' ' ' owever, the reader may consult Dioscorides and Galen. The ormer gives very minute and seemingly important directions or the preparations of all these animal fats. We may just ention here a little piece of criticism which Galen bestows this case upon his much admired predecessor. Dioscorides ys of the grease or lard of goats, that it is more styptic (ffTUTTTiKwrepov) than that of swine. Upon which Galen re- Tiarks that although Dioscorides had written much and well )n the Materia Medica, he often uses words in a wrong signi- ication, as he does in the present instance, for that the above- nentioned term, which properly signifies astringent, must here )e understood to mean acrid or pungent. Now we think that "xalen is here correct, and that Sprengel's attempt to bring lis author, Dioscorides, clear off in the present case is not successful. Indeed, as we firmly believe that a greater master if the Greek language than Galen never existed, we may dways feel secure that where the exact meaning of Greek terms s concerned, one may safely trust to him. The Arabians mder this head merely give extracts from Dioscorides and Iralen. See in particular Serapion (De Simpl, 461) and ivicenna (ii, 2, 70.) Antimonium, Antimony, in addition to its desiccative powers, las also astringency. Hence it is mixed with collyria for the yes.