SIMPLES. SECT. III.] 245 rubbed in thick with water and allowed to remain, until cica- Comm. trization takes place ; for, he adds, when the application falls off the ulcers are healed, (v, 183.) Celsus alludes to the same principle of treating aphthous sores in the throat, but directs the crusts to be formed with alum, chalcitis, or the Atramentum sutorium. The Atramentum scriptorium he only notices once, in describing the operation of trephining the skull, (viii, 4.) AA'icenna alludes also to the practice of Dioscorides. (ii, 3, 689.) M-tXavOiov, Nigella sativa, GitJi, is calefacient and desiccant in the third degree. It is also distinguished for tenuity of parts; and hence when smelled to it cui'es catarrhs, and is most car- minative when taken internally. It is also bitter, and hence it is anthelminthic. It is also detergent and incisive, and hence it agrees with orthopncea, cleanses leprosies, ejects myr- mecia, and pi'omotes menstruation. Commentary. It is the Nigella sativa, or Gith. Diosco- Comm. rides, with great precision, and in his usual empirical style, ' * ' enumerates all the cases in which this substance is applicable. As these in the main are the same as those in which our author recommends it, we need not enter much into an exposi- tion of the views of Dioscorides on this head. He says it promotes the secretion of urine, menses, and milk ; removes dyspnoea when drunk with wine; remedies persons stung by enomous spiders ; drives away reptiles, in the form of a fumi- ation; and that it is reported to prove fatal when drunk in rge quantity, (iii, 83.) Galen explains its medicinal virtues est scientifically, upon the principles laid down by him in his u'eliminary dissertation to the Materia Medica, of which we lave given an exposition in an extract from Aetius. Gith, he ays, is heating and drying according to the third ordei', and cems to be attenuant, or of subtile parts; wherefore it cures Mtarrhs when applied hot in a linen cloth, so as to be con- tantly smelled to. And it is most carminative, when taken uto the body, as is obvious from its being of subtile parts, and fa substance fme-wrouglit by the heat, wherefore, also, it is bit- er ; for it was shown in the Fourth Book of these Commentaries, hat when a terrene substance arrives at an extreme tenuity and laboration, the bitter quality is formed. No wonder, then, if it