622 WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. [book VII. Comm. made in weight 720 drachms^ according to all authors; sup- ' '' ' pose of rain-water, the ancients making no difference betwixt the weight of that and of wine. Taking the heaviest Attic drachm, which is the 100th part of the old Attic mina, or our avoirdupois pound, and neglecting the small difference in the tables, I shall state it at 70 grains Troy. According to this drachm, the weight of the Attic -xovg must be 50,400 grains. There are in a solid foot 1738 solid inches, weighing 76 pounds of rain water: by this experiment 760 gi'ains make 3 sohd inches; therefore, 50,400 make 198*94737 solid inches, the number of the solid inches in the xovq ; which is 6 pints, 35,698 solid inches, somewhat less than the Roman congius, though the Greek \ovg and Roman congius are used indifferently as the same measure by ancient authors; as likewise are the 6th part of them, the ^c'o-tjjc find sextarius, and the 13th the kotvXii and the hemina. There is great probability that the Greeks measured the capacity of their vessels by the weight of oil, the product of their country. For the physicians, speaking of these measures, always mention their weight in oil; and Galen, speaking of the cotyla, saitli thatHeras understood the cotyla to be of 60 drachms reducing the weight to oil. I find likewise that it is a general supposition among the ancients that the weight of oil was to that of wine, as 9 to 10; so 73 pounds of oil is made equal in bulk to 80 pounds of wine, 9 pounds of oil to 10 of wine, and so everywhere. According to our experiments, the weight of oil is to that of wine or fresh-water, as 476 to 537, which is very near, as 9 to 9-96. So small a difference may be accounted for by the oil weighing less in a warm country than in ours. The largest Greek measure for things liquid was the Attic jutrpr/Tj/'c, which contained 13 choes. It is also called a/i<j)op(VQ, Ka^og, KEpa/uoi>. The X""?' XOiVQ contained 13 cotylse. It is also called Xayvi'OQ, or 'Xayvvov, Xa-yrjcoi', or lagena. The Greek physicians sometimes use ^ouc for the Roman conyius, the difference being but small. The Grecians in later times borrow the ^scrri/e from the Roman sextarius. It was the 6th part of the yovg. I The Attic /cotv'Ajj was one half of the Itarrjg. It is also called rpv|3Xio('. The o^v^aipov was a measure answering to the Roman ace- tabulum. Pliny saith it was the 4th part of the hemina.