SIMPLES. 110 [book VII. Comm. and astringent, and consequently proving a suitable cataplasm ' " ' in cases of erysipelas, burning, and other inflammations, and as proving useful in chronic coughs, inflammations of the tonsils, and so forth. That this plant is the pellitory of the vrall [Parietaria officinalis) has been long pretty generally acknowledged. See Parkinson, Gerard, and Sprengel. Galen ascribes the same medicinal virtues to it as Dioscorides; and Aetius and Oribasius treat of it in nearly the same terms. It is the muralis of Celsus, who recommends the juice of it, added to ceruse, as an application to the gout, (iv, 24.) It may be proper to mention that Dioscorides (1. c), Pliny (H. N. xxiij 19), and Apuleius (81), also recommend it as an appli- cation in cases of gout. The Arabians give the pellitory exactly the same characters as the Greeks do. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 333) and Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. 536.) The Arabians call it herba vitri, because glass vessels w^re cleaned with it. It is now excluded from the Dispensatory, but held a place in it down to a late date. See Quincy, Hill, and Rutty. That the former species of helxine described by Dioscorides was a species of Convolvulus has long been known. See Matthiolus and Par- kinson. Dodonaeus makes it the niger, and Sprengel the arvensis. Dioscorides briefly states of its medicinal vii'tues, that it is laxative, (iv, 39.) It is not treated of, as far as we have discovered, by Galen, Aetius, or Oribasius. The Arabians treat of it as a species of Volubilis, by the name of acfin. See Serapion (De Simpl. 41); Mesne (De Simpl. 24.) Both agree with Dioscorides in making it to be laxative. See further App. Panicum, Panic, is, like millet, desiccative and refrigerant in its powers when applied externally. It also dries up alvine fluxes. Comm. COMMENTARY. Panic, as Miller remarks, is a plant of the " " ' millet kind. It is the Panicum Italicuni. It is more an article of food than of medicine. "We have treated of it accordingly in the part of this work devoted to Dietetics. See '\''ol. I, 124. ''E/UTTETpoi' 17 npao-troStc, Empetron, Black-berried Heath, is a medicine which purges j)hlegm and bile. It is also saltish and therefore, detergent.