188 [book VII. SIMPLES. Comm. phylacteries. (H. N. xxxii, 5.) See also Solinus (ii), and Geopon. (xv, 1.) Celsus ranks the corallium with those sub- stances which burn: " Veratrum, album et nigrum, corallium, cantharid.es, pyi-ethrum, adurunt." (v, 208.) This article does not occur in the Hippocratic treatises, nor in Galen's work ' On the Faculties of Simples.' The latter, however, prescribes it for spitting of blood in another place. (De Comp. Med. sec. loc. vii.) Dioscorides and Serapion, likewise, recommend it as an astringent in haemoptysis and in dysentery. It appears from the Royal Pharmacopoeia of Moses Charras, that it was used for the cure of these complaints in his time. He prefers the red coral, and directs us to give it in the form of an impalpable powder. The red coral held a place in oui* English Dispensatory until a recent date. See Quincy (101.) It was much used in infantile convulsions. It is still admitted to be a good antacid. See Gray (Pharmacol. 146.) Accord- ing to Dr. Ainslie, the Tamool practitioners prescribe it, when calcined, in cases of diabetes and bleeding piles. The Arabians place it among their astringents and cordials. (Mat. Ind. 52.) The sea-coralline is retained in the modern Greek Pharma- copoeia, under the title of Helminthochortos, which, however, as is there stated, comprehends several species of the Ceramium helminthochortum, mixed up with ulvse, confervae, but espe- cially red corallines. (77.) On the use of it by the Arabians, see the commentators on Mesne. (De Electariis, 89.) The Electarium de Gemmis, in which it occurs as an ingredient, is said to be most efficacious in cold affections of the brain, heart, stomach, liver, and womb; an excellent exhilarant and cordial; and restorative in palpitation of the heart, and in syncope. KopElC, Cimices, Buys; these animals are of an acrid nature. Some write that when drunk with vinegar they eject leeches. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscoridcs recommcnds Bugs in quartan ' • ' iutermittents, uterine suffocation, and as an antidote to the bite of the asp. (ii, 36.) Galen properly recommends garlic as a substitute for them in the case of leeches which have been swallowed. Pliny, apparently deriving his information from Dioscorides, ascribes to bugs alexipharmic properties of the most general nature; and more especially commends them as -J