[book VII. 286 SIMPLES. Comm. this head. When drunk with vinegar, they say it relieves dif- ' " ' ficulty of urine, tenesmus, and acute pain of the bowels; promotes expectoration, and softens indurated mammte. See in particular Avicenna. (ii, 342.) Though this plant has long been omitted from our Dispensatory, it is still not wholly un- known in the shops. See Gray (Pharmacop. 96.) '^OpfXlVOV, Horminum, Clary^ is like horehound in appearance, and hot, moderately desiccative, and detergent. It therefore is a pro- vocative to venery; and along with honey clears any thickness of the coats of the eyes, dispels oedema, and extracts shai'p instruments. The wild is stronger than the cultivated. Comm. COMMENTARY. Our author borrows his account of this ' * article (^Salvia Horminum) from Dioscorides. (ii, 135.) It is not treated of by Galen, Aetius, nor Celsus. It is fully treated of by the Arabians, who recommend it as an application to cancerous and other sores, as a coUyrium in ulceration of the eyes, and as a plaster in cases of gout. They further hold it to be aphrodisiac. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 692) ; Ehases (Cont. 1 ult. i, 727.) Even of late years, it has been reported as possessing the virtues ascribed to it by the ancients. See Rutty (Mat. Med. 238.) Oryza, Rice, is somewhat astringent, and therefore it binds the belly in a moderate degree. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is the Oryza sativa. Dioscorides, Galen, ' ' ' and the other authorities state its virtues in the same brief terms. For the views of the Arabians, see Serapion (c. 13); Ehases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 583); Avicenna (ii, 2, 567.) Tlie Arabians recommend it boiled in milk, M^hich, they say, takes away its astringency, and it becomes more nutritious and forms semen. "OpxiQ, Orchis; the herb is also called Doff's Orchis, or Testicle, having a double bulbous-shaped root. The powers of the greater orchis are humid and heating, and therefore it is a provocative to venery. But those of the lesser are heating and desiccative, and therefore, on the contrary, it restrains venery. That species which is called Sarapias, and otherwise