SIMPLES. [book VII. 264 Comm. rubefacient, gargle, masticatory, &c. By the way, we have * never been able to satisfy ourselves that the late Dr. Milligan was right in setting down the sinapi of Celsus as the Sinapis alba. (207.) We remark, however, that it is this species which occurs in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia. Galen and his followers dismiss this article with a very brief notice, like our author. The Arabians do little more than copy from Diosco- rides. See particularly Avicenna (ii, 2, 674); Rhases (Cont. 1. -ult. 644); Averrhoes (ColHg. v, 42); Serapion (c. 373) ; Ebn Baithar (i, 355.) Mustard was much used by the ancient physi- cians in cataplasms as a rubefacient. Ruffus, as quoted by Rhases (Contin. xxxvii), recommends the seed of mustard as a laxative. Macer directs, upon the authority of Menemachus, a sinapism to be formed by pounding in a mortar mustard seed, with a third part of the crumb of bread, dried figs, honey, and Adnegar. He recommends an ointment made of figs and mustard, for alopecia, i. e. porrigo decalvans. Spica Nardi, Spikenard; the root of it is heating in the first degree, and desiccative in the second. It is also some- what astringent, acrid, and bitterish. It agi-ees with the liver and stomach both when administered externally and internally. It is diuretic, and dries up internal defluxions. The Indian is stronger than the Syrian, and blacker. Comm. Commentaky. For this article. Dr. Royle informs us that '—'—' he obtained, in India, the hairy spike-like roots oiNardostachys Jatamansi. (Antiq. Hindoo Med. 33.) Dr. Lindley says the Nardostachys Jatamansi, or true spikenard of the ancients, is valued in India, not only for a scent, but also as a remedy in hysteria and epilepsy. (Veg. Kingd. 698.) See further, Ainshe (Mat. Ind. ii, 1, 318.) The Syrian kind was unques- tionably some species of valerian, probably the V. Hardtvickii. Our author, in the present instance, borrows from Galen, who in the main draws all his information from Dioscorides. The latter holds the spikenard to be diuretic, stomachic, hepatic, and carminative, (i, 6.) The Arabians treat fully of it, copying freely from Dioscorides. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 640); Rhases (Cont. 1. iilt. i, 669); Serapion (c. 52.) Avicenna re- commends it strongly in affections of the liver, and in jaundice;