515 ^ECT. XI.] ANTIDOTES. squills to the vinegar, and allow them to remain in the vessel six months; and it becomes more penetrative. It is applicable for defluxions of the mouth, as a gargle, and when drunk, for many internal affections, excepting when there is ulceration, and for many other purposes. The oxymel of squills. Of the internal tender parts of squills, lb. ij ; of strong white vinegar, sext. xv ; of pepper, of Macedonian stone-parsley, of each, dr. ij; of Cretan carrot, of bishop's weed, of anise, of Celtic nard, of lovage, of asarabacca, of cai'damom, of spikenard, of amomum, of rlia Ponticum, of ach, oz. ss; of the seed of fennel, of cumin, of laser wort, of finger, of peUitory, of Cretan hyssop, of costus, of pennyroyal, of each, oz. j; of green mint, one fasciculus ; of green rue, five branches; of Attic honey, one sextarius; of rob, sext. ij ; of green parsley, one fasciculus. Put the white inner parts of the squills bruised into the vinegar, and allow it to macerate seven days during the heat of the dog-daj'^s : then taking out the squills, which, if dried, are to be pounded, but if green, not pounded, add to the vinegar, and again, after seven days, iiaving strained all, add the honey and rob to the vinegar, and 'laving boiled to a proper consistence, lay them up in a glass vessel. This remedy is to be taken as a potion before food, )r along with food for a sauce. It is much used. Galen's medicine from squills, answering particularly iviih 'pileptics. Having broken down squills with your hands into small pieces, put into a vessel used for containing honey, and Iiaving covered it up properly, put it in a place exposed to the midday during the heat of the dog-star; forty days after the rising of the dog-star loose it, and you will find that the body )f the squill is melted down. Taking, then, its juice, sweeten t with some very fine honey, and give every day a spoon- iJ of it, if to children, a small one, but if to adults, a large jiie. But triturate the body of the squill itself with honey ind give a spoonful of it. It is inferior in power to the juice. The antidote of Philo. Of white pepper, dr. xx ; of hyos- ■yamus, dr. xx ; of the juice of poppies, dr. x; of safi'ron, Ir. V ; of pellitory, of euphorbium, of spikenard, of each dr. j ; of Vttic or any other fine, well-boiled honey, q. s. Give to idiilts the size of a filbert, to smaller persons, that of a bean,