SIMPLES. [book VII. 422 Comm. • COMMENTARY. Dioscorides and Pliny call it a mixture of " ' ' cadmia and clialcitis; Galen, Aetius, and our author say of litharge' and chalcitis. Avicenna follows Dioscorides. (ii, 2, 273.) Celsus also directs it to be made of chalcitis and cad- • mia. (vi, 6, 31.) It derives its name from its being used as ■an application to parts affected with scabies (psora.) The psoricum has been long unknown in the practice of medicine. Ovum, An Er/g; the white and thin part is free from all pungency, being moderately cooling. . It is to be used for the eyes, ulcers in the pudendum, and all ill-conditioned ulcers. It is also mixed up with the medicines which form styptic plasters. And the yolk'of an egg being possessed of similar pow(3rs, is mixed up with anti-inflammatory remedies. When roasted it becomes more desiccative but less soothing. If a whole egg be boiled in vinegar, and eaten, it dries up alvine fluxes. But if, having received the addition of some sour sub- stances, such as galls, sumach, or the flowers of the wild pomegranate, it be fried, it becomes considerably more drastic. A whole egg applied raw immediately relieves burns. When taken in a supping state, it concocts and soothes aflPections in the chest, and proves demulcent for asperities of the trachea. New eggs are to be preferred to old, and those of hens to the eggs of all other animals. Comm. COMMENTARY, Galen gives, in his usual copious and ele- ' '—' gant style, a somewhat lengthy dissertation on the medicinal properties of eggs, but the narrow limits to which we are necessarily restricted, prevent us from transferring the sub- stance of it to our pages, although it contains much that is highly interesting. (De Simpl. xi.) Galen recommends eggs for various medicinal pm^poses; and in particular he says that wool dipped in the white of an egg proves a serviceable appli- cation to burns. Dioscorides states their vii-tues more briefly, and to him our author is more particularly indebted, (ii, 54, 55.) He recommends the white of an egg in a tepid state for severe pains of the bladder and ulceration of the kidneys, roughness of the windpipe, vomiting of blood, catarrhs, and defluxions of the chest. Phny, Dioscorides, and Sextus Platonicus say that eggs pounded with oil form an excellent application in cases of