493 SECT, v.] COMPOUND PURGATIVES. SECT. V. ON COMPOUND PURGATIVES. Pills from aloes. Of the medullary part of colocynth, p. j; of the juice of wormwood, p. j ; of aloes, p. j j of scammony, p. ij; make with water pills of the size of a chick-pea. The dose xj grains. The oxymel of Julian. Of rue, oz. iij; of marjoram, oz. iij; of the hair (capillary-leaves?) of thyme, oz. iv; of dill, oz. iss; of iris, oz. j; of the root of mandrake, oz. iss; of agaric, oz. ij; of fatty dead pines, oz. xij; of the granum Cnidium, oz. iv; of lathyrides, oz. iij ; of alypias, oz. iij ; of polypody, oz, ij; of the cassia-leaf (malabathrum), oz. j ; of costus, oz. j; of spikenard, oz. j ; of rha Ponticum, oz. iss; of squills, oz. iij; of the tops of the elder-tree, oz. iij; of canopus, which is the bark of elder, oz. iij; of asarabacca, oz. j; of pennyroyal, oz. iij ; of dodder of thyme, oz. ij; of hellebore, oz. ij ; of sweetflag, oz. ij; of water-parsnip, oz. j ; of amomum, oz. j ; of St. John^s wort, oz. j ; of cumin, oz. j ; of anise, oz. ij; of vinegar, ten sextarii; of honey, five sextarii: macerate the herbs in the vinegar for three days; then, having boiled it until more than one half be consumed, add the honey, and having strained, add the lathyrides, the costus, the granum Cnidium, and the spikenard triturated, and, if you please, after it is fully boiled, the oxymel. The full dose is oz. j; or according to the patient's strength. It is useful in gouty aflfections and epilepsies; and when we re- quire at the same time to evacuate or dislodge thick humours. The purgative hydragogue from cloves. Of aloes, of dodder of thyme, of cloves, of granum Cnidium, of stone-parsley, of rha Ponticum, of each, oz. ss; of euphorbium, scr. iv; of honey, q. s. The dose is one spoonful. TTie purgative medicine from rhodomel, of Alexander. Of the juice of roses, two sextarii; of honey, one sextarius; of scammony, oz. iv. A full dose is five spoonfuls, a small, two, a medium dose three spoonfuls.—Otherwise: of honey, lb. j; of the juice of roses, lb. j; of pepper, dr. ij; of scammony, dr. viij; of mastich, dr. iv; and of ginger, dr. ij.—Otherwise, one which I use : of spikenard, of asarabacca, of dodder of thyme, of each, oz. ss; macerate in a hemina of water for three days; and having boiled it to a moderate degree, mix with the water