SIMPLES. [book VII. 344 Comm. humours. It is to be avoided, he says, when there is an ulcer in any internal part. Apuleius recommends it along with vinegar and honey in dropsy. lie adds, that it evacuates by urine. Columella gives a receipt for making a vinum scilliticum, which is useful, he says, " ad concoquendum, ad corpus refi- ciendum, itemque ad veterem, tussim et ad stomachum." (1. c.) Mesne particularly commends it as an expectorant, and re- commends the vinegar, the oxymel, and the syrup for this and other medicinal purposes. Avicenna treats of it with his wonted accuracy, recommending it in complaints of the gums, teeth, and mouth; for asthma, and all inveterate coughs; in epilepsy, and in melancholy. He moreover particularly commends it in diseases of the spleen, and in dropsy and jaundice. He forbids it to be used in ulceration of the viscera. Ebn Baithar gives very copious extracts from preceding authorities, both Greek and Arabian. He treats separately of the scilla and pancratium. See luider the latter. S/coXoTTtvSpa, Scolopendra; the sea scolopendra, when boiled in oil and rubbed upon a part, acts as a depilatory. When burnt it occa- sions pruritus. Comm. COMMENTARY. See Book V. The sea scolopendra is the ""^^—' Aphrodite aculeata. All the authorities who notice it recom- mend it for the same pm'poses as our author. See Dioscorides (ii, 16.) ^KoXoTrefSptoi', Scolopendrium, the same as asplenium. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is the Aspleiiium Ceterach. See under ' ' ' Asplenium. 2koXv|Iioc, Scolymus, Golden Thistle, is a calefacient and desiccative medi- cine of the second order. The root of it, when boiled with wine, brings off a quantity of fetid urine, and cures the fetid smell of the armpits and of the whole body. Comm. COMMENTARY. From the descriptions of it given by Theophrastus (H. P. vi, 4), and Dioscorides (iii, 14), one can scarcely entertain a doubt that it was the Scolymus Hisjmnicus, or Spanish Cardoons, an esculent root, weU known in the southern parts of Europe. Compare Sprengel (Ad Dioscor.