SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 463 and inebriety, (iii, 30.) His account of it in his ' Continens' is veiy brief. Avicenna describes it in his 'Mat. Med.' as being a nut similar to the nux vomica, and having seed like the citron (?). Like the others, he says it inebriates, induces stupor, and is inimical to the brain and heart. In the dose of a drachm he says it proves fatal, (ii, 3, 501.) Ebn Baithar's authorities give a full account of it, but differing little from the others already given. One of them says, that a drachm • will kill on the spot, and in small doses it induces stupor, vomiting, and loss of sense. They direct these bad effects to 1 be counteracted by the administration of an emetic of natron I (soda), by giving wine and pepper, and keeping up the heat of 1 the body. The Hindoo physicians held that it is alexiterial. ! See Susruta and Wise (Hindoo Med.) An excellent modern authority says of the Datura Metel, \ that " its seeds are narcotic, more powerful than the Datura I Stramomium, and produce temporary idiotcy." Gray (Suppl. to IPharm. 52.) Dr. Lindley, after describing the Datura Stra- tmonium as a violent narcotic, says of the Metel, that it has a I similar action. (Veg. Kingd. 619.) Comparing, then, the «effects of the Nux Methel, as described by the ancient authori- Ities with those of the Datura Methel, as given by those recent H authorities, we cannot hesitate in recognising their identity. Rachaba, or Nux Mechil. One of Serapion's authorities states that an Arab had told him that it is a great tree, Hke the nut-tree, having leaves like a great fig, and fruit like small pomegranates, and speaks very indistinctly about its being Pharoah's nut; but it is difficult, from his language, to make out what he says on that oint. He says it is sweet, has a pleasant smell, and is eaten y shepherds and others. He mentions that some had con- bunded it with the nux vomica; but he concludes by saying that whoever will compare the descriptions of the rachaba and nux vomica must see the difference. (De Simpl. 164.) From this description it is quite clear that this cannot be the nux vomica, but rather one of the eatable figs, probably the Jicus henjamina. Nux Henden, or Banden. Sec Serapion (De Sirapl. 79) and Avicenna (ii, 2, 496.)