[book VXl. SIMPLES. 106 EXeoaeXivov, Apium palustre. Marsh Parsley; being formed in wet places, it has the same properties as the cultivated parsley, and is larger than it. Comm. COMMENTARY. The smallage {Apium graveolens) is briefly ' • ' treated of by the other authorities. We need scarcely say that it is still retained in our Dispensatory. See Quincy. Elephas, the Elephant; the parings from its hoof, when applied in a cataplasm, cui'e whitlow; and those of the bones and teeth of it, being of a drying and detergent nature, are mixed with similar medicines. Comm. Commentaky. Dioscorides in like manner recommends a ' " ' cataplasm prepared with the shavings from the elephant's hoofs in cases of pai'onj^chia. Most of the other authorities would appear not to have treated of it. Ivory sha^dngs were retained in the Dispensatory until late years. See Quincy. Recrementum argenti, the Dross of Silver, has the same powers as the molybdfena, for it is astringent and epis- pastic, hence it is mixed with the plasters called Fusca and Epulotic. Comm. COMMENTARY. What the Scori(B argenti are will be readily " " ' understood from the following description of the process of extracting silver from the ores of it: " These ores are ex- tremely hard, and also mixed with bituminous, sulphm-eous, arsenical, or vitriolic substances, which carry off xnth them a considerable part of the silver, or burn it to scoriae along with themselves." Geoffroy, &c. (p. 272, Engl, ed.) Our author copies almost verbatim from Dioscorides, and the other Greek authorities supply nothing additional under this head. Aetius treats of the scorice in general terms, as we shall see in the proper place, and merely says of the Scoriai argenti that they are possessed of desiccative powers. Of the Arabians, Avicenua, in treating of this article, borrows every word from the Greeks, (ii, 2, 693.) Serapion quotes an Arabian authority, Adamasti, to the effect that the scoria argenti is of use in cardiac disease (c. 415.) Rhases, after qiiotiug from Galen, Dioscorides, and