SIMPLES. [book VII. 98 Comm. COMMENTARY. According to Dierbach, it comprehends both ' ' ' the Polypodium Dryopteris and the Asplenium Adiantum nigrum, and this opinion is supported by that of the older authorities. See Parkinson (1043) and Alston (§ 52.) * Sprengel refers it to the former. Our author borrows from Dioscorides, and Avicenna does the same, (ii^ 3, 319.) Our older herbalists, Parkinson and Gerard, treat of the oak-fern, but it has long ceased to hold a place in our Dispensatory. Quercus, the Oak; its leaves and fruit are possessed of desiccant and tepid poAvers, so as to agglutinate recent wounds and cure incipient inflammations. The membrane under the bark of the acorn which surrounds the fleshy part of the frait being much more astringent, is given for the female fluor and other diseases attended with discharges. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dierbach states that three species of the ' * ' oak with edible roots grow in Greece, the Quercus JEsculus, the Q. Ilex, and the Q. Ballote. He adds, that the first species is generally meant by Spvc in the Hippocratic writings. Eus- tathius remarks that the (/)»jyoc of Homer was a species of oak. (Ad Hiad. v, 691.) In fact, it was the Quercus ceschylus, or rather comprehend it and the Q. Robur. See Parkinson (1389.) After all the illustration which the subject has received from the old herbalists, and more recent commentators on Dioscorides and Theophrastus, it must be admitted that there is still consi- derable diflficulty in determining the various species of oak described by the ancients. Our author borrows his account of the medicinal powers of the oak from Dioscorides, whom all the other authorities also follow. The quercus occurs in the Mat. Med. of Hippocrates, and in those of all the Ai'abians. We need J scarcely add that the Quercus Robur still maintains a place inlT our Dispensatory. ' E(3evog, Ebenus, Ebeny ; the wood is calefacient, detergent, and consists of subtile particles. Hence it is believed to remove films which obstruct the pupil, and is an ingredient for other ophthalmic remedies. Comm. COMMENTARY. The Latin poet Virgil, who appUes the ' ' ' term India both to the region of the East, which has always i