394 [book VII. SIMPLES. Comm. coal in hemorrhages. (H. N. xxiv, 8.) Q. Serenus recom- ' ' ' mcuds it in tlie same cases, (c. 22.) Dioscorides does not describe this article. Galen also omits it in his list of simples, but briefly notices it in a preliminary book (v), and recom- mends the bm'nt cork of a wine-cask as an astringent. (De Comp. med. sec. loc. v.) We have not been able to trace it in the works of the Arabians. Phillyreaj Mock Privet; the leaves of the tree are astrin- gent like those of the wild olive. They rebeve ulcers in the mouth when chewed, and when the mouth is rinsed with a de- coction of them. When drunk they prove diuretic and emme- nagogue. Comm. COMMENTARY. Stackhousc and Sprengel agree that it is ' * ' the Phillyrea latifolia L. Our author copies its medicinal characters literally from Dioscorides. (i, 125.) None of the other Greek authorities on the Mat. Med. have described it. Neither can we find traces of it in the works of any of the Arabians, except Ebn Baithar, who gives nothing of any moment under this head but a translation of the chapter of Dioscorides referred to above. It certainly is not the Mahaleh of the Ai'abians, as Ave shall show in the Appendix. <l>Xo'jUO(,', Verbascum, Petty Mullein ; there are many species, among which is that called Thryalis. The leaves of all the kinds are possessed of desiccative and moderately detergent powers, and especially that with the golden flower. Being sour they suit with all sorts of fluxes. Some also rinse the teeth with them. Comm. COMMENTARY. It cannot be doubted that the genus is re^^ '—'—' ferable to the Verhascum, but the species cannot be well' determined. See Sibthorp (Flora Grseca), and Sprengel (ad Dioscor. iv, 102.) The white female Phlomos would appear to be the Verbascum Thajmts, and the black is indisputably the Ver- bascum nigrum. The Phlomis Lychnitis of Dioscorides is probably the V. Lychnitis. The other species cannot be determined with any degree of certainty. Our author abridges the medicinal characters given to them by Dioscorides. (1. c.) Galen also, as well as Aetius and Oribasius, borroAv freely from Dioscorides.