[book VII. 118 SIMPLES. Eruca, Rocket, being also like it in temperament, is flatulent. It therefore produces venereal incitement, and the seed of it is diuretic. The wild is stronger than the cultivated. Comm. COMMENTARY. There can be no doubt that it is the Brassica ' ' ' Eruca, L. Dioscorides agrees with our author in setting it down as being aphrodisiacal and diuretic, and Aetius does the same. The latter proposes to correct its tendency to induce headache by giving it with lettuce, (ii, 169.) Celsus ranks the " eruca" among the things " quae contrahere semen videntur." (iv, 21.) The Arabians agreed with the Greeks as to its aphrodisiacal properties. (Casiri, Bibl. Arab. Hisp. i, 336.) See also Serapion (224), Avicenna (ii, 2, 227.) Even down to a late date rocket retained this character. See Rutty (183), and Quiucy (109.) It is still cultivated in gardens. See Loudon (Encycl. &c. 744.) Eupatorium, Hemp-agrimony, consists of subtile particles, and is possessed of incisive powers without manifest heat. Hence it clears away obstructions of tlie liver, and has also some astringency. Comm. COMMENTARY. That the iJ^jsa^ormm of Dioscorides and the ' * ' other Greek authorities is the Agrimonia Eupatorium,, wUl hardly be questioned now by any competent judge who has investigated the question. Dioscorides recommends its leaves in ill-conditioned ulcers, and its seed and stalk in wine, for dysentery and the stings of reptiles, (iv, 41.) Galen makes it to be deobstruent and tonic. Serapion copies from Dios- corides and Galen, and merely adds, in the end, fi'om Khases, that southernwood is more suitable in complaints of the liver; and from Mesue, that it is good in protracted fevers. (De Simpl. 77.) Avicenna's chapter on Eupatorium is entirely cotnpiled from Dioscorides, Galen, and Serapion, without the slightest change or addition, (ii, 2, 239.) No one Avho has examined into the matter can therefore doubt that the Eu. of these two Arabians, was the same as that of the (Greeks. The Eupatorium of Mesue, however, has been generally held to be a very different plant, namely, the Eupatorium Canna-