591 CT. XX.] OINTMENTS. t ranspire for forty days, after which it is to be carefully covered over and laid up. The anethinum, or oil of dill. Of the hair of the green dill, I h ied, oz. j; of sweet oil, an Italian sextarius : expose to the sun in like manner. The oil of dill may likewise be prepared at once, without exposure to the sun; for the hair of dried dill ir.ay be boiled in a double vessel, and used; and the oil of chamo- aile may be prepared in like manner; but they are weaker lian those from green dill, and especially if made by exposure to the sun. The liliaceum, or oil of lilies, called also susinum, perhaps from having been invented in Susa. Of the petals of white lilies, diied in like manner, oz. ij are to be added to an Italian ^extarius of oil, and carefully covered over so as to prevent it from evaporating, and exposed to the sun for three days, after which, the first being filtered and thrown away, other two )unces are to be added for other three days, and thus laid up. The compound susinum, or oil of lilies. Of oil, sext. iij ; of roraatic cane, oz. v; of myrrh, oz. v; of cardamom, oz. iij ; t' the petals of lily, deprived of their nails and dried, lb. j; of cinnamon, oz. iij ; of CiHcian safiron, oz. v. The whole process is to be divided into three successive additions. First, we are to macerate the myrrh and the calamus in wine for five (lays, stirring it thi'ee times a day, and then we are to boil it with the oil for a very short time. Secondly, we are to iiacerate the cardamom in water for three days, stirring it in like manner, and then we are to boil it with the oil for one hour. Having filtrated, we add to the pure oil the third part of the lilies, and after three days, again having filtrated, we >ut in the other third of the lilies ; and again, after three days having filtrated and thrown away the first, we are to add the cmainder with triturated saffron. But after other three days, he oil being filtrated, we add to it the cinnamon pounded, or, iistead of it, amabo, or double the quantity of cassia or car- I lesium, and lay it up. T7te iaton, violaceum, or oil of violets. They prepare the lil of violets, some from the purple, some from saffron-like, and ome from white violets, adding oz. iij of the leaves deprived if their nails to an ItaHan sextarius of the oil of unripe olives; tnd covering it up carefully to prevent it from evaporating;