SIMPLES. [book VII. 158 Cancer, Crab; of the ashes of burnt crabs, that of river- crabs is equally desiccative with those of the sea urchins and cockles. By the peculiarity of its whole substance it proves wonderfully efl&cacious when applied to j)ersons bitten by mad dogs, as mentioned in another place. The ashes of the sea-crabs being extremely desiccative, do not indeed agree with them, but rather relieve those who stand in need of desiccative reme- dies. The river-crab when pulverised and applied, ejects thorns and the points of darts. Comm. COMMENTARY. The Cancer Pagurus, a large edible crab, would appear to be the sea animal treated of under this head. The river-crab, we suppose, is the Astacus fluviatilis, or craw- fish. Dioscorides recommends the ashes of the river-crab most especially in hydrophobia, and as an application to fissures in the feet and anus, cliilblains, and cancers, and also as an anti- dote to the bites of venomous animals. Galen also gives an interesting account of the use of them in hydrophobia, and Serapion repeats Galen's account of them. See further. Book V, 3, of this work. Galen speaks with great confidence of their efficacy in this case, indeed he affirms that he had never known them fail when they had got a fair trial. The other authorities supply no additional information of interest under this head. See Avicenua (ii, 3, 147), Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. iii, 42.) These two agree that the flesh of the river-crab with the milk of asses is beneficial in phthisis. KctpOJ', Carum, Caraway; the seed is desiccant and heating in the third degree; and not only the seed, but also the whole plant is carminative and diuretic. Comm. COMMENTARY. There Can be no doubt that it is the Carum " ' ' Carui. It is evidently the careum of Pliny, and derives its name from Caria. (H. N. xxix, 49.) Om- author copies closely from Galen. Dioscorides calls it diuretic, stomachic, pleasant to the taste, digestive, &c. The Arabians further give it the character of being a cordial and anthelminthic medicine. (Sec Serapion (c. 279), Avicenna (ii, 2, 137), and Rhases (Cont. !■ ult. i, 178.)