347 SECT. III.] SIMPLES. CoMJiENTARY. We suppose it to be the Scorpiurus sulcatus, Comm. Jj., which is synonymous with the Scorpioides, Tournefort. ' " ' Dioscorides merely recommends it as an application to the bites of scorpions, (iv, 193.) ScorpiuSj the Scorpion; the land one, when applied raw, is ia remedy for its own bite, and in like manner, when eaten iroasted. The sea scorpion's bile is useful in suffusions. Commentary. See Book V. Avicenna recommends the (oil of scorpions in diseases of the ear. (ii, 3, 64.) The sea- iscorpion is the Coitus scorpius. Dioscorides recommends its ggall in cataracts, albugo, and dimness of sight, (ii, 14.) Recrementum, Dross ; all kinds are considerably desiccative, hbut that of iron more than the others. This, when pulverized d boiled in vinegar, cures purulent discharges from the ears a wonderful manner; and when taken with oxymel, proves 1 remedy to those who have drunk aconite. That of lead is similar to lead itself, but more astringent. Commentary. It is called recrementum by Celsus. (v, 15.) Comm. It is the dross of a metal which is collected on the outside of' * ' he furnace while the metal is purified by heat. See Pliny H. N. xxxiv, 37) and Matthiolus (Ad Dioscor. v, 54.) Dios- ;orides says of the recrementum plumbi that it has the same lowers as burnt lead (v, 97), and of the recrementum ferri, hat it is a remedy in cases of poisoning with aconite, (v, 94.) Jelsus ranks the recrementum plumbi among the emollients. Ibid.) Avicenna recommends the recrementum ferri as an stringent in cases of hemorrhoids and other fluxes. Like )ioscorides and our author, he says that it is an antidote to conitum. One of Serapion's authorities, Adamasti, says of he recrementum argenti, that it is cooling and desiccative, nd useful in cardiac disease, and another, Alcanzi, says it is ood for scabies and prurigo. His other extracts are from )ioscorides, Galen, and Paulus. Ebn Baithar gives an inter- iting exposition of this subject, but it is mostly made up from le authorities already quoted by us. (i, 348.) Rhases treats f it in like manner. (Cout. 1. ult. i, 334.)