163 SIMPLES. SECT. III.] i tionecl by Herodotus, (iv.) Dioscorides, Galen, Rhases, and Comm. Serapion, like our author, recommend it as an emmenagogue; " ' Celsus prescribes castor with, pepper in cases of tetanus, (iv. 3.) He also recommends it in lethai'gy and deafness, (vi.) Pliny : also mentions its being used in tetanus and other cases where •soporifics are indicated. (H. N. xxxii, 3, 8.) Of all the : ancient authorities A\dcenna treats of it most fully, recom- ;mending it particularly in nervous affections, stupor, and ) paralysis, also in hiccough when drunk with vinegar, and as a (Carminative in flatulence of the bowels. The best counter- sagents to it are acid citrons, vinegar with wine and asses' milk. IHe says of it, that it is alexipharmic, and proves beneficial in ithe sufi'ocation induced by hellebore, (ii, 2, 132.) Serapion •copies Hterally from Dioscorides and Galen (c. 445.) Rhases ■"recommends it as a calefacient medicine for warming the merves, promoting menstruation, and dissolving swellings. (Ad \iMansor. iii, 30.) The account which he gives of it in his fContinens' is made up of extracts from Dioscorides, Galen, and our author. (1. ult. 188.) Ebn Baithar gives a very eengthy and not uninteresting account of this substance, i i, 263.) Kau/caXtc, Caucalis, Wild Carrot; it is heating, Hke the carrot, desic- ! iiant, diuretic, and is pickled as a preserve. Commentary. Sibthorp supposed it to be the Torchjlium Comm. 'officinale; but perhaps we may venture to refer it rather to ' he Caucalis maritima, Lam, R. Stephens calls it Persil ' aiard, i. e. Bastard parsley. It is more properly an article f food than a medicine. Our author borrows his account of 1 : from Dioscorides and Galen, and none of the other autho- '. lities supply any additional information of interest respecting :. In modem times its application in medicine has been ex- ■ mded. See Matthiolus (in Dioscorid.) and Parkinson (922.) Milium, Millet, is cooling in the first degree, and desiccant 1 the second. It also, to a certain degree, consists of subtile irticles. When used then for a fomentation in small bags, id in the form of a cataplasm, it is of a desiccant nature.