263 S£CT. III.] SIMPLES. (Called also Narcaphthon) is an Indian aromatic, and is used in fumigations for constriction of the uterus. Commentary. Our author's account of this substance is taken, witli few alterations, from Dioscorides. Galen and Serapion also copy from him. In the Appendix to this section we shall have occasion to notice the opinion that it was mace. All we need say of the Nascaphthon in this place amounts to this, that it was an Indian aromatic, which the industry, even of Royle, Ainslie, and Eoxborough, has failed to determine. NaTTU, Sinapi, Mustard, is heating and desiccative in the fourth degree. Commentary. We may pretty confidently refer it to the Comm Sinapi nigi'um. No author, ancient or modern, has treated of its ' medicinal powers so elaborately as Dioscorides. He says it has heating, attenuant, and attractive powers, and when chewed, produces a discharge of phlegm; when its juice is mixed with hydromel, it forms a suitable gargle for enlarged tonsils, and for chronic and callous asperities of the trachea; when applied to the nostrils in a fine powder it acts as a ster- nutatory ; benefits persons in epileptic fits, and rouses those who are in hysterical fits ; it is useful in lethargic patients when applied as a cataplasm to the shaved scalp; when mixed up with figs and applied until it reddens, it is fitting for ischi- atic disease, and that of the spleen, and in general for all chronic pains, by determining to the surface; it cures alopecia in a cataplasm; clears the countenance, and, with honey, suet, or cerate, removes the spots of extravasated blood; with vinegar it is nibbed in upon places aff'ected with leprosy, and lichen agrius; it is taken in a draught as a powder, when sprinkled like polenta on the drink, for periodical attacks of fevers; it is mixed with advantage in epispastic plasters and those for scabies; when applied to the ear in powder with figs, it re- lieves deafness and noises in the ears; its juice with honey is suitable in dimness of vision and roughness of the eyelids when rubbed in; the juice of its seed, while still green, is expressed and dried in the sun. (ii, 183.) Celsus recommends it in a variety of cases both externally and internally; as a