SFXT. XIV.] LINIMENTS. 541 " Lorsque il s'agissoit de faire tomber le poil on prenoit des Comm. inatieres encore plus foi'tes et plus acres que celles qu'on a in- ' * ' diqueesj comme de Torpiment, de la sandaraque, de la chaux vivCj et Ton les detrempoit avec les sues. En ces cas on donnoit a cette composition le nom particuliere de psilothrum ou c?epi- latoire." (Hist, de la Med.) On the meaning of the terms see, further, Eustathius (ap. Iliad, iv); Scholiast. Aristoph. (Plaat); and Gataker's Antoninus (v, 9.) Celsus gives the following general description of these medi- cines : " Quaedam autem mixturse medicamentorum sunt quibus aridis neque coactis utimur, sic ut inspergamus, aut cum aliquo liquido mixta illinamus." The powder of goUas, if prepared according to his directions, would consist of potass, sulphur, quicklime, and orpiment. His ninth preparation of this class is a sternutatory, and the tenth is one for making a gargle. (V, 22.) Most of our author's formulse are borrowed, with a few altera- tions, from Galen. (De Med. sec. gen. v.) For a description of the Arabian Pulveres, see, in particular, Haly Abbas (Pract. x, 16,) and Mesne, (i, ix.) Many of Mesue's compositions are internal medicines, consisting principally of aromatics. Thus, his first preparation, which is intended to dry humidity of the stomach, dispel flatulence, and assist digestion, consists of lignum aloes, oz. ss ; of galls, dr. iss; and of white sugar, oz. iss. Nicolaus Myrepsus, in his copious ' Dispensatory,^ describes the composition of 50 smegmata and 143 pulveres. The far greater number of the former are intended as applications to the skin in diseases thereof, such as impetigo, leprosy, itch, and the like. The pulveres consist of applications to the skin, sternutatories, gargles, and injections. None of them, we believe, are to be taken inwardly. SECT. XIV. ON LINIMENTS TO THE MOUTH AND THROAT. As much as the coat which lines the mouth is finer and softer than the skin, such a difference must there be with regard to the applications made to the mouth. At the commencement, therefore, of inflammation, medicines for repelling the defluxion