SIMPLES. SECT. III.] 473 stating (Vol. I. 137) that tlie lemon was mentioned by Avicenna (ii, 2, 433.) His description is probably to be referred to the Statice limonium. However, beyond all doubt, the Citrus medica Limon is fully described by Ebn Baithar. He says the rind is bitter, acid, astringent, and aromatic, excites the appetite, improves digestion, renders the breath fragrant, is cordial, and an antidote to poisons. He recommends it par- ticularly in fevers, exanthemata, palpitation of the heart, vomiting, &c. It appears also to be noticed several times in the Susruta. (See p. 143 et alibi.) Lemons are likewise noticed by the Persian writers on the Materia Medica by the names of Leemoo and Neemboo. See Royle (Mat. Med. 297.) They have been long known to the Hindoos. See Wise (Hindoo Med.) Margaritoe. Though the Greeks and Romans were well acquainted with pearl-mussels, as is obvious from several passages in the classical authors, it does not appear that they ever used these articles in the practice of medicine. They were used by the Ai'abians as an ingredient in their celebrated Electuarium de Gemmis, (Mesne de Elect.) and were reckoned among theu' cordial medi- cines. Avicenna says of pearls, that they resemble karabe in medicinal powers, but are more powerful in their operation. (De Med. Cordial.) Serapion gives a fuller account of them upon the authority of several Arabian writers, who describe pearls as being cold, desiccant, and attenuant, and recommend them in diseases of the eyes, and in hemorrhages, as dentifrices in diseases of the teeth, but more especially as cordials in pal- pitations and other affections of the heart. (De Simpl. 397.) We could have wished to have given in this place, since we have had no convenient opportunity to do so elsewhere, an exposi- tion of the \dews of the Arabians respecting the operation of cordial medicines; but as this subject could not be understood without a fuller explanation of certain parts of the higher phi- losophy of the ancients than is consistent with our limits, we are reluctantly obliged to dismiss it with a very brief notice. We would beg leave to refer our readers to Avicenna's elaborate treatise ' de Mcdicinis CordiaH])us.^ He there gives an ingenious lisquisition on medicines which operate upon the animal spirits