SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 279 of the face; but the latter remarks^ if too loug continued Comm. it renders the pai't yellow and weakens the sight, (ii, 2, 74.) ' ' ' See also Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 18.) These two Arabian au- thorities say of it, that it congeals the womb; but that a clys- ter of hot vinegar and salt proves soothing in the spreading ulcers of the intestines. Both the Greek and Arabian autho- rities commend it as an antidote in cases of poisoning with opium and cicuta. They also recommend an embrocation with vinegar and olive oil or rose oil to the head in affections of it. Dioscorides recommends vinegar for chronic coughs and orthopnoea, and also for defluxions of the throat and quin- seys. (v, 21.) The Greek and Arabian authorities further I agree in recommending it in erysipelas, herpes, and whitlow. Oxyacantha, Evergreen Thorn; the tree is like the wild pear in appearance and powers, having also some tenuity of parts. The fruit of it resembles myrtles. Commentary. Matthiolus, Dodonaeus, and Sprengel agree Comm. in referring it to the Mespilus Pyracantha, or Evergreen' '' Thorn. The commentators on Mesue make it to be the Berberis, i. e. the Berberry. See the Appendix to this section. Dioscorides, after giving a botanical description of it, says, with regard to its medicinal powers, that when pulverised and applied in a cataplasm it extracts thorns and prickles, and that its root is liaid to possess the power of occasioning abortions, when the abdomen is gently stroked or rubbed with it. (i, 123.) Galen -ays of it, that its root is attenuant and incisive, resembling tliat of myrtles; and that whether eaten or drunk it restrains nil fluxes. (De Sirapl, viii.) Although the similarity of names might lead us to suppose that this must be the Spina acuta of the Arabians, this does not appear to be at all the case. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 11.) 'Oiriou, Opium, is treated of under poppy. Commentary. Although we treated of the deleterious Comm. effects of opium on the animal economy in the Fifth Book, ' ' and have given a general description of the medicinal proper- ties of the poppy in the proper place, we shall avail ourselves