PLASTERS. [book VIr. 560 of wax, oz. iv; of aphronitrum,- oz. j ; of ammoniac perfnme, oz. ij ; of honey, oz. vj; of soap, oz. ij. The dothiene, or plaster for furunculus. Of ammoniac per- fume, lb. j ; of .Alexandrian natron, oz. vj; of aphronitrum, oz. vj; of swins'sseam, lb. ij ; of wax, lb. ij ; of turpentine, lb. j ; of old oil, oz. j ; of vinegar, q. s. The plaster from soapmort for discussing strumous swellings. Of litharge, of soapwort, of birthwort, of each,.oz. iv; of gal- banum, of squama seris, of aloes, of each, oz. j; of manna, oz. ij; of ammoniac perfume, oz, ^'j j of pine-rosin, oz. xvj; of vinegar of squills, sext. iv; for. the trituration of the powders. The piaster smilium for- abscesses. Of old oil, lb. iss; of litharge, of red natron, of sal ammoniac, of the lye of figs called protostacton, of rosin, of each, lb. j ; of galbanum, of ammoniac perfume, of each, oz. iij; of copperas, oz. iv; of wax, oz. vj j of verdigris, of opoponax, of each, oz. j; of vinegai', q. s. Boil the litharge and the verdigris in the oil until it cease to stain, and then add the other things. T7ie plaster from garlic for -breaking abscesses. Of wax, oz. yj ; of Colophonian rosin, oz. iv; of pine-rosin, oz. iij; of bulFs suet, oz. iv; of yellow natron, oz. iss; the heads of garlic cleansed, xx; of oil, sext. ss. Having boUed the garlic in the oil, throw it away, and mix the other things. The discutient plaster from apyranon. Of the fat of geese and of pheasants, of each, oz. iij ; of old oil, oz. xxvj ; of flea- wort, oz. iij; of nettle-seed, of the green root of apjTanum, of each, lb. j ; of white wax, oz. x; of diachylon plaster, oz. ij ; of turpentine, oz. j. Having divided the root into small pieces, macerate in the oil with the fleawort and nettle-seed a night and a day; and then having boiled, throw them away, and mixing the soluble substances with the oil, dissolve. Tlie wheat-plaster for hardness and scirrhous swellings. Of marsh-mallows, of palm-nuts, or of Nicolan dates, of each, lb. ij ; of fenugreek, of linseed, of each, sext. ss; of camomile, of melilot, of the bark of palms, of each, oz. yj ; of Amiuisean wine, sext. vj; of litharge, lb. j ; of ceinise, of Colophonian rosin, of each, lb. ij; of wax, of turpentine, of each, lb. j; of old oil, lb. V; of water, lb. ij ; of dried bread broken down and sifted, lb. v. The juice of the herbs is extracted by