SIMPLES. 333 SECT. III.] fuller, but contains many superstitious notions. (H. N. xxviii, Comm. 71.) Serapion copies from Galen, (c. 447.) It was princi- ' ' ' pally as an application to cutaneous eruptions and sores that the ancient physicians made use of saliva, and it would appear to be not ill adapted to that purpose. Dr. Thomson, in his work on Chemistry, has the following remarks on it: " SaliA^a has a great affinity for oxygen, absorbs it readily from the air, and gives it out again to other bodies; hence, in all probability, the reason that saliva is a useful application to sores of the skin. Dogs and several other animals have recourse to this remedy, and with much advantage." (Book v, c. ii, sect. 13.) Galen contends strongly that hximan saliva is destructive to animals, and appeals to Nicander in confirmation of this venomous opinion. He further mentions having seen an instance of a scorpion being killed by human saliva alone. All the Arabian authorities ascribe this virtue to it. See in particular Avicenna (ii, 2, 599, 613) ; Ehases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 602); Ebn Baithar (i, 144.) These all, in fact, do little more than copy from Galen. Kedi, in opposition to all the ancient authorities, denies that human saliva is destructive to the viper. " Non nostrum inter eos tantam componere litem !" Sideritis, Ironwort, the Heraclean, called also Helxine, has been treated of. The Achillean Sideritis is like to it, but more astringent. Hence it agrees with fluxes. Commentary. This is one of the articles in the ancient Comm. Materia Medica which has never been satisfactorily determined. ' ' See Parkinson (Theatre of Plants, pluries) and Sprengel (Ad Dioscor.) The first species of Dioscorides, namely, the Herculia, is the same as the Helxine of our author, and has been already treated of. The other two we would hesitatingly set down as the Sanguisorba officinalis and Geranium Roberti- anum. The reputation which the latter has enjoyed in modern times, as a vulnerary, appears to us strongly confirmatory of the opinion that it was one of the sidcrites of the ancients. See Hill (Mat. Med. 407) and Lewis (Mat. Med. i, 464.) So .striking and important an article as the Robertianum is not likely to have escaped the observation of the Greek and Arabian Rhizotomi. Apuleius says that the Latins call it