23 SECT, in.] SIMPLES. Sprengel and Schneider agree in referring it to the Asplenium Comm. Trichomanes L. Stackhouse agrees with them respecting both ' ' ' these species. The syrup of capillaire, which still holds its place in the shops as a favorite domestic medicine, is prepared fi'om the Adiantum. A'l^WOV, Sempervivum, Wall-pepper (or House-leek ?), of which there ai-e two varieties. It cools in the third degree, is moderately desiccative and astringent, and is applicable for erysipelas, herpes, and inflammations from a defluxion. Commentary. Our author, copying from Galen andAetius, Comm. describes two species which seem to be the Sempervivum arbo-' ' reum and Sedum rupestre. Dr. Lindley, however, refers the latter to S. ochi'oleucum. Dioscorides has a third species, which may be referred to the Sedum stellatum. The greater house-leek is praised by Dioscorides as an application for head- ache, for the bites of venomous spiders, diarrhoea, and dysen- tery ; as an anthelminthic when drunk with wine; for stopping the fluor of women in a pessary, and as an application to the eyes in ophthalmy (iv, 88, 89.) Macer Floridus commends it in menorrhagia. He calls it acidula. Serapion, Avicenna, Rhases, and Haly Abbas merely copy from the Greeks. Even Ebn Baithar has nothing original under this head. These plants, although not retained in our Dispensatory, are still allowed to possess medicinal properties. See Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 345.) It is still retained in some of the foreign Dispensatories, and is held to be refrigerant and astringent. 'a ' iEtonychon will be treated of under the head of Stones. Pulticula, Pap, is a kind of puis fit for being supped, which is prepared from ground spelt or from any corn, and agrees with children. It answers also for cataplasms. Commentary. Dioscorides gives the same accoimt of it. Comm. It is the Puis friiilla of Pliny. Matthiolus says it is called' ' ' < bonillie in French, i. c. pap. Hcsychius speaks of its being prepared from wheat, and Pliny from rice.