SKCT. III.] 187 SIMPLES. rubbed witb cow's duug in the sun they will be mucb relieved thereby.. Sheep's dung with vinegar cures myrmecia, acro- chordon^ furunculus^ and clavus. That of wild pigeons, being much more acrid than the other kinds, proves rubefacient when applied with the seed of cardamus. That of domestic fowls, when drunk with oxymel, vinegar, or wine and honey, causes the suffocative muskrooms to'be vomited, and proves a presei"vative from them. Some have given it to drink also in cohcs. They say also that the dung of storks, when drunk, is useful in orthopnoea. That of mice, being more detergent than all others, agrees with alopecia, and when applied to the anus of children provokes evacuation. The dung of starlings, when they feed on rice, becomes detergent so as to clear away freckles. That of land crocodiles removes alphos, as that of the crocodiles of the Nile is believed to attenuate leucoma (white films on the eyes). Commentary. Our author's account of the medicinal pro- Comm. perties of Dung is abridged from Galen. As we have no wish ' ' to see this article restored to the Materia Medica, we shall not enlarge upon the subject. Those who wish to improve their knowledge of the medicinal articles mentioned under this head by our author, may find them treated oi usque ad nauseam by Dioscorides, Galen, Serapion, and Avicenna. Many of ■ them were retained in the Dispensatory down to a compara- ' tively recent date. For example, the white dung of dogs, ! usually called Album GrcBcum, was long used in the cure of I quinsies. See Quincy (140, 206.) KopaXXiov, Corallium, Coral, is a sort of petrified arboret, not growing < on dry land, but among the mud of the sea, being of a red c colour, and like stone. Its powers are decidedly desiccant and I moderately astringent. It answers, therefore, with cases of I haemoptysis and dysentery. Commentary. The Coral of the ancients is the his nobilis, Comm. I Pall.; the name Isis being borrowed from Pliny. (H. N. ' * ' ixiii, 52.) Pliny mentions, in another place, that corals, burnt land pulverised, and drunk in water, are useful in some pains lof the bowels and bladder, and in calculus. Tie adds that