SECT. IV.] 481 SIMPLE PURGATIVES. On those things lohich evacuate bile. We may give chola- gogiTe medicines at any season except winter, to persons in the vigour of life and in tlie decline; to persons of dry and muscular habits, and who are of a dark or ruddy com- plexion ; to men rather than to women; to those whose food is apt to spoil on their stomachs, and whose bellies are con- stipated ; to such as abound in bitter bile, are irascible, pass little urine, and use hot and dry food: in icteric, hepatic, and pleuritic affections; in phrenitis, cynanche, mania, cepha- Isea, ophthalmy, erysipelas, leprosy, fevers, and to such as are troubled with collections of bile. Aloes is given to such as are troubled with heaviness of the head, with ophthalmy, with thirst, with disturbed dreams without fever j to such as have a sensa- tion of departing rigor ; to those who pass acrid flatus, and have gnawing pains of the intestines; to those who are seized with burning heat about the stomach, or nausea producing eversion of it; and to those who being troubled with a collection of ex- crementitious matters cannot bear evacuations by clysters. For it evacuates the whole body, and does not occasion disorder of it unless given in very great quantity, and brings along with it any bile lying in the intestines, stomach, and gullet.—Helle- bore agrees both with those in acute diseases and those in chronic requiring a cholagogue medicine, such as maniacs, those troubled with hemicrania, and such as have defluxions of the eyes and complaints in the chest. But it suits most with such viscera as the uterus and bladder when they require a chola- gogue remedy. It is also proper for chronic affections of the trachea, for jaundice, exanthemata, lichen, herpes, erysipelas, and leprosy. Black hellebore evacuates bile, especially yellow, from the whole body and without trouble. Hence it is given to those not affected with heavy fever, and more especially to such as are free from fever, in the quantity of one drachm of the roots triturated in honeyed water or plain water, while fast- ing, or with honey made into pills. Some mix Avith it penny- royal, savoury, or some of the volatile stomachics.—Scammony purges like hellebore, and more especially yellow bile, but of all purgative medicines it is the most prejudicial to the stomach. It is, therefore, to be given to those who are free from fever, and such as have strong stomachs, to the amount of four oboli, with salts, pepper, ginger, or some one of the volatile sto- ni. 31