SIMPLES. [book VII. 142 Comm. in a cataplasm, it draws off diseased nails, (iii, 93.) Galen ' ' ' remarks that, like Thapsia, its calefacient powers do not come into immediate operation. Tlie other authorities, in treating of this substance, follow Dioscorides and Galen. See in par- ticular Avicenna (ii, 2, 717), and Ebn Baithar (i, 410.) The Viscum album is retained in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia. (Athens, 1837, 167.) ' I' loi'j Viola, the Violet; its leaves have a watery and coldish sub- stance for their prevailing ingredient. Comm. COMMENTARY. There can be little or no doubt that the purple ' ' ' violet of Dioscorides is the Viola Odorata. On the violet, see a most interesting disquisition by Celsius (Hierobotanicon in voce Dudaim); also Sprengel (R. H. H.) Dioscorides calls it refrigerant, and recommends it as an external application in ardor of the stomach, inflammation of the eyes, and pro- lapsus ani; and mentions, that it had been taken internally in quinsy and epilepsy of children, (iv, 120.) Galen merely re- commends it externall}'' in the same cases as Dioscorides. The Arabian authorities extend the use of this article. Thus, Avicenna recommends it in heat of the stomach, both inter- nally and externally; in a syrup for coughs, pleurisies, and other aflTections of the lungs; in pains of the kidneys as a diuretic, and as a cholagogue. (ii, 2, 715.) See also Bhases (Cont. 1. ult. 3, 21), and Ebn Baithar (i, 170.) Serapion, on the authority of Aben Mesuai, says further of it that it is laxa- tive in doses of from three to seven drachms. (De Simpl. 141.) 'log, TErugo, Verdigris, has a bitter quality to the taste, beiiig discutient, cathartic, and corrosive, not only of soft but also of hard flesh ; but by mixing a little of it with much cerate, oue may render the medicine detergent without pungency. Comm. COMMENTARY. That it was the JEruffo JEris, or Verdigris, ' * ' seems indisputable. The scraped verdigris (ioc ^uoroc) the common kind, and the name is still retained in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia (61.) Hippocrates, Dioscorides, Pliny* and Galen recommend verdigris in complaints of the eyes. ||s Dioscorides describes very minutely the process for preparing II