PURGATIVES. [book VII. 498 Comm. Commentary. Hippocrates, as Galen mentions, recommends " * ' a draught of ptisan to be swallowed immediately after taking a purgative medicine, in order to facilitate the operation of the medicine and wash away any particles of it which may lodge in the intestines. Both forbid it to be given after the operation has commenced, as it tends only to blunt the powers of the medicine. Galen remarks, that sometimes a purgative does not operate, either from idiosyncrasy of the patient, or from the smallness of the dose, or from the intestines being blocked up by indurated faeces, which must be removed by means of a clyster before the medicine can operate. At other times, he adds, the medicine is determined to the kidneys, or is digested and converted into food. As all purgatives are bad for the stomach, he recommends us to weaken the impression of them by the mixture of aromatic seeds, which possess attenuating and cutting powers—Quosnam oportet purgare, &c. Oribasius treats fully of this subject in two extracts from the works of Galen and Ruffus. Ruffus directs us, when the bowels are difficult to move, to give beforehand a soup of shell- fish, with mallows, beet, and the like, or to administer a clyster. He forbids us to give purgatives to persons who are apt to vomit. (Med. Collect, vii, 36.) Mesne has treated more fully of all the circumstances con- nected with the administration of purgatives than any other ancient author. When the operation of the medicine is retarded by flatus, or the bad state of the humours, he recommends us either to administer a clyster or give an emetic. When this arises from debility of the expulsive faculty of the intestines, he directs us to give, first, a moderate di'aught of cold water, and then some astringent potion, such as one from quinces, or pears. When the passage is obstructed, he directs a clyster to be admi- nistered ; and in this case he forbids cold water to be given, as it will increase the contraction of the intestine. When violent pains are excited in the stomach by the medicine, he recommends an emetic, and if in the bowels, a clyster. (Canon. Univers. iii ) See also Avicenna (i, iv, 8), and Rhases (Contiu. xii.)