SIMPLES. 227 SECT. III.] inflammations of the mammae and testicles, (v, 168.) Avicenna Comm. says the vapour of ^dnegar in which it is dissolved checks the " ' flow of blood and ciu'es hot aspostemes. {ii, 2, 398.) Matthiolus confesses himself quite unacquainted with the Naonan Whetstone. Sprengel reckons it allied to the Smiris. Galen would rather seem to make it a variety of the Ostracites. The Lapis Lyncurius of the ancients was our Jacinth or Hyacinth. See Beckmann, and De Laet, ' de gemmis.' Dioscorides recommends it in affections of the stomach and bowels, (iij 100.) Serapion describes minutely the Lapis iacinc- tus, or hyacinth, but merely mentions of it that it was used as a seal to avert the thunderbolt, (c. 398.) The stone which he describes in the following chapter, would appear decidedly to be the Tourmaline. He calls it Lapis rubeus, seu, hager albu- zedi. Used as a seal, he says it dispels bad dreams. The Cos is composed of a schistose argil. The Cos Olearia would appear to have derived its name from requiring the use of oil to answer the purpose of whetstone. See Pliny (H. N. xxxvi, 47.) It is impossible to determine accvirately the nature of the Hieracites. Aetius, who has given the fuUest account of it, describes it as a darkish green stone. The Indian-stone would seem to be identical with the Arabian- stone. Rhases (Cent. 1. ult. 401.) The Lydian-stone is ranked by Dr. Thomson as a sub-species I of FUnt-slate. He remarks that it was used as a touchstone i by the ancients. The j^Etites, or Eagle-stone, is a species of oxide of iron. Dr. \ Hill remarks that custom has given the name of setites to (every fossil that has a loose nucleus within it. The ancients I used it very frequently as an amulet and incantation. See par- Iticularly Dioscorides and Aetius. The Arabians also confirm, ■ in the strongest terms, the imaginary efficacy of the Eagle- stone when used as an amulet. That it accelerated the delivery of woman in tedious labours, Serapion and Ehases de- clare, from ample experience, and that it would produce this beneficial effect on those who had faith in it ive can readily believe. Indeed, avc have often regretted that such innocent modes of working upon the imagination of women in labour had given place to more dangerous methods of practice iu such