{book vir. 582 ACOPA, ETC. nerves, and strong frigidity -wliich cannot be readily restored to heat. The emolhent agree with induration, scirrhus, and infarction of the joints; and the materials of which they ai'e formed have been pointed out by us when treating of plasters. The stimulant being composed of lemnestis, the seed of rose- mary, euphorbium, the granum cnidium, and the like, are to be used in chronic affections, and such as are difficult to dislodge, namely, in such cases as sinapisms are applicable. The consistence of all the acopa is to be intermediate between the cerates and plasters. The liniments resemble the acopa, but have a more liquid consistence. The dropax has a two- fold composition, the one being like a plaster, and the other like a malagma. Some rub them iuto the part warm. Their materials are like those of the acopa and plasters. It serves the purpose of a cataplasm, agreeing with the same chronic affections in which sinapisms are applicable. A dropax ("cale- facient plaster") is applied before a sinapism, in order to prepare the body for the mustard; and after the sinapism, in order to remove the residue of the complaint. The sinapism is not composed of many ingredients, but is a most powerful appli- cation, agreeing particularly with chronic affections after all other remedies have been tried in vain. It is more especially applicable in cephalsea, hemicrania, epilepsy, vertigo, and mania, when applied to the head; and in asthma, orthopnoea, and chronic cough when applied to the chest; and in chronic catarrh, a sinapism may be applied both to the head and chest; and to the stomach and belly in chronic affections of them. It is a suitable remedy in all ischiatic and podagric cases, to any part which has lost its tone, or is in a cold state, and cannot easily be warmed. The limits of the action of the medicine are, when violent pain has been produced, and the flesh becomes more livid and swelled up, and so that after the bath it may become bhstered in a mild manner. But if the sensibility has been lost, care must be taken lest the bm-ning proceed too far without being perceived, and therefore the part is to be often uncovered and examined. Of acute diseases, lethargy, cataphora, and catochus admit of sinapisms, which, if at the commencement, are to be applied to the legs, but if the matter has fixed in the part, to the head. Those which are in a cold state and cannot be warmed but with difficulty,