256 [book vir. SIMPLES. Comm. 43.) The Arabians^ in general, prescribe it, in imitation of * * ' Galen, as an application to cancer. See Averrhoes (1. c.) and Avicenna (ii, 2, 13.) The latter joins Dioscorides in praising lead as an apphcation to the eyes. Serapion gives a very full account of this article in extracts from Dioscorides and Galen. (De Simpl. 419.) See also Rhases (Contin. 1. ult. i, 556) ; Ebn Baithar (ii, 128, et pluries.) Mopata, Morns nigra, the Mulberry-tree ; the fruit, when ripe, loosens the belly, and is useful in all complaints of the mouth which require a moderate degree of astringency. The unripe, when dried, becomes a very styptic medicine. The bark of the root of the tree is also purgative, with a certain degree of bitter- ness ; hence it kills the broad intestinal worm. The leaves and tender shoots hold an intermediate place between purga- tives and astringents. Comm. Commentaky. There can be no doubt that it is the Ficus ' ' Morus, L., or the Black Mulberry-tree. It ia the ovkolixivoq of Theophrastus, which, however, was sometimes applied by others to the sycamore. See Celsus (iii, 18.) The mulberry is com- mended by Pliny as an antidote to poisons, as it is in like manner by Dioscorides. The latter calls it laxative of the bowels, but an article readily spoiled, and bad for the stomach. He also ascribes astringent powers to its juice, which, he says, when mixed with a little honey is useful in defluxious, spread- ing ulcers, and inflamed tonsils. He also praises the leaves when pounded with oil, as a good cataplasm to burns. He speaks of it also as being used for dyeing the hair, and the decoction of its leaves as a gargle for toothache, (i, 180.) Galenas account of it is the same as our author's, by whom it is abridged. Aetius treats of it fully as an article of food, but. briefly as a medicine. He says, when taken upon a clean stomach, it proves an excellent article of food; but the very reverse when the stomach is loaded and contains any noxious humours. The Arabians, in treating of it, follow Dioscorides and Galen. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 491) ; Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 201) ; Serapion (De Simpl. 132.) The mulberry is described as a medicine by all our old herbalists, and was retained in tlie Dispensatory until after the time of Quincy. (94, 198.)