SIMPLES. 471 SECT. III.] Avicenna under the head of Volubilis, i. e. Jiedera (ii, 2, 724,), and under Cusms (ib. 169), describes the /ciCTwog of Dioscorides, but the former of these rather confusedly so as to create suspicions that he used the term in rather a lax manner, ^lesue is the ancient author who treats most elaborately of the ulubilis, applying the term to five distinct species, or rather genera, of which the first is probably the Hedera, the second the Helxine, and the third the Clematis of the Greeks; the fourth, which he calls lupulus, is acknowledged to be the Hunmlus lupulus, and the fifth the Convolvulus scammonium. See his leai'ned commentator Costa (c. 24.) As all the others have been already treated of, we shall confine our attention at present to the account which he gives of the medicinal powers 1 of the hops. He says the lupulus brings away some yellow 1 bUe, clears the blood, allays its inflammation, and that its i infusion or whey is of great use for this purpose, and its syrup, lie adds, cures jaundice. He says it was little used by the physicians of his time. He recommends it as a deobstruent of the Kver, and of other internal viscera, as a remedy in asthma, and protracted fevers; and as a plaster to the head with rose oil or oil of chamomile, &c. (i, 24.) He treats of scam- mony separately in the next chapter. The character thus drawn of the lupulus does not seem at first sight to agree well flith the acknowledged virtues of the Humulus hupulus. But, IS Rutty remarks, he probably alludes to the stem and not to the flowers of the plant, as being a medicine which purges veUow bile. (M. M. 296.) The Humulus Lupulus is not noticed hj any Greek writer, nor by any Roman, with the exception i Phny. (H. N. xxi, 50.) The lebleb, noticed above, there is every reason to suppose, u as the dolichos lebleb. It is also treated of by Avicenna as well as Serapion. They represent it as containing saltish juices which purge adust bile. It is a well-known article in Hindoo Medicine, See "Wise (Book of Hindoo Medicine, 104.) Abrong, or Abruffi. Serapion describes it as a round grain, spotted with black lud white, which is brought from Seni (China?), having a )itter taste, hot and dry in the second degree, a laxative of he bowels, and vermifuge. (De Simpl. 153.) According to