SECT. III.] 41 SIMPLES. thick humours, and detergent, of those lodged in the skin. The wood has the same powers. The sweet are moderately hot. CoMJiENTAKY. Respecting this article there can be no Comm. difference of opinion. Plutarch and many of the ancient' ' ' authorities take notice of the powers of almonds in resisting i intoxication. Dioscorides states that a cataplasm formed from : almondSj. with vinegar or rose oil, and applied to the forehead ( or temples relieves headache. Taken internally, he says, they : are laxative, soporific, and ditu-etic. (i, 186.) Serapion gives 1 nearly the same account of them. (c. 82.) Dioscorides greatly < commends almond oil as a demulcent in Various complaints, > such as pains, inflammation, and displacement of the uterus, I also in headache and earache, in nephritic, calculous, and other (diseases, (i, 38.) Avicenna gives it the same character, and (otherwise enlarges very fully in recapitulating the virtues of J almonds. As an article of food, he says, bitter almonds are s stomachic, and sweet almonds are fattening. He recommends tthem as an application to herpes and other diseases of the sskin. Bitter almonds he speaks highly of in obstructions of I the kidneys. Altogether the account which he gives of this article is most interesting, (ii, 257.) See also Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 45); Averrhoes (CoUig. v, 42.) The latter recommends them as powerful deobstruents of the Hver. Amylum, Starch, is formed from clean wheat moistened with water duiing the heat of the dog-days, which water is to be poured off five times in the day. When it becomes very soft, lit is to be strained and the water poured off, and the bran separated; and it is to be dried quickly in the sun before it ibecome sour. Its powers are moderately cooling, desiccant, and emollient of acrid humours. Commentary. 0\ir author's account of the mode of pre- Comm. paring starch is mostly taken from Dioscorides (ii, 123.) " ' ' Pliny describes the process in nearly the same terms. He says, it may be prepared from wheat or spelt. (H. N. xxviii, 17.) He calls it astringent, and recommends it in haemoptysis. Serapion also recommends it in this complaint, (c. 29.) Celsus