195 SECT. III.] SIMPLES. CoJiMENTARY. Dioscoi'ides assigns it wonderful powers in Comm. promoting procreation^ and hence its name. He calls it" " ' intensely acrid. Galen and the other Greek authorities^ treat of it very succinctly like Paulus. We have not been able to find any traces of it in the Mat. Med. of the Arabians. Wliat plant it was seems a puzzle. Both Parkinson (Theatre of PlantSj 858) and Sprengel (Ad Dioscor. 1. c.) incline to the Polygonum Persicaria, but the medicinal virtues of it, as given by our older herbahsts, do by no means agree with the cha- racters of the cratseogonon as given by the ancients. Crethmum, Samphire, is somewhat saltish with a little bitterness, and therefore its powers are detergent and desic- cative. Commentary. It is the Crithmum maritimum, Samphire, Comm. or Sea-fennel. Dioscorides recommends its fruit, root, and leaves, when boiled in wine, for dysuria and jaundice. He further mentions it as a potherb and pickle, (ii, 156.) Galen and the other Greek authorities state its characters briefly like our author. Pliny, like Dioscorides, mentions it as a potherb and pickle, but says nothing of it as a medicine. (H. N. xxvi.) We do not find it noticed by Celsus nor by the Arabians, with the exception of Ebn Baithar. (ii, 280.) Hordeum, Barley, is of the first order of cooling and desic- cative medicines, and is also somewhat detergent. It is more .desiccative than the flour of beans, and less flatulent. The polenta of barley is more desiccative than barley itself. Its ptisan is not only more diluent, but is also more detergent. Commentary. It is the Hordeum vulgare, comprehending Comm. no doubt several species. We have treated of it among the * ' Cerealia in the First Book (Vol. I, p. 123.) The aXtpirov, or polenta, was a sort of malt. See Pliny (H. N. xviii, 14.) We have treated of it in the same place; and also of the mode of preparing ptisan. It was a favorite remedy with Hippocrates (de victu acut. et alibi.) Dioscorides calls it suitable to the acrimony, roughness, and ulceration of the windpipe, and says it attracts milk when taken boiled with