84 SIMPLES. [book vn. Cimolian is possessed of mixed powers, being refrigerant and discutientj but the washed is more cooling, and cures biirns with oxycrate. The Terra Ampelitis (it is the kind of earth which is rubbed upon vines to destroy the worms which breed in them) is powerfully desiccant and discutient, but not with- out pungency. The Cretan is full of air and detergent, with- out pungency. The Eretrian is decidedly astringent, but when burnt and washed it is desiccant without pungency; but the cineritious is preferable. The Pnigitis has powers resembling the Cimolian, but is black. The Armenian, called also Bole, is powerfully desiccative, and therefore agrees excellently with dysenteric cases, fluxes of the belly, spitting of blood, con- sumption, dyspnoea from humidity, humid ulcers, and pesti- lential affections. It is drunk with a thin diluted wine, or, if fever be present, with water. The Alanabolus is possessed of similar powers to the Armenian. Ochre is discutient and sep- tic in its powers; it therefore restrains the fungous flesh of ulcers, and fills hollow ones when mixed with cerate. Comm. COMMENTARY. We shall now give a brief explanation of ' ' ' the medicinal earths of the ancients, and for a fuller account of them we would beg to refer to the Appendix to Dunbar's ' English and Greek Lexicon,' to HilFs ' Annotations on Theophrastus on Stones,' and to Sprengel's ' Notes on Dios- corides.' Of the ancient writers, Dioscorides and Galen give the fullest account of them. The Arabians, also, especially Rhases, Avicennu, and Serapion, treat of them in the most ample manner, but supply little additional information. Geofiroy says of the Lemnian earth, that it is " a fat, ^dscid, slippery clay, of a pale red colour." The Lemnian ruddle [h'iXtoq) was the red Armenian bole, consisting of silex, alu- mine, oxyd of iron, &c. The Lemnium Sigillum was the Lem- nian earth, made into cakes and stamped with a seal, as a guarantee of its purity. The Cretan earth is white chalk. The Samian earth, as Sprengel states, appears to have been pure argil; Kidd supposes it to have been pipeclay. The kind called aster was globose and thick. The Chian, Selenusian, and Pnigitid earths, are also argils, more or less pure. The Sinopic ruddle was a compact kind of ochre or marl, nearly resembling the Lemnian earth. Pliny ranks the Cimolian earth among the chalks or clays (cretse.) Sprengel and Kidd sup-