75 SECT, in.] SIMPLES. made very little use of butter as an article of food compared with Comm. the moderns, it is equally clear that they were well acquainted ' ' with various kinds of it, and their medicinal Adrtues. If, as he and Michaelis suppose, the Hebrew word, which, in the Septtiagint Scripture, is rendered bouhjron, signifies cream, or sour thick milk, the first mention of butter which occurs in ancient literature is in the following passage of Hippocrates : " These people (the Scythians) pour the milk of their mares into wooden vessels, cause it to be violently stirred or shaken by their blind slaves, and separate the part which arises to the sui'face, as they consider it more valuable and more delicious than that which is collected below it." (De Aere, Aquis, etc.) The Hippace is also described in another of the Hippocratic treatises (De Morbis, iv.) Beckmann quotes a passage of the poet Anaxandrides, preserved by Athenteus (iv, 131, ed. Ca- saubon), to prove that butter is of Thracian origin. We having thus described the origin of butter, shall now give a descrip- tion of its medicinal uses from the works of the medical authorities. In the Hippocratic treatises butter is several times mentioned as an external medicine. (De Natura Mu- lierum, v; De Morbis Mulierum, ii, 5.) But Dioscorides is the first author who gives a distinct account of its medicinal properties. Butter, he says, is possessed of emollient and oily powers, whence it loosens the bowels when drunk in large quantity, and is useful in the treatment of poisoning by deadly substances in the absence of oil; when mixed with honey, and rubbed in, it is useful for painful dentition, pruritus of the gxims in children, and aphthaj; when rubbed in externally it preserves the body plump and free from watery pustules (psydracia); it is beneficial for inflammations and hardness of the womb, when not fetid or old; for dysentery and ulceration of the colon, in a clyster; it is mixed advantageously with suppurative applications, and more especially in wounds of the nerves, membranes of the brain, the bladder, and neck; it fills up, cleanses, incarnates, and proves useful as an application in cases of persons bitten by the asp. Fresh butter in cookery is 1 used instead of oil, and in cakes instead of suet. His chapter on butter concludes with directions for preparing the sort of butter, which he represents as being desiccativc and astringent in ophthalmic applications, and capable of stopping defiuxions