SIMPLES. 25 SECT. III.] 'AlOlOTTl^, Salvia J5tliiopis, Ethiopian Sage, has leaves like tlie petty- 1 mullein; and the decoction of its root, when drunk, relieves lischiatic and pleiu'itic diseases, haemoptysis, and asperity of the itrachea, when taken with honey. Commentary. It may be set down as being the Salvia Comm. .jEthiopis, to which our English herbalist Gerarde gives the ' ' ' lEngHsh name of mtillein of ^Ethiopia. Neither Galen nor -Aetius has treated of it. Our author has borrowed from Dios- tcorides (iv, 193.) We do not find it in the Materia Medica cof the Ai-abians, with the exception of Ebu Baithar, who I merely gives an extract from Dioscorides under this head. Sanguis, Blood; no kind of it is of a cold nature, but that cof swine is liquid and less hot, being very like the human in ttemperament. That of common pigeons, the wood pigeons, aand the turtle, being of a moderate temperament, if injected bhot, removes extravasated blood about the eyes from a blow; land when poured upon the dura mater, in cases of trephining, lit is anti-inflammatory. That of the owl, when drunk Avith Bwine or water, relieves dyspnoea. The blood of bats, it is said, >is a preservative to the breasts of virgins, and, if rubbed in, (it keeps the hair from growing ; and in like manner also that ,'Of frogs, and the blood of the chamseleon and the dog-tick. But Galen, having made trial of all these remedies, says that they disappointed him. But that of goats, owing to its dry- iness, if drunk with milk, is beneficial in cases of dropsy, and breaks down stones in the kidneys. That of domestic fowls (Stops hemorrhages of the membranes of the brain, and that of ilambs cures epilepsies. The recently coagulated blood of kids, lif drunk with an equal quantity of vinegar, to the amount of ihalf a hemina, cures vomiting of blood from the chest. The )blood of bears, of wild goats, of buck goats, and of bulls, is said to ripen apostemes. That of the land crocodile pro- liuces acuteness of vision. The blood of stallions is mixed rivith septic medicines. The antidote from bloods is given for deadly poisons, and contains the blood of the duck, of the tjtag, and of the goose.