SECT, in.] SIMPLES. 323 (Veg. Kingd. 776). We know no more about it, then, at tlie Comm. present day than what was known of it by Dioscorides, who describes it as being the juice of a plant resembling the ferula, having a smell intermediate between the juice of silphium (assafcetida) and galbanum. He recommends it for various medicinal purposes; for affections of the chest, epilepsy, hys- teiical comidsions, for promoting menstruation, and destroying the foetus in utero; as an alexipharmic, and for discussing films on the eyes, cataracts, &c. (iii, 85.) Galen, Aetius, and Oribasms give much the same account of it as our author, Galen says it is the juice of a certain ferula resembling panax. (De Antid. i.) It occurs in the works of Celsus as an ingredient in the famous antidote of Mithridates, and also as an ingredient u one of his collyria. (vi, 6, 24.) For the Arabians see A^verrhoes (CoUig. v, 42); Avicenna (ii, 2, 629); Rhases (Cont. . ult. 1, 631); Serapion (192); Ebn Baithar (ii, 37.) They •ecommend it in a good many more cases than the Greeks do. •or example, they all say that it is a gentle laxative. Modern uthorities, however, have denied that it is possessed of this property. See HiU (Mat. Med.) Rutty, notwithstanding, cems to agree with the ancients. (Mat. Med. 447.) Salamandra, Salamander; when burnt its ashes are by some nxed with corrosive medicines and remedies for lepra and ,'abies. ^ Commentary. It is the Salamandra terrestris. The story Comm. . the salamander^s being proof against the operation of fire mentioned by Nicander, Aristotle, and Theophrastus; but le truth of It IS questioned by Dioscorides. Sprengel remarks >at the real fact is, that the salamander is a black ugly lizard cm whose body a cold viscid fluid is secreted, which may be ipable of extinguishing a small coal. Agricola says, its body 'v'^w^^l'"'' and therefore capable of extinguishing a coal . 1 Abbe BonnateiTe likewise states that the humour which secretes from its body prevents the operation of coals from lectmg It for a short time. (Encycl. Method.) Our author .rrows his medicinal character of the salamander from .oscondes, who says it is possessed of septic, ulcerative, and lefacient powers, like cantharides. (ii. 67.) None of the A