SECT. III.] 121 SIMPLES. restores plumpness of body to persons wasted witli long agues Comm. and tedious diseases. It is to be taken fasting, in broths, wine, ' ' . or any otlier cordial liquor, or else incorporated with some ! syrup, or in some confection like a bolus." (Moses Charras.) ; In Scotland the adder (which is a variety of the Coluber Berus) i is a popular remedy for malignant diseases of the skin. It is I taken in the form of soup, as described by Dioscorides. The \ viper broth is described in Quincj-'s Dispensatory (400) in I nearly the same terms as by Dioscorides, and recommended • "as doing good service in leprous and. other obstinate ciitaneous c complaints." Echinus ; the herb is austere, repellent, and desiccant. Of the Land Echinus, or Hedgehog, the flesh when strongly I. dried is discutient and desiccant; when taken in a draught, t therefore, it is beneficial in elephantiasis, cachexia, and many t other complaints. Its skin, when burnt, becomes more desic- : cant and discutient. It therefore cures alopecia when rubbed I in with liquid pitch. Of the Sea Echinus, the edible part is i diuretic, and agrees with the bowels. Its shell, when bui'nt, "Iresembles that of the land echinus. Commentary. The herb is not described by Dioscorides, Comm. r Theophrastus, or Pliny. It would appear to be the same as * ithe Erirncs, which see. The 'E. -^epaaiog is undoubtedly the IHystrix Cristata, and the 'E. QakaxTioq the Echinus Esculentus. Dioscorides and Galen give the same account of their medi- cinal properties as our author. Serapion, after giving the ^description by Dioscorides and Galen, adds, from an Arabian .authority, that the flesh of the land echinus is beneficial dn protracted fevers. (De Simpl. 435.) Avicenna (ii, 2, 234,) ftreats of the two echini at greater length than any other rancient author, recommending the flesh of the land, in phthisis, rdropsy, elephantia, scabies, scrofula, and other complaints of a formidable nature. Upon the whole, however, his accoimt of [it is mostly made up of extracts from Dioscorides and Galen. »See in like manner Hhases (Cent. 1. ult. i, 273.) He recom- Lmends the land echinus in the irretention of urine to which lichiidrcn arc subject, adding that when frequently administered, t brings on dysuria. Tie and Avicenna quote Serapion as an