433 SIMPLES. SECT. III.] this head we would beg, before concluding, to refer the reader to Ainslie's Mat. Ind. (i, 205). It will be there seen that in Ethiopia senna is still used as a dye. Be7'beris. Rhases gives extracts from Badigorius, Oribasius, Mesne, and others on the Aartues of this substance, which he represents as being lithontriptic, styptic, and alexipharmic. He says it is called calmuris in Greek. (Contin. 1. ult. i, 121.) Serapion gives extracts from Dioscorides and Galen under this head, but there seems no reason to suppose that they were at all ac- quainted with this article. He recommends it as being cooling and incisive, and a streugthener of the stomach and liver. He also praises it in all fluxes. (De Simpl. 229.) Ebn Baithar calls it astringent, stomachic, and hepatic, and says it binds the bowels and quenches thirst. He recommends it in diarrhoea connected with weakness of the liver, and in diseases of the stomach and uterus. See also Avicenna (vi, 9.) The berberjy {Berberis vulgaris) is recommended by Gerard, Par- kinson, and all our old herbalists as an astringent medicine in diseases of the stomach and liver. Even at the present day it is admitted to possess these virtues. See Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 102) and Lindley (Veg. Kingd. 438.) The former of these seems to acknowledge it as the Oxyacantha of the Greeks, but we think incorrectly. Dr. Royle supposes the hycium Indicum of Dioscorides to be the berberry. It seems to us more probable, however, that the berberry was but the succedaneum of the lycium. See Schroder (Chemical Dis- pensatory, 475.) Galanga. Rhases calls it stomachic. (Antid. iii.) Serapion having described it, upon the authority of Isaac ebn Amram says of it, that it is hot and dry in the third degree, is useful to phlegmatic persons, and in humidity of the stomach (water- brash ?); promotes digestion by its heat and the solution which it occasions in the stomach, and thus relieves colic, gives fragrance to the breath, and warms the kidneys : it sets the semen in commotion, and when a piece of it is held in the mouth, it occasions erections .of the membrum virile. The same virtues in the same cases are assigned to it by Aben Mesuai, and also III. 28