SIMPLES. 183 SECT. III.] times the seeds of gourd were formerly held as one of the four Comm. greater cold seeds. See Charras (Roy. Pharm. 66) and Quincy " ^ ' (p. 197.) KoXofCfv^ic, Cucurbita sylvestrisj Colocynth, is possessed of a strong purgative power. If the juice of it, while in a green state, be rubbed into the part, it relieves ischiatic disease. Commentary. There can be no doubt that it is the Comm. Cucumis Colocynthis, Coloquintida, or Bitter Gourd. It was ' " ' used in medicine from the earliest times, being the koXokvpOy] aypla of Hippocrates (De Mulieb. 631, ed. Foes), as Galen has explained. It does not occur, however, in the works of Celsus. Dioscorides gives an excellent account of it, recommending it as a powerful phlegmagogue and cholagogue, both when given by the mouth and in clysters; and as a gargle in toothache. He says it kiUs the foetus in utero when applied on a pessary, (iv, 175.) Oiu- author^s account of it is copied from Galen. The Arabians treat of it more fully. See Aviceuna (ii, 2,127); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 222) ; Serapion (c. 272); Mesne (De Simpl. 4); Averrhoes (Collig. v, 421); and Ebn Baithar (i, 331.) Avicenna is very precise in giving directions for the prepara- tion of the medicine. His statement of its medicinal properties is so long that we cannot find room for it. He says it evacu- ates phlegm, bile, and perhaps blood from the intestines; that it is useful in dropsy, and that it is alexipharmic, in proof of which he refers to the report of a case of a person who had been stung by scorpions, and was immediately cured by it. But of all the authorities. Mesne is, perhaps, the one who treats of it most elaborately : he recommends it as purging phlegm and yellow bile, in cephalsea, hemicrania, epilepsy, apoplexy, vertigo, de- fluxion in the eyes, cold gout, and other affections of the joints; asthma, chi'onic cough, dyspnoea, &c. But, he adds, it is more especially useful in pituitous and flatulent colic, and in dropsy. For this purpose it may be administered by the mouth, in clysters and in suppositories. Applied per vaginam it kills the foetus. He directs its bad effects to be corrected by means of mastich, tragacanth, &c. He forbids it to be administered either in great heat or cold. Averrhoes ranks it with the strongest phlegmagogues, and recommends that its activity should be abated by almonds, tragacanth, fistics, &c.