522 [jjooK vir. ANTIDOTES. bishop's weed, of each, scr. vj ; of Indian leaf, scr. iv ; of white pepper, oz. ss, (or of common oz. j); of the seed of gromwell, oz. vj ; of bettony, oz. ; of fine vinegar, sext. v. When all are pounded, sifted, and triturated very fine, let them be mixed with vinegar for three days, and exposed in the sun for forty days. At the time of using, having made a decoction of black, chick-peas, and of the root of asparagus, and of maiden-hair, and of parsley, add, for the sake of temperament, of ^'inegar hemin. ij, and let the patient drink it in the hot bath. Some give scr. xij of the afore-mentioned things, in powder with oxycrate mixed with the decoction of the afore-mentioned herbs; and the medicine is no less efficacious, A lithontriptic hippocras. Of white pepper, of saxifrage, of spikenard, of gromwell, of bettony, of each, oz. j; of stone- parsley, of Indian leaf, of each, oz. iss ; of the seed of wild rue, oz. ss ; of honey, sext. j ; of Ascolonitic wine, sext. xvj. The medicine from the blood of the buck-goat. When the grape begins to ripen, take the blood of a full-grown buck- goat, and liaAdng dried it in the sun, give to persons affected with calculi two spoonfuls of it with Cretan must. Some also mix, of amomum, of Indian leaf, of each, oz. iij ; and others of myrrh, scr. iv. The nephritic composition from cicadae. Of gromwell, of the garfish biu'ned, of seseli, of each, oz. j; of bishop's weed, of the seed of the garden cucumber, of common saxifrage, of grapes without their stones, of the seed of marsh-mallows, of the white fasil, of lyucurium, of each, oz. ss; of spikenard, of valerian, of spignel, of the stones from sponges, of each, dr. j ; of maiden- hair, of the seed -within the Christ's thorn, of water-parsnij), of the root of brambles, of couch-grass, of polypody, of each, dr. iij; of goat's blood dried, as described, scr. vj; of dried cicadse, without the head, wings, and feet, oz. iv; of white pepper, dr. vj; of boiled honey, q. s. The dose is the size of a filbert in hippocras, or the decoction of caltrops, or of saxi- frage, or of sinon, or of the root of asparagus, or of couch- grass, or of cinquefoil, or of the root of fullers-herb. The antidote from gromwell. Of gromwell, of betony, of saxifrage, of stone-parsley, 'of Avhite pepper, equal parts. Mix with honey. The antidote from the seed of leeks. Of white and of black