369 SECT. III.] SIMPLES. Commentary. Pickled Fish. It appears from Dioscorides Comm. and Xenocrates that the tunny {Scomber Thynnus) was ac- " ' ' counted the best pickle, and it was accordingly most used in medical practice. Galen recommends the brine of pickled fish as an injection in dysentery, and a stimulant lotion to sores on all pai-ts of the body. Serapion gives the same account of it as Dioscorides and Galen. Symeon Seth forbids us to eat pickles after venesection, as they are apt to occasion alphos and scabies. It seems highly probable that indigestible sub- stances, if taken into the stomach when the veins are empty, may be rapidly absorbed, and give rise to the formation of humoui's, of which nature may endeavour to free the system by casting them forth by the skin. TavpoKoWa, Taurocolla (called by some XylocoUa), is a glutinous sub- stance made from the hides of oxen, and is of considerably detergent powers. Hence, when dissolved in vinegar, it re- moves lichen and superficial leprosies; and it prevents burns from getting inflamed when dissolved in hot water. It is also a suitable application for wounds when triturated with oxymel. Commentary. Pliny says of it, " Glutinum prsestantissi- Comm. mum fit ex auribus taurorum et genitalibus. Nee quidquam eflficacius prodest ambustis,'' (H. N. xxviii, 73.) Dioscorides and Avicenna recommend it in the cases mentioned by our author. It wiU readily be perceived that it was a species of gelatin. See KoAXa. TiXX'ivai, TeUinae, Limpets; when pickled and burnt, their ashes are caustic; when mixed with cedar rosin and applied to the parts from which the hairs of the eyebrows have been torn out by the roots, it prevents them from growing again. Commentary. According to Matthiolus, they are a species Comm. of mussels. They are different, however, from the Mytili '—*—' odules, L. Our author's account of them is taken from Dios- corides, and is repeated by Avicenna. ^tpfiivOoq, Tcrebinthus, Turpentine, is heating in the second degree, ni. 24