SIMPLES. [book VII. 334 Comm. Ferraria. Dioscorides commends it as a vulnerary medicine. Galen does the same, and further praises it as an astringent application in cases of hemorrhage, dj^sentery, and female flux. We find difficulty in disGov'ering traces of it in tlie woi'ks of the Arabians, although we incline to the belief that they have not entirely overlooked it. The'burnet is still cultivated in gardens. See Loudon (Encycl. of Garden. 744.) Ferrum, Iron; when frequently extinguished in water it imparts a considerably desiccative power to it. When drunk, therefore, it agrees with affections of the spleen. But, if ex- tinguished in wine, it is useful in cseliac and dysenteric affec- tions, cholera, and resolution of the stomach. Comm. COMMENTARY. Our author's account of Iron is mostly taken from Dioscorides. He says the aerugo ferri astringes, and hence it stops the female flux in pessaries, and when dmnk prevents impregnation ; when rubbed in along with vinegar it cui'es erysipelas and exanthema; it is very useful for whitlow, pterygia, asperities of the eyelids, and condylomata ; it strengthens the gums, is a useful liniment in gout, and thickens the hairs in alopecia; and he concludes with what our author says of the virtues of water in which heated iron has been extinguished, (v, 93.) Pliny, in like manner, says of it: " Calefit ferro candente aqua, in multis vitiis, privatim vero dysentericis." (H. N. xxxiv, 44.) Celsus commends chalybeate water in enlargement of the spleen, (iv, 9.) Cselius Aurelianus mentions it among the remedies for epilepsy. (Chron. i, 4.) Scribonius Largus calls it a wonderful remedy for diseases of the bladder. (Comp. 146.) The Arabians borrow their account of the serugo ferri almost entirely from Diosco- rides. See Serapion (De Simpl. 403); Avicenna (ii, 3, 347); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. 295.) They give nothing original under the present head. The oro/xw^iia, according to Pollux, is hard iron, that is to say, steel. The scales or rust of the edges of weapons made of steel were much used by the ancient physi- cians, both internally and externally, as astringents and styptics. See a full account of their medicinal properties in Pliny. (H. N. xxxiv, 66.)