425 SKCT. III.] SLMPLES. and of certain other oriental scholars who have touched cur- <ovi\y upon these matters, we have been more thrown upon our own resources on the present occasion than at any other stage of our progress in executing this work. We trust, then, that our readers will receive with peculiar indulgence our present essay, which, however imperfect, will be found, if we mistake not, to have opened up a mine of valuable knowledge from wliich some more skilful labourer in the same line will yet draw adcUtional stores of information to the profession. Of course it will be readily seen, that we do not pretend to give an ac- ji count of all the articles introduced into the practice of medicine j! by the Arabians; that, even if we were possessed of the requi- f site knowledge of the oriental languages, would evidently be i out of the question within our narrow limits. For Ebn Baithar I, alone, if his laborious work were properly explored, would furnish ! a large volume of new matters added by his own individual exer- tions to the accumulated treasures of his predecessors; but, of t]ie articles first treated of by him there are unfortunately many which are but very doubtfully determined, and not few which are left wholly undetermined by his trans- lator Dr. Sontheimer. And here it is but right that we should acknowledge that the translation itself would have been to us 'a sealed book" if our learned friend. Professor Blackie, of Aberdeen, had not come to our assistance, and in so far made up for our own very imperfect acquaintance with the German language. But, besides the stores of Ebn Baithar, there is much ill those of Avicenna, Serapion, Rhases, and Haly Abbas, which ■;till I'emain to be unfolded by some fortunate savant who is cquainted both with the languages of the East and the sciences jf the West. It may be proper to mention, that the articles which are liere described are set down in the same order as the notices of t hem were composed, because we could not satisfy ourselves with regard to any methodical arrangement which would conveniently ipply to them and be in unison with the general plan of this work. Ambra grisea. A recent writer on the Materia Medica gives the following Icscription of Ambergris : " The substance called Ambergris ambra grisca) is procured from the Cachalot or spermwhale.