56 SIMPLES. [book VII. Comm. same cases as DioscorideSj and also in obstructions of the liver ' * ' and spleen, and as a stimulant ingredient in coUyria. Modern authorities confirm the character of this medicinal article given it hy Dioscorides. See Lewis (Mat. Med. i, 178); Rutty (Mat. Med, 43); Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. p. 38.) Although not excluded from our Dispensatories, less attention is now bestowed on the asarabacca than it would seem to deserve. See Royle (M. M. p. 548.) Ipecacuanha has nearly super- seded it as an emetic in this country. The asarum is still retained in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia (p. 23.) Fuligo, the Snot which painters use. It is taken from glass- works, and is possessed of discutient and acrid powers, so as to burn and occasion putrefaction. It cures burns, with rose-cerate. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscorides and somc of the othcr authorities ' * ' mention the Fuligo, or soot of glassworks, in nearly the same terms as Paulus. ' Atr/c a X a jSwTij Stellio, the Stvift; this animal is useless for all other pur- poses, but they say that it is a good application to persons bitten by a scorpion. It is mixed also with venereal excitants. Comm. Commentaky. We have treated of this reptile in the Fifth '—^—' Book. It is the spotted lizard, Lacerta stellio L. Its aphrodisiacal faculty is alluded to by our author in another place. (B. Ill, 58.) 'A(TK:X?)7riaCj Asclepias, Swallow-toort, being hot and dry as to its powers, and consisting of subtile particles, agrees well with tormina when drunk with wine, and in the form of a cataplasm it is a good application to the bites of venomous animals, and malig- nant ulcers in the uterus and breasts. Comm. COMMENTARY. There appears little reason to doubt that it " ' is the Asclepias vincetoxicum, or Swallow-wort. Our author borrows its medicinal characters from Dioscorides. (iii, 96.) Galen candidly admits, that he had no experience of it as a medicine. Pliny, like Dioscorides and our author, recom- mends it for the cure of tormina and the bites of serpents.