SIMPLES. [book VII. 64 astringency. The juice of it is much hotter than the herb itself. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscorides also describes two other species, the one being clearly the Artemisia maritima, -and the other not the santonica^ although it beai's that name, but rather the palmata, according to the best modern commentators. Dios- corides recommends the true wormwood [Artemisia abrotanum) * in a great many cases, both externally and internally; as being diuretic and preventing surfeit when taken beforehand^ re- lieving flatulence of the stomach and bowels; pi'oving emme- nagogue in a potion or pessary, removing the feeling of suffo- cation induced by mushrooms, when drunk with vinegar, and when with wine counteracting the poisonous effects of ixia and hemlock, the bites of the shrew mouse and sea dragon; its vapoui' removing toothache, and a cataplasm the intense pains of ophthalmy; as suiting in dropsical afi'ections and diseases of the spleen, and in many other cases. He mentions a wine of wormwood made by the people about Propontis and Thrace, which they used for the aforesaid purposes in the absence of fever, (iii, 23.) Pliny enumerates fully the many medicinal pro- perties which were ascribed to it. (H. N. xxvii, 28.) Galen says that it is less attenuant but as desiccative as southernwood. Apuleius calls it anthelminthic. The Arabians recommend it with the same intention. Casiri (Bibl. H. A. 336.) All the authorities hold that it is cholagogue. See in particular Avi- cenna (ii, 2, 2), who is very full in describing the medicinal pro- perties of wormwood, recommending it in infusion, in decoction, in the form of syrup, and in wine. See also Serapion (c. 14); Averrhoes (Collig. v, 42); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 9.) The last of these, after giving the opinions of Dioscorides, Galen, Ruffus, Pythagoras, and Oribasius, quotes Musy (Mesne ?) as saying of it that it is stomachic, a whetter of the appetite, useful in jaundice, quinsy, inflammation of the eye and ear, hardness of the liver, spleen, and womb, and in dropsy. One of Serapion's Arabian authorities commends it as a deobstment, and in cases of jaundice. It occurs in the list of medicinal substances used both by Hippocrates and Celsus. The latter recommends it as being both stomachic and diuretic. Although its use as a febrifuge has been superseded by a more popular medicine of the same class, we need scarcely remark that it still holds a