474 [book VII. APPENDIX TO and dispel vapours, and first advocates views which have formed the basis of many a modern hypothesis on this subject. Among the cordial medicines described by him we would remark amber, gold, silver, citron, coral, cinnamon, camphor, myro- balans, hyacinth (the gem), lapis lazuli, myrtle, musk, mace, frankincense, silk, sandal-wood, tamarinds, zerumbet, zeduary, &c. One important class of cordials consists of medicines which evacuate black bile, namely, melanogogues, which we will have to treat of in a subsequent section of this work. In imitation of the Arabians, Paracelsus and the modern alchemists have attributed great virtues to the precious metals and stones as cordial medicines. See Schroder (Chemical Dis- pensatory, pluries.) He says of pearls, that "they are an ex- cellent cordial, that strengthens the balsam of life, resists poison, pestilence, and putrefaction, and clear the spirits." (167.) Pearls and other precious stones have always been highly esteemed by the Hindoo physicians. See the Susruta and Wise's Hindoo Medicine (124.) Seriaim. We have mentioned above, that silk is one of the cordial medicines treated of by Avicenna. Silk, and especially raw silk, he says, is attenuant and desiccative, acts as a cordial, improves the memory, proves useful in affections of the eyes, in obstructions of the liver and other complaints. (De Med. Cord, ii, 3.) The silkworm [bombyx mori) and the uses of silk in medicine, ai'e described with considerable accuracy by Serapion. Like Avicenna he ranks it vrith the cordial medicines, and recommends it in this capacity along with pearls, kai-abe, corals, and musk. (De Simpl. c. 28.) Silk forms one of the ingredients in the electuary of Mesne, to which he gives the following imposing title, " Electuarium ex granis tinctoriis ad cordis palpitationem, syncopem, mentis alienationem, sen desipentiam, moerorem sine causa manifesta, facultates enim nostrum corpus dispensantes rairifice roborat.'' See f. 89, and the interesting Commentary of Costa. It is also an ingredient in several of the Antidotaria of Avenzoar. Ebn Baithar says, that various Arabian authors had written on the medicinal pro- perties of silk. One of them quoted by him describes the use of it in medicine by burning it, and using its ashes for collyria