OINTMENTS. 590 [book VI wax and rosins being added. The juice of balsam, or opobalsam, is not boiled at all, but is added after the boiling is over, and the ointment moderately cooled; and of the ointments some do not admit of boiling at all, but the ingredients are only mixed, as the mendesiumj but some, when wishing to prepare tlic green ointment, after taking it from the fire, an oz. iss of well- triturated verdigris having been put into lb. v of oil, as in tlic cyprinum and amaracinum, dip the ointment in this mixture. The simple ointments are possessed of the powers of the articles added to them, or which are pounded in them, the oil beinj; but the groundwork (as it were) or vehicle of them. The nature of all the complex ointments inclines to heating; but some are powerfully calefacient and emollient, so as to agree with cases of ancylosis and infarction, as the metopium, men- desium, marciatum. The pentamyron is more moderate, as the decarayron is stronger, so as to abrade the surface; but those which are moderately hot are subtile, paregoric, and digestive, such as the susinum, amaracinum, irinum, crocinum, foliatum. Some, in addition to their heating qualities, are sufficiently desiccative and cutting, such as the cyprinum and sicyonium: some are powerfully heating, and rather tonic, and hence they agree with the stomach and viscera in particular when relaxed, such as the mastichinum, nardinum, gleucinum; but the most tonic are those prepared from wild olives; but some ointments are used only by women for their fragrant smell, as the foliatum, spicatum, commagenum, and those called moschelsea or compositions of musk and oil. The rosaceum, or oil of roses. Of red roses deprived of their nails (or the white extremities of their flowers), and dried for a night and a day, oz. iij; of the oil of unripe oHves, one Italian sextarius. Having bound up the vessel carefully, so that it may not evaporate, expose to the sun in open air for forty days, and then deposit the vessel, not on the pavement, but upon a table : some instead of the insolation put the vessel into a well, in order that its fragrance may be preserved by the cold, but others bury it underground. The cham(Bnielinum, or oil of chamomile. Of the flower of chamomile, without the white petals, which has been di-ied for a night and a day, oz. ij ; of oil, one ItaUan sextarius. Cover over the vessel with a plain piece of cloth, so as to allow it to