SECT, in.] 377 SIMPLES. lovr the tongue, for pain of the kidneys and bladder, when Comm. mixed with hartshorn burnt and washed, and a little fissile ' ' ' alum, (iii, 20.) Galen and the other Greek authorities state its viftues in veiy general terms. It is an ingredient in more than one of the collyria of Celsus (vi, 6), and is prescribed by him for various other purposes. Of the Arabians, Ebn Baithar is the one who gives the fullest account of it. (ii, 350.) See also A^dcenna (ii, 3, 220.) In the modern Greek Phar- ; macopceia the Astragalus aristatus is described as producing tthe tragacanth. It is there said to be common in the '. Peleponnesus. Tpttyiov, Tragium, Stinking St. John's Wort, is a plant in Crete re- jsembhng the lentisk, being hot in the third degree, and {possessed of attractive, discutient, and attenuaut powers. It I extracts sharp-pointed weapons of wood, and proves lithontrip- ttic and emmenagogue when drunk to the amount of a drachm. iAnother species, which is bitterer than this, resembling the cceterach, grows everywhere. It is sufficiently astringent so as Ft to agree with fluxes. Commentary. From the description which Dioscorides Comm. |i. gives of the former species, we need have little hesitation in ' ' ' setting jt down for the Hypericum hircinum. In the other, •.the name Tragium Columns has been assigned from the name of a celebrated botanist. Dioscorides and Galen ascribe to it very nearly the same virtues as our author. Neither of these ! plants occurs in the works of Hippocrates or Celsus. Neither have wc been successful in searching for it in the works of the ;Vrabians, with the exception of those of Ebn Baithar, who merely :,'ives extracts from Dioscorides and Galen under this head, ii, 155.) Tragoriganon, has powers resembling marjoram, with the iddition of some astringency. Commentary. The two species desciibed by Dioscorides Comm. jrobably are the Thymus Tragoriganum L., and the Stachys '—•—' ilutinosa. According to him, they are heating, diuretic, and vholcsome when the decoction is drunk ; they occasion bilious [ejections; are useful in diseases of the spleen when taken vith vinegar, and also to persons who have swallowed ixia.