SIMPLES. ECT. III.] Vepauiuv, Geranium, Cranebill; that species, the leaves of which re- semble those of the Anemone, and has edible roots, when drunk Avith wine to the amount of a drachm, removes inflation of the viterus. The other species is of no use in medicine. Commentary. Dioscorides and the other ancient authori- Com ties describe only two species of the Geranium, the former of which would certainly seem to be the tuberosum, and the other the rotundifoUum. They were not acquainted with the Gera- nium Robertianum. Dioscorides merely says of the geranium that when drunk in wine, to the amount of a drachm, it cures inflation of the womb (iii, 131.) Few of the other authorities notice it. See Ebn Baithar (i, 10.) The geraniums held a place in our English Dispensatory until a recent period. See Quincy (p. 88.) Terra, Earth; all kinds are desiccants; that which is un- mixed with any other substance is also free of pungency; but if any fiery quality is mixed with it, it lays the same aside when washed. The fatty part, then, of wrought earth is an useful application to all organs that require drying ; they use therefore the clay of Egyptian earth to dropsical and splenitic aff'ections, and to soft swellings, with manifest advantage. Of medicinal earths, the Lemnia rubrica, or Sigillum, as it is called, in addition to its being moderately desiccative and astringent, proves an antidote to deleterious medicines, cures malignant ulcers with wine or vinegar, stops all kinds of hemorrhage, and removes dysentery and spreading ulcers of the intestines, the gut being first washed out by an injection of honied water, and then of brine. The Rubrica Sinopica, or vermilion, being stronger than the Lemnian, is used as an ingredient in plasters, and when drunk it kills worms. The Samian is much more , emollient than the Lemnian, as being glutinous and viscid. It is to be used then in all cases in which emollients are in- dicated ; but it also cures spitting of blood from whatever part it proceed. The Selenusian and the Chian are more detergent, and are therefore used by some women in the cleansing appli- cations to their faces. It also produces the incarnation and "cicatrization of ulcers, more especially of burns. The unwashed