[book VII. SIMPLES. 420 Cerussaj White Lead, is refrigerant and emplastic. Commentary. We have treated of it as a'poison in Book V. § 59. Alston says: " Our wliite lead is certainly the "¥iiiiv9iov of Dioscorides and the Cerussa Plinii" (x-\dii.) The ancient ceruse consisted of the carbonate of lead which had been exposed to the vapours of vinegar, and was, therefore, little or nothing different from the modern cemse. Geoffrey's description of the process is taken, in fact, from Dioscorides. It would appear to have been sometimes administered inter- nally, if, as Dr. Hill remarks, it is an ingredient in the Trochisci albi of Rhases. We have not been able to find, however, this trochisc in Rhases, nor in any of the ancient authorities. Perhaps Dr. Hill confounded it with the Emplastrum album, of which ceruse is an ingredient. (See Galen, De Comp. Med. sec. gen. vi, and Celsus, 222 ad Milligan.) Galen in fact expressly says that ceruse ought not to be administered internally (Meth. Med. iv.) He recommends it as an anodyne collyrium in pains of the eyes (Comment, in App. vi, 31), and as an astringent and soothing application in general. (De Simpl. Med. ix.) Dioscorides describes minutely the pre- paration of ceruse, and the different kinds of it, but gives its medicinal properties in brief terms like our author, (v. 103.) Celsus recommends it in burns and ulcers (vi, 7), but inter- nally taken he treats of it as a poison (v, 27, 15.) All the other Greek and the Arabian authorities after Galen give ceruse exactly the same characters as we have stated them above. See in particular Serapion (De Simpl. 378); Avicenna (ii, 2, 117); Haly Abbas (Pract. ii, 48); Ebn Baithar (i, 63.) The last of these says of it, that it is useful in the same class of cases as Minium; that dissolved in vinegar, and more especially when mixed up with rose-oil, it is a good appli- cation in cephalalgia; that it forms a proper ingredient in coUyria for inflammations of the eyes,—and dissolved in a woman's milk or mixed up with the white of an egg,—that it is dropped into the eye with advantage in such cases. Psyllium, Fleawort; the seed belongs to the second order of