404 [book VII. SIMPLES. Comm. with Dioscoiicles's description of the chalcanthos. In the Pharmacopoeia it is directed that the sulphate of copper should not contain much of the sulphates of zinc and iron. And now, in conclusion, as this is one of the most important sub- jects connected with ancient pharmacy, we shall briefly state our reasons for holding, contrary to the opinion of many recent authorities of high reputation, that the chalcanthum either consisted principally of copper, or at least contained a large proportion of that metal in its composition. 1st. The name implies that the Greeks thought it a cupreous substance, and Pliny seems to say that the name had been properly given. (1. c.) 2d. Pliny's description of it applies exactly to blue vitriol. (1. c.) 3d. Dioscorides's description of it tallies with the description of the sulphate of copper given in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia. 4th. The chalcanthos was indisputably formed from the evaporation of waters issuing from mines of copper, that is to say, from "waters of cementation.^' Com- pai-e Galen (1. c.) with Pereira (Mat. Med. 495.) 5th. It was administered as an emetic. See Dioscorides (1. c.) 6th. It was used externally as a powerful escharotic. See Dioscorides, Celsus, and Galen (pluries.) 7th. It was ranked among the poisons. See Cicero (ad Familiares, ix,) and the Arabian authorities on Toxicology. XoXkoc KBKavfievoQ, Ms ustum. Burnt Copper, is acrid, with a share of astrin- gency. It therefore is the best of remedies for the cicatri- zation of ulcers upon diy bodies; but if washed it agrees better with tender bodies. XaX/cou avOog, Mris, flos, the Flower of Copper, is possessed of more sub- tile powers than burnt copper, or than the squama seris. Wherefore, when added to coUyria, it clears away aspeiities and sycoses of the eyelids. Comm. Commentaky. Though there can be no doubt that this term '—^—' is generally used by the Greek classical authors to signify bronze, or a combination of copper and tin in the proportion of from 2 to 14 per cent, of the latter, it is also certain that it was frequently applied to native copper, as it is in general