476 [book vii. APPENDIX TO celebrated ia modem times. See Moses Charras (Roy. Phar- macop. 147.) Hager Albuzedi. It is thus described by Serapion : " Hager albuzedi is a red stone, but less so than the hyacinth, the redness of which is more agreeable to the eye, as there is no obscurity in it. The mines where this stone is found are in the East. When taken from the mine it is opake ; but when divested of its outer coat by a lapidary, its goodness is discovered and it becomes trans- parent. When this stone has been strongly rubbed against the hair of the head, it attracts chaff, as the magnet does iron.'' He speaks of its being useful to the eyes when they are rubbed with it, and says that as a seal it dispels frightsome dreams, (de Mineral. 399.) According to Beckmann this is most pro- bably not the tourmaline, although it bears some resemblance to it in properties, but belongs rather to the hyacinths. (His- tory of Inventions.) In fact, it would appear to us highly probable, that this article like the preceding was a variety of the ruby. Hager Salachil, or Lapis Corneolus. Several species of it are described by Serapion, of which the best he says is the red. They are brought, he adds, from the mines of the Romans, and were used principally as an amulet and dentifrice. It must have been the same as the Sardion of Theophrastus (De Lapidibus), and of Plato (Timseus.) The term Avould appear to have been used in a general sense for several of the finer kinds of agates. (De Simpl. 400.) A modern authority thus describes it: " The Sarda or Cornelian. It is a gem half transparent, like the water wherein flesh is washed, or like bloody flesh: hence it is called Carneolus or CorneHan. The best cornehans are found in Sardinia." Schroder (Chemical Dispensatory, p. 160.) Tincar, or Borax. We have treated of this article already under the head of ChrysocoUa, with which it has been often confounded. It was introduced into medical practice by the Arabians, and there appears to us no doubt that it was the same as our borate of soda. It was very much used for the cure of toothache. See