OINTMENTS. CT. XX.] .589 SECT. XX. DIFFERENT PREPARATIONS OF OILS AND OINTMENTS. Of unguents and ointments, or of oils in tlie form of oint- ments, some are simple, having only one article added to the oil, and some are prepai'ed and compounded from more sub- stances. Of the simple some are formed from flowers put into the oil, such as the oil of roses, that of chamomile, and the -usinum, or oil of lilies; some are formed from fruits and ceds, and some from certain shoots, as of rue, which are boiled ulong with the oil, none of the flowers admitting boiling, and tlierefore they are rather exposed to the sun. But if their fragrance be strong and permanent, if exposed for a number of luys to the sun, they become finer and more useful, such as the oils of roses and chamomile. But such flowers as are weaker and more volatile bear less insolation, being easily dissipated, -uch as the lily and violet. Of those formed from fruits and -eeds, some are formed from them added whole to the oil, such s the melinum or oil of apples; and some have them pounded if altered, and the oily part of them removed, either by being [ueezed out in a press and thus separated, such as the oils of alnuts, of sesame, of almonds, of lentisk, of bay, of Palma •^'hristi, of radish, and the like. The compound ones areprin- ipally composed of aromatic herbs, which are boiled in the oil with wine, must, or water, and filtrated, some juices, and some- times fats and marrows, being mixed with the oil. Of these, ome being of a strictly oily consistence, are called, simply, intments or unguents, as the gleucinum, nardinum, sicyonium, nd cyprinum : but some having the consistence of acopa, and l eceiving wax, rosin, or the like, into their composition, are ■ ailed myracopa, such as the decamyron, amaracinum, and those resembling them. And some are boiled only once, namely, such as do not consist of complex materials, as the metopium, inastichinum, and sicyonium; and some at two, three, or four uccessive additions, the articles which are most diflGlcult to boil being first put in, such as rosewood, spathe, frankincense-tree, and bay ; then the aromatics, Indian-leaf, spikenard, amomum, savin ; and, last of all, the juices, fats, marrow, and perhaps