511 CT. XI.] ANTIDOTES. he squills with clay or doiigh, roast it moderately, and taking if the inner parts of it, p. ij ; and of the flour of tares, p. j ; ud having triturated in like manner, form trocliisks. The p-eparation of the theriac trochisks. Having chosen our or five vipers of a tawny colour, and recently taken, cut ilf their heads, and four fingers' hreadth of the part next the ;iil, aud having removed the skins and entrails, boil the rest in I new pot, with dill and a moderate quantity of salts, until the pines be separated from the flesh. Then removing and clean- lig away properly the flesh from the spines, and having mixed vith them an equal quantity of clean bread, and triturated hem in like manner, form into small balls, having your fingers meared with opobalsam, and cool in the shade. The preparation of the theriac antidote. Of the trochisks if squills, dr. Ixviij ; of the theriac trochisks, dr. xxiv; of 'dychroum, dr. xxiv; of cinnamon, dr. xxiv ; of common pep- ler, dr. xxiv; of the juice of poppies, dr. xxiv ; of dried roses, !r. XV; of water-germander, of rape-seed, of lUyrian iris, of ^aric, of liquorice, of opobalsam, of each, dr. xij; of myrrh, 'f saffron, of ginger, of rhaponticum, of the root of cinquefoil, if calamint, of horehound, of stone-parsley, of cassidony, of ostus, of white and long pepper, of dittany, of the flower of \veet rush, of male frankincense, of turpentine, of mastich, of )lack cassia, of spikenard, of each, dr. vj ; of the flower of loley, of storax, of parsley-seed, of seseli, of shepherd's pouch, )f bishop's Aveed, of germander, of ground pine, of the juice of lypocistis, of Indian leaf (malabathrum), of Celtic nard, of pignel, of gentian, of anise, of fennel-seed, of Lemnian earth, )f roasted chalcitis, of amomum, of sweet-flag, of balsamum, of 'ontic valerian, of St. John's wort, of acacia, of gum, of carda- aom, of each, dr. iv; of carrot-seed, of galbanum, of sagapen, )f bitumen, of opoponax, of castor, of centaury, of the species )f birthwort called clematis, of each, dr. ij ; of Attic honey, b. X ; of Faleruian wine, oz. ij. Put into a mortar the opium, lypocistis, myrrh, sagapen, liquorice, storax, acacia, and opopo- lax, and having poured in some honey pound and dissolve: lien pouring in wine so as to cover them, macerate for three lays; then having pounded the others, unite them, and scum he honey. It is to be laid up in vessels of silver or glass, not [uite full, and the covers taken off' every day. In case of need