339 SIMPLES. SECT, nr.] used as an application to the wounds of poisoned arrows, and Comm. to preserve meat from putrefaction. Ebn Baithar's Arabian ' authorities describe very accurately the two varieties of the assa, namely, the fragrant and the fetid, and commend both very highly as medicines, more especially as carminatives, and us acting very beneficially on the stomach, liver, and uterus. Some of them say that assa promotes menstruation, and even procures the expulsion of the foetus.. The assafoetida still retains the name of silphion in the Greek Pharmacopoeia. (Athens, 1837.) M. Pacho says that the Arabs call it derias, and he proposes to class it as a species of laserwort, under the name of Laserpitium derias. Sison, Bastard Stone-parsley, is heating, diuretic, and digestive. It likewise promotes menstruation and removes obstructions of the viscera. Commentary. It appears to be the Sison Amonmm, called Comm. by MiUer the Stone-parsley or German Amomum. Our author " ' copies from Dioscorides, who farther mentions of it that the natives of Syria, where it grows, use it as a condiment. Galen commends it as being bitterish, and hence proving diuretic, digestive, emmenagogue, and deobstruent. We do not find it in the works of the Arabians. Slum, Water Parsnip or Celery (?), is hot, diuretic, and dis- cutient. It breaks down renal calculi and promotes menstru- ation. Commentary. It appears to us highly probable that it is Comm. the Sium latifolium, or Upright Water-parsnip, which once ' " ' held a place in modern Dispensatories, and not the S. nodi- florum, as Dierbach decides the a. of Hippocrates to be. It is the laver of the Romans, and is recommended by Pliny as a cure for tormina. (H. N. xxvi, 33.) See Harduin (Annot. 1. c.) Dioscorides says it is useful in dysentery, and is diuretic, smmenagogue, and lithontriptic. (ii, 153.) Galen gives the 5ame account of it as our author. It does not occur in the ivorks of Celsus. The Arabians, in treating of it, borrow vlmost everything from Dioscorides. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 556,