119 SIMPLES. SECT. III.] binum, according to some, from his comparing the leaves to Comm. those of the lesser centaury. It is to be borne in mind, how- ' " ' I ever, that the Latin translations of the Arabians are not to be '. trusted in small matters, and therefore this comparison may ; be all a mistake. And that the Eu. of Mesue was the same • as that of the others, seems highly probable from his recom- 1 mending it in the same complaints, namely, in obstructions of t the liver, and chronic fevers. (De Simpl. 15.) Such is the ( conclusion to which an impai'tial examination of the question ! has brought us. It is but fair to mention, however, that all the old herbalists and writers on the Mat. Med. down to Rutty and Quincy, are against us, and hold that the Eupatorium of Mesue was different from that of the Greeks. See Matthiolus (in Dioscor.); Parkinson (Theatre of Plants); and the com- mentators on Mesue. Ei»(^o'pj3joi', Euphorbium, is possessed of caustic powers, and consists of tisubtile particles like the other juices. Commentary. A gum-resin produced from some species Comm. lof Euphorbia still holds its place in the Materia Medica. —' ^Alston remarks, "neither Dioscorides nor Galen take any ^notice of the cathartic quality of the Euphorbium, but Pliny (does, as do also Aetius, Paulus, and the Arabians; but all make it excessively acrid, upon account of which its internal use is now generally condemned," Mesue particularly com- limends it in diseases of the joints. It was formerly supposed that Euphorbium is procured from a species called the E. mntiquorum, but it is now admitted that the species is still undetermined. See Pereira (1127.) Probably, as stated in the modern Greek Pharmacopoeia, it is procured from several ipecies of the Euphorbia. (66.) E^jJ^if^oi', Ephemerum (or Colchicum Autumnale ?), not the poisonous tipecies but that which is called the Wild Iris. It is possessed | )f mixed powers, repellent, and discutient. Commentary. See 'E^/ioSa/cruXoc, and Book V (48.) The Comm. 3., here said to be the same as the wild iris, is the Convallaria \^erhcillata. Dioscorides recommends its root in toothache,