SECT. 111.] 345 SIMPLES. iii, 14.) with Lindley (Veg. King. 709), and see Beckmann Comm. (Hist, of Invent, under Artichoke). Dioscorides gives exactly ^"^^ ' the same account of its medicinal virtues as our author. (1. c.) Galen wi-ites elaborately of it, but his conclusions, as to its properties, are the same as those of Dioscorides. We have not been able to trace it out in the works of the Arabians, unless it be their harsef. See Avicenna (ii, 2, 332); Ehases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 168). The truth is, that the term scolymus vfas ;& puzzle to the ancient authorities and to their modern com- imentators, being sometimes, as is supposed, applied also to the \Cynara Scolymus, or ai'tichoke. See Parkinson (pluries). ■We have treated of the scolymus as a potherb in the First ^Volume, p. 114. We have hinted our belief that the harsef iOT harxaf of the Arabians was identical with the 2. of the (Greeks. We are confirmed in this opinion by a comparison of iDioscorides with Avicenna (1. c), although we find that SSalmasius refeiTcd it to the artichoke. Scordixmi, Water Germander, is composed of varied powers, eing bitter, sour, and acrid. It therefore at the same time ui'ges and heats the viscera; promotes the urinary and enstrual discharges, warms parts which had been afi'ected ith cold, agglutinates and cleanses wounds, and proves in- ijarnative when sprinkled dry. Commentary. It is clearly the Teucrium Scordium, or comm. ater Germander. Dioscorides commends it for its diuretic, '—*—' mmenagogue, and expectorant powers, when given internally; id for cleansing foul ulcers. Compare his account of it with ts characters as stated by Dr. Hill. Our author condenses ialen's statement of its medicinal properties. Galen remarks hat it would appear to have got its name from its resemblance n qualities to the scorodon or garlic. The Arabians would cem to have confounded the scordium with the scorodon. iee Avicenna (ii, 2, 622), and Serapion (De Simpl. 331). 2KopSov, Allium, Garlic, is healing and desiccative in the fourth egree. But the ophioscordou, or wild garHc, is stronger than be cultivated.