537 SMEGMATA. SECT. XIII.] sphecla, which is the burnt lees of wine. All these things Avhen reduced to a fine powder and sprinkled upon ulcers, are less pungent. The coarser the powder to which they are re- duced, the more pungent are they. Styptics restrain bleeding, either by astringing or cooling, or proving desiccative or obstruent by burning and forming an eschar ; and the materials of them have been mentioned in the section on Trochisks, Of those which ai'e applied to the skin, some cleanse and absterge, such as those from Cimolian earth, pumice, bean-meal, barley- leaven, the flesh of pompions, and the flower of salt; some are attenuant and discutient, such as those from hellebore, alcy- onium, sulphur, stavesacre, mustard, pellitory, the seed of the rosemary, lemnitis, or adarce, and the shell of the cuttle-fish. But those having quicklime and arsenic added to them, with some liquid, become depilatory and abstergent. Some are ap- plied to the head in order to dry up the discharge from it, such as those from natron, salts, galls, the rind of pome- granate, and the like. All the smegmata or abstergents should be applied to the skin when it is not anointed. The dry cephalic application. Of tai'es, oz. v; of iris, oz. iss; of manna, oz. iss; of birthwort, of squama seris, of each, oz. iss. Another. Of the bark of pine, dr, vj ; of frankincense, dr. iv; of pumice-stone, dr. iv ; of iris, dr. ij ; of dry rosin, dr. vj ; of birthwort, dr. ij. From aloes. Of aloes, dr. yj; of tares, dr. viij; of manna, dr. iv; of galls, di'. iij ; of fissile alum, dr. ij. The dry application of Manetho from the burnt lees of wine. ' Of calamine, burnt and washed, oz. j; of terra aster, oz. j ; of burnt lees of wine, oz. iv; of lapis specularis, oz. iv; of frankin- 1 cense, oz. iv; some add, also, of starch, oz. iv. TTie melitera of Oribasius. Of chalcitis, of squama seris, of j galls, of the flowers of the wild pomegranate, of long birthwort, ( of each, oz. j; of pomegranate rind, of fissile alum, of each, oz. ss. From oysters. Of calamine, of frankincense, of each, oz. j; ( of oysters burnt, oz. iij. Tlie powdei' from frankincense. Of litharge, of frankincense, ■( of calamine, of ceruse, equal parts. The povjder called aphroditarium. Of frankincense, of squama s seris, of rhoedarium (a preparation from sumach), of starch, of ceruse, equal parts.