336 SIMPLES. [book VII. Comm. of them in more general terms^ like our author. Euffus says ' * ' its root is suitable to dropsical cases. It is the Cucumis sylvestrisj seu asininus, of the Arabians, who treat of all parts of it at great length. See Avicenna (ii, 3, 177); Serapion (c. 304) ; Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. 143); Averrhoes (Collig. v, 43); Haly Abbas (Pract. 54, 567); Ebn Baithar (ii, 310.) One of Rhases's authorities says, that in a pessary the wild cucumber kills the foetus. Another of them says an external application of it to the head is of great use in headaches. Haly Abbas recommends it as a purge in paralysis and cohc. One of Serapion's authorities is an Arabian, named by him Habix, who gives a very interesting account of the wild cucumber, which he describes as being more sharp and bitter than the wild gourd. 2<XXuj3o)', Sillybum, is a thorny, shrub, Hke the white chamseleon, but edible. The juice of the root of it, when drunk with honeyed water to the amount of a drachm, is emetic. Comm. COMMENTARY. Matthiolus admits that it Avas totally un- '—»—' known to him. Is it not the Carduus Marise, or Common Milk-thistle ? See Alston (Lectures) and Parkinson (Theatre of Plants, 976.) Sprengel joins Lobelius in acknowledging it as the Sillybum marianwn, Gaertn. Harduin makes it to be the Cardo Marie of the Italians. (Ad Plin. xxxvi, 35.) Phny says of it, that its concrete juice evacuates bile. (H. N. xxvi, 35.) Our author's character of it is taken from Dioscorides (iv, 156.) None of the other authorities give any more distinct descrip- tion either of the plant itself or of its virtues. Galen has omitted it altogether, and we have not been able to find it in the works of the Arabians, unless it be the plant treated of by Serapion. (c. 305.) Though this article (supposing it actually to be the Carduus Marianus) has long ceased to hold a place in our Dispensatory, it would appear that it is not wholly unknown to the shops of the apothecaries. See Gray (Suppl. to Pharmacop. 64.) An eminent authority of his day, Crantz, describes the Carduus Marise as being sudorific, diuretic, and deobstruent, and a remedy to ill-conditioned sores. (Mat. Med. ii, 157.) It must be admitted that this character does not well agi-ee with that of the Sillybum as given by Dioscorides.