[book VII. 204 SIMPLES. JVu7rapt(Tffoc, CupressuSj Cypress; the spherical fruit and shoots of it are possessed of desiccative powers, having no sensible heat, so that they agglutinate large wounds in hard bodies. In moist gan- grene it consumes deep-seated humours without trouble, and is useful in intestinal hernia. Comm. COMMENTARY. It appears Unquestionably to be the Cupressus sempervirens. See Stackhouse (Tab. Syst. in Theophrast.) Its fruit, being of a globular shape, was called a<p(u^ia by the Greeks and Pilulce by the Latins. Pliny (H. N. xA'ii, 14.) PHny recommends this as a cure for the stings of serpents, and in cases of haemoptysis. (H. N. xxiv, 10.) Dioscorides and Serapion recommend it in these and various other cases. The cypress-nut is powerfully astringent and balsamic : hence it proves an excellent remedy in diarrhoeas and dysenteries, aud, as such, it is celebrated by many authors ancient and modern. Dioscorides in particular recommends it for stopping bleeding, for agglutinating wounds, and as an application to erysipelas and anthrax. Galen writes fully of it, but borrows largely from Dioscorides. Serapion does Httle more than give the notices of it by Dioscorides and Galen, (c. 55.) Avicenna recommends the cypress, and more especially the nut, in various cases requiring astringents, and among others as an apphcatiou to polypus of the nose; he also speaks favorably of it in cases of haemoptysis and dysuria. Like the others, he says it is a good ajjplication in ruptures, (ii, 2,146.) See further Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 216.) The cypress is found in the ' Flora Hippocratica,' and in that of Celsus. The cypress-nuts are commended as astringents by all our older herbalists, and held a place in our Dispensatory as late as the time of Quincy. (93.) Cyperus, is heating and desiccative, without pungency. Hence it promotes the cicatrization of the more humid ulcers in a wonderful manner, and relieves those in the mouth. It has also some incisive quality, and is lithontriptic, diuretic, and emmenagoguc. Comm. CoMMENTAiiY. It is undoubtedly the Cypei~us rotundus.