SECT. lU.] SIMPLES. -101 canthi and eyes; that it is one of the mild septics; is useful Comm. in erysipelas, herpes, hemorrhages of the uterus and nose, with ' ' the juice of leeks; that when dried it is useful in epulis, spreading sores, and diseases of the tonsils; that when burnt it is more useful in ophthalmic remedies in the form of a powder with honey; that it melts down and cleanses callus and asperity of the eyelids; and removes fistulae when introduced in the form of a collyrium. (v, 115.) It occurs in one of the Hippocratic treatises (De Ulceribus), but its meaning there is not well defined. By blue chalcitis is probably meant chal- canthos, or blue vitriol. Celsus prescribes it frequently as a caustic and escharotic application, (v. 9, et pluries.) As stated already (see Misy), Avicenna gives an account of these sub- stances under the head of " Atramentum sutorium," the chal- citis being further distinguished by the name of colcotar. He refers to Galenas description of them already given, but either he or his translator evidently misinterprets the original, for he represents Galen as saying that the atramentum rubeum (sori) is formed from the colcotar. He says of all the three sub- stances that they are caustic, escharotic, and styptic; and he recommends them in the same instances as Dioscorides and Galen do. (ii, 2, 47.) Serapion, as already stated, describes them under the name of vitreolum or zeg, including also the chalcanthos in the same chapter. It may be intejesting to our readers to see his version of the passage of Galen given above from Aetius. " Vidi in mineris tres venas extensas unam super aham per longum spacium, et vena inferior erat zeg rubeum {sori ?), et secunda quae erat super eam erat colcotar {chalcitis ?), et tei^tia superior erat zeg viride {misy ?), et hoc est quod zeg rubeum convertitur et fit colcotar et colcotar fit zeg viride." He afterwards gives Galen's account of the me- dicinal powers of chalcitis, which does not differ materially from our author's. (De Simpl. 386.) Rhases, under the head of vitreolum, gives, in abridged extracts from Dioscorides and Galen, their descriptions of sori, chalcitis, and misy, which he calls vitreolum ruffum, colcotor, and vitreolum viride. (Contin. I. ult. 747.) Averrhoes quotes Galen's account of the origin of the three vitriols which he calls vitreolum rubeum (sori?), V. viride (misy?), and cholcotar (chalcitis?). (Collig. v, 43.) And now, respecting the nature of the three metallic substances HI. 26