114 [book VII, SIMPLES. Comm. namely^ that " it is like the tamarisk but much smaller," would " * ' rather seem to apply to one of the lesser species. Dioscorides commends it as an application to the bites of reptiles, (i, 116.) Our author copies from Galen. The Arabians, with the excep- tion of Ebn Baithar, would appear not to have treated of it, and it has not held a place in our Dispensatory for a longtime past. The old herbalists, copying from the ancient authorities, ascribe to the heath the virtues which Dioscorides and Galen held it to be possessed of. ''EpiroQ, Eiinos, Water-basil, is an aquatic herb, two drachms of the fruit of which with four drachms of honey, when rubbed in 1 stops defluxions of the eyes. Its juice is also a remedy for j earache. !' Comm. Commentahy. That it is a species of Campanula has besn i " ^ ' long agreed upon. Columna held it to be the C. Rapunculus or liampions, but Sprengel names it C. Erinus. It is the ecldnos of Galen, as is obvious from the similarity of the de- scriptions of the two articles. Few of the other authorities notice it. Our author merely abridges Dioscorides (iv, 29.) The rapunculus or rampion is still cultivated as a salad. See Loudon (Encycl. of Garden. 734.) EpyUoSaKTuXoC, Hermodactylus, Hermodactyl; the root of it is possessed of purgative properties, and also the decoction. It is given for affections of the joints in rheumatism, but it is bad for the stomach. Comm. COMMENTARY. We cannot afford room here to discuss full ' ' ' the much agitated question respecting the ancient hermodac tylus, and beg to refer to what we have said on the subject i the Appendix to Dunbar's Lexicon. See also particularly th commentators on Mesne and Dioscorides. It is to be remarke that our author has entirely omitted to notice the ILoXyiKox of Dioscorides by name, and that the only article which h has in place of it is the 'Ep^. This is a presumptive proof o the identity of these two medicines. Serapion moreover, i: his chapter on Hermodactylus, gives the words of our autho in this place along with Dioscorides's account of the colcliicum