[book Tll. APPENDIX TO 446 for correcting its bad qualities by mixing it with other sub- stances, such as scammony, dates, ginger, almonds, &c. He recommends it principally as a phlegmagogue, and an evacuant of gross humours in diseases of the joints, and as a preserva- tive from leprosy and other diseases of the skin. It has been much disputed whether or not the turpeth of Mesne be the same as that of the other Arabians. (See his Commentators 1. c.) We see little reason for questioning their identity. We have not found anything additional of much interest in the great work.of Ebn Baithar under this head. The turpeth of Actuarius is the root of the pityusa, that is to say of the Eupliorbia pityusa. (Meth. Med. v, 9.) Dr. Ainslie, treating of the Convolvulus turpethum, says: " Our present article had long a place in the Mat. Med., but of late years has fallen into disuse. Alston (M. M. ii, 530) speaks of turpeth as being a strong resinous cathartic, recommended in his days in gout, dropsy, and leprosy.^'' (Mat. Ind. ii, 384.) It is still known in the shops as a rough purgative. See Gray (Suppl. to Pliarm.) We are satisfied that it was not known to the Greeks before the Arabian period, that it was neither the Tripolium, as we have already stated, nor yet the Alypias, as some have supposed. It has been long used as a purgative medicine by the Hindoo physicians. See Wise (Hindoo Med. 145.) Dende. Serapion gives a very lengthened account of the Dend hayse, and describes two species of it. He speaks of part of it being poisonous, and states that it purges strongly, and induces tenesmus. A person who has taken of it is directed to vomit, to take butter and milk in drink with astringents of a demulcent natm'c, such as purslane, gum Arabic, &c. He mentions that it is a medicinal herb much used in India and Babylonia, along with other purgatives, but he adds that it induces great debility in that hot and dry country, whereas in Yemen, where the heat is attended with great rains, no class of medicines answer so well as that which possesses astringent and laxative powers combined, such as turpeth, myrobalans, manna, and the like. But dend, he says, answers only in cold countries like Seni (China?). When it brought on hyper- catharsis, he says, he directed his patient to sit in a cold hip-