SECT. III.] 12.1 SIMPLES. Commentary. The plan of our present work prohibits us Comm. : from entering into an exposition of the general literature of this "~ " ' • subject, but we think this the less necessary as in another work, to which we have often referred in this part of our Commen- ; tary, we have given an elaborate disquisition on the ancient Ales, into which we have condeused all the information which * we could procui-e respecting them. We would also beg leave tto refer to Gruner^s learned annotations on Zozimus Panopo- l;lita (De Zythorum Compositione) j to Ludovicus Nonnius (De rre Cibaria, iv, 15) ; Eustathius (Comment, in Iliad. xHi, G40) ; aand Athenaeus (Deipnos. x, 67, ed. Schweigh.) Our proper ^business now is to state the opinions of the medical authori- : ties with regard to their medicinal powers. Dioscorides mentions two kinds of ale or beer, in his Mat. Med., both of them pre- pared from barley, but does not state wherein the difference between them consisted. The Zythus, he says, is diuretic, apt to i affect the kidneys and neiTCs; peculiarly calculated to prove Iprejudicial to the membranes of the brain; is flatulent; engen- llders depraved humours, and occasions elephantiasis. Of the rCourmi, he also says, that it occasions headache, forms bad mhumours, and is hurtful to the nerves; he adds, that drinks of llthis nature are also formed from wheat, in Spain and Britain |(ii, 109, 110.) See further, Pliny (H. N. xxii, 82.) Aetius, l)Oribasius, and our author, copy almost verbatim froin Galen. ■IRhases treats of the Zythus, by the name of foca, first quoting ■ the chapter of Dioscorides on the Zythus, and then adding, ■ upon the authority of an Arabian writer, Bimasuy (Mesne the ■alder ?), that ale prepared from barley, cloves, and rue, is pre- ■yudicial to the head; but that prepared from fine bread Bkisimilago ?) mint, and parsley, forms good chyle, and is good »br the stomach (Cont. 1. ult. i, 306.) Avicenna^s account of ■Zythus. which he also describes by the name of foca, is en- Irirely made up of extracts from Dioscorides and Rhases. (ii, 2, ■^72.) Serapion, as far as we can discover, does not treat of B^his article. A liquor is treated of pretty copiously by Symeon ftjeth, under the head of Fucas, which, as his editors remark, is wrobably a con'uption of Posca. In his account of it, he in- troduces a short sentence from Dioscorides's chapter on Zythus, 0 the effect that " ivory steeped in it becomes as ductile as B^ax." It was not, strictly speaking, an ale or beer, being