[book VII. 4G2 APPENDIX TO Dr. Pereira, upon the authority of Dale (Pharmacol.), decides that the Strychnos Ignatia was the nux vomica of Serapion. But, notwithstanding our great respect for his opinions, we cannot agree with him in the present instance. For, considering how common the nux vomica is in Persia (Ainslie, Mat. Ind.), there is a strong presumption that the Arabians cannot have been unacquainted with it, and it is not pretended that the nux vomica is treated of by them by any other name unless it were the methel, which we will presently show it not to be, nor is it attempted to be shown when and how the misapplication of the term originated. See, however, in support of Dr. Pereira's views, Parkinson (Theatre of Plants, 1601.) It is also proper to mention, that the learned Geoffroy calls the Faba sancti Ignatii the nux vomica legitima. But as it is admitted by the best authorities on toxicology, that St. Ignatius bean is much more energetic in its action than nux vomica (see Christison, 644, and Orfila, ii, 276), there is still less probabi- lity of its having been used medicinally than the other. See further in support of the views we ai"e advocating, Sprengel (R. H. H. i, 250.) We may mention also in conclusion, that the nux vomica was used as an emetic by the Hindoo physi- cians, more especially in the case of poisoning. See Wise (Hindoo Med. 402.) " Nux Methel. We have briefly alluded to this substance [Datura Methel) as a poison elsewhere. (Vol. II, 241.) Serapion, quoting from Ai'abian authorities, compares its nut to the nux vomica, and its seed to that of mandragora: its bark, he adds, is rough, its taste pleasant and unctuous, and its virtues cold in the foiu-th degree ; if given in a small dose [kirat or siliqua ?) it intoxicates strongly, and if two drachms are given it proves fatal at once. Rhases, as quoted by him, says it is a narcotic, a sedative, and perhaps emetic medicine, and that it proves fatal in large doses, and in small intoxicates. He directs its pernicious effects to be counteracted by taking wai'm butter, and thus producing vomiting, and otherwise treating the case in the same manner as in poisoning by mandragora. (De Simpl. 375.) Rhases, in his work entitled ' Ad Mansor.,' says of the nut methel, that it is a dangerous medicine, which induces stupor, nausea, vomiting,