SECT. III.] SIMPLES. 197 flowers, whicli grows in Syria and Pisidia of Pamphylia, and Comm. was famous for the composition of unguents. This might be " ' the Lilium Martagon. Galen writes elaborately on this article, but in the main agrees with Dioscorides as to the medicinal ^drtues of the lily, of which he mentions only the former species, He recommends it principally in external applications to wounds, idcers, and diseases of the skin, such as scabies, leprosy, and achores, and also very particularly to diseases of the uterus. Aetius and Oribasius briefly give it the same characters. Celsus mentions a decoction of the leaves of the hly boiled in old wine and oil, as an application to burns, (v, 17,18.) For the Arabians, see Avicenna (ii, 2, 436); Serapion (c. 189); Rhases (Cont. 1. i;lt. i, 422) ; Ebn Baithar (ii, 68.) They commend it as a general alexipharmic, both when applied to the bites of venomous animals, and as an antidote to hyo- scyamus, coriander, and mushrooms. They all agree that it is one of the best applications to burning with hot water. Avicenna says the oil of lilies given internally, is useful in ileos. Ebn Baithar treats of the lily at very great length. K Crocodilium; the seed and juice of it are possessed of desic- cative, heating, and discutient powers, and are, therefore, diuretic and emmenagogue; the root is of great use as an ex- pectorant, and occasions a discharge of blood by the nose. Commentary. Dioscorides describes it immediately after Comm. the black chamseleon to which he compares it. We therefore ' * ' are inclined to join the modern commentators and herbaHsts, who hold it to have been the Carlina vulgaris, rather than those who refer it to the Eryngium maritimum. See Parkinsoa (Theatre of Plants, 971, 988) and Sprengel (Ad Dioscor. iii, 10.) Galen calls its seed aromatic and acrid, and says it is diuretic and emmenagogue. The juice of the seed and stalk being possessed, he says, of similar powers, is useful in nephritic diseases. The root is expectorant, and produces a discharge of blood from the nostrils. (De Simpl. vii.) We have not been able to discover any traces of it in the Mat. Med. of the Arabians, except in Ebn Baithar. (ii, 253.) His German translator holds it to be the Eryngium maritimum.