54 SIMPLES. [book VII. it affects the skin itself. When burnt its particles become attenuated. Commentary. There can be no hesitation in deciding that this is the yellow sulphuret of arsenic, commonly called orpimentj the latter term being a corruption of auripig- mentum, the Latin name of it. See Celsus (v, 5.) The ancients used this mineral very freely as an external applica- tion, and internally by the mouth, in clysters, and in fumiga- tions. Avicenna recommends arsenic with the gum of pine, in the form of a pill, for asthma. He also speaks highly of a potion containing arsenic and honeyed water. He particularly commends arsenic as an application to herpes esthiomenos of the nose, (ii, 2, 48.) Caelius Aurelianus recommends an in- jection containing arsenic for ascarides. (Tard, Pass, iv, 7). It was freely used in injections for the cure of chronic dysentery. (See Book iii.) Serapion speaks favorably of it in complaints of the eyes. (ยง 381.) Servitor says, that sublimed arsenic is a septic and pungent medicine, which removes the fungous flesh of ulcers, and is a depilatory. He describes minutely the process of subliming and whitening it. Avicenna likewise makes mention of white arsenic. Geber also treats of sub- limed arsenic, by which it is clear he meant the factitious oxide with which we are now familiar, (iii, 29.) 'Aprf/itcTia, Artemisia, Mugwort; both varieties are heating in the second degree, and desiccant in the first. They are composed of subtile particles, so that they break down stones in the kidneys, and suit with fumigations of the womb. Commentary. The three species of the artemisia described by Dioscorides are probably the arborescens, spicata, and campestris. He recommends the artemisia strongly as an emmenagogue, when given internally, in the form of a hip- bath, and as an injection into the vagina. He also makes it to be lithontriptic. (iii, 107, 118.) The same characters are given it by Galen and by Avicenna, whose berengfef it appears to be. (c. 83.) Aetius and most of the authorities describe i only the first two species of the artemisia. Serapion and Avicenna describe under this head an oriental species, which, it is probable, was the Artemisia Judaica. Honain (ap.