17G [hook VII. SIMPLES. Comm. Paris remarks that it probably deserves the praises bestowed on it by him as an antidote to poisons (Pharmacol. 354); and on this head there is a very interesting dispute between the celebrated Fr. Hoffmann and Moses Charras, the famous French authority on the Pharmacopoeia. See Pharm. (ii, 39.) According to Macrobius, it is the Ovoi> of Homer, who mentions it in the following line : 6vov ava vijaov dSwSii.—Odyss. v. Pliny, however, is not of this opinion (H. N. xiii, 16.) Our author copies closely from Galen. Dioscorides's account of its medicinal properties is far more precise and interesting. Citrons, he saj^s, when drunk wdth wine, counteract the ope- ration of deadly poisons, aad loosen the belly ; the decoction is a gargle for occasioning sweetness of the breath; its juice is much used by women labouring under pica (see Book I, 1, of this Avork), and their seeds seem to preserve clothes in a chest from being moth-eaten, (i, 166.) The Arabians treat very fully of the medicinal properties of the citron. See Serapion (De Simpl. i, 1), Avicenna (ii, 3, 116), and Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 319.) They all agree that its seed is alexipharmic, both when taken in hot Avater, and when the juice is applied to a poisoned wound. See particularly Avicenna (De Med. Cord, ii.) They also hold that it is an excellent cordial and stomachic; that it stops bilious purgings, fluxes, and vomiting; and that it dispels sorrow. They hold, however, that it is preju- dicial to the lungs and nerves. They speak highly of the oil of citrons in paralysis and other affections of the nerves. We need scarcely remark that this preparation has been much cele- brated in modern times (see Charras, 1. c), and is still retained in our Pharmacopoeia. See Pereira, 1335, Cichorium, Succory, is, as it were, a wild endive, being cool- ing and desiccant in the first degree. It has also some astringency, and hence it agrees with hepatic dysenteries. Comm. COMMENTARY. It is the Cichorium Intybus. We have '—^ treated of it among the pot-herbs in the First Book. It occurs in the Flora Hippocratica. Dioscorides recommends both the garden and the wild succory as being astringent, cooling, and