rECT. III.] SIMPLES. 175 i :3ry confused ficcouiit of it in his chapter on the Ivy. (De Comm. ;impl. 11, 42.) Rhases does not appear to notice it separately ' ' ^ .om the Laudanum (Ladanum) (Cont. 1. ult. iii, 67.) The ivo species of cistus treated of under this head have long ■oased to hold a place in our modern Dispensatories. Hedera, Ivy, is composed of opposite powers, for it is astrin- !fint and cooling, and acrid and hot; consisting of a watery lid tepid ingredient when green. Its leaves, when boiled with line, are agglutinative of wounds and reheve burns and splenic fections. Its juice is an errhine, and cures chronic defluxions )Dm the ear. Its tears, being more acrid, kill lice and act as Idepilatory. ( Commentary. We need have no hesitation in referring it Comm. tlth the best authorities to the Hedera Helix, L. Dioscorides ' * ' sscribes three varieties of it, the white, the black, and the blix; but it is easy.to see that they are all varieties of the jne species. His distinctions, however, occasioned great ouble and confusion both to his Arabian copyists and to the lodem herbalists. See Serapion (De Simpl. 41), and nrkinson (Theatre of Plants, 680), and Gerard (History of cnts, 857.) Our author's account of its medicinal properties taken from Galen. The tears of it, mentioned by Dioscorides lid our author, were evidently its resin, now generally known ■ the name of gum ivy. All the ancient writers recommend i'or thinning the hair and killing bee. Ki'rptoi', Citrium, Citron, called also Malum Medicum; its middle •t is acid or devoid of qualities; but the part in which the d is contained belongs to the third rank of cooling and iccative medicines. The bark is desiccative in the second :ree, but not cooling, for it is acrid. Its flesh engenders jk chyme, is phlegmatic and cold. Its seed is discutient I desiccative in the second degree; and the leaves of the ^ are possessed of desiccative and discutient powers. Commentary. Without doubt, as Sprengel states, it is the Comm. lus Medica, L., or Citron. Most of the commentators on '—^ gil agree that it is his " felix malum" (Georg. ii, 127.) Dr.