[book VII. SIMPLES. 324 Comm. otlier authorities give any additional information of much " ' ' interest under this head. The Arabians would appear not to have included it in their Materia Medica. Sampsuchum (a species of marjoram), is calefacient and desiccative in the third degree. It also consists of subtile parts, and is discutient. Comm. COMMENTARY. Although Galen and our author distinguish " ' ' the Amaracus from the Sampsuchus, there seems no reason to doubt their identity. See Needhara (Ad Geopon. xi, 27) ; the Synonymes of Dioscor. (iii, 41); and Sprengel (ibid.) Dioscorides describes it [Origanum marjorana) minutely, and says its decoction is drunk with advantage in cases of dropsy, dysuria, and tormina; that its dried leaves, in a cataplasm with honey, remove suggillations; and that in a pessary it is em- menagogue. He also recommends it as an external application to the stings of scorpions, sprains, (Edematous swelliugs, in- flammations of the eyes, and as a calefacient ingredient in acopa and malagmata. (Ibid.) Galen and the other Greek authorities treat of it in general terms. For the Arabians, see Avicenna (ii, 2, 466) ; Serapion (c. 286); Rhases (Cont. 1. ult. i, 439). They recommend it in the same cases as the Greeks j and also in hemicrania, vertigo, earache, in embrocations and injections. They also speak well of the oil of it as an apph- cation in cases of paralysis. The " Thymus Cyprius" of Celsus is set down by C. Bauhin as being the Thymus mastichius; but whether it be any other than the marjoram seems doubtful, although Celsus certainly mentions them as distinct sub- stances, (v, 11.) Compare our account of this article with what Quincy says of the marjoram in the ' Complete English Dispensatory" (60.) Sandaracha, Red Arsenic, is possessed of caustic powers hke orpiment. Comm. COMMENTARY. That it was the sub-species of sulphuret of '——' arsenic, called realgar, namely, "the red orpiment" of Jameson, can admit of no question. In om- Appendix to this section, we shall have something to say relative to the sandaracha of the