ANALYSIS. X Sub-cutaneous Cellular Tissue.—Distribution of this tissue, 1st. on tht median line; 2dly, in the different regions of the body.—Varieties in density and laxity.—Uses of the sub-cutaneous tissue.—Its fluids 3—8 Sub-mucous Cellular Tissue.—Its tissue different from the preceding. —Its density.—Consequences - 8—9 Sub-scrous Cellular Tissue.—Generally slack and abundant.—Why it is so.—Parts in which it is dense - - 9—10 Cellular Tissue external to arteries.—Its peculiar nature analogous to that of the sub-mucous.—Its connections with the arterial fibres 10—11 Cellular Tissue external to veins.—Similar to the preceding only not quite so thick.—Remarks - 11—12 Cellular Tissue external to the excretory ducts.—Similar in structure and disposition to the preceding ... 12—13 Of the Cellular System considered in respect to the organs it com- pletely involves.—Cellular atmosphere.—Fluids of this atmosphere. —Different vitality in organs.—This atmosphere considered as a means of propagating diseases.—It facilitates the motions of parts 13—22 Sect. II.—The Cellular System within the Organs.—Disposition of this tissue.—Uses.—Its different proportions - - 22—25 ARTICLE II. Of the Cellular System considered independently of the organs 25 Sect. I.—Of the Cellular System of the Head - 25—26 Cellular Tissue of the Cranium.—Internally scarcely any.—Its com- munications.—Consequences resulting from these.—Externally more abundant. - 26—28 Cellular Tissue of the Face.—Remarkably abundant.—Its uses.—Com- munications, &c. - - - 28—30 Sect. II.—The Cellular System of the Trunk - 30 Cellular Tissue of the Spine.—Not overabundant within the cavity— Externally scanty in the posterior part.—Abundant in the anterior . part.—Consequences - - - 30—31 Cervical Cellular Tissue.—Abundant.—Its communications.—Con- sequences - 31—32 Cellular Tissue of the Chest.—Especially met with over the linea alba.—Its communications.—External tissue - 32—34 Cellular Tissue of the Abdomen.—Some parts liberally supplied.— Its communications - 34—85