ANALYSIS. XX Sect. II.—Course of the Arteries - 300 Course of the Trunks and Branches, Src.—Position.—Connections.— Curvatures.—These curvatures do not influence the motion of the blood.—Proofs.—Their uses - 301—308 Anastomosis of Arteries in their Course.—Of the two modes of anastomosis.—Treble mode of those wherein two equal trunks termi- nate.—Anastomosis with even trunks.—General remarks on anasto- mosis - 308—311 Forms of the Arteries in their Course—In what direction they assume a conical form.-Connection in capacity - - 311—313 Sect. TIL—Termination of the Arteries.—It takes place in the capil- lary system.—Its varieties according to the organs - 313—315 ARTICLE III. Organization of the Vascular System of the Red Blood. Sect. 1.—Textures peculiar to that Organization.—It is formed of two principal membranes - 315—316 Membrane peculiar to Arteries.—Thickness.—Colour.—Experiments. —Varieties of the cerebral arteries.—Arterial fibres.— How these fibres are disposed at the origin of the branches—They are not of a muscular nature.—Their brittleness —Resistance.—General Conse- quences - - - - 316—325 Action of the different agents upon the Arterial Texture.—Desiccation. —Putrefaction.—Maceration.—Boiling,—Effects of acids, alkalies, &c. 325—329 Common Membrane of the Systejn of the Red Blood.—Its general disposition.—It differs according to the different regions.—Of the fluid it is moistened with.—Connections.—Nature.—Its singular tendency to ossification.—Phenomena and laws peculiar to this ossification.—Pathological consequences - - 329—337 Sect. II.—Parts common to the Organization of the Vascular System of the Red Blood.—Blood Vessels How they are disposed.—They seemingly do not reach the internal membrane - 338—339 Cellular Tissue.—There are two species.—Of that by which the arteries are connected with the adjacent organs.—Of that peculiar to the arteries, and which is of a particular nature.—Arterial fibres remark- able for containing none of this tissue in their interstices.—Conse- quences - 339—344