xvi ANALYSIS. Influence of Nerves on the Animal Sensibility of all the Organs.— Sensations distinguished in this respect into internal and external.— The external subdivided into general and particular.—The part nerves act in both.—Internal sensations.—Doubts respecting the influence of nerves in sensations.—Distinction between animal sensibility and con- tractility. Atmosphere of nerves.—How vague this opinion is 185—192 Animal Contractility. Influence of the Nerves on ike Properties of the other parts.—How nerves act as agents to this property.—Diffe- rent opinions on the action of nerves.—Uncertainty of these opinions. —General Considerations . - - - 192-194 Properties of Organic Life considered in the Nerves.—These rather obscure.—Nerves are increased in bulk by the affections of certain parts.—Several experiments and observations - 194—196 Influence of the Cerebral Nerves on the Organic Properties of the other Parts.—These organs unconnected with these properties.—On this account they have no influence; 1st. Upon capillary circulation; 2dly. Upon exhalation; 3dly. Upon secretion; 4thly. Upon ab- sorption ; 5thly. Upon nutrition.—Different proofs in support of these assertions.—Remarks upon the diseases by which animal life is af- fected, and upon those which disorder the organic.—Doubts respecting the propriety of the phrase, nervous influence - - 196—203 Sympathies. Sympathies peculiar to Nerves.—Distinct phenomena of the sym- pathies.—Sympathies between two nerves of the same pair; 2dly. Between two pairs of the same side; 3dly. between the branches of the same pair; 4thly. Between nerves and other organs.—Numerous instances - - - 203—207 Influence of the Nerves in Sympathies of other Organs.—Different opi- nions respecting sympathies.—How void of foundation.—Division of sympathies founded upon those of the vital properties. Different in- fluence of the nerves according to each species of sympathy.—Cases in which such influence is undeniable.—Cases in which it is real. 207—217 Sect. III.—Properties of Re-production.—Phenomena attending the cicatrisation of nerves.—Their analogy with others - 217—220