505 OF DISLOCATION OP THE HIP JOINT. The joint of the liip may be dislocated in four ways backwards and upwards on the dorsum of the ilium’ backwards on the ischiatic notch, forwards and upwards on the pubes, and forwards and downwards on the fora- men obturatorium. H u'P dislocation as that ot the shoulder ; for this several reasons may be as- signed. In tbe first place, its motions are much more limited both in number and extent. The glenoid cavity affords little mechanical security, while the cotyloid on ^e contrary permits the head of the femur to sink into it ITie oblique direction also of the head of the thigh bone pr^ents an additional obstacle ; the capsular ligament of this joint IS much stronger than that of the shoulder and It is further protected by strong accessory fibres on the ou er and upper part, which descend from the inferior anterior spine of the ilium, and by some on the inner side from the supenor part of the foramen ovale. The arti- culation of the hip is also more closely invested by mus- cles ; above we have the gluteus minimus and tendon of the p.soas and iliacus muscles. In front the rectus • on t^he inside, the pectinalis and obturator externus ; and be- md the quadratus femoris, gemini, pyriformis, and ob- turator internus. The situation of the trochanter major ^ importance in discriminating accideits about the hip joint, and its relation to some other prom nen points should be well kept in mind. In the erec ^sition of the body, the superior part of the trochanter major is nearly on the same level with the body of the of ^t?e distance between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the trochanter major is less than from this projection to the os pubis, or from the os pubis to the anterior su^rior spine; and lines connecting\hese th^ee ^in s form nearly a right angled triangi, of whLh the longest side is the line connecting the superior snine to the pubis ; and the shortest, that which joiL the sLe to the trochanter. In dislocation upwards or baT wards the trochanter is brought nearer the superior an tenor spine of the ileum. In the backward iLation it