402 into the trapezium and scaphoid, internally into the cu- neiform and unciform bones. The articulations between the carpus and metacarpus are secured by transverse and oblique fibrous bands,, which cover the synovial membranes, and pass in diffe- rent directions; the articulations between the heads of the metacarpal bones and the first phalanges are fur- nished with very loose synovial membranes and lateral ligaments; the phalanges of the fingers are articulated to each other by synovial membranes and lateral liga- ments. ILIO-FEMOUAL ARTICULATIOX, OR HIP JOINT. The head of the femur is received into the acetabu- lum, which cavity is deepened by the cotyloid ligament, which is a circular fibrous band adhering to the edge of the bony cup, and lined by synovial membrane; the notch at the inner part of the cavity is partly closed by the transverse ligament, which is attached to the oppo- site points of the pubis and ischium. The capsule of this jqjnt is the strongest in the body. It consists, like the capsule of the shoulder joint, of a fibrous and a synovial membrane. The fibrous mem- brane is attached above to the circumference of the ace- tabulum ; and below, to the root of the trochanter ma- jor, and to the two oblique inter-trochanteric lines; it is very strong externally and anterioi-ly, thin internally. The synovial membrane is reflected from the inside of the fibrous membrane upon the periosteum of the neck, and upon the cartilaginous surface of the head of the femur; from the latter it is reflected around the inter- articular ligament, and is then continued to the cartila- ginous surface of the acetabulum. The attachment of the fibrous layer extends upon the femur, a little way beyond the synovial membrane, especially at the outer and posterior part of the joint. The accessory or ilio femoral ligameyit extends from the inferior spinous process of the ilium obliquely down- wards and inwards, adhering to the fore-part of the cap- sule, and is inserted into the fore-part of the lesser tro- chanter.