405 tibia, by a synovial membrane, and by an anterior and posterior fasciculus of ligamentous fibres. The bodies of these two bones are connected by the interosseous membrane, which consists of aponeurotic fibres extending obliquely from one bone to the other; they are deficient above and below. The inferior extre- mity of the fibula is received into a depression in the ti- bia, and connected to it by a strong anterior and poste- rior ligament, which are, each, of a triangular form, the base below ; also by a synovial membrane, and an inter- vening dense, fibrous substance : some fibres of the pos- terior ligament extend from one malleolus to the other, and strengthen the ankle joint. ARTICULATIOX OF THE ANKLE. The astragalus is received into a cavity formed in the tibia and fibula, and secured in it by very strong lateral ligaments, and also by a synovial membrane and an an- terior ligament. The internal lateral, or, deltoid ligament, is very dense, it arises from the internal malleolus, descends in a radiated manner, and is inserted into the astragalus, os naviculare and calcis. The external lateral ligaments are three, a posterior, middle, and anterior; they all arise from the external malleolus ; the posterior passes obliquely inwards to the ridge on the back of the astragalus between the ankle and the articulation of the astragalus to the os calcis ; the middle descends vertically and is inserted into the os calcis; the anterior is inserted into the upper and outer part of the astragalus. The anterior ligament of the ankle is often indistinct; it arises from the anterior edge of the tibia, and is inserted into the upper and outer part of the astragalus. The knee, elbow, and ankle joints, unlike those of the hip and shoulder, have no proper fibrous capsular ligament, independent of the synovial membrane. Articulations of the Tarsus. The astragalus is at- tached to the os calcis by two articulating surfaces, each of which is furnished with a synovial membrane ; between these is a dense interosseous ligament; there