47 aryteno-epiglottidean fold of each side there are small glands called arytenoid, and in front of the epiglottis, behind the os hyoides, the epiglottidean gland is si- tuated ; this opens by small ducts on the posterior or laryngeal surface of the epiglottis. The openings of the larynx are two, the superior or the glottis, and the in- ferior, or the rvna glottidis. The opening of the glottis has been already noticed ; it is immediately behind the tongue and epiglottis, and is of a triangular form, the base anteriorly. The rima glottidis is three quarters of an inch below the glottis; it is like a slit, being veiy narrow from side to side, and of a triangular figure, the base posteriorly formed by the bases of the arytenoid, and by the upper and posterior edge of the cricoid; the apex is anteriorly in the angle of the thyroid cartilage, the chordae vocales form the sides : below the rima glot- tidis the larj'nx enlarges within the cricoid cartilage, and is of a circular figure, and soon terminates in the tra- chea. The muscles of the larynx are symmetrical, they are found on the front, sides, and back part; those on the fore part are the thyro-hyoid, and crico-thyroid; on each side are the thyro and lateral crico-arytenoid, and posteriorly are the arytenoid and posterior crico- arytenoid. Tn YRo-iiYoiDEUs, broad and flat, arises from the oblique ridge on the ala of the thyroid cartilage, ascends a fittle outwards, and is inserted into the lower edge of the cornu of the os hyoides. Use, to elevate and draw forwards the larynx beneath the tongue and epiglottis, and so cause the glottis to be closed in deglutition. Tliis muscle is partly covered by the integuments and sterno-hyoid ; it appears like a continuation of the ster- no-thyroid. Crico-tiiy'roideus, inferior to the former, short and triangular; arises narrow from tlie forepart of the cricoid cartilage, ascends obliquely outwards, and is in- serted broad into the lower border of the thyroid. Use, to approximate these cartilages, and to draw forward the cricoid. The crico-thyroid ligament occupies the space between these muscles ; they are covered by the stemo-hyoid. Raise the ala of the thyroid cartilage on one side, and the lateral muscles of the larvnx will be exposed.