492 nulated and rough. Prostate gland. This gland is scarcely ever found diseased except in old men; it is rarely inflamed, an abscess however has been met with (unaccompanied by any thickening) in its substance, arising from common inflammation. Schirrus. The most common disease of the prostate gland is schirrus ; the gland in its natural state is known to be about the size of a chestnut, but when it is affected with schirrus, it is often enlarged to the size of the fist. The common appearances observed in schirrus in other parts of the body, can be plainly seen in this gland ; Avhen cut into, it appears to consist of a very solid, whitish, or brown substance, with membranous septa, running through it in various directions. According to the degi-ee of en- largement that takes place, the urine is passed through the bladder with greater or less diflBculty, as well as an instrument for drawing it ofl. Calculi have been found lodged in the ducts of the prostate gland ; they are usually small granules of a dark colour, and give it a mottled -appearance when cut into. Uterus. When the uterus becomes inflamed, it takes place almost always under the same circumstances, viz. very soon after parturition. When it is inflamed the peritoneum in the neighbourhood is most commonly affected, and frequently over its whole extent. The uterus, when inflamed, exhibits the same appearances as the inflammation of the substance of other parts; the inflammation is found to creep along the appendages of the uterus, especially the fallopian tubes and ovaries. Jt often advances to suppuration, and the pus is gene- rally found in the large veins of the womb. When the peritoneum is affected by the inflammation, it has been remarked, that the extravasated fluid and coagulable lymph are found in a greater proportion to the degree of inflammation, than in common peritonitis. Polypus. Polypi are veiy frequently found in the uterus; they may grow at any period of life, but the)’ are rarely met w’ith in the young. By a polypus is meant a dis- eased mass, which adheres to the cavity of the uterus, by a sort of a neck or narrower portion. Polypus is of two different kinds ; the most common kind is hard, and consists of a substance divided by thick membranous