28 descend obliquely inwards and backwards to the mesial line, and are inserted into the base of the os hyoides, and along with its fellow, into a middle tendinous line between that bone and the chin. Use, to elevate the os hyoides and tongue, so as to press the latter against the palate. This muscle was covered by the gland, and by the digastric; it lies on the hyo-glossus, stylo- glossus, and genio-hyoid muscles, and conceals the whartonian duct, the lingual and gustatory nerves and sublingual gland. Detach this muscle from the os hyoides and from its fellow; in the middle line we shall then see the following pair. GEifio-iiYOiDEUs, short and round, arises by a small tendon on the inner side of the chin, above the digastric, descends obliquely backwards, and is inserted broad and fleshy into the base of tbe os hyoides. Use, to draw the os hyoides upwards and forwards, to push the tongue against the incisor teeth, or protrude it from the mouth ; this pair of muscles lie superior to the digastric and mylo-hyoid, and inferior to the genio-hyo-glossus. Reflect the genio and mylo-hyoid muscles towards the lower jaw, we thus expose superiorly the membrane of the mouth, with the sublingual gland attached to it, close to which is the gustatory nerve; inferior to this the Whartonian duct is seen, and nearer to the os hyoi- des is the lingual nerve, from which a plexus extends to the gustatory; the hyo and genio-hyo-glossi, and the three styloid muscles are also now exposed. The sub- lingual is the third and smallest of the salivary glands, oblong, placed beneath the anterior and lateral part of the tongue, covered superiorly by the mucous membrane, to which it adheres, and resting inferiorly on the mylo- hyoid, is in contact, internally, with the genio-glossus, . and is connected externally to the deep process of the submaxillary gland. This gland opens by several small ducts, some of which join the W’hartonian canal, others perforate the mucous membrane of the mouth, between the tongue and inferior canine, and bicuspis teeth by small openings, which may be observed on a sort of crest or fold of the mucous membrane in this situation. Tlie three salivary glands, though generally separated from each other, yet are in some cases so