512 to the inconvenience of melting in warm weather, and in this way producing a flattened appearance in the blood vessels. A much cheaper and better injection for com- mon purposes than the above has been employed; it is made of Tallow, 21bs. Magnesia Usta, ^ss. Chinese Vermilion, ^i. This possesses all the advantages of the wax injection without any of its inconveniences; it is as transparent nearly as the wax, never melts in the hottest weather, and is not disposed to crack; if this injection be used very hot, an .extremity may be injected without having been previously heated ; but this should never be done except by persons skilled in the art of injecting. If we wish to trace the minute branches of arteries, and examine their various communications, there are no injections better adapted for common purposes than that of tallow and red lead well mixed and heated, or the cold paint injection; if the latter be well thrown in, the minutest arteries, for instance the ciliary, w’ill be in- jected ; it is made of White lead, well ground, 21bs. Turpentine Varnish, §xii. Drying Oil, gvi. The lead is intimately mixed with the varnish, and then the oil is to be added; they are all to be well mixed up together, to the consistence of cream, and in this state it is to be thrown into the arteries: the same pre- cautions, with regard-to the exclusion of air from the syringe, and the degree of force to be used, are to be observed in this as well as in the hot injection. Arte- ries are always injected from the aorta or some other large trunk; while veins are injected dift’erently: in making preparations of veins, it is necessary to inject them from the extreme branches towards the trunks, on account of the direction of the valves; for instance, the veins of the arm are to be injected from a small branch on the back of the hand, and those of the leg and thigh from some branch on the dorsum of the foot. Pre- viously to the injection being made, it is necessary that the veins should be well washed out with warm water.