237 three glutsei muscles. The sciatic artery passes out of the pelvis through the lower part of the great sciatic notch, below the pyriformis ; its principal branches de- scend between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter, and are lost in the surrounding muscles. The pudic artery escapes from the pelvis along with the last de- scribed vessel; it soon, however, re-enters the cavity through the lesser sciatic notch, and pursues its course forwards and inwards towards the perinaeum and pubis, lying at first on the internal surface of the obturator in- temus, and afterwards on the rami of the ischium and pubis ; its branches ai’e distributed to the external organs of generation, and to the muscles in the perinaeum. (See Anatomy of the Vascular System.) Each of these arteries have their corresponding veins, which take a similar course, and terminate in the internal iliac vein. The nen'es w-hich are found in this situation are the su- perior and inferior glutaeal, the posterior cutaneous, the pudic, the great and lesser sciatic; these are all branches of the sacral plexus. The superior glutceal nerve ac- companies the glutaeal arterj’, and is distributed princi- pally to the glutaeus medius and minimus muscles. The inferior glutceal nerve escapes below the pyriform mus- cle, and is distributed principally to the glutaeus maxi- mus. The inferior or lesser sciatic nerve accompanies the last through the sciatic notch, descends obliquely in- Vards round the tuber ischii, and is distributed to the surrounding rtiuscles and integuments. The posterior cutaneous nerve also passes through the lower part of the great sciatic notch, descends beneath the glutaeus maxi- mus, and then becoming cutaneous, divides into several long branches, which may be traced along the posterior surface of the thigh, even to the leg, where in general they will be found to communicate with the posterior cutaneous nen'es of that region. The pudic nerves take the same course as the pudic artery, and termi- nate in corresponding branches. The great sciatic or posterior crural nerve, is the largest nen'e in the body ; it passes out of the pelvis below’, but often through the pyriform muscle, descends behind the hip joint in the fossa lx;tween the trochanter and tuber ischii, covered