4.99 pression in front of the ear, where the condyle of the lower jaw should be felt, and the muscles of the side of the face appear flat and diminished. When displacement of one condyle only occurs, the arches of the teeth of the upper and lower jaws do not correspond ; and the depres- sion in front of the ear is only felt on the dislocated side. The muscles concerned in a dislocation of the lower jaw are the depressing muscles of the jaw ; the two pterygoid muscles, but chiefly the external and the anterior portion of the masseter. OF mSLOCATlON OF THE CLAVICLE. At its sternal end the clavicle may be dislocated up- wards, forwards, or backwards. Displacement upwards or backwards are too rare to merit any notice. In dislo- cation forwards the anterior, posterior, and inter-clavicu- lar ligaments are ruptured; and occasionally the tendinous expansion of the sterno-cleido-mastoid on the clavicle and sternum. The costo-clavicular ligament must also be ruptured ; and this is the one which chiefly resists dis- placement when the shoulder is elevated. At its scapu- lar extremity, the clavicle may be displaced either above or below the acromion; the latter case is extremely rare. When the clavicle passes above the acromion, the shoul- der inclines in, being unsupported by this bone, and its extremity projects under the skin of the shoulder. The superior, inferior, and coraco-clavicular ligaments are sometimes ruptured. The clavicular portion of the trape- zius is the only muscle which, by elevating the clavicle, can assist in this displacement. OF DISLOCATIONS OF THE HUMERUS. The shoulder joint, from the great extent of its motions and form of its articulating surfaces, is more liable to dis- location than any other in the body. Primary dislocations of the humerus may occur, into the axilla, forwards under the pectoral muscles, or back- wards. This latter species is extremely rare ; a dislo- cation upwards could not occur without fracture of the acromion, and therefore cannot be considered among