174' nalis, and runs for the extent of an inch between the tunics of the bladder, and opens internally (as will be seen here- after in the dissection of the pelvic viscera) about an inch and a half from the commencement of the urethra, and about the same distance from its fellow. In the female the pelvic portion of each ureter is longer than the male ; they also lie at a greater distance from each other, and perforate the bladder nearer to its neck than in the male subject. The ureter is composed externally of a fibrous coat, and internally of a pale mucous membrane; it is surrounded by cellular tissue, and in some situations is partially covered b)"- peritonaeum.' The ureters are larger at their commencement, and smaller at their termination; the intermediate portion of each is nearly of one uniform diameter. Attached to the upper extremity of each kidney is a small gland-like substance, named renal capsule, or su- pra-renal, or atrahiliary body ; of a crescentic shape; the base attached to the kidney by cellular membrane and by small blood-vessels; these organs lie on the diaphragm, and on the semilunar ganglion of each side, and are co- vered, that on the right side by the vena cava and duo- denum, and on the left by the spleen and pancreas ; a vein also runs along their anterior surface. In the interior of each renal capsule we find a small triangular cavity filled with a brownish fluid; the walls of this cavity are very rough, no excretoiy duct can be found leading from it. The exact use of these bodies is not ascertained. The renal capsules in the adult are thin, and of a brownish yellow colour ; in the foetus they are very large and vas- cular, nearly equal to the kidney in size, and contain a quantity of reddish fluid. The bladder and urethra are the next divisions of the urinary organs to be examined ; as these, however, are pelvic viscera, we shall postpone the consideration of them for the present, and the student should next examine the deep muscles of the abdomen, viz. the diaphragm, and the quadratus lumborum, psoas parvus, psoas magnus, and iliacus internus of each side.