50 SECTION VII. DISSECTION OF THE DEEP MUSCLES OF THE NECK. These muscles lie close to the vertebrae, and are ex- posed by removing the pharynx, larynx, cervical vessels and nerves. Longus Colli extends from the third dorsal verte- bra to the atlas; it arises from the bodies of three supe- rior dorsal and four inferior cervical vertebrae, from the intervertebral ligaments, also from the head of the first rib, and from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the four last cervical vertebrae; the fibres ascend obliquely inwards, adhering to each bone in their course, and are inserted into the forepart of the 1st, 2d, and 3d, cervical vertebrae. Use, to bend the neck to one side, and rotate the atlas on the dentatus; or, if both muscles act, to bend the neck directly forw'ards. This muscle appears to consist of an inferior and superior portion; the first arising from the bodies of the dorsal is inserted into those of the inferior cervical vertebrae; the second arising from the transverse processes of the 3d, 4th, and 5th, cervical vertebrae, is inserted into the bodies of the 1st and 2d. These muscles, like most of those which adhere to the vertebrae, though long, yet consist of short fibres which pass from one bone to another, are generally intermixed with tendinous substance, and are irregular as to the number of the vertebrae to which they are attached. Rectus Capitis Anticus Majou, long and flat, arises by small tendons from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the four last cervical verte- i brae; they soon unite in a fleshy substance which ascends i .obliquely inwards, and is inserted broad into the cunei- form process. Use, to bend forwards the neck and head. This muscle lies behind the carotid artery and sympathetic nerve, and between the longus colli and scaleni. Separate this muscle from its insertion, and i we expose the following: Rectus Capitis Anticus Minor, short and nar- . row, arises from the transverse process of the atlas, as-