258 proceed forwards along the internal edge of the long flexor tendons, each ends in a thin aponeurosis, which is inserted into the internal side of the first phalanx of the four lesser toes, and joins the tendinous expansion of the extensor tendons on the dorsum of the toes. Use, to adduct and to assist in flexing the four toes, they may also extend their second and last phalanges. These muscles are covered in the sole of the foot by the super- ficial layer; their tendinous insertions are superficial, and are best seen on the dorsum of the toes. Detach this second layer of muscles and throw it also forwards to- wards the toes. The third layer of the plantar muscles consists of the flexor pollicis brevis, adductor pollicis, ti-ansversalis pedis, and flexor minimi digiti. Flexor Pollicis Brevis, narrow’posteriorly, broad and notched anteriorly ; arises by a strong tendon from the lower and anterior part of the os calcis, also from the external cuneiform bone, it forms a fleshy belly, which passes forwards and inwards, and divides into tw’o short tendons ; these are inserted into the sesamoid bones be- neath the first phalanx of the great toe. Use, to flex the first joint of the great toe, also to approximate this toe to the others. This muscle forms a sort of sheath for the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus. Adductor Pollicis, is situated external to the last muscle, or more in the centre of the foot; it is also inse- parably attached to it; it arises tendinous and fleshy from the strong calcaneo-cuboid ligament, and from the base of the second and third metatarsal bones, it passes for- wards and inwards, and is inserted along wdth the exter- nal portion of the last muscle into the external sasamoid bone. Use, to draw the great toe outw’ards tow’ards the other toes, also to-flex it, so as to bring the-great toe be- neath the other toes. By some this muscle is named the abductor pollicis, its action being then referred to the mesial line. Transversalis Pedis, arises by distinct fleshy slips from the anterior extremities of the four external metatarsal bones ; the fibres pass inw'ards and forwards, converging to the external sesamoid bone of the great toe, into which they are inserted along with the last