513 to remove the coagula of blood ■which they generally contain: if the veins of the arm are to be injected, an opening should be made in the subclavian vein, to allow the warm water and coagula to pass out: when this has happened, a ligature previously applied is to be firmly tied round the vessel, which will prevent the injection from flowing out; the same rule applies to the injection of veins in the lower extremity. The veins of the head and neck are generally injected from the superior longi- . tudinal sinus : it is scarcely necessary to mention that veins are filled with blue fluid, and the arteries with white or red ; for the blue injection smalt blue is usually employed. To inject the arteries a transverse cut is to be made in the aorta, as close to its origin from the heart as possible. Care must be taken that the extre- mity of the pipe does not project so far as to pass into the innominata, or one of the vessels arising from the left side of the arch, as this would gh'e only a partial injection. The nozzle of the pipe being carefully in- serted into the opening of the vessel, two pieces of twine are to be introduced under the vessel; one of these is to be firmly tied round the artery, this will embrace the nozzle of the pipe, its loose extremities, when the knot is firmly tied, are to be fixed to the wings of the pipe in order to prevent any chance of its slipping out of the vessel. The other ligature is to remain loose under the vessel, beyond the nozzle of the pipe about one inch. After injection is thrown in, this ligature is also to be firmly tied round the vessel, leaving the pipe clear; the use of it is, that the injection may not return back when the pipe is removed from the aorta. This precaution is more particularly necessaiy when the paint injection is used. In inserting a pipe into a small arterj' or vein, some difficulty may arise in the introduction from the pipe being larger than the calibre of the vessel; in this case the point of a scissors should be introduced into the vessel, and gradual dilatation produced by slowly open- ing its blades. When the injection has remained suffi- ciently long to set well in the vessels, dissection may be commenced, and here it is a nile which should be inva- riably followed, that the dissection be completed in as short a time as is consistent with a proper display of the