426 phisis pubis is not so deep, the sciatic tuberosities are directed more outwards, and the acetabula are more dis- tant from each other; the male pelvis is deeper, nar- rower, and stronger. The dimensions of the male and female pelvis are given by Meckel as follows, tom. 1. p. 473. In the Female. Inches. Lines. In the Male. Inches. Lines. The transverse diameter of the great pelvis between the anterior superior spinous 1 7 8 processes of the ilia, - - J Distance between the cristae of the ilia, 8 3 Transverse diameter of the superior strait, 4 6 Oblique do. of do. - - 4 5 Antero posterior do. of do. - - 4 0 Transverse diameter of the cavity, - - 4 0 Oblique do. of do. - - 5 0 AntP’-p posterior do. of do. - - 5 0 Transverse diam. of the lower strait or outlet, 3 0 Antero posterior do. of do. - 3 3 The latter may be increased to five inches, from the mobility of the coccyx. 8 4 4 4 5 4 4 4 4 0 .5 4 8 4 8 5 4 The ossa innominata are composed of two thin but compact laminae with an intervening diplo'e, the latter is nearly wanting in the iliac fossa where the bone is transparent, as well as in the cotyloid cavity. In the foetus each os innominatum is developed from three points of ossification, one in the iliac fossa, one in the sciatic tubercle, and one near the spine of the pubis; these three soon unite in the cotyloid cavity. Some years after birth the iliac crest is developed as a distinct epiphysis, the sciatic tubercle and anterior inferior spine of the ilium are also covered by distinct plates of bone, and in some the angle of the pubis; in some females also, a plate of bone or epiphysis constitutes the spine of the pubis and occasionally grows so large and remains so moveable, as to resemble the rudiments of a marsupial bone. In the foetus, the pelvis is very small and deep, and narrow transversely; the true and false are nearly in the same line, the acetabula are nearer the middle line and look more outwards, they are not beneath the pelvis as in the adult, hence the thigh bones in the in- fant cannot support or balance the weight of the trunk.