22 so as to fix the vertebrae and head, then these muscles may assist in still further extending the neck, and car- rying the head backwaids ; this appears to be the case in tetanus. This muscle is covered by the integu- ments, platj’sma, superficial fascia, external jugular vein, ascending branches of the cervical plexus of nerves, and by a small portion of the parotid gland; * it conceals part of the sternum and clavicle, of the sterno-hyoid-thyroid, omo-hyoid, and digastric muscles, also the lower part of the cenucal vessels and several glands ; the spinal accessory nerve perforates this mus- cle a little above its centre, and near its posterior sur- face ; this nerve is a division of the eighth pair, it dis- tributes small branches to the mastoid and trapezius muscles, and joins freely with the cervical plexus ; the spinal accessory does not always perforate, but sometimes passes posterior to the mastoid muscle. The student may remark that the two sterno-mastoid muscles bound a large triangular space situated on the fore part of the neck, the apex at the sternum, the base at the jaw; this is divided by the mesial line into two lateral portions, which are named the anterior lateral triangles of the neck. Between the mastoid and the trapezius muscle also, on each side, a large triangular space is enclosed, the base formed by the clavicle, the apex by the mastoid process; this space is called the posterior lateral trian- gle of the neck. Both these triangular regions may be observed to be subdivided into two by the omo-hyoid muscle, which crosses the neck obliquely from the shoulder to the os-hyoides. Thus on each side of the middle line four triangular spaces may be noticed, prin- cipally formed by the trapezius, sterno-mastoid, and omo-hyoid muscles; these triangles are distinguished by the terms— 1. posterior inferior: 2. posterior supe- rior : 3. anterior inferior ; and 4. anterior superior. The student should examine each of these regions, and consider the parts situated in each. These spaces can be ascertained during life, and therefore an accu- rate knowledge of the contents of each may be of prac- ’ tical importance. 1. The posterior inferior triangle is that small space behind the clavicular portion of the