117 two planes, a posterior and an anterior. The Inter- t)SSEi Antici, or Interni or Palmares are four in number; they arise from the sides of the metacarpal bones and are inserted into the first phalanges, and into the tendinous expansion which covers the dorsum of each finger: the 1st or prior, or extemus indicis, arises from the radial side of the second metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the external side of the first phalanx of the forefinger. Use, to abduct the forefinger; the 2d or posterior, or intemns, or adductor indicis, arises from the ulnar side of the second metacarpal bone, and is in- serted into the inner side of the first phalanx of the fore- finger ; 3d or prior, or externus or adductor annularis arises from the radial side of the fourth metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the external side of the first phalanx of the ring finger. Use, to draw the ring finger towards the thumb ; the 4th, or abductor minimi digit! arises from the radial side of the fifth metacarpal 1)one, and is inserted into the outside of the first phalanx of the little finger. Use, to draw the little finger towards the thumb. Tlie Posterior Interossei, are seen on the back part of the hand; they are longer than the anterior; they each arise by two sets of fibres from the opposed sides of two metacarpal bones, and are inserted into the ba.se of the first phalanx of each finger, and into the posterior tendinous expansion; the 1st, or prior, or ex- ternus medii, arises from the second and third metacar- pal liones, fills the space between these two, and is in- serted into the outer side of the base of the first phalan.x of the middle finger. Use, to draw the middle finger towards the thiimb ; the 2d, or extemus medii is situ- ated between the metacarpal bones of the middle and ring finger, and is inserted into the inner side of the first phalanx of the middle finger. Use, to draw the middle towards the ring finger; the 3d, or externus annularis, is between the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones ; and is in- serted into the inner side of the ring finger. Use, to draw the ring finger inwards. All these muscles can also extend the fingers. Some consider the dorsal interossei as four in number, making the abductor indicis the first of this class.