497 internal causes are not in any degree affected by the neighbouring muscles ; but the anterior and posterior ligaments, with the odontoid, must be injured in any dis- placement forwards or backwards. It is to be remarked that dislocation of the dentata, or of one or more of the cervical vertebrae, always accompany this displacement of the atlas. OF DISLOCATION OF THE ATLAS FROM THE AXIS. The first cervical vertebra may be dislocated from the second ; 1st, directly backwards, with the laceration of the transverse, and odontoid ligaments ; and of the ap- paratus ligamentosus colli. The inter-transverse muscle is also torn. 2nd, By a violent rotation of the head, the lateral por- tions of the transverse ligament, and the odontoid be,ing ruptured, the dentata may slip back under the transverse ligament, and thus be dislocated. 3rd, By a fracture of the processus dentatus. This may take place when violence is applied in such a direc- tion that the ligaments attached to the processus denta- tus are powerfully extended, by which this process is bro- ken off. Simple dislocation of the atlas from the axis has hither- to been considered the only one which can take place in the cervical region. Between the occipital bone and first cenncal vertebra it cannot happen from external force ; because, though there are no strong connecting ligaments, the articulator)' surfaces are too closely joined, and the movements between them too slight and limited. Besides, ^ the rotatory motion of the head, in which alone this ac- cident could occur, is strictly confined to the atlas and axis. Obstacles still more powerful oppose a dislocation of the other cervical vertebrae. The oblique direction of the articulatory surfaces, by which rotation is prevented; the peculiar mode in which the bodies of these vertebrae are articulated ; not with a smooth surface, as in the dor- sal, but with a depression on the superior surface, from which two hook-like processes ascend and embrace the body of the vertebra above it: the inter-spinous and inter-