404. patella, and to the adjoining muscles or tendons, and is continued down to the head of the tibia; it is thence re- flected round the inter-articular cartilages, and along the crucial ligaments to the femur. The internal ligaments in this joint are, the alar, mucous, transverse, crucial, and the semilunar carti- The alar ligaments are folds of the synovial mem- brane, one on either side of the patella and united below that bone. The ligamentum mucosum is a small fold of the same membrane, passing from the fatty substance behind the ligamentum patellae, backwards and upwards to the hol- low between the condyles. The transverse ligament extends between the ante- rior convex portions of the two semilunar cartilages, and above the fatty substance before alluded to. The anterior crucial ligament arises from the inner side of the external condyle, descends obliquely for- wards, and is inserted near the fore-part of the head of the tibia. The posterior crucial ligament arises from the outer side of the internal condyle, descends nearly ver- tical, and is inserted partly into the external semilu- nar cartilage, and partly into the depression on the back of the tibia. The semilunar cartilages are placed upon the arti- cular surfaces of the tibia; the convex margin of each is thick ; the internal concave margin has a sharp edge; each cartilage presents above an excavated surface, adapted to the condyles, and below, a flat surface, adapted to the head of the tibia; externally they are connected with the lateral ligaments, wdiile their inter- nal edges are loose in the cavity of the joint. The an- terior and posterior extremities of each are fixed to the head of the tibia, before and behind its middle protu- berance. The two cartilages are united in front by the transverse ligament; the external cartilage is circular and more moveable than the internal, which is of an oval figure. The head of the fibula is connected to the small smooth surface on the outer side of the head of the