395 between all the vertebra, from the second to the sacrum; they are composed of dense, yellow, elastic fibres, united angidarly to each other towards the base of each spinous process. The spinous processes of the vertebrae are also con- nected to each other by ligamentous bands, termed supra- spinous, and inter-spinous, (the ligamenta sub-flava might be called infra-spinous). Between the transverse pro- cesses also ligamentous fibres exist which are named inter- transverse ligaments. ARTICULATIONS OF THE RIBS. The head of each rib is joined to the spine by an an- terior and an inter-articular ligament, and by synovial membrane ; the anterior ligameyit, arises from the front of the head of the rib, and thence extends over the arti- culation in a radiated manner, and is inserted into the side of the vertebra above and below, and into the in- ter-vertebral substance. The inter-articular ligament arises from the projecting ridge in the articular surface of the rib, and is inserted into the cavity in the inter- vertebral substance in which the head is received. The upper and lower divisions of this joint are lined by distinct synovial membranes. The tubercle of each rib is united to the transverse process of the inferior of the two vertebrae, to the bodies of which the head is attached by three ligaments and a synovial membrane. First, the inferior costo-transverse ascends from the neck of each rib obliquely outwards to the transverse process above ; second and third, the pos- terior and external costo-transverse connect the tuber- cle of each rib to the corresponding transverse process. The synovial membranes covering the cartilaginous sur- faces of the transverse processes and tubercles of the ribs, are more loose than those belonging to the heads of the ribs. The cartilages of the ribs at their costal ends are con- vex, and are very closely united to the concave surfaces in the extremities of the bones. The sternal ends of the cartilages of the seven true ribs are convex, adapted to