LAENNEC’s DIVISION OF THE UEGIONS OF THE THOHAX. The chest of a healthy pejpon, when slightly struck, ought to yield over its whole extent a clear and distinct sound. The character of the sound derived from percus- sion, is different in the different parts of the chest; on which account it has been divided by Laennec into fif- teen regions, twelve of which are double. 1. Subclavian region. This includes merely that por- tion of the chest covered by the clavicle. "When struck about the middle or sternal extremity, this bone yields a clear sound, but its humeral extremity gives rather a dull sound ; a knowledge of the morbid or natural sounds of the chest in this region, is of great importance ; for from it are usually derived the first signs of the development of tubercles in the lungs, which are found in the upper part of the right lung, even where they exist in no other part of the chest. 2. Anterior-superior region. This is bounded by the clavicle and by the fourth rib (inclusive) below. The sound, though clear, is somewhat less so than over the sternal end of the clavicle. 3. Mammary region. This begins below the fourth rib, and terminates wuth the eighth. In the female, the mammary gland, in the male, the inferior edge of the pectoralis major prevents this region from yielding as good a sound as the anterior-superior region. 4. Submammary region. This extends from the eighth to the cartilaginous border of the false ribs. On the right side the sound is often dull, caused by the size of the liver ; while on the left, the sound is frequently more clear than natural, which is attributed to the pre- sence of the stomach distended with gas. Sternal regions, 5. superior, 6. middle, and 7. infe- rior. The sound is as clear over the whole extent of the sternum, as on the sternal end of the clavicle. However, the inferior region sometimes yields a duller sound, in consequence of the accumulation of fat about the heart. 8. Axillary region. This extends from the axilla to the fourth rib inclusive: the sound here is naturally clear.