taken that the syringe, pipe, and stopcock, are free and in good order. To inject with the hot injection, it is necessary that the subject should be thoroughly heated; this is best done by opening the cavities of the thorax and abdomen, and filling them with water of a temperature that the hand can bear; the body at the same time should be immersed in water of the same temperature, taking care to exclude atmospheric air as much as possible. The process of heating should be carried on until the subject has acquired a temperature resembling the natural heat of the living body. While this is going on, the injec- tion should be particularly attended to, as the materials are very inflammable, and if care be not taken, or much heat be employed, there will be danger of burning the chimney or house ; heat slowly applied will melt the in- jection without any admixture of air, or endangering the loss of colour, which strong heat would certainly effect. When the subject and injection are sufiiciently heated, the injection should be sucked up twice or thrice, so as to mix it well with the colouring matter, which al- ways falls to the bottom : before the syringe is intro- duced into the pipe, it should be held up and the piston pressed till the injection appears, by which any air that may be in the syringe will be permitted to es- cape ; taking the wings of the pipe in the left hand, the syringe is to be introduced, and the piston is to be pushed down slowly and gradually with the right hand, until the syringe is emptied; this action is to be re- peated, till we feel resistance made to the further passage of the fluid in the arteries ; if after this resistance is felt, any further force be used, there will be great danger of rupturing the arteries and producing extravasation. As soon as we are satisfied that the body is injected, it should be put in cold water, where it should remain for a few hours. Either of the following hot injections may be used: Wax §xvi. Resin Jviii. Turpentine Varnish ^viii. Chinese Vermilion ^i. This makes a very handsome injection, but it is liable