498 transverse muscles, which exist in this part of the spine only ; the strength of the intervertebral substance, which being of less depth here will not readily yield: and above all, the limitation to motion, partly produced by the me- chanical forms of the bones, partly by the mode of action of the muscles : these circumstances concur to render a dislocation of one cervical vertebra from another, without fracture, extremely difficult. In fact it has hitherto been considered, by the greater number of writers, as an acci- dent w'hich could not occur ; but an example of simple dislocation forwards of the fourth from the fifth cer\ical vertebra was lately seen in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital; and a similar accident occurred still more lately in this country. OF DISLOCATION OF THE LOWER JAW'. The structure of the articulation of the lower jaw ren- ders it impossible for any other than the forward di.sloca- tion to take place. This most readily happens wffien the mouth is opened widely, or when any violence is used which tends to depress the lower jaw\ In such case, the condyle being brought forward to the anterior edge of the articular eminence, if the pterygoideus extemus and an- terior portion of the masseter act strongly, the condyle slips forwards under the zygoma, and dislocation is pro- duced. Usually the internal lateral ligament alone is ruptured, unless the displacement has been occasioned by some sudden violence. The muscles which depress the low^er jaw, and thus assist in producing luxation, are the platysma myoides ; the digastric; the mylo-hyoi- deus ; the genio-hyoi’deus, and genio-hyo-glossus. Both condyles may be dislocated at the same time; or one separately. The first is called complete dislocation ; the latter, a partial dislocation ; but this nomenclature is to be condemned as leading to confusion of the terms. When dislocation of both condyles has taken place the mouth remains permanently open, in consequence of the coronoid process resting on the angle between the malar and maxillary bones. The line of the lower arch of the teeth, instead of falling behind the upper, as in the natural position, falls before them: there is a de-