88 process of the sacrum. Use, to support the spinal co- lumn, extend it, and incline it to one side, and to rotate <me bone upon the other, as far as their articulating sur- faces will admit. Inter-spixales are short muscles, consisting of longitudinal fibres ; their name expresses their situation and attachment; between the cervical spines they are more distinct, and appear to be in pairs, right and left, as the spinous processes here are forked; some fibres in the neck deseiwe the name of supraspinous muscles, as they pass over these processes, cover and adhere to' several of them; in the back they are very indistinct, almost wanting, and in the loins they are much weaker than in the neck, chiefly consisting of ligamentous fibres, with a few muscular intermixed. Use, to sup- port and extend the spine. Inteu-transversales consist of longitudinal fibres attached and situated, as their name implies; between the cervical vertebrae these muscles are more stiong and distinct, and consist of two planes, an anterior and posterior; between the lumbar vertebrae they are less distinct; and still less so, indeed often wanting, between the dorsal. Use, to support the spine on either side, and to bend it laterally. External to these in the back, the levatores costarum muscles are seen, which have been already noticed in the description of the intercostals. Between the occiput and the first vertebrae, the following four pair of muscles are situated. Rectus Capitis Posticus Major. Triangular; arises narrow from the spinous process of the 2d verte- bra ; ascends outwards, and is inserted broad into the inferior transverse ridge of the occipital bone. Use, to extend the head, or draw it backwards, also to rotate it and the atlas on the dentatus, co-operating with the splenius of the same side; this muscle is covered by the complexes; its insertion is overlapped by that of the su- perior oblique. Rectus Capitis Posticus mixor, also triangular, arises narrow from the posterior part of the atlas; passes upwards, outwards and backwards, and is inserted broad into the occipital bone, behind the foramen magnum. Use, to assist the former in drawing back