50G is removed from the body of the pubis, and is not as pro- minent as in the natural state. In the dislocation into the obturator foramen, the distance between the trochan- ter major and the body of the pubis is lessened ; while that between this process and the anterior superior spine is greater than usual. In dislocation upwards and backwards the head of the bone rests on the dorsum of the ileum. The upper part of the capsular ligament is ruptured ; and the external accessory and round ligaments are torn. In rotation in- wards the head of the femur is pressed against the back part of the capsular ligament, and if the rotation be car- ried far, a considerable portion of the bone is outside the cotyloid cavity: hence the species of dislocation now de- scribed is most likely to occur when rotation inwards is accompanied by external violence. When dislocation has occurred the three glutaei mus- cles are those principally concerned in keeping the head of the bone fixed on the dorsum of the ileum ; but when the head of the bone is sufliciently raised to pass over the edge of the acetabulum, the psoas and iliacus with the obturator externus and pectinalis, will assist to bring it into the proper situation. Although in common cases of dislocation no other injury is done to the, joint than what has been already described, the dissection of a luxation upwards and backwards has been published, in which the gemini, pyriformis, obturators, and quadratus femoris, were completely torn across, with laceration of some fibres of the pectinalis. In the dislocation backwards on the ischiatic notch the head of the bone rests on the pyriformis muscle. This dislocation also is most likely to happen when the thigh is rotated inwards and bent towards the abdomen. The pyriformis, gemini, and obturator internus muscles keep the bone in the dislocated position ; while the psoas, iliacus, and obturator externus favour reduction. When the femur is dislocated forwards on the obtura- tor foramen, the capsular ligament and the internal ac- cessory fibres are lacerated. The ligamentum teres is not always ruptured. The pectinaeus and adductor brevis (if not lacerated, which often takes place,) will