23 mastoid muscle, between the clavicle and posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle; in this space we find the subclavian artery, vein, and brachial plexus of nerves; it is here that the operation of tying the subclavian arter)', in case of axillary aneurism, is recommended to be performed. 2. The posterior superior triangle is above tbe omo-hyoid and between the mastoid and trapezius muscles; it contains the cervical plexus of nerves, several lymphatic glands, and a great quantity of cellular membrane. 3. The anterior inferior trian- gle is above the sternal third of the clavicle between the median line and anterior belly of the omo-hyoid; this space contains the carotid artery, jugular vein, and accompanying nerves, covered by the sterno-mastoid, hyoid, and thyroid muscles. 4. The anterior superior triangle is between the sterno-mastoid and anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscles; the apex is formed by the decussation of these muscles, and is opposite the cricoid cartilage; the base is, superiorly, marked by the digastric muscle and lingual nerve ;—this space also contains the great vessels and nerves which here how- ever arc only superficially covered, so that in this situ- ation the operation of tying the carotid artery can be more easily effected. Divide the sterno-mastoid mus- cle about its centre, and reflect each portion towards its attachment; at the lower part of the neck, Ijehiud and between the sterno-mastoid muscles, are seen the following: Sterno-Hyoideus is long, flat and thin, arises from the posterior surface of the first bone of the sternum, cartilage of the first rib, sternal end of the clavicle, and stemo-clavicular capsule; ascends obliquely inwards, apr proximating its fellow above, and is inserted into the lower border of the body of the os hyoides. Use, to depress the os hyoides, pharynx and larynx. This mus- cle is covered by the sternum and clavicle, by the sterno-mastoid and integuments; it lies on the sterno- thyroid, crico-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid muscles, and on the thyroid gland and its vessels; a tendinous line often intersects it about its centre. Cut this muscle across and reflect each portion towards its attachments, and xve see the following pair of muscles: