409 solid, yet flexible column, placed in the middle and back part of the trunk, and extending from the head to the sacrum. All the vertebrae agree in the general outline, which is as follows ; each vertebra consists of a body and of several projections or processes: the body occupies the anterior central part ; it is thick and spongy, and rather circular or oval; its flat surfaces above and below give at- tachment to the inten'ertebral ligaments ; the margin of each is tipped with a compact white substance; anterior- ly it is transversely convex and very porous, posteriorly concave, so as to form part of the spinal canal or foramen; this surface is perforated by several holes for vessels. The processes of each vertebra are nine, two lateral or the laminae, two transverse, four oblique or articulating, and one spinous. The lateral processes or lamince, arise, one on each side by a sort of pedicle from the posterior part of the body ; they pass backwards, bounding the sides of the spi- nal hole, and unite posteriorly in the spinous process; they are broad behind, but narrow where they join, the body, being grooved out above and below into a notch ; the in- ferior of these is the larger; these notches when the ver- tebrae are joined, form the intervertebral holes for the passage of the spinal neiwes. The spinous process is the most projecting part of the vertebra in the posterior me- dian line ; its base is bifurcated, its apex generally ends in a point or tubercle. The transverse processes arise from the laminae, and are directed outwards on each side. The articular or oblique processes arise from the roots of the transverse, two ascend, two descend ; they are co- vered with cartilage and articulate with the corresponding- processes of the vertebra above and below. The spinal hole or canal is bounded by the body and processes ; it is oval or triangular. The processes of the vertebrae are of a more compact structure than the bodies, which are very light and spongy. A vertebra is generally developed by three points of bone, one for the body, and one on each side for the laminae and articulating processes ; sometimes a fourth point is deposited for the spinous ; this process is seldom found ossified in the foetus, but remains cartilagi- nous for some time. In addition to these three principal T