199 urine would be sent retrograde into the ureters, instead of forward into the urethra. These lines, however, seldom present this structure so distinctly as has been described, and how far their supposed use is correctly ascribed to them is very questionable. The iivula of the bladder is a small eminence at the apex of the trigone, much better marked in some than in others ; it is merely a thickening and peculiar organization of the sub-mucous tissue ; it is nearly opposite, but a little anterior to the third or middle lobe of the prostate gland. The trigone is the most sensible and vascular part of the bladder : posterior to the trigone the bladder is fre- quently, particularly in old subjects, dilated into a sort of pouch. In the female the trigone is smaller, but broader in proportion than in the male, and the uvula is less distinct.—The urethra is the next division of the urinary organs to be examined ; as this canal, however, in the male, is the common passage for the urine and .seminal fluid, or as it is a part both of the urinary and generative organs, we shall postpone the description of it until we have considered the latter.—The organs of ge- neration in the male are the testicles and their appen- dices, the vesiculae seminales, the prostate and anti-pros- tatic glands, (the latter have been already examined,) the penis, and the urethra. We shall describe these organs in the following order: 1st, the testes, with their coverings ; 2d, the vasa deferentia; 3d, the vesiculae se- minales ; 4th, the prostate gland; 5th, the penis ; and 6th, the urethra. niSSECTIOX OF THE ORG.AXS OF GENERATION IN THE MAEE. 1st. The Testes; these two glands are, in the very young foetus, contained in the abdomen beneath each kid- ney ; a short time, however, previous to birth, they de- •icend into that situation which they are found to occupy in the adult, and are surrounded by several tunics, viz. the scrotum, dartos, superficial fascia, tunica communis, tunica vaginalis, and tunica albuginea.