• • V.-\V«s\sW\\\AVV\V%V^AV\N'- \W*- mV-.A\W'*N k' . . "V'A'WS J^AV\^ 4ViVV» M \LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark Gc>dU^24^ k-J I'973 MiC.3 01 06 010 2 4398 LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: oo U<L /! /VICDr. Johnson—“I could write a better book of Cookery than has yet been written. It should be a book upon philosophical principles. Pharmacy is now made much more simple. Cookery may be made so too. A prescription which is now compounded of five ingredients formerly had fifty in it. So in cookery. If the nature of the ingredients be well known much fewer will do. ” Dilly—“Mrs. Glass’s ‘Cookery,’which was the best, was written by Dr. Hill. Half the trade know this.” Johnson—“Well, Sir, this shows how much better the subject of cookery may be treated by a philosopher. . . . But you shall see what a book of Cookery I shall make. ”—BoswclVs John&on. 10*24.-^$ iiK’f yr pcjjy . 'sfURY hit* 05 PRINTED BT H. NISBET, 219 GEORGE STREET, GLASGOW.CONTENTS General Principles of Cookery,—Action of Heat— Baking—Frying—Boiling—Condiments—Salt—Vine- gar—Mustard—Sugar, Economics of Food, Value of Various Kinds of Food, .... Kinds and Qualities of Food, and Modes of Frepara tion, —V egetables—Fruits—Farinacea—Bread—Por- ridge. Animal Products: Milk—Butter—Cheese—Eggs —Flesh, Fowl, and Fish, Food in its Relations to Health,—Quality and Quan- tity—Flavours—Drinks—Dietetic Medicine—Times of Eating—What to Avoid, Kitchen Requisites and Management,—Firesand Ranges —Weights and Measures—Order of Cooking, Sauces, Relishes, and Flavours,—Uses, Effects, and Pre- parations — Melted Butter—Sauces—Ketchups—Fish Sauces—Browning—Pudding Sauces, &c., . Preparation and Cooking of Vegetables,—Potatoes— Artichokes — Turnips — Beets — Parsnips — Onions — Asparagus—Cabbage—Spinach —Peas—Beans—Toma- toes, &c., Sours,—Elements and Principles--Stocks or Broths—Vege- table and Animal—Count Rumford’s and other Econo- mical Soups—Fish Soups—French Soup—Pot a Feu— Bouillon, Fish,—Kinds and Qualities—How to Boil—Marinade—To Broil, Fry, and Stew Fish—Batter—Kippered Salmon— Cod—Salt Fish—Turbot—Herrings—Mackerel—Baked Fish—Fish Cakes—Lobsters—Crabs—Oysters, PAoe 9 14 15 16 28 35 37 44 52 606 CONTENTS. Flesh Meat and Poultry,—Broiling, Frying, Roasting, and Baking — Boiling — Gravies — Stuffing — Beef — Mutton—Veal—Beefsteak—Mutton- chops—Stews and Ragouts—Hashes—Fricaudeau— Turkeys—Chickens— Ducks—Geese, Pastry,—Various Pastes—Meat and Fish Puddings—Beef Pudding—Family Steak Pie—Artisan’s Pie—Potato Pie—Vegetable Pie—Oyster Pie—Fish Pies and Pud- dings—Mince Pies—Royal Mince Meat, Eggs and their Combinations,—Howto Test and Keep— Boiled, Fried, Scrambled, Baked and Poached Eggs— Omelets—Custards, ....... Pancakes and Fritters,—Batters—To Fry Pancakes— Fritters—Crullers, Bread and Farinaceous Preparations,—Breadmaking— Biscuits — Unfermented Bread — Fermented Bread— Yeast—Cakes—Buns—Muffins and Crumpets—Ginger- bread—Toast—Indian Cakes-* Rolls— Porridge—Rice— Macaroni, ......... Puddin gs,—Bread—Batter—Rice—Tapioca—Sago—Semo- lina—Arrowroot—Indian Corn—Barley—Oat—Macar- oni — Christmas — Fruit — Apple — Rhubarb — Fig— Custard, &c., ........ Fruit and its Preparations,—Jellies—Jams—Apples— Pears—Gooseberries—Dried Fruits—Tarts and Pies, Milk and its Products,—Qualities and Properties of Milk —Canned Milk — Curds — Creams — Blanc Mange— Cheese, ......... Salads,—Various Modes of Dressing Salads—Fish—Lob- ster and Crab Salads, Beverages,—Tea—Coffee—Chocolate—Summer Drinks - German Wine Cups, ....... ^Esthetics of the Table, PAOB 69 80 85 90 105 118 124 127 129 133PREFACE. In ray little book, entitled “ How to Live on Sixpence a-Day,” I said, “ I wish to show that a simple and cheap diet is not only sufficient for the perfect nourishment of the body, but conducive to strength of mind and serenity of soul; that living on sixpence a-day may be made even more delightful to the senses than indulgence in costly and pernicious luxuries, and that a pure and simple diet may be as elegant and deli- cious as it is healthful and invigorating.” I have treated briefly and comprehensively in that work of the elements of human nutrition and the dietetic system which I believe to be most conducive to health, and best fitted to sustain all the powers of man in their highest condition. The sale of this brochure, and the reception it has met with from the press and the public, have been quite beyond my expectations. There came to be, therefore, all the more need of a practical treatise which should enable people to carry out its principles; hence, I have written and compiled the present work. Ought I to apologise for writing and compiling a cook-book? Dr. Kitchener is a precedent, and the great Dr. Johnson would have been had he carried out his good intentions; but there is a better reason than that. Nine-tenths of our diseases arise from bad diet—under eating, over eating, bad eating, and bad drinking. A large proportion of them could be cured, and a still larger prevented, by a proper diet. No branch of hygiene is so important as the choice and preparation of food. A healthy gastronomy must be founded upon a sound physiology, Who, then, so fitted as a physiologist and a physician to write a cook-book ?8 PREFACE. Most cook-books are prepared simply for reference. Soma dish is wanted, the index is consulted, the recipe found and followed with more or less success. But I wish this hook to be read from beginning to end, for it is one of principles as well as of practice. If the principles of the selection and pre- paration of food are once mastered, all the rest will be easy. The cook will not only be able to follow the recipes found here and elsewhere, but to invent no end of nice dishes. Especially I wish every one to read the General Principles of cookery, the chapter on the Healthfulness of Food, and that on the Kinds and Qualities of food and Modes of Preparation. If I have at all succeeded in my intention, these chapters alone will go far to make a good cook and intelligent gastronomist. I wish also to call special attention to the chapter on Sauces and Flavours, as it is important that the student should under- stand them and their uses before coming to their practical application. Hunger is said to be the best sauce, but there are many other very good ones, which give not only zest, but increase the power to digest nutritious but insipid comestibles. The chapter on Bread and Farinaceous Preparations will, I believe, increase the public health; the numerous recipes for exquisite fruit dishes must lessen the bills of mortality. A comprehensive essay on Fish and the section on Soups will add greatly to the variety and economy of the national dietary. To the ladies I commend the important and delicious chapters on Puddings and Pastry; and I cannot but indulge the patri- otic hope that some of our American dishes may find a welcome to English tables. I believe no cook-book of its size and price contains a greater amount of original and useful matter. Seek- ing the largest public, I hope and believe that it will be the means of saving money, saving health, saving life. At.dwyn Tower, Malverx, 1872.HOW TO COOK. GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF COOKERY. The word cookery—latin coquo, to boil, seethe, bake, heat, scorch, dry, ripen,—expresses a great variety of operations. Cookery is generally the application of heat to articles of nutriment, to improve their taste or digestibility. Some modes of preserving food may also be called cookery. Fish, flesh, and fruits dried in the sun, have undergone a kind of cookery. The dry, salt codfish, the smoked, red, or Dutch herrings, dried and smoked beef, and even ham and sausages are often eaten without further preparation. A good cookery book must be based upon two important sciences, Chemistry and Physiology. All food is good just in proportion as it is adapted to the needs of the human system. A knowledge of physiology shows us the kind of food man can best assimilate, and by which he can best be nourished, while chemistry shows us how such food may best be prepared by artificial processes. Good food should be pleasant to the sight, and nicely and tastefully prepared and set upon the table. It should be pleasant to the smell, filling the air with those fragrant odours which “make our mouths water,”—that is, excite the flow of the salivary and gastric juices, which are so important in the process of digestion. It should be pleasant to the taste. This sapidity or savouriness of food keeps up the flow of the digestive juices, prompts to thorough mastication, stimulates the action of the stomach, liver, pancreas, and absorbents. Nature has given us three senses by which we first test and then enjoy our food,—sight, smell, and taste, and these should all be gratified, or, at least, not offended. How beautifully adapted to these senses are those kinds of food ready prepared for man, his original, his natural, mostHOW TO COOK. 10 healthful and delicious diet! What is there more lovely to the sight, or delightful to smell and taste than a dish of ripe strawberries, peaches, apples, pears, grapes, &c.? It is hard to tell whether sight, smell, or taste gives us most pleasure. It is good to enjoy them all. Unhappily, we do not have a full supply of such food in all climates, or at all seasons, and we are forced to prepare coarser materials by the processes of cookery for our ordinary diet. Thus we gather the seeds of various grasses—wheat, rye, oats, barley, maize, rice,—and by grinding, roasting, baking, boiling, toasting, and by combinations with milk, butter, eggs, sugar, fruits, etc., we make a variety of food which satisfies our palates and nourishes our bodies. We do the same with the leaves of plants, roots, bulbs, and tubers, and by the application of heat make cabbages, turnips, onions, and even potatoes palatable and nutritious. Heat seems to create the peculiar properties as well as flavours of tea, coffee, and chocolate, and it wonderfully alters the smell, taste, and digestibility of potatoes, peas, beans, and many vegetables. The flesh of animals would scarcely be eaten raw, save in the last extremity of famine; and though civilized men eat raw oysters, and savages raw fish, few fish would be caught but for the transformations of cookery. Heat swells and bursts the starch cells in plants, as seen in parched corn, boiled rice, and boiled or baked potatoes; it hardens the albumen in eggs, fish, and flesh; it softens fibrous substances, as in the roasting and baking of apples, pears, roots, and vegetables; and it develops or creates new flavours, as in pulpy fruits, the crusts of bread, roasted or boiled flesh, eggs, beans, and peas. Cold lias some of the effects of heat. All lovers of ices know that cold makes sweets and certain flavours more delicious. Honey never tastes so good as at or below the freezing point. We all know the taste of cold water. In a warm climate a lump of ice to cool our water, wine, milk, butter, fruit, or salad, makes a world of difference. If drying in the sun was the earliest kind of cookery, roasting before an open fire must have been the next. Broil- ing on the coals soon followed, then baking in the hot ashes. Some of the best flavoiu’S are developed in the open air, and by the free action of oxygen. Roast or broiled meat is better than baked or fried, and has a much finer flavour than boiled meat. So the sweetest bread is the thin cakeHOW TO COOK. 11 baked before the fire, as the wheat short cake, or the Indian corn hoe cake, or johnny cake. Toasted bread also shows the benefit of this free action of heat and air, and a roasted apple differs from a baked one. But in other cases the long continued action of heat, in close vessels, produces wonderful changes of flavour, as in the case of baked beans left all night in the oven, or coarse hard pears long baked or stewed with sugar. The usual mode of baking among savages is to dig a hole in the ground, build a fire in it, and when the earth is well heated, rake out the fire and put into it the articles to be cooked, placing the hot ashes and embers over all, or if necessary building a fire upon them. The clam bakes, fashion- able on the American coast, are made in this way,—the clam being a bivalve similar to the mussel but much superior in size and flavour. The Dutch oven as originally made of pottery, a covered dish set over the fire, and its dish-like lid filled with live coals and ashes, was the next improvement, perhaps, but it fails, as every oven does in some kinds of cookery, in proportion as it excludes the air. Count Rumford found that by letting air come into an oven through a tube heated by the fire, he got a flavour almost as good as that produced by roasting; and cooking in, or by means of a strong blast of very hot air might be an improvement on the open fire. Frying is a convenient way of cookery, and therefore much used, but it has some heavy disadvantages. The oil, butter, or fat, in which meat, fish, eggs, and vegetables, are fried tends to make them indigestible, unless skilfully managed; when the cook is careless or ignorant, this oil is liable to be absorbed in larger quantities than are desirable. Many sub- stances are, by over frying and careless frying, madehard, tough, leathery. Albumen in eggs, and some kinds of meat, becomes very difficult of digestion. The white of an egg too long fried in fat is a great trial to a delicate stomach. But frying can be well done as well as ill done, and when done properly, is a very nice way to cook potatoes, apples, plantain, parsnips, rice cakes, omelets, fish, oysters, flesh and fowl. |Farther on find full directions.] Boiling is adapted to a very wide range of cookery, and simmering, seething, and stewing, are varieties of boiling. The peculiarity of boiling is, that the heat to which any article can be subjected is limited to the boiling point of the12 HOW TO COOK. liquid. In pure water we cannot go above 212° Fahrenheit. All the fire in the world will not make water hotter, or things cook quicker. Therefore all fire beyond what is just necessary to keep the pot boiling is wasted. Boiling salt water is hotter than fresh. Boiling oil has a heat much greater. In boiling substances liable to catch to the bottom or sides of the kettle and burn, great care is required to stir them, or keep the kettle at a moderate heat. A better way is to have a double boiler—one kettle or sauce pan within another, with an inch or more space all round between them. If this outer space is filled with water, kept boiling, the water in the inner vessel will be kept at the simmering point. If the outer water be saturated with salt, the inner will boil. Fill up with boil- ing water as it evaporates. Many substances cook best in a moderate heat, taking more time. Count Rumford found that a shoulder of veal left by accident in a scarcely more than warm oven all night had become perfectly cooked, and was more tender and savoury than if done in a hot oven. An egg should never be boiled in boiling water. The white is too hard, the yolk too soft. When a pot or kettle has been once raised to the boiling point it can be set aside, and merely kept simmering. Or it may be enveloped in some non-conducting material. One small furnace may in this way cook a large dinner, by beginning with the dishes which require most time. Soups and stews are best made at the seething or simmering point of heat, only the process must have time. In high mountainous regions, liquids boil at lower temperatures than at the level of the sea, and of course all boiled dishes require a longer time for cooking. Whatever knowledge one may have, skill in cooking must be acquired by experience. Most things have to be done “ by the rule of thumb;” by good judgment, good guessing, or intuition. Some women are said to always have good luck with their baking. How is one to know when an oven is sufficiently hot? An experienced cook puts in her hand, and tells at once. For the rest we must look, feel, smell, taste— use all our senses. The colour of a roast, boil, or fry, tells its condition: we smell a scorch or burn; we try vegetables, fish, or meat, with fork or skewer; we must taste ragouts, gravies, sauces, &c., to get the right flavour. Bread or cake is baked when no dough adheres to the instrument that pierces it. A13 HOW TO COOK. fish is done when the meat no longer adheres to the bones, or you can turn a fork in it. Potatoes are done when a fork passes readily through the largest. The larger the article, the less heat, or the further from the fire, and the more time. Much judgment is required in the use of what may be called the accessories of cookery—the condiments and flavouring materials. Many substances afford excellent nourishment which have very little taste. Rice, arrowroot, potatoes, cab- bages, and in the English climate many vegetables and fruits, need salt, or sugar, or vinegar, pepper, mustard, spices, sweet herbs—something for a relish. And, to a certain extent, these articles are not only agreeable, but useful. Salt enters largely into the formation of the blood and animal tissues. Our tears and other secretions are perceptibly salt. It may be true that we should get enough in our food without addition; but we tolerate larger quantities, and up to a certain point, salt added to our food seems to favour digestion, while an excess is un- pleasant and injurious. Few things seem to need salt more than eggs; yet those who have tried the experiment say that to one who uses no salt, a fresh egg seems to be strongly salted. Vinegar gives a pleasant taste to many kinds of food, really softens some and makes them more digestible, and appears to join with the acid of the gastric juice and increase its efiicacy: but an excess of vinegar brings on dyspepsia. For many uses lemon or lime-juice is nicer and better than vinegar, but always more costly, and at times not easy to get. Vinegar may be well used on cabbage, greens of all kinds, beet root, and a judicious dash of vinegar improves the flavour of almost every kind of soup, stew, or gravy. Fish of all kinds is the better for a little acid. Mustard is, perhaps, one of the least objectionable of the hot or biting condiments; but an excess of mustard is to be avoided for this reason: the more we use the more we require, and the delicate coats of the stomach will not bear above a very moderate quantity without injury. The same remark applies with still greater force to black, white, and red pep- pers, and the peppery sauces into which they so largely enter. A healthy stomach and simple taste should never be burned up and destroyed by any kind of fiery, feverish, and exciting stimulants; and all condiments and flavours should, esven as a matter of taste, be used in the most moderate quantities. Thus spices should seldom be used with fruits, or, if used,14 HOW TO COOK. should give no distinct taste of their own, but only heighten harmonious flavours. It is not that food should not be agreeable to the taste; it is very desirable that it should be; but it is not at all desirable that men should be stimulated into gluttony, and then be obliged to depend upon stimulants to excite their jaded senses. Hunger is the best sauce, and natural flavours sulfice for men with good appetites and good digestions. Sugar enters very largely into our cookery, in combination with flour, rice, tapioca, fruit, eggs, &c. Many of the fruits of tliis northern clime need fire to ripen them, and sugar to sweeten them. But sugar may also be used with advantage to make more palatable and nutritious many of our vegetables. A teaspoon ful of sugar in a dish of green peas, boiled in a very little water, makes them wonderfully more delicious. The same with asparagus. Any vegetable wanting in sweet- ness will be improved by this addition. Soyer makes brown sugar a part of the foundation of most of his soups. It may require to be balanced by a dash of vinegar, but out of the two comes a delightful flavour; and not* mere flavour, for sugar is food as well. And a teaspoonful of sugar is one of the ingredients of a salad dressing. In fact, there are few dishes in which sugar cannot be used, at the proper stage of preparation, with advantage. Not in meat dishes, you think; but what of sugar-cured hams? If in a soup, why not in a ragout? I have proved elsewhere that the average Briton can, so far as food and drink are concerned, live very comfortably on sixpence a-day; but in this book I have, to suit all tastes, given recipes which belong to a much more expensive style of living and cookery; yet the economical housewife who reads it will see her way to great elegance and economy united. For the greatest economics, however, we must come to the purchase and preparation of food on a large scale, and to some form of associated or co-operative house-keeping. If from twenty to a hundred families, living in the same neighbour- hood, were to unite, they could buy everything at an average reduction of 20 to 30 per cent., have one kitchen instead of from twenty to a hundred, one head cook, and from t\yo to five assistants, and savings which would make an aggregate reduc- tion of 30 to 50 per cent., while the food might be better prepared and more satisfactory. And what a saving of time, trouble, fuss, and worry!15 HOW TO COOK. THE COMPARATIVE VALUE OF VARIOUS KINDS OF FOOD AS NUTRIMENT. Food varies widely in quantity and kinds of nutritious matter. Some are rich in the nitrogenous or flesh-forming elements—caseine, albumen, fibrine, gluten—cheese, eggs, flesh, wheat; others have larger proportions of carboniferous, fat-forming, heat-producing elements—oil or fat, sugar, starch. Nearly all food contains a large proportion of water;—cheese, 3(> to 44 per cent.; eggs, 65 per cent.; wheat bread, 44 per cent.; potatoes, 74 per cent.; turnips, 93 per cent, water. The following table from Dr. Letheby gives the parts in a hundred of the two kinds of nutriment in several common articles of diet. The remainder is water, with a small residue of salts of soda, potash, &c., none exceeding 5 per cent:— Food Substances—Parts in 100. Cheese (skimmed), Flesh Forming. 45 Fat Forming. 14 ,, (Cheddar), 29 72 Lentils, 29 48 Beans, .... 24 47 Haricots, 23 52 Peas, .... 22 63 White of Egg. 20 17 Beef and Mutton, . 19 12 Yolk of Egg, 16 72 Oatmeal, 12 76 Wheat Flour, 11 75 Barley Meal, 10 76 Rye Meal, 9 71 Indian Meal, . 9 84 "Wheat Bread, 9 51 Rice, .... 7 77 Rye Bread, . 5 48 Cow’s Milk, . 5 15 Potatoes, 2 24 Parsnips, Beet, 2 6 Turnips 1 5 Sago, Arrowroot, &c. . 84 Add together the figures in the two columns against anyIIOW TO COOIC. 16 article for its percentage of nutriment. A comparison of prices will readily show what food is most economical. Fish has about the same percentage as beef and mutton, but varies widely in the proportions of musculine and fat, from the skate, nearly pure muscle to the eel, more than half fat. I have said “ flesh forming” and “fat forming,” but nature seems to have a wonderful power of transforming substances The nitrogenous elements enter into the formation of skin membranes, tendons, and nerves, as well as muscle; and animal heat is now believed to be the result of the destruction of muscle and nerve matter, as well as fat. Starch is converted into sugar, and sugar into fat. Professor Johnstone, one of the latest and best authorities on food, in his “ Chemistry of Common Life,” gives many facts in addition to those in the above table. lie says the bran of wheat contains 18 per cent, of gluten; fine flour only 10 per cent. Figs, as they come in boxes, contain more nutri- ment than wheaten bread. The perfectly dry gooseberry is as nutritive as wheat flour. Dry cabbage leaf contains 35 per cent, of gluten, and is therefore one of the most nutritious of vegetable substances, but it needs to be eaten or mixed with potatoes, rice, or other fat or starchy kinds of food. Fish, perfectly dried, contains from 44 (in the fat eel) to 97 (in the skate), per cent, of musculine, or flesh and tissue forming element of food. Dried flesh contains 84 per cent. KINDS AND QUALITIES OF FOOD, AND MODES OF PREPARATION. In selecting food for our tables, we should seek what is most healthful—that is, what will best satisfy both our taste and the requirements of the system. For both appetite and health we need a certain variety, not only at each meal, but from dav to day. There are but few articles of food of which we do not grow tired by constant use. Happily, those which wear best with us are best for us. There should also be a certain harmony in the articles we group together on the table; a harmony of contrast, as well as agreement. Avoid two vegetables nearly alike. If you have cabbage, you do not want spinach, Brussels sprouts, kail, or brocoli. And consider what kind of lighter or more watery vegetables will taste best with your principal dish.17 HOW TO COOK. When you do not have meat, or fish, or eggs, let one of your vegetable dishes be of a substantial and especially nutri- tious character, as peas, beans, lentils, macaroni, cabbage. If the early part of a meal is somewhat meagre, you can make up for it by a richer desert. A good pudding of bread, tapioca, or rice, with milk and eggs, or cheese, of itself affords sufficient nourishment. When you have fixed upon the pivotal dish of each meal or course, it is easy to select the lighter articles that make up the group, but this must be left to the taste of those most con- cerned. I propose to give a list of articles of food which go to make a healthy, economical, and tasteful dietary, and notice some of their combinations. We will begin with our most common and cheapest food— roots and tubers; as, turnips, carrots, parsnips, beets, potatoes, Jerusalem artichokes, salsify, radishes. When taken from the ground, roots should not be cleansed from the earth. They keep better with their skins protected, and small root fibres uninjured. When about to be cooked they must be carefully washed, but the beet root must not be scraped, nor its small fibres broken. Turnips are peeled, and large ones cut into quarters. Old potatoes may be scored round or partly peeled, and it is well to soak them a few hours in cold water. Turnips and parsnips, if withered, are also the better for being soaked. The French and Swedish turnips, such as are grown for cattle, if of a moderate size, are excellent for the table, and have a finer flavour for soups than the common English turnip. The nutritive character of the turnip is shown in its being so largely used to give weight to sheep and cattle. Carrots contain sugar, starch, gluten, albumen, and are excellent food for horses and men. They are also used for flavouring soups, &c„ and are sometimes used in puddings and pies. Parsnips, though not so digestible as carrots, have nearly the same character. They are in best flavour—first boiled, and then broiled, or fried. Beet contains a large proportion of sugar, with albumen, fibrine, &c., about 15 per cent, of nutriment. In England it is used mostly as a mere garnish and in salads; and as the demand is small, the price is absurdly high. It should be nearly as cheap as the ruta baga, or as turnips, and is a healthy BHOW TO COOK. 18 and delicious vegetable, fresh boiled, and eaten hot with a little butter and vinegar. Salsify, sometimes called the Oyster Plant, is cooked and eaten like parsnips, or like asparagus. It is a bland, nice vegetable, and good in soups. Jerusalem Artichokes are boiled, and eaten with melted butter, or cut up and used in soup, in which they are sweet and nutritious. Radishes, though commonly eaten raw with a little salt, or in a salad, are also nice boiled, like artichokes and salsify, or in soups. Potatoes are not properly roots, but tubers, growing from the roots. A potato is a bag of starch, with a small portion of nitrogenous matter. Potatoes are highly nutritious, requir- ing, however, to be combined with other food containing albumen, fibrine, or their equivalents, as bread, milk, cheese, eggs, fish, flesh. Potatoes, from their bland, starchy, sugary character, combine readily with a great number of articles. With flour they make bread and puddings; with meat and fish, excellent and nutritious hashes, stews, fish cakes and puddings; they enter readily into the composition of soups; they are good boiled, roasted, baked, fried, fricasseed, and form the basis of hundreds of dishes. Bulbous Roots—as onions, leeks, garlic, shallots, chives, all possess similar properties, and have been used as food, or as a seasoning to soups and stews, from the remotest antiquity. The onion is very nutritious, containing, dry, from 25 to o'-' per cent, of gluten. The Spanish onions are very large and mild in flavour, and, eaten raw or cooked, form a large part of the nourishment of the Spanish peasantry, a fine muscular people. Garlics, leeks, &c., are chiefly used as flavours. The odorous oil of these vegetables, passing out of the system unchanged through the lungs, skin, &c., renders those who eat onions or garlic very unpleasant to some; but, as with most flavouring substances, they may be used so as to blend softly with other flavours, without producing disgust by the strength of their own. The young shoots of Asparagus, boiled till tender in a very little water, with a little salt and sugar, and served with butter, make a delicate and excellent dish. The young shoots of schoke, or garget, milk weed, and several other plants, are used in the same manner. Leaves, Stalks, d~c.—Of these we have cabbages, Brussels10 HOW TO COOK. sprouts, kale, broccoli, cauliflower, sea-kale, lettuce, endive, celery, dandelion, spinach, rhubarb, artichokes, beet tops, turnip tops, mustard, cress, water cress, &c. Cahlxtye, as men have long since discovered, is a highly nutritious vegetable, containing, the dried leaves, from 80 to 35 per cent, of gluten, or flesh-forming material. In cauli- flower the proportion of gluten sometimes rises to 56 per cent. Cabbages, See., are freed from slugs and insects by lying in cold salt water. They are also improved by a little salt being added to the water in which they are boiled. They should be cooked quite tender, in plenty of water. Veyetables should be as freshly gathered as possible, and kept in a cool place. They may be refreshed by cutting off their stalks, and putting them like flowers in water. Celery is eaten raw, with a little salt, or in stews and soups, to which it gives a fine flavour. The seeds and leaves of the mature plant are also used for this purpose. Lettuce is not only nice in a salad, but excellent stewed, served like spinach, or in soups. Endive is chiefly used in a salad; but would give a pleasant flavour to greens. Spinach is one of the most pleasant and healthful of plants, boiled soft, and served with a little butter and vinegar. It acts as a gentle aperient and blood purifier. The leaves and upper part of the root of young dandelions, cooked and eaten like spinach, but boiled longer, are by many liked better, on account of their fine bitter flavour. They are very nutritious and healthful; and as they grow wild in great abundance all over England where the farmers would be glad to get rid of them, they form a cheap as well as excellent article of food. Cut the root with a knife an inch below the surface of the ground, and they will pull up easily. The tops and roots of youny beets, when the crop is thinned out. also makes a sweet and excellent dish of greens, cooked and served like spinach. The tender leaves of the ruta-baga the same. Mushrooms are among the most nutritious of vegetable substances, and excellent, stewed, fried, broiled, or baked, under a cover, on toast to retain the flavour. There are many • good mushrooms besides the ones commonly sold, some of which resemble, and are a good substitute for, beef or mutton; but care must be used not to gather the poisonous varieties. Fruits —It is thought by many that the most natural foodHOW TO COOK. 20 of man is that which is found ready prepared for his use pleasant to the sight, delicious to the smell and taste, and affording the most healthful kind of nutriment; as strawber- ries, grapes, apples, pears, oranges, bananas, melons, &c. It is certain that men could live very well, perhaps better than in any other way, on fruit and nuts alone, in genial, temperate, and tropical climates, where they are produced in great abundance. It is also believed that fruits which grow in the air and ripen in the sun are a higher and purer form of food than roots, stalks, and leaves. Most fruits are eaten, and many are best eaten raw. We can hardly improve grapes, strawberries, or peaches by cookery; still we have grape jellies, and dried grapes, or raisins, are used abundantly in cakes anck puddings. Strawberries are eaten in tarts and preserved in jams; while peaches and pine-apples make delicious fritters, dumplings, tarts, and puddings. Some of our common fruits which can scarcely be eaten at all raw, when they are ripened more thoroughly, and have their flavour developed by fire and the addition of sugar, become truly delicious. This is the case to a remarkable degree with the quince, the coarse hard pear, and many kinds of apples. The quince is sometimes stewed and eaten alone, but more commonly used to give a finer flavour to apples. The uneatable pears are slowly stewed or baked: the longer the better, with a little water and brown sugar or treacle in the dish. Apples may be cooked in a hundred ways, and in all are healthful and nutritive. They are good roasted before the fire; stewed whole; stewed into sauce, with a little sugar, butter, and cinnamon or lemon peel, if liked; boiled; baked in their skins; pared and cored, filled with butter and sugar and baked; placed whole or sliced into puddings of almost every kind; made into dumplings, baked or boiled; in short, as the components of an endless variety of dishes. Gooseberries, currants, cherries, plums, apricots, &c., also supply us with the materials for jellies, jams, tarts, &c. Goose- berries and currants can be used very early, as soon as large enough to pick, supplied with sugar, and ripened by fire. Young and tender apricots are also cooked for tarts, but they have a rather high flavour, which might be used in connection with old or dried apples. Some of our wild berries become by cooking very good eat-21 HOW TO COOK. ing. Many know what nice tarts and puddings and syrups can be made of the blackberries or brambleberries found in every hedge, but few are aware of the delightful flavour of ripe stewed, or baked elder-berries. When fresh fruits cannot be had, there should be an abun- dant supply, dried, canned, bottled, or otherwise preserved. Normandy pippins, which are dried whole and packed in baskets, make excellent tarts and puddings. It is best to cut out the cores. In America great quantities of apples are pared with machines, quartered, cored, strung on twine and dried in the sun, or by being hung near the ceilings of warm rooms. France supplies us with dried plums—prunes—of various quali- ties which retail for from 4d. to Is. a pound. Soaked in water over night, and then slowly stewed with a little sugar, they make an excellent and very healthful sauce. They may also be used after soaking, like fresh plums, in puddings or tarts. Figs are not often cooked, but the dried ones are nice soaked out in boiling water, or hot milk, and also make a delicious pudding, chopped with bread crumb, flour, milk, and eggs. Melons need no cookery; but squashes and vegetable marrow peeled, boiled, and either served in large pieces with white sauce, or mashed with butter or cream, are very nice. Pies are made of squashes and pumpkins, with eggs and milk, flavoured with ginger and nutmeg. Pumpkin and vegetable marrow are also a good basis for soups. Tomatoes grown in England have not the high flavour of those produced in America or the south of France, but they make an excellent dish, raw, with salt, sugar, and vinegar, stewed, baked, or broiled. They are dried with sugar like figs, made into rich preserves, and also into tomato sauce or ketchup. The Egg Plant, seldom seen in England, is a great favourite in America, where it is cut in slices, dipped in batter and fried. Cucumbers are sometimes cooked in a similar manner. Okra, a plant with glutinous pods of delicious flavour, is much used in America in soups, stews, salads, &c. FARINACEA. We come now to the seeds of grasses and leguminous plants, which furnish a large portion of the food of the whole humanHOW TO COOK. 22 race. These are wheat, rye, barley, oats, maize, called Indian corn, or “corn” in America, rice, buckwheat, millet, peas, beans, lentils. These are all highly nutritious substances, affording an abundance both of the heat-producing and flesh- forming principles. Peas, beans, and lentils are especially rich in the latter, and afford a perfect substitute for the flesh of animals. The German armies in France in the late war were admirably sustained by vegetable sausages, of which peas were the chief ingredient. The cereals, as wheat, rye, maize, &c., are chiefly used in the form of bread; but it is not clear that this is the best mode of eating them. It is, however, one of the most convenient. Bread, unhappily, is now made almost entirely by the bakers, taking from women one more branch of productive industry and inflicting over-raised, deteriorated, tasteless, and often miserably adulterated bread upon us, instead of the sweet, healthy, home-made bread that might be baked in every family. The best bread is made of reheat, and the best wheat bread is that made of pure unbolted or whole meal. The brown •bread of the bakers is generally an inferior article, made of a mixture of poor flour and bran, and spoiled by too much fer- mentation. Bakers’ so-called “ home-made” bread is merely their ordinary white bread, fermented much less than usual, and therefore more sweet, healthful, and nutritious. Unfermented bread is made more quickly, and is by many preferred to the fermented. If a small quantity of carbonate or bi-carbonate of soda be intimately mixed with the flour, and it then be wet with sour milk, a weak dilution of hydro-chloric acid in water, or vinegar in water, carbonic acid will be disen- gaged by the union of the alkali and acid, which will form little bubbles through the whole mass. If baked at once in a quick oven, the bread so made is light and wholesome. The bread rises by means of the same g s that is produced by fermenta- tion. The common baking powders are a combination of bi-carbonate of soda and acetic, or other dry acid. The most perfect combination is that of bi-carbonate of soda and hydro- chloric acid, which form common salt; the acid, however, is not so convenient to use as the dry combined powders, and is not always pure. The purest bread, though its taste does not always suit people accustomed to that made with yeast, is the Aerated, made by patented machinery. The flour is mixed in a cylinder,23 HOW TO COOK. under pressure, with water which has absorbed a large quan- tity of carbonic acid—which is, in fact, what is called “ mineral waters”—eaux gaseuses—like the ordinary seltzer and soda waters; and a loaf of bread could be nicely made by stirring a bottle of soda water very quickly into a sufficient quantity of flour and baking immediately in a quick oven. The addition of baking powder to flour enables the pastry cook to make a light crust with one-third the usual quantity of butter, but such crust must be made up quickly, and does not bear much kneading or rolling. Aerated bread, and that made with baking powders, keeps good much longer than bread made with yeast, and may be eaten hot from the oven with less injury. In making bread with alkali and sour milk, care should be taken not to have an excess of alkali; and it should always be thoroughly mixed with the flour before adding the milk or other sour liquid. Very good bread is made of rye, which is the chief bread staple of a large part of central and noi’tlxei'n Europe. Barley bread is rather heavy, but sweet and nuti’itious. Oaten cakes are eaten in Scotland and the north of Ireland; but oatmeal is best in porridge. In America and the soutli of Europe, excellent bread is made of the meal of maize, or Indian corn; and still better, pei’haps, of a mixture of Indian corn and rye meal—the famous Boston Brown Bread, which used to be a staple bread in every family in New England. Rice, potatoes, and even pumpkins and turnips, are some- times used with flour to make bread, which is much cheaper than that made entirely of wheat, and very wholesome. Arrowroot is used to increase the delicacy of cakes and pastry. Bread made with water, in which bran lias been boiled for some hours, is economical, sweet, and nutritious. Milk, cream, butter, and eggs, enter largely into the com- position of nice bread, cakes, biscuit, and pastry. Sweet oil can be used instead of butter, and oily nuts mashed or pounded in a moi'tar, make cakes light, and more rich in nutriment. The meal of peas, beans, or lentils, in the proportion of one- fourth, renders bread much more hearty and muscularly nutritious. Apples and other pulpy fruits make bread more healthful. Perhaps the best, the most healthful, and to an unperverted taste, as the taste of childhood, the most delicious ways of24 HOW TO COOK. preparing wheat and other bread-making grains, are the most simple. Wheat soaked for twenty-four hours, and then boiled in water, or steamed until it cracks open, is very sweet and nice, eaten with a little milk or syrup, or both. Wheat, mashed, cracked, or coarsely ground, stirred into boiling water, and boiled to a mash, mush, stirabout, or por- ridge, which will require fifteen or twenty minutes, and served hot, or kept in a dish or mould and eaten cold, is one of the sweetest of farinaceous dishes, eaten with syrup, sugar and milk, or cream, and also one of the most healthful; a perfect remedy for, and prevention of, constipation, and all the diseases that follow in its train. Oatmeal porridge is too well known to require eulogy. It should be made of medium or coarse meal, stirred into boiling water, not too thick, and is well cooked in ten minutes. Rye, barley, and rice, require nearly the same treatment as wheat. Indian corn meal, when fresh or well kept, makes the hasty puddings, mush, or stirabout, so much eaten in America. Ground coarsely, or barely cracked, it is sweeter to the taste, and is then called hominy. Indian corn has even more oil than wheat, but less gluten, and is hearty, excellent food. It requires to be cooked from twenty-five minutes to an hour, according to its coarseness. Cold Indian corn mush, or hominy, cut in slices, dredged with flour, fried, and eaten with treacle or syrup, is an American and Italian luxury. Wheat mush can also be fried with a fine development of flavour. As Indian meal contains more oil than wheat, it requires less butter or cream. Rice is the staple food of more than half the human race. It contains less gluten than wheat, and a larger proportion of starch. It requires, therefore, the addition of milk, cheese, eggs, or vegetables, which contain more flesh-forming ele- ments. It is good boiled as a vegetable, baked in puddings, mixed with flour in bread and cakes, in soups, &c. Very*easy of digestion, it is a bland good food for children and invalids. Buckwheat is used chiefly in the form of griddle cakes. The meal is mixed up thin with a little yeast; and when it rises, fried in a buttered frying pan, or better, on a dry soap-stone griddle. It is also made quickly with baking powder. Peas, beans, and lentils are the richest of all our food seeds in flesh-forming nutriment—far richer, pound for pound, than beef or mutton. They are good in soups, stews, boiled as vegetables, baked, and in various combinations, and shouldHOW TO COOK. 25 enter largely into the dietary of all who use much muscular exercise. The green pods of beans are eaten as well as the seed; and the pods of green peas, generally thrown away, should be used for soup. ANIMAL PRODUCTS. Next to fruits, grains, and what we call vegetables, the earliest food of the human species, came milk and eggs. The eating of fish and flesh must have been later inventions. As milk is the first food of man, as of all the mammalia, it is evidently perfectly adapted to his nutrition, and contains all the elements needed in the human system. The milk of cows, goats, and sheep, is even richer than human milk in nutritive elements. Milk contains, and is divisible into, whey, curd, or caseine, which is the equivalent of gluten in wheat, albumen in eggs, and fibrine in flesh, and butter. Milk unites readily with the cereals in bread and puddings; with potatoes and onions; with eggs in cakes, puddings, omelets, and custards; with most fruits, and in some cases with meat and fish. Cream, or the lighter portion of milk containing fat globules—butter—is with many more digestible than milk, and blends deliciously with all farinaceous substances and fruits. Butter, the separated oil globules of milk, when well made, and carefully washed, or worked clear of the other constitu- ents of milk, obtained from healthy animals, living on pure food, is a good form of oil or fat, for mixing with flour in pastry, with flour and eggs in cakes and biscuits, dressing vegetables, making sauces, and for frying fish, pancakes, frit- ters, &c. For frying, salt or rancid butter may be clarified by melting it in a large quantity of pure water, thoroughly stirring it, skimming off impurities, and then letting it cool. The solid butter may then be taken from the top, melted, poured into jars, and kept for use. Lard, dripping, and other animal fat may be t larified in a similar manner. Butter may also be purified by thoroughly working it in cool water or churning it with milk. An ingenious machine has been patented for squeezing it in water through small holes, so as to allow the ■water to act upon a large surface. In warm weather, when milk is liable to turn sour, it may be kept sweet for a long time by scalding it—that is, jus!26 HOW TO COOK bringing it to tlie boiling point, being careful not to scorch it, or allow it to boil over. Cheese contains the same elements as meat, and is, weight for weight, more nutritious. It varies in the amount of butter it contains, from the skim milk cheeses to the rich Cheddar and Stilton, which are made of cream, added to new milk. The cheapest cheeses, made of skim milk, and which sell at from 3d. to 6d. a-pound, have more muscle-making nutriment than the richest Stilton. In France, most of the cheese is impressed, and is merely curds kept until ripe, and covered with a white or green mould. Great quantities of French cheeses, exported to all parts of the world, are made from the milk of ewes. Cheese in England is generally eaten with bread, or at the end of a meal, or toasted, or melted with a little beer and poured over toast (Welsh rarebit), with pepper and mustard. Grated, it is mixed with maccaroni and rice; or enters into the com- position of puddings, stews, or ragouts. A German cheese, fragrant with bitter herbs, is grated and powdered over bread and butter, or used as a flavouring for soups. Some Swiss, German, and Italian cheeses are made of curds which have entered upon putrefaction, so as to develop a high or gamy flavour. Eggs are composed of albumen, oil, and water. The white is almost pure albumen; the yolk is about half oil. They are highly nutritious, and blend pleasantly with almost every kind of food; enriching pastry, cakes, puddings, artificial creams, soups, &c. The French cooks have more than a hundred ways of cooking eggs. The eggs commonly eaten are those of the domestic fowl, the turkey, goose, duck, and plover; but the great eggs of the ostrich are said to be very good eating, and those of the turtle are a well-known delicacy. Many millions of eggs are yearly imported into England, which might be produced by her own cottagers with great advantage. In America there are large poultry farms, where fowls are kept by thousands, most of the produce of the farm being used to feed them. FLESH, FOWL, AND FISII. The flesh meat usually eaten in England is beef, veal, mutton, lamb, pork, bacon, ham, venison, hares, rabbits; geese, ducks, turkeys, chickens. The flesh of these animals is27 HOW TO COOK. composed of fibrine, albumen, gelatine, fat, and certain salts, as soda, potass, &c. The fibrine or muscular matter is the same, chemically, as the gluten of wheat, the albumen of eggs, or caseine of milk. The Extract or Essence of Meat, Liebig’s, &c., is only the salts and flavouring matter of meat, separated from the fibrine, gelatine, and fat, which are thrown away. It contains very little nutriment; and can contain only its actual weight. It is of no use but to give a pleasant flavour to other food. Of course, a teaspoonful of Liebig cannot be more than a tea- spoonful of nutritive, or tissue-forming matter. In fact, it contains scarcely any; and it is rather a stimulant or condi- ment than actual food. Meat should be bright and fresh in colour, plump and elastic to the touch, neither pale, nor flabby, nor glutinous. The legs of fowls should be shining, and their combs full and red. For Soups and Stews meat should be put into cold water, heated slowly, and allowed to barely simmer for a long time, so as to dissolve the fibres and extract the juices. When it is to be eaten solid, it should be plunged into plenty of boiling water, and kept boiling, skimming, as needful in both cases, until done. By this process av sort of case is formed over the meat and loss prevented. Roasting should be done before a bright fire, near at first, then farther removed, with the joint slowly turning on a spit or suspended by a string, dredged with flour, and basted with the gravy falling in the dish below, until fairly cooked. Ten dishes of meat are baked to one that is roasted. The rule of baking is the same as roasting. The meat should be well but not over done; and the more hot air is let in to the oven, the better the flavour. Baked meat, like roast, is the juicier for a good dredging and basting; and for being begun in a pretty hot oven. The rule for broiling is often quoted from Shakespeare:— “ If ’twere done when 'tis done, then ’twere well it were done quickly.” A steak should be done over a very clear hot fire, turned five or six times, or as often as it drips, done through, but not allowed to dry up or burn. Beef and Mutton grow tender by keeping. They may be kept in a dry room, cold to near the freezing point, for weeks or months. A dry box in an ice house would be an excellent meat safe.HOW TO COOK. 28 Steaks may also be made tender by pounding them with a mallet so as to mash the fibres. Fowls, turkeys, pheasants, &c., are boiled, roasted, or baked; geese and ducks usually roasted or baked. Birds cooked whole are stuffed with potatoes, bread crumb, onions, salt, pepper, sweet herbs, &c. Turkeys and ducks are sometimes stuffed with olives, chesnuts, truffles, mushrooms; geese with onions. As apple-sauce is eaten with roast goose, an apple stuffing should be good; or a cranberry one in turkeys. Chickens, if young and tender, are by many preferred broiled. They should be split in half through back and breast bone broiled thoroughly over a clear lire, salted and peppered, anc. served on a hot plate with butter and bits of parsley. Tough chickens are best stewed or fricaseed, because time can be taken to stew them slowly and make them tender. A1J tough meats can be made tender by slowly simmering or steaming them for a sufficient time in a closely covered vessel. The most scraggy portions Of necks and skins may in this way be made tender and good eating; and these cheapest parts of animals contain more nourishment than the more choice and costly ones. Fish abound in English seas, and furnish a vast quantity of highly nutritive food. It is boiled, fried, broiled, baked, and made into stews, soups, hashes, pies, and puddings. Most fish to boil require to be plunged in plenty of boiling water, which is the better for salt, vinegar, white wine, and some flavours. Lobsters, crabs, oysters, &c., furnish a variety of nice dishes. The cheaper kinds of fisli are often really better food than the most costly; and, when properly cooked, are very palatable. Canned meat, ready cooked, is now brought in large quantities from Australia, &c., and canned salmon and lobsters from North America. The meat is cheap and does well for stews, meat pies, and many other purposes. FOOD IN ITS RELATIONS TO HEALTH. In the choice of food audits preparation, the first considera- tion should be its healthfulness. The gratification of the palate must be a quite subordinate consideration. A natural, unperverted taste, may be a good guide to a nutritious and healthful diet; but unhappily, our artificial modes of life sel-29 HOW TO COOK. dom leave tastes unperverted. We learn to love many tilings which are not good for us. Pure and simple food is always delicious to a natural appe- tite. Nothing is better both for the taste and the constitution than good bread, milk, and fruit. Sharp, burning, acrid, exciting, and irritating condiments, people learn to use as they learn to use raw spirits and tobacco. Physicians generally pay far too little attention to diet, as a condition of the preservation of health, or the cure of disease. To advise people to keep well is as obviously against their interests as for an attorney to advise people to keep out of law-suits. Most physicians are content with giving vague directions—“Be careful of your diet;” “eat what you find agrees with you,” &c. Just now the fashionable medico- dietetic advice is “ Eat plenty of good nourishing food, and drink ale or stout—port or sherry.” Homeopathic physicians have a list of prohibited articles for patients under treatment; but many allow them to take tea, coffee, and tobacco, which is against homeopathic principles. It is said that “ what is one man’s meat is another man’s poison.” This is true to a very limited extent, and in certain rare idiosyncrasies. I have never heard of a baby that was poisoned by the milk of a healthy nurse or cow, nor of a man who could not eat bread, and most kinds of fruit and vege- tables. There are rare cases of persons to whom eggs or cheese really seem to be poisons. It is true, however, that every one ought to avoid what he finds to permanently dis- agree with him; and if we were all to do that we should soon have a sufficient code of diet. Only we are very slow in attributing any ailment to what we are fond of. We charge it upon anytliing else. If we cannot sleep after a hearty supper, it is the bed, the clothes, the air; anything but our own excess. If a favourite dish injures us, we lay the blame on some quite innocent thing we little care for. We must learn that the stomach is a very important vital organ, upon whose good condition and proper treatment all the functions of brain and body depend. In nine cases out of ten, what are supposed to be affections of brain and heart have their real seat in a disordered stomach. Abernethy went to this centre to cure a sore finger or toe, and rightly; for there can be no reparation of any organ unless there be good blood; good blood depends upon good nutri- tion, and good nutrition depends upon good digestion, which,HOW TO COOK. 80 in its turn, depends upon air, light, cleanliness, exercise, recreation, and good food, taken at proper times and in proper quantities. Our food should be pure, healthy in its own character, free from noxious adulteration, adapted to the requirements of the human system; bland, unirritating, not too concentrated in nutriment, nor heterogeneous in mixture. We should not overtask the stomach by compelling it to digest too great a variety at once. The stomach often exhausts its powers on the parts of a meal most easily digested, and leaves the harder part to give us a nightmare, or stomach cough, or other irri- tation. As to quantity, one may almost say, the less the better. Twelve ounces of solid food in twenty-four hours is enough for the average; but this requires and permits a larger weight of fruit, vegetables, &c., which contain from 60 to 90 per cent, of water. Franklin’s rule was to leave the table with a good appetite. Leave it, certainly, without any sense of fulness or oppression. Fiery condiments cause dyspepsia, inflammations, erysipelas, gout, and diseases of the liver, kidneys, and bladder. The bad livers that come home from India are more owing to curry and arrack than to the heat of the climate. Cayenne, white and black peppers, cloves, allspice, nutmeg, mace, ginger, mustard, should be used, if at all, very sparingly. In excess they all excite the nerves, stimulate the passions, and injure digestion. They act on the system like ardent spirits, exciting for the time, but causing a corresponding lassitude. The rule for the use of condiments and all added flavours is this: Use them to heighten or modify flavours, but never in such quantity as to give a distinct taste of the condiment. Thus cloves, or allspice, may be used to heighten the flavour of a soup, or dish of baked pears, or an apple tart, but the distinctive taste of the spice should be entirely concealed; and no one should be able to tell by taste or smell what was used to flavour it. This is a general rule in cookery; and if adhered to, most spices and condiments may be used without injury. The lighter flavours, as cinnamon, bitter almonds, bay leaves, vanilla, and sweet garden herbs, should also be used in mode- ration. Our drinks are, if possible, more unnatural and injurious than much of what we eat. Every physiologist and chemist will tell us that the only drink of men and animals is water.31 HOW TO COOK. Whatever we mingle with it, water alone is the solvent of our food, and is the liquid portion of blood, brain, nerve, muscle, and the serous and lubricating fluids. Tea, coffee, and alcohol, are narcotics, and, in sufficient doses, poisonous: for drink, water is as proper and sufficient for man as it is for all other animals. Tea and coffee, like tobacco, act upon the nerves, and pro- duce more or less injury in proportion to the amount consumed, and the susceptibility of the constitution. Alcohol, whether in beer, wine, or spirituous liquors, stimulates, intoxicates, stupefies, and brutalises, if taken beyond a very moderate quantity. Those who cannot keep to the line of temperance should totally abstain. Those who have the requisite self- control may drink the finer fermented juices, which develop but a small amount of alcohol, not only without injury, but, in some cases, with advantage. Still, the rule remains that water is the best—the only real drink for men and animals. Pure soft water is best. Clean rain water can be had by means of filtration in most places. It is nature’s distilled water; and with a little trouble might be procured everywhere in sufficient quantities for drinking and cooking. The cele- brated Malvern springs are nothing but rain water filtered through clean hard gravel. The science of what I may call Dietetic Medicine has not been much studied. It is the misfortune of medicine that the health of the public and the interests of the profession are opposed to each other. Could doctors be paid in proportion to the healthfulness of the community, there would be far less disease. Food really is diseasing or curative—medicine or poison. For example, fine flour bread, cake, pastry, eggs, and all highly concentrated food cause constipation, whereas, boiled ■wheat, wheaten grits, or stirabout, coarse oatmeal porridge, figs, stewed prunes, most fruit, spinach, &c., remove it. Fat, greasy food, butter, cream, eggs, eels, mackerel, salmon, chocolate, make people bilious; fruit and fruit juices cure biliousness. The acid and sub-acid fruits, as grapes, straw- berries, currants, peaches, dissolve gravel, or urinary calculi. A coarse diet of fat flesh and fine flour, bread and pastry, make coarse blowzy complexions, or yellow bilious ones, whereas a bread and fruit diet gives purity of complexion, as well as vigour and clearness of intellect. For many diseases resolute fasting—that is, living on a very moderate quantity of food—is the only cure.32 HOW TO COOK. Where much wine, or beer, or spirits are drunk at table, people are not in a condition to observe their own feelings, and the stomach is more likely to be gorged. So stimulating condiments provoke an artificial appetite, and prevent the sense of satiety, which should warn us that we have eaten enough. People who find they are liable to eat too much, either from carelessness or a morbid appetite, should, before beginning a meal, lay out the proper quantity, and never exceed it. When there-are several courses it is well to know what they are, in order to make the proper apportionment. The times of eating are of considerable importance. Some people live on one meal a day. The Romans ate but one set meal a day. One meal and a small collation is the strict rule of Lent. In England many eat five meals a day. The French take a cup of coffee and a little bread early in the morning— say at 7; at 11 or 12 they eat a good breakfast of soup, bread, meat, and vegetables; and dine from 5 to 7. In England the upper and middle classes eat a breakfast of tea, coffee, or cho- colate, bread, eggs, fish, ham, bacon, chops, or steak, at 8 or 9 a.m. Lunch of hot or cold meats, pies, puddings, tarts, at 1 or 2 p.m. At 5 o’clock tea before dinner, or one quickly following it; dinner from 6 to 8, consisting of soup, fish, joints of meat, poultry, game, pastry, dessert, ciieese; supper at 10 to 12, of heavy meats and pastry, all washed down with plenty of ale, port, or sherry. In America the breakfasts are more varied and heartier than in England—hot cakes, fish and fish cakes, steak, chops, eggs, oysters, fruit. The other meals much as in England, and dyspeptics more plentiful. What to eat, for careful and economical livers, I have tried to point out in “ How to Live on Sixpence a-Day;” and in this book will be found an abundant, and some may think too abundant, variety. But I have wished to suit a wide range of tastes, opinions, and purses. It becomes necessary, therefore, to point out to delicate persons and invalids, and to all who do not wish to become such, what to avoid. Avoid all food, unhealthy in its own character, or in bad condition; as diseased or stale fruit, vegetables, fish and flesh. Sour milk, and pretty ripe cheese, do not seem to be unhealthy. Pork in any form is worse than doubtful. It is a coarse and greasy food; and cheap as it may be, never worth its price in nutriment. I -quite agree with the Jews and Mahommedans about it. Salted and smoked meat and fish are hard of diges-HOW TO COOK. 33 tion, in proportion to the saturation with salt or smoke. As a rule, what will make meat and fish keep out of the stomach, hinders its digestion. This rule applies also to fruits preserved in sugar, and to rich cakes, mince pies, and other pastry. It does not, of course, apply to dried things, and those kept from the atmosphere. Hard boiled, and still more hard fried eggs, are very difficult of digestion. So are some kinds of cheese, and especially toasted cheese. When cheese is used in cookery it should be grated fine, and well distributed through the maccaroni, pud- ding, or vegetable soup, so as not to run together in lumps. When so separated, or if eaten without cooking, well masti- cated and mingled with other food, it digests with sufficient readiness. Many persons cannot sleep well after eating fruits cooked in nuich sugar, as sweet tarts, preserves, jams, &c. All fruits are by many considered best in the morning. The Spaniards say that oranges are “gold in the morning, silver at noon, and lead at night.” All greasy food is to be avoided. Fats, and especially animal fats, and fats exposed to much heat, are very difficult of digestion, clog the liver, and overload the whole glandular system. Olive oil and sweet butter are the least harmful, but these shoidd be used in moderation. “ Rich” pastry is indi- gestible, because the flour is protected from the action of the gastric juice by the baked oil, butter, or fat. Bettor use less shortening and some baking powder. Salmon, mackerel, eels, and other very oily fish are difficult of digestion. Veal and lamb, and immature animals, generally are harder to digest than meats at their maturity. Three-fourths of the human, race eat little or no flesh meat. Even in Great Britain half the people seldom taste it except on Sundays. Millions in various parts of the world refrain from eating flesh from religious or sentimental scruples, or from a conviction that it is needless, or prejudicial to health. It is quite certain that it is not necessary to sustain the highest health, the greatest physical and intellectual vigour, or the greatest longevity. When flesh is eaten, it should be that of animals called clean in the Law of Moses. Swine are always unclean and often diseased, and infested with the germs of tape-worms and scrofula. If eaten in any form, pork, bacon, ham, or sausage cIIOW TO COOK. 34 -—and the last is obviously the most dangerous—it should be most thoroughly cooked, so as to insure that the germs of tape-worms and trichinae may be cooked also. It is not known what effect heat may have upon scrofula. Beef and Mutton are also liable to disease. Cattle plague has raged for several years in England, and many persons have suffered from eating the flesh or milk of diseased cattle; thousands of sheep are victims to scab, rot, and small- pox. The Government has mercifully appointed inspectors of meat markets, and thousands of tons of meat are seized as being diseased or putrified, and utterly unfit for human food; but there is no likelihood that more.than a mode- rate percentage is ever seized by the inspectors. A much larger quantity is sold to the poor, or made up into sausages. Nor is it always possible to tell what meat is fit or unfit to be eaten. As among the Jews, every animal should be carefully inspected before it is killed, and the meat as carefully examined microscopically and otherwise afterwards. If the flesh of clean and healthy animals is eaten, certain parts of even such animal ought to be avoided. It is not well to eat glandular bodies which are employed in separating impurities from the blood, and casting them out of the system. I cannot, therefore, think it well to eat the kidneys, which separate urine from the blood, nor the liver which frees it from bile, and which is one of the first organs to be diseased. There are few stall-fed animals with entirely healthy livers. The lungs have a similar tendency to disease. The heart, however, seems to be as pure as any portion of the muscles, and the pancreas and stomach—sweetbread and tripe—ought to be as pure as any portion of the body. Some persons eat only the outer carcase, and refuse' all kinds of viscera. If one eat but two meals a day, the best hours would be 9 or 10 a.m., and 3 or 4 p.m. Three meals should divide the day so as to leave an interval of five or six hours between. No hard work, mental or physical, should be done for at least half-an-hour before a meal and an hour after. There must be time for digestion, and the blood and nervous power cannot be called off from the stomach to either the muscles or brain, until digestion is well begun, without injury. For the same reason, no cold bath should be taken either soon before or after eating. I am sometimes asked “ What do you think of Banting?” I think that temperance, exercise, bathing, and the use of35 HOW TO COOK. such food as will prevent constipation are sufficient safeguards against obesity. Brown bread and fruit, lean meats, if any, scale fish, eggs, milk, and most vegetables may be eaten in moderation; but fat persons may well avoid much sugar, starch, butter, oil, and fat meats, or fishes, which may be eaten more freely by persons of an opposite tendency. I hope, however, to be soon able to treat of all matters connected with health in a more thorough and scientific man- ner, in a larger work devoted expressly to the subject. KITCHEN REQUISITES AND MANAGEMENT. Kitchens and kitchen fires are matters of some importance. A good workman does not complain of his tools, but he can work all the better with good ones. English fire-places waste coals, and make kitchens unhealthy. A closed range, if managed with care, is far better and more economical than an open one, and more brick work or tile work and less iron would be an improvement. The American cooking stoves, or kit- cheners, do their work well, and save about half the coal. In French houses, each apartment, or suite of rooms, has its own kitchen on the same floor. They are very small; 6 feet by 8, perhaps. By the window, or a chimney which has a broad opening to carry off the fumes of cookery, is a strong, tile- covered table, of a convenient height, in which are a number of square or round holes 8 or 10 inches in diameter, and about 5 inches deep, with iron gratings at the bottom. In these places are made small charcoal fires, and in these small and often’almost dark rooms, and over these little fire holes, are prepared the most wonderful dinners. Count Rumford used finely split wood in preference to charcoal, and had flues to his furnaces to carry off the smoke, and dampers to regulate the fire. A gas range, with several burners, where the beat could be graduated down to the sim- mering point, and raised as required, would be very perfect for a great number of dishes. The cook requires a series of sauce-pans of different sizes, which should be well tinned or enamelled; two good frying pans, large and small; a single and double gridiron; dishes and covers; iron and wooden spoons, coarse and fine graters, an egg beater, mortar, chopper, paste-board, dredging-box forHOW TO COOK. 36 flour. &c. A hand mill, not only for coffee, but to grind wheat for grits or mush, and brown cakes, rice, peas, Indian corn, &c., is a great convenience, and in a few weeks will pay its cost. (See Advt.) The kitchen, pantry, and cupboard should be kept in such order that the cook can lay her hands upon any article required on the instant. “ A place for everything, and everything in its place.” The only way to secure this is to thoroughly clean and put in its place every article as soon as possible after using it. Cleanliness is of the first and last importance. Saucepans, frying-pans, dish cloths, everything, in short, should be kept perfectly sweet and clean, so that not the slightest taste or smell shall remain of what was last cooked. This is especially necessary when fish or onions have been cooked; and it is well to have special saucepans or boilers for these two articles. If not, such as are used must be thoroughly cleansed with soda. Have a bright, clear fire; just enough, and no more. For this purpose, the coal should be broken in small lumps, and fed often and sparingly, as required. Ilalf-an-hour before broiling or frying, make a good fire, and avoid the necessity of mending it while the cooking is going forward. Every kitchen should be provided with scales and weights, or some weighing apparatus, not only to insure the right quantities in following nice recipes, but to keep a salutary check upon careless tradesmen, who, however, seldom make mistakes against themselves. It may also be useful to know that— 30 drops of a thin liquid will fill a middle-sized tea-spoon. 4 tea-spoonfuls are equal to one table-spoonful. 4 table-spoonfuls are equal to two fluid ounces, the eighth of a pint, or a wine-glassful. 4 wine-glassfuls are equal to half a pint, a tumbler glass, or large coffee cup. A table-spoonful of salt, brown sugar, &c., will weigh 1 oz. A middle-sized hen's egg, 2 „ A middle-sized apple, .... • • 3 „ A pint of bread crumbs. 8 „ A pint of flour, sugar, dried peas, &c., 1 lb. A quartern or half gallon, . about 34,, A gallon, ...... 7 „ A peck or stone, . 14 „ A bushel or four pecks, . . 50 „37 HOW TO COOK. ORDER OF COOKING. In preparing a meal, consider how long a time will be required for the dishes it takes longest to cook, as soups, boiled meats, or puddings. Where a stock pot is not kept constantly ready”, the soup should be begun early in the morn- ing. Let the other dishes follow according to the time required; and be ready at the end, when everything else is dished, to make an omelet, or poach eggs, or prepare other delicate dishes which require but a few moments to cook, and which should be taken from the fire to the table. SAUCES, RELISHES, AND FLAVOURS. I have already spoken of the substances used to flavour food, and I now propose, before giving recipes for cookery, to give some account of flavouring ingredients, sauces, and relishes, which enter so largely into the composition of a great many dishes. It is desirable that the cook should know some- thing of these before being called upon to use them. Strong flavours first stimulate, but in the end injure the diges- tive powers, and the blandest, or least flavoured articles of food relish the longest. High seasoned dishes are forbidden to invalids, and should be to all liable to become invalids. What we want are delicate and natural flavours, or close imitations of nature. The productions of the tropics may be used to warm, sweeten, and give delicate aromas to the cold, bland, or sour, and often insipid productions of our northern clime. Thus-we use sugar, honey, treacle, to soften sour fruits, and give not only a pleasanter taste, but more nutritive quali- ties to puddings, cakes, and even to many soups and vegetables. We use vinegar, lemon juice, &c., to make vegetables, fish, and sweets more palatable. For puddings, custards, jellies, we use sweet and bitter almonds, vanilla, nutmeg, cocoanut, &c. The aromatic spices, as pepper, allspice, cayenne, nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, mace, ginger, celery, are used, one or more, in almost every kind of cookery. Pepper, allspice, cloves, nutmeg, and mace, are to be used very sparingly. There should scarcely ever be the distinct taste of any of those articles, only a suggestion of warmth and an aroma mingling with that of the staples of the dish. Cinnamon and ginger are milder flavours, and may be used more freely. UNIVERSE LIBRARY i prosIIOW TO COOK. 88 Puddings, tarts, cakes, and custards, are flavoured with orange and lemon peel, or the essential oils they contain, bay leaves, laurel leaves, peach leaves, orange flower water, rose water, vanilla. Some, perhaps all these substances, are poisonous, in certain quantities, and must be used sparingly and delicately, as we find them in nature. Our gardens supply us with a variety of sweet and bitter herbs of a warm and aromatic character, which are agreeable to the smell and taste of most persons, and which gently stimu- late appetite and digestion. These are parsley, common thyme, lemon thyme, orange thyme, knotted majorum, sage, mint, summer and winter savoury, sweet basil, tarragon, tansy, chervil, burnet, fennel. These are used simply, or oftener in combination, to season soups, stews, meat and fish pies or puddings, stuffings, &c. The great fault with cooks is using too much of them. They are best kept dried and powdered in bottles, either single or mixed according to taste, or for different purposes. Then we have the pungent condiments, as mustard, horse radish, cayenne, onions, shallots, garlics, leeks. Onions come under the head of food as well as flavour; and all can be used so carefully as not to offend the most delicate taste or smell, and yet give a rich aroma to the kinds of food to which they are adapted. Garlic especially, one can scarcely use too little of. Merely rubbing the dish or knife is often sufficient. Wine and brandy are also much used as flavours; and the same may be said of raisins, currants, &c. Salt is food as well as a condiment, and enters into every dish, yet too much is a great fault. As it is always on the table it is safer to use too little. The spices should be bought whole, and ground and mixed at home to avoid adulterations. The aromas of orange and lemon peel, aromatic leaves and flowers, majr be extracted by brandy or alcohol, so as to be ready and handy for use. The bitter herbs are best steeped in vinegar, as with tarragon and basil vinegar. Horse radish vinegar, shallot and garlic vine- gars, cress vinegar, are also convenient preparations. To make them, fill bottles two:tliirds full of the bruised lemon peel, seeds, roots, &c., and fill up with good vinegar; use according to the strength. Essence of celery is made by putting a half ounce of the seeds in a gill of brandy. The powder and juice of mushrooms, mushroom ketchup, walnut ketchup, or the vinegar from walnut pickles, and tomato31) HOW TO COOK. ketchup, are also much used for seasoning. The milder of the sauces sold at the shops present us some good flavours, if we could depend upon their composition or genuineness. Onions are fried or baked with butter, brown sugar, and vinegar, until they are flat, nearly dry, and quite black. They can be bought in this condition, and used to both colour and flavour soups, stews, &c. Almonds are peeled or blanched by putting them in cold water, bringing them nearly to the boil, then peeling and throwing them into cold water. Dry, and when required, pound them in a mortar to a paste, using a few drops of water. Rinds of lemons and oranges, vanilla pods, cinnamon, mace, &c., may be simmered in the milk used for custards, puddings, &c., to extract their flavour. Sweet herbs and the more fleeting aromas had best be added rather late in the process of cookery, to prevent their being dissipated by heat. Coffee and chocolate are sometimes used to flavour puddings, ice-creams, &c. Flavours should harmonise with each other, and with the article with which they are used; and not more than one of the same kind should enter into any combination. Too many spices, as well as too many cooks, spoil the broth. England’s “ one sauce,” which is the basis of a. hundred more, is “ melted butter,” or, as some call it, “ drawn butter.” Melted Butter.—Two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, quarter of an ounce of pepper or less, mix together with a spoon, put in a quart pan with a pint of cold water; place it on the fire and stir continually. Take it off when it begins to simmer, add an ounce more of butter, stir till melted, when it is ready for use. More butter will make it richer, less butter plainer and cheaper. Melted butter is im- proved by a dash of lemon juice or vinegar. Many sauces are made with melted butter by the addition of flavouring articles. Anchovy Sauce.—Add to half a pint of melted butter—or drawn butter—two tablespoonfuls of essence of anchovies. Mix in a saucepan, stir and serve when nearly boiling. In the same way make Harvey' Sauce, Soyer’s Relish Sauce, Yorkshire Sauce, &c. For sweet sauce add sugar; for saucepiquante, vinegar. Chili Sauce.—Three teaspoonfuls of Chili vinegar to half a pint of melted butter.10 HOW TO COOK. Egg Sauce.—To melted butter add two hard boiled eggs cut into dice. Caper Sauce.—Add two tablespoonfuls of chopped capers. Fennel Sauce.—Add same of chopped fennel. Parsley Sauce, the same. Mild Onion Sauce.—Boil four onions in salt and water, take them out, chop them up, and add them to melted butter, with a teaspoonful of sugar, and a little milk or cream; salt to taste. Sage and Onion. — To the above add a tablespoonful of chopped green sage and a little more pepper. Celery Sauce.—Boil in a half-pint of white gravy, or water, one fine head of celeiy, cut in one inch lengths and well washed —it will take about twenty minutes—add to it the melted butter. The yolk of an egg beat up and stirred in is an im- provement; it may require a little more salt. Serve with poultry. Celery Vinegar may be made by pouring one pint of good vinegar on a quarter an ounce of pounded celery seeds. Infuse a fortnight and strain. Nice in salads, sauces, &c. Apple Sauce.—Peel six good-sized apples, cut in four pieces, cut out the core, slice fine, put into a stew pan with one ounce of brown sugar and a gill of water; stew till in pulp. Mint Sauce.—Chop three tablespoonfuls of green mint, put it into a basin with three of brown sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of pepper, and half a pint of vinegar. For roast lamb, cold meat, and poultry. Horseradish Sauce.—Grate two tablespoonfuls of horseradish, which put into a basin; add to it one teaspoonful of mustard, one of salt, a quarter of pepper, one of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar; moisten with a little milk or cream until of a thick- ish appearance. For rumpsteak, cold meat, &c. Wine and Spirit Sauce.—Add to half a pint of melted butter, without salt, two teaspoonfuls of white or brown sugar, a glass of brandy, or rum, or sherry, or any liquors. Hotel Keeper s Sauce.—Mix in half a pint of melted butter one tablespoonful of hotel keeper’s butter, warm it and serve. Hotel Keepers Butter, which may be kept in store, is made in the following manner:—Put on a plate a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a quarter of a spoonful of salt, a quarter ditto ol pepper, two of chopped parsle}r, the juice of a middle-sizedHOW TO COOK. 41 lemon (if no lemon, use vinegar); a little grated nutmeg may- be added. Pickle Sauce.—One tablespoonful of chopped pickle, one ditto of the vinegar from it; add to half a pint of melted butter, and boil for a few minutes. For fish, meat, and poultry. IVhite Sauce.—Add to one pint of melted butter two yolks of raw eggs, which mix well with a gill of cream, or milk, and when the melted butter is near boiling mix in and stir very quick, do not let it boil; add a little grated nutmeg or mace, and stir in a little more butter, season with a little more white pepper, and the juice of a lemon. For boiled fowls, &c. An Universal Piquant Sauce of sweet oil, sugar, salt, mustard, and vinegar (either plain or chili, cress, tarragon, or celery), is nice, not only for salads, but for meat, fish, crab, lobster, and most kinds of greens and vegetables. Walnut Ketchup.—The best is the vinegar from pickled wal- nuts : bottle it off, and improve the pickles with fresh vinegar. Mushroom Ketchup.—Get fine-grown, fresh-gathered mush- rooms, break them up, and sprinkle a good handful of salt over every layer. Let them lie for all the juice to run out, stirring them up often, but put no water. When the juice has run out, strain it off, and boil it well, with very little ginger, and quan- tum stiff', of pepper, but no other seasoning, as the full flavour of the mushroom is what is wanted. Tomato Ketchup.—Take six pounds of tomatoes, sprinkle them with salt, let them remain for a day or two, then boil them until the skins will separate easily; strain through a colander or coarse sieve. Put into the liquor a handful of shallots, a pint of Chili vinegar, salt, pepper, cloves, ginger, and allspice. Boil all together until a third is wasted, bottle it, and when it is cold, cork the bottles very well. Shake it before using it. Shrimp Sauce.—Pick a pint of shrimps. Boil the heads and shells enough to take out all the goodness, adding pepper and salt to taste; strain, make melted butter with the liquor, and stir in the shrimps long enough to get quite hot. Lobster Sauce is made in the same manner, stewing and seasoning the shell, chopping the meat, and mixing in the coral and eggs, if any.1I0W TO COOK 42 Browning for Sauces.—rut half a pound of brown sugar into an iron saucepan, and melt it over a moderate fire for about twenty-five minutes, stirring it continually, until quite black, but it must become so by degrees, or too sudden a beat will make it bitter, then add two quarts of water, and in ten minutes the sugar will be dissolved. Bottle for use. Or, spread flour on a tin or dish, colour it without burning it in a gentle oven, or before the fire in a Dutch or American oven; turn it fre- quently, that the whole may be equally browned. This blended with butter is a convenient thickening for soups and sauces when a deep colour is required. Brown Sauce.—Butter two ounces, flour one ounce. Melt the butter in a frying-pan or saucepan, add the flour, and stir the mixture till it is of a brown colour; add as much boiling water as will render it of the consistency of thin cream; season with pepper and salt. Add a little browning and ketchup. Celery Sauce.—Celery two roots, one small onion, flour one ounce, butter one ounce, cream a gill. Cut the celery and onions small, and stew them in a pint of water till tender; stir in the flour, butter, and cream, previously mixed together, till the butter is quite dissolved, and add a little pepper and salt; simmer the whole gently fifteen minutes, rub it through a tin strainer with a wooden spoon, return the sauce to the pan, and stir it till it boils. Mixed Herbs.—Pound together in a Wedgwood mortar dried mint and sage half an ounce of each, celery seed one drachm, cayenne a quarter of a drachm, or a drachm of allspice or black pepper. Rub them through a fine sieve. This gives a savoury relish. Or, dried parsley, sweet marjoram, winter savoury, lemon thyme, of each two ounces; lemon peel cut very thin and dried, and sweet basil, of each one ounce. Some add bay leaves and celery seed, a drachm of each. These may be dried and pounded together, then kept in closely stopped bottles. Sweet Pudding Sauce.—Equal quantities of white wine and sugar, added to some very rich melted butter. Some use brandy. TP kite Pudding Sauce.—Take a gill of white wine, some loaf- sugar, and the whites of three eggs; beat them over the fire until they form a high froth, and serve immediately. Red Wine Sauce.—Simmer half a pint of red wine, and one43 HOW TO COOK. quarter pound of loaf-sugar. Claret, or home-made wine will do for this sauce. Sultana Sauce.—Put two dessert-spoonfuls of water into a small saucepan; when it boils, add a quarter pound of butter ; stir it round one way until the butter is melted; then put in two ounces of sultana raisins that have been swelled in brandy, and serve immediately. Sauce Au Vin.—Pour quarter of a pint of wine upon the yolk of three eggs; beat it together for ten minutes; add sugar, grated lemon-peel, and cinnamon to your taste. Warm, but do not boil it. Cider Sauce.—Simmer a pint of cider and a quarter pound of sugar to a syrup ; add two ounces of butter; make hot, and serve. Rich Wine Sauce—Rub two tablespoonfuls of butter and four of sugar to a cream, and into it stir a cupful of hot water; pour into metal or tinned pan, stirring steadily until it boils ; then one half cup of lemon or fruit juice, or fruit jelly. Give it an- other boil, remove from the fire, add one wine glass of wine and brandy mixed, and serve. If properly served, it will not be oily, and will have a rich foam. Orange Sauce.—Rub together two ounces of butter and one ounce of flour; put into a saucepan, and add the juice of four oranges, with the grated rind of one-half one, and two table- spoonfuls of loaf-sugar. Serve when melted. Fruit Pudding Sauce.—Whip a cup of sugar and a half cup of butter to froth, add a wine-glass of mixed wine and brandy, and into this stir boiling milk, until the sauce is of the consist- ence of thick cream. Stir when serving. Jam Sauce.—Take two good dessert-spoonfuls of jam; stir it over the fire in a glazed saucepan until pretty hot, then add two ounces of fresh butter and a tablespoonful of brandy, wine, cider, or grape-juice: when the butter is melted, serve. Almond Sauce.—Blanch and beat smooth two ounces of sweet almonds ; throw upon them half a pint of boiling milk ; strain it, add a dessertspoonful each of orange-flower water and pow- dered loaf-sugar, and the beaten yolks of two eggs. Stir it over the fire until it is quite hot, but not boiling. Arrowroot Sauce.—Arrowroot, one tablespoonful, water or44 HOW TO COOK. milk one pint, sugar four to six ounces, lemon juice or white wine. Mix the arrowroot with a little cold water, add it to the boiling fluid and sugar. If intended for dark sauce, substitute brown sugar and port wine; if for vegetables, season with pep- per and salt. Corn-starch may be used instead of arrowroot. Mock-Cream for Rice, Fruit, £c.—Pour half a pint of boiling milk on a teaspoonful of arrow-root, previously mixed with a a small quantity of cold milk; stir the mixture well, and when moderately warm, add the white of an egg well beaten. Place the whole over the fire, and stir it till it nearly boils. Tapioca Sauce.—Tapioca one ounce, water one pint, loaf- sugar four ounces, a little lemon peel. Simmer the tapioca in the water one or two hours, or until it is dissolved and clear; add the sugar and seasoning, and pour the sauce over a baked or boiled pudding. Jam, lemon juice, &c., improve it. Hard Sauce.—Work together white or nice brown sugar and butter until white, moistening with a few drops of wine or brand)'; add a little powdered nutmeg, cinnamon, or any fla- vouring essence you like. Serve on a small plate cold. Custard Sauce for Fruit Pudding or Tarts.—Put half a pint of milk in a clean saucepan and boil; beat two eggs, and add with three ounces pounded sugar to the milk, in a jug standing in a saucepan of hot water; stir till it thickens; add a table- spoonful of brandy and a little nutmeg, and serve in a tureen. Fruit Sauce.—Melt a small lump of butter, stir in half as much flour, or a quarter as much of corn-starch, arrowroot, or soaked tapioca, a pinch of salt, if the butter is not salted, a glass of acid wine or lemon juice, or a tablespoonful of vinegar ; sugar to taste; any fruit juice you have, as raspberry, strawberry, black- berry, elderberry, or jam will do; thin to the right consistence; bring it to the boil, and serve. Raspberry, and other fruit vinegars make excellent sauces. Fruit Syrups.—By getting fruit when it is most plentiful— apples, pears, plums, berries, blackberries and elderberries, simmering them with a very little water, squeezing through a jelly bag, and then boiling them a few minutes with about half as much weight of sugar as juice, you may bottle ofl'health- ful syrup, which will make the plainest puddings, or simple steamed bread, or boiled rice, delicious eating.45 HOW TO COOIC. PREPARATION AND COOKING OF VEGETABLES. Potatoes must take precedence of all so-called vegetables. They are very nutritious, especially abounding in the heat- forming elements, and so agreeable to the appetite that we eat them every day, like bread, without getting tired of them. There are many favourite sorts, some best for boiling, some for baking. The smaller the eye the better the potato. Old potatoes should be peeled, or partly peeled, and soaked some hours in cold water. New potatoes should have their skins rubbed off with a coarse cloth, and a little salt if needed. Some prefer boiling potatoes to steaming them; but steaming is safest. Mrs. Kundell says—“ Boil in plenty of water, and, when half done, throw in some cold water and salt. When nearly done, turn off the water, and let them stand in the open pot near the fire.” Mrs. Glass says—“ Boil in as little water as possible—that is, steam them.” Soyer says, “ Some require to be put in cold, some in boiling water. Choose all about the same size. When they begin to crack, turn off the water immediately; place them near the fire with a cloth over them until dry and done. Salt should be put in at the beginning. A watery potato must be put in boiling water, and well dried when done. A piece of lime in the water is said to make them mealy.” Baked Potatoes, with the skin on, should be chosen a large size (regents), placed in a slow oven, and so that they do not touch: or if in a Dutch or American oven, befoi’e the fire, they should be turned often; they will take from one and a half to two hours. When the skins are, beginning to brown, take up the largest, and feel if it is cooked through the centre. If so, take them out one by one in a towel and break each a littlo open, by grasping it with both hands ; then cover with a cloth and serve as soon as possible. An over-baked potato is spoiled; an unbroken one becomes heavy. Mashed Potatoes.—After having boiled twelve middling- sized potatoes until mealy, peel them, if with the skins on, and remove the eyes or specks; put them into a bowl, and take two forks in one hand, with the points of the prongs turned out- wards, or a wooden fork; bre k the potatoes up with them over the fire; when breaking, add an ounce of butter and a gill of milk or a little more to them, and half a teaspoonful of salt to every pound, and a pinch of pepper: they should be beaten46 HOW TO COOK. until they become quite light, never hard like paste, as when stirred with a spoon. Potatoes, if large, may be peeled and cut in four pieces, put in boiling water with some salt, boiled rather fast, and well drained when done ; dry near the fire, and mash as above. Broiled Potatoes.—Parboil large potatoes, peel and cut in thick slices. Broil on gridiron over a clear fire, until brown on both sides. Serve on hot dish, with a little salt, and bit 01 butter on every shoe. Fried Potatoes.—Peel a pound of potatoes, cut them into very thin slices, almost shavings; put oil, butter, or fat, two inches deep, into a frying-pan; when very hot, but not burning, throw a few slices in at a time, move them about with a skimmer. When a nice brown colour, take them out and sprinkle some salt over; serve separate, or over broiled meat. Fried Cold Potatoes.—Cut them in slices from one quarter to half an inch thick, and slightly dredge with flower and salt; fry in a little oil, butter, or fat until of a nice brown. They may also be egged or dipped in batter, but in that case must be fried slowly. How to dress Cold Boiled Potatoes.—Slice, or cut in pieces six or eight potatoes, and put in a frying or saucepan, with half an ounce of butter; stir a teaspoonful of flour in half a pint of milk, and add a little salt, pepper, and parsley or celery ;‘pour upon the potatoes, simmer gently ten minutes, and serve. Many cold boiled vegetables are nice done in this way. Sweet Potatoes, or Yams, are either boiled or baked in their skins, and may be cooked in a variety of ways like potatoes. Potato Kale or Colcannon.—Half head of cabbage, six pota - toes, two ounces of butter, one gill of cream. Boil the cab- bage, till very tender; boil and mash the potatoes. Then mix them together with the butter, cream, and salt to taste; put them in a saucepan over the fire, and stir till hot. Servo immediately. Potatoes, Cabbages, So.—Cabbage, greens, spinach, &c., boiled and chopped fine, may be mixed with twice their weight of mashed potatoes; then add a little butter, pepper, and salt, and press the whole into a well-buttered basin or mould ; set it in a hot oven five or six minutes, then remove the mo.uld, and serve.HOW TO COOK. 47 A boiled enion may be added, and, instead of potatoes, half the quantity of boiled carrots, turnips, beet-root, or Jerusalem artichokes may be used. The greens should have the water well pressed from them. Potatoes, Onions, do.—Boil and mash the potatoes ; boil the onions, and pass them through a sieve; mix the whole well in a stewpan, adding a little butter, and serve while hot. Potato Scones.—Mash boiled potatoes till they are quite smooth, adding a little salt; then knead flour, or barley-meal, to the thickness required; toast on the griddle, pricking with a fork to prevent them blistering. Eat with butter. Potatoes are also used in bread, puddings, pies, soups, stews, in modes which will be found in their several chapters. A Substitute for Potatoes.—Steam or boil one pound of turnips; mash them well over the fire, sprinkling in about two ounces of oatmeal or peas-meal very slowly; put the mixture into a buttered dish, and brown it before the fire or in an oven. A little pepper, salt, and sugar, should be added according to taste. Jerusalem Artichokes can be boiled and eaten like potatoes. Clean, put into warm water, with a little salt, boil till tender, and serve; or mash as soon as done, with salt, pepper, and butter. They can be treated in everyway like turnips, and are nice in soup. Artichokes are boiled like cauliflower; cut off the tops, and trim the leaves, and put them in boiling water, in which you have put salt, pepper, and savoury herbs, if liked. When the leaves come out easily they are done. Serve with melted butter. Turnips should be boiled in plenty of water. To mash, put them in a saucepan over the fire, with a bit of butter, or sour milk, or cream, salt, pepper, aud a pinch of sugar; mash until rather dry, and serve. Turnips, dc., German Style.—Pare and cut into dice six or eight turnips; melt three ounces of butter in a stewpan; put them in and season with salt and pepper; toss over the fire for a few moments, then add half a pint of weak stock, or broth, or milk, and simmer until tender. Brown a tablespoonful of flour with a little butter, add, simmer five minutes, and serve. Jerusalem artichokes, celery, salsify, carrots, may be done in the same way.48 HOW TO COOK. Swedish Turnips, such as are fed to cattle, when of a medium 6ize, are preferred by some to the common kind. They must be cut into slices, and boiled in plenty of water. Carrots should be scraped and boiled tender, which may take twenty minutes or an hour, according to quality. Serve in quarters, cut lengthwise, or round slices, with butter, salt and pepper. Beets, but little used in England as a vegetable, are very sweet and nutritious. They must be boiled with their skins on, and scraped afterwards. Cut in slices, put in a pan with gravy, butter, or milk, and a little vinegar, salt, and pepper. Good cold as a salad or pickle. Good baked also. Parsnips are good plainly boiled till tender; partly boiled and thin sliced lengthwise, and fried in butter; or broiled; or stewed with a little milk and floured blitter, salt, and pepper. Onions may be boiled in water with a little salt till tender, and served with butter; baked whole in a covered dish with a little milk or gravy; cut in quarters, and stewed with milk, butter, salt, pepper, and a little flour. The large and mild Spanish onions can be tied in a cloth and boiled or steamed like a pudding. A crust of paste receives and retains the flavour. Or first boil, then bake in a paper. Onions, though often eaten as a vegetable, are still more used to give their mucilage and flavour to soups, stews, or meat and fish pies, which see. Asparagus.—Scrape the bottom part; boil in a clean sauce- pan with but little water, a little salt and sugar. Serve on toast, with butter or melted butter. Celery, oftenest eaten raw, is very nice, cooked and served like asparagus. It also gives a delicate flavour to soups and stews. Sea Kale is cooked like Asparagus. Green Cabbage and Savoys.—These close-leaf plants require well washing and soaking in salt and water before boiling; remove the stems, and boil in plenty of water, with salt and a little soda. If large, cut in four. Sprouts, Spring Greens, Turnip Tops, Ac.—These only require washing before boiling, and boil till tender in plenty of water, with a little salt.HOW TO COOK. 49 Stewed Cabbage or Savoys.—Cut in thin slices, wash, drain, and boil till tender; drain them free from water; put into a clean pot two ounces of butter or fat, and a little salt and pep- per; when hot add the cabbage, and stir it well until nearly dry, then throw over a tablespoonful of flour, keep stirring, and then add a cupful of either broth, milk, or water, let boil ten minutes, and serve. Cole Slaw.—One egg, one teaspoon sugar, half teaspoon maize flour or arrowroot, half teacup sweet milk, half teacup vinegar, piece of butter the size of a walnut, a firm head of cabbage. Shred very finely as much of the cabbage as will be required, and place it in dish. Beat the egg, sugar, flour, and butter thoroughly together, then add the milk, lastly, the vine- gar. Let this come to the boil in a lined saucepan, and when cold, pour over the cabbage, and serve. Chopped celery may be added when seasonable. Brocoli and Cauliflower should be put in salt and water some time before cooking, and require close examination that no insects are inside; cut off the root and the large leaves; put in boiling water; it will take about ten minutes. Serve plain, or with melted butter, egg sauce, or salad sauce. Cauliflower, or Brocoli with Cheese.—Boil two or three middle- sized cauliflowers; make half a pint of thick melted butter; grate, or chip in four ounces of good cheese; mix well with the sauce, and, when boiling, pour it over the brocoli; set in the oven or before the fire to brown lightly, and serve. Jerusalem artichokes, Scotch kail, Brussels sprouts, are nice this way. Spinach requires to be well washed, and the stalks picked off; boil with a very little water for ten minutes; take out, drain, press with the hands or plate to remove the water, and serve it as plain greens; or put it on a clean board, and chop it fine, put it in a stew-pan, with a little good butter, salt, flour; place it on the fire, with a little milk or broth, for a few minutes, and serve with toast round. Good with cream. Nettles.—Wash, drain, put in plenty of boiling water, with a little salt; boil about twenty minutes, drain, and serve like spinach, or with a gravy of a little skim milk, butter, sugar, salt, and pepper. Dandelions.—Take the leaves any time before full blossom- ing, and about an inch of the root; wash thoroughly and pick r>50 HOW TO COOK clean; boil in plenty of water and a little salt until tender, and serve like other greens, plain with vinegar, or chopped with butter, flour, and vinegar, or piquant sauce. Excellent and healthful. Vegetable Marrows may be first parboiled, then drained, dipped in batter, or bread crumbs and egg, and fried in butter. Green Peas are nicest boiled in a very little water, with a little salt and sugar; mint, if you like it. Boil till tender, and serve with butter. Slewed Green Peas.—Put a quart of green peas, a lettuce and an onion cut in slices, in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, pepper, and salt, but no water; stew gently an hour; then stir in a well-beaten egg and half a teaspoonful of pow- dered sugar; they must not boil after adding the egg, but, when nicely thickened, serve. Green Peas, when most plentiful, may be dried before the fire above the range, or in shallow pans in an open oven not too hot; and then soaked out and cooked as above, or used in soups, &c. Ripe Peas may be soaked, or parboiled, and freed from their shells, and then stewed or baked like haricot beans, or made into a thick porridge, or soup. Split Peas, freed from their shells, are most convenient for use. They vary very much in respect to the time required in boiling. A little soda in the water hastens the process. Some are said to boil more quickly by being put in boiling water. Broad Beans should be boiled alone like peas, and quickly served, with parsley and butter. If thrown into cold water, the skins being rubbed off, then heat with sauce and serve. French and Kidney Beans.—Head, tail, and string them; cut them down in thin strips, or in the middle; throw them into boiling water, in which a little more salt than usual has been put; boil tender, and serve either plain or with parsley and but- ter, and a little pepper and salt, and sugar. Haricots, or Small White Beans, are among the most nu- tritious of vegetables, far exceeding any kind of animal food. They require long cooking, the longer the better. When baked, they are left in the oven overnight, with great improvement of flavour. They should first be well parboiled with plenty cf51 HOW TO COOK. water, drained, and put in a baking-pan with sufficient water or milk, salt, butter, and a great spoonful of brown sugar or treacle to a quart. Some put a piece of salt pork, or salt beef in the centre, in which case no other salt is needed ; but they are nicer with butter or cream. Soyer says—“ Haricots, plain boiled, should be first washed, then put into the saucepan one quart of them, with four quarts of cold water, one ounce of butter or fat; boil them gently for three hours, or till tender; the water will be nearly absorbed, if the haricots are good: draw off the remainder; mix in a pint of it three teaspoonfuls of flour, half a teaspoonful of pep- per, add it to the haricots; boil for ten minutes, keep stirring, and serve, adding three teaspoonfuls of salt; an ounce of but- ter is an improvement. Four onions in slices, fried, may be added with the seasoning, when the haricots or lentils are nearly cooked. The broth, if ample, when strained from them, may be used as soup, with bread in it.” White Beans ( Haricots) Stewed.—Soak a quart of white hari- cot beans, or other small beans, for some hours in cold water; put them in fresh water and simmer until they are quite ten- der. If the water boils away, fill up with cold. Drain well; put in a saucepan with a quarter pound of fresh butter, one tablespoonful minced parsley, salt and pepper; move about, but do not stir with a spoon until quite hot; squeeze in a lemon, or a dash of vinegar, and serve. Lentils.—Wash and cook them like haricots, putting them in cold water; they will not take so long, but try when tender. The liquor of either makes a nutritious soup, by adding fried onions, a little flour, pepper, and salt, and poured over bread previously sliced and put in a soup basin. Tomatoes, Balced.—Pour boiling water over the tomatoes to loosen the skins; peel; cut in thick slices, and place them in a well buttered baking-dish, with plenty of salt and pepper, and butter in bits. Cover with bread-crumbs, in which mix grated cheese and powdered sweet herbs. Bake twenty or thirty minutes. Or stew over the fire, stirring in the bread-crumbs and sea- soning.52 HOW TO COOK. SOUPS. Many people begin every dinner with soup, followed by fish, flesh, fowl, salad, pudding, pastry, and fruit. In our large towns “ soups ” are placarded at every fashionable restaurant. But how seldom do we find this most economical, palatable, and nutritious form of food on the tables of the poorer classes! Yet few dishes are so easy to make, and none to so much ad- vantage uses up every otherwise wasted bit of meat, fish, or vegetables. In a well-made soup, the work of digestion is already half accomplished. Soup should be made with pure, soft water. The vessels in which it is made should be very clean, and, as it ferments readily, it must, if kept, be boiled every day or two. Soups are made of beef, veal, mutton, poultry, fish, oysters, mussels, lobsters, &c., milk, butter, cheese, barley, rice, peas, beans, lentils, arrowroot, corn starch, macaroni, vermicelli; potatoes, carrots, turnips, Jerusalem artichokes, vegetable mar- rows, pumpkins, tomatoes, okra; onions,shallots, garlics,leeks, asparagus ; cabbages, cauliflowers, lettuces, celery, &c. It is flavoured and seasoned with sweet herbs, mushrooms, salt, sugar, pepper, mustard, cayenne, spices, ketchups. The stock, or broth, of soup is made of meat, fish, barley, peas, beans, &c.; reduced by long simmering to a fluid consist- ence. The articles added, to thicken, or make it more nutri- tious, or a better flavour, as barley, rice, tapioca, sugar, should be well washed, and then boiled in the soup, or if much time is required, boiled soft separately, then added. Count Rumford says that dried peas should be put in boiling water. There is a great difference in the quality and solu- bility of peas and beans, depending upon soil or seasons. A bit of soda i‘n the water hastens the process of solution; they may also be mashed. Vegetables should be well cleaned, scraped or pared, if needed, and sliced or cut into small pieces. Onions are sliced ; and if they are first fried nearly black with butter and sugar, they give a rich colour as well as flavour to soup. Baked onions may be bought at the shops. The flavour- ing ingredients should not be too much alike, as cloves and allspice, mace and nutmeg, and should harmonise together; nor should there be anywhere in cookery one flavour so strong as to overpower the others. Butter, and the flavours easily dissipated by heat, should be added last.53 HOW TO COOK. For thickening soups use wheat flour, rice flour, arrowroot, corn starch (or corn flour, as it is called), potato flour, &c. Flour or starchy thickening should be mixed with the sugar, salt, spices, ketchup, &c., and then with enough of cold liquid, the soup, or browning, to make a thin batter. Stir it into the hot soup, stir and simmer ten minutes, and serve. An ounce or two of sugar, and about the same of salt, may be added to each gallon of soup, with a gill of vinegar—but the taste of a good cook must decide as to quantities, and it is always best to rather under than over-season, as more can be added. Toma- toes and lemon-juice supply more delicate acids than vinegar. Celery vinegar gives a double and delightful flavour. The broths or foundations of vegetable soups may be pre- pared from— 4 carrots, 2 turnips, 2 heads celery, 4 onions, a slice of toasted bread, 4 qts. water; or, 1 turnip, 1 carrot, 1 head celery, 4 oz. onions, 3 oz. butter, 1 pint peas, crust of toasted bread, 4 qts. water; or, 6 potatoes, G onions, six carrots, 4 turnips, 3 celery heads, 4 oz. butter, or brown toast, 4 qts. water. To make, put the prepared vegetables into the cold water, heat slowly and simmer, until they are reduced to a pulp, skimming well at first; then pass the whole through a colander, then a sieve. If a broth is wanted for clear soup, let it settle and turn off the liquid. The sediment will do for thick soup, or stews. Or, in Soyer’s fashion, put butter and sugar in a stewpan, add the sliced vegetables, stew them carefully till tender and browned, then add boiling water, bread, boiled peas, &c., sim- mer, skim, season, strain or decant, and serve. Nice stock for soups is made of sago, tapioca, arrowroot, salep, Irish moss, as well as isinglass, fish, beef, veal, mutton, &c. Any of these may be extended and varied with Jerusalem artichokes, vegetable marrow’, potatoes, and similar vegetables. Clear soups commonly have an addition of green peas, chopped asparagus, macaroni, rice, or sippets of fine bread, to make them more substantial. The macaroni, or rice, should be boiled previously; the peas, if large; but the others can be dropped into the boiling soup, and cooked in ten or fifteen minutes. The clever cook or housewife will have no difficulty in making a hundred excellent soups without ever calling on the butcher. Flesh meat, when used in soups, is more for flavour than nutri-54 HOW TO COOK. ment. The most nutritious bases for soups are barley, peas, beans, and lentils; a well-browned crust of bread gives colour and nutriment. The cheapest vegetables of the markets—even the stalks and tops thrown away as refuse, have only to be carefully picked and washed to make very good food. A very palatable and nourishing thick soup can be made for considerably less than a penny a quart. Rice, Macaroni, or Vermicelli Soups.—Have a clear veget- able, or meat, or fish soup boiling, and into it drop rice pre- viously boiled or well soaked so as to quickly boil soft: or short lengths of boiled, or partly boiled macaroni; or broken vermicelli, which should always be dropped in boiling liquid to prevent it from sticking together. When tender, season and serve. Clear Vegetable Soup.—Cut into small dice about half a pound of carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, celery, and put them in a saucepan with two ounces of butter, and a teaspoonful of raw sugar; put on the fire, stir often, and when no moisture is seen, add three pints of clear broth; simmer and skim until the carrots are tender, and serve. Jerusalem artichokes, green peas, brocoli, Brussels sprouts, small asparagus chopped, and almost any nice vegetables may be used in the same way. Vegetable Soup.—Peel and cut up very fine three onions, three turnips, one carrot, and four potatoes, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, and a bunch of parsley, pass them ten minutes over a sharp fire; then add a good spoonful of flour, mix well in, moisten with two quarts of vegetable broth, and a pint of boiling milk, boil up, keeping it stirred, season with a little salt and sugar, and rub through a hair sieve, put it into another stewpan, boil again, skim and serve with fried bread in it. Count Rumford’s Soups, on which he fed some twelve hundred beggars in Munich, while they were taught to work, at an expense of less than half a penny each per day—fuel and service included—were not only astonishingly cheap, but very palatable and nutritious. I take one formula from “ How to Live on Sixpence a-Day.” Boil slowly 8 oz. of barley and G oz. of peas in 4 quarts of water until they are tender, which will take several hours; add 1£ lbs. of peeled potatoes, 1 oz. salt, £ teaspoonful of pepper.HOW TO COOK. 55 sweet herbs, 4 oz. vinegar. When done, stir in 8 oz. stale bread cut or broken in small pieces. Thin with boiling water, if required. Onions, carrots, turnips, celery, cabbage, &c., may be added to vary it; and any flavours. Cheap Vegetable Soup.—Peel and cut into small pieces six potatoes, three turnips, 2 carrots, 2 onions, 1 head celery, 2 mushrooms, if to be had; toast a large slice of bread very brown, and put all into a saucepan with 6 quarts of water. Simmer for three hours, and when quite soft pass it through a sieve. Warm up and season with salt, pepper, and any sauce you like, with a dash of vinegar. Barley Soup.—Put 2 lbs. shin of beef, £ lb. pearl barley, a large bunch of parsley, 4 onions, 6 potatoes peeled and sliced, salt and pepper, in 4 quarts of cold water, bring slowly to boil and simmer gently three hours. Rice, peas, beans, or tapioca, may be used in place of barley, and celery or sweet herbs for parsley. Onion Soup.—Cut up eight middling-sized onions, put them in a stewpan with 3 oz. butter, and fry well; mix a tablespoon- ful of rice flour with 2 quarts of water; add the onions, salt and pepper to taste, and 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar; simmer till tender; thicken with butter and flour. Pea Soup.—Cut up and fry £ lb. of onions, £ lb. carrots, 2 oz. celery in a little butter or dripping; add 4 quarts of water, or liquor in which meat or fish has been boiled; when boiling, add | lb. of peas; simmer until the peas are thoroughly done; add 1 tablespoonful of brown sugar, salt, and pepper, and a little mint or other herbs, and a dash of vinegar. French Vegetable Soup.—Pumpkins or vegetable-marrow two pounds, cut in large dice, an onion sliced, butter three or four ounces, salt and sugar two teaspoonfuls of each, pepper a quarter of a teaspoonful, -water half a pint. Stew gently for twenty minutes; when in pulp, add two tablespoonfuls of flour and three pints of milk gradually, stirring the whole well during the mixing. Pea Soup.—Put in your pot 4 oz. of butter, half a pint of peas, three pints of water, one teaspoonful of sugar, one of salt, half one of pepper, four ounces of vegetables, cut in slices; boil gently two hours, or until the peas are tender, as some require boiling longer than others, and serve.56 HOW TO COOK Cheap Pea Soup.—Put into the saucepan or pot 4 oz. but- ter, two good onions sliced; fry them gently until brownish, then add one large or two small turnips, the same of carrots, one leek, and one head of celery, all cut thin and slanting (if all these cannot be obtained, use any of them, but about the same amount); fry for ten minutes more, and then add seven quarts of water; boil up, and add one pound and a half of split peas; simmer for two or three hours, until reduced to a pulp, which depends on the quality of the peas, then add two tablespoonfuls of salt, one of sugar, one of dried mint; mix half a pound of flour smooth in a pint of water, stir it well; pour it in the soup, boil thirty minutes, and serve. Puree, or Thick Vegetable Soups.—Green Pea.—Put a quart of large green peas, when cheap, in the pot or pan, with three or four ounces of butter, a middling-sized onion, a little mint, two teaspoonfuls of salt, half the same of pepper, a gill of water; set on slow fire, stir now and then, or until no more moisture remains on the bottom of the pan; add two or three tablespoonfuls of flour, stir round quick, and break the peas against the side of the pan with a wooden spoon; moisten with a quart of milk and a quart of water, simmer twenty minutes, or more if old peas, and serve. Fried bread, in small dice, is a good accompaniment. By pressing the peas with the back of a spoon, through a hair sieve, an inviting puree is produced; after which warm up, and serve. Lettuce Soup.—Wash, dry, and cut up four cabbage lettuces, and one coss ditto, a handful of sorrel, a little tarragon and chervil, and two or three small cucumbers peeled and sliced; put into a saucepan a quarter of a pound of butter, then set in the vegetables; put on a slow fire, and stir often, until there is no liquid remaining; add two tablespoonfuls of flour, mix well, and moisten with two quarts of broth or water, and set it to boil; when boiling, add a pint of green peas, two tea- spoonfuls of powdered sugar, a little pepper and salt; when the peas are tender, serve. If you use water, increase the quantity of seasoning. Fish Soup.—The water in which fish has been boiled may be saved for soup. In it boil also the bones, head, fins, &c., with onions, herbs, vegetables, as turnips, carrots, Jerusalem artichokes, salsify, celery. A little milk improves it. Thicken, and season to taste.57 HOW TO COOK. Fish and Oyster Soup.—Stew any small fish you may have, slices of skate or any fish which may happen to be plentiful, for some hours, in sufficient water. Strain it, season, flavour, and thicken it, and before dinner-time open a quarter of hundred oysters, and put them in; when they are hot and plump serve the soup. Lobster or Cray-Fish Soup.—Boil lobsters or cray-fish and pick out all the meat, and break up the shells small in a mortar; six small lobsters, or the same proportion of larger ones, or of cray-fish, will do. Put the broken shells into four quarts of water, with a pint of green peas, a turnip, a carrot, an anchovy chopped up. a little thyme, and seasoning of mace, cloves, pepper, and salt. Stew them over a slow fire until there is no goodness left in the shells; strain off the liquor, put in the lobster or cray-fish cut small, with the coral if there be any. Let it boil a little time, thicken it with butter rolled in flour, stir it well and let it simmer a few minutes. Fry a Fx-ench roll brown on all sides, lay it in the tureen, pour the soup on it, and serve it very hot. Fish and Vegetable Soup.—Stew six pounds of fish with a couple of carrots, some white-hearted lettuces pulled leaf from leaf, leeks and onions to taste, and a handful of sorrel, or its equivalent in vinegar, in water enough to cover them, until all are boiled to rags; then add water enough to make the quantity of soup required, and some to spare for waste, and let it simmer on, closely covered, for an hour. Cut up all kinds of vegetables, fry them until they are brown, strain off the soup, put it and the fi-ied vegetables together, season with pepper, salt, and two cloves, and simmer for half an hour. Put a French roll or two rounds of toast into the tureen, thicken the soup with three new-laid eggs well beaten up, or some flour, and pour it over the bread. Fish and Pea Soup.—Boil the fish with carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, &c., until all will pulp through a sieve. Boil old peas, di-y or green, pulp them also, and add to the rest, them and the liquor they were boiled in. Add milk or cream to taste, pepper and salt ; let the soup boil enough, keeping it stirred, and at the last boil young green peas until quite tender, allowing a pint to a good tureenful of soup; put the green peas into the tureen, pour the soup over them, and serve. Fragrant Fish Soup.—Take skate, flounders, and eels, cut them up, and if they are for brown soup fry them brown innow TO COOK. 58 dripping, if for white soup put them into the kettle without frying; season them with mace, pepper, and salt; put in also an onion stuck with three cloves, a head of celery, two parsley roots cut up, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover the kettle close and let it simmer two hours, thicken the soup by dusting in it a little dry flour, if it require it, and serve. Skate Soup.—Make the stock by boiling down the skate with onions, pepper, salt, and spice (if approved) to taste. Strain off the broth, and boil in a tureen of soup an ounce of vermicelli until it is tender Beat up the yolks of two eggs, beat into them half a pint of cream or good milk, stir them into the soup near but not on the fire, until they thicken it enough, and serve it poured over a hot French roll, or toast, laid in the tureen. French Soup, or Pot au Feu—Bouillon et Bouilli.—Put a gallon of water in the pot, with four pounds of the buttock of beef, or shin, or five pounds of the thick part of the leg, three teaspoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, four onions, four leeks cut in pieces, two carrots, and two good-sized turnips, three cloves, one burnt onion, or three spoonfuls of colouring; set it on the fire; when beginning to scum, skim it, and place the pot on one side of the fire. Add now and then a drop of cold water; it will make it clear. Simmer four hours. Slice some bread, put into the tureen, and pour the broth, with some of the vegetables, over; serve the meat separate, and the remain- ing vegetables round. The proper PotauFeu, however, is a pot, well covered—an earthen one is best—into which the waste bits and scraps of meat and poultry, bones, &c.; crusts, vegetables, pulse, are kept simmering to form the stock broth for the daily soup, to make more rich and savoury stew or ragout, and to season vegetables. The cost is almost nothing, yet it is the basis of French cookery. Stock for Clear Soup.—Soyer says—Cut two pounds of knuckle or scrag of veal into small pieces, place them in the iron pot or stewpan, with two ounces of salt butter, three tea- spoonfuls of salt, half a spoonful of pepper, a gill of water, three middle-sized, or six ounces of, onions sliced. Put on the fire; when boiling, stir round with a spoon for about ten minutes, or until it forms a whitish thick gravy at the bottom, or gets rather dry, then add five pints of hot or cold water; when boiling, let it simmer gently for three quarters of anHOW TO COOK. 59 hour, skim it well, pass it through a sieve, and it will be found clear and ready for use. This is a plain neat stock; but it will be much nicer, if we add two cloves and about two ounces of carrot, and the same of turnip, leeks, celery, or a quarter of a pound of one of them, if you cannot get the variety. To add more zest to the flavour, add the smallest quantity of thyme, winter savoury, or a bay leaf. To colour, put in half a burnt onion—an onion fried in butter until it is quite black, or browning may be used. (See Sauces.) Beef Tea.—Cut a pound of beef into small dice, which put into a stew-pan with two small pats of butter, a clove, a small onion sliced, and two saltspoonfuls of salt; stir the meat round over the fire for ten minutes, until it produces a thickish gravy, then add a quart of boiling water, and let it simmer at the corner of the fire for half an hour, skimming off every particle of fat; when done pass through a sieve. If wanted plain, omit the vegetables and clove: the butter is taken out in skimming; pearl-barley, vermicelli, rice, &c., may be served in it if required. A little leek, celery, or pars- ley may be added. Qihlet, Oxtail, and other Thick Meat Soups.—Take a turkey’s giblets, or those of two chickens, or a pound of oxtail cut in pieces, or other meat, properly prepared; put into a pan a quarter of a pound of butter or dripping, melt it, add four ounces of flour, stir continually until it begins to brown, add two onions or leeks sliced, fry a few minutes longer, put in the giblets, fry gently for ten minutes, stirring now and then, pour over two quarts of water, stir till boiling, and set it to simmer; then add two teaspoonfuls of salt, half one of pepper, one of sugar, three cloves, a little thyme, bay leaf, and about a quarter of a pound of celery well washed and cut up small; continue simmering until the giblets are tender, remove the fat, and serve. Mutton Broth.—Cut two pounds of the scrag, or any other lean part of mutton, in ten or twelve pieces, put in a pan with two ounces of fat, two teaspoonfuls of salt, half of pepper, a gill of water, two middle-sized onions, a good teacupful of pearl barley. Set it on the fire, stir round until it is reduced, moisten with five pints of water, boil, and skim, simfiier two hours, and serve. Potato Soup.—Proceed as above, omit the barley, add two pounds of potatoes, peeled and cut in slices, put them in whenHOW TO COOK. CO the broth is boiling; simmer till in pulp, and serve.. A few sprigs of parsley, or the flowers of four marigolds, is an im- provement, and, at the same time, an agreeable change. Arrowroot Thickening for Soups.—Take an ounce of arrow- root, and very gradually add sufficient liquid to it to make it of the consistency of batter; and in order that it may be smooth, it should be moistened sparingly at first and beaten with the back of a spoon, until every lump has disappeared. The soup should boil quickly when the thickening is stirred into it, and be simmered for ten minutes afterwards. One ounce of arrowroot is sufficient for one quart of soup. Corn Starch (called flour), sago, tapioca, rice flour, potato starch, as well as common wheat flour, may be used nearly in the same fashion. Ox Cheek Soup.—Rub an ox cheek (middle size, or half a large one) with four teaspoonfuls of salt and one of pepper; put in four quarts of cold water; when it boils, simmer gently for three hours. Skim off the fat. A head of celery, or some leaves of it, or onions, and any vegetables may be added in boiling. Put the meat on a dish, and serve the soup sepa- rately, with bread in it. Any small quantity of mixed vegetables may be used. They should all be cut into dice, and not peeled, but well cleaned, with the exception of the dried skin of the onion. One pound of rice is a great improvement; or half-a-pint of split peas, or barley, or a pint of white haricot beans, or a little flour to make the gravy or broth thick. It may be varied in several ways; but the chief point is, when once boiled, simmer slowly till tender, which you may ascertain by piercing it with a fork; if it sticks to it, it is not sufficiently done. Sheep and lamb’s head may be done the same way, but will only take one quarter of the time; season accordingly. FISH. Fish contains about the same nutriment as its weight of flesh, and the less oily varieties are richer in nitrogen, or the flesh-forming elements. It is also good food for the brain and nerves, from its large supply of phosphorus. The quantities of fish which might be taken all round theHOW TO COOK. Cl British Islands, and sent by rail into the interior, would go far to feed the whole population. In two days of October, 1871, there were taken by the’fishermen of the single port of Lowestoft twenty-two millions of herrings. As they had no means of curing so immense a number, many tons had to be sold for manure. The best cured herrings come from Great Yarmouth. Fish is best fresh from the water. Some, as cod, ling, turbot, soles, and even salmon, keep for some days in a cool atmosphere; others, like mackerel, should be eaten on the day they are caught. But most kinds can be preserved by salting, smoking, or drying, and these can be made more palatable and healthful by being soaked in cold water before using. The most delicate isinglass is made of the swimming bladder of the sturgeon. The water in which fish is boiled is a good foundation for soups, if its odour is not disagreeable. The vessels in which fish is cooked must be perfectly clean; and they should be freed from all smell of fish after using, especially if intended for other uses. This is particularly the case with the frying-pan and gridiron. A pan in which coals can be put to stand over a fish and brown its surface is required for some dishes; while others need the bain-marie, which is simply a jar or other vessel, set into a saucepan of boiled water, or oblong vessel made for the purpose, so that its con- tents are kept at the simmering point without burning. To Boil Fish, have just water enough to cover the fish, in a vessel not too large. Most kinds should be put in boiling water. To the water add a rather large quantity of salt, and a strong dash of vinegar. In France fish are commonly boiled in white wine, sour cider or perry, of the sour cheap kinds, would answer. In the water may also be put a little pepper, mace, or sweet herbs, parsley, &c. Very ordinary fish may in this way be brought to a delicious flavour. A fish is boiled enough when it separates readily from the bone. Marinade.—A sort of flavoured broth in which fish may be boiled. Cut up a carrot, a large onion, a good-sized clove of shallot, or two small ones, and half a clove of garlic. Put them into a stew-pan with a piece of butter, a bunch of pars- ley, and other sweet herbs, and let all brown a little. Then stir in gradually a bottle of cheap foreign wine, good home- made wine, or cider. Put in a good tablespoonful of salt, some pepper, ground allspice, and two cloves, beaten up;HOW TO COOK. 62 simmer the whole for two hours, and strain it. Let the fish which is to be cooked in it only simmer, and if the marinade is boiled and skimmed, after using, it will do again and again ; but if put by for days it must be kept tightly covered. To Broil Fish, if large, like salmon, cut it in slices about an inch thick, roll them in a batter of melted butter, flour, and salt, and broil over a clear but slow fire. Or it may be simply dried in a cloth, floured, and broiled, and served with butter. To Fry Fish,.—Fish is best fried in salad oil. This oil may be kept in a special jar for the purpose, and used when re- quired. Whole fish may be rolled in flour, or fine biscuit powder, or Indian corn meal; but slices of fish are best with yolk of egg, or a thin batter. The oil, or other fat, should be very hot, and the fish nicely browned. Batter for Frying Fish.—Beat up an egg until it froths, beat in flour enough to make the batter so thick, that a suffi- ciency of it will adhere to the fish dipped into it before frying. Season it with salt and pepper to taste, and add mace and nut- meg in fine powder, if the flavour be liked. Dip the fish into this, and put each piece as dipped into the boiling fat or oil. Another batter for fish is: beat up the yolks of two eggs, beat in a spoonful of flour, powdered nutmeg, mace, salt, and pepper to taste. Or beat four spoonfuls of flour with one of oil, and just beer enough to make it of a due thickness, beat in the whites of two eggs, or one egg, yolk and white both. A Mayonaise of cold fish is simply a good salad sauce poured over it;' with a garnish of lettuce, beet-root, nasturtian flowers, &c. (See Salads.) Stewed Fish.—Take white wine and water in equal parts, or, lacking wine or cider, use a little vinegar and water, just enough to cover the fish, and let it stew gently until it is cooked. Put the fish by to keep hot, and thicken the liquor with butter and flour. Beat two eggs, mix gradually with the gravy, salt to taste, and serve the fish in the gravy. Chives and parsley may be chopped fine and added if liked. Boiled Fish, French Style.—After the fish is cleaned and scaled, place in the inside a piece of butter rolled in flour, and pom1 a glass of boiling vinegar over it. Place the fish in a stew-pan with wine enough to cover it, to which add salt, pepper, a laurel-leaf or two, and two slices of lemon. Let itHOW TO COOK. G3 simmer gently for two hours, drain from the liquor, and serve on a napkin, in a bed of green parsley. Water and vinegar may be used instead of wine. To Cook Kippered Salmon.—Cut it into pieces of convenient size, wrap them in buttered writing-paper, and broil them. It does not take many minutes to cook. Or, make a wall of mashed potatoes round a dish. Have hard-boiled eggs largely chopped, divide the salmon into flakes, put both into half a pint of rich new milk, thicken with butter rolled in flour, stir it until it boils, and pour it into the dish with the potatoes round: or, toast the salmon. Place it in a basin with the cut side downwards, pour boiling water over it: if salt be objected to, repeat the process, place it on a dish the right side up- wards, and put butter on it before the fire; or, lay the pieces in a dish over night, with a little salad oil poured over them, and in the morning, with the oil remaining in the dish, fry the salmon lightly; or, soak the salmon for three or four hours, broil it, and pepper it slightly as it cooks. Boiled Cod, Ling, Hake, Haddock.—Wash, and rub it with vinegar. Put in warm water, salt, and vinegar A good-sized head and shoulders takes half an hour. It must not boil so briskly as to crack the skin. Serve on a napkin with melted butter, or any sauce preferred, as lobster, shrimp, anchovy, caper. See Sauces. Crimped Cod.—Boil in slices two inches thick in water well salted a few minutes. Take out and drain; flour them, and broil slowly. Any good sauce. Fried Cod.—Next to the head and shoulders cut collops for frying, two inches thick. Wash, and dry them in a cloth. Put egg and bread-crumbs over them; let the fat in the pan boil, and fry the slices of cod of 5, bright brown, and well cooked through. Salt Cod.—Put the cod in water the night before it is wanted, and let it soak all night. Boil it, lay it in a dish, separate the flakes, pour egg sauce over it, and send it up very hot. Or, instead of the egg sauce, boil parsnips quite tender, mash them with butter, cream, or milk, and spread them round the salt fish. If the cod be very dry soak it for several hours, lay it out to dry in a cold place, and then soak it again for a number of hours; this double soaking is said to soften the driest fish.64 HOW TO COOK. A nice way to cook salt cod for breakfast is to broil it first, then lay it in a basin with the skin upwards, pour boiling water over it, and let it soak for a little time. If the fish is very salt, put fresh boiling water upon it, then lay it in a dish, skin down, before the fire, and rub butter over it, or pour over cream, or melted butter. French Ways of Dressing Salt Fish.—For cod au blanc soak the tail of a salt cod, separate the flakes, make a sauce of cream, butter, and flour, a little parsley chopped fine, pepper, and salt. When this is well mixed, put in the cod, let it sim- mer very gently for a quarter of an hour, and serve it very hot. For cod au vert jire cook the fish with milk, butter, and sweet herbs, arrange it on a dish, strew over it parsley chopped very fine, squeeze a little lemon-juice over it, and serve it hot, without any other sauce. Cod au beurre roux, boil a piece of cod and separate it into flakes. Brown some butter, dredge in a little flour and a little sugar in powder, and in this fry some slices of onion to a fine brown. Throw in a tablespoonful of vinegar, give a boil up, pour over the fish, and serve garnished with crisped parsley. Broiled Cod Sounds.—Lay them a few minutes in hot water If fresh, rub them with a little salt, clean them until they look white, and give them a gentle boil. Take up, dry, flour, sprinkle salt and pepper, and broil them. Serve with melted butter and mustard, or whatever sauce may be preferred. Fricasseed Cod Sounds.—Clean the sounds well, boil them in milk and water, and drain them. Put them into a clean saucepan, season them with pepper, salt, a little mace, and a little nutmeg, pour in a cup of cream or good rich milk, thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and keep shaking the saucepan until the contents are hot and thick. Then pour them into a dish, and garnish with pieces of lemon. Cod sounds may be simply boiled in milk and water, and served with egg sauce. Boiled Turbot.—Clean the fish, but do not leave it to lie in water; rub it over with vinegar to make the flesh firm Put it into the kettle when the water boils, with the white side upwards, with salt and vinegar in the wrater, let it boil gently, and skim the pot whenever the scum rises. Half an hour to three-quarters will cook a moderate-sized fish. Slip the turbot off the fish-plate with great care to avoid breaking it, andHOW TO COOK. 65 serve it with lobster sauce or shrimp sauce. Large plaice will boil in the same manner, but will take less time. Turbot au Court Bouillon.—Boil water enough to cover the fish with salt, parsley, thyme, two or three laurel or bay leaves, an onion cut up and a clove of garlic; let it boil half an hour and stand to settle; when clear, pour it off. Rub the turbot with lemon-juice, and simmer it in the liquor prepared (the court bouillon) for an hour, if the fish be of medium size. It must never boil, but only simmer; and if the kettle be covered with a sheet of paper well buttered, it will keep the whiteness of the fish. Drain, and serve on a napkin sur- rounded with parsley, with caper sauce in a tureen. Other flat fish, the Brill, the Plaice, the Flounder, the Dab, and the Sole, are dressed in the same way. Scalloped Fish.—It may be done either in a pie-dish or in scallop dishes, using three or more to form a dish. Divide cooked fish into small flakes, roll them over in thin melted butter, thickened ci’eam, or any sauce that is liked, and flavour them nicely to taste with seasoning, minced herbs, spice, or any agreeable sauce. Pack the fish on a bed of bread-crumbs, cover it with more bread-crumbs, lay bits of butter all over the top, and bake it in an oven, or in a Dutch oven, until it is brown on the surface. It may be done in the same way, using very nicely mashed potatoes in place of the bread-crumbs. Fried Herrings.—Choose them, like all fish, of a bright sil- very appearance, stiffness, and brightness in the eyes and gills. Clean and scale, and dry in a cloth. Fry them to a bright colour. The herring, being so rich a fish, should be fried with less fat than fish of most kinds, and well drained and dried afterwards. A nice sauce to eat with herrings is sugar, mus- tard, and a little salt and vinegar. Crisp parsley to garnish them may be used. Fry Sprats in the same way; they require no sauce, unless it may be a little lemon, pickle, or ketchup. Broiled Herrings.—Clean and dry the fish, cut off their heads, flour them, and broil them. Break up the heads and boil them for a quarter of an hour in a little beer, ale, or water, with a little whole pepper and a bit of onion; strain off the liquor, thicken it with butter and flour, beat mustard up with it, and serve it in a tureen. E66 HOW TO COOK. Boiled Herrings.—Clean and dry the fish, rub a little salt over them, wash them over with vinegar, lay them carefully on the fish-plate, and put them into the kettle when the water boils. Ten or twelve minutes will cooktliem. Let them drain; serve with parsley and butter. Baked Herrings, Pilchards, or Sprats.—Clean the fish, and clear them of scales with wiping them; do not use water. Beat up and mix together allspice, black pepper, and salt. Arrange the fish in a pie-disli or pan, with a few cloves and a little bit of onion, and sprinkle the seasoning between every layer of fish. Cover them with half vinegar and half table-beer; tie them down with paper, and bake them in a slow oven. Boiled Mackerel.—Draw and wash the mackerel; place them side by side on the fish-plate, and put them into boiling water, from five to ten minutes ; put in fennel, parsley, and mint, in separate bunches, long enough to make them tender. Chop them separately very fine and quickly, and put them in the side-oven, or in some place where they will keep very hot, while the mackerel is dished. Place the mackerel side by side on the dish, and arrange the green in lumps around. Serve it with melted butter. Fried Mackerel.—Clean the mackerel, cut them open, and brush them over with egg beaten up. Mix crumbs of bread, parsley, chives and lemon thyme minced very fine, pepper and salt, cover the fish with this seasoning, and fry them. Serve with melted butter or plain. Some like them done with egg and bread-crumbs, without the herbs. Broiled Mackerel.—Clean the fish, cut off their heads, and draw out the roes, without opening them. Boil the roes and beat them with the yolk of an egg, a little nutmeg, a bit of lemon-peel minced fine, minced thyme and parsley, salt, pep- per, and some crumbs of bread. Stuff the fish with this force- meat, putting it in where the heads were cut off, flour them and broil them over a clear fire, taking care that they are well done through. Serve them with melted butter, and walnut or mush- room ketchup. Fricasseed Skate.—When the skate is cleaned and skinned, put it into a stew-pan, with "water, allowing a quarter of a pint of water to every pound of fish; put in a bunch of sweet herbs and a little mace, nutmeg, and salt. Cover the stew-pan close,HOW TO COOK. 67 and let it simmer for a quarter of an hour. Take out the bunch of herbs, and put in a quarter of a pint of cream ; thicken the liquor with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, rolled in flour; stir in a glass of white wine; keep shaking the pan one way until the fricassee is thick and smooth, dish it up, and garnish it with slices of lemon. How to Cook all Kinds of Fish in Baking Stew-pan.—Take six pounds of any fish, cut it crossways, two inches thick, put them in the pan, with salt, pepper, chopped onions; fill it up, well intermix the seasoning; when full, put in a basin four ounces of flour, which mix with a quart of water, which pour over, shake the pot, well cover it, bake two hours in a rather hot oven; seasoning to be four teaspoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, two onions, and chopped parsley; onions may be omitted, but use herbs and mixed spice. Fish Cakes.—Take the meat from the bones of any kind of cold fish Put bones, head, and fins into a saucepan, with a pint of water, salt, pepper, an onion, sweet herbs, to stew for gravy: mince the fish, and mix it with cold potatoes and bread- crumbs, with a little parsley and seasoning, Make into cakes with white of egg, or butter, or milk; egg over, cover with bread-crumbs, and fry a light brown. Pour over the gravy, and serve hot. The commonest and cheapest fish, salt cod, ling, haddocks, herrings, bloaters, &c., if boiled and freed from bones, are good minced with cold boiled potatoes, or mashed, and then fried or baked, either in a mass or in cakes. Boiled Lobsters.—Put the lobsters into a kettle of boiling w ater, with a little salt in it. A large lobster will take half an hour. When the lobster is taken up, tie a little piece of butter, or dripping, in a bit of muslin, and just rub it lightly over the shell to make it look bright; oil does better. For roasted lobster, only half boil it, rub the shell with but- ter, set it before the fire, and baste it with butter until it has a dark brown colour. The French way of boiling lobsters is to put into the water in which they are to be cooked—salt, pepper, vinegar, parsley, scallions, or an onion, and bay leaves, and to leave the lob- sters in the liquor until it is cold. To Stew Lobsters.—Pick all the meat out of the shell of a fine boiled lobster, or two smaller ones, and do not break it more than necessary. Boil the shells in a pint of water, withHOW TO COOK. 68 a blade of mace, and some pepper. When all the good is got out of the shells, strain off the liquor, put the lobster into it, thicken it with flour and butter, give it a boil, stir in a glass of white wine, or two spoonfuls of vinegar, and serve it up. Cold Crab.—Pick out all the meat from a fine large crab with a silver fork, take out the meat of the claws and cut it up; take out the contents of the cart, and mix all up together. Make dressing as for salad, mix enough with the crab to fla- vour it thoroughly, put it back into the cart, piling it up in the centre, and garnish round the edge with sliced lemon cut in quarters. Buttered Crab.—Pick the meat out of a large crab, cut it into small pieces, and mix all well together with bread-crumbs and a little minced parsley, equal to a third of the crab in quantity ; mix in bits of butter here and there, season it with pepper, salt, and cayenne, to taste, pack it into the cart, and squeeze over it the juice of a lemon, or drop in a spoonful of lemon pickle or vinegar. Cover the top with a thick layer of bread-crumbs, put small bits of butter all over, and bake either in a moderate oven or before the fire. Stewed Oysters.—Strain the liquor of the oysters, to make sure it is quite clean; put it into a stew-pan with a little beaten mace, thicken it with flour and butter, and let it boil three or four minutes. In the meantime toast bread, and lay it in three-cornered bits round the dish intended for the oysters. Put into the stew-pan a spoonful of cream, and the oysters, shake them round, and let them stew until they are quite hot, but do not let them boil, or they will be hard and small. Canned oysters are done in the same manner; first boil the liquor, thicken a little, or add hot milk, and season; then add the oysters, bring to the boil, and serve. Scalloped Oysters.—Ingredients; Four to six dozen oysters, grated biscuit, three ounces of butter, a little flour, salt, and pepper. Scald the oysters lightly in their own liquor. Take them out with a fork, arrange in basin with layers of grated biscuit, bits of butter, salt, and pepper. Hub a little flour into the rest of the butter, stir into the oyster liquor, fill up the basin and brown in the oven. Broiled Oysters.—Large oysters, of a mild flavour, like the Americans, are excellent, dipped in biscuit powder, or fine bread-crumbs, broiled on a double gridiron to a light brown, dipped in, or brushed over with butter, and served on toast.HOW TO COOK. 69 Fried Oysters are by some preferred to broiled, but both must be large, fat, and of a mild and tender quality. Dry the oys- ters on a cloth, dip them in a batter which may contain salt, pepper, and a little mace, or nutmeg, and fry in oil or butter, to a light brown. FLESH MEAT AND POULTRY. The general principles of meat cookery have been already given, and it remains only to give here some more particular directions for roasting, baking, boiling, broiling, frying, and stewing the joints, steaks, chops, cutlets, stews, ragouts, and fricassees, which form the central and, as many consider, the substantial portion of our principal meals. If less space is devoted to tills department than in most cook books, it is because instruction is less needed, and that more may be given upon those parts of cookery which are com- monly neglected. Still, the following directions are careful, precise, varied, and will be, in most cases, abundant for all requirements. BROILING. Probably the most common cookery in England, is also one of the most primitive—that of broiling a beefsteak or mutton chop before or over the fire. To do tills well, you must have a clear fire and a clean gridiron. The fire must be started some time beforehand, and then cleared of ashes. The steak should be tender, or well beaten to make it so; about three-fourths of an inch thick, and if not even, flattened by beating. Place it five or six inches above the fire—the thicker it is, the further off. Salt and pepper. The moment fat begins to drop, turn it. Salt and pepper the other side, and when it drips, turn again. This is to keep in the gravy. Never turn with a fork, or if you have no proper tongs to turn with, put the fork in the fat. Turn as often as it drips. When done, it will feel firm under the finger. With a double gridiron you can broil equally well in front of the fire. A beefsteak requires twelve or fifteen minutes. FRYING. In frying meat, the frying-pan should be perfectly clean,HOW TO COOK. 70 and the fat, butter, or oil, about two lines deep, made very- hot. Place the steak, or chop, in the fat for a minute; then turn it, and let it stay three minutes; turn again, salting and peppering each time, and when it has been turned three or four times it will be done—say in ten to twenty minutes, ac- cording to the thickness. The object in heating quickly at first, and then turning often, both in broiling and frying, is to suddenly form a coating of coagulated albumen on the surface of the meat, so as to keep in all its juice and flavour. Done in this way, a Med steak or chop is nearly as good as a broiled one. ROASTING AND BASING. Roasting is governed by the same principles as broiling and frying. All dark meats should first be put near the fire for fifteen minutes; then moved back and allowed to do gently. Fowls should be first set close to the fire to set the skin; then well buttered, and moved back. When the gravy begins to appear, dredge with flour, which forms a hard crust and helps to retain it. Fifteen pounds of beef require three and a-lialf to four hours, twenty inches from a good fire; ten pounds, two and a-half hours, eighteen inches from a good fire; six pounds, one and a-half hours, fourteen inches from the fire. Veal, mutton, lamb, require less time than beef. In roasting of beef, mutton, lamb, pork, and poultry, place a dripping-pan under the meat, with a little clear dripping or fat for basting. A quarter of an hour before serving add half a pint of water to the fat in the dripping-pan; dredge the meat with flour and salt. When the meat is dished up, pour the contents of the pan into a basin, straining it through a gauze sieve kept on purpose; remove all the fat, add a little colouring and salt if needed to the gravy, and pour it into the dish under the meat. Yeal and poultry should have half the quantity of water put in the pan, and that, when strained, added to half a pint of thick melted butter, adding two teaspoonfuls of any sauce for flavour. In baking meats the same principles must be observed as in roasting. Large joints require ten or twelve minutes to the pound in a quick oven, and longer in a slow one. A slow oven and a long bake is preferred for some joints; but where there71 HOW TO COOK. is danger of their drying too much, water should be kept in the baking pan. Most kinds of meat should be carefully basted during the whole of the time they are roasting: and near the close of the roasting they should be dredged with flour, and a little salt sprinkled over them. It should be the object of the cook to send her joint nicely frothed and browned, without being burned. The dripping ought to be kept clean, and preserved for frying, &c. BOILING. In boiling a joint of meat there should be water enough to cover it; it should be boiling when the meat is put in, and brought again slowly to the boil; then it may be removed from the hottest fire and allowed to simmer, so as to do evenly through. All the scum should be carefully removed as it rises, and after skimming, some salt may be put in, and other season- ing if liked. In boiling meat, twenty minutes must be allowed for each pound. The water in which meat is boiled should be used for soup or gravy. All meat loses weight in cooking. In roasting, beef loses 19 per cent.; mutton, 22 to 24 per cent.; chickens, 15; geese, 19; turkeys, 20; ducks, 27 per cent. In boiling, the loss in weight is rather more than half as much as in roasting. GRAVIES. Beef Gravy.—Put some slices of lean beef into a stew-pan, with an onion and a little pepper and salt; cover them with water, take off the scum, and let the gravy simmer until the juice of the meat is wholly extracted. Put a crust of bread toasted brown into it, and strain the gravy when done, Broun Gravy.—Cut a piece of lean beef or veal into thin slices, and put them into a stew-pan, with a bit of butter or a slice of fat bacon, and an onion sliced; brown the meat lightly, and cover it with sufficient water or broth for the gravy; take off the scum, add pepper and salt, sweet herbs, &c., and stew the whole until the meat is thoroughly done. Strain the gravy, and, if you like, thicken it with flour. It may also be flavoured, to suit the dish for which it is required, with ketchup, lemon- juice, cayenne, &c. Gravy for Roast Meat may be made by putting any trim- mings of the joint into a small sauce-pan, and stewing them before the meat is done. Gravy is commonly made by pouring72 HOW TO COOK. a little boiling water over the brown parts of the joint about half an hour before it is done. Another way is to pour a little boiliug water over the inferior parts of the meat after it is taken from the tire. Care should be taken, in following these methods, that the meat is not soddened by using too much water. Gravy for Boiled Meat is usually made by putting a little of t he liquor in which it was boiled into the dish. Gravy for a Fowl maybe made by stewing the neck, giz- z ard, &c., with the liver bruised; a bit of lemon-peel should be added, and a spoonful of ketchup. Strain it when done. Gravy for Venison is best made with the trimmings of the meat, or with mutton. Brown the pieces of meat in a stew- pan, or broil them a little. Cover them with boiling water, take off the scum, and season with a little salt. When quite done, take the fat off. Stuffing.—Soyer gives the following stuffing for veal, poul- try, and game, which, of course, may be varied to suit taste:— Chop half a pound of suet, put it in a basin with three-quarters of a pound of bread crumbs, a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of pepper, a little thyme or lemon peel chopped, three whole eggs, mix well, and use where directed. A pound of bread crumbs and one more egg may be used: it will make it cut firmer. Leg of Mutton, to Boil.—Plunge into boiling water enough to cover it, let it boil up, then remove to the side of the fire till you can bear your finger in the water; bring to a gentle sim- mer, skim well, add a little salt, and in two and a-half hours after it begins to simmer a moderate sized leg will be done. Bibs or Sirloin of Beef.—Boast beef, being a justly famous English dinner, deserves the best care of the cook. Put a nice sheet of paper over the fat, put it before a good fire, baste it constantly, and when nearly done, take the paper off, dredge the joint with flour, and sprinkle a little salt over it. A joint of fifteen or twenty pounds will require three hours and a-half roasting. Garnish with horse-radish. Roast Leg of Mutton.—Mind that the meat has been pro- perly hung, and roast it before a brisk fire a couple of hours, for a joint of eight pounds. Dredge and baste, as directed for beef. A Shoulder of Mutton of seven pounds weight will take about an hour and a half roasting. Onion sauce.HOW TO COOK. 73 Saddle of Mutton.—Mind that the meat has been well hung. See that the butcher cuts off the flap and the chump end; he should also take off the skin, and skewer it on again to prevent the meat scorching; if this is neglected, a sheet of paper should be put over it before it is put down to roast. Twenty minutes before the meat is done, take off the skin or paper, baste the meat, and dredge it with flour, and sprinkle a little salt over it. Serve up good gravy and currant jelly. It will be done, if a moderate size, in two hours and a half. When done, lay the kidneys at the end. Loin of Veal.—Carefully paper the kidney fat of this deli- cate part of the calf; roast and baste it nicely about three hours. Serve up with melted butter. This joint well deserves the greatest care of the cook, being beyond all question the greatest delicacy of the veal kind. Breast of Veal.—The caul should be kept on the meat until it is nearly done, when it should be taken off: the meat should be floured, basted, and frothed. Veal Sweetbread.—Parboil it, let it get cool, and roast it. Or, if you like, egg and bread-crumb it, and roast it. Serve with melted butter and mushroom ketchup. To Cool't Toitfih Beefsteak.—Broil the steak nicely, saving the juice that flows from the meat while broiling. Then cut the meat into small pieces, removing the bone, skin, and a part of the fat. Put the pieces in a basin, adding the meat juice and a little boiling water. Cover the basin closely, place it in the steamer, and cook till perfectly tender. Just before removing it from the fire, thicken the gravy with a little flour or corn-flour, and season with salt, a little pepper, a small piece of butter, and two tablespoonfuls of tomato ketchup. Fried Steak.—A steak may first be dipped in flour, and well shaken; then, with a little fat or butter, fry it to a nice brown. Yeal cutlets, mutton chops, poultry and game, may be done in the same manner. Or, when your steak is partly done, dredge both sides over with a spoonful of flour, dish up, pour out the fat, put a gill of water in the pan; let it simmer a few minutes,—it will make a nice thick sauce. Mutton Chops.—These may be cooked and flavoured., like steaks, but garlic is sometimes used instead of eschalot/ Peel a clove of garlic, put it on the end of a fork, and rub bothHOW TO COOK. 74 sides of the chop lightly with it. Chopped mushrooms are very good with broiled chops. Auy fleshy part of the sheep may be broiled the same way. Mutton Chops.—Cut three-quarters of an inch thick, leaving half an inch of fat round them, and broil over a clear fire for ten minutes, turning four times, sprinkle with salt and pepper, serve on a hot plate, one at a time, with a nice mealy potato. One and a half teaspoonful of salt and a half of pepper to a pound of chops. Mutton Cutlets.—Cut the chop from the neck nicely, and remove the bone at the thick part; then beat up the yolk and white of an egg, with a pinch of salt; have ready some bread- crumbs, made from stale bread, and sifted; beat out the cut- lets with a small chopper, dip them or rub them with a brush with the egg, place some of the bread-crumbs on a plate, and lay the cutlet on them; press them; serve both sides the same, and shake off all loose crumbs; have the fat in the pan quite hot, lay them in it; when nicely browned on one side, turn them over, and do the other side the same; take them out, lay them on a cloth, so that no fat remains; serve with any made sauce. Lamb Chops should be cut not more than half an inch thick, and broiled before the fire very close and quick; they will take from eight to ten minutes. Throw some pepper and salt over, and serve very hot, with fried parsley round them, if handy. Beefsteak in Baking Pan.—Take two pounds of beefsteak, which cut in pieces the size of walnuts, but only half an inch thick; peel two pounds of potatoes, cut in slices a quarter of an inch thick; two middling-sized onions sliced; mix two tea- spoonfuls of salt and one of pepper. Then lay five or six slices of potatoes on the bottom of the pan, season them, add some pieces of beef; season again, then potatoes and onions, then beef, until the pan is full, potatoes on the top, seasoning each time; pour in three quarters of a pint of water, cover close, bake for one hour and a half; when done shake the pot gently, that the gravy may mix with the potatoes and onions, and form a nice thick sauce. Skirt or any other part of beef is excellent. Vary the flavour by adding two onions or more for those fond of onions, and the judicious use of two cloves, or one blade of mace, or six peppercorns, or a teaspoonful of powdered ginger. Or with herbs, two small bay-leaves, two sprigs of fresh thyme, or some winter savoury, or lemon75 HOW TO COOK. thyme • if dried, a little more should he used; two teaspoon- fuls of chopped parsley may be employed. A little celery seed is also very good. Ox Heart, baked.—Wash an ox heart in several waters, cut it in six pieces lengthways, like a steak; lay a few slices of potatoes at the bottom of the pan, then a little beef suet, then the heart, then suet again, and then potatoes over all; season as you fill up, add half a pint of water, bake one hour, and serve. Stewed Fresh Beef and Rice.—Put an ounce of fat in a sauce- pan, cut half a pound of meat in large dice, add a teaspoonful of salt, half one of sugar, an onion sliced; put on the fire to stew for fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally, then add two ounces of rice, a pint of water; stew gently till done, and serve. Any savoury herb will improve the flavour. How to Steiv Fresh Beef, Mutton, and Veal.—Cut two pounds of fresh beef into ten or twelve pieces; put these into a saucepan with one and a half teaspoonfuls of salt, one tea- spoonful of sugar, half a teaspoonful of pepper, two middle- sized onions sliced, half a pint of water. Set on the fire for ten minutes until forming a thick gravy. Add a good table- spoonful of flour, stir on the fire a few minutes; add a quart and a half of water; let the whole simmer until the meat is tender. Beef will take from two hours and a half to three hours; mutton, about two hours; veal, one hour and a quarter to one hour and a half; add half lb. of sliced potatoes, or some turnips, carrots, peas, &c., as you like, and boil till tender. Beef with Vegetables.—Peel two carrots, two turnips, two onions, cut in pieces, put some vegetables at the bottom, then the meat in centre; season, and cover over with remaining vegetables; add a few cloves, a pint of water, or half ale and half water; put in slow oven for three hours, take off the fat, and serve. Any inferior part of beef will eat tender done thus. Leg, Breast, Scrag, and Head of Lamb.—These may all be done as follows:—Put it into a gallon pan, with one carrot, two turnips, one leek, cut in thick slices, thirty young button onions whole, three teaspoonfuls of salt and one of pepper, cover with water, and set it on the fire, or in your oven for one hour; at the end of one hour put in one pint of peas, a little green mint, and a teaspoonful of sugar; set it by the side of the fire or in the oven for half an hour longer, and serve. This is for a leg or joint of five pounds weight; for a larger one takeHOW TO COOK. 76 a little longer time. A bunch of parsley and sweet-herbs may be added, but should be removed when served. The flavour is exquisite, and may be served with vegetables or without, as liked, but then the broth should be strained, and the vegetables served separate, or the broth made into spring or other soups. Haricot Mutton.—Cut breast or scrag of mutton into square pieces, and fry to a nice colour; dredge with flour, salt and pepper. Put in a stew-pan, moisten with boiling water, add an onion stuck with three cloves, a little mace, herbs; simmer till the meat is done, skim off fat, add dice of carrots and turnips fried in sugar; simmer for ten minutes, remove the onions and herbs, and serve. An Excellent Economical Stew.—Take four or five pounds of beef from the cheaper portions of the animal; cut it in small pieces, removing the fat, skin, and gristle. Dip the pieces in vinegar, then place them in the stew-pan, with two onions sliced, six berries of allspice, cover with cold water, and let it stew gently till thoroughly tender. Just before serving, thicken the gravy with one and a half teaspooufuls of flour, and add salt and two ounces of butter. It will take four to six hours. Ragout of Beef.—Cut two pounds of cold roast or boiled beef into rather large pieces, and put them in a sauce-pan, with six onions sliced, with salt, pepper, and mixed spices or herbs to taste; pour over them one-lialf pint boiling -water, and about as much gravy, or lacking the gravy, a pint of water; let the whole stew very gently two hours. Stewecl Shin of Beef.—Saw the bone into four or five pieces, cover with cold water, boil and skim; put in a head of celery cut up, a sliced onion, fagot of herbs, salt, spice, and pepper, and simmer until the meat is tender; cut up four carrots, two turnips, and put them, with twelve button onions, in a sauce- pan, and boil till tender. Take out the meat and keep hot; thicken the gravy with butter and flour worked together; season with mushroom ketchup, or other sauce; give one boil, and pour it over the beef, and garnish with the vegetables. Potted Beef.—Put a beef shank into water sufficient to cover it, and boil until perfectly tender. Remove the meat from the water, and let both meat and water stand untouched over night. Carefully cut away the bone and cartilage from the meat, chop very fine, and replace in the water, whence the fat must have been skimmed; season with salt, pepper, and maceHOW TO COOK. 77 to taste, and let it simmer gently for a half hour. Pack closely in a stone jar, pour melted butter or dripping over, and keep in a cool place. Hashed Beef or Mutton.—Meat that has been already cooked ought to be under-done to make a good hash. It should be cut into thin slices, seasoned with pepper and salt, and the skin, bones, and gristle, should be taken off, and made into gravy, as follows:—Put a bit of butter with a little flour and a table- spoonful of broth or water into a stew-pan; cut a couple of onions into slices, and add them to it, and brown them lightly; next put in the bones, and pieces of meat not wanted for the hash ; add a piclded onion, walnut, or gherkin, and a sprig or or two of sweet herbs; pour in as much w'ater as is wanted, and let the whole stew until you have made a good gravy. Strain it, season it with a little ketchup, tomato sauce, or vinegar. Pour it over the slices of meat in the stew-pan, and let it sim- mer only just long enough to warm the meat through. Serve up with toasted bread in the dish. Observe, that if the meat which has been already cooked once is cooked a second time by hashing it, the less the hash is done the better; if done too much, the meat cannot fail to be hard, dry, and unsavoury. Frioandeau of Veal.—Cut some slices of the leg, beat them flat, and trim them nicely. Stew the meat until it is quite tender, in as much water as will just cover it; take it up when done, and put it by, near the fire. Add some sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and mace, to the gravy, with tomato or sorrel, or other sauce; let it boil up quickly, and strain it over the veal. Jugged Hare.—Skin and thoroughly clean the hare, cut it up as to serve at table, make some stuffing into balls, as if for roasting, adding seasoning, &c., and put the whole into an earthen jar large enough to hold it conveniently. Put a pint and a half of good beef gravy into it; add, if you like, the juice of a Seville orange, and a bit of thin lemon-peel. Tie the jar down tight, and let it stew in a saucepan of boiling water up to the neck for three hours. When served up, the gravy may be flavoured with wine, &c., according to taste, and may also be thickened with flour and butter. Irish Stew.—Cut three pounds of mutton into convenient pieces, pare and halve five pounds of potatoes, slice five large onions; put in a stew-pan, laying first potatoes, then mutton, then onions, with salt and pepper for each, topping with onionsHOW TO COOK. 78 and potatoes. Pour in a pint of water, cover well, and stew two and a half hours. Cold Beef with Mashed Potatoes.—Mash some potatoes with hot milk, tiie yolk of an egg, some butter and salt. Slice the cold beef, and“ lay it at the bottom of a pie-dish, adding to it some sliced eschalot, pepper, salt, and a little beef-gravy; cover the whole with a thick paste of potatoes, making the crust to rise in the centre above the edges of the dish. Score the potato- crust with the point of a knife in squares of equal sizes. Put the dish in the oven, or before the fire in a Dutch oven, and brown it on all sides; by the time it is coloured, the meat and potatoes will be sufficiently done. Tripe, Lyons fashion.—Boil two pounds of tripe; when done, drain it, dry with a cloth, cut it in pieces about an inch square; put in the pan four ounces of butter, four middling-sized onions cut in slices; fry for a few minutes, then add the tripe, stir them every four minutes for about a quarter of an hour, then put in a teaspoonful of salt, half ditto of pepper, two table- spoonfuls of vinegar, mixed well, and it will be ready for serv- ing. Vermicelli boiled in the water that the tripe has been boiled in, makes good soup. Rice and bread are also nice. Turkey, Boiled.—A hen turkey of moderate size is best, killed three or four days. Pluck, carefully draw, and singe with white paper ; wash inside and out, and dry with a cloth; cut off head and neck, draw out the sinews from the thighs, cut off legs, fill the body with stuffing; run a skewer through legs and wings, break the breast-bone, and make it round, Put into sufficient hot water to cover it, bring to a boil, and remove all the scum. Simmer gently one and a half to one and three-quarter hours, and serve with white, or celery, or parsley sauce. Oyster stuffing and oyster sauce are sometimes used. Turkey, Roast.—Choose a fine, fat, short spurred, black- legged cock-turkey ; pluck and wash as before ; stuff and truss. Bread-crumb, potato, or chestnut stuffing is good, seasoned to taste. Fasten a sheet of buttered paper to the breast, and put before a bright fire, at some distance at first; then draw nearer, and keep well basted. After one and a half hours, dredge with flour, baste with butter, and do to a nice brown, and serve with brown gravy, or bread sauce. Chicken, Boiled.—Prepare the same as a turkey; truss firmly and put in a stew-pan with plenty of hot water; bring to the boil, and skim carefully. Simmer very gently until tender—-HOW TO COOK. 79 nearly an hour. If done in a floured cloth, they are whiter. Serve with white, parsley, celery, or mushroom sauce. Roasted Chickens are done in the same way as roasted turkey. Chicken, Fricasseed.—Carve into joints, parboil in boiling water two or three minutes; take out, and plunge into cold water to make them white. Put the giblets, with the head and legs into a stew-pan, add a bunch of parsley and green onions, or a chopped onion, a clove, two blades of mace, a shallot, a bay leaf, salt and pepper to taste, with the water in which the chicken was parboiled; simmer an hour. Into another saucepan put the pieces of chicken, two ounces of butter, dredge with flour, and let them get very hot, but not brown ; moisten with gravy from the trimmings, and stew gently half an hour. Now put the chicken in another saucepan, skim the sauce and reduce it by rapid boiling, and strain over the chicken; add one-quarter pint of cream ; season, let it boil up, stir in two or three eggs till they tliicken, but they must not boil. Goose, Roasted.—Select a goose with a clean white skin, plump breast, and yellow feet; prepare and truss, and stuff with sage and onions, or apples, onions, sage, or potatoes, and any seasoning liked, and roast one and a half to two hours before a good fire. The giblets may be stewed for a gravy. Ducks are prepared, stuffed and roasted, like geese. Goose Stuffing.—Peel and cut in two, crossways, four large- sized onions, weighing altogether about one pound; slice fine, put in a pan two ounces of butter; add the onions chopped with two teaspoonfuls of sage if green, three if dry, one of salt, one of brown sugar, half one of pepper. Set this on a slow fire, letting it stew for fifteen to twenty minutes; then while hot, stuff your bird. This may be done in winter a few days before it is put to the spit, as it imparts to the goose a nice savoury flavour. To vary it add four tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, or two of broken biscuit, or four of chopped apples, or four of rice, or four of cold boiled potatoes, or a little chopped lemon, or a little herbs of almost any kind, or chopped boiled beetroot. Other stuffings are made with potatoes, bread crumbs, butter, salt, pepper, spices, and sweet herbs.HOW TO COOK. 80 PASTRY. Paste is a composition of the flour of wheat, rye, maize, rice, or potatoes, ancl butter, oil, or fat, worked together, with enough water or milk to make a plastic dough, for crusts of pies and tarts, and the outsides of boiled puddings, apple dumplings, &c. Puff paste is made of fine flour, water, and oil or butter so worked in by repeated rollings and foldings as to make it very light and brittle when baked. Eggs are added to increase the richness of the paste. If the flour, which should be well dried, is mixed with a small quantity of baking powder, much less butter may be used to make an equally light and more healthful paste; but it will not bear much rolling. The finest puff paste is made of equal weights of flour and butter. Mix the flour with cold water, and a teaspoonful of salt to the pound, into a softish, flexible paste. Work the butter into the same consistence, laying it top of the paste and pressing the two together. Roll out thin, then shaking on a little flour, fold it over, and roll out three or four times. Let it cool for half an hour, then roll out twice. Plainer pastes are made with less butter or with dripping. Pudding Paste is often made with suet; hut those who do not wish to use it can use butter or oil, and even small quan- tities of these, with baking powder, make very nice crusts. Excellent Paste for fruit or meat pies may be made with two- thirds of wheat flour, one-third of the flour of boiled potatoes, and some butter or dripping; the whole being brought to a proper consistence with warm water, and a small quantity of yeast added when lightness is desired. This will also make very pleasant cakes for breakfast, and may be made with or without spices, fruits, &c. Potato Paste.—Add an egg, or some butter, to boiled and finely bruised potatoes whilst they are warm; before the mix- ture becomes cold, roll it out on a well-floured board; cover the dish with it immediately, and bake. A Wholesome Crust.—Flour sixteen ounces, butter three to four ounces, baking powder one teaspoonful, water rather less than half a pint. Mix the powder intimately with the flour, well dried; rub in the butter, then add the water, and mix the whole with a wooden spoon without kneading it; take it from the bowl and roll it, fold it in three and roll again, and if not81 HOW TO COOK. sufficiently smooth roll it a third time. The addition of a little cream would be an improvement. This crust, when well made, is very agreeable and wholesome. Good Crust—Put some light white bread into a basin, and add a pint of boiling milk; let it remain closely covered till cold; rub a little butter in, and as much flour as will render it of proper consistency; add a little salt, mix the whole together, and roll it out as required. Or, flour sixteen ounces, butter three ounces, white and yolk of an egg well beaten, yeast one table-spoonful. Warm the butter in half a pint of new milk, let it stand till lukewarm, mix well all together, and let the dough stand to rise; roll it out, and bake as quickly as possible. MEAT AND FISH PUDDINGS Are easily made, and are an economical form of cookery, as the paste envelope saves all the nutriment and flavour. They require, however, good digestions. Cheap meat and fish may be used; but not any that is in the least tainted. Lumps of charcoal, or washing in Condy’s fluid, will remove a slight taint. A lump of charcoal may be placed in the centre of the pudding, or any dish which re- quires it. Pudding cloths must be kept very clean, but should never be washed with soap. Beef Pudding.—Cut up about a pound of beef steak, pieces of beef, or cold roast beef, put in a dish, and sprinkle over with a teaspoonful of salt, a half ditto of pepper, and a tea- spoonful of flour, the same of chopped onions; mix well to- gether; make six or eight ounces of paste, roll a quarter of an inch or more thick; put the pudding cloth in a basin, sprinkle some flour on it, lay in your paste, then the meat, some fat, and three wine-glasses of water; enclose in the paste, tie the cloth loosely, boil in four quarts of water one hour. This will serve as a model for boiled meat puddings; but they may be baked in a dish witli a crust over, when they are generally called pies; but made in the same manner. In either case a sauce or gravy may be added; in the baked dish by opening the crust, and turning it in just before it is done; in the boiled, when it is dished for the table. Family Steak Pie.—Take and cut two pounds of beef in FHOW TO COOK. 82 slices, two pounds of potatoes, a quarter of a pound of onions; season with three tcaspoonfuls of salt, one of pepper; mix it * well together; put the meat and potatoes into the pie-dish, in alternate layers; add a pint of water; cover with paste, and hake for one hour and a half. Artisans Pie.—Take two pounds of meat, not too fat, cut in slices, season it with three teaspoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, four sliced onions; peel four pounds of potatoes, cut in thick slices, which place on the bottom of the dish, then a layer of potatoes, then the meat; add a pint of water, cover with paste, and bake for two hours. Trimmings of meat of all kinds may he purchased in every large town, especially in London, and are the proper pieces for such economical pies; in buying them, take care there is none tainted. Poor Mans Potato Pie.—Wash and peel six pounds of potatoes, cut them in slices; take half a pound of the fat of mutton or beef, or dripping, cut into small dice; season the whole with a teaspoonful of pepper and three of salt; cover with paste, and bake one hour and a half. A bloater, boned and cut up with the fat, makes a nice change of flavour. Vegetable-Tapioca Pie.—Vegetable -marrow and celery in equal quantities, and one onion boiled; cut them small, season with pepper and salt, and a dessert-spoonful of tapioca steeped in a quarter of a pint of cold water, and one ounce of butter; cover with paste, and bake. Vegetable Pie.—Potatoes, carrots, turnips, onions, celery, equal quantities of each. Cut the carrots and turnips into dice, and the onions and celery into small pieces; fry them in butter, with a little flour, pepper, and salt, till tender, but not burnt; put them in a pie-disli with the sliced potatoes, a little butter and flour, and a cupful of water; stew the whole in the oven till tender, then cover with a crust, and bake. Oyster Pie.—Ingredients—Oysters, puff paste, bread crumbs, a little mace, two ounces butter, two or three eggs. Line a deep dish with the paste. Place a plate the same size as the dish on the top of it: over this put the top crust, set into the oven and bake. While this is baking strain the liquor from the oysters, thicken it with the yolks of the eggs boiled hard and grated; add the butter and a few fine bread crumbs;83 HOW TO COOK. season with the mace, and stir five minutes. When the crust is done, remove the cover, pour in the oysters and their gravy, replace the cover (minus plate), and serve immediately. Turbot Pie.—Parboil the turbot. Cut the meat into pieces of convenient size, and season them with pepper, salt, cloves, and nutmeg. Roll them over in parsley, chives, and sweet basil minced very fine; arrange them in your pie-dish with yolks of eggs round, and some gravy; put pieces of butter over, cover with a crust and bake in an oven which is not too quick. Any large, and not too oily fish may be done in the same fashion. Sole or Flounder Pie.—Clean, wash, and dry the fish. Par- boil them in as little water as will do, and cut the flesh clean from the bones. Lay some butter at the bottom of the dish, place the pieces of fish in order, and season them with pepper and salt. Boil the bones in the water in which the fish was parboiled, with parsley, lemon-peel, and a crust of bread. Let it boil down until there is only enough to make gravy for the pie; it should be strong enough to jelly when cold. Pour half over the fish, cover it with a crust, and bake it in a moderate oven. When it is taken out of the oven, fill it up with the gravy which remains, pouring it in at the hole in the centre of the pie by means of a small funnel. Herring Pie.—Clean and dry the herrings, and cut off their heads, fins, and tails. Season with mace, pepper, and salt; put some butter in the bottom of a pie dish, lay in the herrings, then some apples and onions sliced very thin, lay on a little more butter, pour in a little water, cover with a crust, and bake well. Fish Pudding.—Take two pounds of cod fish, cut in slices about the size of five shilling pieces, half an inch thick; fill the bowl with the paste, as usual, lay some of the fish on the bottom, season with salt, pepper, a little chopped parsley, onions, a little flour and pieces of the liver, if any, then the fish, and so on until full; add a gill of milk or water, shake it well, tie up, and boil one hour, and serve. A little bay leaf and thyme may be added, if handy. All fish may be done the same way, varying the flavour ac- cording to taste. Fish Pudding, a Plainer Way.—Cut one pound of any fish in small pieces, season with salt and pepper on a dish; add aHOW TO COOK. 84 little flavour; mix well, put it in the paste with a gill of water, and if you have a wine-glassful of any fish sauce, add it, cover up, boil one hour, and serve. Mackerel Padding.—Cut off the heads of two mackerel, cut each one in four pieces, keeping the roe in; fill the pudding with the pieces, season with salt, pepper, a little chopped onions and fennel, add a gill of water, boil one hour, and serve with fennel sauce over. • Lent Minced Pie.—Take the yolks and whites of four hard- boiled eggs; shred them fine; add to them three or four apples pared, cored, and chopped small, half a pound each of dried currants and raisins stoned and cut up, two ounces of sugar, a quarter of a pound of mixed candied-peel, and the juice of two Seville oranges. Stir the whole well together; line a dish with a puff-paste, lay in your mince, cover it with a top crust, and bake for three-quarters of an hour in a gentle oven. If preferred, you can make it into small pies, and bake them for twenty minutes. How to Make Mince-meat.—Chop fine one pound of beef suet, four ounces of lean beef previously roasted, half a pound of apples, four ounces of raisins previously stoned; the above articles must be chopped separately; put them all in a basin, add to it two ounces of candied lemon and orange peel and citron; cut these small, then put in a quarter ounce of mixed spice, four ounces of sugar, mix the whole well together, add in the juice of a lemon, a quarter of a pint of brandy, stir it, put it in a jar, and use when required. Stewed tripe (cold) may be used instead of beef, and half an ounce of bitter almonds and lemon peel. The above, if made one week before Christ- mas, will answer every purpose. Line your patty-pan with puff-paste, fill three-parts full with mince-meat, cover over with paste, egg over, sugar, and bake. Royal Mince-meat.—The mince-meat as made at Windsor Castle every year, the ingredients being mixed one month be- fore wanted, is as follows: 240 lbs. of raisins, 400 lbs. of cur- rants, 200 lbs. of lump sugar, 3 lbs. of cinnamon, 3 lbs. of nutmeg, 3 lbs. of cloves, 3 lbs. of ground allspice, 2 lbs. of ginger, 300 lbs. of beef, 350 lbs. of suet, 24 bushels of apples, 240 lemons, 30 lbs. of cedret, 72 bottles of brandy, 3 lbs. of mace, 60 lbs. of lemon-peel, and GO lb». of orange-peel.85 HOW TO COOK. EGGS, AND THEIR COMBINATIONS. Eggs, which contain every element of food, combine with almost every other article of diet, entering into the composi- tion of hundreds of delicious dishes. The white of the egg is almost pure albumen, the yolk is albumen and oil in nearly equal proportions. The proportions of white and yolk best liked in omelets, custards, puddings, cakes, are five yolks to three whites; but if a small quantity of rich milk or cream is added all the whites may be used. In cooking eggs in any of the hundred ways the first rule is not to cook them too much. The hard white of an egg is very slow of digestion. Eggs should be kept in a cool and perfectly sweet place, for they absorb through their porous shells all the odours about them. If these pores of the shells are filled with wax, gum, oil, or any substance that makes them air-tight, the egg will keep fresh a long time. They will also keep in a strong salt brine, or even covered with fine salt. If eggs are plunged in boiling water for half a minute, and then into cold water, and put away in a cold place, they will keep a long time, pre- served by a thin envelope of hardened albumen. To test an egg hold it to a candle; close one eye, and look through it. If clear, it is fresh and good; if there are only a few white spots, it will do for puddings; if a black spot, it is bad. Fresh eggs are taken raw from the shell, swallowing the yolk whole; or dropped in a glass of wine. Raw eggs are also beaten up with sugar and a little wine or spirits. Boiled Eggs are badly done almost everywhere. They are half- raw, or hard; whereas they should be cooked evenly through, the white a jelly, and the yolk well set. This may be done by putting them for five minutes in water at 200 degrees Farenlieit—12 degrees below the boiling point. An easier way is to put the eggs into cold water, and let them come, not too quickly, to the boil. The moment the water boils, remove them from the fire, and let them stay in the water one minute: or they may be sent to table in the water in which they were boiled. Fried Eggs have an agreeable flavour, but the whites spread, and are commonly made very tough and indigestible. The butter should not be too hot, and they should cook slowly.HOW TO COOK. 86 When nearly done, pour the hot butter on the yolks until they are set. Scrambled Eggs have a nicer flavour than fried ones. Tut a lump of butter, a little salt and pepper, or a pinch of powdered sweet herbs into a frying-pan or sauce-pan; break in the eggs and stir them over a gentle fire until they are barely set. Turn out quickly into a hot dish and serve. Baked Eggs, CEufs sur plat, are very nice if not overdone. Break the eggs into a buttered dish which will bold the number required without spreading, lying side by side nearly in their proper shapes; sprinkle salt and a little pepper over them, and some bits of butter; set them in a gentle oven, and remove as soon as they are barely done through, and while the whites are still a semi-transparent jelly. Or they may be done on the hot plate and finished at the top with a hot shovel or salamander. Fondue—Eggs and Cheese.—Add to well-beaten eggs one- third their weight of grated cheese, and one-twelfth of butter, broken in bits; stir with a wooden spoon over the fire in a lined sauce-pan until they are thick and soft, add a little pepper and salt if needed. It must be very hot, but must not boil. Serve on a hot plate. One egg to each person. Poached Eggs on toast, or with spinach, are very nice eating. Have some water about an inch deep, in which you have put a little salt and a dash of vinegar, simmering in a shallow sauce-pan or frying-pan; break each egg into a basin, so as to keep the yolk whole, and slide it carefully into the water; or, better, break each egg into a tea cup, and quickly turn tlie cup over, so that it stands bottom up in the water with the egg inside. In a minute the egg will be set so as to preserve its round shape; remove the cups, keep the water at the simmering point, and remove each egg, as soon as white and yolk are well set, to the toast, which should be buttered, and a little soaked, and placed in a hot covered dish. Omelets— In France everybody can make an omelet, in England almost nobody. Break, and put in a basin, say five eggs, removing the whites of two; or, as some prefer, keeping all the whites and adding a tablespoonful of milk for each egg. Some beat in butter, crumbled into bits. Put in a little salt, pepper, sweet herbs, if liked, and beat, all thoroughly. Some beat the yolks and whites separately, and then mix them Tliis makes the omelet lighter. Have now a perfectly clean87 HOW TO COOK. dry, and, if possible, small frying-pan, in which melt, and bring to a good heat, half an ounce of butter or perfectly sweet salad oil. Pour in the eggs, and let them simmer in a gentle heat; some say stirring gently, but I prefer not, but turning in the edges to keep them from burning, and if the pan is too large, tipping it so as to keep the eggs at the side, until the bottom is a light brown, and the top a thin jelly. Now gently slide the omelet upon a hot plate or shallow oval dish, fold it over, so as to keep the soft part inside, and serve instantly. An omelet can be cooked in about two minutes, and should go to the table hot, the instant it is done, and just when it is wanted. When eggs are dear more milk may be used if thickened with a little corn flower or arrowroot. Chopped parsley, chopped onions, grated cheese, chopped mushrooms, &c., are put in omelets; but the onions and mush- rooms must be very fine, or previously, at least, partly cooked. A little mushroom ketchup with a plain omelet, or mushroom powder in it, gives it a good flavour. Plain Omelet.—Eggs four, butter one to two ounces. To these may be added bread crumbs two to four ounces, or bread crumbs one ounce, and mashed potatoes two ounces, or flour one ounce, or boiled rice four ounces. To any of these forms add a little salt and pepper, or cayenne, or nutmeg and mace, and milk or cream sufficient to give the whole a proper consistency. Grated cheese and French beans boiled and cut small, of each two ounces, parsley a quarter of an ounce, may be added to the beaten eggs and butter. The butter may be omitted. Savoury Omelet.—Eggs four, butter a quarter of an ounce, flour a table-spoonful, cream or milk a tea-cupful, parsley shred fine a dessert-spoonful, two middle-sized onions, boiled and shred, cayenne and salt a little of each. The -whole should be of a light consistency, and may then be either fried or baked in cups. Sweet Omelets are made the same as the first, with eggs or eggs and milk, with a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, instead of pepper, &c. Sprinkle sugar over, glaze with a salamander, and serve hot. Omelette aux Confitures is made by covering the omelet as soon as done with a layer of any kind of fruit, sweetmeats, or jam, and then turning it over as before. Omelette au Rhum.—Well beat four eggs, add two ounces of88 HOW TO COOK. pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and two ounces of currants washed, dried in a cloth, and plumped in brandy. Fry as above, and serve with a glass of rum poured over it; set fire to the rum, and send it to table, flaming. Omelette Soujlee.—Carefully break eight eggs, separate the whites from the yolks, beat the whites to a snow, mix the yolks with a little grated lemon-peel and a spoonful of sugar; then mix the whites and yolks together, put them into a buttered dish, sprinkle it over with sugar; put the omelette into a gentle oven, and immediately it is well risen, serve it dusted over with sifted sugar. Omelet with Arrow Root.—Beat up two eggs, and mix with them one tablespoonful of arrow root, and a teacupful of milk, add a little pepper and salt, and sugar, if preferred, throw the whole on to a flat saucepan, previously well heated and cov- ered with butter, keep the saucepan in motion over the fire, then turn it several times, and roll it up, keeping it in motion till it is slightly browned. The Friars' Omelet.—Bake some fine large apples, peel them, and take a pint of their pulp, freed from core; mash it up with four ounces each of fresh butter and loaf-sugar in powder, and, as soon as cold, add four eggs well beaten; then take a tart-dish, butter it thorough^, and strew it over with a thick coating of bread-crumbs; put in the ingredients, strew more bread-crumbs on the top, and bake it forty minutes. Turn it out to serve, and dust it over well with pounded lump- sugar. Custards are soft, sweet, and delicate preparations of eggs, cream, milk, and sugar, in the proportions of milk, or milk and cream, one pint; eggs, one to five; sugar, two to four ounces; delicate flavours, as lemon peel, orange flower water, rose water, almond, laurel leaves, vanilla, mace, cinnamon, nutmeg, &c. For cream a little butter may be substituted, and a tea- spoonful of arrow root, corn starch, potato starch, or ground rice may be used for lack of sufficient eggs. Add the sugar and flavouring to one half the fluid, and let it simmer ten min- utes; when the eggs have been well beaten with the remainin'* fluid, add them to the hot fluid; place the whole over the fire again, and stir it till it becomes sufficiently thickened, but do not let. it boil. Remove from the fire, and stir it occasionally till cold; pour it into custard glasses. Or, put the custard into a mould, which place in a steamer containing very littleHOW TO COOK. 89 water, and not too tightly covered. As soon as the custard will bear the weight of your finger, remove it from the steamer, let it stand till cold, turn it out of the mould, and garnish with whipped cream. Baked Custard.—Milk or milk and cream, one pint; eggs beaten, three or four; sugar, two ounces; nutmeg or other flavour when desired. Line a dish with good paste, pour in the custard, and bake it half an hour; or pour it into cups, and bake or steam it ten minutes or more. Plain Custard.—Boil a pint of milk, in which place two ounces of sugar, the thin peel of half a lemon; break in a basin four eggs, beat them well with a fork, then pour in the milk by degrees, not too hot; mix it well, pass it through a cullender or sieve, fill cups with it, which place in a stewpan, on the fire, which contains one inch of water; leave them till set. Arrow Root Custard.—One quart of milk, and mix with it two ounces of arrow root, one or two eggs well beaten, add a little butter and four tablespoonfuls of sugar. Flavour to taste and boil four minutes, then pour it into a pie-dish, and brown it before the fire. Lemon Custard.—Beat the yolks of three eggs with six tablespoonfuls sugar, add four tablespoonfuls of milk and the juice and grated rind of a lemon; pour the mixture upon puff paste arranged in a deep plate. While this is baking beat the whites of the egg, with four tablespoonfuls of sugar, to a stiff froth. When the custard is baked, spread the froth evenly over it, and return to the oven until lightly browned. Floating Custard.—Set one quart of milk on the range in a daintily clean vessel. Then separate the yolks from four eggs, and beat the whites to a stiff froth. When the milk is scalding hot, slip spoonfuls of froth upon it, turning them over gently so that that they will cook. Lift them carefully out upon a dish, -whip the yolks with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, pour into the milk, and stir rapidly until it reaches the boiling point. Remove them instantly, and pour into float dish; when a little cool add any flavouring liked, and lay the snowballs upon it. This dish may be varied by beating the different fruit juices or jellies with the whites of the eggs. Custard Pudding.—Beat up two or three eggs with a small dessertspoonful of arrow root, sweeten with loaf sugar, add seven drops of essence of almonds; pour on this a pint of boil-90 HOW TO COOK. ing milk, be sure the milk boils, bake immediately in a quick oven half an hour. Corn starch may be substituted for arrow root. Rice Custards—Boil two or three bay-leaves and some bits of cinnamon and lemon peel in a quart of new milk; rub down a great spoonful of ground rice in a little cold milk, add the beaten yolks of two eggs, gradually mix it with the boiled milk, straining the latter; put it over the tire in a saucepan, stir it gently until it thickens, pour it iuto a dish, stir in a spoonful of brandy, and, when cold, either put a whipped cream upon the top or serve in glass cups. Rice Custards without Rggs.—Take seven teacupfuls of new milk and one teacupful of whole rice: put it into a bain-marie, or in a jar placed to stand in a pot of boiling water, which must be kept boiling until the rice is boiled perfectly smooth; then sweeten it with pounded loaf-sugar; mix in two ounces of blanched sweet almonds beaten to a paste, and when cold, put it into your cups and serve. Rose Custards.—Take six ounces of dressed beetroot; pound it in a mortar until perfectly smooth; add enough rose water to make it pass through a sieve; strain into it the whites of three eggs, beaten, and a pint of thick cream; stir it over the lire until sufficiently thick; then serve in custard-cups or in a glass dish. PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. Pancakes are made of batter, and fried in thin cakes of any convenient size, say four to six inches in diameter, served hot, and eaten with butter and sugar, or some prefer golden syrup or well-boiled and clarified treacle. One of the favourite American breakfast dishes is pancakes made of the flour of buckwheat, made in a thin batter, raised with yeast or baking powder, and fried, either in a slightly buttered frying-pan, or on a soapstone (Scotch) griddle. The nicest sauce is the maple sugar syrup. The batter for pancakes should be of the consistency of cream, and should be well beaten up at the time it is used; but it may best be made an hour or two before it is fried. Pancake Batter.—Flour, 4 oz.; eggs, 1 to 4; milk or cream, i to i a pint; or ground rice 4 oz.; eggs, 1 to 4; milk or creamHOW TO COOK. !)1 lpint; water, Jpint; or, rice,4 oz.; cream. 4pint; eggs, 4; but- ter, 4 oz. A little salt and two teaspoonfuls of sugar may be added. When the least number of eggs is used, add more flour and milk. Boiled rice, ratifias, macaronies, and any spice or flavouring may be added; or pepper and salt, sage, parsley. Small beer is sometimes- used instead of eggs. Mix half the milk or cream with the flour, &c., beat the other half with the eggs, and mix both. Ground rice is mixed with cold water and stirred into the milk when it nearly boils; let it thicken but not boil; cool, stir in the butter, and when cold add the eggs. Rice is boiled soft, and when cold mixed with cream and eggs; stir in warm butter, and as much flour as needed. French Batter.—Two ounces of butter cut into bits, pour on it less than a quarter of a pint of water boiling; when dissolved add three quarters of a pint of water cold, so that it shall not be quite milk warm; mix by degrees smoothly with twelve ounces of fine dry flour and a small pinch of salt, if the batter be for fruit fritters, but with more if for meat or vegetables. Before used, stir it into the whites of two eggs beaten to froth; previously to this, add a little water if too thick. This is excellent for frying vegetables, and for fruit fritters. To Fry Pancakes.—Melt a little butter in a frying-pan; put in as much of the batter as will cover the bottom of the pan, and make the pancake about the thickness of a pennj^-piece or the eighth of an inch; when the batter is nearly set, shake the pan round a little, and if the pancake will move freely, turn it over, adding a little more butter; when lightly browned, turn it again, and almost immediately slip it out of the pan upon a hot dish, placed over a pan or deep dish of hot water. Roll up each pancake as it is fried, and serve while hot with sugar and lemon juice. Some prefer butter and treacle, or boiled treacle. Milk Pancakes.—Put four yolks and two whites of eggs into a pint of milk, and dredge in flour until you have a smooth light batter; add a teaspoonful of grated ginger and a glass of brandy. Well heat some butter or oil in your frying-pan, and fry your pancakes of a nice brown colour; drain them carefully from the fat, and serve with pounded and sifted sugar strewn over them. Crepes, or French Pancakes.—Well beat the yolks of four eggs, mix them into a pound of flour; add a glass of brandy, and with an equal quantity of good ale and water dilute the paste until it is of the consistency of cream; let tills remain32 HOW TO COOK. for two hours before using; then put a piece of butter as large as a walnut into the frying-pan, hold it over a clear fire until it smokes; put in enough batter to cover the bottom of the pan, and when nicely browned on one side, turn it, and as soon as it is done, serve with lemon, ginger-sauce, or spiced sugar apart. Put in another piece of butter for each succeeding pan- cake you have to fry. French Pancakes.—Beat two eggs and put in a basin with two ounces butter beaten to a cream; stir in two ounces sifted sugar, two ounces flour, and add a half pint new milk; stir and beat; put on buttered plates, and bake twenty minutes. Serve with a cut lemon and sifted sugar, or pile on a dish with layers of preserve or marmalade. Snow Pancakes.—When the snow is on the ground it may be advantageously employed for pancakes instead of eggs. Take four dessertspoonfuls of flour and two of snow, mix well together; then add enough cold water to make it into a very stiff batter. Fry quickly, and serve hot with spiced sugar and lemon-juice. Rice Pancakes.—Take a quarter of a pound of ground rice, put it into rather more than a pint of milk, and keep stirring it until it is as thick as pap; then put in a quarter of a pound of butter and half a grated nutmeg, Pour it into a pan, and when quite cold, stir in four eggs well beaten, two spoonfuls of powdered white sugar, and enough flour to make it of the consistency of batter. Mix the whole well together, and fry portions of it as pancakes over a quick fire. Fritters are pancakes containing fruit, rice, &c. Cherry Fritters.—Take half a pound of ripe Mayduke cher- ries; stone and halve them: make a pint of new milk pretty hot, sweeten it, and pour it upon your cherries; then well beat four eggs, put them with the cherries, stir all well together, add a little flour to bind it; put it into a frying-pan a spoonful at a time, and when the fritters are done, serve with sugar sifted over them. Fruit Fritters.—Eggs, three or four; rice, three ounces; flour, one tablespoonful; butter, one ounce; sugar, two ounces; milk, one pint; apples, four ounces; currants, three ounces; half a lemon rind. Simmer the rice in the milk till nearly tender, and till the mixture is thick and dry; add the sugar and butter, and when only just warm, mix the currants, apples choppednow TO COOK 93 fine, flour, and eggs. Fry in small fritters from five to seven minutes, then sift white sugar over them. Rice or Grain Fritters.—The various grains may be made into flitters thus: Soften the grain in water or milk, and when nearly cold add eggs, well beaten, in the proportion of five eggs to six ounces of grain, weighed dry; season with pepper and salt, and fry in cakes about four inches in diameter and three quarters of an inch thick. Before being fried they may, if pre- ferred, be dipped in beaten egg. Serve with brown sauce, or crisped parsley and melted butter. Bread-Crumb Fritters.—Pour half a pint of boiling water or milk upon four ounces bread crumbs, and let them soak one hour; beat the mixture with a fork, removing all hard pieces; add four beaten eggs and half an ounce of butter, and if intended to be sweet, add from two to four ounces of sugar, and a little lemon rind and juice; also, if liked, three ounces of currants, or four of chopped apples or other fruit, and fry. If intended to be savoury, substitute for the sugar, &c., onions previously boiled in two or three waters and chopped small, two to four ounces; oatmeal, one ounce; sage, one teaspoonful; lemon, thyme, and sweet marjoram, half a teaspoonful of each; a little pepper and salt. Mix the whole well, adding more fluid when necessary; fry and serve up with brown sauce. Or, use mashed potatoes, sixteen ounces; bread crumbs, two ounces; eggs, five; season with pepper and salt; or, rice, coarsely ground, four ounces; eggs, four; parsley, one teaspoon- ful; onions, finely chopped, one teaspoonful; pepper and salt. Boil the rice in about half a pint of water; let it cool, then add the other ingredients, and mix well. Fry, and serve with brown sauce. Bread Fritters.—Cut some nice slices of bread half an inch thick, dip them in milk which is sweetened, or sprinkle sugar over, then dip it into some batter of milk and flour, and fry nicely, or put some butter in a tin dish, with the bread over, and put in an oven. When quite hot and nearly hard, put some fruit over, and serve. Cream Crullers.—Ingredients: Two cups sugar, three eggs, one cup sweet cream, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, one teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful salt, half teaspoonful nutmeg, one flour. Mix the sugar with the flour, and beat the cream with the eggs. Flour enough to roll out hard. Fry in plenty of boiling oil or butter.94 now TO COOK. BREAD AND FARINACEOUS PREPARATIONS. Bread, the staff of life, must have been one of the earliest forms of cooked food. To crush the seeds of plants, mix the meal with water, and bake the dough on a flat stone before a fire, is one of the simplest modes of cookery, and one of the best. A hollow in a rock was the first mortar; two stones rubbed together the first mill. To this day the negro in Ame- rica makes his hoe cake of pounded Indian corn in this simple fashion. Indian Johnny cake is made in the same way, of finer meal. This is the unleavened bread of the Scriptures, and may he made of wheatmeal or flour, oatmeal, rye, barley, or maize. But when bread is made in larger loaves it is more pleasant to eat, if not more digestible, to be lighter—that is, of a spongy texture, with small air-cells interspersed in its substance. This may be accomplished in several ways. Fermentation, which may be rapidly produced by yeast, causes the formation of carbonic acid gas, which swells up the whole mass of mois- tened flour. Or the mixture of an acid and alkali in the dough will produce veiy rapidly the same result. Aerated bread is made of flour or meal moistened with water, which holds a large quantity of carbonic acid gas in solution. The bread of bakers is generally raised too much, destroying its substance and sweetness, and making it dry and chippy to the taste. It is also often made of inferior or damaged flour, doctored with alum, white vitriol, &c. The brown bread of the bakers often seems made of refuse flour and bran, and is very inferior to good home-made bread made of whole wheat—the entire meal without separation. Bread made of rather coarse meal is sweeter than the finer. Some of the aroma of the wheat escapes in the crush and heat of the mill-stones. The air of the mill is full of it, and this is so much lost to the bread. M. Soyer says—“The bread which I strongly recommend is that made from unbolted flour, or whole meal. The mass of bread is increased one-fifth, and the price lowered, between the difference of the price of bran as flour, or as fodder for cattle. It is only in more modern times the sifted flour has been known and has been used by the poor, to imitate the luxury of the wealthy, at the expense of their health. Certain it is, that where whole meal is used as bread, the population have betterHOW TO COOK. 95 digestive organs than where it is not.” Chemistry has demon- strated that the wasted bran is richer in nutritive elements than the finest flour. The entire grain as God made it is sweetest, and most healthy.* Bread should be baked quickly and thoroughly, neither over nor under done, but with a light brown crust, It is best when a day old. A stale loaf may be made quite fresh by being dipped for a few moments in water, and then put in the oven until heated through. Bolls and biscuits may be so renewed. Bye, if free from ergot, makes very good bread. Indian corn makes excellent cakes, but for large loaves it should be mixed with a third or half of rye or wheat meal. Barley and oats are better in thin cakes, or still better in porridge. Biscuits, from bis, twice; cuit, baked, are thin cakes of flour aud water; but a great variety is made with milk, butter, sugar, eggs, &c. If they are to be dry and crisp, when three parts done remove them to a slow oven where the vapour can freely escape. A little potato starch or arrow-root, an ounce to a pound of flour, makes them more delicate. Dyspeptic Biscuits, formed of undressed wheatmeal and water, well made, and carefully baked, are probably the most wholesome kind of bread, and may be kept in tin cannisters for a considerable time without injury. Dyspeptics can digest these when other bread disagrees with them. Well toasted brown bread is nearly as good. Unfermented Raised bread is made by thoroughly mixing some alkali, usually bicarbonate of soda, with the flour, about half an ounce to four lbs., and then mixing acid enough to neutralise it with the water or other liquid, one quart, with which the dough is formed. The same weight of hydro-chloric (muriatic acid) will answer, and forms common salt. The common baking powders contain both alkali and acid. Mix thoroughly, through a sieve or otherwise, then pour in the water and mix quickly, working but little. The dough should be softer than for fermented bread. Put in a deep dish, and bake in a hot oven. Sour milk or sour butter milk may be used instead of the hydro-chloric acid. Fermented Bread is made of dough, in which a small por- * I very strongly recommend to every family to have a hand mill and grind their own wheat. I have one in use two years, which seems as good as ever. Good mills can be had from six to twenty shillings. {See advertisement at the end of the book.)96 HOW TO COOK. tion of the starch of the flour is converted by fermentation into carbonic acid gas. This fermentation is hastened by mixing with the flour-fermenting substances, as barm, brewers’ yeast, German yeast, &c. The dough, containing a small portion of these substances, is kept in a warm place, about as warm as new milk, until it rises, when it is made into loaves and baked. A little sugar stirred into yeast will restore its strength. Sour dough may be sweetened by working in twenty to forty grains of carbonate of magnesia to a pound of flour. Yeast may be made in this way:—Stir one pound of wheat- flour, or half a pound of flour and half a pound of boiled potatoes, into a gallon of cold water; boil the whole twenty minutes; then, if flour only has been used, add four ounces of coarse sugar; keep the mixture in a warm place two or three days, then pass it through a sieve, and pour it into a stone jug for future use. The jug should be well corked, and kept in a cool place. If a little yeast can be procured, it may be added when the mixture is nearly cool; let it stand all night in a warm place, then stir it up well, and pour it into the jug. Milk Yeast.—Put one teaspoonful loaf sugar, two-thirds spoonful line salt, and one cup new milk, into an earthen jug, and pour in one pint of water, which should be boiling. When this is blood warm, add flour to make a thin batter. Keep at the same heat for five hours, either near the fire or in a dish of warm water. Potato Yeast.—Boil three large potatoes, and mash them fine; stir into them one cup of flour, one tablespoonful of salt, one tablespoonful brown sugar, one quart of boiling water, then add a cup of yeast when the mixture is lukewarm. When well-fermented, cork tightly, and keep in a cool place. A tablespoonful to a small loaf of bread. Domestic Yeast.—Boil one pound of good flour, a quarter of a pound of brown sugar, and a little salt, in two gallons of water, for one hour. When milk warm, bottle it, and cork it close. It will be fit for use in twenty-four hours. One pint of this yeast will make eighteen pounds of bread. Leavened Bread.—Flour or meal, eight pounds; leaven, three ounces, or yeast, two large teaspoonfuls, or German yeast, two ounces; warm water, one pint; salt, one dessert spoonful. Make a hole in the middle of the flour, break in the leaven, add the w'ater, and stir in about half the meal or97 HOW TO. CQOK. flour; cover it with the remainder let it stand all night in a moderately warm place. In the morning add the salt and as much warm water as will make the whole into a stiff paste; knead it well, and let it stand near the fire for two hours; then form it into loaves, and bake. The pans should be well but- tered. When sufficienfly baked, remove the loaves from the pans, and turn them on their sides, or upside-down, till cold, otherwise the under part of the loaves will be wet and blis- tered in consequence of the steam not escaping. The whole meal absorbs more liquid and requires rather more yeast or a longer time to rise than fine flour. Dough formed of coarse meal should not be made so stiff- as when formed of fine flour; if it be too soft after it has risen, add a little more meal; it also requires a hotter oven, and should remain in it longer. When brown bread is preferred rather moist, mix rye-meal with the wheat-meal; or pour a pint of boiling water upon one- third of the wheat-meal; stir it till it forms a thick paste, which divide into small portions to cool; then knead it ex- ceedingly well with the remaining two-thirds of the meal, adding the yeast and remaining fluid at the temperature of eighty or ninety degrees. Wheat-meal may be mixed with the meal or flour of rye, barley, oats, rice, or with boiled potatoes, apples, and any of the pulpy vegetables. A small proportion of rice flour or boiled rice makes the bread keep moister. One- fourth pea or bean meal first boiled in water, makes bread very hearty, and better than the same weight of beef at a quarter the price. Apples give a nice flavour to bread. They should be pared, cored, and stewed in very little water, and then kneaded with the meal or flour. Very little water is needed. A Peclt of Oootl Bread.—Peel and boil three pounds pota- toes, and beat to a cream while warm, add a pint of cold water, and strain through a cullender; add a half pint of good yeast. Stir well together, and pour into the centre of a peck of wheat- meal or flour, mix to consistence of cream, cover closely, and keep warm an hour; pour in five pints of milk-warm water, and two ounces salt, and mix the whole to a nice light dough. In about two hours make into seven loaves, and bake one hour and a half in a good oven. Bread, Wheat flour and Rice.—Simmer one pound of rice in three quarts of water until the rice is soft and the water absorbed; when cool, mix it thoroughly with four pounds of G98 IIO\^ TO COOK. flour, a little salt, four tablespoonfuls of yeast; knead thor- oughly; let it rise before the fire, make into loaves with a little of the flour reserved, and bake well in a slow oven. Apple Bread.—A very light pleasant bread is made in France by a mixture of apples and flour, in the proportion of one of the former to two of the latter. The usual quantity of yeast is employed as in making common bread, and is beaten with flour and warm pulp of the apples after they have boiled, and the dough is then considered as set; it is then put in a proper vessel, and allowed to rise for eight or twelve hours, and then baked in long loaves. Very little water is requisite. For cakes, pastry, &c., the flour should be sifted, well dried, and mixed up warm. A pound of flour, when hutter, sugar, or fruit is used, re- quires a tablespoonful of good yeast or a quarter ounce of Ger- man yeast or baking powder. A httle yeast, beaten with sugar and the yolk of an egg, makes cakes very light. For sweet cakes, puddings, &c., use about one teaspoonful of salt to a pound of sugar. Currants should be well picked, washed, and dried before the fire, before using. Raisins picked, washed, and put a few moments into boiling water over a quick fire to soften and swell them, then stoned, if required. Rolls.—Flour, one pound; milk, cream, or a mixture of the two, from a quarter to half a pint; yeast nearly a tablespoonful or German yeast one quarter of an ounce; salt one quarter of an ounce. Mix the dough, let it stand in a warm place to rise, divide into cakes of the size and form required, and bake in a quick oven. Tea Cakes are made of bread dough, with the addition of but- ter and sugar. Buns.—To the dough for rolls add butter from four to eight ounces; eggs, two to four; sugar, four to six ounces; currants or Sultana raisins, six ounces. Less milk will be required. Buns should be formed into a light dough or thick batter. Mix as for rolls. Crumpets, like rolls, with one egg to the pound, and new milk, to make a thick batter. When the batter rises, dip out with a cup and pour upon a hot plate or stone in rings, andHOW TO COOK. 99 bake lightly. They are toasted, or heated under a cloth in the oven, and buttered. Muffins.—The dough, made with butter and egg as above, when risen is beaten twenty minutes with a wooden spoon, then formed into balls on a well-dredged board, covered and set to rise twenty minutes, then baked lightly on a hot plate. Muffins of Unbolted Flour (Wheat-Meal.)—Mix thoroughly together one quart unbolted flour, one gill line flour, two table- spoonfuls syrup or brown sugar, one tablespoonful butter, one teaspoonful salt, half cup yeast, one quart milk; let the batter stand in a moderately warm place over night, and bake in muffin rings, or in a quick oven in well-buttered patty-tins. Muffins.—Melt a quarter cup of butter in three-quarters of a pint of milk, add one tablespoonful of sugar, $alt, and two well-beaten eggs, a gill of yeast, and stir in sufficient flour to make a moderately stiff batter. Let the dough stand eight or nine hours to rise; bake as above. Benton Tea Cakes.—Flour, sixteen ounces; butter, four to eight ounces; add sufficient milk, and roll the cakes thin; bake in a pan or on tins in an oven. Rice Cakes.—Ground rice, sixteen ounces; or wheat-flour, eight #unces; and ground rice, eight ounces; eggs, twelve; sugar, sixteen ounces; the peel of one lemon grated, and half the juice. Breakfast Cakes.—Mix thoroughly one pound flour with half a teaspoonful of tartai-ic acid and same of salt, and one ounce sifted loaf sugar. Dissolve half a teaspoonful bicarbonate of soda in three gills of milk, to which add two well-whisked eggs, and with this liquid work the flour into a light dough. Divide into small cakes, and bake immediately. A Rich Plain Cake.—Flour, sixteen ounces; butter, eight ounces; one egg; sugar, eight ounces. Add currants, twelve ounces; citron, orange-peel, nutmeg. Scotch Bread.—Flour, sixteen ounces; butter, eight ounces; sugar,eight ounces; almonds, four ounces; candied lemon, two ounces. Form the whole into cakes about half an inch thick. Galette.—Flour, sixteen ounces; butter, twelve ounces; eggs, two; sugar, two teaspoonfuls; salt, quarter of a teaspoonful; cream, one gill; and a little milk if necessary. Work all wellHOW TO COOK. 100 into a good stiff paste; roll it into a cake three quarters of an inch thick; egg it over; score it with a knife in diamonds or any other shape; bake for about half an hour in a rather hot oven; sprinkle sugar over, and serve. Gingerbread.—Mix one pound flour with a quarter of an ounce bicarbonate of soda; dissolve one to four ounces butter; mix with half a pound to a pound treacle or golden syrup an ounce or two of powdered ginger ; mix into soft dough, and in from half an hour to an hour it will be ready to bake. Eggs may be used, and baking powder; in which case it can be baked as soon as mixed. A richer Gingerbread is the following: — Flour, sixteen ounces; butter, four to eight ounces; eggs, one to four; sugar, four to eight ounces; treacle, eight to sixteen ounces; ginger, half an ounce to two ounces. The following is eaten as a remedy for constipation:—Fine oatmeal, sixteen ounces; butter, four ounces, treacle, sixteen ounces; ginger, half to two ounces Scones.—Flour, two pounds, bi-carbonate of soda, quarter of an ounce; salt, quarter of an ounce; sour buttermilk, one pint, more or less. Mix to the consistence of light dough, and roll out about half an inch thick, and cut them out to any shape you please, and bake on griddle over a clear fire about ten or fifteen minutes: turning them to brown on both sides'; or they may be done on a hot plate, or ironing-stove. 'Rice Calces.—Rice, sixteen ounces, stewed in a pint of water; add two pints of milk, four ounces of butter, grated lemon-peel, or nutmeg, or cinnamon; boil till thick; then add two well- beaten eggs, a little salt, $nd four ounces of sugar; put it in a buttered bread-tin or pan; bake one hour. Serve with sugar or jam over it. Ground Rice Cake.—Break five eggs into a stewpan, which place in another, containing hot water, whip the eggs for ten minutes till very light, then mix in by degrees half a pound of ground rice, six ounces of powdered sugar, beat it well; any flavour may be introduced; pour it into buttered pan and bake half an hour. Ginger Cake.—Half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, one ounce and half of ground ginger, six eggs; beat, well, stirring ©ne pound and a half of flour, and add as much milk, a little101 HOW TO COOK. warm, as will make a nice stiff dough for bread; bake in pan; it will take two hours. Bread Apple Cake.—Well-butter a tart-dish of any size, about three inches deep, cut some slices of bread quarter of an inch thick, which lay in it so that the bottom and sides are quite covered, stew some apple nearly dry, put it on the bread until the dish is full, cover over with more butter and bread, and bake in a hot oven for half an hour; remove it from the dish; turn over, and dish it up with sugar on the top. How to Toast Bread.—Procure a loaf that has been baked one or two days, then with a sharp knife cut the slices about half an inch thick. Have a clear fire; place a slice of the bread upon a toasting-fork, about an inch from one of the sides, hold it a minute before the fire, then turn it, hold it another minute, by which time the bread will be thoroughly hot, then begin to move it gradually to and fro until the whole surface has assumed a yellowish-brown colour, then turn it again, toasting the other side in the same manner; lay it then upon a hotplate, have some fresh or salt, and rather soft, butter, spread a piece over, and cut the toast into four or six pieces; six such slices take about a quarter of a pound of butter. French Toast.—Dip slices of bread into a batter made of three eggs and one pint of milk; place them in a pan of boil- ing oil or butter, and fry brown. Sprinkle sugar and cinna- mon on each piece, and serve hot. Johnny Cakes.—Sift a quart of Indian corn meal into a p'an; make a hole in the middle, and pour in a pint of warm water. Mix the meal and water gradually in a batter, adding a tea- spoonful of salt; beat it very quickly, and for a long time, till it becomes quite light; then spread it thick and even on a stout piece of smooth board or sheet iron, or back of a large plate or tin pan; place it upright on the hearth before a clear fire, with something to support it behind, and bake it well; cut it into squares, and split and butter them hot. Indian Bannock.—One pint of Indian com meal, one quart of milk; boil the milk, and scald the meal thoroughly; beat up three eggs; thin your dough to a batter with cold milk; add a piece of butter half as large as an egg; put in your eggs with a little salt; pour in shallow pans, and bake brown. This is a delicious breakfast cake.102 HOW TO COOK. Wisconsin Calces.—Beat two eggs lightly, stir thoroughly to- gether two cups wheat meal, one cup line flour, one pint milk, a little salt, and bake in small fluted tins in a very hot oven. Excellent Breakfast Rolls.—Make a hole in a quart of flour put in half a pint of milk that has been boiled, and half a cup of butter, four do., melted. Add two table spoons sugar and yeast, and let tills stand two or three hours without stirring. Salt to taste, then knead it, and let it rise until light. Mould, and rise again in the pans before baking. The rolls require a quick oven. Sally Limn— Take one quart flour, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, one teaspoonful carbonate soda, a half cup of butter, a quarter cup sugar, two eggs, a little milk. Sift the cream of tartar and soda with the flour, rub in the butter, add the sugar, eggs, and enough milk to make a moderately stiff dough. 'i: A Plain Cake —Take three cups flour, one cup sugar, one cup milk, one egg, piece of butter the size of an egg, two tea- spoonfuls cream of tartar, one of carbonate of soda; any flav- ouring liked. Rub the sugar and butter together, add the beaten egg, the milk, and flavouring, and the flour through which the cream of tartar and sbda has been sifted.—(See note.) Gems.—Stir very slowly wheat-meal into cold water with a little salt, until it is as stiff as common batter. Bake in small buttered tins, previously well heated, in a fierce oven. Syrup Cake.—Take one cup sugar, one cup syrup, three- quarters cup butter, one cup milk, two eggs, one quart flour, one teaspoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonful mace, one cup raisins, one teaspoonful soda, and two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. Rub the sugar and butter together, add the syrup, eggs, and flavouring, then the milk in which the soda has been dissolved, the flour through which the cream of tartar has been sifted, last the raisins. Bake at once.—(See note.) Elizabeth Cake.—Take four cups flour, three cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, four eggs, one lemon, one teaspoon soda, half teaspoon cream of tartar. Rub the butter and sugar together, then add the eggs, jmlks and whites beaten separately, and the milk. Sift the cream of tartar through the flour, and add next, the juice and grated rind of lemon; last the soda. * Baking powder may be used, well worked into the flour or “pre- pared flour,” in place of the cream of tartar and bicarbonate of soda.1C3 HOW TO COOK. Mush, Stirabout, Porridge, Hasty Pudding.—These are best made of the rather coarsely ground meals of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and Indian com. The best way with all but oatmeal, is to have your own mill, which will cost from six to twenty shillings, and grind your own grain. In this way yo.u can have it as coarse or line as you like, and always fresh and sweet. Have the water boiling over a good lire, with a little salt. Take a handful of meal and sprinkle it in, stirring it well with a large spoon or pudding stick into the boiling water. Go on until it is of the consistence of thin paste. Then let it boil; for oatmeal, five minutes; for wheat or rye, ten minutes; barley, fifteen minutes; Indian corn, twenty minutes. If coarse, a little longer. It should now be nearly thick enough to serve. If too thick, thin with boiling water; and, in any case, stir in thoroughly just enough meal to bring it to the proper consistence, that is, just so stiff as not to run, or so that a light stick will stand in it. In two or three minutes it may be turned on a dish, served without a cover, and eaten with brown sugar and milk, golden syrup, stewed apple, or stewed prunes, and milk, sugar, and butter; any combination you may fancy. Indian meal, as it requires more cooking, is best with- out tlie last addition of meal, and is most commonly eaten with butter and treacle. Coarse meal, called hominy, requires more time. Some cookbooks talk of boiling wheat mush an hour or more. This is a mistake. More than twenty minutes cooking gives it a raw taste and a pasty consistence. A dish of rather coarse wheat mush (wlieaten grits) once a-day ensures sufficient and the best kind of nutrition, and is a perfect safeguard against constipation. How to Boil Bice.—Wash a pound of rice, and throw it into a quart of boiling water; boil for ten minutes, or until each grain is rather soft, but separate; drain it in a colander, put it back in a pot which you have slightly greased with butter, let it swell slowly near the fire, or in the oven, until wanted. A little butter may be added; each grain will then swell up, and be well separated. Oatmeal Gruel.—Take two teaspoonfuls oatmeal, one cup raisins, one tablespoonful white sugar, a little nutmeg. Mix the oatmeal with a little cold water and salt; add the raisins; let it boil up and skim it well. Add the sugar and flavouring; one glass of wine if liked. Gingerbread Aperient.—Gingerbread, made with oatmeal or104 HOW TO COOK. with barley flour, is a very agreeable aperient for children, much better than medicine; but coarse wheat porridge is still better. Macaroni.—Put a quarter of a pound of macaroni in boiling water; simmer till it is quite tender, but not too soft. Pour olf the water, place the macaroni in a basin; add half a pint of milk, a teaspoonful of salt, one ounce grated cheese; strew fine bread-crumbs thickly over the top. Bake till nicely browned. Or put in an iron pot or stew-pan two quarts of water: let it boil; add two teaspoonfuls of salt, one ounce of butter; then add one pound of macaroni, boil till tender; let it be rather firm to the touch; it is then ready for use, either for soup, pud- ding, or to be dressed with cheese. Drain it in a colander; put it back in the pan, add four ounces of cheese or more, a little butter, salt, and pepper; toss it well together and serve. It will be found light and nutritious, and well worthy the no- tice of vegetarians. Some prefer salad oil to butter. Or, take macaroni, four ounces; milk, one pint; ground rice, a large tablespoonful; cheese, grated or in thin slices, four ounces; butter, half an ounce; cayenne, grated nutmeg, and salt, a little of each. Boil the macaroni in the milk till tender, then add the rice, previously mixed with a little cold milk or water; stir it well, then add the cheese, butter, pepper, &c. When the whole has been well mixed, and the milk has been ab- sorbed, put it in a buttered dish; strew bread-crumbs and a few small pieces of butter over it, and brown it with a salaman- der or in an oven. It must be boiled in a double sauce-pan, or well watched and shaken to prevent burning. Those who can- not take cheese will find maccaroni simply boiled, with a little oil, butter, cream, or milk added, and seasoned to taste, excel- lent, and very nutritious. In America, Indian corn or maize furnishes a number of excellent dishes, besides the cakes already given. The half ripe sweet corn is roasted, or boiled on the cob, and eaten with butter and salt, or it is grated off and made into fritters. Boiled young corn may be found in London in tins, also Lima beans, and a mixture of corn and beaus, called succotash. Sweet corn is also dried, but preserved in any way, it loses much of its flavour. Maize is also hulled and boiled whole, or cracked or coarsely ground, and eaten as a vegetable, like rice or macar oni, or with milk or syrup. Indian meal mush, the Italian polenta, when cold, is cut in slices and fried, and eaten with syrup.HOW TO COOK. 105 PUDDINGS. Puddings made of eggs, milk, sugar, butter, and flour, meal, bread, rice, tapioca, sago, fruit, &c., are nutritious, healthful, and to a simple taste, delicious forms of food. They are boiled, steamed, or baked; boiling and steaming requiring about double the time of baking. To make them light, the eggs should be thoroughly beaten, and a shilling egg-beater will save a great deal of time and labour. The eggs become a mass of air vesicles which make puddings, cakes, fritters, &c., light or spongy. A little baking powder, rubbed into the flour, answers a similar purpose, but, of course, adds no nutrition. A rich pudding, that is one containing plenty of eggs, butter, or milk, sugar, and flavouring articles, requires no sauce. A fruit pudding requires none, if properly sweetened; but very plain puddings, and even plain boiled rice, or boiled or steamed wheat, cracked wheat, plain batter puddings, dumplings, &c., can be made delicious by a good pudding sauce. Several de- lightful pudding sauces will be found in the chapter on sauces, flavours, &c. In choosing a sauce for a pudding, consider what it requires, what will harmonise best with its ingredients, whether it needs sweet, acid, spice, or fruit flavour; if the right one does not suggest itself, experiment.—(See Sauces.) For fruit puddings, the fruit should be carefully selected and prepared. Apples should be pared, cored, and either used whole, cut in quarters or sliced, chopped or grated. When used whole, the centres may be filled with butter and sugar, marmalade, jam, &c. If the apples are very sour, they need plenty of sugar; if lacking in flavour, lemon juice, lemon peel, or cinnamon, will improve them. Winter pears or quinces may be used with apples. Prunes should be simmered and stoned. Simmering the kernels with the fruit, or bruising them, and putting them in the pudding, improves the flavour. Figs may be used with some apples, and both be improved. Fruit pud- dings are made by surrounding the fruit with a paste crust, and then boiling, steaming, or baking them; by putting it in layers with bread crumb, or boiled wheat, barley, or rice; or by mixing them together; or the dish may be lined, and the fruit covered with thin slices of bread and butter. Pears, apples, and hard fruits require a long slow baking, unless pre- viously stewed. Sago, tapioca, and all kinds of seeds should be washed and106 HOW TO COOK. soaked in water an hour or more before they are made into puddings, in order to remove unpleasant flavours. Half a pound of rice may require two quarts of milk; barley will require more. They may be enriched and flavoured by adding butter, cream, eggs, cinnamon, nutmeg, lemon-peel, &c. The eggs should be well beaten, and added to the ingredients, when the latter are rather cool; but eggs are seldom required for rice or other seed puddings. They may be varied by add- ing currants, raisins, apples pared, cored, and quartered, or chopped small. For a savoury pudding, use water instead of milk, and onion one or two ounces; powdered sage, half a teaspoonful,; mar- joram one quarter of a teaspoonful; butter, one ounce; and leave out the sauce. When a pudding is sufficiently brown on the surface before it has been well baked through, lay a sheet of writing paper over it, but not before it is set; when quite firm in the centre, it will be sufficiently baked. Potato Pudding.—Bruise with a wooden spoon, through a colander, six large or twelve middle-sized boiled potatoes; beat four eggs, mix with a pint of good milk, stir in the potatoes; sugar and seasoning to taste; butter a dish; bake half an hour. Potato Pudding, Nice.—To half a pound mashed potatoes add two ounces butter, two eggs, a gill of milk, three table- spoonfuls of sherry, a little salt, juice and minced rind of a small lemon, four ounces sugar; beat all together; put in a but- tered dish, and bake a little more than half an hour. Potato Pudding, Boiled.—Boil four large floury potatoes till they are thoroughly done; peel them and mash them smooth with the back of a spoon; mix them with enough milk to en- able you to rub them through a sieve, then add six ounces of butter, first melted, four ounces of sugar, a wine-glass of brandy, four well-beaten eggs, and a quarter of a pound of washed cur- rants. Put it into a buttered mould, and boil it for forty min- utes. Serve with wine sauce poured over it. Potato and Carrot Pudding, Boiled.—Potatoes, carrots, bread crumbs, or flour, &c., each four ounces; sugar, one to four ounces; butter, two to four ounces; currants or raisins, four to eight ounces; lemon rind, two ounces; nutmeg and cinnamon together, half an ounce. Wash and grate the vegetables, andHOW TO COOK. 107 mix with the rest; put into a mould or basin, and boil or steam three hours or more. Carrot Pudding.—Mashed potatoes four ounces, boiled car- rots two ounces, flour four ounces, currants and raisins four ounces of each, sugar three ounces, butter two ounces, a little nutmeg and a very little salt. Bruise and beat the carrots to a paste, mix the whole well, and boil it in a cloth from two to four hours. One egg would improve it. Or carrots and bread crumbs each four ounces, eggs one to three, sugar one to four ounces, butter one to four ounces; milk one quarter to three quarters of a pint. Mix well and bake. Parsnip Pudding.—Parsnips boiled, and the water squeezed from them, four ounces, yolks of eggs two, bread crumbs four ounces, a little cream. Mash the parsnips well, and add the other ingredients. Make the mixture sweet or savoury, as may be desired; beat the whole well together; line a dish with paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Boiled rice or rice flour may also be added. Parsnips and potatoes, or parsnips, beans and rice may be used in the same way. Apple-Potato Pudding.—Boil six potatoes and mash them, add a little salt, two ounces butter, and flour enough to roll out like a good pastry crust. Into this put eight to twelve peeled and sliced apples, roll up, and steam one hour. Serve with sweet liquid sauce. Asparagus or Green Pease Pudding.—Put one half pint of asparagus cut up the size of peas, or as much green peas in a basin, with four well beaten eggs, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one ounce butter ; pepper and salt to taste. Add milk enough to make a thick batter. Put it in a buttered mould or dish, tie down with a floured cloth, place in boiling water, and boil two hours, Turn out on a hot dish, and pour plain melted but- ter round it. Bread Pudding.—Cut bread, and butter thin, place it in a pie-dish, lightly, three-parts full; break into a basin one egg, add two teaspoonfuls of flour, three of brown sugar; mix all well together, add to it by degrees a pint of milk, a little salt; pour over the bread ; bake about half an hour. This may be done in twenty different ways, by varying the flavour of the ingredients, as lemon-peel, orange-peel, nutmeg, cinnamon, or mixed spice, or essences of any kind. Dates, or French plums, or figs, previously soaked and cut, may be added.108 HOW TO COOK. A Cheap Bread Pudding .—Take some slices of stale bread, free them from crust, and soak them well in cold water ; pi ess ■out the water, add a little salt, ginger, sugar, nutmeg, and a few well-nicked currants; mix the whole well together, lay it in a buttered dish, put a few pieces of butter on the top, and bake forty minutes. Brown Bread Padding.—Cut in slices half a pound brown bread, spread them over with cream, lay them in a buttered dish strew finely-shred candied citron-peel between each slice, pour half a pint of boiled new milk, with some sugar and cin- namon, over the bread, and when nearly cold, beat three eggs and pour into the dish ; bake for half an lionr. Bread and Batter Padding.—Butter a deep basin, line it with slices of bread and butter, and fill with slices laid lightly m, scattering well soaked currants or raisins between the layers. Make a custard of four eggs, and one quart of milk, flavouring it with lemon or mace. Pour over the bread, and bake till the custard is firm. The Queen of Bread Paddings.—Soak one pint of fine bread crumbs in one quart of milk, add the beaten yolks of foui eggs, one teacup brown sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and two ounces of butter. Bake until done, but not watery, vv hip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, with the juice of the lemon, and a cup of white sugar. Spread over the pudding a layer of jam, pour the froth over this, and replace in the oven to brown lightly. To be served cold, with or without cream. Bread-and-Batter Pudding, Boiled.—Butter some slices of bread, strew sugar upon them, beat four eggs, dip your biead, and lay the slices in a basin, butter side down; when the basin is about three parts full, pour in a pint of milk, flavour to taste, and, when cold, and the bread swelled, tie a well- floured cloth over it, and boil for an hour. Serve with melted butter. Bread Pudding, Boiled.—Put a pint of new milk in a sauce- pan upon the fire, and stir in four ounces of fresh buttei , as soon as this is melted, throw in as much grated white biead as will make it pretty thick; add four ounces of sugar, salt, ginger, and nutmeg, four beaten eggs, and a spoonful of rose- water; put, in a buttered basin, and boil half an hour. Serve with any sauce preferred. Two ounces of sultana raisins or cleaned currants may be added.109 HOW TO COOK Elegant Bread Pudding, Boiled.—Take light white bread in thin slices. Put into a pudding-shape a layer of any sort of preserve, then a slice of bread, and repeat until the mould is almost full. Pour over all a pint of warm milk, in which four beaten eggs have been mixed; cover the mould with a piece of linen, place it in a saucepan, with a little boiling water, let it boil twenty minutes, and serve with sauce. Bice Milk.—Boil a cup of rice until perfectly soft, drain the water from it, and mix in one quart of milk. Boil, stirring carefully. Beat two eggs, with a cup of sugar, and stir into the boiling milk for ten minutes ; remove from the lire; flav- our with vanilla, cinnamon or almond, and serve. Plain Rice Pudding.—Wash a teacup of rice, and put in a pie-dish with half a teacup of moist sugar, one quart of milk, one half oimce of butter, in small bits, a little nutmeg; bake in a slow oven two hours. Rice Pudding, Boiled.—Take a quarter of a pound of rice and half a pound of sultana raisins; tie them in a cloth, allow- ing the rice room to swell. Boil it two hours; turn it out, and pour over it melted butter, sugar, and nutmeg. Or it may be boiled without the raisins, and serve jam-sauce or currant- sauce apart. Or, for a nicer one, swell six ounces of whole rice by scalding it in a quart of new milk; let it grow cold, then mix it with a quarter of a pound of currants well washed and rubbed dry, a quarter of a pound of white sugar, and two eggs well beaten. Mix the whole well together; put it into a but- tered basin or floured cloth, and boil for forty minutes. Serve it with any sauce you like. Cream Rice Pudding.—Take two large tablespoonfuls rice, one quart milk, one teacup sugar, one cup cut raisins, a little salt. Put all together; let the basin stand in a warm place three hours, then bake the pudding one hour. Rice and Tapioca Pudding.—Bice, two tablespoonfuls boiled in water, add a little salt, and set it by the fire till the rice is quite soft and dry. Put it in a bowl, add two ounces of butter, four tablespoonfuls of tapioca previously washed, milk, a pint and a half, a little grated nutmeg, sugar to taste, and two eggs well beaten. Stir all together; then put the mixture in a but- tered dish, and bake one hour. Tapioca Pudding.—Simmer four ounces of tapioca in a pint110 HOW TO COOK. of milk for ten minutes; add another pint of milk, two ounces butter, four ounces white sugar, three well-beaten yolks of eggs; flavour with a few drops of almond extract, or a teaspoonful of pounded cinnamon. Or, soak in warm water one teacupful of tapioca; beat four eggs with three tablespoonfuls of sugar; melt in half a pint of milk one ounce of butter. Stir together; flavour to taste, and bake in a quick oven. Or, take a teacupful of tapioca; wash in cold water, and lay it to soak for six hours in a quart of new milk; then put it over the fire and stir until soft; add two ounces of butter, spice, sugar to taste, and two well-beaten eggs; put it into a well- buttered dish, with or without a rim of crust, and bake half an hour. Marmalade is sometimes put into the dish before bak- ing, and the tapioca, sago, or other pudding poured over it. Sago Pudding. Baked.—Boil two great spoonfuls of sago in a pint of new milk, with cinnamon, nutmeg, and sugar; when well thickened, mix in three beaten eggs; lay a puff-paste round your dish; put in the sago, and bake it for forty minutes. A plainer way is to wash a good tablespoonful of sago, and put it into a buttered pie-dish; pour a quart of milk over it; sweeten it; add a little spice, and place it in a moderate oven for an hour and a half. Sago Pudding, Boiled.—Boil two ounces of sago in a pint of new milk till perfectly tender; when cold, add five beaten eggs, two ounces of bread-crumbs, a little brandy, and sugar to the taste. Mix all well together; boil it for one hour in a basin tightly covered with the floured cloth, and serve with melted butter, white wine, and sugar. Semolina Pudding.—Boil a pint of milk and gradually stir in enough semolina to thicken it sufficiently; add some loaf- sugar, three or four beaten eggs, and a spoonful of orange- flower water; butter a mould and dust it thickly over with sifted bread-crumbs and pounded sugar. Pour in, bake for half an hour. Arrowroot Pudding.—Boil a stick of vanilla in a pint of new milk, stir in a large spoonful of arrowroot, first mixed smooth with a little cold water; stir it over the fire until it is thick enough; sweeten it; add the yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two. Line the edge of a buttered tart-dish with a rim of paste; put in the pudding; pour a little cream upon the top, and bake it for half an hour. Or, for a plain pudding, takeHOW TO COOK. Ill nearly four tablespoonfuls of arrrowroot, or three and a half ounces, to one quart of milk; boil four minutes, stirring it briskly; allow it to cool, and then thoroughly mix it with two eggs, well beaten with three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Flavour to taste, and bake for half an hour in an oven. “ Corn-flour,” the starch of maize, may be used as arrowroot. Indian Meal Pudding.—Take one pint meal, one quart milk, one quart syrup or treacle, a little salt. Stir all together; put in a strong cloth with plenty of room for the pudding to swell; plunge in boiling water, and boil four hours. Serve with syrup and cream or butter. Or, for a cheaper pudding, take Indian meal, eight ounces; boiling water, nearly one pint; treacle, two ounces; salt, one-sixth of an ounce; pour the mix- ture into a pudding-cloth previously dipped in boiling water, leaving a space equal to about one-sixth of the contents; boil six hours. Baited Indian Pudding.—Boil a quart of milk, sifting into it a small cup of Indian (maize) meal, and some add a teaspoon- ful of “corn flour,” or two of wheat flour; pour into a buttered dish; when cool stir iu three well beaten eggs, three spoonfuls of brown sugar, and bake three hours or longer in a slow oven. Sliced apples or raisins maybe added, and flavour, if liked, but most prefer its own flavour. Hominy Pudding.—Hominy, four ounces; milk, a pint and a quarter; eggs, three; sugar, two to four ounces; steep the hom- iny twelve hours in half the milk; add the remaining milk and the eggs well beaten, a little cinnamon, and three drops of almond flavour. Bake in a moderate oven. Barley Pudding.—Pearl barley, four ounces; sugar, two to three ounces; salt, half a teaspoonful; milk, two pints. Soak the barley for a few hours in cold water; pour off the water, add the sugar and milk, and let the whole simmer gently for two or three hours; then bake at a gentle heat. If a richer pudding be required, remove it from the oven when nearly cooked enough; stir in butter one to two ounces; eggs, two or three; return it to the oven till sufficiently baked. Oat Pudding, Baked.—Soak one pound of whole groats over night in a quart of new milk; add a quarter of a pound each of currants washed and picked, raisins stoned, and half a pound of veal suet finely shred, or a quarter pound butter, two to four well beaten eggs, and sugar to the taste; add plenty ofHOW TO COOK. 112 ginger, mix and bake in a well-buttered mould for an hour and a half. Oat Pudding, Boiled.—Oatmeal, one pint; boiling milk, two pints; eggs, two; salt, a little. Pour the boiling milk over the oatmeal, and let it soak all night. Add the eggs well beaten; butter a basin that will just hold it, cover it tightly with a floured cloth, and boil it an hour and a half. Eat it with cold butter and salt. Macaroni Pudding, Baked.—Take a quarter pound of Naples macaroni, swell it in milk with a pinch of saffron, or cinnamon, or mace, and sugar to taste; when soft, stir in a quarter pound of fresh butter and a glass of French brandy, put it into a but- tered pie-dish edged with a rim of crust, pour two beaten eggs over it, and bake for half an hour. Macaroni Pudding, Steamed.—Macaroni, four ounces; milk, one pint; cream, a quarter of a pint; eggs, four; sugar, four ounces. Boil the macaroni till nearly tender, then steam the whole in a pudding mould one hour. Vermicelli.—Like Macaroni. Pease Pudding.—Boil the peas, whole or split, in a cloth loosely tied, two or three hours, or till they are soft; then pulp them through a sieve; add salt, pepper, butter, and some well- boiled potatoes, also passed through a sieve; mix them all well together, tie them up firmly in a cloth, and boil them half an hour; then serve the pudding with melted butter. Soger's Economical Puddings.—Well butter a mould, basin, tart-dish, or tin cake-pan; fill lightly with either stale buns, muffins, crumpets, pastry, white or brown bread, sliced and buttered, the remains of sponge-cakes, macaroons, ratafias, almond cake, gingerbread, biscuit of any kind previously soaked, which you may intermix with fresh or dried fruit, preserves, plums, grated cocoa nut, &c. When your mould is full, put in. a basin a quarter teaspoonful of ginger, a little mixed spice, or cinnamon, grated orange, lemon, or a few drops of any essence you choose; put in three eggs, beat well, add three gills of milk for every quarter mould ; fill up nearly to the rim; bake or boil, or put into a saucepan, one-third full of water, with the lid over, and let simmer for an hour. Pass a knife round the inside of the basin or mould, turn out your pudding, pour over melted butter, with a little sugar, the juice of a lemon, or spirit sauce.113 HOW TO COOK. Soger's Christmas Pudding.—Stone half a pound of common raisins, wash and clean half a pound of currants, half a pound of beef suet chopped fine, two ounces of brown sugar, three ounces of fiour, three eggs, half a pound of bread crumbs, half a gill of rum, and a gill of milk. Mix the night previous, put in a cloth, boil three hours, and serve. Poiir over melted but- ter, in which you have put one tablespoonful of sugar, and the juice of half a lemon, if handy. Half-pag Pudding.—Suet, flour, currants, raisins, bread crumbs, a quarter of a pound of each ; two tablespoonfuls of treacle and half a pint of milk, and boil in a mould three hours. Wine or brandy sauce. A Quick Made Pudding.—Take two ounces of grated bread crumbs, four ounces each of chopped suet and Hour, two eggs, two ounces of sultana raisins, two ounces of currants,nvashed and dried, and a little sugar and spice; mix the whole well together with a breakfast-cupful of new milk; put it into a floured cloth, and boil it for thirty minutes. This pudding is easily made, inexpensive and very good. Serve it with lemon or wine sauce. Cowslip Pudding.—Pull some cowslips from their stems, until you have a quart of flowers; bruise them, boil them in a pint of milk or cream, and when they begin to get tender, pour them into a dish, and add to them four well beaten eggs, a quarter of a pound of Naples biscuit, or bread crumbs grated and soaked in milk, and a good piece of butter; mix, put into a buttered dish, and bake an hour. Pour a rich wine sauce over and serve. Chestnut Pudding.—Boil twelve large chestnuts for a quarter of an hour; peel and beat in a mortar, with a little white wine, to a paste; add the beaten yolks of six eggs and the whites of two, a quarter of a pound of butter, melted, and half a pint of cream, or milk; mix, sweeten, put it into a sauce- pan and stir it over the fire till it thickens, then put in a dish lined with puff-paste, and bake forty minutes. Quaking Pudding.—Beat eight eggs; add grated crumbs of a stale penny-roll, two spoonfuls of ground rice, a little nutmeg and orange-flower water; mix it smoothly together with a quart of new milk; put into a floured cloth, tie rather loose, plunge into boiling water, and boil briskly for one hour. Serve with red or white wine sauce. HHOW TO COOK. 114 FRUIT PUDDINGS. These may be made of apples, pears, quinces, plums, berries, in a great variety of ways, and are bealtliy and delicious. Many can be made without either milk or eggs. Brown Betty.—Pare and slice eight large apples; arrange in deep basin or tart dish; first a layer of bread crumbs, then a layer of apples, over which strew brown-sugar and bits of but- ter ; then layer of crumbs, and so on until the dish is full. Pour over a small teacup of water; then cover the whole with a close layer of thin slices of buttered bread; press a dinner plate firmly over, and bake slowly. May be served with or without cream and sugar. Roman Brown Betty.—Make apple sauce in the usual way, well sweetened and flavoured to taste. Good apples require none but their own, but a quince, pear, lemon, orange, cinna- mon or ginger, may be used if liked; butter a round pudding dish, cover the bottom and sides with buttered slices of bread, brown or white—the butter outside; fill with the apple sauce; cover with bread and butter the sauce; put a plate, over and bake in a slow oven an horn' or more—the longer the better; turn out on a dish and serve with hard or wine sauce. These may also be boiled in a basin covered with a cloth. Bird's Nest Pudding.—Pare and core some apples, and fill the cavities with raspberry or strawberry jam or marmalade: border a dish with paste, put in the apples, leaving a little space between them, and fill it up with boiled rice or soaked tapioca, or sago; sift sugar over, and bake one hour at a tolerable heat. Or, pare and core; fill cavities with sugar; place them in a buttered pie-dish, pour over them a nice light batter, and bake at a moderate heat. Apple Pudding, Boiled.—Make a good paste; roll it flat; pare, core, and cut up your apples ; put them in a heap upon the paste; sweeten well; close the whole carefully, and boil it, tied in a cloth, two hours; when done, lift a bit of the crust, la v in some butter and serve hot. Model for every kind of fruit puddings. Apple-Sago Pudding.—Large apples four, sago 5 oz., sugar and lemon flavour to taste. Prepare the apples as for apple sauce; boil the sago in a small quantity of water; addHlie apples, sugar, and flavour, and bake in a pie-dish.115 HOW TO COOK. Eve's Pudding.—Apples chopped small,bread crumbs,currants, each 8 oz.; sugar 6 oz., eggs 5, well beaten. Or, apples 8 oz., bread crumbs 4 to 8 oz., currants and raisins 2 oz. each, sugar 4 to 6 oz., eggs 4 or 5, rind of a lemon grated or pared quite thin, and chopped small. Peel, core, and chop the apples small; add the bread crumbs, currants, raisins, sugar, and lemon-peel; then the eggs well beaten. Boil the pudding three hours in a buttered mould, or basin, or cloth, and serve with a sweet sauce or bake it at a moderate heat. Apple and Apricot Pudding.—Peel and cut some apples as for a tart; fill a dish three parts full, shake powdered sugar over the apples, cover them with apricot jam, then with but- ter : mix three tablespoonfuls of arrowroot with a pint of new milk, a little cream, sugar and butter; stir it over the fire till it boils; if too thick, add a little more milk: it should be j ust thick enough to run smoothly ; pour it over the apples, and let the whole stand till quite cold; then bake at a moderate heat for an hour and a half, or half this time for a small pudding. Or use marmalade instead of apricot. Persian Pudding.—Take the pulp of six baked apples; add one ounce of rice boiled in milk, and beaten smooth, one ounce of sifted sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice; mix; then beat the whites of four eggs to a fine froth, put in the other ingredients, whisk it all up; put in a warm mould, and place it in a tolerably quick oven; when pro- perly set, turn it out and pour round it a custard made with the yolks of the eggs. Fruit and Arrowroot Pudding.—Beat up three eggs with a tablespoonful of arrowroot, pour a pint and a half of boiling milk, stirring it briskly, then pour it into a dish over any fruit, apples, pears, currants, &c., as may suit the palate; bake im- mediately. Swiss Pudding.—Put a pint each of fine bread-crumbs and minced apples in alternate layers into a well-buttered pie-dish, with a sprinkling of chopped blanched almonds, currants, and sugar between each layer; pour in three ounces of fresh butter previously melted, dust over the top with more bread-crumbs, and bake for half an hour. Apple Dumplings.—Pare and core some baking apples, with- out dividing them; fill up the space made by coring with sugar and lemon-peel; cover each apple with a thin paste, and boil11(3 HOW TO COOK. it in a cloth or cup, or bake it thirty or forty minutes. Serve with butter and sugar, or pour custard over each. Bachelor's Pudding.—Take four ounces of minced apple, four ounces well-washed and picked currants, four ounces grated bread, two ounces of sugar; beat up three eggs with a little essence of lemon and nutmeg, put in a buttered dish, tie down and boil three hours. Holy Poly Pudding.—Stewed fruit, jams, marmalade, cur- rants, chopped raisins, or treacle, &c., may be spread upon a light paste, then rolled up and boiled in a cloth. Roll out the paste thin, and cut it eight or ten inches broad, and as long as convenient. Spread upon it a thick layer of fruit, leaving an inch at each end free from fruit: roll it up and twist the ends; wrap it in a floured cloth, or put it in a net, and boil it an hour or an hour and a half, according to size. Gipsy Pudding.—Cut some thin slices of stale bread; spread one side thickly with jam of any kind; pack them into a but- tered tart-dish, and pour over them the yolks of six eggs beaten up in a gill of French brandy. Bake for twenty min- utes, and sift sugar over it before serving. Sweet-Orange Pudding, Balced.—Beat together four eggs, a quarter of a pound of butter, the juice of four sweet oranges, and the grated rind of one; add four ounces of sugar, a gill of white wine, and sufficient grated biscuit to make it a batter. Put in tart-dish, bind with a puff paste, and bake half an hour. Gooseberry Pudding, Balced.—Scald a quart of gooseberries in water until they are soft, drain, and when cold, work them smooth with a spoon. Add half a pound of powdered loaf- sugar, four ounces of fresh butter, four ounces of bread-crumbs, and the yolks of six and the whites of four eggs. Beat all to- gether for a quarter of an hour. Strew sifted sugar over, and serve either hot or cold. Rhubarb Pudding.—Make a good paste; line your pudding- basin; cut your rhubarb into short lengths about the size of gooseberx-ies; add the rind of a lemon pared as thin as possi- ble, a good slice of butter, and plenty of sugar, a few chopped almonds if liked. Pack in the rhubarb as tightly as you can; no water; cover it with a top crust, tie a floured cloth over it, and boil for an hour or more. Fig Pudding.—Wash and chop fine half a pound of the figs,117 HOW TO COOK. add them to two cups of grated bread, and a cup of cream, or its equivalent of butter, already beaten together, then add a half cup of sugar and a cup of milk; an egg or two will not hurt it. Pour the mixture into a well oiled mould, and steam four hours. Serve with wine or lemon sauce. Cocoa Nut Pudding.—Remove the brown skin from the meat of a cocoa nut, grate it, and mix with half a pint of milk, three ounces of white sugar, and half an ounce grated lemon- peel, and a little butter if liked. Put in a tin lined with paste, and bake a light brown. Normandy Pippin Pudding.—Put six or eight Normandy pippins into a tart-dish, quite cover them with cider, strew in a good deal of sugar, and place them over-night in a very alow Oven. The next day they should be found to be nicely swelled, and have absorbed the cider. Put more sugar to them, place an edge of crust round the dish, make a rich custard, pour it Over the apples, and bake for half an hour in a quick oven. Souffle.—Boil rice in milk until tender; or take ground rice, arrowroot, or corn flour boiled in milk; whisk the whites of eggs to a firm froth, stir gently together, and bake in a moder- ate oven, keeping the door closed fifteen minutes. Serve immediately. Custard Pudding.—Flour or ground rice two ounces; milk or cream, one pint; eggs, four to six; sugar, two ounces; flavouring. Beat the eggs with the sugar and flour; stir in the milk gradually. Simmer or steam in a buttered dish or in cups about forty-five minutes; or bake twenty minutes. Minute Pudding.—Take for each person one teacup of milk, one egg, one tablespoonful of flour. Place the milk over the fire, stir in the eggs beaten very light, and the flour wetted smooth with a little cold milk. Let it cook a few minutes, stirring constantly; then put the pudding into well-oiled tea- cups. When cool, turn the cup over a saucer and the pudding will slip out. Wine or fruit sauce. Batter Puddings.—The batter for puddings should be neither too stiff nor too liquid. When fruit is added, the batter must be made thicker, or the fruit will sink. Flour puddings are improved by mixing the ingredients, except the eggs, some hours, or even a day, before they are cooked; but when milk i3 used, it should not be mixed more than an hour or twoHOW TO COOK. 118 before it is cooked. Batter puddings are lighter when boiled than baked, and should be well boiled. As flour is improved by long boiling, and milk injured by it, water is preferable to milk in making batter for boiled puddings; on the contrary, milk is better for baked puddings, which are improved by being baked quickly. Batter Pudding.—Flour, four ounces; milk or cream, or a mixture of the two, half a pint to a pint; eggs, one to four. Sugar and butter may be added in the proportion of from two to four ounces of each, and then apples, currants, raisins, or seasoning. Fill a floured pudding-cloth with the batter, and tie it tight; or buttered teacups, or small pudding basins, with a cloth tied over each; plunge each pudding into boiling water, and let it boil fast half an hour, or an hour and a quarter, according to size; or cook it by steam. The pudding should be just firm enough to stand, when removed from the cloth or mould. Or, take one pint of sour milk or butter milk, add one beaten egg, a little salt, stir in flour to thicken, in which you have rubbed a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, add any fruit in season; steam or boil, and serve with sweet sauce. Light Dough Dumplings.—Make a pound of raising dough into balls the size of eggs; put upon a plate and set in steamer, and boil continually half an hour or longer. Serve with boiled syrup in which a little butter has been melted. Popovers.—Beat three eggs very light; add three cups of milk; beat in three cups of flour rapidly and smoothly; bake in cups, half filled, in a quick oven. Serve as soon as done with wine or fruit sauce. Very nice made with wheat meal. Puff Pudding.—Stir smoothly into one pint of boiling milk nine tablespoonfuls of flour, first wetted with a little milk. When this is cold add a little salt and three eggs, thoroughly <vell beaten; then bake in a buttered dish. Serve with sauce. FRUIT AND ITS PREPARATIONS. Some kind of fruit should he eaten every day; best, I think, at breakfast: good at lunch; good at dinner, if one has not eaten more than enough before it comes upon the table; doubtful at supper; but then supper itself is a very dubious meal.HOW TO COOK. 119 Ripe strawberries, grapes, peaches, apricots, cherries, plums, pears, and some apples, cannot be improved by cookery. These may be eaten freely by most persons, particularly those who live chiefly on vegetable food, with great advantage. When fresh fruits are not to be had, we can fall back upon dried fruit, canned fruit, and fruit in preserves and jellies. Water is seldom to be used with fruit puddings or pies. Use lemon juice, grape juice, or cider when possible. When pies are made of green gooseberries, apples or rhubarb, it is advisable to clarify the sugar, that is, to boil it in a little water, but water should not be poured into the pie for this purpose. The parings and cores of apples and pears may be stewed in a little water, and the strained liquor poured through a small funnel into the pie when it has been baked. All pies made with summer fruit, cranberries, or winter pre- serves, will be improved by the addition of apples pared and sliced. When apples are mixed with jam, they should be sliced thin; and if syrup be wanted, a few slices should be boiled with a little of the jam, in sugar and water. Fruits preserved with sugar should be added after the crust has been baked. A cover may be baked for them. A little sago or tapioca is a pleasant addition to rhubarb; it should be scattered between the fruit. Those who prefer much flavour in their fruit pies, may add lemon-peel, cinna- mon, nutmeg, marmalade, etc. Short Crust for Tarts.—Rub into each pound of dry flour, one half or three-quarters of a pound of butter; add one table- spoonful of sifted sugar, and mix into a stiff paste with water; roll and fold over three or four times. Baking powder may take the place of a portion of the butter. Rice Paste for Sweets.—Boil four ounces of ground rice in a small quantity of water; strain off all the moisture, and dry it well; beat it in a mortar, with half an ounce of butter, and one egg well beaten. This paste is very much preferred by some for tarts. Syrup, to Clarify for Jellies, dc.—Two pounds of sugar to a quart of water, in a stewpau, over a gentle fire; when the sugar is dissolved, stir in thoroughly the white of an egg, one for every three or four quarts, and simmer gently and skim; strain, and keep for use.HOW TO COOiv. 120 Apple Jelly.—Cut washed apples, with skins and cores, re- moving only the unsound or wflrmy parts, into small pieces ; put in a lined saucepan, with cold water to cover them; boil an hour; drain through a hair sieve or jelly-bag, and measure the juice; to each pint add three-quarters of a pound of sugar; boil three-quarters of an hour, skimming, stirring, and not allowing it to burn. A lemon cut in this, and boiled with the apples will improve the flavour, or cinnamon or ginger, if liked. Currant Jelly.—Put in a pan half a sieve of fresh gathered currants, with the stalks; add to it a gill of water, put on the fire, and boil till every currant has opened; then pass the juice through a sieve or colander, and to every quart put one pound of wdiite sugar; boil fast and skim, and when the preserve begins to stick to the spoon, and is quite clear, fill your pre- serve pots, and cover over when cold. Jam.—Take apricots, damsons, any kind of fruit; allow to each pound of skinned and stoned fruit, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, refined for the more delicate fruits, raw for the stronger flavours. Some fruits require rather more sugar. The meats of stone fruits, and seeds of others, improve the flavour. Pound the sugar and strew' it over the fruit, and let it stand for some hours; put all into a preserving pan, and simmer until the syrup is clear; skim out the fruit; put it in pots, and pour over the syrup. Small and soft fruit is to be poured into the pots. When cool cover the jam with oiled paper; then tie over thin paper, and brush it with white of egg. Damsons, Plums, do., Preserved without Sugar.—Most kinds of fruits may be kept for tarts without sugar. Pick sound fruit into clean dry wide-mouthed bottles or jars. When full pour boiling water on until it stands an inch above the fruit cut a piece of paper to fit over the fruit, and pour on it melted mutton suet, clarified butter or wax, and cover with browm paper. When used, remove the fat, pour off the water, and use the jell}' at the bottom with the fruit. Baked Apples.—Pare and core the apples; fill the cavity in each with sugar, and a small bit of butter, pour a little w'ater in a pan with them. Baste occasionally with the syrup while baking. Fried Apples.—Slice large tart apples evenly across the121 HOW TO COOK. core, without peeling; flour a little, or dip in thin batter, and fry in nice oil or butter. Apple Sauce.—Pare, divide, and core some apples; stew them in a very little water, and when sufficiently done pulp them through a sieve. A little sugar, butter, and lemon-peel may be added. Buttered Apples.—Peel, slice, and core one pound of apples; put into a frying-pan about two ounces of butter; add the apple, and cover over with two ounces of pounded sugar; put them in the oven until done. Dished up on a nice crisp piece of toast, with sugar over. Apple Marmalade.—Peel and core two pounds sub-acid apples, and put them in an enamelled saucepan, with one pint of sweet cider, or half a pint of pure wine, and one pound of crushed sugar, and cook them by a gentle heat three hours or longer; until the fruit is very soft; and then squeeze it, first through a colander and then through a sieve. If not sufficiently sweet, add powdered sugar to suit your taste, and put away in jars, made air-tight by a piece of wet bladder. Oateau de Pommes, (Apple Cake).—Take half a pound of lump-sugar,put it to half a pint of water; let it boil till quite dissolved, and ready to candy; then add one pound of apples, pared and cored, and the peel of half a lemon. Boil it together till it is quite stiff; then put it into a mould, and when it is cold it will turn out. Serve it with thick custard round it. Apples in Jelly.—Pare twelve apples, which should be tart and well-shaped, dropping them into cold water as they are pared; place them in preserving pan, with water to half cover them; when softened on the lower side turn them, and remove them to jelly dish so soon as quite cooked; place them stem downwards; add a pound of sugar, and juice and grated rind of a lemon to the water, and boil until it jellies; pour over the apples, let it stand to set, and serve cold. Baked Pears.—Pare and cut in halves twelve pears; leave on the stems, but cut out the cores; put them in a covered jar; add a small lemon, in slices, three cloves, six allspice, and water to cover the whole, with one half pound of sugar to the pint. Cover close, and bake five or six hours in a very slow oven. Stewed Pears.—Take six large pears, well ripe; cut in two122 HOW TO COOK. lengthways; peel; put them in a very clean stewpan; cover with three ounces of white sugar, powdered; slightly peel a lemon; put in the rind in small strips; squeeze the juice on the top of the sugar; gently shake the pan, it will dissolve the sugar; then put it on a very slow fire for ten or fifteen minutes; shake it gently once or twice; turn each piece with a fork; put it on the fire, and let it stew again for ten minutes. When done put them on a dish to cool, then dress them on a flat dish; pour the syrup over, and serve. They may also he done in a slow oven. Currant jelly or jam, marmalade, or orange, may be mixed with syrup, or half a glass of maraschino or brandy. Pears, German Style.—Peel some cooking pears; cut them in quarters; take out the pips, and shake the pears in a frying pan over the fire, with a small quantity of butter; dredge flour over them; add a little wine and sugar, and simmer them until they are tender; thicken the sauce with some yolk of egg, and serve hot. Gooseberry Fool.—Put in a pan a quart of green gooseberries, with a wineglass of water and half a pound of sugar; stew on a slow fire for twenty minutes; keep stirring; put in basin, and whip a pint of cream; when the fruit is cold, mix with the cream, and serve in cups or dish, or with pastry round it. Apple may be done the same way; currants and raspberries, or stoned cherries may be done the same. If too much syrup, add a little isinglass. Gooseberry Tart.—Pick and nicely wash your gooseberries, and if possible, only use the rough or hairy sort; line the rim of a tart-dish with a very light crust, lay in the fruit, strew in a good deal of sugar, put in a top crust, and place it in a gentle oven. At the end of an hour it will be done; but if you intend the tart to be eaten immediately, you can open the oven-door and let it remain in the oven until it is quite cold, by this means, if the gooseberries are the right sort, they will turn red. Pihubarb peeled and cut in small pieces is done in the same manner. Damson and Apple Tart.—Damsons being a very rich fruit, require a few apples to lower them. Take equal quantities of fine ripe damson and sliced apples; mix; add plenty of sugar or honey, which is better, and bake one and a half hours in a pie dish covered with paste.123 HOW TO COOK. Croutes aux Abricots (Apricot Tarts).—Halve and stone some apricots; place each half with the inside uppermost upon a thin square-shaped piece of bread; fit them into the bottom of a well-buttered tart-dish, lay a piece of butter upon each, sprinkle them with sugar, and bake them for half an hour in a moderate oven; when done, arrange them carefully in a dish, pour over them the syrup they made in cooking, and serve hot. Peaches, large plums, and pears may be done thus. Dried Apples, Dried Peaches.—All dried fruits require to be well soaked in water, and then stewed with such addition of sugar or flavouring as may be required. Prunes, or Dried French Plums, can be bought up wholesale for about 2£d, or 3d. a pound. Soaked or stewed slowly with a little sugar, they make an excellent breakfast dish. The American canned peaches are put up before they are ripe, and require to be stewed a very little with some addition of loaf sugar. It is generally enough to boil up the juice with some sugar, and pour the syrup over the peaches. Dried Pears, French, and dried peaches, American, stewed like prunes, are delicious. Dried Figs, picked over, and washed, may be soaked in boil- ing water, or put in a pan with milk enough to cover them, simmered until tender, and in either case set away to cool. They need no sugar. American Apple Pies are baked in round shallow plates, with a bottom and top crust, and less than an inch thick; the apples being pared and sliced in with sugar, bits of butter, and cinnamon, lemon peel, or other flavouring, American Pumpkin Pies are made shallow, with only an undercrust. The pumpkin is stewed, then beaten with milk and eggs, and flavoured with ginger and spices. The squash or vege able marrow, or grated carrots or apples, may be used instead of pumpkin. Strawberry Short Cake.—Beat one tablespoonful of butter, t wo of white sugar, and one egg to a cream, and mix with a pint of flour, in which you have put the proper quantity of baking powder, adding milk enough to make a moderately stift dough. Bake in a thin sheet in a quick oven. When cold, cut into squares of a convenient size, and arrange cake and124 HOW TO COOK. strawberries in layers, eacb layer of berries covered witb sugar, and strawberries atop. Fruit Creams.—Dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in warm water enough to cover it; add this to a pint of cream and four spoonfuls of sugar, and boil it. When cool, place the preserved apricots, strawberries, &c., in a jelly dish, and pour the cream over. Rdgrod.—(A Scandinavian Dessert.) Put on the fire in a lined pan three and a half pints of currant, or any sour fruit juice, two pints of water, sugar to sweeten, and almonds, cin- namon, or any flavouring liked. When it boils, stir in one pound of sago or one and a quarter pounds of rice flour, made into a paste. Boil fifteen minutes, stirring often, and pour into wet moulds. When cold, serve with cream and sugar. MILK AND ITS PRODUCTS. * Milk is the first food of all the higher classes of the animal creation; and as it is formed of the blood, and contains all its elements, it has in it all that is required for the nourishment and growth of the young animal, oil, sugar, caseine, &c. Milk is good food for age as well as childhood, and enters, as we have seen, into the composition of a vast number of dishes. The milk of the cow is chiefly used, but the milk of goats, sheep, camels, asses, and horses is also used. Good milk can only be produced by healthy animals living upon their natural food, and in good health conditions. Better the milk of a healthy cow than that of a sickly nurse. Milk sold in towns is generally robbed of its cream, diluted with water, and sometimes adulterated with oatmeal, chalk, brains, &c. The best milk is that of a young cow, unmixed with any other—one that lives in good air, has good water, and lives chiefly on grass and-hay. Milk is now evaporated with a small proportion of sugar to the thickness of batter, and sold in air-tight cans. The flavour is slightly changed; but it is excellent for cookery, and can be used as thick and rich as cream. Cream contains the oily par- ticles of the milk, and enriches countless dishes. Whipped like eggs to a froth, it is poured over fruit and puddings. When the butter is separated by churning, the buttermilk left * See Advertisement of English Condensed Milk Company.123 HOW TO COOK is good in cakes and pastxy. Milk coagulates into curd, which by time and pressure is made into cheese, one of the most nutritious of substances, and varying iu richness—that is, in the quantity of oil or butter, from the hard skim milk to Ched- dar or Stilton. Scalded Millt.—Milk brought quickly to the boiling point, and then rapidly cooled, will keep much longer in warm weather than in its natural state. Doubtful milk may by this means be made more healthy. Rice, Tapioca, Semolina, Vermicelli, or Macaroni Milk.— Wash and put three tablespoonfuls of either in one quart of milk ; simmer gently till tender, stirring to keep from burning, sweeten to taste, and add any flavour required. Milk Porridge, or Cruel, is made by boiling the milk, salting a little, and stirring into it a little flour, oatmeal, or similar article. It is a domestic remedy for diarrhoea. Curds.—Freshly soured and thickened milk is both whole- some and easy of digestion. In the country it may be easily prepared by stirring several spoonfuls of orange or port wine into a dish of sour milk before it sets, then leaving it to curdle, and eating with powdered sugar and a little nutmeg. Or vanilla and other flavours may be added with the wine. Ice Cream is cream sweetened and flavoured, put into a vessel, wdiich is set in a tub of pounded ice and salt, and shaken or stirred until it freezes; or use milk and eggs. Tapioca Cream.—Dissolve two tablespoonfuls of tapioca in cold water two hours. Boil a quart of milk, and stir in the tapioca beaten with a cup of sugar, and then yolks of three eggs, and boil all till slightly thickened. Pour in mould, and when cold, ice with whites of the eggs beaten, with three table- spoonfuls sugar. Arrowroot Cream.—Take one ounce of arrowroot, one quart of milk, three ounces of lump sugar. Mix the arrowroot with a little cold milk, add the yolk of an egg, stirring it well and breaking the lumps. Boil the milk with the peel of a lemon and a little cinnamon, sweetening it with the sugar; pour it, boiling hot, over the arrowroot, stirring it well till cold; then pour into glasses. Snoic Mice Cream.—Put in a stewpan four ounces of groundHOW TO COOK. 126 rice, two ounces of sugar, a few drops of the essence of almonds, or other flavour, with two ounces of fresh butter; add one quart of milk, boil from fifteen to twenty minutes, then pour in a mould previously oiled, and serve when cold. It will turn out like jelly. If no mould, put either in cups or a pie-dish. Ground Rice Blanc-Mange.—Milk, one pint; ground rice, two ounces; sugar, two ounces; lemon peel, cinnamon, or other seasoning. Boil the milk, and flavour; mix the rice smooth with a little cold milk, and stir it with the boiling milk till quite thick; mould, and serve it with a little cream and sugar, or decorate with sweetmeats. Arrowroot and tapioca may be prepared in the same way. Or, two-thirds ground rice, and one-third arrowroot. Moss Blanc-Mange.—When carrageen moss is used, wash and steep from half to three-quarters of an ounce in water for three minutes; take it out, and shake the water from each piece; then boil the moss in a quart of milk, or milk and cream, until it attains the consistency of warm jelly, or until sufficiently thick to retain the shape of the mould. Strain it through a muslin bag, and season as above. Arrowroot Blanc-Mange.—Take one quart of milk, and mix with it four tablespoonfuls of arrowroot, flavour to taste, then boil the whole four minutes, stirring it all the time; allow it to cool in a mould, and serve up with milk and jelly, or milk and sugar. Isinglass Blanc-Mange.—Beat two ounces of blanched sweet almonds and six bitter almonds to a paste, mix them with a quart of rich new milk and quarter of an ounce of washed isin- glass; boil it until the isinglass is dissolved, sweeten, stir until it is almost cold, put it into a mould, wrhen set, turn it into a dish and serve. Or, you can use arrowroot, tapioca, sago, corr starch, in place of isinglass. Stewed Cheese.—Grated cheese, four ounces; new milk, a quarter of a pint; butter, half an ounce, or more, as the cheese may require; stew the whole till quite smooth; when cold mix it with a wrell-beaten egg, put it on a dish, and brown it as above. Stewed Cheese and Onions.—Stew four middle-sized onions in a pint of water till quite soft; then add four ounces of sliced or grated cheese, and two or three ounces of butter; stir theHOW TO COOK. 127 whole over the fire for one minute, after the cheese has been added. Pouncled Cheese.—Dry or hard cheese, eight ounces; butter, one to two ounces, or a tablespoonful of salad oil. Pound and rub the cheese and butter in a mortar till quite smooth; it may then be spread on bread, or between two pieces of bread as sandwiches; some add mustard and cayenne. When not used immediately, it may be pressed well down in a jar, and cov- ered with clarified butter. Welsh Rabbit.—Toast a round of bread from a quartern loaf; put about four ounces of cheese into a small saucepan or pipkin with a teaspoonful of mustard, a little pepper and salt, and a wineglass of ale or milk; break the cheese small, set it on the fire, and stir until it is melted, then pour over the toast, and serve quickly; or, toast a round of bread, and place on it two pieces of cheese, single Gloucester, a quarter of an inch thick; place it before the fire, and as the cheese melts, spread it over the bread with a knife, also a little cayenne and mustard. Cheese Stirabout.—Nearly fill the iron pot with water, throw in three teaspoonfuls of salt; when boiling, throw in by de- grees some Indian meal,—the quantity depends on the quality; on an average, if the water is soft, one pound to every two quarts; that would be four pounds. When well stirred, re- move the husk with a spoon which floats on the top. Then throw in one pound1 of strong cheese, broken in pieces, or grated. Boil for twenty minutes, and serve. Or, when cold, cut in pieces, and fry. Cheese Pudding.—Cheese grated, four ounces; crumb of bread, two to four ounces; butter, one to four ounces; yolks of eggs, one to four; cream or milk one cupful. Pour the boiling milk upon the bread crumbs, and, when nearly cold, add the cheese and butter, beat the whole well, and boil it gently till smooth; let it stand till rather cool, then stir in the eggs pre- viously beaten. SALADS. In southern climates, a salad is an important part of almost every meal. It makes its appearance with great regularity atHOW TO COOK. 12S almost every French dinner. The Germans are fond of them, and they are slowly coming into fashion in England. It is said that a noble French refugee from the Revolution of 1793 (Soyer says an Italian Count) made a handsome fortune in London by going to the houses of the nobility and dressing- salads. Before that time salads were eaten with the simple, and perhaps more healthful, dressing of sugar and vinegar. Salads are composed of fresh and tender leaves of the let- tuce, endive, dandelion, water-cresses, mustard, common cress, young onions, radishes, both root and top, marigold, nasturtium leaves and flowers, cold boiled potatoes, boiled beet root, boiled French beans, cucumbers, &c. A Spanish proverb says a salad dressing requires a spendthrift for oil, a judge for salt, a miser for vinegar, and a madman to mix them. There are two ways of dressing a salad. One is to sprinkle the condiments over the lettuce, &c.; the other to thoroughly mix the ingredients of the dressing, and mix it with the salad afterward. We will give both ways. Coss Lettuce.—Take two large lettuces, remove the faded leaves and the coarse green ones, then cut the green top off. pull each leaf off separate, cut it lengthways, and then in four or six pieces; proceed thus until finished. This is better without washing. Having cut it all up put it into a bowl; sprinkle over with your finger a small teaspoonful of salt, half one of pepper, three of oil, and two of English vinegar, or one of French; with the spoon and fork turn the salad lightly in the bowl till well mixed; the less it is handled the better; a teaspoonful of chopped chervil and one of tarragon is an im- mense improvement. Soyer gives the above as the method of his Italian Count. I will give my own way. Salad Dressing.—Take the yolk of a hard boiled egg and mash it soft; a teaspoonful of brown sugar, a bit of mealy potato as large as a walnut, a small teaspoonful of salt, do. of made mustard, French preferred, a dust of pepper, the yolk of a raw egg, mix thoroughly, and add two great spoonfuls of per- fectly sweet olive oil, pouring it in slowly, and working it in thoroughly; add now and mix well a tablespoonful of vinegar, or more according to the strength. Some add a very little chopped onion, parsley, tarragon, and chervil. Cream may take the place of the oil. This dressing is to be poured over and well mixed with the salad.HOW TO COOK. 1-29 • i Some break the leaves of lettuce, &c., instead of cutting them. Some cut only with a silver knife. A wooden spoon and fork are used in serving. Cold chicken, lobster, or the remains of cooked fish, may compose a part of a salad. An ornamental lobster salad, or crab salad, is made as follows:— Lobster Salad.—Have the bowl half filled with any kind of salad herb you like, either endive or lettuce, &c. Then break a lobster in two, open the tail, extract the meat in one piece, break the claws, cut the meat of both in small slices, about a quarter of an inch thick, arrange these tastefully on the salad, take out all the soft part from the belly, mix it in a basin with a teaspoonful of salt, half of pepper, four of vinegar, four of oil; stir it well together, and pour on the salad; then cover it with two hard eggs, cut in slices, a few slices of cucumber, and, to vary, a few capers and some fillets of anchovy; stir lightly, and serve. If for a dinner, ornament it with some flowers of the nasturtium and marigold. Salad Dressing in Verse.—The following has been attributed to the witty Dean of St. Paul’s:— Half a potato passed through kitchen sieve, Will welcome softness to the salad give, Of mordent mustard add a single spoon— Distrust the condiment which bites too soon; But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault, To add a double quantity of salt: Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown. And once with vinegar procured from town. True flavour needs it, and your poet begs, The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs, Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl, And, scarce suspected, animate the whole. BEVERAGES. The beverages of this country are tea, coffee, cocoa, cho- colate, ale, or beer, wine, spirits. The real drink of all animals, and the best drink of man—or rather the only drink—is water. Water forms about 90 per cent, of blood and brain or nerve matter, and about 70 per cent, of the weight of the body, Water is the real drink, and the other substances added flavours, nutritive, or stimulating. Pure soft water is the most natural, and best of all beverages. Milk is food and water. Wine is water with fruit juices and alcohol. Tea is water with anHOW TO COOK. 130 infusion of the soluble matter of the leaves of a plant; coffee is an infusion of a berry, with narcotic properties developed by heat. Cocoa and chocolate contain stimulating properties similar to those of tea and coffee, mixed with more nutriment. Beer contains alcohol, the narcotic principle of hops, with a little sugar. Most of these beverages have but a slight nutritive value; the habit of using them is strong in proportion to their narcotic and stimulating elements, and their excessive use is destructive to health. Other beverages merely gratify the taste, and have no harmful element—such as lemonade, aerated waters, ginger beer, unfermented fruit, j uices, &c. Of all fer- mented drinks, light, pure wines are least harmful. The best coffee is the Mocha, next to that is Bourbou, Mauritius, Cey- lon, Madras, Java, and Jamaica. Good coffee is very rare in England. Not one “ coffee-house” in a hundred has anything better than a decoction of burnt sugar, roasted peas, &c. At many shops it is adulterated with chicory, roasted grains, burnt sugar, beefs liver, &c. Coffee acquires a fine flavour when a little butter and sugar is mixed with it while roasting. Many persons prefer coffee with one-eighth or one-sixth admixture of chicory. Substitutes for Coffee are made of roasted bread crusts, wheat, rye, barley, carrots, dandelion roots, peas, beans, figs, &c. Fig coffee is largely used in Austria. Some of these substitutes have much of tlxe flavour of coffee, and no injurious effect upon the nervous system. Coffee is best when fresh roasted and newly ground, or when kept in air-tight canistei's. The French burn half their coffee cinnamon colour, the other to a deep brown, find mix. One gives more stx-ength, the other more flavour. The percolator, or filtei-ing-pot, makes very nice coffee when well managed. The coffee should not be more than an inch deep, aixd the water turned on boiling hot. The first run has the finest aroma—the last is harsh and acrid. The best percolators are those of Loysel, made upon the hydrostatic principle. If ground coffee is put in cold water and brought slowly to the boiling point and then settled, or clarified, you get all the strength and flavour. Soyer’s method is also good for both tea and coffee. He put them in the pot, heated them quite hot, and then poured on boiling water, and let them stand to settle. Dr. Donovau recommends two and a half ounces of coffee to a quart of water. Pour one-half of the water cold upon the131 HOW TO COOK. coffee, bring it just to the boiling point, let it stand to settle a little, then pour the liquid off; add the remaining half of the water at a boiling heat to the grounds, boil for about three minutes, let it stand to settle a little, then povur off the clear part, and add to it the other liquor. The first operation ex- tracts the aroma of the coffee, the second the bitter principle. Coffee and Egg.—Put four ounces of freshly roasted and ground coffee in a basin, and break to it an egg, adding yolk, white, and shell. Mix it up with a spoon to the consistency of a thick batter; add to it a quart of warm, not boiling, water; put it in a coffee-pot, and let it boil up and break three times; let it stand a few minutes, and it will be as clear as amber. The egg will render the coffee rich and smooth. Cafe au Lait.—Put four ounces of coffee into a biggin, and pour upon it three-quarters of a pint of boiling water. To half a pint of boiling milk add one quarter of the coffee just made, or a less quantity if desired weaker, and sweeten it with lump sugar. To make Tea, all that is wanted is clean, hot vessels, boiling water, and a bright, quick infusion; though some kinds require more time than others. Tea should never boil. Soft water is much more economical than hard. Chocolate and Cocoa are often largely adulterated, and Eng- lish chocolate has seldom a good flavour. French, Spanish, and Italian chocolates are much better. Chocolate needs to be simply well dissolved in milk, or at least in half milk and water. Let it boil up two or three times, and be well agitated with a mull, before serving. Chocolate is often flavoured with cinnamon, or vanilla; orange flower water, a teaspoonful to a cup, is also liked by many. Lemonade, hot or cold, or Lemon-and-Orangeade, is best when one lump of the sugar is well rubbed on the peel of the lemon, and the juice squeezed upon the rest. Claret wine, a fourth or half, is good in lemonade. Apple Water.—Put a gallon of water on to boil, cut up one pound of apples, each one into quarters, put them in the water, and boil them until they can be pulped, pass the liquor through a colander, boil it up again with half a pound of brown sugar, scum, and bottle for use, taking care not to cork the bottle, and keep it in a cool place; the apples may be eaten with sugar; or, bake the apples first, then put them in a gallon pan, add132 HOW TO COOK. the sugar, and pour boiling water over, let it get cold, pass the liquor as above, and bottle; or a piece of bread, slowly toasted till it gets quite black, may be added to the above; or, a quar- ter of a pound of pearl barley; boil one hour; or, half a pound of rice, boiled in the above until in pulp, passed through a colander, and drunk when cold. All kinds of fruits may be done the same way, as figs and French plums, raisins; or rhubarb, in the same quantities, and done in the same way as apples, adding more sugar; or green gooseberries. For Summer Drink.—One pound of red currants, bruised with some raspberry, half a pound of sugar added to a gallon of cold water, well stirred, allowed to settle, and bottled; or use mulberry, adding a little lemon-peel. Ginger Deer.—White sugar twenty pounds, lemon or lime- juice eighteen fluid ounces, honey one pound, bruised ginger twenty-two ounces, water eighteen gallons. Boil the ginger in three gallons of water during half an hour; add the sugar, juice, and honey, and the remainder of the water, and strain through a cloth. When cold, add the white of one egg, and half a fluid ounce of essence of lemon. When the liquid has stood four days, bottle it. Currant Wine.—One gallon currants, two quarts water, four pounds sugar, one and a half gill good brandy. Press the juice from the currants, add the water and sugar, and let the mixture stand twenty-four hours. Then remove the scum, strain, add the brandy, and put into flasks. Gooseberry, rasp- berry, and rhubarb wines are made in the same manner. ^ESTHETICS OF EATING. In our food and its preparation, the sense of sight, as well as taste and smell, should be gratified. Every meal should be beautiful as well as fragrant and delicious; set, in a clean and orderly apartment, on a table of proper size and shape, and well placed, with respect to light and warmth. Let the table- cloth and napkins, which last should be provided at every meal, be clean, fresh, and as nice as you can afford, and the knives and silver bright. Study order and symmetry in plac- ing the dishes, to make the table a picture. A vase of flowers, or a dish of fruit with green leaves will help, or a vase of cool138 HOW TO COOK. celery. There is a charm in a nice butter dish. Try not to crowd things. Make every meal a little ceremony, and a re- freshment to all the senses. Observe how well-bred people behave at table and imitate their manners. Avoid uncouth noises and gestures, and every- thing that can give disgust. Never speak at table upon any unpleasant subject, such as bodily ailments, the sewage ques- tion, cattle plague, contagious diseases, &c. Have only cheer- ful and tasteful subjects of conversation. Learn how to escort a lady to table, how to carve, how to help others, how to take wine, how to use your finger glass, by quietly observing how others do, and following good exam- ples. Conform quietly to the manners of those about you. You need not, indeed, eat with a knife; but George IV. showed his right to the title of First Gentleman in Europe, when, taking tea with some old-fashioned ladies, he adopted their custom of cooling their tea by drinking it from their saucers. Learn to eat and drink nicely, silently, and inoffen- sively, if not tastefully and elegantly. Eat with moderation as to time and quantity. If we eat what is set before us, there is no obligation to eat all, nor even of all, that is offered us. If hosts press, we must parry. Eat what you feel will not hurt you, and, if doubtful, keep to the safe side, and set a good example of temperance and sobriety. An elegant table need not be a profuse or expensive one. The nicest meals are those in which a few delicately prepared and served dishes of cheap and simple food are handed round in succession, and no one is tempted to excess, while every one has enough, which is not only as good as. but much better than, a feast. Finally, I commend this book to the study of mothers and daughters, as a help to making happy‘homes for people of every class; and I believe that one month's training in its principles and rules, would make a good reliable cook of any intelligent servant, who can see and feel that the glory of a house is a clean and well-ordered kitchen, and a tasteful, attractive, and healthful table. To this end, mistress and cook should have a daily consultation in the kitchen, and always have a perfect understanding with each other. And every woman, it seems to me, whatever her position in life may be, should know how to cook.YET A WORE. In the important matters of cooking and eating we can learn something of our neighbour nations, and even from people whom we look upon as barbarians or savages—people who lack the refinements of civilisation, but whose instincts are in many respects finer than our own. The English, and their descendants, the Americans, who have exaggerated some of their faults if they may also have improved upon some of their virtues, are profuse eaters—wasteful, extravagant— tending always to excess in eating and drinking, and tending also to the diseases which it engenders. The Americans eat too many things, eat too hurriedly, too much, and do not give themselves time or leisure for digestion. The English eat too often, too much, and too large a proportion of animal food. An American, in ten or fifteen minutes, will eat for breakfast—a beefsteak, mutton chop, veal cutlet, fried ham and eggs, fried fish, broiled oysters, and buckwheat cakes, and wash it all down with two or three cups of strong coffee, glancing meanwhile at the morning paper, and then hurrying off to business. At noon he bolts a lunch as hurriedly, stand- ing at a counter or perched on a high stool, and after a hard day's work comes home to a profuse dinner. American child- ren even are allowed to eat nearly in the same fashion, and so stimulated into precocity and disease. An Englishman takes a light breakfast, but with too little variety, and his favourite rasher of bacon is not a nice dish to begin with. A nicely boiled, scrambled, or poached egg, or a well cooked omelet, or bit of fried or broiled fish, would be much better. The breakfast rolls of most English bakers are detestable. As a rule they make the worst bread in Europe, and'I fear the American bakers are not much better. Why is it that when one can always get delightful bread in France, Germany, Italy, and especially in Austria, English and Ameri- can bakers should fail so utterly ? The Aerated Bread, how- ever, both white and brown, seems pure and wholesome. The English lunch is not generally a nice meal. It is too much bread and meat. The French dejeuner a la fourchette, with its succession of four or five nice dishes, is delightful, and just whatHOW TO COOK. 135 the raid-day meal ought to be—delicate, pleasant, appetising and so easy of digestion as not to interrupt the day’s work. The fashion of a five o’clock tea before dinner I cannot think a good one. There should be an interval of five or six hours between meals; and many persons are much better for eating only twice in the twenty-four hours. Three times ought to suffice for all but very yoimg children, who are growing fast, and have quick digestions. If tea before dinner does not spoil the appetite it must hurt the digestion, English dinners are too formal, too slow, and in both mat- ter and manner, too oppressive. I like much better the gay little festivals one enjoys in every French family, even those of very humble means. First of all, they are so jolly. Parents, children, friends, all lay aside every care; they are full of sparkling wit and affectionate drollery, and the one female servant, who has cooked an exquisite dinner at half the cost of a very bad one in some other places, also brings it in, all smiling in her clean cap and apron, and each successive dish, passed round and eaten by itself, is just what should succeed the last, and prepare for the next. The meal goes on smoothly and gaily. There is just enough of each dish to go round, and nothing to waste. At the end every taste has been pleased and every appetite satisfied. Every Frenchwoman and, I believe, every Frenchman also, knows how to cook; it seems natural to them. And just as natural, that is habitual, is their economy. They buy in small quantities precisely what they want, and no more. A lady, cirrying her basket, or accompanied by her bonne, picks and cheapens through the market, or the trusty servant does it for ha\ It is the same with the cooking; just enough fire is used, and no more. Where an English cook burns half-a- hundredof coals to roast herself and spoil a dinner, a French cook uses a few handfuls of charcoal, and cooks it deliciously. The result is that the French nation expends in the two items of food aid fuel about half as much as the English and Ameri- cans, witi better results. And this is one reason why the great bocy of the French people have money to lend the governmeit, take up national loans, and pay off war in- demnities. And this is not despicable economy. What we save in oui food we save in health. The difference between a few costly meals and cheaper and even better ones, would buy us books, jictures, things to give us lasting delight. And if we live in a more economical fashion, which may be reallynow TO COOIC. 13G better and pleasanter, we can enjoy that greatest of pleasures, helping those who have not even the necessai'ies of life. In Part Sixth of “ Human Physiology the Basis of Sani- tary and Social Science,” I have given my idea of a true social organisation, founded upon the nature of man, and adapted to his wants and capacities. In such a society the production, selection, and preparation of food—the whole science and art of gastronomy would have a place correspond- ing in importance to the functions of smell and taste, masti- cation, deglutition, digestion, and assimilation in the human body. Nutrition would be studied as a science and practised as an art. Every vital function should be accompanied with enjoyment. Whatever is needful to do should be doneniot only well, but happily. What we must do every day, we should try to do in the best manner. We must eat, as we must breathe, and we should eat good food, as we breathe good air. Not live to eat, indeed, but eat in such a manner as to live long and well, and so as to build up, nourish, and sustain the body, with all its organs of motion, sensation, thought, and feeling, so as to make it the best possible in- strument for the soul. Taste, conscience, and our most intel- ligent judgment should be used in the selection of our food and beverages, for they influence our thoughts, and feelings, and actions. What we eat and drink makes our blood, and of our blood are formed all the solids and fluids, tissues and organs of our bodies. “The house we live in” should be carefully built of the nicest and best materials. “ Choose what is best, and habit will make it most agree- able.” There is much truth in this, for “habit is a second nature; ” yet I would not have one fanatical in eatng and drinking. We have' habits and idiosyncrasies formed in us before we were born. Our tastes and aptitudes hsve been largely shaped for us by our progenitors, and it is really true in rare and exceptional cases that “ what is one mans meat is another man’s poison.” Morbid and hurtful appeti.es, how- ever, are not to be indulged but conquered, and supplanted by healthy ones. We are to find out what is reallp best for us, and resolutely do that best. But all these matters, and nearly all matters connected with human health, veil-being, and happiness 1 have treated of in my larger work 01 “Human Physiology,” and to that I refer the intelligent and inquiring reader. T1IE END.IITDE hc. Air, effect on food of, 10 Esthetics op Eating, 133 Alkali, use of, 23 Almonds, to blanch, 39 Animal Products, 25 Appetite, morbid. 32 Apples—baked, 120 buttered, 120 cake, 121 dumplings, 115 dried, 123 fried, 120 jelly, marmalade, 121 sauce, 40, 121 water, 131 Apricot tarts, 123 Artichokes, 47 Asparagus, 18, 48 Bain-marie, 61 Baking, modes of, 11 Baking powder, 23 Banting, 34 Barley bread, 23 Batter for pancakes, 90 Beans, 24, 50 Beef—baked or roasted, 70 boiling, 71 cold, with potatoes, 78 mutton and veal to stew, 75 or mutton hash, 77 potted, 70 and rice, 75 ragout, 76 ribs and sirloin, 72 stewed shin of, 76 steak pie, 81 with vegetables, 75 tea, 59 Beets, 17, 48 Beet greens, 19 Berries, 20 Beverages, 129 Biscuits, dyspeptic, 95 Blanc manges, 126 Boiling, 11 Boiler, double, 12 Boiling meat, 71 Bread & Farinaceous preparations, 91 aerated, 22 apple, 98 baker’s, 22 unfermented, fermented, 95 leavened, 90 brown, moist, mixtures, a peck of good wheat and rice, 97 Scotch, 99 Brocoli, 49 Broiling, 27, 69 Brown Betty, 114 Buck wheat, 24 Bulbous roots, 18 Buns, 98 Butter, 25 Cabbage, 19, 4S Cakes—breakfast, 99 Benton tea, 99 bread apple, 101 Elizabeth, 102 gems, 102 ginger, 100 Johnny, 101 plain, 102 rice, 99, 100 rich plain, 99 syrup,102 Wisconsin, 102 Carrots, 17, 48 Cauliflower, 19, 49 Celery, 19, 48 Cereals, 22 Cheese, 26, 126 Chickens, how best, 28 boiled, roast, fricaseed, 78 Chocolate and cocoa, 131 Cleanliness, 36 Cod, crimped, fried, salt, 63, 64 sounds, 64 Coffee, to make, 130 substitutes for, 130 Colcannon, 46 Cole Slaw, 49 Cold improves flavours, 10 Condiments, 13, 30, 38 Cookery, Principles of, 9 Cooking, order of, 37 Crab, 68 Cream—ice, tapioca, arrowroot, snow rice, 125 mock, 44 Crullers, 93 Crumpets, 9S Curds, 125 Custards—baked, plain, arrow-root. lemon, floating, 88, 89 Custard pudding, 89 Damson and apple tart, 122 Damsons, &c., to preserve, 120 Dandelions, 19, 49 Digestion, difficult of, 33 Drinks, effects on health, 30 Ducks, 78, Dumplings, 118 Eating, times of, 32, 34 Egg Plants, 21138 INDEX. Eggs, 26 to keep and test—boiled, fried, 85 Bcrambled, baked, foudue, poach- ed, 86 Farinacea, 21 Figs, 21,123 Fish, 28, 60 to boil, marinade for, 61 to broil, batter, stewed, boiled, fry, 62 cakes, to cook all kinds, 67 puddings, 83 scalloped, 65 soups, nee Soups. Flesh, Fowl, and Fish, 20 Flesh Meat and Poultry, 69 Food, delicious, 9 nutritive value of, 15 kinds and qualities, 16 variety and harmony, 16 in its relations to health, 28 quantity needed, 30 medical efforts of, 31 What to eat and avoid, 32 diseased and diseasing, 34 Fowls, how cooked, 28 Fritters and pancakes, 90, 93 Frying, 11, 69 Fruit and its Preparations, 118 Fruit creams, 124 delightful, 10 qualities of, 12 puddings, 144 syrups, 44 Galette, 99 Gingerbread, 100,103 Ginger beer, 132 Goose, roasted, stuffing, 79 Gravies, 71, 72 Greens, 48 Gruel, oatmeal, 103 Hare, jugged, 77 Hash, 77 Hasty Pudding, 103 Heat, effects on food, 10 Herbs, mixed, 42 Herrings, 65, 66 Hominy, 103 Ice cream, 125 Indian bannock, 101 Indian corn, 104 Indian corn bread, 23 Irish stew, 77 Jelly, apple, and currant, 120 Ketchup, walnut, mushroom, and tomato, 41 Kitchen Requisitions, &c., French, 35 Lamb, 75 Lemonade, 131 I Lentils, 24, 51 Lobsters, 67 Macaroni, 104 Mackarel, 66 Maize, 104 May cup, 132 Mayonaise, 62 Meat, baking, 27 &c., canned, 28 essence of, to select, grows ten- der, 27 Melons, 21 Melted butter, 39 Milk, 25 Milk and its Products, 124 rice, tapioca, &c., porridge, 125 Mince meat, 84 Minced pie, Lent, 84 Muffins, 99 Mush, 103 Mushrooms, 19 Mutton broth, 59 chops, 73 cutlets, 74 haricot, 76 leg of, 72 saddle of, 73 Nettles, 49 Normandy pippins, 21 Oatmeal porridge, 24 * ''VO Okra, 21 Omelets, plain, savoury, sweet, aux confitures, au rhum, 86, 87 Omelet souffle, 88 Omelet with arrowroot, the Friars, 88 Onions, 18, 48 Oysters, 68 Oyster pie, S2 plant, 18 Ox heart, 75 Pancakes and Fritters, 90 Pancakes to fry—milk, French, snow, rice, 91, 92 Parsnips, 17, 48 Pastry, 80 Paste for tarts and sweets, 119 Peaches, dried, 123 Pears, 20 baked, stewed, 121 German style, 122 Peas, 24, 50 Pies—apple, pumpkin, 123 artizan’s — poor man’s potato — vegetable—tapioca—vegetable, 82 turbot, sole, flounder, herring, 83 Pilchards, 66 Pine apple cup, 133 Popovers, 118 Potatoes, 18 boiled, baked, mashed, 45INDEX. 139 Potatoes with cabbages, broiled, fried, sweet, to dress cold, 46 and onions—scones, a substitute for, 47 Prunes, 123 Puddino, 105 Pudding—potato—carrot—parsnip— apple - potato — asparagus — or green peas, 107 bread, 107, 108 sago, semolina, rice, tapioca, 109 arrowroot, 110 Indian meal, hominy, barley, oat- meal, 111 macaroni, peas, Soyer’s economi- cal, 112. Soyer's Christmas, half-pay, quick made, cowslip, chestnut, quak- ing, 113 oird’s nest, apple, apple-sago, 114 Eve's, apple and apricot, Persian, fruit and arrowroot, Swiss, 115 bachelor's, roly poly, gipsey, sweet orange, gooseberry, rhubarb, fig, 116 cocoanut, Normandy pippin, cus- tard, minute, batter, 117 puff, 118 beef, 81 fish, 83 Quince. 20 Radishes, 18 Rice, 24 to boil, 103 custards, 90 milk, 109 Roasting, 27, 70 Rogrdd 124 Rolls, 98,102 Roots, to prepare, 17 Salads, 127 lobster or crab, 129 Sally lunn, 102 Salmon, kippered, 63 Salsify, 18 Sauces, relishes, and flavours, 87 browning for, 41 Sauce—anchovy, chili, egg, caper, fen- nel, parsley, mild onion, sage and onion, celery, mint, horse- radish, hotel keeper’s, 40 pickle, white, piquant, shrimp, lobster, 41 brown, celery, sweet pudding, white pudding, red wine, 42 almond, arrowroot. Sultana, au vin, cider, rich wine, orange, fruit, pudding, jam, 43 tapioca, hard, custard, fruit, 44 Scones, 100 Sea kale, 48 Skate, fricaseed, 66 Souffle, T17 Soups, 52 and stews, 27 broth, and thickening, 53 rice, macaroni, vermicilli, vege- table, Count Rumford’s, 54 cheap vegetable, barley, onion, pea, French vegetable, 55 cheap pea, green pea, lettuce, fish, 56 fish and oyster, lobster or cray- fish, fish and vegetable, fish and pea, fragrant fish, 57 skate, French, pot a feu, stock for clear, 58 giblet, oxtail, thick meat, potato, 59 arrowroot, thickening for, ox- cheek, 60 Spices, 13 use and abuse of, 87 Spinach, 19, 49 Sprats, 65, 66 Steak, 69 to make tender, 28 in baking pan, 74 tough, fried, 73 Stirabout, 103 Strawberry short cake, 123 cup, 133 Stuffing, 72 Sugar, 14 Summer drink, 132 Sweet herbs, 38, 39 Syrup, to clarify, 119 Table, manners of, 134 Tea cakes, 93 Tea, to make, 131 Toast, 101 Tomatoes, 21, 51 Tripe, Lyons fashion, 78 Turbot, 64 au court Bouillon, 65 Turkey—boiled, roasted, 78 Turnips, 17, 47 Yeal. 73 fricandeau of, 77 Vegetables, 19, 45 Vegetable marrows, 50 Vinegars, 38, 40 Water, the only drink, 129 Weights and measures, 36 Welsh rabbit, 127 Wheaten grits or porridge, 24 Yeast, 96 Yet a Wold, 135CAT to SAL 7hfflDGF ^ > 2A*r& 'uJr <* -?(l^~ y Tl ^ ^3’ Tu^Pi■ J‘k^^3’^-esi^w-o*- * <us>U'J U~MX'J U /W/, “V A-'v4 On^j^. IhU rtitU-^Y »' ** ^ iCIi.v'.y - <,-4" jH-h*^. ,ADVERTISEMENTS. HOW TO LIVE ON SIXPENCE A-DAY. BY T. L. NICHOLS, M.D., Author of “Forty Years of American Life;” “Human Physi- ology tiie Basis of Sanitary and Social Science;” “How to Cook;” “Esoteric Anthropology, or the Mysteries of Man,” &c. “ Dr. Nichols' advice is sound and practicable. He shows that a cheap diet is sufficient for bodily nourishment, conducive to bodily and mental strength, and may be made more delightful to the senses than costly and pernicious luxuries. We confidently recommend this tract to all true philanthropists who know how deeply down must be laid the foundations of social regeneration.”—Mechanics' Magazine, copit d into the Times of India, Bombay. ‘ ‘ A valuable little treatise, full of the most useful information, set down in clear, plain English. Dr. Nichols discusses the whole question of food and nutrition; and he succeeds in showing (what many would regard as an absolute impossibility), how life may well be kept up at the little expenditure mentioned. . . . The production evidently of a learned, thoughtful, and philanthropic man.”—Weekly Dispatch. “ A remarkable little work—remarkable for the many interesting facts embodied in it, and also for the ability with which the talented author shows how practical it is for every individual to live, and live well, on Sixpence a-day. It well merits a thoughtful perusal.” —Alloa Advertiser. “ An excellent work, and one of the most sensible tracts on food matters we have seen for a long time.”—Dietetic Reformer. “The bona fide work of a medical gentleman residing at Great Malvern. As such, it commends itself to the careful reading of all persons of limited means, but especially of the clergy and other philanthropic persons. There is matter in it which is worth every- body’s attention.”—Gloucester Mercury. Many persons have written to the author to thank him for health regained, or greatly improved, by following the advice given in “Howto Live on Sixpence A-Day.” It has been republished in America, and the publisher writes that wealthy and philanthropic gentlemen are buying it in dozens and hundreds for gratuitous distribution. Sold by Dr. T. L. Nichols, at the Hygienic Institute, 39 Museum Street, London, W.C., and at all Railway Stalls and Booksellers, Price Sixpence.ADVERTISEMENTS Now ready, in 1 vol., crown 8vo., 496 pp., bevelled boards, extra cloth, with 7 0 illustrations. Human physiology the basis of sanitary and SOCIAL SCIENCE. In Six Parts: I.—The Actual Con- dition of Humanity. II.—Matter, Force, and Life. 111.—The Human Body. IV.—The Laws of Generation. V.—Health, Dis- ease, and Cure. VI.—Morals and Society. By T. L. Nichols, M.D., F.A.S., Author of “Forty Years of American Life,” “Eso- teric Anthropology,” &c., &c. London : Triibner & Co. New York : J. S. Redfield. This unique work treats in Part I. of Man and his Relations— Premature and Preventable Mortality—Mortality of Classes and Conditions—Infant Mortality and Infanticide—Poverty and its Evils—Ignorance—Drunkenness—Dishonesty and Crime—Vice and Immorality—Prostitution and its Consequences. In Part II., of Matter—Force—Life—Animal Life—Life in the Higher Orders of Animals—Human Life and Immortality, and the futilities of the Darwinian philosophy. In Part III., of Bones and Muscles—Brain and Nerves—The Five Senses—The Alimentary System—The Blood—Secretions and Excre- tions—Idiosyncrasies—Laws of the Bodily Life—Life and Death. In Part IV., of Vegetable Reproduction—Animal Reproduction— Germination and Fecundation—Embryology—Physical Love—Love and Marriage — Hereditary Transmission — The Laws of Sexual Morality—Problems of the Sexual Relations. In Part V., of Health—Conditions of Health—Disease—Causes of Disease —Prevention of Disease—Medical Systems and Practice— Hydropathy; or, the Water Cure. In Part VI., of the Moral Basis of a True Society—Human Rights and Responsibilities—Leadership and the Elements of Social ()nler— Economies of a True Society—Social Theories—Difficulties of Social Organisation—Government and Political Economy—Education— Principles and Preparation—The Human Constitution the Model of Human Society. Human Physiology may be had of all Booksellers, elegantly bound in bevelled boards, extra cloth, burnished red edges, price 7s. 6d. Subscription edition, plain boards, extra cloth, of the Author only, post free for 5s. 6d. Orders to Dr. T. L. Nichols, Hygienic Institute, 39 Museum Street, London, W.C. Post Office Orders on Great Russell Street. Each Part Separately, One Shilling.\ tRECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark Binding Ref No: - 3SS2 1 Microfilm No: Date Particulars NO V Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification ^er^ c\ | SS C\r c-t Lamination * '• L» Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives Remarks T fi M McKIRDY 34 Marine Drive. Romngdcan L Sussex 13N2 7HQ England •L I I' . , s.