GAME PIE 237 behind the shoulders. Bone the game if possible ; if not, cut off the meat in as large and neat pieces as you can. Break up the bones in a mortar, mashing them with the pestle, and then put them into a two-quart stewpan with three ounces of lean ham or bacon, two sheep’s feet cut up and cleaned, an ounce of glaze, a bunch of herbs, twelve peppercorns, a minced shallot, a three- ounce onion, a teaspoonful of salt, and a saltspoonful of mignonette pepper. Boil, and then simmer. When the broth is strong strain it, set it to cool, and skim. When it is clear, flavour it with a sherry glass of Marsala (wine is considered essential in Raised Pies), a teaspoonful of red currant jelly, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, and, if liked, a teaspoonful of anchovy vinegar. Colour if required. Reduce the broth by a quarter, so as to have it as strong and savoury as possible, strain, and set it aside. Make the forcemeat of the livers of the birds and the hare, and a quarter of a pound of ham or bacon, pound all well, mix with two ounces of panada (see page 203), moisten with one egg, and when the forcemeat is pounded to a paste pass it through the hair sieve. Clean and peel a quarter of a pound of mushrooms, toss them for a few minutes in butter over a low fire. If large, cut them into convenient pieces. Now pack the Pie as usual, coat the bottom and sides thinly with the forcemeat, cut up the game, seasoning with salt and herb pepper, roll each piece of hare in bacon and put a layer of them on the forcemeat. Pack the pie l’ather closely, dusting frequently with herb pepper, and dotting in little slices of ham and bacon, and the mushrooms, as you pack. Cover the top with slices of bacon. Add half the jelly gravy, put on the cover, and bake. The oven must be at a moderate heat, between fast and slow, and the baking must be slowly done, The Pie will take about three hours to bake. Let it cool, add the rest of the gravy, and set the Pie in a cold larder. If it is liked without the cover remove the upper layer of bacon also, and fill up the space with broken aspic jelly. Venison Pasty.—This is an excellent American recipe. Almost any part of the deer can be used, but the neck and shoulder answer best. Cut the raw venison neatly from the bones. Put the bones, skin, fat, and trimmings into a saucepan with a minced shallot, a bunch of herbs, pepper and salt, cover