TURKEYS 269 at the sinews from the outside, the person inside holding the bird as firmly as possible. A man’s strength is. often needed to pull out the sinews. The stuffing for a Roast Turkey is either made of chestnuts-, sausage-meat, or of a mixture of green hei’bs, breadcrumbs, and suet, for which see page 202. Or the Turkey can be stuffed with mushrooms. The stuffing fills up the breast of the bird, and must be formed into a good plump shape in the trussing. A very large Turkey will take three hours to roast; for one weighing eight to ten pounds allow two hours, and for a small one an hour and half. Do not put sausages round the Turkey in the dish. Boiled Turkey.—Many people consider that “ Turkey Boiled is Turkey Spoiled.” At any rate an old Turkey should never be boiled. If it is to be boiled, boil it in stock with plenty of vegetables. Bring the Turkey to the boil and then let it simmer gently for one hour and a half. The stuffing may be herb stuffing or made of celery or of oysters. About two dozen sauce oysters will be wanted; take off the beards, and stew them in them own liquor for five minutes before using them. Hand celery sauce or oyster sauce. Reduce the broth for gravy to go round the Turkey in the dish. Pulled and Grilled Turkey.—Pull the white meat off the breast of a cold Turkey with a couple of forks. Do not cut it. Warm it up in a good white sauce, flavoured if possible with mushroom peelings. Grill the thighs and pinions of the Turkey, and lay them round the white meat, with pieces of the stuffing fried. Score the Turkey legs after skinning them, and rub them well with mustard flour, pepper, and salt mixed up in a very little butter, but do nof use grill sauce. Galantine.—A Galantine is a valuable cold dish for luncheon, but it cannot be made unless the cook knows how to bone. Galantines are too often tasteless and insipid, but this will not be the case if Wyverns directions are followed. Choose a large fowl or hen turkey, weighing from three and a half to four pounds, and have read)- two pounds of lean veal, three of fat bacon, and one pound of cooked tongue. Pluck and clean the bird, save all the giblets, scald them, cut them up small, and put them on the fire, covered with water to make broth. Now bone the bird. When you sever the pinions, legs, and