302 POTATOES. The Potato, the King of Vegetables, deserves a separate section. The Potato is capricious in its habits, and varies according to the weather it has either enjoyed or suffered from. A crop of the self-same Potato may be floury in one season, and waxy and heavy in the next. The cook is often unjustly blamed for the condition of the Potato, but no skill can change a waxy Potato into a floury one. A wise cook will soon see if the Potatoes sent in are floury or waxy, and will vary her method of cooking accordingly. It cannot be too strongly impressed upon the cook that Potatoes must he cooked in haste and eaten at once. Very slow cooking, preceded by long soaking, and followed by delay in serving, will spoil the finest Potatoes ever sent to table. But, on the other hand, if Potatoes are cooked “ at a gallop ” the outside will be a tasteless jelly and the inside an uneatable stone. If the Potatoes are to be served in a covered vegetable dish, they should not be put into it till the very last moment, for the steam which they emit cannot escape, and has to be absorbed by the Potatoes them- selves. Potatoes, whether boiled or steamed, ought never to be peeled. If they are very old the eyes and the outer skin must be removed, but as a rule the knife should never touch an uncooked Potato. If required, the skins can be removed in the kitchen, but the Potatoes are much better served “ in their jackets,” and sent up on a hot napkin in a wooden bowl. In boiling Potatoes choose those which are as nearly as possible of one size, so that they may cook evenly. Wash them in cold water and brush them. Put them in a saucepan on the fire with enough cold water to cover them, and salt in the propor- tion of half an ounce to a gallon of water. After half an hour’s steady cooking, take the Potatoes out, drain all the water out of the pan, and put the Potatoes back into it. Cover the hot saucepan with a wet cloth, put it at the side of the fire, and let the Potatoes evaporate under the cloth for about ten minutes.