SOUPS 36 peas, with their shells also, cut into strips. Boil up again, then simmer over a gentle fire for three hours, and strain the bi'oth into a basin, take off the fat, and put by for use when wanted. Another way, with dried vegetables in part, is to boil one quart of white haricot beans and one quart of lentils in six quarts of water, with five ounces of onion and a bunch of herbs. Simmer for three hours, strain, and use this vegetable broth to moisten the fried vegetables in Vegetable Purees. Add the seasoning only, simmer for three hours, skim the puree, and strain. Take of course half quantities to make two and a half quarts of Vegetable Stock. All the vegetables can be used again as purees in the centre of a dish of cutlets, etc., after having yielded their broth. The above Vegetable Stock is in itself a pleasantly flavoured soup. Mingled with purees it takes the place of meat stock. And, blended with meat, it forms a most strengthening soup for those convalescents who are sufficiently recovered to benefit by strong essences of meat and vegetable. An Invalid's Soup.—Take a fowl or rabbit, if aged no matter, cut it to pieces, bones and all, while fresh, with a chopper, and pound the mass in a mortar. Chop up also two pounds of the best fresh lean gravy beef, season with pepper and salt, mix the two meats together and give them a few turns in a roomy stewpan with enough melted clarified suet and broth to draw the glaze. Now add little by little the whole of the vegetable stock, stirring well all the time. Boil (adding water now and then to make good the loss of liquid by evaporation) for one horn’. Strain off the soup, leave it to get cold, and then remove every trace of fat. This soup can be given to the invalid in small quantities, iced or hot, as may be desired. Clear Ox-Tail Soup.—Divide the tail at the joints, and then chop each piece in half. Blanch them for three minutes in boiling' water, drain and dry them. Melt an ounce of butter in a roomy stewpan, and put in four ounces of chopped onion, three of carrot, three of turnip, one ounce of celery, and a sprig of parsley. Fry the vegetables gently, and put in the pieces of tail. Cook all together till slightly coloured, then moisten with half a pint of warm broth. Continue the