ORANGE MARMALADE 5°3 and boil for half an hour, carefully skimming off the scum as it rises. During the last five minutes add the shreds of orange peel. Put the Marmalade into pots, and tie down next day. Clear Orange Marmalade.—{Family Recipe.)—In this Marmalade there are no shreds of peel. Cnt the oranges in half, and boil them for three-quarters of an hour, allowing a pint of water to twelve oranges. Strain off the juice, and boil it up sharp for ten minutes. Allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to every pint of juice. Boil for twenty or twenty-five minutes, till it jellies. Four oranges make a pound pot of Marmalade. Mixbury Quince Marmalade.—(Family Recipe.)—Scald the Quinces, pare, core, and quarter them. To four pounds of Quinces put three pounds and a half of sugar. Boil three pints of the water the Quinces were "scalded in, and boil the parings and cores in it. Strain, and add this water to the Quinces and sugar. Let them stand all night. Set them over a slow fire to boil, skimming and stirring them all the time they are cooking. Eaton Banks Quince Jelly.—{Family Recipe.)—Peel, but do not divide the Quinces. Remove every particle of decay. Fill the pan and lay the best of the parings over the frnit. Add as much water as will prevent burning. Cover close and let them stew ten minutes. Strain through a coarse cloth to extract the juice, but do not squeeze the fruit, or the juice will be thick. Let it stand twenty-four hours, then pour it off as clear as possible. Boil three-quarters of an hour with sugar, and pour hot into the moulds. The Jelly improves by keeping. Siberian Marmalade.—(Family Recipe.)—Coddle (that is, parboil) the Crabs, pulp them through a sieve or colander. Pare six large apples, boil them quite soft, and strain them through a sieve. To every quart of Crab pulp add a gill of the apple liquor. To one pound of pulp put three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Boil all together for a quarter of an hour, stirring all the time. (Siberian Crabs were introduced into England from Siberia in 1758.) Siberian jelly.—Take off the stalks and well wash the Crabs. Put them into a preserving pan with just enough water to cover them, and boil them till quite tender. Rub them