45° ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY Nobody has ever yet learnt from the scars on other people’s fingers; everybody must burn their own. The history of French cookery is interesting from its con- nection with the history of France. It began in 1558 with the skilled cooks who attended Catherine de Medicis from Florence on her marriage to Henry II of France. These cooks introduced the fashion of ices into France. One of them had already in- vented the fricandeau for the benefit of Pope Leo X. Villeroi, whose name still survives in menus, was Minister of State under four Kings of France and was the only person trusted by Catherine de Medicis. Louis XIV prided himself as much on his kitchen as on the victories of his armies. Bechamel was his maitre d’hotel. The Prince de Soubise and the Due d’Uxelles, who both invented sauces, were among his Marshals. Liqueurs were invented for Louis XIV, and Madame de Maintenon intro- duced the cutlets still called by her name in order to protect the old king’s stomach from too rich a sauce. Robert, chef to the Archbishop of Aix before the Revolution, had afterwards to keep a cafe, and there made himself famous by his sauce. Talleyrand introduced the custom of eating grated cheese with soup when he was French Ambassador in England after Waterloo. Preparations of potatoes a la Parmentier recall the name of Monsieur Parmentier, who, although he did not introduce potatoes into France, greatly encouraged their cultivation about 1790. A few French dishes are called after places. Thus, Crecy soup takes its name from the specially good carrots grown at Crecy; dishes a la Pretonne from the haricot beans for which Brittany is famous; chicken a la Marengo from Napoleon’s battle in 1800. Garlic, a bulb popular all over the South of France, is generally present in dishes a la Provengale. Sauce d’Argenteuil, for asparagus, takes its name from Argenteuil, where asparagus is chiefly cultivated. In England the custom has been quite different. “ The roast beef of Old England ” gave its name to a well-known tune, but dishes have seldom been called after celebrated men. The names of Wellington, Blucher, and Napoleon, were given to boots ; Lord Brougham’s name will always be associated with the carriage which he invented, and Lord Chesterfield s with the pattern of an overcoat. Even our excellent English dish, the