CLEAR HARE SOUP 39 Clear Hare Soup.—(Recipes for Hare Soup thickened with the blood of the hare must be sought in other books.) Prepare the hare exactly in the same way as the partridges in the last recipe. But as the whole of the hare will not be wanted, use for the soup only the head, neck, shoulders, and hind legs. The back and loins, called by French cooks the Ruble, should be kept for roasting. Sir Henry Thompson’s Clear Vegetable Soup.—Slice two carrots, two turnips, a head of celery, two onions. Put them into a frying-pan with a few sweet herbs and half a pound of butter. Fry until well browned, then put them with three or four cloves, salt and black pepper, into six pints of cold water in a saucepan. Bring to the boil and gently simmer for two or three horn’s, reducing to four pints, not less. Strain off into a basin, and let it stand for use. When required, pour off the clear liquor, leaving the deposit, and you will have a good vegetable stock. If it is to be used as a clear vegetable soup, heat, adding at the close two tablespoonfuls of corn flour previously mixed smooth in some of the liquor, and letting the whole boil. If any scum arises, remove it. Clear Lettuce Soup.—Take as many long narrow-leaved lettuces as there are persons at dinner. Wash and drain them. Fold each lettuce neatly in three, and tie each. Stew in broth with an ounce of butter. Use a wide shallow pan, so that the little bundles of lettuce (like folded gloves) do not touch each other. Have good clear soup in a tureen, lay each lettuce in a hot soup-plate, and pour a ladleful of soup over each. Clear Soup with Poached Eggs.—Poach one egg for each person, and trim them neatly, leaving as little margin of white as possible. Have good bouillon in a tureen, and flavour it with a few leaves of tarragon. Put each egg on a hot soup-plate, and help the soup upon them. This prevents any danger of breaking the eggs in ladling them out of the tureen. Tarragon has a strong flavour, and care must be taken not to use too much of it. Mulligatawny Soup.—The word Mulligatunny, as it should be spelt, comes fx-om two Tamil words Milagu, pepper, and Tannir, water. In Southern India, this broth, eaten with quantities of rice, foims the staple food of the inhabitants.