SOME FOREIGN RECIPES 55° separately ; set them to cool, and when cold put them to marinade in oil and vinegar. Make a batter with a quarter of a pound of flour, the yolk of one egg, a teaspoonful of vinegar (or the juice of half a lemon) mixed to batter with salad oil, beat it well, moistening with a little light wine. Beat the white of the egg to a froth and add it to the batter at the last moment. Dry the pieces of meat and vegetables, dip them in the batter, and fry in boiling oil or butter. Codfish Agrodolce.—(Sour Sweet.)—Melt four ounces of butter in a pan and fry in it one dessertspoonful of rosemary, two blanched mushrooms, and two shallots, all finely-minced. Fry for six or eight minutes, then add a pound and a half of codfish, which has been thoroughly boiled in salted water and cut into square pieces. Fry the fish a light brown on one side, turn, and fry the other side. Pour over the fish half a tumbler of red wine vinegar in which two ounces of tomato conserve has been dissolved, and one tumbler of warm water in which four ounces of sugar has been melted. Stew over a very low fire till the liquor is much reduced. Take the pieces of cod carefully out, dish in a heap, and pour the remaining liquid over it. Ravioli.—Make a paste of nine ounces of flour, the yolks of four eggs, and a pinch of salt moistened with a little warm water. It must not be too solid and should rest for two hours, covered with a cloth. Prepare four ounces and a half of cooked chicken forcemeat, using two ounces and a quarter of panada (see page 203), a quarter of a pound of butter, and two yolks of eggs. Season with a little salt, minced herbs, and a little minced mushroom. Roll the paste out as thin as possible, cut it into pieces three inches across, lay forcemeat on each with a teaspoon, double the paste over it like a “ turnover,” and pinch the edges. Carefully arrange the Ravioli side by side in a deep fire-proof dish, sprinkle plenty of grated cheese over them, and gently pour in enough broth to cover them. Set them in the oven for from twenty to thirty minutes, and serve in the same dish. Egg’S alia Contadina.—Melt four ounces of butter in a fire-proof dish, and lay on that six slices of bread very thickly covered with grated cheese. Break one egg carefully on each slice, and season with pepper and salt. Put the dish in a very slow oven, and when the eggs are set serve as they are.