FRYING I-S6 Fat in which fish has once been fried will always have a fishy taste, and must be used for fish alone. It should be strained into a bowl of a different colour from those used for other fat, so as to avoid the chance of using it for anything but fish. In English or Dry Frying a much smaller quantity of frying medium is required, as the articles, such as mutton cutlets, etc., are cooked slowly, and in a shallow frying-pan. But, in this case also, everything depends on the proper heat of the frying medium. The frying-pan must first be thoroughly heated, and the fat thoroughly melted. If this is not done the juices of the meat will escape, and the meat will in consequence be tough. Pancakes are fried in the English way, and so is bacon. Clarified Beef Suet.—This method has been adapted by Wyvern from Gouffe’s system and is admirable. “Procure as “ much good fresh suet from a sirloin of beef (that surrounding “ the kidney is the best) as you require, and cut it into pieces. “Place a large saucepan or stewpan on the fire, fill it tliree- “ parts full of water, and throw in the pieces of fat. By “ degrees these will melt the skin, and impure fragments will “ sink, and a rich oil will float upon the surface of the water, “ which should be kept at a simmering pitch. When satisfied “ that the whole of the fat has melted, suspend operations, take “ the pan from the fire and let it get cold; when cold, the “ clarified fat will be found congealed upon the surface of the “ water. Now take it off in flakes, drain every drop of water “ from it, wipe it dry, and put it into a clean saucepan. Melt “it again, and strain it through a piece of muslin into an “ earthenware bowl. The fat will again consolidate—in a firm “ whitish cake, as it were—far firmer than butter, though quite “ as sweet and clean. Suet thus clarified will keep perfectly “ good a long time. Observe that you do not boil the fat. The “ melting is gradually effected at simmering point. Keep the “ bowl of suet in a cool larder, for, although it is not so delicate “ as butter, clarified suet is all the better for being kept cold. “ Any excess of fat that there may be with the under cut of a “ sirloin can be made use of exactly in the same way as the raw “ suet. Clarify it according to the rales already given, and “ pour it into an earthenware bowl.”