496 USEFUL SWEET DISHES Choose a deep dish, lay the marmalade upon it, and then the custard. Whip the whites of three eggs with sugar till the froth is stiff enough to he cut with a knife. Lay this meringue on the top of the custard, and lightly brown it with a sala- mander. In helping this, strike the spoon well to the bottom of the dish. Baked Apple Dumpling’S.—(Family Recipe.)—Pare and core the Apples. Fill up the hole left by the core with moist sugar, or quince marmalade. Take a piece of puff paste which will be large enough to cover a whole Apple. Do not roll the Apple in the paste, but lay the paste under the Apple, and draw it gently over the top, joining the edges by wetting them with a little water. Set the Apples on a buttered baking-tin, and bake in a gentle oven for three-quarters of an hour. If the core is not filled with sugar dust the Apples well with castor sugar before you put on the paste. The paste should be thin. Caramelled Apples.—Peel, core, and quarter the Apples. Set them side by side in a roomy stewpan, with a squeeze of lemon, and cover them with boiling syrup. Simmer for an hour, shaking the pan occasionally. When the pieces of Apple are glazed a rich golden brown on the under-side turn them with a palette knife, and simmer for another quarter of an hour. Lift the Apple out, set to get cold, and sexwe cold with rice cream. (Page 463.) Jam OP Fruit Turnovers.—(Family Recipe.)—Use short- crust, not puff paste, and cut it into rounds the size of a large saucer for fruit, and a small saucer for jam. Wet the edges, and lay in the middle of each round either some fresh fruit (if apple it must be minced), with a little moist sugar, or a dessert- spoonful of jam. Fold the turnover, pressing the edges of the paste together. Bake on a buttered tin in a quick oven, fifteen minutes for jam, twenty minutes for fruit. Furmety. — (Family Recipe.)—To be eaten on Wake Sunday. Boil new wheat to a jelly. Add two quarts of new milk to one quart of jelly. Boil all together till well mixed, stirring well. Beat the yolks of three eggs with a little nut- meg and sugar, add well-washed currants, and stir in off the fire. Pour into cups, and serve cold. (Without the currants Furmety is good served with compotes.)