FOOD AND DRINK FOR INVALIDS 44° it one pint of cold water, then strain it through a fine strainer into a saucepan. Stir in half a pint of boiling water, and boil it for ten minutes, stirring well all the time with a wooden spoon. Add a pinch of salt, and stir in a tablespoonful or more of cream, just before taking it from the fire. (Butter is sometimes put into gruel, but it generally spoils it. Of course sugar can be added in- stead of salt, and wine or brandy can, if ordered, be added instead of the cream.) Egg Gruel.—Boil half a pint of new milk, beat a fresh egg to a light froth, and stir it into the milk, off the fire. Add a little salt, and serve as soon as the Gruel is cool enough to drink. Queen Charlotte’s Caudle.—Stir a pint of cold water into half a pint of oatmeal, and strain through a fine strainer into a saucepan. Add a quarter of a pint of Geneva, and the same quantity of sound mild ale, a few raisins, a nutmeg grated, a little ground ginger, and a little sugar. Boil for ten minutes, and serve hot to the company in cups. (This was the Caudle given to visitors calling on a lady just after her confinement. It was considered very ill-bred not to call to “ taste the caudle.” Geneva was the word for Gin, from genievre, the French name for the juniper berries with which Gin is flavoured. “ Caudle ” is a corruption of CdUdum, a hot drink.) Arrowroot.—Arrowroot is no longer considered to be nutritious in itself ; it simply forms a pleasant medium for milk or brandy. Put one dessertspoonful of Arrowroot into the basin it will be served in, and mix it to a smooth paste with a little cold water. Then add boiling water, stirring all the time, till the Arrowroot is quite clear. Add a glass of sherry, or a dessert- spoonful of brandy, and serve at once, with strips of dry toast. (Aged patients generally enjoy this way of serving Arrowroot.) Another way is to mix half a pint of boiling milk with the Arrow- root instead of the boiling water. Allow a dessertspoonful of Arrowroot as before, and flavour with a thin strip of lemon-peel. When the Arrowroot is quite dissolved in the milk, take out the lemon-peel and serve. Thick Barley Water.—Thick Barley Water is much more nutritious than Clear Barley Water. Well wash two ounces of pearl barley, then put it into plenty of cold water and blanch it