BOUILLI 35 r net through a sieve, moistening them with a little broth, and arrange them round the beef. Bouilli prepared in this way, and with grated Parmesan and tomato puree added to the macaroni, is excellent, and of course the meat is very tender. It is the Manzo G-uernito of Italian dinners, infinitely improved by the different quality of the beef. Colouring*.—It is difficult to advise on this point. The old-fashioned methods of using burnt onion, Worcester sauce, and such harsh ingredients, must never be followed. The French essence, sue colorant, sold by all good grocers, is the least troublesome to use, and a few drops improve the flavour of the soup. Caramel is a good browning for soups, and it is so often useful in other ways that a recipe will be given for it later on. The new Pastilles de legumes impart a flavour of their own, which is by no means to be recommended. But when English people believe, if they ever do, that clear bright golden- coloured soup can be the strongest essence of meat, no colouring will be needed at all. For vegetable soups “ Greening ” is easily and wholesomely made by boiling and draining spinach, working it through the sieve, and then straining it through muslin. This is useful in all green vegetable purees. Some people add a pinch of sugar to these soups, but others find that the natural sweetness of such vegetables as carrots, peas or artichokes is sufficient, and prefer, on the other hand, that purees of French beans, celery, tomatoes, rice, barley, etc., should not be sweetened. For White Soups the stock must be made of veal and veal bones. For a party of eight, allow two pounds of knuckle of veal, and one pound of veal bones. This stock will not be coloured like that made from beef. “Wyvern’s” Vegetable Stock. —Slice up two pounds of carrots, two ounces of celery, a handful of parsley, a dessert- spoonful of thyme and marjoram blended, and a shallot. [ Wyvern really advises a clove of garlic.] Put them into a stewpan with one pound of well-clarified beef suet or the fat skimmed from the pot-au-feu. Fry till lightly coloured, then add five quarts of water. Boil up slowly and skim. Then add one ounce of salt, a quarter of an ounce of pepper, three cloves, a pinch of allspice, and in the season a quart measure of green D 2