POTATOES 312 is a favourite clisli in Germany, where at Puffer 'parties these Potato Pancakes are eaten hot in succession. Potato Drops.— {Family Recipe.)—Take six large Potatoes, boil, peel, and bruise them in a mortar with four ounces of butter and one whole egg. Mix them well, and fry them in spoonfuls. Drain each Potato Drop well, and serve very hot. Favourite Potatoes.—{Family Recipe.)—Roust large Potatoes, cut them in half lengthwise. Mash the Potato, and put it back in the skins. Brown for a minute or two in the oven. If the inside of the Potato is scooped out from the top, then mashed and put back, it is likely to be heavy. This is prevented by cutting the Potatoes lengthwise. Broiled Potatoes a la Maire.—A Frenchman called Maire had a celebrated restaurant in Paris some thirty years ago, at which one of the special dishes was fillet of beef served with Potatoes a la Maire. For these choose long-shaped Potatoes and boil them. Put some cream in a saucepan over the fire, regulating the quantity by the number of Potatoes, let it reduce to half, stirring it the whole time. Peel the Potatoes, slice them in round slices, put them into the boiling cream, and let it simmer, stirring gently with a wooden spoon to prevent it from burning. Season with salt and pepper; Marne added grated nutmeg. Just before serving add a few little bits of butter, and in doing so shake the stewpan well, so as to blend the Potatoes, butter, and cream well together. Stir carefully, so as not to break the slices. Maire piided himself on the appearance of the sliced Potatoes when finished. Potato Pancakes.—Grate six large Potatoes which have been peeled, not cooked. Season with salt and pepper, moisten with a teacupful of milk, and mix the whole with three raw yolks of eggs, an ounce of butter, and a breakfastcupful of breadcrumbs. Then add four tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, and enough flour to make a smooth batter. Fry in an omelette- pan with rather more butter than is used for sweet pancakes. When cooked on both sides dust the Potato Pancakes with cheese, fold them, and garnish with fried Parsley. Savoury Potatoes aux Herbes.—These are cooked like the Savoury Potatoes already given, only that a stuffing of breadcrumbs, minced thyme, and either minced chives or