TOASTS AND SAVOURIES 5r2 Devilled Sctl’diriGS on T03.StS.—Out the toasts a quarter of an inch thick, and of a size to carry a sardine easily. Free the Sai’dines from oil (see page 96), skin them, and with a slice lay them in a row on a well-buttered fire-proof dish. Dust them over with Nepaul pepper and salt, and sprinkle them with finely-minced capers, chervil, and parsley. Put the dish in the oven, and. set the fried toasts in it to get crisp. Melt an ounce of glaze and slightly pepper it. As soon as both sardines and toasts are very hot lay the toasts on a very hot dish, lift a sardine upon each with a slice, and brush them over with the glaze. Finnan Haddock on Toast.—Pick off the meat and pound it with butter and one fillet of anchovy. Allow a table- spoonful of picked haddock for each toast, and season with a dust of Nepaul pepper. Warm up the fish in a gill of white sauce, but do not let it boil. Add, off the fire, the yolk of an egg, and spread the mixture on the toasts. Shrimp Toasts.—Pick and pound the shrimps as for Shrimp Butter (see page 116). Allow two tablespoonfuls of butter to half a pint of picked shrimps, melt this in a small saucepan over a low fire, then put in the shrimps and stir them about for some minutes till they have absorbed all the butter. Spread the toasts with the pounded extract of the shells, then put the shrimps on them, and dust over with Nepaul pepper. Do not add salt, as the shrimps are salt enough already. The remains of cooked lobster or crab can be done in the same way. Marrow Toasts.—Gret the marrow taken from the bone in fairly large pieces, blanch it for five minutes, drain it, and let it get quite cold. Then cut the marrow into small pieces, put it on a fire-proof dish, season with‘pepper and salt, and brush it over with liquid glaze. Warm it, keep it hot by the side of the fire. Prepare the toasts, and brush the marrow rather thickly over them. Simple Toasts.—The preceding i-ecipes are intended for Savoury Toasts at the end of dinner. But Simple Toasts are always popular at breakfast and luncheon, and are most useful as a pleasant way of using up cold cooked fish, meat, game, or vegetables. Buttered eggs (page 398) are an improvement to many of these Simple Toasts.