PUDDINGS 486 powdered sugar, beat well together with a wooden spoon till quite light and white, then add, drop by drop, a tablespoonful of brandy, and work it again till thoroughly mixed—which is troublesome to do. Put it in a sauce-boat, and set on ice till wanted. (This sauce is now called Brandy Butter.) Imperial Pudding-.—{Family Recipe.)— Break up slices of cold Plum Pudding and four sponge cakes. Arrange them in layers in a mould, make a custard of three or four yolks of eggs, flavour with a tablespoonful of rum, fill up the mould, and steam gently one hour. Poet Rog-ers’ Pudding-.—(Family Recipe.)—Pour half a teacupful of boiled cream over three sponge Savoy biscuits. Add a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar dissolved in water, the yolks of four and the well-beaten whites of two eggs. Also the grated rind of two small lemons, and all the juice of one lemon. Put the Pudding into a puff paste and bake in a pie-dish like a large cheesecake. To be eaten cold. Royal Blue Pudding-.—(Family Recipe.)—Two whole eggs, two ounces of flour, a pinch of salt, and a dust of nutmeg, all mixed together till very smooth, then add by degrees a pint of new milk, mixing till it is all of one substance. Rub off the rind of a lemon on a piece of sugar weighing four ounces, put this with the rest into a stewpan on the fire, stir in about two ounces of butter, and be sure to keep stirring till all becomes in a body, and quite smooth. Well whip the yolks of six eggs and the whites of two. Mix all well together very gently, put the mixture into a buttered mould, and simmer in the bain- marie for an hour and a half. For the sauce : Have ready in a small stewpan four yolks of eggs, two gills of sherry, and two ounces of loaf sugar. When the Pudding is wanted put this on the fire, and keep stirring it with a whisk till it is quite thick, but on no account let it boil. Pour it over the pudding and serve directly. Primrose Pudding-S.—(Family Recipe.)—The weight of two eggs in flour, in sugar, and in butter, the rind of one lemon and the juice of half of it. Work the lemon and butter well together, then put in the sugar and flour, break in one egg at a time, and mix all well together. Bake in buttered tins. F or