LEMON WHEY 443 Lemon Whey.—Boil together a pint of milk and a pint of water, then add the juice of two lemons, and let it simmer five minutes. Put in a lump or two of sugar well rubbed on the rinds of the lemons. Strain the Whey. It is generally liked warm. CORDIALS. Port Wine Cordial.—Wash four ounces of pearl barley, put it with a strip of lemon-peel into two quarts of water, and boil slowly till it is reduced to one quart. Strain it, put it back in the saucepan, add three-quarters of a pint of port wine, and a little sugar. Make it quite hot, and give a teacupful several times a day. Egg Cordial.—(Countess Munster.)—Take a tablespoonful of cream, the white of a very fresh egg, and a tablespoonful of brandy. Whip the egg nearly to a froth, then whip the cream with the egg. Add the brandy by degrees, and mix well. Do not let it stand after it is made. This Cordial is very light and nourishing. Brandy Cordial.—Mix together a gill of brandy and a gill of thick barley water, and beat it well up with the yolks of two eggs and a teaspoonful of sugar. In cases of great exhaustion give two tablespoonfuls every half-hour or oftener. Cordial in cases of extreme Prostration.—(Sir William Jenner, Bart., M.D.)—Mix one claretglass of the best champagne you can get with half a claretglass of the richest cream. In cases of extreme prostration from fever give this quantity every hour. Eg’g’ beaten up in Sherry or Brandy.—Divide the yolk from the white, and beat up the yolk for one meal, and the white for another. In this way the beverage is lighter than when yolk and white are beaten up together. Eg’g’ with Champagne.—Beat the yolk of an egg well, and put it into a champagne glass. Fill the glass from a freshly- opened bottle of champagne. Patients who dislike the taste of a raw egg can often be persuaded to swallow this, as the champagne froths and conceals the flavour of the egg. In cases of great exhaustion a few drops of brandy may be beaten up with the egg. Hen’s Milk.—Beat up two yolks of fresh eggs in one ounce of brandy, stir them into a teacupful of boiling water, and serve