245 MONSIEUR DUGLERE’S HARICOT the fat, rinse out the pan, and put the meat and broth back into it, adding a gill of sauteme. Simmer very slowly over a low fire till the meat is nearly cooked. Then add a variety of fresh young vegetables neatly cut up, and let them gently simmer with the meat till they are tender. In winter use a tin of macedoine of presei’ved vegetables, and add to this neatly- turned balls of potato. Mutton Cutlets a la Vinaigrette.—Mince small equal quantities of shallot and parsley, and put them into a small basin filled with melted butter. Dip each cutlet into this, and when thoroughly coated cover each with breadcrumbs. Fry the cutlets a golden brown. Have ready two small cucumbers cut into ovals an inch long, and boiled till tender in half vinegar and half water. Make a broth with the trimmings of the cutlets, flavour it with shallot and herbs, turn it into a sauce, put the cucumbers into it, add a few drops of any suitable vinegar, make it very hot, and dish the cutlets round the cucumber. Mutton Cutlets a la Nelson.—Partly roast the best end of a neck of mutton, and let it get cold. Divide it into six neat cutlets, trimming them carefully. Make half a pint of sauce soubise tomatee. For this, melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, and add four ounces of minced onion, fry over a low fire but without colouring. Then mix in an ounce of flour, stir for three minutes, and moisten with two gills of broth made from the scrag of the neck of mutton. Bring it to the boil, simmer till the onions are soft, and then pass all through the hair sieve, finishing with a gill of tomato puree, a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan, and a tablespoonful of cream. Lay the cutlets on a buttered baking-dish, brush over their upper sides with melted glaze, then mask them neatly on that side with the sauce, and dust over them a coating of grated Parmesan cheese. Push the dish into the oven, baste the cutlets, and keep them in the oven till the masking is nicely coloured. For the sauce reduce the soubise tomatee over a brisk fire, stirring continually until it is thick enough to coat the spoon well. Cool, mask the cutlets, dilute what is left of the sauce with a gill of broth, and finish with either a tablespoonful of cream or the yolk of an egg, stii’red in off the fire. Serve the sauce in a boat. To dish the cutlets use