SEA FISH 94 although they are so beautiful to the eye, need all the genius of a negro cook, or all the skill of a French chef, before they can be made acceptable to the palate. The one fault of fish in this country is its price. When fish is bought from a fishmonger there is no doubt that, taking weight for weight, it is more expensive than butchers’ meat. Most people would not grudge this expense if the money went direct to those whose “brave daring ” has brought the fish to shore. There is truth in the words of that fine old song, Caller Herrin'— “ Wives and mithers, maist despairin’, Call them lives of men.” And everyone who buys the fish which has been caught with so much toil and risk must regret the line of middlemen which keep much of their well-earned money from the fishermen. British fish will have reached perfection when it can pass with- out intervention from the fisherman’s boat to the purchaser’s kitchen. On Cleaning1 Fish.—Cleaning and trimming fish is so entirely the province of the fishmonger that a cook is often at a loss what to do with fish when it is brought straight from the sea, the loch, or the river. A wise mistress will give her cook a lesson from a good fishmonger in cleaning and in filleting fish, but for those who have not had this advantage I will men- tion a few general rules : Flat fish are cleaned through the gill openings ; or, if these are not sufficiently large, make a small cut across the dark side of the fish close to the gill covers and remove what is necessary through that. Fish which swim back uppermost are cleaned by opening the stomach, taking care to go far enough back towards the tail. The whole of the entrails of the fish must be removed, and the gall bladder taken out without breaking it. The sound and liver should be left as they are. Now wash out the cavity thoroughly and carefully. Just below the backbone of the fish there is a stout membrane which contains a good deal of blood. This membrane must be broken, and every particle of blood removed. Wash, and, if necessary, scrape or scrub the backbone, and wash the sound and liver gently. Leave the roe in small fish. In large fish the roe takes longer to cook than the fish, and must be taken out and cooked