ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY 449 “ as hot water stirred with a tallow candle,” which may perhaps be swallowed by the pigs. In France, on the contrary, “ every “ liquid which has received the extracted flavour of a boiled “ substance is looked upon as precious, and is employed again in “ some special form, so as not to waste the properties which it “ has acquired.” If only English cooks would in this follow the example of homely French cooks (not the chefs who come over here) they would cease to be the “ food-spoilers ” which the writer in Blackwood declares that they become after half a lifetime spent in the kitchen—the result of a contemptibly incomplete education in the use and value of the materials they employ. A recent writer in the Westminster Gazette has pointed out that there are three different species of English cooks. (1.) The cook who is born, equipped by nature for her work. (2.) The cook who, having entered by the scullery door, has been in the kitchen all her life and has risen by degrees to her present position. (3.) The wretched incompetent creature who, having tried and failed in other occupations, thinks she would like to be a cook, enters herself at a School of Cookery, pays her fee for certificates and diplomas, and believes herself to be an accom- plished professor of an art in which she has never been grounded. Patience, simplicity, and the learning by one’s own mistakes (all three cardinal virtues in a cook), are not taught in Schools of Cookery. Cooking can only be learned step by step, and through the patient correction of natural blunders and mistakes. It is quite possible that an intelligent and experienced cook may pick up a few hints at a lecture on Cookery, but sound general knowledge must be the foundation, so that the cook may under- stand at once why one ingredient is put in and another left out. I agree with the writer in the Westminster Gazette that “ Cookery “ is not to be learnt in any School of Cookery. Here, as every- “ where else, it is your own mistakes you have got to make, and “ it avails you nothing to sit in a tightly-packed lecture-hall, “ watching a much-waited-upon genius who is naturally making- “ none.” How can a cook direct those working under her if she has not in past years worked her own way patiently up from drudgery and dull work to the place she now fills, thoroughly understanding every detail as the result of personal experience ?