CHICKEN A LA CASSEROLE 265 should be neglected, for both give an excellent and quite distinct flavour. Fricassee Of Chicken.—Cut the flesh from the breasts and wings of two chickens in neat fillets, making eight pieces, and set them aside. Put all the rest of the chickens in a pan, and boil quickly for two hours in as much water as will just cover the carcases. Take out the stock, add a sliced onion and a sprig of blanched parsley, reduce it one half and strain it. Now take the fillets of chicken, and put them in cold water in a stewpan. Set it on the fire, and when the water becomes just hot change it for fresh cold water. Do this three or four times till the chicken is made white. When it is bleached, drain and dry it. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan, add the chicken, then add the stock from the carcases and a few mush- rooms untrimmed. Simmer as slowly as possible for at least one hour. If it boils the chicken will shrivel and become tough. Take the yolks of three eggs, a tablespoonful of flour, and two tablespoonfuls of cream, add a spoonful of the stock and beat up the egg and cream in it off the fire, so as to heat it gradually and prevent the egg from curdling. Add it off the fire to the chicken, and let all just simmer together for five minutes. Arrange the chicken on a border of rice, with some such vegetable as French beans in the centre, or broiled mush- rooms, and pour the sauce round. Chicken Devilled White.—(Family Recipe.')—Braise a chicken for two hours gently in a pint of water, with a bit of carrot, and a small onion sliced. When the broth is reduced to a quarter of a pint or rather more skim off all fat from it. Take out the chicken, when it has cooled a little cut it in joints, and put it back. Make a roux of a tablespoonful of flour mixed in a little butter, pour a little of the broth on it, then add it to the broth, and season with pepper and salt. Let all boil hard five or six minutes. Add three tablespoonfuls of cream and let it boil up. For the sauce, take half a teaspoonful of freshly-mixed mustard, one tablespoonful of Orleans vinegar, and two tablespoonfuls of cream. Lay the chicken joints on a bed of thoroughly well-boiled rice in a silver dish. Put the sauce in the bain-marie, set in a little hot water, whilst you are doing this. Stir the sauce well together,