RABBIT AND ONIONS 221 the broth and the onion puree, a little of each at a time. Bring it to the boil, arrange the pieces of rabbit on a hot dish, and smother them with the onions. Bubble and Squeak.—Cut some thin slices of cold boiled beef, and pepper them. Melt a little butter in a frying-pan, and fry the beef slices in it till they are a golden brown. Have ready' some hot Colcannon (see Cabbage) heaped up in’ a hot dish, ai\d arrange the slices of fried beef,round it. Or fry some nicely- boiled, drained and chopped Cabbage in the-pan the beef was fried in. Keej^the slices of beef -hot between two hot plates set over, boiling water, arrange them -round the Cabbage, and serve very hot. Irish Stew.—{Family Recipe.)—Take any pieces of mutton which have been cut off the loin or breast. Remove all fat, and cut them in pieces four inches square. Put them in a stewpan Avith three or four whole onions, pepper and salt. Cover all with boiling water, put the lid tightly on the pan, draw it to the side of the fire, and let it boil slowly for one hour. Then add one gill more boiling water. Wash and pare two pounds of potatoes, put them in the pan among the mutton, and boil them till quite soft. Stir till the stew is quite smooth, and serve hot. Irish Stew.—Irish Stew is generally spoilt by being watery. It is much better to follow Wyvern's advice and to use strong mutton broth instead of water for the foundation. In this way Irish Stew is not only much more palatable but much more nutritious. Take the cutlets from the best end of a neck of mutton, set them aside, and put the scrag end and all the trimmings into a stewpan. Cover with cold water, set the stewpan over a low fire, and. bring the meat slowly to the boil, skimming oft' all scum. Now add two onions sliced lengthwise, pepper and salt, and a dessertspoonful of dried herbs in a muslin bag. Simmer for two hours, then strain the broth, picking out the onion and setting it aside. Now re-heat the broth, and when it is quite hot, but not boiling, put in the cutlets. Put on the lid of the stewpan and simmer very gently till the meat is very tender and parts easily from the bones. Cook two pounds of potatoes separately, boiling them till thoroughly done, then drain- ing them, and mashing them to a puree with a few spoonfuls of broth. Stir the onions into the potatoes, and pass onions and