523 CHEESE BISCUITS Any of the Cheese Toasts given are suitable for filling the little cheese pastry saucers given at page 517. Never use much salt in cooking Cheese ; it is generally salt enough. For Cheese Straws, and Macaroni and Cheese see Chapters XVII and XII. Cheese to be Served Cold.—Mock Crab.—This is an American dish, and is supposed to taste like devilled crab. In America it is served in a crab-shell, but scallop-shells are more suitable. Rub the yolk of a hard-boiled egg to a paste with a tablespoonful of salad oil, work in first a teaspoonful of salt, then the same of cayenne pepper, then a dessertspoonful of made mustard. Now add four ounces of grated cheese, and work all well together. A little cold minced chicken or cooked white fish is an improvement. Finally add a dessertspoonful of anchovy vinegar. Hand water biscuits and butter. A second yolk of egg and a little more oil may be added. This American dish looks well served in a large shallow china saucer or shallow round dish, garnished with hard-boiled eggs and cress. Parmesan Cheese Pyramids.—(Family Becipe.)—Rub two ounces of butter into two ounces of flour, then mix in two ounces of grated Parmesan Cheese. Season with a dust of salt and a little cayenne, and work the whole to a light paste with a little water. Roll the paste out very thin, cut it into squares or rounds, and bake in a quick oven. When baked let the biscuits get cold. Season some thick cream with a dust of salt and a saltspoonful of cayenne. Whip it and when stiff mix in two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan. When ready pile the cream high on each biscuit, and dish on a napkin. Cremes de Fromagfe.—Make half a pint of custard with three whole eggs, stir in half an ounce of soaked gelatine. When dissolved cool and whip, adding two ounces of grated Parmesan and a gill of whipped cream, with one tablespoonful of chopped ham and one of chopped cooked macaroni. Fill little darioles with the mixture, set them on ice or in a cold place. Turn out when firm, and garnish with broken aspic. Mayonnaise sauce may be handed. [ Wyvern.) Cream Cheese.—(Family Becipe.)—Take a quart of thick cream, put it into a napkin rinsed out in cold spring water, and spinnkle a little salt over it. Tie it up as tight as possible, and