FOOD AND DRINK FOR INVALIDS 433 drink it. Serve the Panada hot, with salt in a salt-cellar. Chicken Panada is nourishing, and nearly always liked. Rusk Panada with Custard.—Crumble some rusks, or use freshly-made breadcrumbs dried. Steep the crumbs in hot water till they have absorbed it. Simmer the crumbs in a little more water. Make a thin custard with the yolk of an egg and a little new milk, mix it thoroughly with the Panada. This Panada is best eaten cold. Jelly for Invalids.—(Jelly for invalids must never be stiffened with gelatine, but served broken up. It looks tempting when served in the little white china souffle cases, or the coloured fire-proof china ramakin cases.) Calf’s Foot Jelly.—For this see page 190. A little lemon- juice gives a pleasant flavour, and is generally allowed. Beef Jelly.—Mince with a knife two pounds of beef as finely as possible. Put the meat in a jar, and cover the jar closely with paste. Put the jar in a saucepan filled with cold water, and let it stand in a slack oven for six hours. Strain the jelly through a sieve, then through muslin, and finally through clean white blotting paper. For Chicken Jelly see page 266. Restorative Jelly.—(Family Recipe.)—Take two ounces of isinglass, two ounces of white sugar candy, and half an ounce of gum arabic grated. Steep these in a pint of port wine for twelve hours. Put the jar containing these ingredients in a saucepan of cold water, and let it get gradually warm. Simmer till the isinglass is quite melted, but simmer as slowly as possible. Do not strain the jelly, which will be quite thick. Break up a tablespoonful for use at a time. Farinaceous Jelly.—Boil two ounces of pearl barley, of sago, and of rice, all well washed, in two quarts of water. Stir them well whilst boiling with a wooden spoon. When quite tender, strain through a sieve. Flavour with lemon-juice and a little sugar. Bread Jelly.—(Sir Henry Halford, Bart., M.D. 1830.)— Cut off the top of a twopenny roll, cut the remaining part into thin shoes, and toast them of a pale brown, very hard. Put the toasted slices of bread into three pints of water, let it boil very gently until you find it congeal (which you will soon know by