153 MINOR MATTERS the pan to prevent them from burning, and to ensure their being evenly cooked on both sides. The cutlets should be covered with a buttered paper, and should in consequence of the jerking sauter, or jump and leap, during the whole process of cooking. Hand good brown sauce, or put a tiny pat of maitre d’hotel butter on each cutlet. SOME MINOR MATTERS. The three minor matters in cooking described in this chapter are well worth careful attention, for they are constantly needed, and must all be carried out with the utmost care and neatness. Attention to them shows that a cook is well trained and up to her work quite as much as her skill in any of the larger under- takings described elsewhere. To Eg’g’ and Breadcrumb.—The process is slightly different with cutlets, fillets, etc., of meat, and with fish, but plenty of good stale crumbs which have been pounded and rubbed through a stiff wire sieve are always wanted. Beat two eggs, white and yolk, well together in a soup-plate with one dessertspoonful of salad oil and one of water, or two dessertspoonfuls of milk. The eggs must be beaten till they cease to be at all stringy. Have ready plenty of crumbs laid in a roomy but shallow dish. Dip the cutlet into the egg, and turn it about till every part is thoroughly and evenly coated. Do this quickly, or the cutlet will get soft. Now turn the cutlet over and over in the dry breadcrumbs. Lay it aside for half an hour, then dip it again in the egg and again coat it with the crumbs. This method is infinitely better than coating the cutlet only once, for in that case the coating is apt to be uneven and too thick. After the egg and breadcrumb have been properly applied, the cutlets should be fried a pale golden brown in plenty of hot suet, and carefully drained on blotting paper before serving. If cutlets are taken from the marinade, drain them a moment and wipe them dry before dipping them into the egg. In many cases it is a great improvement to sprinkle finely-powdered and dried herbs, or finely-minced parsley, among the crumbs. Grated cheese can be used in the same way. For Fish, see that the fish is quite dry. Then, with a brush