43i FOOD AND DRINK FOR INVALIDS know as well as many Doctors, and better than most, what light and suitable food is required, and they are sure to be able to suggest variety. For instance, a little well-made bread sauce, with or without cream, as allowed, is often liked; or a spoonful or two of savoury jelly; or a morsel of the form of Yorkshire Pudding given below. A boiled sole, boiled in (but not sent up in) water, may be divided and made into a delicate dish. Above all things, avoid teasing invalids to say what they would like to eat, and never bring into the room a larger quantity than is likely to be enjoyed. I hope that the recipes given in this chapter may be of use in suggesting variety as well as nourish- ment in the food destined for invalids, and for those recovering from illness. Beef Tea.—For making Beef Tea the meat ought not only to be fresh but should be as freshly killed as possible. (1) . Take one pound of the freshest beef without the least particle of fat, gristle, sinew, or skin. Mince the beef with a knife (do not use the mincing machine). Put the beef into one pint of cold water, and stir for ten minutes. Bring it to the boil, and boil it for half an hour, never ceasing to stir it. Strain, and add a dust of salt. (This is the Beef Tea ordered for a patient four hours before an operation. In that case nothing whatever may be eaten with it, but under other circumstances strips of dry toast should be served.) (2) . Cut up six ounces of fresh beef. Put the meat in a jar with half a pint of cold water. Set the jar in a cold place for six hours. The meat will then be quite white, every drop of juice being extracted from it. Take out the meat, but do not strain the Beef Tea. Put the jar in the bain-marie, and gradually warm it up. Serve with dry toast, and salt in a salt-cellar. (Never put in salt for an invalid unless the patient is too ill to tell you how much is liked. In all Beef Tea, fat, gristle, and skin must be completely removed from the meat.) (3) . Cut half a pound of fresh lean beef into slices, lay them in a pan, and cover them with one pint of boiling water. Cover the pan close, and let it stand half an hour by the fire. Boil it up once, pour the Beef Tea off clear, and serve with dry toast. (4) . Cold Beef Tea.—Mince one pound of fresh beef as finely as possible. Pour upon it one quart of boiling water. Plunge the