72 SEA FISH Turbot.—Turbot is one of the best of fish, if not quite the best, and is never so good as when quite plainly dressed, and served without the ridiculous patterns in lobster coral so often strewn over it by cooks. Turbots may be had all the year round, but are considered to be at their best in May. Thev are often very large, but a Turbot weighing from five to ten pounds will be found the best. If a “ cut ” of Turbot and not a whole fish is ordered it should be taken from the middle of the back. Six pounds is the general allowance for a party of eight if sent in by the fishmonger, but half that quantity is quite enough. A “ cut ” of Turbot should never be boiled, or it will be woolly and tasteless ; it should be gently poached in fish- broth (see page 69). The fins of Turbot are considered a great delicacy. Turbots have no scales, but a series of bony excrescences on the back. Lobster Sauce or Dutch Sauce is served with Turbot. Brill.—Brill belongs to the same family as Turbot, but is a longer, narrower, and much smaller fish. A Brill has scales on both sides. Brill is always in season, and the best weigh about a pound. They can be boiled or steamed, but are much the best when filleted. Fillets of Brill au bleu.—Cut a fillet off each side of the Brill, and then make a good broth with the bones and trimmings, assisted by two ounces each of shredded onion and carrot, a bunch of parsley, a dessertspoonful of blended thyme and marjoram, a saltspoonful of salt, twelve peppercorns, and a joint and a half of water. Bring the broth to the boil once, simmer it for half an hour, strain it off into either an enamelled pan or a fire-proof earthenware pan (on no account use a tinned saucepan), set this on the fire, and as soon as boiling begins add the fillets. This will check the boiling ; as soon as it recommences modei'ate the fire to simmering, cover the pan, and add a large claretglassful of sound light claret. Let the fillets cook very slowly in the broth for about eighteen minutes. When done, drain them and place them in a very hot dish, carefully covered up. Strain the broth in which they were cooked, thicken it, stir in half an ounce of glaze, bring to the boil once, and pour over the fish through a pointed strainer. The claret gives the fish a bluish tint, “ au bleu." \_Wyvern.'\