11 2 SHELL-FISH Lobster Sauce.—In making this simple sauce two things only are necessary—that is, to use plenty of Lobster, carefully made melted butter, and nothing else. But there are several faults, too often seen in Lobster Sauce, which must be avoided. One is chopping the Lobster too small, or, worse still, pounding it. Another is using the contents of the head of the Lobster. A still more common fault is the addition of anchovy sauce, flour, and milk or cream. Lobster Sauce should taste of nothing but the Lobster, softened and moistened by the melted butter, and it is quite rich enough without milk or cream. It should not be a half solid mass, nor a thin wretched liquid with scanty morsels of Lobster floating in it, but a creamy bed in which the pieces of Lobster are plentiful and distinct. To secure this result, chop the meat of the tail and claws of a good-sized boiled Lobster into pieces, but not too small. Half an hour before dinner make half a pint of melted butter; put the Lobster into the saucepan with the melted butter, add a pinch or two of coral, a dust of cayenne, and half a saltspoonful of salt. Set the saucepan in the bain-marie till wanted, and then turn out the Lobster sauce into a hot sauce-boat. Lobster Cutlets.-—This is one of the few ways in which Lobster is good when hot. Pick out the meat from the Lobster, and put the cream and the coral into a basin by themselves. Cut up the meat as small as possible, and pound it in a mortar to a smooth paste, working in half an ounce of butter. Add the Lobster cream and the coral, season with pepper, a little salt, and a dust of cayenne, and mix all together with two tablespoonfuls of cream. Form into cutlets (some cooks stick in a bit of the claw or feeler to look like bone). Egg and breadcrumb the cutlets twice, and fry a golden-brown. Dish on a folded napkin, with a garnish of fried parsley. If the Lobster paste is not sufficient for the number of cutlets required, or if it is thought too rich, a little panada may be very thoroughly worked into the mixture after pounding the Lobster. These cutlets are good cold, coated with aspic jelly, and dished on chopped aspic. Lobster Salad.—Pick the meat from the body and claws of the Lobster, and cut it in pieces. Lay the pieces of Lobster