POULTRY AND SMALL BIRDS 253 suet, and barley meal forty-two times a day, and goes on to say that the survivors (for there must have been many deaths from this martyrdom) would gain four pounds and a half in twelve days. Cramming is now done by a tube, but although weight may be gained the crammed fowl cannot be either wholesome or good in flavour. Coarse fat is too often used in feeding poultry ; the consequence is that the flesh is greasy and not firm, and there is a superabundance of fat which melts in cooking and gives a disagreeable taste to the bird. All Poultry should be plump, but over-fattening is as wasteful as it is unpleasant to the taste. Hen birds are more tender than cocks, and many people consider that chickens with dark legs are better flavoured than those with white legs. Age is best judged by the legs and feet of birds. When young, the legs are smooth, and the scales hardly overlap each other, whilst the spurs of cockerels are merely hard scaly knobs. After the first year the scales on the birds’ legs are rougher and larger, often inclining to be grey in colour, and in cocks the sharp spurs will have pushed their way through the preparatory knobs. Richly-coloured plumage is another sign of age. When Geese and Ducks are young the feet are elastic, pliable, and yellow in colour ; if the feet are red, stiff, and hard it is a sure sign of age. Geese should be eaten when under a year old; after that time their skin becomes hairy, and the flesh coarse and tough. Geese, unlike Ducks, live chiefly on vegetable food. Turkeys originally came from North America. America was then believed to join India, and Turkeys were called Goqs d’Inde, a name which survives in the French dinde. Turkeys should have bright red wattles, an unwrinkled skin, and soft pliable feet. Very large Turkeys are generally old. Guinea Fowl were introduced into this country from Eastern Africa. They are rather dry in flavour, but are useful as coming in when game is over and spring chickens are not ready. Pigeons should be plump, with pliable feet, and must on no account be hung. “ Squabs ” are unfledged Pigeons. Bordeaux Pigeons are much larger than English Pigeons, and when in perfection weigh ten ounces. They are occasionally reared in