TWENTY HOMELY DISHES 224 After the stew is put into the tureen add a few pieces of oatcake toasted brown. (It would be well to take the marrow out of the bone, but this is not mentioned in the original recipe.) Christmas Stew.—(Family Recipe)—Put four quarts of water into a large stewpan. Add one pound of fresh beef and one pound of fresh mutton, cut into pieces the size of an egg, also the fore- quarters of a hare, an old fowl, a partridge (or an old grouse), a bit of salt beef, three or four sliced onions, three sliced carrots, one turnip cut up small, a bunch of herbs, and twelve peppercorns. Do not add any salt, as the beef will make it salt enough. Have ready ten thoroughly roasted potatoes, squeeze the insides among the other vegetables (not using the skins). Cut up a small loaf, and put the slices into the pan with the meat and vegetables. Let it all simmer over a very slow fire till the meat is quite tender, and the bread and potatoes have made it thick by being dissolved in the stew.' (There may also be four apples pared, cut in quarters, and put in with the rest.) This dish requires six hours at the very least. The longer it stews the better. Broad Beans and Bacon.—Choose a pig’s cheek which is not dry and hard, otherwise it must be soaked for four horns and will not be nearly so good as if cooked when fresh. Put it in a saucepan with five quarts of water, and let it simmer gently, allowing twenty minutes for each pound of meat. Shell two pounds of Broad Beans. Half an hour before the pig’s cheek is done take out two quarts of the liquid in which it is boiling, and replace instantly with two quarts of boiling water. Put the two quarts of liquid in another pan, throw in the Broad Beans, and boil them in the liquid for from twenty minutes to half an hour. Serve the pig’s cheek in a large hot dish. Moisten the Broad Beans with a spoonful of the liquid, and put some of them round the pig’s cheek in the dish, the rest in a vegetable dish. The remainder of the liquid makes excellent second stock. Baked Beans and Pork.—Put a knuckle of Pork and a little salt into an earthenware jar which holds five quarts. Then fill it half full with shelled Broad Beans and add cold water up to the brim. Put on the lid of the jar, which must have a hole in it to allow the steam to escape. Set the jar in the oven, and let it remain there twelve hours. The beans and meat will be perfectly cooked by that time in rich gravy. The gravy will form a jelly when cold.