240 MEAT PUDDINGS make a smooth pliant paste. Roll it out, and it is ready. Rub a basin well with butter, line it with the paste rolled one-third of an inch thick, put in the meat with a coffeecupful of cold jelly gravy in a firm state, close over the top securely, tie the basin up in a pudding-cloth, and steam the pudding very slowly for from three to four hours. [Wyvern.] Beef-steak Pudding-.—(Family Recipe.)—For the paste use nearly equal parts of suet and of flour, letting the flour be a little in excess. (This is too rich, and Wyvern’s paste is preferable to it.) Take two and a half pounds of fillet of beef, cut it into thin slices as you would cut beetroot, but let them be two inches long. Roll them up one by one, putting into the middle of each a little bit of fat cut thin, pepper, and minced onion. Add seasoning herbs a discretion, and a little salt. Fill up the inside of the basin with these little bundles of meat, and boil the pudding slowly for four hours. It is an improvement to put pieces of strong jellified gravy among the rolls of beef- steak. An oyster rolled in bacon can be put inside each little bundle, or kidneys can be sliced, rolled in bacon, and the beef rolled over all. Mushrooms greatly improve Beef-steak Puddings. A Meat Pudding made from a neck of mutton is much liked, and oysters (not mushrooms) improve it. Partridg-e Pudding-.—Bone a brace of partridges and lay them out flat. Put on each bird a thin slice or two of cooked bacon, then a layer of chopped cooked mushroom, with the bird’s liver chopped, and a little minced shallot. Dust well with herb pepper. Roll up the birds, and put them in the basin, adding pieces of jellified gravy made from their bones and giblets. SPECIAL LUNCHEON DISHES. Many luncheon dishes will be found in this volume, but a few special recipes will be given in this chapter, for several of which I am indebted to Wyvern. Stewed Beef-steak with Sorrel Pur£e.—Make a pint of good broth with the scraps and trimmings of the beef, ordering if need be a little more than the steak itself. Strain the broth