25S TO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME The oyster exists in all birds, but for some reason it is only thought a delicacy when taken either from chickens or from turkeys. It is well worth while for a cook to take a lesson in trussing poultry from a good poulterer, as the method of doing it is difficult to describe. However, I will give a few simple directions ; first of all for roasting. When the bird has been properly cleaned la}' it on its breast on the board, first turn over the flap of skin left from the neck and draw it as far as it will go down the middle of the back. Then bend the root of the tail and tuck it into the body, drawing up the skin a little. This will close the openings through which the crop and the liver and'other organs were drawn out. Hold up the legs, and working between them twist the end joint of each wing first inwards and then backwards, so that when folded close to the body the end joint of the wing will rest elbow-fashion across the upper joint. Now take hold of the legs and press the thighs well into the sides of the bird to give it a rounded plump look. Thread the trussing needle with twine, and go straight through the joints, first of the lower joint of the right wing, then through the upper joint of the right leg, then through the body of the bird, and finally through the same joints of the leg and wing on the left side. Turn the bird over on its back, fasten the flap left to hide the neck-opening with a stitch, draw the string tolerably tight, tie it, and cut it off. To secure the lower joints of the legs take a stitch upwards through the thick paii a little above where the scales begin, and downwards in the same place on the leg on the other side. This must be done when the bird is a second time turned on its breast. Take one stitch through the skin of the back to keep all secure, carry the string round to the breast of the bird, and tie as before. In this way the fastenings of both the trussing-strings will be on the breast-side of the bird, and can easily be removed when the roasting is finished. Nothing looks worse than a forgotten string when the bird is sent up. It is more troublesome to truss a fowl for boiling, and the method is more difficult to describe. Cut the legs off at the knee-joints, open the skin just above; and pull out the sinews,