PRESERVES 502 For Morelia Cherries.—(Family Recipe.)—Gather them when almost, but not quite, ripe. Bum six matches in every bottle, taking them out, and leaving the bottle full of steam. Put in the cherries immediately unstoned, and with half the stalks left on. Then proceed as for green gooseberries. When the cherries drop they are done enough. When they are perfectly cold cork them tightly and seal the corks. It used to be the custom to bury bottles containing bottled fruit, corks downward, in a garden border, so as to exclude the aii* from them. But Mrs. Earle has invented an admirable plan of sealing them. Her method is : Two parts of beeswax, one part of resin, one part powdered colour (Venetian red). Melt the beeswax and resin in an old iron saucepan. (Only melt, do not boil.) Then stir in the colour and let it cool a little, both to avoid the pungent vapours and to thicken slightly. Dip the corked tops of the bottles while holding them horizontally over the pot, and turn them round so as to ran the extra stuff into the joint; they are the better for a second dip. Leave the remains of the wax to harden in the pot, which should be used for this purpose only. It can be melted at any time, and more added as wanted. Orange Marmalade.—(Family Recipe.)—Allow for every pound of oranges one pint of water and three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Pare Seville oranges very thin, and boil the rind till tender. Boil it in plenty of water for about three-quarters of an hour, when it should be so tender that a straw can pierce it. Then cut it into very thin strips. Take off the second or white coat of the oranges and throw it away. Then scrape out the pulp and juice very carefully, and throw the pips and shining parts into cold water. After remaining a little time in the water squeeze them through a cloth, and add a pint of that water to every three-quarters of a pound of sugar. The reason for steeping the pips is that a glutinous substance from them is preserved in the water, which gives much richness to the Marmalade. Boil the syrup for twenty minutes, allowing three-quarters of a pound of sugar and a pint of water to every pound of orange pulp. Put the pulp and juice into the syrup,