328 BEANS three pints of lukewarm water, bring once to the boil, and simmer gently till the beans are tender but not broken. Now turn the Haricots out on a sieve till wanted. Strain off the water into a bowl, and pick out the vegetables and muslin bag. Make a roux in a stewpan with an ounce of butter and of flour, stir in by degrees a pint of the water in which the beans were boiled; boil, skim, and add two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese and a gill of tomato puree. Pass all through a hair sieve. Arrange the beans on a fire-proof dish, moisten -with the sauce, dot a few bits of butter over the surface, dust over with grated cheese, and heat thoroughly in the oven. This dish is excellent, and most nourishing. Excellent Dried Green Peas are now imported from Italy, and sold under the name of Piselli Verdi. They can be procured at any first-rate Italian warehouse, such as Messrs. De Castro, 66 Piccadilly. They are not so nourishing as Haricot Beans, but they are particularly good as soup, or as a puree, or cooked in any of the ways recommended for Haricots. They require a little Spinach colouring, and the addition of a little mint. These dried Peas are infinitely more palatable than the sort generally sold for feeding pigeons, making pea-soup on board ship, or for the dry pease-pudding served with pork. Lentils can be cooked like Haricots, but they have little flavour. BEETROOT. Beetroot must be carefully dug up or it will “bleed” and become pale and tasteless. The crown of a Beetroot should not be cut down closely, or much of the shoulder, which is the best part, will be lost. Beetroot should always be baked, as it loses colour and becomes as tough as indiarubber when boiled. Salt must never be added, for Beetroot is a thoroughly sweet vegetable, yielding a large amount of sugar. A large root will take a long time to cook, from an hour and a half to two hours to boil, and nearly as long to bake. Of course it cannot be tried with a skewer, but it will generally be done when the outside “ gives ” to a firm touch. It must not be skinned till it is cold. Many people like Beet-