239 LEICESTERSHIRE PORK PIE slices half an inch thick, and then cut each slice into squares half an inch across, keeping the fat and the lean separate. Season only with coarsely-ground black pepper and salt, in the proportion of two-thirds of salt to one of pepper. Do not add sage, or any other seasoning whatever. Pack the pie as tightly as you can, using alternate layers of fat and lean. If this pie is not packed tightly the outside pieces will be dry and leathery. Cover as usual, leaving a hole, but in these pies no gravy is put in before baking. Bake in a slow oven. When the pie is baked, and whilst it is still warm, pour in through the hole a little lukewarm jelly, made very strong by boiling two pig’s feet and all the scraps for at least three hours, putting them on in cold water, and seasoning, when the broth is strained, with pepper and salt only. To be eaten cold. A neck of Mutton treated in this way makes an excellent Pie. In this case add to the seasoning a tablespoonful of minced parsley, but nothing else upon any account. Make the gravy of the bones and two sheep’s feet. A mutton pie is best eaten hot. Crust for Leicestershire Pork Pie.—Put half a pint of water into a saucepan and heat it over the fire. When quite hot stir into it eleven ounces of clarified suet, two ounces of fresh butter, and a teaspoonful of salt. Stir till the fat has melted, cool this to lukewarm, and pour the contents of the saucepan by degrees into a bowl containing a pound and a half of well-dried flour. Work the mixture to a stiff paste, adding a little water if necessary, and turn it out upon a cold pastry slab. Roll it out three-eighths of an inch thick as evenly and as level as possible, and let it get quite cold. [Wyvern.] For the Mutton Pie use four ounces of butter (no suet) to a pound of flour. MEAT PUDDINGS. These are homely enough, but very good if properly made and very slowly boiled or steamed. For the paste, mince very finely six ounces of clarified suet, and dredge a little flour over it as you mince. Mix with it one pound of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, and sufficient water to