234 PIES AND MEAT PUDDINGS pie-dish with the little rolls. A very good pie is made of rolls alternately filled with oystexs and mushrooms. Make the gravy of the . trimmings and any remaining part of the beef-steak, and a tablespoonful of mushi-oom ketchup must not be omitted. A Veal Pie made in the same way is much better than the ordinai’y Yeal and Ham Pie. Line each slice of Yeal with a stiip of cold boiled bacon, and a slice of stuffing (see page 202). The gravy must be strong and well flavoured. Add quai'ters of hard-boiled eggs, and shake over all a teaspoonful of mixed minced thyme and marjoram, as well as hei'b pepper. Chicken Pie.—(Family Recipe.)—Clean and singe three chickens (for a large pie), cut them in joints, wash them clean in tepid water, wipe them and lay them on a cloth to dry. Lay thin slices of bacon, ham, or tongue at the bottom of the pie, then arrange a layer of pieces of chicken, then more ham or tongue, then more chicken, seasoning each layer of chicken well with herb pepper. Finish with a layer of bacon, and above that arrange four hard-boiled eggs cut in rings. Make the gravy from the giblets, the skin of the tongue, and any scraps. It is a good plan to take the flesh off the legs of the chickens and to make it into forcemeat balls, well seasoned with herb pepper, and to dot these, the size of a lai'ge marble, about the pie, using the bones, broken up, for the gravy. Mushrooms, cooked and cut in halves, or button mushrooms stewed in milk, should be added to evei’y layer of chicken. Bake for two hours. Pigeon Pie.—Choose either Bordeaux Pigeons or fattened English Pigeons. Take off their legs, but truss them for roasting. Allow three Pigeons for a moderately sized pie. Take a pound and a half of tender lean beef, and make it into mils as befoi’e described, putting a cooked sauce oyster into each roll. Chop up the livers of the Pigeons, and put one into each bird, with a dessertspoonful of chopped bacon, and a teaspoonful of minced cooked mushroom, all well seasoned with hei’b pepper. Place a layer of the x’olls at the bottom of the pie, then the three pigeons, breasts downwards, and then another layer of rolls of beef, lined with oysters. Make the gr-avy of the tiimmings of the pigeons. It will need strengthening by