STUFFING 202 be first well scalded, and then thoroughly dried in a cloth, before they are minced. This Stuffing, which is used for turkey, hare, or veal, ought to look green and be made from fresh herbs. But if dried herbs have to be used a little spinach colouring must be added, or the stuffing will have a raw look. Weigh six ounces of dry, well sifted, stale breadcrumbs. Measure either a dessertspoonful of chopped green thyme and of green marjoram, or, if dried, take a tablespoonfyl of the powdered leaves, half of each. Sift the herbs to get rid of atoms of stalk. Mince finely enough parsley to fill a heaped-up table- spoonful. Chop up three ounces of fresh beef suet and the very finely pared rind of half a lemon. Mix all together with a wooden spoon in a large bowl, and dust well with salt and mignonette pepper. Lastly, bind the mixture with two well- beaten eggs ; work well together, and it will be fit to use. Sausage stuffing for a turkey should be made with two parts of sausage meat (see Sausages) and one part of dried breadcrumbs. Soak the crumbs in stock, add herb seasoning, or, if possible, thyme, marjoram, and parsley as above. Season with salt, and bind the mixture with two eggs. Eggs are absolutely necessary, as without them the Stuffing will never be firm. Chestnut stuffing’.—Peel thirty chestnuts. Scald them and take off the inner skin. Eoast them thoroughly, pound them with two ounces of breadcrumbs. Or simmer them in milk, in which case moisten them and the breadcrumbs with the milk. Mix all well together, add three ounces of butter and two well- beaten eggs. Season with just a teaspoonful of salt and one dust of mignonette pepper. Stuffing1.—(Family Recipe.)—Chop the liver of the bird, mix with it an ounce of breadcrumbs, a teaspoonful of minced shallot, and a dust of pepper and salt. Put all inside the bird, as in this way it will be kept moist. Do not add any butter. These proportions are for a partridge, and must of course be varied according to the size of the bird to be cooked. This Stuffing is not intended to be eaten separately, as most of it is absorbed in the bird. Sag’e and Onions.—Put four onions into boiling water for five minutes, then change the water and simmer the onions in