FORCEMEAT 204 detachos itself from the sides of the saucepan. It will then be done, and must be set in a cold place to cool and dry. For the other kind of Panada put a gill of water, or milk, or stock, into a saucepan, with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a little salt. Put the saucepan on the fire, and as soon as it boils up stir in one tablespoonful and a half of either wheat-flour or potato-flour, or as much flour as the liquid will take up. Work the Panada well with a wooden spoon at the side of the fire till it becomes a rather firm paste. Put the saucepan back over a low fire so as to slightly dry the Panada. When it detaches itself from the sides of the saucepan lay it on a rather flat dish, butter the surface very lightly to keep the Panada from drying up, and set it in the larder to get cold. The proportion of Bread Panada in Forcemeat is ten ounces of Panada to one pound of meat, and ten ounces of butter. For white Forcemeat Wyvern uses eight ounces of uncooked veal, chicken, or rabbit, or a mixture of all three. The meat must be free from all skin, fat, and sinew. Pound it thoroughly, pass it through a hair sieve, and be careful to weigh it after it has been passed through the sieve. The weight of eight ounces must be kept up. Have ready five ounces of cold Panada, and five ounces of butter. Blend the pounded meat with the Panada little by little, then add the butter little by little, add two yolks of egg, season with salt, pepper, and mace if liked. Work vigorously for some time, then pass through the sieve. Moisten if necessary with a spoonful or so of veloute sauce. Forcemeat made in this way is excellent in pies, either laid as a floor on the dish, or made up into little balls, and dotted about among the meat and jelly in the pie. In a galantine this forcemeat makes all the difference between an agreeably flavoured and a dull distasteful dish. Suet and udder of veal are both recommended for Forcemeat, but to my mind butter is far preferable. If the udder is used it must be gently simmered in water till tender, set to get quite cold, and then pounded like the meat and passed through the sieve. The quantity is the same as given for butter.