FOOD AND DRINK FOR INVALIDS 436 may try upon a plate with a spoon). Then put the Solid Broth into a small jar. (The liquid will be reduced from four quarts to about a pint. Any simple flavouring can be added during the final simmering, such as a few herbs or a little celery seed, securely fastened in a muslin bag.) In the original recipe four knuckles of veal and twelve quarts of water made one pint of Solid Broth. Chicken Broth.—Roast a Chicken for a quarter of an hour only. Cut it into slices, and put it into a saucepan with three pints of cold water. Season very lightly with pepper and salt. Bring it gradually to the boil, and let it simmer very gently. An old fowl will take from four to six hours; a young one three hours. Strain, and take off every particle of fat. The previous roasting of the Chicken much improves the flavour. If the Chicken Broth is liked thick, crushed tapioca is the nicest addition. About two ounces should be simmered in the broth. Sago is also a pleasant addition. Veal Broth.—Take two pounds of leg of Veal, and be most careful that there is no fat with it. Slice the meat into thin shavings with a sharp knife. Put the meat with four ounces of well-washed pearl barley into three pints of cold water, bring it slowly to the boil, and simmer for three hours. It will be like thick cream in appearance. Rub it through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon, and serve with salt in a salt-cellar. Nourishing1 Broth.—Take a knuckle of veal, two pounds of lean beef, a bunch of herbs, and six peppercorns. Put them into five quarts of cold water. Add a little salt. Bring to the boil, and simmer till it is reduced to three pints of broth. Strain and remove the fat. The Invalid’s Soup recommended by Wyvcrn (page 36) is excellent when convalescence is well advanced. Sweetbread for an Invalid.—Prepare the Sweetbread as at page 185 by very careful cleaning and soaking, and by the removal of all tough pieces. Of course the Sweetbread must not be larded. Put it into boiling water, or broth (as allowed or liked), and simmer gently till quite tender. The Sweetbread will take from thirty to forty minutes. Serve perfectly plain. Savoury Custard for an Invalid.—Take two eggs, both whites and yolks, and the yolks only of two more. Beat them