250 SPECIAL LUNCHEON DISHES Simmer it as long as possible, and then add half an ounce of meat glaze and a gill of sauterne. Strain, skim, thicken with the usual roux, reduce the sauce a little, take it off the fire, and stir in the yolk of a raw egg beaten up with the squeeze of half a lemon. Let the sauce get cold. Now mince the chicken, diluting it with the cold sauce, and adding two tablespoonfuls of minced cooked ham and the same of minced mushrooms. Make two good-sized thin pancakes, and lay them out flat on a large dish. Cover the surface of each with cooked bacon cut as small as possible, spread the chicken mince on this, leaving a margin so that the pancake may envelop it easily. Fold the pancakes over, lay them writh a slice on a buttered baking-dish, brush over the surfaces with a beaten egg, then dredge over them finely-sifted raspings, dot little bits of butter on them, and set them in the oven to heat up and brown. When done lay the pancakes with a slice on a hot dish and serve as hot as possible. Hand the rest of the sauce in a boat. Croquettes Of Game.—Take six ounces of cold cooked pheasant, one of lean ham, one of the fat of the ham, and one of cooked mushroom. Mince all rather finely, and mix them in a soup-plate, seasoning with herb pepper, and covering them up. Now chop up all the trimmings, skin, and bones of a brace of pheasants, pounding the bones in a mortar, and put the whole into a stewpan with a couple of ounces of minced lean of uncooked bacon, four ounces of minced onion, the minced peelings and stalks of half a pound of mushrooms, a dessert- spoonful of dried sweet herbs, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Cover writh water, bring to the boil slowly, and sim- mer for a couple of hours. Strain, skim, and thicken, using for half a pint of sauce half an ounce of butter and the same of flour. As this is cooking, stir in a quarter of an ounce of dis- solved gelatine, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, half one of red- currant jelly, and a teaspoonful of Marsala. Pass this through the hair sieve. Now put the mince into a clean stewpan, dilute with just sufficient sauce to bring it to the consistency of thick jam, stir over a low fire for five minutes, then put the mixture into a soup-plate, and with a wooden spoon pat it into a round an inch thick. Set it aside to get cold and firm. TV hen this