HARICOTS IN GRAVY 327 Henry Thompson says that with a good supply of the gravy from the joint, and a little salt and pepper, some persons think that “ the Haricots are by no means the worst part of the mutton.” Haricots with Butter.—When thoroughly cooked and strained put the Haricots in a pan with an ounce of butter, and two tablespoonfuls of melted butter which has been mixed with broth. Add salt and pepper, the juice of half a lemon, and one teaspoonful of minced parsley. Toss one pint of beans in this till they are well mixed and quite hot. Haricots may be served a la maitre d’hotel by stirring them, when quite soft, into half a pint of good parsley-and- butter sauce to one pint of Haricots. Haricots are excellent when sent up straight from the fire with an ounce of butter melting over them, and the beans themselves covered with minced parsley and well dusted with black pepper and salt. A little grated cheese can be added. French cooks make a good dish of French Beans and dried Haricots cooked separately, drained, mixed together with an ounce or so of butter, minced parsley, salt and pepper, tossed in the saute-pan, and served very hot. A Basque recipe for White Haricots is to add to them, after cooking and draining, the flesh of two or three sardines pounded up with butter, a drop of garlic, and chopped shallot. Season with salt, pepper, and one or two sliced gherkins, sauter well and turn out into a very hot dish. Put the stewpan back on the fire, add a cupful of eau de cuisson and a teaspoonful of vinegar, boil it up, and pour over the Haricots. Haricots are much improved in flavour if a two-ounce onion, two ounces of carrot, and half an ounce of celery can be cooked with them. A puree of Haricots may be mixed with a smooth puree of onion, either white or brown. Or small pieces of fried bacon may be scattered among the stewed Haricots. “Wyvern’s” Haricot Beans.—Soak a pint of Haricots for twelve hours, drain, and put them into a stewpan with a thick slice of lean bacon, a four-ounce onion cut into quarters, half an ounce of celery, one of carrot sliced, and a teaspoonful of dried herbs tied up in muslin. Season with a quarter of an ounce of salt, and half that quantity of pepper. Cover with