58 PUREES cooked in tlie same way. Quenelles, and such entrees as Creme de Volatile, are Purees in another form. Wine is generally recommended for game Purees. It is not necessary, and is indeed disliked by many people. If it is used, a small quantity, from one to two tablespoonfuls, will be sufficient, and good Marsala is quite the best wine to select. In many Purees of game it is a great improvement to add a tablespoonful of red currant jelly and a teaspoonful of lemon juice to the soup just before it comes to the boil and whilst it is being thoroughly stirred. VEGETABLE PUREES. Vegetable Purees ought not to be the tasteless gruel so often sent up. The cook must have plenty of time in which to prepare them. I have chosen recipes for several kinds of Vegetable Purees, and if the directions are carefully followed excellent results cannot fail to be obtained. Croutons of crisped bread should always be handed with Purees. Puree of Green Peas.—Shell enough peas, not old ones, to fill a pint measure to the brim. Slice up the pods, wash them and put them into a stewpan with one average sized lettuce shredded, four ounces of onion, a bunch of herbs, a good bunch of parsley, and seasoning. Cover with fresh milk, boil up slowly, and then simmer until the pods are soft. Drain off the eau de euisson, pick out the bouquet of herbs and the parsley, and press as much as you can of the rest through a hair-sieve, saving- the pulp. Now put the shelled peas into another stew- pan, pour the euisson over them, boil, and when the peas are soft drain them. Pass them also through the sieve, and add the Puree thus obtained to that got from the pods. Blend the Puree and the euisson by working them into a Roux of half an ounce of butter mixed into half an ounce of flour. Or make a liaison as on p. 45. A good colour is secured by boiling a handful of fresh spinach-leaves with the peas, and passing them with the peas through the sieve. [Wyvem.] Puree of Jerusalem Artichokes.—Having washed, peeled and boiled one pound of Jerusalem Artichokes, pass them through the sieve ; save the pulp so obtained, measuring a pint