COFFEE 545 Coffee.—The water used in making Coffee must be freshly boiling, and Coffee to be good must be freshly roasted, freshly ground, and freshly made. Mocha Coffee has by far the finest flavour, but, as coffee-dealers say, it has not much “ body,” and requires to be “ fortified ” with the stronger Plantation Coffee. A good proportion is three parts Mocha to one part Plantation, or half and half may be used. The two kinds must be roasted separately, as the berries are not the same size. Most English people dislike the French method of mixing chicory with Coffee in cafe au lait, although it is considered to make both the Coffee and the milk more wholesome. If chicory is used buy the best French ground chicory, and allow one teaspoonful of it to six tea- spoonfuls of Coffee and a pint of boiling water. The Demon invention mentioned on page 339 roasts Coffee admirably. In damp weather the berries should be warmed and dried a little in the oven before grinding them. The coffee-mill should be care- fully cleaned after using it, as even a very little stale ground Coffee left in it will make the next day’s Coffee flat and tasteless. The china percolators are much better than the old tin ones, for in those the lining rubbed off in time and spoilt the colour and flavour of the Coffee. They can be had in various sizes at 119 New Bond Street, or indeed wherever fire-proof china is sold, and the parts are sold separately in view of breakages by careless usage. I know no recipe for making Coffee so good or so clear as Wyvern’s. Get really good Coffee berries and be prepared to pay a good price for them. Roast them daily if you want well-flavoured Coffee. Half the Coffee we drink is spoilt by ignorant roasting ; a burnt berry will spoil the whole brew. The best way to roast the berries is to stir them about in a small saute-pan over a very low fire, doing them in relays and passing them straight to the hand-mill from the pan. A tablespoonful of berries will be found quite enough at a time. Melt a little butter, just sufficient to lubricate the berries, and stir them about till they turn a light Havannah brown. If a berry takes a darker tint throw it away at once as you would a reptile. Grind the berries at once and make the Coffee as soon afterwards as possible. In any circumstance keep the powder carefully secured from the air in a dry canister. The butter prevents the escape of much of the fragrance of the N N