372 MACEDOINE OE FRESH VEGETABLES carrot, young turnip, celeriac, Jerusalem artichokes, or Japanese artichokes, cut into small dice. These vegetables, boiled separately, and then gently heated in sauce blonde (see page 130) in the bain-marie, form an excellent centre for a dish of cutlets, or, if served cold, for a dish of cold fillets of sole masked with sauce blonde. Or, for a cold dish, mayonnaise may be used instead of sauce blonde. The great point is the separate cooking of the vegetables ; they must be quite tender, and yet not pulpy. Of course, cooked vegetables which have already been served can be used, and if skilfully treated thev make an excellent Macedoine. Little heaps of Macedoine are a great addition to a salad if it is served round cold chicken or cold fish. Tinned Vegetables.—Vegetables preserved in tins or glasses are extremely useful, particularly at those times of the year when fresh Vegetables cannot be procured. Only the best French Vegetables should be used, and they ought to be pro- cured from a first-rate shop. Tinned Vegetables do not require actual cooking, but they should never be sent up hard. This is especially to be avoided with peas, which are too often sent up, whether in soup or as a garnish, as hard as bullets. Wyvern recommends the use of the liquid in which the Vegetables have been preserved, as an addition to the sauce or puree prepared with them, but many people do not like it. In any case, whether the liquid is used or not, the Vegetables must be care- fully freed from it. As soon as the tin is opened, empty the Vegetables gently into a large perforated strainer, drain off the liquid, pour freshly-drawn cold water over the Vegetables, put them into a clean saucepan, and set the saucepan in the bain- marie. As the Vegetables warm, add half an ounce of butter, a saltspoonful of salt, and half that quantity of sugar. When hot the Vegetables are ready, and can be dressed in any way liked. Artichoke-bottoms and French Beans can be served in any of the ways recommended for them when fresh. Flageolets are very good a la maitre d’hotel, a la poulette, or a la creme. Whole Asparagus is not to be recommended as a tinned Vegetable, but Asparagus Points are excellent. Be very care- ful not to break the points in turning them out of the tin and draining them. They must be handled as little as possible, and