SAVOURY CUSTARD FOR AN INVALID 437 well with one gill of clear beef tea, but add no seasoning. Put the Custard into a well-buttered basin, cover the top with a buttered paper, set the basin in the bain-marie, and steam it very slowly. It will take about a quarter of an hour. Let the Custard get quite cold, then turn it out, and cut it into rounds or diamonds with a cutter. Serve with a salt-cellar and pepper- mill, so that the Invalid may add the amount of seasoning liked. Invalid’s Yorkshire Pudding:.—{Family Recipe.)—Mix the yolks of two eggs into two good tablespoonfuls of flour. Beat the whites a little, and stir all together. Bake the batter for ten minutes in rather a quick oven. Sippets.—Have ready a very hot soup-plate, lay on it two or three pieces of stale brown bread cut one inch square. Pour over them as much beef tea, or good clear gravy, as they will absorb, and send up at once, served in the soup-plate. Macaroni and Gravy.—Boil an ounce or more of pipe Macaroni in boiling salted water for fifteen minutes (see page 411). Drain it thoroughly, and return it to the hot, dry pan. Add a teacupful of clear gravy, simmer gently till the Macaroni has absorbed most of it, and serve in a hot soup-plate. Before adding the gravy cut the Macaroni into quarter-inch lengths. Stewed SagO.—(Family Recipe.)—Take a teacupful of the large kind of Sago, and steep it for three hours in water. (Two hours is enough for small Sago.) Drain off the water, and put the Sago into a stewpan with one pint of milk. Let it simmer slowly for three-quarters of an hour. Stir it every now and then to prevent any scum from forming at the top. Have ready boiling milk in another pan to add if the Sago should become too thick. It should look like thick cream, and may be eaten hot or cold, with either a little salt or a little sugar, as liked. Chicken Panada.—Boil a chicken in one quart of water till it is three-parts done, which will probably be in about twenty minutes. Skin it, let it get cold. Then cut off all the white meat, and pound it to a paste in a mortar, moistening it with a little of the water, or eau de cuisson, the chicken was boiled in. Season with merely a dust of salt. Now boil the Panada for a few minutes gently, till it becomes of the right consistency. It should be tolerably thick, but sufficiently liquid for the invalid to