POTATO RIBBONS 3°9 afterwards is that nothing which is in the least damp can ever he made crisp by frying. Potatoes a la Duchesse.—To one pound of mashed Potatoes add an ounce and a half of butter, the yolks of two eggs, one dessei’tspoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, and one tablespoonful of milk. Work well through the sieve, and form the mixture into flat ovals two and a quarter inches long, one inch and a half wide, and one inch thick. Fry the ovals gently in butter. Or dust them over with flour and brown them in the oven on a buttered tin. [ Wyvern.] Potatoes a la G.C.—Boil a mild onion very soft and weigh the pulp. Beat it up when hot with four times its weight of mashed Potatoes. Add an ounce and a half of butter, pepper, salt, the yolks of two eggs, and a tablespoonful of milk. Pass the mixture through the sieve, form it into oval balls with two wooden spoons, and cook as for Potatoes a la Duchesse. Potatoes a la Marechale.—Slice the Potatoes in very thin equal slices, after washing and paring. Stew them in butter over a very low fire till tender. Then arrange the Potatoes in layers in a fire-proof baking dish. Smooth each layer with melted butter, and grate plenty of Parmesan cheese between each layer. Bake for half an hour in a moderate •oven, and of course serve in the dish the Potatoes are baked in. Potato Marbles or Boulettes.—Mash eight fairly-sized Potatoes, pass through the sieve, work in the yolks of three eggs. Season with a dessertspoonful of minced parsley mixed with marjoram; moisten with enough cream or milk to bring the mixture to the consistency of thick paste. Add salt, pepper, and (if liked) a dust of nutmeg. Lastly, add the whites of two of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth. The mix- ture should be stiff enough not to spread out when dropped from a spoon. Form it into balls the size of a playing marble. Prepare a bath of boiling fat, and then fry the marbles by passing the little balls one after the other into the fat. As each little marble reaches the fat it will expand, and as soon as it is a rich golden yellow it is done. [Wyvern.'] Potato Rollers, or Flutes au Parmesan.—These can be made from cold mashed Potatoes. Work them again through