FRIED RASHERS 2t5 Fried Rashers.—If the rashers are liked crisp, put them, when prepared as above, into the frying-pan, and let them cook till the fat looks transparent, turning them once or twice. If the rashers are cooked too quickly the fat will scorch and become hard. If crisp rashers are not liked, melt a little bacon fat in the frying-pan before they are put in, and turn them over and over in it till they are cooked. Broiled Rashers.—When the rashers are prepared, roll each up, and fasten it with a little skewer. Broil them on the gridiron till crisp. Baked Rashers.—Melt a tiny piece of bacon fat in a baking-tin. Cut the rashers from the back of the side of Bacon, as the fat and lean in that part are more equally divided. When the melted bacon fat is hot, but not scorching hot, lay the rashers in the tin, being careful to put the fat half of one rasher over the lean half of the other. Bake for about ten minutes in the oven. Boiled Bacon.—Soak the piece of Bacon for at least an hour in cold water. Then put it into lukewarm water and let it boil gently, allowing twenty-five minutes for every pound of Bacon. Take off the rind whilst the Bacon is hot, and use it in the stock-pot. Cover the Bacon with raspings of crust. It may be served hot or cold. To Boil a Ham.—The great point in boiling a Ham is to do it as slowly as possible. Old-fashioned cooks half filled the pan with hay, or leather shavings, and added beer, ale, and home-made wine, with a mixture of saltpetre and water. But it is far better to replace these strange ingredients with vegetables. In buying a Ham inquiry should be made as to how long it will need to be soaked. A small and rather fresh Ham may not require more than eighteen hours’ soaking. But, as a rule, a Ham should be soaked in cold water for forty-eight hours, the water being changed three or even four times during that period. After the Ham has been soaked scrub it well with a stiff brush, so as to remove all the smoke and discolouration on the outside, and trim off any ragged or rusty parts, reserving them for the stock-pot. Put the Ham into a large pan or ham-kettle, and cover it one inch deep with cold water. Let the water heat as slowly as possible, so that it may be an hour and a half or two