CURRIES 420 ginger root—can be bought in London ; it must be grated like horseradish, and then pounded to a paste with a little butter. A slightly acid flavour, or, rather, “ a sweet and a sour,” is needed in Curries ; in India this flavour is given by tamarinds, in England by currant-jelly and lemon-juice. Chopped apples or green gooseberries should never be used. Many English recipes advise the use of turmeric or saffron in Curries, the authors apparently thinking that turmeric and saffron are the same thing, whereas they are totally different. Turmeric grows in India, and gives a warm spicy flavour, as well as a yellow colour, to Curries, whilst saffron, peculiar to Southern Europe and Asia Minor, only contributes the colour, and even that is not quite like turmeric. Most Curry-powders contain a sufficient amount of turmeric. To make the Curry.—The following proportions are sufficient for a pound of uncooked mutton, veal, or lamb; for a pound of fish ; for a pound of vegetables ; or for a moderate-sized chicken. Large fowls are not suitable for Curry. Cut the meat or fish into small squares of about three-quarters of an inch ; cut up the chicken as for a fricassee, making three pieces of the breast-bone, two of each thigh, and two of each leg; divide vegetables into neat pieces. I will choose a Chicken Curry as an example : 1. When the chicken is cut up, put the pieces in water for half an hour, then dry them, set them aside, and dredge a little flour over them. 2. Take all the giblets of the chicken, including head and feet, with any scraps of meat that can be spared, put them into a saucepan with a teaspoonful of glaze (or of Brand’s essence), four ounces of onion sliced, three ounces of carrot sliced, six peppercorns, a bunch of herbs, a saltspoonful of salt and half one of sugar. Cover them with cold water, boil, simmer, and make the best broth you can. When the broth is ready, strain it into a bowl, and skim it clean. There ought to be from a pint to a pint and a half of broth. 3. Take a fire-proof casserole. Weigh four ounces of onion and mince it small. Put two ounces of butter into the casserole, and set it over a moderate fire. When the butter has melted put in the minced onion, and leave it to fry very gently, gradually colouring