52 SOUPS Another Mutton Broth.—Boil 21 lbs. scrag in two pints of water with, three or four tablespoonfuls well-washed pearl barley for four hours, as slowly as possible. Strain and remove all fat. Add 3 lean chops, 3 turnips, 3 carrots, 3 onions. Cut the vegetables very small. Boil till tender. When nearly done add some well-drained and blanched greens, boil 10 minutes more, add salt, and serve. The vegetables should look quite thick in the broth. Hotch Potch.—Cut a breast of mutton or the scrag end of a neck into small square pieces, and put on to boil in two quarts of water. When it boils skim well, and add vegetables, salt and pepper. You can use almost any kind of vegetables, and variety is a great improvement. Begin with 6 carrots sliced, 6 turnips cut in dice, 7 young or 3 old onions, 3 heads of celery, a cauliflower cut into shreds, and a quart of oldish peas shelled. Now let all simmer for eight hours over a very slow fire. You cannot cook Hotch Potch too slowly, for it requires so much time to extract the juices and goodness of the meat. One hour before serving add a pound of mutton cutlets from the best end of the neck. You should have them ready cut and free from fat. Some people like the original pieces of mutton taken out when the cutlets are put in. Loin chops can be used if more convenient. Half an hour before serving add a pint of young peas. Pick out the bones before serving. If any of the Hotch Potch is left pass it next day through the tamis-cloth, and serve as thick soup. Beast’s Head. Soup.—(Family Recipe.)—Remove the brains from half a beast’s head, and put the head into five quarts of water with a stick of celery, three carrots and four onions sliced, three turnips cut up, a sprig of thyme, a sprig of sweet marjoram, and a teaspoonful or more of peppercorns. Let all stew till the meat is quite tender, and the soup is reduced to four quarts. Let it get cold. Now cut the cheek part into very small bits, like dice, add a little salt, and boil up the soup. Serve with forcemeat balls in the soup. Either the brains from the beast’s head, or their equal weight in raw veal, can be used for the balls. If veal is used