424 CURRIES of fish cuttings and the pounded prawn shells in water, or milk and water, with an onion, sliced, a sprig of parsley, salt and pepper. Add this by degrees to the contents of the casserole. Let it boil, skim, reduce the heat, put in the prawns, and the cucumber, and let the casserole rest in the bain-marie for half an hour. Then put the casserole on a moderate fire, bring it to simmering point, then add the green ginger, currant jelly, and lemon-juice, as before, and let all gently simmer for twelve minutes. Finally add the nutty infusion, stir and serve the Curry in the casserole. Hand well-boiled rice with it. Dry Curry.—This is quite worth the trouble of making it. For a Dry Curry the sauce must be made without any creme de riz thickening, and must be reduced by simmering with the lid of the pan off. Reduce the fire till it is very low, and continually turn the pieces of meat about with a wooden spoon till the sauce dries up and lies in powder over the meat. All fat should have been removed from the squares of meat, or the Curry will be greasy. A good way of serving an ordinary Curry a second time is to turn it into a Dry Curry. For this, prepare eight or ten pieces of fried bread, two and a half inches square, and lay them close together in a hot dish. Pick the meat out of the Curry sauce, melt half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, set it over a very low fire, put in the squares of curried meat, and stir them about with a wooden spoon, so that they may heat up and become dry and powdery at the same time. This must be very patiently done, and care must be taken to prevent burning. By degrees the pieces of meat will separate themselves from each other, and the portions of sauce they brought with them will dry. A quick fire would make the meat tough. When quite hot and powdery arrange the Dry Curry on the pieces of bread, and serve with curls of crisply-fried bacon or fried ham. Any Curry is good if warmed in the bain-marie, and poured hot upon pieces of fried bread or hot toast. For nearly all the directions as to Curry I am indebted to Wyvem's Indian experience.