ON PASTRY MAKING 456 their liquor ancl beards. For more than a quarter of a pint of sauce additional sauce oysters must be used. Simmer the oysters for the vol-au-vmt for six minutes. A vol-au-vent an mai/jre can be made with quenelles of fish, pieces of boiled fish, and mushrooms warmed up in a simple white sauce, like the Dutch beurre fonclu, to which the stewed mushrooms have been added. Pie Crust.—Put one pound of well-dried and sifted flour in an enamelled iron basin, make a hollow in the centre, and work into it eleven ounces of butter or firm clarified suet, cut into pieces, adding a teaspoonful of salt. When mixed, stir in the yolks of two eggs, and sprinkle over it by degrees as much iced water as required to form a thoroughly smooth dough. Dredge some flour over the slab, and roll the paste out half an inch thick. Fold it in three, roll it out again, and again fold it. Set it aside to rest, covered with a cloth, in a cold place. Repeat this until the paste has had seven or eight turns. Then fold it up, cover with a cloth, and let it rest for a quarter of an hour. Finally, roll it out half an inch thick and cut the cover for the meat pie. [Wyrern.] See for Pies, Chapter VII. To cover the pie, set the empty dish upside down on the paste, and cut the cover an inch and a half larger than the dish. Use the rest of the paste for the Jieuron, and for a strip to cover the rim of the dish. Let this strip fit quite easily, and project a little over the rim. Press the strip to make it stick to the dish. This must be done before the pie is filled. Flaky Crust for a Cold Pie.—(For this recipe I am in- debted to the author of A Younger Son’s Cookery Book, by A Younger Son's Daughter, published by Messrs. Bentley, 1896.)— For a moderate-sized pie-dish take about half a poimd of flour, and make up with water in the ordinary way, but without mixing in any fat or butter whatever. Now take, for the above quan- tity, from five to six ounces of butter (not lard), and cut it into even slices about the size and thickness of a penny. On a sufficient space on the board in front of you sift enough flour to cover it very thickly (to the depth say of one-eighth of an inch). On this lay some of the flakes of butter (not too close together), and sift more flour over them, so as to bury them quite. Thus protected, roll them out very gently till about the thickness of stout brown paper, then take up each on a knife, lay it aside on