7§ SEA FISH or Scandinavian, are most important industries. For, besides its flesli, the Cod supplies a valuable medicinal oil from its liver, and isinglass little inferior to that of the Russian Sturgeon is furnished by its sounds, or swimming bladder. Isinglass, or fish glue, was formerly an important ingredient in many dishes, but its cost is so great (Russian isinglass costs a shilling an ounce) that gelatine, which is made from bones and hoofs, has taken its place. Cod is in season from September to April, and a fish weighs from five to twenty-five pounds, or more. Cod is best bought in slices or cuts, according to the number of those who are to eat it—a pound and a half is enough for a party of six. The old-fashioned dish of a huge Cod’s head and shoulders is not to be recommended, although the head of a Cod is most valuable in making fish broth or stock. A slice of Cod is sure to be woolly if boiled in water, and likely to be so even if boiled in fish broth, as the flesh is thick. It is much better to steam or bake the slice, or to use it as fillets. A good way is to cut two slices of Cod into fillets three inches long. Dip them in frying batter, and fry in oil to a golden brown. Fry enough oysters to allow one for each fillet, and put them on the fish just before serving. Oyster sauce is generally served with ■Cod. But, valuable as Cod is when first cooked, it is even more appreciated when served up a second time. (For these dishes of previously cooked fish see page 120.) Cod’S Liver.-—The liver should never be cooked with the Cod. It must be put into boiling salted water, and boiled till tender; this will probably take ten minutes. Serve the liver whole on a large piece of dry toast. Those who have not been saturated with cod liver oil in their youth enjoy this dish. Cod Sounds.—These must be soaked in salt and water for some hours, and then boiled in milk and water till tender. Change the milk and water half way through the boiling, replacing it with a fresh supply boiling hot. Cnt np the Sounds into small pieces, make some veloute sauce hot and serve them in it.- Hand quarters of lemon with the Sounds. This dish is said to be very nutritious. Salt Cod with Potatoes and Egg- Sauce.-—Steep a pound .and a half of Salt Cod for six or eight hours in lukewarm water,