196 HASHED AND MINCED MEAT RECHAUFFES coating the eighth of an inch thick, adding water if necessary. Twenty minutes before using stir in the whites of the two eggs well whipped. For the Kromeskis cut out of thinly-sliced cooked bacon eight or a dozen pieces about three inches long and two inches wide. Lay a tablespoonful of the mince in the centre of each of these, roll them up, dip them into the batter, and fry in a bath of boiling fat till they turn a light brown colour. Drain, dry, and serve on a napkin. \Wyvern.'] Kromeskis look like tiny rolls, or large corks. For browla meat of course use brown sauce. For simpler Kromeskis use the frying batter given at page 157. Timbale of Macaroni.—Boil one pound of pipe macaroni in two quarts of water, with peppercorns and salt. When tender drain it on a sieve, and leave it to get cold. Then cut the macaroni into pieces half an inch long, butter a round plain pudding mould well, and arrange the pieces of macaroni with their ends on the bottom of the mould, sticking upright side by side quite close together. Lay other rows of Macaroni round the side of the mould in the same way, lying one upon the other with the cut ends against the side of the mould. Then take the cold mince and sauce, wet a spoon and press the mince little by little against the macaroni with the back of the spoon till the mould is completely filled to the very top. Put a buttered paper over the mince, and steam for one hour. Grated cheese should flavour the sauce, and a little extra white sauce, or brown sauce flavoured with mushrooms, should be made to go round the Tim- bale when it is turned out. Or line the mould with puff paste rolled out rather thick. Boil half a pound of macaroni till nearly tender, then simmer it in white sauce, fill the mould with the warm macaroni and wTarm mince and bake in the oven for one hour. Make a lid of paste, before you put the mould in the oven, fasten it tightly on at the edge. When you take the Tim- bale out of the mould cut the lid three parts round just inside the edge, so that it will lift back when the Timbale is helped. Serve on a napkin. Little Timbales.—Line dariole moulds with well-boiled macaroni. Cut the macaroni in lengths, so that by bending it in a spiral form it will fit the moulds. Fill with cold mince and sauce or quenelle, and steam for one hour. Serve with mush-