VEAL 192 mushrooms, and the meaty pieces of the Calf’s head, and warm up gently without boiling. Serve within a neat border. Calf’s head is genei-ally tasteless, but this will be found an admirable way of serving it, and the sauce is more delicate and less rich than that generally called “ en tortue.” It makes a useful entree, and is popular at a small luncheon party. The whole, or even the half, of a calf’s head dressed en tortue is never a tempting-looking dish, although it is sometimes described as “a most magnificent object for the centre of a supper-table.” Its appearance is not improved by the custom of fringing the ears with scissors, and of sticking into the head plated orna- mental skewers, on which cray-fish, cocks’ combs, truffles, and olives are impaled. PORK. Pork Cutlets.—Cut them from a neck of Pork which has very small bones. Sauter them for twenty minutes, turning them with the cutlet-tongs till both sides are evenly coloured. Serve with tomato sauce. Or simmer the Cutlets in stock flavoured with tomato sauce. Pork Cutlets from the Loin.—These differ from Pork Chops in being cut without bone. It is most important to serve them straight from the pan, and not to keep them waiting. Cut the cutlets without bone, exactly one inch thick, and leave a little fat on each. Make a sauce by putting the trimmings (without any fat), some of the bones, a small sliced onion, three leaves of sage, and a little salt and pepper, into one pint of water. Simmer it for four hours, then pass it through a sieve and reduce it by boiling to half a pint. Thicken as usual, and add a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Peel, core, and quarter six apples, take out the pips, and put them in a stewpan with a tablespoonful of cold water. Set the pan on a moderate stove till the apples are quite done and clear. Sweeten them a little, and beat them well up with half an ounce of butter. Fry the Cutlets golden brown in butter, without using breadcrumbs or flour, and sprinkle them with finely-powdered sage. Put the apple in the middle of the dish, arrange the cutlets round it, and pour the sauce round them.