324 BEANS They ought to he tender enough to break when butter, if used, is stirred in at the last moment. For a second-course dish cream can be added to the butter, but it makes a rich dish and must be used with judgment. Serve the dish very hot. French Beans can be cooked in a variety of ways, but surely it is a mistake to conceal their own flavour by adding onion, parsley, or cheese. They are, however, very good when served with a tablespoonful of maitre d’hhtel butter, stirred into them just at the last, or sautes. French Beans Sautes.—After the French Beans are boiled turn them into a saute-pan with just enough butter to moisten them, stir gently over a slow fire and let them absorb the butter, dust a very little salt over them, and serve. Stewed French Beans.—This is the best method when French Beans are no longer quite young, and for this one dish they should be cut across in diamonds. Put the French Beans in a buttered stewpan, add a very little salt, and just cover them with broth. Stew them very slowly, and add a little broth now and then. When tender drain the French Beans, lay them on a hot dish, thicken the broth with half an ounce of butter and the yolk of an egg, and pour it over them. French Beans Panaches or Variegated.—For this dish the young pods and the nearly ripened Beans are cooked to- gether. Take a pint of half-ripe Beans, shell them, throw the pods into boiling salted water and boil to extract the flavour. Strain the water, boil it up again, put in the shelled Beans, and add a quarter of a peck of quite young French Beans, strung but not sliced. Boil these and the shelled Beans together, and they will be both done at the same time if the Beans are only half ripe. Drain, serve in a hot dish, and hand melted butter. Another way is to boil pods and beans separately, then toss each of them in butter, and after that mix them together in a hot dish. Flageolets.—These are the beans of the Dwarf or French Bean when the pods are old and tough, and the beans them- selves three-parts grown. Flageolets are too often neglected in England, and when imported are even supposed to be a vegetable peculiar to foreign countries. Gardeners should be induced to sow French Beans in succession and in sufficient