149 BROILING AND GRILLING of black pepper coarsely ground, and two teaspoonfuls of salt. Mix all well together. Score a tui'key leg or a chicken leg criss-cross with a sharp knife, after having skinned it, and pepper this seasoning well into the cuts before you begin to grill it. This seasoning may be kept ready mixed in a bottle. Grill Seasoning’s.—{Family Recipes.)—(1.) Skin and score the chicken legs, making the scoring criss-cross, and using a very sharp knife. When the legs are a little done rub them well with a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, a teaspoonful of salt, and a dessertspoonful of freshly-ground black pepper. Grill the legs again, and as soon as the mixture has dried on put a little cream over them, and cover them over till thoroughly hot. Just before serving put them in the Dutch oven before the fire to get crisp. (2.) Skin and score the turkey legs well. Mix a teaspoonful of cayenne, the same of white pepper, of salt, and of mustard- flour in a little butter or a little salad oil. Add a tablespoonful of Harvey sauce, and, with a knife or the edge of a spoon, insert this mixture into the scores. Do not rub it over the meat. Grill the turkey legs thoroughly. Whatever is left of the mixture should be mixed with a little gravy, warmed up, and handed with the pulled and grilled tui’key as sauce. (Minced and blanched chives, thyme, and parsley should be substituted for the Harvey sauce.) For a Wet Grill, broil the meat just as much as for a Dry Grill, and when it is done roll it over and over in Grill sauce. Gllbbins’ Grill Sauce.—Put a soup-plate over a slop-basin filled to the brim with boiling water. Melt in the plate an ounce of butter, and when it is melted stir into it two tea- spoonfuls of made mustard, then a dessertspoonful of French vinegar, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a tablespoonful of cream. Season with salt, pepper and cayenne. Wyvern’s Grill Sauce.—Take a hreakfastcupful of gravy, or of broth made from scraps, and half an ounce of glaze or a teaspoonful of Brand’s essence. Put all into a saucepan, and add to it a tablespoonful of hot yet sweetish bottled chutney, a tablespoonful of mustard mixed with Worcester sauce instead of water, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, a tablespoonful of Marsala, half a teaspoonful of red currant jelly, and a