BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 53° case instead of tlie fine oatmeal which is necessary with baking- powder. [Food and Feeding, page 42.] One of the best London bakers, who is in the habit of sup- plying Sir Henry Thompson’s Bread, kindly gave me his recipe for making it, which I have found most useful. Six pounds whole meal, a pound and a half fine oatmeal, three quarts water, four ounces yeast, six ounces butter. Prove twenty minutes. Put into hoops. Prove again twenty minutes. Good sound heat. (Of course all these quantities can be reduced in proportion.) There is no better baking-powder than Sir Henry Thompson’s, which can be made up by any chemist. Take two ounces of tartaric acid, three ounces of bicarbonate of soda, and three ounces of arrowroot. Mix well, place in a wide-mouthed corked bottle, and keep perfectly dry. The arrowroot has not the sweet taste of the ground rice so often used in baking- powders. It is the combination of the tartaric acid and the alkali of the soda which makes bubbles of carbonic acid gas similar in effect to those produced by the fermentation of the yeast-plant. Bread. Chips.—Cut thin shavings of bread from a stale loaf, lay them singly on a wire drainer in an extremely gentle oven till they are perfectly crisp. They should be a pale straw colour. The Chips will take quite half an hour to dry in the oven. Let them cool gradually, and serve piled on a napkin as soon as they are cold. The Chips can always be crisped again by re-heating. They will keep for a day or two in a biscuit-tin. Pulled Bread.—Take a small half-baked loaf from the oven, tear it with two steel forks into small rough bits, lay these on a baking sheet in the oven for ten minutes. If a light loaf is made on purpose with two pounds of flour, two ounces of butter, and a pint of milk the Pulled Bread will be almost equal to rusks. Sir Henry Thompson’s Dry Toast.—Cut stale bread in slices three-eighths of an inch thick, and toast them patiently at some little distance from a clear fire till slightly coloured on both sides. Then pass a sharp knife horizontally through the softish centre part, making two pieces of each slice. Now toast the inner sides as before. This toast is crisp, not scorched outside and