404 OMELETTES “ Forty-five seconds, or three-quarters of a minute, is ample “ time for the whole process, if the pan is properly hot when the “ mixture is poured into it, and the heat evenly maintained “ during the cooking of the Omelette.” If a second Omelette has to be made, wipe the pan clean before using it again. Sometimes, when several Omelettes have been made in succession, a few particles of egg will be found sticking to the pan. These are easily removed by gently rubbing the pan whilst hot with salt mixed with a few drops of vinegar. A second cloth can be used instead of paper for wiping the Omelette-pan, but it must be perfectly clean and dry. The recipe just given is for the simplest of all Omelettes, the Omelette au naturel, made only of eggs, and a little salt. For an Omelette au persil mix a dessertspoonful of blanched and minced parsley with the eggs; and for an Omelette aux herbes add to this a teaspoonful of minced chervil, and the same of minced shallot, chives, or, as a much milder and more delicate flavour, a teaspoonful of minced onion threads. Thyme may be substituted for the chervil, or a very little rosemary, finely minced. For an Omelette aux fines herbes chopped mushrooms or truffles are added to the regular herbs. An excellent three-egg Omelette can be made by cutting up two ounces of mushrooms very finely and frying them in butter just before they are wanted. Omit the herbs in this Omelette. Keep the minced mushrooms hot in the pan they were fried in, and as soon as the Omelette is ready to turn into the hot dish pour the mince quickly over its surface. The Omelette will envelop the mince as it rolls over from the pan to the dish. A similar Omelette may be made with the remains of cold cooked asparagus. Cut the green part into quarter-inch dice, boil the stalks in milk, strain, thicken the milk, season with salt and pepper, and put the green pieces into it. Make an Omelette aux herbes : Add the asparagus in the same way as the minced mushroom, and serve as hot as possible, for milk is likely to make the Omelette leathery. For small parties, say of four persons, at breakfast or luncheon, a little one-egg Omelette made for each and served not in a dish but on a very hot plate, is often liked. For a Cheese Omelette of three eggs allow two ounces and