BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 536 Oat Cakes for Breakfast.—Take one pound of oatmeal, coarse or fine, rub into it two ounces of butter with a small tea- spoonful of salt, and then moisten with sufficient water to make a smooth dough. Pat this into a round mass and lay it upon a floured board, roll it out not less than a quarter of an inch thick. Cut this into three and a half inch squares, halve these by cutting them across from corner to corner, forming triangular shapes, and bake on a heated iron frying-pan on the hot-plate, turning them till firm and thoroughly done. Dust over with sifted meal, and serve in a hot napkin. [WyvemJ] BISCUITS. Water Biscuits.—(Family Recipe.)—One pound of flour and two ounces of butter well rubbed together. Add a pinch of salt. Mix them with cold water to a very stiff paste, and beat it well with a rolling-pin. Break off the paste in pieces the size of a walnut, and roll out round. Prick each biscuit with a biscuit pricker. It is important to put the biscuits on a hot baking sheet and to bake them in a very hot oven. Water Biscuits (2).—Rub an ounce of butter into a handful of fine flour. Make it into a stiff smooth paste with Avarm milk and the white of an egg beaten to a froth. Beat the paste with a rolling-pin for half an hour or longer (the goodness of the biscuits depends on the length of time that they are beaten). Take small pieces of the paste and roll them out to the size of a saucer. They must be so thin that when held to the light they can be seen through ; in fact they cannot be too thin. Bake the biscuits very lightly. Passover Biscuits.—(Family Recipe.)—This recipe was given by a JeAArish baker. One pound of Vienna flour makes fourteen biscuits, each the size of a plate. Mix up stiff with a little cream and add a little salt. Bake for five minutes or so on a girdle. Roll out the paste as thin as writing-paper. Turn the biscuits Avhen they begin to blister on one side, and bake a nice broAvn. The biscuits should be covered with large blisters. Fluted Biscuits.—(Family Recipe.)—Melt two ounces of butter, add enough cold milk to mix one pound of flour. Add a