146 BRAISING is the slow cooking of the meat in its own juices, supplemented by a strong broth made of vegetables and meat or bones. The time for Braising of course varies with the size of the meat. Forty minutes to the pound is not too much for thick pieces of meat. A beef-steak will require from an hour and a half to two hours ; a fowl, braised in broth made partly from its own giblets, will take two hours or thereabouts; and a young pigeon will require about forty minutes. The cooking between two fires—that is, with top and bottom heat—is essential in Braising. Steaming’.—Steaming meat has somewhat the same effect as Braising it, for in both cases the meat is cooked in its own vapour and juices. But, unlike Braising, Steaming requires little expenditure in fuel and little skill on the part of the cook. The meat is put into a hermetically-closed pot, or steamer, with boiling water under it and all round it. The water must be kept at a fast boil, or the meat will be sodden, owing to an insufficient force of steam. Steaming is a slower process than boiling, but it is infinitely superior. All the juices of the meat are preserved, nothing is wasted, and the flavour of whatever is steamed, whether meat, fish, or poultry, is far better than when it has been boiled. Steaming is specially applicable to fish, and to any poultry intended for in- valids. It is a great mistake to partly roast meat or poultry before steaming it, for this method gives an undecided and un- pleasant flavour. Jug’g’ing’.—For the introduction of this process into England, after it has been for ages familiar to the natives of Southern India, we have to thank Wyvern. It is an admirable method of cooking cutlets, beef-steak, and boned and flattened poultry or game. Whatever is jugged is extremely tender, and full of excellent gravy. Indian native cooks manage Jugging between two soup-plates sealed together with strong paste ; but here it should be done either in a tin made on purpose, or in a fire-proof dish with a cover. The indis- pensable thing in Jugging is that the cover should be fastened so tightly on that all air is excluded whilst the meat is cooking. A tin for Jugging is easily made by any ironmonger. It should be oval, ten inches long, seven and a half inches wide, and not