FONDS D’ARTICHAUTS A LA BARIGOULE 317 onion. When this mixture has been well stirred over the fire fill the Artichoke-Bottoms with it. Tie a slice of bacon, cut as thinly as possible, over each Artichoke-Bottom. Put the bottoms into a stewpan with a breakfastcupful of good broth. Put the stewpan into the oven, closely covered, and let the Ai'tichoke-Bottoms cook till quite tender. Try if they are tender at the end of twenty minutes. When tender serve at once in a hot dish. If any liquid remains in the stewpan strain it and pour it round, but not over, the Artichoke-Bottoms. Globe Artichokes Served in Shells.—Butter the shells and fill them with plain Artichoke puree, made thus: Boil the Artichokes ; when cold, strip them of their leaves, scraping off all the pulp which adheres to them with a silver dessert-knife. Then extract the “ chokes ” and add the “ bottoms ” of the Artichokes to the leaf pulp. Mash the whole together with a silver fork in a bowl, dust it with salt and pepper, mix a coffee- cupful of good veloute with it, and one well-beaten egg. Stir it well, and fill the shells. Dust over the surface a layer of finely-sifted breadcrumbs, sprinkle little bits of butter over the crumbs, bake till thoroughly hot, brown the surface with a hot iron, and serve on a napkin. [ Wyvern.'] Jerusalem Artichokes do equally well for this excellent second-course dish ; and the shells can, if liked, be replaced by pastry cases. Jerusalem Artichokes.—These, unlike the Globe Arti- chokes, are a species of Sunflower, and came originally from South America. The roots, and not the flowers, are eaten. The name is a curious perversion of the Spanish girar al sol, or turning to the sun, and the perversion is continued in the name Palestine which is given to the soup made from the so-called Jerusalem Artichokes. The French name for this vegetable, Topinambour, is much more accurate, for that is a corruption of the name of a tribe in the Brazils, from whence these Sun- flowers came. Jerusalem Artichokes are most useful, for they can be cooked in so many ways. They should be dug up as wanted, unless there is a hard frost, when of course they must be stored. Gardeners are too fond of planting the old roots year after year; it is far better to grow the Artichokes from fresh seed—say every three years.