288 COOKING OF GAME AND VENISON down the whole length from the cut made across the knuckle, cutting in slices. The greater part of the fat will be found on the left side of the Haunch as it lies before you, and a little should be added to each slice of the meat. Wild Duck.—Wild Duck of all varieties are plucked, drawn, singed, and cleaned like poultry. In trussing Wild Duck the feet are left on and crossed at the bottom of the back, to do which the legs must be twisted out of joint at the second joint above the feet. Wild Duck are liked very lightly roasted. Cover the breasts with fat bacon, and baste well. Roast the Wild Duck before a clear fire, taking off the bacon five minutes before it is done. Allow for Wild Duck from fifteen to twenty or twenty-five minutes ; for Widgeon about the same; for Teal from twelve to twenty minutes. The outside should look browned and plump, and the flesh should be juicy and full of gravy. Vale Royal Poivrade Sauce for Wild Duck.—(Family Recipe.)—Put an onion sliced in vinegar into half a pint of strong gravy boiled clear. Add six tablespoonfuls of Chili vinegar. Boil for half an hour and serve quite hot. Bigfarade Sauce.—Pare as thinly as possible the land of two Seville oranges, cut the peel into thin shreds, and blanch them in boiling water for five minutes; drain, and put them aside. Melt half an ounce of butter in a saucepan, stir into it half an ounce of flour, stir over a low fire till beginning to brown, and add by degrees half a pint of strong broth (with which should be boiled the giblets of the ducks), season with spiced pepper and salt, and the juice of the oranges. Add a pinch of sifted sugar, a tablespoonful of red wine, and half an ounce of good glaze. Now strain the sauce into a clean sauce- pan, add the boiled rinds of orange, stir till the sauce boils, and serve in a boat. [Wyvern.'\ Sauce for Wild Duck made on the Table.—1. Score the breast of the bird two or three tunes all the way down, and introduce salt and a little black pepper. Cut a lemon in half, powder over it not quite half a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, and squeeze both halves ovei' the bird. Add half a teaspoonful of Harvey sauce, and a dessertspoonful of port wine. Mix all with the gravy of the bird, and baste the duck well. [Family Recipe. ]