189 FRICANDEAU OF VEAL should now be level with the top of the meat. At the first signs of boiling take the pan from the fire, and put it into a gentle oven. Let it simmer for an hour and quarter with the pan uncovered, basting it often with its own broth. By this time the meat should be done and the broth a good deal reduced, gelatinous, and savoury. Baste now without ceasing until you have glazed the Fricandeau, then take it out and dish it on a very hot dish. Quickly strain the gravy from the stewpan, skim off any grease there may be, and pour the gravy over the meat. This is Wyverris method. Another way is to pour the broth gently round the meat, being careful not to touch the larding, which must be protected by a thick buttered paper. Let the Veal simmer in a covered pan in a slow oven for four hours. Watch it, and add more broth as required. Baste the meat, or the Fricandeau will be dry. At the end of the four hours put hot coals on the top of the pan for fifteen minutes. Watch the larding, and when the tops begin to look yellow the Fricandeau is done. Put a little clear glaze on the top, dropping as little as possible on the larding. Take great care that the tips are not crushed or charred, and never add salt after the first. If you do the larding will be discoloured, and the Veal will turn red. The Fricandeau should be perfectly tender and yet firm ; if it is soft and stringy it must have been cooked too fast. Serve with a pur6e of sorrel, spinach, or endive. Three pounds of fillet of Veal will make a Fricandeau for six people. Veal Cutlets.—Veal Cutlets can be cut from the neck, but they are much better if cut from the fillet. The meat must be well beaten, or it will be very indigestible, and, for the same reason, Veal Cutlets must never be thicker than half an inch. They should be four inches long. They can be braised with all their trimmings, and some vegetables, in a pint of stock for three- quarters of an hour. Then take the Cutlets up, lay them be- tween two dishes and put a weight on them. Cut slices of lean ham the shape and size of the Cutlets, and fry them in butter for five minutes. Reduce the broth in the pan, add mushroom trimmings and thicken if necessary. Boil it up, and skim off all fat. Egg and breadcrumb the Cutlets, fry them a golden brown, and serve with a slice of ham between each, and the sauce poured round. Or the Veal Cutlets can be egged and dipped in bread-