474 JELLIES AND CREAMS Orang-e Cream.—Peel the rind off a Seville orange, and boil it till quite tender. Beat it fine in a mortar. Add to it the juice of the orange, a dessertspoonful of brandy, the yolks of four eggs, and four ounces of loaf sugar. Beat all together for ten minutes. Then by degrees add a pint of boiling cream. Beat till it is quite cold, and put it into glasses. Set the glasses in a deep pan of boiling water, and leave them there till the water is cold. If this Cream is liked in a mould dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in a very little water, and add it with the boiling cream. Strawberry Cream.—This answers equally well for cur- rants or raspberries. After removing the stalks weigh the ripe fruit carefully, so as to see that you have exactly a pound. Pass the fruit through a hair sieve into a bowl, and when through dust in five ounces of castor sugar. Dissolve the gelatine in a gill of milk, over a low fire. Whip the fruit, and pass into it as you do so a pint of separately-whipped cream. For Straw- berries add the juice of a lemon with the gelatine, and line the mould with lemon-jelly half an inch thick. To do this, make the mould as cold as possible on ice, and pour in the lining jelly as cold as you can get it to poui’. Turn the mould about, encouraging the jelly to flow evenly over the surface, and to set gradually on account of the coldness of the mould. When set pour in the Strawberry Cream, and leave the mould on ice. [Wyvern.~\ Currants would need a little more sugar, and claret would be more suitable than lemon flavouring for the lining jelly for both Raspberries and Currants. Strawberry or Raspberry Cream Made from Jam.— Rub six ounces of jam with a pint of cream through a hair sieve. Add the juice of a lemon and a little sugar. Whisk it fast at the edge of a dish, lay the froth on a sieve. Add a little more lemon-juice, and when no more froth will rise put the Cream into glasses or upon a dish. Drain the froth, and lay it on the Cream. Flavoured Creams.—Use fire-proof ramakin cases; the green fluted sort are the prettiest. Measure enough milk to fill six of these cases. Boil up the milk with a very little sugar, and take it off the fire. Beat up six yolks of eggs with a gill of cold milk. Pour this on the boiled milk, and fill the