294 RABBITS to an hour. It is always well to cook bacon with a Rabbit, for Rabbits have no fat of their own and are apt to become both tough and dry. For Rabbit and Onions see page 220. Rabbit with Mushroom Sauce.—Take the meat off the back of a Rabbit in two long fillets, and divide each, so as to make four pieces. Take off the legs and shoulders of the Rabbit, and simmer them for two hours. Then reduce the stock to a quarter of a pint. Lay a piece of bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, and put upon it the pieces of Rabbit, adding a sliced onion and a bunch of herbs. Cover the whole with bacon, pour the stock in, and simmer gently for one hour.. For the sauce : Wipe and peel half a pound of young mush- rooms, mince them and their stalks, and put them into a small stewpan with two ounces of butter beaten to a cream. Simmer gently over a low fire for ten minutes, stirring all the while. Mix a roux in a little of the stock, simmer gently for another quarter of an hour. Pass the sauce through a strainer, add a couple of tablespoonfuls of cream, warm the sauce and pour it over the pieces of rabbit when you take them out of the pan. Broiled Rabbit, American Fashion.—Open the Rabbit out flat, laying a plate upon it to keep it so, and steep in salted water for half an hour, having taken off the head. Cut the backbone across in eight or ten places, and then grill the Rabbit on a well-buttered gridiron over a clear fire. Baste continually, and turn the Rabbit often, so that it may be cooked thoroughly. When the Rabbit' is quite brown and tender rub it well with mustard, pepper, and salt, and send it to table flat. Rabbits, if young, can be cooked in several of the ways recommended for chicken. They are good done au riz, or they can be made into a blanquette, and, if carefully treated, Rabbits make a good curry. Old Rabbits should go into the stock-pot without any other attempt at cooking them. Of course Rabbits, although coming under the Ground Game Act, and therefore in season all the year round, are not, strictly speaking, Game. Still they naturally follow Hares in cookery- books, and cannot well be placed elsewhere.