164 MEAT colour, coarse grain, and unpleasant smell. Cow Beef and Bull Beef are always tough, but Cow Beef, though coarse in grain, has no disagreeable smell. Heifer Beef is light in colour and small in bone, but is too young to be really well flavoured. In ordering Beef it is best to say that the bones should be sent home with the meat, and that no more fat should be sent than that which is actually a part of each joint. The Sirloin is considered to be the best joint of Beef, and the “ middle cut ” of the Sirloin is the best part of it, as this contains the “ under cut,” or fillet. Ribs of Beef, the next joint in demand, should be chosen from the five fore-ribs, for the bones of the four middle, or wing-ribs, are inconveniently long. A Round of Beef, whether the thick side or the silver side, is generally tough, and should be salted and boiled, or served as spiced Beef. The aitch (or edge) bone joint is not in much demand, for it contains not only the head of the large thigh- bone but part of the pelvic bone also. The brisket, a part which lies below the ribs, is, like the breast of a sheep, generally too fat to be a profitable joint if served hot, but it is excellent for Pressed Beef or Spiced Beef. The shin extends from the fetlocks of a bullock up to the knees of the fore-legs and the hocks of the hind-legs; it consists principally of bone and sinew, and is valuable for stock-meat. For beef-tea the meat of the knuckle, as butchers call the tapering part of the hind-legs above the hocks, should be ordered. The fillet already named makes the best beef-steaks, but it is expensive, and excellent beef-steaks can be cut to order from the rump. Marrow-bones are most useful, as when they have served their purpose in the first instance and the marrow has been eaten, the bones make a valuable addition to the stock-pot. Ox-tails make one of the best soups. When Louis XIY expelled fifty thousand Protestant families from France in 1685 they took refuge in England, and one of the benefits conferred by them on this country was the introduction of Ox-tail soup. Before that time Ox-tails were thrown away as useless by English people. It is strange that Ox-tails are not now used for soup in France, though they are often served in other ways. I or Ox-tongues see page 144. Ox-heads can often be bought cheaply, and make excellent soup. Ox-feet, or, as they are