243 LEG OF MUTTON A LA BRETONNE lay the vegetables in a hot dish, place the mutton npon them, and ponr the gravy round it. Fillets of Beef au Raifcrt.—Mince a tablespoonful of horseradish and the same of green chilis, and mix them with a teaspoonful of mustard flour into two ounces of butter. Season the beef with a little salt or spiced salt, and with a knife spread the mixture on both sides of each fillet. Grill the fillets on a gridiron over a sharp fire, turning each four times. Serve on a very hot dish, adding the juice of half a lemon mixed with a dessertspoonful of walnut ketchup. Fillets of Beef aux Anehois.—Cut the beef into oval fillets three and a half inches long, two and a half wide, and three-quarters of an inch thick, and cut for each a slice of fat the size of and twice the thickness of a half-crown. Let the fillets marinade all night. Take a small saute-pan, melt half an ounce of butter in it over a brisk fire, and fry the fillets one by one, four minutes on each side, being careful that the butter does not burn. Fry the fat by itself last. Drain the fillets and arrange them on a hot dish with a slice of fat between each. Lay two fillets of anchovy on each fillet. For the sauce drain and wipe two anchovies, pound and pass them through a sieve, add the anchovy pulp to half a pint of good veloute sauce, heat it up, and just as you serve it stir in, off the fire, the yolk of an egg. Serve very hot in a boat. Ragout Of Mutton.—Trim the best end of a neck of mutton into cutlets, cutting the bones rather short. Or use a shoulder of mutton, sawing it across through the bone, and cutting the meat into two-inch pieces. With the trimmings or the scrag-end of the neck make a good mutton broth, adding plenty of onion, an ounce of celery, and any other broth vegetables which can be had. Put the mutton into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, a saltspoonful of salt, and half that quantity of pepper. Fry the meat over a moderately fast fire for a quarter of an hour so as to “ seize ” the juices. Do not let the butter burn, and fry the cutlets or pieces of mutton a few at a time, for they must not touch each other in the pan. Dred»e an ounce of flour over the meat, and brown for four minutes. Add a quart of the mutton broth, warm all together, stir till it boils, then drain the contents of the stewpan through a sieve