35i STEWED MUSHROOMS pounds of large Mushrooms into small pieces, adding a pound of salt, and letting it stand for four days. Then strain and pass it through a tamis-cloth. Let the liquor settle, pour it off into a stewpan, add half an ounce of whole black pepper. Boil all together for half an hour. When it is quite cold strain it again, bottle it, cork it tightly, and wax the corks. Some people add a piece of ginger and half an ounce of allspice with the pepper, but to many tastes the strong simple essence of the Mushrooms is preferable. This Ketchup keeps well, but the flavour is better if it is made frequently. MUSTARD. The leaves of Mustard are eaten as small salad, and the seeds are prepared as Mustard flour. Mustard so soon gets dry and tasteless that it should be mixed almost every day. If the mustard-pot is left open the Mustard spoils in a few hours. It is the best plan to mix a small quantity every day an hour before it is wanted. Mix one ounce of flour of Mustard with one teaspoonful of salt. When well blended together add eight teaspoonfuls of cold water, a little at a time, stirring and rubbing all well together till quite smooth. Use a small wooden spoon, and keep it for mixing Mustard. The more the Mustard is stirred and rubbed with the wooden spoon the better it will be. For roast beef a tablespoonful of grated horseradish may be boiled in the water which, when cold, is used for mixing the Mustard. The best kind of French Mustard is Maille’s. French Mustard is prepared with vinegar and a little gai-lic. An imi- tation of it can be made by boiling a minced shallot in four tablespoonfuls of water till they are reduced one half, strain, and when the water is cold mix the Mustard with it, adding from a teaspoonful to a dessertspoonful of vinegar. OLIVES. The large Spanish Olive looks best, as the French and Italian Olives are much smaller. “ Turned Olives ” are pre- pared in this way. Take a sharp knife (a penknife will do), and cut a thin slice off the bottom of the Olive to make it stand