330 CABBAGE, BRUSSELS SPROUTS, AND BROCCOLI Cabbag’G a la Creme.—Choose a firm white spring Cabbage, and boil it in two waters till tender, changing the water for fresh boiling water at the end of 15 minutes. Drain the Cabbage carefully, and chop it up small on a board. Put it back in the hot saucepan with an ounce of butter, a gill of cream, pepper and salt. Stir over the fire till hot, and turn it out into a hot dish. American Ladies’ Cabbage.—Boil a firm white Cabbage for 15 minutes, then change the water, adding boiling water from a kettle. When the Cabbage is tender drain it thoroughly and let it get cold. Chop it up finely, add two well-beaten eggs, an ounce of butter, three tablespoonfuls of good milk or thin cream, and a little pepper and salt. Stir all well together, and bake in a buttered pudding-dish till brown. Serve very hot. Cabbage cooked in this way is nearly equal to Cauliflower. Brussels Sprouts.—Choose the Sprouts as nearly as possible of the same size, or the small ones will be overdone. Put them into a basin of cold water with salt and a table- spoonful of vinegar for half an hour, so as to dislodge insects. Then throw them into plenty of boiling water, with a good quantity of salt (say half an ounce), and let them boil hard, with the lid of the pan off. Push the Sprouts down occasionally. They ought to be done in twelve minutes. Brussels Sprouts are spoiled if they are overdone; it is better that they should even be a little underdone. Drain them well. Brussels Sprouts, if properly cooked, should be quite green, and very tender. The smaller they are the better, and the large coarse Brussels Sprouts so often sold should be avoided, as they have none of the delicate flavour of the small varieties. Brussels Sprouts make an excellent puree. Or, after being boiled, they can be pulled to pieces, laid on squares of toast, and covered with buttered eggs. Or they can, after careful boiling, draining, and gentle drying in a cloth, be lightly saute in a little butter, sprinkled with a little salt and two or three drops of vinegar of any flavour preferred. Or the Brussels Sprouts may, after boiling slightly in water, be gently stewed till tender in some good gravy, to which a little pepper and salt have been added. Or they may, for a second-course vegetable in winter, be lightly