PRIMROSE PUDDINGS 487 the sauce: Make some thin melted butter, sweeten it slightly, add a little grated lemon-peel, and two gills of marsala. Make it quite hot, but do not let it boil. Serve in a hot sauce-boat. Or put three tablespoonfuls of sugar, half a pint of water, and the very finely-peeled rind of a lemon into a saucepan. Simmer for twenty minutes, then add the juice of two lemons, and a tablespoonful of brandy. Strain and serve in a hot boat. Sir Watkin Wynn’s Pudding-.—(Old Recipe.)—(1.) Ten ounces of breadcrumbs, eight of chopped suet, three of pounded sugar, the grated peel and juice of two large lemons, three eggs and a little salt. Mix all well together, put it into a mould that will just hold it, and boil for three hours. Serve with a clear wine sauce. For this put two gills of sherry and the juice of half a lemon into half a pint of water. Reduce to half the quantity, and dust in a little sugar. Wyvern’s Recipe.—(2.) Mix together in a bowl two ounces of chopped candied peel, two and a half of minced suet, and four of white crumbs. Add one tablespoonful of flour, two ounces of sugar, two ounces of apricot jam, a liqueur-glass of rum or brandy, one dessei’tspoonful of lemon-juice, and two whole fresh eggs. When thoroughly mixed put all into a buttered mould, and boil for three hours. For the sauce: Put two table- spoonfuls of apricot jam into a saucepan with a teacupful of water and a glass of the rum or brandy used in the Pudding. Boil all together, stirring well, then strain, and serve. Lady Raglan’s Pudding.—Line a buttered mould with dried figs cut in half, putting the skins inside. Make a custard with three well-beaten eggs, and a half a pint of new milk. Add the “ zest ” and juice of one lemon, and a tablespoonful of marsala. Steam the Pudding till it feels quite firm and elastic to the touch. Let it get cold. Serve with wine sauce. Victoria Pudding.—Put a quarter of a pound of bread or cake crumbs or crumbled biscuit, two ounces of sugar, four ounces of suet minced to a powder, and eight ounces of stoned and stewed prunes, into a bowl. Stir into them, one by one, four well-beaten eggs, and a tablespoonful of brandy or rum. Add the “zest” and juice of one lemon, put the mixture into a buttered basin, tie a pudding-cloth over, and boil for three hours. For the sauce: Crack the prune-stones, put them into