MRS. EARLE’S CAKES 54i the butter, add the flour and sugar, and mix the whole. At the last moment add the whites of the eggs, beat slightly, and put it into the oven in a round flat tin with a thin rim. Serve on a large round plate. No. 2.—Take the weight in flour of four eggs ; butter, sugar, rind of lemon grated, a few sultanas and citron. Beat to a cream. Then add the yolk of each egg, one by one, then the flour, and beat the whites of the eggs to a froth just before putting it in the oven. Bake for half an hour in a flat tin dish. Queen Cakes.—(Family Recipe.)—A pound of sugar beat and sifted, a pound of flour well dried, a pound of butter, eight eggs, half a pound of currants well cleaned, a nutmeg grated, and the same quantity as that of mace and cinnamon. Work the butter to a cream, then put in the sugar. Beat the whites of the eggs nearly half an hour, then mix them with the butter and sugar; beat the yolks of the eggs the same, and mix them. Beat these ingredients extremely well together, then add the flour, spices, and currants. Bake them twenty minutes in small tins. Dust a little sugar over the tops. The oven should be moderate. The eggs should be beaten by two people, as the whites must not be kept waiting. Add the flour and currants gradually. Thin shreds of candied peel and a spoonful of brandy are im- provements. Soda Cake.—{Family Recipe.)—Rub into one pound of flour one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, six ounces of butter, six ounces of loaf sugar, six ounces of raisins, and three beaten eggs, leaving out one white. Mix it up into a stiff paste with nearly half a pint of lukewarm milk. Flavour it with lemon peel grated very fine, and put it into the oven immediately. If the quantities are not exact the cake fails. Iced Rolls.—{Family Recipe.)—A quarter of a pound of fine flour, two ounces of butter, one ounce of sifted sugar. Rub all well together and make into a paste with the yolk of an egg and a little cold water. Work it well with your hands for one minute, and roll it out. Line small tins with this paste, put a bit of foolscap in each, put a lid on, and bake in a quick oven. When taken out turn them bottom up. When cold cut a hole the size of a sixpence and take the paper out. Then beat the whites of