89 LITTLE FISH CREAMS with half a pint each of cold milk and cold water; season with salt and pepper, and bring slowly to the boil over a low fire. Then add two ounces of minced onion, half an ounce of celery, a sprig of parsley, and a teaspoonful of dried herbs. Simmer forty-five minutes and strain. (This is the Whiting fish broth just referred to.) Put the strained broth into a saute-pan with an uprig’ht rim, boil, put in the two fillets, reduce to simmering, and as soon as soft take them out. Put them into a mortar, and pound them to a paste. Weigh, and for every six ounces of Whiting allow two ounces of butter or fat of cooked ham, and two ounces of bread panada. Mix, and pass all through a wire sieve. Now add to the puree thus obtained two whole eggs and the yolk only of another. Beat well together, season, add a tablespoonful of cream, put the mixture into buttered dariole moulds, tap each smartly on a folded cloth laid on the table to cause the filling to be even, and poach very gently about thirty-five minutes. The steaming should be done in this way : Choose a roomy stewpan, lay a sheet of paper folded in four at the bottom of it, pour in hot water about an inch deep, set it on the fire, and when nearly boiling slip in the darioles. Let boiling begin, but at once reduce to gentle simmering, keeping the pan covered. Whilst this is going on turn the fish broth into a sauce, thicken- ing with half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour. Bring to the boil, pass through a hair sieve, add three penny- worth of picked shrimps finely minced, and a tablespoonful of cream. When the creams are ready, turn them out of the moulds, dish in a circle on a hot dish, and mask with the sauce. A pile of cooked fillets of cucumber may be arranged in the centre. This dish may be made of previously cooked fish, but in that case it would be advisable to get a few fish-cuttings to make a broth for the sauce. The creams can also be served cold, masked with the sauce reduced to such a consistency as to coat them. Put cucumber or other salad in the centre, dressed with mayonnaise sauce. To get a smooth masking in this case omit the shrimps in making the sauce, and use them in the salad. [ Wyvern.] Mackerel.—Mackerel exist in immense “schools” in the tropical and temperate oceans, only coming near the coast