EGGS AU GRATIN 40 £ surface, moistening it with melted butter. Set the dish in the oven till, thoroughly heated, and brown the surface with a salamander. [TPi/rmt.] The last four recipes have been for Eggs which may be described as moderately hard-boiled. For the following recipes the Eggs must be thoroughly hard-boiled—that is, boiled for half an hour. Eg’g’S fareis, or filled with forcemeat, can be served either hot or cold. When the Eggs have boiled half an hour, put them into cold water, and as soon as they are quite cold shell them. Take a dessert knife rubbed in butter, divide each Egg in half crosswise, cutting off a little slice at the bottom of each so that the halves will stand upright. Pick out the yolks and pound them with an ounce of butter and any flavouring liked, such as pounded anchovy, finely-minced ham or tongue, or mushrooms. Allow one teaspoonful of farce to each half-egg, season with spiced pepper, and fill the halves neatly, using a dessert knife dipped in melted butter, and shaping the farce into a dome- shaped cap, as there will be too much of it to just fill the half- egg. Minced parsley and chervil make a simple and excellent farce, mixed with minced onion' threads. Eggs fareis can be egged and breadcrumbed, and fried one by one in very hot fat. Or they can be set, each resting on a square of fried bread, in a flat fire-proof dish slightly buttered, each Egg being moistened with a few drops of melted butter, and then baked in the oven for five minutes. Strew some raspings of crust over them just before serving. Eggs fareis, however, are much the best when served cold. For this pour half a pint of liquid aspic jelly into a flat dish, so that it may be three-eighths of an inch deep. When the aspic is quite cold and firm take a cutter an inch and a half in circumference, dip it in warm water, and cut out with it as many rounds of jelly as you have half-eggs. Arrange the Eggs round a dish, and chop up the remaining aspic jelly for garnish. Place in the centre cold fillets of sole masked with mayonnaise, or a cut of cold salmon masked with aspic, or a well-dressed salad. Or the Eggs may be set in a border of aspic, and little balls of shrimp butter may be placed between each Egg. Another way of serving hard-boiled Eggs is to halve them and set them upright, leaving the yolks as they are. Set each half n d