266 TO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME and when hot stir it into the broth off the fire just before serving. Pour the broth over the chicken, and serve hot at once. Chicken a la Turque.—(Mrs. G. W. Earle.)—Truss a chicken as for boiling, put it into a deep fricandeau-pan, spread it thickly with butter, and lay therein a dozen pieces of raw ham, some carrots, onions, parsley, and a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt; cover with a buttered paper. Braise it for one hour. When it is dished, place round the chicken in groups stewed rice, sultanas, and prunes. Pour a lightly seasoned curry sauce over the chicken, and serve more sauce in a sauce-boat apart if desirable. Chicken Jelly.—Reserve any legs of chickens ; it does not matter how old the chickens are. Simmer slowly in a very little water for one hour. Then take out the bones, pound them, put them back in the pan, and let it simmer again for an hour and a half. If not for an invalid, season with a little white pepper and salt. Pass the jelly through a colander and then strain it through muslin. Pour it into a little china dish and serve cold, with a little grated ham. This jelly is very suitable for an invalid as it is firm enough to need no gelatine. For an invalid use the whole of an old fowl, simmer it in one pint of water, and omit all seasoning. The water must be cold when the bones or chicken are put in. Jambalaia.—This dish, which is a sort of Kedgeree in which the fish is replaced by chicken, is said to have originated in Spain. Boil six ounces of rice as for curry (Chapter XIII), and mince five ounces of raw lean ham and ten ounces of cold cooked chicken. Fry the ham in a small frying-pan with an ounce of butter, then stir in the minced chicken. Put the hot dry rice on a hot fire-proof dish, and turn the ham and chicken out upon the rice. Mix all thoroughly together, and serve very hot, seasoning well with pepper. If liked, a little tomato puree can be stirred into the rice. Minced Chicken aux fines herbes.— Mince half a pound of mushrooms coarsely, add a bunch of herbs, a very little salt, two tablespoonfuls of cream and a slice of bacon cut into small pieces. Stew all well together till cooked, then take out the herbs, and let the rest cool. Add the minced white meat of a