123 FISH CUSTARD PUDDINGS moulds, and sprinkle finely-minced dry parsley upon the butter. Make enough ordinary custard, using salt and pepper instead of sugar, to fill the moulds half full. Pick any cold cooked fish free from bones and skin, cut it into a coarse mince, and dust into it a saltspoonful of spiced pepper. Fill the moulds loosely with this, then pour the custard in, allowing time for it to settle well, and adding more custard by degrees till the moulds are full. Put a round of buttered paper over each, place them in a saute-pan with enough boiling water round them to poach them nicely. When set, take off the papers, and turn the custards out. A saltspoonful of anchovy sauce may be stirred into the custard before filling the moulds. Cooked Fish, served in shells.—No. 1. Ala Carmelite For six scallop shells take four ounces of cooked cod, two hard- boiled eggs, two fillets of anchovies freed from oil, and two gills of fish broth, or milk flavoured with anchovy. Turn the last to a sauce with half an ounce of flour and the same of butter, bring to the boil, and stir in a tablespoonful of tomato conserve ; mix well, and pass through a hair sieve. Now butter the shells, chop up the cold fish and the hai'd-boiled eggs, put this mince into a bowl, season with salt and white pepper, add a pinch of mace (if liked), cut up the anchovy and mix with the mince, and then moisten with enough of the sauce to bring the mixture to the consistency of rather fluid jam. Fill the shells with this, smooth their surfaces, shake over each some finely- sifted raspings, and dot a few little pieces of butter over them. Bake, but do not allow the mince to dry up whilst baking. The mince should come to table moist and thoroughly hot. No. 2. Cold fish, served in shells. Almost any cold cooked fish can be used, or mixed fish, such as salmon and whiting, sole and shrimps, or turbot and lobster. Cut up the fish in small pieces, add to it one-third of its bulk of cold cooked mushroom cut in small squares, and for six shells allow a dessertspoonful of minced pickled gherkins. Put all into a bowl, moisten with a tablespoonful of salad oil, and a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, season with pepper and salt, and leave it thus marinading for a quarter of an hour. Now take the mixed mince out of the bowl, and dress it in another bowl with mayonnaise sauce. Fill the shells with the mince,