148 BROILING AND GRILLING is essential. The frying-pan almost invariably causes greasiness, and although there are Wet Grills as well as Dry Grills the moisture is given by a sauce after the meat has been thoroughly grilled on the gridiron. For a Broil or a Grill have a clear fire of live coals, and use cutlet-tongs. The blades of two knives can be used to turn the Grill if cutlet tongs are not at band, but they are a clumsy substitute for tongs. Of course a fork must never be used, for it would prick the meat and allow the juices to escape. Set the gridiron over the clear fire, at a distance of from three to six inches above the coals, according to the heat, and when it has become hot rub the bars with a little salad-oil or suet, or butter. Lay the meat on the gridiron; if the meat is fresh, such as a beef-steak or a mutton chop, let it be close to the fire at first, so as to “ seal ” the juices, and then draw it a little further away from the fierce heat. Hold the gridiron l’ather slanting, so that the fat may not run into the fire. But if a little does fall in and make a flame it will not matter, for this flame, or rather flare-up, unlike the flame from coals, gives no taste. After one minute, turn the meat with the cutlet-tongs, and when the other side has cooked for another minute turn it again. After this, turn every two minutes till the meat is done. Either a steak or a chop ought to look plump in the middle when done, and if pressed with the finger will hardly yield to. the touch at all. When the meat is still raw inside the surface recovers slowly from pressure : when under-done (as is often liked), it rebounds at once. It is only when thoroughly cooked that the meat feels really firm. As to time: for a beef-steak an inch and a half thick allow twenty minutes ; a mutton chop an inch thick will take twelve minutes, and must be turned six times ; a cutlet half an inch thick will need from eight to ten minutes ; a slice of salmon fifteen minutes ; legs of poultry and game, till they are thoroughly browned, but not burnt. All Broils and Grills should be served straight from the gridiron without a moment’s delay, and if they show a little scorching from the bars of the gridiron so much the better. There are many varieties of Grill Seasoning. One of the best for a Dry Grill is a teaspoonful of Nepaul pepper, the same