CHESTNUTS 339 months. Roasted Chestnuts are generally spoiled by the cook’s notion that they must be parboiled before they are roasted. This produces a hard, indigestible mass, almost tasteless. The man in the street never boils his Chestnuts, but roasts them on a perforated tray over a charcoal fire, so that they become floury and taste of Chestnut. The perforated Diable Bousset, to be had at 119 New Bond Street, roasts Chestnuts perfectly. Cut the Chestnuts twice across, lay them on the perforated tray over a clear fire, shut down the upper tray, and move the Chestnuts about till the curled back edges of the cross-cuts show that they are done. They will take quite ten minutes. For Chestnut Stuffing see page 202. Chestnut Puree.—Roast a pound and half of Chestnuts as above, skin them, simmer them in thin stock or giblet broth for three-quarters of an hour. Let the broth only just cover the Chestnuts, and lay a buttered paper over them. Pass them through a wire sieve, add an ounce of butter and a tablespoonful of cream, but no salt or sugar. Warm in the bain-marie, and hand as a vegetable. Or use the Chestnut Puree as a centre for cutlets. Stewed Chestnuts.—Skin, scald, and peel two dozen Chestnuts. Put into an earthenware stewpan two ounces of minced onion and an ounce of butter. Fry till brown, then stir in an ounce of flour, mix well, and moisten with three gills of good broth and one of claret. Season with pepper, salt, and rosemary, and bring slowly to the boil. Skim, simmer ten minutes, and strain through a hair sieve. Wash out the stew- pan, put back the strained sauce, and bring it to the boil. Now slip in the peeled Chestnuts, lower the heat to simmering, and stew gently till they are done. Lastly take off the stewpan, lift the Chestnuts out with a perforated spoon, arrange them in a vegetable dish, stir the yolks of two eggs into the sauce and pour it over them. \Wyvern.~\ This makes an excellent luncheon dish. Chestnuts contain more fatty matter, according to Sir Henry Thompson, than wheat or oats, and they are very nourishing. 7.2