io8 SHELL-FISH tlie top of each shell, and put a little hit of butter upon that. Place the shells in a Dutch oven before a clear fire, and turn them till the tops are lightly browned all over and all round. This should be in a quarter of an hour. Serve as hot as possible. Scalloped Oysters are more easily cooked in a fire-proof dish, following the above recipe. It is quite as good and much less rich than the recipes which add cream, flour, anchovy- essence, eggs, wine, lemon-juice, parsley, shallot, cayenne, and even nutmeg, to the simple mixture of Oysters, breadcrumbs, and butter. Stewed Oysters.-—This is an American dish, and in America it is sent up in a tureen, and helped into soup-plates. Open two dozen Oysters as carefully as possible, and save all the liquor. Strain the liquor, and wash the Oysters in it till they are free from grit. Lay them in a very clean stewpan, strain the liquor a second time and heat them slowly in it. When the Oysters are just beginning to simmer take them out with a slice, and take off the beards. Add to the liquor a quarter of a pint of cream, a pinch of cayenne, and a saltspoon- ful of salt. When this boils stir in from one to two ounces of butter smoothly mixed with at least a teaspoonful of flour. Continue stirring till the sauce is thoroughly smooth and all the ingredients well mixed together. How put in the Oysters, and let them remain by the side of the fire till they are very hot. On no account let them boil. The Oysters require so little cooking that if kept for four or five minutes nearly, not quite, simmering, they will be ready to seiwe. If too much stewed, or if allowed to boil, they will be hard. Stir a little lemon-juice quickly into the stew as you take it from the fire. Seiwe at once in a hot tureen, and hand croutons of fried bread -with the stew. Oyster Patties.—Sauce Oysters can be used for these, and two should be allowed for each patty. Line some small patty- pans "with puff paste rolled thin, fill each with raw rice to preserve the shape, and either make covers of the paste or leave the patties open and cover the Oysters at the last with fried breadcrumbs. Bake the empty patties in a brisk oven. Beard the Oysters, blanch them in boiling water, taking care