DEAN OF YORK’S ITALIAN VEAL COLLOPS 187 and the yolks of two eggs. Add the macaroni to the Veal Collops, off the fire, and then add the sauce. Stir all together and serve immediately. [Sir William Cockburn, Bart. : Dean of York, 1832-1858.] Dean of York’s Frieatelles.—(.Family Recipe.)—Take four pounds of the lean of fillet of Veal, and two pounds of the fat of the udder. Chop well, mix them very well together with the tops and bottoms of two rolls soaked in milk, and four or five eggs. Season with pepper and salt, add the squeeze of a lemon, and just fry them enough to harden them in two ounces of butter. Put strong veal broth into the stewpan, enough to cover the Frieatelles, and let them simmer in it for one hour. Serve with the same broth strained and poured over the Frieatelles. Brown Veal Collops.—(Family Recipe.)—-Cut thin Collops from a fillet of veal, beat well with a rolling pin, fry the Collops for six minutes in butter. Make a roux of flour and butter in a stewpan, keep stirring it with a wooden spoon till it is brown, add some chopped mushrooms, minced shallot, salt, and pepper, shake all well together, pour it upon the Collops, squeeze a lemon over, and serve at once. (Collops are called Scotch Collops, as Collop is an old Scottish word for a slice.) Blanquette Of Veal.—(Family Recipe.)—A Blanquette only differs from a fricassee in the way it is served. A Blanquette is served in a pile in the middle of a dish, whilst a fricassee is arranged round the sides. A Blanquette of Veal can be made of the breast, or shoulder, or neck. In the following recipe, which was given by a noted French chef, the fillet is used, and beef is added to give nourishment and flavour. Put two pounds of beef and three pounds of cut-up fillet of Veal into three pints of water, with a few scraps of chicken, a sliced carrot, a little turnip, and a very little salt. When the whole is half cooked make a roux of flour and butter, pour a little broth from the Blanquette on the roux, cook the roux for ten minutes on the fire, but do not allow it to boil. Add it to the Blanquette, which must only simmer, not boil. Simmer till the meat is thoroughly cooked. Take out the meat and keep the Veal only hot. Pass the sauce through a sieve into a clean stewpan, put the sauce again on the fire. Clear it from fat, reduce the quantity to two-thirds, stirring and skimming it all the time with a wooden spoon, lest the sauce