408 OMELETTES pound for two Omelettes, moisten it with a quarter of a pint of melted-butter sauce made with the salmon boilings—for cooked salmon is to be used. Moisten the salmon in the bain-marie, and add half of it, quite hot, but not boiling, to each Omelette. French chefs are very fond of serving Omelettes fourrees, or Omelettes lined with different preparations of fish, kidneys, chicken’s livers, foie gras, etc. These Omelettes are very neat in appearance, carefully dished, and elaborately garnished, but they cannot be light. In the Omelette fourree lightness is sacrificed to appearance, and a simple Omelette is infinitely preferable. SWEET OMELETTES. For these the second method of making an Omelette is infinitely superior to the first. Use a twelve-inch pan, as the Omelette, being very light and frothy, requires a roomy pan. Break three eggs one after the other, putting the yolks into one basin and the whites into another. Mix the yolks together with two forks. Whip the whites to a stiff froth. Add to the yolks one ounce of sugar and a few drops of lemon-juice. Melt an ounce of butter in the Omelette pan, and see that it covers the pan evenly all over, not leaving any dry spaces. The fire must not be too hot. When the butter ceases bubbling mix the yolks of the eggs quickly with the whipped whites, pour the whole into the pan, and smooth it over with the palette-knife. Keep the heat rather low, and let the Omelette alone for two minutes. Then detach the edges from the pan with the knife, and as soon as the under part of the Omelette is seen to be setting double it over and turn it into the hot dish. The dish should previously have been well dusted with sugar, and plenty of sugar should be dredged over the Omelette just as it is served. Sweet Omelettes are improved by glazing them with a proper Omelette glazing-iron whilst the lower part of the Omelette is setting; this turns the sugar on the surface to caramel, and makes the Omelette firmer. This is a simple Omelette Sucr&e. If an Omelette an Confiture is wanted melt four tablespoonfuls of either apricot jam or strawberry jam in a small stewpan, and