SOLES 73 Soles.—Soles are among tlie best, and tlie most expensive, of fish. They are to be had at all times, but lose much of their flavour in February, March, and April. Soles used to be found a foot or eighteen inches long, but owing to their wholesale destruction by trawlers it is now rare to find a Sole on our coasts more than twelve inches in length and eight ounces in weight. Soles like a sandy shore, and four out of the forty species of this fish are found on our coasts. These are Common Soles, Lemon Soles (coarser and yellow in colour), Variegated Soles (found on the South Coast), and Small Soles (which are only five inches long). “ Slips ” are young Soles. The skin of a boiled Sole is considered to be very nutritious and digestible. But it must be boiled in fish broth, not in water. Fried Sole.—The Sole must be well dried after it is cleaned, and a dredging of flour will complete the drying. Crumble some stale bread as small as you can in a napkin, set it in the oven to crisp but not to brown, pound the crumbs in a mortar, and pass them through a stiff wire-sieve. Put them on a plate in the oven to dry thoroughly. Beat up an egg with a teaspoonful of water and a teaspoonful of salad oil. Coat the Sole with this mixture of egg, laying it on with a brush like varnish, and then roll the Sole over and over in a napkin containing the dry crumbs. Let it rest and dry. When the Sole has become dry, crumb it a second time, using now pale yellowish-brown raspings of crust, sifted and pounded. Fry in plenty of really boiling oil or fat, or the Sole will be limp. It will take from ten to twelve minutes to fry. Drain it well. By following this method the Fried Sole will be found as different as possible from the flabby greasy object, covered with lumps of various sizes, which generally represents the “ Nice Fried Sole, Sir,” proffered as a matter of course by the hotel waiter. All fish to be egged and breadcrumbed should be prepared in this way. The best sauce for a Fried Sole is the real Dutch sauce, or beurre fondu, not to be confounded with melted butter or Hollandaise. For this, put two ounces of fresh butter into a small saucepan with half a saltspoonful of salt. Stir with a wooden spoon over the fire till the butter is half melted. Then take it off the fire, and let the butter sro on meltiner of o O