SOUPS 32 fold it over a sprig of thyme and a bay leaf, and tie the little bouquet with twine. Have a net ready for the vegetables. Now watch the stock-pot, increase the fire under it very gradually, and as soon as you see any scum rise skim it off with a wooden spoon. Go on increasing the heat, more at the sides of the stock-pot than under it, but do it as slowly as possible. Skim off the scum as often as you see any, and when the stock is nearly boiling throw in a coffeecupful of cold water. This will check the boil and make the scum rise more freely. Do this again and again till the surface of the stock is perfectly clear. Recollect that if the stock at this period is once allowed to boil it never can become clear soup. Wipe the edges of the stock-pot with a clean cloth. Now let the contents boil, and add the vegetables in their net. They will, of course, reduce the boiling, but it will soon begin again. When it does, reduce the heat, and let the stock-pot only simmer. Try the vegetables with a skewer, and lift out the net as soon as they and the herbs are done. If the vegetables are left to soak in the stock the stock will be spoilt. They must be put aside for further use. The stock-pot must now be allowed to simmer gently for about five hours. The meat will be cooked by that time, and although part of its goodness will have been extracted much nourishment remains. “ Boiling to rags ” is foolish as well as wasteful. When the meat is done, strain the soup into an earthenware basin, leave it to get cool. Then remove any fat, but never put away the broth with fat cooling on the surface. It cannot keep good if you do. As soon as the fat has settled remove the whole of it, melt it, strain it through muslin, and use it for frying. For straining soup a soup- straining stand is most useful, and quite inexpensive. But a kitchen chair turned upside down, with its seat above the seat of a similar chair, can be used. The tamis-cloth must be thoroughly scalded before it is used. If chairs are needed, tie the tamis-cloth round the legs of the uppermost chair, fastening it very tightly to them with string. Let the tamis-cloth bag a little in the middle, but see that it is tightly stretched at the sides. On the seat of the lower chair1 a basin must be put to receive the soup. Use a ladle, not a cup, and let the soup run very gently through the tamis-cloth. If the first few ladlefuls