55 SPLIT PEA SOUP FOR WINTER a "wire sieve, catching the puree in a soup-plate as you do so. Melt half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour at the bottom of a stewpan, mix them over the fire till quite smooth. Then gradually add the puree and the broth together until the soup is of the right thickness. Just before serving, and off the fire, add a little cream, or the raw yolk of one egg, or the yolk of an egg beaten up in warm milk. Fried sippets of bread and powdered dried mint should be handed, also fried minced lean bacon. The fresh vegetables may be omitted except the onion. A saltspoonful of celery seed does as well as the head of celery. Dried lentil soup can be cooked in the same way, using only the onion. Tongue Root Soup.'—(Family Recipe.)—Clean the tongue roots very well, put them into a deep pan with all sorts of soup herbs, and leave it till all the gravy is drawn out. Then fill the pan with boiling broth, or, if that cannot be, with boiling water. Season the soup with pepper and salt. Then take out any nice pieces, cut them small, and when the soup is strained add them to it. Boil up and serve. Soup for a Soup Kitchen.—This soup has been much approved of, so the recipe may be of use. Take three ox-cheeks, and three sheeps’ heads, and put them to soak in cold water all night. In the morning wash them thoroughly, and put them into the copper with fifteen gallons of water. Add two pounds of pearl barley, six carrots, six leeks or onions, four heads of celery, and a couple of turnips, if they are not old. Cut all the vegetables into inch pieces. Season to taste with pepper and salt. Bring to a gentle boil, and then let the soup simmer for seven hours. About half an hour before serving out put into the soup four quartern loaves that have been cut into pieces about an inch and a half square. (It is a mistake to soak the meat in cold water all night. It should be put on in cold water, slowly brought from cold to cool, cool to warm, warm to hot, and the vegetables added when the soup comes to the boil.) Soup for the Poor.—(Family Recipe.)—To each pound of neck of beef allow a quarter of a pound of rice, the same quantity of dried split peas, three onions, three carrots, any sort of