SIR HENRY THOMPSON’S DRY TOAST. 53i flabby inside, as toast is when put close to the fire according to the general custom. The bread for toast ought to be two days old. Buttered Toast.—Cut the slices half an inch thick, and toast rather more quickly than for dry toast. Spread the butter on quickly, being careful not to scrape the toast. Or melt the butter in a soup-plate over hot water and spread it with a brush. Never set a lump of butter on the toast and let it stand in the oven to melt, according to a lazy fashion which is only too common. Cut each slice into four, and serve in a hot-water dish. Brown bread toast should be cut thicker than white. Castle Howard Rolls.—(Family Recipe.)—Rub half a pound of butter into three pounds of flour, take three spoonfuls of yeast (or an ounce of Herman yeast), the yolks of two eggs, and as much milk as will wet the flour. Work the eggs and yeast into the flour with the milk just warm. Make the rolls of a middling size, and set them before the fire to rise. When risen, make the dough into little rolls, and put them on tins before the fire for a minute or two before you put them into the oven. The oven should be very hot and close. Twenty minutes will bake them. Hot Rolls.—For eight rolls of an ounce and a half each take eight ounces of fine flour, a quarter of an ounce of Yeatman’s baking powder, a saltspoonful of salt, and half an ounce of butter. Spread the flour in an enamelled pan, sprinkle the baking powder and salt over its surface, mix well, then rub the butter into it. Now begin to moisten by degrees with milk or buttermilk, working the dough with two wooden spoons. Nine tablespoonfuls of milk ought to be enough. When ready turn the dough out on a floured pastry-board, divide it into eight equal portions, pat them into a round shape with the spoons, and put them into eight buttered patty-pans on a baking sheet. Brush over the surfaces of the rolls with milk, and slip them into rather a brisk oven. In from twelve to fifteen minutes the rolls will have risen and taken a pale brown colour. Turn them out of the patty-pans, and serve in a hot napkin. [Wyvern.~\ French Rolls.—For six French Rolls exactly double the quantities given in the recipe for Hot Rolls, and add a well- M M 2