495 APPLE CHARLOTTE mould with, a brush. Cut some thin strips of white bread two inches wide and as long as the mould is high. If the mould narrows, narrow the strips of bread so that they may fit. Cut more slices of bread to fit the top of the mould neatly. Melt some butter in a soup-plate over hot water, and dip the slices of bread into it, dust them all over with sugar, putting plenty of sugar on the edges. Fit the strips of sugared bread close to each other in the mould so as to line it completely. Put in the mai’malade, cover the bottom neatly with slices of bread. Put a plate with a weight on the mould to keep the marmalade in place. Bake till the bread is crisp, and a pale brown. It will probably take three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. Be very careful in turning the Apple Charlotte out. Hand castor sugar, and cream if liked. The difficulty in an Apple Charlotte is to know when it is just enough baked. French cooks do not use a mould at all, but a stewpan of the proper size. They surround the pan with hot charcoal, and keep hot charcoal on the lid, lifting the lid occasionally to see if the bread is turning brown. Many cooks cut a round of bread instead of slices for the top and bottom of the mould, and cut small round pieces for the sides, making them just overlap each other at the edges like the scales of a fish. The bread should not be thicker than that cut for thin bread and butter. Scotch Pineapple.—Peel some large oranges and apples of the same size. Cut the oranges in rounds across, using only slices nearly the same size. Make pyramids of alternate slices of orange and apple, sprinkling the orange slices with a few drops of brandy, and dusting the apple slices with sugar. Finish each pyramid with the piece left at the top of the orange. Remove the pips. Snow Cheese.—(Family Recipe.)—Take a pint of cream, a teacupful of sherry, three lumps of sugar rubbed on the rind of a lemon, the juice of the lemon, and the white of one egg. Beat all till it becomes a stiff froth, adding, if liked, a little more sugar. Lay a piece of gauze on an open-wove sieve, let the Snow Cheese stand on this all night to drain, and turn it carefully upon the dish. Apple Meringue.—(Family Recipe.)—Make a marmalade like that for Apple Charlotte, and a custard as on page 489.