526 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES fal: A pint of Flour weighs fourteen ounces. A quart (or half- quartern) weighs one pound and three-quarters, and will make a loaf weighing two pounds and three ounces. A quartern (or quarter of a stone, or half-gallon) weighs three pounds and a half, and will make a quartern loaf weighing four pounds and six ounces. A gallon (or half-stone) weighs seven pounds, and makes eight pounds and three-quarters of bread. A stone (or peck) weighs fourteen pounds, and makes seventeen pounds and a half of bread. Two pecks are equal to half a bushel; a bushel contains fifty-six pounds of flour, and makes seventy pounds of bread. A sack of flour contains five bushels. Fifty- four pounds of bread baked at home is an ample weekly allowance for eight persons. Everything used in making bread must be scrupulously fresh and clean. If the dough is left half-made or allowed to get cold the hread will be spoilt. To make a quartern of flour into two loaves, each weighin-g nearly two pounds and a quarter : Put the flour into a deep earthenware pan which is perfectly dry and free from dust, and deep enough to be not much more than half filled by the quantity of flour. This will give room for kneading, and will allow for the rising of the dough. Take a strong wooden spoon and make a hollow in the middle of the flour, but do not go down to the bottom or the sponge (that is, the thin batter in which the yeast grows) will stick to the bottom of the pan. Put the German yeast into a large basin, and mix it to a smooth cream, adding by degrees a dessert- spoonful of fine salt, and a pint of water. The temperature of the water must be settled by adding one part of boiling water to two parts of cold. A little milk is often considered to improve the bread; this also must be lukewarm. Add the liquid to the yeast by degrees, stirring till perfectly mixed. If you neglect this the bread will be full of large holes. Pour the yeast into the hole in the flour, and stir into it as much of the flour lying round as will make a pool of batter as thick as cream. If there are any lumps beat them out with the wooden spoon. Strew plenty of the flour on the pool, throw a thick clean cloth over the pan, and set it on a chair so that it is raised from the floor. Put it in a warm place, out of the draught,