276 TO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME same of salt if required. After bringing to the boil put the sauce into the bain-marie without straining, and when on the point of serving stir into it a tablespoonful of cream. \Wyvern.'\ Chaudfroid of Bordeaux Pigeons. —Stuff them as for stewing with mushrooms, braise them in broth till quite tender. Let them get cold, glaze them with the reduced broth. Cut each in half, and arrange round a centre of chopped aspic jelly. Bordeaux Pigeons are in season for some months from the beginning of January. SMALL BIRDS. Quail are drawn unlike other birds. Pluck them very gently, singe them with a wax taper, then make an opening at the back of the neck, draw out the crop by gently pulling at the head of the Quail, but leave the trail inside the bird. Some cooks, however, remove the trail in the usual way. Truss Quail for roasting, but cover each bird first with a fresh vine leaf and then with a thin slice of fat bacon, so that only the ends of the legs are exposed to the full force of the fire. The Quail will take from eight to twelve minutes to roast, and must be continually basted with melted butter. Quail should be trussed on a skewer, and roasted side by side. They are best served quite plain on squares of crisp toast, with brown gravy and breadcrumbs handed. The toast should be spread with all the butter and gravy which drips from the Quail while basting. Quail can be cooked in a variety of ambitious ways, and boned and elaborately stuffed, but they are never better than when plainly served as above. For the brown gravy see page 281. Plover.—Plover are not drawn. Fasten bacon over the breasts, and roast for ten or twelve minutes, basting all the time with butter. When the birds begin to turn brown put a square of buttered toast under each, (the toast must be freshly made), and let it catch the butter and gravy from the basting during the last five minutes of the cookiug. If the toast remains longer in the dripping-pan it will be sodden. Serve each Plover on its toast, and hand brown gravy.