SHRIMP TOASTS TI7 Shrimp Toasts.—These are almost as good a savoury as Shrimp Fritters. Pick and pound the Shrimps and Shells as for Prawn Butter. Then for a quarter of a pint of picked Shrimps take a tablespoonful of butter and melt it in a small saucepan over a low fire. Put in the Shrimps and stir them about for some minutes so that they may absorb the butter. Lay them on hot fried toasts, over which the pounded extract of the shells has been first spread. Dust over with Nepaul pepper, and a little mace if liked—the Shrimps are generally salt enough—and serve quickly. The remains of Lobster or Crab can be used in the same way. Curry of Prawns or Shrimps.—Allow a heaped-up table- spoonful of picked Shrimps for each person. Serve the Curry either in shells or in little cases made of pastry. The quanti- ties given are for six small shells. Melt half an ounce of butter in a stewpan over a low fire, fry in it a dessertspoonful of finely-minced shallot. (Minced onion can be substituted if the flavour of shallot is too strong.) Let this colour nicely, then add a dessertspoonful of curry powder and a small teaspoonful of curry paste, and cook slowly with the butter and onion. Stir for five or six minutes, keeping the fire very low, then put in the Shrimps and two tablespoonfuls only of broth or milk. How let the contents of the pan fry very gently, continually stirring to prevent catching and to encourage absorption. When the Shrimps are all separated from each other, all moisture absorbed, and a sort of powderiness obtained, they are ready. Have the shells or cases heated, pile the Shrimps in each, and serve at once. To make a real Wyvern curry a heaped-up teaspoonful of grated cocoanut and a saltspoonful of green ginger should be added with the curry powder and paste. But so many people dislike these ingredients that I have omitted them. Shrimp Sauce.—This is made like Lobster Sauce, using- plenty of Shrimps, say half a pint. Prawn Salad with Cucumber.—Cut up and cook three dozen fillets of cucumber. Stop cooking them as soon as you can pass a trussing needle into each fillet easily, and drain them on a sieve. Let them get quite cold, and cut them into quarter-inch squares. Pick twelve large prawns