85 “ WYVERN’S ” HADDOCK cold water, bring slowly to the boil, then add three ounces of onion, one of celery, a bunch of parsley, some herbs, and mignonette pepper; simmer till the broth is good, then strain and skim it. Choose a saute-pan with an upright rim, put in the broth with a claretglass of chablis or sauterne, and bring it to the boil. Now put in the two pieces of fish, let the broth return to the boil after their immersion, and then reduce the heat to simmering. In about eight minutes they will be done. Take them out with a slice, and lay them upon a hot dish, covering them up. Make a roux in a saucepan of half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour to half a pint of broth, pour the broth on it, and, as it is working, add by small pieces at a time half a gill of freshly made shrimp puree. For this, pick, pound and pass through a sieve a quarter of a pint of cooked shrimps, and simmer them till tender in broth. Reduce to the quantity required. When all is thoroughly amalgamated and skimmed, pom’ it over the pieces of fish through a pointed strainer, mask- ing them nicely. Haddock in a Mould.—Make the broth as for Wyvern’s Haddock, adding to it, off the fire and after it has been thickened, the yolk of a raw egg. Pound the flesh of the Haddock in a mortar, moistening it with a spoonful or two of the broth. When well pounded, pass the fish through the sieve, and add to it half its bulk of white breadcrumb that has been soaked in milk. Pound all together, moisten slightly with the broth and two well-beaten eggs, seasoning with spiced pepper. When well mixed, butter a plain pudding-mould, fill it with the mixture, and poach it “ au bain-marie,” that is, place it one-third deep in boiling water, watch it come again to the boil, then lower the fire and steam as you would a pudding, closely covered, for three-quarters of an hour. Turn out on a hot dish, and pour over the mould any remains of the broth. Or shrimp sauce may be added. Dried Haddocks.—There are three sorts of Dried Haddocks —Pale Haddocks, Smokies, and Finnan Haddocks. Pale Had- docks are split, and very slightly smoked. Smokies are only half split, tied in pairs by the tails, and thoroughly smoked. “ Finnan ” Haddocks were originally cured at Findon, a small village lying at the head of a rock-bound creek eight miles