TWENTY HOMELY DISHES 226 salt, and chopped parsley. Arrange the liver and bacon in alternate slices on a hot dish, put the flour in the frying-pan with a minced shallot and a squeeze of lemon juice, let this warm up and pour it through a strainer into the hot dish in the centre of the liver and bacon. Liver must be used quite fresh, or it will be dry and leathery. If it is fried too much the flavour will be lost. Marrow Bones.—If the Marrow Bones are very long they must be sawn in half. Cover the end of each bone with a stiff paste of flour and water, using plenty of flour. This paste is to prevent the Marrow from escaping from the bone whilst being cooked. Tie a cloth over each bone, and put the bones in a roomy saucepan filled with boiling salted water. Let the Marrow Bones boil for three hours. Take them out of the saucepan, remove the cloth, and all the paste, and pin a clean napkin round each bone or half bone. Send the Marrow Bones up on a hot dish, and send up dry toast in a toast rack. See that a proper Marrow Spoon is provided to help the Marrow. The Marrow Bones should be served upright. Pease Pudding1.—Tie up one pint of dried split Peas as loosely as possible in a clean cloth. Put them in a saucepan of cold water on the fire, bring to the boil, and boil them for at least two hours. Then rub the Peas through a sieve, and mix with them half an ounce (or an ounce) of butter, a sliced onion, pepper and salt. Now tie up the Pease Pudding as tightly as possible in a well-floured pudding cloth, and boil it for one hour. If any of the Pease Pudding is left use it to thicken and flavour broth. Pease Pudding used to be served only with pork, but it is good in winter with any meat. Lentils and Haricot Beans can be cooked in the same way. The Dried Green Peas from Italy make a much better Pease Pudding than the common split peas. Spinach colouring should be used for it. Suet Pudding-.—In using Suet for any dish two things are absolutely essential; first that the Suet should be perfectly hard and dry, and then that it should be minced as finely as possible. Nothing is more disagreeable and nothing more common than to find solid lumps of suet in stuffing, or in mince-pies, or in any dish which contains it. To mince Suet, first shave it with a sharp knife into the thinnest possible shavings, then dust these with flour, and arrange them in a ridge along your chopping-