ORANGE-FLOWER OMELETTE SOUFFLEE 493 Break the yolks into a clean basin. Put the whites by them- selves into a second basin and whisk them to a stiff froth. Stir the yolks with a wooden spoon for fully twenty minutes, adding powdered sugar gradually, and adding also a dessertspoonful and half of orange-flower water. Then add the whites very carefully, little by little. Do not use a souffle dish, as that is too deep, but use a fire-proof dish, butter it well, and put a tall paper l’im round the edge. The paper must be three inches above the edge of the dish. The mixture should fill only three- quarters of the dish when put in. Sprinkle pounded ratafias over the top. In a moderate oven this Omelette Soufflee will rise to the top of the paper rim when it is baked. It should quite set at the top outside, but when it is helped with a table- spoon it should inside be more like thick custard. Serve straight from the oven. Omelette Soufflee au Fromag’e.—Put into a saucepan three ounces of butter half melted, and four yolks of egg, season with black pepper, and a pinch of nutmeg (if liked). Turn the whole to a custard over a low fire, carefully avoiding boiling. When it is quite smooth take it off the fire, mixing into it three and a half ounces of grated Parmesan. It should now be worked smoothly, and the whipped whites of two of the eggs having been added as a last touch the mixture should be poured into a tin, set in the oven on a wire drainer, and baked for eighteen or twenty minutes. \_Wyvern.~\ USEFUL SWEET DISHES. Mincemeat for Mince Pies.—(Family Betipe.)—One pound of well-washed and picked currants, one pound of stoned raisins, one pound of finely-minced suet, a quarter of a pound of sugar, six ounces of candied peel, the juice and the grated rind of two lemons, and three-quarters of a pint of brandy. Mix all thoroughly together, put the mincemeat into a three-pound covered jar, and keep it in a dry place. Always have the mincemeat ready by Stir-up Sunday, and it will then be fit to use at Christmas. Bake in little tins the shape of a manger, with puff paste over and under the mincemeat.