179 MUTTON CHOPS Mutton Chops.—Mutton Chops are cut from the loin, and most of the fat should be trimmed off. Make the bars of the gridiron hot and either butter them well or rub them with some of the mutton suet. Have a very clear fire, and put the Chop on the gridiron with cutlet-tongs. Turn the Chop six times, always using the tongs. It will take twelve minutes to cook. Have ready a hot-water plate with a cover, put the Chop on, and serve at once. Pepper and salt to be added when the Chop is eaten. Mutton Chop fop one Person.—(Family Recipe.)—Prepare the Chop like the Beef-steak for one person. Put it on a plate with one tablespoonful of cold water and cover the plate with another exactly the same size. Put it into a slow oven for at least an hour. When the Chop is cooked the top plate should be turned to the bottom, so that the Chop is kept hot to the last, and has never been disturbed. Put the plates on a napkin on a tray, and serve with pepper and salt. Mutton Cutlets.—Mutton Cutlets are cut from the best end of the neck, and should be very neatly divided and trimmed. Prepare the neck of mutton by sawing off the chine bone, then saw the row of neck bones evenly to a short length, and cut off the flap. Take a very sharp knife, and divide the row of cutlets down to the bone with one clean decided cut between each of them. If the knife is not very sharp you will hack and not make a clean cut. Then sever them one by one with a single light stroke of the chopper. Slightly wet the chopping-board and lay the cutlets on it, beat each cutlet a few times with the cutlet-bat dipped in cold water. This will make the meat spread out a little, and care must be taken to keep the cutlets a good shape. The cutlets must not be trimmed until this is done. Now trim off the skinny parts, and all superfluous fat, leaving only a very narrow rim of fat. Put the knife ip at the point where the solid meat ceases, cut in a slanting direction down to the bone, and strip the bone quite clear to the tip. Scrape the bone till it is perfectly clean. Trim each cutlet thus in turn. Then cut the bones to an equal length with the chopper; if you are not sure of your hand put the chopper on the right spot and give the back a good knock with the rolling-pin. Cutlets ought to be four inches long, and two inches broad in the middle; the thick