TO MAKE STOCK 33 < look cloudy, pour the contents of the basin very slowly back into the tamis-cloth and let them run through again. There ought not to be any “ eyes ” of fat left on the soup, but, if there are any, draw them off with strips of tissue paper. The above quantities will make clear soup for eight people. For a party of ten or twelve allow two pounds and a half of beef, three-quarters of a pound of broken bones, and sixpenny- worth of fowl giblets. Add two ounces weight to each vegetable, and one ounce of celery. The flavour of the celery would overpower everything else if more were used, and it is important that the taste of no particular vegetable should predominate. If three quarts of soup are needed allow three pounds of meat, one pound of bone, ten ounces of carrots, onions, and turnips, fourteen ounces of leeks, two ounces of parsnip, and one ounce of celery. Use leeks if possible, but if they cannot be got allow five ounces more onion. The usual allowance of soup is a quarter of a pint for each guest, but at home dinners gentlemen generally like half a pint. Clarifying- Soup.—If the soup has been kept simmering- at a temperature of from 170° to 180°—boiling point being 212° —and if it has been thoroughly skimmed and carefully strained, it ought to be clear. But it is often the case that clarifying is needed. It is a great mistake to do this with white of egg only, as the soup loses flavour in consequence. The proper way is to use raw meat mixed with the whole of a raw egg, being careful not to use any of the shell. Take a pound of freshly killed raw beef, chop it up, and pass it through the mincing machine. Carefully remove all fat, gristle, and sinew. Put the meat into a basin, and break the egg into it. Add two tablespoonfuls (one ounce) of the cold broth, and whisk all together to a pulp. Do not add any vegetables or herbs. The meat ought to be very finely minced; it may require to pass through the machine a second time. Now put the cold soup which you wish to clear on the gas-stove, stir in the whisked pulp of meat and egg, and go on stirring till the soup is just beginning to boil. Draw the pan gently, and without shaking it, to the side of the stove, and let the soup settle, whilst simmering over gentle heat for one hour. Then D