207 SALTED MEAT preparation, if brushed over the meat when it is dried from the pickle, really gives the flavour of the old-fashioned chimney curing. A good brine, sufficient for twenty pounds of beef, is made by mixing together three pounds of salt, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre. Boil these for twenty minutes in two gallons of water, skimming off all scum. Then let it get quite cold before you pour it over the Beef. For a small piece of Beef the quantities can be easily reduced, following the same proportions. A good test of brine is to try if an egg will float in it. If the egg sinks the brine is not strong enough ; if on the contrary the egg floats, the brine is right. Of course Beef can be bought ready salted, but butchers are apt to make it too salt. A small piece of brisket for Pressed or Spiced Beef is easily salted at home. If the brine described above is used the Beef will be ready in a fortnight, having been turned every day and well basted with the brine. The salting pan or tub must be covered with a clean piece of tamis-cloth or other porous material. The same brine can be used repeatedly, provided that it is boiled up occasionally, skimmed, and a little salt and saltpetre added to revive its strength. The juices extracted from the meat weaken the brine, as well as the loss from its combination with the meat. In cooking Salted Meat two things must be recollected. First, that in order to make it tender, all Salted Meat must be put on the fire in cold water. And, secondly, that it is next to impossible to cook Salted Meat too slowly. If, as in the Family Recipe for a Round of Beef, the meat is covered with broth instead of water, the broth must be as nearly cold as it can be to be liquid. COLD MEAT. Spiced Round Of Beef.—(Family Recipe.)—Procure a round of beef weighing from thirty-five to forty pounds ; remove the bone and lay the beef in a stone pan. Well rub into the beef all over (not omitting the sides of the round as well as the top and bottom), a mixture made of four pounds of salt, two pounds of coarse brown sugar, a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, and two ounces of sal prunella. Turn the beef every day, and well rub into it the brine which it makes. Let it remain in pickle for one