BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 527 but not in front of the fire. The yeast-plant requires gentle warmth to make it grow, but heat kills it at once. Look at the sponge from time to time ; probably in half an hour it will be seen to ferment—that is, the yeast will have broken through the flour in its growth and given off large bubbles of the carbonic acid gas, which has the effect of lightening the bread. When this is the case the sponge is ready to be made up into dough. Put the pan on a table of convenient height for you to knead. Pour into the sponge a little more lukewarm water, or milk and water, probably half a pint. Do not make the dough too moist. Stir in as much of the flour as you can with the spoon. Then take plenty of the remaining flour, throw it on the top of the sponge, and knead it steadily and firmly with the knuckles of both hands. Do not work quickly, but steadily. Keep throwing up the flour which lies under and over the dough on to the top. When it ceases to stick to the pan or to your hands it will be sufficiently kneaded. When the flour is nearly all kneaded into the dough begin to draw the edges towards the middle, in order to mix the whole thoroughly, and go on kneading it all over with your knuckles, pressing them well into and over the dough, and turning it constantly from one side of the pan to the middle. It is impossible to say exactly how long the kneading will take ; probably half an hour. When all the flour is worked in, and the outside of the dough is clear from the pan, and free from any lumps, cover the pan with the cloth, and leave it to rise, putting it, as before, in a warm, but not a hot, place. Look at it in three-quarters of an hour. If the dough has swollen to nearly twice its original size, and if it has begun to crack, it will be fit to bake. Set it on a pastry board, and with a large sharp knife divide the dough in half. It ought to be full of little holes like a sponge. Dust a little flour on the pastry board, and shape the loaves by working the two pieces of dough quickly between your hands without raising the dough from the board. Press the dough slightly as you work it. Hold each loaf in your left hand, and draw the edge of a knife just round the middle of the dough without cutting deep into it. Make a criss-cross cut or two over the top, as the loaves will x'ise the better for it. Make up the dough into loaves as lightly