SOME FOREIGN RECIPES 552 it out as thin as possible. Fold it over, and cut it into strips one inch long and two inches wide, fold the two ends one over the other, and fry a golden colour. Sprinkle powdered sugar over the Nastrini. For the sauce: Put into a pan the juice of two large oranges, a tumbler of water, the grated peel of one orange, one ounce of powdered sugar, and an ounce of butter well rolled in flour. Stir over a slow fire for ten or twelve minutes, and just as you take it off stir in the juice of one Seville orange. This sauce is served in Italy, hot or cold, with all kinds of fritters. Polenta.—Have ready a pint of boiling salted water, and drop into it by degrees one pound of ground Indian corn with one hand, whilst with the other you stir the Polenta without stopping till it is a smooth firm paste. Turn it out on a flat dish to cool. When quite cold cut it into pieces half an inch thick and an inch long. Put them in layers on a fire- proof dish, sprinkling each layer thickly with grated cheese, and pouring a little melted butter over each layer. Set the dish in a slow oven till quite hot, and serve as it is, garnished with sausages. Polenta is made like oatmeal porridge, but much more solid. Italians eat it fried in oil, or toasted crisply as a garnish for such dishes as stewed pigeons. If Polenta is to be eaten like porridge allow a pint and half of boiling water to a pound. Mix the Polenta in gradually, stirring all the while. It will take ten minutes to cook. Russian Supper Dish.—Use either cooked chicken or fish minced small, and let it marinade in mayonnaise sauce for a few hours. Whip aspic jelly to a froth, put a layer of it in a souffle dish, then a layer of meat, and so on. Fasten a band of paper round the top of the dish, and whip plenty of aspic so that when set it will rise above the dish. Set it on ice, and take off the paper when ready to serve. If fish is used make the aspic of fish glaze. The aspic must be whisked till it is very frothy. Norwegian Rugrod.—Put three and a half pints of cran- berry juice into an enamelled pan with two pints of water, sugar, and some blanched and chopped almonds. Bring it to the boil> and then stir in a pound of fine sago. Boil for fifteen minutes, stirring all the while. Pour into wetted moulds, and serve cold with milk, or cream handed in a jug.