ROAST SIRLOIN OF BEEF 171 if any of the flour fell into the clripping-pan it would thicken and spoil the gravy. The flour gives a brown frothy surface to the meat. Draw the joint nearer the fire at the last, so as to secure a crisp surface, and serve the moment you take it off the roasting-jack. These are the rules for English roasting of all joints. Constant basting is of the greatest importance, and there ought to be broth always available from the stock-pot. Ribs Of Beef.—In roasting Ribs of Beef it is a good plan to hang the thick part upwards till three-parts done. Be careful to hang the thick part so as to get most of the heat of the fire, and to tie buttered paper over the fat. When three-parts done, hang the joint the other way upwards till it is cooked. If the joint is large, say fourteen pounds, allow three hours and a half for cooking it; a little more if it is a thick joint. Yorkshire Pudding’.—Yorkshire Pudding, with grated horseradish and horseradish sauce, either hot or cold, is always served with Roast Beef. It can only be made in perfec- tion when the batter can be put in a tin which receives the dripping from the roasting joint. Put half a pound of flour in a basin, make a hole in the middle, and break into it two whole eggs. Stir very smoothly round and round with a wooden spoon, adding by degrees about a pint of milk, or enough to make a smooth consistent batter. Let the tin become coated with the drippings from the meat. Pour in the batter, let it brown and set at the top, then turn it over with a knife so that both sides are done. Serve the Yorkshire Pudding cut in squares on a napkin. If, however, this method cannot be fol- lowed, the batter should be poured into a tin which has been buttered with quite an ounce of butter, and baked a light bright brown in the oven. Under the meat Yoi'ksliire Pudding will take three-quarters of an hour. For baking allow twenty minutes in a quick oven. Fillet Of Beef.—If the Fillet is taken from the Sirloin it can be plainly roasted, and sent up with a garnish of spaghetti or macaroni stewed in gravy. Five ounces of macaroni will be a sufficient quantity. Or the Fillet can be braised. For this use a fire-proof stew- pan, or a marmite, with a cover. Copper stewpans do not answer for slow cooking. The stewpan must have a cover.