497 COLD DISHES OF FRUIT. Macedoine Of Fruit.—(Family Recipe.)—Pat three lamps of sugar and the thinly-pared rind of half a lemon into a quarter of a pint of water, and boil it for ten minutes. Then add twelve raspberries if possible; if not, add the juice of the half lemon. Let it boil up, skim it, and set it on ice till quite cold. Then add a dessertspoonful of brandy. Put all sorts of fruit, especially red currants, into a china bowl. Currants must be freed from stalks, cherries stoned, raspberries and currants picked, and peaches and apricots stoned and quartered. Crack the stones, peel the kernels, and add them to the fruit. Set the bowl on ice till wanted. Ten minutes before serving pour the cold syrup gently over the fruit. The Macedoine must be perfectly cold. If there is an old punch ladle use it for helping the Macedoine. German Kalte Schale (Cold Dish).—This is a sort of cold fruit soup, served in Germany in the place of ordinary soup during the summer. But here it is much liked as a form of macedoine, either at luncheon or at afternoon parties. Strawberries, Raspberries, or Cherries can be used. For the two first rub the fruit through a hair sieve, and add to the juice a bottle of Moselle and an equal quantity of water. Sweeten the fruit slightly. Have ready two dozen fine straw- berries or raspberries which have been rolled in sugar and set on ice. Put the Kalte Schale into a china bowl, set it on ice till wanted, and at the last moment drop the whole fruit in one by one, so that they float on the surface. For Cherries proceed in the same way, only using claret instead of Moselle. Stone all the cherries, boil the kernels, and rub them through the sieve with the fruit. The whole cherries added at the last must be stoned, but their stalks can be left on. Orange Kalte Schale is popular in winter. For this rub the rind of an orange upon as many lumps of sugar as may be liked ; probably about six will be enough. Put the sugar into the china bowl, pour on it a bottle of Moselle and an equal quantity of water, and let the sugar melt. Peel and quarter three or four oranges, remove the white part and the pips, and roll the quarters in sugar. Squeeze the juice of two oranges and one lemon through a cloth K K