PIGEON PIE 235 .the addition of a sheep’s foot, and any scraps of meat. If it is to be vei'y good, add a pound of gravy beef, and half a pound of leanisb cooked bacon. Rabbit Pie.—Take a fine rabbit, a pound of gravy beef, and half a pound of bacon. Skin and wash the rabbit, cut it up as for a stew, and put the pieces to soak in cold water. When quite clean, drain them, wipe them dry with a clean cloth, and set them aside. Put the bead, the neck, and lower joints of the legs (well broken up), and all scraps of the rabbit, with the beef and the usual flavourings into a large saucepan to make the gravy. When this is made and skimmed, make the turkey stuffing as on page 202, only using half the quantities given, and adding the liver and kidneys of the rabbit, with, if possible, four ounces of cold cooked veal or chicken, all very finely pounded. Pass this through the sieve, and spread a thin layer of the forcemeat thus made at the bottom of the pie-dish. Immediately above it put a layer of bacon slices, then the coarser joints of the rabbit, dusting them with herb pepper, and filling the spaces with the forcemeat. Put a second layer of bacon over the rabbit, and rabbit again above that. Repeat the forcemeat filling, and when the pie-dish is full lay a few slices of bacon on the top, and moisten with half a pint of the bi’oth. Add hard-boiled eggs, cover the pie, and bake one hour and a quarter. \_Wyvern.~\ This will be found quite unlike the insipid Rabbit Pie generally served. Eg’g’ and Bacon Pie.—(jFamily Recipe.)—Line a pie-dish with puff paste. Make a plain custard with egg and milk beaten up with pepper and salt. Put slices of cold boiled streaky bacon at the bottom of the dish, then a layer of custard, then bacon, and so on till the dish is full. Pepper each layer of custard well. Bake with a paste over the pie, and sexwe cold. French Pie.—Cut up two pounds of lean veal, the same of bacon, and of lean pork, in very thin slices. Place them in layers in a fire-proof pie-dish. Moisten with stock and chop up a little herb and very little onion, and put it between the slices of meat. Cover with a sham crust of flour and water. Take all the cuttings, parings, bones, etc., cook these in water or weak stock, and reduce to a large teacupful.