TOASTS AND SAVOURIES 5J4 before kidneys are cooked, in order to remove the strong taste inseparable from them.) Lift the kidneys out and dry them in a cloth. Make half a pint of strong gravy out of bones and scraps, add half an ounce of glaze, and stew the kidneys in it till they are tender, seasoning it with a teaspoonful of mixed sweet herbs, a saltspoonful of salt, and the same of mignonette pepper. Take the kidneys out, drain them, and pour the gravy through a fine strainer into a bowl. Cut up the kidneys, pound them to a paste with some butter, and pass through the hair sieve. When ready, skim any fat off the gravy. Melt a dessertspoonful of butter at the bottom of a medium-sized saucepan, stir into it a dessertspoonful and a half of flour ; when it is creamy add by degrees alternately a tablespoonful of the gravy and one of the kidney paste until all the paste is used. Flavour the puree with one dessertspoonful of Marsala, a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, one of anchovy vinegar, a few drops of cbili vinegar, and half a teaspoonful of red-currant jelly. Let all thicken properly by coming to the boil, and spread the puree on four toasts. Serve very hot. Cold cooked kidneys can be prepared in the same way, only they do not require stewing before they are cut up. The half-pint of brotb is, of course, essential. Game Toasts.—Prepare these exactly like Kidney Toast, only making the brotb with pounded game bones and scraps instead of meat trimmings. Many people -would omit the vinegar in the flavouring. In all Meat or Game Purees the mixture should be reduced till it is thick enough to rest upon the toasts and not to flow over into the dish. Vegetable Toasts.—Almost all vegetables can be worked up into good purees, and served plainly on hot toasts. Or they may be spread on anchovy toasts, with or without buttered eggs above them. Such vegetables as sprigs of cauli- flower, or artichoke bottoms, can be warmed in veloute sauce or poulette sauce before they are laid on the toasts, or savoury custard may cover them. Many Vegetable Toasts are improved by the addition of a little grated cheese. Cold cooked French beans are good cut into thin sti’ips, and moistened with Soubise sauce. Sauce Milanaise is suited to man}* Vegetable Toasts.