75 FILLETS OF SOLE WITH SHRIMPS Fillets of Sole with Shrimps.—Fillet a large Sole, and make a good broth with the bones and trimmings. Mince, not too finely, half a pint of picked shrimps, and season them with pepper and a very little salt. Lay the fillets on a board, brush their upper sides with white of egg, and spread over each a coating of the mince after having moistened it with a quarter of a pint of white sauce made with the fish broth and thickened with a raw egg. Roll up the fillets and poach them in the remaining broth to set the farce. Let them get cold. Then lightly flour them, fry them, and serve with pats of shrimp butter. (See page 116.) [Wyvern.~\ Fillets of Sole D’Orly.—Anything cooked D’Orly is dipped in batter before frying. Let the fillets soak for two hours in a marinade made of the juice of a lemon, a little pepper and salt, and two tablespoonfuls of salad oil. Turn them now and then. Drain and wipe the fillets, dip them in frying batter, and fry in plenty of boiling oil or suet till they are a nice golden colour. Drain and dry the fillets, dust over with salt, and serve piled on a hot napkin. Many people dislike sauce with batter, but Wyvern recommends this sauce, to be handed in a boat. Break up all the bones and trimmings of the Sole, and with them make half a pint of good fish broth. Thicken this with half an ounce of butter and the same of flour, stir in a four-ounce tomato cut up small, boil up with the fish broth, season with pepper and salt, and pass the whole through a hair sieve. Warm up and finish with the yolk of an egg, and a dessertspoonful of finely-minced chervil. Boiled Sole.—A pat of maitre d’hotel butter is a great addition to a Sole boiled in fish broth. For this, take two ounces of the firmest and best butter to be had (in warm weather it must be iced), add to it the juice of one lemon, one dessertspoonful of minced parsley which has been pressed free from all moisture, a pinch of white pepper, and a pinch of salt. Form into pats with the butter bat, and then set on ice. When the Sole is served send up a pat of this butter melting upon it. Sole au Four, or Sole from the Dutch Oven. —Remove the dark skin from the underpart of the Sole, and on that side make an incision a quarter of an inch deep down each side of