473 PUDDINGS over. Eggs must be broken separately into a cup, so as to see tbat eacb is good. A doubtful egg will ruin any Pudding. When eggs are scarce choose one of the numerous Puddings which can be made without them. The Butter must be of the best. Good salt Butter can be used for very common Puddings, but it requires soaking under a tap and then well working and press- ing in a clean cloth to remove the salt. Milk must either be fresb or skimmed. At the end of twelve hours new milk throws up a surface of cream, and the two can never be mixed together again. If skimmed milk is used the addition of a teaspoonful of minced suet will replace the loss of the cream. But cream and skimmed milk must be dealt with separately. Sugar.—Be most careful not to put in too much. Puddings are generally too sweet, and sugar can easily be added when the Pudding is being eaten if more is liked. Moist sugar can be used for many Puddings, but castor sugar is required for all which are to be light. Raisins- must be freed from stalks, stoned, and slit in half. Every kitchen should have one of the new Raisin- stoners, for Raisins should be bought whole, as they do not keep when stoned. Sultanas are free from stones, but they have not the flavour and richness of Raisins. Currants are avoided by many people as they are absolutely indigestible, owing to the thickness and toughness of their skins. If used, Currants should be “ plumped ” by pouring boiling water upon them; they must then be washed in lukewarm water, dried in a cloth, and well rubbed to get rid of the stalks. After this, drop the Currants, a few at a time, on a baking-tin, so that a rattle will show if there are any stones among the fruit. Many a child has' broken a tooth by biting a stone carelessly left among Currants. If Currants are dried before the fire they will become hard. Candied Peel should be cut in thin strips, not minced. Baked Pudding’S.—Milk Puddings require only a moderate oven. If the rice, tapioca, or sago has been soaked as just described, all that is needed is to pour the mixture into the pudding-dish, taking care not to spill any of it on the edges of the dish, and to push it into the oven till the surface is nicelj browned. If there are eggs and milk in the Pudding too hot an oven would make them curdle. Baked Puddings of all