GIBELOTTE 295 Gibelotte.—Some -writers of cookery books imagine tbat Gibelotte is the French word for Giblets. The word has nothing to do with Giblets, but is the name for an excellent ragout of Rabbit, peculiar to France. Wyvern’s way of making it cannot be improved upon. Cut up the Rabbit for stewing, and put the pieces in a simple marinade composed of two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, four of red wine vinegar, an ounce of finely-chopped onion, twelve peppercorns, and six sprigs of parsley. Keep this in a cold place for twelve hours. When the time comes for cooking the Gibelotte, take a quarter of a pound of leanish bacon, cut it into dice, and fry them with half an ounce of butter in a stewpan till coloured. Now take out the bacon, and put in the pieces of Rabbit, let them fry in the butter and bacon fat for six minutes. Then return the bits of bacon, dredge an ounce of flour over the Rabbit, let this brown, and then cover the pieces with broth and a gill of Marsala. Season with pepper and salt, add a bouquet of sweet herbs, and bring to the boil for three minutes. Then add a clove of garlic (for English palates a shallot), and two dozen button onions. Simmer steadily till the Rabbit is cooked. Serve it neatly arranged on a dish with the onions round it. If mushrooms can be got, put a dozen buttons into the stew when the simmering commences. (This is a regular French dish.) Noisettes of Rabbit with Celery.—Take the flesh off the bones, and put it aside. Break up the bones, and put them into a stewpan with four ounces of onion, three ounces each of carrots, turnips, and leeks, a muslin bag containing a dessertspoonful of dried herbs, one ounce of celery, one of parsley, and seasoning of salt and mignonette pepper. Pour in sufficient cold water to cover well. Put the pan over a low fire, boil up, skim, and simmer for two hours. Strain off the broth, rinse out the stewpan, put the broth back into it, and bring it to the boil. Now put in the Rabbit cut into neat pieces, and three heads of young celery cut in half lengthwise; cover the pan, and simmer very gently for an hour and a quarter. By this time the Rabbit and celery should be done. Strain off the broth, arrange the Rabbit and celery on a hot dish and cover them up