172 BEEF French cooks put a slice of bacon at the bottom of the stew-pan, then the beef, and then another slice of bacon, and when the broth is added to the meat they add a tablespoonful of brandy. For the rest see Braising. Small Fillets of Beef. •—These are not taken from the Fillet belonging to the Sirloin, but are cut from a piece of the ramp. Trim the meat into ten or a dozen neat oval fillets, each three-quarters of an inch thick, three inches and a half long, and two and a half wide. They may be larded on one side (in which case French cooks call them Grenadins), or a slice of fat about the size of, and twice as thick as, half-a-crown may be laid between each. An excellent way of serving little Fillets of Beef is with mushrooms. In any case the Fillets should marinade (see page 151) for six or eight hours, or they will not be tender. Then drain and dry them, and arrange them, larded side uppermost, in a saute-pan with two ounces of butter, and fry, on the lower side only, for four minutes. Then moisten the Fillets with a pint of good broth—enough, that is to say, to come up level with their upper surface—add a tablespoonful of Marsala, and let them simmer for three-quarters of an hour upon a gentle fire, basting them with their own broth. When done, lift the Fillets out of the pan, put them in a line, over- lapping each other, in the centre of a well-heated good-sized oval dish, metal if possible, brush them over with glaze, and garnish with mushrooms. [ Wyvern. ] Or arrange the Fillets in an oval, and fill the centre with broiled mushrooms. For the sauce have ready the usual roux of an ounce of flour and an ounce of butter, stir the strained broth from the saute-pan into this by degrees, skim, flavour with a gill of broth made from the mushroom peelings and half an ounce of glaze, thicken, bring to the boil, and pass through a strainer into a hot sauce- boat. Or the Fillets can have a tiny pat of maitre d’h6tel butter melting on each, and a pile of fried potatoes in the middle, their own gravy being poured round them. Or they may be arranged on a border of carefully mashed potato. Beef-steaks.'—Beef-steaks should never be fried, as was the old-fashioned custom. They may be stewed, but they are infinitely better either broiled or jugged. Cut a piece of rump Steak three-quarters of an inch thick, and if possible cut it from a