395 FRIED EGGS AND BACON the next Egg. Broil or toast the rashers of Bacon over a clear fire, quite separate from the Eggs, but serve the Eggs and Bacon together in a very hot dish. Eggs fried thus are excellent served on toasts in any of the ways suggested for Poached Eggs. Egg'S SUr le Plat.—Butter a fire-proof dish with an ounce of butter well-seasoned with pepper and salt. Slip in two Eggs most carefully, not breaking the yolks. Dust more pepper and salt over the Eggs, set the dish on a wire drainer in the oven, and let the Eggs set in the butter as a poached Egg sets in water. The drainer will keep the Eggs from burning. When they are set, serve at once in the same dish. Eggs sur le plat can be varied in several ways. Minced herbs, or fines herbes, or a ravigote, can be sprinkled over the butter in the dish. Or the Eggs can be served aujus, broken into strong gravy before being put in the oven. Or minced meat may be spread over the buttered dish, moistened with melted glaze or broth, (or if liked white sauce), a quarter of an inch deep, and the dish then put in the oven till the Eggs are set. Serve Eggs sur le plat in the dish they have been cooked in. Eggs au Miroir are cooked in the same way, but they must be served in another dish, and the whites must be trimmed. Sprinkle salt over the whites only, and glaze the Eggs by pouring a teaspoonful of boiling melted butter over the yolks. Fricassee Of Eggs.—(Family Recipe.)—Boil the Eggs hard, cut them the long way into thin slices. Put them into a pan with a little butter and cream, some parsley cut small, a little salt, and a tablespoonful of white wine. Add a squeeze of lemon, and let it boil up all together till it is pretty thick. Eggs the Good Woman’s Way.—(Family Recipe, 1830.)— Fry a sliced onion in an ounce of butter till it is done, but not brown. Add a teaspoonful of flour and whisk them well together, and add as much cream as will make it a thick batter. Put it into a basin, and break in three Eggs, one at a time, using only the yolks. Work the Eggs into the batter, adding a little salt. Beat the whites of the Eggs to a strong froth, and stir them gently in. Have ready a plain mould lined with buttered paper, and as soon as the mixture is stirred together put it in. Bake for three-quarters of an hour, and pour bechamel sauce over when ready to serve.