ON PASTRY MAKING 457 a plate, and so on till all are done. Now clear away the superfluous dour, form the paste into an oblong piece as before, roll it out to about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and arrange over one half of it as many of the butter flakes as there is room for. Double the other half of the paste over these, press the edges together, roll out again, and repeat till all the butter is thus- used up. For Raised Pie Crust see page 236. Short Crust for Tarts.—Take a pound of flour, ten ounces of firm fresh butter, two ounces of sifted loaf sugar, two eggs, and a little milk. Mix together the flour, sugar, and a pinch of salt, with the butter; work this well, then add the two eggs well beaten, and lastly sufficient milk to form a pliant paste. When this has been done cover the paste with a cloth and let it remain in a cool place for half an hour. \Wyvern.'] If a simple icing is liked, moisten the paste with a little cold water as soon as the tart is covered and before it is baked, sift sugar thickly over it, and press it lightly on. Or, for a whiter icing, draw the tart from the oven when it is nearly baked, first brush it over with white of egg whisked to a froth, then sift plenty of sugar over it and finish with a few drops of water sprinkled over the crust. Put the tart back in the oven at once to finish baking. Another Short Crust, most useful for little savouries, is made of six ounces of flour, three ounces of butter, two yolks of egg, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and half a saltspoonful of salt. Mix as for Sweet Short Crust. See also the biscuits recommended for serving with Spinach, page 361. Pastry for Cheese Straws.—Take six ounces of flour, four of butter, three of grated cheese, a dust only of salt, cayenne pepper as may be liked, and for the above quantities two yolks of egg. Rub the butter into the flour, add the egg, but do not add any water. Mix the pepper thoroughly in. Do not actually roll the paste, but rather press it out into a strip a quarter of an inch thick and four inches wide. Cut strips of the paste the size of a straw, using a very sharp knife. Lay them on a buttered baking sheet, being careful in handling them, as they are very brittle. Bake in a slow oven till the straws are a pale fawn colour, and quite crisp. A teaspoonful of mustard flour is often considered