STEWED EELS io5 Stewed Eels.'—(Family Recipe.)—Cut the Eels into pieces about three inches long. Have ready some good broth, into ■which you have put a bunch of sweet herbs tied up in muslin, two anchovies, and a teacupful of white wine, such as Madeira. Take out the herbs before you put in the Eels. Let them stew gently fox' three-quarters of an hour in the broth. Just before yoxx serve them up put in a little cream, and thicken the broth a very little. I give these two x'ecipes exactly as they were written nearly a century ago. But in these days they might be modernised with the same excellent results. For, to quote from the “ Knight and the Lady Jane ” in the Ingoldsby Legends— “ If you chance to be partial to Eels, then—crede experto— trust one who has tried— Have them Spitchcock’d or Stew’d, they’re too oily when fried.” Conger Reis are sea fish, and range in size from twenty pounds to a very great weight. The turtle soup of many a restaurant and hotel is really made from Conger Eel. SHELL-FISH. The great drawback to the enjoyment of all kinds of Shell-fish is that it is impossible to kill them without cruelty. Lobsters, indeed, can be killed by running a long narrow- bladed knife diagonally into the tail at the third joint from the end, thus severing the spinal cord; and fishmongers have some method of killing Crabs. But as a rule all kinds of Shell-fish are either boiled alive or roasted alive. An ex- perienced and humane cook told me that she always put a good dash of vinegar into the boiling water with the Lobsters, for it “took their breath,” and, as she believed, killed them at once. All Shell-fish are best boiled in fresh sea-water, but if this cannot be had Lobsters and Crabs must be put into a quart of fast-boiling water with a teaspoonful of salt, and cooked for twenty or twenty-five minutes. (If cooked longer the flesh will be stringy.) To put “a fine lively lobster” into wai’m water and boil it up gently, as some cookery books advise, is revolt- ing barbarity, although the authors may salve their consciences