SUET PUDDING 227 board. Hold the point of the knife firmly with your left hand, take the handle in the other and chop and mince across the ridge of Suet, working slowly up and down its length, till the Suet becomes almost a powder. Be careful to remove all skin or hard bits before you begin shaving the Suet. For Suet Pudding take a quarter of a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of minced Suet, two tablespoonfuls of breadcrumbs, and a very little salt. Mix these with about a quarter of a pint of water, tie up the pudding in a floured cloth, and boil for one hour. Do not use any egg. Milk may be used instead of the water. Some cooks use corn-flour instead of ordinary flour, but this makes the Suet Pudding heavy. The ingredients should be very thoroughly mixed, so as to form a smooth paste, and in tying up the Suet Pudding allowance must be made for its swelling as it boils. Suet Dumplings are made in the same way, only divided into bits of paste the size of an egg. Many people like them boiled in the same saucepan with boiled beef, being put in an hour and a half before the beef will be ready. Children like them with treacle ; or they may be eaten with a little broth poured over them. Yeast Dumpling’s.—(Rutlandshire Recipe.)—Take one pound of flour, one ounce of German yeast, quarter of a pint of boiling milk, and a quarter of a pint of boiling water. Mix the yeast into the boiling milk and water, pour it into the flour and knead it into dough. Add a little salt. Put the dough into a deep basin. (Here the Rutland custom is to mark the dough with a cross.) Cover the basin with a cloth, and leave it in a hot place near the fire for one hour to let the dough rise. Then make the dough into balls the size of a duck’s egg, and boil them for one hour. These Yeast Dumplings are very light. They can be eaten with butter and sugar, or butter and salt, or with jam, or with golden syrup. GLAZE AND ASPIC JELLY. Glaze can be bought ready made, in which case it only requires to be melted for use. But it is infinitely better to make