PRESERVES 506 take as much of the juice as will make the sugar into a very thick syrup. Fill the bottles with cherries pricked with a fine needle. Let the syrup be quite cold, then pour it on the cherries, and fill the bottles up with luandy. Prunes in Cherry Brandy.—Choose a pound jar of the best French plums (prunes), and get a pint bottle of good cherry brandy. Put the prunes in an enamelled saucepan with as much light claret as will cover them, a blade of cinnamon, the zest and juice of one lemon, and two ounces of sugar. Stew very slowly till soft and till the wine has been nearly absorbed by the prunes. Put the prunes back in the jar with such of the liquid as may remain, and pour as much cherry bi’andy into it as the prunes will admit. Cover, and after a few hours examine the jar; if the liquid no longer covers the prunes add a little more. Screw on the top. Never let the jar be empty, but as the prunes are used refill it -with freshly stewed ones, adding cherry brandy from time to time. [Wyvern.] Blackberry Jelly.—This is much improved if half bullaces and half blackberries can be used. Keep it for six weeks before you turn it out. Scotch “Jaam Jeelly."—This is made from the berries of Mountain Ash trees gathered when they are quite red but not quite ripe. Take off the stalks and stew the berries as usual in the jar set in boiling water. They take a long time to get tender, but in the end they make a very good and pretty jelly. It is as good for coughs as black-currant jelly. For Mountain Ash berries allow a pound of sugar to a pound of pulp. Toffee.—Toffee certainly is not a Preserve, but the recipe seems to find its natural place in this chapter. On a wet day in the holidays children enjoy nothing more than making Toffee, and making it and tasting it whilst it is making will employ several boys and girls for hours. Put a pound of either crushed loaf sugar or brown sugar into a small preserving-pan, over a clear fire. Add a gill of water, and dissolve the sugar in it. When it is quite melted add from three to four ounces of fresh butter, and stir gently and continually over the fire for fifteen minutes, being very careful not to let the mixture burn. Drop a bit into cold