481 SUET PUDDING WITHOUT SUET Suet Pudding- without Suet.—(Family Recipe.)—Take a teacupfal of cream, the same of oiled butter, the same of skim milk, one egg well beaten, and a little salt. Mix with flour the thickness of a good batter pudding. To be boiled one hour and a half and served up with sweetmeat. (Oiled butter is butter just melted, not melted butter.) The same Pudding- without Butter.—Take a teacupful of good sweet dripping oiled, one egg well beaten and then mixed with new milk, and four tablespoonfuls of flour. Boil it in a basin or mould for one hour and a half. Biscuit Pudding-.—{Family Recipe.)—Take four ounces of oiled butter, of sugar, and of flour, and two eggs. Beat all well together, and bake for twenty minutes. Lemon Pudding-.—(Family Recipe.)—Pare two lemons thickly, and boil the peels pretty soft, changing the water two or three times in the boiling. When the peels are boiled beat them very fine with a little loaf sugar. Then take four eggs, leaving out two of the whites, and a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and beat the eggs and sugar together for half an hour. Take five ounces of quite fresh butter, melt it without water and clear it from the buttermilk, mix all well together, and bake the pudding in a puff paste in a slow oven. Before you put it into the tin it is baked in add the juice of half a lemon, and before you put it into the oven grate sugar over it. Plain Lemon Pudding-.—(Family Recipe.)—For a pint and a half dish take five eggs, and beat the yolk and white separately. Then take a teacupful of grated bread, a quarter of a pound of butter well beaten to a froth, the juice of a lemon, and its peel grated, and a little sugar. Mix all well together, and bake with a paste round the dish. L’Ami des Enfants.—(Family Recipe.)—Split twelve sponge cakes, butter a mould or dish, and line it with the under part of the cakes. Fill up with layers of fresh fruit with brown sugar between each layer, and add a breakfast- cupful of milk. Dip the top parts of the sponge cakes for just an instant in water, and cover the tart with them. Bake half an hour. Bakewell Pudding-.—(Family Recipe.)—Make a paste for the bottom of the dish, and spread it with candied preserve.