465 CHOCOLATE PANCAKES pinch of salt. Beat the batter well for half an hour, with two tablespoonfuls of cream. With the batter fry some very thin small pancakes, browning them only on one side. Lay them on a plate with the unfried side uppermost, grate over each a layer of chocolate thick enough to cover the surface entirely. Boll up the pancakes, dust them with sugar, and lay them on a buttered tin. Set the tin on a trivet, push it into a moderate oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Fritters.—The best batter for Fritters of all kinds is Wyvem's; of course any flavouring can be added to it. The batter must be made two hours before it is wanted, and kept in the kitchen covered with a cloth, not in a cold larder. Put three ounces of fine flour into a basin, make a hole in the middle, and drop into it the yolks only of two eggs which have been previously broken into a teacup. Add two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, and a saltspoonful of salt. Mix well together, and then stir in by degrees just enough lukewarm water to bring the batter to the consistency of thick cream, coating the spoon when lifted from it with a smooth film the eighth of an inch thick. When the batter is to be used stir into it the white of one of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Lemon Fritters.—When the batter is being made flavour it with the “ zest ” of a lemon. Put plenty of clarified suet into a saute-pan, so as to be at least an inch deep when melted. Heat the suet till a piece of bread put into it fizzes very freely, then drop the batter in, a dessertspoonful at a time. The fritters will swell out and crisp. Let them get a rich golden brown, drain them on a perforated slice, and dry them one by one on the wire drainer. When dry dish the fritters piled up on a hot napkin, sprinkle them with lemon-juice, and dust sugar over. Hand quarters of lemon and castor sugar. French Roll Fritters.—Rasp the outer film of crust from a French roll, and slice the roll into eight or ten rounds three- eighths of an inch thick. Lay these on a flat dish, and baste them with half a gill of slightly-sweetened cream, mixed with the yolks of two eggs. Let them rest in this ten minutes, basting them all the time, then lift them up one by one, let them drip for a minute, and afterwards roll them in finely-rasped ratafia powder, dry, and plunge them into boiling suet as usual. When H H