467 APPLE FRITTERS in water with half a lemon squeezed into it. Put a quarter of a pound of flour into a basin, melt one ounce of butter in two tablespoonfuls of the water the apples were soaked in, but be careful not to make it hotter than is required just to melt the butter. Add either a dessertspoonful of brandy or the same of lemon-juice, working the flour to a paste, and adding the brandy, apple-water, and butter by degrees. Knead all well together. Beat up the white of an egg to a froth, and beat the batter all together. Dip the slices of apple in the batter, and fry them in butter. Cover them with powdered white sugar, and serve very hot. German Fritters.—Beat up the yolks of three eggs, and beat the whites separately to a stiff froth. Add an ounce and a half of white sugar, grate in a little lemon-peel, dust in a pinch of salt, and mix all with half a pint of milk. Butter a flat dish well, and bake the custard in it for half an hour. Leave it all night to get quite cold. Turn out the custard on a large flat dish ; it will be about an inch and a half thick. Cut it into rounds two inches aeross. Have the yolks of two eggs beaten up in a soup- plate, and plenty of well dried and sifted bread or sponge-cake crumbs in another plate. Lay each round of custard as you cut it on the egg, and spread the egg over the top and sides with a knife. Now lay the rounds one by one in the crumbs and cover them thickly. Fry in butter, which must be boiling when the fritters are put in. It requires great care to prevent breaking the fritters. Lay them on a paper before the fire to dry, and serve with a little powdered sugar sprinkled over them. The custard may be flavoured with kirsch, or vanilla. Or dried cherries may be sliced, or almonds pounded, and added to the custard before it is baked. Chocolate Fritters.—Scrape two ounces of unsweetened chocolate, and pound an ounce and a half of sugar. Boil them for a few minutes in half a pint of new milk. Set it to cool. Then mix a little of the milk with half an ounce of ground rice, and add the beaten yolks of three eggs. Let all just simmer. Then put it into a dish to get cold. Cut it out in rounds, egg and breadcrumb like the German fritters, and fry in butter. Plum Pudding1 Fritters.—Cut small oblongs half an inch thick of cold Plum Pudding, and marinade them with lemon-juice, a little sugar, and a few drops of brandy. Make the Fritter h h 2