37° VEGETABLE MARROW young Vegetable Marrows when served hot; oil and vinegar should he used when they are served cold. Vegetable Marrows when not quite young must be peeled, and the seeds must be removed. But they should be cut as little as possible, so as to preserve the flavour. When once cut the whole of a Marrow should be cooked and eaten, or it will mildew. Vegetable Marrows are never fibrous, and can easily be mashed without beating them through a colander. Or they can be steamed after peeling, cut into fillets, and fried in batter. Or the fillets can be baked in layers in a pie-dish, with grated cheese strewed between each layer, and a little melted butter. The topmost layer should be well covered with grated cheese, and browned in the oven. A French way of serving Courges a la Moelle, or Vegetable Marrows, is to cut each Marrow in half, scooping out the seeds, sprinkling it with salt, and then leaving it till all the water has drained from it. Each half is then fried in oil, filled with a stuffing made of breadcrumbs, minced parsley, and a little chopped onion, moistened with good broth or milk, and set to brown in the oven. Large Marrows must be baked, as they are so watery. Young Marrows are best boiled with the peel on, and with the lid of the pan off. When boiled the peel can be removed, and the Marrows dressed in any of the ways recommended for Auber- gines. Indeed, some writers seem to imagine that Aubergine is the French name for Vegetable Marrow. Marrows are in season from the middle of August till October. WATERCRESS. Watercress makes an excellent puree cooked like Spinach, and is a good and uncommon salad. But it needs very careful picking, as insects lodge in the wrinkles of the leaves, especially at the back. Watercress can, if constantly watered, be grown in a garden in a shady spot, but it is not nearly so good in flavour as when grown in a clear running stream. Mud ruins it, but in a shallow running stream the water will not often entirely freeze over, and Watercress can be gathered nearly all through the year. In Cornwall Stewed Watercresses are eateu with boiled