MACARONI AU GRATIN 4i3 oven till lightly coloured. Take it out, put the Macaroni into the silver dish with spirit-lamp, shake an ounce of cheese over it, and brown the surface by passing a red-hot glazing-iron half an inch above it. Or serve in the fire-proof dish. Butter is the right thing to use for moistening Macaroni, but in England milk is often preferred. Wyvern's is an excellent recipe for Macaroni au Gratin.—[English Fashion.)—Well butter a pie-dish, arrange three ounces of Macaroni neatly in it, give it a dusting of black pepper and salt, pour round it a large cupful of good sauce blonde (page 130) or milk, in which you have mixed two ounces of grated cheese. Let this run well in amongst the bed of Macaroni, moistening it thoroughly, and shake over the surface half an ounce of grated cheese, with a dessertspoonful of raspings. Make all thoroughly hot in the oven, and brown the surface of the cheese with a red-hot iron. Macaroni a la Sicilienne.—Boil three ounces of Macaroni. Take four ounces of minced chicken, two ounces of minced ham, two ounces of minced cooked mushrooms, a dessertspoonful of minced parsley, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Butter a deep fire-proof baking-dish well, sprinkle over it the minced parsley, cut the Macaroni in short lengths with a fork, put a layer of it at the bottom of the dish, then a layer of mince. Season each layer, and dust freely with grated cheese. When the dish is full, moisten it well with good domestic espagnole or veloute (page 135), according as you wish the Macaroni to be brown or white. Bake sufficiently to heat thoroughly, and brown the surface with a glazing-iron. Spaghetti with Mushrooms.—Peel and cut off the stalks of half a pound of mushrooms, wash the peelings, chop them and the stalks, and boil them up in half a pint of milk. Strain when the milk is flavoured. Thicken the milk, and cook in it the mushrooms themselves, cut [into largish squares and seasoned with salt and pepper. Keep this hot in the bain-marie whilst you boil and strain four ounces of Spaghetti, stirring into it at once, whilst hot, an ounce of butter and two of grated Parmesan. With this line a buttered fire-proof china dish, leaving a hollow in the centre. Put the mushrooms into the hollow, and cover the surface with the remaining Spaghetti.