BLOATERS Si Bloaters.—The Yarmouth saying about the right method of cooking Bloaters is: “ There was never a Herring spake but the one Who said: Toast my bacli before my bone." This intelligent Herring meant that when he became a Bloater he must be split open, and not grilled as a whole. A Bloater will take from five to eight minutes to grill. Some cooks put a little butter on the fish, hut Bloaters are generally preferred dry, although they must not he allowed to burn. (See also chapter on Savouries.) Whitebait.—It has now been conclusively proved that Whitebait are the fry or young of Herrings. From some cause, as yet unknown, the Whitebait caught at the mouth of the Thames (and which have always been reckoned the best) are en- tirely young herrings, whilst the supplies from other parts of the coast contain the fry of sprats and of other fish. Whitebait is in season from the beginning of February till early in August. The fish should not exceed two inches in length when at their best, and Whitebait, like all immature creatures, will not keep. Whitebait are often spoiled by careless frying, but very little attention is needed in order to serve them perfectly crisp, as they should be. One great point is never to touch them with the fingers. Whitebait are always sent in in a pail of iced water (it should be iced salt and water), and they must be lifted out with a perforated slice. Flour a cloth with fine flour, as this is more absorbent than coarse flour. Lay the Whitebait on the cloth, and with a fork gently separate them from each other. Sprinkle more flour over them, so that they may be floured all over, and let them rest and dry. Turn them out on a wire-sieve, shake it to remove superfluous flour, but do not let the Whitebait touch each other. Have ready a bath of boiling clarified suet at least three inches deep, and see that it is at a fierce heat, 400 degrees. (See Frying1.) Put the Whitebait into the frying-basket with a slice, and be careful to put in only as many as can be thoroughly immersed at once. Fry them for three minutes, lift up the basket, drain the Whitebait over the hot suet, shake them, and turn them out to dry on a hot sieve, or a hot cloth, or on blotting-paper. Do this two hour’s before the Whitebait are wanted. When time to serve them fry them