BEEF i65 generally called, cow-heels, make the best aspic jelly. Ox Kidneys are not to be recommended, as they have a strong disagreeable flavour which cannot be entirely got rid of, although it may be lessened by soaking the Kidneys in vinegar and water for several hours. The weights of joints of Beef may be roughly given as follows. The Sirloin, from five to eleven pounds ; the Ribs, from four to fourteen pounds ; the Round, from four to twenty pounds ; the Aitch-bone, from eight to sixteen pounds; the Brisket, from four to twelve pounds. The Fillet from the Sirloin may be reckoned to weigh from one to six pounds. Rump Steaks are sold by the pound. Butchers send a ticket with the meat, giving its weight, and the cook should always verify this by weighing each joint herself. Mutton.—The days in which good four-year-old Mutton could easily be had are gone, it is to be feared for ever, and six-year-old Mutton is now looked on as a delicacy known only to the pre-historic world. Sheep are now frequently killed before they are two years old, sometimes even at sixteen months old; only ewes are allowed to live long enough to have three or four lambs, and their Mutton is poor in quality. The best Mutton is Wether Mutton at three years old. The age of a sheep can be told by the colour of the breast-bones ; if the sheep is under a year old these bones will be red, if older they are pink. The bones lose colour as the sheep ages ; in the days of four-year-old Mutton the breast-bones were as white as gristle. In colour the lean part of Mutton should be brownish red, and the fat as firm and as white as wax ; the meat should be close-grained, and the bones small. Mutton with pale coloured meat and yellowish fat should never be bought, as it is not fit for food. In choosing Mutton plump and short joints should be selected. Wether Mutton can be distinguished by the small lump of fat at the upper end of the leg. Large Mutton, besides being coarse, is wasteful, owing to the amount of bone and fat which it contains. Loins and necks of Mutton are often dreadfully fat; half an inch deep of fat on tbe outside is as much as can be required; if there is more tbe butcher should be told to trim it off. There is often a useless amount