POTATO OR PEDRO PIE 223 Potato OP Pedro Pie.—(Family Recipe.)—For this Pie an oval tin is required, about ten inches long and four inches deep. The tin has a perforated lid which can be lifted off, and there is a small valve or chimney in the lid to allow of the escape of steam. Place at the bottom of the tin a pound and a half of cutlets taken from the best end of a neck of mutton, neatly trimmed and quite free from fat. Or the same quantity of tender rump-steak can be used. Dredge the meat lightly with flour on both sides, season with pepper and salt, and add half an onion sliced thin. Pour in a teacupful of good stock. Put the tin in the oven, well covered with buttered paper instead of the lid, and bake from one hour to an hour and a quarter. Boil about three pounds of mealy potatoes, and mash them very smoothly with a quarter of a pint of milk, two teaspoonfuls of salt, and an ounce of butter. Pile the mashed potatoes on the perforated cover of the tin, and rough them to look like rock. The potatoes should be three inches thick, and should be piled high round the valve or chimney. Now take the tin with the meat out of the oven, and quickly skim all fat from the surface. Put the lid with the potatoes on, and replace the tin at once in the oven. A second hour will finish cooking the meat, and ought to brown the potatoes. Before serving, pin a folded napkin neatly round the tin. Send up a hot plate ready to receive the cover. The cover must not be lifted off the tin till the pie is about to be helped. Savoury Stew.—(Family Recipe.)—This is made from the part called in old days the “hoffie,” or “ hough” of an ox. It is now called the shin, and is the part extending from the fetlock joints of the hind legs to the hock. Take a good-sized Hoffle, break the bone in two or three places, put it in a stewpan with a stick of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, eight onions, one turnip, two carrots, and a tablespoonful of peppercorns. Pour in six quarts of cold water. Tie the pan up close and set it in the oven, leaving it there all night. If not strong enough let it cook two or three hours more, taking care it does not boil awray too much. When done enough strain it through a sieve, take all the meat and gristly part away from the bone and skim off all fat. Put the meat into the stew with part of the onions after straining. If three pints of stew are sent to table add half a gill of good ale, a little salt, and a very little cayenne. Boil all up together.