399 BUTTERED EGGS butter, divide it into two equal portions. Cut one portion into small pieces, and put the other in a small saucepan over a low fire. Pour in the Eggs, and whisk without stopping till the mixture shows signs of thickening. Now take a wooden spoon, add the small pieces of butter one by one, and stir the mixture of Butter and Egg unceasingly until it is lightly set. Add a table- spoonful of milk or veloute sauce, take the pan off the fire and serve the Buttered Eggs on fried squares of bread, or upon a hot dish. Buttered Eggs can be varied in many ways. But, what- ever addition is made, it should be done at the last moment, and when the Buttered Eggs have just finished cooking. Fines Hcrbes is a nice addition ; or spread a puree of vegetables on toast, and pour the Buttered Eggs over ; or grate as finely as possible lean ham or Hamburg beef over the Buttered Eggs. Or for Buttered Eggs with Cheese allow one ounce of grated cheese to three Eggs, mix the cheese in with the little bits of butter, and in this case the finishing spoonful of veloute sauce or cream must on no account be omitted. Shrimp Butter is excellent with Buttered Eggs, but it must be added at the last instead of veloute sauce or cream. Minced mushrooms, moistened with a little brown sauce, are quite as good as Shrimp Butter. For those who like onion Wyvern suggests a spoonful of good Soubise sauce as a finishing touch, instead of cream or white sauce. Egg'S en Cocottes.—{Family Recipe.)—Butter the little brown fire-proof cups for eggs. Put two teaspoonfuls of cream in each cup, and then break a fresh egg into each. Add salt, pepper, and a herb flavouring, or a little minced mushroom. If herbs are not used substitute herb pepper for ordinary pepper. Put the cups in a tin with boiling water three-quarters of their depth, and set the tin in the oven till the eggs are just set. Serve quickly. Or, if the eggs are liked more done, set the cups on a very hot stove for three or four minutes, till they just boil. Savoury Eggs.—Soak a heaped tablespoonful of dried crumbs in broth, add a well-beaten egg to each tablespoonful of crumbs with a teaspoonful of made mustard, a tablespoonful of grated cheese, and a sprinkling of minced parsley. Spread the mixture on toasts, and set them in the oven till nicely browned. Convent Eggs—{Mrs. C. W. Earle.)—Boil four Eggs for ten minutes. Put them in cold water. Peel an onion and slice