KITCHEN, LARDER, AND SCULLERY i6 Wire frying-basket, rather smaller than the fish-fryer. Six stewpans; sizes, four quarts, three quarts, two quarts, quart, pint, and three-quarters of a pint. (More of each size may be needed.) Four enamelled saucepans with lips. Two frying- pans, twelve-inch and ten-inch. Two saute-pans, twelve-inch and nine-inch, with covers. Twelve-inch fricandeau pan. Sixteen-inch braising pan with hollow cover. Bottle-jack with rising spit. Colander. Funnel. Wire pastry rack. Scales and weights. Set of measures. Toasting-fork with long handle. Skimmer. Meat saw. Chopper. Cutlet bat. Rolling pin. Slice, and a perforated slice. Salamander. Small glazing iron, with circular end. Marble slab, 27 inches by 22. Pastry board, 24 inches. Soup straining stand with movable sieve top, so that the straining cloth is kept firm. Jelly bag and stand. Steamers to fit saucepans, used for vegetables, meat, poultry or fish. Jugging tin. Six wire dish-covers in sizes. Flour tub and cover. Chopping board, twelve inches square. Four tin baking sheets. Yorkshire pudding tin (also often useful to catch drippings from poultry or game). Two wire sieves, and two hair sieves. Two tin strainers. Whisk with wooden handle. Set of earthenware bowls for keeping stock, gravy, and sauces, four of the bowls with lips. Bowls for clarified suet and frying fat. Basins of different sizes, all white and all marked K. A few common plates, dishes, and soup-plates, so that the cook need never use anything from the breakfast and dinner services. Common tea-cups, coffee-cups, and breakfast-cups (only two or three of each) and common glasses in sizes. Pudding basins and jugs of different sizes, made of strong white china, will be required. Fire-proof China Requisites.—Three marmites for stock, eight quarts, four quarts, and two quarts. Six casseroles in sizes, ten, eight, seven, six, five, and four inches. Two omelette pans, twelve-inch and ten-inch. Set of scallop shells. Round and oval dishes of various sizes. To these may be added little souffle cases (useful for cold entrees or cold sweet dishes such as custards or creams), little pans for eggs, with or without feet, dishes for stews with edges like criukled paper, dishes for baking apples, and many other tempting articles. Too much