SPINACH 362 hour, and either milk or stock can be used. A tinned saucepan must never be used for Spinach. Border of Spinach.—Dress the Spinach as above, shape it into a circle, and fill the hollow with buttered eggs. Patties with Spinach.—Make these of the shortbread paste, let them be open like the lower half of a mince pie. Fill them with the Spinach and cap each with buttered egg. Eg'g’S with Spinach.—Fry some squares or cushions of bread, cut rather thick. Coat them thickly with the Spinach puree, and lay a poached egg on the top of each. Spinach Souffles.—Prepare one pound of Spinach, rub it through a fine wire sieve, add the raw yolks of three eggs, a dust of pepper and a pinch of sugar, with two tablespoonfuls of cream, and the whites of the eggs whipped as stiff as possible. Mix all well together, pour into little paper cases, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. A few browned crumbs and some tiny morsels of butter should be sprinkled over the tops of the souffles before putting them into the oven. Another way is to prepare the Spinach as above and bake it in a fire-proof dish instead of in cases. Spinach Toasts.—Cut some slices of bread about two fingers in length, and as thin as possible. Take some cooked stewed Spinach, mix two yolks of eggs with it, lay it on the bread, pass a knife dipped in egg over the top of each slice, and fry them. Spinach Colouring’.—This is most useful for all green vegetable purees, especially for the winter puree of dried Green Peas, and should always be employed instead of grocers’ colour- ing. To make it it is only necessary to boil and chain a little Spinach, work it through a sieve, and then squeeze the green juice through a bit of muslin. It answers perfectly for soup made with Groult’s prepared Farine de petits pois. A pinch of sugar should be added. TOMATOES. Tomatoes should be cooked as simply as possible. It is a great mistake to spoil their delicate and peculiar flavour by stuffing them with onion and parsley, or to devil them with cayenne pepper and French mustard.