270 TO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME neck, draw the skin cai’efully over the places and sew them up, so that the outer skin may be as whole as possible. Cut off all the meat from the pinions and legs, removing the sinews. If the bird is very old it is wise to pass this portion of the meat once or twice through the mincing machine. Flatten the carcase with the cutlet-bat. Break up all the bones that have been taken from the bird, and add them to the giblets. Put in a little more water, so as to cover the whole, and gradually in- crease the heat. When the broth boils add five ounces of onion, of turnip, and of carrot, all sliced, one ounce of celery or a pinch of celery seed, and a bunch of herbs. These vegetables will check the boiling, but as soon as the broth bubbles again reduce the heat to simmering. Make a forcemeat with the veal and two pounds of the bacon, pounding them thoroughly, and seasoning with half an ounce of spiced salt. Blanch the remaining pound of bacon and cut it and the tongue into half-inch squares. Cook a pound of mushrooms in a little broth, and cut them into smallish pieces. Add all the mushroom trimmings and stalks to the forcemeat. Make the body of the bird as neat and level as possible by trimming nearly all the meat off witli a very sharp knife almost to the skin. Add this to the meat taken from the -wings and legs. To pack the Galantine: Spread a layer of forcemeat three- quarters of an inch thick evenly over the bird, upon that a layer of the slices of meat, then a layer of the bacon and tongue squares, then another layer of meat, another of tongue and bacon, and finally a thick layer of forcemeat. Dust spiced salt between each layer, and dot in the pieces of mushroom as you pack the Galantine. Slices of hard-boiled egg may be intro- duced also. Fold the flattened carcase of the bird over this lining, dis- turbing the layers as little as possible. Roll the Galantine tightly in a clean cloth, rolling lengthwise. Twist the ends, tie them tightly, and sew down the hem with a few long stitches of fine twine. Put cross-strings to keep the Galantine in shape. It should be oblong. Now put the Galantine in a deep stewpan, cover it well with the giblet and bone broth