t6S MEAT buy; the fillet corresponds to the round of beef in a bullock The knuckle is useful in making white soup or strengthening jelly, and for the latter purpose calves’ feet are most valuable. Calf’s head forms the basis of Mock Turtle Soup, and is also used for Mock Brawn. A calf’s tail makes more delicate soup than an ox-tail. Sweetbreads are reckoned a great delicacy, and Yeal sweetbreads are preferred to Lamb sweetbreads. The udder of a calf is often mentioned in recipes, but, weight for weight, butter does just as well. A Fillet of Veal generally weighs from three pounds to eight pounds ; a Loin from one to six pounds ; a Knuckle from two to four pounds. Pork.—The Pig brings the list of the five sorts of Butcher’s Meat to a close. Five sorts are generally reckoned, but, strictly speaking, there are only three, as Beef and Yeal, Mutton and Lamb, are only the same animal at different ages. In England Pigs should be dairy-fed, if possible home-fed, or fed by some trustworthy farmer. Poi’k should only be eaten when there is an B in the month, as it is unwholesome in warm weather. Too much care cannot be taken in the choice of Pork, nor can it be too thoronghly cooked. Pigs are infested with parasites, and are liable to terrible diseases; these diseases often begin with the measles in early life, and are too apt to end in the swine-fever which necessitates compulsory slaughter and immediate burial in quick lime. The lean part of Pork should be pinky-white, pale in colour, and close- grained ; the fat should be white and firm, and absolutely free from any little lumps or “kernels.” Porkers ought never to be fattened, and should be not more than a year old when killed. If the skin or “ rind ” of Pork is thick it shows that the pig is too old. Pork should be eaten when quite fresh, and the joints should be small. The loin can be roasted or fried in chops; if roasted, the skin should be left on and scored in regular stripes of about a quarter of an inch wide, using the point of a sharp knife, before the joint is put down to the fire. If this is not done the skin or “ crackling ” will blister and become too hard to cut. A loin of Pork weighing seven pounds should be roasted for three hours. The spare-rib, or neck, is roasted, and eaten cold with mustard, or made into cutlets. The leg is