343 MUSHROOMS IIig stalks of Mushrooms should be so cut as to leave a little of each within the hollow of the Mushrooms. All stalks and peelings should be put into a saucepan as the Mushrooms are cleaned. Add to these trimmings just enough water to float them, season with salt and pepper, and let them boil. Then simmer for fifteen minutes, and strain through fine muslin to get rid of any grit which may have adhered to the stalks. This fresh ketchup is most useful as an addition to sauces, and also for moistening Baked Mushrooms. Mushrooms Cooked under Glass. —Place each Mushroom on a piece of toast, season with pepper and salt, and put a tiny bit of butter on each Mushroom. Set the dish in front of the fire. Turn a small tumbler over each Mushroom, or a finger- glass over two or three, and let them cook in their own steam. Serve in the dish the Mushrooms have been cooked in, and do not remove the toasts. Stewed Mushrooms with Butter.—Choose large button Mushrooms, and cleanse them (if required) by wiping them with a soft cloth or flannel, dipped in vinegar. Remove the stalks, and peel the Mushrooms from the edge inwards. Fold them in a dry cloth so that they may be perfectly free from moisture. Allow half an ounce of butter to every half pound of Mushrooms, and melt it in an enamelled stewpan. Put the Mushrooms into the stewpan, dusting them freely with pepper and salt. Put the lid of the stewpan tightly on, and set the pan on a clear fire till the Mushrooms have simmered for three minutes. Shake the pan, so that the Mushrooms may not catch or stick to it. Draw the pan aside from the great heat of the fire, and let the Mushrooms slowly stew in their own juice. A pound of Mushrooms will take about forty minutes. Heap the Mushrooms in a hot dish, pour their own gravy over them, adding nothing, and serve at once. Mushrooms with Cream.—Toss the Mushrooms over a brisk fire in some butter seasoned with salt. When they are done, and the butter nearly all wasted away, add, off the fire, the yolk of an egg beaten up in good cream. Dust well with pepper, and serve very hot. For this dish the Mushrooms may be cut in pieces. “ Wyvern’s ” Mushroom Puree.—Put eight or ten ounces of fresh Mushrooms wiped and peeled into a stewpan with the