EGGS AND OMELETTES 394 soft. For very large Eggs a little longer time must be allowed, and for Bantam’s Eggs a little less. For Plover’s Eggs allow' ten minutes. Poached Egg'S.—Only really fresh Eggs can be poached well. Have ready boiling water, in wrhich a few drops of vinegar and a little salt have been put. Break the shells of the Eggs, and slip the Eggs at once into the boiling water. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, so that the water does not boil hard. In three minutes and a half the whites of the Eggs will be set and the Eggs poached. Take them out with a slice, and serve each Poached Egg on a square of buttered toast or fried bread. Poached Eggs are excellent served on a puree of Spinach. Or the toasts on which they are placed can be spread writh any savoury butter, or covered with minced chicken, or game, or ham, the mince just moistened with good sauce or melted glaze. Poached Eggs a VIndienne are arranged on squares of fried bread, and then smothered with curry sauce, for which see Chapter XIII. In all cases Poached Eggs should be served very hot. Fried Eggs and Bacon.—This dish is peculiar to the British race, and how often we have reason to wish that it never had been invented! Nothing is better than Fried Eggs and Bacon when properly cooked, nothing is more rare than to get them properly cooked, and nothing is more unpleasant to the eye, the palate, or the digestion than the dish of leathery yolks, and burnt discoloured "whites of eggs sent up, as is too often the case, bathed in tepid bacon fat, and resting upon greasy slices of bacon. Never fry the Eggs and the Bacon together, for the Bacon does not yield nearly enough fat to fry the Eggs properly. But have ready four ounces of lard (if lard is used) or four oimces of suet in a small but deep frying-pan over a brisk fire. Fry each Egg by itself. Wyvern uses a large iron spoon for each Egg, and he coaxes the white of the Egg gently over the wdiite whilst frying so as to give the Egg a round form "when fried. Heat the frying medium as for whitebait, slope the frying-pan, and gently slide the Egg, already broken into the large iron spoon, into the fast- boiling fat. In this way an Egg wall fry much more quickly than it would poach, and is quite different in look and in flavour from the Fried Egg generally served. It is also quite digestible. Lift each Egg carefully out with a slice, drain it, and go on with