PRESERVES 5ox little root-ginger. Green tomatoes make excellent jam if half an ounce of ginger is simmered with each pound of fruit. Crab-apple jam much improves an apple tart. If you want to preserve fruit whole, leave it all night in a dish, with three-quarters of its weight in sugar sprinkled over it. Take an equal quantity of the same fruit, of inferior size to the selected specimens, and cook it in a covered jar set in boiling water. Next day add half a pint of this juice to every pound of whole fruit, and let it all rest again for twenty-four hours. Be careful not to mash or break the fruit in pouring the juice over it. Finally, pour off the syrup from the fruit, add a quai’ter of a pound of sugar for every half-pint of juice, and let if boil. When it boils, put in the fruit vei’y carefully. Boil from fifteen to twenty minutes, stir and skim most carefully and gently. The fruit ought to be firm and “plumped,” and the syrup when cold will be rather thick. If fruit is not given time to marinade in the syrup it will shrivel instead of “ plumping.” For Fruit Jellies only the clear juice of the fruit is used. The fruit must be softened in a jar set in boiling water, and the juice allowed to drip through a hair sieve, or canvas. It must on no account be pressed or rubbed, but there is no objection to a plate with a weight on it being put on the top of the fruit. Boil the juice for ten minutes, weigh it, add half a pound of sugar for every pint of juice when it boils up again, and boil sharp for from five to ten minutes longer, skimming off all scum. Medlars and Quinces make such good and pretty Jellies that it is quite worth while to buy the fruit on purpose. Orange Jelly is very good made in small moulds, and the top of each covered when served with one or two divisions of orange which have been freed from pips and white and soaked in cold syi’up till they sink in it. For this syrup allow half a pound of sugar to a pint of water. Bottled Fruit.—For green gooseberries and green currants top and tail them, or pick them from the stalks, being in each case careful not to burst the fruit. Fill wide-mouthed bottles with them, tie over the mouths paper with pricked holes, stand the bottles in boiling water, and just let the fruit turn colour (no sugar or anything with the fruit). Take the bottles out, cork and seal them. [.Mrs. Earle.']