434 FOOD AND DRINK FOR INVALIDS water to take off the raw taste. Shake the bottle thoroughly, and shake again every time you give the quantity ordered. Tartar Drink.—Pare the lemon as thinly as possible, using a very sharp knife. You can then pull off all the white part easily. Remove every particle of white, cut the lemon in slices, and take out the pips. Pour a pint of boiling water upon it, sweeten to taste, and use a little of the rind if liked. Add one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Or make the lemonade stronger, and add an equal quantity of thick barley water. This is useful in cases of thirst, and in kidney trouble. Port Wine Drink.—Two glasses of wine, two eggs well beaten up in half a pint of milk. Sweeten if liked. Strain off the liquid, and drink as required. Burgundy can be used in the same way. Prairie Oyster.—Put a teaspoonful of French vinegar at the bottom of a wineglass, break a new-laid egg into it, add a little pepper and salt, and swallow at a gulp. Chicken Food for an Invalid.—(Family Becipe.)—Take a good chicken, remove all the white meat. Cut up the remainder into small pieces, and stew in a quart of water till it is reduced one-third. Let it cool. Then remove every particle of fat. Put in the white meat, and simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Then pound it very fine in a mortar till it becomes a paste. Return it to the broth, and again simmer as gently as possible for fifteen minutes more. Season very lightly with pepper. Serve cold in a mould. (This valuable recipe was given many years ago by Dr. Alfred Waters, a well-known physician at Chester.) Sole for an Invalid.—Boil the sole thoroughly, and drain it from all water. Fillet it, and send up one fillet at a time, on a perfectly dry and hot plate. The fillet should be rolled, and another kept in readiness to go up at once if the invalid should fancy it. Any delay will take away a sick person’s capricious appetite. The Doctor should be asked if a little minced cooked mushroom may be dusted over the fillet of Sole. If it is explained to him that only mushroom, and no rich sauce, will be added, he will be likely to consent, as mushrooms are light and nourishing, and the flavour tempting. A Sole boiled in milk instead of water is often liked by Invalids.