SHARP SAUCES, SERVED HOT 136 mignonette pepper. Adel a small bunch of herbs. Stir well, bring to the boil, and simmer for an hour. Strain the sauce into a bowl and set it in the larder. The water in which a fowl has been boiled with vegetables, thickened as for veloute, simmered, skimmed, and strained, makes a good simple Veloute Sauce. From the foundation of well-made Veloute Sauce any good White Sauce can be made. For Oyster Sauce or any Fish Sauce use fish broth, and add a glass of sauterne. But, as with JEspagnole Sauce, the foundation must be most carefully and accurately prepared. Mayonnaise Sauce.—In this most popular sauce it is above all things necessary that the oil should be of the best quality, and the eggs perfectly fresh. New-laid eggs are not so suitable as those laid a day before the Sauce is wanted, but in no case should the eggs be more than twenty-four hours old. Unlike most Sauces, Mayonnaise is begun dry. Put into a soup-plate a teaspoonful of mustard powder, half a saltspoonful of salt, and the same of mignonette pepper. Bruise these thoroughly together with the back of a plated spoon. Now add a little oil, and work the whole to a paste, dropping in the oil, very patiently, by degrees. When the mixture is moist, beat gently into it the yolks of two raw eggs one by one, freed from the germ and from every particle of white. Continue beating, and drop in plenty of oil. Judge by youi’ eye when you have made enough sauce. Then add exactly one dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar. The moment the vinegar is added the sauce will become creamy. Work it well with the spoon, and pass it through the tin strainer into a cold sauce-boat. Of course cream can be used instead of oil, and if sufficient cream cannot be spared for the whole Sauce begin the Mayonnaise with oil, and add a dessertspoonful of cream at the last moment. Most English cooks spoil Mayonnaise by adding too much vinegar; it should only be in the proportion of one-eiglith compared to the quantity of oil. It is by far the best plan to measure the dessertspoonful of vinegar and to add it at the last moment, thus ensuring a creamy and not an acid sauce, but many cooks adhere to the mistaken custom of working the vinegar into the sauce with the oil or cream. Eveiy form of Mayonnaise must