TOASTS AND SAVOURIES 5io “ be rendered dean—prepared to rest—by the delicate savoury “ morsel which terminates the menu." Savouries can be served in infinite variety, and in this way a cook, by the exercise of a little forethought, can turn many fragments into tempting morsels—fragments which a stupid person would look on as altogether useless. I wonld again uige that variety of colour should he avoided. Savouries are made to eat and not to look at, to gratify the palate and not to startle the eye by gaudy colours which can hut cause a thought of the amount of fingering required to produce them. Toasts are amongst the most useful of Savouries. The great point is to serve them as hot as possible. If toast is used it must he very carefully made, not scorched and not smoked, hut evenly browned all over. Such toast must he served the moment the savoury mixture is spread upon it, or it will become spongy. Many people who have good teeth prefer crisp slices of bread three inches long by two broad, or rounds of bread three inches across, fried in good butter to a bright golden tint. Whether the bread is toasted or fried it must be served without waiting a moment. The mixture should be previously pre- pared, kept hot, spread on the toast the instant it is ready, and sent to table at once. Anchovy Toast.—For this Wyvem gives two excellent recipes. (1.) Wipe and drain two anchovies, split them open, take out their spines, and pass them through a hair sieve into a bowl. Stir the yolks of two raw eggs into the anchovy pulp. Fry four toasts, put them into a very hot dish, or set them in the mouth of the oven. Now melt a tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan, set the pan in the bain-marie, or in a larger pan of boiling water, stir the anchovy pulp and egg into the melted butter, let it thicken, and when quite hot spread it on the toasts, and serve at once. (2.) Put a soup-plate over a small basin of boiling water, melt a dessertspoonful of butter in the plate, add the well-beaten yolks of two raw eggs, and stir in as much anchovy sauce as will colour it salmon-pink. If you use more it will be too salt. Keep all very hot. During this time another person must be carefully toasting slices of bread. Let each toast be brought straight from the fire, turned over on both sides in the anchovy mixture, and serve at once in a very