433 CALFS FEET BROTH Calf s Feet Broth.—Take two well-cleaned calf’s feet (see page 190), half a pound of lean beef, and three or four slices of white bread half an inch thick, leaving the crust on. Or use the bottom of a tin loaf. Put all into three quarts of water with a little salt. Reduce the broth by simmering to three pints. Strain it very carefully, and remove all fat. Calf S Feet With Milk.—Put two thoroughly-cleaned calf’s feet into a jar, and cover them with equal quantities of milk and water. Put a paste cover over the jar, and set it in a slack oven for three hours. When cold take off all fat, and warm up as required. A few herbs, such as parsley, thyme, or even a bit of leek, if allowed and if liked, improve this broth. Or it may have a little lemon peel stewed in the jar, and be served slightly sweetened. Eel Broth.—This is most nourishing, but some patients will not touch Eels. Prepare a pound of Eels as on page 104, cut them in pieces, and put them in a saucepan with two quarts of water, a little salt, a little blanched parsley, and a few pepper- corns. Simmer until the Eels drop to pieces. Strain, and carefully take off all fat. Nourishing’ Lemonade.—Whip the whites of three eggs, put them in a basin. Add one pint of cold water, and the juice of a large lemon, or of two small ones. Sweeten as liked by the patient. Strain through muslin, so as to have the Lemonade quite clear, and serve cold. To Prepare Raw Beef for Invalids.—For sandwiches scrape the meat as finely as possible, omitting every particle of hard fibre. For Beef Juice put the beef on a very hot gridiron for a minute, so as to char the meat. This gives a cooked taste, and yet does not cook the juices of the meat. Then rub the meat with a wooden spoon through a hair sieve. The meat juice will pass through the sieve, and will be entirely pressed out of the beef. When this Beef Juice is ordered the patient is generally too ill to notice what is given, but, if the patient can take any interest in the food prescribed, serve the Beef Juice in a coloured glass. To Beat up Eg’g’s in Brandy.—Get a wide-mouthed bottle with a stopper, break two yolks of eggs into it, allowing an ounce of brandy for each yolk. Add about a tablespoonful of FF