190 VEAL crumbs with which finely-minced herbs have been mixed, then allowed to rest, coated again with egg and breadcrumb and fried. If they have not been already braised the Cutlets will take longer to fry than Mutton Cutlets. Or the Cutlets can be braised, then coated with flour and egg and then again with good brown sauce well flavoured with mushroom peelings. Let them rest, give a third coat of fine breadcrumbs well moistened with butter, sauter the Cutlets till they are a golden brown, drain, and serve dry on a napkin. Hand maitre d’hotel sauce. Veal Cutlets should be served with a puree of Sorrel, or Spinach, or part Sorrel and part Spinach, with the broth they have simmered in turned into a sauce and poured round. Or a puree of Tomatoes may be served. Calf’s Feet.—These are generally sent in ready prepared by the butcher, but a cook should know how to do it, especially when in the country. Wash the feet thoroughly, then scald them in boiling water, and scrape them to get off all the hairs. Remove all the fat from between the clefts of the hoof. Put the four feet into a gallon of cold water, bring it to the boil, and let them simmer for six hours. Then carefully strain the liquid into an earthenware pan. Let it get cold, take off the fat from the top, break up the jelly and put it in a basin, leaving the sediment at the bottom of the pan. There will be about two quarts of stock from the four feet; it ought to be clean and white, but not transparent. This quantity, when the jelly is not intended for invalids, will require from half to three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine to make it firm. (See Chapter XV.) Calf’s Tong-ue. —This makes an excellent luncheon dish. Having trimmed a good-sized fresh Calf’s Tongue, soak it in cold water for an hour, then put it into a casserole or stewpan and cover it with hot broth. Bring to the point of boiling, and then slip into the pan three ounces each of onions, carrots, turnips, and leeks, all cut into small dice, an ounce of celery, a bag con- taining a dessertspoonful of dried herbs, and seasoning. Simmer for about three hours, and then take out the Tongue, and strain off the broth. At once, while it is hot, scrape off the skin of the Tongue, and put it away. This should be done the day before the dish is wanted. Having taken the fat off the broth, proceed to thicken three gills of it, bring to the boil, skim, and