132 SHARP SAUCES, SERVED HOT. These are often liked with boiled fish, or with veal cutlets or any dish of meat which is insipid in taste. There are several varieties, from which I shall select three of the most useful. Half an ounce of glaze should be added to all these Sharp Sauces. Sauce Piquante.—Mince half an ounce of shallot as finely as possible, and put it into a quart stewpan with one ounce of butter and four tablespoonfuls of Orleans vinegar. Stir over a moderate fire till the vinegar is reduced, which is indicated by the butter becoming clear. Unless this were done the flour wbicn must next be added would not amalgamate. When the vinegar has been thus absorbed by the shallot mix one ounce of flour into the butter, stir for four minutes, then add half a pint of broth., a saltspoonful of mignonette pepper, and a few drops of Parisian essence to give colour. Simmer for a quarter of an liour, adding a tablespoonful of finely-minced parsley, and the same of chopped gherkins. Boil up once, skim, and serve. Poivrade Sauce can be quite simply made, if fashionable and elaborate additions are not desired. Put into a quart stewpan half a pint of vinegar, half an ounce of finely-minced shallot, two ounces of onion, an ounce of carrot and of parsley, a sprig of thyme, two bay leaves, four cloves, and a saltspoonful of mignonette pepper. Cook all together till the vinegar is half absorbed, add half a pint of broth, boil up once, and simmer for twenty minutes. In another saucepan mix an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour, stir for four minutes over the fire, pour the contents of the stewpan by degrees upon the roiu\ using the pointed strainer, colour, skim, strain, and serve. Sauce au Pauvre PLomnie.—Pry an ounce of minced onion in an ounce of butter to a golden brown, and then pour in half a pint of broth made from scraps. Boil up, simmer for a quarter of an hour, strain it by degrees into another saucepan upon a roux of half an ounce of butter and the same of flour. Woi’k well with a wooden spoon, and add a saltspoonful of salt, half that quantity of mignonette pepper, and a teaspoonful of anchovy vinegar. For Mustard Sauce to eat with herrings see page 78.