344 GARLIC Mrs. Opie, in her Illustrations of Lying in all its Branches, published in 1825, uses Garlic to explain “ Lies falsely called Lies of Benevolence.” A timid lady, on a visit to an economical friend who delighted in preserved food, was pressed to eat some potted sprats, preserved in much salt, a little spice, and plenty of Garlic. The lady hated Gai'lic, but “ what she called “ Benevolence said, Persevere and Swallow, though her palate “said No. ‘Is it not excellent?’ said the hostess. ‘Very,’ “ faltered out the half-suffocated guest. And this was Lie the “First. ‘ Did you ever eat anything like it before ? ’ ‘Never,’ “ replied the lady more firmly, for then she knew she spoke the “ truth, longing to add ‘ And I hope I never shall eat anything “ like it again.’ ‘ I will give you the receipt, for the dish is “ economical as well as good, and serves to make out when we “ have a scrap-dinner. My servants often dine on it.’ ‘ I “wonder you can get any servants to live with you,’ thought “ the guest, ‘ but I daresay you do not get any to stay long.’ “ ‘ You do not however eat as if you liked it,’ said the hostess. “ ‘ Oh yes, indeed I do, very much ’ (Lie the Second), ‘ but you “ forget I have already eaten a good dinner ’ (Lie the Third). “ Alas ! what had Benevolence, so-called, to answer for on this “ occasion! ‘ Well, I am delighted to find that you like my “Potted Sprats. John, do not let those Sprats be eaten in the “ kitchen ’; an order which the guest heard with indescribable “ alarm.” Next day the Sprats re-appeared at the economical luncheon, eaten in the post-chaise, in order to avoid ordering a meal at the inn. “ Alas ! ” thought the guest, “ Pandora’s box “ was nothing to this luncheon box, for in that Hope remained “ behind, but at the bottom of this is Despair. In vain did the “ Tin happy lady declare (Lie the Fourth) that she had no “ appetite, and (Lie the Fifth) that she never ate in a morning. “ Her hostess would take no denial. However, she contrived to “ get a piece of Sprat down, enveloped in bread, and the rest “ she threw out of the window when her companion was looking “ another way, who, however, on turning round, exclaimed, “ ‘ So you have soon despatched the first! Let me give you “ another; do not refuse because you think they are nearly “ finished; I assure you there are several left, and (delightful “ information) we shall have a fresh supply to-morrow.’