182 MUTTON mustard-coated Kidneys a good seasoning of salt and black pepper, and continue the broiling till they are done. [Wyv&rn.~\ See also Irish Stew, Pedro Pie, etc. Haricot of Mutton.—This dish no doubt takes its name from the old French verb, Tiaricoter, to break up in small pieces. Use a fire-proof casserole, and be sure to stir the Haricot with a wooden spoon. Take two pounds of raw mutton, if possible, from the neck, joint it, and cut it into small pieces about two inches square. Remove all the fat. Put two ounces of butter in the casserole, and fry the mutton in it till each piece is a golden brown all over. Turn the pieces of mutton with the wooden spoon. Take out the meat, and lay it on a dish. Now put into the casserole two carrots, a turnip, an onion, and three sticks of celery, add one small lump of sugar, and fry in the butter used for the mutton. The vegetables should be cut into dice, or shaped into little balls with a cutter. When young carrots can be had and cooked whole, they are much the best. When the vegetables are fried golden brown put the mutton back into the casserole, and pour in enough stock (or water, if you have no stock) to cover both meat and vegetables. Season with pepper and salt. Set the casserole in the oven, or on the hot-plate, put on the lid, and let the Haricot stew gently for three hours. Serve in the Casserole. Or arrange the meat round a hot dish, put the vege- tables in the centre, and pour the sauce round. LAMB. In roasting Lamb be careful not to take it off the roasting- jack till the gravy which drops from it is colourless, for Lamb requires very thorough cooking. The fore-quarter of Lamb, consisting of the shoulder, breast, and neck, is considered the best joint; allow two hours for roasting it. The hind-quarter— that is, the leg and loin—being a thicker joint, will require rather longer. Allow an hour and a half for a leg and for a loin ; an hour for a shoulder and for a neck. Be careful to baste well. Lamb Cutlets are excellent cooked as follows: The cutlets having been neatly trimmed should be grilled, laid round a mound of spinach, and served with this sauce. Wash, dry, and