KITCHEN, LARDER, AND SCULLERY be used for any other purpose. It is a convenience if the table has a rail round it close under the top, on which cloths can be hung. There should be at least one other table in the kitchen, strong and firm, on four legs, but not fixed. A Windsor chair with a cushion will be a comfort to the cook. The kitchen dresser should have drawers and shelves, and hooks fixed in convenient places. Besides the dresser there should be at least one cupboard. A marble mortar is a necessity, fitted into a solid wooden stand. It is a great saving of labour if the handle of the pestle is made very long, and passed inside an iron i-ing fixed into the wall at a good height above the mortar. The ring must be large enough to allow of the pestle reaching every part of the inside of the mortar. For the small mortars used for sauces, fancy butters, etc., this is not, of course, necessary. The kitchen screen should be lined with tin, furnished with a hot closet at the top and one or two iron gratings as shelves below. It is an economy to have the screen painted and grained, as if this is done the screen is easily kept clean. A good clock with a clear face is an absolnte necessity in every kitchen. The clock should be regularly wound and kept in thorough order. Great attention must be paid to the kitchen boiler, especially in frosty weather. If the supply of water in it runs shoi’t the kitchen fire must be at once put out, or the boiler may burst with fatal results to life or limb. The chimney and all kitchen flues should be frequently, regularly, and thoroughly swept. The sweep should be engaged to come at fixed intervals, and on a day, say a Monday, when breakfast can be managed without cooking hot dishes, and when time can be allowed for cleaning the kitchen after his departure. Kitchen Requisites. — These of course vary greatly according to the requirements of different families. In these days kitchen requisites are numerous, good, and inexpensive, and it must be recollected that no good cooking can be done unless the cook has the articles really necessary for her work. Requisites can be supplemented by any additions accord- ing to taste or fancy, but certain articles must be pro- vided. I will give a list of requisites, which are generally