124 RECHAUFFE DISHES OF FISH forming it in dome-shape and masking the surface with mayonnaise. Decorate each dome with strips of anchovies, crumbled white and yolk of egg, and garden cress loosely shaken over all. Serve on a flat dish surrounded with water- cress. \Wyvern.~\ Rechauffe of Salmon a la Parmentier.—Take six ounces of cold cooked Salmon, and pound it in a mortar with two ounces of butter and two of bread panada. Pass all through a wire sieve into a bowl. Now stir in two whole eggs and the yolk only of another. Work all well together with a wooden spoon, and finish with a tablespoonful of cream. Butter a round pint border mould, and fill it with the mixture. Steam gently till nicely set, and mask with maitre d’hotel sauce. Pill the centre of the border with small new potatoes moistened with maitre d’hotel butter. Or, if new potatoes are not in season, substitute potatoes shaped like plovers’ eggs or olives. The potatoes must be steamed; if boiled they will crumble. [ Wyvern. ] Cutlets of Cooked Salmon.—Take the same quantities as in the last recipe, and proceed in the same way. When the cream has been added to the Salmon and eggs well beaten together, butter a dozen cutlet moulds, fill them with the mixture, tapping them on the table to make it fill the moulds properly, and smoothing the surfaces with a palette- knife dipped in hot water. Lay the cutlets in a wide saute-pan or baking-dish upon a sheet of white paper folded in four, pom- hot water about an inch deep, set it on the fire, let it just boil, and then at once reduce to very gentle simmering, keeping the lid of the pan on. The cutlets will be poached in about thirty-five minutes. Have ready on a dish a mound of mashed potato well sloped outwards. Turn out the cutlets, arrange them round the mound after masking them with sauce verte. For this, thicken half a pint of fish broth, colour it a pale green with spinach colouring, reduce till it coats the spoon well, and finish with a little minced chervil, parsley, and tarragon, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Bunches of watercress may be arranged in the dish. Or, when the salmon cutlets are in the pan, add hoiliug water round them to a little less than half their depth, push