BREAD SAUCE 261 crumbs in off tbe fire is to get a sauce in which crumbs are plainly present as crumbs, and not as a pulp of bread and milk. If the sauce is made early and set to wait in the bain-marie the crumbs will get sodden, and will soak up the milk. Half a pint of milk used in Wyvern’s way will make Bread Sauce for six people. If any is left it makes excellent panada for quenelles, or can be used in shells with pounded chicken or game. The usual quantity of crumbs to allow is two ounces to half a pint of milk. Bread Sauce should be as thick as rich cream. Boiled Chicken.—When the fowl is firmly trussed put it into hot, not boiling, water, deep enough to cover it completely. Bring the water to simmering point, and from that time allow three-quarters of an hour for a large fowl, twenty to twenty- five minutes for chickens. Simmer very gently, skimming all the time. The old-fashioned parsley-and-butter sauce is sometimes liked. For this pick clean a large bunch of parsley, hlanch it in boiling water for five minutes, dry it, mince it very finely, and add enough of the parsley to some warm melted butter to make the butter thickly speckled with green. Add the parsley cold at the last moment, or it will turn brown. It is an excellent plan to put a fowl into the stock for soup when the soup and vegetables are at boiling point. Let it go on boiling for five minutes, and then only simmer till the fowl is cooked. For an old bird this answers particularly well; the fowl gains from the soup, and the soup gains from the fowl. Of course extra sauce must be made, and this should be done by using all the giblets of the bird, as has been described before. Braised Chicken.—Put the chicken into a stewpan in which an ounce of butter has been melted. (The chicken must be trussed as for boiling, and the liver, some butter, and a sliced onion, should be inside it.) Add some slices of bacon above and below the chicken, and pour in a pint of lukewarm stock. Put the cover of the pan on, laying a buttered paper over the chicken, and let it simmer very gently for two hours. Then add either a dozen mushrooms or a dozen sauce oysters, and simmer again till the chicken is exceedingly tender. Now take it out, put it on a hot dish, strain the broth and reduce it by boiling quickly to a glaze. Brush the chicken over with the