ROASTING 142 yields its own dripping—that is, the melted fat which runs from it. Never put extra fat on or round the joint “to make dripping.” Meat should never be served with thickened gravy, but the gravy which comes from it should be light-coloured and clear. To ensure this, as soon as the joint is done pour all the fat from the dripping-pan very slowly into a basin. The sediment of the gravy will remain, and this should be diluted, if possible, with a cupful of broth from the stock-pot. Hot water may be used if no broth can be had, but the result -wall not be nearly so good. Stir this gravy well, and pour it round the joint in the hot dish. If this rule is not carefully attended to tbe gravy is sure to be greasy. Some people dredge the joint with a little flour just before it is done, so as to give the surface a crisp brown look. If flour is liked, the cook must be most careful that none of it falls into the dripping-pan or the gravy will be thickened and spoiled. In roasting a loin of mutton or a sirloin of beef, or any joint with outside fat, the fat should be carefully protected by a buttered paper tied over it. If it is really impossible to roast before an open fire, the oven must be used, but the meat so cooked will always have what is called “ an oveny taste.” The joint must lie on a grating above the baking-dish, and the dish must have a compartment, wider than itself, filled with hot water. If the dish rests on the floor of the oven the fat falling from the meat is sure to burn. This not only spoils the dripping, but makes a most disagreeable smell in the house. If the fat falls into the hot-water compartment these dangers are prevented. As in Roasting, the joint should, after a few minutes, be drawn to a cooler part of the oven, or placed on the oven-shelf. "When basting is possible it should be done every twenty minutes. The gravy must always be poured round the meat; if poured over the joint the crisp surface is spoiled. Roast meat should be placed on a very hot dish, and served at once. It is difficult to give the exact times for roasting meat, as joints differ in weight and size, and tastes, as to under-done or well-done meat, differ still more. The rough calculation generally used for well-done meat is twenty minutes for every pound of a thick piece of meat, such as a leg of mutton or a sirloin of beef, and fifteen minutes over. Thus for a leg of mutton weighing seven