54 SOUPS or second stock. When they are soft add a little pepper and salt, rub then through a hair sieve, put the Puree of Onion back into the broth, let it boil up and add by degrees a quarter of a pint of boiling milk. This soup will take an hour and a half to prepare. Soak some small oblongs of bread in the stock, crisp them on a buttered tin in the oven; either lay one in each soup-plate and helj) the soup upon them, or hand them dry. Haricot Bean Soup.—(Family Recipe.)—If the cook has time to prepare the Beans they need not be soaked. Put one pint of Beans just as they are into three pints of cold water with a teaspoonful of salt. Bring to the boil, simmer for half an hour, stop the boil by pouring in a coffeecupful of cold water. Repeat this every half hour again and again till the Beans are tender. Beans vary much in cooking, and the shop- man never knows if they are one year or six years old. Some Beans are cooked in half the time that others will require. But for soup the above method is far better than soaking them. As soon as the Beans are quite tender add a pint or more of white stock. Let the Beans boil in it till they are quite a pulp. Pass them through a hair sieve. Add a little more stock, and let it boil till a scum rises to the top. Just before serving add half a gill of cream. Serve with sippets of fried bread. Haricot Soup with Fresh Vegetables.—Prepare the Beans as above. When tender add a quart of boiling water, an onion sliced, two turnips and three potatoes cut up, an ounce of butter, and a good sprinkling of pepper and salt. Boil slowly till all the vegetables are tender. Add moi'e boiling water if the soup is too thick. Split-Pea Soup for Winter.—Take a pint of split peas and prepare them exactly as is recommended for Haricot Bean Soup. Split peas suffer from soaking more than haricots. Boil with them one three-ounce onion, a sliced carrot, a turnip, and a potato cut up, a head of celery sliced, and six pepper- corns. If possible add a bacon or ham bone. Try when the peas are done by pressing one between your finger and thumb. When they are quite soft, drain them from the broth (which must be kept hot). Pass the peas and other vegetables through