287 HASHED VENISON one of salt. Arrange all the slices of Venison on a large joint dish, spreading them over its surface, having first carefully trimmed off all skin and gristle ; then pour the marinade over them. Let them lie in this as long as possible (say from before breakfast till nearly luncheon time), turning them occasionally. To complete the broth put an ounce of butter into a stewpan, melt and mix in an ounce of flour, and stir over a low fire till lightly browned. Then pour in the broth by degrees, as well as the marinade strained from the meat. Bring to the boil, skim carefully, and continue the boiling, stirring well till the sauce is reduced one-third. Now cool it somewhat, and strain it over the slices of Venison, which should be laid in another saucepan. Place this over very gentle heat till hot enough to serve. It must not boil. Then keep it in the bain-marie closely covered till wanted. All hashes and minces are improved by being kept at gentle heat in the carefully-made sauce. \Wyvern.~\ Serve Hashed Venison in a deep dish with a spirit lamp, and hand currant jelly. Roebuck.—Keep the joint in the Venison Marinade given at page 279 for three or four days, turning and basting it frequently. When required, take it out, wipe it, hold it for a minute before a bright fire to seal the juices, and lard it. Roast it, covered with buttered paper, like a hare. For the sauce, take one pint of the marinade, boil and strain it; thicken with half an ounce of flour and half an ounce of butter ; colour' with caramel, reduce a little, add a tablespoonful of marsala, and serve. [Wyvern.'] Roebuck is excellent if jugged according to the recipe for Jugged Hare. Slices of Venison can be grilled on a well-buttered gridiron over a clear fire. Or, when Venison is plentiful, steaks, an inch and a half thick can be cut from the leg, and broiled, or chops from the loin. Gi’eat care must be taken that the fat does not burn, for the fat of Venison is considered a great delicacy. In carving a Haunch of Venison have the joint lengthwise before you, the knuckle bone being the furthest point. Cut just round the top of the knuckle, holding the knife in a slant- ing position, but be careful not to let out the gravy. Then cut