SOUPS 46 Third Stock exists, as bones do not yield their last tribute of gelatine until the third boiling. In London the Little Sisters of the Poor make use of Third Stock in a wonderful way. In the country it should be saved to moisten poultry food. Mock Turtle Soup.—(Family Recipe.)—{Tvom the cook at the “ Black Swan ” at York.]—Take a calf’s head with the skin on, scald it to take off the hair, soak it in cold water to make it very clean. Simmer it for at least four hours in strong stock made of part of the knuckle of the veal, some shin of beef, and the shank end of a piece of ham. Add to this a head of celery, an onion (stuck with cloves if liked), two carrots, marjoram, parsley, thyme, winter savory, and, above all, sweet basil. (If the herbs are dried tie them in muslin.) Let it stand all night. Next day skim off all fat, take out the bones, and cut the calf’s head into pieces each about an inch square. Cook the pieces slowly in the broth for half an hour. Add one or two tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, a little cayenne, white pepper, and salt (if required, but the ham will probably make it salt enough). Allow half a pint of Madeira to three quarts of soup, and put the wine into the tureen some time before you pour in the soup. If forcemeat balls are liked make them as on page 52, and add them just as the soup is served. Clear Mock Turtle Soup.—[Wyvern.]—Prepare the calf’s head as in the last recipe, put it in the soup kettle, cover it with cold water and let it simmer slowly for an hour, taking off all fat and scum that may rise. Take it up (it will be about half done), remove the bones and set it with a weight upon it on a dish to flatten and get cold. Now throw the shin, etc., into the soup kettle, adding to the liquor already there from the head the bones just removed, sufficient cold water to cover the bone and meat completely, and an ounce of salt. Proceed now as for consomme, skimming very carefully, and retarding the boiling point as much as you can by periodical additions of water; when boiling takes place ease off the fire, add two sliced onions, a head of celery, two carrots, the rind of two lemons, a large bunch of parsley, a quarter ounce of dried basil (sold in bottles), a teaspoonful of dried thyme and of