217 TO STEAM A HAM twenty-five minutes to every pound of Ham, and keep the water boiling hard. Cooked Ham.—Cooked Ham can be toasted, broiled, or fried, like Bacon. If broiled, the slices should be well peppered. Sausages.—(Family Recipe.)—Take two pounds of fresh pork, using both fat and lean in equal parts, but avoiding the coarse fat from the inside of the pig. Mince the pork as finely as possible, and then pass it twice through the mincing machine. Blanch two dessertspoonfuls of sage, and mince it. Add four ounces of freshly-made breadcrumbs, season with pepper and a dust of salt. Mix all thoroughly together, dusting it well with herb seasoning. Keep the Sausage-meat in a cool place. When wanted, do not use skins, but form the Sausage-meat into small round cakes, three-quarters of an inch thick, flour them, and fry them in butter for ten or fifteen minutes, turning them often. Oxford Sausag’es.—(Family Recipe.)—Take a pound and a half of leg of pork, a pound of leg of veal, three-quarters of a pound of beef suet, and allow a dessertspoonful of blanched and minced sage to every pound of meat. Remove every particle of skin, also all the fat, from the pork and veal. Mince the pork and veal as finely as possible, and mince the suet to a powder. Soak the crumb of two rolls in water. Take two whole eggs, add them and the crumb to the Sausage-meat, and season with pepper and salt. Mix all well together, and roll into Sausages about the length and thickness of a finger. Fry in bacon fat over a quick fire. The eggs should be beaten up in a little cold water. Egg and breadcrumb the Sausages before you fry them. To Cook Sausages.—Plenty of time should be allowed, for if Sausages are put into a hot pan, or if they are cooked too quickly, the skins will burst. Sausages are much better when they are partly boiled before they are fried. To do this, prick the Sausages well, and put them intoJqot, but not boiling, water. Bring them very gradually to the boil^and let them simmer for five minutes. Drain them, melt some beef suet or dripping in a frying-pan, add the Sausages, and let them heat gradually. Turn them over and over so that they cook equally, and fry a nice brown. Serve them, well drained from fat, on toast. Or make some good mashed potato, shape it into long ovals, bake it on a buttered baking-tin, and when very hot lay the potato ovals