241 SPECIAL LUNCHEON DISHES and keep it hot. Take a high-sided saute-pan with a cover, and put into it an ounce and half of butter. Set it over a low fire, and when the butter has melted put in three ounces of minced onion, two each of minced carrot and turnip, one ounce of minced celery, and a sprig of parsley. Lay the steak on the vegetables, fry briskly for five minutes, and then moisten with just enough hot broth to cover it. Allow only enough fire below the pan to cause it to simmer very gently and slowly, and keep the cover closely on the pan. Add broth from time to time to make up for the loss by evaporation. Try with a trussing needle when the steak is really tender. When it is quite done lift the pan off the fire, take out the steak, put it on a hot dish covered up, strain and skim the broth, thicken it a little, and colour with a few drops of Parisian essence. Have the sorrel puree ready in the bain-marie, arrange it on a hot dish, lay the steak upon it, brush over the top with diluted glaze, and pour the sauce round it outside. It is a good plan to save the fat and grill it, laying the pieces on the top of the steak. For the sorrel puree, put two pounds of carefully picked sorrel into plenty of boiling water with a little salt and a pinch of pepper. Blanch it for twelve minutes, drain it thoroughly, pressing out all moisture, and chop the leaves small on a board. Melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan over a low fire, add an ounce of flour, stir for three minutes till it is smooth, then put in the sorrel, a saltspoonful of sugar, and a gill of good broth. Stir vigorously to prevent the leaves catching at the bottom of the pan. When the sorrel, gravy, and butter are thoroughly amalgamated and stiffly reduced, stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten up in a tablespoonful of milk ; work this briskly over the fire for five minutes, and it will be ready. Entre-cote a la jardiniere.—The entre-c6te, or between- the-bone steak, cut from a piece of the ribs of beef, should be chosen from an inch to an inch and half thick. Take off all gristle, trim the steak neatly, and sprinkle both sides with pepper and salt. Brush melted butter over it, lay it on a well-buttered gridiron, and broil it over a clear but not too fierce fire for twelve minutes. Dish it on a hot dish with a garnish of dif- ferent vegetables, each in a little heap, round it. Choose R