286 COOKING OF GAME AND VENISON fallow deer or red deer Venison, does not, if properly hung, require any marinade to make it tender. A marinade is, however, far the best way of keeping off flies. (Fora Venison marinade see page 279.) The time for hanging a Haunch of Venison is from fourteen to twenty-one days. Haunch Of Venison.—The Haunch is the hind-leg and loin of the deer. Cover the whole joint with well-buttered paper, then with a paste of flour and water, rolled out half an inch thick, and over that another buttered paper. Keep all in place by tapes, or by string laced together. Roast the Haunch before a clear fire, and keep basting it continually. It will take at least five hours to roast. After the Haunch has been roasting four hours and a half take off the coverings, and try with a skewer if it is nearly done. If the skewer can pass quite easily down to the bone in the thickest part of the Haunch, draw the joint a little away from the fire, and baste it every few minutes with melted butter. Just at the last, dredge the Haunch lightly with flour so as to froth the surface. Make a good gravy with the trimmings of the Haunch. If a sweet flavour is liked melt three tablespoonfuls of currant jelly in either a glass of port or a glass of claret, and add it to a pint of gravy. If a sharp sauce is wanted, allow for the same quantity of gravy a glass of port or claret, and a gill of raspberry vinegar. Hand currant jelly in another sauce-boat. French beans ought to be served with Venison. If possible serve Venison in a metal dish over a lamp, as it very soon chills. Neck of Venison.—Roast it, covered with buttered paper and a paste, but let the paste be thin. It will not take quite so long to roast as a neck of mutton. Hashed Venison.—Cut the Venison into neat slices, and for every pound of meat have ready three-quarters of a pint of strong broth. (If possible make the broth from uncooked Venison.) Make a marinade in an earthenware bowl by mixing together two gills of light claret, in which a dessert- spoonful of red currant jelly has been dissolved, half a gill of good French vinegar, a teaspoonful of mixed shallot, a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful each of cliopjied thyme and marjoram, half a saltspoonful of black pepper, and