SALADS 376 boiled yolks of two eggs into a slop-basin, with a teaspoonful of French mustard, a scanty saltspoonful of salt, a pinch only of pepper, and a teaspoonful of minced shallot (if liked). Bruise these with a wooden spoon, and work them to a paste with a little salad oil. Add oil by degrees till your paste is about the consistency of batter, then toss into it one by one the raw yolks of two eggs ; continue the working, adding oil, till you have about three-quarters of a pint of sauce thick enough to coat the spoon pretty thickly. Add a dessertspoonful of tarragon or other vinegar, and mix it thoroughly with the rest. The sauce will become creamy at once. Dip a lettuce leaf in and taste if your sauce wants a little more oil or vinegar. Strain through a small tin strainer into the sauce-boat so as to get rid of lumps and the little bits of onion. Set the boat on ice till wanted. \Wyvern.'] Cream can be used instead of the oil. Madame’s Salad,—Put the yolk of a fresh egg into a basin. Beat into it a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of freshly-ground pepper, and a teaspoonful of French mustard. Add the lettuce leaves and some garden cress, drop in oil till the leaves glitter, add a small teaspoonful of vinegar. Ton will probably want from two to three tablespoonfuls of oil. Work the leaves about till they have absorbed all the dressing, and lift the Salad quickly into the salad-bowl. If the lettuce is quite dry the Salad may be mixed in the bowl. Potato Salad,—Use Potatoes which have been steamed, and choose a waxy sort. When cold cut them in slices, and dress as for a plain Lettuce Salad. Add some thin strips of celery, and sprinkle the Potato slices well with finely-minced parsley, tarragon, and Onion Threads. Salad Dressing’ for Potato Salad.—(Family Recipe.)— The yolks of four fresh eggs beaten up with two tablespoonfuls of cold water, and one tablespoonful of vinegar. Add a quarter of a pint of cream whisked in hot water till it becomes thick, a dust of salt and a dust of pepper. Add a teaspoonful of minced parsley, and the same of tarragon and of chervil. Set to get cold. Sir Erskine May’s Salad,—Small pyramids of thin slices of potato (boiled and cooled before it is cut), beetroot, and