5° SOUPS a half, of good stock from the pot-au-feu (see p. 31), and pour it in. Put in a muslin bag with a dessertspoonful of sweet herbs, a shallot, and a dozen peppercorns. Add a little salt if necessary. Simmer for two hours. When satisfied that you have extracted all the flavour of the giblets, stop, strain the soup into a bowl, let it get cold, and skim oft' all grease. Xow, if Clear Giblet Soup is wanted, clarify as usual with beef, strain off carefully, heat up when required, and serve as hot as possible, garnished with very finely shred vegetables separately cooked. If Thick Giblet Soup is required take a pint and a half of the broth, thicken it with three-quarters of an ounce of butter and the same of flour, bring to the boil, skim, and pass all through the hair sieve. Warm up, add a teaspoonful of lemon juice and serve. Additional flavour is given to Thick Giblet Soup by frying three ounces of lean bacon, cut up small, with the giblets, and also by adding, when the muslin bag of herbs is put in, six ounces each of turnips, onions, carrots, and leeks. In this case you must simmer the broth for three hours and a half instead of two hours. Excellent and most nourish- ing soup can be made by following this recipe, which is adapted from Wyvern. Kidney Soup.—This winter soup is much liked by gentle- men, and, once more, Wyvern’s method is the best. It should always be remembered that in whatever way kidneys are to be cooked they must be washed, dried, split in halves, skinned, plunged immediately into fast boiling water, for one minute only, and then gently dried in a napkin. In this way the dis- agreeable taste which kidneys are apt to have is entirely got rid of. For Kidney Soup take a pint and a half of good stock, and two sheep’s kidneys blanched as above. Simmer them gently in half a pint of stock, with a bag containing a dessert- spoonful of dried thyme, marjoram, and bay leaf, till they are very tender. Take the kidneys out, mince and pound them in the mortar, with one well-drained and washed fillet of anchovy. When sufficiently pounded pass the paste through a wire sieve to get rid of fibre, gristle, etc., then pound again and pass all through a hair sieve. When ready, place the stock in a bowl handy, straining into it the broth in which the kidneys were stewed, and keep the kidney paste ready in a soup-plate. Take