TOURNEDOS i75 pint and a half of good mashed potato. Emj)ty the contents of the frying-pan upon this, and stir well together with a wooden spoon. Add the minced beef by degrees, and moisten with a few spoonfuls of broth or milk. Turn the whole into a well- buttered mould, and bake until thoroughly hot. Then turn it out, shake some fine raspings over it, and garnish with curls of fat bacon. [ Wyvern. ] Savoury Jelly.—Take four pounds of leg of beef, a pound of ham, three carrots and two onions sliced, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Put all into two quarts of cold water, and season with pepper and salt. Bring it to the boil, then skim it care- fully. Let it simmer for twelve hours. Strain it through a fine sieve, let it get cold, and serve cut into diamonds two inches long. Do not clear the jelly. Beef Roll.—Mince very finely a pound of raw beef-steak, and a quarter of a pound of cooked ham. The meat should he passed through the mincer twice. Add to the minced meat one well-beaten egg, and two ounces of dried and sifted bread- crumbs. Season with pepper and a little salt, and mix all well together with a wooden spoon. Shape the mixture into a roll, tie it up in a cloth, fastening the ends tightly, and boil it for three hours. When cold, glaze the roll. It is good sliced for sandwiches on a journey. In this case, mustard should be mixed with the butter spread on the sandwiches, and, if the mustard has been mixed with water in which horseradish has been boiled, it will be found an improvement. Ox-tail.—Cut the Ox-tail into joints; use only the large ones for the dish, and reserve the small joints for the sauce. Trim away the fat from the upper joints of the tail, and let all the joints lie for a short time in cold water to get rid of any blood. Put the joints in a stewpan with a carrot, a turnip, and an onion, all sliced, a bouquet of herbs, and three sticks of celery. Season with pepper and salt, add enough broth or second stock to cover the pieces of Ox-tail, and simmer till tender. This will take from three to four hours. The small joints should be simmered with the larger ones. When the pieces of Ox-tail are tender, take out the large joints and keep them hot. Boil up the broth, skim, strain, and turn it to a good sauce. Ox-tail is rather insipid, so that either Sauce