RICE ALLA PRINCIPESSA 417 following Italian Recipe the quantities can be diminished in proportion. Boil twelve ounces of Rice in salted water; when half cooked stir in four ounces of butter and four ounces of grated cheese. Finish cooking the Rice, put it on a very hot dish, and mix carefully into it the well-beaten yolks of six eggs. Rice Pie.—{Italian Recipe.)—Cook twelve ounces of Rice in stock, not too much, but so as to remain firm. When quite cold mix in thoroughly three ounces of grated cheese, two ounces of breadcrumbs, and the yolks of three eggs and the whites of two, well beaten. Butter a mould, and sprinkle it thickly with bread- crumbs. Line the mould with the prepared Rice. Stew a pound and a half of minced cooked chicken, half a pound of minced ham or bacon, three ounces of onion, and four minced mush- rooms, in warm stock over a slow fire for twenty minutes. Fill the mould with this mixture, season with pepper and salt, pour in gently a quarter of a pint of the stock, cover over with some more of the Rice, and bake in a slow oven for about twenty minutes. Turkish Pilau.—{Sir Henry Thompson's Recipe.)—Well wash six ounces of Patna Rice, and blanch it in a pint of boiling water for five minutes only. Drain it thoroughly in a colander. Put the Rice in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, season with salt and pepper, stir well, and add by degrees half a pint of good fowl broth. After about fifteen or twenty minutes it should be properly done, turning out with all the grains separate. It is to be served perfectly hot. This is a true Pilau, but additions may be made of portions of the meat of the fowl. But a Pilau, as it is generally understood, is a fowl (or some- times other meat) stewed in its own broth till it can be pulled to pieces and eaten with the fingers. When the fowl is done it is kept hot in a covered pan, and the Rice is cooked in the remaining broth. Salt, pepper, and an ounce of butter are added, and the Rice is constantly stirred with a wooden spoon over a low fire till it has absorbed as much as possible of the broth. The broth must be added to the Rice very gradually, as only a little can be absorbed at once. Orientals colour the Rice with turmeric, and add spices, but this is not desirable in