COLD SAVOURIES 520 Add half a gill of whipped cream, mix well, pour into small darioles, and set over ice. Serve garnished with watercress. \_Wyvern.~\ Dutch Herring'S.—These are salted and prepared differently from our English kippered herrings, and are imported from Holland in small tubs. Before they are used they must be washed, dried, and soaked in milk. Cut off the heads and tails of the herrings, split them down the centre, and divide each half into fillets. Lay the herrings in an oblong dish, garnish with hard-boiled eggs, and pour over the herrings this sauce : Mix four tablespoonfuls of salad oil and two of tarragon vinegar, and add half a teaspoonful of minced parsley, of shallot, and of gherkins. Season with pepper and salt. ‘ ‘ Wy vern’S ” Sardines.—Sardines can be greatly improved by being treated as Norwegian anchovies. Open a tin of the best sardines, lay them one by one on a dish. Tilt it, and pour a little scalding water gently over the row of sardines till all the fishy oil is drained off them. Dry them one by one in a cloth. Take one of the square earthenware pots sold for holding sardine tins, scald it out and dry it thoroughly. Blanch and slice an onion, and put a layer of the slices at the bottom of the pot with a bay leaf and a peppercoi’n or two. Arrange over this a layer of sardines, and continue the process till you have used them all. Then pour into the pot a marinade of oil and vinegar (allowing one spoonful of vinegar to four of oil), using enough of it to cover the whole. In a few days the sardines may be eaten. Salted Almonds.—Take well blanched and dried sweet almonds, allow an ounce of butter for half a pound of almonds, and let them brown in the oven on a baking-tin. Turn each almond occasionally with a knife, to ensure that all are evenly buttered and browned. Drain them before the fire on another baking-tin, arranging the almonds on a piece of thick paper. Dust them over with fine salt when dry. Or, if they are to be devilled, shake Nepaul pepper over them. Tomato Saucers.—Choose large Tomatoes and cut off the top of each. Remove the seeds, and some of the pulp, leaving a good thickness of it for the sides of the saucer. Fill the cavity with cold boiled peas, cover the peas with a few shreds of lettuce, and lay a tablespoonful of stiff mayonnaise sauce on the top. Serve ice cold.