336 SANDWICHES place in a cold larder till required. This special butter keeps well for several days if put on ice. Ham Sandwiches.—Butter the slices of bread thinly, lay on each a thin slice of ham spread with a little freshly-mixed mustard. Place a second slice of buttered bread over each, and press the Sandwiches together firmly under a weight. Beef Sandwiches.—Prepare these like Ham Sandwiches, spreading each with a little horseradish sauce, as well as mustard. Chicken Sandwiches.—Use either slices of chicken and tongue, or the two pounded together. Spread the bread with mayonnaise sauce instead of butter. Add a lettuce leaf or some cress to each sandwich. Gladstone Sandwiches.—Use cold game for these. The slices of bread must be toasted, spread with mayonnaise sauce, and the sauce covered with finely-shred celery. Sportsman Sandwiches.—Cut some slices of white bread about a quarter of an inch thick, toast them lightly on both sides, split and butter them, lay between them some very thin slices of roast game, spread over the meat a little tartare sauce in which a little French mustard has been mixed, and press the Sandwiches together. Pack them in waterproof butter paper so as to keep them moist. Wash and dry a few leaves of cress, endive, or lettuce, wrap them in butter paper, and pack them with the Sandwiches. N.B.—All Sandwiches which have to be packed either for sportsmen or for travellers should be packed in butter paper. This paper is used for packing butter, and costs lid. per quire. Milan Sandwiches.—Prepare these like Gladstone Sand- Aviches, but use stiff tartare sauce instead of mayonnaise. Cheshire Sandwiches.—Make a smooth paste of equal parts of grated Cheshire Cheese and fresh butter, add a little mustard flour, and spread it on slices of brown bread. Lay on each a thin slice of cold boiled or roast beef without fat, cover with another slice of bread spread with the same paste, and press well together. Prince George Sandwiches.—Mince some cold game very finely, mix it with a little stiff mayonnaise and two chopped cooked mushrooms. Add enough melted glaze to form a smooth