400 EGGS AND OMELETTES it thin. Put into a frying-pan an ounce of butter, and when melted add the onion and fry Avhite. Then add a teaspoonful of flour and mix it well. Add about half a pint of milk till it forms a nice white sauce, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter ditto of pepper. When nicely done, add the eggs cut into six pieces each, crossways. Toss them up ; when hot, serve on toast. Eg’g’ Croquettes.—(Family Recipe.)—Boil four Eggs hard, about ten minutes, and chop them small. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, add an ounce of flour mixed in half a pint of milk. Boil the milk till thick, then add the chopped Egg3 with pepper and salt, and a little parsley which has been blanched, drained, and minced; also a little minced shallot. Turn the mixture out on a plate, and let it get quite cold. Shape the Croquettes like small Jerusalem Artichokes, egg and breadcrumb each, and fry a nice brown. Serve on a napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. A flavouring of minced mushroom or of minced ham is often liked in Egg Croquettes. The mince should be moistened with thick white sauce, and left to get cold. Allow a teaspoonful to each egg. Of course any flavouring, such as anchovy, can be used. The same mixture, varied according to taste, may be used for little rissoles, bouchees or beicjnets, the bouchees being fried in little pastry cases, and the beignets in batter. It is a mistake to add all sorts of extra flavourings to these dishes of Egg; the taste of the Egg itself should predominate. Eg’g’S in Shells, mixed with shrimp butter, are excellent. Moisten the shrimp butter with enough veloute sauce or milk to bring it to the consistency of an ordinary thick sauce. Stir into this the hard-boiled Eggs finely minced, and put the mixture into well-buttered shells. Heat in the oven, and dust over the surface of each shell finely-rasped crustcrumbs. [TF?/rm;.] Eg’g’S au Gratin.—Boil six Eggs hard, put them into cold water, when cold remove the shells. Cut the Eggs across in slices, arrange them upon a fire-proof china dish which has been well-buttered, setting them in layers, and seasoning each layer well with pepper and salt. Dust over each layer also a thin coating of grated Parmesan, and moisten the whole well with nicely made white sauce. Shake grated cheese over the whole