CAKES 54° pound of currants, three-quarters of a pound of butter. Beat the butter to a cream. Eight eggs well beaten, the yolks and whites separately, but leaving out three of the yolks. Add candied peel, mace if liked, and a tablespoonful of brandy. First put the sugar to the butter, then the eggs, then the flour, and the currants last of all. Put the cake in a pound tin, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour and half. Beat most thoroughly. Sigston Gingerbread Loaf. — (Family Iiedpe.) — Two pounds of brown flour, two pounds of treacle, a quarter of a pound of brown sugar, a breakfastcupful of good cream, two eggs, a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in a little hot water, two ounces and a half of ground ginger, and citron if liked. Mis all well together, and bake in a moderately hot oven. (The above quantities seem large, but the longer the loaf lasts after it is cut the better it is.) Plum Loaf-—(Family Recipe.)—Three-quarters of a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, a pound and a quarter of sultanas, and three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Mis all very lightly up together. Sponge Cake.—(Family Recipe.)—Break seven eggs one by one into a teacup, so as to be sure they are fresh. Remove the germ of each egg, and keep the whites from the yolks. Beat the whites to a froth, then add to them three-quarters of a pound of castor sugar with the rind of a lemon grated into it. Mis it well, beat the yolks of the eggs till they are smooth, squeeze in the juice of half the lemon, and just before you pour the cake into the mould stir in three-quarters of a pound of fine flour which has been kept warm. The mould must have been well buttered, and the cake misture ought not to fill it above half full. Bake for one hour in a moderate oven. Seed Cake.—This can be made like Sponge cake, adding half an ounce of carraway seeds. But carraways, which are the dried seeds of the tall parsley of Caria in Asia Minor, are so absolutely indigestible that if the flavour is desired a little of the essence should be used instead. Mrs. Earle’S Cakes.—Take three eggs, put them in the scales and weigh against them three equal parts of flour, sugar, and butter. Then break the eggs, put the yolks into a basin, melt