366 TURNIPS North of England and in Scotland the large yellow Orange Jelly Turnip is much used for this dish. Puree Of Turnips.—For this dish the Turnips should be cut into small pieces, and put to steep in cold water. Then put them into a stewpan with three ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of white pepper, and a saltspoonful of salt. When the Turnips are soft rub them through a sieve. Take a table- spoonful of broth, and with it wash out the pan in which the Turnips were cooked. Add this to the Puree, and serve very hot. Glazed Turnips, or Navets Glaces,—If possible use Turnips so young that they can be cooked whole. But if this cannot be, trim the Turnips into the shape of pointed cones, twelve in number. Blanch them for five minutes in boiling salt and water. Drain them, and set them upright in a deepish pan. Add half an ounce of butter melted in the saucepan, two ounces of sugar, a pinch of salt, and three-quarters of a pint of good broth. Let them simmer very gently for about forty minutes. When the Turnips are nearly done put the pan on a brisk fire to reduce the sauce to a glaze. Boll the Turnips about in the sauce, but be very careful not to break them. Take them very gently out of the pan, dish them, and pour the glazed sauce over them. Turnips with Chestnuts.—Choose young mild Turnips, if possible so young that they need not be divided. Blanch them in boiling water, and drain them on a sieve. Meanwhile stir a tablespoonful of butter and a tablespoonful of pounded sugar unceasingly in a saucepan over the fire till it gets brown, and shake two tablespoonfuls of flour into it. Add some boiling broth and an ounce of glaze, stir the mixture till quite smooth and boiling. Put in the Turnips, together with a little salt, cover the pan, and stew them till soft. Take a pound of chest- nuts, peel them, boil them in broth with a little butter, sugar, and salt till they are soft and mealy. Mix them among the Turnips. The sauce should stick to the Turnips ; if not sweet enough add a little more sugar. This is a really excellent German dish. Turnips as eaten in Piedmont.—A three-parts grown Turnip answers for this dish, but it should not be older. Old Turnips are strong, almost rank in flavour, and very hard. Half boil the Turnip, and cut it in thin slices like half-crowns.