551 ITALIAN MUSTARD Italian Mustard.—(This will keep for months.)—Put into a small saucepan one tumbler of white wine, one small onion stuck with six cloves, and a little salt. Simmer over a very low fire for fifteen minutes, strain through a sieve, and stir in by degrees four ounces of mustard. Put it into a small earthen jar, cork it well, and tie vegetable parchment over. Italian Walnuts.—(To keep some weeks.)—Free twelve walnuts from shells and skins, and pound them in a mortar with one ounce of breadcrumbs soaked in vinegar and water, one shallot, one ounce of butter, and the juice of one lemon. Season with salt and pepper. When well pounded together put it through the sieve, and proceed as for Italian Mustard. This is good with any cold meat, especially beef. Gnocchetti.—(This recipe was given to Wyvem by a lady who has lived nearly all her life in Italy.)—Take two tumblers of broth or milk, and put it in a stewpan on the fire with one ounce of butter, a pinch of salt, and two of pepper. Boil, take off the fire, cool, add four ounces of sifted flour, and mix well, then add two ounces of grated Parmesan. Stir over the fire for one minute, remove the saucepan, breaking into it three large or four small eggs one after the other, and stirring con- tinually. Divide the paste you now have got into small portions, rolling them about the size of walnuts. Put these into a buttered saute-pan, pour boilinr/ milk over them, simmer for five minutes, and drain on a sieve. Now arrange a layer of the Gnocchetti on a dish, sprinkle with Parmesan, add another layer, and sprinkle that. Moisten with a good sauce blanche, cover all with a final layer of Parmesan, set in the oven to colour, and serve very hot. Pana Montata.—(Whipped Cream.)—(North Italian Recipe.) —Put one pint of cream in a copper basin, beat with a wire whisk till it looks like snow, add two ounces of sugar, a teaspoon- ful of powdered cinnamon, and a gill of orange flower water. Go on beating it for fifteen minutes, and then serve in a glass dish. Nastrini di Monache.—(Nuns' Lappets.)—Put six ounces of flour on the pastry board, make a hole in it, and put in two eggs, half a tumbler of Sauterne, and two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Work the paste well, let it stand ten minutes, then roll