FISH 7° tliem up while you thicken the broth. Pour it over the fillets, and shake over them a slight layer of finely-grated cheese. Slip the dish into the oven, and let the surface take a light golden colour. Set the dish on a napkin in a larger dish. It is an excellent French fashion to surround such dishes of fish with a chain of steamed potatoes, shaped like plovers’ eggs. Boiled potatoes crumble. Other flavours, such as shrimp, anchovy, etc., can be used instead of cheese. In this way the whole value of the fish is secured, without any water, and w'ith an excellent sauce of its own. Fish, whether whole, in slices, or in fillets is excellent when baked. For this use a fire-proof dish, and see that it is well buttered. Minced mushrooms can be added to the fish, but finely-minced parsley and herbs are quite sufficient. Shrimps make an excellent garnish. Pack your dish neatly, and then pour gently round the fish a broth made of the “ cuttings.” This broth should not come quite up to the level of the top of the fish in the baking-dish. The oven should be moderate. No better way than Broiling has been discovered for Fish, either whole when it is small like a trout or mackerel, or sliced or filleted. The bars of the gridiron must be thoroughly well oiled, or the fish will burn. As an example I give Wyvern’s recipe for broiled salmon. Cut a piece of salmon into three slices half an inch thick. Divide each into two pieces accord- ing to the naturally marked divisions of the salmon. Remove the skin, and let the prepared slices soak all night (when the Fish is wanted for breakfast), in this marinade or pickle; four tablespoonfuls of salad oil, two of red wine vinegar, a dessert- spoonful of chopped chives (if liked), a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and a sprinkling of spiced salt. In the morning lift the slices from the marinade, wipe them, and wrap them in well-buttered papers, twisting the ends to secure them firmly. Lay the slices on the well-oiled gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them frequently. They will take about twelve minutes to cook. If the slices are three-quarters of an inch thick, and not -wrapped in paper, they must be buttered before they are put on the gridiron, and they will take five minutes longer to cook. It is to Sir Henry Thompson that we owe the valuable idea