BACON, HAM, AND SAUSAGES 2 18 on a hot dish with a Sausage upon each. Sausages can also be baked. Prick them well, set them on a buttered baking-tin in a moderate oven, and bake them a nice brown. Serve on mashed potato or toast as above. (This recipe applies to Sausages which have been put into skins.) TWENTY HOMELY DISHES. Lancashire Hot Pot.—This excellent dish, which is partly a stew and partly a pie, may be made quite simply or flavoured with oysters and kidneys. Any kind of meat, or poultry, or rabbits, can be used for it, but mutton is far the best. Pans are sold expressly for Hot Pots, but a deep fire-proof casserole, with a lid, answers better than any- thing. For a Plain Hot Pot take three pounds of the best end of a neck of mutton and form it into neat cutlets, trimming off nearly all the fat. Put a layer of these at the bottom of the casserole, seasoning well with pepper and salt. Take three pounds of raw (or, if liked, partly cooked) potatoes, and four onions. Slice the potatoes, and slice the onions lengthwise. Fill the casserole nearly full with alternate layers of meat and vegetables, sprinkling each with a saltspoonful of salt and the same of pepper. Pour in half a pint of good broth, or stock, and then make a roof of sliced potatoes arranged so as to slightly overlap each other like tiles. Put a few little bits of butter on the top of the roof, put on the lid of the casserole, and bake in a moderate oven for three hours or three hours and a half. For the last half hour keep the lid off so as to let the potatoes brown. If the oven is not moderate the Hot Pot will get dry ; it should be looked at from time to time, and if it is getting dry more broth must be added. Just before serving pour in half a pint of strong gravy, made boiling hot. For an Elaborate Hot Pot pro- ceed as above, only adding layers composed of sheeps’ kidneys sliced (four kidneys will be required), and bearded oysters (four oysters to a layer). Add a sprinkling of cayenne pepper to the seasoning of these layers. Instead of the first half-pint of stock use the oyster liquor, also half a pint of water in which the beards of the oysters have been stewed.