174 BEEF bone so that the fresh marrow can be got out in pieces the size of a walnut. Put the marrow into a stewpan with a pinch of salt, cover it with cold water. Then boil it for a minute or two, and pass it through a hair sieve. Have ready six patty pans lined with puff paste. Mince finely one tablespoonful of mixed parsley, thyme, and chives (all previously blanched), take a tablespoonful of cream and beat it and the herbs well together with a few drops of lemon-juice, and a dust of salt and pepper. Put the marrow in the patties with a little of this cream, cover with paste, and bake in a moderate oven for a quarter of an hour. Or when you have blanched the marrow let it drain and get cold on a sieve, then cut it in slices, warm it up in a little broth in the bain-marie and fill the patties. Pnt a dessertspoonful of marrow into each. See also Marrow-Bones, Beef Pie, Beef-steak Pie, and Savoury Stew. Beef-steak fop One Person.—{Family Recipe.)—Cut a small juicy Beef-steak one inch thick, and trim off all fat. Season with salt and pepper, and flour the Steak on both sides. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with just enough cold water to keep the meat from sticking, and let it cook on the hot-plate for an hour and a quarter, or longer if the Steak is large. This Steak is very tender, and the gravy is eqnal to beef tea. Serve on a hot-water plate. Vienna Steaks.—Mince very finely half a pound of raw lean beef and half a pound of raw lean veal. Season with spiced pepper and salt, add a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley and a teaspoonfnl of finely-minced shallot, and mix into the mince two well-beaten eggs. The mixture should be half an inch thick. Turn it out on a flat dish and leave it all night to get firm. Next day cut the mince into rounds with a three and a half inch cutter, flour each, and sauter them in butter. Allow three minutes for one side, turn round, and allow three minutes for the other side. Dish the steaks round a pile of mashed potato, and hand round brown gravy. [Wyvern.~\ Tournedos, or Twice-laid, of Beef.—Pass half a pound of lean Hamburg spiced beef or salt beef through the mincer. Cut the fat into dice and fry them till the fat is thoroughly melted. Have ready in a hot saucepan a