200 QUENELLES tablespoons must be used to form them. These Quenelles must be lighter than the other kind, and it really is impossible to pound the meat too much. And the Quenelles must be made of meat suitable to the stock of which the soup is made, fish, game, or chicken. Veal and rabbit can of course be substituted for chicken. For these little Quenelles when made of veal, Wyvern's advice is: Pound, after passing through the mincing machine, five ounces of lean uncooked veal; let this be done thoroughly. When the veal is reduced to a paste add by degrees three ounces of panada, and when the veal and panada have been well mixed and pounded, add three ounces of butter. Go on pounding, and at last add two yolks of eggs and a season- ing of half a saltspoonful of salt and the same of spiced pepper. Mix all well, and then pass it through a hair sieve into a clean bowl. Stir it about again with a wooden spoon for five minutes, •then test it, after the fashion of French cooks, by dropping a small piece into boiling water. If the mixture is too stiff dilute it with a spoonful or two of milk; if not stiff enough, add one spoonful of panada, again mixing all well together. Form small Quenelles of this forcemeat each of the size and shape of an olive. Poach the Quenelles in stock if possible, drain them, and add them to the soup just before serving. Quenelles are only used in clear soup. Many Cookery Books recommend the use of udder of veal in Quenelles, but butter is much better. If the udder is used the proportionate quantity is the same as that given for butter. Quenelles are too often heavy and stodgy, but if properly made they are light and delicate. If liked, the upper part of the Quenelles can be ornamented with tiny strips of cooked tongue, supposing that white meat has been used for the Quenelles. The texture of Quenelles should be even and firm, of the consistency of a moderately hard-boiled egg. If they crumble when cut, or if they are hard and soft in little patches, the cook has saved herself the trouble of pounding the meat; in the first case by adding too much breadcrumb soaked in milk, and in the second by using cooked meat. The meat and panada should be pounded for quite half an hour before the eggs are added, and a full quarter of an hour afterwards.