BEEF-STEAKS i73 joint which has hung for a (lay or two. Lay the Steak on a clean cloth, and beat it well on both sides with a cutlet-bat. Or take a heavy blunt carving-knife, and hack it as closely as you can from one end to the other on both sides. The knife must be too blunt to cut with. Wipe the Steak, but on no account wash it. Heat the gridiron, butter it well, lay the Steak upon it, and turn it with cutlet-tongs very often, or the gravy will be drawn out on one side more than on the other. Do not add pepper or salt. The fire must be very clear, and if it is so the Steak will be done in from twelve to fourteen minutes. Have ready a hot fire-proof dish with a cover, rub the dish with half a raw onion, lay the Steak in it, add salt and pepper, and serve immediately. Some cooks put a pat of butter on the Steak, then put the hot cover on the dish, and set it in the oven for five minutes to draw all the juices to the surface. Either way is good. For a Jugged Beef-steak see Jugging. As to quantity, four pounds of Steak is enough for eight people. If the Beef-steak is stewed it should just colour in boiling suet, and then stew for four hours in broth, with plenty of vegetables. The pan should be shallow, and the broth only just cover the meat. Half an hour before the Steak is done add one teaspoonful of mustard flour, and one of dried horseradish. (Some cooks add a tablespoonful of brandy.) Stir into the broth which the Steak has made. If possible, use a fire-proof dish for stewing the Steak. Beef Olives.—Take a pound and a quarter of rump Steak, beat it well, or hack it with a very blunt knife on both sides. Cut it into thin strips two inches wide and six inches long. Spread them with sausage meat or forcemeat, roll them up, and tie each round with a thread. Put the rolls into a saucepan close together, with a sliced carrot, and a bunch of herbs, just cover them with stock (about a pint and a half ■will be wanted), and simmer them very gently till quite tender. This will take from three and a half to four hours. Arrange the rolls on a border of good mashed potato, being careful to remove the threads. Skim the stock, thicken it, strain it, and pour it round the rolls. Put a vegetable puree, such as spinach, in the centre of the dish. Marrow Patties,—Get the butcher to break the marrow-