JUGGING *47 more than two inches deep. The upper edge of the tin should be turned outwards like a pie-dish, and it must be half an inch wide, so that the flat tin cover can be pasted closely to it. There should be a ring at each end of the tin to serve for handles. The tin cover must also be oval, quite flat, and rather larger than the inside measurements of the tin. Cut the best end of a neck of mutton into cutlets, and with the trim- mings and any scraps of other meat or bones make half a pint of broth, flavouring it with a bit of onion and a few pepper- corns. Scald the tin, and cool it in cold water. Spread the bottom of it with slices of onion, lay the cutlets, well peppered, on the onion and cover them with a sliced carrot, a young turnip sliced, an ounce of celery cut into half-inch lengths, two medium-sized onions sliced, a bunch of parsley, and, if liked, two tomatoes peeled and sliced. Add to the broth half an ounce of glaze, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, a salt- spoonful of salt, and pour it into the tin. Seal the lid all round with stiff paste, fastening it securely to the flat edge of the tin. Put the tin into a shallow pan, and pour boiling- water round it one-third the depth of the tin. Keep the pan on the fire for two hours. The meat will then be cooked. Cut the lid off the tin, pin a napkin round the tin itself, and send it up immediately, placed upon a dish. If liked, the broth can be strained, skimmed, thickened, improved with a table- spoonful of Marsala, and freshly poured over the meat and vegetables just before serving. If poultry or game is Jugged in this way, make the broth of the giblets and bones. The addition of a little bacon improves poultry. Jugging is a capital way of cooking the blade-bone part of a shoulder of mutton, boned and flattened. Broiling- and Grilling-.—Broiling and Grilling, which are practically the same thing, depend, like Roasting, on the direct heat of the fire. But, unlike Roasting, they are adapted to small pieces of meat, such as Beef-steaks, Mutton Chojos or Cutlets, the leg and other parts of poultry and game, etc. The principal thing in ordering a Broil or a Grill is to see that you really get it; in other words, to be sure that the cook has used the gridiron, and not the frying-pan. A Broil or a Grill ought to be cooked on the bars, or grid, of the gridiron; in fact, this