5i9 HAM BOUCHEES Ham Bouchees.—Grate half a pound of lean ham, mix gently with it a quarter of a pint of whipped cream seasoned with white pepper and cayenne. Have ready some little cold pastry cases, or croutes creuses, and fill them neatly with the mixture. Sardine Bouchees.—Drain six sardines and three anchovies, pound them in a mortar with enough butter to moisten them and three hard-boiled yolks of eggs. Pass through a sieve, add a little more butter, and two ounces of breadcrumbs, season with white pepper and cayenne, and sprinkle some minced parsley over. Line some deep tartlet moulds with puff paste, fill them with the mixture, bake them in a quick oven, and serve them cold, garnished with parsley. Chicken Bouchees.—Pry round croutons in butter ; when cold spread each thinly with mayonnaise or tartare sauce. Upon this arrange a layer of little slices of cold chicken, then some lettuce very finely shred, and finish with a filleted anchovy at the top. Bouchees a la Dauphine.—Choose twelve bouchee moulds, line them with melted aspic jelly an eighth of an inch thick, keep them on ice, fill them with anchovy cream, and when set turn them out. Dish in a circle, garnish with hard-boiled eggs and cress. Por the anchovy cream : Take four hard-boiled yolks of egg, twelve fillets of anchovy, and two tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise sauce. Pound, pass all through a hair sieve, add a gill of diluted aspic, and fill the hollows of the lined moulds. Let this set. [Wyvern.] Cremes aux Champignons.—Peel and remove the stalks from half a pound of light-coloured mushrooms, and scrape out the gills with a silver spoon. Cut up the mushrooms, sprinkle them with salt and lemon-juice, and cover them. Flavour two gills of milk with the mushroom trimmings well wiped and finely minced, season with salt and white pepper, boil it up, and simmer for ten minutes. Strain this off, wipe out the pan, put into it half an ounce of butter and the same of flour, mix, add the strained milk, and the cut-up mushrooms. Boil up again, and simmer, adding a quarter of an ounce of gelatine, and stirring carefully. When the mushrooms are quite soft, empty the contents of the pan upon a hair sieve, and pass all through it.