283 PARTRIDGES AU CHOU simmer for an hour and a half. Take out the Partridges and the bacon, cover them up and keep them hot. Strain the broth, take away the onion altogether, and put the cabbage into a stewpan over a moderate fire, stirring it about till the moisture is expelled from it. Take the fat off the broth, add any spare broth there may be to bring it to a full pint. Thicken this with an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour, and keep it hot in the bain-marie. Dish with the cabbage in the centre, and the Partridges, divided in half, laid neatly upon it, with the pieces of bacon as a garnish all round. On no account pour the gravy into the dish, but hand it very hot in a boat. A much more delicate flavour is given if cos lettuces are used instead of savoy cabbage. For this, prepare the lettuces as for stewing (see page 347), and then proceed as above. Bordeaux Pigeons make an excellent dish done au chou. Pheasant.—Pheasants are in season from the first of October until the first of February. Roast Pheasant.—Allow from three-quarters of an hour to an hour for roasting, and be very careful to baste the bird often. Hand brown gravy, bread sauce, and fried crumbs. Boiled Pheasant.—Boil like a chicken with plenty of vegetables. Serve with Celery Sauce. For this, choose good sticks of Celery, wash and wipe them, pare off any discoloured parts, but do not scrape the sticks. Cut up the Celery, put it into cold water and let it come to the boil. Strain off the water, and add to the Celery a pint of milk, and a pint of veal or chicken stock. Bring it again to the boil, skim, and let the Celeiy simmer till quite tender. This will take about two hours. Thicken, stir well, pass the sauce through a strainer, add a tablespoonful of cream, and keep it warm in the bain- marie. This is less rich and less troublesome than the old- fashioned way of boiling the Celery in half a pint of cream, stirring it all the while ovei’ a low fire. It is an improvement to stuff the Pheasant itself with Celery cut in pieces and blanched for a few minutes in boiling water. Fill the cavity of the bird with this and its chopped liver ; a little onion may be added. Black Game.—Black Cock and Grey Hen are in season from the twentieth of August till the tenth of December.