SHRIMP PUREE 63 pounding them to a paste with the yolk of one hard-boiled egg, and half an ounce of butter. Pass this through a hair-sieve. Now to blend—put two ounces of white breadcrumbs that have been well dried in the oven into a clean stewpan, set this on a low fire and gradually stir in with them the cooled broth, adding the shrimp Puree as you do so; bring to the boil, skimming off any scum that may rise, then cool, and pass all through the sieve into another stewpan, stir in the shrimps that were reserved for garnish and heat up. To finish the soup, add, off the fire, the yolks of two eggs that have been well mixed with a coffeecupful of the soup. Stir well, and serve. Croutons of crisped bread must be handed. [ Wyvern.'] This quantity is enough for six people. The soup will be rich enough for most digestions, but it can be made richer by beating up the two eggs in a good tablespoonful of cream, or an ounce of butter. Oyster Soup for a Party of Four.—With two penny- worth of fish cuttings make a quart of good broth, assisting it as usual with vegetables and herbs. Take a dozen sauce oysters, put them with their beards intact into a saucepan, strain their own liquid over them through muslin, for it often contains some atoms of shell. If this is insufficient to cover the oysters add as much broth cold as will suffice for that purpose. Put the pan over a low fire, and heat up gradually; the moment signs of boiling show themselves stop. Strain off the liquid from the oysters, add it to the rest of the fish broth and thicken it, using three-quarters of an ounce of butter and the same of flour to three pints of broth. Trim the beards off the oysters, and divide each one in halves. Boil up the soup, skim it, and strain it into a bowl. Warm it up again, and finish with the yolk of an egg beaten up in a coffeecupful of the soup, adding all the oysters. This simple and excellent recipe of Wyvern s is far less rich and far more wholesome than those generally given. The quantities can be easily increased for a larger number of persons. Cream is out of place in oyster soup ; it is quite rich enough without. Cockle Soup may be made the same way, also Mussel Soup if the Mussels are carefully prepared as on p. 111.