PILCHARDS OR SARDINES 33 great importance), but they do not come further north. A Pilchard is full grown at three years of age, and is then ten inches long; it is distinguished from the herring by its tooth- less palate, and by several other characteristics. Fresh Pilchards are cooked like Herrings, but they are very oily. Salted Pilchards are a necessary of life in Cornish households during the winter. Cornishmen now do a large trade in Cornish Sardines, having learnt the French method of preparing them. Vast shoals of Pilchards visit Japan, and the coasts of Otago in the Southern Island of New Zealand during the early spring. There is no reason why both these countries should not have valuable Sardine manufactories of their own. (For Sardines see chapter on Savouries.) John Dorey.—The colours of this fish are beautiful, although it has a large and ugly head. It is also called St. Peter’s Fish, as the prominent dark spot upon its side is supposed by the Mediterranean fishermen to represent the piece of tribute-money which Peter took from the mouth of a fish. Northern fishermen, however, say that it was the Haddock, which has a round black spot near its head, which Peter caught. The name John Dorey is a corruption of Janitore, or Janitor, St. Peter’s title as the keeper of the gate of heaven. It is a mistake to suppose the name to be taken from the French words Jaune Doree,'on account of the golden yellow colour of the fish. Jobn Dorey is not a very abundant fish in northern seas, although it is frequently met with off the coast of Cornwall and Devonshire. It sometimes weighs twelve pounds, but the flesh is then coarse. The Dorey is best when under eight pounds. It is in season from July to the spring, but is best in February and March. John Dorey is best plainly cooked. It can be boiled in a broth made of its own bony head and other trimmings, and will take about twenty minutes. Serve Dutch sauce with it. Or it can be filleted. For this make a strong broth of the bones and trimmings, with three ounces of onion, some parsley, and plenty of pepper and salt. Simmer this for half an hour, cover with milk and water, and strain it. Heat the broth again, pour it boiling hot upon the fillets, and simmer them in it for fourteen minutes. Take out the fillets, put them