363 TOMATOES Sir Henry Thompson recommends that Tomatoes, which he calls “ that delicions half fruit, half vegetable,” should be eaten raw. The peel, however, should never be swallowed. If the Tomatoes are to be eaten raw they should be sliced only when about to be served, for if they are cut up even half an hour before serving the juice and pulp will drain away and only the skeleton of the Tomato will remain. A little salt and pepper should be sprinkled over the Tomatoes, with a few drops of oil, cream, or melted butter. Tomatoes are excellent when roasted in the Dutch oven with a few bits of butter to prevent them from sticking to the pan. They will require twenty minutes to roast. They are equally good when grilled for ten minutes over a clear fire. Tomatoes can be plainly boiled, peeled when hot, and thickly sprinkled with breadcrumbs and a dusting of cheese. Or they can be gently stewed for half an hour, with a table- spoonful of butter added to their own juice. Tomato Puree is most useful for mixing with macaroni. It can be made by removing the seeds and boiling the Tomatoes till they are quite soft. Then rub them carefully through a hair sieve into a bowl with a wooden spoon. Pepper well with black pepper. Heat the Tomato pulp again and add a bit of butter and the yolk of an egg before it is mixed with the macaroni. The Italian Gonserva di pomi d’oro, or Tomato Jam, is very useful. Reduce a good quantity of the puree made as above in a saucepan over the fire, stirring it constantly till it becomes a thin paste. Season well with salt and pepper, add a little sugar, and, when all effervescence has quite ceased, bottle in wide-mouthed bottles. If securely corked and waxed the bottled conserve will keep well. A spoonful or two, thinned with a very little stock and with an ounce of butter worked into it and a little finely-grated cheese dusted over, can be added to macaroni. Or, without the cheese, the conserve can be used as sauce. Small bottles should be chosen, as when once opened the conserve is apt to get mouldy. Should it not be convenient to make Tomato Puree or Con- serve at home, Ponton’s French preparation can quite be recommended. It can be bought at all first-rate grocers.