/ KITCHEN, LARDER, AND SCULLERY 13 110 cooking is going on; nor is there any need to let the fire out and then to re-light it. A thoughtful cook will manage so that she has a good clear fire when she requires it. A good pair of bellows (a convenience almost obsolete in these days) will assist her. The fire under the hot-plate can easily be regu- lated by drawing out or pushing in the regulators which control the draught, and of course the heat of a gas-stove can be even more easily controlled. The oven requires attention in several ways. Before putting anything to cook in the oven it is well to see that no pet animal has taken refuge in its comfortable warmth. I have known a treasured monkey and a valuable cat to be accidentally suffocated in this way. The oven should be thoroughly brushed at least once every day, in order to get rid of all dust, after which it should be well wiped round with a cloth wrung out of hot water. In testing the heat of an oven opinions differ as to the best method, and ovens really differ so much that a hard and fast rule cannot be laid down. Some cooks, who know by experience the quality of their own oven, form a perfectly accurate estimate of its heat by their eye and by their hand. Few use the oven thermometer. An old-fashioned custom was to sprinkle a little dry flour on the shelf of the oven ; if the flour turned brown at once the oven was hot enough for bread. Gouffe’s method of testing the heat of an oven with paper is perhaps the best. Have ready several pieces of clean white kitchen paper, and test the oven every ten minutes. If the oven is too hot the paper will blaze up or blacken at once. If the paper turns a chocolate-brown the heat of the oven will be suitable for patties, mince pies, etc. If the paper turns cigar- brown the oven will be ready for tarts, vol-au-vents, etc. When the paper takes a dark yellow shade, like deal, the oven is fit for game pies, or large meat pies, pound cake and bread. Finally, when the paper only just turns colour and is quite a pale yellow the heat of the oven is suitable for sponge cakes, or anything which requires light baking 'without much colouring. The kitchen table should be strong, fixed in its place, and s not too wide. A strip of white oilcloth may be kept for putting £ dishes on, but it must not be fastened to the table, nor must it