SHARP SAUCES, SERVED HOT 139 Sauce Milanaise is excellent with turnips, and Sauce Poulette is liked with beans. The cold Sauce d'Argenteuil is particularly suitable to asparagus. A good variety of Melted Butter to eat with vegetables, particularly with globe artichokes, boiled celery, salsify, cardoons, celeriac, or asparagus, is the Dutch beurre fondu. For this, melt four ounces of butter in a saucepan, add a saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of mignonette pepper, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Let this settle over the fire, and before the butter has quite liquefied take the saucepan off, and let the heat of the saucepan complete the melting. In this way the butter will be creamy, and not like oil. Pour the sauce free from sediment into a very hot sauce-boat, and see that the plates for the vegetables are thoroughly hot. For some vegetables a teaspoonful of anchovy vinegar is liked instead of the lemon- juice—for instance, with globe artichokes. L'Uxelles, or Fines Herbes Sauce.—Chop up six ounces of fresh mushrooms, six ounces of fresh chervil and parsley mixed, and two ounces of chives or shallot. Then put the minced shallot into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter and a seasoning of salt and black pepper. Fry this on a low fire for five minutes, then add the minced mushrooms and parsley, and fry for five minutes more. Put the mixture in a jar for use. D’Uxelles Sauce is made by adding a teaspoonful of this mixture to half a pint of Espagnole Sauce. It makes an excellent masking for cutlets of any kind. Or cutlets can be coated with it, wrapped in paper and broiled. Or they can be coated with the sauce, rolled in breadcrumbs, and fried. It is a mistake to add bacon, lemon-juice, or egg to E'TJxelles Sauce. SWEET SAUCES. Wine Sauce.—Make half a pint of melted butter, add a glass of sherry, and a tablespoonful of castor sugar. Simple Mousseline Sauce.—Take the yolks of four eggs, a glass of sherry, the juice of a lemon, and two ounces of pounded sugar. Whisk over the fire till it is a creamy froth, and either hand the sauce in a boat or pour it over the pudding. Do not whisk after the sauce becomes soft and creamy, or it