BACON, HAM, AND SAUSAGES 2l6 hours before it comes to the boil. Skim it carefully till all the scum has been removed. When the liquor is perfectly clear, put in a shallot, a stick of celery, two turnips, two or three onions, and three carrots. Add, in a muslin bag, a bunch of parsley, of thyme, and of marjoram, some chopped lemon peel, and twelve peppercorns. Cover the pan closely, reduce the heat and let the Ham simmer very gently for five hours. At the end of that time take the pan or kettle off the fire, lift the Ham out, peel off the outside skin, and, if necessary, trim it again. If the Ham is to be particularly good, pour a bottle of Marsala into another stewpan, lay the Ham in it, cover the pan closely, and let it simmer for one hour more, turning it now and then. If wine is not liked, strain off the vegetables, add them to the stock- pot, and use the liquor in which the Ham has been boiled instead of the Marsala. If the Ham is to be served hot, cover it with thin glaze or with raspings of crust, and serve with spinach slightly flavoured with Marsala. If the Ham is to be cold, lay it in an earthenware pan covered with a marinade or pickle made of half Marsala and half the liquor the Ham was boiled in. Let it stay all night in a cool larder, then either glaze it or cover it with raspings. When the Marsala is drained from the Ham and has got quite cold, take off the fat, and put the wine back into the bottle. It can be used again, adding a little fresh wine to it. Champagne can be used like Marsala, and gives a much finer flavour. To Bake a Ham.—When the Ham is soaked, scrubbed, and trimmed, lay it rind downwards in a large piece of paste rolled out one inch thick. Wet the edges of the paste from a basin of cold water, draw and pinch them together, and fold them over on the upper side of the Ham. Be careful to close the paste very securely, so that no gravy can escape. Put the Ham in a steady but not a fierce oven. If the Ham is fairly large it will take five hours to bake. A very small Ham will require three hours. Remove the paste and peel off the skin whilst it is hot. If only part of a Ham has to be cooked it is much better to bake it than to boil it. To Steam a Ham.—This is an excellent way of cooking a small Ham. When the Ham has been soaked, scrubbed, and trimmed, put it into the steamer over boiling water. Allow