GLAZE AND ASPIC JELLY 230 instead of the Liebig’s Extract recommended by him, for Liebig and all such preparations of meat are never free from a peculiar burnt flavour, very unpleasant to some palates. Sir Henry Thompson considers that to make Aspic Jelly there is no need, as in old days, to prepare an expensive clear stock with fresh meat and calf’s feet. He proceeds: “ Slice a large carrot or “turnip, and a small head of celery, add two cloves, pepper and “salt, a bay leaf and a small bunch of sweet herbs. Put all into “ a saucepan with three pints of water, and allow it to simmer for “two hours until reduced to two pints. Pour off through a “strainer and let it stand until cold. When required, add “two ounces of gelatine in hot summer weather [one ounce and “a half suffices when it is cool] to a pint of the cold liquor, and “let it stand two hours. Then heat the remaining pint to “boiling point, and add to the preceding, with a thin paring of “lemon peel, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, the same of mild “vinegar, and one or two teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar. At “ this point pour in two or three whites of eggs lightly beaten, “and stir well to fine the liquor. Bring the whole just up to the “boiling point, then at once remove from the fire and keep on the “hot-plate close by, but not boiling, for three minutes only. “Take it off, and set it aside for three minutes longer. Then “strain through flannel. It is now quite hot and clear. Stir in “at once a large teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s Extract, and “set aside to cool until wanted.”—[Food and Feeding, Sixth Edition, p. 114.] Some people like less vinegar than is advised in this recipe. If the liquid is at all cloudy when it has cooled, warm it up and strain it a second time. Aspic Jelly is most useful in borders, or when chopped or cut into neat diamonds or rounds it forms an admirable garnish. Many recipes for Aspic Jelly advise the pro- portion of two and a half ounces of gelatine to a quart of liquid, whatever the weather may be, but Sir Henry Thompson's calculation may be safely followed. Aspic Jelly must be stiff, but it should not be too stiff. When a mould of Aspic Jelly, decorated with pieces of cooked fish, or game, or hard-boiled eggs, is wanted pour into the mould lukewarm jelly to the depth of a quarter of an inch. Then arrange neatly whatever is to be inserted, and let the jelly set over ice. When it is