476 CHEESECAKES AND CUSTARDS. Maids of Honour.—(This is the original recipe for the Lemon Cheesecakes for which Richmond was famous more than a century ago) :— Rub the rind of two large lemons with sugar; scrape off the sugar into a basin as it becomes wet with the lemon essence. Add a quarter of a pound of finely-powdered sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, the yolks of four eggs, and the juice of one lemon. Put all in a stewpan, beat it with a wooden spoon whilst on a moderate stove till it thickens, but on no account let it boil. Set it in a basin to get quite cold. Make puff paste rolled out a quarter of an inch thick, butter small patty-pans thickly, cut the paste the proper size with a cutter, and lay it in the pans, notching round the edges with a sharp knife. When the lemon is perfectly cold stir into it a tablespoonful of rich cream, and half fill each cheesecake. Bake them with great care in a moderate oven. Take them out of the tins immediately, and keep them warm in the screen on a cloth. The above quantities will make sixteen Cheesecakes, and the baking will take twenty minutes. Maids of Honour can be eaten cold. Orange Cheesecake.—Rub three ounces of loaf sugar on the rinds of two oranges and half a lemon. One orange ought to be a Seville one. Squeeze the juice of the oranges and half the lemon-juice, add a quarter of a pound of butter, put it in a stewpan, set it on a cool stove or low fire, and stir carefully till the butter is melted. Then beat three yolks of eggs, leaving out the whites, and mix them well in. Let it just simmer, but not boil, then put it by in a basin till wanted. Make a puff-paste not thinner than half an inch, line a flat fire-proof dish with it, pour in the orange cheesecake, and bake half an hour in a quick oven. Dust it over with a little sugar before serving. Scotch Cheesecakes.—(Family Recipe.)—Take five ounces of butter, five whole eggs not beaten up at all, and five ounces of lump sugar broken small. Put all into a saucepan and melt them perfectly and no more, turning them always one way. Line the patty-pans with light paste, lay a dessertspoonful of