ARTICHOKES 3i8 Jerusalem Artichoke Chips.—Choose rather large tubers, peel and slice them thinly over a basin of well-salted water, and let the slices fall into the water to prevent their turning black. When wanted, drain them with a perforated slice, lay them on a cloth, dry well, and plunge them into very hot frying fat. Finish exactly like potato chips. The fat must not be too hot, or the chips will be too dark. [ Wyvern.~\ Jerusalem Artichokes Roasted.—Trim twelve Arti- chokes, and melt two ounces of butter in a fire-proof dish, adding salt and pepper. When the butter is melted put the Artichokes in the dish, and let them roast either in the oven or in the Dutch oven for half an hour. Baste them frequently with the butter and roast them quickly so that they become a rich brown. Serve in the dish in which the Artichokes were cooked. Jerusalem Artichokes Fried.—Cut the Artichokes in slices one-sixth of an inch thick. Fry them in butter till they are a golden brown. Drain them on white paper before the fire, and serve in a napkin, as hot as possible. The method of boiling Jerusalem Artichokes differs accord- ing to the age of the tubers. When quite young they must be put on in boiling water; when half grown the water should be only warm; and when the Artichokes are old they should be put on in cold water. In peeling them it is most important to drop each piece instantly into cold salt and water, or it will turn black. Jerusalem Artichokes Boiled.—Wash and peel the Artichokes, but it is wasteful to pare them into cones. Put them into a gallon of really boiling water, with two tablespoon- fuls of salt. The Artichokes will check the boiling of the water. Boil them for twenty minutes after boiling has recom- menced. Drain, and serve with melted butter. Jerusalem Artichokes au Gratin .—Boil the Artichokes in milk and water, or add a little melted butter mixed with the well-beaten yolk of one egg, when they are tender. Season with pepper and salt. Mash with a fork, or pass the Artichokes through a tamis. Butter a shallow fire-proof dish, put the Artichokes in, sprinkle a good coating of finely-grated Parmesan or mild cheese over them, and bake in the oven till the top browns.