284 COOKING OF GAME AND VENISON Cook and serve Black Game like Grouse, only allowing more time, as the birds are much lai’ger. A Black Cock generally Aveiglis four pounds, whilst the largest Grouse does not weigh half so much. Woodcock.—Woodcock is generally very lightly roasted ; indeed some people say that the bird is sufficiently cooked if it is merely carried through the kitchen. The reasonable time to allow for roasting it is a quarter of an hour. Woodcock are not drawn, and, as has already been observed, their skin is so thin that they must be plucked with the greatest care. Bacon must be tied over the breast, and the bird must be continually basted. A piece of buttered toast should be laid in a baking- tin under the Woodcock so as to receive all the droppings whilst it is roasting. Serve the bird on this toast, and hand fried potatoes. Snipe.—Snipe are best roasted in the Dutch oven, and great care is needed to prevent their getting dry. Allow from eight to ten minutes for roasting. Cover the breasts Avith bacon, and do not cease basting. Lay a square of buttered toast under each Snipe to catch the melted butter and gravy which fall from the bird, and serve the Snipe on the toast as hot as possible. Woodcock and Snipe are both in season from October to March. Salmis of Game.—It is a very general belief that a Salmis should only be made of Game which has previously been cooked. This is a great mistake, for the best foi’m of Salmis is made of Game which has purposely been lightly cooked before it is stewed as a Salmis. Another frequent error is to spoil a Salmis by loading it AArith truffles, cocks’ combs, and all sorts of additions. For a Salmis as simple as it is good Wyverris method is in all ways to be recommended. It applies to Grouse, Black Game, Pheasants, and Wild Duck. Slightly roast the game before a fast fire, basting well vrith melted butter and bacon fat. Take the birds away as soon as they have browned nicely, and let them get cold. W hen cold, carve from each bird the Avings, breast, and legs, and trim each piece as neatly as possible, removing the skin from it. lake all the trimmings and put them Avith the carcases, chopped up,