47 CLEAR MOCK TURTLE SOUP ^marjoram (the herbs in a muslin hag), twelve peppercorns, two anchovies dried, washed and cut up, half a wineglass of mushroom ketchup, a tablespoonful of sugar, and a teaspoonful of caramel. Simmer slowly now for about three hours, skimming the surface occasionally, and on no account allowing the soup to boil. Now strain very carefully, and set the soup in a bowl to cool and throw up all grease. Cut the cold head into one-and-a-half inch squares, skim the cool soup well, and pour it into a large saucepan, adding the pieces of bread. Let the pieces cook slowly for half an hour, then drain them, and again strain the soup. Clarify if necessary, adding a glass of Madeira and the juice of a lemon. Let this be heated up finally when required, and pour the soup into the tureen over a dozen or so carefully-selected pieces of the head arranged therein. Serve with lemons cut in quarters. The Basil is most necessary, and the whole success of the soup depends upon strict attention to the flavouring herbs and ingredients. Select gelatinous and not meaty pieces of the head for the garnish, as the garnish is to counterfeit the green fat of the turtle. The meaty squares will come in for another dish. Dean of York’s White Soup.—(Family Recipe.)—Take cold veal, any pieces of game or poultry, and a rabbit roasted dry. Grate them into a mortar, and rub them through a tamis-cloth. Add some first veal stock, put all into a stewpan, and pay great attention to stirring and skimming it well. Flavour with a little celery, and add a little white pepper and salt. White Soup.'—(Family Recipe.)—Put four ounces of butter in a stewpan, cut a knuckle of veal and a scrag of mutton into pieces the size of a walnut, slice in the meat off part of a knuckle of ham. Add three carrots, two onions sliced, four heads of celery washed clean and cut up, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Cover the pan close, set it over a slow fire without any water till the gravy is drawn out of the meat, then pour the gravy into a basin, let the meat brown in the saucepan, but do not let it burn. Now pour in four- quarts of hot water, and let the soup simmer gently till it is wasted to three pints. Strain it, put the gravy to it, set the soup on the fire, and add two