io6 SHELL-FISH by tlie fancy that molluscs cannot feel pain. For Shrimps and Prawns the water must be fiercely boiling, and as the putting in of the Shrimps lowers the temperature the water must be stirred with a red-hot poker. In this way Shrimps will be cooked in six minutes, Prawns in eight minutes. Oysters, Scallops, Mussels, and the American Clams all belong to the same family of Shell-fish, and are attached to the rocks on which they live. Clams only come to England in a bottled or tinned state, either by themselves or cooked with fat pork as “ Clam Chowder,” but when eaten fresh they are considered a great delicacy. When the Pilgrim Fathers landed on the New England coast in 1620 they learnt from the Red Indians the art of roasting Clams on the shore in ovens made of hot stones, and this method is universal at American “ Clam bakes,” or picnics, now. Oysters attach themselves to the rock by a muscular pro- jection called a foot. The “ beard ” of an Oyster is its row of gills, and, by stewing, a good deal of valuable liquid may be extracted from “ beards.” In following American recipes for the cooking of Oysters it must be recollected that their Oysters are very much larger than our Natives. American cooks do not use breadcrumbs for their gratins, but substitute powdered “crackers ” or biscuits— a method which might often be adopted with advantage here, using the plainest Captain’s biscuits. Oysters.—All over the world Oysters rank highest among Shell-fish. In this country Natives are in season from the first of September to the first of May. Natives, which are small Oysters with delicate shells, have been cultivated at Whitstable and Colchester from very early times, and the natural Oyster-beds still remain. On other parts of the coast there are establishments for Oyster culture. An Oyster grows at the rate of one inch in diameter every year till the shell is three inches broad. After that period its growth is much slower, and an adult Oyster is believed to be from seven to ten years old. Oysters for sauce are generally foreign, and can be obtained all the year round. There are countless ways of cooking and serving Oysters, but the simplest methods are generally the best. Perhaps