379 SIR HENRY THOMPSON’S SALAD spoon, which spoon is to be filled three times consecutively with the best fresh olive oil, stirring each briskly until the condiments have been thoroughly mixed and at the same time distributed over the Salad. Next, toss the Salad lightly, until every portion glistens, scattering meantime a little finely- chopped fresh tarragon and chervil with a few atoms of chives over the whole, so that sparkling green particles spot, as with a pattern, every portion of the leafy surface. Lastly, but only immediately before serving, one small tablespoonful of mild French or, better still, Italian red-wine-vinegar, is to be sprinkled over all, followed by another tossing of the Salad. This Salad is intended for five or six persons. Sir Henry Thompson also suggests a Salad of cold boiled asparagus with mayonnaise sauce. Or, uncooked celery cut in rings with small slices of cooked beetroot. Or, slices of cooked potato, beetroot, and boiled celeriac well sprinkled with parsley and chervil and a few atoms of tarragon. Or, Japanese arti- chokes each cut in two, either raw or boiled for five minutes, mixed with small discs of boiled beef and slices of raw celery. Salad a la Belle Alliance.—Seakale Salad is supposed to be peculiar to All Souls’ College, Oxford, where the secret of making it is jealously preserved. The All Souls’ salads, which are invariably made by the junior Fellows, are indeed unrivalled, but this Salad of Wyvern's is nearly equal to an All Souls’ Sea- kale Salad. It makes an excellent luncheon dish. Take from four' to six ounces of cold cooked chicken, and from two to three ounces (half the quantity) of cold cooked tongue. Cut both meats into julienne-like strips. Boil and set to get cold a quarter bundle of Seakale, then cut it into strips, using a silver dessert knife. Take a silver or china dish, make a bed at the bottom of it with some of the Seakale, over that arrange a layer of chicken and tongue, then more Seakale, sprinkling- over each layer a seasoning of pepper and salt. Finish the arrangement in dome-shape, with strips of Seakale outside, and moisten the whole with mayonnaise sauce. Keep the Salad as cold as possible. Garnish round the base with halves of hard-boiled eggs, turned olives, and little heaps of broken jelly. (I am bound to say that tyyvern adds to the chicken and tongue