SHELL-FISH I ] o Scallops are much tougher than Oysters, and take a much longer time to cook. They are sometimes simmered in milk and Avater and used as a garnish for such fish as cod. Or Scallops can be cooked, mixed with bechamel sauce, and used for patties. Or they can be dipped in butter and fried like Oysters. The great thing in cooking Scallops is to do them slowly (as they are naturally tough), and never to let them boil (or they will be unbearably tough). Scallops make a good cold mayonnaise. For this, warm them in fish stock till it is nearly boiling, then let them simmer at the side of the fire for tAventy minutes. Be careful that they simmer as gently as possible. Set them to get cold. Then arrange the Scallops round a pile of celery Avith one or two Tomatoes sliced at the last moment. Serve mayonnaise sauce in a boat. Scallops are in season from October to May. Mussels.—Mussels have sometimes been found tmwhole- some, and even poisonous, but as yet experts have not succeeded in discovering the reason. May one who is not an expert suggest that the cause lies in the food of the Mussels ? Oyster’s and Mussels, unlike Lobsters and Crabs, cannot forage for their food, but must depend on what is brought to them, either by the tide or by other means. On a rocky shore, Avhere Mussels are closely wedged together in large beds below high-water mark, they may be seen as the tide rises opening their shells Avide in expectation not only of the food Avhich the breaking Avaves Avill bring them, but of the fresh supply of sea-water on which they depend for the aeration of their blood. Such Mussels as these, living far from human habitations and impure rivei’s or estuaries, cannot surely be unwholesome. But Avhen Mussels are cultivated in the brackish waters of estuaries, or where rivers flow into inlets of the sea, they may very probably feed on decomposed vegetable matter instead of the fresh seaweed brought in by the tide. In this case Mussels must be unfit for food. Mussels are used as bait by fishermen to an enormous extent, for it is said that there is no fish in the sea Avhich cannot be tempted by a Mussel. Tons of English Mussels are thus used, and the home supply is supplemented by great quantities of Mussels “ made in •Germany.” These imported Mussels, as Avell as the English