331 BRUSSELS SPROUTS fried in butter after boiling, and sent up on slices of hot buttered toast. They will lose colour and brown if they are not very lightly fried. Broccoli.—Broccoli, like all forms of Cabbage, needs careful cooking. As many of the outer leaves as possible should be removed, taking care that enough remain to hold the flowers together in a green sheath. Put the Broccoli, heads downwards, in strong salt and water for half an hour, by which time all insects ought to be dislodged. Drain the Broccoli and plunge them into abundance of boiling water, adding salt, and boil for fifteen minutes. Small Broccoli will be done in that time ; larger heads will need from twenty to thirty minutes. Slow cooking spoils them. When the Broccoli sink in the water try the stumps with a skewer. When fairly tender lift the Broccoli out with a slice, drain well in a colander, and serve in a hot dish. If pieces of the flower are floating on the water the Broccoli are done, and must be taken out at once, whether the stumps are hard or not. The flower should be perfect, and good in colour, eatable down to the stump, and the stump tender. But the stump may be neglected so long as the flower is unbroken. It is well to cut a X on the stumps of Broccoli as on the stalk of Cauliflower. Red Cabbage.—This is often liked with stewed poultry or game. Split a red cabbage, tear the leaves into thin shreds, and put them into salt and water in order to eject any hidden insects. Drain the cabbage and put it into a stewpan with enough broth to cover it, an ounce of butter rolled in flour, a small piece of bacon, a gill of French vinegar, salt, and pepper. Let the cabbage stew till tendei*, test it with a skewer, take out the bacon, and serve very hot. Pickled Red Cabbage for Winter Use. —Shred the Cabbage as above. Allow a quarter of a pound of butter to three or four large cabbage heads. Melt the butter in an earthenware saucepan on a coal fire. When melted add the cabbage, salt, pepper, a little flour, and a large cupful of good broth. Cover well, and let it cook for about an hour and a half, turning it from time to time. During the last half hour add a glass of strong red wine.