TO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME 272 and vent, and roast the Goose for from one and a half to two hours. Cover the breast with buttered paper, and baste the bird well. It is a general saying that a Goose is too much for one person and not enough for two; and, as so much of a Goose is not eaten when the whole bird is roasted, it would be a far better way to remove the legs, using them as giblets, and to stuff and roast merely the breast, like the imported Pomeranian Goose-breasts. Apple Sauce is eaten with Roast Goose. Geese are in season from Michaelmas Day till February. Green Geese or Goslings in June, July, and August. Goslings need a delicate stuffing, such as that recommended for Ducklings, only of course increasing the quantities according to the size of the bird. The old-fashioned sauce was made of a pint of green gooseberries, “ topped and tailed,” rubbed through a sieve with a wooden spoon, and then warmed in a saucepan with an ounce of butter and half a teaspoonful of sugar. Horseradish Sauce is now recommended ; at any rate a sharp sauce is needed for a Gosling. Some cooks do not stuff Goslings at all. Ducks.—Ducks do not need hanging; in fact, if required at once they may be cooked as soon as killed. A Duck requires from three-quarters of an hour to an hour to roast, and must be well basted. Make a good brown gravy of the giblets. The old-fashioned stuffing for a Duck was a coarse moist composition of raw sage leaves, half-cooked onions and apples, and either butter or suet. The stuffing given at page 203 is firm, mild, and delicate. Do not use the livers of the Ducks with the stuffing, but add them to the giblets. Boiled Duck, or Ganeton a, l' Orange.—(Mrs. G. W. Earle.)— Take a good, fat, tame Duck, clean it out and put the liver apart. Singe the Duck, and clean it very carefully. Then mince the liver with a little onion and some grated bacon or ham, add salt and pepper. Put the stuffing inside the Duck. Now close the opening of the Duck; leave the skin of the neck long, and bring it round under the Duck to close the tail. Spread on the table a clean pudding-cloth, and rail the Duck in this rather tightly to preserve the shape. Tie up the two ends of the cloth with string. Put into a stewpan with boiling salted water. Continue to boil it quietly for one hour for an