SHELL-FISH ii4 Lobster Canapes.—Cut some thin slices of stale brown or white bread, prepare the Lobster Butter as above, reserving some nice pieces of meat unpounded. Cut out of the bread some neat oblongs two inches long, and one inch and a half broad. Spread them with the Lobster Butter, putting a piece of Lobster meat on each. Dust with pepper (Nepaul pepper is best), and dish in a ring with mustard and cress in the middle. Or cut your slices of bread a quarter of an inch thick, stamp out rounds two inches across, and fry in butter. Spread the rounds with Lobster Butter, put a piece of Lobster meat on each, garnish with sliced gherkin or a row of capers round the Lobster, and dust with Nepaul pepper. Crabs.—A Crab is excellent when baked in Wyvern's way. Baked Crab.—Take all the flesh from a medium-sized Crab, tear it to shreds with two forks ; put this into a stewpan over a low fire, and moisten with a gill of good sauce made upon a fish-broth foundation. Cut up an ounce and a half of butter into small squares, and add these by degrees, mixing in lastly one-third of the whole bulk of nicely-mashed potato. Work altogether smoothly, and season with salt and pepper. Butter the shells, fill them with the mixture, smooth over the surface with a palette-knife dipped in hot water, dust over with grated Parmesan, baste with melted butter, and bake for a few minutes in a moderate oven. Serve when the surface has slightly browned, the shells laid on a hot napkin. This recipe can be carried out in a fire-proof dish instead of shells. And two ounces of well-boiled rice, with about four ounces of sifted breadcrumbs, may be substituted for the mashed potato. Dressed Crab.—Pick out all the meat of a boiled Crab, and wash and dry the shell. Mix well with the meat a teaspoonful of unmade mustard, a dessertspoonful of vinegar, a tablespoonful of either oil or cream, and a little pepper aud salt. Put the meat in the shell, and serve cold, garnished if liked with the claws of the Crab. Partan Pie.—This is a Scotch dish, Partan being the name for a Crab on the east coast of Scotland. Pick the meat out of a boiled Crab, clean out the shell, and mix the meat with a little salt and pepper and a pat of butter. If too