26o TO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME Roast Chicken.—Prepare tlie bird as baa already been described, with the liver inside it. Allow an hour and a quarter for a capon, three-quarters of an hour for a large fowl; and from half an hour to forty minutes for a chicken. Bread Sauce.—No recipe for this delicious sauce is equal to Wyvem's. If it is carefully followed Bread Sauce in future will never be the “ spiced bread poultice ” it has too often resembled in the past. No trouble should begrudged in follow- ing the recipe exactly. Wyvern says the backbone of Bread Sauce is the flavouring of the milk with which it is made. That being done it must be carefully strained into a clean saucepan, and the saucepan set in the bain-marie to keep hot. Then have ready stale finely-sifted white crumbs which have been dried in the oven. At the time of serving bi’ing the milk nearly to the boil, and stir into it, off the fire, sufficient crumbs to bring the mixture to the consistency of an ordinary puree, but on no account any thicker. Finally, finish it off with a good tablespoonful of cream at the last moment before serving. In the absence of cream the yolk of one egg, beaten up in a little warn milk till it looks creamy, may be added, off the fire, just at the last, but cream should be used if possible. To flavour the milk you must take a three-ounce onion, peel off the outside skin, blanch it for five minutes in scalding water, then cut it into quarters, and put them with a dozen pepper- corns, six cloves, a blade of mace, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a saltspoonful of salt, into a saucepan containing not less than half a pint of good milk. The utmost care is now necessary, for milk boils up so rapidly that you must watch your saucepan narrowly, and use a veiy low fire to control the boiling stage. Remove the pan as soon as the surface of the milk looks frothy, let it cool a little, and replace it, continuing thus until the flavour is extracted, adding a little milk from time to time to make good the loss by evaporation. Strain it off through a piece of muslin into a clean saucepan, bring the milk nearly to the boil, stir in the crumbs off the fire, as has been described, and at the last moment add the cream. (I have given Wyvem’s exact flavouring, but I confess that I omit the cloves and nutmeg myself.) Milk is essential; water makes a bread poultice and not bread sauce. The reason for stirring the