SEA FISH S2 a second time for two minutes, dust a little salt over them, and drain and dry as before. The Whitebait must not be allowed to turn brown. Whitebait are much best when fried “at twice” in this way, as they are sure to be crisp. But if it is not convenient to fry them twice let them remain motionless in the boiling suet for three minutes, then shake the basket or stir the Whitebait apart, leave them quiet for two minutes more, and then give another shake or stir. Five minutes ought quite to cook the Whitebait. Be most careful as to the heat of the suet, or the Whitebait will be flabby. Serve with quarters of lemon, brown bread and butter, and cayenne pepper. If any Whitebait are left they can be again fried for a minute, and served at breakfast. It seems a pity to devil Whitebait, as to do so destroys their flavour. But if liked, prepare the Whitebait as above, drain and dry them, and when very hot dust them well with black pepper and Nepaul pepper, and sprinkle them with salt. Sprats.—Sprats are in season from Lord Mayor’s Day until April. They are seldom more than five inches long, and are often mistaken for young herrings. However, Sprats can always be recognised by their having no teeth on their palate. Fresh Sprats are very good, cooked like whitebait, and served in the same way. They will take ten minutes to fry, and must be scaled before they are cooked. Or Sprats can be threaded on a skewer and broiled over a clear fire, turning them occasionally. Unlike whitebait, Sprats must be cleaned, and this is done by pulling out the gills and what comes with them, as with smelts. Dried Spi'ats are sometimes liked. To cook these, rub them with a soft cloth, cut off the heads and tails, and fry them. Fry one side for two minutes, then turn and fry the other side. Serve very hot. Potted Sprats always taste of garlic (see Garlic), and few people like them. Pilchards or Sardines.—Pilchards, as they are called in England, and Sardines, as they are called in France, are a species of Herring. Sardines are young Pilchards. Pilchards are found in immense quantities in the English Channel (where the Pilchard Fishery in July, August and September, is of