343 ENDIVE boiling water, throw in half an ounce of salt, and continue to boil for twenty-five minutes. When the Endive is tender, drain and cool it and (1) press it through a coarse wire sieve, (2) chop the leaves fine on a clean board. Endive can then be dressed like Spinach, or it can be simmered in broth for a couple of hours. In this latter case, the Endive should become thick enough to bear being put in a heap. Garnish with fried croutons. Endive, finely minced after being boiled for half an hour, makes a good puree, covered with a sauce made by putting- half an ounce of butter rolled in flour into a teacupful of milk, then add pepper and salt, boil for five minutes, stirring all the time, bind with the yolk of an egg, and serve hot. Another way of cooking Endive is to boil it till tender in salted water, and then press out the moisture very gently with a cloth. Make a white roux by mixing two small teaspoonfuls of flour in a little cold water, put it in a stewpan with a little butter, minced onion, and a dust of salt, stir it till cooked. Put in the Endive and let all simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Add a dessert- spoonful of made mustard and some minced parsley, stir gently till all is well mixed with the Endive, and serve in a hot vegetable dish. Endive makes a good winter salad, served with a sauce in which there is plenty of mustard. But every leaf must be most carefully searched for insects. GARLIC. Mrs. C. W. Earle has a very ingenious way of using this vegetable. She says: “ Garlic, which is excellent as a flavour “to most sauces, is such a dangerous thing to use in a “kitchen that the way I manage it is this. Put five or “ six cloves of Garlic into a wide-necked bottle and cover them “ with good spirits of wine. When wanted, stick a skewer or “fork into the spirit and use a drop or two. The spirit “ evaporates and the flavour of the Garlic remains. But even “in this way it must be used carefully for English palates.” This method is far preferable to the usual way of nibbing the stewpan or dish with a clove or division of the bulb of Garlic.