SEA FISH 74 itself in the hot pan. Empty it into a very hot sauceboat, metal if possible, and add either a dessertspoonful of lemon juice or the same quantity of anchovy vinegar. Sole a la Colbert,—Skin the Sole, make an incision along the backbone on the under or dark side, from an inch of the head to within an inch of the tail. Slip a knife under the flesh on each side of the cut, and loosen it from the bones; snip the backbone with a pair of nippers in three or four places, so that it can be easily removed afterwards. Egg and breadcrumb twice as above, and fry with the cut side upper- most. The edges of the incision will curl outwards in the process of frying, and the opening thus made should be filled at the time of serving with an ounce of maitre d’hotel butter (p. 75), the Sole being sprinkled with fine salt. To do this while the Sole is being drained, after the frying, the backbone should be carefully removed, and the butter, ready melted, poured into the cavity. [ Wyvern.] Or fill the cavity with an ounce of green butter, and call the dish Soleau beurrevert. For green butter Wyvern s recipe is: Weigh a quarter of a pound of the best butter. Boil two good handfuls of spinach, drain thoroughly, squeeze through a piece of muslin, and save all the spinach greening so obtained in a bowl. Scald and cleanse four anchovies from oil, pick out their spines, pass them through a hair-sieve, and save the pulp. Mince as finely as possible sufficient blanched curled parsley to fill a tablespoon. Mince also as finely as possible, and pound, capers enough to fill a teaspoon. Now colour the butter by working into it, as lightly as you can, enough of the spinach greening to make it a pale green. Then add the other things by degrees, and incorporate them thoroughly with the butter. Trim the butter into neat shapes or pats with the butter bat on the butter board, and set on ice till wanted. N.B.—For all fancy butter’s it is best to have a separate small Wedgewood mortar, pestle, small hair-sieve, butter board and bat. Fillets of Sole. —These should be about three inches long, and an inch and a half wide. They can then be egged and breadcrumbed and fried, or dipped in batter D Orly and fried, or poached in broth, floured, and fried, or steamed and served cold with mayonnaise sauce.