336 CARDOONS the top of a sieve and let them get cold. When cold cat them in slices, and shortly before they are to be served heat them up gently in a little thick brown sauce in the bain-marie. Put a dessertspoonful of this into little hollo wed-out cases of fried bread, or fill with it little cases of pastry, baked in small patty- pans. Lay the Oardoons on a hot dish, pour the brown sauce over them, arrange the marrow cases round them, aHd serve very hot. Or the marrow can be spread on toast and served in a long nai’row dish with the Cardoons in the centre. Cardoons are good fried in batter as beignets. CELERY. Celery ought to be cooked only just before it is wanted, and must never be left soaking in water. But, if it is to be eaten raw, Celery is made crisper by lying for one hour in cold water in a cold place. It should then be carefully washed, and the coarse outer part taken off, leaving the blanched and tender inner stalks. Celery can be cooked in a variety of ways. It requires careful draining and straining, but the old-fashioned plan of sending up Celery, Asparagus, and Seakale on a thick sodden piece of toast, which absorbed the moisture like a sponge, should never be adopted. Wyvern recommends that Celery should be cut five or sis inches in length, and then split lengthwise into two or four pieces, according to the thickness of the head, and carefully washed. The Celery should then be plunged into fast boiling water and boiled for ten minutes. Take it out, drain and wipe it, and put it to stew gently for about two hours in sufficient common broth or milk and water to cover it. When the Celery is tender strain it, lay it on a hot silver dish and serve as hot as possible, with a pat of butter melting over it. Celery is good stewed in broth with a turnip cut up, a sliced carrot, and three or four whole mushrooms. Some people like it cooked 'in blanc like Cardoons and served with marrow. Mrs, C. W. Earle’s Celery.—(Geleris en branches demi- glaces.).—Pick and peel very carefully six or eight heads of Celei’y, according to size. Bleach them for fifteen or twenty