ON PASTRY MAKING 453 should be used. The Hour must be dried in the oven and sifted ; the least touch of damp in the flour will ruin any Pastry. The butter must be gently squeezed in a soft cloth so as to get rid of any moisture. Both flour and butter must be of the best, and the quantities of both must be most carefully weighed. Many good Pastry makers prefer clarified beef suet to butter, as it is much firmer than butter. When everything is ready the cook should wash her hands in very hot water, then put them into very cold water, and dry them thoroughly. She should keep a basin of cold water and a towel close to her, so that she may cool her hands from time to time. If she can learn to use two wooden spoons instead of her hands it will be all the better for the Pastry. For Puff Paste, weigh one pound of flour, turn it out upon the marble slab, make a hollow in the middle of it, and fill that with a quarter of a pint of the cold water, and half an ounce of salt. Mix the flour gradually with the water, and when this is done and the paste half mixed sprinkle over it by degrees as much more cold water as may be needed to form the dough. This can be ascertained by pressing the flour; if it is at all crumbly a little more water is needed ; if it sticks to the hands it is too moist, and a little more flour must be dredged over and worked in. Mix it all thoroughly together, until it ceases to adhere to the slab, pat it with two wooden spoons into a round ball, cover it with a cloth, and let it rest ten minutes. All this can be done quite as well in a roomy basin, set on ice in summer ; if the dough is properly mixed the basin will be quite clean when the dough is used to wipe it out. Work it lightly and gradually; never use strength or pressure, for the less the dough is kneaded the lighter the Puff Paste will be. Now take one pound weight of firm butter, which has been previously squeezed free from moisture. Or take the same weight of clarified suet, pounded in a mortar till it is quite pliant. Flour the marble slab, flatten out the ball of paste into a square about two inches thick, and spread the butter evenly over the surface. Never roll the dough and butter together with the palms of your hands ; if you cannot manage the wooden spoons use the tips of your fingers. Dip your fingers often in dry flour, and work the butter gradually into the dough. Leave a three-inch margin of paste beyond the