“ WYVERN’S ” COLD TOMATO SAVOURY 365 and a half cutter. Arrange these for the present on a flat dish while yon melt all the pieces and set the liquid again, stamping it into little rounds the size of a shilling. Have ready some little moulds of anchovy cream. To make this, take four hard- boiled yolks of egg, twelve fillets of anchovy, and two table- spoonfuls of mayonnaise sauce; pound, pass all through a hair sieve, add a gill of diluted aspic, fill the little bouchee-moulds, and let this set. The twelve moulds ought previously to have been lined with melted aspic jelly about an eighth of an inch thick, and kept on ice. Now lay a little mould of anchovy cream on each larger round of tomato, put a little tomato button on the top of each, arrange the little moulds on a flat dish with watercress as a garnish, and serve. This very pretty savoury is called Boutons rouges a la Bolonaise. Tomatoes (grown out of doors) which do not ripen in the autumn are very good stewed, as recommended for ripe Toma- toes. An earthenware dish is best for stewing Tomatoes, ripe or unripe, and they should be served in it. TURNIPS. Turnips cooked by themselves should be young, so that the outer rind has not become hard. If the Turnips are young only just the outside should be carefully removed; the Turnips should not be pared or divided, but cooked whole. If they are much pressed they lose their flavour. Young Turnips should be boiled fast in boiling salted water for twenty minutes. Mashed Turnips,—Boil as directed above, and at the end of twenty minutes try with a fork if the Turnips are done. Drain them, and press them with a wooden presser, or the back of a large wooden spoon, on the back of a plate, but be careful not to press them very dry. Beat them with a wooden spoon through a colander. Never rub them through a sieve; if you do the Turnips will not be mashed but will become a puree. Put the mashed Turnips into a stewpan with three ounces of butter, a little salt, a teaspoonful of white pepper, and if possible two tablespoonfuls of cream. Mix thoroughly, add more cream if possible. Make the mashed Turnips very hot, and serve heaped up in a hot vegetable dish. In the