PRINCE GEORGE SANDWICHES 387 C C2 paste. Cut some large milk rolls into slices an eighth of an inch thick; butter these lightly. Spread half the slices with the minced game, cover each slice with the other half, and press the Sandwiches. Princess Sandwiches.—Pound some cooked chicken in a mortar; when thoroughly done add the yolks of three hard- boiled eggs, an ounce or more of grated cheese, a very little French mustard, a few drops of tarragon vinegar, enough salad oil (about a tablespoonful) to make the mixture moist. Season with salt and pepper, work all to a smooth paste, and pass it through a wire sieve. Butter the slices of bread very lightly, spread one with the paste, lay the other slice over it, and press well together. These Sandwiches are best spread on a round of bread and then cut out with an oval cutter about two inches long. Alexandra Sandwiches.—Mince some cold game finely, and add to it a little minced ham or tongue, and some minced cooked mushrooms. Melt an ounce of glaze in some good sauce, either domestic veloute or espagnole, mix the meat into it when hot, adding pepper and salt. Put all into a square mould, and set it on ice or in a cold place. Cut some small rolls into rounds the eighth of an inch thick, butter them, and lay a thin slice of the cold mince between each two rounds. Brown bread can be used if espagnole sauce has been chosen. Victoria Sandwiches.—Wash some anchovies quite free from oil, and fillet them, taking out the spines. Cut some hard- boiled eggs into thin rounds. Cut rounds of brown bread the eighth of an inch thick, butter them lightly. Lay on each alternate round a slice of egg, then a fillet of anchovy, and then a layer of cress. Put the other rounds on the top of these, and press the Sandwiches together. Do not add salt, as the anchovy has quite enough to supply the salt generally needed for the egg. Nelson Sandwiches.—Wash, scrape, and bone ten Gorgona anchovies, pound them in a mortar with a little fresh butter, the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, a saltspoonful of curry powder, a dust of cayenne, and two tablespoonfuls of freshly-grated Parmesan cheese. Cut rounds of bread an eighth of an inch thick, butter them, lay the mixture between, and press the Sandwiches.