SEA FISH 90 periodically. They appear in the English Channel in spring, going on to the southern part of the North Sea in summer. In May and June thousands of tons of Mackerel are landed at Plymouth and Penzance. Mackerel are at their best in May, and should be about ten inches in length. This fish will not keep, and when fish were “ cried ” in London streets Mackerel only were allowed to be “cried” on Sunday. The skin of a Mackerel is beautifully coloured, but it is thin, papery, and useless, and must be thrown away. Mackerel is best broiled. When the fish is cleaned, washed, and wiped dry, split it open, so that when laid flat the back bone will be in the middle. Sprinkle lightly with salt, lay the Mackerel on a well-oiled gridiron over a clear fire, with the inside of the fish downwards, until it begins to brown, then turn it over. When quite done lay the fish on a hot dish, butter it, turn another hot dish over it, and let it stand for two or three minutes before serving. Or the Mackerel can be filleted, and the fillets broiled. Or it can be split down the back, grilled or broiled for ten or twelve minutes, and an ounce of maltre d’hotel butter put inside it. Then close the fish and serve at once. When Mackerel is boiled it must be put on in cold water, on account of its very thin skin, and gently brought to the boil. Then let it simmer for ten minutes, and drain thoroughly before serving. Fennel Sauce is liked with Mackerel. For this mix half an ounce of flour and half an ounce of butter in half a pint of fish broth. Flavour this with a dessertspoonful of blanched and chopped fennel sprigs. The fennel will make the sauce sharp enough for most people, but if liked very sharp indeed add a tea- spoonful of vinegar which has been reduced by boiling from a tablespoonful. Avoid “ decorating ” the fish with sprays of the fresh grey-green fennel, however pretty they may be. Mackerel is very good served cold in TVyvern’s way. For this luncheon dish, boil one large or two medium-sized Mackerel in a liquid made of half water and half vinegar. When done take them out, lay them in a deep earthenware dish, pour the liquid over them and let them soak in it all night. Next day fillet the Mackerel, lay them in a dish over ice, and mask the surface of the fillets with mayonnaise sauce. Garnish with chopped aspic jelly, and, if olives are liked, add chopped and turned