98 RIVER FISH morning, crimped on arrival in London in the afternoon, and served at dinner in the evening. He continues, “ The fine nutty “ flavour of the very delicate oil of the Fish, and the crisp “ brittle quality of the flakes which the flesh offers after “ crimping are wholly unknown wherever the Salmon has to be “ carried by a transit approaching in length to a duration of “ twenty-four hours.” The oil very soon acquires a certain flavour, which is in fact the first sign of the approach of decomposition. Salmon therefore ought to be eaten as fresh as possible. As soon as the Fish is quite dead the keeper should clean it at the water-side, leaving only the liver inside. It will be all the better if he can wipe the inside dry with a cloth. Before the Salmon stiffens it should be crimped. The keeper should do this by scoring the fish across the body with a sharp knife, working from head to tail, and making the cuts about two inches apart and nearly down to the bone. After this the Salmon should be held for a few minutes in running water, or under falling water, or plunged in a cool shady pool for a quarter of an hour. It should then be sent off at once to the cook. As the Salmon has been some time dead crimping cannot inflict pain, and there is no doubt that it makes the flesh of the Fish firmer and crisper. Much as Sir Henry Thompson objects to boiling Fish, he says, “ To cook crimped Salmon in perfection, a slice should be “ plunged into an ample saucepan of boiling salted water, and “ allowed to boil for eight minutes only.” I have already given an excellent recipe for Broiled Salmon. Salmon Steaks.—Out the Steaks an inch thick, roll them in oatmeal or flour, and lay them on a well-oiled or buttered gridiron over a clear fire. Turn them with a slice slipped under them and a broad-bladed knife held above them, lest the Steaks should break. When they are a light clear brown, lay them in a hot dish, butter each Steak as you do so, and season each well with pepper and salt. Serve in a hot closely-covered dish. Hand Dutch sauce, finished with finely-grated horseradish, a dessertspoonful to half a pint of sauce. Salmon Rag’out.—Remove the skin from half a pound of cold boiled Salmon, cut the fish into neat fillets, and dust with