MUSHROOMS 35° flatten themselves, as it were, they are done. Serve in same dish, and hand dry toast. Grilled Mushrooms.—Put the Mushrooms stalk down- wards on the gridiron, over a clear, but not a fierce, fire. After three minutes turn them, and then put a morsel of butter in the centre of each, so that it will run from the stalk into the gills whilst the top sides are cooking. The Mushrooms should be cooked in ten minutes, as they ought not to be overdone. Place them in a hot dish, stalk-side upwards, before a bright fire, and put another little piece of butter in the centre of each. While this is melting, dust freely with pepper and salt, and serve the Mushrooms at once. Stewed Mushrooms.—Button Mushrooms are the best for stewing, and are more digestible when stewed in broth without cream or butter. Let the Mushrooms stew in some good stock for ten minutes. Beat a little flour in some more stock till quite smooth, add it to the Mushrooms, and let them boil up. Stir occasionally, but be very careful not to break the buttons. After cooking for five minutes try the Mushrooms ; if tender, serve at once; if not quite done, cook them for a minute or two longer. Wild Mushrooms are infinitely better and more full of flavour than those which are cultivated. But it is often very difficult to gather any if one does not live miles away from a town. People come out at peep of day, and gather Mushrooms every hour till night-fall, when it is too dark to see them. It is somewhat exasperating to witness this, and then to be invited to purchase one’s own property out of the bursting pocket-handkerchiefs and loaded pillow-cases of the gatherers. However, if any Mushrooms can be secured for preserving, button Mushrooms, done with salt, are the best. Do not wash the buttons, but wipe them clean with a flannel dipped in salt. Lay them one by one on a dish, and strew a little salt over them. Heat them in a stewpan until the liquor will run out, adding a little ground white pepper. Shake the buttons over the stove till they have nearly absorbed the liquor again. Now add gently just enough white French vinegar to cover the buttons, and give them a boil up. Put them into tightly corked bottles, using wax for the corks (see Chapter XVIII). Button Mushrooms, preserved at home, are often useful. A simple Mushroom Ketchup is made by chopping two