337 MRS. C. W. EARLE’S CELERY minutes in boiling water, dip tbem in cold water to cool tbem, strain tbem on to a clotb, cut tbem in two if they are large, fasten tbem—tbat is, re-form tbe Celery by tying it together with a little string at each end. Put them into a sauce- pan with an onion, one carrot, and a little bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay. Pill up to the brim with half stock and half dripping. Boil it up, and let it cook quite gently by the side of a slow fire or in the oven for three or four hours. Strain them on to a cloth, cut them to equal sizes, remove the outer leaves if they are hard, serve in a silver casserole and sauce them over with a good half glaze or a good veal gravy a little thickened. Fried Celery with Celery Puree.—Trim and quarter, say, eight heads of Celery. Remove any stringy or hard pieces, and blanch for ten minutes in boiling salted water. Then stew the Celery in a little broth till tender. Divide the Celery into two equal parts. Rub one half through a sieve, making it into a puree by adding milk. Season with white pepper and salt, and keep the puree hot. Take the other half of the Celery, which has remained in pieces. Coat each piece well by dipping it in milk and then rolling it in a cloth with plenty of dried flour. Pry these pieces a golden brown. Place them upright in a hot dish, and fill the centre with the puree. Stir a little bit of butter into the puree at the last moment. The pieces of Celery are improved by frying them in batter. Braised Celery.—Trim, blanch, wash, and drain the Celery as before. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan. Cover the bottom closely with sliced vegetables of all sorts. Place the Celery upon this carpet, covering it with a buttered pajser. Put the cover on the pan, and fry all gently for fifteen minutes. Then add a pint and a half of stock, and let the Celery braise gently for two hours and a half. Turn it about from time to time, in order to baste it in the broth, but be careful not to break it. The braising is the important part. When the Celery is tender split each piece into four, place on nicely-fried long croutons, and serve. CELERIAC. Celeriac, or turnip-rooted Celery, the Celeri Rave of the French, is another vegetable too often neglected in this country. z