I5I WYVERN’S GRILL SAUCE chicken, and put the pieces on a buttered tin in a quick oven. Watch that the chicken does not get dry, and if it does add a little butter. It will be done in a quarter of an hour. Serve dry on a hot dish, and hand a salad of lettuce, endive, or water- cress. Some cooks use the double gridiron, which hangs in front of the fire, for Broiling and Gi’illing. This saves trouble, but the result is not nearly so good as when the single gridiron is used. The American Grip Broiler and Toaster is a very useful contrivance; it is made of polished steel, and can be turned easily as the broiling goes on. This invention is to be had from the Enterprise Company, 86 Dale Street, Liverpool. English cooks make much more use of the marinade than they did. In Prance the poverty of the meat long ago com- pelled cooks to marinade it, and there the process is applied to most small joints. With our English meat the marinade is most suitable to cutlets or fillets. It may be described as a sort of flavouring pickle, in which the meat lies from early morning until it is required. The marinade keeps the outside of the meat fresh and juicy, preventing its drying up where it has been cut, and greatly adds to its tenderness. Besides this, the marinade prevents all risk of tainting, or of injury from flies, and gives a delicate flavour to the meat. The usual marinade for mutton cutlets, fillets of beef, etc., is made in the proportion of four tablespoonfuls of salad oil to one of vinegar, with one sliced shallot or small onion, six cloves, a bay leaf, twelve peppercorns, a saltspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of dried thyme or marjoram, and a table- spoonful of minced parsley. Some cooks add a strip or two of very finely-pared lemon peel, but this requires care, as lemon peel has a very pungent flavour. French cooks of course add g-arlic to their marinade; if this flavour is liked it should be added according to Mrs. Earle’s method (see Garlic). There is no need to make a great quantity of marinade ; all that is wanted is that it should cover the bottom of the dish in which the cut- lets are placed. They must not only soak in the marinade, but must be turned about in it and basted with it several times during the day. A clever cook will vary the flavour of the