369 TRUFFLES AND MORELS French and Italian Truffles are larger than the English kinds, but their price when fresh is as a rule prohibitory. Foreig'n Truffles cost from twenty-five to fifty shillings a pound, and only from eight to twelve go to a pound. Preserved foreign Truffles are generally used, but their taste differs little from that of cork. It is far better to use English Mushrooms, which can be obtained fresh and full of flavour at all seasons and at reasonable prices. Morels,—This fungus is often found in English woods, but it is not often seen on English tables. It grows, like a mush- room, on a stalk, but the hood or hat is very much wrinkled, and varies in colour from pale yellow to ash-grey. In Germany Morels are considered a great delicacy. It is important never to gather them when they are wet, and they are best when eaten fresh, although they are often dried for future use. Morels can be cooked in any way suitable to mushrooms, but they are particularly good when stewed in cream. For this, take off the stalks, cut the Morels in half, and wash them in several waters, as it is impossible to get the grit out of the little wrinkles in any other way. Put the Morels and their stalks in a saucepan with a little butter, season with salt, pepper, a bunch of herbs, and a little minced parsley. Toss them over the stove, moisten with some good broth, and set the Morels to simmer over a slack fire. Beat up two eggs in cream, take out the bunch of herbs, add the cream, off the fire, to the Morels, and serve at once. Mushrooms are cooked in this way in Germany. VEGETABLE MARROW. It is sometimes thought that Vegetable Marrows should only be cultivated for the beauty of their colour and of their foliage. But this opinion might be modified if Vegetable Marrows were eaten when quite young. They should be gathered when the size of a very large egg ; in fact, if fairly well grown they cannot be used too young, before the seeds are formed. When Vegetable Marrows are cooked quite in a young state they need not be peeled; it is better to boil them fast in salted boiling water for a quarter of an hour and to serve them whole. Maitre d’hdtel sauce or Parmesan cheese sauce is good with