POTATOES A LA LYONNAISE 3” over the fire till they become thoroughly mixed and till the Potatoes are a golden yellow. Dust with pepper and salt, and serve very hot. Potatoes a l’Americaine.—Cut up four good-sized boiled Potatoes into thick slices. Flavour half a pint of milk with pepper and salt (onion and spice if liked) as for bread sauce Strain and thicken it as for melted butter with butter and flour. Place your slices of Potato in this sauce, and heat them up to boiling-point. Take the saucepan off the fire, stir in the yolk of an egg, add a full tablespoonful of minced parsley with a pat of butter the size of a shilling, and serve. [Wyvern.~\ Potato Souffles Cordon Rouge.—Boil and peel six small Potatoes, rub them through a wire sieve into a basin, moisten- ing them with a little cream or milk. Beat up two ounces of butter, add it to the Potatoes, seasoning with salt and pepper. Boil half a pint of milk in a stewpan, add the Potatoes, stir well over the fire to a smooth paste, and bind with two raw eggs well beaten. Allow it to cool. Beat up the yolks of four eggs, mix the whites to snow, and stir gently into the mix- ture together with the yolks and a handful of grated cheese. Butter some small tartlet moulds, line the inside with soft bread- crumbs, which must serve instead of a crust. Fill these with the mixture, bake in a quick oven to a light brown colour, turn out quickly, dust with finely-grated cheese, and serve as hot as possible. Curried Potatoes.—This is a useful way of using cold boiled Potatoes. Cut them up, fry a sliced onion in a little butter in a frying-pan. Add the Potatoes with a little salt, dust them with cayenne or Nepaul pepper, moisten with a little stock and the juice of half a lemon. Shake the pan well over the fire, and let it stew for fifteen minutes. Serve as hot as possible. German Potato Puffer.—(Countess Munster.)—Take the largest Potatoes you can get, skin them, wash, and grate them, and press them in a cloth as dry as you can. To a heaped plateful of the grated Potato add a tablespoonful of flour, six yolks of eggs, some salt, and two tablespoonfuls of cream. Stir in lightly the whipped whites of the six eggs. Fry from this mixture thin pancakes in clarified suet or butter. This