34° CUCUMBERS. Cucumbers suffer much at the hands of those gardeners whose ambition is to produce gigantic specimens, or “ Mammoth Wonders.” It may be safely said that a Cucumber is best when from twelve to eighteen inches long. Cucumbers are generally associated in one’s mind with a cool salad, with the Cucumber sliced raw. For this it is far the best way to slice the Cucumber as thinly as possible two or three hours before it is wanted, and to let the slices soak in salt and water. Then press them slightly, drain them, and serve in the usual way with pepper sprinkled over them. (Some people add oil and vinegar.) In this way the large quantity of moisture which Cucumbers contain is got rid of. Cucumbers can be cooked in any of the ways suggested for Marrows and Aubergines. For stuffed Cucumbers Wyverris recipe is the best. Peel and half boil a Cucumber, slice off a piece at one end and pick out the seeds with a marrow-spoon. Stuff the hollow thus made with a farce made of pounded meat and breadcrumb, two-thirds of the former to one of the latter. Season the farce with pepper and salt, a little minced shallot and parsley, and bind it with a well-beaten egg. Fix on the end you removed with white of egg and secure it with tape. The Cucumber can now be baked, or gently simmered in broth or milk which should be thickened or poured over it when done. Or, with a large Cucumber, it may be split open down the middle, leaving the two ends intact. The seeds are easily taken out and the stuffing put in. Put on the piece taken off, and serve the Cucumber (which must have been lightly boiled before splitting it) -with Dutch sauce round it. Cucumber a la Poulette.—This is a very good and delicate garnish for cutlets or boiled fish. Cut the Cucumber lengthwise into quarters, take out the seeds, and peel off the green skin. Cut the Cucumber into pieces two inches long and one inch thick, and put them into a stewpan with plenty of boiling water, half an ounce of butter, and a teaspoonful of salt. Simmer them until three-parts done. (To boil the peel "with the Cucumber is, I think, an improvement to the flavour.)