316 ARTICHOKES this dish fry the pieces, after dipping them in batter. Or cut them in thin slices and fry them in butter as Ohips. In each case the colour should be a golden brown. Or the Artichokes can be simmered in white or in brown sauce. Or they can be tossed in butter, served at once on a hot dish in the butter, with a squeeze of lemon-juice, and a dusting of parsley grated as finely as possible. These Artichoke quarters can be cooked in numerous other ways, but it seems a pity to spoil their natural flavour by the addition of onion, cheese, or mushrooms. Cream Of Globe Artichokes.—When the Artichokes are thoroughly boiled strip off the leaves and press out the eatable part of each leaf, remove the chokes from the bottoms, and pass through the tamis all the pulp you can get. Season with salt and pepper. Mix with cream, and steam the Artichokes in a mould veiy slowly for about twenty minutes. Turn out of the mould and serve. Put a puree of Artichoke round the mould. Artichoke-Bottoms.—Wyvern's method is again far the best for preparing Artichoke-Bottoms, or Fonds d'Artichauts. Cut the tops of the leaves horizontally, parallel with and close down to the top of the fond. Trim all leaves which may adhere to the fond quite closely all round, and pare off the stalk smoothly. Now plunge the Artichoke-Bottoms into boiling salt-and-water and blanch them. This will make it easy to scoop out the choke, which should be done with a good plated spoon. Artichoke-Bottoms are so good plainly served, the bottoms filled with a puree made from the edible part of the leaves ; or, when the bottoms are sent up cold, just masked with mayonnaise sauce, that some people think there has been “trop de zele shown in the numerous methods of cooking them. But many people prefer Fonds d’Artichauts a la Barig-oule.—Choose one fond for each person at table. Prepare the fonds as above, dust them with salt and pepper, and set them on a dish. Stir over the fire for five minutes a mixture composed of four ounces of finely minced bacon, a quarter of an ounce of butter, a quarter of an ounce of flour, a coffeecupful of broth, one tablespoonful of very finely-minced parsley, the same of finely-minced mush- rooms, and one dessertspoonful of finely-chopped and blanched