37 CLEAR OX-TAIL SOUP r cooking until the liquid becomes almost a glaze, then cover all with warm broth, bring slowly to the boil, skimming carefully. When clear of scum, put into the broth a dessert- spoonful of dried herbs sewn up in muslin, or fresh herbs if they can be got. Simmer slowly till the tail meat is tender and leaves the bone on pressure. This will take three hours and a half. Strain off the broth into a bowl. When cold take off all fat, and clarify with twelve ounces of raw beef and one whole egg, not using the shell. Strain, warm up, and serve garnished with a few pieces of the tail meat cut into squares. Garnish also with a tablespoonful of vegetables, shaped with the pea-cutter, and, of course, separately cooked. Ox-Tail Soup suffers more often than most soups from the addition of the much-to-be-dreaded kitchen sherry. Wine is not in the least necessary, but, if liked, a gill of good Marsala should be added when the meat and vegetables are first moistened with warm broth. Thick Ox-Tail Soup .—This should be made the day, or day but one, after Clear Ox-Tail, using the same meat and the same stock, which, of course, has now become second stock. Boil up the stock, cool it, strain it, and take off any fat. Choose four ounces of the best lean meat from the Ox-tail; to ensure this, three joints should be saved when the Clear Ox-tail is served. Pound this meat to a paste, and pass it through the wire sieve. Melt half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, stir into it half an ounce of flour, and mix well together for three minutes. Then moisten this Roux with a pint and a half of the Ox-tail second stock, passing in the meat puree as well. Bring it to the boil, simmer for ten minutes, and then pass it through the hair sieve. Warm up when required, and, if liked, add one dessertspoonful of Marsala. (Adapted from Wyvern.) Croutes-au-Pot.—This is one of the best French Clear Soups, and has never been superseded by more modern varieties. For eight people take one pound and a half of fresh leg of beef, and three-quarters of a pound of lean veal, one pound of veal bones chopped small, and sixpennyworth of chicken giblets, scalded and cut up small. Cut the meat into inch