HOT SAVOURIES 516 very hot. When required lay the devilled biscuits on a very hot dish, spread the minced ham over each, mask each with the savoury custard, sprinkle over the surfaces a little grated cheese, and serve as hot as possible. Or mix together three tea- spoonfuls of salt, one of black pepper, and half a one of Nepaul pepper. Devil the biscuits well with this whilst the butter browns, and lay on the top neat little fillets of grilled kippered salmon. [ Wyvern^ BeUPPe au Diable.—This is very useful for spreading on toasts, biscuits, etc., under savouries. Put a minced shallot, a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil, and a little minced parsley into a small stewpan, and add just sufficient chili vinegar to cover them. Bring it to the boil, drain, and let it get cold. Pound three anchovies, freed from'oil and boned, in a mortar with four ounces of clarified butter, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, one dessertspoonful of curry paste, and the herbs and shallot. Add a dust of cayenne, and rub all through a fine sieve. Anchovy Biscuits.—Drain six anchovies from oil, and pound them in a mortar with two ounces of butter, a tea- spoonful of essence of anchovies and a dust of cayenne. Rub all through a sieve, and spread the mixture on water biscuits. Set them in the oven to get quite hot, and put strips of filleted anchovies on the top of each. Or pound the anchovies with an ounce of butter, the yolk of a raw egg, and a teaspoonful of curry powder. Rub through the sieve into a stewpan, and let it get quite hot. Spread the mixture on hot fried croutons, and dust cayenne pepper over. Fried Anchovies.—Free twelve anchovies from oil and bone them. Dip each in a batter made as described on page 465, and fry them one by one in plenty of boiling suet. Pry the anchovies a golden brown, drain them, and dish on a napkin. Taptelettes aux Anchois.—Butter six oval patty-pans two and a half inches long, and line them with paste made by mixing three ounces of flour, an ounce and a half of butter, an ounce and a half of grated Parmesan, and the yolk of one egg, to a dough with half a gill of water. Have ready eight fillets of anchovy drained, boned, and passed through a hair sieve.