SHARP SAUCES, SERVED HOT i33 Sauce Hollandaise.—This is one of the best and most popular of all sauces. It must not be confounded with the simple Dutch sauce (page 139), which is really only melted butter and lemon-juice. Hollandaise is a custard sauce. It is difficult to make well, but quite worth the trouble it demands. Of all the recipes which I know for Hollandaise I have found none so satisfactory as Gouffe’s, condensed by Wyvern. But, to ensure success, the recipe must be strictly followed in every particular. Take four ounces of butter, and divide the whole into six equal portions ; next reduce two tablespoonfuls of vinegar on the fire with a saltspoonful of salt and pepper blended, till about a teaspoonful remains. Strain, and add to it two tablespoonfuls of water and two yolks of eggs carefully freed from white. Put this over a low fire for a minute, stirring it well with a wooden spoon; be careful not to let it boil. Take it off the fire, add one of the six portions of butter, stir till melted, put it on the fire for a minute, stir well, take it off again, and continue this process till, bit by bit, the six portions of butter have been worked into the two eggs you originally put in ; add a little water now and then to prevent its curdling. The sauce should be as thick as good mayonnaise sauce, or very thick cream. Being made at a very low tem- perature Hollandaise can never be served “piping hot’’like other sauces. It must be put into a warm sauce-boat, either a silver or a plated one, but the sauce-boat must be only warm ; if it is hot the sauce will curdle. Sauce Bearnaise, a popular sauce for roast beef and similar dishes, is made exactly like Hollandaise, only omitting the reduced vinegar at the beginning, and adding just before serving a teaspoonful of chopped tarragon and a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. For Bread Sauce see Chapter VIII.—-Refer also to Fried Breadcrumbs and Brown Gravy. The remains of Bread Sauce make excellent panada for Quenelles. Horseradish Sauce.—This, called in France, Sauce Baifort, is generally liked -with hot roast beef, and is served hot, although it is really better when cold. It is good with such fish as herring, or mackerel, and especially with freshwater fish. For hot Horseradish Sauce, grate as finely as possible a