325 FLAGEOLETS quantity to allow a supply to be reserved for Flageolets. Flageolets should be shelled and boiled, or steamed in the jar like peas, only omitting the mint. They are good finished like French Beans in the saute-pan. White Haricot Beans.—These again, so common in France, are hardly known here except in their dried state. They are the beans of the Climbing Bean or Scarlet Runner allowed to ripen in the pod. They come in during October. These Beans should be cooked like Flageolets, but they need more boiling. They can be served with a little of the water they were cooked in, with a pat of butter stirred in at the last. This eau de cuisson can be much strengthened by boiling the pods in a separate pan and adding the water to that in which the Beans were boiled. Mrs. C. W. Earle’s Method of Preserving’ French Beans and Scarlet Runners.—Mrs. Earle preserves these when young, eating the old ones fresh. The French Beans, which are much more delicate in flavour than the Scarlet Runners, are kept in a separate pan. The beans are picked almost daily, and laid as they are brought in in large earthen- ware uncovered pans, a handful of beans and then a handful of salt till the pans are full. They must not be allowed to get touched by frost. Mrs. Earle adds: “I have eaten “ them, preserved in this way, all through the winter. I be- “ lieve this is done everywhere abroad, but never in England, “ where the waste, both in the kitchen and the garden, is, as “ we all acknowledge, a national vice. When wanted, the “ Beans are taken out, well-soaked (to prevent their being too “salt), boiled in the ordinary way, either cut up or whole, “ then drained, and warmed up in fresh butter, a squeeze of “ lemon, and a little chopped parsley on the top. They can “ also be cooked with a white cream sauce. I think these “ salted beans have more flavour than the tinned ones, or than “ those that come from Madeira in the ■winter.” In the South of France French Beans are gathered when ripe, strung into the shape of large wreaths, and dried in the sun. But this cannot be done here. When French Beans are in perfection in England the sun is not powerful enough to dry them, and if dried indoors they only wither and decay.