4°5 OMELETTES a quarter of Parmesan or any mild dry cheese, grated and finely sifted. Add pepper and a very little salt (for the cheese will not require much salt). Add the cheese to the surface of the Omelette, in the same way as herb flavouring—that is, just as the Omelette is about to roll over—so that the cheese is buried in the Omelette. The cheese should be shaken evenly and quickly over the whole surface of the Omelette. Dust plenty of grated cheese over the Omelette just as it reaches the hot dish. Many people like the addition of vegetables, grated ham or tongue, or minced fish, to an Omelette. But the Omelette in these cases is never so light or so digestible. It is a better plan, when these additions are desired, to cook the Omelette in a different way. This excellent method, which is particularly suit- able for sweet Omelettes, was shown to Wyvern by native cooks in Southern India. For this second variety of Omelette a twelve-inch pan is needed, as it is very frothy, as light as a souffle, and needs plenty of room. The fire under the pan must be steady, but not fierce, or the Omelette will be over-cooked. Break three eggs one after the other, separating the yolks from the whites, and putting the yolks in one basin and the whites in another. Mix the yolks well together with a fork. Whisk the whites to a stiffish froth. Melt an ounce of butter in the Omelette-pan and let it get thoroughly hot over the lamp. Now add the yolks of the eggs to the whipped whites, and add also the chopped herbs and a saltspoonful of salt. Pour the mixture into the Omelette-pan, the heat under which should be moderate. Let it alone for two minutes, having smoothed the surface with a palette-knife. Keep the fire rather low. Slide the palette-knife under the edges of the Omelette so as to detach them from the pan, and, as soon as you see that the underpart is setting nicely, pass the palette-knife under the entire Omelette, double it over, and turn it at once into the hot dish. The Omelette is made firmer by passing a hot glazing-iron closely over its surface whilst the bottom is setting, but in any case the upper part remains frothy and is buried as the Omelette turns over in dishing. It is this variety of Omelette which adapts itself so well to a bed of hot vegetables, minced ham or tongue, or fish, laid ready