SHELL-FISH 120 of sunshine that they are only found where a river runs east and west. In these cases the banks protect the Crayfish from the sun. Crayfish are armed with powerful pincers, so powerful that when lying concealed in the burrows which they make for themselves during winter they can seize a vole or water-rat and hold its head under water till it drowns. No food comes amiss to the Crayfish ; indeed, as a French naturalist remarked, “ ils meconnaissent les plus saints devoirs,” for the males eat the females, preferring the time in May and June when the victims are loaded with eggs. In France Crayfish are regularly cultivated for food, and in Paris alone from five to six millions of Crayfish, or JEcrevisses, either of home production or “made in Germany,” are consumed every year, at a cost of ten thousand pounds. Crayfish are more plentiful in England than is generally supposed. Not long ago two gentlemen caught nine hundred in a single evening, in the Thames and Severn Canal in Gloucestershire. When caught, Crayfish must be left for a few hours under a tap of running fresh water, so that they may clear themselves of sand. Then put them into boiling water, and boil them for twenty minutes. They can be cooked like shrimps or prawns, and their flavour is very delicate. Fricasseed Crayfish.—(Family Recipe.)—Put the Crayfish with their shells on into boiling water, boil them for one hour. Take them out, and set them to get cold. Then pick them. Take three tablespoonfuls of cream, a little mace, cayenne pepper, and salt, and one teaspoonful of essence of anchovy. Make this all hot together, stir well, put in the Crayfish, and let it boil up. Serve very hot on toast. RECHAUFFE DISHES OF FISH. Kedgeree or Khitchri.—Take a pound of cold cooked fish, and divide it into small pieces with a fork. Clean and sift six ounces of rice. Put a gallon of water into a pan with a dessertspoonful of salt. Add the juice of half a lemon to preserve the whiteness of the rice. When the water is at a really galloping boil throw in the rice, and stir it round with a wooden spoon. Watch the clock for ten minutes,