128 SAUCES they will probably all be wanted. One or two small knives, and an onion knife, should be at hand for mincing vegetables, and a plated saltspoon of the size used in the dining-room. Kitchen saltspoons hold double the proper quantity. A little pounded and sifted sugar must be ready in a cup if the Sauce is to be white, for a pinch of sugar is considered an improve- ment in all White Sauces. Melted Butter.—Many years ago a French valet, when visiting with his master at English country houses, used to delight in teaching cooks the real method, as he called it, of making Melted Butter. He used to say: “ Melted Butter is “ Melted Butter; it is not flour and water and butter, nor flour “ and milk and butter, but it is the butter and nothing else.” The valet’s recipe was: For one pint of Melted Butter use half a pound of fresh butter. Put it in a saucepan on one side of the hot hearth, or on a very slow fire. Beat the butter with a wooden spoon as it melts. Continue beating till it is even and white, like cream. Simmer it for five minutes, beating all the time. This recipe still holds its own, but many people, in spite of the knowledge that a little of a good thing is better than a great deal of a bad thing, would consider it too expensive. Melted Butter is supposed to be the standard English Sauce, but it is very seldom well made by English cooks. Everyone knows the story of the bride who entreated her cook not to put lumps into the Melted Butter, but everyone does not know how to prevent the presence of lumps, or how to avoid the paste-like flavour given by the raw flour to the Sauce. Both these defects are due to the same cause, that is, the stirring of the uncooked flour into the Sauce, instead of previously cooking the flour and butter together. Besides, it is very wasteful to stir in the flour, for lumps must form, and when they are strained off they are good for nothing, and can only be thrown away. For one pint of Melted Butter (sauce blanche), take two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, a saltspoonful of salt, and half a pint of liquid. The liquid may be warm water, or milk and water, or broth made from scraps of meat, giblets of poultry, or fish cuttings. Or the broth in which peas, carrots, celery, onions, or leeks have been boiled may be used. Of these liquids broth, or eau de cuisson from vegetables, are