APPLE AND PINEAPPLE JELLY 473 Apple and Pineapple Jelly.—Boil two pounds of juicy apples and a pound of preserved or fresli pineapple till tender. Rub them through a sieve, add the syrup from the pineapple, or six ounces of sugar, the juice of two lemons, and the peel of one. Dissolve half an ounce of gelatine, add it, and boil all together. Strain, take out the lemon-peel, and pour the jelly into a mould. A little more gelatine may he needed to stiffen the jelly, but as little as possible should be used. Creams.—Of late years Creams have been spoilt by the idle habit of adding gelatine to them in sufficient quantity to do away with the trouble of beating them. A very little gelatine is needed if Creams are to be served in moulds, but the velvety smooth texture of a properly-made Cream cannot exist unless the cream is beaten till it will stand up on the end of the whisk. If gelatine is added, put it in lukewarm at the last moment, stir it quickly and thoroughly into the Cream, and immediately pour the Cream into the mould, for it begins to set at once. Make Creams in a cold larder, set them on ice, and when wanted turn them out in the way directed for Jellies. Ambassador’s Cream.—(Family Recipe.)—Two table- spoonfuls of red-currant jelly, the same of raspberry jam, and two whites of eggs. To be beaten one hour with a wooden spoon. Use it the day it is made. Trinity College Burnt Cream.—(Family Recipe.)— Bring one pint of cream just to the boil, and no more. Pour it on the well-beaten yolks of four- eggs. Put it over a low fire, and stir until it becomes thick, but on no account let it boil. Strain the cream into the dish it is to be served in, and put it into a cool oven for ten minutes. Let it get cold, and then strew a thick layer of finely-powdered sugar over it. Brown it with a salamander, and serve cold. Coffee Cream.—Dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in a quarter of a pint of milk. Whip a pint of cream to a stiff froth, add three ounces of castor sugar, and half a pint of strong coffee. Stir in the gelatine the last thing, and pour the cream into a mould which has been pi’eviously wetted. For Chocolate Cream use half a pint more milk, and dissolve four ounces of Chocolate in it.