382 HERBS. Herbs, both fresb and dried, are a most important element in those flavours derived from tbe garden which are so in- finitely superior to those purchased from the grocer. Gardeners should therefore be induced to gather the herbs when at their best and before they floAver, instead of leaving them till the autumn, when the leaves are old and the stalks woody. Thyme, mint, and parsley can be grown in a shalloAv box during the winter quite as easily as mustard and cress, and of course fresh herbs are infinitely superior to those which have been dried. The herbs which are most useful in a garden are thyme, lemon thyme, mint, sage, chervil, tarragon, parsley, and chives. Sweet marjoram, burnet, winter savory, and sweet basil are all very useful. Herbs take little room, and require no attention after they are once sown. If a place can be found for a bush of rosemary and a small bay tree they Avill both be of use in flavouring. To those who have not gardens the excellent dried herbs sold by Messrs. Bruce & McCulloch, Covent Garden Market, or Messrs. Pannett & Sons, 342 Wandsworth Road, are strongly recommended. The herbs must be gathered in the early afternoon of a fine dry day. The leaves should be picked from the stalks and left to dry on white paper. It is better to put each sort into a Avide-mouthed bottle labelled with the name of the herb it contains. Herbs when hung up in bundles according to the old-fashioned plan get dusty and lose much of their flavour. Besides the separate bottles of dried herbs, Herb Powder for flavouring should ahvays be kept. A good English recipe for this is : A quarter of a pound of parsley, of lemon thyme, of sweet marjoram, of Avinter savory, and two ounces of sweet basil, all weighed before they are dried. Add two ounces of dried lemon peel, six bay leaves, and a quarter of an ounce of celery seed. Pound the lemon peel and celery seed separately, and then the herbs. Mix all together, pass through a fine sieve, and bottle the poAvder. It should be securely corked. Gouffe’s French recipe for Herb Seasoning, as adajfled by Wyvern, is also excellent, and the spice can be omitted if desired.