210 TONGUES. The Tongues generally eaten are Ox Tongues, but Reindeer Tongues, Deer Tongues, and Sheeps’ Tongues are all used. All Tongues should be eaten cold. If the Tongue is to be cured at home there is no better pickle for it than that given on page 211. But before putting the Tongue into it the root should be taken off and used for Tongue Root Soup. The Tongue should lie in the pickle for seven days, being turned every day. It will then be what shopmen call “ a green tongue,” and will hardly need to be soaked before it is boiled. Put the Tongue into lukewarm water, and simmer it till quite tender ; this will be in three and a half or four hours. Take the Tongue out of the saucepan and skin it carefully. Push a table close to the wall of the kitchen, set a clean board upon it and another board upright against the wall. Whilst the Tongue is hot trim it if necessary, and set it on the flat board with its root close against the upright board. Pin the Tongue down to the flat board with two strong steel forks. Make it a nice shape, and fasten the tip down to the board with a sharp skewer. Prop the Tongue up with weights on each side, and let it get quite cold. If this is not done the Tongue will contract and curl up as it cools. When quite cold release the Tongue and glaze it (see Glaze). If “ Green Tongues ” are bought Messrs. Whitfield, Clarges Street, Piccadilly, have them of excellent quality. When Tongues are left in pickle for weeks, then smoked, and hung up to dry, they will require from twelve to twenty-four hours’ soaking in cold water. This is generally needed for Reindeer Tongues. But if Tongues have not been hung very long, soaking for six hours will be sufficient. All dried Tongues must be put on in cold water, brought to boiling point as slowly as possible, and simmered for at least four hours. Juniper berries give a rich and peculiar flavour to dried Tongues, although this is not always liked. The Tongue is rubbed over with a handful of fine salt, and allowed to drain until the following day. If the Tongue weighs seven or eight pounds, rub it thoroughly with one ounce of saltpetre, two ounces of the coarsest brown sugar, and half an ounce of freshly-ground black