n6 SHELL-FISH out all tlie crumb, and fry the cases so obtained a golden yellow colour in melted butter. Drain them. Now pick enough cooked Shrimps to fill them, cut them into quarter-inch pieces, toss them in melted butter, with pepper and salt, and a pinch of mace if liked. Then pound them in a mortar, moistening them with sufficient white sauce to bring them to the consistency of thick cream, seasoning as before. Now fill the cases, shake a little breadcrumb over the surface of each- place them on a buttered baking-tin, and heat them for five minutes in the oven. Serve as soon as the tops take colour. The shells, roughly chopped and boiled in water -with an ounce of onion, seasoning, and a teaspoonful of dried herbs, will provide a good liquid for the white sauce. [Wyvern.] Lobster, Crab, or Prawns can be seiwed in the same way. Shrimp Patties are excellent, if the Shrimps are prepared as above, and so are Shrimp Rissoles if the Shrimps are minced. Prawn or Shrimp Butter.—Take twelve Prawns or half a pint of Shrimps, and pick them, saving everything but the heads. Pour a jug of cold water over the shells and meat, and when quite clean pound meat and shells together in a mortar, using an ounce of butter to assist the pounding. When thoroughly pounded pass the paste through a hair sieve, being careful that no hard particles remain in it. Pass it from the sieve into a bowl of cold water. Skim the paste off the water, drain it, and add it to another ounce of butter with the butter bat, seasoning it with a very little salt, white pepper and mace if liked. Make the Prawn Butter into little pats, and set it on ice. [Wyvern.'] Poached eggs at breakfast are very good if a pat of this butter is sent up melting over each. The eggs should be placed on squares of fresh toast, or fried bread. Shrimp Fritters.— Shell and pound half a pint of boiled Shrimps in a mortar with an ounce of butter and a little fish broth. When quite worked to a puree, incorporate it with the frying batter (see Frying1), and drop the mixture by dessert- spoonfuls at a time into the frying-basket or pan. Let the fritters cook till they turn a rich golden colour, and are as crisp as biscuits. Then drain them, dry them, and serve on a napkin with crisply-fried parsley. \f\Vyvern.~\