FRIED POTATO BALLS WITH HERBS 3°7 onglit to become a golden colour, and then they are done. Some cooks flour their hands instead of using wooden spoons, hut a little practice will enable them to use the spoons. It is needless to say that the human hand should he used as little as possible in touching food. Baked Potato Balls.—Prepare the Potatoes as above. When the Potatoes are formed into balls put them at once on a baking-tin' in the oven, baste them with gravy, and serve when perfectly brown. The Potato Balls ought to be baked in twenty minutes. If they are too long in the oven they get stiff and tasteless. Potato Quenelles.—Boil two large Potatoes, dry them, remove the skins, and nib them through a sieve. Cut a thin round of white bread, take off the crust, toast the bread, and butter it plentifully on both sides ; set it before the fire to get crisp. Or fry the bread thoroughly. Cut the bread into small dice, add it with all its butter to the Potatoes. Beat up two whole eggs, add a pinch of minced parsley, and mix all well together. Form the mixture into almond shapes, or small balls, and poach them for a quarter of an hour in a pint of water with a little salt in it. They can be added to soup just before serving, or may be sent up with a well-flavoured white sauce. A little grated ham is a great improvement to Potato Quenelles. Potatoes in France and Belgium are not carefully cultivated. The finest sorts are not grown, and the plain English methods of cooking Potatoes are unknown, not being suited to inferior varieties. But we owe to the inferiority of foreign Potatoes the excellent methods of cooking them in small quantities and in different ways which are now so much appreciated in English kitchens. Fried Potatoes.—Wash and peel the Potatoes, and cut them in equal slices one-sixth of an inch thick. Melt plenty of clarified beef suet in the frying-pan, and when it is very hot test it with a bit of bread. If the fat fizzes freely and does not smoke put in the Potatoes and fry them for six minutes. The fat must completely cover them, and the slices must be turned and moved about continually, so as to prevent them from sticking together. When the Potatoes are soft take them out