FRYING !54 a long handle, is required. This should be quite an inch less in diameter than the pan, so that it may go into it quite easily and loosely. Fish must be fried in a fish kettle provided with a wire drainer. The most useful size is thirteen inches long by ten wide, oval measurement. French frying is better done on a gas-stove than over a fire, for it is very important to maintain the same degree of heat during the whole process. Sufficient space must be allowed above the fat to prevent it from boiling over; but if the pan is six inches deep the fat should be three inches deep. For ordinary frying heat the temperature should be 345°; for coated articles, 380°; for whitebait and potato chips 400°. It is a great mistake to suppose that oil or fat are boiling when they make a noise and bubble like boiling water. The bubbling is due to the watery element in them, which is being driven out, or evaporated in steam, and the temperature will only be that of boiling water, viz., 212°. The boiling of oil and of fat begins after this, when they are quite still, with no noise and no bubbling. The frying medium, whether oil or fat, must now be carefully watched. Very soon a faint blue vapour will rise from the surface (easily seen if the pan is looked at sideways), and this shows that the temperature has risen to 380°. The cook can make sure by throwing a sippet of bread into the pan. If the bread browns whilst the cook counts twenty, and if it fizzes with the fat bubbling freely in large bubbles round it, 380 degrees of heat have been reached- If the bread does not colour, and if the bubbles are small and weak, the frying medium is still too cool. When the right temperature has been attained the articles to be fried should be put in without one moment’s delay, or the fat will burn. When the blue vapour looks like smoke the fat is burning, and will impart a disagreeable taste and smell to whatever is put into it. If a lesser temperature than 380' is needed the pan can be drawn to one side as soon as the blue vapour rises, and cooled for a minute or two. If, on the contrary, a temperature of 400° is required, the pan must be watched for a few minutes till the blue vapour rises thick and fast, and is just beginning to darken in colour.