268 TO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME Just before dishing add a squeeze of lemon, a little salt, and cayenne. Score the chicken legs, pepper and salt them, broil them, and lay them on the mince. Cold Chicken Pie.—(Family Recipe.')—This is an excellent way of using old fowls. Take an oval fire-proof dish with a cover. Cut the chicken in joints, arrange them in layers with slices of hard-boiled egg. Cover all with good beef-stock, and let the stock be two inches thick above the chicken. Season with pepper. Cook very slowly in the oven with the cover on. It will take from three to four hours. Take off the cover, leave the pie all night, and serve it cold. Chicken Salad.—Thoroughly cook a chicken ; boiling it is thought by many people better than roasting it. Take off the skin, and cut it into as many joints as it will make. Cut four hard-boiled eggs in quarters, so as to make sixteen pieces. Pull a cos lettuce to pieces, and arrange the chicken on it, making another cos lettuce high in the middle. Take some more white lettuce, and arrange the leaves in a border round the chicken, with the pieces of egg. Pour mayonnaise sauce (see page 136) over this border and over the chicken, but leave the middle lettuce free. Celery may be used instead of cos lettuce. Or sliced cucumbers, peeled, and drained from the water they contain, may be used alternately with cold chicken cut into rounds, and both cucumber and chicken masked, like the lettuce and the celery, with mayonnaise sauce. Arrange mustard and cress or corn salad in the middle of the chicken and cucumber salad. Never use beetroot in a chicken salad. Fried Chicken.—Cut the chicken into joints after it has been wiped or washed clean. Pry each joint in batter (see page 157, garnish with fried parsley. Hand tartai'e sauce (see page 137). Turkeys.—Turkeys ought to hang for a few days before they are cooked. When a Turkey is trussed the scaly part of the legs is cut off. The sinews in a Turkey’s leg are so strong and tough that it is impossible to pull them out in the usual way. The best plan is for one person to hold the body of the bird tightly in a cloth, and for another person to shut the lower part of the Turkey’s legs in the crack of the door, and pull hard