. BREAD JELLY 439 holding a little of the water in a spoon), then strain it very care- fully, without breaking the toast, or the jelly will be thick. Sweeten it a little. (One spoonful of this jelly was said by Sir Henry Halford to be equal to three of any other.) Tapioca jelly.—Soak three ounces of tapioca in a quart of cold water for three hours. Then add a strip of thin lemon-peel and simmer gently till the tapioca turns to a jelly. Take out the lemon-peel before serving, and sweeten a little if liked. Rice Jelly.—Well wash half a pound of Carolina Rice, and boil it with either a strip of lemon-peel or a little piece of cinnamon (as liked), in two quarts of water for one hour. Pass it through a sieve, and when cold it will be a firm jelly. Add one pint of milk and boil all together for a short time, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon. Strain it, sweeten a little and serve warm. It will resemble thick milk. Rice Pudding: fop an Invalid.—Take half an ounce of well-washed rice, and soak it for an hour in a quarter of a pint of milk. Bake in a slow oven for an hour or more till the rice is thoroughly cooked. Bake it in a little fire-proof ramakin case, and serve in this, with a teaspoonful of strawberry or apricot jam on the top. Oatmeal Gruel.—Use only the best fine Oatmeal, for the coarser kind would disagree. Keep Oatmeal in a very dry place, for if it gets the least damp it will have a disagreeable bitter taste. Groats are the grain or kernel of the oat, freed from the husk. Emden Groats, prepared at Emden, in Friesland, are con- sidered to be the best. Oatmeal Gruel if properly made is as nutritious as it is digestible. Gruel.—Mix two dessertspoonfuls of Oatmeal very smoothly in a little cold water. Put it into a pint of fast boiling water, and stir well with a wooden spoon till it thickens, which will be in about ten minutes. If the Gruel is liked quite thin serve at once; if liked rather thick set the saucepan by the side of the fire, and let the Oatmeal cook for half an hour, giving it a good stir from time to time. Or, boil a quarter of a pint of Groats in a quart of water for two hours, and strain it through a sieve, and add half a pint of milk. Serve with salt. Or, put half a pint of fine Oatmeal into a large basin, stir into