PARTAN PIE IT5 liquid, add breadcrumbs. Put all back into the shell, strew breadcrumbs over, brown before the fire in a Dutch oven, or bake for a few minutes in the oven. Dust with cayenne, and serve hot. Of course several small Crabs can be used, and some people like the addition of a little vinegar. Crab Salad. —Have a medium-sized boiled Crab sent in untouched by the fishmonger. Dress it yourself as follows : Crack the claws and pick all the meat out of them and the breastplate, shred it, put one-third of this on one side, and mix with the other two-thirds in a bowl the liver and cream of the back. Add sauce exactly like that given for Lobster Salad, only with the addition of a teaspoonful of minced chives. With a pint of aspic jelly fill a round border mould, setting it in layers over ice with hard-boiled egg-yolks, balls of green butter (see Fancy Butters), and turned olives alter- nated therein. Finish by turning out the border, fill the centre with the dressed Crab masked with the shredded meat that you saved, garnish over all with a fine lace-work of garden cress, and a ring of golden lettuce-leaves round the outside of the border. Hand the rest of the sauce in a boat. [ Wyvern.] Mayonnaise Souffle of Crab.—This is intended for a summer luncheon dish. Slightly butter the lining of a souffle- case, pin a buttered band of paper round rather high, and season the eatable part of a boiled Crab with pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar. Whip some aspic jelly, and put a little in the bottom of the lining. Make a bed of Mayonnaise Sauce on the top of the aspic, put in the Crab, then some more chopped aspic; it should be about three inches above the limner. Stand it in the ice-box till wanted. Put the lining in the case, sprinkle with fried breadcrumbs, and serve with a plate of chopped aspic jelly apart. [Mrs. C. W. Earle.] Prawns and Shrimps.—Prawns and Shrimps should never be bought picked, as a great deal of flavour can be extracted from the pounded shells. It is easy to arrange with a fish- monger on a shrimping coast, such as Messrs. Leadbetter, of Fleetwood, to send “ rough ” Shrimps or Prawns (as those which are unpicked are called) freshly boiled by Parcel Post. Shrimp Croustades.—Choose small round dinner rolls which have been baked in tins and will stand upright. Scoop i 2