491 MARMALADE PUDDING the fire till boiling. Then add, off the fire, the yolks of four eggs. Strain a small pot of marmalade so as to reserve the chips. Add the rest of the marmalade to the eggs, beat up the whites, and stir them lightly in. Butter a mould, and line it entirely with the orange chips, put in the pudding protected by a buttered paper, and steam it for half an hour. N.B.—The best way of buttering a mould is to melt the butter in a soup-plate over hot water, and to put it on with a brush. Ginger Pudding.—For a pint and a half mould take two and a half gills of milk, three whole eggs and two yolks, two tablespoonfuls of ginger syrup made by simmering preserved ginger in a little water, and the “zest” of a lemon. Boil the milk, and as it cools beat the syrup and eggs together in a bowl, then add the milk and “zest” and turn the mixture to a custard over another pan filled with boiling water. Butter a plain charlotte mould, line it with buttered paper, ornament the top with pieces of preserved ginger, and make a fine mince of all the trimmings of the ginger, and as much more as will be required to yield four tablespoonfuls. Stir this into the custard. Fill the mould, and steam it gently till firm; probably for fifty minutes. Turn it out, and serve with a syrup, either hot or cold, flavoured with ginger and lemon-juice. \_Wyvern.] To paper a mould, crease the paper to fit the bottom, and nick it in several places from the top to the bottom, so as to fit it into the mould quite evenly. Cut away any parts of the paper that are double. The mould must have been previously well- buttered, and it is often advisable to let the paper be an inch above the top of the mould. Souffles.—Souffles ai-e the lightest of all possible varieties of Puddings, and happy is the cook who can turn them out well. Success depends, of course, chiefly on practice and experience, but with the best cooks and the utmost care a Souffle may fail at the last moment. The great Leander, in Lord Beaconsfield’s Tancred, said of one of his subordinate cooks, “He is too young. He lost his head. I entrusted the “ Souffles to him, and but for the most desperate personal “ exertions all would have been lost. It was an affair of the “ bridge of Areola* ” “ Ah ! mon Dieu! ” replied Leander’s old * A battle in which Bonaparte narrowly escaped capture.