389 ROLLED SANDWICHES Rolled Sandwiches.—Pound in a mortar a quarter of a pound of cooked chicken or turkey, two ounces of cooked tongue or ham freed from skin and fat, an ounce of butter, two tablespoonfuls of veloute sauce, and from four to six tablespoon - fuls of fine white breadcrumbs. When the mixture is smooth add pepper and salt, and pass it through a sieve. Sprinkle a few breadcrumbs lightly on a pastry board, take a small portion of the mixture and pat it out with a knife dipped in hot water. Make it two inches and a half long, and an inch and a half wide. Trim the edges and raise it carefully from the board with the knife, rolling it over as it is raised. If the mixture is too moist more breadcrumbs must be again pounded into it. The rolls should not be too moist, but if they are too dry they will break in the rolling. Dish them on a bed of cress, alternately with Green Sandwich Rolls.—For these pound the yolk of a hard-boiled egg with a quarter of a pound of butter, and six sprigs of watercress and six of parsley, blanched in scalding water for five minutes and then drained. Then add a little pepper and salt, two or three tablespoonfuls of white bread- crumbs, and when the mixture is quite smooth form the rolls as in the previous recipe. Traveller’s Rolls.—Make some puff paste (see Chapter XVII) or use the trimmings left from pies or patties, being of course careful that there is no sugar in it. Line patty pans, or form the paste into hollow patties, fill them with raw rice to keep the shape, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty or twenty-five minutes. Let them get cold. Fill the cases with pounded cooked chicken moistened with mayonnaise, and well mixed with mustard and cress, slices of cucumber, or shred lettuce. Or make dinner rolls the size and shape of a small hen’s egg, scoop out the crumb, and fill as above. Tomato Sandwiches.—Prepare these just before they are wanted. Skin the Tomatoes, take out the seeds, cut them in slices with a very sharp knife, and lay them between slices of un- buttered bread. Tomato puree may be used, but fresh Tomatoes make the best Sandwiches. Sardine and Tomato Sandwiches.—Bone and pound the sardines, adding a little cayenne and white pepper, and pass through a wire sieve. Spread the paste on slices of bread, and