TO MAKE THE CURRY 421 to a nice yellowish-brown. The onion must on no account burn, but it must colour. In India the small red shallots are used for Curries, but here ordinary onions do nearly as well. Some people prefer the mild Portugal onions. Be careful not to use more than two ounces of butter to the four ounces of onion, or the Curry will be greasy. 4. Whilst the minced onion is cooking in the casserole, prepare the “ Curry stuff,” and the nutty infusion. For the “ Curry stuff” put into a soup-plate a tablespoonful and a half of Curry- powder, a dessertspoonful of Curry-paste, a saltspoonful of salt, and a tablespoonful of creme de viz, or rice-flour. Turn them to a paste by moistening them slightly with the broth, and mix all well together. For the nutty infusion (which is indis- pensable in a good Curry), put into a small basin a tablespoonful and a half of desiccated cocoanut, and one tablespoonful of ground sweet almonds. Pour over them a breakfastcupful of boiling water, cover them, and leave them to infuse. The milk produced is the infusion from the white lining of the cocoanut, scraped, and soaked. This is used in India, and not the water, often called milk, which is found inside a cocoanut. If the flavour of cocoanut is disliked, make an infusion of a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds pounded with one bitter one, moisten with a breakfastcupful of boiling milk or broth, and let them steep. 5. The minced onion in the casserole will now be coloured. Add to it the “Curry stuff” (not the nutty infusion), and fry all together very gently and carefully for ten minutes at least. The slow frying is necessary in order to overcome a certain crude taste w’hich exists in the Curry-powder, and which, when treated in the hasty fashion of English cooks, imparts a most disagree- able snuffy flavour to the whole dish. Avoid the mistake of putting in the “ Curry stuff” and the broth together ; this is just as fatal as to add broth to an uncooked rou.c. The “ Curry stuff” must be slowly fried in the onions and butter before the addition of any broth. 6. When the frying is finished add the pint of broth, a little at a time. If a thickish Curry sauce is liked stir into the fried “Curry stuff” a dessertspoonful of creme de riz; if this is not added the sauce will only be a little thicker than ordinary gravy. 7. Stir well, increase the heat slightly, bring gradually to the