3H POTATOES tablespoonful of cream, and the yolk of one egg. Put all in a mortar and pound it for five minutes. Then shape it into balls the size of a walnut, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry them in butter. Be careful to use butter only for frying them. The above quantities will make twelve balls the size of the little Tangerine oranges. Potatoes Browned.—{Family Recipe.)— Boil the Potatoes whilst the meat is roasting, and an hour before it is to be served take the skins off the Potatoes, flour them well, and put them under the meat. Let them stay there, turning them occasionally so that they may be equally browned on both sides. Let the dripping drain off before they are sent to table. Olive Potatoes.—These Potatoes are much used as a garnish, arranged in a chain round a dish of meat or fish. To make them, cut raw potatoes into pieces of a suitable size, and pare them round till they become the shape and size of an olive. Some cooks call these Turned Potatoes. Boil them as usual, but be very careful not to over-cook them, or to boil them too fast, or they will break. When arranged in a neat chain a little maitre d’hotel butter can be put over the Potatoes. Pllffed Potatoes.—’Peel some rather large Potatoes, and cut them into divisions like the segments of an orange. Dry them thoroughly in a clean cloth. Have ready a pan of boiling suet, put the Potatoes in the frying basket, plunge them in the suet, and just let them cook, shaking the pan with your other hand all the time. Be sure not to let the Potatoes colour. How lift out the frying-basket and let the Potatoes drain by the fire; a thick paper will do to drain them on. Let the suet boil up again, and let the Potatoes cook in it till they puff out. The moment they puff take them out, drain them, and serve at once. If the Potatoes have been allowed to colour in the least during the first cooking they will never puff out at all. Many of the Potatoes sold by greengrocers and stores are foreign ; they are not only inferior in quality to English Potatoes but are often injured by packing and travelling. Some soils in England too do not suit Potatoes at all.