34 SOUPS scald tlie soup cloth, take the soup off, and ladle it through the cloth as gently as possible, being most careful not to disturb the sediment. The stock ought to be the colour of pale sherry, clear and bright. Good as the above clear soup is, it is not the Consomme required for dinner parties. Consomme, however, is made in just the same way. For the quantity required for eight people boil with the beef one pound of veal cut from the knuckle, and a quarter of a pound of veal bones. For the soups in which two pounds and a half of beef is used, add one and a half pound of veal and half a pound of veal bones. Be most particular about the clarifying. For Fowl Consomme Wyvern recommends the French method of roasting in the oven the carcase of a fowl till it is just coloured. Only the carcase is used, for the white meat has been saved for an entree, and the legs and thighs for a grill. It is a most valuable addition, as it gives a special flavour to the broth. In Fowl Consomme wait till the broth has been strained, and when you boil it up again boil in it the roasted carcase, with a pound of veal, and the uncooked giblets of the fowl. Ho veal is required in Game Consomme, but an old bird should if possible be cut up and boiled in the strained soup. If this cannot be, game bones must be broken and boiled in it. Bouilli.—Most English people look with horror and con- tempt on the beef from which soup has been extracted, recollecting the wretched mess of sodden meat which they have eaten abroad. Beef indeed is seldom tasted fresh by a foreigner, and he is quite satisfied with Bouilli. But when good English beef is used, and not the tough ill-fed meat of foreign oxen, worn out as they are by labouring in ploughs and carts, Bouilli is not to be despised. It makes an excellent dish for luncheon or for a home dinner. But when wanted for this, the beef should not be cut up. Three pounds of the leg should be taken, rolled up, and tied with a string. Care must be exercised that it is not more cooked than is necessary for the broth, and this is easily managed, as the quantity of beef is double that allowed for the broth alone. When it is done, lay the beef on a bed of well-boiled macaroni in a hot dish, and take away tlie string. Rub the vegetables taken from the