SOUPS 44 haphazard, but in small thin slanting or diagonal slices, and, for some reason as yet unexplained, slanting slices mix themselves with the soup in a way that square slices never will. Another excellent plan at a home dinner is to cut off the bottom crust of a tinned loaf so that there is as much crumb as crust. Divide these into pieces the size of a gentleman’s visiting-card. Soak them till perfectly soft in some of the soup, then crisp them in the oven, lay one in each soup-plate, and pour the hot soup over it. The usual fault of thickened soups is that they are too thick, sometimes more like gruel than soup. The cook can so easily avoid this error that it seems strange that she should commit it at all. But the reason is that she has never been told, and has never observed, that the full effect of the thickening can only be judged when the soup comes to the boil. The ordinary method of thickening soups (when they are not made unwholesome and expensive by the addition of cream and eggs) is to use what is called by French cooks Roux. Roux can be made either white or brown. To make it, melt two ounces of butter at the bottom of a saucepan over a slow fire, and when it is thoroughly melted add, little by little, two and a half ounces of flour. Stir well with a wooden spoon till the butter and flour are thoroughly mixed together. Reduce the heat still more, and let the Roux cook very slowly. White Roux must not be allowed to be more than cream colour, and it generally requires a quarter of an hour’s cooking. Brown Roux should be of a warm reddish-brown colour, and will take from twenty to twenty-five minutes to cook. If it is overdone it will be ugly in colour and bitter in taste. The flour must be added veiy gently, and the Roux slowly cooked. If not, the mixture will be lumpy, and there will be a taste of rawr flour. Roux is so often needed in sauces as w^ell as in soups that it is worth while to make some to go on wdth. If the proportions of one pound of flour to half a pound of butter are used Roux will keep quite well. Prepared Corn Flours should nevei' be used, nor potatoes, but some cooks put into the Roux whilst it is cooking a bouquet of herbs, containing three leaves of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a shallot well pricked, and two bay leaves. The bouquet, tied together with twine, is removed as soon as it has