86 SEA FISH soutli of Aberdeen. It is said that Haddocks were cured at Findon as early as tlie twelfth century, but the industry lias now passed from Findon to Aberdeen, where the Findon method of curing is exactly followed, although of course on a very large scale. Large works with every modern improvement as to lighting and sanitation have been erected on the Albert Quay, Aberdeen, by Mr. Andrew Christie, and from him the true Finnan Haddocks (or any Dried Haddock) can be obtained. As soon as the fish reach the quay at Aberdeen they are thoroughly cleaned, split, and every particle of blood is removed. The Haddocks are then put into salt pickle for fifteen or twenty minutes, and hung in a drying shed for a certain number of hours, generally all night. During this drying process the Haddocks become broadened out. They are then placed in the kiln (which has a pyramid-shaped chimney with a swinging hood) and hung over slow fires of peat mixed with a little white-wood sawdust. Originally peat only was used; but a fisherwoman, who, when her stock of peat ran short, tried sawdust from a sawmill, made the discovery that the mixture creates a larger and purer volume of smoke, and gives a brighter tint to the fish when cured. Her accidental discoverv has been followed by Finnan Haddock curei’s ever since. After the Haddocks have been smoked they are again washed to free them from dust, and are ready for sale. In the height of the curing season five or six tons a day of Dried Haddocks are sold by Mr. Christie, and his Finnan Haddocks are cured to perfection. Finnan Haddock for Breakfast.—{Family Recipe.)—Soak the Haddock in cold water for one hour. Take it out, dry it, skin it, and put it into a buttered saute-pan. Pour over it, according to the size of the fish, a tablespoonful or two table- spoonfuls of thin cream. Put the pan on the fire, let it come to the boil, and then let it simmer with the lid on till the Haddock is cooked. This will probably be in half an hour. Take out the fish, lay it on a hot dish, reduce the sauce till you have to scrape it out of the pan. Put it on the Haddock; it gives just a browning look and a nice flavour. Add no season- ing of any kind. Serve the fish very hot. Or, having soaked the Haddock, broil it ou the gridiron.