OMELETTES 406 in the hot dish to receive it. These additions can be of course inserted between the folds of either kind of Omelette, but, as I have said before, the Omelette cannot be so light as it would be without them. The second form of Omelette can be made with flour or five eggs, not omitting any of the whites. The asparagus as suggested for the first kind of Omelette is even more suited to the second, served as a bed in the hot dish. Any nice vegetables, such as peas, French beans, flageolets, sprigs of cauliflower, artichoke bottoms, sliced Jerusalem artichokes, or young broad beans freed from their shells, are suitable. They must all have been previously cooked, allowed to get cold, and then lightly tossed in butter just before they are wanted. A dust of grated cheese improves most of these, and of course the herbs can be omitted from the Omelette and only parsley used in their place. A bed of tomatoes is very popular. Wyvern suggests for this six moderately-sized tomatoes. Blanch them for three minutes in scalding water, so that the unwholesome skin may be easily taken off. Put half an ounce of butter and a finely-sliced half-ounce shallot into a small stewpan. Fry till beginning to turn golden, then empty into the pan the Avhole of the tomatoes sliced thinly. Stir round, add a teaspoonful of freshly-ground black pepper straight from the pepper-mill, a saltspoonful of powdered dry basil, and one of salt. Stir for two minutes over a fairly brisk fire, to prevent catching. Do not pass the tomatoes through a sieve, but just before you put them in the hot dish ready for the Omelette add either a table- spoonful of white sauce, or stir in, off the jive, the yolk of a raw egg. Gentlemen often like a soubise puree as the bed of an Omelette aux herbes. For this onion puree the quantities given will be sufficient for two three-egg Omelettes. If wanted for breakfast the puree can easily be made the day before, and warmed up in the bain-marie. Mince six ounces of onion, and blanch them in boiling water for eight minutes. Strain carefully. Turn the minced onion into a stewpan over a low fire and stir it about so as to dry it thoroughly. Now add a tablespoonful of milk, simmer and continue adding milk by degrees till the onion is covered with milk. Simmer till the onion is cooked, then strain and pass the minced onion through the sieve. Thicken the milk