ROASTED ONIONS 353 almost to melt when helped. Serve if possible in the dish the Onions were cooked in. It is a good plan to boil two or three very young Onions in clear soup. They much improve its flavour and consistency. If Onion is added to a dish it should not be perceptible except as a flavour. Nothing is more disagreeable than to get a “ tang,” (to use the old-fashioned word for a strong taste), of Onion left in the mouth. One of the knives sold for peeling and slicing Onions and marked Onion should be in every kitchen, and no other knife should be allowed to be used for the purpose. Many a plate of bread and butter has been ruined by having been cut or spread with “ an oniony knife.” When Onions are sliced for soups, etc., they should be cut lengthwise, as in that way they go to pieces more thoroughly. Stewed Portugal Onions.—Peel the otiter coats off four onions, and put them into a quart of strong broth with half a pound of sifted sugar, and a pinch of salt. Cover the stewpan closely and set it in the oven. The Onions will take from six to eight hours to cook. When done the broth will be reduced to glaze. A glass of Chablis very much improves the stock. Onion Puree or Soubise Puree.—{Family Recipe.)— Spanish or Portugal Onions are best for this Puree, but if common Onions are used they must be blanched in boiling water for five minutes. Simmer three Onions in sufficient milk or stock to cover them. When quite tender, mash them through a sieve. Work into the Onion pulp a coffeecupful of cream, add pepper and salt, and serve very hot. Never add flour. (See also Page 130.) Onion Threads are not nearly so much known as they should be. They are simply the tiny leaves of the Onion as they appear when the seed has been sown for ten days. To obtain them a little Onion seed should be sown at frequent intervals. Onion Threads minced are far more delicate in flavour than chives. Button Onions Glazed.—These, if mild, are sometimes liked as a garnish. The Onions must be quite small, not larger than those used for pickling. Put them into a stewpan with enough butter or clarified dripping to fry them without burning, A A