214 BRAWN turned and basted every other day. When taken out of the Pickle let the Ham dry for a day or two, standing on end, and then brush it over with the Essence of Smoke. This essence gives all the flavour of the chimney curing of old days. To Cure a Ham.—(Family Recipe.)—Half a pound of com- mon salt, the same of bay salt and of coarse brown sugar, a quarter of a pound of saltpetre. Pound all the salt, and then boil it and the sugar in a quart of good ale. When all is dis- solved let the pickle get cold. Keep the Ham in the pickle for three weeks, turning it and basting it every day. The above quantities are for a Ham weighing twenty pounds. Pickle for Bacon.—Weigh each flitch, and allow for every stone (a stone of meat weighs eight pounds) one pound of salt, two ounces of bay salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and three ounces of coarse brown sugar. Sprinkle the flitches with salt, and drain them for twenty-four hours. Mix the salt, bay salt, salt- petre, and sugar thoroughly together, and rub all well into the flitches, rubbing both ends as well as both sides. Do this every day for a month. Then hang up the flitches to dry, putting each into a bag of coarse muslin. To Cure Pig'S’ Cheeks.—Do not use any saltpetre, or the cheeks will be hard. Clean the two cheeks well, and take out the bones. Rub well with salt, let the cheeks drain, and next day rub them again with fresh salt. Then mix four ounces of salt with five ounces of coarse sugar, cover the cheeks with the mixture, and turn them every day. They wrill be sufficiently cured in twelve days. See Beans and Bacon, page 224. BACON, HAM, AND SAUSAGES. Bacon is too often considered to cook itself, and to require no attention. But Bacon cannot be good unless it is properly cooked, and careful toasting is by far the best method of cook- ing it. Toasted Rashers.—Cut the Bacon in thin even rashers or slices, trimming off the rind (which will be useful in the stock- pot). Toast each rasher before a clear fire, either on a toasting- fork or in the Dutch oven. It will be done when the fat looks transparent. Always serve rashers in a hot-water dish.