COCKLES n 9 jerked out with pronged forks. This is done in perfect silence for fear of frightening the Cockles away. When the Cockles are brought home they must first be laid in salt and water for a few hours, so that they may clean them- selves of any sand they may contain. They must then be put on a clean dish, and boiling water must be poured over them to make them open. This may have to be repeated once or twice, as the Cockle shells are always very tightly closed. When open, the fish must be taken out and cooked. Cockles make good soup, and are excellent stewed like Oysters or in patties. Fish broth is of course needed in cooking them, and this is best made by using some of the Cockles themselves instead of fish cuttings. Cockles are out of season from April to September. Periwinkles.—As this book is not written for such stern economists as the lady who, when a sick relative was ordered Oysters and Champagne, thought that Periwinkles and Ginger- beer would do as well, and wondered that the patient sank from exhaustion, it may seem superfluous to explain how Periwinkles should be cooked. Still, as they can only be gathered between tide-marks, children at the seaside delight in collecting them for school-room tea, and it is not every cook who knows how to prepare Periwinkles. They should be well washed in several waters, left to soak in fresh water for an hour, and then washed again. Shake the Periwinkles well to make them draw back into their shells, put them into a saucepan of boiling salted water (sea water if possible) and boil them hard for twenty minutes. Periwinkles are eaten, according to the time-honoured fashion of street boys, by pick- them out of their shells with a stout pin. Whelks are good for nothing but bait. Crayfish.—The natural history of the Crayfish is so curious and interesting that Professor Huxley devoted a whole volume to its discussion. Crayfish are like small freshwater Lobsters, from three to four inches in length, and greenish- brown in colour. They are found in many English and Irish becks and rivers, as well as in most parts of the world where the water is not too cold for them, as it is even in Scotland. Yet although Crayfish cannot bear cold, they are so intolerant