397 EGGS IN BREAD SAUCE just long enough for the Eggs to set. Grated cheese may be added to both crumbs and raspings. Egg’S in Cases, (Eufs en Caisses—These are excellent in themselves, and form a valuable method of using up any remains of fish, game, chicken, ham—in short anything which can be used as a lining for the cases. Small patty pans, or any of the pretty china shells, and fluted cases of white or coloured fire-proof china, can be used. To take an example of Wyvem's. Work in a mortar a quarter of a pint of picked shrimps and a little butter to the consistency of a pliant paste, add a quarter of a pint of white breadcrumbs which have been soaked in milk, and season with finely-chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Butter the china cases, and line them with this forcemeat, leaving a hollow in the centre of each to receive one Egg. Slip the Eggs into the cases carefully, sprinkle the surfaces with a little salt, and pour a little melted butter over them. Set the cases in a high-sided saute-pan, with hot water up to a third of their depth; push this into a moderate oven, and steam for eight or ten minutes. On taking out the cases, dish them on a flat dish, giving each a cap, as it were, of, in this case, shrimp puree. Tomato sauce makes an excellent cap for many sorts of Eggs in Cases. Eggs in Cases aux fines Herbes.—Butter the little cases well, and add a teaspoonful to each of minced fines herbes. Fines Herbes consist of two-thirds of chopped mushroom and chopped parsley to one-third of finely-chopped chives or the stem of a fresh green onion. Onion threads (see page 853) are infinitely superior to onion stem or to chives in all prepara- tions of Eggs, and are easily grown in a box anywhere. Warm the cases on the hot plate, and when the butter has melted break an Egg into each. Shake a layer of finely-sifted bread- crumbs over each surface, and keep the cases on a tin over moderate heat till the Eggs set. Then brown them with the salamander and serve. (Eufs MolletS.—For this French expression there is, in cookery, no English equivalent. The meaning is, just a sufficient cooking of the whites of the Eggs to allow of the removal of the shells, whilst the yolks are not hardened. To the touch (Eit fs Mullets feel firm and elastic in texture like the