49s COLD DISHES OF FRUIT into the bowl, set it on ice, and add the pieces of orange at the last moment. Castor sugar should be at hand. Kalte Hchain can be helped into china cups, or large saucers. In Germany soup-plates are used. Germans eat slices of bread stewed with sugar and glazed in the oven with Kalte Schale. Here, croutons of sponge cake treated in the same way, or merely crisped in the oven, are popular. Strawberry Salad.—Pick the fruit carefully, lay it in a china bowl, dust it over with castor sugar, and sprinkle it with maraschino. Arrange the Strawberries in a pyramid, dusting and sprinkling each layer. Finally pour a liqueur-glass of maraschino drop by drop over all, and set the bowl on ice till wanted. American Strawberry Shortcake.—Make a girdle-cake, using sugar instead of salt (see Chapter XX). Split it, and let it get cold. Then spread it with whipped cream, cover this with. Strawberries rubbed through a sieve, and moistened with a little lemon-juice, dust with sugar, add another layer of cream, and put the other half of the cake lightly over all. Set the cake on ice till wanted, then cut it into strips with, a very sharp knife. ICES. Ices are now so easily made, thanks to modern inventions, that it is only necessary to buy a freezer, an ice-cave, and the book of directions suited to whatever ice-making machine is selected. In London, however, the cook is generally saved this trouble by dessert-ice from a confectioner. As to this, great caution is necessary, unless the lady of the house herself inquires what the ice will look like when sent in. More than once I have seen a sort of lighthouse erection of some substance like coloured talc, illuminated from within by a night-light or a bit of candle, and surrounded with the ice made to look like rocks. The ill-concealed chagrin of the hostess, and the unconcealed wrath of the host, may be imagined. Fruits, vegetables, flowers, animals, are all moulded in ices, and coloured to represent nature. In the Diamond Jubilee year this fashion ran riot. Ci'owns of orange cream-ice were adorned with jewels of crys-