338 CELERIAC The roots and not the stalks are used, and Celeriac is most useful when Celery fails. The roots can he stored in autumn in a shed, or, with a little protection, they can be left in the ground and taken up as required. Celeriac can be used in October. The roots should be well washed, the leaves cut off about an inch from the roots, and if the roots are very large it is well to divide them. Blanch them in boiling salted water, and drain thoroughly. Celeriac makes an excellent puree, and is very good in cooked salads. Wyvern suggests that the roots when peeled should be cut with a root-cutter into round or oval balls before blanching and draining. They are then to be put into a well-buttered stewpan, covered with broth, simmered till tender, and served with either a brown or white sauce, or glazed for a garnish. The Celeriac can be simmered in the sauce and the sauce allowed to reduce with the Celeriac in it. In this case it should be served in a deep dish with the sauce poured round it, and (as with Cardoons) the sauce, whether brown or white, should be as thick as cream. CAPSICUM. This very pretty little shrub belonging to Tropical America is easily cultivated in a greenhouse. The fruit when ripe is bright red, and by gathering and grinding a few at a time fresh and pure Cayenne Pepper is readily made at home. The berries keep pretty well when gathered, but it is much better to let them hang on the bush and pick them as required. The same Capsicum, Capsicum Baccatum, is the CMli, and the fruits when in a green state are made into Chili Vinegar by simmering them in salt and water, and putting them, covered with mustard, into a jar which is filled up with vinegar. This, however, is better bought in small quantities, the Capsicum fruits being allowed to ripen for Cayenne Pepper. CHESTNUTS. The fruit of the Spanish Chestnut ripens sufficiently in the South of England to be used for a puree or for stuffing, but for roasting the large Italian Chestnuts should be bought. These are imported early in November, and can be had for three