HORS D’CEUVRES 5°9 d’CEuvi-e at all. Oysters are, to use Sir Henry Thompson’s words, the first dish of dinner and not its precursor. Hors d’CEuvres, however, do not give much trouble to the cook, for they are all ready prepared when bought, and need only to be delicately sliced, freed, if necessary, from oil, and tastefully garnished with little bunches of cress or parsley. If a variety is liked the Hors d’CEuvres are generally placed in a special dish divided into compartments. But a simpler and better way is to cut a small canape of stale bread, and after spreading it with some suitable fancy butter, to arrange upon it strips of filleted anchovy and olive, or fish-roe and gherkin or capsicum, or any similar combination. Garnish with powdered yolk of egg or ham. Only a mouthful is required, and only a couple of savoury morsels which harmonise well with each other should be used. The canapes should be quite small; either oblongs two inches long and one and a half broad, or little rounds the size of a five-shilling piece. Either white or brown bread can be used, but it must be stale and cut very thin. Place one canape in each plate. The fashionable and elaborate canapes designed in variegated patterns of six or seven colours, and offering six or seven different flavours, should be strictly avoided. Instead of using canapes of bread the Hors d’CEuvres can be served in little pastry saucers baked in oval patty-pans two and a half inches long, and filled with raw rice till cold. Or little hollow croustades may be used. For these: Cut out of stale bread pieces two inches square, and half an inch thick; in the centre of each stamp with a pastry cutter a circle an inch and a half across, pressing the cutter down quite a quarter of an inch deep. Fry a pale golden colour in butter, drain, dry, and when the croustades are cold pick out the hollow marked by the cutter, using the point of a small, sharp knife. Either of these cases is suitable for olives farcies, or turned olives. TOASTS AND SAVOURIES. Savouries are much more appreciated and much more care- fully prepared than they used to be. Sir Henry Thompson observes in Food and Feeding, page 185, that “ the palate must