209 ROLLED SPICED BEEF mace, and of cloves, both powdered, half an ounce of freshly ground peppercorns, a dessertspoonful of finely powdered thyme and the same of marjoram, the chopped peel of a lemon very thinly pared, and a quarter of an ounce of Nepaul pepper, all mixed thoroughly together. Roll up the meat, fasten it round with tape, wrap it in a cloth, and tie it tightly with a string. Cook it very slowly with vegetables like Pressed Beef. The flavour will be much improved if two gills of Marsala are added during the last hour of simmering. When done set the meat under a weight till quite cold, then untie the string and tape, take oft' the cloth, trim the Beef neatly, and glaze it. Welsh Beef.—Rub two ounces of saltpetre into a round of Beef, let it rest an hour, and then rub it with equal parts of pepper, salt, and allspice. Keep the Beef in the brine for fifteen days, turning and rubbing it every day. Then put the Beef into a large earthenware bowl, first coating the bottom of the Beef with a layer of suet. Put another layer over the top of the Beef, and then cover the jar with a coarse paste of flour and water. Bake in a slow oven for eight hours. Then pour off the gravy and let the Beef get cold before it is taken out of the bowl. To dress Salted Round of Beef, a Ham, or a Tongue.— (Family Recipe, 1849.)—Wrap the meat in a wet napkin, put it into a cool place, and change the wet napkin every day for five days for a Round of Beef, four for a Ham, and two days for a Tongue. Then put the meat into boiling water for three minutes only, and after that simmer as slowly as possible till done. This process makes the meat moist, juicy, and tender. Hamburgh Pickle.—(Family Recipe.)—To a gallon of water put a pound and a half of bay salt, two ounces of brown ‘sugar, and one ounce of saltpetre. Dissolve these by boiling. When cold pour the Pickle into a glazed pan and keep the meat sunk in it by putting a weight upon it. In about ten days the meat will be fit for use, but it may be kept in this brine near six weeks without becoming salt. A gallon of brine will cover a small piece of beef. Pork and Tongues can by no other Pickle be rendered equally good. It suits small and fat pieces of beef. Sea salt is in all cases preferable to fossil salt (see page 205). This Pickle will keep six weeks in summer and two months or more in winter, but it will not bear boiling up again.