490 PUDDINGS pack tlie inside of tlie mould, already lined as described, with the quarters of apple, arranging them cross-wise, and careful] v leaving little spaces through which the custard may presently find its way. When the custard is cool pour it into the mould by degrees, letting it settle well, and leaving half an inch at the end of the mould unfilled. Put a two-gallon stewpan on the fire, having covered the bottom of it inside with a sheet of folded paper, and having then poured in water one inch deep. Bring the water to the boil, then put in the mould, covered with a sheet of buttered paper, and at once cover the pan, and let the Pudding simmer for one hour. A tablespoonful of cream improves the custard. Serve hot or cold, with this sauce: Stir into a gill of plain sugar and water syrup one tablespoonful of apricot jam, the juice of half a lemon, and a dessertspoonful of kirsch. MoUSSeline Pudding*.—Grate the rind of two lemons and squeeze their juice into a stewpan, add two ounces of sifted sugar, two ounces of butter, a pinch of salt, and the yolks of four eggs. Stir all well together, and gradually heat the mix- ture nearly, but not quite, to boiling point. Set it to cool in a basin. When quite cold stir in the yolk of one more egg. Whip four of the whites to a firm froth, and mix them in care- fully, so that the whole is perfectly smooth. Pill a buttered mould with the mixture, and steam for three-quarters of an hour. Mousseline Sauce (page 139) or the sauce given in last recipe. Favourite Pudding*.—Line a buttered mould with raisins which have been stoned and slit nearly, but not quite, in half. Fill three parts of the mould with small pieces of stale bread, crust, or sponge cake. Make a custard with one egg well beaten and half a pint of warm (not boiling) milk, flavoured with a gill of marsala. Pour the custard slowly into the mould, let it stand a short time to soak, and then steam the pudding for half an hour. Hasty Pudding*.—Boil a pint of milk with a pinch of salt. Whilst boiling stir into it by degrees as much flour as will thicken it. Pour it out, and eat it with cold butter and brown sugar. Marmalade Pudding*.—A teacupful of milk, a tablespoon- ful of flour, and an ounce and a half of sugar, all stirred over