CHAUD-FROIDS AND MASKING 161 and the sauce may be enriched by adding cream, in the propor- tion of a dessertspoonful of cream to a pint of sauce, as a finishing touch. After the sauce has become quite firm trim off with a slice any that may have overflowed upon the dish. Garnish with bright yellow aspic jelly, cut or broken, and bunches of parsley or watercress. On no account decorate the chickens with patterns of coloured jelly, or chervil leaves, or of different coloured vegetables cut into little bits. White Chaud-froid Glaze.—Make a savoury custard with half a pint of chicken broth for chicken, and of fish broth or milk for fish, adding three yolks of eggs. Strain, stir in two tablespoonfuls of melted aspic jelly, stir well, cool, and use. Or, if you have no jelly, boil two ounces of chopped mush- rooms in half a pint of milk, mix in a quarter of an ounce of gelatine soaked in warm milk, strain off carefully, and stir in off the fire the yolk of an egg. Use light-coloured mushrooms, scraping off the dark gills to avoid colouring the sauce. Brown Chaud-froid Glaze.—Put half a pint of plain brown sauce on the fire ; if it is not a rich brown add a few drops of caramel. (Page 162.) Stir in a quarter of an ounce of soaked gelatine, and dissolve it in the sauce over a moderate fire, skimming off all scum ; lastly, add a dessertspoonful of Marsala, and pour the sauce into a basin. [Wyvern.] Fillets of chicken or of fish, or cold cutlets, can be masked in two ways, but great neatness is always required. They can be lifted on the point of a trussing needle, and dipped into the sauce till thoroughly masked with it. Or they can be lifted on the blade of a broad palette knife, and a spoonful of the sauce poured over them whilst they are held over the pan. The former method is the neatest, but the latter is useful when the fillets are to be masked only on one side. In each case they must be laid on a roomy flat dish, over ice if possible, so that they may cool and set. Wyvern’s Chicken Chaud-froid.—Cover the breast of a good chicken with buttered paper, and roast it without letting the skin take colour. When cold, remove the whole of the breast meat as neatly as you can, down to the wing joint, also all the flesh of the thighs and drumsticks. Out of the pieces thus obtained trim a number of neat fillets as nearly the same size as M