193 HASHED MEAT AND MINCED MEAT RECHAUFFES. The reason that Hashed Meat is so often leathery and tasteless is that the cook has poured hot sauce over cold meat, or else she has thoroughly cooked the meat a second time, probably by boiling it. Cooked meat does not require this treatment. It must be steeped for some hours in the sauce prepared for it, and then be gradually heated up in that sauce. To make a Hash properly, cut off every part that has been browned in the previous cooking, all the skin, and most of the fat. Use these fragments, with all the bones, well broken, and any vegetables that can be spared, to make as good a broth as possible. A little glaze is sure to be wanted. Thicken the broth, if required, with the usual roux. On no account use Harvey or Worcester sauce, but depend for the flavouring on dried or fresh herbs, adding as a finish to the sauce one dessertspoonful of Marsala. Cut the slices of meat neatly, and let them steep in the sauce from before breakfast till an hour before luncheon. Then put the slices of meat into a pan with the sauce, warm it up either over a very low fire, or, which is far better, set the pan in the bain-marie with boiling water three inches deep all round it. Keep the pan closely covered, and let the contents keep warm. Five minutes before luncheon slightly increase the heat under the pan, but on no account let the Hash or the sauce boil. When the steam rises from the surface, turn Hash and sauce into a silver or plated dish previously heated by scalding it with boiling water, and serve at once. It is far the best plan to serve Hashed Meat in a dish with a spirit-lamp underneath. If cold meat is treated as above the result will be as different as possible from the dish usually known as Hash. Slices of cold leg of mutton are excellent if warmed in the sauce given for Hashed Venison. Beef is excellent as a Hash if the gravy is really good, and flavoured in making it into sauce with a little mustard- flour, and a little dried powdered Horseradish. Minces.—The best mincing-machine I know is the Enterprise, to be had from the American Hardware Enterprise Company, 86 Dale Street, Liverpool. This machine does not grind the meat, but snips it just as would be done by a pair of scissors. Pass the meat through the machine, and then proceed exactly as for o