l9 CONTENTS OF THE KITCHEN Tlie range, hot-plate, and gas-stove and oven must be first attended to. Clear out all the cinders and ashes from the range with a cinder-shovel, and set them aside in a coal-scuttle. Then with a brush sweep the flue as far as you can conveniently reach. Blacklead the range—that is, brush it over with liquid black- lead—and when it is dry polish it Avith the proper brushes. Rub and clean the fender, fire-irons, and any steel about the range, with emery paper. Use Putz’s Brass Pomade for any brass, and polish it well with a leather. Pill up the boiler. Noav lay and light the kitchen fire. Lay with your hand at the bottom of the grate a few small pieces of fresh coal, but do not put them so close together as to prevent the air from passing between them. Lay a small quantity of torn news- paper or shavings on the coals, and upon that a few dry sticks or splintei’s of wood, taking care that the wood does not project beyond the bars of the grate. Now lay upon the wood some of the best of the cinders which you took out with the ashes, and put a few pieces of fresh coal on the top. Do all this befoi'e you light the fire, and be careful to lay cinders and coals Avith your hand, and not to toss them into the grate anyhoAv with a shovel. Cinders cannot be used to mend the kitchen fire during cooking, but they should be kept to bank it up when the fire has only to be kept burning slowly and is not required for actual use. Noav light the fire, drawing out the regulators a little, so that the fire may burn up gradually and steadily. Wash off with a cloth Avrung out in hot water any grease Avhich may have been spilt on the hot-plate or gas-stove. Dry them thoroughly, and then blacklead them. Do not mix blacklead with turpentine, but add a teacupful of cold water to one block of Nixey’s black lead. Brush all dust out of the oven, and wipe the inside round Avith a cloth Avrung out of hot water. Dust and rub the outside of the sci’een and the bars of the shelves. The screen should be Avashed once a week, and the tin lining polished with a little sand. Dust the dresser thoroughly every morning, and wash it once a week Avith soap and water. Wash the dripping-pan and ladle Avith hot water and