BRAWN 212 England, however, Brawn has long been the name for the flesh of a pig ; even in 1386 Chaucer spoke of “ the Brawen of the tusked Swyn.” In the language of cookery nowadays Brawn means a cold preparation of very gelatinous meat, such as a pig’s head with the ears and tongue. If a calf’s head is used it is often called hy the old name of Mock Brawn. The feet of the pig, with the bit of leg just above each, should always be used, as they make the Brawn much firmer. In old days Brawn was kept in pickle for several weeks. The following Family Recipe was given by the cook at Christchurch, Oxford, in 1808. The cook at Magdalen College used bran instead of malt. Pickle for Brawn.—Take double the quantity of water that Avill be enough to cover the Brawn, add to it two handfuls of whole malt, let it boil for an hour and a half, then add to it salt enough to give it a strong relish, and boil it again for an hour and a half more. Skim it clean, then strain the malt from the pickle and when the pickle is cold pour it clear from the sediment into the pan or tub you mean to keep the Brawn in. Make fresh pickle every fortnight, and rub the Brawn gently with salt every week. In these days the Brawn is kept in brine only for a week, being well basted every day. The feet will take quite seven hours to cook, so they should be put on first. The head will be done in four hours. Choose a large saucepan, and just cover the Brawn with cold water. Bring it slowly to the boil, adding vegetables and seasoning as for soup. Let it simmer gently till the Brawn is quite tender, and the meat parts easily from the bones. Strain the meat from the broth and vegetables, and free it from every atom of bone. Take two steel forks and tear the meat Avhilst quite hot into small pieces, seasoning it well with salt and spiced pepper as you do so. Put the meat as quickly as possible into the Brawn tin, using a large spoon and pressing each layer firmly down till the tin is full. Put the tin in the larder, lay a cloth over it, put a 7 lb. weight on that (supported by a board), and leave the Brawn for twenty-four hours. When the Brawn is wanted dip the tin into hot water ; this will loosen the meat from the sides of the tin, and the Brawn can he slipped out upon a dish. The broth makes a good foundation for soup.