529 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES crusty bread is liked, gash the edges and top of the loaf here and there with a knife. The earthenware pans I recommend must be rubbed with a very little butter, to prevent the bread from sticking to them. In the same way if tins are used for baking they must be lightly buttered. For a tinned loaf only fill the tin half full, and bake as soon as the dough has risen to the top of the tin. Sir Henry Thompson’s Bread.—Sir Henry Thompson has long advocated the use of whole wheat meal—that is the entire grain of the wheat without the removal of any portion of the husk. It should not, however, be too coarsely ground ; the best size is when the meal will pass through an eighteen-inch wire sieve. Sir Henry Thompson adds butter and milk to his bread, in order to supply the fatty matter in which wheat is somewhat deficient, and he maintains that a more nutritive form of bread than his cannot be made. It cannot, however, be made up into loaves, as the whole meal is a bad conductor of heat, and the outside of a loaf made of it would be as hard as flint if the inside were “ set.” Whole meal bread must therefore be made into flat cakes not thicker than half an inch, and seven or eight inches in diameter, and baked in rings or hoops. Either yeast or baking-powder can be used. For whole meal bread made with baking powder : Take two pounds of coarsely-ground whole wheat meal, and add half a pound of fine flour, or, better still, the same weight or more if preferred of fine Scotch oat- meal. Mix thoroughly with a sufficient quantity of baking- powder and a little salt; * then rub in two ounces of butter and make into dough — using a wooden spoon — with cold skimmed milk or milk and water; soft in consistence, so that it can almost be poured into the tin ring which gives it form when baked. Set the rings on a tin and put them without delay into a quick oven at the outset, letting them be finished thoroughly at a lower temperature. If the bread is made with yeast, which, as Sir Henry Thompson says, is preferable for general purposes, the milk and water must be used warm, and the cakes set near the fire to rise for about an hour. Bake in a medium oven. Medium coarse oatmeal may be used in this * Half an ounce of baking powder and a saltspoonful of salt to every pound of meal. M M