416 RICE minutes, and serve. The quantity of stock can be varied according as the Risotto is preferred thick or otherwise. Sir Henry Thompson does not explain that the reason for the constant stirring is that if this is neglected the Rice will burn and the dish will be spoilt. The pinch of saffron is merely used to give a yellow tint to the Rice. Rice a l’ltalienne.—Into four ounces of well-boiled Rice as it lies in the hot saucepan stir one ounce of butter. Stir till thoroughly mixed, dust with pepper and salt, add enough tomato pulp to moisten the whole nicely, and finish with two ounces of finely-grated Parmesan, Gruyere, or other mild dry cheese. Serve piping hot. When lifted with the fork the grains of Rice should carry with them long strings or tendrils of melted cheese as in the case of Macaroni a Vltalienne. \Wyvern.~\ Rice a la Turque.—Put into a saucepan a pint of giblet or mutton broth into which sufficient tomato pulp has been stirred to slightly thicken it. Season this highly with black pepper and salt, and set the saucepan on the fire. As soon as the liquid boils cast into it four ounces of uncooked carefully-sifted Rice. Reduce the heat after five minutes, and let the Rice stew gently in the tomato-flavoured broth. As the Rice cooks it will absorb the liquid. Watch it narrowly, stir gently to prevent its catching, and as soon as it has sucked up the whole of the liquid shake the pan well to separate the grains, and stir into it an ounce of fresh butter. Serve very hot. \Wyvern.~\ Rice a la Menag’ere.—Clean and blanch six ounces of Rice in boiling water for five minutes, using a roomy stewpan. Cool and drain the Rice on a sieve. Weigh a quarter of a pound of the best streaky bacon, dip it into scalding water for a couple of minutes, and then cut it into inch dice. Fry these in a stew- pan till they turn yellow, add the Rice, and a pint and a half of broth, with a saltspoonful of pepper. Simmer for twenty minutes, stirring the Rice every now and then to prevent its catching at the bottom of the pan. Now take it off the fire, and add half a pint of tomato puree or sauce. Mix thoroughly, and put the Rice on a dish. Garnish with sausages, curls of fried bacon, croquettes of fish, or any savoury mixture you like, worked into small shapes, and fried a golden yellow. [TT'yiwm.] Rice alia Principessa.—(Italian Recipe.)—In this and the