3°6 POTATOES sticking to tlie pastry-board. Then roll them very thin, cut into rounds, and bake the cakes either on a hot dish in the oven or over the fire in a pan set on the hot plate. They require bottom heat, like Scotch barley-meal Scones. Scotch Potato Fritters.—Parboil six large Potatoes, cut them in slices the thickness of a florin. Beat up two eggs with one tablespoonful of breadcrumbs and one tablespoonful of lean ham grated. Coat each slice of Potato with this mixture, and fry them. If possible, fry them in oil. Potato Snow.—Choose the whitest Potatoes, free from spots. Put them on to boil in cold water with plenty of salt. When the skins begin to crack take out the Potatoes and put them into a clean, hot stewpan by the fire till they are quite dry and falling to pieces. Rub them with a wooden spoon through a wire sieve into the hot, uncovered dish in which the Potato Snow is to be served, and do not touch them again. American Stewed Potatoes.—Pare the Potatoes, cut them in thin slices, and stew them in just enough water to cover them. When they are quite tender, take the slices out. Drain off all the water from the stewpan, and add a teacupful of milk or cream. Boil for about five minutes, stirring con- stantly. Add an ounce and a half of butter -well rolled in flour, a little salt, a dessertspoonful of finely-minced parsley, and a dust of pepper. Boil up once, and turn all into a very hot covered dish. Fried Potato Balls with Herbs.—Prepare the Potatoes as for Potato Snow. When they are quite dry remove the skins, and mash the Potatoes with a tablespoonful of milk and half an ounce of butter to every pound. Pound well together when cold, add a dessertspoonful of minced thyme, parsley, and, if liked, shallot. (The herbs must not be more than one dessertspoonful altogether.) Work in the yolks of two eggs, so as to make the mixture a stiff paste. With two Avooden spoons make the Potato mixture into balls the size of a small egg. Roll each ball in breadcrumbs, dip each in either warm butter or into half an ounce of warm butter into which one whole beaten egg has been mixed, and again roll each ball well in breadcrumbs. Fiy the balls in boiling fat, shaking them gently. In about a minute they