SOUPS 40 Mulligatawny is so often badly made in England that the name “ pepper water” is painfully appropriate. But by following the recipe of Wyvern, himself long resident in the Madras Presidency, an excellent Mulligatawny Soup can be made. The Stock for Mulligatawny can be made on either a meat and poultry, a fish, or a vegetable foundation. For the first any trimmings will do, with a pound of broken bones, some bacon rind, an ounce of glaze, two onions, one carrot, and a bunch of herbs. For Fish, use a cod’s head, or a pound of fish cuttings. For Vegetable Stock weigh, when trimmed and cut up, half a pound of carrots, of leeks, and of onions. If turnips are quite young half a pound of them may be used, but they are apt to be too strong. Add one ounce of celery, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme and another of marjoram. Put all these into a stewpan with four ounces of butter, fry till the vegetables turn red, and then add two quarts of hot water. Boil and skim, then put the broth back and add half an ounce of salt, a quarter of an ounce of black pepper-corns, and half a pint measure of green peas, with their shells cut into strips. If peas are not in season a pint of French beans may be used, or both peas and French beans can be added. Simmer for one hour, skim off all fat, and strain the broth into a basin through a tamis-cloth. Wyvern proceeds : Having prepared three pints of stock, and set it in a bowl 1. Take two tablespoonfuls of scraped or dessicated cocoa- nut, and two of ground sweet almonds, or use almonds only; put this in a bowl and pour over it a breakfast-cupful (two gills) of boiling water, cover the bowl with a cloth, and let the nuts steep till wanted. 2. Now mince up small two ounces of shallots or mild onion (with one small clove of garlic). Melt an ounce and a half of butter at the bottom of a two-quart stewpan, put in the mince and let it fry over a low fire slowly till it begins to turn brown, then add two full tablespoonfuls of mulligatawny paste, and a dessertspoonful of creme de riz. 3. Cook slowly now for seven minutes, still over a low fire, stirring the mixture with a wooden spoon, and if too dry adding a little butter.