TONGUES 2X1 pepper, all well mixed together. Then rub it with three ounces of bruised juniper berries, and leave the Tongue in the pan for two days. Now add eight ounces of bay salt dried and pounded, and leave the Tongue in the brine for three days more. Then pour on it half a pound of treacle, and leave it for a fortnight in the brine. (If treacle is not liked use six ounces of sugar instead of two when the Tongue is first rubbed.) At the end of the fort- night hang the Tongue up to drain, wrap it in brown paper, and let it be smoked for two or three weeks. (In these days coat the Tongue with Essence of Smoke.) Sheeps’ Tongues are always served fresh. They should be simmered in stock till quite tender, then skinned, trimmed, and fastened on a board to get cold. Glaze them and serve three or four on a dish, garnished with parsley. Tongues should always be boiled with a couple of carrots and a large bunch of herbs. These should be put in after the scum has been skimmed off the water or stock when it boils up. The vegetables much improve the flavour of the Tongue. To Cure Tongues.—(Family Recipe.)—First wash the Tongue well and perfectly clean, and wipe it pretty dry with a clean dish cloth. Then rub it well with a little brown sugar, and afterwards with a dessertspoonful of the Pickle. For the Pickle take half an ounce each of bay salt, saltpetre, and sal prunella. Keep the Pickle in a bottle for use. Salt the Tongue with common salt, and let it lie in the Pickle for one Aveek, turn- ing it and rubbing it every day. Then take the Tongue out of the Pickle, dry it a little with a clean dish cloth to prevent its drop- ping. Dust it well Avith flour and hang it up in a muslin bag. Tongues are best eaten at the end of a fortnight after they have been hung up, but they will keep Avell left in the Pickle. If the Tongues have been hung put them to steep the night before they are used. If you take them out of Pickle they Avill need steeping longer. But boil a Tongue for three hours at least, xvhether it has been hung up or taken out of pickle. BRAWN. Brawn, a word of great antiquity in Northern Europe, originally signified any fleshy and muscular part of the body, such for instance as the rounded muscles of the thumb. In