SALADS .175 Four times the spoon with oil from Lucca brown, And twice with vinegar procured from town. Then, lastly, o’er the flavour’d compound toss A magic soupijon of anchovy sauce. Oh green and glorious! Oh herbaceous treat 1 ’Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat. Back to the world he’d turn his fleeting soul, And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl 1 Serenely full, the epicure would say Fate cannot harm me, I have dined to-day.” For Salads tlie best oil, in small flasks, should be used, and the best French wine vinegar. The quantity of oil must depend on the quantity of Salad, but vinegar should be used very sparingly. Above all things the Salad should be fresh. In the country it should be cut just before the gardeners go off work at twelve, and again at six. For a plain Lettuce Salad take one large Cos Lettuce or two small ones. Pull the leaves off with your hand, reject any that are bruised or discoloured, wipe any that are dirty, but use all the clean leaves as they are. In rainy weather some leaves may be muddy and may have to be washed and drained, but avoid this if possible. Put the leaves into a basin, and drip the oil over them till they begin to glitter, working them about with the wooden spoon and fork, and turning them over and over. This is what French people call “fatiguer la salade.” Then add, drop by drop, a little vinegar; from fifty to sixty drops is ample for a large Lettuce. Turn the leaves over and over, and then lift the salad into the salad-bowl with the fork and spoon. You will find some water at the bottom of the basin which must be thrown away. It would make the Salad sodden and flabby if left with it, and this is the reason for the pre- liminary mixing of the Salad in a basin. Scatter a teaspoonful of finely-minced tarragon leaves over the Salad, and, if liked, the same quantity of minced chives or Onion Threads. A little salt and a dust of pepper can be added. Some people prefer a Ravigote scattered over Salads ; that is, equal parts of finely- minced tarragon, chives, bumet and chervil. Many persons like a Salad plainly served in the bowl, and the sauce handed in a boat. For this sauce put the very hard-