TINNED VEGETABLES 3 73 are best put straight into the soup or sauce for which they are wanted as soon as they have been heated in the bain-marie. Sauce d’Argenteuil is particularly good with Asparagus Points (see page 358). Or they may be set in a border of aspic round a chaud-froid, or mixed with mayonnaise in a dish of cold masked fillets of chicken. Three kinds of Peas are preserved in France. Of these the Petits Pois fins and tres fins do not require more cooking than that already recommended for all Tinned Vegetables, but the Petits Pois gros are apt to be hard and are best made into a puree. For this, bruise the Peas when they have been thoroughly wanned, and pass them through a sieve. Melt half an ounce of butter in a small sauce- pan, work into it half an ounce of flour ; when this roux is well cooked, but not coloured, stir in the liquid drained from the Peas, let it boil once, and if it is too thick dilute it with a little milk. With this moisten the pounded peas, season with pepper and salt and a dust of sugar, and serve as a garnish for cutlets, •quenelles, etc. \_Wyvern.~\ Tinned Vegetables answer perfectly for a Macedoine (see page 372). For this they should be gently heated in a good sauce such as bechamel, poulette, ox1, if liked brown, espagnole. Or the Macedoine can be allowed to cool, and then be served as a Salade Cuite (see page 378). SALADS. It was a favourite saying of John Evelyn, the author of the “ Sylva,” that he did not care for fish or meat when “ a well-drest and excellent Sallet was before him.” His last work, written in 1699, when he was nearly eighty, was a treatise on the thirty-five varieties of plants which London, the Royal gardener, recommended for Sallets. Evelyn’s direc- tions for Salad-dressing might well be followed now. He deprecates the practice of washing the Salad, and the use of much vinegar, but he explains that the Salad cannot be too much worked and stirred, until every leaf is equally moistened. The French emigres who fled to England during the troubled years between 1790 and 1804 gave a great impetus to Salad making in this country. Two Frenchmen made large incomes