SEA FISH 8o Fisk, dies sooner than other kinds when caught. To boil them, put them when scaled, cleaned, and washed, into boiling water, and boil for ten or twelve minutes. Or Herrings can be laid in a dish overnight, with a lemon squeezed over them and a sprinkling of salt, and fried in the morning. Or they can be just cleaned and trimmed, and baked in the Dutch oven. In this case, shake raspings of crumbs over the Herrings, add a tiny bit of butter to them, keep the Dutch oven rather away from the fire, and baste with more butter if required. Push the oven nearer to the fire for the last minute, so as to crisp the Herrings, and serve in the same dish. Or Herrings can be broiled over a clear fire after having been slightly buttered. Some people like the roe to be taken out, and separately cooked in the oven. Mustard Sauce is generally liked with Herrings. For this Wyvern’s excellent recipe is: Melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan and stir into it an ounce of flour. When thoroughly mixed add, slowly, off the fire, a dessertspoonful of French mustard, incorporating it thoroughly with the roux. Add half a pint of fish broth (or water if you really cannot get fish broth), let it come to the boil, and pass through the pointed strainer into a hot sauce-boat. At the seaside Herrings when in season, or any common fish, are sold so very cheaply that fish broth is always obtainable. When Herrings are plentiful it is a good plan to fillet them, taking one long fillet from each side of each fish. This plan to a great extent does away with the only fault of a Herring—its many bones. The fillets can be fried at once, or left to marinade all night in lemon juice or salt. Take out the roes carefully, just fry them, and set them aside for a savoury. (See chapter on Savouries.) Baked Herring’s in a Crust.—[Gountess Munster.]— Make a shape of good paste just the length and breadth of a Herring. Scale, wash, and clean a fresh Herring, and lay it in the crust, with a bit of butter, some minced chives, pepper and salt. Cover with paste, and bake the Herrings in the oven for from twenty minutes to half an hour. They are excellent. (Fillets of Herrings, being free from bones, are even better.) Grated horseradish, or horseradish sauce, is good with baked or boiled Herrings.