26 KITCHEN, LARDER, AND SCULLERY Season with, a little salt, a teaspoonful of minced green chilis, and a teaspoonful of mustard-seed roasted in butter. Mix thoroughly and serve. [Wyvern.'] Mrs. Earle's Chutney. Take equal parts of cucumber, onion, and sultanas, all shred very fine. Add a dust of cayenne and a dust of salt, moisten with a dessertspoonful of vinegar, and press the Chutney for two hours. When wanted, warm up the Chutney in a little gravy, and let it get cold. Chutneys, besides being useful in grill and devil sauces, are often liked with hot roast meat, or with cold meat, game, or chicken. It is a pity to buy them preserved when they can be so easily made at home, fresh as wanted. Chutney is a Hindustani word, Chatni, meaning a strong hot condiment. Indian chutneys, such as mango, are said to be best when imported from Madras. Walnut Ketchup has now as a rule to be bought, but for the benefit of those who possess walnut trees, and who can therefore obtain the fruit before the inner shell has begun to harden, an old recipe for making it may be given. Take one hundred walnuts when a pin may be thrust through them. Beat them in a mortar, and pass them through a flannel bag. Add to the juice three tablespoonfuls of salt, and as much vinegar as will give the walnuts a sharpness. Boil the liquid in a metal pan, and stir it well. Add to it a quarter of an ounce each of mace, cloves, and nutmeg, and a few white peppercorns, all beat together. When it is of the colour of claret the ketchup is done enough. When cold, bottle it, and it will last for years. When the cook has all these ingredients for flavouring at her command it is of importance that she should not use them freely and at her own discretion. The quantities of each ingredient, as given in the recipes, must be faithfully and accurately followed. It cannot be too often impressed upon the cook, especially ■with regard to salt, sugar, and pepper, that although the flavour may easily be increased in the dining room it can never be reduced if overdone in the kitchen, and that many a good dish is irretrievably spoiled by the predominance of one particular seasoning.