RISSOLES *95 Rissoles,—Make some puff-paste, and roll it out thin, less than a quarter of an inch thick. Cut into rounds two inches across; do not bake the paste. Put a little of the mince on one round, another round on the top, wet the edges and press the two closely together in the shape of little turnovers. Have ready some vermicelli crushed into little bits of about a quarter of an inch long. Egg the Rissoles, roll each in the raw vermicelli, and fry a golden brown. Serve as Croquettes. Cassolettes.—Cassolettes are tiny drums made of mashed potato or rice, and fried a golden brown. Scoop out the insides and ffll them with mince and sauce, after heating the Cassolettes in the oven. Put a little round of tongue on the top if the mince is of chicken. Or make a little cover of potato or rice like the drum itself. Casseroles.—Put a pound of Carolina rice into a stewpan with a quart of water, a sliced onion, and two ounces of butter. Simmer till the rice is quite soft, but still whole. Drain, and pound it to a paste in a mortar, adding pepper, and a table- spoonful of grated cheese, and moistening with a little butter. Stir in the yolks of three eggs, pass all through the sieve, and pat the mixture out on the pastry board till it is about an inch and a half thick. When quite cold cut it into cylinders two inches long and an inch and a half in diameter. Egg and breadcrumb the Casseroles, fry them a golden brown, and set to get cold. Then cut off one end neatly, scoop out the inside of each Casserole, fill each with the mince and sauce as usual, wet the cut-off tops, and stick them on. Heat the Casseroles in the oven and serve as Rissoles. Be careful to scoop out enough of the rice inside, as if too much is left the Casseroles will be heavy. Kromeskis.—Prepare the mince of chicken and ham or game over night, and stir it into a quarter of a pint of thick white sauce. Add minced mushroom or mushroom peelings if possible. Blend the yolks of two raw eggs with the mince and sauce, and put it to set. Next day make a frying batter. Put four and a half ounces of flour into a bowl, make a hollow in the centre, and put into it a quarter of a pint of water, half a salt- spoonful of salt, the yolks of two eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of salad oil. Mix thoroughly till the batter coats the spoon with a