BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 534 Crisp Scones.—Proceed as for Cream Scones, but bake till they are crisp. Do not let the girdle be too hot, or the scones will be too dark. They are made with brown flour. Never use baking-powder for Scones. If a few grains of salt crackle when thrown on the iron plate the heat will be right. Barley meal stirred into boiling milk till the paste is as thick as possible and then rolled out as thin as possible makes excellent Scones. In using barley meal do not let it be too long on the girdle, or the Scones will be tough. Bannocks are made like Scones, substituting oatmeal for flour. Allow three ounces of butter to a pound of oatmeal and make the dough with water. Bannocks, after coming off the girdle, should be toasted till crisp. In Scones, Bannocks, and Girdle cakes too much rolling is fatal, as it turns them into a sort of puff-paste. Yorkshire Girdle-Cake.—(Family Ptecipe.)—Set the girdle- plate over a clear fire, and be sure that it is hot before the paste is put upon it. Ascertain this by throwing a few grains of salt upon it; if they crackle it is the right heat. The paste is made of a small handful of flour mixed with thin cream and a very little salt. On no account use baking powder or soda; only flour and cream. If new milk has to be used or if the cream is too thin add a bit of butter the size of the tip of your thumb. When the paste is well mixed, roll it out a quarter of an inch thick. Flour the girdle, and lay the cake on it to bake. It requires pricking, and must be turned with a slice so as to bake both sides. It will take about twenty minutes to bake. If the cake is tough, the girdle has not been hot enough or the cream has been too poor. The Girdle cake should be divided into segments, or cut across into four parts. It must not be rich like pastry, and it should not be split. Cumberland Singing: Hinnie.—-Make a thick paste of flour and cream, or of flour and butter beaten to a cream. Moisten with a few drops of milk, and roll it out half an inch thick. Roll as lightly and quickly as possible, and not more than twice. Bake it on the girdle, turning it as soon as one side is done. Split it, butter it, and serve very hot. Irish Brown Fadg:e.—This is the breakfast cake or scone peculiar to Ireland. Take one pound of whole meal flour, just