KITCHEN, LARDER, AND SCULLERY 22 soap will turn the wood yellow. Rinse them with hot water, dry with a cloth, and if possible set both rolling-pins and pastry-boards in the open air, so as to keep them fresh and sweet. With a pastry-board it is essential to scrub it following the grain of the wood. Paste-brushes.—Wash these first in cold water, and then in warm water. If they are not quite clean and quite dry before they are put away they will spoil whatever they may touch afterwards. Tamis-Gloths, Soup Straining Cloths, Pudding-Cloths, and Jelly-Bags.—All these should be scalded out as soon as used, then rinsed in hot water, and hung up to dry. No soap or soda must be used. All cloths must be thoroughly dry before they are put away, or they will give a musty flavour when they are next used. Just before using cloths the}- should aeain be scalded out, and a quart of boiling water should be run through the jelly-bag. The Scullery.—The sink should be most carefully attended to. Always wipe into one corner all the little bits of fat, gristle, or vegetable which may adhere to the sink, and put them into the pig-tub. If you force them down the sink holes there will be a bad smell and the drain will soon be stopped up. Scrub the sink thoroughly with hot water, soda, and a hard brush. Before washing the dishes after meals sort any pieces of broken meat into separate plates so that they may be used again. Collect any scraps left .on the plates and put them into the pig-tub. Then at once put the plates into a tub half filled with hot water and set in the sink. In this way the remains of mustard or gravy will be prevented from drying and hardening on the plates., When you are ready to wash the plates add boiling water till the water in the tub is quite hot, and with a dish-cloth wash each plate well, one at a time, washing both sides. Do not have too many plates in the tub at once, or they will knock against each other and break. Have a tub of cold water in the sink, partly under the tap, and turn on the tap a little so as to keep the tub full. The reason for this is that any grease from the plates and dishes may swim over into