220 TWENTY HOMELY DISHES tender. Put eight ounces of flour into a basin, make a hole in the middle of it, break two eggs into it, and add by degrees one pint of milk. Beat this batter well, and season it with pepper and salt. Cut up the beef-steak in small pieces, being careful to cut with the grain and not across it, lay it in a well-buttered York- shire pudding tin, and cover it all over with the batter. Bake it for an hour and a half. Mushrooms are a great addition to the Toad, and some people like half a pound of sliced kidney cooked with the beef-steak. Oysters too may be used. Sausage-meat makes an excellent Toad, without beef-steak. Or underdone cooked meat minced and warmed up in gravy can be used. Kidney Dumpling1.—Cut a Spanish or Portugal onion in half. Take out part of the middle and fill the space with a sheep’s kidney cut into four, and well seasoned with pepper and salt. Join the two halves of onion together, draw a paste (see Meat Puddings) over it, and bake on a buttered tin in a moderate oven for about an hour. On no account boil this dumpling. It is a favourite Avinter luncheon for gentlemen. Rabbit and Onions.—This good old-fashioned dish is often entirely spoilt by being cooked too fast. The rabbit is tough and tasteless, and the onions half cooked. The dish requires ample time ; in fact, if Avanted for luncheon at one, it should be begun not later than half-past ten. The rabbit is infinitely better when stewed, and not boiled, and plenty of onions must be used. Cut up the rabbit, Avash the pieces in lukeAvann Avater, and then blanch them for tAvo minutes in boiling Avater to seal the juices. Drain, and put the pieces of rabbit into a steAvpan Avith tAvelve ounces of onion Aveighed after only the tAvo outer coats have been removed. Add half a teaspoonful of salt, and the same of mignonette pepper, a dessertspoonful of mixed herbs in a muslin hag, and a sprig of parsley. Cover the rabbit and vegetables with hot water, bring to the boil once, skim off scum as it rises, then ease off the fire and let the steAV simmer in a coArered pan for tAventy-five minutes. By this time it will be done. Take out the rabbit, take out the muslin bag, strain off the broth, and pass the onions through the sieve, moistening them with a little broth as you do so. Melt one ounce of butter in another saucepan, and mix into it by degrees one ounce of flour, stirring carefully OA7er a sIoav fire for five minutes. Do this patiently. Noav add