500 PRESERVES it is all dissolved bring the jam to the boil. (5.) Never boil jam longer than twenty minutes. If it is boiled too long the jam will be sticky ; if not sufficiently boiled it will not keep. When the scum ceases to rise put a few drops of the jam on a cold plate; watch it for a minute, and if it sets and does not flow freely the jam is done. (6.) Warm the jam pots before you pour the hot jam into them, or they may crack. Fill them to within half an inch of the top, and -wipe off any drops spilt with a cloth wrung out in hot water. If this is not attended to there will be great difficulty in scraping off the drops when the jam has cooled. (7.) When the jam is cold, the day after it is made, lay a round of thin paper on the top of. it. Old- fashioned cooks always dipped this paper in brandy, believing that it preserved the jam. Then take the vegetable parchment covers sold for tying over jam pots, soak them for a minute or two in cold water, wipe them, stretch one over each pot, and tie it round with string. The parchment tightens itself as it dries, and excludes the air from the jam. When dry, write on each cover the name of the jam and the date. (8.) Always keep jam in a cool dry place. Damp makes it mouldy, heat makes it ferment. Never put one jam pot exactly on the top of another. Different fruits require different treatment when made into jam. For instance, strawberries must be carefully stirred, raspberries mashed down, and both these fruits, being soft and juicy, need less boiling than drier kinds. Dry fruits, such as apples, and watery fruits, such as cherries, should always be put into a covered jar set in a pan of boiling water, and kept there till thoroughly softened or cooked. Fruit, except the very juicy kinds, takes longer to boil than sugar, so that it is well to cook the fruit partially before adding the sugar. Over-boiled sugar spoils the texture of jam. The difference between jams and marmalades is that jam is the entire fruit bruised and boiled with sugar, and marmalade is the pulp of the fruit, deprived of seeds or peel. The word “ marmalade ” is derived from the Portuguese word marmela, a quince, for marmalade was first made from quinces by Portuguese nuns. Rhubarb jam requires the addition of lemon-peel and a