OYSTER PATTIES 109 that they do not boil. Cut them in small pieces and keep them hot. Make as much sauce as you can with the liquor and beards. Mix very smoothly a teaspoonful of flour and an ounce of butter, put it in a saticepan, shake it round and round over a gentle fire for two or three minutes. Add a dust of cayenne, a very little salt, and by slow degrees half a gill of cream. Give this a boil up, add the Oyster liquor strained through muslin, then the Oysters, and keep almost at a boil for two minutes. Fill the patty-cases with the Oysters and their sauce, and either replace the covers or grate breadcrumbs over the top. Oyster Patties can be served hot or cold. Oyster Sauce.—In this, again, plenty of Oysters should be used, so that no guest should have to search the sauce-boat for one in vain. The right allowance is eighteen Sauce Oysters to a pint of sauce, nine to half a pint. Put the Oysters with all their liquid and their beards into a small saucepan, and add enough fish broth to cover the Oysters with liquid. Heat over the fire just to boiling point, but on no account let it boil, or the Oysters will be as hard and as tasteless as bits of white leather. Keep the pan at the side of the hot plate for two minutes only. Drain the Oysters, take off their beards, and divide each in half. Strain the liquid, and thicken as usual with butter and flour for the sauce. Some cooks add cream, but this makes the sauce too rich; milk and cream together is even worse, and fish broth is much better than the chablis sometimes used. Another way to determine the quantity of Oysters is to allow one, if small, to each person; if the Oysters are very large half of one may be enough. Scallops.—These, although not Oysters, belong to the same family. They are somewhat coarse in flavour, but are said to contain a great deal of nourishment. They may be scalloped like Oysters, first removing the beards and black paid;. Or they may be simmered in fish broth for twenty-five minutes, drained, and cooled. Make a white sauce with part of the broth, and with the rest moisten as much breadcrumb as there is of Scallop meat. Cut up the Scallops, put them with the crumbs in a well-buttered fire-proof dish, moisten with the sauce, and scatter crumbs over. Bake in a moderate oven till thoroughly heated, and brown the surface before serving.