236 PIES AND MEAT PUDDINGS When the pie has baked some time slowly, take it out, take off the crust, and pour in the teacupful of stock. When it has cooled it improves the appearance of the dish to put some well- made aspic jelly on the top. Boned Pigeons make a good French Pie. [Mrs. G. W. Earle."] Game Pie.—This kind of Pie is generally called a Raised Pie. It can be baked in the old-fashioned way in a deep dish which fits into an ornamental brown china case, or it can be put into an oval metal mould with a hinge, or it can be baked and served in a fire-proof dish made specially for Game Pies. If the first plan is followed only a sham crust of flour and water is made; this is removed when the Pie is baked, and when the Pie is cold chopped aspic jelly is substituted for it. The metal ring must be well buttered inside, then neatly lined with the crust, the hinge closed, and the mould set upon a baking sheet whilst the pie is baked. To line the mould, cut an oval piece of paste a little larger than the bottom of it, so that the edges may turn up and be more readily fixed to the wall, or side paste. Then cut a strip three and a half inches wide and sufficiently long to go round the inside of the wall of the mould, and fix the lower edge of this to the oval piece at the bottom with white of egg, pinching them closely together. When the pie is packed cut another oval of paste for the top, cement it to the top of the wall Avith Avhite of egg and pinch it tightly. A hole one inch square must of course be made at the top. Recipes for crusts suitable for Raised Pies are ghren in Chapter XVII, but none is better than the American recipe given here with the Venison Pasty. If the pie is baked in the fire-proof dish no crust or lining is required, but the lid must be securely fastened down during the baking Avith a band of flour and water paste. In all Raised Pies good forcemeat and strong jelly gravy are essentials. The game is generally boned, and the bones greatly assist the gravy. A couple of sheep’s feet and an ounce of glaze should be used for the gravy; if the sheep’s feet cannot be had, a quarter of an ounce of gelatine will be needed to make the jelly firm. A good Game Pie is made of a pheasant, two partridges, and the back and hind-quarters of a hare that has been cut in two