PUDDINGS 4S0 Pudding will he likely to break. If the Pudding has been boiled in a cloth cut the string, and draw the cloth slightly away from the sides of the Pudding, reverse it on the hot dish it is to be served on, and gently remove the cloth. Steamed Puddings.—Steaming is the best way of cooking most Puddings. Butter the mould thoroughly, fill it only two- thirds full with the Pudding mixture, and put a buttered paper over the top. Put the mould into a pan with boiling water reaching half-way up the sides of the mould, keep the lid of the pan on, and as the water evaporates replenish it from a boiling kettle. For Custard Puddings the mould should be set in the bain-marie, and the water kept to simmering point only. If the water is allowed to boil the Pudding will be tough, and very slow simmering is essential to the success of all Custard Puddings. Boiled Fruit Puddings.—These old-fashioned Puddings are excellent made with green apricots, green gooseberries, red or black currants, stoned morella cherries, stoned damsons, or apples, and the batter is much better than the suet paste often used. The time of boiling depends on the ripeness and texture of the fruit; good cooking apples require an hour and a quarter. Stone fruit should have the stones removed, cracked, and the kernels added to the Pudding. Butter a pint and a half basin thickly, and fill it nearly to the top with fruit; if apples are used pare, core, and quarter them. Pour over the top a batter made with four tablespoonfuls of flour, three eggs (if small, if large two will do), and half a pint of milk. The basin ought now to be quite full. Tie a buttered and floured cloth over it, and set it to boil. When done, turn the Pudding out on a hot dish, and sprinkle plenty of sugar over it, nsing either moist or castor sugar according to the kind of fruit. Never put in any sugar till the Pudding is quite done, or it will make the batter heavy. Ground Rice Pudding.—(Family Recipe, 1848.)—Boil three tablespoonfuls of ground rice in one pint of milk. Then whilst still warm mix into it off the fire the yolks of three eggs, a very little sugar, and some grated lemon-peel. Beat the white of the eggs to a froth and stir this in just before the pudding is put in the oven. Bake about twenty minutes.