GARNISHES FOR CONSOMMES & CLEAR SOUPS 65 over a brisk fire for five minutes. When they are just coloured cover them with a pint of broth from the stock-pot, and let them just simmer for an hour and a half. French cooks add a little finely-shredded lettuce, and either chervil or sorrel minced fine, during the last half-hour. Skim off every particle of fat, and keep the vegetables hot in the bain- marie. When wanted add the vegetables to the soup, boil up again and skim. In winter the French preserved Julienne is useful. Allow one ounce to a quart of soup, simmer it in broth for three-quarters of an hour, or until the vegetables swell. Then skim, and pour the broth through a strainer into the soup. Macaroni makes one of the simplest garnishes, and the round pipe macaroni is much better than the alphabets and fancy shapes called Italian paste. Blanch two ounces of macaroni in boiling water, cool it, drain and simmer in broth for fifteen minutes. Drain again, cut the macaroni into thin rings with a sharp knife, lay it at the bottom of a hot tureen, and pour the soup boiling hot upon it. Clear Soup a la Boyale is garnished with pieces of custard. For a party of eight mix the yolks of four eggs into a gill of broth, adding a tiny pinch of salt. Strain the custard and pour it into well-buttered dariole or any small moulds. Set these in a pan with hot water one-third of the height of the moulds. Cover the pan and steam the custards till firmly set. Let them get cold, turn the custards out on a plate and cut them into dice-shapes or rounds with one of the vegetable cutters. Add them to the soup at the last moment. These custards should never be made with milk. Very small Quenelles are often used as a garnish for clear game or other soups. They are, however, troublesome, and take a long time, as to ensure lightness they need a great deal of pounding. They must be made of the same material as the stock—that is, poultry or veal, game or fish. When Peas are in season an excellent custard for Clear Soup is made by mixing one gill of Green Pea Puree with two beaten eggs and a tablespoonful of cream. Pour it into a well- buttered shallow mould and steam it till set. When cold cut it into dice or other shapes for garnish. F