538 CAKES easily turned out of the tin. Then run a knife round the bottom of the cake, invert the mould on the wire drainer, after gently tapping it, and draw the mould off the cake, being most careful not to break the crust. Let the cake stay on the drainer in a warm place till it is quite set, for if it is put into a cold larder at this stage it will become heavy. Cake for Luncheon.—(Family Recipe.)—Take one pound of light dough when you are baking bread. Well work together four ounces of butter, the same of currants, a little chopped lemon peel, nutmeg, and moist sugar, and one whole egg. Bake in a well-buttered mould for one hour in a moderate oven. Buns.—(Family Recipe, 1835.)—Two pounds of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, a tablespoonful of yeast, mixed with a full gill of new milk, four eggs well beaten and mixed, six ounces of sifted sugar, one ounce of carraway seeds (if liked), and a quarter of a pound of currants. When well risen put it with a spoon into little tins to bake. Aunty’S Buns.—(Family Recipe.)—Bub half a pound of fresh butter into two pounds of flour, add a little salt. Mix it with a little warm milk and yeast. Let it stand to rise. Then add half a pound of sifted loaf sugar, half a pound of currants washed and picked, and some chopped citron and candied peel. Beat up three fresh eggs well with as much tepid milk as will make it the thickness of a plum pudding. Mix all together and let it rise again before baking. Use oval fluted tins well buttered, and bake a good brown. Water Cakes.—(Family Recipe.)—Take the best flour mixed rather stiff with skim milk. Bake on the shelf of the oven and turn the cakes. Everything is in the baking, and the oven must be a moderate heat. Lady Feversham’s Rusks.—(Family Recipe.)—Fourpounds of flour, a pint of milk, a quarter of a pound of butter melted in the milk, half a pint of yeast (or an ounce of German yeast), four eggs (some leave out one yolk), a dessertspoonful of sugar, and a saltspoonful of salt. Make your paste, and let it stand one hour by the fire. Then make it into small rolls, and bake one hour in a quick oven. Take them out and cut them through the middle. Lay them on tins, and let them stand in the oven four hours. You must keep them in tins. Rub the butter well into the flour the first time.