24 KITCHEN, LARDER, AND SCULLERY or caramel for colouring. No great quantity of any of these need be provided, but they should all be conveniently airanged in the cupboard. Spices ai'e sometimes required, and grocers’ sauces may be very occasionally required, but both should be kept away from the cook till needed, and kept under lock and key as carefully as the “ poison cupboard ” in the ward of an infirmary. Herb seasonings are given in the chapter on Herbs. A very useful herb seasoning for soups is made by drying by the fire two ounces each of parsley, winter savory, sweet marjoram, and lemon thyme; and one ounce of basil and of lemon peel cut very thin and dried. Pound all in a mortar, pass through a hair sieve, and bottle for use. If celery seed is in the store-cupboard the cook must be careful in using it. The flavour is so strong that one drachm, or a small saltspoonful. will flavour a quart of soup as much as could be done by two large heads of fresh celery. Wyvern suggests as a stock sauce for the cook’s store-cupboard an ounce of melted glaze, a gill of mushroom ketchup, half a gill of walnut pickle vinegar, the same of tomato ketchup, a dessert- spoonful of red-currant jelly, and a gill of marsala. All to be mixed together, well shaken when used, and a teaspoonful to be added to half a pint of the brown sauce used with hashes and stews. Grated cheese must be kept in a large tightly- corked bottle. The least damp will spoil it. A pound or two of Parmesan cheese (or of dry mild Cheddar) should be bought and grated from time to time ready for use. Bi’eadcrumbs must always be at hand and in plenty. It is essential to make them dry, and not spongy, for if the crumbs are moist they retain some of the fat used for frying and become greasy, so that anything coated with them looks most unsightly. For the white crumbs used for the crumbing of fish, cutlets, rissoles, etc., place any slices or remnants of white bread for a short time in the oven. Let them crisp but do not let them colour, then pound them in a mortar, sift them, and keep them in a bottle. For raspings or chapelure, either grate crusts of bread, or put slices of bread in the oven till they have browned well. Pound, sift, and bottle as before. Both these kinds of breadcrumbs should be made from time to time, and not kept too long or they may become musty.