205 SALTED MEAT. Common Salt, Bay Salt, Saltpetre, Sal Prunella, and coarse brown Sugar or treacle, are all used in salting meat. Common Salt is made from the evaporated brine which collects by the trickling of surface-water on to the great beds of Rock Salt, or Mineral Salt. For instance, in the salt-mine at Northwich, in Cheshire, which covers an area of forty acres, the brine is found at a depth of some forty yards, lying at the top of a bed of rock salt thirty-six yards thick. Rock salt is reddish-brown in colour, but in England the salt evaporated from the water which rests on it is of the purest white and of absolute cleanliness. Bay Salt, on the contrary, is dirty, so much so that in France it is called sel gris, and is known to con- tain fifteen per cent, of impurity. The reason is that Bay Salt is produced from the evaporation of sea water stored in shallow basins, with mud floors, instead of the iron or prepared-clay salt- pans set over fires wrhich are used for rock salt. However, at Salt Lake in America the water is, like that of the Dead Sea in Palestine, 6^ times salter than any sea, and the evaporated salt is pure enough to be used without any artificial refining. Bay Salt, in spite of its impurities, was (and is) frequently used in curing meat, as it is said to give a sweeter flavour than other salt. Saltpetre is found on the surface of the earth, chiefly in Bengal, Chili, and Burmah. It is not a European product, although in Germany it is very successfully imitated in chemical “ Saltpetre Plantations.” Saltpetre is used in salting meat when, as in a cold round of beef, the meat is required to look red. Sal Prunella, so often mentioned in old recipes, is nothing but Saltpetre which has been fused and poured into moulds. The composition of the Saltpetre has not been altered in the least. The name comes from pruna, or live coal (so called in alchemy), on account of the appearance of the molten mass of Saltpetre/1' Sugar makes the meat mellow and rich. The very coarse brown sugar of old days is now so difficult to get that common molasses or treacle, in the same proportions, is frequently substituted for it. In salting meat it is better to let the meat hang for two or * Sal Prunella can be bought from any good chemist.