PANCAKES AND FRITTERS 466 a golden colour, drain, dry, and serve dusted over with castor sugar. Apricot syrup sauce may be handed. Rice Fritter* may be made in the same way. Boil four ounces of rice properly, drain, empty it into a bowl, stir in two whole eggs, and two extra yolks that have been beaten up in a gill of warm milk. Set this in hot water over the fire till thickened, add two tablespoonfuLs of crushed ratafias, or powdered praline, and the “zest” of an orange, and sweeten with an ounce and a half of sugar. When thoroughly blended turn the mixture out on a slab, and with two wooden spoons pat it into a flat cake three-eighths of an inch thick, and leave it to get firm. Then cut it with a cutter, flour each fritter, egg, and roll in either finely-powdered ratafias or powdered praline (see page 488) and try. Fruit Fritters.—Fruit Fritters should always be marinaded in a tablespoonful of fruit juice, or a dessertspoonful of suitable spirit, for at least an hour before they are cooked. Mix the marinade with the batter, and wipe the pieces of fruit dry before you dip them into the batter. Preserved fruit in slices or halves answers perfectly for fritters. The slices of fruit must not be too thick; if unripe, or hard, parboil the fruit in thin syrup for a few minutes. Orange Fritters.—Peel two oranges, removing all the white part, and cut them into rounds across, five slices from each orange. Set them in a breakfast cup with either a tablespoonful of juice from another orange or a tablespoonful of brandy, and a little powdered sugar, and let them remain an hour. Then make a batter of a quarter of a pound of flour, a pinch of salt, one ounce of butter and a tablespoonful of the liquid from the orange, add a teaspoonful of the orange rind very finely scraped, and a tablespoonful of powdered sugar. Beat up the yolks of two eggs and the white of one to a froth, beating the yolks and the white separately. Now put the yolks into the batter and beat it for a quarter of an hour. Add the white froth, and beat for another quarter of an hour. Coat the slices of orange with the batter, and fry in butter to a light brown. Sprinkle a little fine white sugar over them, and serve on a napkin. Apple Fritters.—Peel apples which are good baking apples, becoming soft and clear when made into tarts. Cut them into thickish slices, take out the pips, and let them soak for two hours