53^ BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES beaten egg. Add the egg when you begin to moisten, and use enough milk to make a firm dough. When smooth, divide the dough on the pastry-board into six equal parts, pat them into elongated ovals, lay them in well-buttered French-roll tins, brush them over with milk, and bake like Hot Rolls. [ Wyvem.) French Rolls used to be rasped all over the crust with a special rasper, but it made the crust hard. The brushing over with milk keeps it soft. Vienna Rolls.—Work the dough as for French rolls, but after dividing it roll it into sausage shapes an inch and a half thick in the centre, and tapering somewhat towards the ends. Curve each into the shape of a crescent, and proceed as before, only laying the crescents on a buttered baking-tin instead of using patty-pans or French-roll tins. \Wyvern.~\ Brown Rolls.—Proceed as for Hot Rolls, only substituting whole meal for fine flour. Wheat Cakes.—(Family Recipe.)—Melt a little butter in a pint of good milk made a little warmer than new milk. Beat up the whites of three eggs, add them to the milk when you take it off the fire, and mix in flour by degrees till the sponge is of a proper thickness. Then add a little salt and half an ounce of yeast. Put the dough into a jug to rise. Breakfast Cakes.—(Family Recipe.)—One pound of flour, one egg, two spoonfuls of yeast (or half an ounce of German yeast) and a little salt, all mixed with good milk. Make this quantity into six cakes. Roll out thinly, prick them all over, and let them stand for one hour before the fire that they may rise well. Five minutes will bake them. Cut them round the sides, pull them open, and butter them. Eaton Banks Breakfast Cakes.—(Family Recipe.)—Take twelve tablespoonfuls of fine flour, two ounces of butter melted in milk, a spoonful of yeast (or a quarter of an ounce of German yeast), and an egg. Mix together, and let the sponge stand two hours. Then make it into cakes, and let them rise for a quarter of an hour before they are put into the oven. Muffins.—Sift together a pound of fine flour, an ounce of Yeatman’s powder, and two saltspoonfuls of salt. Stir in by degrees enough milk to form a smooth but rather stiff batter. Butter four Muffin rings, lay them on a buttered baking sheet