5i3 FISH TOASTS For Fish Toasts free the cold cooked fish from all bones and skin, chop it up in a soup-plate, working in a little butter to make it moist. Then add a small quantity of white sauce, or of any suitable fish sauce which may be left from dinner, and the yolk of an egg. Warm all up in the bain-marie, but do not let it boil. When thick enough and quite hot pour the mixture over the toasts. Buttered eggs can be mixed with the fish mince or laid on the top of it; or the savoury custard given before, page 511. Meat Toasts.—In all these a small quantity, say half a pint, of well-flavoured savoury broth must be mixed with the pounded or minced meat. The scraps of meat used for this will need vegetable flavouring, and the addition of half an ounce of glaze. Ham Toast.—(Family Recipe.)—Mince the ham very small, put it into a saucepan with a whole raw egg and a little butter, pour in the warm but not hot broth by degrees, heat it gradually in the bain-marie, thicken it, and put upon the toasts. Cold minced chicken may be mixed with the ham. Season with pepper, but no salt. Or make Buttered Eggs, and stir into them plenty of grated ham before they are poured on the toasts. Ham Toast.—(Mrs. G. W. Earle.)—Eight ounces of minced ham, one teaspoonful of Harvey sauce and the same of Worcester, a teaspoonful of curry paste, a small piece of butter, a good tablespoonful of white sauce, and two tablespoonfuls of thick cream. Mix all together, warm up and serve very hot. (Worcester Sauce, which is known all over the world, and is, in my opinion, far too widely used, originated in an Oriental recipe brought from the East by the second Lord Sandys many years ago. Lord Sandys, on his return to Ombersley, his place near Worcester, happened to call at the druggists’, Lea and Perrin’s, and, as he was leaving the shop, said he chanced to have a recipe which might be useful to them. This, at any rate, is the story told of the origin of that celebrated Sauce by which Lea and Perrin and their descendants have made- enormous fortunes.) Kidney Toast.—This is strongly recommended by Wyvern* Take two uncooked sheep’s kidneys, and blanch them for one minute in scalding water. (This should invariably be done LL