SALADS 378 l’ings, and take out the pips. Arrange them in circles in a dish, letting each slice overlap the edge of the next. Squeeze two small lemons over the oranges, add a few drops of vinegar, a little white pepper, and a dust of salt. Some people add a dessertspoonful of salad oil. The oranges can be served in quarters if preferred, all white skin being removed. Old-fashioned Winter Salad.—Arrange thin slices of cooked Beetroot round a soup plate. Fill the centre with pulled, uncooked Celery mixed with mayonnaise sauce. Salade Cuite.—Arrange little heaps of cold cooked vege- tables in a salad bowl over ice. Sprinkle them with a few drops of tarragon vinegar, and moisten thoroughly with cream well iced. Oil and vinegar may be used, but the Salad will not be nearly so good. Or mix a gill of good mayonnaise with some of the vegetables, and arrange the different little heaps round it. Sir Henry Thompson’s Salade Cuite.—Take four ounces of carrots, two ounces of turnips, four ounces of small asparagus, four ounces of peas, and the same quantity of French beans. Boil each of these vegetables separately in about a quart of water, with a teaspoonful of salt. When cooked strain them on a cloth; let them cool, and then place the French beans at the bottom of a salad-bowl. Arrange the other vegetables in little heaps around, first the carrots, then the peas, then the turnips, then the asparagus, so as to alter- nate the colours, and so on again. The rest of the peas and asparagus may be placed in the centre, and sprinkled with a spoonful of chopped ravigote (fresh tarragon, chervil, parsley, and chives). Serve with an oil and vinegar sauce in a boat, or let them be added from the cruet-stand by each guest according to taste. Sir Henry Thompson advises the simple slicing of these vegetables, instead of cutting them into innumerable small cubes as is the fashion of French chefs. As French Beans and Asparagus are not in season together one of them must be a preserved vegetable. Sir Henry Thompson’s Salad.—Cross-cut the lettuce or endive two or three times in a roomy salad bowl, placing one saltspoonful of salt and half that quantity of pepper in a table-