191 CALF’S TONGUE add half a gill of Marsala. Next, having sliced up the cold Tongue in slices three-eighths of an inch thick and placed them in a casserole, strain the sauce over them, adding a gill of tomato puree. Let them marinade in this till wanted, then set the pan over a low fire and gently warm the Tongue. When hot, take out the pieces of Tongue, arrange them on a hot silver dish in a line, overlapping each other, and pour the sauce Over them. Garnish with a ring of Jerusalem Artichokes, Brussels Sprouts, or any nice vegetable. [ Wyvern. ] Macaroni, with a little tomato puree, makes a nice garnish for this dish. Calf’s Head en Tortue.—In the recipe for Mock Turtle Soup given on page 45, it was advised that the meaty portions of the calf’s head should not he put into the soup but that they should be set aside for another dish. Wyvern gives an excellent method of preparing them. Season the pieces of meat with pepper, salt, and spiced pepper. Take a saute-pan with high sides, melt in it two ounces and a half of butter or clarified suet over a moderate fire, and then stir in three ounces of lean raw bacon, minced small, six ounces of minced onion, four each of turnip and carrot, an ounce of celery, half one of parsley, and the washed and minced peelings of half a pound of mush- rooms. Season with salt and spiced pepper, and put in a teaspoonful of dried basil. Fry all these till they soften and turn colour, then put in an ounce of glaze, and moisten with a pint and a half of the broth saved for the purpose when the Mock Turtle Soup was made the day before. Bring slowly to the boil, and simmer till the vegetables are done; then strain off the broth into a bowl, let it get cold, and take off the fat. To turn the broth into Sauce d la Tortue, prepare a roux with an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour. Moisten with the broth, bring to the boil, put in the half pound of mushrooms (the trimmings of which were used in the saute-pan), cutting them into neat pieces if large, and simmer for fifteen minutes. Then empty the contents of the pan upon a hair sieve with a bowl beneath it, pick out the pieces of mushroom and set them aside on a plate, and pass the sauce through the sieve. Now put the strained sauce into a stewpan, stir into it a gill of freshly-made tomato sauce and a tablespoonful of Marsala, and mix well. Finally add the