203 SAGE AND ONIONS fresh boiling water till they are tender. Blanch eight nice sage leaves in boiling water for five minutes. Mince them and the onions as finely as possible. Add six ounces of breadcrumbs, and work well together with a wooden spoon, dusting plentifully with Herb Pepper. Mince two ounces of beef suet into powder, add it to the sage, onions, and crumbs, and bind the whole with two eggs. This quantity is enough for a couple of ducks. Stuffing- fOP Fish.—Stuffing is useful for haddock, pike, etc. Eight ounces of breadcrumbs, three to four ounces of beef suet minced to powder, one teaspoonful of minced thyme, two teaspoonfuls of minced parsley. Dust well with pepper, and add a little salt. Work well together, and add the yolks of two eggs. Work the stuffing a second time, and add the white of one egg. FORCEMEAT. It is a great mistake to suppose, as many cooks and many writers on cookery do, that Forcemeat and Stuffing are two names for the same thing. They are, in fact, totally different. Forcemeat belongs to French cookery, and forms a dish in itself, as well as a garnish or addition to such things as pies and galantines, whilst stuffing is a purely English method of filling up cavities in some kinds of poultry, game, or fish, and in a few joints of meat. In making Forcemeat it is of great importance to use only fresh meat, to pound all the ingredients well, to mix them thoroughly together, to make the Forcemeat as quickly as possible, to keep it cool whilst it is being made, and then at once to set it in a cold larder till wanted. Panada is the foundation of all Forcemeat. There are two kinds of Panada, one made of crumb of bread, and the other of either wheat-flour or potato-flour. For Bread Panada, which is most generally liked, the quantity required of crumb of bread is thoroughly soaked either in warm water, warm stock, or warm milk. It is then squeezed through a cloth and wrung dry, after which it is put into a saucepan, gradually moistened over a low fire with whatever liquid the bread has been soaked in, and stirred with a wooden spoon without stopping till the Panada