135 SHARP SAUCES, SERVED HOT with, fish glaze, and a glass of sauterne. If the Fish Espagnole is too light in colour add a few drops of Parisian essence. Veloute Sauce, the foundation of the numerous white sauces used in French cookery, is rather more troublesome to make, hut if the recipe is strictly followed the cook will be repaid by the result. The process of making Veloute Sauce is, for the sake of clearness, divided into six stages. (1). Take one pound of fowl giblets, and half a pound of veal scraps. Cut up the veal, scald the giblets and cut them also into small pieces. (2). Slice into rings three ounces of onion, put them into one ounce of butter melted at the bottom of a stewpan, and then add the veal and the giblets. Moisten with a gill of white broth made from poultry or veal scraps. Simmer over a low fire, but do not let the veal and giblets take colour. Cover them with cold water, or with white broth if possible, and bi’ing slowly to the boil. (3). Go on now to make a clear broth, seasoning lights with salt and white pepper. If this clear broth is carefully prepared and skimmed you should obtain at least two pints of colourless liquid. Strain it, and keep it warm. (4). In another saucepan melt two ounces of butter over a low fire; when it is melted add by degrees two ounces of flour and stir with a wooden spoon for five minutes. Pour in the warm broth by degrees, increase the heat, and work the broth and the roux well together with a wooden spoon. (5). Stir over the fire till the sauce boils, then reduce the heat, and let the sauce simmer gently for one hour, carefully taking- off any fat that may rise to the surface. (6). At the end of the hour strain the veloute through a hair sieve into a bowl, and set it aside in a cold larder. Bechamel Sauce is made in the same way, with the addition of two ounces of sliced fresh mushrooms, put into the stewpan with the veal and giblets, and a gill of cream as a finishing touch. Veloute Maigre is of course made without meat. Cut up six ounces of onions, three of carrots, and half an ounce of celery. Fry in two ounces of butter over a low fire, for five minutes only. Add two ounces of flour and fry for five minutes more. Now moisten with a pint of milk and a pint of water, season with a quarter of an ounce of salt, and half that quantity of