BEAST’S HEAD SOUP S3 it must be well pounded in a mortar. Add from two to four ounces of stale breadcrumbs, two tablespoonfuls of stock, a little finely minced lemon peel, a dessertspoonful of finely minced thyme, and the same of parsley. Season with pepper and salt. A teaspoonful of essence of anchovy may be added. Mix all up with an egg, and fry a nice brown. If the thyme and parsley are dried and not green, a tablespoonful of each will be required. Of course the brains can be boiled in the soup if liked. Coek-a-Leekie.—Put four pounds of leg of beef and one old fowl into a gallon of cold water. As soon as it boils throw in four dozen leeks. The leeks must be sliced, and plenty of the green part left on. Add a teaspoonful of pepper and a salt- spoonful of salt. Let all boil together for four hours. Then put in half a pound of prunes, and let it boil for another hour. Now take out the meat and the fowl, cut off the breast and wings of the fowl and add this to the soup. Leave the prunes in the soup. The beef and the carcase of the fowl will come in for stock. Of course the number of leeks can be reduced, but the above is the allowance in Scotland for the amount of beef and fowl. Leek Soup.—Chop np six leeks rather small, using both the green and the white part. Boil them in broth for one hour. Thicken the soup with half an ounce of oatmeal rubbed into half an ounce of flour as a Roux. Boil up, strain, and serve at once. If pea-shells, double in weight to the amount of leeks can be used; they are a great addition, and should be boiled with the leeks. Onion Soup.—Onion Soup is considered to be most whole- some, and is often liked in winter. Foreigners think most highly of Onion Soup. Rossini, the musician, said that the man who did not like it when served with grated cheese was a phenomenon as yet unknown; and in France it is called Soupe a VIvrogne, or the Drunkard’s Soup, because it is as stimu- lating as wine or spirits. To make Onion Soup, take six mild Spanish or Portugal Onions, blanch them in boiling water, peel off three or four coats, and slice them from top to bottom. Fry them in two ounces of butter (three ounces may be needed), but do not let them brown. Simmer the Onions in a quart of broth