542 CAKES two eggs to a strong froth, cover the rolls all over, dust them well with sifted sugar, and put them in a cool oven to brown. When to be served fill the rolls with good custard, and lay two or three dried cherries on each. Six for a dish at dessert. Fat Rascals.—Rub half a pound of butter into three-quarters of a pound of flour. Then add half a pound of raisins, and mix all to a stiff paste with a little milk. Roll out, and bake on the girdle till nicely browned, turning it once only. When baked cut the cake into squares, butter well, and serve at once. Petticoat Tails.—This cake is a great favourite in Scotland; the name is merely a corruption of petits gateaux tailles. Take a quarter of a pound of butter, soften it before the fire, and mix it well with two ounces of castor sugar. Work into it half a pound of flour. Make it up into a ball and roll out the size of a dinner plate. Raise the edge a little all round like a saucer and mark the edge with strokes, using the quill end of a feather. Mark a circle in the middle of the cake with a wine-glass, and with the feather mark eight divisions radiating from the centre. Bake on the girdle. When served cut the cake according to the divisions marked out. Gingerbread.—(Family Recipe.)—One pound two ounces of treacle, near a pound of brown sugar, rather better than a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, and two ounces of grated ginger. When mixed together spread it with a knife on a perfectly clean dripping-pan and bake it in a moderate oven. Whilst it is hot cut it into pieces three inches square. Sledmere Sponge Gingerbread.—(Family Recipe.)—Kali a pound of butter, of sugar, and of treacle, a pound of flour, an ounce of ginger, and a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Put the butter, sugar, and treacle all together and set it by the fire to melt. Then beat four eggs, stir into them the butter, sugar, and treacle, then the ginger and soda, and lastly the flour. Do not bake it hard. Gingerbread Nuts to take out Hunting.—(Family Recipe.)—To one pound of fine flour put four ounces of fresh butter, and carefully rub it well into the flour. Then add two ounces of best freshly-powdered ginger, a quarter of an ounce of allspice in fine powder, a grated nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cloves, half a pound of good moist sugar,