393 EGGS AND OMELETTES viollet or calf of the leg. To cook CEufs Mullet* properly, plunge them into boiling water, and keep them with the water at boiling point for five minutes. Then put them immediately into cold water, and leave them for from ten to fifteen minutes. When quite cold, peel off the Egg shells most carefully with the fingers. CEufs Mollets must not be boiled a second time, but unless they are fried they must be warmed up. This is best done in the bain- marie, putting the Eggs into hot salted water. CEiifs Mollets are excellent in every subsequent fashion, if they have been carefully cooked to begin with. They can be coated with egg and breadcrumb, and fried till lightly coloured. Or they can be laid whole, just as they are, upon any delicate puree either of meat or of vegetables. Or CEufs Mullets can be placed on squares of fried toast, and masked with any savoury butter. Or, as Wyvern suggests, “ Have ready a pint of nice “ white sauce seasoned with pepper and spiced salt. Flavour this “ with Ravigote, that is a tablespoonful, mixed, of equal parts of ■“ finely-chopped tarragon, parsley, chives, and chervil. Sharpen it u with a dessertspoonful of vinegar. Put the CEufs Mollets on a “ hot dish and pour the sauce boiling hot over them. Serve at ■“ once. Or send (Eufs Mollets up on freshly-made buttered “ toast, with a pat of maitre d’hotel butter, no bigger than a six- “ pence, melting upon each.” Buttered Eg’g’S.—It is better to follow the French fashion of serving Buttered Eggs, or CEufs Brouilles, upon a hot fire- proof dish. The English method of serving them on toast is a mistake, as the toast is sure to be either spongy or leathery. In America this dish is known as Scrambled Eggs. Most cooks suppose that Buttered Eggs is a dish to be served in a hurry, with any sort of butter, added anyhow, and that it requires neither time nor care. They are quite mistaken. To prepare good Buttered Eggs plenty of time is wanted, the best butter, and a slow fire. If the fire is fierce the Buttered Eggs are sure to be lumpy and tough instead of being smooth. Buttered Eggs, which are so useful in many different ways, must in all cases be served as soon as they are cooked. To keep them waiting is fatal. Wyvern's method ought always to be followed. For this, break three Eggs into a bowl with a saltspoonful of salt and a dust of pepper, and mix them well. Weigh an ounce and a half of fresh