RULES FOR COOKING VEGETABLES 299 must be taken not to break the little roots or the skin, or the red juice and colour will be lost. Cauliflowers and Cabbages must be soaked in cold salted water in which a tablespoonful of vinegar has been put. This will make any slugs or caterpillars wriggle out of their hiding- places within the vegetables. The end of the stalk of a Cauliflower should be cut across. This will ensure the proper cooking of the stalk. A Cauliflower should be boiled head downwards in the saucepan small enough to keep it in position. This prevents the white part of the Cauliflower from getting dirtied by the scum which rises to the surface of the pan. Some people think that a very little sugar (one teaspoonful to a gallon of water) brings out the flavour of the Cauliflower. If Spinach is not quite young the stalks and mid-ribs of the leaves must be removed before they are cooked. If this is not done the Spinach will be bitter. Parsley must never be used wet. If it is, the leaves will all stick together, and the flavour will be lost. Parsley has a strong taste, and a dark juice, and must be carefully prepared. Many dishes are spoilt by the addition of ill-cooked parsley. Parsley should be first blanched in really boiling water, and then carefully dried by wringing it in a cloth. When the parsley is quite dry, the leaves must be picked from the stalks (the stalks are not used) and cut across closely. For sauces they should then be minced as finely as possible; parsley cannot be minced too finely. The minced leaves must be gathered into the corner of a cloth, and rubbed and rinsed in water, till the water becomes green. The parsley must again be carefully dried before using. It should look like tiny bright green specks. The beautiful smooth skin of Tomatoes is apt to disagree with people, and it is therefore generally advisable to remove it. This is easily done by putting the Tomatoes in a wire basket and plunging them for a few seconds in boiling water. Then put them at once into quite cold water, and they will peel easily. Of course this is not necessai’y when the Tomatoes are rubbed through a sieve. Mushrooms out of the fields have a far more delicate flavour than those grown in mushroom-houses and cellai’s. Mushrooms