RECHAUFFE DISHES OF FISH 122 Separate the flakes as soon as the fish comes from the dining- room and whilst it is still warm. Fill the hollow sides of the flakes with the fish sauce slightly thickened, or have ready some minced shrimps, or lobster, or scallops, mixed rather thickly in white sauce. Leave the flakes to set all night. In the morning egg and breadcrumb each, and fry. Fish Pudding’.—Pick a pound of cold cooked fish free from bones and skin. Use the bones and fish boilings to make a pint of broth. Season with pepper and salt, adding a sliced onion if liked, and strain. Take of cold cooked potato the same bulk you have of fish, and boil three eggs hard. Empty the fish and potato into a roomy bowl and mash them together, adding the cold fish sauce left from dinner, and moistening the mixture with the broth. Crush the eggs with a fork and add them, dusting in a teaspoonful of white pepper and the same of salt mixed together (also, if liked, a saltspoonful of mace). Then stir in two ounces of butter, and a tablespoonful of minced parsley. Lastly, add a tablespoonful of milk. When all is blended together put the pudding in a buttered mould, set this in a pan with boiling water round it half the depth of the mould, and heat the pudding thoroughly in the oven. Then turn it out carefully, shake some fine crust raspings over it, and serve. [Wyvern.~\ Baked Fish.—To a pound of cold cooked fish allow one- third of its weight in breadcrumbs, and season well with, pepper and salt. Make a fish broth to cover it, adding a sliced onion if liked, and six black peppercorns. Stir in a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, set the mixture to boil, and then simmer for fifteen minutes. Thicken the broth, stirring in any remaining fish sauce. Arrange the fish and crumbs on a buttered fire-proof dish, moisten well with the sauce, strew raspings over, and heat up in the Dutch oven. KB.—When fish has to be re-warmed the skin should always be removed as soon as the fish leaves the dining-room. It is a good plan to remove the bones also. If the fish is Salmon this is particularly necessary, as the skin is oily, and the fat part near the fins should be removed also. Fish Custard Pudding’S.—These are excellent either by themselves or served with cold Salmon. Butter six dariole