CONTENTS OF THE KITCHEN 2 I are done with. Never scrape them with a knife, but rub them clean with salt, and then dry them with a cloth. Use sand and hot water if the pans have become black inside. If onions have been fried put a little oatmeal in the frying-pan after you have cleaned it, and shake it about over the fire till the oatmeal scorches; this will remove any smell of onion. A separate frying-pan must be kept for fish, and should be marked by a tape, or in some way, so that it will be used only for fish. Tins.—Wash all tins well with hot water and soda, putting them into a tub, and scrubbing them. Sand will scratch the tins. It is better to clean tins with powdered whiting mixed to a smooth paste with a little water, and then to polish with dry whiting till the tins are as bright as looking-glass. It is a good plan to boil tins once a quarter in water mixed with soda. Steamers should be cleaned in the same way. Dish Covers. — Wash them with soap and water, dry them thoroughly, and then brush them over with whiting mixed with a little water. When it is quite chy rub it off with a soft cloth, polishing the cover as you rub it. Do not use any pre- paration of paraffin. Mincing Machine.—When this has been used it should always be laid to soak in soda and water, and then be most thoroughly dried. The least speck of rust will ruin a mincing machine. Sieves.—Wash them with hot water and soda, scrub them with a sieve brush, hold them up to the light to see that no particle of food adheres to them, and dry them most thoroughly. After drying the sieves keep them in a dry place. If sieves are allowed to get in the least damp, hair sieves will mildew, copper-wire sieves will be coated with verdigris, and iron-wire sieves will be rusty. There is so much danger in using copper- wire sieves that it is better to avoid them altogether. In using sieves whatever is to be passed through must always be put in at the shallow end, and the sieve must not be roughly used. If this is not attended to hair sieves will soon buls-e, and then burst away from the framework. Wooden Articles.—Scrub kitchen tables and all boards the same way as the grain of the wood, and not round and round. Use hot water and sand for pastry-boards and rolling-pins, for