POTATOES 3°3 In this way they will keep hot and dry. Some cooks drain off half the water and replace it with more cold water when the Potatoes are about half done; others check the boiling by a dash of cold water every now and then. The Potatoes should be taken out of the water as soon as the skins begin to crack. When Potatoes are likely to be watery it is a good plan to score the tough skins lengthwise and all round, as this lets out the moisture. In steaming Potatoes (and steaming is by far the best method of cooking most vegetables), they should first lie in cold water for five minutes. Then brush them and wipe them dry. Put the Potatoes in the steamer over really boiling water, and let them steam till done. The time will vary from twenty to forty minutes according to the size of the Potatoes, but they should be tried with a skewer. If the skewer goes through them quite easily they are done. New Potatoes should be cooked as soon as possible after they are dug up. Brush them, rub them with a coarse cloth, and either boil or steam them. New Potatoes, unlike old ones, should, if boiled, be put on in boiling water, and boiled for fifteen minutes. Then drain off the water and proceed as for old Potatoes. It is both barbarous and wasteful to peel New Potatoes before they are cooked, and even if the skins are removed after cooking the Potatoes cool and spoil before they can be served. Baked Potatoes.—No Potato cooked at home is equal to one bought at a London Potato stall, and carried off surrep- titiously in a muff. The secret of the salesman is that he spares neither time or patience in baking his Potatoes. To imitate his success choose large Potatoes ; those sold as “ Melters ” are the best. Wash them as little as possible. Put them in their jackets into a Dutch oven, and leave them there for two hours, turning them now and then. When the jacket just opens to show the floury waistcoat the Potato is done, and it must be served at once. Some “ Melters ” only need an hour and a half in the Dutch oven, but they must be watched, turned, and tried with a skewer. In those restaurants which pride themselves on their Baked Potatoes, the waiter contrives by one dexterous squeeze of his napkin to turn out the whitest of Baked Potatoes