20 KITCHEN, LARDER, AND SCULLERY crushed soda, and then polish them with sand and wipe them quite dry. Coppers.—Copper vessels must be kept perfectly clean, and should be thoroughly attended to on a fixed day once a week. Pill the pan with cold water, put in a bit of soda as big as a walnut, and let the water boil up. This will get rid of any dirt or grease. Then thoroughly scrub the inside of the pan with silver-sand and soap. Rub the outside with the squeezed half of a lemon dipped in sand. The used halves of lemon6 should always be kept for this purpose. If you have no lemon, use a rag just moistened with vinegar and dipped in silver- sand and salt. Too much liquid destroys the efficacy of the sand. Be most careful to notice any sign of green colour on the copper. This is verdigris, and a deadly poison. Watch for signs of the coppers needing to be re-tinned. Copper moulds should be thoroughly scrubbed with hot water and soda, and the outsides polished in the same way as the larger coppers. Iron Saucepans.—Put them into hot water and soda, and wash them thoroughly inside and out. Rinse and dry them well. Treat the lids in the same way. If any food has been burnt in a saucepan fill it with hot water and soda and let it boil; then rub the bottom clean with sand. Set the saucepans bottom upwards and without their lids, on a shelf. Let them project an inch beyond the edge of the shelf ; in this way the air will get into them, and they will never be musty, even if long unused. Enamelled Saucepans.—Wash them thoroughly with hot water and soda, boiling soda in them as for iron saucepans if anything has been burnt in them. Rinse and dry them well. Omelette-pans.—These must on no account ever be washed. They must be rubbed clean with soft paper or a cloth, and then rubbed till quite dry with another cloth. If the pan is in the least damp the omelette will stick to it and be spoilt. If any particles of egg adhere to the omelette-pan rub them off whilst the pan is hot with a little salt moistened with vinegar, and rub the pan perfectly dry afterwards. Never use omelette- pans except for omelettes. Frying-pans.—These must be attended to the moment they