CLEAR APPLE JELLY 5°5 liquor add half a pound of lump sugar. Boil the whole very fast with the peel of the two lemons three-quarters of an hour, or till it will jelly, which may be tried by putting a very little on a cold plate. It must be well skimmed all the time of boiling. When sufficiently done take out all the lemon-peel, and pour the jelly into moulds or pots for use. Medlar Jelly.—Gather the medlars when quite sound, wipe them well, and let them stew in the preserving pan with just enough water to cover them till they are in a pulp. Drain through canvas, but do not press the pulp. Weigh the juice and allow half a pound of sugar to every pint. Boil till quite clear, stirring and skimming well. When it jellies pour it into small moulds and let it set. When firm and stiff lay a fitted round of paper dipped in brandy over each mould. Currant Rob.—(Family Recipe.)—Put the Black Currants in a jar in the oven. When they fall squeeze the juice from them and rub the pulp through a hair sieve on dishes, and dry it on a hot plate or before the fire. When dry cut it into squares half an inch across. Of the juice make black-currant jelly as the red is done. Currant Jelly.—(Family Recipe.')—Strip the Currants, and put them into the oven. When done enough pass them through a hair sieve or a coarse cloth. To every pint of juice allow a pound of sugar well beaten and sifted. Heat the sugar on a dish in the oven between two sheets of writing paper, and when the juice has boiled one or two minutes strew the sugar in by degrees whilst it is hot. It will jelly immediately and gain flavour by keeping. Put the jelly at once into pots. Currant Jelly.—(Family Recipe.)—To six pounds of currants add four pounds of sugar and half a pint of currant juice. Stir the fruit well together in a pan, set it on a brisk fire, and when it boils up all round pass it through a cloth into a basin with a lip, and pour it into pots. Let them remain uncovered for nine days, then cover with brandy paper and tie up. Red, white, and black-currant jelly are all good made in this way. Brandy Cherries.—(Family Recipe.)—To every pound of Morelia cherries stalked but not stoned add three-quarters of a pound of best sugar. Take a few cherries and bruise them,