177 LEG OF MUTTON steaks of Mutton. An old-fashioned way of making a Leg of Mutton juicy and tender is to cover it with cold water, bring it very gradually to the boil and simmer it gently for half an hour. Then instantly put it on the roasting-jack, and roast it for an hour and a half. The joint must go straight out of the pan on to the jack. To braise a Leg of Mutton it is best to choose a very small joint. Cut off the knuckle, trim the leg neatly, and half roast it. Then put it in the braising-pan with plenty of vegetables, the knuckle-bone broken, and all the trimmings. Two ounces of butter must previously have been melted in the pan. Shake the pan over the fire till there is gravy enough to cook the meat, and then simmer the joint very slowly, turning it often. When it is quite tender take out the joint, keep it hot, skim and strain the broth, put the mutton in a very hot dish and pour the broth round it. A small leg is chosen because this dish does not bear warming-up, and should be eaten at once. If a Leg of Mutton is boiled, follow the directions on page 143. A Leg of Mutton will take about three hours to boil thoroughly. But it is a dish seldom liked, and therefore seldom seen. For Roasting allow an hour and a half to two hours. Shoulder of Mutton.—This joint will require an hour and a half to roast, and must be continually basted with its own dripping. Loin of Mutton.—The Loin is superior in flavour to the Leg of Mutton, but there is apt to be a great deal of fat upon it. This should be trimmed off by the butcher ; if the mutton is killed at home the superfluous fat can be melted down and is use- ful in various ways. For instance, Mutton Suet is used for frying- purposes, and the blades of knives not in use, and steel grates, fenders, and fireirons when put away for the summer, are preserved by a coating of mutton fat. A Loin of Mutton will take an hour to an hour and a half to roast. Neck of Mutton.—For roasting a Neck of Mutton allow an hour to an hour and a half (this applies to the best end of the neck). If the neck is to be boiled saw off the chine-bone (that is the bone fitting on to the back), saw the ends of the row of bones to four inches long, and turn the flap under. Do not take off the skin till the joint is boiled, as this will keep the fat white. Allow an hour and half for boiling the neck. In England Caper Sauce is always served with Boiled Mutton and with nothing else, N