*55 FRYING The frying-basket must be gently lowered into the bath of oil or fat, but on no account must it be allowed to touch the bottom of the pan. The articles in the basket must not touch each other; if they do they run a risk of both burning and bursting their coating. The cook must there- fore be most particular to fry only a few things at a time. When these are a bright golden brown, lift up the basket and let the fried articles drain in it, held over the hot fat in the pan, for a few seconds. This prevents the fat from adhering to them, and if it is not attended to greasiness both in appearance and taste is sure to result. It is by far the best plan to lay the fried articles on a wire pastry-rack in a hot place to dry, but if this most useful thing has not been provided they must be laid on a clean sheet of white blotting-paper, not touching each other. If the fried articles have been properly drained over the hot fat they will hardly mark the blotting- paper ; if carelessly managed each will be seen standing in a pool of grease. Croquettes, and all such things which are soft inside, must be constantly turned about with a wide-bladed knife or a spoon, whilst they are in the bath, or they will not be evenly cooked all through. It is wise to cool the frying medium a little by drawing the pan to one side before each fresh relay of articles to be fried is put into it. The pastry drainer does best put in the mouth of the oven; but it can be set before the kitchen fire. If the articles fried are dark, and not a clear golden brown, the frying medium has been too hot, or they have been held in it too long. If they look sodden the frying medium has not been sufficiently hot. Whatever article is fried must be absolutely and completely covered by the frying medium. As soon as everything is fried the pan must at once be drawn away from the hot part of the stove, or the fat will burn and spoil, or even catch fire. Let it cool for a quarter of an hour. Then strain it through muslin, into a clean bowl. This is better than putting it back into the pan it was heated in, as it will now harden and can be used two or thi’ee times more. As soon as the fat looks leaden it is of no further use, and must be thrown away'.