+■ SIR HENRY THOMPSON’S FISH SOUP 61 and the head and bones of two whitings, reserving the fillets. (A cod’s head, or that of a turbot, or the fresh bones, head, and fins of two large soles, the fillets of which are required for another dish, may take the place of the foregoing.) Add some salt and a little pepper. Let all simmer together for two hours gently at the corner of the fire; take out the bones and pass all the rest through a coarse strainer. Divide the fillets of whiting into two or three small portions each, boil for a few minutes in some of the stock, add a little fresh green parsley and chervil chopped, not too finely, and serve all together in a tureen. [Food and Feeding.'] Sir Henry Thompson wisely considers that Eish Soups do not require clarifying. Captain Marryat’s Fish Soup.—(Recipe given by him to the Countess of Blessington, February, 1833) :— Split a cod’s head, and put it, with two haddocks, into a kettle containing two quarts of cold water, and an onion chopped fine. When it has boiled a quarter of an hour, take out all the fish, cut off the heads, trim and fillet the haddocks, pick out the best part of the cod’s head, such as under-jaw, tongue, etc., and lay them aside. Put back into the kettle the remains of the cod’s head and trimmings of the haddocks, and let them boil until the liquor is reduced to a pint and a half, and then strain off. Thicken the soup with the yolks of two eggs well beaten up. Add some chopped parsley and a little salt. Then put in the fillets of haddocks (each cut into four pieces), with the portions of the cod’s head. Boil till sufficiently done, and you will have not only a capital soup but a very good bargain. “Baars,” the Dutch Water Souehy.—The much-vaunted Bouillabaisse of Southern France with its “ hotch-potch of all sorts of fishes,” its garlic, oil, capsicums, wine, spices, and saffron, is not always suited to English palates when at home. But the Dutch Baars, cooked in the same way but omitting the rich seasoning, is excellent. The English name of this dish. Water Souehy, is misleading, and the weak broth served under that name is distasteful. Baars can be made of any small fish ; those too small to cook in other ways answer perfectly. And it can be made of either sea or fresh water fish. For a Baars of sea fish use the small soles called slips, and whitings, or