TARTELETTES AUX ANCHOIS 5*7 Pound four ounces of fresh whiting or haddock, pass it through a hair sieve, add to it two ounces of panada and two of butter, and season lightly with pepper and salt. Moisten the whole with a well-beaten egg, and mix in the anchovy puree. Fill the pastry cases, dust over the surface with finely-sifted raspings, and bake. Sei’ve at once on a hot napkin dusted over with grated cheese. Hand Nepaul pepper. For Tartelettes a la Norvegienne make the pastry cases as above, fill them with raw rice, bake them a pale brown, empty out the rice, and keep the cases hot. Take an ounce of Norwegian lax (preserved salmon in slices) from the tin, free it from oil, wipe it, and pound in a mortar with one fillet of anchovy, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and an ounce of butter. Pass all through the sieve. Melt a quarter of an ounce of butter in a little saucepan, stir in a quarter of an ounce of flour, and a gill of milk, thicken, add the lax paste, fill the hot cases, and serve as in the last recipe. [ Wyvern.~\ Simple and excellent Savouries may he made by spreading fried croiltes, or by filling croutes creuses, with a puree of anchovy, or lax, or bloater roe. Allow four anchovies, or two ounces of lax or of bloater roe to the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and two ounces of butter. Season with Nepaul pepper, pound, and pass through the sieve. The lax puree is improved by pounding a couple of fillets of anchoyy with it. The dry Shrimp Curry (see page 117) forms a capital Savoury served very hot in little open pastry saucers two and a half inches across. Allow a tahlespoonful for each. Scallops cut into quarter-inch squares and done in the same way are equally good. Both Savouries may be called Oroides Creuses d VIndienne. COLD SAVOURIES. Of these Caviare, or the roe of the sturgeon, is considered the greatest delicacy. To enjoy Caviare in perfection it must be eaten fresh. Sir Henry Thompson speaks of “ the grey, pearly, succulent, and delicate Caviare eaten in Moscow,” and adds that the “ black herring-flavoured small-seeded Caviare eaten here is but as the shadow to the substance.” However,