186 VEAL and prevents their turning sour. Then cut the Sweetbreads into pieces three-quarters of an inch thick, egg and breadcrumb the pieces, and fry a golden brown. Serve on a napkin, with fried parsley in the centre, and hand quarters of lemon. Fillet of Veal.—Take out the bone, fill the space with stuffing (see page 202), pin the Fillet securely into a round with skewers, and fasten stout twine round and round it, or tie it round with tape. It will take from two to two hours and a half to roast. Or the Fillet can be simmered in broth with plenty of vegetables and some slices of bacon. For this allow three hours, and glaze the Fillet before serving. In each case remove the string or tape, but the skewers must be left in. Loin of Veal.—Take out the kidney and use it as a separate dish. Allow from two hours to two hours and a half to roast the loin, and cover it with a buttered paper. Or the best (or chump) end of the loin may be boned, stuffed, then braised, and served with the broth skimmed and strained and flavoured with mush- room peelings. Broil the mushrooms themselves and use them as garnish for the meat. Veal Collops.—(Family Recipe from the Cook at Woodhouse’s Coffee House.)—Take the fillet of Veal, cut off all stringy parts, cut the fleshy part into small collops as thin as shavings, using a very sharp knife, and beat them well with a rolling-pin. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan, put in the Collops a few at a time, and fry them for one minute only, over a quick fire. If the Collops fry longer they will be hard. When all are fried clean off the butter which is left in the pan, and put the Collops in with enough good veal stock, seasoned with salt and white pepper and a little mace. Take the yolks of three eggs, a little butter, half a pint of cream, and beat them well together, shake them over the fire, taking care they do not break or curdle. Take the Collops off the fire, add the eggs and cream, squeeze in a lemon and serve. Forcemeat balls can be added, boiled, not fried. Dean of York’s Italian Veal Collops.—Cut the Collops from the leg of Veal very thin and narrow and without the least fat or skin. Put two ounces or more of butter in a stewpan, with chopped parsley and shallot, season with pepper and salt, and fry for from six to ten minutes. Have ready macaroni boiled thoroughly in good Veal broth. Make a white sauce with cream