CHICKEN A LA TOSCANE 263 Chicken a la Toscane.—Cut up a cold chicken, get all the meat from it, and set it aside. Chop up the bones, skin, and trimmings. Put the bones in a stewpan, cover with milk and water, bring slowly to the boil, add four ounces of onion, one of celery, one of parsley, a bunch of herbs, and the chopped stalks and peelings of a quarter of a pound of fresh mushrooms. Add salt and pepper, simmer for one hour, and strain. Turn the liquid to a sauce, passing it through the hair sieve, and adding a tablespoonful of cream. Lay the pieces of fowl in this with the whole mushrooms separately fried and cut into squares, two ounces of cooked macaroni cut very small, and a tablespoonful of coarsely-chopped cooked ham. Heat all up gently, and dust a fine layer of grated Parmesan over all. Serve in an entree dish. [ Wyvem.] Chicken Roasted French Fashion.—When the chicken is trussed leave on the neck. Bend the neck so as to close the opening from which the crop was drawn out, and press it well inside the bird. Weigh the liver, and add to it an equal weight of bacon. Fasten the chicken together with string, and hang it like a bundle to the bottle-jack, neck downwards. Baste it continually with butter, and roast it a warm brown. When done take off the string-, lay the bird in a hot dish, and pour round it (without any additions) the unstrained unclari- fied butter with which the chicken was basted. Be careful to pour the butter round, not over, the chicken. It ought not to be in the least greasy. Poulet au Riz.—Boil a chicken and keep it hot in a covered dish. Blanch six ounces of Patna rice in three quarts of boiling water, using a large stewpan; drain it on a sieve. Put it back in the dry, hot pan with two ounces of butter and a season- ing of pepper and salt. Turn the rice about with a wooden spoon, and add very gradually the eau cle cuisson in which the chicken was boiled. Do this very slowly, making the rice absorb as much as possible. Then empty the rice, steaming hot, over the here chicken, and serve at once. This is the real Poulet au Riz. Plenty of vegetables must have been boiled with the chicken, or it will be tasteless. Flavouring can, if liked, be given by v adding tomato pulp, or grated cheese, to the rice. Boiled Chicken with Oysters.—Fill the inside of the