255 SMALL BIRDS tasted or bought a Lark, for I would not connive at the slaughter of a bird which, to use Izaak Walton’s words, “ breathes such sweet loud music out of her little instrumental throat.” French people eat many more small birds than we do. The Thrashes or Grives which have fed in vineyards are thought a great delicacy in France, and even the Robin Redbreast does not escape. Quantities of Robins are sent to Paris from Lor- raine and Alsace, particularly from the neighbourhood of Metz. The Robin is said to have a remarkably delicate bitter flavour, and (whilst Thrushes are made into pates) “ cet aimable oiseau se mange a la broche et en salmi.” French people excuse themselves for eating Larks, Thrushes, and Robins by saying “ S’il fallait avoir compassion de tout le monde on ne mangerait personne,”—a specious excuse indeed. But this excuse is as nothing compared to that made by the same writer for the production of pate de foie gras, a prepa- ration which I mention only with wonder that any kind- hearted person can encourage the supply by buying it, or by eating it when bought by others. “ To obtain these Goose “ livers of the size required it is necessary to sacrifice the “ person of the animal. Crammed with food, deprived of “ drink, and fixed near a great fire, before which he is nailed “ by his feet upon a plank, this Goose passes, it must be owned, “ an uncomfortable life. The torment would indeed be alto- “ gether intolerable if the idea of the lot which awaits him did “ not serve as a consolation. But this perspective makes “ him endure his sufferings with courage; and when he “ reflects that his liver, bigger than himself, larded with truffles, and clothed in a scientific pate, will diffuse all over “ Europe the glory of his name, he resigns himself to his “ destiny, and suffers not a tear to flow.” * Birds and beasts must no doubt be killed for human food, but it should be done with as little suffering as possible. It is shocking that additional suffering should be inflicted to produce, not a necessary food, but an unnecessary dainty. * “ Alraanach ties Gourmands—Hayward’s Essays.” Vol. ii, p. 424.