FISH 69 stewpan by laying it on a piece of open-textured material large enough to hang over the sides of the pan, and kept in place by the lid. In this way you can lift the fish out when done with- out breaking it; it having been slung as in a hammock during the process of boiling. Most cooks allow an ounce of salt and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar to every quart of water, as they consider that this makes the fish white and firm. But, as Sir Henry Thompson points out, Steaming Fish is far better than Boiling it, for in this way all its nutritive properties are preserved. If the cook has not a proper steamer the fish, if small enough, can be laid between two plates on the top of a saucepan of boiling water; or, if larger, it can be set in a well-buttered baking-dish in a moderate oven with another baking-dish above it. These methods, however, are but make- shifts, and as steamers are not only inexpensive but almost a necessary part of the furniture of the kitchen, it is far better to have one. The cook must be careful that the water under the steamer is kept at a steady boil, even at a hard boil. If this is not done, whatever is cooked in the vessel above will not receive sufficient force of steam, and the result will be a tasteless and sodden mess. Steamers can be bought of various sizes, so as to fit the saucepans in use. Wyverns method of Poaching Fish is also excellent. For this he advises the choice of a haddock, gurnard, or sea- bream, the fish to be sent home without being trimmed. Then carefully take the flesh off the bones on each side of the fish in two large fillets, to be afterwards divided into four. Set these aside. Put all the bones and trimmings into a stewpan with four ounces of onion, two ounces each of carrot and turnip, and one ounce of celery if in season, all sliced; a good bunch of parsley, a sprig of marjoram or thyme, a saltspoonful of mignonette pepper, and two of salt. Cover with cold water, bring slowly to the boil; then lower the fire and simmer for half an hour, or until the vegetables are cooked. Strain off the broth, and pour it into a shallow pan with upright sides. Set it on the fire, when it boils put in the fillets of fish; they will check the boiling, but when it comes on again lower the heat and let the fish simmer till done. Take out the fillets with a slice, arrange them on a well-buttered fire-proof dish, and cover