23 CONTENTS OF THE SCULLERY the sink as you rinse them. If this is not done the plates will be greasy after the first two or three are rinsed. Rinse each dish and plate in the cold water as soon as yon have washed them, dry them on both sides with a clean dish-cloth, and set them in the rack above the sink. A fresh supply of hot water will be wanted in the washing-up tab from time to time. Scald pails and tubs, and scrub them with hot water and soda till they are thoroughly clean and sweet. Set them in the open air when it is possible and let them remain there for a few hours. In putting- cabbage water (that is, the water in which cabbages of any kind have been boiled) down the sink, always put it down quite hot, straight from the pan, and pour plenty of cold water after it. In this way all smell will be prevented, whereas if the cabbage water is allowed to cool before it is put down the sink no amount of water thrown after it will prevent the disagreeable smell from spreading over the whole house. The Larder.—-All shelves must be kept thoroug-hly clean and free from dust. The bread-pan and cover must he wiped out every day and scalded once a week, or the bread will become musty and mouldy. Explicit directions are given in other chapters as to the care of the meat, poultry, or game in the larder. If there is not time to clean pans inside and out after a dinner it is a good plan to fill each with hot water and to put a bit of soda into the water. This should be done as soon as the pan has been used. Set it by the side of the stove to keep hot, then rinse it thoroughly out. Silver-sand will clean the inside in a minute or two, and the polishing of the outside can be left till the next day. But, whatever the hour may he, only a slattern will put a pan away dirty. The Kitchen Store-cupboard. — The cook requires several things which should be ready to her hand. Among these are salt, mustard-flour, white and black pepper, mignonette and Nepaul pepper, herb seasonings, breadcrumbs, raspings, grated cheese, mushroom ketchup, French-wine- vinegar, both red and white, anchovy vinegar, glaze, salad oil, sifted sugar, lump sugar, tomato conserve, and Parisian essence