444 CORDIALS as soon as it is cool enough to swallow. Always remove the germ when eggs are beaten up. Or instead of brandy beat up the yolks of egg with enough orange-flower water to turn them white, and then stir them into the boiling water. A little sugar may be added in this case, but the delicate flavour of the orange- flowers is generally preferred without it. Hen’s Milk is extremely nutritious if beef tea is used instead of the boiling water. The egg should be beaten up by itself first, and the hot beef tea gradually added to it. ADDITIONAL RECIPES. American Crust Coffee.—Cut some thin slices of stale bread, and bake them in the oven till they are quite dark brown. Pound the slices in a mortar. Boil one ounce of crumbs in half a pint of water in a small saucepan. Take it off the fire, let it stand for a few minutes, and then strain the liquid through a fine tin strainer into a breakfast cup. Serve hot. An invalid often enjoys sipping this Crust Coffee, which is quite as wholesome and nourishing as our English Toast and Water. Iced Drinks for Invalids. — These should always be prepared by icing the outside of the tumbler or glass, and by using one of the tumblers with a handle containing a pocket for holding a piece of ice. Ice put into the liquid destroys the flavour and weakens the strength of whatever is given; and, besides this, ice is not always made from perfectly pure water. If ice is given to the patient to suck, the greatest care must be taken that the water was pure before it was frozen. In severe suffering from nausea a morsel of ice dipped in lightly-frothed white of egg gives not only great relief but a certain amount of support. Another form of iced nourishment, also most valuable in severe nausea, is a teaspoonful of cream beaten up in a table- spoonful of well-iced champagne. But, above all, the ice must be free from any taint of impurity. Infant’s Food.—I am tempted to publish this recipe because I have known it to suit babies of a few weeks old who were actually dying of starvation because they could digest nothing. In a day or two they began to revive, and in a few weeks they were nearly strong. Later they were perfectly strong, fat, and healthy. The food is troublesome to make, and must be made