VEAL i88 should adhere to the pan. When the sauce is reduced add, off the fire, four yolks of eggs, and mix them well into it. Let the sauce simmer, on no account let it boil, for six minutes. Then put in the Veal, add an ounce of butter, the juice of a lemon, stir well, and serve up very hot. Garnish with button mushrooms. A Simple Blanquette.—Cut the meat off a neck of Veal, do not mince it but shape it like little cutlets, keeping them rather thin. Flour them, put them in a braising-pan with two slices of fat bacon, a little parsley, a sliced onion, and just enough good stock to nearly cover them. Put a buttered paper on the top and simmer very gently for two hours. If possible add a few mushrooms to the Blanquette, using the peelings for the stew and the mushrooms in the sauce. Take the pan off the fire, strain and skim the broth, lay the Veal on a dish to keep hot. Make a roux of an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour, pour the broth on it, pass it through a hair sieve, mix in the yolks of two eggs, put the veal in a stewpan with the mushrooms, moisten it with the sauce, and heat it up very gently, never allowing it to boil. Arrange the pieces of Veal in the middle of the dish, and pour the sauce over and round them. Frieandeau Of Veal.—This can be made from the tender part of the leg, but the fillet is much better. Take three pounds of the finest and thickest part of a fillet of Veal, the part called by butchers the “cushion.” Lay it with the outside or skin part uppermost. Trim the Veal, and beat it with a wet cutlet— bat. Lard it well, the rows of larding being straight and close, and be careful that the larding needle carries each bit of bacon well inside the Veal. The Veal must not be too thick, or the flavour of the bacon will not get into it. About two inches thick will generally be enough. The larding covers only the top of the frieandeau. Put in a stewpan all the trimmings of the Veal, six ounces of sliced bacon, two ounces of sliced carrots, and of sliced onions, a bunch of herbs, half an ounce of salt, and a pinch of pepper. Lay the Veal upon the vegetables, of course keeping the larded part uppermost. Set the pan on a moderate fire, moistening the contents with melted butter. Let it cook slowly, watching it carefully, then pour in half a pint of good broth, continue the cooking till the broth has somewhat reduced and thickened, when add a pint and half more. The broth