FISH 7i of Roasting Fish in the Dutch oven. For this, the Fish must be placed in a well-buttered fire-proof dish large enough to hold it, and a little deeper than the Fish, so as to retain all the juices which by exposure to the heat will flow out. The Fish is whole, having only been cleaned. Pour a little melted butter over the Fish, or butter the Fish lightly and add a morsel or two of butter round it. Put the dish in the Dutch oven before a clear fire. In this way, as Sir Henry Thompson points out, the Fish is cooked entirely in its own nutritive juices, and it receives “ that appetising flavour which is known as ‘ tasting of the fire.’ ” Great care must be taken to prevent the Fish from burning, and it must be constantly basted either with its own juices or with fish broth. Serve in the dish the Fish has been cooked in. A block-tin dish may be used, but it is not nearly so nice as fire-proof china. For Frying Fish see special directions as to Frying. What- ever the frying medium may be, it must imperatively be used for Fish alone. SEA FISH. French cooks make a mistake in practising elaborate cookery on the Sea Fish caught on British coasts. In France, at a distance from the sea, it is no doubt necessary to make use of all sorts of adjuncts, from truffles to mussels, and from wine to spice, in cooking Fish. But when, as in England, a supply of the best fish in the world can be obtained only a few hours after they have left the water the plainest and simplest methods of cooking will be found the most satisfactory. Our British Fish, with a few exceptions, are not beautiful in colour, but even Lady Brassey, when fresh from the gorgeous fish of Bermuda and the Tropics, was obliged to admit that “ the grey uninteresting mass ” bought from the first fishing-boats she met in the English Channel was much better to eat than the lovely Angels, Rock-fish, and Groupers she had lately been admiring. The Sea Fish generally eaten in England may be divided into two classes—flat fish and fish which swim back upwards. To the first of these classes seven kinds' of fish belong. O