39° SANDWICHES cover with a slice of Tomato. A squeeze of lemon is often liked. Cucumber Sandwiches.—Pare the Cucumber, cut it in very thin slices, and lay them between slices of white bread and butter. Any of the varieties of butter given on page 392 make good Sandwiches. The bread should be cut in rounds with a vegetable cutter, and the upper round should be slightly smaller than the lower one, so as to show the colour of the butter. These Sand- wiches look pretty arranged alternately, brown and white bread being used, and a little cress placed in the middle of the dish. Barrington Sandwiches.—Butter some moderately thick slices of a good tin loaf, and cut them into medium-sized rounds. Lay across them, in pieces cut quite narrow, some breast of cold chicken, a quarter of an anchovy, and a thin shred of green gherkin. These form narrow bars of green, white, and red across the slices of bread. Trim the edges, and serve on a plate one laid partly over the other, like cutlets. [Mrs. G. W. Earle.'] Hot Sandwiches.—Cut some large slices from a tin new loaf of brown bread, divide them in half, take off the crust, butter them, cover them with very thin shavings of mild cheese, such as Cheddar, sprinkle them with cayenne, and make them into Sandwiches. The cheese shavings should lie a quarter of an inch thick. Place the Sandwiches on a baking sheet in a moderate oven until the cheese has melted. Serve as hot as possible. Or melt the cheese and put it between two slices of well- buttered brown bread toast. Curried Cheese Sandwiches,—Take every scrap of rind off half a pound of mild cheese. Cut the cheese into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar with three ounces of butter and one dessertspoonful of curry paste. Cut some thin slices of bread, and make Sandwiches of the mixture. This is a good way of using odd pieces of cheese. If put into a jar and covered with a layer of clarified butter the Curried Cheese will keep for several weeks. Sweet Sandwiches.—Sweet Sandwiches are generally pre- ferred long and narrow—say four inches long and an inch wide. They are better without butter, and the jam or whatever is spread upon them should be spread very thinly. Marmalade