162 SOME MINOR MATTERS possible, dredge a little flour over them and cover them up. For Chicken Chaud-froid Sauce : Chop all the bones left after the above process, skin, neck, pinions, etc., and with the giblets make as strong chicken broth as you can, adding four ounces of carrot, the same of onion, a bunch of parsley, an ounce of celery, a bouquet garni, and pepper and salt to flavour it well. When the broth is ready, strain it into a bowl, skim it, and proceed to make with it a rich veloute sauce (page 135), using for a pint of broth an ounce of butter and one of flour. Strain it, let it get cold, and then add to its thickness by stirring into it one-third of its quantity of liquefied aspic jelly, or plain strong meat jelly, and reducing it over the fire till it coats the spoon. Now take it from the fire, and add the yolks of two eggs, stir well as the sauce gradually gets cool. Choose a roomy flat dish, place it on broken ice if the weather is hot, and as soon as the sauce is suffi- ciently set, mask the pieces of chicken with it, lifting them on the trussing needle. Lay them on the dish to cool and set. Dish the chicken inside a border of cold aspic jelly, decorated with hard-boiled eggs if liked, and keep the dish in the ice-cave till wanted. Caramel.—This is useful for colouring soups, but it is generally made much too dark. Put a quarter of a pound of white sugar into a fire-proof china pan, and set it over a low fire. Stir till it is melted, and then let it simmer for a quarter of an hour. After the sugar begins to darken look at the spoon every few minutes, so as to judge of the colour. Great care must be taken not to let the caramel turn black and burn; if it does it will be bitter in flavour and useless. When it is coloured a delicate warm brown, add a pint of water and let it boil up. Then set it to simmer for twenty minutes, skim it, let it get cool, strain it into bottles and cork them well. Caramel should be neither sweet nor bitter. A teaspoonful of Caramel is enough to colour soup a golden brown, and should be added when the soup is set to simmer. Milk for custard puddings is often coloured with Caramel, and indeed Caramel is the safest and best of all brown colourings.