BAKED PUDDINGS 479 kinds are much better not turned out, and now that fire-proof china dishes can be got of all shapes and sizes, and quite pretty enough to appear on the dinner-table, this is easily managed. Boiled Pudding’s.—For success in these, two rules are essential. (1.) The water must be boiling when the Pudding is put in, and it must be kept boiling all the time the Pudding is cooking. (2.) The Pudding must be under water the whole time. If these two rules are not attended to the water will soak into the Pudding and ruin it. Always, therefore, keep a kettle of boiling water ready, and fill up the saucepan in which the Pudding is cooking as may be required. Puddings are boiled either in a basin or in a cloth. If a basin is used, see that it is well buttered, and that the Pudding quite fills it. Scald out a pudding-cloth, put it over the basin, and tie it firmly with strong twine tightly under the rim. If the cloth is not firmly secured the Pudding, as it rises in cooking, may burst out of the basin. If the basin has no rim tie the string* tightly round it about half-way up, and woi’k it up as far as it will go, pulling down the cloth all round under the string as you do so. Many people consider that a Pudding boiled in a cloth is lighter than one boiled in a basin. Scald out the cloth, flour it lightly so as to prevent the Pudding from sticking to it, but do not use too much flour or it will give a flavour of paste. Form the Pudding into a ball, put it into the centre of the cloth, and tie it up veiy securely. A Plum Pudding, or any pudding with suet and fruit, requires more room to swell in the cloth than other Puddings. It is a good plan to put the Pudding on a plate as it boils, to prevent it fx*om sticking to the pan and burning. When a Pudding is turned out, whether from a basin or a cloth, it must be done slowly and gently. Take a strong fork and lift the Pudding out of the saucepan with it. Reverse the lid of the pan, and hold the Pudding on it, slanting, so that it may drain. Then, still using the fork, lift the Pudding on to a hot dish, untie the cloth, cut the string, and take the cloth gently off the Pudding. Hold the hot basin in a cloth, shake it gently to ascertain if the Pudding is free from it, reverse the basin upon the dish the Pudding is to be served in, and gently draAv away the basin. If all this is not carefully done the