MUTTON CUTLETS A LA MAINTENON 181 from the trimmings, thickened and flavoured with a little red currant jelly and lemon-juice. A dessertspoonful of Marsala is an improvement. It is not necessary, although it is correct, that the Cutlets should have papers. They can be dished round a circle of well mashed potato filled with celery puree. Kidneys.—Kidneys must be carefully chosen, and free from all spots. In every case they must be skinned, blanched and the white tube belonging to each must be cut out. Kidneys can be grilled plainly, or toasted. Split them open in the middle lengthwise with- out separating the two halves. Season with pepper and salt, and broil on the gridiron, allowing four minutes for each side of the kidney. Before serving, put a tiny pat of maitre d’hotel butter on each Kidney. Or toast the Kidneys on a fork, putting a dish under them to catch the gravy. Have ready some squares of toast, lay each Kidney on one, and pour the gravy over. To sauter Kidneys, cut them in slices, removing all stringy pieces. Sauter them gently in butter, and serve hot on toast. Kidneys a la Brochette.—For these, skewers like little spits must be used. Allow for each Kidney a thin slice of bacon two inches long and an inch and a half wide. Mince a tablespoonful of parsley as finely as possible, and have ready an ounce of butter. Warm and oil the gridiron. Thread each Kidney (cut open, but not divided in half) on a skewer, and thread a slice of bacon over each Kidney. Broil the Kidneys over a clear fire, beginning with the cut side. Allow three minutes for each side. When done put the Kidneys and bacon, still on the skewers, on a hot dish; melt the butter, stir in the minced parsley, add the juice of half a lemon, and pour this sauce over the Kidneys. Serve as hot as possible. Wooden skewers will do if plated ones are not at hand. A skewer seven inches long will hold two Kidneys and their bacon envelopes. Stewed Kidneys.—Cut the Kidneys in slices, and simmer them in a pint of gravy very slowly for half an hour. Do not let them boil, for if they boil they will become too tough to eat. Add a teaspoonful of salt and of pepper, and simmer till the Kidneys are thoroughly done. Devilled Kidneys.—Skewer the Kidneys as already described, give them a broil for two minutes, then roll them on a dish upon which is spread a thin layer of made mustard. Dust over the