SOUPS 42 castor sugar. Stir over the fire for five minutes more, and then mix in one ounce of flour. Cook this with the vegetables for another five minutes, after which moisten by degrees with three gills of milk and three gills of warm water; bring slowly to the boil, and simmer for 35 minutes. Break an egg, both white and yolk, into a small bowl, and beat it well, adding an ounce of butter. Take the soup off the fire, put a gill of it into the bowl with the egg, mix and melt the butter. Put four nice slices of French roll (which have been dried in the oven) at the bottom of the soup tureen, pour in the soup, stir into it the liaison from the bowl, and serve. Mind that the egg is thoroughly beaten, or flakes of the white will set when the soup is added to it and spoil the appearance of the whole. Broth can be used instead of the milk and water. [Wyvern.] Soup a la Reine.—This, the best of all French White Soups, used to be thought too expensive for any but great occasions owing to the number of fowls required. But, again, Wyvern has solved this difficulty. For a party of eight his recipe is : The day before the dinner prepare an uncoloured stock of two pounds of veal stock-meat, one pound of well- broken veal bones, and sixpennyworth of chicken giblets. (The giblets of geese and ducks are strong in flavour.) Prepare the stock as usual with vegetables. Remove the meat from a cold partly-roasted rabbit, excluding all skin and browned parts. Add to this half its weight in white bread-crumbs soaked in milk, and pound both together in a mortar with a tablespoonful and a half of ground sweet almonds and the hard-boiled yolks of four eggs. Mash the bones and trimmings of the rabbit and put them into the veal stock, of which there should be two pints and a half. Let this simmer for from two to three hours, adding stock to make good loss by evaporation. Pass the pounded rabbit and crumbs through the sieve to get rid of lumps or gristle, moistening it with stock as you do so. Now strain off your stock from the bones and set it to get cool, removing all fat that may rise to the surface. Melt an ounce of butter at the bottom of a sauce- pan, stir in an ounce of flour, add a little stock, and work this Roux without ceasing, gradually pouring in the stock and adding the rabbit paste. Now let the Ruree come to the boil,