364 TOMATOES Baked Tomatoes.—Butter a baking-tin "well, and sprinkle it with a very little stock, using as little liquid as possible. Set the Tomatoes on the tin and cover them closely with a buttered paper. Put the tin in a moderate oven for ten minutes. The Tomatoes must only be heated through, and not overdone. They should look quite smooth and plump. If they become wrinkled the oven has been too hot, the tin not enough buttered, or the paper not close enough. American Broiled Tomatoes.—Choose large Tomatoes, slice them half an inch thick, and broil them for a few minutes on a small gridiron. Have ready in a cup some hot butter seasoned with pepper and salt, and mixed with half a teaspoon- ful of made mustard (not French mustard). As soon as the Tomatoes are done dip each slice in this mixture, and lay it on a hot dish. When all are dished heat what remains of the season- ing to a boil, and pour it over the Tomatoes. Serve very hot. Tomatoes to be Eaten Cold.—Take some ripe Tomatoes, equal sized, cut a round hole and scoop out a portion of the middle, fill in with cold minced chicken and mayonnaise sauce, put some aspic in the dish, and serve the Tomatoes on round pieces of fried bread, cold. [Mrs. G. W. Earle.'] This dish is prettier if some Tomato puree shaped in little moulds is arranged round it, each mould resting on a base of aspic jelly, with more aspic between them. Always use a silver spoon if the inside of Tomatoes has to be scooped out. “Wyvern’s” Cold Tomato Savoury.—Put an ounce of butter into a stewpan, melt over a low fire, and add a dessert- spoonful of finely-minced onion; fry gently for five minutes, and stir in a pound of ripe Tomatoes of a good colour cut up into small pieces. Keep the fire low, stirring to prevent catching, and seasoning with salt, pepper, mace, and finely- powdered basil. When the Tomatoes have been cooked to a pulp mix in with them three-quarters of an ounce ©f soaked gelatine, and keep this well stirred until it is thoroughly dissolved. Now pass the whole through a hair sieve, putting the liquid that comes through into a dish in which it can spread and lie a quarter of an inch deep. If set over ice this will soon become firm, and can then be stamped into rounds with an inch