ORANGE JELLY 469 I will take Orange Jelly as an example. A quart of Jelly is enough for eight, or even ten persons. For this, allow a pint of juice, and a pint of water (that is, a quart of liquid in all); an ounce and a quarter of gelatine, and eight ounces of loaf sugar. The juice must be three-quarters of a pint of orange and a quarter of a pint of lemon, or, three parts orange to one part lemon. Oranges and lemons vary so much in juiciness that it is impossible to say how many will be wanted. Measure the quantity of juice you squeeze from them, and when you have got it right put all the liquid (juice and boiling water), the sugar and the gelatine, into the stewpan. The pan should be sufficiently large for the liquid to fill it only about one-third. Stir till the gelatine and sugar are dissolved, then, whilst the liquid is only warm, put in the whites and the crushed shells of two eggs. If the liquid boiled when the whites of egg were added they would poach and be of no use for clearing the Jelly. Whisk now over a brisk fire, stirring the contents of the pan well up from the bottom, and stop as soon as there is a thick head of froth or scum on the surface. Let the Jelly boil gently for five minutes. The heat hardens the egg, so that it rises in scum to the surface, bringing all impurities with it. If the whisking were continued till boiling the scum would not rise, but be distributed among the liquid, and the Jelly would necessarily be clouded. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and let the Jelly rest for five minutes more, only just simmering. Whilst this is going on get the jelly- bag ready by pouring at least a quart of boiling water through it to warm it; it will of course have been previously scalded. Put a clean basin under the jelly-bag. Pour the whole contents of the pan into the jelly-bag, doing it gently. The first Jelly that runs through is sure to be cloudy, because the filter made by the egg-shells will not yet have settled in the bag. As soon as the Jelly begins to run slowly and clearly through the bag, change the basin below for another, and run the first of the Jelly through again, doing it as gently as possible, so as not to disturb the egg-filter. The mould must be ready for the Jelly—that is, the mould must be thoroughly clean, and have been kept soaking in cold water. Set the basin of Jelly in another basin full of cold water, so as to cool the Jelly before it is put into the mould. It must be perfectly liquid, or it would not pour, but it must hardly