HARES AND RABBITS 292 skewers are the least troublesome both in putting them in at first and in taking them out just before the Hare is served. Cut the sinews under the hind legs of the Hare, and draw the legs forward towards the head. . Run a skewer through one hind leg, through the body, and then through the other hind leg. Cut the sinews of the fore legs, bend them back towards the hind legs, and run another skewer through in the same way. Many cooks use one skewer for both fore and hind legs, but this gives the body of the Hare a tight, arched appearance, which is ugly, and' inconvenient to the carver. Press the head of the Hare a little back, and run a third skewer into the mouth, down ah the back of the neck, and into the body between the shoulders. Hares are apt to get dry in cooking, and it is important to cover the whole back with thick slices of fat bacon tied on with tape in three or four places. Then wrap the whole Hare in a well-buttered paper, and roast it before a brisk fire for twenty-five minutes, basting it constantly with melted butter. Some cooks add a little vinegar and water to the melted butter. When the Hare is nearly done,, take away the bacon and dredge the back lightly with flour. Let the skin brown and form crisp blisters, then carefully draw out the skewers and serve. The sauce for Roast Hare is made of the liver and the marinade in which the Hare steeped. For this, melt an ounce of butter in a small saucepan, fry in it a minced shallot till it just colours, then over a low fire add the liver of the Hare cut in dice, shaking the pan to prevent burning. Have ready a pint of good strong bi’oth, add a little of it to the pieces of liver, stir well, pour in the' rest of the broth, and simmer till the liver is thoroughly cooked. Strain the broth, and pour into it through a strainer the marinade of the Hare. Put it into a saucepan on the fire, let it boil up, skim carefully, and set the broth and marinade to keep hot in the bain-marie. Pound the liver and shallot to a paste, and pass it through a sieve. Take the saucepan off the fire, thicken with an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour, add the pounded liver and shallot, mix well, put the sauce to get hot, and serve in a sauce-boat. Currant Jelly should be handed also. All this may seem a great deal of trouble to take for such a