477 SCOTCH CHEESECAKES marmalade at the bottom of each, fill with the cheesecake, and hake a nice brown. They should be of a greenish colour when cut. Three ounces of butter, three eggs, and three ounces of sugar make seven cheesecakes. The same materials make a good pudding with marmalade laid on paste in the dish. Boiled Custard.—(Family Recipe.)—Take three teacupfuls of cream and three of new milk, boil it with the peel of half a lemon, and set it aside to get cold. Break up the yolks of four eggs and put them into the cream with a little sugar. Place it on a low fire and keep stirring till it thickens. It must on no account boil, or it will curdle. Pour it into glasses, and when cold it will be solid and smooth. These Custards will keep several days, and should always be made overnight. Boiling the cream just makes the Custard more solid and secures its keeping. Custard to hand with Apple Tart.—Half a pint of new milk boiled with the rind of one lemon cut as thin as possible. Boil for ten minutes, add half a pint of cream and boil for ten minutes more. Strain into a basin, add a little sugar, and set to get cold. Beat the yolks of six eggs for a quarter of an hour, strain them, and mix them with the cream. Set it in a stewpan on the stove, and stir with a silver spoon till it thickens. Do not let it boil, and do not leave off stirring for a single instant. Serve in a china or glass dish. A spoonful of pale brandy may be added if liked, whilst stirring. PUDDINGS. There are a few general rules respecting Puddings which must be strictly observed. Everything used must be good and fresh. Flour must be fresh and perfectly dry. If rice, or sago, or tapioca are used they must be well washed, and soaked till tender. The best way of doing this is to put the rice, say two ounces, into a jar with a pint of milk, and to set the jar, closely covered, in a saucepan of boiling water for about an hour and a half, stirring the rice occasionally. Many cooks merely put the rice and milk into a basin, and the basin in the oven, in which case the rice is likely to stick to the basin and the milk to boil