49 HARE SOUP MADE OF COOKED HARE flour and butter, give a dust of cayenne, add a gill of red wine, pour in the soup, bring it to a boil, and serve. Friar’s Chicken.—Cover a knuckle of veal with either stock or water, and simmer it till all the goodness is out of the meat. Skim off all the fat, and strain the broth through a sieve. Have ready a large chicken (or a couple of rabbits), cut up. Put the chicken into the broth, make it hot gradually, and simmer for another hour. Season only with salt and blanched minced parsley. Beat the yolks and whites of two eggs well together, and add them to the soup off the fire just before serving. Be careful in stirring the eggs in to stir only one way. Giblet Soup.—The giblets of a bird are its liver, gizzard (or muscular part of the intestine), feet, neck, and head. The giblets of turkeys and chickens are much the best, as those of ducks and geese are apt to be strong-. The French name for giblets is properly Abatis, or, the remnants after the demolition, say, of a building. English dictionaries try to derive giblets from the French gibier, or game, but this must be a mistake. Thick Giblet Soup is excellent in winter, and the clear variety at other times, but in both the old-fashioned plan of serving pieces of the giblets in the soup should be avoided. A shillings- worth of giblets is enough to make thick soup for four people, reserving the livers for another dish such as liver-toast; if the livers are included, and another half-pint of stock added, there will be enough soup for six persons. Both Thick and Clear Giblet Soup are begun in the same way. Take the gall-bladder from the liver without breaking it, scald and skin the feet and the gizzard. Open the gizzard, empty it, and stew it by itself for an hour, as it takes much longer to get tender than the rest of the giblets. Chop the beak of the bird from the head, and cut the head off the neck. The feathers come off easily if the head and neck are scalded. Thoroughly wash the giblets in two or three waters. Cut them up small, and put them with an ounce of butter into a stewpan with an onion shredded finely, and fry them a pale golden colour over a low fire. Add a glass of Marsala (Giblet Soup is one of the few soups for which wine is now recommended), and a gill of beef broth, reduce to a glaze. Have ready three pints, or three pints and E