539 SALLY LUNN’S BATH CAKE Sally Lunn’s Bath Cake,—(Family Recipe, brought from Bath.)—Sally Lunn was a pastrycook at Bath early in this cen- tury, whose name is always associated with the tea-cakes for which she was famous. One pound finest flour, three eggs, leaving out one white. Beat the eggs well together, strain them, whisk well. Then mix together a pint of good cream and three large spoonfuls of good small-beer yeast (it would now be an ounce of German yeast). Warm a little of it to wet the flour lightly, then mix the rest with a quick, light hand, and add a little salt. Knead well and set it before the fire to rise until it is very light. Then mould it again to make it into a cake, put it into a slow oven, and fifteen minutes will bake it. Open the cake whilst hot and butter it. Let the butter be warmed a little before the fire before you put it in. Sally Lunn’s Smaller Bath Cakes.—(Family Recipe, brought from Bath.)—One pint of flour, that is, fourteen ounces, the yolks of two eggs, a large spoonful of yeast (now not quite half an ounce of German yeast), a little salt, and as much warm milk with a little butter melted in it as will make it of a proper thickness. Let it stand one hour by the fire to rise. Then roll it into cakes about three inches thick, or thinner if you please. Bake as the other. Modern Sally Lunn.—Six ounces of flour, a quarter of an ounce of German yeast, two yolks of eggs, a gill of cream, two ounces of butter, all worked together for a few minutes till it is a light dough. Or rub two ounces of butter into a pound of flour with half an ounce of baking powder and a saltspoonful of salt. Make into dough by first mixing in two well-beaten eggs, and then milk enough to make it a thick batter. Pour into hot buttered muffin rings two and a half inches deep, but only fill them half full. Set them to rise by the fire on a baking tin; when well risen brush over the surfaces with a little milk, and bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour. Cut in four, toast, butter, and serve at once. Sally Lunns should never be sweetened. If a sweetened tea-cake is wished for, add half to three-quarters of an ounce of castor sugar to the above recipe. Pound Cake.—(.Family Recipe.)—A pound of flour rubbed through a hair sieve, but not dried, half a pound of sugar, a