LOBSTER SALAD ”3 round a dish, and fill the centre with crisp fresh lettuce leaves. If for luncheon it is much better to hand the sauce in a boat, but if the sauce has to be mixed with the Lobster and lettuce only do so at the very last moment, or the lettuce will look sodden and flabby. For the sauce : Put a dessertspoonful of unmade mustard into a basin with a saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of white pepper, and the very hard-boiled yolks of two eggs (twenty minutes will not be too much to boil them). Add drop by di’op, a dessertspoonful of salad oil, bruising all well to a paste with a clean wooden spoon. Throw in the yolk of one raw egg, and work vigorously, adding oil little by little till you have a couple of gills (or two cofEeecupfuls) of sauce. Finish now with a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar, pass the sauce through a perforated strainer, and keep it in the basin on ice till wanted. Lobster Butter.—Lobster Butter is most useful for spreading on canapes, or even on sandwiches for afternoon parties or suppers. A Lobster, as Wyvern points out, pays a double debt in this way, for one quantity of butter may be made with the meat, and another with the pounded shell, as the shell of a Lobster is quite enough to flavour the butter as well as to colour it. To make Lobster Butter in Wyvern s way first pound the meat to a paste in a small mortar, mixing a little butter with it. Pass it through a hair sieve, and see that this as well as the pounding is thoroughly done, so that there will be no granulated pieces of meat in the butter. Melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan over a low fire, mix the pounded meat in it, and as soon as it appears to have absorbed the butter (having been well stirred during the process) take it out, let it get cold, and mix it with cold fresh butter in the proportions of about half and half. Wyvern adds to the Lobster paste whilst in the saucepan a very little powdered mace. For the shell butter proceed as above, and when the shells are thoroughly pounded mix them with an equal quantity of butter. Melt the mixture in the bain-marie, and pass it through a fine sieve or tamis-cloth into cold water, in which it at once congeals. It is then skimmed off, and mixed with as much fresh butter as it will colour nicely. Of course, if some of the coral is pounded also, both these Lobster Butters will be brighter.