107 OYSTERS Oysters are most enjoyed in the numerous creeks and inlets of Sydney Harbour, where it is the custom for residents to take out a small hammer, a supply of bread and butter and of freshly gathered lemons, and to make their luncheon of the oysters on the rocks. One of the best methods of eating Oysters belongs especially to England, viz., the serving of uncooked Oysters before the soup at dinner. From four to six Oysters are allowed to each person. They should be skilfully opened the moment before dinner (a badly-opened Oyster is tasteless), and opened on the hollow or deep shell, not on the flat shell, so that the liquor of the Oyster may be preserved. The Oysters are arranged on plates in readiness for the guests, and brown bread and butter and quarters of lemon are handed. Pepper and vinegar spoil the flavour of Natives. Fried Oysters.—This is a favourite dish at Delmonico’s celebrated restaurant in New York. Dip each freshly-opened Oyster in flour, then in beaten egg, and then in very finely powdered biscuit or “ cracker ” crumbs. Fry in very hot suet for four minutes, drain the Oysters well, and serve in a hot dish on a hot folded napkin. A very little salt should be sprinkled over the Oysters. Roasted Oysters.—With a small pair of tongs put un- opened Natives between the bars of the grate, mouths out- wards, and deep shells downwards. They will be cooked as soon as the shells open wide. Pull them out with the tongs, lay them, a few at a time, in a large hot fire-proof dish, and serve at once. Repeat the process as often as required. At bachelors’ parties Oysters are often cooked in this way in the dining room, and handed straight from the fire to the plate. Scalloped Oysters.—The great secret of this dish is to use plenty of Oysters, and to use Natives only. Open carefully two dozen Oysters, give them a scald in their own liquor over the fire, wash them in the same liquor free from grit, and beard them carefully. Cut each Oyster in half. Butter the scallop- shells, and shake some fine breadcrumbs into them. Fill them with alternate layers of Oysters, breadcrumbs, and tiny bits of butter. Strain the oyster liquor and pour some gently into each shell. Grate a thick smooth layer of breadcrumbs over