BREAD AND BUTTER BUDDING 485 thin slices of bread, and butter them. Arrange alternate layers of bread and butter and fruit sprinkled with a little brown sugar till the dish is neai'ly full. Let the top layer be of bread and butter, as currants are apt to burn. Beat one egg to a strong froth, add to it gradually half a pint of milk heated nearly to boiling, and pour the egg and milk gently over the pudding. Let it soak into the bread and butter for half an hour with a saucer on the top of the slices to keep them down. Put a few little bits of butter on the top of the pudding, and bake in a moderate oven till it is set, perhaps half an hour. French roll is better for this pudding than household bread, and a slice or two of sponge cake, not buttered, improves it. Plum Pudding1.—(Family Recipes.)—(1.) Beat two eggs and a little salt well together, then put to them three-quarters of a pound of stoned rasins (or currants), the same quantity of minced suet, and of flour. Add as much skim milk as will make it very stiff. Boil the pudding full five hours, for on this depends its being so good. No wine, brandy, or sugar the least necessary. (2.) Small Plum Pudding.—One pound of minced suet, one pound of stoned raisins, six ounces of flour, four ounces of sugar, five whole eggs well beaten. A little cinnamon if liked. Boil full five hours. Plum Pudding.—Mince finely one pound of fresh suet, picked from every scrap of skin, half a pound of stoned raisins, five ounces of flour and the same of breadcrumbs, five ounces of brown sugar, the peel of two Seville Oranges (lemons if you cannot possibly get Seville Oranges), and four eggs, leaving out two of the whites. Mix together with as much milk as will just make it too thick to pour, but not as stiff as a paste. Do not beat or knead the pudding, but mix it all thoroughly together. Tie it tight in a cloth, as tight as possible, and boil it for six hours precisely. Some people boil Plum Pudding in a mould. If so, let the pudding made as above rest for six hours before it is put in. Line the mould with buttered paper, press the pudding in, put a buttered paper on the top, tie a thick pudding-cloth closely over it, and boil as above for exactly six hours. Oronoeo Sauce for Plum Pudding.—(Family Recipe.)— A quarter of a pound of butter, and rather more of finely