428 BEVERAGES after it has been bought as ground ginger). Pour the claret in, having first put in a lump of sugar rubbed well on the rind of a lemon. Ginger Cordial.—(Family Recipe.)—To every pound of picked and bruised white currants add one quart of whisky, and the rind of a lemon cut thin. Let it stand one night, then strain it and add to the liquor one pound of lump sugar, also half an ounce of sliced ginger to every quart. Bottle and let it stand for one month, then strain first through a sieve and then through blotting paper, and re-bottle it. The Cordial can be made with French brandy, and cherries or raspberries instead of currants. Orange Brandy.—Always make this liqueur in March, and recollect that the longer it is kept the better. Take the thinly-pared rinds of six Seville oranges, and put them into a stone jar, with half a pint of the orange-juice strained and two quarts of good brandy. Let it stand for three days. Then add a pound and a quarter of lump sugar, and stir till all the lumps are dissolved. Let the liquor stand for a day, then strain it through blotting paper, and bottle it. Be careful to cork the bottles tightly. Sloe Gin.—Sloes are the fruit of the Blackthorn, and should not be gathered till they have felt at least one frost. Allow one pound of sifted white sugar to one pound of Sloes. Prick the Sloes, and roll them in the sugar. Fill the bottles half full of Sloes, and then gently pour in gin till it reaches the top. Do not uncork the bottles for a year. The liqueur will then be in perfection. Duke of Queensberry’s Liqueur.—{Family Recipe.)—Take three quarts of brandy, a gill of Seville orange-juice, one pound two ounces of finely-sifted white sugar, the juice of one lemon, and the rind of six Seville oranges pared very thin. Let all stand three days in an earthen pitcher, stirring it twice or thrice a day. Then let it drip through a jelly bag to fine it, and bottle for use. By rubbing lumps of sugar upon unpared oranges you may add much to the flavour. A gill of blue milk added to the liqueur before bottling improves its brightness. Raspberry Vinegar.—(Family Recipe.)—Pour two quarts of best vinegar over one quart of Raspberries picked from their stalks but not mashed. Leave them for 24 hours. Next day put the vinegar and fruit on the fire till it just boils, and then squeeze it