247 MUTTON CUTLETS A LA NELSON half a pound of green flageolets in boiling salted water, with half an onnce of butter. When they are tender drain them, and with half a pint of their cuisson make a white sauce, using as a roux half an ounce of butter and the same quantity of flour. When the sauce is ready take it off the fire, stir in the yolk of an egg and a dessertspoonful of minced parsley. Warm up the flageolets in the sauce and serve at once. Mutton Cutlets a la Catalane.—Cook the cutlets exactly like the cutlet a la Nelson, but mask them with a thick sauce made of half a pint of thickly reduced white sauce into which a tablespoonful of grated ham, of grated Parmesan, and of minced mushroom have been mixed. Mutton op Lamb Cutlets a la Dubois.—Cut the cutlets from the best end of the neck, trim them, and make three- quarters of a pint of broth from the trimmings, with half an ounce of glaze, vegetables, and seasoning. Strain, and let it get cold. Remove all fat, thicken it gradually with a roux of three-quarters of an ounce of butter and the same of flour, adding the peelings and trimmings of a quarter of a pound of mushrooms. Bring to the boil, simmer for fifteen minutes, and then strain the sauce from the mushrooms, passing it through a hair sieve. Put it back in the stewpan over a brisk fire and reduce the sauce by fast boiling and continual stirring till it coats the spoon like butter. Now stir in three tablespoonfuls of chopped mushrooms which have been separately lightly fried in butter, and empty the sauce into a bowl to cool. For the cutlets: Melt an ounce and a half of butter in a stewpan over a good fire, and lay the cutlets in it. Cook them on one side only, then take them out and set them, the cooked side uppermost, on a dish under a weight. When the cutlets are cold coat the cooked sides with the thick sauce, using the palette knife, and making the sauce into a dome shape. Now put the cutlets back in the saute-pan, which should have been left with the butter in it, and put it in the oven. Baste the cutlets with broth and complete the cooking, thus glazing the coating of sauce. It will require from eight to ten minutes. Have ready a hollow croustade of puff pastry, and dish the cutlets round it, the coated sides outwards. Fill the croustade with mushroom puree, or any nice vegetable puree. Or fill it with a vegetable