455 ON PASTRY MAKING larger than the rounds and bake them separately, as they will not take nearly so long to bake. The lids are cut larger because they shrink a little in baking. The case for a vol-au-vmt must be as light as possible. To make it, half a pound of Puff Paste rolled three-quarters of an inch thick will be required. Cut out of this as nearly as possible an oval, nine and a half inches long, made by laying a pie-dish of that size on the paste and drawing the knife round it. Put the oval on a buttered baking-dish, and mark out a second oval inside it, leaving an inch margin all round and making the cut a quarter of an inch deep. Brush the surface and side with a beaten egg, and put the case in the oven. When it is baked the oval wall will have risen considerably. Take off the smaller oval, which will form the cover, and scoop out the uncooked paste inside the case, being careful not to break the wall. The baking will take from thirty to forty minutes in a hot oven. Brush over the whole case again with egg, and bake it again for five minutes. Take the case hot from the oven, fill it as may be liked, pour in enough hot sauce to moisten the contents well without overfilling the vol-au-vent, lay the hot cover on the top, and serve at once in a hot entree dish. Nothing is better than a well-made vol-au-vent, with a case as light as its name implies, and filled with a carefully-made ragout, either white or brown. Yeal or Sweetbread is often liked for the ragout. About three-quarters of a pound of cold cooked veal will be wanted, cut with a round cutter into three dozen pieces a quarter of an inch thick and one inch in diameter. For the sauce, make a good broth with vegetables, a pound of veal stock-meat, and half a pound of veal bones, and turn it into a sauce with the usual roux. Simmer the sauce with half a pound of mushrooms, and reduce it to a pint and a quarter from the original pint and a half. Add, off the fire, the yolks of two eggs which have been carefully stirred into a coffeecupful of the broth. Heat up the meat to half-boiling, add the sauce through a strainer, and keep all hot in the bain-marie till ready to serve in the vol-au-vmt. Be careful not to scoop out too much of the uncooked inner paste, or the bottom of the vol-au-vent case will not be strong enough to hold the ragout and sauce. Oysters are popular in a vol-au-vmt. Three dozen will be wanted, and the sauce must be made of