48 SOUPS ounces of well boiled rice, pepper and salt, and serve. Or begin by covering a lai’ge knuckle of veal with water, and simmering it till the gravy is drawn out. If the soup is liked rich, add the yolks of two eggs beat up in a quarter of a pint of cream just before serving, and when the soup is off the fire. Or put into the tureen a French roll cut up, with a little well- boiled and plumped vermicelli laid on each piece. Pour the soup upon this. The Country Doctor’s Soup.—(Family Recipe.)—Quantity for one basin. Take one pound of lean beef cut in thin shavings, and put it into two pints of cold water. Simmer very gradually down to half the quantity, adding plenty of all sorts of vegetables, a good bunch of herbs, and just a pinch of pepper and of salt. A couple of sliced onions give it a pleasant flavour. Sir William Farrington’s Soup.—(Family Recipe.)—Make strong broth of the scrag end of a neck of mutton, or of lean beef, whichever is most convenient. Add plenty of sweet herbs, but on no account thicken the broth. When strong enough put in two lettuces tom, two cucumbers pared and sliced (but not too thin), and a pint of nice young peas. Simmer very slowly for three-quarters of an hour, and send to table with the vegetables in the soup. Colour the soup a light brown, and shake in a little cayenne pepper if agreeable. Hare Soup.—(Family Recipe.)—Take an old hare, wash it in several waters, cut it in small pieces, put it into three quarts of boiling water. Add half a teacupful of washed rice, two onions, a good bunch of herbs, and a little pepper and salt. Let the soup simmer for five hours, when it will be reduced to half the quantity. Strain it off. Melt in a saucepan an ounce of butter, mix with this an ounce of flour, and a glass of p art wine. Pour the soup on this, bring it to the boil, and serve. (The hare will pot or hash afterwards.) Hare Soup made of Cooked Hare.—(Family Recipe.)— Take three pints of water, put all remains of the hare into it, with one sliced onion, some thyme and parsley. Simmer till the soup is reduced to a quart. Strain. Cut off any nice pieces of the hare and chop them small. Thicken with a little