547 COCOA stems and lower branches of the trees. The best Cocoa grows and is prepared in Trinidad, whence Cocoa-nibs are exported in enormous quantities, millions of pounds (weight) being sent from the island twice every year. It is curious that although Chocolate is manufactured from the same bean, and although both sugar and vanilla are largely grown in Trinidad, not a single ounce of Chocolate is manufactured in the island, the raw materials being- all sent over to France. Cocoa-nibs contain a great deal of fat, which has to be carefully removed, or the Cocoa will be greasy. Put a quarter of a pound of Cocoa-nibs into two quarts of cold water and simmer very gently for at least five hours. Strain the liquid and let it get cold. When quite cold remove every particle of fat from the surface, and gently warm up the Cocoa by degrees to boiling point. Chocolate.—Unsweetened Chocolate should be bought, as the cheaper kinds are loaded with sugar and even with flour. For French Chocolate break up a tablet of Chocolate into little bits for each breakfast cup. Melt it in either milk or water over a low fire. When melted stir with a wooden spoon and add half a pint of boiling milk, and let all boil for three minutes. Be sure to use an enamelled saucepan and a wooden spoon. For Spanish Chocolate, which is much thicker than the French kind, use a fire-proof casserole, large at the bottom and narrow at the top. Put into this six teacupfuls of milk and six tablets of Chocolate broken small. Put the casserole on a low fire, and stir with the boxwood moussoir used in Spain. If you have not a moussoir, use a large whisk. Whisk as usual till the Chocolate has melted in the milk. Then roll the moussoir (or whisk) round and round between the palms of the hands as quickly as possible. This makes the mousse which is the foundation of Spanish Chocolate. Let the Chocolate rise six times to the top of the casserole, then take it off the fire, pour it into the chocolate-pot, and mousser well till you pour the Chocolate into the cups. Chocolate is more like a nourishing soup, to those who can take it, than an infusion like tea or coffee. Oatmeal Porridge.—As a breakfast dish Oatmeal Porridge seems to find its place in this chapter. Once more, I follow Wyvern's method. Weigh a couple of ounces of oatmeal, put three-quarters of a pint of water in a saucepan, set it on the fire, N N 2