104 POND FISH substance between the skin and the flesh. The skinning is easily managed by turning the skin of the Eel down after the head is cut off and drawing the skin off like a stocking. Then clean the Eel thoroughly, wipe the inside well, blanch it in boiling water for five minutes, and remove the oily coating with a clean cloth. As Eels are rich it is better to cook them as simply as possible. They should be divided into fillets, and the fillets simmered in fish broth, rolled in oatmeal or flour, and fried a golden-brown ; or wrapped in buttered paper and broiled on a gridiron. Tartare sauce should be served with Eels. Collared Eel.—Many people prefer this way of serving an Eel cold. Stew the skinned Eel in strong fish broth till it is tender enough for you to take out the backbone. Roll up the Eel, and tie it with tape into shape, add the backbone to the broth, and stew slowly till the Eel is quite cooked and tender. Then put it between two dishes with a weight on the top. Reduce the broth to a jelly. When the Eel is cold remove the tape, and garnish with the jelly. A sliced onion, and plenty of herbs, with two sliced carrots, should flavour the broth. Hand tartare sauce in a boat. Eel Jelly. —This is most nutritious, and suitable for an invalid. Skin and clean three small or two large Eels. Cut them in pieces, and put them in layers into a jar with a few morsels of butter on each layer. Sprinkle each layer with cayenne, salt, and pepper. Cover the jar closely, and set it in a saucepan of boiling water. Keep the water boiling round it for two hours. Then set the jar in a cool place for the jelly to get cold and firm. Spitchcock Eels.-—(Family Recipe.)—Strip the skin of the Eels down to the tails, but not off. Clean, wash, and dry the Eels. Make seasoning with pounded mace and nutmeg, pepper and salt, and a little shred thyme. Rub the Eels well with the seasoning, and slip the skin back over them. Roll up each Eel, and between each rolling put a few bay leaves. Butter your gridiron, lay the Eels on it a good distance from the fire. Half an hour will broil them. When done cut the Eels in such pieces as you like. (N.B.—This recipe is meant for small Eels. No sauce is mentioned).