248 SPECIAL LUNCHEON DISHES Ragout made like the Gendarme garnish in the following recipe. Noisettss of Mutton a la Gendapmo.—Cut the noisettes from the meaty part of a loin of mutton. They should be three-quarters of an inch thick and two and a half inches across. Grill them as fillets of beef are grilled. For the garnish: Trim two dozen pieces each of young potatoes, carrots, and turnips two inches long and as thick as a drawing pencil, pointing the ends of each piece. Blanch them for five minutes in boiling water, then drain them, and put them into a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, putting the carrots in first, then the potatoes, and lastly the turnips. Cook the vegetables over a low fire, seasoning writh salt, pepper, and a dust of sugar. When tender, drain them and serve in the centre of the dish of noisettes, with a tablespoonful of the melted glaze poured over them. Leg1 of Lamb a la Bepcy.—Shoi'ten the shank bone by sawing it off close to the end of the meat. Choose a good sized stewpan, large enough to hold the leg easily. Line it with pieces of fat bacon or pieces of good beef dripping, laying over it three ounces each of onion, carrot, and turnip, an ounce of celery, and a sprig of parsley, all cut small, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Lay the leg of lamb upon this bed, set the pan upon a moderate fire, and when the fat is melted turn the leg about for a few minutes to “ seize ” the meat and slightly colour it. Now moisten with warm broth just level with the top of the meat, bring to the boil, skimming off the scum, then close the pan, put it into a moderate oven, or over a low fire, to cook as slowly as possible for two hours. By that time the broth will be reduced more than half. Now take out the leg, put it on a small baking-pan, strain the broth, remove the fat, and boil it down a little, adding a gill of Marsala and an ounce of glaze. Pour some of this broth into the pan, put it into the oven, and go on basting the leg every now and then with the remainder of the broth and that in the pan until it is nicely browned. Then dish it with a ring of watercress round it. serving whatever broth may remain in a hot sauce-boat. Hand stewed fillets of cucumber (see Cucumber) with the lamb, and new potatoes d la Parisienne. For these choose small new potatoes the size of a golf-ball. Boil them till nearly done, then