169 PORK slightly salted, and then simmered very slowly; at least four hours will be required, and the water must be carefully skimmed. Parsnips are eaten with boiled Pork. The usual weights of these joints are : Loin, five pounds to seven pounds ; Leg, nine pounds; Spare-rib, six pounds. The head of the pig can be made into Brawn, or the cheeks may be slightly salted, and boiled. Sausages are made of the fat and lean of Pork, and are generally put into the prepared intestines of the pig. Pigs for Bacon and Hams are older than Porkers. A Black Berkshire pig makes excellent Bacon at only sixteen months old, but this is not the case with other breeds. Bacon is an old word, used all over Northern Europe for the back and sides of a pig when salted. In choosing Bacon the lean should be pink and the fat white ; for if the lean is brownish-red and the fat yellow the Bacon is sure to have been over-salted, and may even be “ rusty ” or stale. Tastes vary much as to the size of Hams; some people like the smallest they can get, others prefer a York Ham weighing twenty-five or thirty pounds, and others again like to eat a Westphalian and an English Ham of equal sizes together. The peculiar flavour of a Westphalian Ham is due to the smoke of a fire of juniper branches, in which it is hung for three weeks. Monsieur de Saint Simon never forgot the taste of the little Spanish Hams which he had tasted once at Lerma, near Burgos, in the north of Spain. The pigs lived upon the flesh of vipers.* Nowadays the Hams of the little black pigs which live upon the rattlesnakes so abundant in North Carolina are considered to be a special delicacy. If Pigs are killed at home it is well to insist on their being stunned first, like a bullock. This prevents all suffering, and prevents in consequence those dying yells which, growing fainter and fainter, last so long and are so distressing to hear. * “ On y servit de petits jambons vermeils, fort rares en Espagne meme, qui ne se font que chez le due d’Arco et deux autres seigneurs, de cochons renfermes dans des especes de petits pares, remplis de halliers oil tout fourmille de viperes, dont ces cochons se nourrissent uniquement. Ces jambons ont un parfum admirable, et un gout si releve et si vivifiant qn'on en est surpris, et qu’il est impossible de manger rien si exquis.” 1721. (Memoireg. Tome xxxvii, chapitre xxxviii.)