377 SIR ERSKINE MAY’S SALAD cucumber, alternately arranged. For the sauce take four table- spoonfuls of cream, one teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar (or rather more if liked), and two tablespoonfuls of oil, added drop by drop. Use no eggs, and stir only one way. Pour the sauce round (not over) the pyramids in a soup plate or small dish. Mixed Salad.—Use any remains of cold vegetables, mix them with mayonnaise sauce. Place them inside a border of aspic jelly made with vegetable stock, and set on ice till wanted. If made with the tinned French Macedoine of vegetables be careful to empty the tin into a strainer so that all the liquid may drain off. A gill of mayonnaise sauce will be enough. Tomato Salad.—Make this like Lettuce Salad, peeling the Tomatoes and slicing them just before adding the Salad dressing. Sir Henry Thompson calls this the Prince of Salads. American Tomato Salad.—Take, for twelve Tomatoes, four hard-boiled eggs, one raw egg, a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of cayenne, a pinch of sugar, a tablespoonful of salad oil, two teaspoonfuls of made mustard, and as much vinegar as will make the sauce creamy. Rub the hard yolks to a smooth paste, adding the salt, cayenne, sugar, mustard, and oil. Beat the raw egg to a froth and stir it in. Add the vinegar last of all. Slice the Tomatoes a quarter of an inch thick, cover them with the mixture, and set on ice till wanted. Serve ice-cold. N-B.—Small moulds of Tomato Puree are pretty when cold fish is garnished with lettuce or cucumber salad. For these allow a pound of Tomatoes, and when the puree begins to look pulpy mix in an ounce and a half of moistened gelatine. Work this with the puree till it is perfectly dissolved, then pass all through a hair sieve. The puree can be set in small dariole moulds and turned out when required. Or it can be poured on a plate, left to get firm and then cut into shapes with vegetable cutters. Salad Dressing1.—(Family Recipe.)—Mix the yolk of one egg> one teaspoonful of unmade mustard, and a dust of salt into a teacupful of cream. Drop in a dessertspoonful of vinegar. Mix well together, and hand in a wide-mouthed bottle. Orange Salad.—This is good with roast game or poultry, hot or cold, also with cold salmon or trout. Take four Valencia and two Seville Oranges, peel them, slice them into thin