84 SEA FISH on a fire-proof dish, which has been buttered and sprinkled with chopped parsley. Either thicken the broth and pour it over the fillets, or for a more elaborate dish use oyster sauce (page 109). Set the dish in the oven for three or four minutes, and serve in the same. Hand quarters of lemons if you use oyster sauce. Haddock.—Haddock is one of the most valuable food fishes of Europe. It is plentiful on the British and Irish coasts, as well as in the North Sea and the North Atlantic. It often weighs fifteen pounds, but is much better when only weighing five pounds or less. Haddock can generally be got, but are best in the winter. They are a variety of Cod, and as the liver is very oily it is best taken out when the Haddock is cleaned. If liked, the liver can be fried or boiled separately. Haddock Stuffed and Baked.—This is a good old- fashioned dish. Season the inside of the Haddock well with pepper and salt. Make a stuffing of two ounces of butter (or, if preferred, two ounces of finely chopped suet), three ounces of sifted breadcrumbs, a teaspoonful of minced thyme, and the same of marjoram and parsley, season with pepper and salt, mix in two raw eggs, and work all well together. Put this into the Haddock, sew up the cavity, or fasten it with a small skewer. Truss the Haddock with string, putting its tail through its eyes, or fasten it into shape with two skewers. Butter a flat gratin dish, put the Haddock on, add a few bits of butter, and bake it in a moderate oven for from twenty minutes to half an hour. When the Haddock is served take out the skewers, or remove the string. Baste it well while in the oven. Mustard Sauce is good with baked Haddock. Or a Haddock can be laid on the drainer of a stewpan, just covered with fish broth, brought once to the boil, and then simmered for ten minutes. Egg sauce is best with boiled Haddock. Or fillets of Haddock can be fried either D’Orly in batter, or merely floured and served with a pat of inaitre d’hotel butter on each. “ Wyvern’s ” Haddock.—Carefully remove the flesh from each side of the backbone of a good-sized fresh Haddock, thus obtaining two long fillets. Put these aside. Break up the bones, tail, and head, and make a broth with them. For this put them into a stewpan with a saltspoonful of salt; cover with