358 SALSIFY the Salsify, and set it in a cold place or on ice to fret cold. Before serving arrange the roots neatly in a dish, sprinkle them with a few drops of tarragon vinegar, and garnish with watercress. Hand Sauce d’Argenteuil in a boat. For this sauce (which is excellent with cold Asparagus, and indeed with many cold vegetables), pound three hard-boiled yolks of egg to a paste, and work into it a sherryglassfnl (half a gill) of salad oil, a teaspoonful of mustard, a saltspoonful of pepper and one of salt. Mix thoroughly, and add a table- spoonful of cold veloute, finishing with a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar and a dessertspoonful of minced parsley. Serve very cold. Scorzonera can be dressed in exactly the same way. SCORZONERA. It is a mistake to call Scorzonera black Salsify and to imagine that it is Salsify when two years old. The plants are quite different, although the roots are similar in shape. Scorzonera is a sort of Viper’s Grass, and the name comes from the old French word scorzon and the Catalonian scurzon, a serpent. The Scorzonera Hispanica of our gardens was much used in Spain as a cooling medicine in cases of snake-bite. It is sown in April, and the roots must be taken up in the following November. In America Scorzonera is a favourite vegetable, and is called the Oyster Plant from its taste. English cooks make a great mistake when they scrape and peel Scorzonera raw. This makes the dark roots “ sweat ” and turn black, but if they are simmered in the proportion of two pounds of Scorzonera to a quart of boiling salted water, they peel easily and remain perfectly white. The roots must not be divided before boiling, and it is necessary to try with a wooden skewer when they are done, as metal turns them black. Scoi’zonera is good when boiled, left to cool, mashed with a wooden spoon to a smooth paste and moistened with milk. The fibres are taken out, the Scorzonera covered with bread- crumbs, and baked in the oven. Or Scorzonera can be made into a puree by rubbing it through a sieve after boiling and