334 CARROTS Carrots make an excellent puree, and they are very good •as beignets. For this, boil the Carrots, cut them in rounds, have ready some paste made as for water biscuits (see Chapter XX), sprinkle each round of Carrot with sugar, put it between two pieces of paste, wetting the edges to make them stick together, dip each beignet in batter, and fry if possible in oil. Powder a little sugar over the beignets and serve very hot. Stewed Carrots.—Boil and slice the Carrots. Put them into a stewpan with a pint of good broth, a little salt and pepper, and let them stew gently for two hours, keeping the pan closely shut. Fifteen minutes before serving add two lumps of sugar crushed to powder, and a squeeze of lemon. Then shake the pan well, but do not use a spoon. Mrs. C. W. Earle’s Carrots.—Boil the Carrots till tender, and serve with a white sauce made of milk boiled till it thickens, into which has been stirred a little butter and cream. Add chopped parsley and a little sugar. Carrots a la Flamande.—Blanch a pound and a half of young Carrots in boiling water for ten minutes. Drain them carefully. Put the carrots into a stewpan with one ounce of butter, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of sugar, and enough stock (say three-quarters of a pint) to cover them. Let the Carrots simmer in a closely-covered pan for twenty minutes at least. They may require thirty minutes’ simmering. Shake the pan occasionally, so that all the Carrots may be cooked evenly. Then let the pan boil briskly till the sauce is reduced to a ;glaze. Roll each Carrot in this glaze, and keep them hot. Remove and strain the liquid the Carrots have been cooked in. As soon as it has cooled beat the yolks only of two eggs well, with a little of the liquid; put the rest of the liquid to warm in the bain-marie, and stir the beaten eggs in, adding finally half an ounce of butter and a tablespoonful of minced parsley. Dish the Carrots in a dome shape, and pom’ the sauce l’ound them. CARDOONS. The Cardoon, Cynara Cardunculus, is a vegetable much prized abroad and much neglected in this country. Many gardeners find it too troublesome to grow, and many cooks do