STEWED PEARS 463 Stewed Pears.—{Family Recipe.)—Choose six large Catillac Stewing Pears, cut them in halves. Make a syrup of six ounces of sugar to a pint and a half of water. Add the juice of a lemon, and if liked four cloves and a little cinnamon. Stew the Pears in the syrup till tender ; it will be about two hours. Take the Pears out, and reduce the syrup to about half a pint. Pour it over the Pears, and let them stand to get cold. Catillac Pears do not require any colouring. If other Pears are used colour with two or three drops of cochineal. The syrup must never be watery. Do not put cream with the Pears, but hand cream for those who like it. Favourite Apples.—{Family Recipe.) — Put very rosy- cheeked Apples in a pan with an ounce of sugar to each, and add just enough hot water to cover them. Cover the pan, and boil for fifteen minutes. Then let the Apples just simmer till the skins crack open and the juice is pink. Baked Apples.—{Family Recipe.)—Only wipe the Apples, do not pare or core them. Use the fire-proof dish sold in sizes on purpose for baking Apples, and set them in a moderate oven. Try with a needle if they are done. Dust sugar over them, and serve in the same dish. Normandy Pippins.—Soak them for twelve hours in syrup, not water. Then stew them till tender in boiling syrup, allowing six ounces of sugar to a quart of water and a pound of Apples. Pour the syrup over and serve cold. Tapioca Custard (page 488) is excellent with Compotes. Rice is always suitable, and can be prepared the day before it is wanted, so as to be quite cold. For the rice: Blanch six ounces of Carolina rice in boiling water for five minutes, then drain and pour it at once into another stewpan containing a quart of boiling milk, four ounces of sifted sugar, an ounce of butter, and the “zest” of a lemon. Simmer it for an hour over a low fire. Take the rice off the fire, turn it into a china dish (in which it will be served), let it cool, and when quite cold turn it about with a plated fork (a spoon would make it sticky), and stir in by degrees a gill of cream. Flavour the rice as may be desired, but for most people it will be quite sweet enough.