298 RULES FOR COOKING VEGETABLES Cabbage. Plenty of water is especially necessary in boiling all sorts of Cabbage, including Brussels Sprouts, for it reduces tbe smell. The water in which Cabbage has been boiled must be, whilst still hot, very carefully put down the sink on account of the smell. Even if a little water boils over when the Cabbage is cooking there is sure to be a nauseous smell over the whole house. (See Sculleiy, page 23.) The water in which Potatoes have been boiled must also be thrown away. It is poisonous, and only useful to kill green-fly on rose trees. But the water in which peas, beans, carrots, etc., have been boiled is a weak stock, the eau de cuisson of French kitchens, and should be carefully kept for use. In making melted butter it is infinitely better to use this stock than milk-and-water. Some vegetables are apt to have a bitter taste when boiled. This can be prevented by changing the water, being very careful to fill up the pan at once with absolutely boiling water from a kettle. Potatoes, Turnips, and Carrots should be well scrubbed with a brush, and thoroughly rinsed in clean water. The rind of Turnips is very hard and woody, and they must therefore be pared thickly. Carrots are the only roots in which the inside is harder than the outside. The red outside should be scraped off, or the whole Carrot may be thinly sliced. Seakale and Celery must be carefully washed, as owing to them having been earthed up to blanch them there is often dirt between the stalks. Onions must never be washed. A slice should be cut off the top and bottom of the Onion, and some of the outer coats peeled off. If too many coats are removed the Onion loses much of its wholesome qualities as well as its flavour. The coats should be put into the stock-pot, for although they are tough they have quite as much goodness and flavour as the inside of the Onion. Onions, when not to be used for flavouring only, should, like celery and all strong-tasted vegetables, be blanched—that is, they are put into boiling water for five minutes. In digging up as well as in washing Beetroot, great care