544 tea, coffee, cocoa, etc. dreadful decoction sanctioned by the Local Government Board for use in English Workhouses. In this case the allowance of tea is never more than two ounces to a gallon of water, and in many workhouses it is allowed to “draw” for an hour and a half in the coppers in order to get a colour. Sir Henry Thompson says, “Many of us might with “advantage avoid the sugar and the cream, which at afternoon “ tea interfere with the stomach far more than does the infusion “itself, and add in their place a delicate slice of lemon neither “thicker nor larger than a half-crown, the flavour of which “ fragrant peel and a hint of acid combines with the aroma of “ good tea without in the least disguising or flattening it as the “ conventional additions do. It would he almost as rational to “ add cream and sugar to wine as to fine and delicately flavoured “tea! Occasionally tea is served with lemon in this country, “ but it is mostly added in excess. A very slight shaving, which “ contains both peel and pulp, is ample for an ordinary cup.” [Food and Feeding, page 143.] Cold Tea.—This is most refreshing on a long railway journey, and is greatly appreciated by gentlemen out shooting. But it must be most carefully made. It is of no use to make an extra quantity of tea at breakfast and to fill bottles with what remains. Cream and sugar disguise the flat taste in carelessly - made hot tea, but cold tea, if drunk unsweetened as it should be, requires the greatest attention to avoid any such flavour. The Russian Caravan Tea, to be procured from the Russian Stores, Queen’s Road, Bayswater, should be used. It costs three-and- sixpence a pound, but it is far more refreshing and restorative than cheaper Tea. Have freshly-boiling water, allow a tumblerful to each teaspoonful of Russian Tea, let it stand for four minutes only, and then strain it into the bottles through a fine tin strainer. The wide-mouthed glass “ Climax ” bottles, with screw-tops, sold for jam are very convenient for cold tea, as they are strong and do not require corks. They are to be had from Sanderson and Young, 21 Red Lion Square, and should be kept for cold Tea. If old wine-bottles are used the flavour of the Tea will not be so good. Put a couple of lemons and a sharp clasp- knife in the basket with the Tea, and if sugar is insisted on put a few lumps in one of the little metal boxes sold for Tea baskets.