219 SHEPHERD’S PIE ’ Shepherd’s Pie.—Use for this one of the large white china fire-proof souffle cases, crimped to look like paper. The pie can be made of any sort of cold cooked meat, or of several sorts, but the meat must be thoroughly minced, and there must be an abundance of gravy. Begin by putting a thickish mattress of well-made potato puree at the bottom of the dish. Then fill the dish to within an inch of the top with meat and gravy, prepared in this way. Put the meat once or twice through the Enterprise Mincer, which cuts it like scissors. See that all fat, skin, and gristle is removed. Add to the meat a slice or two of cooked ham, bacon, or tongue, or, if liked, a little minced liver. Allow for each half-pound of meat one small onion peeled and minced, and if possible one mushroom minced, and fry them till just coloured in half an ounce of butter. Thicken with half an ounce of flour, and continue frying till the onion is a pale coffee-colour. Add gradually half a pint of stock, so that the sauce will be about as thick as good cream. Boil it up well, let it cool a little, mix in the meat, season with salt and pepper, boil up again, and pour the meat and sauce on the mashed potato in the dish. Fill up to the top with another layer of potato, smooth this with a knife dipped in hot water, and brush over the surface with beaten egg. Brown the top in a moderate oven. This pie is much liked at shooting luncheons. If the meat and potato are both put in cold, set the dish in a large pan of hot water, and heat it in a very moderate oven. If this is not attended to the gravy will boil over, and the meat will be over-cooked and hard. Pie for a Picnic.—Make the pie as usual, using game, or chicken, or pigeons. For baking it, put on a common crust of flour and water. When the pie is cold take off this crust, and put the pie into a deep fire-proof dish, allowing two inches between the top of the pie and the rim of the dish. Cover the pie with good mashed potato exactly to the rim of the dish, but not above it. Bake in the oven till the potato is a light brown. This potato covering is much better for a picnic or shooting luncheon than ordinary crust. Toad in a Hole.—This is a combination of meat and batter, the Toad being represented by the meat. Take a pound of beef- steak which has been previously jugged, so that it may be quite