SAUCES 130 A still better sauce is made by flavouring a pint of milk by boiling up in it two ounces of onion and a tablespoonful of parsley previously blanched for five minutes in scalding water. When well flavoured, strain the milk through muslin, and stir it by degrees into a saucepan in which a roux of an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour have been well mixed. Thicken gently by bringing the mixture to the boil, strain, and add just before serving a tablespoonful of minced parsley, a dessert- spoonful of chopped, garden cress, and a teaspoonful of minced chives and chervil. Use enough spinach colouring to tint the sauce a pale green, and give a squeeze of lemon. [Wyvem.~\ Fillets of sole, whiting, or haddock are excellent stewed gently in half this quantity of sauce. Thicken the rest of the sauce, sharpen it with a few drops of vinegar, beat up the raw yolk of an egg in a little of the sauce, off the fire, add it, and pour the sauce over the fish. Sauce Blonde is a glorified form of Melted Butter, in which the liquid used is always good broth. Sauce Blonde is the foundation of Maitre d’Hotel Sauce, Sauce d la Poulette, Soubise Sauce, Sauce Milanaise, the brown and slightly sharp Sauce Robert, and of hot sharp Sauces. For Maitre d’ Hotel Sauce, which is so good with'white fish, potatoes, and many vegetables, add to the Sauce Blonde at least a tablespoonful of parsley, blanched, dried in a cloth, and then minced. Finish, off the fire, with the yolk of an egg well beaten up in a little of the Sauce Blonde, and squeeze into it a few drops of lemon-juice. Or melt an ounce of maitre d’hotel butter in half a pint of Sauce Blonde. Sauce d la Poulette is a richer, but a very useful sauce. Add one pint of chicken broth made from giblets and bones to the usual roux, season lightly -with pepper and salt, and stir well for a quarter of an hour. It will now be a thin white sauce. Have ready two tablespoonfuls of chopped button mushrooms stewed in milk. Put the sauce in the bain-marie, and add first the strained and well-beaten yolks of two eggs, then a pat of butter, and then the mushrooms, with a little of the milk in which they have been stewed. Soubise Sauce is of two kinds, white and brown. For the former, blanch two three-ounce onions in scalding water for