206 SALTED MEAT three clays so as to become tender. But it must be fresh when salted, although it need not be quite freshly killed. If it is not fresh it will spoil. Very cold weather is quite as bad a time for curing meat as very hot weather. In hot weather the meat changes before it can be affected by the salt, and in severe weather the meat is so hardened and its juices so congealed that no salt can penetrate it. It is a good plan to sprinkle meat with water and hang it up to drain a few hours before salting is begun ; this cleanses it from any blood, and makes it more delicate. If the weather is at all frosty, warm the salt in a frying-pan over the fire, or it will not rub sufficiently into the meat. When saltpetre is used the regular proportion is half an ounce of salt- petre to half an ounce of sugar or molasses (one dry table- spoonful is equal to one fluid ounce), and one pound of salt. Brisket of beef should be jointed so as to let the salt in. Every pipe or kernel in meat must be removed, and all holes filled with salt. Many people rub in only half the quantity of salt and salting material at first, and finish a day or two later. When the meat is laid in the brine see that the brine completely covers it, and turn it every day. At this period it is a capital plan to use a common garden syringe, squirting the brine all over the meat, and getting well into any holes, or chinks, or hollows. Nowadays cooks are not like the old servant in Mrs. Gaskell’s “ Ruth,” who nearly accepted an unwelcome lover because he had a pig ready for lulling and she had such a good recipe, as yet untried, for hams. Curing meat is too hard work and too cold work for a woman, and is much better done by a man. A friendly butcher can often be induced to cure home-fed meat, or his own meat, by a family recipe. When bacon and hams are cured, they should be wiped and dried, and put into bags made of coarse muslin, and then hung up in a moderately warm place. Flies are more partial to salt meat than to fresh, and will spoil it at once if unprotected. Muslin is better than paper for bags, as paper breaks in damp weather. Smoked meat should be hung up in a dark place. Meat to be smoked used to be hung for at least three weeks in a chimney over a smoky fire made of wood, peat, shavings, and sawdust. Nowadays this method is seldom possible, and a substitute has been found in Crosse and Blackwell’s “ Cambrian Essence of Smoke.” This