LITTLE TIMBALES 197 room sauce, and put minced cooked mushrooms with the mince. Or if quenelle is used for the moulds scoop out the centre of each and fill up with chopped cooked mushroom. QUENELLES. Wyvern’s method of making Quenelles is as simple as it is good. If his directions are exactly followed success must result. Quenelles are made of forcemeat, for which see page 208. To form the Quenelles take two tablespoons, set one of them to heat in hot water, take the other in the left hand, fill it with forcemeat, smoothing the latter with the blade of a small knife dipped in warm water, and forming it in dome shape, having as much above the level of the spoon as within it. Then lay the warm spoon over the dome, inverting the cold one, leaving the Quenelle in the former, out of which it must then be gently turned for poaching. To poach the Quenelles : Lay them in a buttered saute-pan, pour in gently, and without touching them, enough hot broth or water to cover them, set the pan over the fire just to bring the water to boiling point, then cover the pan and lower the heat to simmering for ten or twelve minutes, according to the size of the Quenelles. Take them very carefully out of the water, and drain them on a cloth. In the forcemeat for Quenelles eggs are required, and the meat—whether chicken, veal, rabbit, game, or fish—should not only be uncooked but be as fresh as possible. Chicken Quenelles with Mushrooms.—Take a large fowl which has been merely plucked, not drawn or trussed. Clean it and cut it up, taking all the white meat off, and keeping the legs for some other dish. Throw the rest of the carcase, skin, fragments, bones of the wings, and the giblets, into a stewpan, and make as good a broth as possible, adding the usual vegetables and seasoning. Let it simmer for two hours, skin it, strain it, and thicken it. Prepare this broth for the sauce the day before the Quenelles are wanted. For the Quenelles make six ounces of stiffish panada (see page 208) with breadcrumbs soaked in stock, well pounded, and stirred over the fire to thicken, adding a pinch of salt. When ready, take rather more than half the quantity of