TO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME 274 require careful basting whilst roasting. Delicate young green peas, boiled without any additions, should be served with Ducklings. Pigeons.—Pigeons ought to be completely cleaned as soon as they are killed, or the flavour will be lost. Stewed Pigeons.—The legs of Pigeons are much better used as giblets instead of being left on the birds. Take three or four Pigeons well cleaned, chop up the livers and put them inside the birds. Put the legs and all the giblets into an earthenware stewpan with carrots and onions sliced, a bunch of herbs, and a couple of slices of fat bacon. Lay the Pigeons on the top, and just cover the whole with broth. Let them simmer very slowly till the Pigeons are quite tender. This will be in about three-quarters of an hour. Take out the Pigeons, put them on a hot dish, take the fat off the broth, reduce it to a half-glaze, and pour it round the pigeons. Serve the vegetables in groups as garnish. Hand currant jelly, or a hot compote of bottled cranberries. Roast Pigeons.—Tie fat bacon over the breasts, or the Pigeons will be dry and hard. Put the chopjjed livers inside the birds, and make brown gravy with the giblets added to some stock, as Pigeon giblets are very small. Roast for twenty or twenty-five minutes, basting the Pigeons well. Broiled Pigeons.—Split the birds down the back, pepper and salt them well, and broil carefully on a well-buttered gridiron. Serve with broiled mushrooms. A plainly-broiled Pigeon is often liked by an invalid. Fillets Of Pigeons.—Cut the meat from the breast in one fillet on each side, flatten them with a wet cutlet-bat, and fry in batter. Hand a good gravy made from the carcases of the Pigeons, with a little currant jelly melted in it. Bordeaux Pigeons Stewed with Mushrooms —Clean two Bordeaux Pigeons, and put back the livers after doing so. Truss them for boiling. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, put into it six ounces of streaky bacon that has been blanched and cut in squares. Pry the bacon a light brown, take it out and put it on a plate. Next put the Pigeons into the same pan, and fry them in the butter and melted bacon fat till they begin to be brown, then take them out and set them aside with the