BORDEAUX PIGEONS 275 bacon. Now stir an ounce of flour into tbe stewpan, making a roux with the butter left in it, and when it is mixed moisten with a pint of broth. Add the stalks and peelings, chopped small, of half a pound of mushrooms, season with salt and pepper, stir over the fire till boiling, simmer ten minutes, skim, and strain through a pointed strainer. Wash out the stewpan, put the Pigeons into it with the strained sauce, a bunch of herbs, the pieces of bacon, and a Spanish onion weighing eight ounces, cut into quarters and blanched beforehand. Simmer twenty-five minutes, add the peeled mushrooms, simmer for ten minutes longer. All being now done, take out the Pigeons, cut them in halves, lay them on a hot dish, remove the bag of herbs, and after straining the sauce skim the fat off it. Garnish the pieces of Pigeon with the mushrooms, bacon, and onion (if liked), heat up the sauce, pour it over them and serve. [ Wyvern.] Roasted Bordeaux Pigeons.—1Take three Bordeaux Pigeons, and fill their cavities with this stuffing. Take three ounces of breadcrumbs soaked in milk, one ounce of cooked fat bacon cut into very small pieces, the livers of the Pigeons and one chicken’s liver minced, two ounces of chopped mushroom, a dessertspoonful of minced garden herbs (or a teaspoonful of powdered dried herbs), pepper, salt, and one well-beaten egg. Mix all well together. Tie bacon over the Pigeons’ breasts, wrap them in buttered paper, and roast briskly for fifteen minutes, basting with melted butter, and removing the covering during the last five minutes. Cut each bird in half with a sharp knife, and lay the halves on crisply-fried croutes of bread. Garnish with watercress, and serve with clear gravy and bread sauce. [ Wyvern.'] Or simply roast the Bordeaux Pigeons, and serve them with almond sauce. For this, take four ounces of Jordan almonds weighed after scalding and skinning, dry them before the fire, chop them, and bruise them to a coarse-grained powder in a mortar. Melt an ounce of butter in a small saute-pan, empty the almond powder in, and stir patiently over a low fire till the almond grains turn a pale brown. Then mix in an ounce of flour, blend well, and add three gills of white broth, seasoning with a pinch of pepper, half a saltspoonful of mace, and the T 2