CUCUMBER A LA POULETTE 34i Drain the liquid off, and turn the pieces of Cucumber out upon a clean dish, cut each piece in half, and cover them up. Make half a pint of poulette sauce (see p. 130) with the cuisson, put the pieces of Cucumber into it, warm gently in the bain- marie, and serve. Or the pieces may be simmered until cooked, then drained, piled up on a hot silver dish, and served with a pat of maitre d’hotel butter melting over them. In this way they are specially good with lamb cutlets. [ Wyvern.] Mrs. Earle suggests this way of cooking Cucumbers. Peel and cut up the Cucumber into pieces about two inches long, and divide each piece into two. Soak them for two or three hours in brown sugar and vinegar. Stew them in a little stock, and serve as a vegetable. Or stew the pieces in a little butter. Make the sauce apart by boiling the peel in a little milk and butter, rub it through a fine sieve, mix in a little yolk of egg and pour over the pieces. Cucumbers for the Centre of an Entree.—Peel two Cucumbers of moderate size, cut them down the middle into two lengths, and cut each of these into three-inch pieces, pare off the edges, and round the ends. Take out the seeds, lay the Cucumber in salt and water for two hours, and then dry the pieces on a sieve. When dry put them into a preserving jar with two ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and a teaspoonful of white sugar. Set the jar in a cool oven for an hour, watch that the Cucumber is not turning yellow, and if it is take the jar out. Pour off the juice, add another teaspoonful of white sugar and a teaspoonful of vinegar. Let the jar stand in the screen an hour or two, and half an hour before serving set it in the bain-marie. The colour of the Cucumber should be bright green. A little spinach colouring may be added if needed. CHICORY. This Wild Endive, or Succory, has always been popular abroad, and is now often cultivated in this country. The best variety is the Belgian, called Whitloof. The green leaves of Chicory are excellent in May, cooked like Spinach. When forced and blanched, Chicory makes one of the best salads, the French barie de Gapucin.