464 PANCAKES AND FRITTERS. I have already explained Frying in a separate chapter, but I must repeat that in Pancakes and Fritters the preparation of the batter (too often carelessly slurred over) is of great importance. The batter for Pancakes should be made two hours before they are wanted, and only enough for one should be used at a time; this quantity will be about half a teacupful. Do not wash the pan after making Pancakes, but wipe it like an omelette-pan. Batter for Pancakes.—Take half a pound of flour, four eggs, a pint of milk, and a pinch of salt. Make a hole in the middle of the flour, break the eggs one by one into a teacup, and drop each into the hole. Pour in a little milk, and stir the flour in gradually, adding milk by degrees, and rubbing away all lumps. When you have used half the milk beat the batter well with a wooden spoon till it is full of air bubbles, add the rest of the milk, and let the batter rest for two hours. Then butter a small frying-pan well, heat the pan till the butter smokes, but be careful that it does not burn, drop in just enough batter for one Pancake, let it spread itself over the pan, run a knife under it, and turn it over, roll the Pancake up, set it on a hot dish before the fire. Butter the pan again, and make another Pancake. When all are made, lay the Pancakes on a napkin, three in a row, and three across them, dust over with sugar, and hand quarters of lemon. Clarified suet burns less easily than butter ; if it is used melt a small piece in the pan before putting each Pancake. Ingleby Manor French Pancakes.—(.Family Recipe.)— Put in a basin four tablespoonfuls of flour, a pinch of salt, a table- spoonful of sugar, the peel of a lemon, and four eggs (keeping out two whites). Mix the whole in a pint of milk. Fry the Pan- cakes, lay them on the dish they will be served in, and spread a little apricot jam on each Pancake as you make it. Do not roll them up, but keep them flat. When you have a dish, beat the whites of the eggs to a strong froth, adding a little sugar, put it on the top of the Pancakes, brown them in the oven, and serve quite hot. Chocolate Pancakes.—Two ounces of fine flour and two tablespoonfuls of milk, the whites of two eggs and the yolks of four, beaten separately. Add a tablespoonful of sugar, and a