522 CHEESE slices. Pat it into a stewpan with lialf an ounce of butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream, and season with a dust of nutmeg, a little white pepper, and a little cayenne. Stir it over the fire till the Cheese is well dissolved and quite smooth. Then stir in, off the fire, one whole egg. Serve at once in a dish with a lamp under it, and help the Cheese on to pieces of hot, dry toast. Or pour it into paper cases. Brown the surface with the salamander. Cheese Toast, Indian Fashion, —Grate two ounces of mild, dry Cheese, mix with it an ounce of butter, a dessert- spoonful of made mustard, a half saltspoonful of salt, the same of Nepaul pepper, and a well-beaten egg. Mix well in a basin and stir till it is smooth. If not as stiff as thick batter add a little more grated Cheese. Toast two slices of bread, butter them on both sides, lay them in a buttered fire-proof dish, spread the Cheese thickly over them, and bake for eight or ten minutes. Stewed Cheese Toast.—Make a roux in a saucepan of a quarter of an ounce of butter and the same of flour, stir it over a moderate fire, pour in by degrees half a pint of milk, and add enough grated dry Cheese to make the mixture like thick custard. Stir in the yolk of an egg, off the fire, and pour the Cheese over the hot toasts. Ramequins en Caisses.—Take two ounces of mild grated cheese and the same quantity of white breadcrumbs. Soak the crumbs in milk, and pound them in a mortar with the cheese and half an ounce of butter till the whole is well mixed. Season with pepper and salt, adding a teaspoonful of mustard powder and the yolks of three eggs. Finally, beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add it to the rest, and fill paper cases which have been well buttered outside and inside. Bake for ten or fifteen minutes, and serve as soon as the Ramequins have raised their heads and have slightly taken colour. [Wyvern.~\ China cases are apt to chill the cheese, but they are more convenient than paper. Cheese Biscuits.—Take equal quantities of grated cheese, butter, and flour, season well with cayenne pepper, and mix to a smooth paste. Cut it into small round biscuits, and bake a golden colour.