SANDWICHES 333 Shrimp Sandwiches.—Pound some pickled Shrimps and their shells, throwing away the heads. Add a little butter, and pepper, but no salt. Spread this puree on brown bread and butter, cover with the other slices, and press as usual. Salmon Sandwiches.—Pound some cold Salmon, and add a little butter to make it moist. Spread some rounds of brown bread with rather stiff tartare sauce, lay the Salmon puree upon them, cover with shred lettuce or cress, and put the other round of bread spread with tartare sauce on the top. Press very lightly. Eg’g’ Sandwiches.—These are very useful for travelling, packed in butter paper. Boil some fresh eggs hard—that is, put them into fast boiling water and let them boil for fifteen minutes. Peel off the shells, cut the eggs into slices lengthwise. Place them between slices of bread and butter, and be careful to mix both salt and pepper into the butter before you spread it. Or pound the eggs, when cold and shelled, in a mortar, pounding white and yolk together. Add a little fresh butter, salt, pepper, and a dust of cayenne. Spread the mixture as usual on thin bread and butter, and press well. Salad Sandwiches.—Use shred lettuce, watercress, or mustard and cress, mix these lightly with mayonnaise sauce. Spread mayonnaise sauce on the bread instead of butter, but be careful not to use too much. Gruyere Cheese Sandwiches. — Spread the slices of bread and butter with a little French mustard, cover them thickly with freshly-grated Gruyere cheese. Dust with white pepper and a little cayenne, but add no salt. Press the Sandwiches well. Cheese and Celery Sandwiches.—Mix freshly-grated Parmesan cheese with an ounce of butter or a gill of whipped cream till it becomes a thick paste. Spread this on the bread, and cover it with celery shred very fine. Tit-Bit Sandwiches.—Cut with a pastry cutter small rounds of bread, alternately brown and white. Spread them with lobster puree, and sprinkle a little mustard and cress over it. Cover with a second round of bread, cut rather smaller than the lower one. Shrimp Puree answers admirably for these little Sand- wiches.