FIRE-PROOF CHINA REQUISITES i7 cannot be said in praise of fire-proof china dishes ; they are abso- lutely clean, they can be used over the fire without injury, and they are quite pretty enough to send to table. By their means food is served thoroughly hot in the dish in which it is cooked. Minor Requisites.—Six cook’s knives, in sizes from five to ten inches long. Palette knife, seven inches long. Filleting knife. Boning knife. Garnishing knife. Onion knife. Two straight forks. Two dishing-up forks. Corkscrew. Apple- corer. Raisin-stoner. Cherry-stoner. Two small French whisks, all wire. Two plated spoons of each size. Twelve wooden spoons in sizes, four with square or Cowmouth ends. Two wooden tamis spoons. Strong medicine glass for measuring spoonfuls of liquid. Set of larding needles. Two trussing needles. Set of meat skewers. Set of poultry or game skewers. Cutlet tongs. Cook’s steel. Vegetable scoop, round, ditto oval. Very small round scoop for cutting pea shapes. Julienne cutter. Paste brush. Softening brush for glaze. Biscuit pricker. Oval and round cutters in boxes. Two small table- pepper mills, one for white peppercorns, and the other for black. Moulds.—In selecting moulds the simplest patterns should be chosen, and all such ridiculous devices as rabbits, ducks, fish, vegetables, bunches of grapes, and bouquets of flowers must be avoided. For a moderately-sized family many moulds are not required. There should be three plain charlotte moulds oval or round, in sizes; three plain round border moulds, one with a flat rim, one with a round, and one with a hollow rim ; two simple moulds for jellies, one plain round mould with a hollow centre, and one pewter mould for dessert ice. Besides these there should be a tastefully chosen assortment of dariole moulds, plain and fluted, bouchee moulds, quenelle moulds, cutlet moulds, and sandwich moulds. Patty-pans in sets of two different sizes will be wanted, and one or two larger patty- pans for baking a cheesecake. The cook should have a plentiful supply of kitchen rubbers and cloths, also cloths for straining soup. Two tamis-cloths will be needed. Tamis (from the French word tamis, a sieve) is a woollen muslin of open texture made specialty for its purpose. A yard and one-eighth of tamis will make one cloth. c