279 GAME, VENISON, AND WILD FOWL Venison requires great care in keeping, but it will keep good longer tlian any other meat. By far the best way to keep Venison is in a marinade. In this way the flavour is much improved, the meat is more juicy and tender, and there is no danger from flies. The best marinade for Venison is thus described by Wyvern: “ Take four ounces of carrot, eight “ ounces of onion, a tahlespoonful of mixed herbs, fresh or “ dried, and one ounce of parsley. Put them in a stewpan “ with one ounce of hutter, and fry for five minutes. Then “ add one pint of vinegar, one quart of water, one ounce and a “ quarter of salt, half an ounce of pepper, and a blade of mace. “ Boil up, simmer for half an hour, strain, and either use at “ once or bottle for use. Turn the Venison constantly in this “ pickle.” Of course for a large joint the quantities can be increased, always keeping the same proportions. If the other method is followed, the kernel in the fat of the haunch of Venison should be cut out, like that in a leg of mutton; the part should then be wiped dry and well rubbed with pepper and ground-ginger to keep off the flies. Dust the whole haunch with pepper and ginger, and hang it up in a muslin bag. Be careful to examine it every day. A neck of Venison should be wiped dry with a cloth, and hung up. It is not generally known that if a piece of Venison from the shoulder or leg, or any Venison bones, are put into the stock-pot the soup will have a delicious flavour which nothing else can give. Wild Duck should have small pliable reddish feet, and each bird should feel heavy in proportion to its size. The three varieties of Wild Duck generally eaten in England are in season from the autumn to the end of March ; and the plumage of all is beautiful. I will merely describe the colours of the head of each as a means of distinguishing them. Wild Buck.—Head, crown, and upper part of neck, rich dark metallic glossy green, ring of white about the neck. Weight of Duck, about two pounds and a half—over forty ounces. Teal.—Head rich chestnut brown, black belt round the eye, with narrow stripe of buff edging the dark belt, and losing itself in the chestnut colour at back of the neck. Weight of Teal, about eleven ounces.