FRENCH MASHED POTATOES 3°5 shallot. (French people rub the saucepan lightly with garlic.) Put the Potatoes back, and break them up, adding an ounce of butter to every three. Work the Potatoes well with a wooden spoon, add salt and instead of milk moisten them with two tablespoonfuls of boiling stock. When well mashed pass the Potatoes through the sieve, and add a dust of pepper. French cooks also add a pinch or two of nutmeg. American Potato Puff.—Take one breakfastcupful of cold mashed Potato, and stir into it two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, beating to a white cream before adding anything else. Then put in two eggs whipped very light, a little salt, and a teacupful of milk or cream. Beat all thoroughly, pour into a deep dish, and bake in a quick oven until nicely browned. If properly mixed this dish comes out of the oven very light and puffy. It should be baked in a fire-proof dish and served in the same. Cream Potatoes for Second Course.—Boil six large Potatoes in their skins, or steam them. Dry them, and let them get quite cold. Take off the skins and put the Potatoes into a basin. Chop them up with a knife, and work them about with two forks till they look like snow. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan, add salt, put in the Potatoes, pour half a pint of cream very gently over them, and let them get thoroughly hot. Serve in a very hot dish. The Potatoes should look like wax. Savoury Potatoes.—Take six Potatoes with thoroughly sound skins, wash and brush them. Bake them till the inside is tender, but the skins not blistered. Cut off a slice from one end of each Potato, and scoop out the inside. Mash this till quite smooth with cream or butter, add pepper and salt, and just a dust of Parmesan cheese. Lastly, stir in one whole egg well beaten, and warm all in a saucepan. Fill the Potato skins "v •with the mixture, and put them in the oven for a minute or two. The mixture ought to rise like a cap above the Potato skins. Serve on a napkin in an uncovered dish. Irish Potato Cakes.—Take one pound of cold boiled Potatoes, and crumble or mash them, adding a little salt. Roll the Potatoes out with just enough flour to prevent them from x