2 93 HARES AND RABBITS common thing as a Roast Hare, but it cannot be too often repeated that nothing, and perhaps especially in cooking, can ever be well done without taking trouble. Leverets are roasted like Hares, only, being young, they require less time. Allow twenty minutes, lard the Leveret, and cover it with buttered paper. Hares can be had all the year round; Leverets from the end of April till the end of July. Jug’g’ed Hare.—{Family Recipe.)—Skin and clean a Hare, wipe it, and cut it in pieces. Dredge the pieces with flour, and fry them a nice brown in butter, seasoning with a little pepper and salt, and a little cayenne. Make a pint and a half of gravy from a pound and a half of gravy beef. Put the pieces of Hare into a jar, add a small onion stuck with four or five cloves, a lemon peeled and cut up, and then pour in the gravy. Cover the jar closely by putting a paste over it to keep in the steam. Put the jar into a deep stewpan of cold water, set it to boil, and let it simmer for four hours. (If the Hare is young, three hours will be sufficient.) When done, take the Hare out of the jar, and shake it in a pan over the fire for a few minutes, adding a tablespoonful of mush- room ketchup, two glasses of port wine, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Add some fried forcemeat balls, and serve with currant jelly. Jugged Hare can be made of cooked Hare, but it is not nearly so good as when the Hare is fresh. Hashed Hare.—Cut the meat into neat pieces, and make a good broth of the bones and trimmings of the Hare, flavoured with currant jelly, lemon-juice, and a little port wine. Let the pieces of Hare marinade in this for at least three hours. Lastly, strain, thicken the broth, put in the meat, warm up all together, and serve garnished with preserved cherries. \Wyvern.~\ RABBITS. Rabbits, if to be roasted, are trussed and stuffed like a Hare. If to be boiled, the head is turned along the side of the Rabbit and skewered there. Allow from three-quarters of an hour to an hour for roasting a Rabbit, and baste it constantly. For boiling proceed very gently, and boil for from half an hour