TO EGG AND BREADCRUMB *59 varnish the fish all over with the egg. If a little flour is shaken over the fish the egg will adhere better. Have the crumbs ready in a napkin and turn the fish over and over in them. Set it aside for half an hour, then varnish it again, and this time coat it with yellowish-brown raspings of crust very finely sifted. To coat fish with flour or oatmeal, dip the fish in milk, and then turn it over in a napkin containing the flour or oatmeal well dried and sifted. A brush can be used for the egg with cutlets as with fish, but it must be a very small one, such as is sold with bottles of gum. Larding1.—French chefs make much more use of Larding than we do, for the process adds flavour to the tasteless foreign meat and poultry. In England Larding is only required for insipid meat like Yeal, and for dry poultry, such as guinea- fowl. Hares are often the better for Larding. Bacon for larding must be white, dry, and firm, and the Larding should be done in as cold a place as possible. Lard- ing-needles, which are slit tubes ending in a sharp point, are sold of different sizes. In general it does not matter about the thickness of the lardoons, as the strips of bacon are called, but it is necessary that all should be equal. The length of a lardoon should be from an inch and half to three inches. Cut with a sharp knife three or four equally-sized slices of bacon the length which the lardoons are to be, lay them one on the other, cut them into even strips lengthwise, and divide these strips again into lardoons to fit the larding-needle. If they are too large or too small for the split end of the needle Larding cannot be properly done. To lard a fricandeau hold the meat in a cloth firmly in your left hand, and with the right hand pass the point of the threaded needle into the meat half an inch deep. Work forwards, from you, and draw out the point about two inches from the place at which you in- serted it. Draw the lardoon through, leaving a piece of it sticking out at each end. Thread the needle again, and repeat the larding at intervals of one inch, keeping every successive lardoon in line with the first. Then work another line of lardoons, if required, into the spaces between the first lines. The ends of the lardoons should be neatly trimmed with scissors to equal lengths when the larding is finished. Two lines of