SEA FISH 88 brushing the scored Whitings over with a coating of melted butter, and sprinkling over that a layer of finely-grated Parmesan. Let this rest while you flavour a gill of milk by boiling it up with a teaspoonful of chopped shallot, a pinch of salt, one of pepper, and one of mace, if liked. Use this for moistening and basting the Whiting, put the dish in the Dutch oven, pour a tablespoonful of melted butter over the fish, and set the oven in front of the fire. Reverse the dish after five minutes, baste freely, and finish in ten or twelve altogether. Serve in the same dish. Ho sauce is needed, but lemon and bread and butter should be handed. In Italy, Whitings are skinned and filleted, and laid for four hours in a marinade of oil, lemon juice, slices of onion, and whole parsley leaves. Then they are drained, dried, egged and breadcrumbed or floured, and fried a golden brown in oil. Soused Or Scalded Whiting’S are very easily digested. The old-fashioned method of cooking them has been much improved upon by Wyvern. Put three or four Whitings, which have merely been cleaned, on a dish over-night, squeeze a lemon over them, and sprinkle them with salt. Next day put a fish-kettle with drainer on the fire with as much water as you think will cover the fish nicely, and add to it a dessertspoonful of vinegar and a teaspoonful of salt. Wipe each fish, and when the water boils put them into the kettle. This will stop the boiling. Let it come to the boil again, then draw back the kettle, and let it simmer for from five to eight minutes according to the size of the fish. Drain as soon as tender, and drain off every drop of water from the fish. Serve with lemon and brown bread and butter. Small fresh haddocks can also be “ soused.” The heads and bones of Whitings will generally yield as much fish broth as may be required for any dish in which they appear. But the broth must be made according to the instruc- tions given in the following recipe. Little Fish Creams.—Petits Cremes a la Dieppoise. —These can be made of any white fish, and are excellent. Have a sixpenny Whiting sent home intact. Take the flesh off in two fillets and set them aside. Chop up the head, bones, and skin, put them into a stewpan, moisten