J3 4 SHARP SAUCES, SERVED HOT coffeecupful of the Raspings of a small root of Horseradish, and simmer the grated pieces in half a pint of common broth. When done, thicken the broth as you would a custard by adding over a very low fire the yolks of two eggs beaten up with a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar. Season with a little white pepper and salt, and serve in a boat. For Cold Horseradish Sauce add to the coffeecupful of grated root half a pint of mayonnaise or tartare sauce. Set it on ice if possible, as it ought to be served ice-cold. Of course cream can be used, if preferred to oil, in making the mayonnaise. Espagnole Sauce and Veloute Sauce.—These are the two staple Foundation Sauces, or Sauces Meres of French cookery. Espagnole Sauce derives its name from the ham with which it was formerly flavoured. Nowadays, no flavouring is allowed in the first composition of Espagnole Sauce ; flavouring is entirely omitted, and is added to the foundation later, according to the special sauces selected. Espagnole Sauce can be made very elaborately and very expensively, but for ordinary use quite a sufficiently good Espagnole can be prepared from broth flavoured with plenty of vegetables and strengthened by the addition of an ounce of glaze to every pint of broth. For this, as well as for a simple Veloute Sauce, I recommend Wyverns method. Butter a two-quart stewpan with two ounces of butter, lay in it four ounces of finely-sliced onion, the same of carrot and of turnip, half an ounce of sirred celery, and a bunch of chopped parsley (not using the stalks). Moisten with a gill of stock, and cook over a low fire till the vegetables are turning reddish- brown. Now add a quart of warm stock made from scraps, bring to the boil, simmer for three-quarters of an hour, skim, strain and thicken. Simmer, with the pan only three parts covered. Add one ounce of glaze, boil up, stir well whilst boiling, skim, take off all fat, and strain into a bowl, passing it through a hair sieve. Keep the bowl in a cold larder, and warm up the foundation Espagnole in the bain-marie as required. From this foundation any good brown sauce can be prepared. Espagnole Maigre is made in the same way, only that the glaze is omitted, and eau de cuisson from vegetables is used instead of meat broth. For fish sauces, use fish broth,