183 LAMB slice up a small cucumber, skin and all, butter a stewpan with an ounce of butter, put in the pieces of cucumber and fry them gently over a low fire. Do not let them turn brown, but stir in half an ounce of flour, and when well mixed moisten with just sufficient milk to cover the cucumber. Bring to the boil, season with salt and pepper, and simmer till the cucumber is soft. Then work it through the hair sieve. Warm up again, finishing with a tablespoonful of cream. This sauce should be pale green, the consistency of rich soubise, and very delicately flavoured with the cucumber. \Wyvern.~\ Of course this sauce is handed in a sauce-boat. Mint Sauce.—Mint Sauce is, in England, as universal an accompaniment to Lamb as Yorkshire Pudding and Horse- radish are to Beef. Owing to our moist climate Mint has none of the distasteful flavour of peppermint which seems inseparable from it abroad. But the usual Mint Sauce, composed of raw unwashed Mint soaking in coarse vinegar, is a very unsuitable accompaniment to the delicate flavour of Lamb. To make good Mint Sauce pick the leaves from the stalks, blanch them for five minutes in boiling water. To three ounces of fresh Mint allow half a gill of cold water, a tablespoonful and a half of moist sugar, and a quarter of a pint of best Orleans vinegar. Mix the Mint well into the other ingredients, and let the sauce rest for a few minutes before serving. Cold Lamb Cutlets.—Roast or braise the best end of the neck, and let it get cold. Then cut it into cutlets, and trim each cutlet. Have ready some aspic jelly, flavoured with plenty of fresh mint. Mix more fresh mint into the jelly whilst it is just liquid—the mint must be blanched and minced. Cover a large dish with the jelly, and just as it is setting lay in the cutlets. Cover them with more jelly, and leave them all night. Next day cut them out with a cutlet cutter which has been first dipped in hot water, so as to stamp out the cutlets easily. Serve with a salad in the centre. Lamb Cutlets en Papillotes.—Cut eight cutlets, and take out all the bones. Mince fresh mint to the quantity of a table- spoonful, make a tcaspoonful of equal parts of minced parsley and shallot, and season with pepper and a little salt. If possible, add a tablespoonful of minced mushrooms. Mix all with the