194 HASHED AND MINCED MEAT RECHAUFFES Hash, warming up the mince in any appropriate sauce according to the meat of which it is made. Mince is most useful for rissoles, kromeskis, croquettes, timbales, cassolettes or casseroles, for which I shall give simple recipes. Or Mince can be poured inside a high case of mashed potato ; used to fill patties; served plain with poached eggs and curls of fried bacon ; or put into shells, dusted with rasped crumbs and grated cheese, and baked for a few minutes. But Mince never can be fit to eat unless it is carefully prepared. Invalids, aged people, and persons who cannot masticate meat easily, often enjoy Mince made of fresh meat. For this, get a good slice from the top of a round of beef, not the meat sold for steaks. Take off all the skin, fat and gristle, cut the meat into strips, and pass it twice through the Enterprise Mincer. It will then be in a pulp. Put the meat in a saucepan and mix with it some beef tea, or, if allowed, good gravy flavoured with vegetables. Mix the meat and liquid well together, till they are about the consistency of cream. Add a little pepper and salt. Put the pan over a very slow fire, and stir with a wooden spoon till all the red colour of the meat has left it. It will take from ten to fifteen minutes, and the stirring must be continuous, so that the Mince is always kept in motion and never allowed to settle at the bottom of the pan. The Mince must be thoroughly cooked through, although it must never be allowed even to simmer. Allow a dessertspoonful of beef tea to each ounce of pulped meat. (Water can be used.) When done it is a nourishing puree of meat, and looks like thick cream. Serve with mustard, and dry toast if liked. Croquettes,—Prepare the mince as has already been de- scribed. Minced ham or very finely-grated tongue should be added to mince made of chicken, rabbit or veal, and the sauce should be flavoured with mushroom peelings. A little minced mushroom improves all minces. After the mince has been thoroughly warmed up in the sauce, pour it on a cold dish and leave it all night to set and get firm. Next day mould the mixture into balls, or thickish fingers, egg and breadcrumb each, fry lightly, then let them rest, egg and breadcrumb a second time, and fry a golden brown in a deep bath of boiling fat. Serve dry on a napkin, garnished with fried parsley.