SKATE 77 this, put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, let it brown slightly, but do not let it burn. Take it off the fire, and let it cool. Put two tablespoonfuls of Fi’ench vinegar into another stewpan, and x'educe it to half. Strain the butter into it, add pepper and salt, and make the sauce as hot as you can without boiling. This sauce is generally poured over the piece of Skate. Skate is a winter fish, in season from October to May. Halibut.—Halibut, or Holibut, though not much used in England, is not to be despised if a cut of it can be bought fresh fi’om the fishing boat. The Halibut is the largest flat fish known, often weighing a hundred pounds and being five feet in length. Ho young Halibut has ever been seen. The flesh is rather coarse in texture, but very firm and white. Halibut is best in May, and out of season in February, March and April. Halibut can be cooked in any of the ways recommended for Cod. It is very good in fillets au bleu like Brill, making the fillets of two pounds of Halibut, and adding with the herbs a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup and the same of tomato sauce. Halibut Steaks with Oysters or Mushrooms.—Have two or three rather thick slices cut from a very fresh Halibut, wash them in salt and water, dry and flour them, and put them into a fire-proof dish. Squeeze a little lemon juice over the fish, add pepper and salt, and dust with Nepaul pepper. Melt from two to four ounces of butter in a stewpan, mix in this the liquor from twelve oysters, and pour it over the Halibut. Set the dish in a brisk oven. It will be done in about half an hour. Serve in the same dish, and five minutes before taking it out of the oven lay the twelve oysters upon the Halibut. The outside of the slices of fish should be brown, crisp, and dry, and the inside tender and flaky. The quantity of butter must be decided partly by the taste of those who are to eat the Halibut. Mushroom ketchup can be substituted for the oyster liquor, and nicely broiled mushrooms can be added instead of the oysters. I now come to the most generally used varieties of those sea fish which swim with their backs uppermost. They are eleven in number. Cod.—The Cod is by far the most important fish of Northern Seas, and the Cod Fisheries,whether British, American