45 THICKENED SOUPS ' given its flavour to the Roux. But, as a rule, it ’is best to use only good dry well-sifted flour and good butter for making Roux. The cook must bear in mind that the Roux must not be added to the soup, but the soup gently poured over the Roux, off the fire. Stir well, so as to avoid lumps, and when the soup and Roux are thoroughly mixed into each other put the soup back on the fire and let it boil up. If the soup is too thin add an ounce of home-made glaze. The soup will be greasy and lumpy if this process is not very carefully followed. Two ounces of Roux will be sufficient to thicken one quart of soup. If anything containing milk, cream, eggs, or butter, has to be added to the soup, the soup must be slightly cooled, and the additions made at the last minute before serving. The soup is easily cooled by taking it off the fire for a few minutes. Roux contains butter, and therefore is too rich an addition to soups in many cases. An excellent thickening of soups can be made by adding arrowroot, or rice-flour. For a quart of soup take an ounce and a half of rice-flour (the French creme de riz). Mix it very slowly and carefully with a little of the soup, putting the rice-flour in a small basin and adding the soup little by little. When the mixture looks like thick cream pour it through a pointed strainer into the soup, which should be hot but not boiling. Stir well, let the soup boil up, and then let it simmer for ten minutes. [Wyvern.] Thickened soups ought always to be passed through a strainer, as lumps cannot be avoided in every case, even by the most careful cook. Thickened soups, as a rule, are made of Second Stock—viz., of the meat and bones which have already been used as first stock for clear soups. But thickened soups require any additions that can be made to them, as they are notin need of clarifying. The additions are varied in kind, but all or any of them are welcome. Fresh vegetables, bones of meat, of poultry, or of game (cooked or uncooked, but far better uncooked), giblets of birds, trimmings of cutlets, a ham bone, rind of bacon, or the brown skin from a roast joint. If the second stock is weak, add an ounce of home-made glaze. If the glaze has been forgotten, a teaspoonful of Liebig or Bovril must be substituted for it.