MELTED BUTTER 129 much the best. Water makes Melted Butter poor, and milk, particularly in summer, is apt to turn sour in a few hours. To make Melted Butter with these ingredients, first melt one ounce of the butter at the bottom of a saucepan. When it is quite melted over a slow fire, add the flour, working it well with a wooden spoon till it forms a smooth paste. Reduce the fire, and cook the roux gently for a few minutes, but do not let it colour. Now add by degrees whichever liquid has been selected, and the saltspoonful of salt. Increase the heat under the pan, and work the Melted Butter well with the wooden spoon till it is soft and creamy. Have ready a hot sauce-boat, and pass the Melted Butter into it through the tin strainer. Just as the sauce reaches the sauce-boat add the second ounce of butter. This, melting of its own accord,, will give the fresh buttery flavour which the sauce requires. If these directions of Wyvern's are strictly followed the Melted Butter will be excellent, and will not resemble (as Melted Butter too often does) the paste used for sticking pictures into scrap-books, only in a weaker form. For Melted Butter to be used as a basis for fish sauce it is quite worth while to spend a few pence in buying “ fish cuttings.” If the Melted Butter seems too thick add a little more of whatever liquid has been used. Several simple variations of Melted Butter can be made. One, which is particularly good with vegetables, is made by beating together in a cup the yolk of a raw egg and the juice of a lemon, and adding it, off the fire, to the Melted Butter just before serving. Parsley-and-butter is easily made by throw- ing blanched and minced parsley into the sauce just before serving. Allow at least a tablespoonful of parsley to half a pint of Melted Butter. Or beat up the yolk of an egg in a table- spoonful of butter warmed till it melts, add a teaspoonful of finely-minced tarragon, and put, all off the fire, into the Melted Butter at the last moment before serving. This is the French Sauce d VEstragon. For a simple fish sauce use fish broth as the liquid, and when the Melted Butter is finished stir into it a tablespoonful of shrimp puree and a teaspoonful of anchovy puree for half a pint of sauce. K