PRESERVES 5°4 through a brass wire sieve, and for every pound of pulp allow a pound of sugar. Bring it to the boil, simmer for three-quarters of an hour, and put into jars. It will become firm as it cools. [Mrs. G. W. Earle.'] Or put the jelly into small moulds, to be turned out for dessert. The fruit of the Pyrus Japonica is excellent if preserved in this way. Three-quarters of a pound of sugar is enough in both cases if the preserve is not liked very sweet. Siberian Cheese.—Wipe the Crabs clean, and cut out any specks with a silver dessert knife. Put them in a covered jar in a slow oven and let them cook till quite tender. Squeeze them through the coarse canvas called cheese-cloth, allow three- quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of pulp, and boil for half an hour, skimming well. Put into moulds, and paper the preserve. Siberian Crabs must never be pared or cored, or the flavour will be lost. Damson Cheese.—(Family Recipe.)—Stew the Damsons as usual in the jar set in boiling water till tender. Rub them through a coarse sieve to take off the skins and to take out the stones. Crack the stones, and blanch the kernels. Boil the cheese one hour before you put in the sugar. Allow one pound of sugar to two quarts of damson pulp. Boil, stirring well, till it is thick. Keep the fire low. You must put in the kernels a few minutes before you take the cheese off the fire. It must boil to a candy, and may take seven hours. You need not stir constantly after the cheese has well thickened. Pour it into shallow moulds. It will be done when it leaves the sides of the pan. Cheshire and Shropshire are celebrated for Damsons. Bullaee Cheese.—(Family Recipe.)—Stew the bullaces as usual, taking care to keep the water in the pan as high as the bullaces in the jar. Proceed as for Damson Cheese. A peck and a half of damsons or bullaces will make ten pints of cheese. Cover the moulds with brandy paper when cold. The Bullaee is the wild plum of English hedgerows. Clear Apple Jelly.—(Family Recipe, 1835.)—Pare and core half a peck of green apples, cut them and two small lemons and drop them as you cut into two quarts of water. Add the apple parings and cores. Boil very slowly till the fruit is quite a pulp. Then strain it through a jelly-bag. To every pint of