JELLIES AND CREAMS 470 be lukewarm or there will be trouble in turning it out. In fact, if touched, the Jelly ought not to feel warm. Put the mould on a perfectly flat surface (or the Jelly will set crooked), and pour the Jelly into it. Put the mould in a cold place, if possible on ice, for at least two hours before it is wanted. To turn Jelly out of a mould, take a basin of hot water, put your elbow, not your hand, into it, and when you can just bear the heat dip the mould, if copper, into the water whilst you say “ knife.” If the mould is earthenware dip it in water whilst you count five. Wipe off all moisture with a cloth. To do this, turn the mould upside down on a folded cloth held in the hand, and then set it upon the dish it is to be served in. The cloth will absorb any moisture. Give the mould a little shake to disengage the Jelly from the sides, and draw it carefully off. If the Jelly sticks do not use a knife, but draw the mould again quickly through the hot water, letting the water cover it for just one second. Some cooks soak the gelatine in a little cold water to make it dissolve more easily, some add it just as the Jelly comes to the boil. Again, some whip the eggs to a stiff froth in a little water, and then pour some of the boiling Jelly upon them so as to add them when quite hot. Some cooks fix a small sieve or colander half way down the jelly-bag, so as to support the filtrating egg, and allow the Jelly to run through more easily. Every cook should try which method suits her best; the great point is to get the Jelly clear and firm without being tough. In decorating the mould put quarters of orange, freed from pips, into the knobs or compartments of what will be the top of the mould when the Jelly is turned out. Each knob should be previously moistened with a veiy little Jelly. Pour a little more, about half an inch deep, upon the pieces of orange, let this set, and when it is firm gently pour in the rest of the Orange Jelly gradmally. In making Jelly flavoured with wine or liqueur many cooks add the flavouring after the Jelly has been strained and cooled, so as to avoid any risk of cloudiness. Allow a quarter of a pint of flavouring. For Jelly with fresh fruit, lemon-juice is the best flavouring. Allow a quarter of a pint of it to three-quarters of a pint of fruit- juice, and a pint of water. Six to eight ounces of sugar will be