MUSSELS ixi Mussels cultivated for bait, are very large, often nine inches in length, and are thus easily avoidable. English sea Mussels, when fit for eating, at three years old, are not more than two inches long. The shells should be thoroughly scraped and scrubbed, changing the water several times to get rid of all sand and grit. The Mussels must be opened with an oyster knife, for it spoils them to put them in a warm place in order to make them open. The so-called beards of Mussels are the horny threads, looking like seaweed, by which the shell is attached to the rock ; these are not edible, and must be carefully removed. Mussel Soup may be made like Oyster Soup, and Mussel Sauce like Oyster Sauce ; indeed, it is said that much of the sauce served at restaurants has more to do with Mussels than it has with Oysters. Lobsters, Crabs, Prawns, Shrimps, and Crayfish all belong to the same family of Shell-fish. Lobsters.—English Lobsters are not in season during the months of January, February, and March, but Lobsters can always be had, as enormous quantities are imported from Norway. These Lobsters travel alive, packed in wet seaweed, and arrive in perfect condition. The largest English Lobsters weigh from eight to twelve pounds, but the great American Lobsters exported to England in tins often weigh as much as twenty-five pounds. Excellent Lobsters are caught off the north coast of Ireland, and these, by arrangement with a friendly fisherman, can be sent freshly-boiled by Parcel Post. It is a great pity that there is not a close time for Lobsters during May and June, for during these months the female Lobster is full of eggs or “coral.” This coral is only used for decoration of dishes, and might well be dispensed with in view of the fact that each bead of coral represents a future Lobster. But such is the demand for coral that a female Lobster is more valuable than a male, although the flesh of the male is better in flavour. The eggs of the Lobster, like those of all this family of Shell-fish, are not fully developed when hatched ; they adhere for a time to the fine hairs with which the “ swimmerets ” or paddles of the mother are fringed. In this state the Lobster is said by fishermen to be “berried,” and commands a good price.