COOKING OF GAME AND VENISON 282 for if allowed to boil the gravy will not be clear. After an hour’s cooking in this manner the gravy may be strained off into a bowl in which it must rest till the fat can be taken off and the sediment has settled. This having been done, the gravy only requires to be heated in the bain-marie when it is wanted. This gravy is of course handed in a sauce-boat. It may seem a great deal of trouble to follow this and similar recipes exactly, but it is by attention to these niceties (which are by no means trifles) that good cooking can be dis- tinguished. It is not by dissolving a spoonful or two of Bovril in hot water—excellent as Bovril is in its way—that such gravy as Wyverns can be made. GPOUSe.—Grouse are in season from the twelfth of August till the tenth of December. Allow thirty minutes for roasting a Grouse, being careful to follow the directions already given. Hand bread sauce, fried breadcrumbs, and brown gravy. In Scotland gravy is never served with Grouse, and if it were it would be made from another Grouse, as meat gravy is con- sidered to spoil the flavour. Scotch cooks put toast under the Grouse to catch the dripping, and serve the birds on it, handing thin melted butter instead of bread sauce. Partridges.—Partridges are in season from the first of September to the end of February. Allow from twenty to twenty-five minutes for roasting a Partridge. Hand bread sauce, fried crumbs, and brown gravy. Partridges au Chou.—This is an excellent way of cook- ing old and tough Partridges. Truss them as for boiling, and put an onion inside each bird. Cut a savoy cabbage into four, blanch each piece in boiling water, and steep them in cold salt and water for one hour. Lay at the bottom of a roomy stewpan slices of fat bacon, two carrots, and two large onions sliced in rings, add a sprinkling of herbs, and a dusting of salt and pepper. Lay the Partridges on this bed, divide and surround them with the pieces of cabbage, and add one or two slices of streaky bacon. Make a strong broth of a pound of fowl giblets, the giblets of the Partridges, one or two sheep’s feet, and an ounce of glaze, seasoning with herbs, pepper, and salt. Let this cover the birds. Put a buttered paper over them, cover the pan closely, bring it to the boil once, and then let it