MEAT 166 of suet left inside a loin of Mutton ; this need only be kept when the kidney has been ordered. A leg of Mutton is by far the most profitable of the joints, but it is a mistake to buy one weighing over nine pounds, as the heavier weight only means coarse, tough meat. A shoulder is liked by some persons ; others agree with the bride who thought that shoulders of Mutton were used for making glue. Breast of Mutton is too fat to be profitable. If Mutton is fresh there will be a reddish look about the bones where they have been sawn off. Opinions differ as to the length of time for which Mutton should be hung, and much depends on the state of the weather, and on the size and ventilation of the larder. About a week is generally the best time, now that sheep are killed so much younger than they used to be. Butchers will generally hang meat until customers require it, but if sheep are killed at the home farm the mistress of the house must use her discretion. Bor instance, she must consider how long to hang saddles and legs of mutton so as to ensure their being tender, and she must see that the scrag-ends of the necks are cut off when quite fresh, so as to be profitable in the stock-pot. Sheep’s feet, heads, and tongues are always useful. Sheep’s kidneys are generally liked, but if there are any spots upon them they must be rejected. The usual weights of joints of English Mutton are : Leg, five to nine pounds; Saddle, eleven to twelve pounds ; Loin (half the saddle), six pounds; Shoulder, five to seven pounds; Breast, three pounds; Best end of Neck, four pounds; Scrag-end, three pounds. Pre Sale Mutton—that is, mutton from sheep fed on salt marshes by the sea—is considered to have a specially fine flavour, and is light in weight. These weights are given for English Mutton. But for a small family the small Mutton from the Welsh hills, from Dartmoor, or from Exmoor, is infinitely preferable. Messrs. Jones, Central Buildings, Llandudno, supply excellent Welsh Mutton, carriage paid, to English customers. They even send Welsh Mutton to France. The difference in weight between Welsh and English Mutton, or indeed between that of any mountain sheep and other sheep, is very great; a saddle often weighs only seven pounds, a neck three pounds, and the largest