291 HARES AND RABBITS must be thoroughly -washed inside with salt and water. If Hares and Rabbits are stuffed, this must be done before they are trussed, and the opening of the stomach (which has been filled with the stuffing) must be neatly sewn up. Although we may not all feel like the young lady in Miss Broughton’s Nancy, who could not sit in the room with a roast Hare, there is something very repulsive in the hunted, terrified •expression of its face, with the lips tightly drawn back from the grinning teeth. In Germany the rable, or saddle, of the Hare is sold by itself, without the head, neck, shoulders, and thighs ; these are sold separately, and used for jugging or for soup. It is much the best way to follow this German plan here, always cooking the Hare in English fashion. Never buy a Hare ready trussed; if you do the valuable parts of the inside are nearly sure to be. gone, and the body of the Hare will be so muon tortured out of shape that the stuffing cannot be extracted from it without great exertion on the part of the carver. Many cooks use the blood of a Hare, but, as in the recipe for Hare Soup, I shall avoid that ingredient altogether. When the Hare is skinned, cleaned, and wiped inside and •out, it is an excellent plan to leave it to marinade all day. For this marinade use a claret-glass of Orleans vinegar, of port wine, and of muslirc- im ketchup, in which a tablespoonful of ■currant jelly has been dissolved. Add a teaspoonful of spiced pepper, six peppercorns, a saltspoonful of salt, a chopped onion, and a dessertspoonful of marjoram and thyme blended. [ Wyvern.~\ Cover the bottom of a large dish with this marinade, and turn and baste the Hare in it several times during the •day. Take the Hare out of the marinade, wipe it dry, line the whole of its inside with thin slices of fat bacon. Fill the ■cavity with herb stuffing (see page 202). If liked, the kidneys and heart of the Hare can be minced and fried in bacon fat with an ounce of onion, then left to get cold, pounded to a paste, and mixed with the stuffing. Whether the whole Hare, or only the rable, or saddle, is used, the lining and the stuffing should always be the same. In trussing a Hare either skewers or a trussing-needle and string can be used, but u 2