GAME, VENISON, AND WILD FOWL 280 Widgeon.— Head rich chestnut sprinkled with black. A band of yellowish-orange and cream colour extends over the crown of the head. Weight of Widgeon, about twrenty-four ounces. The Wild Goose, or Grey Lag Goose, is believed to be the original parent of all varieties of Geese. It weighs from eight to nine pounds. The Wild Goose still breeds in Scotland, and possibly in Ireland. It is in season during the winter and early spring, but as the flavour is apt to be fishy the Goose should be skinned before it is cooked. All aquatic birds are fishy in the spring. One way of counteracting this is to skin them as soon as they are killed ; another way is to use the fillets only. An old-fashioned method is to baste the bird for the first ten minutes with salted wrater in which an onion has been boiled; after that time to baste with butter only. If the fillets are used, broil them. Canvas-back Ducks are a delicacy peculiar to North America. It is an excellent plan to stuff an English Wild Duck with celery, as this gives a flavour somewhat like that of the canvas-back, which feeds on the wild celery it finds in the marshy parts of North America. ON THE COOKING OF GAME, VENISON, & WILD FOWL. The cooking of Game differs from the cooking of Poultry in the fact that it is very easy to spoil the flavour by over-roasting. All Game birds should be roasted with their livers chopped and put inside them with either an ounce of butter or a slice of fat bacon rolled up. Partridges and Pheasants are improved in flavour by putting a shallot inside them. Game birds must be very carefully plucked, singed, and trussed according to the rules already given for Poultry. It is essential to roast them before a clear fire, and they must never be baked in the oven. The breasts of Game Birds should be covered with a wide slice of fat bacon fastened on with tape, and the bird itself wrapped in a buttered paper. It must be very frequently basted with butter whilst roasting. A few minutes before the bird is done uncover it, so that