489 TAPIOCA CUSTARD chopped almonds, and stir well for a minute or two. Stop before the sugar turns too dark, and at once pour the whole upon a cold marble slab. It will harden immediately. When cold, pound the praline to powder in a mortar. A compote of fruit nmy be handed with this dish, but it is quite good enough without. (2.) Coffee Custard Pudding1 a la Turque,—For a pint roast four ounces of coffee berries in the Demon Roaster (see page 339), moistening them with half an ounce of butter. Boil three-quarters of a pint of milk, take it off the fire, empty .the coffee berries into it, and let them soak, covered up, in a warm place for an hour. Strain, and turn, the milk to a custard with four eggs, sweetening with an ounce of sugar. Strain this when made. Choose a pint border mould, butter it well, line it with crushed ratafias, pour in the custard and steam gently (as in last recipe) till firm. Let it get cold in the mould, and turn it out. If liked, choose a mould with a hollow rim, glaze the custard with diluted apricot jam, fill the hollow rim with preserved cherries, and hand this sauce : Put three tablespoonfuls of apricot jam in a gill of water, with a table- spoonful of rum. Boil, pass through a strainer, and serve cold. The coffee flavour is much better when Mocha berries are used in this way ; liquid coffee does not answer nearly so well. (3.) Apple Custard Pudding1.—Choose a pint and a half plain charlotte mould, butter it well with a brush, using melted butter slightly cooled. Decorate the top and walls of the mould with ratafias—slices of stale Madeira cake Avould do— fixing them neatly. Cut six large apples in quarters, peel, and core them. Blanch them for a minute in boiling water, drain, lay them on a buttered saute-pan, moisten them with a gill of plain syrup, and squeeze a lemon over them. Cover the pan, and cook the apples very gently, keeping the quarters firm. Make the syrup of a pint of water, ten ounces of sugar, and the “ zest ” of the lemon. When the quarters of apple are cooked, but still firm, spread them on a large flat dish, and marinade them for four hours in the syrup, adding a tablespoonful of Icirsch. Make the custard with half a pint of milk, boiled and cooled, using four whole eggs, two ounces of sugar, and flavour with ratafia. Strain and cool the custard. Whilst it is cooling