EGGS AND OMELETTES 396 Aurora Eggs—{Family Recipe.)—Boil four Eggs hard, take the yolks from the whites, and put the yolks into a mortar with the yolk of one raw Egg and an ounce and half of hutter. Work well together. Take the whites and cut them in strips. Put them into half a pint of good bechamel sauce, seasoned with a little salt. Make them quite hot, and serve them on a dish with the yolks rubbed through a coarse sieve and shaken over them. Garnish with cocks’ combs of fried bread. Brown the whole with a salamander. Or let the yolk of the Eggs look like golden vermicelli on the top of the whites. Egg'S a la Suisse.—This is a rich dish. The great point in it is to partly cook the first layer of cream and cheese before the Eggs are put in. If this is not attended to the Eggs will be over-cooked. Wyvcrns admirable recipe is: Choose a fire-proof dish, and butter it liberally. Pour over the bottom a layer of cream a quarter of an inch deep, over that shake a coating of grated cheese an eighth of an inch deep. Set this to cook in the oven for a few minutes. When the cream and cheese have amalgamated take out the dish, and slip in one by one as carefully as you can—to avoid breaking a single yolk—four Eggs. Give them a dust of black pepper, and salt, and gently pour a little more cream over the surface, coating it over again with grated cheese. Replace the dish in the oven and let it remain there until the Eggs are set without being at all hard. The time will depend on the state of the oven, but will probably be from three to four minutes. Brown the surface by passing a red-hot iron backwards and forwards over it, about an inch above the cheese, and serve. (If more Eggs are wanted, use a second dish, as they must not be crowded.) Eg’g’S in Bread Sauce.—(Quantity for Sir Persons.)— Flavour a pint of milk as you would for bread sauce (see page 260). Turn the milk into a white sauce with half an ounce of flour and of butter. Butter a large fire-proof dish, pour over the bottom of it a layer of the sauce at least a quarter of an inch deep, and strew over it a layer of pounded breadcrumbs seasoned with salt and pepper. Put the dish in the oven for a few minutes to heat without boiling, take it out and slip into it, carefully and without breaking, six Eggs. Dust a layer of very fine raspings over the surface, and return the dish to the oven