i37 SHARP SAUCES, SERVED HOT be served perfectly cold. To ensure this, set the bowl of sauce over broken ice as soon as the Mayonnaise is made, which should not be very long before it is wanted. Sauce Mayonnaise Gollee is made without eggs and with aspic jelly. It is particularly good with chicken salad or fish salad. Put into a bowl half a pint of half-melted aspic jelly. If the weather is warm, set the bowl over ice. With a small whisk whip into the jelly half a gill of salad oil. The Sauce will soon look creamy. Add a little more oil, whipping all the while, till the Mayonnaise is like smooth cream, and finish with a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar. Tartare Sauce, although very like Mayonnaise, is made some- what differently. It should be made in a cool larder, and the bowl should be set over broken ice during the process. Put into the bowl two raw yolks of eggs, a teaspoonful of French mustard, and a small saltspoonful of salt. If French mustard is not liked, use mustard flour. Mix all well together, and then begin to add the oil, being most careful to add it drop by drop. Blend the oil thoroughly with the eggs, and go on, adding a very few drops of oil at a time, till you have used a gill of oil, and the Sauce has become smooth, thick, and creamy. Now stir in a dessertspoonful of vinegar, and add the minced herbs which give to Tartare Sauce its distinctive speckled green appearance. These should be a teaspoonful of minced chervil, of burnet, of gherkins (if liked), and of either minced chives or onion threads, with half a teaspoonful only of minced tarragon. Sauce Ravigote is made by adding to mayonnaise a ravigote— that is, equal quantities of minced chervil, chives, burnet, and tarragon. Mayonnaise, Tartare Sauce, and Ravigote, can all be coloured green by adding the green juices squeezed from the herbs used, mixed with a little spinach colouring. Do not use the juice of parsley, for its taste is acrid and dis- agreeable. If the directions which have been given are carefully followed, there will be no difficulty in producing good Sauces, whether Melted Butter or Sauce Blonde, with the various Sauces of which they form the foundation, or the descendants