SAVOURY POTATOES AUX HERBES 3i3 minced shallot is added to the mixture when the skins are filled. A teaspoonfnl for each Potato is sufficient. Potato Scallops.—Boil the Potatoes, peel them, drain them, rub through a wire sieve, and put them into a stewpan. Stir in half an ounce of butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream, two raw yolks of egg, a tablespoonful of minced parsley, and season well with pepper, slightly with salt. Butter some fire- proof scallop shells, dust them with fine breadcrumbs, fill the shells with the Potato mixture, smoothing the top with a knife dipped in butter which has been melted, and strew the surface with grated cheese. Bake in a quick oven till the Potato mixture is a delicate brown. Potato Croquettes.—These should be cooked like Fried Potato Balls, only shaped like little sausages, and served with fried parsley. French Potatoes.—After practically boiling the Potatoes cut them into slices when cold, and put them into a saucepan. Cover them with milk and finish cooking them in this, adding fresh butter, minced parsley, pepper and salt. [Mrs. G. W. Earle.'} Potato Tartlets.—This is another French recipe. Boil the Potatoes, peel them, and rub them through a sieve. When cold add two whole eggs, butter in the proportion of an ounce to every three Potatoes, and at least a dessertspoonful of Parmesan, with salt and pepper. Mix all well together, take pieces the size of an egg, flour them, forming them into the shape of tartlets, and fry quickly. Or the Potato mixture can be put whilst hot into small patty-pans which have been well-buttered. Let it get cold, turn the tartlets out, flour them, brush them over with beaten egg, dust them with fine crumbs, and fry at once. Serve very hot. It is worth observing that minced Mint, especially with new Potatoes, is better than Parsley. Mint abroad always tastes like peppermint, and some authorities consider this to be due to the dner soil. However this may be, Mint is but little used in France, Parsley or Chervil being substituted for it. Potato Balls.—{Family Recipe.}—Steam four large Pota- toes. Peel and dry them thoroughly. Mash them in a basin with two ounces of butter, a pinch of salt, a dust of pepper, a