ON CLEANING FISH 95 separately. Dry the inside of the fish with a clean cloth. If there is any slime on the fish rub it over with salt and then wash it vexy thoroughly. Izaak Walton thought it best to scale fish with his nails. But in these days a knife is used. Hold the fish fii’mly by the head in your left hand, and scrape off the scales with a knife, working from the tail towards the head. Salmon and Ti-out are not scaled, but most freshwater fish are so difficult to scale that it is better to dip them first into boiling water-. This loosens the scales. If the freshwater fish is a muddy feeder like Tench or Carp or Perch, wash it well, rub salt down the backbone, and lay it in strong salt and water for a few hours. In skinning Sea Fish it must be remembered that Haddocks and Whiting and all similar fish are skinned from the head to the tail; if this were not done the flesh would come of in flakes. For a Whiting, slit the skin down the middle of the back, and the skin will come off in two halves. For Haddocks and other such fish, cut off the fins, and having dipped your finger and thumb in salt slip the finger under the skin close to the head of the fish and draw off the skin downwards towards the tail. The fins of all fish except Turbot and Skate must be trimmed neatly off with a pair of scissors kept expressly for the purpose. The thick glutinous fins of Turbot and Skate are thought a great delicacy, and are therefore left on. It is almost impossible to skin a Plaice, as the skin adhei’es so tightly to the flesh. It is better to leave it on if the Plaice is to be baked or fried, but, when it must be skinned for filleting, fillet it first, lay the fillets on a board with the skin downwards, and peel the flesh off with the point of a sharp knife. The skinning of a Sole, or any flat fish except a Plaice, must be done from the tail and not from the head. When yon have trimmed off the fins take a sharp knife and make a cut aci'oss the root of the tail. Then put your thumb in between the skin and the flesh of the Sole and run it all round the edges of the fish, thus loosening the skin. Now either hold the tail of the fish firmly in a cloth with one hand and pull the skin off with the other, or dip both your thumbs and both your forefingers in salt to prevent slipping, hold the tail of the fish in one hand and the skin in the other, and draw the skin firmly but gently off towards the head.