483 PLAIN PUDDING Plain Pudding1.—(Family Recipe.)—Three spoonfuls of flour, three eggs, and a pint of cream. Simmer for one hour and ten minutes. Brown Bread Pudding*.—Half a pound of brown bread crumbs, of currants, and of sugar, six ounces of powdered suet, five eggs, and a gill of brandy. Steam for two hours. Muffin Pudding’.-—Take the outsides off three muffins, tear the insides into thin slices, and put them in a pint basin. Beat four eggs well, and take as much milk as the muffins will absorb. Let it stand a while, and do not stir it. Add a little sugar and dried cherries between every alternate layer of muffin. Bake one hour. Prussian Pudding’S.—(Family Recipe.)—Take a pint of thick cream, a teacupful of melted butter, three spoonfuls of flour, and a little nutmeg. Beat the yolks of five eggs and the whites of two very smoothly with a little sugar. Add the other things to the eggs. Bake half an hour in buttered cups. This will make five small puddings. Wentworth House Batter Pudding-.—{Family Recipe.) —Take one pint of milk, three eggs, six spoonfuls of flour, beat them well together for a long time till it is quite hard. Put it into a basin, tie a cloth over it, and let it boil three hours. Take it out of the pot, and let it stand half an hour by the fireside before serving. Batter Pudding- for One Person.—{Family Recipe.)—A gill of milk boiled, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of flour. Beat it all up together, and boil it for half an hour in a cloth, and not in a basin. This make* the pudding lighter, but the appear- ance is not so neat. In all Batter Puddings add the milk very gradually, and beat the mixture thoroughly, or the batter will never be smooth. It is an excellent plan to keep back the whites of the eg; s, then whisk them to a froth, and stir it into the pudding just before it is put into the cloth. The pudding must have room to swell, and the water must be boiling fast when it is put in. Batter Puddings must be served at once, or they will be heavy. If fruit is liked the pudding must be boiled in a mould, and an ounce or more of well-washed and plumped currants dropped in at the last moment. Or dried cherries can be used. 1 1 2