427 MERTON COLLEGE CIDER CUP Merton College Cider Cup.—'To one quart of cider add two wineglasses of sherry and one of brandy, a little nutmeg, and a few slices of lemon. Sweeten with sugar. Serve up with a little ice and sprigs of balm and borage. Do not leave the herbs in too long. Rum Punch.—(Family Recipe.)—Squeeze the juice of nine ripe lemons into two quarts of boiling water. Add a pound of loaf sugar well rubbed with the rinds of the lemons. Pour in a pint and quarter of rum. If the lemons are not juicy you must use twelve. Summer Punch.—Pour half a pint of gin on the thinly- pared rind of a lemon, squeeze in the juice of half the lemon. Then add a glass of maraschino, a pint and quarter of cold water, and two bottles of iced soda water. This will make three pints of Punch. Do not ice the Punch ; it is much better to ice the soda water. Milk Punch.—Put the rind of half a lemon and twelve lumps of sugar into one pint of new milk. Boil it very gently for a quarter of an hour. Take the saucepan off the fire and take out the lemon peel. Have ready the yolk of an egg thoroughly blended with two tablespoonfuls of brandy, four of rum, and one of cold milk. Whisk all together off the fire, and serve as soon as it froths. Punch a la Romaine.—Take a teacupful (three ounces) of rum, the same of champagne, and three teacupfuls of lemonade. Add the juice of two oranges. Whip the whites of two eggs with half a pound of powdered sugar to a firm froth. Mix this with the liquid, ice it, and serve in cups. Egg Flip.—Take a pint of mild ale, and bring it to the boil. Stir into it, off the fire, two whole eggs beaten up with three ounces of sugar. Pour the Flip into a hot jug (scalded out with boiling water), and pour it into another heated jug, holding the jug you pour from as high as you can. Repeat this several times till the Egg Flip is well frothed. Never let it get cold. Grate a little ginger over it before you serve the Egg Flip. Mulled Claret.—(Family Recipe.)—Put half a pint of claret into a saucepan with a little water, six or eight cloves, and a piece of cinnamon. Make it boiling hot. Grate a little nutmeg and a little ground ginger into a jug (the ginger grated