332 CABBAGE, BRUSSELS SPROUTS, AND BROCCOLI Cauliflower.—A Cauliflower, as has previously been pointed out, needs careful cooking, and should be boiled head down- wards in order to preserve the whiteness and delicacy of the flower. The stalk must be cut across twice X- Great care must be taken not to break the flower. Cauliflower must be put into plenty of boiling salted water, and never into a tinned saucepan. The lid of the saucepan should be off, but if the Cauliflower does not boil up quickly put the lid on till the water begins to bubble. Cauliflower must be carefully watched, as it is very easily overdone and has then to be served as a sodden broken-up heap. Cauliflower is much better when steamed than when it is boiled. Baked Cauliflower.—When the Cauliflower is nearly boiled try with a skewer if it is tender. Then cut the stalk flat, so that the Cauliflower fills a buttered pudding-dish like a flat bouquet. Beat up a cupful of breadcrumbs to a soft paste with two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and three of cream or milk. Season with pepper and salt, add a well-beaten egg, and cover the Cauliflower with the mixture. Cover the dish closely, bake for six minutes in a quick oven, brown in five minutes more. Serve in same dish. Fried Cauliflower.—Cut the flower in even pieces, blanch in salted water, and lift each piece out with a slice or perforated spoon. Place them on a dish to cool, not touching each other. Dip each piece in well-dried flour and fry in butter on both sides. Serve on a hot dish. Grated cheese may be dusted over the pieces. Cauliflower an Gratin.—This dish ought to be more care- fully prepared than it generally is in England. Steam the head till it is all but cooked, and test it with a skewer. Drain it very carefully. Mix one ounce of butter, one ounce and a quarter of flour, a little salt and white pepper, in half a pint of stock, and dissolve into it one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese. Put the Cauliflower into a fire-proof dish. It can be whole, but it looks better and is easier to help if the spi'igs of the flower are carefully picked off and arranged high, taking care to put one of the tender green leaves between each sprig. Pour the sauce thickly round the Cauliflower, and dust a good layer of cheese over the whole. Put the dish in the oven, and