FISH SOUPS 62 flounders. A fresli water Boars can be made of small trout or gudgeons. Eels and perch can also be used. Wyvern's recipe is: Fillet tbe fisli neatly in small fillets; set these aside, and put the whole of the remnants, heads, skin, bones, fins, and trimmings, into a stewpan, adding for each pound weight of such stock-stuff four ounces of onion sliced thinly, a handful of curled parsley shredded, a dessertspoonful of horseradish shavings (a tablespoonful of parsley roots about an inch long), twelve peppercorns, a good teaspoonful of salt (a pinch of mace or mixed spice) ; cover with cold water, bring slowly to the boil, skim, then simmer for half an hour, and strain. Into this hot broth, using another stewpan for the purpose, put the fillets of fish, with six freshly-cut pieces of parsley blanched for three minutes in scalding water, and cook gently for about ten minutes until the fillets are tender. Now empty the contents of the pan into a deep dish (for the Boars is both soup and fish), and serve with thin brown bread and butter. Boars is eaten -with a fork and spoon, and served in soup-plates. What is wanted in a Boars is a strong fish broth, quite apart from the little fillets afterwards served in it. Probably the horseradish will be found sufficient without the parsley roots, and the spice may be omitted if not liked. If the fish broth is not strong enough the head of a cod will greatly improve it.* Shrimp Puree.—I have chosen this recipe as a model of fisli Purees. Make two pints of uncoloured broth from a shillingsworth of chicken giblets, or from veal and veal bones. Clear this of fat, and partly thicken it with half an ounce of butter and three-quarters of an ounce of flour. Set it aside. Pick a pint measure of shrimps, saving the shells but not the heads. After washing the shells empty them into a stewpan, pour the partly thickened broth ovei' them, bring this to the boil, and simmer for 25 minutes. Skim, and strain into a bowl. Divide the picked shrimps into three portions, reserve one of them for garnish, and take the other two for the Puree, O 7 * It is a mistake to suppose that the Dutch word Zootje has anything to do with fish or cooking. Zootje merely means a little thing.