FRESH BRILL, SMOKED 97 the smoke, butter the fish fillets on both sides, lay them side by side on the gridiron, covering them, as they are cooking in the vapour, with the lid of a tin fish-kettle, to concentrate the smoke. In about ten minutes the fish will turn a rich warm brown on the side nearer the fire; then turn it, and smoke the other side, which will take about five minutes. The fillets can now be served with any plain sharp sauce. The process can be managed in an ordinary fire grate if the kitchen range is a closed one, and in smoke produced from damp clean straw, or shavings laid on a wood fire. [ Wyvern.] Russian Salmon Pie.—Either make or get from the bakers such dough as they use for making milk rolls. Take half a quartern of dough ; beat up two eggs with from a quarter to half a pound of butter, mix this well with the dough and let it rise. When sufficiently risen spread it out on a baking sheet. Take rice which has been well boiled the day before, and add to it a little butter, one hard-boiled egg chopped small, and a little boiled and minced onion. Spread the rice pretty thickly on your crust, leaving a sufficient margin uncovered all round. On this bed of rice lay a pound of Salmon. Cover the fish with another layer of rice, and turn over the margin of dough so as to completely enclose the whole. Make a little hole at the top. Bake the pie (it will probably need an hour), and before serving pour in a teacupful of good fish broth through the hole. Cod or haddock can be cooked in the same way. If cod is used, a few sauce oysters are a great improvement. RIVER FISH. River Fish, such as Salmon, Salmon Trout, and Trout are unrivalled in flavour, and other sorts, such as Grayling and Gudgeons are very good. But all these Fish should be cooked as soon as possible, for, as Izaak Walton says in his “ Compleat Angler,” published in 1653, “ These kinds of Fish, a Trout “ especially, if he is not eaten within four or five hours after he “ be taken, is worth nothing.” Sir Henry Thompson in Food and Feeding speaks of the astonishment with which a Frenchman tastes for the first time a Severn or Christchurch Salmon taken from the water in the H