3° SOUPS occasions when they put quantities of the best gravy-beef into it. Now, some modern cooks look upon the stock-pot as a sort of perpetually simmering pig-tub, into which anything and everything can be thrown. In these cases the mistress must explain to the cook that it is quite impossible to make eatable soup by the boiling down and cooking for uncalculated hours of all sorts of scraps, and that by such a practice materials and fuel are both wasted. Discrimination must be used as to what is put into the stock-pot, and some things must never be put into it at all. These are : 1. Scraps or bones which comeback to the kitchen on plates which have been used at meals. 2. Pieces of fat, which would spoil the Soup, but can be otherwise used. 3. Potatoes and cabbage, whether raw or cooked. Potatoes would poison the water in the stock-pot, cabbage would make the Soup uneatable. 4. Pieces of bread and toast, which should be reserved for making crumbs. 5. Remains of sauces, which, valuable if laid aside and used again, would turn the stock sour. Copper 'stock-pots have been in general use for many years, but they are expensive to begin with and require tinning every year. The seamless steel stock-pots are excellent, and so are the French marmites of glazed earthenware; both are much cheaper than copper, and of course they require no tinning. A family stock-pot should hold eight quarts. It must be kept perfectly clean, and to ensure this it should be well scalded with boiling water in which a lump of soda has been dissolved. This must be done every time before the stock-pot is used. If there is a gas-stove in the kitchen the stock-pot should be placed upon it, as the heat can be easily regulated. This is difficult to manage on the fire, as if the stock-pot has to be taken off whilst the fire is mended the stock will cool and be injured, if not spoilt altogether. It is best to make stock in small quantities for family use. If begun in the morning the whole process of heating, skim- ming, simmering, and straining can be slowly carried on, and the broth can be set aside in an earthenware bowl for use next