99 SALMON RAGOUT pepper and salt. Prepai’e an equal quantity of cold cooked Vegetable Marrow or Cucumber neatly trimmed in small fillets. Slice finely two ounces of onion and the same of carrot, and fry them without colouring in an ounce of butter. Now add a pint of fish broth (or milk and water, two-thirds milk to one-third water), the fish bones and trimmings, one pennyworth of fish cuttings, a blade of mace and a saltspoonful of salt. Boil this up and simmer it afterwards till you have extracted all the flavour. Now strain off the broth, skim, thicken it, add a good tablespoonful of minced herbs—parsley, tarragon, chives, and chervil; heat up the fillets of fish and vegetable in this, give a squeeze of lemon, and serve in a hot dish. [ Wyvern.] Salmon Steaks, Served Cold, Jewish Fashion.—Cut the Steaks three-quarters of an inch thick. Lay them in slightly salted water for ten minutes. Dry them with a clean cloth, dredge on both sides with flour, and roll them in beaten egg. Fry in really boiling oil for twenty minutes, turning the Steaks so that they are equally cooked on both sides. Drain on blotting-paper laid on a cloth, and set the Steaks aside till quite cold. Hand iced tartare sauce in a boat. Slice Of Salmon Poached.—Choose a slice of Salmon weighing about a pound and not more than an inch thick, make a pint and a half of fish broth from a pennyworth of fish cuttings. Strain the broth, add a glass of chablis, and pour it into an eight-inch saute-pan with an upright rim. Bring to the boil, then put in the Salmon, let it boil a minute, and then simmer it for eight or ten minutes till it is tender. Drain off all the broth, leaving the Salmon in the dry pan, covered with a hot cloth, while you turn half the broth to sauce. For this, have ready a roux of three-quarters of an ounce of butter and the same of flour in a different saucepan. Boil rip and skim, passing the sauce rapidly through a hair sieve, and finishing with the yolk of an egg, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Divide the Salmon into nice pieces, dish on a small flat dish, mask with the sauce, and serve. [ Wyvern.] British Salmon is in season from February (when the Irish rivers open) till the beginning of September. Dutch Salmon can be had during the five months in which the English fish is out of season. The same rule as to season applies to Grayling. H 2