TO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME 262 glaze. A brown sauce made of the giblets and well flavoured with the mushroom trimmings should be poured round the chicken. Or oyster sauce should be handed, and a little gravy from the broth poured round the chicken. Spitchcocked Chicken.—This is much the same as the American “ broiler,” and in each case the bird must be quite young. Spitchcock, as with Eels, means split open, and must not be spelt with an A. Split the bird through the backbone with a very sharp knife, season it very well, particularly the inside, with pepper. Then lay it flat on the gridiron with the inner pai't of the bird next the fire. See that the gridiron is hot and very thoroughly buttered, and hold it a good way above the fire. Let the fowl remain on the gridiron till it is half done, which will be in twenty minutes, and be most care- ful that it does not bum. Baste well with butter. Turn it, and broil the other side for twenty minutes. Broil the Chicken a good brown, and serve with broiled or stewed mushrooms. A small fowl will take five minutes less on each side. The Spitchcock can be skewered open, and broiled for twenty minutes in all, in a hanging gridiron. This is far less trouble, and the result is far less good. “Wyvern’s” Spitchcock.—Pluck and clean a chicken, saving the giblets, of which a broth should be made, assisted by any scraps of meat there may be, vegetables, and half an ounce of glaze. Next open the bird down the back, truss the legs and wings as for boiling, and flatten out the fowl like a steak. When to be cooked, wipe the fowl, brush it over with egg, turn it over on a cloth spread with breadcrumbs, and grill it care- fully over a bright fire. To do this effectively the crumbs must be given time to set well, and just before grilling a brush dipped in melted butter should be passed over the bird. Butter the gridiron and see that the fire is not too fierce. Lay the inside to meet the fire first, and turn gently—not too close to the coals ; butter should be brushed over the surface once or twice during the process. Serve as soon as the bird is done, on a hot dish, garnishing with watercress. The clear broth without thickening should be handed in a boat, a dessert- spoonful of coarsely-chopped tarragon being added to it. Hand bread sauce also.