472 JELLIES AND CREAMS but omit the water. Let it come gently to the boil. Then skim it, and pass it two or three times through the jelly-bag, before cooling it and pouring it into the mould. Lemon Jelly.—(Family Recipe.)—Pare four lemons into three gills of spring water. Let it stand one hour, then add to it eight ounces of sugar, and the juice of the four lemons. Strain through a cloth, and put to it the whites of four eg?s well beaten and half an ounce of soaked gelatine. Set it over the fire, and let it boil. Skim it, and when pretty thick run it through a piece of muslin. Put the jelly into glasses, with a little froth of white of egg on each. Brooks’ Club Strawberry Jelly.—{Family Recipe.)— Rub the fruit through a sieve with a very little sugar. Add a very little gelatine and a little syrup. Pour it into a mould and put it on ice till set. Claret Jelly.—A bottle of light claret, a sherryglass of cherry brand}', four ounces of white sugar, the rind of one finely-peeled lemon and the juice of two, a gill and a half of raspberry syrup (or half a pound of raspberry jam). Boil all together, add an ounce of gelatine, and strain through muslin. Decorate a jelly-mould with crystallised raspberries, set it upon ice, pour some of the liquid jelly into the mould to set the fruit, and after that gradually fill the mould with the liquid. Let the jelly get quite firm. Hand a pint of iced cream, slightly sweetened. Or use a border-mould, and put whipped cream in the centre. [ Wyvern.) Prune Jelly.—Put into an enamelled saucepan a pound of prunes, two ounces of white sugar, the finely-peeled rind of a lemon, a piece of cinnamon, and enough claret and water, mixed half and half, to cover them. Stew gently till the prunes are quite tender. Take the pan off the fire, drain off the liquid, stone the prunes, and pass them through the sieve into a basin. Crack the stones, and add the kernels to the prune pulp. Steep an ounce of gelatine in the liquid strained off, put it on the fire, and when the gelatine is dissolved mix it with the prune pulp, adding a sherryglass of cherry brandy. Decorate a plain border-mould with blanched almonds, fill the mould with the prune liquid, and put it on ice to set. When turned out fill the centre with whipped cream.