482 PUDDINGS Mix together the juice and rind of one lemon, three ounces of melted butter, of loaf sugar, of breadcrumbs, and three yolks of eggs. Pour it in, and bake. Swiss Pudding-.—{Family Recipe.)—Take the crumbs of a two-pound loaf, three large apples chopped fine, and a quarter of a pound of butter flavoured with lemon-peel, sugar, and nutmeg. Put in a mould a layer of bread, apple, and butter alternately, and bake one hour and a half. Cabinet Pudding-.—(jFamily Recipe.)—Take a tin mould five inches deep, and wider at the top than at the,bottom. Let the inside be covered with butter, and then arrange dried cherries (or picked raisins) on it. Pill the mould three parts full with sponge cakes cut in pieces and ratafia cakes inter- mixed. Moisten them with a gill of brandy and the same of sherry. (Curacoa is better than brandy, and Madeira is better than sherry for this.) Just before the mould is ready for the stewpan pour in a sufficient quantity of cold custard to fill up all the spaces between the cakes. Cover the mould with a buttered white paper, put it in a stewpan of boiling water, and let it simmer for one hour. You will want five sponge cakes, a quarter of a pound of ratafia cakes, three-quarters of a pound of dried cherries, and one pint of custard. Bread Pudding".—(Family Recipe.)—Eight ounces of breadcrumbs, one tablespoonful of flour, four ounces of beef suet minced to a powder, two eggs, two ounces of currants, a tablespoonful of moist sugar, a little chopped lemon-peel, and a very little nutmeg. Mix all with a little milk, and steam the pudding in a buttered mould for two hours. Or bake the mixture in little cups, adding a little cream and another egg. Peasant’s Pudding".—(Family Recipe.)—Fill a deep tart- dish with alternate layers of well-sugared fresh fruit, and thin slices of the crumb of a light stale loaf. Let the top layer be of fruit, and sprinkle on that a dessertspoonful of lemon-juice. Bake for half an hour'. Custard Pudding-.—(Family Recipe.)—Take one whole egg and the yolks only of two more, add them, off the fire, to a gill of new milk which has been previously boiled with a little lemon-peel grated into it. Steam the whole together about twenty minutes.