533 MUFFINS well heated, half fill them with the batter, and set them to rise. When the batter has x'isen level with the top of the rings turn them gently and bake till a good straw colour. Take out the tin, turn out the Muffins, open them, toast slightly on the inside, butter them, fold the two pieces together again, and serve at once. About a pint of milk or a little more will be probably required to form the hatter. Time, about twenty-five minutes. [ Wyvern.) Muffins should be torn open with two forks, not cut. Crumpets.—Freshly-made Crumpets are much better than those bought cold and toasted afterwards. Thoroughly mix together twelve ounces of Vienna flour (that is, fine pastry flour), a small saltspoonful of salt, and three-quarters of an ounce of Teatman’s powder. Then stir in an ounce of butter melted, one egg well beaten, and enough milk to form a smooth hatter. With this half fill the Muffin rings, prepared as for Muffins, watch, and when the hatter rises somewhat, turn each crumpet once carefully, and finish baking. Toast lightly» butter, and serve. [Wyvern.) Scones.—Scones used to be baked, like girdle-cakes, on the “ girdle,” that is, a flat iron plate hung over the fire, from which they were taken by the “ spurtle ” or slice. But they can be quite as well made on an iron frying-pan set on the hot-plate, or, perhaps-rather less well, on a baking sheet in the oven. A round iron plate is easily made to use instead of the frying-pan, and it should have a loop at one side by which it can be held. A good bottom heat is needed for Scones. Scotch Scones.—Take equal quantities of flour, butter, and milk, mix all very thoroughly together, roll it out thin, cut it into rounds with a tumbler, and bake on the girdle for fifteen or twenty minutes. Water Scones.—These are quite limp. Knead the flour into a paste with boiling water, using wooden spoons, and working the paste till it is perfectly smooth. Roll out a quarter of an inch thick, cut out, and bake on the girdle. As soon as one side of each scone has set turn it, and bake the other side. Time, about five minutes. Serve in a hot napkin. Cream Scones.—Use either brown or white flour. Heat half a pint of cream, and when it comes to the boil dredge in flour till the paste is rather thick. Stir it all the time, and add a little salt. Roll out, cut, and bake limp scones as befoi’e.