I 2 I KEDGEREE OR KHITCHRI stirring every now and then. After ten minutes test a few grains by pinching them between the finger and thumb. As soon as soft, which will probably be in twelve or thirteen minutes, stop the boiling instantly by a dash of cold water. Immediately take the pan off the fire, and drain off every drop of water from the rice. Leave the rice in the hot dry pan in front of the fire, cover it with a folded cloth instead of the lid, shake the pan now and then, and after ten minutes the rice will be dry and the grains separate. (If the Kedgeree is wanted for breakfast all this can be done overnight.) Boil three eggs hard, and with a fork crush the whites and yolks together into a coarse mince. Melt three ounces of butter over a low fire, stir in the rice with a wooden spoon, add the pieces of fish, and season with pepper and salt. Lastly, shake in the crushed hard-boiled egg, and empty the whole into a very hot dish. \_Wyvern.'] If onion is liked fry a very finely minced shallot in the butter till it becomes yellow. In India a teaspoonful of turmeric is added before the eggs in order to colour the rice yellow. But turmeric has a spicy flavour which is not generally liked in this country. Some cooks cut the eggs into small pieces instead of crushing them. Fish Cakes.—(Family Recipe.)—Chop small any cold fish left from yesterday’s dinner, stir together a little butter, flour, and milk, mix with some of the fish sauce remaining from dinner, season with pepper and salt, and boil all together. Make the mixture into round flat cakes, egg and breadcrumb them and fry in boiling suet. Serve without sauce. Fish Cutlets.'—To about a pound of any cold fish left at dinner cut up into a coarse mince, add four ounces of crumbs soaked in fish boilings or fish stock, blend together, moistening with a breakfastcupful (half a pint) of warm sauce also left at dinner, with the yolk of an egg mixed into it. Stir the mixture over a low fire to thicken, then spread it upon a dish to set and get cold during the night. It should be half an inch thick when set. Next morning cut out the Fish Cutlets with a cutter, egg and breadci-umb them, and fry in boiling suet. [ Wyvern.) Boulettes Of Cooked Fish.—Any fish, the flesh of which can be divided into separate flakes, answers for these boulettes.