535 IRISH BROWN FADGE as it comes from the mill. Rub into it an ounce and a half of butter. Add a little salt. Make into a paste with about half a pint of milk. Roll the cake out the third of an inch thick, and bake on the girdle plate for twenty minutes, turning it once or twice. If rich buttermilk, with a pinch of soda Avell mixed into the meal, can be used, the butter would be omitted, and the Fadge will be infinitely better. Lancashire Clapped Bread.—Mix fine dry Scotch oatmeal with cold water and a pinch of salt into a moderately stiff paste. Pat it well with two wooden spoons with plenty of oatmeal strewed under and over it until it is as thin as it can be made. Each cake should be as large as a small plate, and each must be baked singly. The paste dries so rapidly that you must only moisten enough oatmeal for one cake at a time. Clapped Bread ought properly to be baked on an iron girdle plate hung over the fire, but a baking sheet will do, as bottom heat is required. Turn the cakes whilst they are baking, and afterwards toast them a little before the fire and make them crisp. They should be as dry as possible. If the oatmeal is mixed with warm water the Clapped Bread is more easily made, but it is not nearly so good. The clapping or patting makes it short, which is its distinctive feature. Use as little water as possible. Westmoreland Oat Cakes.—Take a quarter of a peck (3£ lbs.) of fine dry sifted oatmeal. Mix together one pint of warm water, half a tumblerful of mild ale yeast, and half an ounce of salt. (Or dissolve an ounce of German yeast in the warm water.) Stir the mixture well for ten minutes, strain it gradually into the oatmeal, and work it into a light dough. Cover it, and set it in a warm place to rise for one hour. Then roll it out quickly on a floured board with your hand, divide it into lumps the size of a small egg, and roll it with a rolling pin in plenty of flour till quite thin. Cover the oatcakes with flannel, set them on the board in a warm place, and when slightly risen bake them on a hot baking sheet. Then toast them crisp on both sides without burning, tear them apart with two forks, butter the inside, put the oatcakes together again, and serve hot. These oatcakes should be very crisp and short, and success depends on quickness and lightness in the kneading.