127 SAUCES through a tamis-cloth. Soups must be passed through a cloth, and jellies must be strained through a jelly-bag, but a hair sieve and a few finely-perforated tin strainers answer much better for Sauces. The articles used in Saucemaking should be kept by them- selves, and ought to be used for nothing else. The pans can easily be marked by tying a piece of pink tape to the handles. The sieves can be marked on their wooden frames, and the smaller things are easily kept apart. For Saucemaking the cook will require a small mortar and pestle, a small pair of scales, a quart stewpan, three small saucepans in sizes for the bain-marie, a flour dredger, a pepper- mill for black pepper, and another, distinguished from it in some way, for white pepper, two earthenware basins, and a third of a different colour to be used for Fish Sauces only, two block-tin perforated strainers of different sizes, and a pointed strainer (all three with handles), a hair sieve, a wire sieve, two plated teaspoons, dessertspoons, and tablespoons, at least three small wooden spoons of different sizes, and a small salt- cellar. Before the cook begins to make a Sauce she must see that everything she is likely to require is ready to her hand. Many of the requisites can be most conveniently used if placed on a low shelf within easy reach. Broth will be wanted, and in most cases this can be made from any scraps and trimmings of meat, or scraps and giblets of poultry or game. For all Fish Sauces fish broth, made from fish cuttings, must be used. For some Sauces a little wine is necessary; either Marsala or Sauteme is quite sufficient. A supply of the best flour, well dried and sifted, butter, and eggs, must be at hand. In using the eggs the germ should always be removed. Besides these main requirements the cook will need onions, parsley, shallots and herbs, either dried or fresh according to the time of year. Fresh herbs should always be used if possible. She will also need mustard and mustard flour, mush- room ketchup (freshly made if possible, see Mushrooms), tomato conserve, good French vinegar, anchovy-vinegar, tarragon vinegar, spiced or herb pepper, lemons, and red currant jelly. Only a small quantity of these articles need be provided, but