TURNIPS AS EATEN IN PIEDMONT 367 Butter a pie-dish, put in the slices of Turnip, moisten with a little milk and a teacupful of weak broth. Season well with pepper and salt, cover with crust raspings, and then with grated cheese, and bake a golden brown in the oven. Turnips a la Mareehale,—[ Wyvern.]—Choose four four- ounce Turnips, pare, and cut them in slices about the thickness of a halfpenny; trim these in equal-sized rounds or ovals, drop them one by one into cold water, drain, and put them on a clean cloth to dry. Butter a saute-pan with two ounces of butter, set it over a low fire, lay in the Turnip slices, and move them about till they are turning a pale gold colour. Now arrange them in layers in a buttered fire-proof dish, and dust each with grated Parmesan. When the dish is full moisten the whole with Sauce Milanaise, cover the surface with cheese, and pour the butter from the saute-pan over it. Push the dish into a moderate oven and hake till it is coloured and you can easily pass a skewer through the slices of Turnip. Serve in the dish laid on a napkin. For Sauce Milanaise see page 131. Boiled Turnips.—Choose very small Turnips—the round Early Snowball variety is the best—boil them till tender, and serve in a good white sauce. Mrs. C. W. Earle recommends for this, milk boiled till it thickens, into which a little butter and cream has been stirred. Kohl Bahi is often used instead of Turnips, though it really is partly a cabbage and partly a Turnip. The root appears above the ground, and Kohl Rabi, the Brassica oleracea Gaulo- rapa of botanists and gardeners, does not, like Turnips, suffer from drought, and is seldom injured by frost. The Early Vienna sorts, both purple and white, should find a place in all vegetable gardens. Kohl Rabi should be cooked like Turnips, and, as with Turnips, it is most important to eat it when young. Turnip Tops.— “ While yet the white frost sparkles over the ground And daylight just peeps from the misty blue sky, In yonder green fields with my basket I’m found— Come buy my sweet Turnip-tops, Turnip-tops buy ! Sadly cold are my fingers, all drench’d with the dew, For the sun has scarce risen the meadows to dry, And my feet have got wet with a hole in my shoe, Come haste then, and buy my sweet Turnip-tops, buy