289 SAUCE FOR WILD DUCK 2. Score the breast as above, and let the gravy run out bountifully. Add first two tablespoonfuls of Burgundy, then a dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, and either six drops of Tabasco or a teaspoonful of Chili vinegar. Stir the gravy round with a spoon, and baste the breast of the bird liberally with it, then go on with the carving. [ Wyvern. ] 3. Have some gravy in a little saucepan with a spirit- lamp, squeeze in half or all of a lemon according to quantity required, and add a little red wine (port is best), and some cayenne pepper. When warm, pour it over the slices of wild duck on each plate. [Mrs. G. W. Earle.] A celebrated sauce for Wild Duck is made by mixing together a saltspoonful of salt, half that quantity of cayenne, a dessertspoonful each of lemon-juice, pounded sugar, and mush- room ketchup, with two tablespoonfuls of Harvey sauce and the same quantity of port wine. The bird must be put on the dish without any gravy, the breast sliced, and the sauce poured over the bird so as to mix with its own juices. Another old- fashioned sauce which is good with all kinds of Wild Fowl is to put into a saucepan half a pint of gravy, a few leaves of sweet basil, a shallot sliced, and a bit of lemon-peel. Boil for a few minutes, strain, then add the juice of half a lemon, a little salt, and a little cayenne pepper. Warm the sauce up, and serve hot in a boat. Cayenne Pepper and quarters of lemon should always be handed with Wild Fowl. A favourite addition is a salad of washed and picked watercress, mixed with orange-juice and a few drops of salad oil, and garnished with quarters of orange. The remains of Wild Duck can be minced, and warmed up in some of the sauce mixed with curry powder. But far the best way of cooking Wild Fowl or Tame Ducks or Geese is so to manage them that the parts never eaten at table are yet never wasted. This method was introduced by Wyvern, and is applicable to all sorts of Ducks. For Geese the breast should be cut into long fillets and grilled in the same way. This is the recipe as applied to Teal. For six persons allow three Teal. If they are bought, order them to be merely plucked. Clean the Teal, saving the giblets. Lay them on a board, and by passing a knife all round each bird remove the u