5i KIDNEY SOUP a quart saucepan, melt half an ounce of butter at the bottom of it over the fire, and stir in half an ounce of flour. When it is nice and creamy add a cupful of the stock, stirring vigorously, and continue to add stock and kidney paste by degrees, working them well together, till you have used them up. Now let the puree come to the boil, skim, and add a tablespoonful of claret, a teaspoonful of red currant jelly, half a teaspoonful of French vinegar, and sufficient Parisian essence to give the soup a warm bi’own colour. Stir it well for a minute over the fire, and serve with croutons of fried bread. This kidney puree is one of the best ways of using kidneys. Of course it is only suitable as a winter or early spi'ing soup. Thick Soup from Sunday’s Sirloin Bone.—(Family Recipe.)—Cut off the red part of four or five carrots (leav- ing out the hard core inside each), slice six onions and two sticks of celery, and add a teaspoonful of peppercorns. Put the vegetables into a stewpan and cover them with water, but be careful not to drown them. Break your cooked sirloin bone into several pieces, and add it to the vegetables. If possible, put in two ounces of lean ham or knuckle of bacon, cut into little bits. Let the soup simmer from two hours to two hours and a half. Then strain it through a tamis-cloth, and return it to the stewpan to warm up, adding one lump of sugar and one tea- spoonful of salt, but no pepper. Before taking it off the fire the addition of a dessertspoonful of cream is a great im- provement. Scotch Mutton Broth.—Soak a neck of mutton in cold water for one hour. Cut off the scrag end and put it into a stewpan with two quarts of water. As soon as it boils skim well, and then let it just simmer for an hour and a half. Trim the fat from as many cutlets on the best end of the neck as you require and add them to the broth. Skim the moment the fresh meat boils up, and continue to skim every quarter of an hour. When the fresh meat has been once skimmed add four tablespoonfuls of well-washed pearl barley, 5 carrots, 5 turnips, 3 heads of celery, and 3 onions. The vegetables should be sliced, but not cut too small. The broth should stew altogether for three hours and twenty minutes.