3°8 POTATOES with a skimmer, find let them drain on a wire sieve. Let the fat boil up and put the Potatoes back in it. Fry them for three or four minutes longer. Now drain them on blotting-paper before the fire. When dry sprinkle a little salt over them and serve. The second frying causes the slices of Potato to swell as if they were hollow, and secures their being cooked all through. The Potatoes must be a rich golden colour. If the fat has been too hot—that is, smoking—they will be brown. Potato Chips.—In order to have Potato Chips in perfec- tion great attention must be paid to five points. 1. The slices must be of exactly equal thickness, not one thick and the next thin. 2. They must be carefully drained from the water. 3. Thei’e must be plenty of fat to fry them in. 4. The fat must not be too hot, although it must be hot enough. 5. The chips must be perfectly drained from the fat. Clarified beef suet is much the best frying medium for Potatoes. Wash and peel the Potatoes and slice them exactly one- sixteenth of an inch thick. Put them for fifteen minutes into a basin of cold water. Drain off the water, and spread the Potatoes on a cloth to get quite dry. Wipe them, and lay ready a sheet of clean blotting-paper. Melt plenty of clarified beef suet in the frying-pan, for the Potato slices must be com- pletely covered. Be most cai'eful in testing the heat of the fat with a sippet of bread. If the fat fizzes freely and does not smoke drop in the Potato slices at once, and let them, so to speak, boil in it. Do not leave them, but keep turning and moving them about. The moment the Potatoes are a l’ich golden colour lift them out, and let them drain for a minute or two on the blotting-paper. When dry seiwe in a very hot dish (metal if possible), sprinkling them with a little salt. Nothing is better than crisp golden Potato Chips, and few things are more distasteful than the dark, leathery appearance which Chips too often present when badly cooked. Potato Ribbons.—Cut thin ribbons from the Potatoes as the Potato Chips were cut, and cook them exactly the same. When the Ribbons are cut, twist them into knots before you put them in cold water. The object of putting sliced Potatoes into cold water is to get rid of the starch which naturally belongs to them. And the reason of the very careful draining