LAMB 184 mint. Cut some rounds of writing paper, butter them, rub a little butter on each cutlet, and sprinkle the mixed herbs on it. Fold the cutlets in the papers, and roll the edges round, a little bit at a time, inwards, one after the other, so as to make the edge look like a cord. It is important to make the edges tight, so that the gravy will not escape. Lay the cutlets in their papers in a frying-pan and fry them thoroughly over a slow fire in the gas-stove. Dish the cutlets, still in their papers, on a border of spinach, and put more spinach in the centre. In this way all the gravy is kept in the cutlets. Lamb Sweetbreads.—These are both smaller and tougher than Yeal Sweetbreads, but far less expensive. If carefully cooked, Lambs’ Sweetbreads answer perfectly for vol-au-vents, etc. VEAL. Veal is more difficult to keep than any meat except Pork. The kernel must be taken out of the fat both of leg and loin, and the Veal sprinkled with salt, and wiped every day with a clean cloth. The Udder of Veal, so much used by French cooks for forcemeat, is the firm white fat of the fillet. It is thoroughly boiled, set to get cold, and then well pounded. Tendons of Veal (often called tendrons in menus) are the pieces of gristle at the ends of the bones of the neck, and are thought a delicacy. They must be cut three inches long, and simmered in broth with bacon and vegetables for at least three hours. They are more like jelly than solid meat, and as they have absolutely no flavour they depend on a good sauce. This should be made of the broth reduced, thickened, and flavoured with a tablespoonful of Marsala and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Veal Sweetbreads are far more delicate and far more ex- pensive than Lamb Sweetbreads. There are two kinds, called by butchers for some inscrutable reason heart and throat Sweet- breads ; of these the former are the largest and best. Both Tendons and Sweetbreads are generally brushed over very lightly with pale glaze. To Cook Sweetbreads.—Sweetbreads need most careful cooking, and are extremely difficult to lard. They ought when done to look nearly white, and the larding ought to be transparent,