MUTTON i8o end should be neatly rounded, and the bone should protrude an inch beyond the meat. Save all bones and trimmings for broth. Mutton Cutlets are most useful, for they can be cooked in so many ways. Some of the simplest methods of cooking them are (1) Broiling on the gridiron, which will take from eight to ten minutes if the Cutlets are an inch thick. (2) Jugging (see page 147). (3) Saute. For this allow the Cutlets to sauter for five minutes, then turn them and sauter them for five minutes more (see page 157). (4) Egg and breadcrumb the Cutlets, and fry them a delicate brown. In all these ways the Cutlets can be served round a puree of vegetables. It is important not to cut Cutlets thin, as in that case they are sure to be tough and not juicy. The cut should be made exactly midway between the bones. Cutlets are much better and more tender if they are allowed to marinade for eight or ten hours. Mutton Cutlets a la R6forme can be either braised, or fried after being rolled in egg and breadcrumb. They are served round a pile of equal quantities of truffles, white of hard-boiled eggs, and gherkins, all cut into strips an inch long and a quarter of an inch wide, and made hot in a little stock. This is the correct way, hut mushrooms cut in pieces give a far better flavour than truffles. For the sauce take three quarters of a pint of brown sauce, a gill of claret, two table- spoonfuls of red currant jelly, and the juice of one lemon. Boil, skim, reduce the sauce to half a pint, pass through a strainer, and pour it round, not over, the Cutlets. Mutton Cutlets a la Maintenon.—Cut the Cutlets with two bones to each, then carefully remove one bone. Flatten them with a wet cutlet-bat, and trim them neatly. Cut each Cutlet in two without dividing it at the bone. Have ready a mince made of minced parsley, mushrooms, and shallot, allow- ing plenty of shallot. Fry this a golden brown in butter, put a thick coating of the mince inside each Cutlet, press the edges together, and broil each for eight minutes. Maintenon Cutlets are generally rolled in oiled or buttered cases of writing paper cut to fit them, and put on before they are broiled. Serve the Cutlets in the papers, and hand a good sauce made of broth