TO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME FOR COOKING. In towns birds are always sent in ready for cooking, but it is well for all cooks and necessary for those living in the country to know how to prepare them. Poultry should always be plucked whilst still warm, as the feathers come off more easily. It is often necessary to scald the pinions in order to draw out the stumps of feathers. Singe off all hairs on the body of the bird with a wax taper, such as is used for lighting gas. Then cut off the head, and open the skin at the back of the neck. Loosen the skin all round, and you will see the soft tube of the gullet and the stiff tube of the windpipe. Follow the gullet in with your finger and loosen the crop which is attached to it. Then take hold of the gullet with a cloth so as to hold it firmly, and gently pull out the whole of the crop or stomach, with its contents. Now draw out the windpipe, cut off the neck close to the body, leaving a flap of skin three inches long. This will fold over the back and close the opening of the neck. Turn the bird on its back and with the point of a sharp knife cut a small slit across under the tail. Take great care in doing this not to scratch or cut the intestines. Insert your finger, and loosen the liver and the gizzard. The gizzard is the second stomach, or muscular stomach, of a fowl. Birds which are not carnivorous have no power of mastication in the mouth, and therefore swallow small stones and gravel, which act on their food in the gizzard as teeth do in our mouths. The gizzard is a large hard mass just under the point of the breast- bone. Enlarge the slit a little, and with your finger and thumb get fast hold of the gizzard and draw it gently forward. The intestines will follow it. Again slip in your finger and thumb and draw out the heart and the liver. Sometimes all these organs will come out together. Be most careful not to break the little bladder full of green liquid which is attached to the liver. This is the gall-bladder, and if it is broken it will give the bird a bitter taste which nothing can remove. Now wipe the inside of the bird clean with a damp cloth. Remove the gall-bladder from the liver. Slit the narrow side of the gizzard, turn it inside out, and remove the bag of hard contents, but do not cut the skin which joins it in the