273 BOILED DUCK ordinary Duck, one hour and ten minutes if large. It will then be cooked, and ought to be a good pink colour. (Chickens boiled in the same way are excellent.) Take three oranges, peel them with a spoon, cut the peel in quarters, taking out all the white. Shred the peel as if for Julienne soup, put it into water for seven or eight minutes, and drain it on a cloth. Take the rest of the oranges, removing all the white, and put the pulp into a good reduced stock half glazed. Add two or three spoonfuls of Sauce Espagnole (see page 134) and a little red wine—port is best. Pass through a sieve, and then add the chips of orange peel. Unpack the Duck, serve on a dish, surround with pieces of orange, put a little sauce over the Duck and the rest in a sauce-boat. Duck and Green Peas,—Truss the Duck for roasting, put the liver and a sliced onion inside it, but do not stuff it. Roast it for twenty minutes. Then put it in a stewpan with a pint of beef stock, four blanched sage leaves and a dessertspoonful of blanched mint, pepper and salt, and half an onion sliced. Simmer for a quarter of an hour, and skim off all the fat. Add a quart of shelled green peas (not young peas), cover the pan closely, and simmer for twenty or twenty-five minutes more. Give it one boil up, lay the Duck on a large dish, and pour the peas and broth just as they are round it. The herbs and onion should be in a muslin bag, and must be taken out just before serving. Duckling’S.—In trussing Ducklings the feet are left on, and crossed on the back just above the tail. Cooks do not generally allow sufficient time for roasting Ducklings, and sometimes send them up so raw on one side that it cannot be cut. This is both careless and wasteful. The time allowed should be from twenty to twenty-five minutes. In England Ducklings are not stuffed. French cooks recommend this stuffing. Mince rather small the liver of the Duckling and. two fowls’ livers, three tablespoonfuls of cooked mushrooms, two of bacon, half an ounce of shallot blanched, and a table- spoonful of parsley. Stir into this, in a bowl, a breakfastcupful of breadcrumbs, and one well-beaten egg.' Stuff the bird and sew up the vent, trussing it neatly. Ducklings are somewhat tasteless, so this stuffing is probably an improvement. They