33 SOUPS squares, lay them at the bottom of a stock-pot, sprinkle with half an once of salt, and cover with three pints and a half of cold water. Put over a very low fire—uncovered—and bring very slowly to the boil, skimming carefully. While this is going on put the bones and giblets in a buttered baking-tin in the oven to brown, and when the broth has been thoroughly skimmed and allowed to come to the boil add them. Add also the same quantities of vegetables as in the recipe for making stock (p. 31) and follow that recipe exactly, clarifying with raw beef and an egg. Cut the bottom crust of a tinned loaf with the same thick- ness of crumb as of crust. Cut it into rounds the size of a florin, soak these in some stock from the soup, and put them on a buttered tin into the oven, where they should remain until crisp and dry. Cut some slices of carrot, turnip, and celery, cook them till tender in some of the stock. Add these vegetables just before serving, and put the crusts into the soup at the very last moment. Slices of onion may be added to the other sliced vegetables, and some pieces of cabbage boiled separately. But these are not generally considered an improvement. Clear Game Soup.—Pluck and draw two old partridges, cut them up, saving the breast meat but using all the rest, and breaking all bones of any size with a chopper. Make beef stock as usual, and when you have obtained as strong a stock as possible (not using vegetables) strain it, let it get cool. Remove all fat, and when quite clear pour the stock into a large bowl. Row take all the pieces of partridge except the breast meat, the bones, and the giblets. Put them into a stewpan with four ounces of sliced onion and of carrot, an ounce of celery sliced, herbs, and seasoning. Pry over a low fire in four ounces of clarified suet, add a gill of the stock and reduce to a glaze, so as to extract all the partridge essence. After the glaze has formed moisten with the stock, add all the stock by degrees, bring it slowly to the boil, and then simmer gently for one hour. Strain, cool, and clarify with beef. Cut the breast meat in neat strips, cook them in some of the stock, and add them to the clear soup. Wyvern adds half a glass of Marsala. Of course any game can be used.