TO PREPARE POULTRY AND GAME 257 middle. It used to be the custom to thrust the liver through one pinion of the bird and the gizzard through the other; the so-called liver-wing being considered a delicacy. But a far better plan is to cook the liver inside the bird with an ounce of butter, and half an onion if liked. Recollect that just as much is given away to the poulterer in the giblets of a fowl as is given to the fishmonger in the trimmings of fish. All the giblets, except the actual bill or beak and claws, are of use. Scald the feet of the bird, rub them with a coarse cloth to remove the scales, and cut off the last joints of the toes, as these contain the foundation of the claws. Cut off the beak or bill. Cut the head, neck, feet, heart, gizzard, and pinions (that is the tip, or outermost part of the wings), into small pieces. Scald them. Then, as Wyvern advises, fry them with four ounces of onion and three ounces of carrot sliced, in an ounce of butter or clarified suet at the bottom of a stewpan. Shake the pan, and when beginning to colour add half a pint of water or broth, and a glass of Marsala. Reduce almost to a glaze, then add a pint of water or common stock, bring to the boil once, then cover, reduce the heat, and stew gently to extract the whole of the essence from the scraps. When this has been done pour all through a strainer, and cool it for the fat to rise. This having been removed you will have a good basis for your brown sauce for the turkey, or whatever bird it may be. A little lean bacon may be put in, and a couple of sheep’s feet will improve the consistency of the broth. By omitting the browning process a good foundation for a white sauce is obtained. In this way the whole of the bird is used, and nothing is wasted. Another part of a fowl, now seldom mentioned, used to be considered its greatest delicacy. This is the oyster, or, as it used to be called, Les sots y laissent, “ neglected by fools.” The oyster of a fowl consists of two very small and delicate morsels of flesh, situated on either side of the back at the top of the leg. Unfortunately they cannot be taken out before the fowl is cooked without spoiling its appearance, and are thus often neglected. Lord Alvanley, a great epicure at the beginning of this century, would use only these tit-bits for a supreme of chicken, and sacrificed twenty chickens to make one small dish. s