DEVILLED CHICKEN iS° teaspoonful of Cliili vinegar. Heat all together to melt the jelly and blend the ingredients, then strain, and thicken with half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour. Heat this up to boiling-point in a frying-pan, and roll the grilled meat or bones in it off the fire. Serve immediately, with the rest of the sauce in the pan poured over them. Broiled Bones, which are the remainder of a roast saddle of mutton, or the blade-bone of a shoulder of mutton, are grilled in exactly the same way. The Grill sauce for Broiled Bones is generally liked very hot, for which add a few drops, not more than six, of Tabasco—a hotter adjunct than the hottest cayenne pepper. Devilled meat differs from Grilled meat in the important particular that it is prepared not on the gridiron but in the frying-pan, or the oven. In both cases the meat will have been previously cooked. For devilled chicken with sauce, cut the cold chicken into neat pieces, sprinkle them with curry powder and a dust of salt. Melt half an ounce of butter in a frying-pan, and fry an onion in it till the onion is brown. Put the pan on a low fire, and add the pieces of chicken, turning them about to prevent burning. When the butter seems almost absorbed, and the pieces of chicken are thoroughly heated, turn the chicken out of the pan into a hot dish, and brush off the onion. For the sauce, melt a quarter of an ounce of butter in a small saucepan, and stir in a quarter of an ounce of flour. When well blended add a teacupful of gravy or broth, mix well, and then add a dessertspoonful of Harvey sauce, the same of mushroom ketchup, a teaspoonful of Chili vinegar, and a dessertspoonful of chutney. Boil, strain, and serve with the chicken as hot as possible. Wyvern adds to this, for additional heat, a tea- spoonful of finely-chopped skin of green Chilis, carefully omitting the seeds. For chicken devilled dry, mix a teaspoonful of mustard flour into a dessertspoonful of French mustard, and add a dessertspoonful of minced chutney, a dust of cayenne, of salt, and of freshly-ground pepper. Brush the pieces of chicken over with melted butter just warm, and then coat them with this mixture. Sprinkle rasped breadcrumbs (crust) all over the