TEA, COFFEE, COCOA, ETC. 546 berries whilst roasting, and becomes quite dried up before the roasting is finished. The custom in many kitchens is to bake, often to over-bake, the Coffee berries in the oven. The result is a leaden tinted liquid, acrid in flavour, and repulsive to look upon. The Coffee when properly ground should be rich in aroma, and of a beautiful rich snuff colour. Be liberal with the Coffee ; allow a tablespoonful for each person. This will make a coffee- cupful of cafe noir, and a breakfastcupful of cafe au lait. Heat the Coffee powder for a minute in the oven or in front of the fire. Scald out the percolator coffee-pot so as to heat it thoroughly. Fill the upper chamber of the percolator with as much hot Coffee powder as you require, and ram the powder down firmly. Having previously calculated the amount of Coffee liquid needed pour absolutely boiling water according to that measurement, by tea- spoonfuls at a time, through the upper strainer upon the powder. The slower the water is added the more thoroughly the Coffee will become soaked, and the dripping being retarded the essence will be as strong as possible. As soon as the Coffee has run through pour it into the cups. Let the coffee-pot stand in a shallow vessel containing boiling water during the process, for in this way the liquid can be kept hot without deterioration for some little time. It does not do to heat up cold Coffee. [Wyvem.] If Coffee is sent up in a silver coffee-pot scald it out twice with boiling water so as to ensure its being thoroughly hot. Heat the cups also. If Coffee has to wait keep the percolator in a pan of boiling water. The flavour of cafe au lait is much better when the boiling milk is poured into the cups before the Coffee. Viennese Coffee.—Make strong Coffee, sweeten it, and just as it is served lay a tablespoonful of stiffly-whipped cream on the top of the Coffee in each cup. Iced Coffee.—Make strong Coffee, add sugar and cold milk, put the Coffee into glass jugs, and set these in ice for at least two hours before the Coffee is wanted. Do not put little pieces of ice into the Coffee, as it spoils the flavour. Cocoa.—So many varieties of Cocoa have been introduced of late which, to judge by the advertisements, contain every form of nutriment except Cocoa, that a recipe for Cocoa, and nothing but Cocoa, may be useful. Cocoa-nibs are the seeds from the pods of the tree called Tlicobroma Cacao; the pods grow only on the