CURRIES 422 boil, skim, and set the casserole in the bain-marie whilst you prepare the chicken. 8. Melt an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, add a one-ounce shallot minced fine, and fry for two minutes. Put in the pieces of chicken, and lightly fry them. As soon as they are slightly coloured put the pieces of chicken into the casserole, and leave them to marinade in the Curry sauce for at least half an hour. 9. Now prepare the final flavourings of the Curry. Grate and pound to a paste with a little butter enough green ginger to make a teaspoonful. Mix a teaspoonful of red-currant jelly with the juice of half a lemon. Strain the nutty infusion, and squeeze it through muslin, so as to get all the milk out of the nuts. 10. Set the casserole over a moderate fire, and if the pieces of chicken are not quite covered add more broth. Simmer as gently as possible. For a small chicken half an hour will be enough ; for other meat an hour and half is not too much. Add the green ginger and the currant jelly when you set the casserole to simmer. 11. Towards the end of the simmering taste the sauce, and if necessary add a little more of the jelly and lemon-juice, or a little more salt. 12. The last thing before serving add the nutty infusion, passing it into the Curry through a strainer. Serve the Curry at once, in the casserole, and hand a dish of well-boiled rice (see page 414). The essentials in Curry-making are patient and slow cooking, the proper use at the proper time of the right ingredients, and close attention to details. It may seem a great deal of trouble to carry out the instructions given above, but both the cook and her employers will be well repaid. Of course, a Curry should only be ordered when the cook has plenty of time to attend to it. Any remains of the Curry should be set aside in the casserole, and revived next day by the addition of half an ounce each of butter and of onion fried together as before, then fried with a teaspoonful of Curry-powder, and finally moistened with a coffeecupful of broth. If the casserole is now gently heated in the bain-marie the Curry will be found even better than it was the day before, for the chicken will have become thoroughly flavoured with the sauce, and the sauce will be reduced and strengthened by the second simmering.