271 GALANTINE (to which a glass of Marsala may be added), let it boil once, then cover the stewpan, and draw it back to simmer gently from two to three hours. Forty minutes for every pound of meat is a good time to allow if the bird is old. When done take the pan off the fire, and let the Galantine rest in the broth for one hour to get cool. Then drain it, take off the cloth, wrap the Galantine in a fi’esh dry cloth, and put it between two dishes under a heavy weight. When the Galantine is quite cold take it out, melt off any fat that may adhere to the skin, wipe it carefully, and glaze it a pale-brown. Garnish with broken pieces of aspic jelly, and set it in a cold larder till wanted. In summer the Galantine should be set in the refrigerator. Such a Galantine as this is well worth the trouble of making, and is a good example of the way in which every portion of a bird except the feathers, beak, and claws can be turned to account. Such a Galantine too will be far superior to those seen in shops, smeared with treacly reddish glaze, covered with patterns traced in different colours, and decorated with truffles impaled upon plated skewers. Guinea Fowl.—These birds are apt to be extremely dry, but are excellent if cooked in Wyvern's way. For this, draw and trass the Guinea Fowl as for roasting, saving the giblets for broth, but reserving the liver. Have in reserve, or buy, three more livers (the livers of any kind of fowl will do). Put all the four livers uncooked on a dish, and cut thinly four squares of streaky bacon, three inches long and two and a half wide. Dust over the surface of these with spiced pepper, put a layer of finely-minced shallot over them, and then the livei’s. Roll them up, and with them fill the inside of the Guinea Fowl, sewing up the vent. Bal’d the breast of the bird (that is, cover it with a slice of fat bacon), wrap the bird in buttered paper, and fasten the covering on with tape. Roast the Guinea Fowl before the fire, paying great attention to the basting. A Guinea Fowl is excellent done in this way, and so is a chicken. Allow twenty minutes for roasting. Make the gravy of the giblets, and hand bread sauce and potato chips. Roast Goose.—Stuff the Goose with the stuffing given for ducks at page 203. Fasten the openings tightly at the neck