USEFUL SWEET DISHES 494 Trifle.—(Family Recipe.)—Trifle should be made the dav before it is wanted, and should be served in a china bowl. Lay six sponge biscuits close together at the bottom of the bowl, and pour over them, as much sherry as they will absorb. Then put a layer of ratafia cakes or fresh macaroons (those from a tin are much too hard), and sprinkle them with a little sherry. Put another layer of stale sponge cake, and spread it ■with strawberry or raspberry jam. Make a custard of half a pint of cream boiled for ten minutes with the very finely pared rind of one lemon; add another half pint of cream, and boil it ten minutes more. Strain the cream into a basin, sweeten it a little, and let it get cold. When it is cold, beat the yolks of six eggs for a quarter of an hour, strain them with the cream into a pan over a low fire, and stir with a plated spoon till it thickens. Put the custard to cool. Whip a pint of cream, sweeten it with a little sugar which has been rubbed on a lemon, and add to it one tablespoonful of brandy. As the froth rises take it off in a spoon, lay it on a dish, and leave it to become a little firm. Shake pounded ratafias over the top of the Trifle, pour the custard upon them, and finally pile up the froth of cream as high as possible. In helping Trifle use a long-handled spoon, and go down to the bottom. Tipsy Cake is Trifle under another name, with the addition that the sponge cakes are stuck with almonds, and that a little red currant jelly is laid on the custard. Apple Charlotte.—Choose apples which are known to bake well. Pare them, core them, and quarter them. Put the apple quarters with the cores, peel, and pips, into half a pint of water (or just enough to cover them), and squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Let the apple quarters soak in this for half an hour, then take them out and dry them. Mince the apples, mince the peel of a lemon, and put all into a stewpan with just enough syrup to cover. Simmer the apples very gently, and take care they do not burn. When they are quite soft pass them through the sieve, stir in two tablespoonfuls of apricot jam (for eight smallish apples), and either two bruised cloves, or a dessertspoonful of kirsch. Put all back in the pan. and simmer it, stirring continually, till the marmalade is stiff. Leave it to rest whilst you prepare the mould. Butter the