47i ORANGE JELLY wanted according to the fruit used, and an ounce and a half of gelatine. Moisten the mould and pour a little jelly into it, cool enough just to pour. When the Jelly is firm arrange different kinds of fruit in it, and with a spoon pour a few drops of the Jelly on each. When the fruit is firm in the Jelly cover it with more Jelly, let it set, add another circle of fruit, and so on till the mould is full. Leave it for a couple of hours to get quite firm. Very good Jelly is made with fruit syrup. If this cannot be had use jam instead, reckoning half a pound of jam as equal to a gill and a half of syrup. Maraschino Jelly with Fruit.—Choose about three dozen ripe strawberries, wipe them carefully, spread them in a soup- plate, dust a fine shower of castor sugar over them, and sprinkle them with maraschino. Slice four peeled ripe bananas cross- wise, forming little discs about the size of a shilling, and an eighth of an inch thick. Prepare them like the strawberries. Choose a pint circular cylinder mould, and make the Jelly. First put tliree-quai’ters of an ounce of gelatine to soak. Beat the whites of two eggs, put them into a stewpan with a pint of water, the juice and peel of half a lemon, and an ounce and half of sugar. Set over the fire, stir the gelatine, using a whisk, and continue to move the liquid till it comes to the boil. Now draw it from the fire gently, let it rest ten minutes, and then pour it through a freshly-scalded flannel. Pour back, and strain again. When thoroughly cooled add a sherryglassful of maraschino. Do not use any colouring. Now set the mould upon a bed of crushed ice, and pour in the jelly liquid to the depth of a quarter of an inch. Let this set quite firmly, and then, having wiped the strawberries with a fine cloth, arrange them in a ring on the firm Jelly, pour in more Jelly, and set the ring of straw- berries. When this is firm set a ring of the banana discs overlap- ping each other, set this with Jelly, and then arrange a second layer of strawberries, completing the filling of the mould with the remainder of the Jelly. Cover the mould with the lid of a stewpan filled with broken ice, and let the Jelly set quite firmly. When turned out, fill the centre with whipped cream. [ Wyvern.'] Some of the best Jellies are made without being cleared. Thick Orang-e Jelly.—(Family Recipe.)—Allow the same quantity of juice, gelatine, and sugar as for Clear Orange Jelly,