3io POTATOES tlie sieve, adding the yolks of two eggs, and flavouring with a dessertspoonful of herbs. Add a tablespoonful of"stock. Roll out on a pastry board, and powder with plenty of grated Parmesan. Make as many thin rolls as you can three and a half inches long, and a little thicker than a pencil. Dip them in egg, and then breadcrumb with half crumbs and half Parmesan. Roll well in the cheese and crumbs and frv a golden brown. This concludes the simple methods of cooking floury Potatoes. It is important to recollect that waxy Potatoes will never cook as floury ones will. Also that unless plenty of fat is allowed, and unless that fat is carefully heated to the proper point, Fried Potatoes, in whatever form they may be pi’esented, will never be fit to eat. Waxy Potatoes are excellent, cooked in any way that suits them. As New Potatoes only can they be plainly boiled. After that period they must be dressed in different ways. One of these is as Potatoes Sautes.—After boiling the Potatoes cut them in slices three-eighths of an inch thick, and be careful that the slices are all the same size. Toss them in melted butter in the saute- pan over a moderate fire, and be careful to shake and toss them thoroughly. Let them colour nicely, pour the brown butter from the pan over them, sprinkle with minced parsley, dust with pepper, and serve very hot. Potatoes a la Maltre d’Hotel.—Proceed exactly as for Potatoes Sautes, and let the slices of Potato get cold. Melt enough butter to cover the bottom of a stewpan, put the Potatoes in, three-parts cover them with broth, and simmer till the liquid is nearly reduced. Take the pan off the fire, put the Potatoes in a hot dish, add a few little pieces of butter, a few drops of lemon-juice, rather more than a tablespoonful of minced parsley, and serve. Or use maitre d’hotel sauce instead of the broth. Potatoes a la Lyonnaise.—Cold cooked Potatoes may be used. Cut them in slices the thickness of lialf-a-crown. Put three ounces of butter in a frying-pan, slice one mild onion finely and fry it till it just begins to brown. Then put in the slices of Potato with a wineglassful of broth. Toss all well