SHELL-FISH nS from their shells, and cut them into similar pieces. With these fill six darioles, mixing cucumber and fish fairly. Melt half a pint of aspic jelly, put it in a howl over ice and whisk into it half a gill (two tablespoonfuls) of oil and a dessertspoonful of vinegar, thus making a mayonnaise collee, adding the yolk of one egg to colour it. As soon as it attains the consistency of smooth cream pour it immediately into the darioles, setting the prawn and cucumber squares in it over ice. Turn them out when required, and dish in a circle with a garnish of cress or curled endive. \_Wyverni] Of course shrimps can be substi- tuted for prawns, using a larger quantity. Cockles.—Cockles, unlike oysters and mussels, are found buried in sand, and not fixed to rocks. Cockles are provided with a large and very elastic foot, which enables them to hide quickly in the moist sand, or if frightened to reappear and escape with great rapidity. Cockles are found on most sandy shores, and in very remote times were even more eaten than they are now, if we may judge by the mounds of their shells called “ kjokkenmoddings ” still existing in many countries. Cockles are found in great abundance on many parts of the British coasts; the shore near Swansea produces enormous quantities, and at Starcross, near Exmouth, there are “ cockle- gardens,” where the Cockles artificially reared are said by the proprietors to have a finer flavour than those found in the sands. But Morecambe Bay, on the Lancashire coast, is best known, not only for its Cockles but for the rusks run by those who gather them. On that shore the tide recedes from five to seven miles, leaving “ shifting sands ” so treacherous that if the most experienced of the guides retained by the Ducby of Lancaster were to draw a chart of the safer tracks they would all have changed before the ink on his paper was dry. It is said that no “ Cockier ” there ever dies in his bed—he is either swallowed up in the quicksands or drowned by the “ bore-wave,” that is, a huge wave which, sweeping in silently and without warning, covers the sands with incredible rapidity to the depth of seventeen feet. Yet such is the fascination of that shore that those who “ follow the sands,” as the cocklers call it, never care for other fishing. The Cockles are found a little below the sand, and are