KITCHEN, LARDER, AND SCULLERY IS The Scullery.—The Scullery must he provided with a sink, and a rack above it for putting up plates after they have been washed. There should also be two washing-up tubs, two wooden pails and a zinc pail. A wire vegetable washer, a root knife, and an onion knife will be wanted. The handles of both knives should be bored, so that they can be hung up by a string to separate nails. The Larder.—The Larder should face the north. The shelves ought to be of slate, the floor of stone, and the walls lined with white tiles. The windows should be so arranged that the Larder is thoroughly ventilated, and the windows should be covered with wire gauze, fine enough to keep out flies. There ought to be an outside Larder for raw meat and poultry, the inside Larder, which often opens into the outer one, being reserved for cooked meat and for stock. A thermometer should be hung in the inside Larder, the temperature of which should never exceed 50° in summer, or fall below 38° in winter. Keep wire dish covers over all cooked meat. It often happens that no outside Larder can be provided; in this case a good meat safe with lock and key can be hung in an underground cellar or an outhouse, or in a shady place out of doors. The refrigerator or the ice-cave must be kept in the Larder, also the earthenware bread-pan with coyer. On the care of the Kitchen, the Scullery and the Larder With their contents.—There are two old proverbs which seem specially applicable to cooks and to kitchens. These are: Cleanliness is next to Godliness. Have a place for everything, and keep everything in its place. The kitchen, scullery, and larder must be kept absolutely clean and sweet, and every article used ought to be put away as bright and clean, inside and out, as when it was new. A thoughtful cook will not dirty a single vessel unnecessarily. It should be a fixed rule in all kitchens that nothing should be put away dirty, even for the night. Vessels of all kinds are much easier to clean before the remains of cooked food has had time to harden and to adhere to them, so that trouble is saved by attending to them at once. A plentiful supply of scrubbing-brushes, house-flannel, soap, washing-soda, house-sand, and silver-sand is required.