BEEF 176 Robert (page 131) or Sauce Bearnaise should be selected. Arrange the pieces of Ox-tail in a hot dish, and pour the sauce over them. Mushrooms make the best garnish; some people like glazed onions. Rechauffe Of Cold Beef.—This excellent dish can be made of either cold roast Beef or cold braised Beef, cut into neat slices. First make the sauce. Thicken three gills of broth, strengthening it with an ounce of glaze. Flavour with the stalks and peelings of half a pound of mushrooms, bring to the boil, simmer fifteen minutes, and pass the sauce through a hair sieve, catching up the bits of mushroom. Fry separately in butter the peeled mushrooms coarsely minced, dust them over with flour and moisten with a gill of the sauce, keep over a low fire till the minced mushroom is cooked and the consistency of the mince nearly that of jam. Now warm np the slices of Beef in the remaining sauce, take them out, drain, and lay them on a board, spreading the mushroom mince thinly over their upper surfaces; then lift them with a slice and arrange them in a line overlapping each other on a buttered fire-proof dish. The mushroom covered sides of the slices of Beef must be uppermost. Mask over with the remaining sauce, with which a dessertspoonful of Marsala has been blended. Push the dish into the oven to heat thoroughly, and serve garnished with well-made potato puree. [ Wyvern.~\ MUTTON. Saddle of Mutton.—A Saddle of Mutton comprises the two loins, and being in consequence a very broad joint it requires a wide fire. If the Saddle weighs eleven pounds allow at least two hours and a half for roasting it. Roast as directed for Sirloin of Beef. The Fillet of Mutton is the strip of tender meat which runs down the inside of the saddle under the kidney. It is excellent when cut into pieces and broiled over a clear fire. Leg- Of Mutton.—The Leg spoils sooner than any other joint of Mutton. The kernel should always be carefully taken out of the fat, and the cavity filled with salt. If the Leg is large it is a good plan to cut off one or two steaks, each an inch and a half thick, from the thick end, and to broil them like Beef- steaks. Saw off the end of the bone and leave the rest in the