SALAD OF CUCUMBER WITH TOMATOES 381 in narrow strips a quarter of an inch wide and two long. Sprinkle with salt, drain off the moisture, and season with freshly-ground pepper. Sprinkle over all enough salad oil to moisten nicely, and a few drops of fine French vinegar. Let this lie while you cut up and squeeze through a sieve the moisture out of four tomatoes (about half a pound). Catch this liquid in a bowl and pour it over the cucumber, sprinkling the surface with a dessertspoonful of finely-minced Ravigote—i.e., equal parts of chives, chervil, tarragon, and burnet. A slice of white bread should be laid in each salad plate. [WyvernJ] Salads cannot be served too cold. The American fashion is to have a double salad bowl, and to fill the outer division with broken ice. These convenient bowls can now be purchased in London. Recipes for Chicken Salad, Lobster Salad, Crab Salad, and Prawn Salad will be found under their respective headings. Salmon Salad a la Parmentier,—Take a pound and half of cold cooked Salmon, peel off the skin, and cut the fish into neat pieces. Lay these on a dish, dust them over with pepper and salt, and sprinkle with salad oil and vinegar. Pre- pare a garnish of cooked fillets of potato, or use a dozen small ones the size of a plover’s egg (see Olive Potatoes). Make two gills of mayonnaise sauce, turning it pale green with the juice of the leaves of one bunch of watercress squeezed after boiling them for five minutes, draining, cooling, and drying them. Finish with a tablespoonful of very finely-minced chervil, chives, and tarragon. Arrange the pieces of salmon in a dome in the centre of a flat dish, mask with the sauce, and garnish round with a chain of the potatoes, and a few of the nicest leaves of a cos lettuce, torn (not cut) into small pieces. [_Wyvern.~\ Spinach colouring may be used instead of water- cress. A Salletine was one of the favourite dishes of the seventeenth century. This was made by putting cowslips, clove-gilly- flowers, elder flowers, and marigolds, in their seasons, into a bowl. A pickle was made by boiling a pound of loaf sugar in a pint of white-wine-vinegar, and this was poured scalding hot over each pound of flowers. The Salletine was then closely covered, and eaten when quite cold.