521 CHEESE. The multitude of new Savouries now in vogue have driven the good old-fashioned dishes of Cheese from most English dinner-tables, and to like them is often considered an infallible sign of a coarse taste and a vulgar mind. Some persons, however, still have the courage to enjoy Cheese, and for their benefit these recipes are given. The real Welsh Rarebit (often miscalled Welsh Rabbit) was a toasted Cheese peculiar to Wales, and made of a mixture of sheep and cow’s milk. It had a particularly mild flavour. The best toasting Cheese now is made at Legh (pronounced Leek) in Lancashire. Any sound mild Cheese will do for toasting, provided that it is sufficiently moist to slice without crumbling. By far the best plan is to use a cheese toaster, which is like a little Dutch oven with a screen and a tin for boiling water, and to toast the Cheese before the dining-room fire. Fill the tin with boiling water, melt a very little butter on the surface, and lay on that the Cheese cut into very thin slices. Watch it, and the moment the Cheese has melted put the toaster on the table with two toast-racks of hot dry toast. Some people like the toast dry, others prefer it soaked in a special Cup. Cup for Toasted Cheese.—(Family Recipe.)—To make one quart. Grate a little nutmeg and ginger, and put them into an old china quart mug. Then add a little moist sugar, three glasses of white wine, and fill up the mug with equal quantities of small beer and ale—made hot. Serve in the mug on the table, and hand ale glasses filled with the Cup. Welsh Rarebit .—Make a slice of crisp, dry toast, less than a quarter of an inch thick and a little wider and longer than you wish the slice of Cheese to be. Butter it very sparingly, and lay it on a fire-proof dish before the fire to keep hot. Toast a slice of Cheese on both sides, but not enough to make it drip. Lay the Cheese on the hot toast, and serve at once. Aske Hall Toasted Cheese.—(Family Recipe.)—Cut half a pound of mild Cheese, Legh Cheese if possible, into very thin