242 SPECI/VL LUNCHEON DISHES Brussels sprouts, carrots, turnips, flageolets, and Jerusalem artichokes. Cut the root vegetables with a cutter into balls. Cook the vegetables separately. Lay a dessertspoonful of maitre d’ hotel butter on the steak, and hand Sauce Robert (see page 131). Potato balls, or Potatoes duchesses, should be served with the steak. Or the entre-c6te, which is often called a Porter-house steak, may be grilled over a clear fire for twenty-five minutes, cutlet-tongs being used to turn it. Serve it d la Tyrolienne by brushing the steak over with glaze, and then masking it with this mince. Mince three ounces of onion, and fry this very gently in an ounce of butter. Let it soften, but not turn colour, then add an ounce of flour. Mis well, and finish with two tablespoonfuls of tomato puree or tomato conserve. Serve Pommes de terre d VAmericaine, made by boil- ing the potatoes till nearly done, then slice them in thick slices, and simmer them in half a pint of white sauce made with milk previously flavoured as for Bread Sauce, with onion, herb pepper, and salt. Just before serving stir into the potatoes, off the fire, the yolk of an egg, a tablespoonful of minced parsley, and a pat of butter the size of a shilling. Add a few drops of lemon juice. Leg1 Of Mutton a la Bretonne.—Cover the joint thoroughly with water, bring it gradually to the boil, and let it simmer gently for half an hour. Then lift it out, and without a moment’s delay put it on the spit. Roast it for an hour and a quarter, or, if liked very well done, for an hour and a half. Whilst the mutton is roasting peel an eight-ounce Portugal onion, cut it into eight equal pieces, blanch them, cool and drain them, and put them into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, a saltspoonful of salt, and the same of castor sugar. Fry until turning colour over a low fire, add a gill of the water the mutton was boiled in, and one ounce of glaze. Simmer till the onion is quite cooked, and pass it through a hair sieve. Keep it warm in the bain-marie. Fill a pint measure with white haricot beans, put them into a stewpan with the water the mutton was cooked in, reduced by boiling to a quart, add a teaspoonful of salt, bring it to the boil, and then simmer gently till the beaus are tender. Drain them, put them back in the stewpan, and mix the onion puree into the beans. Heat both thoroughly,