277 GAME, VENISON, AND WILD FOWL. When Game is bought it has to be chosen more carefully than Poultry, partly because Game is better for a certain amount of hanging, and partly because it is sold unplucked. There are two tests by which the freshness of Game may be ascertained. One of these is the condition of the eye. If, when the eyelids are opened, the eye itself looks bright and clear, the bird is fresh. But if the eye has sunk almost out of sight, the bird has been dead for several days. The other test is to pull a feather from the plumage at the lower part of the back, above the tail. If the feather comes out very easily the bird has been hung quite long enough. As in the case of Poultry, the condition of the legs and feet reveal the age of Game. Besides this, if the bird is held at arm’s length by the lower mandible (the lower half of the beak), the mandible in a young bird will snap across. But if the mandible will bear the weight without breaking, the bird is undoubtedly old. A bird which shows signs of having been badly shot should never he bought, for the bruised and injured parts will soon become uneatable. If such a bird is brought in fresh from the shooters, draw and pluck it at once, cut out every bruised part, and cook the bird as soon as possible. It is well when birds are brought in from shooting to draw them as soon as can be managed, to give the cavity a rinse with cold water, wipe it quite dry, and put a piece of charcoal into it before the bird is hung up. Woodcock and Snipe are not drawn; nor are Plover. Cock Pheasants are easily distinguished from hen Pheasants; in Partridges the cocks have reddish-brown plumage on the breast, whilst these feathers in the hen are a plain light brown. Pheasants are always better for hanging for three or four days ; and the same rule applies to Partridges, Grouse, and Blackcock. Hares ought to hang about a week, but they require care. They must he hung up by the hind-legs, and, if shot at home, it is better not to clean them till they are skinned. If there are several Hares in a larder a long narrow box, like a window-box, should be filled with broken charcoal and set on the floor of the larder close to the Hares. At the end of a week the