PUDDINGS 484 Baked Batter Pudding1.—Beat separately the yolks and whites of three eggs, then mix three tablespoonfuls of flour with half a pint of milk, a morsel of butter, and a pinch of salt. Stir in the eggs and bake in a quick oven. Tapioca Pudding.—(Family Recipe.)—Put two table- spoonfuls of tapioca into half a pint of cold milk and steep it from four to six hours. Then melt half an ounce of butter in a saucepan, add the tapioca and milk, and stir till it boils. Then put it to simmer very gently for half an horn*. Pour it into a pudding-dish and bake it for a few minutes. Serve it with a little strawberry jam sent up in a glass or china saucer. Milky Rice Pudding.—Take two ounces of rice, and a pint of cold milk. Put them into a jar which has a cover, set it in a pan of boiling water, and let it simmer till the rice is thick and soft. Keep the cover on the jar, but stir the rice now and then. Allow an hour and a half, then pour the rice into a pudding-dish, and bake in a moderate oven for a few minutes just to brown the surface. Flavour with lemon peel. If the pudding is liked very milky add a little more milk. Both this pudding and the tapioca pudding are infinitely better than the usual plainly-baked puddings, as the rice and tapioca are thoroughly cooked, and thoroughly saturated with the milk. Steamed Rice Pudding.—(Family Recipe.)—Boil five ounces of washed rice for ten minutes. Strain and simmer it for an hour and a half in a pint of milk till it is quite soft and thick like melted butter. Put it into a basin and add a little bi’own sugar. Break four yolks of eggs into it, and add two dessertspoonfuls of jam made of one quarter apricot and three quarters apple. Work all well together with a spoon. Whip the whites of the four eggs and stir them in. Butter a round mould five and a half inches deep, and steam the pudding for one hour and twenty minutes. The colour should be slightly brown, from the brown sugar and the jam. Serve with jam sauce made the reverse way—that is, three quarters apricot and one quarter apple. You will want at least four tablespoonfuls of jam dissolved in a syrup made of a pint of water and two ounces of lump sugar. Bread and Butter Pudding.—Butter a pie-dish, and well wash an ounce of currants and an ounce of sultanas. Cut