SWEET DISHES 462 Compote, of Black Currants.—Strip a pint of currants from the stalks, being careful not to break the skins. Simmer them in a closed pan for fifteen minutes. Strew six ounces of sugar over the currants, and let the pan stay on a very low fire for another quarter of an hour. Do not stir the fruit in any way, but shake the pan gently now and then. Set it to cool. Whip half a pint of cream to a froth, flavour it with sugar only. Arrange a ring of neat croutons of sponge cake crisped in the oven, lay the whipped cream inside this, and the black currants in the middle. Red Currant Compote.—Simmer the fruit five minutes. Morelia Cherries make an excellent Compote. Stone them, simmer them as gently as possible from five to seven minutes. For a pound and a quarter of cherries allow five ounces of sugar to half a pint of water. Compote of Prunes.—Put a pound of good Prunes into an enamelled saucepan with two ounces of sugar, the finely peeled rind of a lemon, a stick of cinnamon, and enough light claret to cover the fruit well. Stew very gently, so that the Prunes may swell and absorb some of the liquid. When quite tender, put them into a glass dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, add the syrup in which they were stewed, and, if liked, a glass of cherry brandy. Let them get quite cold—if necessary over ice—and hand with them plain cream in a jug. Compote of Chestnuts.—Choose thirty good sound large chest- nuts, take off their brown skins, put them into warm water over the fire for a minute or two, and when getting hot take them off and peel off their red skins. Make a pint of weak syrup, with a pint of water, sugar, and the zest of a lemon. Arrange the chest- nuts in a roomy saute-pan, pour in just enough syrup to cover them, and simmer them very slowly for twenty minutes, being careful to keep them whole. Drain, and arrange the chestnuts in a glass dish. Strain the syrup into a clean pan, add a gill of Kirsch with the juice of half a lemon, and boil it down till it slightly coats the spoon. Cool, pour it over the chestnuts, and set the dish in a cold larder. Whipped cream may be laid over the chestnuts. \Wyvem.~] For the smaller English Chestnuts, rub them through a sieve, and arrange them round whipped cream which has been flavoured with vanilla and slightly sweetened.