SWEET SANDWICHES 391 makes one of the best Sweet Sandwiches, but any jam or fruit jelly can be used. Heather honey, with a squeeze of lemon, makes an excellent Sandwich spread on Hovis or other brown bread. The bread for Sweet Sandwiches should be cut rather thicker than for Meat Sandwiches. Stale sponge cake, with thin slices of orange from which all peel, pips, and pith have been removed, makes a good Sandwich if the orange is sliced shortly before being used. Oat-cake (see Chapter XX) cut into long fingers is excellent spread with Devonshire cream. Very small scones, the size of a florin, and made with salt as usual, are good split open and filled with Devonshire cream. The same sized scones, only made without salt, can be filled with marmalade, etc. If marmalade is used a few strips of candied peel should be put on the top of the scone. Chocolate, melted in a little hot milk and spread between slices of sponge cake, makes a popular Sandwich. FANCY BUTTERS. Fancy Butters are most useful, for they are as tempting as they are decorative. They can be served in little pats, melting on the surface of cutlets, or cold in little balls as part of a cold garnish, or they may be spread upon canapes and thus form an addition to a savoury. It is quite worth while to keep the few little things required in making Fancy Butters for this purpose only. These are : A small mortar and pestle, a small hair sieve, a small butter board and bat, and some little prints the size of a shilling for stamping the pats. Mattre d’Hdtel Butter.—In this, as in all Fancy Butters, only the best butter should be used. It must be as firm and as fresh as possible, and in warm weather it should be iced. The butter should be made in a cold larder, and when finished it should be put either in the ice cave, or on a plate (the pats well apart) set over a basin of broken ice. For Maitre d’Hotel Butter, add to two ounces of butter the juice of one lemon, a dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley leaf free from all moisture, a pinch of white pepper, and a pinch of salt. Form with the butter bat. Green Butter.—Make spinach colouring by squeezing two handfuls of boiled and drained spinach leaves through muslin into a small basin. Blanch some parsley leaf, and mince as