MULLIGATAWNY SOUP 4i 4. Next put in a coffeecupful of the broth, mix well, increase the heat below the stewpan, and by degrees add the whole of the broth—three pints altogether. 5. Bring this to the boil, skimming off the scum, and then simmer for a quarter of an hour. 6. After this pass the broth through the block-tin strainer to get rid of pieces of onion, etc. 7. If at all lumpy the soup must be again strained, and then the nutty infusion, squeezed through muslin, must be pressed into it. 8. Heat up almost to boiling point and serve. If rice is handed it should be boiled like rice for curry, and tinted (if thought necessary) with a saltspoonful of turmeric. A lemon cut in quarters should always be handed with Mulligatawny. The above recipe is for thin Mulligatawny. If the richer thick kind, or the more difficult clear sort, or Ox-tail and Mulligatawny soup, the queue de boeuf a la Indienne of London clubs, are wanted Wyvern gives excellent recipes for all. Dessicated cocoa-nut and ground sweet almonds can be bought at any good grocer’s ; the nutty milk produced by them is a most important ingredient in Mulligatawny. Mulligatawny paste should be procured from some first-rate shop. In its absence a dessertspoonful of curry powder and the same of curry paste might be used. For purees of haricots, split peas, and lentils, during the winter months it is an excellent plan to work the eau de cuisson, or water in which they have been boiled, with the Mulligatawny paste, just as the stock is used in thin Mulliga- tawny. (Many people dislike the flavour of cocoa-nut, in which case the nutty infusion is easily made of sweet almonds.) Bonne Femme, or Sorrel Soup.—This excellent soup requires some care, but it is well worth careful attention. Fry four ounces of minced onion in a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter over a low fire for five minutes, but do not let the onion colour. Next add four ounces of well-picked sorrel leaves, one ounce of chervil, and about two ounces of lettuce- leaves, all shredded, with a saltspoonful of salt and the same of