475 FLAVOURED CREAMS cases. Put the cases in the bain-marie, with boiling water three-parts of their height, keep them warm without boiling. Draw away the pan, and let the cases cool, covering the pan, till the Cream is set. Serve cold in the cases. The flavouring may be gi'ated stick vanilla (not the essence), or two spoonfuls of kirsch. Or grind some roasted coffee fine, boil it for ten minutes, and strain it through a flannel. Or melt enough chocolate in boiling milk for the cases, and strain it. Add the flavouring when the milk is boiling, and let it boil with it. Marton Hall Blanc Manger.—(Mrs. Heber’s Family Becipe, 1830.)—Boil a quart of cream with a little sugar, the peel of a lemon, and all kinds of spice, for twenty minutes. Have ready an ounce of soaked gelatine, add it to the cream, and give the cream two or three boils up. Strain through muslin into a china dish. When cold the Blanc Manger will be stiff, but not so stiff as to need biting. It should melt in the mouth. If spice is objected to flavour with a little wine or liqueur. Add this when the Blanc Manger has begun to cool. Blanc Manger is very good with compotes of fruit, arranged in the dish round the compote. Gooseberry Fool.-—Put a quart of topped and tailed green Gooseberries in the oven, to let them burst. Rub them through a sieve; when cold sweeten the Gooseberries a little, and beat in cream till the Fool is like thick cream. Brooks’ Club Strawberry Fool.—(Family Becipe.)—Rub a pound of Strawberries through a sieve, with sugar. Add three-quarters of a pint of cream, stir together, and beat until perfectly smooth. Serve in a glass dish, which has been set on ice. Orange Fool.—(Family Becipe.)—Take a pint of cream, and beat three eggs well. Squeeze into the cream the juice of six oranges, and the grated peel of one Seville orange. Add a little sugar. Stir all well over a low fire till it thickens, but on no account let it boil. Turn it into a glass dish, and let it get cold. Black Currant Fool is excellent made like Gooseberry Fool. Bhubarb Fool is improved by the addition of a little ground ginger as the Rhubarb is passed through the sieve.