i99 QUENELLES Quenelles made of game require a brown sauce. This is easily managed by melting one ounce of glaze in one pint of the broth whilst it is cooking. Quenelles of Fish must be made of white fish only, and only such white fish as haddock and whiting. No rich or oily fish can be used for Quenelles. The proportions are eight ounces of pounded uncooked fish to five ounces of panada and five ounces of butter. The broth for the sauce must of course be made of the bones and trimmings of the fish. Additional trimmings may be needed, and are readily supplied in the way of heads of fish by any fishmonger. Quenelles of Cheese are an excellent savoury, whether baked or fried, but to be successful with them Wyverns directions must be implicitly followed. Take seven ounces of flour of the best quality and well dried, put it in a bowl, make a hollow in the centre of it, add two ounces and three-quarters of butter, and mix to a paste with a gill and a half of water; dust into it a couple of pinches of salt, and one of cayenne or Nepaul pepper. When mixed, and free from stickiness, add, one by one, five eggs, lastly putting in a coffeecupful of grated Parmesan, and three tablespoonfuls of finely-grated ham. Pat the paste with a wooden spoon into a flat round shape on a floured pastry board, and out of it make a number of small oval rolls the size of an olive. Have ready a deep-sided saute-pan with boiling water, reduce the heat, and poach the rolls till set firmly. Drain them, laying them on a cloth to dry. Then arrange them in a fire-proof gratin dish, moistening with just sufficient good white sauce, mixed somewhat thinly, to barely more than cover them, dredge a layer of Parmesan over all, and bake in a gentle oven for twelve or fourteen minutes. Serve in the fire-proof dish straight from the oven. Or, after draining the Quenelles and letting them get cold, brush them over with egg, roll them in finely-sifted crumbs, let this set, and then fry in hot fat till the Quenelles are of a golden colour. Serve them when dry piled upon a napkin and dusted over with Parmesan. These are called Quenelles de fromage frites. For the little Quenelles served in soup teaspoons and not