580 ANATOMY. tutes what is called a left aorta. Tlie 4tli right arch alao increases in size, though not to the same extent as the left, and forms the innominate artery, and the first and second parts of the right sub- clavian artery of human anatomy; whilst the third part of this artery, with the axillary, seems to he a lateral twig, from the dorsal aortic root, that connects the 4th and 5th vascular arches. The left subclavian again is apparently in its whole extent a lateral branch of the dorsal aortic root, connecting the 4th and 5th vascular arches. The common carotid artery is formed by a great Fig. 159.—Diagram of the Vascular Arches, to illustrate tlieir conversion into the great arteries (after Ruthlte.) 1 to 5, the five pairs of vascular ai'ches; v, the two ventral aortic roots; oo, the right dorsal aortic root; a, internal carotid; b, external carotid; c, common carotid; d, the part of the truncus communis which developes into the ascending aorta; e, transverse part of arch of aoi'ta; /. descending aorta; y and h, left vertebral and subclavian arteries; i and I, right subclavian; k, right vertebral; m, the part of the truncus communis which developes into the trunk of the pulmonary artery; n, the 5th left arch wliich gives off the right and left pulmonary arteries, and fomis the ductus arteriosus represented by the dotted line in the figure. The shaded parts indicate the permanent vessels, whilst those left in outline, atrophy, and disappear. increase in size of the ventral aortic root, which joins the 3rd and 4th vascular arches : the external carotid is a dilatation of the more anterior part of the same root connecting the 3rd with the 2nd, and the 2nd with the 1st vascular arch. The internal carotid ai-tery is produced by a great increase in the size of the 3rd vascular arch, and of the dorsal aortic root between the 3rd and 2nd, and 2nd and 1st vascular arches. The descending thoracic aorta, as already stated, is formed by the fusion of the two dorsal aortic roots ; whilst the ascending aorta is one of the two vessels into which the truncus communis is divided.