774 ANATOMY. the embryo, the splanchno-pleure and hypoblast are included with- in the thoracico-abdominal cham- ber. The s))litting of the meso- blast into two layers occasions a cavity between the somato-pleure and splanchno-pleure, which cavity forms the 2}leuro-peritoneal cavity. The Primitive A limentary Canal is a straight, or almost straight tube, and lies in relation to the ventral surface of the chorda dorsalis, and the bodies of the vertebrae which are developed around the chorda. From its anterior closed end, or tha fore- gut, are developed the pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, and duo- denum. From its posterior closed end, or the hind gut, are developed the rectum, and sigmoid flexure of the colon. From its inter- mediate part, or the middle gut, are developed the jejunum and ileum, the ccecum, and the greater part of the colon. In the differentiation of the walls of the primitive tube, which leads to the formation of these different divisions of the alimen- tary canal, the cells of the hypo- blast are transformed into the epi- thelium situated on the surface of its mucous membrane, whilst the Fig. 217.—Transverse section through the body of an embryo Cliick about the Srd day. d, dorsal, and v, ventral surface of embryo; N, neural axis; c, central canal; ch, chorda dorsalis; pv, profovertebrse; to, m, mesoblast; e, e, epiblast; oo,aorta; A, primitive alimentary canal; fi, hypoblast; H, lieart; en, endocardium; sp,splanch- no-pleure ; s, somato-pleure; })p, pleuro-peritonealcavity; 6, b, divided vessels in thewall of the body,' lied from Schenk. -Modi- muscular and connective tissues, the vascular and nervous^structures in the wall of the several divisions of the canal, are differentiated 0 m the cells of the mesoblast. The pnmitivc pliarynx is the most anterior part of the primi- tive alimentary canal, and is enclosed by the visceral and vascular arches in the head of the embryo. As the pharynx lies in the embryo head, the splitting of the mesoblast into the two definite lajers of somato-pleui-e and splanchno pleure, is not seen 111 con-