DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKELETON. 59 for, 1st, The chorda dorsalis is not co-equal in length with the basis cranii, as it is with the bodies of the spinal vertebrae, so that if the basi-occipital and basi-sphenoid segments, the bodies of which are developed around it, were to be regarded as cranial vertebrse, the pre-sphenoidal and ethmoido-nasal would not be morphologically the same, as they are formed in front of the anterior end of the chorda. 2d, Proto-vertebrjB are formed in the spine, but not in the basis ci-anii. Sd, The spine is transversely segmented in its cartilaginous stage of development, but the skull is not. Ath, The transverse segmentation of the skull only appears when the bones are formed, but the individuality of the segments becomes again concealed by the fusion of the pre- and basi-sphenoids and the basi-occipital into a continuous bar of bone, a condition which is not found in the spiae except in the sacro-coccygeal region. 5t7i, The neural arches in the spine are, like the bodies, ossified in cartilage, but in the cranium they are for the most part ossified in membrane. These differences in the mode of development of the spine and basis cranii may be summarised as below:— 1st Stage, Unsegmented chorda. 1st Stage, Unsegmented chorda in part. Spine. 2d Stage, Sd Stage, 4th Stage, Proto-vertebrffi. Segmented Segmented cartilage. bones. Basis Cranii. 2d Stage, 3d Stage, Uh Stage, Unsegmented Segmented Unsegmented cartilage. bones. bones. It is evident, therefore, that, although both skull and spine are developed in the walls of the cerebro-spinal groove, yet, to quote the words of Huxley, "though they are identical in general plan of construction, the two begin to diverge as soon as the one puts on the special character of a skull and the other that of a vertebral column; the skuU is no more a modified vertebral column than the vertebral column is a modified skull." The Limbs, at their first appearance, sprout like little buds or lappets from the sides of the trunk ; cartilage forms within them, which assumes the shape of the future bones, and as the limbs gi'ow outwards, manifestations of joints appear, and the subdivision of each hmb mto Its several segments takes place. The shaft of the clavicle, however, which ossifies before any of the other bones, begins to torm m fibrous membrane; and at a much later period the ends of