DEVELOPMENT OF ORGANS OE GENERATION. 859 characters of a female, although the testicles might he present in the divided scrotum, and the ovaries and uterus be absent. Again, in an individual otherwise possessing the characters ot a male, if the Miillerian ducts were not to atrophy, but to undergo a certain commensurate enlargement, the prostatic vesicle would not appear as a rudimentary structure, but would exhibit to a greater or less degree,the external characters of a vagina and uterus, situated between the rectum and the bladder. _ The difference in the mode of development of the testicle and ovary also lends countenance to the possibility of both kinds ot glands beins produced in the same individual, a condition which has occasionally been seen in certain fish, as the codfish and her- ring, but examples of the occurrence of which have not been so definitely ascertained in the higher vertebrates. It may, however, be stated that a structure sometimes found closely attached to the outer surface of the human testicle, and named by Luschka the non-pedunculated hydatid of Morgagni (to distinguish it from the pedunculated hydatid of Morgagni near the head of the epididymis), is, by the recent researches of Fleischl, in all probability the rudimentary ovarium viascuUmim. Its outer surface is covered by a cubical or short cylindrical epithelium, distinct from the squamous endothelium of the surrounding tunica va^nalis, which is involuted to some extent into its substance. Its proper substaaice consists of connective tissue, with convoluted canals, lined by a cubical or short cylindrical ciliated epithelium. Hence in the male a rudimentary representative of the ovary may be present, though functionally inactive. The Mammary glands are developed in connection with the integument of the pectoral region. It has been customary to regard the epithelial lining of the ducts and gland vesicles as arising from an involution of the cells of the cuticular epiblast, whilst the dacts and the vascular connective tissue of the lobes proceed from the subjacent mesoblast. From the recent observations of C. Creighton, it would appear that the acini of the gland arise at many separate points quite independent of the ducts, and developc from the same kind of cells which give origin to the fatty tissue. The ducts themselves are formed by the aggregation of embiyonic cells along certain lines, and are formed before the acini, with which they subsequently become continuous. Creighton's obser- vations on the development of the mamma support Goodsir's view of gland development, according to which a gland is originally a mass of nucleated cells, the progeny of one or more parent cells;