DEVELOPMENT OF VASCULAE SYSTEM. 579 arc*, in which the lower jaw is developed, and the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th pairs are in the corresponding visceral arches. The 1st, 2nd, and 3rd pairs spring from the ventral aortic roots ; the 4th pair from that part of the truncus communis which subsec[uently becomes the ascending aorta, and the 6th pair from the part of the truncus communis which becomeslthe trunk of the pulmonary artery. Al I five pairs of arterial arches join the primitive dorsal aortae, and form, at their junction with it, the dorsal aortic roots. The primi- tive dorsal aorta is at first two distinct vessels lying parallel and close to each other ; they subsequently coalesce in the dorsal and lumbar regions of the embryo, and form the descending thoracic and abdominal portions of the aorta, which is thus, as was demon- strated by Allen Thomson, a secondary vessel formed by the fusion of two originally distinct arteries. Two or three cases have been seen in which the fusion between the two primitive vessels has not been completed, and the aorta has been divided into two canals by a longitudinal septum. The descending thoracic and abdominal part of the aorta have numerous branches developed in connection with them, which supply the parietes of the thorax and abdomen, the pelvis, and the lower limbs. But further, two arteries are de- veloped in the wall of the allantois, which become continuous through the iliac arteries with the abdominal aorta. During the later period of embryonic life they attain a large size, convey the blood to the placenta, and are named the hypogastric or umbilical arteries. The vascular arches in the early human embryo have a general resemblance to the arrangement of the branchial arteries in the gills of fish and amphibia, but in man and the higher vertebrates gills are not formed in connection with them. In reptiles, birds, and animals they have a similar arrangement to what has just been described in the human embryo. In man, and all the higher vertebrates, the vascular arches undergo a metamorphosis as the de- velopment of the embryo advances. Some of the arches, as the 1st and 2d, atrophy and disappear, whilst others undergo a great in- crease in size, and give rise to those arteries which are known in human anatomy as the arch of the aorta, the right and left pulmonary arteries and ductus arteriosus, the innominate artery, the common, internal, and external carotid arteries, and the subclavian arteries. In man, and all the other mammalia, the 4th left arch, and tlie part of the dorsal aortic root which connects the 4th and 5th left arches, undergo a great increase in size, in correspondence with the growth of the embryo, and forms the transverse part of the arch of the aorta, which arches above the root of the left lung, and consti-