854 ANATOMY. Development of the Ueinart and Repkodtjctive Systems. The Urinary and Reproductive Organs have close relations to each other, not only after their formation is completed, but in the region of their development. In the early embryo the following structures are found in the abdominal region on each side of the mesial plane:—A WolflSan body ; an excretory duct of the Wolffian body; a small body situated at the summit of the Wolffian body ; a genital gland ; a slender tube named the Miillerian duct lying on, but not communi- cating with, the Wolffian body. The Wolffian bodies appear in the human embryo about the 3rd week as thickenings of the niesoblast lying in relation to the ventral surfaces of those protovertebrae, which correspond in posi- tion to the abdominal region. The mesoblast cells, out of which they proceed, lie between these protovertebra; and the line of divi- sion of the mesoblast into somato-pleure and splanchno-pleure, where they form a mass named the intermediate cell-mass. In the cell mass a tube or duct appears, from which diverticular offshoots arise, as a series of short convoluted tubes with vascular glomeruli, not unlike the structure of the kidney. From this resemblance in structure the Wolffian bodies are often called the jn-imordial kidneys. The duct of each Wolffian body opens into the cloaca. After fulfilling until about the 6th or 7th week of embryonic life the office of kidneys, the Wolffian bodies atrophy, so that at the time of birth scarcely any trace remains. In the adult male the body known as the organ of Giraldes and the vas aberrans are the representatives of the Wolffian body; whilst in the adult female some fragments of tubes, called the grains of FoUn, near the par- ovarium, are its persistent representatives. The perTTUinent kidneys arise from a mass of mesoblast cells situated in relation to the dorsal aspect of the Wolffian duct. As this mass increases in size it becomes hollowed out into minute tubes, the rudiments of the uriniferous tubes, which, as growth and development proceed, elongate and form the characteristic tubular structures of the kidney. These tubes then communicate with a tube, arising apparently in connection with the mesoblast, which becomes the ureter. The urinary bladder is formed by a dilatation of that part of the allantois, which, by the development of the abdominal walls, be-