57 DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKELETON. ai'ches, called branchial or visceral, arise in the ventral aspect of the head, and in each of the three first of these arches a rod of cartilage is formed. The arches on opposite sides unite with each other in the ventral mesial line, but those on the same side are separated from each other by intermediate branchial clefts; these clefts all close up in course of time, except the upper part of the first, which remains as the external meatus of the eai", the tympanum, and the Eustachian tube; whilst the interval between the fii-st visceral arch and the maxillary lobes forms the cavity of the mouth. The con- version of the primordial cartilaginous and membranous cranium iato the bones of the head takes place by the formation in it of numerous centres of ossification. The basi-, ex-, and so much of the supra-occipital as lies below the superior curved line, are formed from distinct centres ia the cartilaginous floor of the skull; whilst the part of the supra-occipital above the curved line arises from independent centres in the membranous cranium, the whole inti- mately fusing together to form the occipital bone. The basi- or post-sphenoid, the pre- with the orbito-sphenoids, the ali-sphenoid with the external pterygoid and the internal pterygoid, also arise in the cartilaginous floor, and they, together with the sphenoidal spongy bones which are formed in the membranous cranium, fuse into the sphenoid bone. The palate is appai-ently foi-med by ossifica- tion of cai-tLlage continuous with the bar in which the internal pterygoid arises. The central plate and each lateral mass of the ethmoid also arise in the cartilage by distinct centres. The inferior turbinal has also a distinct oiigin in cartilage. The petro-mastoid part of the temporal arises in cartilage from at least three centres, peri-, pro-, and opisth-otic, and soon blends with the squamous and tympanic elements which arise in the membranous cranium; subsequently the styloid process, which is ossified in the rod of cartilage in the second visceral arch, joins the temporal. The lower end of this same rod forms the lesser comu of the hyoid; the upper Old forms two small bones, the stapes and incus, situated within the cavity of the tympanum. The cartilage of the thu-d visceral arch forms the great comu and body of the hyoid bone. The name of Meckel's cartilage is applied to the rod found in the firet visceral arch; Its upper end is ossified into the malleus, a small bone situated m the tympanic cavity; whilst in the membrane sur- roundmg the rest of the cartilage the lower jaw-bone is formed. 1 he parietal and frontal bones arise altogether in the membranous vault; and the nasal, lachrymal, malar, and superior maxillre arise m connection with the membranous lobes which foi-m the face; the