DEVELOPMENT OF ORGAN'S OF EESPIRATION. 777 In the wall of the alimentary canal are developed numbers of race- mose glands, of tubular gasti-ic glands, and of tubular Lieberkiih- nian glands. The epithelial cells lining the ducts of the mucous and salivary glands opening into the mouth are involutions of its lining epiblast epithelium, and the secreting cells within the gland, vesicles are probably derived from the same layer, whilst the connective tissue, vessels, and nerves of these glands are developed from the meso blast. The epithelium of all the tiibular glands situated in the wall of the stomach and intestine is of hypoblast origin. The epithelial lining of the ducts of Brunner's glands, and of the racemose glands in the wall of the pharynx and oesophagus, is derived from the hypoblast, but there is a question how far the secreting cells within the gland vesicles are of hypoblast or of mesoblast origin. The lymplioid follicles and lymphatic glands are developed from the mesoblast. The Pancreas is developed along with the spleen from a clump of mesoblast situated in connection with the wall of the duodenum. A diverticulum of the hypoblast lining of the duodenum grows into it, which gives rise to the epithelial lining of the pancreatic duct; but as to the cellular contents of its gland vesicles, as well as those of Brunner's glands, it is not yet determined whether they are derived from mesoblast or hypoblast. The Liver arises from one or two masses of mesoblast situated in connection with the wall of the duodenum. A diverticulum from the hypoblast lining of the duodenum is prolonged into it, which branches and forms the epithelial lining of the bile dircts and gaU bladder. Columns of cells then arise in the embryonic organs, which come into relation with the branched divisions of the diver- ticulum from the hypoblast. These columns form the secreting cells of the liver, but there is a difference of opinion as to whether they are produced from the mesoblast cells, or from the hypoblast diverticula. The vessels, nerves, and connective tissue, both of the liver and pancreas, are produced by differentiation of their meso- blast cells. The Organs of Kespiration are developed in connection with the wall of the primitive alimentary canal. The Idcngs arise as two bud-like projections in the wall of the primitive fore gut, in the region of the primordial heart and liver. These buds are hollow, and consist of collections of mesoblast cells, into which a diverticulum of the hypoblast lining of the fore gut is prolonged. Growth and thickening of the anterior or ventral waU . 3 D