54 ANATOMY. Development and Homologies op the Skeleton. It will now be advisable to consider briefly the mode of develop- ment of tbe skeleton, and along with the stndy of its genesis to compare its several parts with each other, in order to ascertain if correspondences in their arrangement and mode of origin exist, even if they differ in the function or office wluch they perfonn. When two or more parts or organs correspond with each other in structure, relative position, and mode of origin, we say they are homologous parts, or homologues; whilst parts which have the same function, but do not correspond in structure, relative position, and mode of origin, are analogous parts, or analogues. Homologous parts have therefore a morphological identity with each other, whilst analogous parts have a physiological agreement. The same parts may be both homologous and analogous, as the fore-limbs of a bat and a bii-d, both of which, with the same fundamental type of structui-e, are subservient to flight. In other cases analogous parts are not homologues, as is illusti'ated by the wing of the insect, which, though subservient to flight, is fundamentally difi'erent in sti-ucture from the wing of the bat or bird. In the germinal area of the fertilised vertebrate ovum a longitudi- nal gi-oove appears which marks the beginning of the Cranial Cavity and Spinal Canal of the young embryo. At the bottom of this cranio- spinal groove a slender rod is formed, called chorda dorsalis or nolo- chord. Each side of the gi-oove then becomes elevated as a thin mem- brane, to meet behind to enclose a canal in which the brain and spinal marrow are developed. SmaU dark masses, the primordial or proto- vertehrce, next foiTa on each side of the chorda dorsalis. In these proto-vertebrae, about the sixth or seventh week of intra-uterine life of the human ovum, little masses of cartilage appear, which correspond in number and position to the futm-e spinal vertebra. The part of the cartilage which foi-ms the body of the future vertebra is developed ai'oimd the chorda dorsalis, wliich it encloses in its substance, whilst the cartilaginous neural arch forms in the mem- brane which closes in the spinal canal. The formation of these cartilaginous vertebrae is completed in the human embryo about the fourth month of intra-uterine life. The bodies of the cartilaginous vertebrae are connected together by plates or discs of intervening fibro-cartilage, which are also developed around the chorda dorsalis. After the enclosure of the rod-like chorda by the cartilaginous vertebriB and the inter-vertebral discs it disajipeai-s, no remains