DEVELOPMENT OF VASCULAE SYSTEM. 575 Development of the Vasculak System. The vascular system is formed in the middle or mesoblast layer of the germinal membrane of the early embryo. The Blood-vessels first appear in that part of the mesoblast which forms the vascular area. The cells of the mesoblast lose their original spherical form and become stellate, the processes of adjacent cells unite together ,and form a network, and the nuclei rapidly increase in numbers. The peripheral part of the protoplasm of the steUate ceUs differentiates into a waU of nucleated protoplasm, and forms the wall of the primary embryonic blood-vessel, the central part of the protoplasm liquefies and forms vacuoles in the eeUs, and the nuclei in this liquefied protoplasm become the blood- corpuscles. If the vessel remains as a capillary, its wall assumes merely the character of a single layer of endothelial cells. ^ If it becomes an artery or a vein, the mesoblast cells, lying immediately external to the primary blood-tube, apply themselves to the exterior of its wall, and differentiate into the muscular and elastic coats and the tuuica adventitia. A similar mode of development of the blood-vessels apparently takes place within the body of the embryo itself. The formation of blood-vessels in the healing of wounds, and in some pathological processes, is also from the cells of the part in which the blood-vessels arise. The Lymph-vessels also arise in a manner closely resembling the origin of blood vessels. The cells of the part branch and anasto- mose with each other. According to Klein, vacuoles appear in these cells, so as to form a cavity, and the vacuoles of adjacent cells in time communicate with each other, and form an anasto- mosing series of lymph capillaries. The nucleated protoplasmic wall of the cells forms the nucleated endothelial wall of the capil- liaries, and from this wall portions of the protoplasm may separate off into the lymph-tube and form lymph corpuscles. The Heart begins to form in the body of the early embryo at the same time that the blood-vessels appear in the vascular area. It is placed at the cephalic end of the embryo, close to the cephalic fold of the amnion, and arises in the splanchno-pleure layer of the meso- blast. It is at first attached to the primitive pharynx by a delicate • membranous fold. It has been customary to regard it as de- veloped out of a solid mass of cells, the central part of which mass liquefies to form blood and blood corpuscles, whilst the peripheral