ANATOMY. 212 tudinal mesial fissnre appears on the anterior, and another on th* posterior surface of the cord, which gradually increase in depth until the cord is almost completely divided into two lateral halves. At the bottom of the anterior inedian fissure the nerve fibres of the UTiterior commissure are developed, and at the bottom of the posterior median fissure those of the posterior commissure. These commissuies unite the two halves of the cord together. The upper or cerebral end of the cerebro-spinal tube becomes the Encephalon, or Brain, which organ is therefore derived from the epiblast. At first tlie cerebral part of the tube is unifonn in appearance with the spinal part, but it soon expands into three vesicular dilatations — the primary cerebral vesicles. These vesicles, named (from before backwards) anterior, middle, and posterior, are separated from each other by constrictions, and as the development progresses the vesicles bend on each other and on the upper end of the spinal cord. As each vesicle is an expan- sion of the cerebro-spinal tube, it is necessarily hollow, and the space in its interior is continuous with the central canal of the spinal cord. In the walls of the vesicles the nervous stractures are produced, which form the several subdivisions of the encei^halon. The posterior cerebral vesicle bends first foi-wards from the upper end of the spinal cord, and then backwards; the part which bends forward becomes the medulla oblongata; that which bends backward the cercbelluvi, whilst the pons is developed at the angle where these two parts are continuous with each other; the central hollow fonns the central canal of the medulla oblongata and the dilated space called the fourth ventricle. In the medulla oblongata shallow anterior and posterior median fmTows then appear continuous with those in the cord, and each lateral half differen- tiates into grey matter and into a longitudinal arrangement of neiTe fibres continuous with the corresponding structures in the cord. A large proportion of these fibres is continued upwards through the pons as its longitudinal fibres. The cerebellum consists at first of a central lobe, and in the lower vertebrates its development does not proceed beyond this stage; but in mammals, including man, a lateral lobe or hemisphere is superadded on each side, and with the growth of these lateral lobes numerous transverse fibres, which connect the two hemispheres together, are developed in the pons. The cerebellum is also connected below with the medulla oblongata by the pair of restiform bodies, or inferior peduncles, and above with the corpora quadrigemina by the pair of superior peduncles. The middle cerebral vesicle bends forwards from the posterior