56 ANATOMY. and lumbar regions of man and most vertebrates, only the verte- bral portion of each skeletal segment is represented, though in the abdominal wall of the crocodiles abdominal ribs and a sternum are developed. In the thoracic region the five lowest dorsal vertebrae have five pairs of ribs developed in connection with them; whilst the seven highest vertebrse have not only their corresponding pairs of ribs, but also a sternum, which bone, however, has only six ti'ans- verse segments. In the cervical region seven vertebrae are found, but the anterior bar of the ti'ansverse process, although fused with the vertebral body, is homologous with a rib, for in man it some- times develops as a distinct movable rib in connection with the seventh cervical; and in the crocodiles small movable ribs are regularly developed in connection with the different cervical verte- bras. The bodies and neural arches of the vertebrte are serially homologous with each other; as a rule this is also the case with their processes, but the articular processes of the atlas and the superior pair of the axis, although functionally analogous, are not homologous with the articular processes of the other vertebrae, but with the articular surfaces for the ribs on the bodies of the dorsal vertebrffi, for they lie in front of, and not behind, the vertebral notches through which the spinal nerves are transmitted. The development of the odontoid process of the axis shows it to be the body of the atlas displaced from its proper bone and fused with the body of the axis. The development and homology of the Skull is a much more difficult problem to solve than that of the spine. The chorda dorsalis extends along the floor of the skull as far forward as the posterior wall of the pituitaiy fossa. Cartilage is formed around it, without, however, the previous production of proto-vertebroe, and this cartilage is prolonged forward on each side of the fossa, forming two bars, the trabeculse cranii; these bars then unite, and foiTQ the mes-ethmoid cartilage; at the same time the cartilage grows out- wards for some distance in the membranous wall of the skull, but it does not mount upwards so as to close it in superiorly, so that the cartilage is limited to the floor of the skull; moreover, the cartilage is not segmented. The roof, side walls, and anterior wall of the cranium retain for a time their primordial membranous struc- ture. This membrane is prolonged downwards into the face proper, where it forms a pair of maxiUary lobes or processes, which pass forwards beneath the eyes to fonn the side parts of the face, and a mid- or frontal-nasal process, into which the cartilaginous mes- ethmoid extends. Immediately below each maxillary lobe four