DEVELOPMENT OF DUCTLESS GLANDS. 585 througli the heart and arteries is mixed blood. The precise differ- entiation of the blood of the two sides of the heart into a right ven- ous side, and a left arterial side does not take place until after the birth of the child, when the pulmonary respiration being estab- lished, the ductus arteriosus becomes obliterated, and the foramen ovale becomes closed. The Ductless Glands for the most part, though not entirely, are developed from the mesoblast. The Spleen arises from a mass of cells situated in connection with the meso-gastric fold of the stomach. These cells belong to the mesoblast, and form originally, as Peremeschko has shown, a mass common to both spleen and pancreas. A constriction then forms which separates the mass into a left, or splenic, and a right, or pancreatic portion. Into the pancreatic portion a prolongation of the hypoblast lining of the primitive alimentary canal passes, but not into the splenic portion. An ai-tery grows into the spleen mass from the aorta, and the collection of cells dilFerentiates into the proper textures of the spleen. The Supra-renal capsules arise, as was pointed out by Goodsir, from a mass of cells situated between the two Wolffian bodies. These cells belong to the mesoblast layer of the embryo. Kolliker cousiders that the two capsules are originally one organ, which subsequently separates into two lateral portions. At first the supra- renal capsules are larger than the kidneys, but their subsequent growth is not so rapid, so that the kidneys soon surpass them in size. The Thymus arises, according to Simon, in a membranous sub- stance situated parallel and close to the carotid arteries. This mem- brane is probably derived from the mesoblast. The Thyroid arises from a rounded mass of mesoblast cells situ- ated in relation to the first pair of vascular arches. W. Miiller states that a prolongation of the hypoblast lining of the pharynx is con- tinued into it. It is probable, therefore, that, whilst the vascular connective tissue of the thyroid is of mesoblast origin, the cellular lining of its vesicles is derived from the hypoblast. This difference in the origin of the thyroid, as compared with the thymus and spleen, is an additional argument to that derived from their struc- tural differences, against the physiological identity of these organs. The Pituitary gland consists of two lobes developed from very dif- ferent parts. The posterior lobe is a downward prolongation of the fioor of the third cerebral ventricle, with which it is continuous through the infundibulum ; it is derived therefore fr om the epi-