ANATOMY. 214 of each forms tlie lateral ventricle. In the floor of eacL. hemispliere' vesicle is developed a large grey mass, striated with bundles of nerve iibres, the corpus striatum, which lies immediately! in iront and to the outer side of the optic thalamus; a curved band, the taenia semicircularis, is formed along the junction of the thalamus with the corpus striatum, and at the inner and anterior end of this band, immediately behind the anterior pillara of the fornix, the two lateral ventricles become continuous with each other and with the third ventricle tlu'ough the foramen of Monro. The roof and side walls of each hemisphere vesicle form a grey expansion or mantle, which is at fii'st smooth, but subsequently becomes divided into lobes and convolutions, separated from each other by iissm^s. A deep gap or iissure now appears on the inner wall of each hemi- sphere vesicle, and is bounded above by a longitudinal band of fibres, which, continuous anteriorly with the anterior pillar of the fornix, joins its feUow in the middle line to form the body of the fornix, and then again diverging from its fellow passes backwards, downwards, and forwai-ds as the jJosterior -pillar of the fornix or the t(B)via hippocampi. A transverse an-angement of fibres then forms in each hemisphere vesicle, above the plane of the fornix, which, reaching the mesial plane, joins its fellow, connects the two hemi- spheres together, and forms the corpus callosum. In the hinder part this corpus rests upon the upper sm-face of the fornix, but more anteriorly it lies some distance above the fornix, and then bends down in front of it. Hence thei-e is enclosed between the fornix and the anteixi-inferior part of the corpus callosum two thin layers of grey matter, one belonging to the inner surface of each hemisphere vesicle, and called the septum luddum. Between these two layers is a narrow space, the fifth ventricle, which, unlike the other ventricles, is not derived from the cerebro-spinal tube, but is merely a portion of the longitudinal median fissure shut in by the develop- ment of the corpus callosum and fornix. Each hemisphere vesicle also gives off' from its anterior part a hoUow process, which expands in front into a bulbous dilatation, named the olfactory bulb, from which the nerves of smell arise, whilst the stalk of the bulb solidifies 2,n(iiansis^e olfactory peduncle. Owing to the great development of the mantle of the hemisphere vesicles'in the human brain, and the size and complexity of the convolutions, these parts of the hemispheres grow forward so as to overiap the olfactory bulbs and peduncles, and backward, so as to conceal not only the corpora striata and optic thalami, but also the corpora quadrigemina, crura cerebri, cerebellum, pons, and meduUa