DEVELOPMENT OF VASCULAR SYSTEM. 583 clavian veins. The conjoined right jugular and subclavian veins form the right innominate vein. A transverse communicating vein is developed, which connects the right innominate with the con- joined left jugular and subclavian, and forms the left innominate vein. The'two innominate veins are continuous below with the right duct of Cuvier, which has undergone a commensurate enlargement, and forms the right or persistent superior vena cava. The left duct of Cuvier does not undergo a commensurate increase in size, but almost entirely disappears, except at its lower end, which forms the coronary sinus, and opens into the right auricle. Traces of the vessel, however, as was pointed out by Marshall, exist in a small vein, which passes obliquely from this sinus along the wall of the left auricle, and in the vestigial fold of the pericardium. The upper end of the right cardinal vein becomes the part of the vena azygos which joins the superior cava. The upper end of the left cardinal vein becomes the left superior intercostal vein, which usually joins the left innominate vein. The lower ends of the car- dinal veins, as already stated, form the internal iliac veins. The intermediate portions of the cardinal veins are said to ati-ophy, and their place is taken by two posterior vertebral veins, which receive the intercostal veins, and form the left azygos vein, and the lower part of the right azygos, which afterwards become continuous with the upper end.of the azygos developed from the right cardinal vein. In birds, and in some mammals, the left duct of Cuvier persists, and forms a left suijeiior cava. A few cases have also been seen in man in which the left duct of Cuvier had not atrophied, and a right and a left superior vena cava opened into the right auricle ; in these cases, the transverse communicating, or left innominate vein, was either altogether absent or only feebly developed. WMlst these changes are going on in the heart, and in the arrangement of the great vessels, the position of the heart is also altered. "With the formation and elongation of the neck, the heart is further removed from the head, in close proximity to which it had first appeared, and becomes enclosed, by the development of the ribs and sternum, in the thoracic cavity. The carotid arteries and jugular veins at the same time become greatly elongated. As the pneumogastric nerves, which supply branches to the heart, accompany these vessels, they become elongated likewise. In the early embryo each pneumogastric gives off-its recurrent laryngeal nerve opposite the fifth vascular arch, around which the nerve turns in its asceut to the larynx. When the fifth right arch com-