ANATOMY. 582 arrangement of the great arteries, examples of which are occaslon- aUy seen in the human subject. It would be out of place in this elementary work to enter further into this matter, but I may refer for more complete information to my memoir on this subject in the British and Foreign Medico-CMrurgical Review, 1862. The V'ATis that first appear in the development of the human embryo are the omphalo-mesenteric veins, which arise in the vascu- lar area situated in the waU of the umbiUcal vesicle. These veins unite into a single trunk which opens into the primitive auricle. As the allantois grows out from the pelvic region of the body of the embryo to reach the chorion, and assist in the formation of the foetal placenta, two umbilical veins appear in its wall in about the fourth week of utero-gestation. In the fifth week one of these veins has disappeared, and the remaining one enlarges and forms the umbiUcal vein, which conveys the blood from the placenta to the embryo throughout the rest of fcetal life. It joins at its proximal end the omphalo-mesenteric vein. As the umbilical vein Ues in one part of its course in the region occupied by the liver, it becomes connected with the veins of the liver. The veins developed in connection with the spleen and abdominal portion of the alimen- tary canal are the splenic, gastric, and mesenteric veins, which, by their union, form the portal vein, and the portal is in direct com- munication with the umbUical vein. Veins develope in the rudi- mentary lower limbs, and in the pelvis, which become the femoral, external iliac, and common iliac veins, whilst the internal iliac are believed to be the lower ends of the two cardinal veins. The two common iHac veins join to form the inferior vena cava, which, as it ascends to the liver, receives the renal, capsular, and spermatic veins, and veins from the parietes of the abdomen. In the region of the liver it is connected to the umbilical vein by the ductus vmosus, and it receives the hepatic veins. It opens into the auricle of the heart. Two cardinal veins are developed in the thoracico-abdominal cavity, which return the blood from the Wolffian bodies and the walls of the trunk 5 and two primitive jugular veins are developed in the head and neck, which return the blood from these regions. The primitive jugular and cardinal vein on each side join in the cervico-thoracic region to form a vein called the duct of Cuvier, and the two ducts of Cuvier open into the auricle of the heart. The upper part of the primitive jugular subsequently becomes the exter- nal jugular vein. At its lower end the primitive jugular on each side is joined by veins, which become the internal jugular and sub-