ANATOMY. 584 pletely disappears, the nerve then turns around the first part of the subclavian, which represents the 4th right arch. As the fifth left arch, however, persists throughout life as the obliterated ductus arteriosus, the left recurrent nerve bends immediately below it be- fore it ascends behind the transverse part of the arch of the aorta. Owing to the progressive changes which take place in the heart during its formation, the circulation of the blood through it is necessarily much modified in the course of its development. When the heart is in its primitive stage of single cavities, the blood flows from the veins successively into the auricle, ventricle, and truncus communis arteriosus, as a single stream. But when the ventricle is divided into two chambers, each communicating with a distinct artery, derived from the division of the truncus communis, then the blood is divided in these parts of the heart and great vessels into two streams. As the division of the auricle into two chambers takes place at a later period than that of the ventricle, the subdivi- sion of the blood into two streams does not take place so early in that cavity. In the later stages of intra-uterine life, when the left duct of Cuvier has atrophied, the superior and inferior venae cavse have attained their proportional size, and the auricular septum has become developed, though with the foramen ovale patent, the cir- culation of the blood through the heart is as follows :— The blood of the inferior cava, which consists not only of the im- pure venous blood irom the infra-diaphragmatic parts of the body, but of the blood of the umbilical vein from the placenta, flows into the right auricle, but is at once directed by the Eustachian valve through the foramen ovale into the left auricle. It then flows into the left ventricle and the ascending and transverse parts of the aorta, from which it principally proceeds through the carotid and subclavian arteries into the head, neck, and upper limbs, only a small proportion apparently passing into the descending aorta. The blood of the superior cava again is solely venous, which is returned by this great vein from the head, neck, upper limbs, and walls of the chest. It flows into the right auricle, where it may acquire a slight admixture with the blood of the inferior cava. By this auricle it is propelled into the right ventricle, and thence into the pulmonary artery. Only a small part of this venous blood passes into the right and left pulmonary arteries ; the greater part flows through the ductus arteriosus into the descending aorta, by which it is distributed, not only to the infra-diaphragmatic parts of the body, but by the hypo-gastric and umbilical arteries to the placenta. In the foetus, therefore, the blood which circulates f