856 ANATOMY. was first recogaised as distinct from the Wolffian body by J. Cleland, and its structure has been investigated both by him and by W. M. Banks. It is formed of tubes, 12 to 18 in number, which run transversely from without inwards, and are slightly wavy in their course. Their outer ends are connected together by a common tube. This body does not contain glomeruli such as are formed in the Wolffian body. According to Banks, this body is converted in the male into the vasa efferentia, coni vasculosi, and globus major of the epididymis, and its tubes become con- tinuous with those of the rete testis. In confirmation of this opinion of Banks's, I may refer to a congenital malformation that I described in 1865, in which the globus major was absent, and the testicle was not continuous with the bodyand globus minorof the epi- didymis. In this case the genital gland and the duct of the Wolffian body had been developed, but the small body at the summit of the Wolffian body had either not been developed, or had atrophied, so that the communication between the testicle and epididymis had not been established. In the female the small body becomes con- verted into the par-ovarium. The excretory duct ^ of the Wolffian lady becomes dissociated from the proper tubes'of that structure. In the male it is con- verted into the body and globus minor of the epididymis, the vas deferens, and the common ejaculatory duct, whilst the vesicula seminalis arises as a diverticular prolongation from it. The vas abeiTans is probably a persistent portion of the tubular structure of the Wolffian body, which preserves its communication with the excretory duct, now converted into the tube of the epididymis. The tube of the body of the epididymis becomes continuous with that of the globus major. In the male, therefore, the excretory duct of the Wolffian body is converted into an important part of the genital apparatus. In the female, again, this duct almost entirely disappears, but it forms in certain animals the tubes called the canals of Gacrtncr. The Duct of Miiller is a slender tube, which is formed by an involution of the epithelium covering the intermediate cell mass, along a line immediately internal to the duct of the Wolffian body. The Miillerian duct opens at its anterior end into the peritoneal cavity, and as it passes backwards it lies in close relation to the Wolffian duct. The Miillerian and Wolffian ducts of the two sides become incorporated into a cord, named by Thiersch the genital cord, in which each tube is at first distinct. After a time the two Miillerian ducts become fused together posteriorly, and