ANATOMY. 578 anterior boundary of the foramen ovale. It directs the blood of the iuferior cava through this foramen into the left auricle. The auriculo-ventricular valve arises around the aperture of com- munication between the auricle and ventricle as a semilunar fold of the endocardium. These folds then become connected with the muscular trabeculse of the ventricular walls, which differentiate into the musculi papillares, whilst the chordae tendinese are pro- duced by the depending border of the valve assuming a fenestrated appearance. The conversion of the truncus communis arteriosus into the ascending aorta, and the trunk of the pulmonary artery, is due to the formation of a longitudinal septum in the single arterial trunk. This septum begins to form about the same time as the ventri- cular septum, and consists of two folds projecting one from each side of the inner surface of the common arterial trunk. These folds meet about the eighth week, and the vessel is then divided into the trunk of the pulmonary artery and the ascending aorta. The pulmonary artery becomes continuous with the now differen- tiated right ventricle ; at its lower end it lies in front of the aorta, and then winds round it to its left side. The ftscending aorta, again, becomes]continuous with the left ventricle, and, though situ- ated at its commencemeat behind the pulmonary trunk, it subse- quently appeiirs anterior to it and to the right side. That part of the arterial septum is last formed which lies nearest the base of the ventricles; and in connection with this circumstance it may be mentioned, that some cases of malformation of the human heart have been seen, in which the aorta and pulmonary artery directly communicated with each other, through a deficient formation of this part of the septum. It has already been stated that the truncus communis arteriosus bifurcates anterioriy into the two ventral aortic roots, which lie at the sides of the primitive pharynx, and then arch backwards, parallel to the rudimentary spine, as the two primitive dorsal aortffi. The arches formed by these two vessels form the 1st pair of Vascular Arches. As the neck of the embryo elongates, these arches also elongate, and in their concavity four additional pairs of vascular arches form, successively from before backwards, and are named the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th pairs.of vascular arches. All five pairs, however, are not present at the same time, for before the 5th pair appears, about the fourth or fifth week in the development of ihe human embryo, the 1st and often the:2nd pair have disappeared The first pair of vascular arches are as far forward as the 1st visceral