affections OF THE CHEST. 504- course of the axillary vessels. The whole of such a tumour can- not be taken away, and, in removing even the more prominent and accessible parts of it, there is great risk of wounding the axillary vein. This blunder I have seen committed more than once, and I have also seen the vein, the artery, and the majority of the nerves, all included in one ligature in order to stop the bleeding. I need scarcely add that the patients soon perished. When enlarged glands are pei’ceptible above the clavicle, or in the intercostal spaces, the practitioner who would advise inter- ference with the original tumour must be grossly ignorant, or very unprincipled. After removal of the mamma for carcinoma, in favourable circumstances, some patients remain healthy. Those practition- ers who do not recognise the malignant disease, and operate for every tumour, and at all ages, have boasted of great success. But it is not so with those of mature experience. The disposi- tion to malignant action often remains latent for many months, sometimes for many years, and at length becomes fully deve- loped. The disease may I’eturn in the skin; the cicatrix hardens, ulceration occurs, and makes progress. Or tubercles form in the cellular tissue, enlarge, and involve the skin. Or the glands become tender and swell; and the swelling is often unattended with uneasiness. GEdema of the hand and forearm, to a great extent, may have existed for a considerable time, and on examination extensive glandular tumours are detected in the axilla and above the clavicle. These, perhaps, ulcerate; or cough and hectic cut off the patient. In short, permanent riddance from mammary carcinoma is scarcely to be expected by opera- tion, or any other means. Neither are operations for medullary and bloody tumours of the mamma more successful in their results; though I have certainly witnessed permanent cures under unpromising circumstances, — when the tumours were large, of long duration, and even ulcer- ated. Affections of the Chest. Inflammation of the pectoral serous tissue would come to be considered more properly in a work exclusively on the practice