357 DISEASES OF THE EYE. A A 3 preferred by many operators, and has the great advantage in the superior steadiness of the head of the patient. The hand of the surgeon may also be rested on the back of the couch, as, if ambi- dextrous, he will invariably take his position behind the patient, in order that he may have the command of the upper eyelid in his own hands. The incision is made either in the lower or upper half of the cornea. The knife should have a very keen edge, and become gradually broader and thicker from its point backwards: in using a narrow instrument there is danger of the aqueous humour escaping. The best knife is Beer’s, well made. The light must be good, the patient’s head completely steadied, the eye well fixed by the fingers of the assistant, and the other one covered by a bandage. No speculum should be employed, and the pupil should not be dilated by belladonna. The surgeon, supporting his elbow on his knee, or resting his fingers on the cheek of the patient, holds the knife like a writing pen — in the right hand, if the left eye is to be operated on, in the left, if the opposite (that is to say, if he sits before his patient: if, however, he places himself behind, this must be reversed) — and ascertains the steadiness of the organ by touching the cornea gently with the side of the knife. The cornea is punctured about a line from its margin, and near the outer extremity of its transverse diameter, the point of the knife being directed towards the centre of the eye, lest it should enter be- tween the laminae. The knife is then passed through the anterior chamber, with its side parallel to the iris, and its point is brought out at that part of the cornea exactly opposite to where it en- tered ; transfixion is thus completed, and by pushing the knife steadily forward, without any sawing motion, a semicircular section is effected. As soon as transfixion is accomplished, the operator has complete command of the eye, and all pressure should be taken off—the assistant should now merely keep the eyelid raised. Should the edge of the knife not come easily through the cornea, its passage may be assisted by pres- sure with the finger-nail. After the pupil has been allowed to dilate, by covering the eye for a few seconds with the hand, the capsule must be opened sufficiently for the escape of the lens. The eyelids are gently raised, a fine curved needle, or curette, is introduced