OF WOUNDS. 211 original skin must have remained uninjured, though the others were destroyed, and have foi’med cutaneous matter as soon as they were on the same level with the surrounding granulations; for these insulated portions of skin are not a product of granu- lations, as some suppose, but of a substance similar to them- selves. Skin is formed from skin. Thus, where a part of the integuments has been completely removed by operation, or destroyed by accident, no islands of skin are observed during the cure, but the sore is uniformly covered by skin proceeding from its margins. The margins of a healing sore are of a white colour, and adherent to the subjacent parts; but in an unhealthy one the margins are often unsupported, the subjacent granulations are absorbed, and their place is occupied by thin purulent matter; the new skin is unable to maintain its independent existence, continues of a dark colour, perhaps for a long period, then wastes away or sloughs. The recent cutaneous matter covering a sore contracts, and the neighbouring old skin is extended; the new surface is thus diminished; it a'Ssumes a slightly puckered appearance, and is termed cicatrix. This is at first pretty vascular, the vessels running straight; after a time they contract and become invisible, and scarcely admit fine in- jections. Frequently the scar is so far absorbed after some time, as to leave only a firm line, whiter and more dense than the surrounding integument. If union by the first intention does not take place, then all the applications to procure it must be abandoned, all sutures, plasters, compresses, &c. must be dismissed, for they now can do no good, and may be productive of harm ; the attention, on the contrary, must be directed to effecting union by granulation; with this view, other means are to be chosen, so that to continue those which were formerly used to promote adhesion would be absurd, when adhesion can no longer be expected. The stitches must then be taken out; when inflammation has gone off, and oedema remains, the parts are to be supported; and by attention to position, and gentle bandaging, the size of the wound will be diminished. Inflammation must be subdued by the usual means, and suppuration encouraged by fomentation and poulticing, or warm water dressing. After inflammation has subsided, tension disappeared, purulent discharge occurred, and granulations p 2