665 IMPERFORATE VAGINA. such cases tlie cautery will be found most effectual. The spe- culum is introduced into the vagina, so as to expose the aperture, and guard the neighbouring parts from the cautery ; and should tlie opening not appear distinct, a flexible wire is passed by the urethra, and insinuated through it. A small heated cautery is then slid cautiously along the speculum, and applied lightly to the margins, with the view of producing a superficial slough; this separates, and during the consequent cicatrisation the opening contracts. When the edges have again become smooth, the cautery is applied as before, and by several repetitions com- plete closure may ultimately be obtained. The interval between the applications is necessarily considerable; each must be al- lowed to have its full effect. Once I attempted to combine the cautery with the suture; first applying the heated wir-e, and after separation of the slough, and when the margins were tu- rn ified, excited, and apparently prone to adhere by the form- ation of new matter, then approximating them by a species of twisted suture. At fii’st, matters proceeded favourably, but the ultimate result was not very successful-—it was such, however, as to render the plan worthy of being again tried; if fortunate, it would very much abridge the cure. By the cautery I have succeeded in relieving many, and in curing a few perfectly. I cannot quit the subject without expressing regret at the frequent occurrence of such cases. I have had three or four cases in the hospital at one time, and they are constantly being presented for relief. Imperfections of the female genital organs are sometimes met with. The external parts may be well formed, while the vagina is short, and the uterus and its appendages are wanting; or these may be perfect, and the vagina closed at its external orifice, either by a thin and dense membrane, or by a thick and fleshy substance. Young children are not unfrequently pre- sented with the latter kind of imperfection, but in them there is no need for interference; the urine is not obstructed, and it is only towards puberty that a necessity arises for removal of the deficiency. At this period, the menstrual discharges are re- tained, if the vagina continue closed, and accumulate in great quantity, producing much distention of the canal, pain in the