FRACTURE OF THE SPINEc 695 Y Y 4 thickening of the coverings — bloody, serous, or lymphatic pu- rulent effusion — disorganisation and softening of themedullary matter. Inflammation of the membranes, or of the chord itself, may supervene, either very soon after the accident, or long afterwards ; its intensity and period of accession will depend on the extent of the injury, and on the treatment. The muscles act spasmodically, the circulation is excited, the sensorium and nervous system are disordered, delirium ensues, and is followed by paralysis and coma. In some cases of displacement, even to no small extent, the spinal chord escapes being bruised, torn, or compressed ; no bad symptoms may ensue; or paralysis to a greater or less degree occurs and gradually goes off', probably occasioned by bloody effusion, which is afterwards absorbed. This I have witnessed in several instances — in a boy who fell from a high rock — in a woman who fell from a window; both lighted on the breech, and the trunk was bent forwards. The lad remained stout, but his trunk was somewhat deformed by an excurvation ; the woman recovered perfectly. In these cases there was evidently lacera- tion of the interspinal ligaments, though probably not of the ligamenta subffava, for the spinal chord must be stretched or otherwise injured when these are torn. The chord is more or less injured in the majority of cases of fractured spine. If the injury occurs high in the cervical region, immediate death ensues, from compression or laceration of the medulla oblongata. Respiration is ari’ested by compression or destruction of the chord above the origin of the phrenic and other respiratory nerves. If the chord is injured in the middle of the cervical region, there is paralysis of the upper and lower extremities, with distension of the bowels, and inability to void the urine; the lower bowels have become insensible to the sti- mulus of distension from want of nervous influence, and the sphincter ani is paralysed. The bladder becomes distended, and then incontinence of urine follows ; and frequently there is priapism. The quality of the urine is changed, the secretion of mucus from the bladder is vitiated and increased. Slow inflam- mation of that organ is induced, the urine becomes bloody and mixed with ropy mucus ; lymph is deposited on the lining mem- brane.