450 TRACHEOTOMY. the patient breathes through the natural tube yet sound ; whereas, if the opening is made in the crico-thyroid membrane, the surgeon frequently cuts into the middle of the diseased part; little or no benefit follows, and, if the danger is not increased, equivocal good is all that can be expected from such an operation. Tracheotomy is also preferable for the removal of foreign bodies, unless it is certain that the body is impacted in the rima, for in such circumstances laryngotomy is much more suitable. In tracheotomy, the incision of the tracheal rings can be extended with much less injury than can division of the laryngeal cartilages, when the largeness of the foreign body, its being firmly fixed, or other circumstances, require that the wound be of considerable size. The risk or danger in the one operation is not much greater than in the other. Division of the crico-thyroid membrane and skin is effected by one incision; there is nothing important in the way of the knife. In very young children, when suffocation is threatened, as from the effects following upon the attempt to swallow very hot fluids, and the inhalation of steam, this operation may with great propriety be performed. Trache- otomy, on the contrary, requires to be proceeded in more care- fully, particularly in children, in whom the neck is short, and the trachea deep. The tube is moreover very small, and not easily steadied. I had occasion, not long since, to open the passage in a child under sixteen months old, who had tried to swallow the contents of a teapot recently filled with boiling water. The difficulty experienced in such cases is often very great. Obstacles may also be presented by the thyroid and other veins being distended, and the soft parts are perhaps tumid and infiltrated with serum. The patient, if adult, should be seated with the trunk erect, and by throwing back the head, space in the neck is gained. In a female on whom I operated some years since, this advantage could not be obtained on account of induration in the belly of the sterno-mastoid muscle, with contraction. The incision of the integument is commenced in the mesial line over the cricoid cartilage, and carried downwards, an inch in the adult, but pro- portionally shorter in children. The cellular tissue is divided j by a few touches with the point of the instrument (a small scalpel I or bistoury); the finger is then introduced to separate the sterno- '