522 OF HERNIA. not they, but the external parts, that ai’e affected by change of posture. During the attempts at reduction, the patient should be exhorted not to strain or resist, but to relax his muscles; and it will be well to engage him in conversation, that he may not have an opportunity of keeping his lungs distended, and thereby acting forcibly on the abdomen. At first the pressure should be general, applied either with one hand or with both, according to the size of the tumour, so as to diminish the contents. If air be heard gurgling at the neck of the swelling, the chance of suc- cess may be considered good, for a return of part of the bowel’s contents is thereby indicated. Then a gentle kneading should be made at the neck with the fingers of one hand, while with the other general pressure is kept up. The impression made is at first slight and gradual; but, when a portion of the bowel returns, the rest of it slips up suddenly. The return of omentum is always slow, and the last part requires as much manipulation as the first. The direction of the pressure must be varied according to the case. In inguinal and ventro-inguinal hernia, it is made in the direction of the neck of the sac ; in the former upwards and outwards, in the latter upwards and backwards; and previously the body of the tumour should be brought into the same line with its neck. In crural hernia the pressure must first be made towards the centre of the thigh, so as to bring the whole tumour into the same direction with its neck, and then upwards. In umbilical, the pressure is straight backwards. Small hernias, and those of recent origin, are with difficulty reduced; their neck is narrow, and the passage proportionately small; the crural are usually of this description. In all hernias, after strangulation has existed for some time, and adhesions formed, particularly at the neck, reduction is almost impossible. The taxis is to be neither attempted nor persevered in after the hernia has become tender and inflamed. No good can be done by it, and the patient’s chance of recovery by operation is much di- minished. Even when no pain is felt in such circumstances, any degi'ee of force must be prejudicial. Mortification of the bowels is often hastened in consequence of the taxis being unskilfully employed by ill-informed persons, who are often determined, at all risks, and at all stages of the affection, to accomplish speedy reduction of the viscera. The surgeon will take care to inform