765 AMPUTATION. ends are laid hold of with the dissecting forceps, or by those represented at page 205., and pulled out; a small firm thread, either of linen or silk, is then applied tightly, and one end im- mediately cut away close to the reef-knot. Separation of the ligatures generally takes place from the sixth to the tenth or twelfth day; they produce little discharge or irritation during their presence, and no source of irritation connected with them is left behind. But when both ends are cut away close to the knot, separation is often long of taking place, and though the parts may heal over them kindly enough, the stump never can be considered sound till all are discharged. Probably several of these knots remain deeply imbedded after cicatrisation of the integument, and when the patient considers himself cured, and is moving about the room or ward, actively and cheerfully, painful hardness forms deeply, part of the stump reddens and swells, matter forms, and at length the insignificant origin of the mischief is discharged; and this may occur more than once. Generally such suppurations are limited, and soon cease; hut occasionally the abscess formed round the knot is extensive, deep and free incision is required, the filling up of the cavity is necessarily slow, the cure is long protracted, and both practi- tioner and patient are disappointed and annoyed. Besides, the suppurations thus occasioned, though slight in extent, may, when in the neighbourhood of a principal arterial branch, cause ulceration of the coats of the vessel, producing troublesome haemorrhage at a late period. All these untoward consequences of cutting off both ends I have experienced in a series of cases, and from the results of a faithful comparative trial of both methods, I am now fully determined always to leave one end of the ligature hanging from the lips of the wound. No one now, it is presumed, dreams of the absorption of liga- tures, whether composed of animal substance or not; therefore the catgut ligature, at one time much recommended, has no superiority over the linen or silk thread,—besides it is not so convenient of application. Twisting or bruising the cut ends of arteries has been long known as effectual in arresting bleeding. Vessels of a large size can be so treated with sufficient facility, and they may not bleed after; but well-tied ones are much more secure. The