OF HERNIA. 530 seldom exceeding the size of a small apple. One layer is found covering the sac, furnished by the strong and dense cellular tissue which occupies the space under the crural arch and falciform process of the fascia lata : it is generally denominated the fascia propria, and has been described improperly, it would appear, as the sheath of the femoral bloodvessels; at the lower part of the tumour it is generally wanting. It is carefully divided, so as to expose the sac. This not unfrequently is thickened very considerably, a quantity of dense fatty matter being intimately incorporated with it; but in general it is thin, and appears of a dark colour, in consequence of the bowel and effused bloody serum being seen through it. It is opened with great caution, part of it being raised and touched with the edge of the knife held horizontally, or nearly so. The aperture, thus formed, is enlarged by means of the probe-pointed knife, which is carried upwards along the forefinger of the left hand. Some recommend that the sac should be left undivided, and that the stricture should be relieved by passing the knife on the outside; others, that only the neck of the sac should remain entire, and the stricture be attacked also on the outside of the peritoneum. But this appears an unnecessary and unprofitable precaution. The extreme difficulty of returning the sac is now well known and generally acknowledged; in- deed, reduction of it, whether opened or not, is practicable only in recent cases. Its neck, besides, is firmly constricted; and the bowel may and will remain strangulated when returned along with its sac, for the peritoneum long retains the contrac- tion at its strictured point. The stricture cannot be well relieved unless the neck of the sac is cut along with the resist- ing fibres exterior to it. After the sac has been opened, the forefinger of the left hand is passed up to the crural ring; and it should be recollected that this opening is very small, even in most cases in which a hernia of ordinary size has existed for some time. It is capable of great dilatation, gradual however, so that, in very old and large ruptures, it may admit two or three fingers easily. But in general only the nail of the finger can be insinuated into it; and this is a better and safer con- ductor for the knife than a grooved director. The edge of the stricture is felt very sharp ; the point of the finger is turned towards the pubes, and along it a narrow, blunt-pointed, curved