411 TUMOURS UNDER THE TONGUE. suited from the pressure of the organ and the necessarily con- stant open condition of the mouth. Enlargement of the tongue occasionally takes place in young subjects, a sort of simple hypertrophy, which often proceeds to a very great extent. The increase goes on in a remarkable man- ner after the oi’gan is extruded beyond the lips, so that the patient is incapable of covering it. Portions of the swelling of a V shape have been removed in such cases, and the edges of the wound put together. But by well managed and continued pressure the absorption of the swelling has been brought about, the organ has been reduced within the oral aperture, and a cure has then rapidly followed. Division of the Froenum Linguce is sometimes, though rarely, required. Division can be necessary only when the fraenum is so short as to confine the point of the tongue, prevent free motion of the organ, and thereby cause indistinctness of articu- lation. Infants are often supposed by anxious mothers to have their tongues unduly confined, when no such malformation exists; in such circumstances, it is almost needless to observe that the part ought not to be interfered with. And even when there is confinement, division should not be had recourse to, unless the child is prevented from taking nourishment. The operative procedure is simple and safe. The tongue is raised towards the palate, either by a spatula or split card — or, what is better, by the fingers — and the fraenum is cut across to a suf- ficient extent by blunt-pointed scissors. Ranula is a swelling produced by accumulation in, and dis- tention of, the extremity of the combined ducts of the sublingual and submaxillary glands. The extremity of the duct contracts, or is completely closed, and in consequence the saliva and mucus (the one the secretion of the gland, the other of the duct) col- lect, distend the canal, and cause thickening of the parietes. Thereby a tumour is formed, which, in some instances, attains a very large size, displacing in some measure the neighbouring parts, and incommoding the tongue in particular. Indistinct utterance and impeded deglutition result. The orifice of the duct, if discovered, is to be dilated gradu-