234- OF HOSPITAL GANGRENE. is peculiar and intolerable. The burning pain is excruciating. Blood oozes out, and, in the last stage, the haemorrhage is often copious from large vessels exposed by the ravages of the disease. Now, extensive mortification occurs, the strength fails, the pulse becomes tremulous and indistinct, the features collapse, the surface is bedewed with a cold sweat, diarrhoea and hiccough come on, and death puts an end to the patient’s suffering. Such is the progress of the disease in those who were previously in perfect health. Often, however, it is attended with typhoid symptoms almost from the beginning, in people whose constitu- tions are wasted, who have long laboured under disease, or who have been long confined in hospital. The important distinction between these cases must influence the treatment; what succeeds in the one will destroy in the other. It is not the name of the disease which is to be combated, but each symptom as soon as it presents itself. Those who have been once afflicted with hospital gangrene are extremely liable to its recurrence, and that too on the same sore; though the secondary disease is much less acute. This form has been termed Sloughing Phagcedena, and may seize a sore not previously affected with gangrene. The wound, reco- vering from the first attack, and appearing to heal rapidly, with good discharge and healthy surface, presents, near its edge, a small dark spot or ulceration, of the size of a small bead or shot, of a circular form, with a ragged edge, excavated surface, and foetid discharge. Several such points may appear; they spread rapidly, unite, and the surface is soon destroyed. It is not un- common to find one part of the sore of a healthy appearance, and even cicatrising, whilst in another part the surface is rapidly disappearing. The patient complains of a burning sensation in the part; suppuration occurs round the edges and beneath the slough, and the dead parts separate; but the same process again takes place, and another slough forms. The malady proceeds often with a rapid and alarming pace; the sloughs are soft, pulpy, and reddish, and separate one after another, exposing muscles, nerves, blood-vessels, and bones. Joints are opened into, and the vessels, having been exposed, perhaps for a day or two, give way, and fatal haemorrhage ensues, their cavities not being obstructed with coagula as in sphacelus. The patient is