649 CALCULUS VESICA. when the stone is flat, as it either cannot be caught by them at all, or merely by their points, or near the joint ; they are appli- cable only to round stones of considerable size, but they are very troublesome to manage. The instrument is introduced shut, along the finger, and on reaching the prostate is gently insinu- ated, whilst the finger is at the same time withdrawn. It is brought in contact with the stone, and carefully opened, the handles being raised. One blade is passed under the stone, the other remaining above, and then the instrument is closed, firmly but not forcibly. By the finger, again introduced, along the side of the forceps, it is ascertained whether or not the stone is held securely, and in the proper direction; if not all right, it may then be turned by using the point of the finger and slightly relaxing the grasp. Now the handles of the instrument are de- pressed, so as to avoid resistance from the bones in the front of the pelvis, and the extraction is commenced, in a steady and gradual manner; if difficulty is experienced, dilation is effected, and the process facilitated, by moving the forceps gently backwards and forwards ; no force or violence is I’equired, either in pulling or dilating; all should proceed smoothly and with deliberation. The forceps must be proportioned in length to the size of the stone; a large concretion requires long forceps, both that it may be grasped securely, and that sufficient power may be afforded for the extraction. Some stones are of such a size as will not admit of passage through the section of one side of the gland. By using the blunt-pointed knife, directed by the finger, without any addi- tional external incision, a wound is made on the right side of the prostate, in the same direction and to the same extent as that on the left. Thus a triangular flap is formed, the apex towards the membranous portion of the urethra, and through the open- ing thereby afforded any stone, which will pass through the bones of the pelvis, can be extracted without much difficulty. But no benefit can result from cutting both sides of the prostate, either by the double lithotome or in the manner just detailed, in all cases. It is time enough to incise the opposite side when, by introduc- tion of the finger through the usual wound, it has been ascer- tained that the stone is too large to pass through it. Then it is safer to cut the other side, than to enlarge the original opening.