608 GONORRHCEA PR^PUTIALIS. should have been efficient, — that the erectile tissue should have remained pervious — after having been cut completely through near the symphysis. Of Gonorrhoea Prcpputialis vel spuria. — By this term is un- derstood discharge of puriform matter from the lining membrane of the prepuce, and from the surface of the glans, accompanied with an itching and smarting sensation. The affection may arise from mere inattention to cleanliness, the natural secretion being allowed to collect and deteriorate; or from the application of acrid matter, gonorrhoeal, or leucorrhoeal. It often attends dis- charge from the urethra, and is usually met with in those who, from the natural tightness of the prepuce, uncover the glans with difficulty, if at all. It may occur without impure connexion ; mucous discharge accumulates, becomes acrid from stagnation, and is washed away by profuse secretion of puriform matter; the parts then become quiet, and resume their healthy functions, but are apt from slight causes to be again the seat of discharge. Generally, the surfaces of the prepuce and glans are relaxed and turgid, but there is no breach of continuity; in neglected cases there is superficial patchy ulceration, and sometimes a deep and sloughing sore. The matter is often confined by tightness of the praeputial orifice, and mischief thereby occasioned to the glans ; a lai'ge purulent collection forms, and, if the case is neg-. lected, ulceration takes place, either of the glans or of the pre- puce, or of both; the latter becomes thin, and at length gives way; the aperture thus formed extends, and occasionally is of such a size as to admit of protrusion of the glans. (Edematous swelling generally takes place to a great extent in such cases. The glands of the groin sometimes swell, and through inatten- tion may suppurate. The absorbents of the penis may also become turgid and painful. Tenderness of the glans and pre- puce often exists, in a greater or less degree, for years; in such circumstances the affection may be termed gleet of the prepuce, and is usually the consequence of irritable urethra. The treatment consists in cleanliness and rest, applying as- tringent washes to the parts, and suspending the organ. When swelling of the prepuce or inflammation of the lymphatics is threatened, constant rest must be enjoined. In obstinate cases,