DISEASES OF THE EYE. 358 through the incision, and by it a crucial wound is made in the capsule. The lens is then either entangled in the point of the needle and withdrawn, or very gentle pressure is made on the globe, so as to force out the lens ; and, should it not readily pass through the wound of the cornea, it can be removed from the anterior chamber by a small scoop. After removal, the eye is allowed to rest; then careful examination is made; and, if any opaque substance remain, it is extracted by the needle or scoop. If the capsule is opaque, it must be taken away along with the lens. Before closing the eyelids the corneal flap should be carefully adjusted, and any matter lodged between the divided surfaces removed: loose eyelashes are to be taken away, in- verted ones should be previously extracted, and the margin of the lower lid should be so placed as not to disturb the flap. In transfixion, the point of the knife should not be brought out too low, nor too much towards the centre of the cornea; and care should be taken to avoid entanglement of the iris. When the iris falls forward so as to come under the edge of the knife, and be in danger of division should transfixion be pro- ceeded in, pressure may be made on the cornea, so that the remaining aqueous humour may repress the iris from its un- toward situation; or the knife may be withdrawn, and the operation delayed till the eye has become quiet, and the inflam- mation, if any, has subsided ; or the incision may be completed with a blunt-pointed narrow knife, or with probe-pointed scissors. Division of the capsule by the point of the knife during trans- fixion has been practised; but it is an unsafe, though dexterous, measure. In opening the capsule care should be taken not to separate its attachments, otherwise it will become opaque, and thereby passage of light to the bottom of the eye will be again obstructed. Neither should much pressure be used for extrusion of the lens; for, in the case of a large and firm cataract, the iris may be lacerated, and the humours escape. When any of the vitreous humour has escaped, in consequence of its cells having been broken down, and its tenacity diminished, the eye soon fills again, but good vision is hardly to be expected. After the operation, applications to the eye should be very light; a rag dipped in cold water, and renewed occasionally, is sufficient. All stimulants of the organ, as light, should be