269 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. unpleasant symptoms, cold applications are to be made to the part, and low diet, with occasional purgatives, enjoined. If inflammatory symptoms occur, local abstraction of blood may be necessary, followed by hot fomentations to the part. When the pain has ceased, and the swelling is not speedily removed, absorption is promoted* by stimulating applications, such as fomentation with a solution of the muriate of ammonia in a decoction of the anthemis nobilis, in the proportions of ^ss. to Ibii.; a spirit lotion containing the tincture of arnica montana, in the proportion of one part to fifteen or twenty of water, will be found a good application in many such cases. Such tumours may ultimately require to be laid open, in consequence of the blood putrefying and becoming mixed with purulent secretion. Under no other circumstances is incision warrantable, as unhealthy, troublesome, and tedious suppur- ations are sure to follow. Of Concussion. — Concussion, in a greater or less degree, attends most injuries of the head. The functions of the brain are either disturbed or suspended; there is loss of sensibility, of volition, and frequently of the power of motion. The con- fusion of intellect or stunning may disappear in a short time, or may continue, though diminished in intensity, for many days, and even for weeks; it is seldom, however, that the functional disorder exceeds in duration two or three days, and in general it disappears before that length of time has elapsed. The stupor is seldom complete; the patient can perhaps be roused, though with difficulty, so as to answer questions by a hurried monosyllable, or make signs in regard to the seat of pain, or for such things as he may suppose himself to be in need of. At first the circulation is weak; the pulse is fluttering, often intermitting, and scarcely to be felt in the extremities ; the countenance is pale, and the surface cold; there is occa- sional vomiting, a symptom which seldom occurs when com- pression of the brain exists, and the breathing is difficult, though scarcely ever stertorous. The pupils are generally contracted, but not uniformly so; one pupil may be contracted and the other dilated; at first, they are insensible to light, neither dilating when in darkness, nor contracting further when the light is suddenly increased; not unfrequently a considerable