262 OF SCALDS AND BURNS. pulling ofF the crusts shortly after their formation, as some do, whilst they are adherent to the surface, and protecting it from injury, much pain is given to the patient, the raw surface is ir- ritated, and made liable to overaction; a useful application is taken away to make room for another, and, perhaps, not so congenial. After the spontaneous separation, fresh flour may be again sprinkled over the suppurating surface, and, if the affected jpart is small, it may heal under this application. But when, in burns of considerable extent, suppuration is fully established, and granulations have begun to arise, tepid-water, dressing, and lotions, are to be applied as to any other granulating sore; for the reasons already assigned, the applications require to be of a gently stimulating nature. In sevei’e cases, there is first extreme depression of the powers of life, under which patients sometimes sink; but most frequently this state is obviated by the employment of coi'dials or stimulants. But these ought to be administered with caution, for reaction soon commences, and often increases to well-marked inflammation, requiring for counteraction low diet, and even bleeding. In such cases gentle laxatives are preferable to purgatives, as by the latter the patient is obliged to make frequent movements, and those are always painful. Stimulants have been strongly recom- mended, at first powerful, and afterwards gradually weaker, so as, it was said, to restore the balance between the affected parts and the system; and the latter is again to be excited, in order to meet the increased action which the parts assume. The practice is founded on fancy, and cannot become general, being in its first part ci’uel, and in its second absurd. Whilst debility exists, stimulate cautiously; when overaction ensues, adopt those measures which are best calculated to subdue excitement; this is common sense, and the common practice. During the process of healing, position of the parts ought to be carefully attended to ; contraction of the cicatrices, and cohesion of opposed surfaces often causing unseemly deformities. Sur- faces opposed to each other, and naturally separate, may be prevented from uniting by dressing interposed; and contraction of joints is to be guarded against by keeping the limb extended by splints and bandages. Where deformity has occurred, the hardened cicatrix which is in fault may be either divided or