PHYMOSIS AND PARAPHYMOSIS. 609 disease of the urethra is to he suspected as the cause, and the state of that canal should thei’efore be ascertained; if derangement of structure or function is detected, then means must be forthwith adopted for its removal, the applications to the prepuce and glans being at the same time not neglected. Mercury can be of no use. Phymosis and Paraphymosis are often connected with gonor- rhoea of the prepuce, or of the urethra. The edge of the pre- puce may be rendered tight by inflammation, swelling from effusion, or cicatrisation of sores; the tightness also attends irritability of the urethra, particularly in young subjects ; often it is congenital. The affection is termed Phymosis w’hen the pre- puce occupies its natural relative situation, but cannot be drawn back so as to uncover the glans. The contraction exists in va- rious degrees ; sometimes the orifice is so tight that the flow of urine is obstructed, the praeputial cavity becoming swelled and distended evei’y time the patient attempts to make water. In other instances the uninjected glans can be exposed either in part or entirely, though with difficulty. In consequence of the prae- putial cavity being frequently filled with urine, in cases of great contraction, urinary concretions have even formed or been de* tained there or in the orifice of the urethra, giving rise to very annoying, and sometimes alarming, symptoms. In consequence of Phymosis, the urethra and bladder may become diseased. " It is often attended with profuse puriform discharge, with sores of diffe- rent kinds, or with warty excrescences on the glans and prepuce; sometimes the whole siu-face is completely covered with granu- lated prominences of various sizes, some large, but the majority small, some broadly attached, others suspended by narrow necks; all generally furnish discharge of thin acrid matter. Adhesion may take place between tlie raw surfaces of the prepuce and glans, provided the parts be not frequently displaced for the purpose of ablution. Paraphymosis arises from the same state of the orifice of the prepuce as the former affection, only the parts are in different relations to each other. In phymosis the prepuce covers the glans, the tight part is anterior to it; in paraphymosis the pre- puce is reflected over the glans, the tight part acts as a ligature R R