FRACTURES. 685 tJ ru and yielding at first, but gradually becoming hard and dense — bony particles being deposited from the vessels ramifying in the extremities, or in the attached fragments, of the old bone. When de- tached portions of callus are found lying in the soft parts, a piece of old bone which retained its vitality has generally formed the matrix of the deposit. When the ends of bones have been badly placed, and meet each other at an angle or curve, occasionally osseous deposit seems to form in the concavity. This increases in size, unites with the portions of the shaft, and forms a sort of bridge uniting them. This by Mr. Gulliver has been termed accidental callus. In badly reduced fracture the swelling is great and hard. The callus is exuberant, much being required for the union of the fractured ends that overlap, and are perhaps far from being in contact; the vascular action and accompanying effusion are great, according to the necessity for them. The bone at the united part is enlarged to perhaps double its original thickness, or even to a greater size. After some time, the ends of the old bone, and part of the new deposit, are rounded off by absorption of the protuberances, and the part becomes more shapely. The canal of the bone and the cancellated texture is again restored. The accompanying sketch of a section of the humerus shows a double fracture. The superior one near the neck, where there is still some thickening, had been well adapted, and the canal is quite perfect. In the other and more recent there is considerable overlapping. The portion of outer osseous shell projecting into the medullary canal would in the end have been removed by the absorbents, and the deformity much diminished. When the ends of the bone are not well placed, or when they are moved occasionally whilst the uniting medium is still soft, there is danger of a false joint being formed — the callus either giving way, or being all along imperfect, and the extremities at the soft part becoming smooth and moveable on each other; or incited action may run high and terminate in suppui’ation, with death or ulceration of portions of the bone.