OF WOUNDS. 204 kind will be established, and will run the course of one arising spontaneously. A ligature, well applied, is the only means that can be relied on. The immediate effect of a tightly-drawn ligature is to avert the flow of blood, to divide the internal and middle coats at the deligated point, the cellular coat remaining entire, and to narrow the canal for some extent above the point at which it is applied. Coagulation then occurs within the vessel above the ligature, provided there is no collateral branch in the immediate vicinity. The ruptured margins of the internal coat effuse lymph and cohere ; lymph is effused also in the cellular tissue, exterior to the artery and to the ligature ; by the compression of the ligature, ulceration occurs in those parts which it envelopes, and the foreign body is discharged ; but before this occurs the canal of the vessel has been obliterated by an internal coagulum, and by the effused lymph. Afterwards, the same absorption and consoli- dation occur as in a divided artery, the orifice of which has closed permanently and spontaneously. When from a punctured wound profuse haemorrhage ensues, there is reason to suspect that an important vessel has been hurt, and the bleeding point must be sought for. After the artery giving out the blood has been discovered, the external wound must be enlarged, so as to expose the vessel, and admit of the convenient application of a ligature. It will not be sufficient to include the vessel above the wounded point, for the lower part will, after some time, be supplied with blood by the collateral branches almost as freely as by the large trunk, and, consequently, bleeding will be i-enewed. Two ligatures are to be employed, one above the other below the wound. The wounded vessel must be exposed, as already stated, but not detached more than is sufficient for the application of the ligature; and at the same time the ligatures ought to enclose nothing but the vessel. Neither ought the ligatures to be placed at any considerable distance, but as close to the wounded point as possible; otherwise circulation in the included part may be restored. The ligature, round, narrow, and firm, ought to be tightly applied. Cases of haemorrhage have occurred in which the tying of the vessel immediately above the wound has been successful; but these are few, and by no means afford any au-