166 OF TUMOURS. and, when the softening has been extensive, the blood is diffused throughout the whole substance of the tumour, so that it will appear to be chiefly, or entirely, composed of effused and de- generated blood, as here represented. The mamma and testicle, and the con- tents of the orbit in children, are the most frequent seats of this disease; it not unfre- quently occurs in the lymphatic glands, and few textures can be considered as exempt from it. The part at first enlarges slowly; but afterwards the disease ad- vances with great rapidity, involving the adjacent parts. In general, the affection is not attended with much pain; the part has a spongy and elastic feel, and frequently presents an obscure sense of fluctuation, indicating that softening is more or less begun. The skin is tense, generally brownish, and is pervaded by large venous branches. This venous enlargement is always observable in the advanced stage of the disease, before or after ulceration has taken place; it is peculiarly evident in the eyelids, when the con- tents of the orbit are involved, and is to be attributed to obstruction of the circulation in the deeper vessels. The tumour is increased by the surrounding parts assuming a similar action, and being converted into a similar mass; and the disease also seems to be propagated by means of the absorbent system, and by the irritation conveyed along the vessels which emanate from the tumour, or from its immediate vicinity. Thus, when the testicle or mamma is affected, the lymphatic glands, both above and below the tumour, and the course of the absorbent vessels, are converted into an encephaloid mass, all traces of their glandular structure being completely destroyed. The same brain-like or cancerous matter is also found in the blood-vessels, lai’ge and small. When the disease has been of long duration, the superincumbent integuments appear tense, assume a purple colour, and ultimately ulcerate; a portion of the pulpy mass then protrudes, of a fungous appearance, the resist- ance being at that point removed, and the compressed matter relieving itself by the extension of a portion of its substance; the