789 EXCISION OF DISEASED BONES. the operation. As soon as the limb has been separated, the surgeon secures the vessels on the posterior flap, partly by his fingers, partly by compression witli a large sponge, and ligatures are applied as quickly as possible. The femoral is secured last; for, as long as the assistant retains his hold, haemorrhage from it is not to be dreaded. Thus, when both surgeon and assistants are quick and cool, the operation may be completed with the loss of much less blood than might be expected. I have had occasion more than once to perform this opei’ation, and thus speak from experience. In cases of accidental injury requiring this opera- tion, the lever use of the limb must frequently be wanting; and in such cases, too, the parts may be so injured as not to afford flaps anteriorly and posteriorly. In these circumstances, the surgeon must be guided by experience and judgment in adopt- ing the mode of procedure which appears most applicable; in ordinary cases the operation above detailed appeal’s the prefer- able. Excision of diseased portions of hones, is practised occasionally with the view of removing a source of irritation and exhaustion from the system, without sacrifice of a limb. When the opera- tion proves successful, the beneficial effect on the general health is as remarkable and rapid as after removal of the hectic cause by amputation; the pulse falls and grows firrnei’, diarrhoea and sweating cease, the hectic flush leaves the cheek; in sliort, the constitution makes a complete and successful rally. It is had recourse to in order to take away disease in the following situa- tions—in the cancellated articulating extremity of a long bone, in part or the whole of a short bone, and in part or the whole of long bones. Even a long bone, from one articu- lating surface to the other, may be removed; the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and the metatarsal bone supporting the great toe, may, for example, be taken away in their whole extent. I have seen these bones so treated, but the result was unsatisfactory. As has already been observed, the part of the member that is left is without support, and not under the in- fluence of muscle^ it is consequently loose and useless. Operation for the removal of necrosed, or softened and ul- cerated portions of the carpal and tarsal bones, is sometimes 8 E 3