DISTORTION OF THE NECK. 473 ment of the superficial glands, at the upper part of the neck, induces the patient to turn his head to the opposite side; swellings lower in the neck, and deep seated, require relaxation of the coverings, and the head is consequently twisted to the same side. Either rigidity, or spasmodic action, or both, of the sterno-mastoid muscle, displaces the head and twists the neck. The head is either bent forward, or turned to one side; usually, the chin is twisted over the shoulder, on the side op- posite to the offending muscle. Induration of the muscle is sometimes met with, also causing distortion; it may terminate in abscess, or after a long time be discussed. The cause of the spasmodic action in the muscle is sometimes apparent, sometimes very difficult to be detected. Sources of irritation at the extremities of neighbouring and communicating nerves are to be looked for and removed; and the spasms are to be moderated, as much as possible, by external and internal remedies. Opiate frictions, and the application of the nitrate of silver over the course of suspected nerves, are sometimes followed with benefit, and may be accompanied by the internal admini- stration of antispasmodics, though the efficacy of these is often doubtful. When the head has been for a long period, perhaps many years, turned to one side, from any cause, the muscle on that side naturally becomes shortened, and a change takes place in the form of the bones. If the patient is still young, the deformity may, in a great measure, if not entirely, be remedied. Division of the shortened muscle was a favourite operation of old surgeons for the cure of wry-neck, and may be resorted to with advantage in some cases. One of the heads, or both, may require to be detached from the sternum and clavicle. It is only in cases where the muscle is in fault, it being shorter than usual, that benefit can be expected from this proceeding. It is a very simple operation, and can be effected by a mere puncture of the skin betwixt the two portions. By the cautious use of a blunt and flat probe or director, the cellular tissue under the origins of the muscle is separated; this is followed by a narrow and blunt-pointed knife, by which the attachments to the clavicle and sternum are cut across. Distortion of the neck is most frequently produced by some vice in the bones, as curvature, from softening, attended with