INFLAMMATION OF THE RECTUM. 552 burning heat, and a feeling of contraction, increased very much when the parts are thrown into action by evacuation of the contents of the bowel, or of the bladder. The heat may be felt on introducing the finger, with the view of examination; by doing so, dreadful torture is produced, and such manipulation should not be had recourse to unless there is a suspicion of foreign matter lodging in the part, by removal of which the action might be cut short. The bladder is often affected sympathetically; there may be frequent desire to empty it, or else retention of its contents: this latter occurrence not un- frequently follows operations on the bowel, as for the removal of hemorrhoids, by ligature or extensive incision, which is neither warrantable nor requisite. The inflammation extends to the cellular tissue round the rectum, with swelling and increased pain; the pain is aggravated by pressure, and the patient is unable to sit erect. As the painful symptoms abate, puriform discharge from the membrane of the gut takes place, and often is very profuse. The morbid action sometimes extends to the other intestines, attended after a time with mucous or even bloody evacuations. When the affection is confined to the rectum, the faeces and vitiated secretion are distinct from each other, and the former are usually of their natural appearance; but when the other intestines participate, to a greater or less extent, the faeces are fiuid, and intimately mixed with the morbid secretion. Ulceration of the mucous coat, with continued discharge, often supervenes. Sometimes the peritoneal coat of the bowel is affected secondarily, and then the pain is much more acute and more aggravated by pressure. Patients affected with haemorrhoidal swellings, — the action of whose bowels is irregular, and in whom the vessels about the anus are congested, — are peculiarly liable to inffammation and abscess in the rectum or its neighbourhood, from the application of cold or wet to the surface, particularly that of the lower part of the body. Ascarides often produce violent irritation in the extremity of the rectum, both in children and in adults; and the morbid excitation is communicated to the bladder, as will afterwards be noticed. Not unfrequently the inffammation is induced by a foreign body, either lodging in the cavity of the