DISEASES OF THE WINDPIPE. 445 majority of cases, the affection of the lungs supervenes on that of the larynx. Ulcers with tubercular bases are very frequent about the ventricles of the larynx in subjects dead of pulmonary phthisis. The chordae vocales are thus often exposed. The affection of the lungs is perhaps attributable to frequent and harassing cough, occasioned by the state of the larynx and ejection of profuse vitiated secretions. When the ulceration extends deeply, portions of the cartilages sometimes become diseased; the soft parts surrounding them are destroyed, they become necrosed, and are expectorated along with a quantity of highly foetid purulent fluid. In some in- stances, the expectorated portions are osseous, of loose texture, irregular margins, and dark colour, exhaling an odour intolerably foetid. It sometimes happens that the ulcerations proceed still more deeply, perforating the parietes of the canal, and establish- ing a communication betwixt the windpipe and gullet; or, if the perforation is anteriorly, the communication is with the cellular tissue on the forepart of the neck, abscess forms which may attain a large size and be productive of much inconvenience and danger. The disease has frequently been produced by mercury, when the abuse of that mineral was common; its abuse is still far from uncommon. The symptoms may be mitigated by counter-irritation. The parts covering the trachea should not be subjected to counter- irritation ; in consequence of repeated blistering, the application of irritating ointments, effusion and thickening of the cellular tissue is caused, and this may prove a serious obstacle in the performance of tracheotomy, should that afterwards, as is too likely, be required. Setons may be inserted on the sides of the neck, and applications made over the box of the larynx. But tracheotomy affords the only hope of permanent relief; and if performed at an early period, if the lungs are not the seat of tubercular disease, as they too frequently are, there is every reason to expect that it will prove successful. It is followed by the beneficial results mentioned when speaking of the preceding disease, and the niti’ate of silver can be applied to the more external ulcers, along with the internal use of sarsaparilla, &c. Ulcers, which there is every reason to suppose had been both