332 DISEASES OF THE EYE. modates itself to the increase of the fluid behind, and becomes wider and more prominent, but retains its transparency; in looking at the eye, the anterior chamber* is seen evidently en- larged, and occasionally the aqueous humour is of a turbid appearance. There is little or no pain in the eyeball, but the patient complains of an annoying sense of fulness and tension in the part. In consequence of the vitreous humour also accumulating, the whole organ is ultimately enlarged considerably, and its motions are thereby much impeded. At first, vision of near objects is impaired, whilst the patient sees very distinctly those placed at a distance; ultimately sight is entirely lost. Exophthalmia, or protrusion of the eye, attends the preceding disease, and is also a consequence of various other morbid actions in the globe and its neighbourhood, especially from the pressure of tumours in the orbit. The chronic enlargement of the bulb is noticed more fully in the succeeding chapters. Treatment of External Ophthalmia, and its Consequences. —The exciting cause, if such exist and can be discovered, ought in the first place to be removed. The surface of the organ and of the palpebrse should be carefully examined, either with the naked eye or with a magnifying glass, in order to detect any small ex- traneous body which may be lodged in the part. In examining the inner surfaces of the palpebrae, it is necessary, to produce complete eversion, to bring the parts completely into view; and the most convenient method of accomplishing this is to lay hold of the ciliae between the finger and thumb, and reflect the lid over a silver probe placed along its base. This can, by a little practice, be accomplished readily without using a probe, and even by the fingers of one hand only. This is the more necessary, as small particles of foreign matter lodge more fre- quently on the palpebral conjunctiva than on any other part. If a particle of glass, metal, stone, &c. be discovered, it should be gently removed by the flattened extremity of a silver probe, or by a scoop, a fine needle, or a delicate brush. In some cases washing the surface by means of a small syringe, filled with a bland fluid, is extremely useful; as when an impalpable powder has been thrown into the eye, and can with difficulty be removed, in consequence of spasmodic contraction of the eyelids prevent-