OF WOUNDS. 215 p 4 afraid of water, but lap it and go into it readily. From them the disease is communicated to the human subject, and to the lower animals, such as cats, sheep, cattle, and even fowls; the virus is not communicable, except by the deposition of the saliva on an abraded surface, or into a wound. It is not produced by eating the flesh of a rabid animal. During the first days of the attack, pustules are it is said observed under the tongue, but there is no apparent change in the glands. The symptoms of hydrophobia in man seldom appear before the twentieth day after the infliction of the wound, and in some instances they have not presented themselves till after the lapse of months. The most prominent are great restlessness, much iri’itability and anxiety, and convulsions of the muscles concered in deglutition, produced either by attempts to swallow, or by fluid being pre- sented to the patient. Ultimately, the spasms become general, are induced by the most trifling exertions or noises, and prove fatal in a few days. Frequently the patient retains his senses throughout, and is fully aware of his lamentable situation ; in other instances, he soon becomes delirious, raves, and thi'eatens his attendants. For this horrible disease we are unacquainted with any cure. In general, profuse bleedings are employed, and large quantities of opium given internally ; every powerful anti- spasmodic, as well as every violent medicine, has been made trial of, but in vain : some certainly mitigate the symptoms, but none cure the patient. It has been even proposed to suspend or destroy the function of the nervous system for a time, by the employment of the Wourali poison, keeping up at the same time respiration by artificial means, under the expectation that thus the impression on the system might be got over. The morbid appearances usually observed after death are marks of inflam- mation of the pharynx and air passages, and of the mucous sur- face of the stomach and intestines. It is evident that the disease ought to be prevented if possible, and for its prevention the most efficient measure is timely excision of the affected parts; and they should be cut out a long period before the constitu- tional affection comes on: when excision is dangerous, or wholly impracticable, and when the patient does not apply soon after the accident, the injured parts may be destroyed by some active caustic, as the potassa fusa. The nitrate of silver has been