OF TUMOURS. 173 profuse discharge, the greater part of the original tumour may be destroyed by the ulceration, and some attempts may be made at cicatrisation; that is to say, the cavity may contract, and granulations be formed: but these are always unhealthy, and, in fact, carcinomatous, and often bleed profusely. New skin is seldom formed, the remaining parts resume their virulency, and the process of destruction again advances, surpassing the former both in extent and rapidity. Along with these local symptoms and appearances, it can be readily understood that the constitution is, from the first, ma- terially affected. The alimentary organs are deranged in function, the patient has a wan and sallow countenance, and is in general weak and much emaciated. After ulceration, the system is still more reduced by the discharge, the patient becomes hectic, and is often afflicted with diarrhoea; along with the other symptoms of extreme debility, the patient may become ana- sarcous, is affected with cough and dyspnoea, or by other symp- toms indicating disease of some internal organ, and is ultimately carried off in a state of exhaustion. The disease attacks various textures, but perhaps most fre- quently the mammary gland. The mamma generally diminishes in size from absorption of the fatty matter ; the nipple is retracted, often to a great degree, and the surrounding integuments are of a purplish hue, and exude a sanious ffuid; at length the nipple is completely destroyed by ulceration. In other in- stances the tumour is lai’ge, and there is a hard oedema of the integuments; the skin is thick, coarse, and of a dark red colour. The tumour soon adheres immoveably to the subjacent muscles and ribs, converting the contiguous portion of the former into a substance similar to itself. There may be other varieties in the appearances and symptoms of carcinoma; but the above are those which are most frequently observed, and are sufficient to denote the general character of this species of tumour, and to show its peculiar and inveterate malignancy. Ulcers or swellings, at first simple, may assume a malignant