OF ULCERS OF THE GENITAL ORGANS, 238 flammatory or cedematous. The burning pain is aggravated; the patient has a feeling of weight and stupor; great constitu- tional disturbance follows, there is slow fever, with a small pulse, a dry and brown tongue, and unquenchable thirst; a low muttering delirium ensues, and under these symptoms the pa- tient soon sinks. After death, the foetid body swells rapidly. The disease sometimes terminates fatally in twenty-four hours or less ; but generally the patient’s sufferings are more protracted. In the treatment, superficial scarifications are of little avail. The only topical application which can be relied on is a powerful escharotic, applied freely to the part, and at an early stage, before swelling and constitutional affection have been added. By it the parts replete with virus, being immediately deprived of vitality, are soon thrown off. Thus the virulence of the poison is annihilated, it is rendered inert, and is concentrated in the slough, and the surrounding parts are stimulated, and receive vigour of action, which enables them to resist any further inroad, and to detach quickly the mortified substance. For this pur- pose, the most effectual and convenient escharotic is the caustic potass, but the liquid muriate of ammonia may also be employed. The vesicle is opened, and the caustic applied to the exposed surface ; and if necessary, the eschar may be afterwards divided, and the remedy reapplied. In the absence of other escharotics, the actual cautery will prove a valuable substitute. After the separation of the slough, the sore is to be dressed with slightly stimulating applications. Bark, camphor, and mineral acids, are given internally, and the patient is enjoined a light diet, with a moderate allowance of wine. Of Ulcers of the Genital Organs, and their Consequences. It were unprofitable to enter here upon the History of Vene- real Affections, as it is a subject of no practical utility, still involved in uncertainty, and mystified by disputation. It will suffice to describe the different forms of the disease, and state the treatment applicable to each. During the last century, and in the beginning of this, much greater ravages were produced by the disease than at the present