OF INFLAMMATION. 16 authors, that the blood is one of the most active agents in the animal economy — in repairing waste, in aifording peculiar fluids necessary in that economy, in supplying organs with materials for carrying on their functions, &c.; and yet all this, according to some, is accomplished by a dead animal fluid; no one can plausibly object to the laws by which the blood is governed being referred to the power of life, and to their being called Vital Principles. Certain circumstances give rise to inflammation, and have been called its Exciting or Immediate Causes. Among the external applications producing inflammation, stimulants bear a conspicuous part; the effects of which, in causing this action, are well shown by many experiments that have been performed on the lower animals: by the application of ammonia, spirits of wine, or common salt, for example, to the diaphanous web of a frog’s foot. As stimulants usually causing inflammatory action, by their being applied to the surface of the body, may be enumerated acids, alkalies, certain salts, animal substances, such as cantha- rides, the juices of many plants, many poisons, an excessive degree of heat, &c. Any solid substance, though by no means acrimonious in its quality, may act as an exciting cause, as by pressure or friction. Wounds also, especially when of considerable size, and oc- curring whilst the constitution is in an unhealthy condition, give rise to local, and occasionally general, inflammatory action. This action is besides frequently produced by injury from an obtuse body causing a bruise or fracture ; by the lodgement of extraneous substances, or of decayed portions of the system, — such as portions of bones, tendons, &c.; or by irritating matter generated in the system itself, —by concretions, tumours, vitiated secretions, &c. One of the most frequent causes of inflammation is cold; the action of which, however, cannot always be readily explained. In some instances, it appears to act directly on a part, as in inflamma- tion of the mucous membrane lining the organs of respiration : in others, its action is indirect, probably by disturbing the equality of the circulation, the inflammation occurs in a part distant from the surface the temperature of which had been diminished. In the great majority of instances in which inflammation has occurred, in