790 EXCISION OF DISEASED BONES. successful. But operative interference, either with these, or with more extensive and formidable articulations, is not ad- visable unless the soft parts are not largely involved, and when the genera! health is tolerably good—the patient either having suffered less than usual, or having rallied and begun to gain Strength after exhaustion by discharge and fever. If the liga- ments, bursas, and cellular tissue are much affected, as is often the case, there is no chance of discharge ceasing, and the patient regaining health, even though the bone be removed to any ex- tent—a second operation will be required, namely, amputation above the diseased parts. And when this becomes requisite, after failure of the first to restore or even improve the health, the patient is apt, as has too often been the case, to sink under the accumulation of suffering. He might, even though much exhausted, have been able to bear up against the shock of one and a successful operation, but he cannot endure that of a second, or perhaps third, serious and protracted attack of the knivesman. The disappointed hope of a cure from the first operation is a secondary, though nevertheless a sure contributor towards the unfortunate issue. No particular rules can be laid down for the operative pro- cedure. By converting two or more natural openings into one, extending the incisions as much as possible in the direction of the limb and of the muscles and tendons, and avoiding the course of the larger bloodvessels and nerves, room is made for an accurate examination of tlie diseased parts. A strong and firmly pointed knife is required for these incisions, for the soft parts are much consolidated, and are cut with difficulty. The extent of disease is ascertained both by the probe and by the finger, and farther measures, if necessary, are then adopted for complete removal. Loose portions of bone are taken away; and often large sequestra of the cancellated tissue are found lying in the cavity, either loose or easily separable; for extrac- tion, forceps and the fingers, and sometimes a lever, are re- quired. A firm scoop is useful for removing such portions of diseased cancellated tissue as are still continuous with the shaft of the bone. When an opening in the cancellated tissue, lead- ing to an internal sequestrum, is minute, enlargement is effected by means of either the trephine or the cutting pliers; afterwards, gouges, gravers, &c., may sometimes be useful in operating on