498 VENESECTION. Venesection is usually practised on either the basilic or the cephalic vein, or else on the median basilic or the median cephalic. The vein is made to rise by obstructing the return of the blood by a ligature on the arm, applied not so tight as to prevent the flow in the ar- terial branches. A vessel removed from the inner side of the tendon of the biceps, — that is to say, not over or near the brachial artery, — is to be preferred. But sometimes none sufficiently large or distinct can be perceived unless in that situation, and then great caution is necessary in making the puncture; the patient’s arm must be held vexy steady, and care taken that the instru- ment does not transfix the vein. The bi'anch chosen should also be fixed; one which I’olls under the finger is pierced with difficulty. The vessel is secui'ed by the thumb of one hand placed immediately below the point to be punc- tured, whilst the lancet is held loosely betwixt the thumb and forefinger of the other; and the surgeon should by practice acquire the use of either hand for this and other minor opera- tions, being thereby saved much trouble and awkwardness. The right hand is used for the right arm of the patient, the left for the left. The lancet should be in very good order, not too spear-pointed, fine, and with a keen edge. The blade, placed at right angles with the handle, and held lightly, as above men- tioned, is entered perpendicularly to the vessel. The puncture is made deep enough to penetrate the vein, and then the edge is carried forwai'd more than the point, that the opening in the integuments may be more free than that in the vein. The most convenient line of incision is obliquely across. The pressure of the thumb is relaxed whenever a utensil is conveniently placed for the I'eception of the blood; and the arm is kept in the same position as during incision, that the openings in the integument and vein may correspond. Unless this be attended to, the skin will overlap the puncture in the vessel, and thus the stream will