LIGATURE OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. 480 sterno-mastoid muscle is separated, the cervical fascia divided, the cellular tissue betwixt the sterno-hyoid muscles separated, and the vessel exposed. During the dissection, the internal jugular vein, the par vagum, and the recurrent branch, the inferior thyroid artery, and the arterial distributions from the thyroid axis, must be carefully avoided. The operator should, by free external incisions, make a dissection sufficiently spacious to admit of his seeing the bottom of the wound distinctly as he proceeds. It is necessary that he not only feel but see what he is about to cut; groping in this situation, and amongst such im- portant parts, is unsafe, to say the least of it. Caution in pass- ing the needle is here required equally as in ligature of the carotid. In such deep wounds the aneurism needles of Weiss, Bremner, Mott, or Gibson, may perhaps be found useful; but in general the common one is sufficient, and has always answered my purpose perfectly. During the dissection, it must be borne in mind that the pleura is not far from the edge of the knife. In one case of aneurism above the clavicle, and close to the outer border of the sterno-cleido mastoid muscle, and of the anterior scalenus, I exposed the arteria innominata by a cautious dissection ; but, instead of surrounding that vessel, applied liga- tures to the root of the subclavian and of the carotid. This latter was closed with the view of insuring the formation of a clot in the arteria anonyma. The patient suffered under abscess of the mediastinum, inflammation of the heart and pericardium, and ultimately he had repeated haemorrhage from the wound. The arteria innominata and the root of the two vessels were ob- structed by firm coagulum. The blood had come from the distal end of the subclavian, and had been furnished by the regurgitation through the vertebral, thyroid, mammary, &c. Ligature of the Subclavian Artery is required for the cure of axillary aneurism. That portion of the vessel within the scalenus and outside of the pneumo-gastric nerve is un- favourable for operation, in consequence of many branches being given off in an exceedingly short space. Besides, important veins and nerves are in the immediate vicinity. And though these were avoided, and the vessel reached and tied, still there would be no likelihood of a favourable result; obliteration