218 OF WOUNDS. the body, without even touching it — that in this way violent concussion of the brain, proving instantly fatal, was produced; but this notion has been disproved by experience; part of the head accoutrements, of the hair, of the nose, and of the ears, have been shot away by cannon-balls, and yet no disturbance of the brain has followed either immediately or consecutively. The opinion originated from the circumstance of soldiers having been found dead without any evidence of injury; but bones are often broken and comminuted by an indirect blow, or by a spent ball, without any breach of surface or external sign remaining; internal injuries indeed — rupture of viscera — more than suffi- cient to cause instant death, are thus inflicted without any appa- rent external laesion. The course of a ball in the body is often very sti’ange, depend- ing on the force with which it is projected, or the resistance which is opposed to it, and on the position of the struck part. Balls often pass under the integument almost completely round the head or chest, having first struck the bone at a very oblique angle. Fre- quently they remain, lodged along with part of the clothing which they thrust before them. In such cases, they may be immediately removed, their exact situation being previously ascertained by external examination, or by means of a probe. They can gene- rally be extracted through the aperture by which they entered; but if situated superficially, and at a distance from the opening, this will be more readily accomplished through an incision made upon them ; if allowed to remain, suppuration will occur in the neighbourhood, the surrounding cellular tissue will be condensed, an abscess will be formed containing the foreign body, and by the process of absorption proceeding in the parts external to the abscess, the ball will at last reach the surface, and be discharged. The track is often so extremely tortuous, as to render it impos- sible to ascertain the situation, or even the existence of the foreign body, which greatly impedes the operation; and, in other instances, it may be necessary to allow the ball to remain undisturbed, on account of its being placed near important parts, which might be injured by any attempt at removal. Fo- reign bodies often remain lodged in fleshy or membranous parts for years, having become enveloped in a dense cyst, and having ceased to produce any great irritation. In consequence of the