DISEASES OF THE WINDPIPE. 486 point. Small bougies were introduced from the wound into this diminutive canal; and by gradually increasing their size, the passage was brought to its natural diameter in less than three months. Part of the trachea below the wound had also con- tracted considerably, and was dilated by similar means. A long oesophagus tube was introduced by the wound into the mouth, there laid hold of and di’awn upwards, and then pushed down into the trachea, so that it extended from the mouth to some inches below the wound of the trachea. Its introduction was followed by a severe fit of coughing, which lasted about halt an hour. The tube, nine inches long, and equal in diameter to the largest oesophagus tube, was retained in the windpipe for fifteen days, during which it caused great salivation; the teeth loosened, and the strength was extremely reduced. The callous edges of the wound were removed by incision, and the opening closed by suture. The tube was removed on the tenth day thereafter, and the patient breathed well. Within a few hours, however, respiration became difficult, and trache- otomy (below the isthmus of the thyroid) was performed. A silver tube was introduced into this recent longitudinal opening, and retained for five days, when it was replaced by a smaller one. After twenty days, this tube was also re- moved, and in a short time afterwards the wound closed com- pletely. The patient continued to breathe with ease through the larynx, and slowly recovered her voice. When agitated, or after sudden and violent exertion, her inspirations are a little longer than natural, but in other respects the cure is complete. She was in very good health some years after the restoration of the air-tube. Laryngitis, cynanche trachealis, most frequently occurs in chil- dren, and in them it is termed crovp; but it also, though rarely, attacks adults. The voice is brazen, hoarse, and croaking ; the cough is barking, and the countenance suffused. Inspiration is long, painful, effected with much difficulty, and attended with a wheezing or rattling noise. Expiration, on the contrary, is easy. Difficult inspiration is a symptom common to all affections of the larynx, and admits of ready explanation. Tlie membrane