FRACTURE OF THE LEG. 725 been thrust through. Sometimes the bone is protruded to a considerable extent, and entangled amongst the more superficial soft parts. Fractures of the lower portions of the bones are generally the consequence of twisting and partial displacement of the ankle. The fibula is most frequently broken by twisting of the foot outwards, and the fracture is almost uniformly between two and three inches above the articulation. The broken ends are displaced inwards upon the tibia. The injury is detected by moving the foot, and tracing the line of bone; after swelling has taken place, examination, though almost equally easy, is productive of much more pain, and it is of importance to as- certain the nature of the injury at once, and immediately after the accident. The outer malleolus sometimes gives way from the same cause; or it maybe snapped off by a direct blow. The lower portion of the tibia is sometimes longitudinally split by bending inwards of the foot, the patient having fallen from a considerable height; occasionally the inner malleolus is broken transversely. Inquiry as to how the accident hap- pened, particularly as to the direction of the twist, the dis- placement of the foot, and the degree and extent of crepitation, will determine the nature of the injury. The astragulus, os calcis, the other bones of the tarsus, and those of the metatarsus, are sometimes broken by the application of great force, but they are not much displaced. Sometimes the foot is violently concussed in consequence of a fall from a height, and, though no fracture may have occurred, the patient is equally lame and pained; severe inflammation is sure to supervene rapidly, and may terminate untowardly. Fracture of the upper part of the tibia is to be treated in the straight position, for it has been already observed, that when the knee is bent the upper portion necessarily projects, A hol- lowed splint of wood, extending from the middle of the thigh to near the heel, is applied behind, whilst one of pasteboard may be placed on each side : all are secured by bandaging, the foot and lower part of the limb being rolled previously to prevent infiltration; by this simple apparatus, motion of the knee-joint, and of the ends of the bones on each other, is completely pre- vented ; the heel is raised, if necessary, for complete adaptation. 3 A .3