OF INFLAMMATION. 11 generally occur, and are followed by a sense of beat, and by perspiration; then the above symptoms gradually decrease, and the patient recovers; but in certain instances his breathing becomes quick and somewhat oppressed, attended with a pe- culiar spasmodic elevation of the nostrils ; all the secretions are diminished, the intellectual functions become impaired, and there are occasional convulsive twitchings; coma supervenes, preceded by a low muttering delirium, and followed by death. This action, as well as every other, is much modified by the importance of the part which is the source of the action, and by the constitution of the patient. It is more severe in children than in adults. The affection will be more fully detailed, when treating of local injuries, and the management of patients after severe operations. The Causes of Inflammation come next to be considered; and first, of the proximate cause or theory. The different states of the Vessels, in their healthy and in their incited condition, have given rise to much discussion. In the first place, consider- able difference of opinion exists as to the relative share which the heart, the larger arteries, and the capillaries, have in pro- pelling the circulating fluid in a state of health. Some physi- ologists are inclined to attribute the principal power to the heart, the blood being propelled and returned, according to them, almost entirely by the vis a tergo; while they suppose that the arteries possess merely a degree of elasticity or tonicity. Considering the arteries as elastic tubes, performing an indis- pensable part in the propulsion of the blood, we will now briefly consider their state in inflammation. Passing over the different theories of error loci, spasm, &c., w'hich have at various times been entertained, let us first examine the condition of the capillary vessels, for these are primarily and principally concerned. In inflammation, the balance of the cir- culation is destroyed, but a diversity of opinion has existed as to the precise nature of the change which occurs. It has been sup- posed, and perhaps correctly, that the circulation is, in the first instance, much accelerated in the capillary vessels of an inflamed part; but it has been satisfactorily proved by experiment, that, after inflammation is fairly established, the blood circulates more slowly than in the healthy state of the vessels. There appears, in