134 OF MOLLIFIES OSSIUM, RACHITIS, ETC. one side; or, when the softening is great, and the patient con- fined to the recumbent position, the introitus of the cavity becomes diminished in the antero-posterior diameter; and, if the patient walk about, the ossa pubis are squeezed together, in consequence of the pressure of the ossa femora against the acetahula. The crests of the ilia are often bent inwards, in consequence of the pressure of steel apparatus injudiciously applied with a view of removing deformity. When the bones become consolidated after such distortion, they pre- sent most serious obstacles to parturition ; and, most unfortu- nately, crooked and deformed women possess, it is said, “ great aptitude for conception.” When, in such females, the un- toward circumstance of pregnancy has occurred, it has been necessary, in some, to have recourse to the Caesarean operation, and others have been delivered with the greatest difficulty and danger; notwithstanding which, many of these latter have, after recovering from a long and tedious illness, again become pregnant. In some cases the softened ribs not only compress the organs of the- chest, but are also pressed down upon the abdominal viscera, or even into the pelvis. The symptoms arising from such displacement are at first urgent, as can readily be imagined, and are often treated as inflammatory, to the detriment of the patient. After some time, as the state of the patient’s health improves, the bones in some degree regain their original firmness, and the curvatures are rendered permanent. New bone is depo- sited in the concavity of the curve, at first in irregular masses, but afterwards becoming condensed, and assuming a more regu- lar form, the column is thereby supported and strengthened. Bending of the spine backward, with depression of the spin- ous processes, is extremely rare. But curvature forward, with projection of these processes, is by no means uncommon, and is generally supposed to be caused by caries of the bodies of the vertebrae ; in many instances, however, it arises from intei'stitial absorption only. Curvature from caries of the vertebrae, though not so fre- quent as the curvature from other causes, is met with pretty often. In adults, the curvature from ulcerative absorption is