374 DISEASE OF THE ANTRUM. — the cases hopeless. Execution of the manual part is not at- tended with serious difficulty, and it can seldom be necessary to tie arteries previously. To expose the bone, the cheek is divided from the angle of the mouth to the origin of the mas- seter, and a second incision made from the inner canthus to the edge of the upper lip near the mesial line, detaching the alae of the nose from the maxillary bone. The flap of the cheek thus formed is dissected up, and the nasal process of the maxillary bone and the body of the os malae are divided with a saw, or with strong cutting pliers. An incision having been made through the covering of the hard palate, near the mesial line, a small convex-edged saw is applied to the bone; and the alveolar process is cut through by the pliers, after extraction of the middle and lateral incisors. The bone is then pulled downwards and forwards, and its remaining adhesions separated by means of the knife or pliers. This last part must be accomplished I’apidly, so as to reach the vessels, and arrest the hmmorrhage. During the progress of the opera- tion, cut branches of the facial and temporal are commanded by ligature or pressure, and the violence of the hsemorrhage is moderated by compression of the carotids. After removal of the bone, the deep vessels, branches of the internal maxillary, are secured either by ligature, or by firm pressure with charpie or dossils of lint. The facial flap is replaced, brought together over the charpie hy which the cavity is filled, and united by interrupted or convoluted suture. Cures by such proceedings, in such cases, are reported; the patients do not always die immediately after the operation; but there is reason to com- plain of want of candour as regards the ultimate result. The disease, it is said, has been arrested by ligature of the common carotid; the allegation is not born out by facts, nor is it easy to discover on what principle the practice was adopted. Such a result is not to be expected a priori, nor to be believed without farther trial; and these trials are not likely to be made. The superior maxilla is liable to become the seat of other tumours beside the preceding. It may be occupied by fibrous tumour, commencing in the bone, or in the alveoli. The tu- mour feels hard, and very often not encroaching upon the antrum, is evidently circumscribed, and presents a smooth and botryoidal