728 DISUNITED FRACTURE. leg cured well and straightly may become bent, twisted, and deformed. Fractures of the lower extremities of the bones, and of the malleoli, are reduced by placing the foot straight, and retain- ing it so by the application of a wooden splint; the parts are protected by a wedge-shaped pad, and the whole is retained by a common roller. The splint is made to project two inches or two inches and a half beyond the ankle, and to reach near to the knee-joint. It has two perforations in the upper end; to these a bandage is attached by its split end, and it is then car- ried down along the inside of the splint, and rolled round the foot and ankle ; thus the apparatus is prevented from shifting upwards. The other extremity of the bandage, during its con- volutions round the foot, is made to pass through notches in the farther end of the splint; the foot is thus turned to the side opposite to that in which it was placed by the accident, and ought to be retained so till consolidation has taken place. The splint is of course always placed on the side of the limb oppo- site to the fracture. Disunited Fracture. — In some cases union takes place very slowly. On removing the splints, with the expectation of find- ing the bones firmly united, the ends can be moved very freely on each other without crepitation or much pain. This, as already stated, may be referrible to various causes, — necessary or ac- cidental evacuations, natural or not— diversion of the nutritious fluids to some particular organ, as in pregnancy—the period of life — a diseased state of the bone of the periosteum or medullary web. By keeping the parts immovable and firmly compressed for some time longer, consolidation may be brought about. But in spite of evei’y care, the ends of the bones in some cases remain unconnected by any save a soft medium. This happens, however, very rarely under proper management. I have had but one case of it in my own practice, when the patient was from the first under my own inspection and care; and in that the occur- rence of false joint was attributable solely to the absurd conduct of the patient. He was tripped up on the street by some indi- viduals following their avocation as pickpockets, fell, and broke his forearm. The fracture was immediately reduced and splints