753 SPRAIN. and project. Reduction of such displacement is exceedingly difficult at any period, and becomes almost impossible when inflammatory action is allowed to supervene previously to at- tempts being made. The astragalus is sometimes pushed out of its place; though it is difficult to conceive how, to a bone so hid and so firmly connected, such force should be applied as to cause protrusion of it from its natural situation. It has been found lying on the dorsum of the foot, causing' swelling, lame- ness, great pain, shortening and deformity of the limb ; and the shape of the bone can, in such circumstances, be distinctly felt and seen through the integument. As already observed, re- duction is almost impracticable, and, with the view of remedy- ing deformity, it has been proposed to cut out the displaced bone; but as to the expediency of such practice I can give no opinion. I have seen but one instance of displacement of this bone backwards, and most probably another will never occur to me. A heavy young man, in a state of utter intoxication, fell back- wards down a stair, and in the fall his foot became entangled in the railing. The astragalus was found lying betwixt the back of the tibia and the tendo Achillis, its upper articulating surface facing forwards, the lower in contact with the tendon. All attempts to reduce the bone proved fruitless. Violent inflam- matory action followed, but was reduced by active measures; and the limb ultimately became very useful ; in fact, though not till after many months, little lameness or shortening was perceptible. By Sprain is understood subluxation or partial displacement of a joint, with stretching, and more or less laceration of the articulating apparatus — ligaments, tendons, sheaths, and bursae, being all involved in the injury. Sometimes small portions of the processes of bone are separated, being torn away, attached to ligament or tendon. All joints, both large and small, are liable to the accident. In the proximal, or in the middle joints of the finger, for example, one or other lateral ligament is stretched or torn ; the finger is twisted to a side ; the joint is swelled ; and this swelling, with pain, is of long continuance, perhaps in- creased by repeated twists, or by imprudent use of the joint. 3 c