586 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. peculiar as to be almost pathognomonic. The lower limbs become emaciated and weak. Gout often accompanies stricture, and paroxysms of it are induced by irritation of the urethra; the canal itself is said to be sometimes affected with a gouty action. Stricture may be caused by inflammation or long-continued irritation of the urethra, however induced — by mismanaged virulent gonorrhoea — by stimulating acrid injections—by piles, and other irritations about the fundament — by calculi passing along the urethra. That gonorrhoea is a very frequent cause of stricture has been long known — “ If the case be slubbered over, and long delayed, caruncles arise in the urethra, and in progress of time a carnosity.” The passage or lodgement of calculi in the canal has induced stricture even in children: and calculus in the bladder is supposed sometimes to produce disease in the urethra, and vice versa. Strictures are often caused by falls or blows on the perineum, and such cases are of the very worst kind; in some the urethra becomes almost entirely ob- literated ; in most the stricture is extensive and callous; and in all the disease is overcome with difficulty. When stricture is suspected, the urethra must be examined. A soft white-wax bougie is very well adapted for ascertaining the state of the parts, but must be used very gently. If pushed forwards rashly and with force, the instrument yields before the stricture, and when withdrawn, is found twisted like a screw, or doubled backwards on itself. The vessels of the urethra may be torn, and haemorrhage, with great pain, ensue. The bougie should be slightly curved in its farther extremity, warmed either at the fire or by friction with the fingers, and well oiled, previously to its introduction. It is then passed softly along the canal till its progress is arrested; thus the situ- ation of the stricture is ascertained. Then a little more pres- sure is employed for a short time; if the instrument have not become insinuated into the constricted part, it will resiliate on removal of the pressure from its free extremity; if it is passed into or beyond the stricture, it is firmly grasped by that part of the urethra, and retained; thus we discover the degree of con- traction ; and from the extremity of the bougie receiving and retaining the impression made on it by the contracted part, we