536 OF HERNIA. sloughed it is absurd to attempt separation of the adhesions which must exist, dividing the external from the internal parts. In mortification of a protruded knuckle, or part only of the calibre of bowel, the symptoms are at first severe. These are vomiting, pain, and symptoms of enteritis ; perhaps the bowels are obstructed for some time, but evacuation again takes place, as happened in the following remarkable and instructive case. A gentleman, nearly eighty years of age, was, during the action of medicine, suddenly seized with pain in the groin. A very small tumour was observed — he became sick — and when I visited him for the first time two days after, he had no further evacuations from the bowels, he vomited constantly bilious foetid matter, and he began to complain of pain in the abdo- men. Pressure was kept upon the tumour, which protruded at the crural aperture, for some time, with the effect of diminishing its size very considerably. On returning in a couple of hours with Sir B. Brodie, with the intention of cutting down upon the swell- ing, the bowels had been freely relieved, the vomiting had entirely ceased, and there was not the slightest vestige of tumour to be perceived or felt, on the most attentive examination. The patient had a good night, but in the morning had a recurrence of the symptoms: these continued, and a fatal termination shortly occurred; still no tumour could be detected before or after death. It was supposed that the obstruction might have been caused by a continuance of the constriction of the bowel, where it had been nipped by the stricture. On a post mortem examination, there was found an exceedingly small portion of the coat of the bowel still entangled in the crural ring, whilst a larger portion, which bore marks of hav- ing been protruded, was thus en- tangled, and confined to the spot. The bowel, though not completely obstructed, was narrowed by the confinement of part of its parietes. Abscess often occurs externally to a small swelling of this nature, and on the giving way of the integu- ment, matter, flatus, and thin faeces are discharged. A fcecal fistula re- mains for some time; but, by the