SCROFULOUS NECROSIS AND CARIES. 493 of a weak character, discharging a glairy secretion, studded with soft flabby granulations, connected with unsoundness of the neigh- bouring cellular tissue, surrounded by undermined integument, and by considerable boggy, soft swelling, free application of the caustic potass is highly beneficial. When the bone is denuded, and involved in ulceration, the phalanx should be amputated. Unhealthy children are subject to disease of the phalanges, and of the metatarsal and metacarpal bones, excited by slight injury, or originating without apparent cause. Often more than one bone is affected. There is great swelling of the soft parts around the diseased bone, indolent, and not painful; at first hard and white, afterwards more yielding, and of a dark- red hue at one or more points. Imperfect suppuration takes place, the integuments ulcerate, and the cavity of the abscess leads to the exposed bone; a portion of this generally dies, and is a long time in separ- ating. Great addition of bony matter is depo- sited around, in irregu- larly aggregated no- dules ; and a large shell is so formed, partially investing the sequestrum. This affection may be termed scrofulous necrosis. Or the bone does not die, but is exposed and ulcerated superficially; or a considerable cavity forms in its interior, apparently from tubercular deposits and suppurative degenera- tion of the cancellated structure. The secretion from the ulcerated surface is thin, acrid, and often bloody; and new osseous matter is studded around. The surface of the rest of the bone is unusually open in texture, whilst its interior is con- densed, and the cancelli are filled with lardy substance. This form may be called scrofulous caries. Abscesses in the soft parts form one after another, several of the bones are often affected at the same time, superficial abscesses and affections of the joints and bones often take place in other parts, and the patient grows weaker and weaker. Whilst the surgeon attends to the general health, and em- ploys palliative local applications, nature frequently effects a cure. The sequestrum ultimately separates, or the ulceration gives way to more healthy action. New bone fills up the