PHYMOSIS AND PARAPHYMOSIS. 610 round the penis behind the glans, and such swelling speedily arises in consequence of the constriction so as to prevent reduction. The glans and lining membrane of the prepuce swell anteriorly to the stricture, the integuments of the penis swell behind, and the stricture is depressed and concealed between. The cellular tissue there is necessarily very loose, so as to admit of free mo- tion and change of relative position, and consequently the en- gorgement is often very great. The infiltration is at first serous, and the swelling is easily compressed ; but, from continuance of the inflammatory action, lymph is effused, and becomes organ- ised, and the turgescence is more solid and unyielding. When the stricture is very tight, the patient cachectic and irregular in his mode of life, and the case injudiciously or inertly treated, sloughing takes place rapidly, or phagedenic ulceration occurs anterior to the stricture. But in most cases the prepuce is not so tight as to cause complete strangulation, yet obstructs the flow of blood sufficiently to induce swelling of the included parts, breach of surface more or less extensive, and an unhealthy appearance of the ulceration. The ulceration is generally in the neighbourhood of the stricture, at first limited and super- ficial, but increasing both in depth and extent so long as the cause remains. The stricture is not sicuated anteriorly to the swelling, as has been sometimes supposed, but near its middle — where the tight orifice of the prepuce grasps the penis, and causes a depression in the swelling. On separating the ante- rior and posterior tumours, the stricture is readily exposed, though pi'eviously effectually concealed. In slight cases of phymosis, the orifice may be dilated by frequent fomentation, and perseverance in withdrawing the pre- puce as far as possible. When ulceration or secretion of matter has occurred, astringent injections, at first mild, and gradually strengthened, should be frequently thrown into the praeputial cavity. Suspension of the penis should be enjoined, along with rest — of the whole body, as well as of the affected organ in particular. When much inflammation exists, antiphlogistic remedies must be put in force, followed by fomentations. In bad cases, the prepuce must be divided in order to expose the seat of morbid secretions, of ulceration, and vegetations. The preferable situation for incision is close by the side of the fraenum, much less deformity ensuing than when the prepuce is