OF SUPPURATION. 1 1 - f O o ’) — 3 o o fi 5) — - ( |o F J 1 1 1 and ^ouo inch, although some of the globules may be occasionally seen a little larger or smaller than these measure- ments. Smaller particles are also detected, the molecules of the pus globules, each of which contains two or three. These molecules are insoluble in acids, soluble in caustic al- kalis, and can be freed from the fibrous capsule in which they are contained, and of which the pus globule is com- posed, when treated with acetic acid. The appearance of the pus globules and molecules is here shown upon a scale, the squares of which are inch. These small particles were pointed out to me by my friend, Mr. Gulliver, nearly two years ago, as constituting an important element in suppuration. It results from his observ- ations that the entire pus globule is composed in its central part of these minute molecules, the diameter of which is from Tol"S^¥ 8oVo inch, cemented together, as it were, by a superficial deposit of matter possessing all the properties of coagulated lymph. And these minute nuclei constitute a proximate animal principle, possessing such well marked cha- racters as to justify us in regarding them as peculiar in their nature, and essential to the composition of the pus globule. Thus they resist putrefaction with remarkable pertinacity, are very dense, and spherical in form, and are insoluble in some acids which act with facility on albumen, fibrine, or the blood- corpuscle. They are easily seen by treating a little recent pus with sulphurous acid, which so acts on the pus-globule as to render the nuclei distinctly visible through its fibrinous capsule; by sulphuric acid the external part of the pus-globule is quickly dissolved, and the nuclei, somewhat shrunk, are seen in con- siderable numbers floating separately about the field of vision. The instrument used by Mr. Gulliver in these observations was a compound achromatic microscope, with a deep object glass, having one eighth of an inch focal length. In many constitutions, the slightest incited action of the ves- vels is followed by the formation of pus, and the appearance of