778 AMPUTATION OF THE ARM. supporting the forearm — and then completes transfixion, in- clining the handle of the knife towards himself, in order that its point may pass round the bone and emerge at as distant a point in the circumference of the limb as possible.* By a rapid saw- ing motion, downwards and inwards to the proper extent, the inner flap is formed; and by attention to the grasping of the muscles and the inclination of the knife, its base is so large as to admit of the more easy performance of accurate transfixion for the outer — that is the instrument is more easily brought through the same incision. The assistant seizes the extremity of the inner flap as soon as formed, and retracts it, but only to a slight extent; it is simply held out of the way. If it be pulled backwards, as in retraction during sawing, the formation of the second will be much impeded. The knife is again entered about half an inch below the commencement of the first incision, and by inclining the handle the point is brought round the bone, and made to appear on the opposite side also in the first incision; this is facilitated by pulling the soft parts outwards with the left hand. Then the outer flap is completed. The knife is swept rapidly round the bone, so as to expose it completely at the upper part, the assistant at the same time retracting the flaps fully. The saw is applied, the arteries tied, the flaps approxi- mated, and the operation completed. In performing the second transfixion, the reason why the knife is entered lower than in the first, is, that cross-cutting of the corners of the wound is thereby avoided. For a long time I was surprised and annoyed to find many stumps present an un- seemly cross-cutting of the integument at the upper parts, par- ticularly after approximation of the flaps, although the incisions seemed to have been made smoothly and accurately. It is occa- sioned by the sawing process for making the second flap, and when this is commenced at the same height as for the first, irre- gularity of incision at the upper part is unavoidable. The pre- caution, however, of making the second transfixion considerably lower than the first I have found quite effectual. The disparity between the bases of the flaps is readily and quickly remedied, after their formation, by a sweep of the knife upwards on the lower side. Irritable and painful stumps are more frequently met with