794 EXCISION OF JOINTS. The elbow-joint, on account of its exposed condition, is gene- rally regarded as the most favourable for excision. The affec- tions of the joints of the upper extremity are much more manageable than those of the lower, and may generally be prevented from proceeding so far as to end in destruction of the apparatus. By care and good management, disease will be ai’rested, and the functions and motions of the parts restored and preserved; or the articulation may become stiff, and even though the anchylosis be complete, the limb will be very useful if the joint have been kept in a good position. The health, if previously undermined, is renovated, so soon as the local disease is arrested. But some bad cases are met with, in which all the parts surrounding the articulation are involved, and the strength wasted; in these amputation is the only safe and effectual pro- cedure. It is only when the soft parts are not much diseased, when it is ascertainable that the affection of the bone is only to a limited extent, and when the usual means of cure have had a fair trial and failed, that excision is admissible. In determining on the operation, the time of life and the worldly circumstances of the patient are to be considered : a poor man requires his limb to be serviceable in labour; handsome appearance without utility is to him of no value. The motion and usefulness of the arm may be in a great measure preserved, if only a part of the bone of the arm, or a part of those of the forearm, entering into the articulation, be removed ; but if large portions of all of these be taken away, the muscles will lose their support, the motions will never be restored to any extent, and the motion that is of it will be weak and vacillating. The joint will remain loose and power- less, and the limb will prove to be but a useless incumbrance. Such, at least, is the result of my experience on this subject; and I am sorry to add, that all which has been written on it is not deserving of unreserved belief. Many patients have, after long and severe suffering, preserved the arm to little purpose; others have been necessitated to submit to another operation — amputation after all; some have died after the first, others after the second mutilation. The operation is attended with no dif- ficulty in execution, and this in some measure accounts for its frequent, and it is to be suspected, indiscriminate, performance of late years. The incisions are made on the posterior aspect