526 OF HERNIA. submit to his proposals. No time should be dissipated in ad- ministering purges or clysters, or in cold or warm applications. If the tumour is not very tender, make one good trial of the taxis, not long continued; if a warm bath can be readily commanded, place the patient in it, and employ the taxis when he begins to feel faint. If foiled, and if the patient can bear depletion well, the strangulation being recent, try a full bleeding to syncope; it may save depletion afterwards, and at all events the patient will be none the worse for it. Having failed, as may probably be the case, operate without delay. The operation, as regards the immediate consequences, is neither formidable nor dangerous of itself; the delaying of it is attended with the most serious and irretrievable mischief. It ought to be performed within a very few hours after the occur- rence of strangulation, and, in most instances, without putting off time with the means considered auxiliary to the taxis. Under urgent circumstances, it may be necessary to operate within a quarter of an hour after seeing the patient, as I have often done. In ordinary cases, time must be taken to converse with the patient and his friends, to convince them that all those means likely to assist reduction, and render an operation unne- cessary, have been tried. The surgeon must not appear to be in a hurry, though he puts off no time unnecessarily ; otherwise his motives may be misconstrued. The necessity for operating early is greater in small than in large herniae, in crural than in inguinal. The groin and neigh- bouring parts are to be shaved, and the patient placed in the recumbent posture, with the shoulders slightly elevated. The mode of operation must be varied according to the nature of the tumour, its size, and other circumstances. The operation for inguinal hernia is conducted as follows : — The patient is placed recumbent on a table, or, in private prac- tice, on the side of a bed, his shoulders supported by pillows, and his feet resting upon a stool. An incision is commenced about an inch above the external abdominal ring, and continued to the bottom of the tumour. This latter part of the procedure, howevei’, is applicable only to small and moderately-sized her- niae ; in large tumours the wound is not made so low, for in them the bowels may be irreducible, from the quantity pro-