7 OF INFLAMMATION. B 4 in consequence of the enlargement of the minute capillaries which permeate them. Over-distension of the coats of the vessels may also be supposed to give rise to painful feelings, independ- ently of any affection of the accompanying nervous trunks. The degree of pain is generally in proportion to the sensi- bility of the part when in health; it also depends upon the distensibility of the parts affected, and on the intensity of the inflammatory action. When bones, tendons, &c. which in their uninflamed state are nearly insensible, become inflamed, the pain and suffering are most excruciating, owing to the resistance opposed to the dilatation of the vessels, and the prevention of the effusion by which they naturally relieve themselves. The kind of pain also varies, in consequence of different mo- difications in the action causing different impressions on the sensorium. Pain is not always increased in proportion to the natural sensibility of the part; for in some instances the sen- sibility is rendered much more intense, whilst in others it is much obtunded. The last, and, according to some writers, the only unequivocal symptom of inflammation, is Heat. In extravasation of blood into the cellular texture, as under the conjunctiva, there is redness, swelling, and occasionally pain; but at first, and unless the action of the blood-vessels be excited, there will be neither heat nor throbbing. In many internal inflammations heat is much complained of; and in Enteritis it has been considered a pathognomonic symptom. The signs, symptoms, and consequences of inflammation — and amongst others, heat — are modified by the distance of the affected part from the centre of circulation. All actions, healthy as well as morbid, proceed with more vigour in the superior extremities — in the head, the neck, and the trunk, than in the more remote parts of the body; for to the former the blood is transmitted more speedily, if not in greater quantity, and is not so liable to be impeded in its return. Hence an arm may bear up under a severe injury, which, to an inferior ex- tremity, would prove inevitable destruction. The heat, how- ever, of an inflamed part, is generally supposed to be much greater than it really is. The sensation of heat is considerable to the patient, as well as to any observer, whils't the absolute in-