DISEASES OF THE EYE. 346 pupil is dilated and the iris insensible to the stimulus of light; and the former has not its natural translucent aspect, but is dull and cloudy. But the state of the pupil cannot be accu- rately determined in amaurosis, for not unfrequently it is much contracted, and in many cases the iris retains both its natural appearance and the full exercise of its functions. The disease either advances to complete blindness, or stops in its destructive progress, leaving the patient with vision impaired to a greater or less degree. When the disease is established, pain in the head and eyes usually either ceases quickly and entirely, or gra- dually abates. Amaurosis is sometimes temporary, occurring at regular in- tervals ; and, during its accession, it often varies in intensity. With some patients strong light is intolerable, and vision is best in the twilight; others court sunshine, finding their eyesight thereby much improved; accordingly the former are said to labour under nyctalopia, the latter under hemeralopia. Some can discern the shape of objects, but either have no perception of the colours, or mistake the individual colours; others not only see all objects indistinctly, but conceive them distorted, double, or extensively multiplied ; in some one half of the object looked upon is obscured — and frequently there is strabismus, in consequence of the paralysis being only partial. Organic amaurosis (that depending on organic disease) may arise from the change of structure consequent on inflammatory action in the retina, whether chronic or acute — from atrophy of that membrane and of the optic nerve — from extravasation into the substance of the nerve, or compression of it by morbid formations — from softening or suppuration of the nerve and its connexions — or from various diseases of the encephalon. Func- tional amaurosis may proceed from temporary plethora about the optic nerve and retina — from intense and long continued use of the organ — from derangement of the digestive appa- ratus — from general debility, however induced—from excessive influence on the system of poisons or powerful medicines — from concussion of the nervous and cerebral substance, or from long continued irritation in the neighbourhood of the eye. Amau- rosis may also follow injuries of various kinds. In the treatment of organic amaurosis but little can be done.