487 PARONYCHIA. both in appearance and structure; the vessel is either not visible on account of the infiltration around, or its coats are so diseased as to be incapable of holding a ligature. At any period, it is unsafe and unwarrantable to dive, pretty much at random, with a sharp needle, amongst tendons, nerves, arteries, and veins, with the hope of so including the wounded branch. In some cases of secondary bleeding — if no great inflammatory action has taken place, and no abscesses have formed — the wound may be dilated freely, and compression made on the bleeding point by dossils of lint filling the wound completely, and sup- ported by a bandage. This dressing, retained for some days, often succeeds perfectly; permanent obstruction of the vessel, and consolidation of the parts immediately around, having been accomplished by the effusion and organisation of lymph. When this method fails — and when the case is more advanced, with pain, swelling, and abscess — weakening of the circulation in the part is found to be effectual. The main artery is to be obstructed at a distance from the wounded part. It is needless to tie the radial, or the ulnar, or both ; for still blood will be poured in by the interosseous and its anastomoses. The humeral must be secured in the middle of the arm, as has been practised in many instances, and with uniform success. Thus the bleed- ing is arrested until the wounded vessel recovers, and becomes permanently closed by salutary effusion ; then the inflammatory action, and its consequences, in the surrounding parts, must be treated on the general principles of surgery. Paronychia^ or Whitlow, designates inflammatory action and its consequences, in the structures composing the fingers. The mere surface may be the seat of the inflammation, or the cellular tissue, or the fibrous structure betwixt that and the sheath of the tendons; or the firm and true sheath of the tendons, and the synovial surface; or the investing membrane of the bone, the bone itself, and the articulating surfaces and apparatus may be involved secondarily, or from the first. The inflammatory action may commence in any of these structures, but, if uncon' trolled, ultimately attacks the greater number, or all of them. The deeper seated the action, the more violent are the symp- toms, and the greater the danger to the member. In the cutis I I 4