441 DISEASES OF THE WINDPIPE. of an advanced age. Inflammatory affections of the larynx and trachea are, however, by no means unfrequent in adults; but are of a very different character, as to symptoms, progress, and termination, from that affection which is strictly denomi- nated croup. Pain is felt in the region of the windpipe, and is aggravated by pressure on the forepart of the neck, by speaking, and by deglutition; expectoration is increased, and ultimately assumes a muco-purulent character. The voice is al- tered in tone and in strength, and occasionally there is complete aphonia. Frequently these symptoms, after having continued for a short time, gradually subside; if not, the mucous membrane, particularly in the upper part of the la- rynx, becomes thickened and considerably softened in texture, with effusion of serous fluid in the sub- jacent cellular tissue, and apparently in the sub- stance of the membrane itself. In consequence of such effusion, the difficulty of breathing is much increased. Occasionally lymph is effused on the surface of the membrane; but this is seldom met with, and when it does take place, is generally con- fined to the upper part of the larynx. The larynx and trachea of an old lady of seventy years is here shown, with very extensive false membranes blocking up the bronchi ; a large portion besides was coughed up. The specimen, a rare one, is in my collection. The effusion of serum is often abundant, causing protrusion of the mucous membrane, and narrowing of the canal; and when it is limited to the upper part of the larynx, as frequently happens, the disease is termed (Edema Glottidis. In this affec- tion, the majority of the symptoms, which have been already enumerated as attendant on laryngitis, are all present, and in an aggravated form. Inspiration is extremely difficult and sibilant, and occasionally the patient experiences a sensation, as if a foreign body were lodged in the passage, and had changed its position on the muscles of the part being put in motion. The symptoms of oedema come on gradually in some cases, in others with alarming rapidity. They often follow ulcerations of the soft palate, and of the root of the tongue, as shown in treating of diseases of that organ, occurring on the patient being exposed