240 OF ULCERS OF THE GENITAL ORGANS, ulcer, as well as other sores, is produced by the contact of secre- tions, generally morbid, but often apparently healthy, with a sus- ceptible surface. Sores, with eruption and sore throat, sometimes appear in one or both individuals immediately after marriage, and probably arise from the acrimony of the female secretions causing tenderness and ulceration of the parts. The application of gonorrhoeal matter readily produces the simple ulcer on the glans or prepuce, particularly if an abrasion or rawness existed • and if the matter be allowed to remain on an unbroken surface, a pustule will form, and ulceration follow. From this latter cause numerous sores ai'e produced, separated from each other by sound parts, and not extending into one continuous ulcer; and this condition may have been preceded, on the glans, by a rawness of the surface and a profuse discharge, or by a herpetic eruption on the mucous lining of the prepuce. One man may be affected with gonorrhoea, and another with ulcer, from con- nection with the same female, the same day or hour ; and it is doubtful whether the effect is not similar, in both cases, viz. ul- ceration ; for it is supposed, that in gonoi’rhoea the discharge, in some rare cases, proceeds from patchy ulceration of the mucous lining of the urethra, similar to the ulceration usually met with on the glans. In examining women who have communicated infection, very often no sores are found, and but little unhealthy discharge. In short, the simple elevated sore may arise from the application of secretions from an unbroken surface, from inoculation of matter from a similar sore, or spontaneously, from inattention to cleanliness. Sores with elevated surface, more extensive than those of the glans and prepuce, occur on the skin of the penis and scrotum, or in the folds of the thigh; and in women they are often met with in the perineum, or the cleft of the nates. Sores of different kinds arise at various periods after the application of their cause, from a day or two to some weeks, or longer, but the usual time may be said to be from four to eight days. The duration of the simple elevated sore may be modified bj”^ various circumstances — by the constitution of the patient, his mode of living, and the attention paid to the affected part. It seldom remains open above a few weeks, but occa- sionally it may be seen unhealed at the end of several months in those who lead careless and irregular lives. Such ulcers