OF TUMOURS. 192 fourth part of that bone, containing the glenoid cavity, processes, and half of its spine. The edges of the wound were brought together, and the patient lifted cautiously to bed. At this time he was pale, almost insensible, and without any pulsation per- ceptible through the integuments in the greater arteries, though the ends of the vessels in the wound beat very forcibly. Stimuli were employed externally and internally; in the evening his pulse at the wrist was ninety, and soft. The sac of the tumour was composed of bony matter, con- taining little earth, and arranged in strata of short fibres pointing to the cavity. Its outer surface was smooth, and covered by a dense membrane; whereas the inner, to which so equable a resistance was not afforded, was studded with projecting spicula. The lower part of the scapula, partially absorbed, lay in the middle of the sac, covered by the remains of its muscles and coagula. Very large vessels were perceived ramifying on the surface of the tumour. The patient made a rapid recovery, and the wound all but healed. A fungus, however, began to appear in about six weeks, which grew rapidly. This was removed, and the bone cauterized with little good effect. The tumour was soon re- produced. It was proposed to remove the remainder of the scapula with the extremity, as the only chance, though perhaps a slight one. This was objected to, and he died about five months after the operation, worn out by haemorrhage and profuse discharge. The diseased parts presented the following appearances. Por- tions of the acromion process, superior costa, and spine of the scapula, were of their natural appearance. But the coracoid process, the glenoid cavity, and the cervix, were entirely de- stroyed, and their situation occupied by an irregular broken-down tumour, consisting of osseous spiculae, and cancelli, irregularly disposed, and forming cavities which were filled with blood, partly fluid and partly coagulated. The head of the humerus was extensively absorbed. The articulating cartilage was almost entirely destroyed, particularly on the inner side, where a large portion of the bony matter had also been removed. The ulcer- ated surfaces were of a dark, bloody colour.