calculus VESICA3, 654- touched with a heated wire. And sometimes also, when the urine is unusually slow of coming by the urethra, this may be expedited by the occasional introduction of a catheter or bougie. It is not often that the operation of lithotomy requires to be repeated. In some few cases, however, the calculous diathesis continues, a new concretion is formed, and the patient again applies for relief, perhaps several years afterwards. In such circumstances, the incisions are to be made in the right side of the perineum; for the track of the former wound is now con- solidated, firm, and hard, and would be cut with difficulty. But when, from neglect or want of dexterity, the first operation has been imperfectly performed, one or more stones being left behind, the wound may not heal, nor even contract to any con- siderable extent; and then dilatation of the existing opening, with fresh section of the prostate, will probably be sufficient, though at an interval of many months. It has been proposed to divide the operation into two parts, with an interval of several days between; first to make the in- cisions, leaving the stone undisturbed, and after suppuration has been fairly established, and the parts become I’elaxed, then to extract the foreign body, provided it have not in the mean time been discharged spontaneously — in short, to perform the opera- tion d deux temps. This method is liable to serious objections. Two operations must in general be more severe than one. The patient is rendered despondent and miserable after the first, by knowing that the object of his suffering has been imperfectly accomplished, or rather not accomplished at all. Much, and often serious irritation is produced by the wounded bladder being contracted on the hard and rough foreign body; patients have sunk under this torture, and the cure is always tedious. From the earliest times it has been quite well understood, that when the stone cannot be got out it must be left in; but the proposal of always leaving it in, on principle and not from ne- cessity, is really absurd. There is room for suspecting that this mode of operation originated as a virtue from necessity; the extraction of the stone is always the most difficult part of litho- tomy, requiring much skill and dexterity, and the operator, finding himself baffled in his attempts to effect it, wisely desists from his futile efforts at the time, and waits for another oppor-