749 LUXATION OF THE HIP-JOINT, f toes are inclined neither outwards nor inwards; the limb is im- moveably fixed, and this the most unequivocally marks the nature of the accident. The limb is lengthened when the trochanter major is split off, as also when severe bruise of the glutei has been inflicted without breach of continuity in any part of the bone, and with- out displacement. In the first stage of morbus coxarius, too, a somewhat similar appearance and position of the limb is pre- sented; there is lengthening, but then there is also more or less wasting of the muscles, more mobility than in the dislocation, and a marked history attached. Complicated cases occasionally occur — as when a patient who has been labouring under hip- joint disease, perhaps not in an aggravated form, falls heavily, and on being lifted up is found to be incapable of moving the joint, the limb at the same time being elongated, and having a distorted appearance. An instance of this nature impressed strongly upon me the great necessity for accurate diagnosis in the first instance, and that such was to be acquired only by taking every circumstance into consideration. A young man was engaged in cleaning a slaughter-house, standing on two blocks of wood with his legs considerably apart. One of the blocks suddenly slipped from under him, and he fell with his limbs spread. He was carried home in great pain, and next day I was asked to visit him. The limb was elongated, and the hip flattened; the joint was stiff, and attempts at motion pro- duced great pain ; but by perseverance the limb could be put ill various positions, and the trochanter was not so much de- pressed as in luxation downwards. By cross-examination it was discovered that the patient had halted in walking for many weeks previously, had felt as if the limb was longer than the other, had pain in the groin and knee; in fact, morbus coxarius had been advancing, and the pain, immobility, and greater elongation had been occasioned by the fall, causing violent excitement of the morbid action previously in progress. Dreadful consequences must have resulted from mistake in diagnosis and practice founded upon it. I have observed, in other cases, great and rapid elongation of the limb in consequence of injury to the hip-joint previously diseased; and I have known instances in which persevering and forcible efforts were made to reduce the supposed luxation.