AND DISEASES THENCE ARISING. 127 minute filaments which still in some degree retain their vitality, or small portions of newly deposited bone, which are so situ- ated as to prevent the free movement of the sequestrum. In general, no impediment of this nature exists, and the dead hone is easily removed. Before extraction can be accom- plished, it is generally necessary to enlarge freely the external opening, in all cases where the dead portion of bone is of con- siderable size. If, on thus exposing the parts, the sequestrum be found detached, but still firmly bound down by the substi- tute bone, deposited over it either in one continuous sheet, or in irregular columns, this must be divided by a trephine, a small saw, or cutting pliers, before the sequestrum can be extracted. When a dead portion of bone, of considerable length, is ex- posed at its centre, whilst its extremities are entangled by the old or substitute bone, the division of the exposed part of sequestrum, by means of the cutting pliers, will often be suf- ficient for its removal, the cut ends being seized by the forceps, and one half removed after the other; thus the perforation or removal of any portion of the substitute will be rendered unnecessary. The instruments, and especially those for ex- traction, ought to be very powerful, and suited to the purpose; for in the employment of inefficient means there is much folly and cruelty. Incisions into a necrosed limb are attended with profuse haemorrhage from the enlarged and excited vessels; and in some cases it is with difficulty arrested, in consequence of re- traction of the cut ends of the vessels not taking place within the condensed and indurated parts. Pressure, and an elevated position of the part, will generally be found to answer. When necrosis has been extensive, the limb must be carefully sup- ported by the application of splints and bandage, till the pro- cess of reparation be completed, in order to prevent fracture of the recently formed substitute. This proceeding is seldom, however, necessary. The treatment may be summed up in a very few words. Prevent the necrosis, if possible ; open abscesses whenever they appear ; encourage the patient to move the neighbour- ing joints ; support the strength ; remove sequestra when loose, but do not interfere till they are ascertained to be so ; give the limb proper support and rest, when a large se-