CALCULUS VESICLE. 643 T T 2 loses four in twelve, or six in twelve, of the patients who come under his knife. It has been said that lithotrity is applicable, when, from the advanced age of the patients and the rigidity of the parts to be cut, lithotomy is not. This statement is incorrect, at least the latter part of it. Old people, from 70 to 80, and even beyond that age, recover, when the operation is conducted quickly, without loss of blood, and so as to guard against infiltration, as certainly and rapidly as young persons. Within the last few years the appa- ratus for breaking up stones has been very much simplified and improved upon. The screw lithotrite can with great propriety and safety be employed in cases in which the concretion has not attained any very large size, and in which also the urinary ap- paratus is healthy, and tolerably free from irritability. The cases for this operation must be well chosen, and the proceed- ings conducted throughout with great caution, gentleness, and judgment. Very full directions are given in the “ Practical Surgery” for the performance of this operation. Perhaps no operative procedure has been more canvassed than that of lithotomy. The subject has been discussed, and the oper- ation attempted, by many not very eminently qualified. All sorts of contrivances have been made and promulgated in con- nexion with this operation ; the greater number intended to supply the want either of anatomical knowledge or of operative dexterity. A volume would scarcely contain a catalogue even of the instruments which are in my possession, — crooked staffs, knives, spoons, and forceps. I shall content myself with describing what appears to me the most simple, safe, and certain procedure. The bladder may be opened, for the removal of stone, in various situations ; at its forepart, by incisions above the pubes ; in the posterior fundus, by division of the sphincter ani and a portion of the bowel; at its neck, by cutting upon it through the perineum. The first mode is termed the high operation, the second the recto-vesical, the last the lateral. The lateral shall be first considered : it is the safest, the most advisable, and the most frequently resorted to. Keeping the patient in suspense for days after operation has been agreed on, with the view of preparing him as it is called,