DISEASES OF THE NOSE. 379 arrested till the cartilaginous and bony septum, the turbinated bones, the hard and soft palate, and frequently the alveoli, are completely destroyed. The patient, if he live, is in a miserable plight; — his countenance is deformed and ghastly ; the situation of the nose is occupied by a large dark and foul sore; the dis- charge is profuse and weakening ; the expired air is as a pestilence to himself and those around; speech is almost unintelligible ; breathing is difficult; the strength is gradually exhausted; and the spirits sink under the harrowing impression of misery. All these ills result more frequently from the injudicious employment of mercurial preparations than from any other cause. In almost every instance, the predisposition to such frightful ulcerations has been induced by the use of mei’cury, and can readily be traced to it. Exposure to atmospheric changes, during or after the exhibition of mercury, may render the mucous surface and the coverings of the bones more susceptible of the disease; that medicine may be given with the utmost precaution, but for long after, the constitution cannot shake off its influence; and too frequently more of the poison is administered for disease pro- duced by it. Ulceration of the tonsils, and other parts in the fauces, often co-exist with disease of the nostrils. Ulceration of the nostrils is arrested with difficulty. It can- not be expected to cease till dead parts have separated, become loose, and fall out, or are removed by art. Portions of the bones, forming the floor of the nostril, can often be removed, when dead, through ulcerated apertures in the palate ; whilst others are brought away through the nostrils, there being generally sufficient space allowed for their discharge — the nasal cavities being laid into one by destruction of the columna, and more or less of the septum. Occasionally the ossa nasi, or parts of them, escape through an opening in the superimposed integuments; sometimes they cannot be discharged otherwise, as in the following case : — Matter had come to the surface over the nasal process of the frontal bone, an incision was made for its evacuation, sequestra were found loose, and some extracted; one was pushed down with the view of pulling it through the nostril, but this was found closed from the effects of smallpox. Various applications to the ulcerated cavities are employed. Injections of spirituous and aromatic lotions are used to wash