CASTRATION. 628 to prevent retraction, or to tie the artery before it is cut across. I have never found either practice necessary ; the latter retards the operation; the fingers of an assistant are generally as effec- tual as a ligature, and inflict less injury to the parts, and less pain to the patient. Should the chord slip, there can be but little difficulty in pulling it down again by means of a hook; at the worst, slight extension of the incision upwards may be necessary. The scrotum is to be sponged clean of coagula, and its bleeding vessels secured: they are often numerous. The incision is brought together by several points of suture, and cold cloths applied. In no operation is secondary bleeding more frequent, occurring within an hour or two after reaction has been established, and the patient begun to get warm in bed. The flow is always from the scrotal vessels in the lower part of the wound, and often profuse. The dressing must be partially undone, so as to expose the vessels, and permit of the applica- tion of ligature. On this account, it is well not to approximate the lower part of the wound in the first instance, but to fill the cavity with charpie or dry lint, retaining this until risk of haemorrhage has passed over, or better still to have the wound quite open for five or six hours, and then to bring the edges together. The upper part of the incision often heals by th^ first intention, but this is seldom effected in the lower; suppu- ration takes place, and the cavity fills up slowly by granulation. Indeed, attempts to procure primary union of the scrotal wound are scarcely to be recommended ; they are very seldom effectual; and should bleeding take place, the patient is either put to much pain, by removal of the stitches, and separation of the edges, or the blood is confined, accumulates in the cavity, and is infiltrated into the cellular tissue, producing much tumour, which termi- nates in extensive and unhealthy suppuration. Such retard- ation of the cure is avoided by open dressing of the lower part of the wound from the first. Not unfrequently infiltration of the cellular tissue over the chord takes place within a few days after the operation, ex- tending upwards under the superficial fascia of the abdomen, with discoloration of the integument, diffused doughy swell- ing, and much irritation of the system. Matter soon col- lects at one or more points. Early incision will check the advancement of this affection, followed by fomentation, and