147 AFFECTIONS OF THE ARTERIAL SYSTEM. limb is obliterated, and that suddenly, without previous dilata- tion of the anastomoses. Cases are on record, in which the abdominal aorta has been completely obstructed by a natural process, without much impeding the inferior circulation; and in one remarkable instance of this description, the inconvenience was so slight, that the disease was not suspected during the life of the patient, the lower limbs retaining their usual size and activity. In plethoric habits it may sometimes be prudent to abstract blood, even more than once, previously to the operation. When the ligature is placed immediately below a collateral branch of considerable size, a bloody coagulum is not formed, though adhesion may occur ; but if the excited action should extend to the collateral branch, and its canal become thereby obliterated, a coagulum is speedily deposited. In consequence of the enlargement of the anastomosing branches, and the in- creasing circulation in them, pulsation generally returns in the tumour, to a slight degree, some days after the operation. This, however, is by no means a sign that the operation has been ineffectual; for the renewed pulsation almost always disappears in the course of a very short time. In one instance only have I found it assume a more permanent and troublesome aspect; in that case, it recurred about ten months after the performance of the operation, but speedily disappeared under the careful use of a compress and bandage. On account of the aneurismal diathesis, it occasionally hap- pens, that after the cure of one aneurism, another appears in a different situation ; in two instances, I operated on both thighs, at a considerable interval, successively and successfully, for po- pliteal aneurism, in the same patients. When the tumour is so situated as not to admit of the appli- cation of a ligature between it and the heart, it has been pro- posed to place the ligature on the distal side of the aneurism, upon the supposition that coagulation will occur within the sac in this case as after the common operation. The practice has been made trial of, but its expediency appears very doubtful; neither has the success attendant upon it been such as is gene- rally supposed : the post mortem examinations have been very unsatisfactory in some of the cases. The application, indeed, L 2