STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 581 Stricture and spasmodic action ; but, as already hinted, it would perhaps be well that this latter term, applied to urethral stric- ture were forgotten, instead of remaining a convenient excuse for want of knowledge or dexterity. Spasms of canals and cavities, unusual membranes, adhesions, sacs, and cysts, are too often met with in the practice of surgery, and are said to pre- vent the practitioner from accomplishing the objects of his operations, so as to put the patient to a great deal of unneces- sary suffering, and even endanger his life. The old writers supposed that obstruction of the urethra arose from growths, warts, caruncles, or carnosities in the passage; and even in the present day such causes would sometimes appear to be more accredited than they ought; small excrescences do sometimes form on the membrane, though very i-arely. The true stricture is the result of inflammatory action in the part: at first possibly serous effusion takes place beneath the membrane, and elevates it into an oedematous swelling, which, according to its extent, obstructs the canal; then lymph is de- posited both beneath the membrane and external to it, becomes organised, and forms a permanent and more unyielding obstruc I tion. Strictures are of various kinds. The bridle stricture is rarely met with; a membranous band of organised lymph is said to traverse the canal, and, according to the thickness of this ! membrane, the flow of urine is more or less impeded; in the ^ majority of cases the morbid formation is thin and delicate, but still sufficient to scatter and diminish the stream. When a I soft bougie is introduced, it is resisted by the stricture, and on I examining the instrument when withdrawn, the transverse and central impression on its point marks the existence of the bridle. , The urethra is sometimes narrowed by a circular membran- i ous ring projecting into its canal, composed of swollen mucous membrane with subjacent effusion, and presenting the appear- ; ance of a thread having been tied round the passage. Other I strictures occupy a considerable portion of the urethra, from a I quarter of an inch to two inches or more; differing from the [ preceding only in the effusion and membranous swelling being I more extensive. Others are irregular, the contraction being I not uniform at the narrowed point, and sometimes only one I side of the canal is affected. Some ai’e very firm and gristly, p p 3