281 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. easily effected. And it is wisely so arranged, for thus in the recklessness of childhood and youth, severe blows on the cranium, which are then of so frequent occurrence, are seldom attended or followed with danger ; whilst the aged are taught by experi- ence to avoid the unfortunate consequences so apt to result from even a slight blow on the then brittle cranium, by cautiously preserving themselves from exposure to violence. Solutions of continuity in the cranium, caused by external force, are either attended with depression or not. Fissures, mere capillary rents in the bone, may take place at the part of the cranium which is struck, or on the side opposite to that to which the force is applied. They will be found either short and limited by sutures, or extending in different directions through several sutures, as from the vertex to the base of the skull, and terminating perhaps in the foramen magnum. Fissures in the upper part of the cranium are of themselves attended with com- paratively little danger; they produce of themselves no claim to attention, and really require none. But the force which gave rise to the injury of the bone may have disturbed the internal parts; and though the patient may have recovered from the first shock and the immediate effects of the violence, severe and dangerous consequences often result, and at a late period from the infliction of the injury. Fractures of the base of the skull are the I’esult of great force applied to the lateral parts of the head, to the vertex, or to the base itself through the spinal column. A blow inflicted by an obtuse body on the top of the head, whilst it is at rest and fixed — by producing expansion of the lateral parietes, and forcing the base down upon the upper part of the spinal column — may have the effect of breaking up the connections of the bones at the base, which is the weakest part of the cranium, and splintering them to a greater or less extent. Again, if a person falls from a height, he perhaps alights on some part of his trunk, as the buttocks, and this coming to a state of rest, whilst the head is still in projectile motion, the spinal column is driven towards the cavity of the cranium, and the same effects are thereby produced as in the preceding instance. Or the patient alights on his head, and the base of the cranium is then impinged upon by the weight of the whole trunk, as