VESICO-VAGINAL FISTULA. 664 False communication betwixt the vagina and bladder, termed Vesico-vaginal Jistula, is usually the result of mismanagement during parturition. Tlie bladder has been allowed to become over-distended, and in this state to be pressed upon and bruised by the child’s head ; or it may have been compressed and bruised by instruments employed in tedious delivery. The consequence is inflammation, violent, and followed by sloughing. On the separation of the sloughs, the urine escapes, perhaps six or eight days after delivery; or the anterior surface of the vagina, and the coats of the posterior and lower part of the bladder, have been lacerated by the imprudent use of the crotchet, or some such crooked and awkward tool; then the escape of urine is immediate. The unnatural flow continues, diminishing after a time, and if the opening be at first not large, and have gradually contracted, ultimately it may escape in but small quantities, at least during the recumbent posture. Of course, the size and site of the opening are very various. I have been consulted in some dreadful cases, incurable and loathsome — the consequence of most culpable neglect and ignorant rudeness on the part of the accoucheur ; —the bladder, without any part of its posterior fundus, has been rent so as to admit the fingers; the rectum also torn extensively—in some, merely a shred of the sphincter re- maining ; faeces and urine constantly mixing in one vast offensive cavity. But in general the opening is in the neck of the bladder immediately behind the commencement of the urethra, and nearly in the mesial line; sometimes it is considerably further back. It can be felt by the finger, and is readily brought into view by means of a proper speculum, a copper spatula being at the same time used to prevent the folds of the vagina from in- terrupting the view; the speculum opened 4ay handles attached to the blades, and prevented from shutting by a serrated semi- circular plate interposed, is the most convenient and suitable. Attempts have been made to close the aperture, by paring the edges, and then inserting sutures; but this is a proceeding both difficult in execution and not likely to prove successful; the thinness of the parts, the presence of a secreting surface on each side, and the oozing of acrid urine betwixt the edges, all militate strongly against adhesion. No benefit can be expected from any treatment, unless the opening be of no great size, and in