AFFECTIONS OF THE ARTERIAL SYSTEM. 136 &c. Carrying weights on the head can only be applicable in certain cases. The shoulders, in some instances, ought to be kept back by means of a light back-board; and in aggravated cases the weight of the shoulders, and sometimes also of the head, must be taken off the spine by a light and well-contrived appa- ratus. Sea-bathing, good air, out-of-door exercise, and atten- tion to diet, are of material importance. Frequently advan- tage will result from the patient’s sleeping on a hard mattress ; and, in bad cases, from lying down, when tired, on an inclined plane. In great softening, it will be necessary to confine the patient entirely to the recumbent position, and to support the head and shoulders by a light and firm machine. The causes, symptoms, appearances, and treatment of caries of the spine, in its different regions, with or without curvature, will be afterwards considered. Of Inflammatory and other Affections of the Arterial System. During inflammation of arteries, the actions of the vessels are accelerated and attended with pain ; the internal coat is found to be of a red colour, from increase of its vascularity, and not from its being merely tinged with the colouring part of the blood; or it is of a yellowish hue and rough, from the deposition of lymph on its surface, whilst the external coat is thickened by the infiltration of serum and lymph. When blood-vessels are inflamed from mechanical irritation, lymph is secreted on their internal coat, becomes organised, and obliterates their calibre ; if deficient in nervous influence and circulating fluid at a parti- cular point, there ulceration of their coats occurs; if violently injured or completely isolated, their coats mortify; and these circumstances must all be calculated on in the surgical treatment of arteries. A universal inflammatory state of the arterial coats is said to have existed, and its symptoms have been minutely detailed ; but its occurrence seems to be extremely rare, and the treatment is medical. Inflammation is supposed to precede degeneration of the arterial coats. As a person advances in life the arteries lose elasticity, and the heart its balance with them ; either the one