AMPUTATION OF THE FOREARM. 775 and leaving the distal. The parts so left can be of no use, they have no support, and the muscles cannot act upon them; they must prove an incumbrance, and as such will either form the subject of a second amputation, or remain a proof of the un- successful result of the first. Amputation in \he forearm maybe necessary at various points, on account of accident or disease, but should never be resorted to, in either case, so long as part of the hand can be saved. The preservation of even a small portion of this useful member, even of one finger or a part of one, is of great importance to the pa- tient. When, however, this is hopeless, all must be remo'^ed; and, if the wrist be sound, amputation may be performed at that joint. Hitherto, no mention has been made of the temporary suppression of bleeding, for in the amputations detailed there is scarcely ever any necessity for adopting such measures; but in those of the forearm and arm, a steady assistant must be placed ready to compress the humeral artery as soon as the incisions are commenced ; in the case of the forearm, the pressure is made on the lower portion of the artery ; in the arm, the point of pressure will necessarily depend on the point of removal. The patient may be either seated or recumbent. One assistant compresses, ano- ther steadies the limb in the supine position. The surgeon holds the hand in his left, standing on the inside of the right limb, and on the outside of the left. Suppose the right wrist is to be operated on, — the end of the ulna is felt or, and at that point the knife is entered, and drawn across the wrist on its dorsal aspect in a semilunar direction, the convexity of the curve of course pointing towards the fingers. The joint is opened by retracting and dissecting back the flap so formed; the knife is then passed behind the scaphoid and lunar bones, which are ex- posed and turned out by division of the ligaments, and by rapid and gentle sawing motion downwards and forwards, a flap of sufficient size is then formed on the palmar aspect. The dorsum of the hand may be so diseased or injured as not to afford suffi- ciency of sound parts for a posterior flap; in such circumstances the anterior must be made proportionally large, that it may alone cover the ends of the bones. After suppression of the bleeding, the flaps are approximated by one or two points of suture, 3 D 4