372 DISEASE OF THE ANTRUM. hEemorrliage, however violent, is completely commanded. The posterior plug is removed on the second or third day by pulling the oral extremity of the thread, and, if need be, by pressing through the nostril with a strong probe. Plugging may be required in epistaxis from other causes, when other means, as cold applied to the surface of the body, and astringent injections to the part, have failed. The latter remedy is not much to be depended upon. The operation for polypus may be repeated when the parts have recovered, and the pain and discharge ceased. Ere then the patient again finds himself unable to propel air easily through the nostril, and, on examination, greyish, shining tu- mours are again visible. The same process of extraction is repeated until all are eradicated. Escharotics may be then applied with some advantage, but must be used with caution, and not of too active a nature: nitrate of silver and the red oxide of mercury are those commonly employed. But it is questionable whether these applications have any effect in pre- venting the future growth of the tumours. The malignant form of the disease, even in a very early stage, is unmanageable: the tumours, if removed, are speedily repro- duced, and the fatal termination may be accelerated by the interference. I have removed tumours from the antrum max- illare, and from the frontal sinus; but the parts became soon occupied by morbid growths of a more formidable character than the preceding: the membrane and bone appear to assume a dis- position to generate such, and the fungous protrusions cannot be kept down with escharotics, nor with the actual cautery: nor, after free removal with cutting instruments, have escharotics, however freely applied, any effect in counteracting the inherent disposition to the disease, and preventing its recurrence. The antrum, when filled with such tumours, is easily laid open. The cheek is divided perpendicularly from over the inferior orbitary foramen to the mouth, and the soft parts are dissected from off the bone. The cavity may then be exposed by means of a small trephine: but this instrument is scarcely ever required, the parietes being so softened as to yield easily to the knife: pliers or cutting forceps may be useful in enlarging the cavity. By the guidance of the finger, the attachments of