DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 103 the issue begins to dry up, to apply for a few hours a pledget of strong antimonial ointment. The employment of the bichloride of mercury, though a most efficient escharotic, appears not to be unattended with danger, as in many instances violent purging, with tenesmus and bloody stools, follow its application. When swelling exists without pain, considerable advantage may be derived from frictions and liniments of various kinds, with careful bandaging. No appli- cations can be of the least avail unless the joint be kept com- pletely at rest. When there is no pain in the joint, when swelling exists, with or without fluctuation, and there is every reason to believe that the extremities of the bones are not much diseased, a cure may be, in general, obtained by the employment of rest, support, and slight superficial excitement. A practice which has been extensively and rather indiscriminately pursued in diseases of joints and of other parts, in affections of synovial membrane, ulceration of cartilage, disease of bone, and even in cases of necrosis, is here detailed. It is useful in proper cases, very hurtful in others. The joint is well washed with soap and water, and afterwards rubbed with camphorated spirits of wine: it is then covered with an ointment spread on lint, and composed of equal parts of the unguentum hydrargyri cum camphora and the ceratum saponis — in the majority of cases the mercurial ointment would be better omitted — strips of lead, soap, or adhesive plaster are then applied with a moderate degree of tightness round, from two or three inches below the joint to the same distance above it: these are covered with soap-plaster spread on thick leather, and the whole is “feui-rounded with a bandage, which extends from the extremity of the limb. The bandage should be put on as far as the joint, before the plasters are applied. The irritation produced on the surface tends to check the deep-seated action, whilst the compression excites the action of the absorbents to remove the effused fluids, and thus to reduce the swelling : by the joint being kept completely motionless, not the least salutary indication of the treatment, the cartilage and bones, if ulcerated, are placed in a condition tending much to expedite their restoration to a natural state. If they are diseased to such an extent that the process of H 4