OF HERNIA. 520 restlessness and intolerable anxiety supervene. The patient becomes worse and worse every hour; faeculent matter in large quantity is vomited or gulped up with great distress, and is commixed with bile, with vitiated mucous secretion from the stomach and bowels, and with whatever may have been recently swallowed; in fact, the peristaltic action of the alimentary canal above the strangulated part is inverted, and all the contents are ejected. Troublesome hiccough comes on, and this symptom is by many considered as a sure sign of gangrene having taken place; but it is often present when the bowels are quite free from tenderness or tendency to gangrene. The extremities grow coldish ; the pulse is unequal and fluttering, and with difficulty counted at the ankles. The countenance sinks, and assumes a leaden hue; the pain abates suddenly; the eyes are glassy ; the tumour becomes flaccid, and is often livid and emphy- sematous. Now, the bowel may recede, and faeculent evacuation take place, with some relief; but the patient, after lying some time insensible, expires. All this may occur, either within a few days after the occurrence of strangulation, or not till after the expira- tion of many days. The rapidity of the symptoms and the danger are influenced by the size of the tumour and the condition of its neck, and by the nature of its contents. In small recent herniae, the advance from bad to worse is usually very rapid, the aperture through which protrusion has taken place being small, and producing a great degree of constriction when distension and engorgement occur. When the neck of the tumour is large, and completely occupies the aperture previously to the strangu- lation, the progress of the symptoms is also rapid, for a similar reason; hut if the hernia be large and of long standing, and if the protruded parts are not bulky at the point of protrusion, the constriction is in general not very severe, and the distressing consequences advance more slowly. The symptoms ai’e not so violent in epiplocele as in enterocele. In many instances of the former, the intestinal discharges are never obstructed, though great irritation and inflammation may be induced by the stran- gulation. There is also less danger in entero-epiplocele than in enterocele, compression of the bowel being in the former instance diminished by the intervening omentum. It is scarcely necessary to observe, that, when the train of symp-