625 SARCOCELE. tumour, but softer, and often with puriform depots in its base. In this disease there is nothing malignant; it occurs in people of impaired or originally weak constitution, and is generally known as the scrofulous testicle. In the more simple swellings, the gland at some points retains its original texture, but the greater part has no tubulous ap- pearance, and seems to consist principally of lymphatic deposit, dense, pale, and equable. Such often accompany and are attributable to a diseased state of the urethra, — part of the canal being in an irritable and conti’acted state; and all efforts to discuss them usually prove fruitless, unless the urethra have been previously restoi’ed to a healthy condition. The sound- ness of this canal is therefore to be inquired into in the first instance, and if stricture, or irritability independent of con- traction, be discovered, the practice must be directed towards it. The urethra being sound, counter irritation is to be applied to the testicle; and the part should be suspended, though not in function altogether; walking exercise, and the friction which it occasions, must be avoided as much as possible. A gum and mercurial plaster protects the part, and induces a moderate irritation of the surface usually sufficient to dissipate the swell- ing slowly; if ineffectual, either repeated blistering, or the insertion of a seton under the integuments, may be had recourse to — from either or both much benefit is often derived. In obstinate cases the recumbent posture must be enjoined. In general, slight enlargement and induration of the epididymis remains. The scrophulous swelling often does not yield to the means for discussion, but advances to suppuration. The abscess is to be opened, and the unhealthy contents discharged; endeavours are then to be made to effect closure by granulation, and after that counter irritation may dissipate the tumour, or at least di- minish its size. If protrusion occur, as generally happens, it may be cut away; and by then keeping the granulations on a level with the integument, either by pressure or escharotics, at the same time attending to improvement of the general health, cicatrisation may be procured, though tedious: or escharotics may be used from tbe first, instead of the knife. For example, sprinkling the fungous surface occasionally with the acetate of s s