OF MORTIFICATION. 49 recourse to with marked advantage. In some cases it may- be employed, but with due caution, even after sphacelus to a slight extent has occurred. In grangrene, purging and bleeding must not be had recourse to but with the greatest circum- spection ; for it ought always to be remembered, that how- ever strongly they may be indicated, the time is not far distant when they will be totally inadmissible, and when the weakening effects of depletion will prove highly prejudicial, particularly in cases where the mischief is proceeding rapidly. The loss of blood is frequently beneficial in sloughing phage- dena, as is exemplified on the occurrence of spontaneous haemor- rhage in such cases. When a portion of a limb, throughout the greater part of its substance, is so injured that it evidently cannot recover, it ought to be removed instantly, and before the constitution has suffered. When gangi’ene follows inflammatory action, this is first to be moderated, and then the strength by all possible means supported. When only a portion of the soft parts of a limb is destroyed by mortification, and it is likely that the member may be saved and prove useful to the patient, measures should be adopted to hasten separation of the dead parts, and reparation of the breach in the living. After the separation of sloughs has commenced, the attention of the surgeon is chiefly to be directed towards the constitution; it must be supported and strengthened by nourishing food, wine, and tonics, or by stimulants, if necessary. Bark in substance, acids, and other supposed antiseptics, are of but little use. The local applications which have been employed are nume- rous ; poultices of all kinds, charcoal, carrot, and effervescing; various lotions to the surrounding parts, spirituous applications, such as several of the tinctures, liniment of turpentine, balsams, &c., with the view of correcting the foetor. But it is evident that such applications to a dead part can be productive of no effect; the only beneficial result that can be expected from such means is removal of the foetid smell, which can be effected, if need be, by sprinkling a solution of the chloride of soda on the body-linens and bed-clothes. Scarifications are sometimes used; E