DISEASES OF THE NOSE. 377 pain in the part was complained of. A large tumour formed on the septum, and completely filled the cavities; it was opened, and a great quantity of matter evacuated. The septum was destroyed by ulceration to a considerable extent, and a slight falling down of the middle of the nose followed. Such cases are of common occurrence. Independently of any vice in the constitution, ulceration of the nostrils may be induced by injury, and proceed until great ravages are effected, if the treatment be not properly conducted. A young gentleman, playing at ball, was struck accidentally on the nose with the flat part of his companion’s hand. Inflamma- tion took place, externally and internally, and the passage of air was obstructed; abscess formed, and the matter was evacuated spontaneously; extensive ulceration ensued; the cartilage and bone became affected, portions of them separated, and a bloody foetid sanies flowed from the nostrils. All the cartilaginous, and part of the bony septum were destroyed; the morbid action ceased after having continued for a long time; but the organ was curtailed, sunk on the face, and altogether much deformed. In this case I first proposed, and some time afterwards performed for the first time, the operation for the formation of a new columna nasi from the lip. The alae, as well as the septum, may suffer from external injury, indeed the whole cartilaginous part of the nose may be destroyed. Incited action must be subdued by abstraction of blood from the external parts, or from the Schneiderian membrane, leeches being applied in sufficient numbers, and repeated. Should suppuration not be prevented, the abscess, particularly when internal, must be early opened; the surgeon is, perhaps, some- what to blame, if the patient, having heen under his care from the first, sustains any deformity. If abscess has formed on both sides of the septum, each must be opened freely; after- wards hot fomentations are to be used, and the cavity should be frequently cleansed by the injection of a bland and tepid fluid. Intractable ulceration of the nostrils, is often induced by trifling irritations or injuries in constitutions, either originally unsound, or rendered so by imprudent conduct; slight blows on