OSTEOSARCOMA OF THE JAW. 423 and by a few motions of this instrument a notch is made of no great depth; a pair of strong cutting pliers are placed in the track, and by them division of the bone is accomplished with equal neatness, and much more rapidly than if the use of the saw had been continued. The pliers should be strong in every point, and the handles long, to afford the advantage of a power- ful lever. In edentulous subjects, as the one alluded to above, there is no necessity for using the saw at all: the bone is at once and easily cut by the forceps. The chain saw has been recommended for performing the section of the bone, but I have not yet seen one to be depended on; it is not only slow, but uncertain, in its operation. The incisions may be made otherwise. The cheek may be divided by passing through it a long narrow bistoury, close to the anterior edge of the masseter muscle, and carrying the instrument forwards and throuji-h at the angle of the mouth. From each extremity of this incision another is made down- wards, the anterior one inclining forwards, the other backwards. By reflection of the flap thus formed, the bone is exposed moi'e easily, rapidly, and perfectly, than by the former mode of incision. The objection to this mode of procedure is the de- formity occasioned by the scars, though, if care is taken in putting the edges together, this is very slight indeed, and not remarkable. In either method, no artery, except the facial, requires to be secured by ligature. After division of the bone, the attachments of the tumour, which may not have been separated previously, are cut with the bistoury, the cavity is filled lightly with charpie, and the incisions are carefully and neatly put together, and retained by points of interrupted and twisted suture; the latter form of suture being adopted at those points where accurate coaptation is most important. The symphysis of the lower jaw has been removed, and its extirpation may again be rendered necessary, either on account of tumour commencing in its internal structure, or from disease of the sockets extending deeply and approaching the base. I removed it in a case of malignant disease, by which, and by the applications used as remedies, great ravages had been made on the under lip; the gums and alveoli were involved, as also the E E 4