345 DISEASES OF THE EYE. dent to open the cornea, and allow a free exit for the matter, in order to prevent the healthy eye from becoming affected. In the staphyloma of the sclerotic coat, when the eye, as it were, is affected by a sort of chronic dropsy, (and this disease is met with at various periods of life,) the tension and bulk of the organ may be diminished by occasional puncture. The opening may be kept pervious by the introduction of a conical probe from time to time. I have more than once introduced a silk thread through the most dependent and prominent part of the globe with good effect. The organ ultimately shrinks. Amaurosis implies an impairment of vision more or less com- plete, arising from disease in the brain, in the optic nerve, or in the retina, whether consisting of change or destruction of struc- ture, or derangement of function. Vision may be diminished or lost by organic disease in the coats or humours of the eye, or by morbid formations in the orbit; but to such the term Amau- rosis does not strictly apply. But, after establishment of the disease, other textures of the eye may, and often do, become affected. Usually one eye at first is amaurotic; but the other soon participates, and ultimately vision is impaired or entirely lost in both. The disease may occur idiopathically, or be symptomatic of other affections. The general symptoms of amaurosis are the following. Head- ach is felt for some time, either constant, or, as is most com- monly the case, occasional, and most severe in the forehead : in many cases the pain is at times most excruciating. The eyesight gradually becomes weak; distant objects are unusually obscure, or not at all observed; and those which are near cannot be accurately discerned. For a short time vision may seem to be restored, but soon it diminishes more and more, all objects seem to be enshrouded in a mist, at first thin and shadowy, but gra- dually becoming opaque and impenetrable; or a feeling is com- municated of dark network obstructing the view. Unnatural impressions are made on the retina; flashes of strong light, or luminous sparks, appear to dart across the eyes; darkened spots are seen where none exist; gnats, flies, or other minute bodies, various in colour and brilliancy, seem to flutter before the face; or a single dark speck intercepts the vision. Usually the