756 SPRAIN. The longer the limb is disused, the more perfect and rapid is the recovery, provided the rest of the cure be properly con- ducted. In general nothing more than what has been stated is required. But if the limb be moved, or stimulated in any way, early, then necessity will arise for antiphlogistic measures —perhaps venesection, certainly copious and repeated abstrac- tion of blood by leeches, accompanied with fomentations, and the internal exhibition of antimonials, purgatives, &c. When such is the case the cure is tedious, the joint long remains swelled and stiff, the patient is lame and incapable of exertion. Leeching or puncturing at an early period, with the view of allowing extravasated blood to escape, is useless and hurtful. The effused and coagulated blood cannot be evacuated, and sup- puration, followed by destruction of the cellular tissue, has often been the consequence of such ill-advised proceedings. Friction with stimulating liniments, or even simple friction, at an early period, is also hurtful, as tending to excite vascular action, and to convert simple swelling into inflammatory. The application of cold at any period is of little use, and ought certainly to be avoided immediately after the injury, as adding to the sufferings of the patient, and interfering with the natural processes which have commenced for the reparation of that injury. In limbs that have remained stiff after severe and mismanaged sprain, the dashing of water, either cold or tepid, has been strongly recommended. The practice is not ineffectual; the vessels of the surface are excited, perhaps as by other friction, and perhaps by the reaction which follows the chill. But the limb is apt to become rheumatic; and, on this account, the state of matters will not be improved by this proceeding, unless it be resorted to with proper precautions. In severe sprains there is reason to think that sometimes even the tendons yield a little — that many of the fibres give way, and that thus the tendon is thinned and elongated. Such injury happens often in horses, in what is called breaking down. In them the tendon is occasionally snapped entirely through, and the ends widely separated. The same occurs in the human subject. Separation of the muscular fibres, however, is rare; laceration of the tendon itself, or separation of the tendon from the muscle, is more common. The yielding of the broad ten-