OF HERNIA. 524 Emetics, in full or nauseating doses, have been supposed to be indicated in this affection as well as in ileus; but there is in general enough of sickness and vomiting without them, and it is often difficult enough to allay the vomiting even after removal of the obstruction. The warm bath is greatly trusted in by some, and in many cases it proves a valuable and useful auxiliary to the taxis. It acts beneficially by inducing general relaxation, or even syncope; during which, whilst all resistance of the compressing powers upon the contents is suspended, pressure on the tumour can be employed to good advantage. By steady perseverance, whilst the patient is in the bath, a great majority of strangulated herniae may be reduced. But neither the general nor the local appli- cation of heat, or any other known means, save the edge of the knife, can relax tendinous apertures farther than can be effected by attention to position. Irrecoverable and most precious time may be wasted in preparing the bath ; and for this reason such means should never be resorted to, unless they can be commanded at the shortest notice. Fomentation can do no good. The apertures can be neither relaxed by heat, nor contracted by astringent applications. By the local application of heat, the size of the parts composing the hernia will be augmented, the flatus being rarified, and the effu- sion and engorgement encouraged. The cold bath, and the dashing of cold water on the surface, near the seat of the disease, have been tried in some rare cases with most marked success; but this is a practice not generally to be relied on. It can act only bj^ producing sudden and powerful contraction of the coverings, and uniform pressure thereby on the contents. It is, perhaps, only applicable to scrotal hernia. Cold has been applied to the tumour, and even ice, so as to pi’oduce frost-bite, but little faith can be placed in such; the practice becomes dangerous after inflammation has existed for some time, the application diminishing the weakened powers of the parts, and accelerating gangrene. Opium has been given by the mouth, and tobacco by the lower extremity of the alimentary canal; the former may some- times prove advantageous, but the latter had better be dis- pensed with. The tobacco is thrown up either as an enema,