DISEASES OF THE CONTENTS OF THE ORBIT. 364 of life, and may, by slow and gradual increase, cause the eyeball to protrude and disturb its functions; or their growth is rapid, and accompanied with great suffering. In some cases, the eye is made to protrude to a great degree, and by the extension of the optic nerve vision is impaired; in others, the patient is totally blind at the commencement of the disease. Yet the eye may be displaced to no small extent without amaurosis following. The optic nerve appears to bear a good deal of extension without disturbance of its functions. The majority of tumours in this situation are of rapid growth, their structure is soft and medul- lary, they sooner or later furnish a fungus, and, though removed at an early period, are generally reproduced. The exophthalmos is often the first indication of such a growth, and it is sometimes greater in the early part of the disease than afterwards, when the fascia passing down from the edge of the orbit has given way. The malignant tumours are most fi’equently met with in childhood, though morbid growths of a bad kind form in the eyeball at different periods of life. They often follow the in- fliction of a blow or wound. The patient’s sight speedily de- clines, without any known cause; there is pain in the forehead, temple, and eyeball; the ball protrudes, perhaps slightly, and at first is not otherwise changed; but on careful examination a dimness can be perceived deep in the eye. The opaque body approaches the pupil and fills it, and may in this state be mis- taken for disease of the crystalline lens; but the tumour soon pushes forward the iris, and fills the anterior chamber. It has an irregular surface covered with flocculi. Bloodvessels are ob- served ramifying on it, and by this it is distinguished from cataract, should the accompanying symptoms not have previously convinced the surgeon of the nature of the disease. If not in- terfered with, the cornea ulcerates, a fungus appears, often grows with great rapidity, and may either furnish not a drop of blood, or bleed profusely. The eyelids are oedematous and permeated by large venous branches. Abscesses form around; the lym- phatics of the neck are involved; and the patient succumbs. The original tumour may possess the usual structure of medul- lary sarcoma, may be of a melanotic nature, or may contain a mixture of both; or it is of harder consistence, containing cells filled with bloody, glairy, or other fluid. The whole coats of