75;^ LUXATION OF THE ANKLE. In this last form of accident, sudden, forcible, and complete flexion of the limb is said to produce immediate reduction. In dislocation outwards or inwards, the muscles are to be relaxed by raising the heel, extending the limb, flexing the thigh, and then forcing the bone to its proper site by manipulation. In the dislocation upwards with rupture, the limb is to be kept ex- tended and raised, and the bone is brought as nearly into its place as possible by bandaging. When a peculiar laxity of the apparatus about the joint exists, whether as a cause of luxation or not, the support of a well-made knee-cap is required. As formerly stated, dislocation of the Ankle cannot take place inwards or outwards, without fracture of the end of the tibia or of the fibula, either above the articulation, or where they pro- ject by the sides of the astragulus for the greater security and strength of the joint. Subluxation, however, or sprain, may occur without injury of the bones: in this accident, should the parts not have spontaneously resumed their original situation, no difficulty is experienced in putting them to rights; simple manipulation is sufficient. Occasionally, the foot is luxated forwards, by force applied either to the heel or to the fore part of the leg whilst the limb is fixed. The heel is shortened, the foot elongated; indeed, the marks of the injury are so distinct, that comparison of the limbs is sufficient for diagnosis. Lux- ation may also take place backwards; and in this case the heel is elongated and the foot shortened. In these accidents it is not unfrequently found that one or other maleolus has given way, or that the lower end of the tibia is split. Reduction is some- times difficult. Extension is to be made by grasping the foot and pulling whilst the limb is fixed, at the same time making pressure either backwards or forwards, as may be required. To retain the bones in their proper situations, it is always ne- cessary, at least prudent, to apply a pasteboard or leathern splint to each side of the limb, particularly when fracture of the malleoli is conjoined. Displacement of the Bones of the Tarsus may result from great force; for example, when the foot is squeezed under a heavy weight, one or more bones may escape from their connections,