376 DISEASES OF THE NOSE. by compression behind the angle of the jaw during the incisions, and not more than ^iii of blood were lost. The tumour, when cut into, presented a homogeneous and fibrous appearance; at one or two points, softening had begun, and a small quantity of pus had been deposited. The external wound healed by the first intention, and the -internal cavity granulated kindly. The patient remains perfectly free of disease, and bears little mark of so serious a disease or of so severe an operation. Within the last four or five years I have repeated the operation for this disease very often, and with uniform success. The cases are recorded in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions^ vol. xx., in the Lancet, and Practical Surgery, to which the reader is referred for further information on the subject. One of the tumours had attained an enormous size, and weighed nearly four pounds. Of Inflammation, Abscess and Ulceration of the Nose, and Ca- vities connected with it. — Inflammation may be excited in the nose by external injury, as a bruise, or fracture, or displacement of the bones. The acute symptoms are swelling and discolora- tion of the integuments, turgescence of the Schneiderian mem- brane, which covers the septum narium and the turbinated bones, and consequent obstruction to the passage of air. Unless active measures are pursued, abscess follows, with great swelling and obstruction ; and extensive loss of substance, with deformity, may ensue. Unless the acute symptoms, the short duration of them, and the rapid supervention of tumour be considered, the swelling may be mistaken for polypus. The septum suffers more than other parts of the nose, from the concussion produced by a blow, and is in general more seri- ously affected by the morbid action which is induced. Matter is effused beneath the membrane, in one or both sides, usually in both, and tumours are thereby formed, which project into the cavities of the nostrils; when attentively examined, fluctuation is felt, and, if the affection has existed for a considerable time, the abscesses are found to communicate with each other, the septum having been absorbed or necrosed at one or more points. An individual received a severe blow over the extremity of the ossa nasi, and a slight wound was produced. The breathing soon became obstructed, by swelling in the nostrils, and great