323 DISEASES OF THE EYE. Y 2 but, if this has been at all severe or protracted, distension of the vessels to a considerable degree continues, and the ophthalmia becomes chronic. This change from acute to chronic takes place at various periods of the affection, according to the inten- sity of the action, the nature of the cause, and the irritability of the constitution. And again, the second stage of ophthalmia may revert to the first, acute inflammation being rekindled by fresh irritation of the organ. Purulent Ophthalmia most frequently occurs in warm climates, and is attended from the first with profuse puriform discharge from the conjunctiva. In the natural state of the organ, the conjunctival discharge is pellucid, and so small in quantity as to be indiscernible; but in this disease it possesses all the ex- ternal characters of pus, and is secreted in large quantity. The affection commences generally in the under eyelid, with a feel- ing as if sand or foreign bodies were lodged in the eye. The parts swell very much, and the eyelids become more or less in- verted, in consequence of serous effusion into their cellular texture. Frequently the patient experiences an exacerbation of the complaint about three or four hours after each meal. Though the disease usually commences in the conjunctival lining of the eyelids, the external coverings of the ball are often secondarily affected. In some cases the bulb becomes the seat of lancinating pains; its coats give way; the humours are discharged; and the eye sinks, with immediate relief to the patient from the more urgent symptoms, but at the same time with irreparable loss of vision. In other instances the effects are less injurious to the structure of the organ, but equally so to the sense of vision: the cornea becomes dull, and ultimately opaque, or ulcerates, or partially sloughs; the swollen conjunctival sur- face of the lids is covered with granulations, and secretes a copious puriform discharge, with or without eversion, according to the degree of swelling. At first the lids are more or less in- verted, on account of oedematous swelling of the cellular tissue: in the latter stages they are everted by thickening and tur- gescence of the coniunctiva. This membrane is at first villous and of a dull red colour, relaxed, and its vessels enlarged and loaded; afterwards it becomes hard, almost warty, and con-