758 BRUISE. been stealing. In ruptui’e without breach of surface, the torn bloodvessels pour out their contents into the cellular tissue to a considerable extent, and if a proper mode of cure be not adopted immediately, inflammation quickly supervenes; and this is apt to terminate very unfavourably in the infiltrated tissue. The tendon is united by the deposition of new matter, and the conversion of this into substance resembling the original structure from the vessels of which the deposit has taken place. The quantity of new formation necessarily depends on the ex- tent of laceration and the space thei’eby occasioned. That such reparation of tendon does take place, and that to a very great extent occasionally, is placed beyond all doubt by the results of veterinary practice. “ Knuckling over ” in horses is occasioned by contraction of the flexor tendon ; the heel does not reach the ground, and in order to effect this the tendon has been in many instances completely divided. The cut ends immediately sepa- rate, to the extent of some inches, and after a time this large space is filled up by a substance similar to tendon, so similar, indeed, that on post mortem examination, some years afterwards, a careless observer could scarcely distinguish any difference in the appearance of the various portions of the tendon. The same is observed after the operations for deformity of the foot in the human subject. The treatment of lacerated tendon consists in placing the parts so as to relax the muscles whose tendons have suffered. In rupture of the tendo Achillis, the knee should be bent and the foot extended, relaxing the muscle and approximating the separated ends. This is readily and conveniently affected by placing a slipper on the foot, and attaching to its heel a firm band, which is then fastened to a ring or strap placed on the thigh. This apparatus must be worn for six or eight weeks. Afterwards a high-heeled shoe should be used for some time; or if the union be still weak and imperfect, a splint may be placed on the fore part, resting on the dorsum of the foot and the fore part of the leg. Bruise. — The effects of bruises or contusions are, separation of the cellular connexions, rupture of bloodvessels, and effusion of their contents into the cells; a cavity, often large, is thus