39 OF SUPPURATION. of gaseous fluid. The discharge of blood probably arises from the usual support being taken away from the vessels ramifying on the surface of the cavity, in the same way that blood is effused into the cavity of the abdomen, in consequence of the too rapid evacuation of the serum in ascites. Suppuration, more especially when extensive and long con- tinued, is attended with a peculiar species of fever, termed Hec- tic. This fever is the remote consequence of local injury, or disease, whereas symptomatic inflammatory fever is the imme- diate one. The incessant and long-continued addition of pus to the blood may be the cause of hectic fever. In cases of pulmonary consumption, pus globules are almost uniformly de- tected in the blood. This fact has been noticed by Dr. Davy and Mr. Gulliver. The pus is probably carried along the ca- pillaries, where it is always forming in chronic abscesses: in short, all the pus formed is not separated from the blood. Hectic probably arises from the never-ceasing addition of a little pus to the blood, inflammatory fever from the sudden addition of a large quantity. In long-continued disease, particularly internal, the hectic occasionally occurs before the existence of suppuration is indicated; and it does not always supervene upon suppura- tion, even though extensive. Hectic has been supposed to arise from the absorption of pus ; but pus cannot well be ab- sorbed without disintegration of its particles (and then it would be no longer pus), for their diameter exceeds that of the more minute blood-vessels and absorbents. Abscesses occasionally disappear, without this event being followed by any unpleasant symptom. Hectic fever is most apt to arise in constitutions originally weak; and usually either from some incurable disease of a vital organ, or from extensive affection of a part not essential to life; but it may also be induced without any local assignable cause. The general symptoms are those of a low and gradual fever, attended with great debility; the pulse is frequent, unequal, small, and sharp ; the general surface is pale ; there is flushing of the face, hands, and feet; the skin, at one period, is cold and clammy, sometimes dry and rough — at another, it is bathed in profuse perspiration, especially towards evening ; chills alternate with flushing ; the appetite is much impaired; diarrhoea super- D 4