320 DISEASES OF THE EYE. a way as to obviate any bad consequences which may be threat- ened. The great importance of the organ, and the danger to its structure and functions which is likely to occur from any other termination of the affection than resolution, must never be lost sight of. We shall first treat of inflammation of the more external parts of the ball, an affection generally less dangerous than in- flammation of the interior, but at tbe same time of more frequent occurrence, and produced by slighter causes. Inflammation of the conjunctiva occurs in many individuals during very warm and sunny weather. At such a period, the eye is often excited by reflection of intense light from the sur- face of the earth; and is irritated by sudden exposure to a degree of light to which it has not been previously accustomed. Different directions of the sun’s rays, and different kinds of light, seem to exert different influences on the organ. The rays are most hurtful when they do not fall in a perpendicular direction on the eye, but slopingly or horizontally. Strong light from the moon, and light reflected from scarlet, are also particularly injurious. Undue exertion of the eye weakens it, and renders it prone to become inflamed. Tbe eyes of infants are often violently inflamed, in consequence of imprudent ex- posure to light before they have been gradually accustomed to its stimulus. Again, inflammation is caused by imprudent ex- posure of the eye directly to cold, or by exposure of other parts causing suppression of their discharges, whether natural or not. Inflammation of the conjunctiva often follows suppres- sion, however occasioned, of the menstrual or haemorrhoidal discharges, as also suppression of discharges from the urethra, from the Schneiderian membrane, or from behind the ears. Irritations in the neighbouring parts, as in tbe mouth during dentition, may also excite the disease. Immediate irritations, however, are the most frequent cause, as the lodgment of ex- traneous bodies on the surface of the organ — particles of sand, dust, snuff, pepper, or gunpowder, minute insects, loose or inverted eyelashes. By the presence of such substances, the eye is often kept in a very irritated state for a long period. The most violent conjunctival inflammation is sometimes produced by contact of gonorrhoeal matter through carelessness. Occasionally