AND DISEASES THENCE ARISING. 123 This is seen at various points through the sort of cortical de- posit of new bone. The new bone, in its turn, secretes a texture similar to itself, whereby the deposit becomes more and more extended, and not unfrequently affords an almost complete en- casement to the dead portion, or sequestrum, as represented in the cut on the right-hand side of the page. In general bone dies irregularly, so that the sequestrum presents an uneven surface, and its margins are rough and serrated by numerous sharp pro- jections, as seen in the one taken from the tibia, represented on this page. From the appearance of the dead bone, it was imagined that after its separa- tion, portions of it were removed by absorption ; and this opinion was strengthened by the thin exfolia- tions of the external lamina being found perforated at several points by minute apertures, — worm-eaten, as it was called. Tliese cases of death of inner or medullary shell are irregularly separated, like any other slougli; the remaining living outer shell is enlarged by inflammatory action and deposit. But a dead portion of bone, detached from the surrounding parts, is in every respect an extraneous body, and is not, and cannot be, acted on by the absorbents, any more than a piece of metal, wood, or stone. Some have gone so far as to affirm that portions of foreign bodies, ligatures, &c. ai’e absorbed; but this opinion is altogether too absurd to require any contradiction; the knots of ligatures, like portions of glass, or other foreign substance, become surrounded with a dense cyst, and often remain in the body for a long time; so do portions of dead bone separated by the process here de- scribed. A series of experiments were made by Mr. Gulliver, in order to put this question at rest, many of which I witnessed and assisted at, and several I also repeated. Setons of bone were inserted and worn for a long time ; thin plates of bone were confined on suppurating surfaces; pieces of bone were inserted in the medullary canal of various animals, and kept there for months, and in one instance for more than a year. These foreign bodies were weighed with the greatest care and accuracy before and after they were so exposed to the ab- sorbents, and were found unaltered in any respect. A paper,