DISEASES OF THE EYE. 311 time, cleaned, and replaced. When, by the continued use of styles gradually increased in size, the duct has been dilated to its full extent, and appears restored to a sound condition, the instrument may be withdrawn, and afterwards introduced only occasionally. The external aperture, which has become fistulous from the long presence of the foreign body, then begins to contract, and, on its completely closing, the tears continue to follow their usual course, and the disease is overcome. But sometimes a small fistulous aperture remains, and there appears to be a disposition towards a renewal of the affection ; in such a case, a small style, not exceeding a thin gold probe in dia- meter, should bf* introduced every evening, and retained for some hours: this causes little or no inconvenience to the patient, and ensures the permeability of the canal. Such is the method by which a permanent cure may often be obtained, and which, in my opinion, is preferable to the use of tubes. If these are to be employed, they should, as already mentioned, be nearly of equal calibre throughout; the external opening must not be allowed to close for a considerable time after the introduction of the instrument; and the tube must be kept pervious for some time by a style introduced through it. But by these means, which are essential for the success of the practice, the main advantage arising from the use of a tube, viz., little irritation being produced at first, and the parts being allowed to close soon over it, are completely done away with. The practice of perforating the os unguis never can be re- quired ; it is cruel, unnecessary, and unsurgical. Sometimes the lachrymal passages are entirely destroyed. In such cases, it has been found that no great inconvenience arises from their obliteration, as the lachrymal gland ceases, in a great measure, to secrete fluid, and the conjunctival secretion, after having performed its office, evaporates from the surface. In truth, the lachrymal gland always enjoys long periods of repose, and is only called into active exercise of its functions occasion- ally, as the eye in its ordinary condition is sufficiently lubricated by secretion from its conjunctival covering. The treatment of fistula lachrymalis, as has been well re- X 4