255 AND THEIR CONSEQUENCES. by coagulating the discharge, which then more effectually covers and protects them. The application I’equires to be repeated every second or third day, as, by the frequent and necessary motions of the parts, the crust loosens and separates, leaving the surface exposed and irritable. At the same time the sore will contract very considerably under each successive crust. The lunar stone may also be applied in solution; or a solution of the bichloride of mercury in spirits or laudanum may be used, in the propor- tion of from four to six grains to the ounce, or stronger. The solution of the nitrate of mercury is sometimes employed with advantage. Fumigation of the throat with the red sulphuret of mercury has been extolled as a powerful means of checking the alternating sloughing and ulceration which often accompany the ulcers of these parts, but the propriety of its employment is doubtful; the system is thereby rapidly put under the influ- ence of the mineral, which, as already remarked, generally aggravates the violent disturbance under which the constitution labours. More permanent good may be expected from means taken to remedy the constitutional evils than from such violent remedies as are directed against the affected part, but which also produce a baneful effect on the system. In ulcers of the nostrils, with foetid discharge, snivelling, exfoliation of the inferior spongy bones, affections of the palate, &c. the nitrate of silver is also very efficacious; or the affected parts may be occasionally touched with a hair pencil, dipped in a liniment composed of lime-water, olive oil, and the golden ointment. They ought to be frequently washed with tepid water, and all sources of irritation must be removed. If the patient be in the habit of taking snuff, the practice must be abandoned, and the powder already impacted in the nostrils removed. If there be carious teeth or stumps in the upper jaw, the sores can scarcely ! be expected to heal till these be extracted, as constant irritation is kept up by them. When the affection proves obstinate, a i recourse to mercury is recommended by some writers ; but this will make bad worse. Sarsaparilla in these cases, with attention to diet and air, will always prove a better alterative than any form of mercury. It may be combined, according to circum- stances, with the nitric or nitro-muriatic acids, or with the hy- driodate of potass, in which many practical men have great faith.