LIGATURE OF THE CAROTID. 477 Ligature of the common Carotid may be required for the cure of aneurism at the angle of the jaw; or on account of hemor- rhage from deep wounds in the same situation, when, from any circumstances, the divided extremities of the vessels cannot be secured. A deep incision at the angle of the jaw, towards the base of the cranium, not only divides important branches of the carotid, but may also wound the vertebral arteries where they project in a tortuous fashion, betwixt the dentata and atlas, or betwixt the latter bone and the occiput. Ligature of the common carotid has been had recourse to, in order to stop bleeding from the mouth, nostrils, and other parts connected with the face, — for the cure of large or deep-seated aneurism by anastomosis, — and as a preliminary step to the re- moval of large and firmly attached morbid growths of the face or neck. This last proceeding, as already remarked, does not in any way enhance the patient’s safety, whilst it adds much to his suffering. The carotid has also been tied for the cure of aneurism at the root of the neck, when it was impossible to place a ligature be- twixt the tumour and the heart. My opinion regarding this practice I have given formerly, when treating of aneurism in general. For aneurism at the angle of the jaw, the point of deligation must in a great measure depend on the size of the tumour. The artery is most conveniently reached where it is crossed by the omohyoideus; and, when deligation at this point is both practi- cable and eligible, the vessel is exposed at the upper edge of the muscle. But circumstances may require the ligature to be placed much lower. The patient is placed, either sitting or lying, with the head thrown back, and turned slightly to the side opposite the tumour. An incision is made in the upper triangular space of the neck, and in the course of the vessel, midway betwixt the sterno-mas- toid muscle and the muscles covering the forepart of the larynx. Its extent depends on the thickness of the neck —on the mus- cular development and quantity of fatty matter, whether the neck be long or short. From two to three inches will in general afford sufficient space. The first sweep of the scalpel penetrates the skin, platysma myoides, and cellular tissue. The cervical