OF INFLAMMATION OF VEINS. 156 an elastic, soft feel, except in the situation of the valves, ivhere they are more hard and incompressible : occasionally the tortuous ■windings form a bluish tumour of considerable size. The dilatation of the superficial branches is increased by heat, the skin being thus relaxed, so as to give less support. The limb is swollen and cedematous. The dilatation is generally supposed to be con- fined to the vessels near the surface, but it appears that the deep-seated ramifications are not exempt from the affection. When a dilated vein becomes infiamed,- great pain is felt in the part; the vessel feels like a firm chord, its coats are much thick- ened, and its cavity proportionally contracted ; lymph is effused, and by it the canal may be obliterated to a greater or less extent; a spontaneous cure is thus accomplished. In the lower limbs, the disease is often complicated with ulcers; and as long as the veins remain varicose, the ulcers are almost incurable, or if they are brought to cicatrise, the skin soon ulcerates again, and the disease is re-established. The coats of the vessel not unfrequently ulcerate, and blood is discharged in appalling profusion: such an occurrence may even prove rapidly fatal. Sometimes, though rarely, skin thinned by pressm’e from within gives way without previous ulceration, and profuse bleeding ensues. The cause of this affection is obstruction to a free return of the blood ; as by tumours, either natural or adventitious, from pregnancy, constipation, &c. ; or by the tight application of a ligature round the limb, as of a garter. It often occurs in those who have been in the habit of great muscular exertion, the blood being thereby forced from the deep-seated veins into the superficial. This even occurs, though very rarely, in the upper extremity, and I have witnessed more than one instance of it. Here it is more readily got rid of. Dilatation of venous branches is met with in the scrotum, labium pudendi, lower part of the abdomen, in the neighbourhood of the anus, and at the lower part of the neck. The lower limb is, however, the most common seat of the disease: when the veins in this situ- ation are dilated, the valves are insufiicient to obstruct the calibre of the vessels, and consequently the lower and smaller ramifica- tions have to sustain the column of blood in the superficial veins of the whole limb, its weight not being diminished by the support which, in the natural state of parts, is afforded by the valves ;