WOUNDS OF THE PALMAR ARCHES. 486 Wounds of the radial and ulnar arteries may require their being exposed and tied at various points and at various periods — shortly after the accident, or after the lapse of many weeks — on the occurrence of secondary bleedings, or after the formation of false aneurism. This is accomplished by incision in the course of the wounded vessel, sacrificing as few muscular fibres as possible. Nevertheless, the incision must always be free, to enable the surgeon to effect his purpose readily. Wounds of the Palmar Arches, and of the branches proceeding from them to the extremities of the metacarpal bones, are ex- ceedingly common ; as also wounds of the radial artery betwixt the thumb and forefinger, of the arteria radialis indicis, and of the superficial volar branch. The opening in the integuments and palmar aponeurosis is usually narrow, and the haemorrhage copious ; it is generally arrested by pressure, not always well or efficiently applied. From these circumstances, blood is extra- vasated extensively into the deep cellular tissue, blood con- tinuing to escape from the artery, and being either imperfectly discharged, or completely confined. Great swelling, with tension and acute tenderness, takes place; in fact, rapid infiammatory action is kindled in the infiltrated parts, and unhealthy ab- scesses form; the matter ultimately I’eaches the surface, but by that time ulceration or partial sloughing has taken place at the wounded part of the vessel; profuse and repeated, haemorrhages take place, and are with difficulty controlled. The patient becomes weak and pale. The greater part of the forearm may become involved in the inffammation, terminating in infiltration of the cellular tissue, and the formation of diffuse abscesses. In the first instance, instead of trusting to pressure, — which almost uniformly disappoints expectation, does not prevent in- ternal bleeding, and leads to a severe form of infiammatory action, —it is better at once to enlarge the wound, and tie the wounded vessel above and below the injured point. Thus all bleeding is effectually prevented, and the risk of unfavourable consequences done away with. But after infiammatory swelling has commenced, such a proceeding is difficult, often almost impos- -sible, and generally fruitless. The parts are then full of blood, lymph, serosity, and pus, separated from each other, and changed