502 AFFECTIONS OF THE MAMMA. but I have encountered tumours, thus situated, of a worse na- ture — reproduced, though freely and fully removed; in fact, taken away along with the gland and neighbouring adipose substance. The gland itself is most frequently affected by carcinoma. Sometimes it is attacked by, or involved in, medullary sarcoma; and bloody tumours are also met with. In some cases, the gland is enlarged and softened, and penetrated by cysts of greater or less size, and more or less numerous, containing a fluid either serous, albuminous, bloody, or thin and black. The appearance and progress of carcinomatous and other tumours have been already described. The mamma is more frequently the seat of malignant disease than any other gland; it is frequently excited, and much exposed to injury. Often the induration following abscess remains stationary for several years, and at length takes on a new action, forms morbid deposit, and is of rapid growth. The disease seldom occui’s in young sub- jects ; though I have met with several well-marked cases under thirty. Before that time of life, the tumour is generally of a strumous nature, and this should not be confounded with the malignant; for the one is remediable under the influence of con- stitutional means, the other is not. Malignant disease is in most cases developed about the period when the menstrual dis- charge ceases; when the discharge is irregular previously to its entire cessation, the mamma is excited, and then hardness is perceptible. The disease also forms, though seldom, long after the “ critical period,” but in such cases its progress is usually slow. It occurs, also, and not unfrequently, in those who have never had the mamma excited by lactation; the mammilla is also subject to malignant disease in males advanced in life. When the malignant nature of the disease is recognised, the tumour should be extirpated without delay, before it has made much progress — before it has contracted extensive adhesions, or contaminated the lymphatics. The circumstances rendering interference unadvisable have been fully spoken of when treat- ing of tumours generally. If the patient is a female, the period of the menstrual discharge, if still regular, must be attended to, and avoided; indeed this maxim should apply to every operation on the female. I he most favourable time for operating is some