OF ULCERS OF THE GENITAL ORGANS, 246 nose becomes sunk, or is supported merely by the columna. The patient’s breath is foetid, i-espii’ation is in some degree obstructed, a foul ichorous discharge flows from the nares, and the surround- ing parts are inflamed, swollen, and excoriated. The counte- nance is greatly disfigured. On looking into the throat, nothing is seen but an extensive ulcerated surface covered with white adherent matter, and exhaling an offensive foetor, particularly when the bones are affected. Respiration is nasal, and the speech indistinct. When the larynx becomes affected, the pa- tient may be almost considered as lost: phthisis laryngea is established, the symptoms and treatment of which will be after- wards mentioned. The mutilating affection of the nose does not seem to be produced by any other form of the venereal disease, if not in any way aggravated. Along with the erup- tion and its after effects, severe pains in the articulations, parti- cularly in the knee-joint, often occur, and are always much increased during the night. Nodes seem to be produced only in those cases in which mercury is exhibited; their most usual situation is on the fore part of the tibia; severe pain is felt in the part, which becomes slightly swollen, and of a bright red colour ; the swelling feels dense and firm, being a simple enlarge- ment of the bone. They often occur when the patient is taking mercury, and when, in fact, the constitution is completely satu- rated with it. This medicine may interrupt the progress of the disease, may remove the eruption and the ulcers of the throat, but it at the same time transfers the disease to deep unyielding parts, to the bones and their coverings, and the fasciae. The last distinct form of the venereal disease is the scaly — syphilis, or true pox. The primary sore, termed a chancre, “is somewhat of a circular form, excavated, without granulations, with matter adhering to the surface, and with a thickened edge and base. The hardness or thickening is very circumscribed, not diffusing itself gradually and imperceptibly into the sur- rounding parts, but terminating rather abruptly.” Such is the appearance generally presented by the sore when situated on the glans and prepuce. It generally commences in the form of a pimple, without much surrounding inflammation. Sometimes the ulcerated surface is very inconsiderable, but there is always the abrupt and remarkably dense thickness which serves as a