OF TETANUS. to a certain class of muscles. When the extensors are affected, the disease is termed opisthotonos; when the flexors, emprostho- tonos. Complete tetanus is said to exist when the flexor and extensor muscles exactly balance each other, and the body is thereby kept straight and rigid. But when the affection is con- fined to the muscles of deglutition, and chiefly to those moving the lower jaw, it is called trismus. The disease has besides been divided into acute and chronic, and into traumatic and idiopathic; the one following wounds, the other arising from internal causes, or circumstances not connected with the laesion of the surface. The disease supervenes at various periods; sometimes, though rarely, not long after the infliction of the injury, in other instances after the lapse of eight or ten days, and often when the wound is healing, or nearly cica- trized. In warm climates, where it is of very frequent oc- currence, it occasionally seems to be caused by exposure to damp and changeable weather; in children, it supervenes on the slightest irritation. It is often induced by the presence of splinters, or rather bodies of an irritating nature, and by the partial division of nerves. Not unfrequently it occurs after clean wounds, as amputation or venesection ; in the former it may perhaps arise from a nerve being included in the same ligature with an artery, in the latter, from a nervous twig being partially divided. The more prominent symptoms are, stiffness of the back of the neck, and contraction of the features; dif- ficult deglutition supervenes, and the efforts to accomplish it are attended with violent spasms of the muscles of the pharynx and oesophagus. Spasms of the injured limb often precede those of the muscular system generally; the muscles of the lower jaw become rigid and spasmodically contracted, and by a conti- nuance and increase of the spasmodic action, the mouth is at last completely and immovably shut. The muscles of the trunk and limbs become affected, and there are violent spasms of par- ticular sets of them, most generally of those situated posteriorly ; thus the body is bent violently backward, so that its whole weight is supported on two points only, the heels and the oc- ciput. These symptoms are not constant; relaxation occurs, and the patient enjoys a cessation of the malady: but this is only temporary; the painful feelings and the spasms soon re-