RHINOPLASTIC OPERATIONS. 381 borrowed from the upper part of the arm ; it has sometimes not been applied immediately, but detached gradually, and allowed to thicken, to change its consistence, and to become more vascular, previously to its adaptation to the mutilated organ. When con- sidered sufficiently prepared, it has been shaped so as to fit accu- rately, though still remaining attached at one point to the arm ; the cicatrized edges of the deficient parts should then be made raw, and the new substance affixed by suture ; the original attach- ment is preserved entire, and the patient kept in a constrained position — the arm and head being approximated and bound together by apparatus — for many days, till union occurred. Then the flap is separated entirely, and the new nose moulded into its proper form, by subsequent paring and compression. The Rhinoplastic operation, introduced from India — where from time immemorial it has been practised by one of the castes— has superseded the preceding, and is variously modified. It is less difficult in execution, not so liable to failure, and more easily undergone by the patient. The same preparation of the flap is not required, though it is said that the Indian operators are in the habit of previously pummelling, with the heel of their slip- per, the integument to be used for the new nose, so as to excite the circulation and produce thickening; from the similarity of texture in the integument of the face, its application to the new situation is not much observed. The apex and alae can be readily repaired by a flap of proper shape and dimensions from the forehead. The cicatrized edges where the nose formerly rested, must in the first place be dis- sected off pretty deeply, so as to be prepared for the attachment of the new appendage. The size of the lost organ, and the dimensions necessary for its replacement, are then to be taken into consideration. It is recommended to make a mould in wax of the part, and after flattening it out, to use it as a guide for the incisions. But a piece of card or soft leather is more con- venient; this having been cut of the proper size and form, is laid down on the forehead, the part representing the root of the nose resting between the eyebrows. It is held firmly by an assistant, whilst the surgeon traces its dimensions first with ink, or at once with a knife carried deeply through the integuments. The pattern is then removed, and the flap dissected down, being laid hold of