56 OF ERYSIPELAS. and propriety made in the living tissues, at the most convenient point. In gangrene arising from obstruction or injury of blood- vessels, in healthy constitutions, amputation must be performed early—for thus the chance of ultimate success is increased, while the danger of delay is the same as in cases of gangrene caused by severe injury. Of Erysipelas. Erysipelas is an inflammation of the external surface, ac- companied with peculiar symptoms and appearances, the morbid action being modified by the texture in which it occurs. Ac- cording to the various circumstances attending the disease, it has been divided into several species : phlegmonous, bilious, oedematous, gangrenous, acute, malignant, &c. The term Erythema is applied to cases of rash or efflorescence, unac- companied with fever, swelling, or vesication. Inflammation of the skin only, is marked by bright redness, not circumscribed, and disappearing when pressed. By pressure, the blood-vessels are emptied for a time, the part sinks and be- comes pale; but, on removing the pressure, it soon regains its former colour and relative situation ; when these circumstances concur, the part is said to pit. There is no tension, — the pain is not throbbing, but of a burning or itching kind, and there is often a degree of oedematous swelling. Swelling does not occur to any great extent, however, during the existence of the in- flammation in the skin and rete mucosum; but the parts some- times become much swollen after subsidence of the inflammatory action, the vessels having relieved themselves by effusion of serum; and afterwards the oedematous surface often assumes a yellowish hue. In some cases, the serous effusion is from the first, more extensive than in others, and hence the term oedematous erysipelas, or inflammatory oedema. Upon the decline of inflammation, a serous fluid is often effused also in great quantity under the cuticle, giving rise to vesica- tions, resembling the blisters produced by the application of boiling water to the skin; and from this circumstance, ery-