366 DISEASES OF THE CONTENTS OF THE ORBIT. ▼ tered in texture, are raised with a hook, and removed by means of curved scissors. In young subjects, and in adults, when the disease is far advanced, the parietes of the orbit are thin, softened, and attenuated by pressure: the knife should therefore be used cautiously, and it is, perhaps, safer to finish excision with a narrow, curved, and probe-pointed bistoury, after having penetrated to the bottom of the orbit with a sharp-pointed knife: all other curious and crooked knives are useless. Bleeding is restrained by charpie, pressed firmly and quickly into the cavity, and supported by compresses and bandage; but, before introducing the dossils, all coagula and fluid blood should be carefully sponged out. Afterwards, excited vascular action, with pain in the head and wound, may in some subjects require abstraction of blood, the exhibition of purgatives and anti- monials, and immediate removal of the dressings, followed by fomentation and poultice. When matters proceed favourably, the charpie is removed gradually as suppuration advances, and the granulations are supported with light dressing, either dry, or moistened with some slightly astringent lotion. The dis- charge will gradually cease, and the granulated surface cicatrise under the level of the eyelids. In such circumstances the de- formity may be I’emedied, after the parts have become quiet, by the adaptation of an artificial eye of enamel, made so as to resemble exactly the other eye. It is worn without incon- venience, removed at night like artificial teeth or a wig, and cleaned and replaced in the morning. Such a substitute is also useful when the humours have been evacuated, or the organ destroyed, by injury or the effects of inflammation. Too frequently the morbid growth is reproduced, and that rapidly. It may be restrained by escharotics, the red oxide of mercury, potass, acetate of lead, acids, or the actual cautery; but the patient is thereby put to much pain without a chance of ultimate benefit. It is too true, that the hopes of a cure, after the extirpation of the eyeball for malignant disease, are defeated by the prior existence of a similar affection within the cranium. In the majority of cases, death has occurred from tumours of greater or less extent, along the course of the optic nerve, or their tract; behind the commissure, and extending to the optic lobes and even cerebellum.