63 OF ERYSIPELAS. great tension of the parts, with a sloughy state of the cellular tissue, established in addition to suppuration — and again, there may be infiltration of the subfascial and intermuscular tissues, leading ultimately to exposure and exfoliation of bones or dis- ease of articulations. From inattention to these circumstances, the treatment being often directed to the name of the disease, great discrepancy of opinion, as to the most proper local management, has arisen; there has accordingly been a controversy as to whether the blood should be drawn from mere punctures from limited incisions, or from long gashes extending from one joint to another. In cases not very severe or extensive, when the skin only is affected, the constitutional treatment already mentioned is first to be employed, and then the affected part must be freely punc- tured with a fine lancet, at numerous points, as recommended by Sir R. Dobson. These punctures should reach the vascular layer, but not go deeper: the serous effusion, if there be any, is thereby evacuated — the overdistended vessels are relieved of a considerable portion of their contents—and the oedematous swelling, with the formation of phlyctenae, is prevented. The part is afterwards to be fomented for half an hour, or an'hour, with bags containing chamomile fiowers or hops; the fomentation, repeated at intervals, proves highly grateful to the feelings of the patient, allays any irritation which the making of the punc- tures may have produced, and keeps the skin perspirable. Un- der this treatment, every vestige of erysipelas will generally disappear in the course of a few days. In more severe cases, especially in the extremities, the parts must be freely incised. The incisions ought to extend through the integuments and cellular substance, and their length and number must be pro- portioned to the extent and severity of the affection. One or two pretty free incisions, if made in the proper place, where the greatest degree of bogginess, marking the disorganised state of the tissues, is discovered, will generally suffice — the vast good and the relief afforded depends partly upon the abatement of the tension, in consequence of the evacuation of the effused fluids —upon the unloading of the overdistended blood-vessels of the part, and upon the acceleration of the suppurative process, which is often critical. The constitution is, probably, relieved by