730 DISLOCATIONS. to be followed by a successful result. The exact site of the ends of the bones must in the first place be ascertained; the position of the bloodvessels and nerves must be looked to, that they may be avoided; a bistoury is then passed through the skin and down into the substance interposed between the ends of the bones. A strong and sharp needle, fixed in a handle, and with its eye near the point, is passed, in the track of the knife, fairly betwixt the bones, and pushed through the soft parts on the opposite side of the limb. A cord is then passed through the eye, and by withdrawal of the needle the seton is properly lodged. The effects must be attentively watched, and when sufficient action is supposed to have been excited, perhaps at the end of the first week, the cord is withdrawn, and the limb placed immovable in a proper position. If action is slow in supervening, the chord may be smeared with irritating substances, as the unguentum oxydi hydrargyri rubri, or the unguentum cantharidis, &c. In this manner I have treated false joint in several situations successfully, but I have also been sometimes foiled in effecting my purpose. The seton must not be long retained, the object being to excite action, not to perpetuate discharge, by the profusion of which the end will be effectually frustrated. Much will depend on the period at which the prac- tice is adopted. Dislocations. — Some joints are so contrived— their composing bones are so notched into one another, and connected by such powerful apparatus — and they are crossed by tendons, and tied together by ligaments in such a manner, — that dislodgment can scarcely be effected but by the most violent means. Nothing short of immense force is sufficient, and the displacement is uni- formly attended with fracture of portions of the bones, or of their processes. Other bones are loosely joined, permitting free and unrestrained motion in all or in many directions, and but little force, applied in particular directions, suffices to separate and luxate them. In every joint the processes are liable to be bi’oken, and the attachments of the ligaments to be torn off; ligamentous tissue withstands a greater degree of sudden violence than the osseous. The synovial membrane, and the fibrous tissue exterior to it, are almost always torn in complete luxation ;