289 INJURIES OF THE FIEAD. rapidly reproduced. Pressure is the orilj" means left by which to attempt its retardation ; and this, too, is generally ineffectual; for if not very moderate, the effects of compression extend from the fungus to the whole of the brain, and an impairment of the sensorial functions in a greater or less degree necessarily results. The formation of such a growth is generally attended with shiver- ing, sickness, and fever, by a weak, rapid, and irregular pulse; the strength declines, convulsions and delirium supervene, and coma terminates the symptoms. Perforation of the Cranium is not often resorted to since the treatment of injuries of the head has become better understood. In former times, the operation of trepan was performed fre- quently, and many seemed to rate the dexterity and science of a surgeon by the number of holes which he was able to bore in the skull of an unfortunate patient. It ought never to be per- formed, unless the necessity for, and the propriety of, the pro- ceeding be clearly indicated. It used to be practised in a most unlimited manner for fissure : cracks were sought for with the greatest care, rules were propounded to enable the surgeon to distinguish fissures from the cranial sutures, and from furrow made in the bone by periosteal vessels; and the trepan was frequently applied over each part of the fissure, however exten- sive it might be, the only apparent end of the operation being to widen very materially the solution of continuity in the cranium. It was also resorted to in cases of compression without fracture, with the view of discovering the effused fluid, and removing it; but, as was already stated, it is unwarrantable in such cases ; and much more so in concussion, for which latter accident, how- ever, it has been occasionally performed. I met with a case some years since, in which the patient was certainly not much benefited by such active practice. The operation is of itself attended with danger, and likely, under many circumstances, to aggravate the patient’s symptoms, and diminish his chance of recovery. The cranium must be perforated, however, when the existence and site of abscess under the bone is distinctly marked: and in such cases the practitioner is much to blame if he does not give his patient a chance of recovery by the operation : many are lost by its not being performed, and the following case is a u