31 OF SUPPURATION. solution, in delitescence, or in suppuration; sometimes in death of the part. When the tumour, after having attained a certain size, gradually disappears, it is said to be resolved; when, how- ever, it is rapidly discussed, it terminates in delitescence; the difference between the terms being the same as when used to express the corresponding terminations of inflammatory swelling in general. Suppuration is by far the most usual termination, and the matter is frequently evacuated tlirough numerous small aper- tures, exposing the gland denuded and prominent in the middle of the chasm ; in such cases, the gland proves the source of much irritation, and must be destroyed, otherwise the cure is extremely tedious. Though inflamed and swelled lymphatic glands very generally disappear by suppuration, it is to be remarked that the conglo- merate glands, though often violently inflamed, seldom, if ever, have pus formed in them; in mumps, for instance, the ac- tion often runs very high, yet abscess of the parotid is rare. The submaxillary salivary glands are often supposed and said to he inflamed and enlarged; the conglobate glands superficial to them are in such cases only affected. Collections of pus in the lymphatic glands or cellular sub- stance, in patients of a weak constitution, (whether naturally or in consequence of disease), are attended with little or no pain, or inflammatory action ; and although it is probable that inflam- mation does precede the formation of such purulent depots, still it is generally so slight as not to attract the attention of the patient or his attendant. The sensation is dull and uneasy, rather than painful; and, even after the accumulation of a con- siderable quantity of purulent matter, redness of the surface and pointing do not occur till a late period. The contained matter is thin, flaky, and of a brownish colour. The collections often attain a very great size, and, if improperly treated, ter- minate in the formation of numerous and extensive sinuses. The skin, particularly that of the face, becomes, in very many cases, affected either primarily or secondarily with scrophulous ulcex’ation, which commonly extends to the neighbouring textures. The disease has sometimes been mistaken for cancer, and other affections of a malignant nature, and has received various names