RETENTION OF URINE. 594 the urine always remains in the most dependent part of the viscus, and the quantity retained becomes greater and greater, until from some slight cause the power of expulsion is lost en- tirely. In these cases the bladder, though much increased in capacity, is also much thickened. Retention from inflamed urethra, attended with swelling and spasm about the neck of the bladder, is preceded by hard- ness and tenderness in the course of the urethra, and a smart- ing felt when a drop of urine passes along. Retention not unfrequently takes place during gonorrhoea, from the dread which the patient has of making water; and from the swelling of the lining membrane. Retention from abscess in the perineum was formerly noticed. Retention from injuries in the perineum. The urethra is either severely bruised, perhaps lacerated, or torn completely across; and if the patient attempts to make water before proper means are adopted, blood and urine are extx’avasated into the cellular tissue exterior to the canal. In cases of slighter injury, re- tention may occur on account of the inflammatory swelling of the parts supervening secondarily. Retention from stricture of the urethra is of very frequent opcurrence, and most difficult to manage. The state of the urethra and bladder in this disease has been already adverted to, but it is necessary to bear in mind the thickening of the latter, and the dilatation which uniformly takes place behind the stricture. All the urgent symptoms of retention may, in this case, arise from the accumulation of but a few ounces of urine. The bladder contracts frequently and very forcibly, causing great suffering. Temporary relief is experienced when the urethra gives way by ulceration, and the urine becomes extravasated into the cellular texture; the patient gets up, and, if in the dark, thinks that the stricture has yielded, and that he is passing urine naturally. But soon he feels a glowing heat in the perineum, the parts swell and become livid; violent constitutional symptoms come on, the discolor- ation advances, the integuments slough, ill formed matter is discharged, and disorganised cellular tissue mixed with putrid sanies is exposed. The parts exhale a urinous odour, which, when once smelt by the practitioner, can never afterwards be mistaken. Occasionally oedematous swelling of the penis takes