709 FRACTURE OF THE FOREARM. three of the cases which have come under my observation, at the end of some weeks or months from the receipt of the accident. Union of the simple fracture will take place by bone, if the portions be retained accurately and permanently in contact; but there is a risk of the joint remaining stiff, and of re-sepa- ration being produced by even slight violence. Union by liga- ment is as rapid as that by osseous matter; and if the ligament is short, the arm is quite as useful. Approximation of the broken surfaces is favoured by extension of the elbow joint, the triceps muscle being thus relaxed. The limb must not, how- ever, be put perfectly straight. The position is preserved by a splint placed on the fore part of the limb, extending from the middle of the arm to the lower part of the forearm, and re- tained by a roller applied, not over-tight, from the fingers upwards. The application of apparatus to the separated por- tion, with the view of forcing it into contact with the shaft of the ulna, is useless. The figure of 8 bandage, and such like, are hurtful. Permanent relaxation of the triceps, with preven- tion of motion, is sufficient. This is continued for tlu-ee or four weeks; by that time the fracture will in all probability have united, and then gentle and gradual passive motion of the joint is to be commenced. In compound ft’acture the prognosis is always unfavourable. Means must be taken to avert incited action — the limb must be properly placed without delay, the edges of the wound accurately approximated, and antiphlogistic measures pursued. Purulent collections must be opened early. Rest of the joint is to be insured, and support afforded, by bandaging and by the application of a splint. The patient will be fortunate if he escape mutilation by the amputating knife; but when the wound is trifling, and the parts not much lacei’ated or bruised, and the treatment carefully conducted, a cure may be effected by the same process as the simple fracture. Fractures of the bones of the forearm, of one or both, are common; generally simple. The Radius may be broken at various points — at the upper part — near its head — at the middle — most frequently near the distal extremity. At the z z 3