AMPUTATION OF THE ARM. 779 after the amputations of the arm and forearm than any other. The occurrence, however, is less common than formerly, and this may be fairly attributed to the improvements in the oper- ation— to the method by flaps having superseded the circular, and nothing but the arteries being surrounded in ligature. Still the affection is occasionally met with, and there can be none more painful and troublesome. Generally, no obvious cause can be found for the attack of this malady; but in some of the cases there would seem to be a constitutional and innate tendency, as it were, towards this irritability of the cut and bulbous extre- mities of the nerves — as in the following case: — A gentleman, aged 53, underwent amputation of the thumb, in consequence of laceration of the hand. Amputation was very soon afterwards performed at the middle of the forearm, on account of haemor- rhage and infiltration of the hand, after fruitless attempts to se- cure the arteries. After cicatrisation of the wound, he complained of great pain in the stump, and in the situation where the tour- niquet had been applied. Amputation of the arm was then per- formed, but the stump was not well made. The pain returned, and he applied to me, with the view of again submitting to am- putation. It was performed nearer to the shoulder-joint, and in order to guard against recurrence of the disease, the nerves were laid hold of, pulled outwards, and cut across as high as possible. The patient was relieved of many of his sufferings, and conti- nued tolerably comfortable for nearly two years ; again, however, the painful symptoms have returned, though in a slighter degree. On examining the removed stump, all the nerves, particularly the musculo-spiral, were found greatly enlarged in their extre- mities, and intimately adherent to the cicatrix and the ligament- ous covering of the rounded extremity of the humerus. More desperate operations have even been performed to free patients from irritable stump. The lower limb has been hacked off bit by bit, even to the coxo-femoral articulation, without much, if any relief. Such operations are hardly warrantable. Amputation at the shoulder-joint is more frequently required for accident than for disease. It has always been the custom to trust for suppression of bleeding during this operation, to the hands of an assistant; and when the method has been found effectual