570 GONORRHCEA. ropy, and less abundant, is seen only in the morning, and in quantity little more than sufficient to glue together the lips of the orifice; ultimately it loses its whitish or streaked appear- ance, becoming clear and colourless. The first attack of the disease is generally the most severe. In neglected cases, the prepuce swells, often to a great size. During the progress of the gonorrhoea there is always a ten- dency to serous infiltration in the prepuce; and if the patient walk much without supporting the organ, or have the part ex- posed to friction, swelling will inevitably take place. From this cause Phymosis and Paraphyrnosis are apt to occur •— affec- tions that will be afterwards described. The inguinal glands often enlarge, but such swelling is generally small, and seldom suppurates. Induration and enlargement sometimes occur along the urethra from effusion of lymph, or from obstruction and disten- tion of the lacunae. Suppuration may take place at these points, and the matter escape either into the urethra or externally. Swelling of the lymphatics of the penis is by no means uncom- mon in severe or neglected cases of gonorrhoea; a hard chord, tender, and extremely painful when pressed, is felt running along the dorsum penis, and terminates in the inguinal cluster of glands, which are in general also affected. Inflammation and abscess under the strong tendinous sheath that envelopes the penis occasionally follows the affection of the lymphatics. The whole penis swells greatly, with fever and much pain; the mat- ter is confined, burrows under the unyielding sheath, and ap- pears either at the junction of the glans and prepuce, or over the symphysis pubis. Occasionally the inflammation is not confined to the extre- mity of the urethra, but pervades its whole extent, in conse- quence of maltreatment, neglect, or idiosyncrasy. On this ac- count, abscess in the perineum, or over that part of the urethra which is covered by the sci'otum, is no uncommon consequence of a badly managed clap; the inflammatory action extending from the urethra to the cellular texture exterior to it. The formation of matter is preceded by fever and great pain; the patient is unable to sit; and occasionally retention of urine takes place. The part affected feels hard, and extremely painful when