209 OF WOUNDS. of isinglass, has been used instead; the glazed surface of the slips is moistened, and applied as here directed. If at any part adhesion fail, suppuration and granulation must follow. The adhesion may be prevented by any of the circum- stances already mentioned, or by an unfavourable state of the constitution, the nature of the wound, exposure to bad air, the occurrence of fever, or of a flux natural or not. The wound may contain foreign matter, blood or the contents of canals may be effused into it, and many other obstacles may exist to retard, or prevent adhesion. Notwithstanding, in all cases, though the chance of union be but small, the parts should be approximated. A great point is gained if certain parts only are brought to ad- here, for by their natural attachments the opposite surfaces are preserved in more direct contact than they could otherwise be, and thereby but little space remains to be filled up with granu- lations. If, on the contrary, the surfaces are not appi’oximated, the flap is diminished in size, and when afterwards placed in contact with the surface from which it was detached, it is found not to correspond, leaving considerable deficiency to be repaired by the comparatively slow process of granulation. Whereas, if it had been eai’ly replaced, partial attachments would probably have been formed by adhesion, the flap thereby retained in situ, and prevented from shrinking, so that but little new matter would be required. Sometimes union does occur, and that speedily, after the flap has remained separate for a considerable time; and in such cases it may be doubted, whether union is accomplished by adhesion, strictly so called. Most probably it is by this process that the rapid union occurs in such circumstances: the divided parts have assumed an excited action, and effused lymph; during their state of separation, the lymph will become organised when it is connected with the original parts, just as well as if the surfaces had been in contact; and when they are at length so placed, they will be agglutinated to each other by the outer part of the effused lymph, which still continues soft and unorganised. If motion be then prevented, organisation, which has already com- menced in the connecting medium, will proceed undisturbed, converting the agglutination of soft unorganised lymph into firm and permanent union by means of organised tissue. In these p