571 GONORRHOEA. pressed; it gradually softens, and at last fluctuates and points. But if the matter form deeply, behind the bulb and in the cel- lular texture beneath the perineal fascia, or in the situation of Cowper’s glands, it may be a long time of appearing externally. Fluctuation should never be waited for; and in most cases there are distinct enough signs of the presence of matter long before fluctuation can be felt. Some people are much more liable to inflammation of the urethra than others, and many are exposed to the ordinary causes of gonorrhoea without suffering, whilst perhaps they are readily affected by such animal poisons as produce disease of the pie- puce and glans. Patients often give very ridiculous accounts of the way in which their clap was contracted. They will say that the infection was received in a common necessary, that the dis- ease was produced by a blow, by a strain of the back, by taking drugs that did not agree with them, by drinking out of the same cup or smoking the same pipe with an affected person, by wear- ing tight boots, falling into a dirty pond, &c. They will exert their ingenuity to the utmost, in order to deceive their surgeon, and attempt preserving their moral character untainted. Dis- charge from the urethra maybe occasioned by dentition, &c., as already mentioned ; or may take place from calculi passing along and getting fixed in the urethra, or from irritations about the anus. Inflammation of the passage not unfrequently arises, to a greater or less extent from the acrimonious condition of the urine. The most common cause, however, is the application of irritating matter to the lining membrane; and this may take place during coition with females suffering from leucorrhoea, or during their menstrual discharge; but gonorrhoeal matter is the specific virus, and the application of it to the orifice of the urethra is by far the most frequent cause of inflammation of the canal. Irritating substances injected into the passage may, and often do, produce or aggravate the inflammatory action. Besides all this, irritability of the urethra is common in gouty individuals. Gonorrhoea has been termed virulent when caused by gonor- rhoeal infection — simple, when induced by irritations such as those previously enumerated; the distinction is seldom attended to, and is of no practical importance. It has been supposed