347 DISEASES OF THE EYE. and that little is unsatisfactory. In the functional form, how- ever, vision may be improved, if not wholly restored, by removal of the exciting cause, and the carefully avoiding of such circum- stances as seem to predispose to the affection. After due con- stitutional treatment, considerable benefit is often derived from counter irritation ; and I have in many cases witnessed the good effects of blistering the temples and besprinkling the raw surface with the powder of strychnine, — a practice very far from nugatory. On removing the blister, the cuticle and lymphatic effusion beneath are carefully scraped away, and from one eighth to one half of a grain of the powder dusted over the exposed cutis. The sprinkling is repeated daily, and the dose gradually increased. When the surface dries, a fresh blister is applied, and the use of the powder resumed. It may be em- ployed, when gradually increased, to the extent of two grains on each temple; but, if spasmodic twitchings and constitutional disturbance begin to show themselves, it must be immediately abandoned, and not resumed till after some days, and even then in diminished doses. In not a few cases, both of complete amaurosis, and of vision impaired to such an extent that the patient could merely distinguish light from darkness, I have by this practice succeeded in restoring the sight completely; in others, vision has been very much improved. Still, by far the greater number of amaurotic patients' are incurable; and even those who have derived benefit from strychnine are, I am strongly inclined to suspect, exceedingly liable to relapse. In the treatment of functional amaurosis, it will be necessary to investigate minutely the causes on which the defective vision may depend. Thus we may find a congestive state of the retina or brain, arising from suppressed natural discharges, as the men- strual flux, or the sudden suppression of habitual but morbid discharges, as the healing of an old ulcer, &c. Again, amaurosis may be the result of irritation in some portion of the alimentary canal, as from the presence of worms. Patients who have long laboured under imperfect amaurosis have occasionally been suddenly relieved by the discharge of a tape-worm. Difficult and painful dentition in children not un- frequently gives rise to this disease. Hence the treatment of functional amaurosis will necessarily vary with the cause; and