.112 OF INFLAMMATION OF BONE, piecemeal in the progress of ulceration, and discharged; but it is seldom that the whole surface is thrown off, so as to give place to a healthy and reparative action. When the parietes of the cavity have remained a considerable time in this inactive state, the sur- rounding vessels become more active, and the surface of the bone in the vicinity is studded with nodules of new osseous matter. The disease here delineated affected only a small portion of the cancellated texture of the condyle. An ashy looking substance fills the cavity, and this again was concealed in the recent state by lardaceous matter. The elbow joint is unaffected, excepting only that, from the deposit of new bone in spiculae and nodules, and the con- densation of the soft parts, almost com- plete anchylosis had taken place. This deposit is not always limited to the affected bone, if one only be the seat of the disease, but frequently extends to those articulated with it. The soft parts are commonly more or less thickened, and rendered exceedingly dense by effusion of lymph into the cellular texture; and so great is this thickening sometimes, that the knife is resisted as if by cartilage. The discharge which proceeds from the carious part is generally highly fetid, very profuse, is often poured through several openings, and the surrounding skin is excoriated and generally of a livid colour. The ichorous discharge occasionally dries up for a short period, and again breaks out more violently. The sur- face of the ulcer is, in some cases, occupied by soft unhealthy granulations; in others the earthy part of the bone is most prominent. When the parts have been macerated and dried, the disease is often found to have proceeded more in width than in depth, and the absorption has not reduced all points of the diseased surface to the same level, thin portions remain- ing somewhat elevated, and giving the part a cancellated appearance ; and there often project numerous minute osseous fibrillae of considerable length, which intermix with one an- other, and form a most delicate network. In other instances, the ulceration has extended more deeply and uniformly, and