205 OF WOUNDS. thority for the general adoption of such a measure. If the vessel is merely punctured, it is necessary to apply the ligatui’e by means of a blunt pointed needle, and the parts are to be disturbed as little as possible. If, however, the artery is completely divided, its cut extremities are to be drawn out of their sheath by a hook or forceps, and the ligatures applied close to the connections of the'vessel; the vasa vasorum, in the immediate vicinity of the deligated point, being left to carry on those processes by which obliteration is accomplished. In punctured or partial wounds of arteries, it deserves consideration whether the haemorrhage may not be restrained by the application of slight pressure, so regu- lated as to prevent the flow of blood laterally through the wound, but not so forcibly applied as to stop the onward current of the blood along the vessel, from the part of the tube above to that below the puncture. Some experiments made by Dr. Davy seem favourable to this view; as bleeding from the carotid arteries, partially divided transversely, in dogs was easily arrested by the means above-mentioned, the wound of the vessel readily healing, so as to preserve its tube entire; whereas, when the pres- sure was increased, the haemorrhage became violent. The sub- ject is mentioned as one worthy of a further experimental inves- tigation. Tlie instrument which will generally be found most useful for laying hold of the vessel is the common dissecting forceps, but a tenaculum will, in certain circumstances, be more convenient. By far the most convenient machine, is that here represented. When no assistant is at hand, and in cases of emergency, the surgeon provided with this little instrument can tie vessels without the least difficulty; and in operation, when many vessels spring, several of these forceps can be applied; there is besides this great advantage in their employment, that a clumsy assistant can scarcely include the point of the instrument with the ves- sel. Haemorrhage from the smaller vessels soon ceases; and.