AMPUTATION OF THE LEG. 785 the tibia transfixion is performed, the instrument being pushed along the posterior surface of the bones, and made to emerge at the upper part of the fibular incision. By then carrying the knife downwards, a posterior and larger flap is formed sufficient to cover the stump. All this is effected by uninterrupted sweeps of the knife, that is, without ever removing the point or edge from the track of incision. The integuments on the fore part are then dissected upwards a little, by a few touches of the knife, so as to form a small semilunar flap; at this part of the operation there is no necessity for laying down the knife and using a bistoury. The muscles in the interosseous space are then completely divided, and the knife swept round the bones to detach the soft parts still uncut. The saw is applied, either in a horizontal or perpendi- cular direction ; I prefer the latter for reasons already assigned. The vessels are secured, and there are generally but three—the popliteal, and two sural. I now generally aim at cutting the vessel before it divides, and seldom fail in doing so. There is then possibly the popliteal only requiring ligature, and there is less chance of secondary luemorrhage. This has occurred, so as to prove fatal at a considerable period after the operation, in con- sequence of the posterior tibia being cut close to its origin, and no clot having formed in it. Before adjusting the flap, it is well to assist nature in rounding off the end of the tibia, and thereby prevent danger to the integument; with this view the sharp anterior ridge of the bone is cut away and rounded off' by means of the pliers. This must be done sparingly if at all, and with great caution. The nipped surface is liable to exfoliation, or the medullary web is apt to be injured, and this is inevitably followed by more or less death of bone. To some the fibular incision may appear unnecessary; but I have long practised it from conviction of its advantage. It is an excellent mark for transfixion, and assists greatly in preventing entanglement of the knife betwixt the two bones ; besides the soft parts in this situ- ation must be divided at one or other step of the operation, and hence the procedure cannot be objected to on the ground of caus- ing unnecessary wound. In operating on the left limb, there is not the same danger in transfixion, and consequently so long a pre- liminary incision on the inside is not requisite ; in other respects the steps of the operation are the same as for removal of the