DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 101 spend with the alteration of shape in the head of the thigh-bone. Tlie preparation was obtained from a man at 32, who died at the General Hospital at Chatham of pulmonary consumption, after a confinement of two years in hospital. Previously to his admission, he had regularly performed his duty as a light infantry soldier, from which it is plain that his limbs were then of equal length, although, when the body was examined, the affected femur was upwards of one inch and a half shorter than the other. From a careful inquiry after his death, it appeared that he had, five years previously, fallen on the trochanter, in consequence of which he often complained of pain in the hip, but continued to do his duty long after, never having been confined on account of the accident. It therefore results, that morbid change had taken place during his long confinement in hospital, a circumstance not very favourable to the recom- mendation by some surgeons of the horizontal posture, as a remedy in such cases, and equally adverse to the opinion of certain continental pathologists, who inform us, that shortening of the neck of the femur is to be attributed to the gradual operation of the superincumbent weight of the body. In old subjects, particularly in fat women, the neck of the femur is often shortened, and becomes more transverse and brittle than natural, from a true insterstitial absorption or atrophy of the osseous tissue. This has sometimes been described as a natural effect of age, but it is undoubtedly disease, for in the greater number of old people the neck of the thigh-bone presents its usual length and obliquity. The affection is obviously a very serious one, as predisposing to fracture of the part, under cir- cumstances which render its reunion almost hopeless. Treatment of Affections of the Joints. — After the infliction of a wound, accidental or not, in order to prevent inflammation of a joint from becoming violent, it is of the utmost importance to bring the edges of the wound into close apposition. Sometimes neither local action, nor disturbance of the constitution, super- vene on an opening, even of considerable size, being made into a joint, while the slightest puncture often gives rise to the most dreadful symptoms, both local and general. An incised wound, of no great extent, will be sufficiently closed by the careful application of adhesive plaster, and attention to the posi- H 3