OF INFLAMMATION. 15 When local inflammatory action exists to a considerable degree, the general circulation is more or less disturbed. The heart, and the larger vessels supplying the capillaries, which are more immediately concerned in the local action, subsequently sympathise with the part affected, and, acting with greater vigour than usual, propel the blood into the extreme branches ; so that the inflammatory excitement may be said to be gra- dually communicated by the continuous sympathy, till the whole sanguiferous system becomes subject to its influence. The de- gree of this general excitement depends greatly on the texture and function of the part primarily affected. The term Passive Inflammation has been applied to that state in which the larger vessels are not excited, or have ceased to sympathise with the capillary branches. The term Chronic In- flammation is properly limited to the consequence of the acute inflammatory action, the part remaining turgid and swollen, the vessels over-distended with dark blood, but with little or no pain, and without heat or throbbing. Congestion is also em- ployed to denote fulness of the vessels, large as well as small, when no sign of excited circulation, or of decided inflammatory action, has occurred. It is most frequently used, however, when describing the condition of an internal organ. An over-disten- sion of a particular set of vessels may certainly exist (as a con- sequence of inflammation, or altogether unconnected with it), unattended with inflammatory action. These two states ought to be carefully distinguished from a similar condition of the vessels, attended with inflammation ; for practice, which would be beneficial in the one case, is highly prejudicial in the other, and lamentable examples of the non-attention to this distinc- tion are every day observed. It may here be mentioned, that some have denied the existence of vitality in the blood; and to some minds it may, perhaps, be difficult to conceive how a fluid should be possessed of this principle. But no one can either doubt or deny that the blood, in its distribution, in its manner of receiving increase, in the secretions furnished by it, and in its various morbid changes, is governed by certain laws and principles which cannot be ex- plained by those of chemistry or mechanics, but must belong to some other power. It is allowed, and has been promulgated by all