627 CASTRATION. ing in the groin, with thickening and induration of the chord, has commenced, otherwise it can be of no avail. The patient is placed recumbent. An incision is commenced a little above the inguinal aperture, and carried downwards ; on reaching the tumour it is inclined to one side, so that with a si- milar one on the opposite side an elliptical portion of integument may be included. This is always necessary when the tumour is adherent to its coverings, or when a fungus has been protruded. One straight incision may be sufficient for I’emoval of the tumour; it is sometimes necessary to take away more or less skin, so that a large, loose, and flabby bag may not remain after the extirpation. This preliminary wound penetrates only through the skin and cellular tissue, and should be made rapidly. At its upper part the chord is then to be cut down upon, exposed, and divided; but the division should not be made until the chord has been isolated for some distance, so as to afford a firm hold to an assistant, and not before the assist- ant has secured it firmly in his fingers, otherwise it may retract within the inguinal canal, rendering the bleeding from the sper- matic artery troublesome. The dissection is now to be conti- nued downwards, rapidly, and yet cautiously; the tumour is detached on all sides, and removed along with a sufficient quantity of integument. In dissecting off its posterior surface, care must be taken not to wound the septum of the sci’Otum. All adherent skin must be taken away, and in the case of fun- gus, the incision of the integument must be wide of the pro- jecting part. But, at the same time, unecessarily extensive removal of skin is always to be avoided, otherwise there will sometimes be a difficulty in covering the root of the penis and the remaining testicle. The assistant has, during the extirpa- tion, retained his firm grasp of the chord, so restraining haemor- rhage from that quarter; now the branches, genei’ally two, of the spermatic artery are pulled out by the forceps, and a liga- ture applied to their extremities, inclosure of any of the sur- rounding parts being studiously avoided. To tie veins, artery, nerves, vas deferens, and cellular tissue, in one mass, would lead to most serious mischief, not to mention the immediate and ex- cruciating pain occasioned. It has been recommended either to pass a temporary ligature round the chord, before its division, s s 2