738 LUXATION OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. pain, and that there is no intention of attempting reduction. In this manner reduction may often be accomplished by the surgeon and one assistant; the trunk and scapula being fixed by the assistant, either grasping the patient in his arms, or holding a sheet or towel passed round the body, close to the axilla, whilst the surgeon extends and rotates the extremity, and at the same time lifts the head of the bone from its situ- ation. The rotation is made by using the forearm, bent to a right angle, as a lever; thus considerable power can be exerted on the head of the bone, and the long head of the biceps muscle — the stretching of which, no doubt, affords an obstacle to reduction — is at the same time relaxed. In luxation down- wards, there is no more successful method than that by counter- extension with the heel in the axilla, and extension by the sur- geon grasping the wrist. The patient is placed recumbent, on a couch or on the floor, and the surgeon, sitting by his side, lodges his heel in the axilla, and with both hands extends the arm ; after a short continuance of extension, he performs a sudden and powerful combination of both movements, and so jerks the bone into its natural position. In some recent, and in all old cases, it is necessary to apply considerable force, steadily, and for a long time, so as to tire out the muscles, and dislodge the head of the bone. An assistant effects this by means of pulleys. These are fixed to a laque, applied above the elbow with a clove-hitch, and to a ring fastened either in the wall or to a post; two small iron rings which can be screwed into a beam are useful in private practice, and should always accom- pany the pulleys. When all is prepared, the assistant pulls the end of the rope steadily, and with considerable power, whilst the surgeon rotates the limb, and endeavours to lift the head of the bone, at the same time regulating the degree of exten- sion. The directing of the degree and continuance of the force is not the least difficult part of the procedure, for, when ex- cessive, there is a risk of the axillary nerves and artery giving way; such accidents have happened, and been accompanied with serious and even fatal consequences; and from laceration of other tissues, the muscular, fibrous, or cellular, fatal inflam- mation and abscess have resulted. The surgeon is therefore called upon to exercise judgment and discretion — not to con- tinue extension to a pernicious extent, and not to abandon