692 FRACTURE OF THE LOWER JAW. implanted ; but it not unfrequently gives way at the symphysis, or near the angle. The alveolar processes are often detached, with loosening of one or more teeth. The fracture is frequently compound; being produced by a direct blow, as the kick of a hoi’se. The bone sometimes breaks at a part not struck, as at the symphysis from a blow near the angle. The accident is easily recognised; in fact, the patient, if sensible, has himself discovered fracture before he applies for assistance. There is distortion of the part, and the broken extremities, when moved, are felt grating on each other; there is discharge of blood, per- haps of teeth, from the mouth; and in compound fracture the ends of the bone are visible. At the symphysis the parts are not much displaced; they are more so when the fracture is in the site of the first molar. In the latter situation it is occasion- ally difficult to replace the bone, and retain it in its proper posi- tion. The face swells to a greater or less extent, according to the severity of injury done to the soft parts, and the time which has elapsed before reduction. The parts within the mouth swell; often there is great infiltration of the loose cellular tissue under the tongue. Sometimes extensive abscess forms, showing itself in the mouth or under the chin. The bone is to be brought to its former shape by pressure of the fingers on the outside, and of the thumbs placed within the mouth on the corners of the teeth. Motion is prevented, and the parts are retained in their proper situation, by a wedge of cork or wood interposed on each side of the jaw, and grooved so as to receive the teeth both above and below. The wedges are placed with their thick ends anteriorly, and are retained by the lower jaw being firmly bound towards the upper ; sufficient space for the introduction of food must be left between the wedges at the fore-part of the mouth. Pasteboard or leather is applied exter- nally, cut so as to fit exactly the fractured bone; it is previously softened in warm water, that it may adapt itself to the shape of the parts, and form a case over them ; a thin layer of tow or wadding is placed between it and the skin, and the whole is retained by a roller, which is preferable to split cloths. The patient should not talk, or in any way attempt motion of the injured bone, and the food given should not requii e mastication. Inflammation is