461 CESOPHAGOTOMY. some to remove delicate needles entire. When they are beyond the reach of the fingei-, it is of no use to attempt their removal; the patient suffers great pain during the endeavour, and there is no chance of successful issue; besides, the surgeon is apt to bring discredit on himself. Coins may be removed by the forceps, or by the hook, if lodged at the narrow part of the passage behind the cricoid car- tilage ; if lowei*, they generally defy attempts at extraction, and slip into the stomach gradually. Halfpennies, halfcrowns, &c. pass readily along the alimentary canal, and are voided in a short time. Tendinous or cartilaginous portions of hard meat, when within reach of the finger, can be laid hold of by the curved forceps, and pulled up. Smaller and soft portions, if impeded in the passage, as when it has been narrowed by previous disease, are dislodged and pushed down by the cautious use of a small probang, or oesophagus bougie. In the introduction of any in- strument, attention should always be paid to the steps advised when treating of stricture of the gullet. Glsophagotomy is an operation that may, under some peculiar circumstances, be required. When a foreign body is of such a nature that, when once lodged in the gullet, it cannot be removed either upwards or downwards, without serious laesion of the parts, and, when breathing is impeded by its projection, incision of the oesophagus may be warrantable. The operation is easily accomplished. An incision of about three inches is made in the superior triangular space of the neck, on the left side, — the gullet usually inclining to the left of the mesial line. It is com- menced opposite to the os hyoides, and carried downwards pa- rallel with the trachea; the use of the knife is continued till by cautious dissection the wound is brought to the level of the com- mon sheath of the large vessels. Assistants separate the edges by thin and bi'oad copper spatulae, and the cavity is frequently sponged. The larynx is pulled aside, and turned a little over on its axis; the pharynx is thus exposed. During the latter part of the dissection, the laryngeal nerves and thyroid arteries must be looked for and avoided. The foreign body is felt through the parietes, and these are laid open to an extent sufficient for its extraction. It is advisable to nourish the patient for some