OF ERYSIPELAS. 65 the disease will not often, unless accompanied with symptoms of putrid fever, terminate fatally; if these means are employed early, the constitutional disturbance will be modified or pre- vented, and no derangement of the cerebral functions will ensue. Powders, such as flour, chalk, and camphor, &c., have been applied to the erysipelatous surface, but are of little use, and, by their irritation, frequently prove injurious on the bursting of the vesicles. They are applied, according to some, with the view of cooling the surface, and after all the part may be seen enveloped in folds of flannel. Cold application, such as the spirituous and evaporating lotions, containing vinegar and spirits, liquor acet. ammonias, Goulard’s extract, &c., may, in many cases, afford temporary relief, but their use is fraught with the utmost danger; for their direct tendency is to produce metas- tasis, and if that be to an internal organ of importance, the result is too generally fatal. Or if the erysipelas, on leaving the part originally affected, attack another also superficial, the local treatment has to be commenced anew. If these lotions are to be employed at all in this disease, they must be made tepid. In case of the translation of erysipelas to any important part, blisters may be applied to the surface which it has left, or to any other in the neighbourhood, with the view of recalling the disease to its original and less dangerous situation: the actual cautery has even been recommended. In the great majority of cases, however, such means are unavailing. In Hospital Erysipelas, purging cannot be carried to any great extent with safety, and general bleeding is seldom if ever admissible, unless in patients previously robust and in good health, in whom the disease has occurred in consequence of their being conveyed to a distance and during hot weather, after an accident or wound, and in whom the fever is of a violent inflammatory nature. In civil hospitals, the patients are gene- rally in a weak state before the accession of this disease; and in their case, after the stomach and bowels are regulated, stimulants are more requisite. Great attention must be paid to cleanliness, the sores must be frequently dressed, and the same sponges must not be used for different individuals: in order to prevent contamination by the promiscuous use of sponges, F