339 DISEASES OF THE EYE. bowels, scarify teeth, and remove other irritating causes to which that tender age is liable. Sloughing of the Cornea should, of course, be prevented, if possible, by subduing the incited action before it has attained such intensity as to overcome the power of the part. The slough is slow in separating when the constitution has been much weakened; and sometimes tonics and stimulants, both external and internal, are required to hasten the process of separation. When the surface has at length become clean, the same treat- ment is required as to an ulcer of the part. Conical Cornea. — This deformity can scarcely be cured, nor can any optical contrivance effectually remedy the disturbance of vision. When the apex af the cone is opaque, the removal of the pupil to the circumference by operation affords the best chance of assisting the sight of the patient. When staphyloma is small, neither impeding the motions of the eye, nor preventing its being protected by the lids, no sur- gical interference is called for, as the loss or impairment of vision cannot be remedied, and as no other inconvenience than blindness is produced by the change of form in the part. But when the diseased cornea projects from between the eyelids the prominence must be diminished, on account of the deformity which it occasions, and in consequence of the eye being de- prived of its natural protection of the lids, and being thereby exposed to constant irritation. In such cases it is necessary to take away a portion of the cornea, that the eye may be so dimi- nished in bulk as to retract within the eyelids; the size of the part removed must be proportioned to the degree of protru- sion. A cornea-knife is passed into the prominence, and car- ried forwards so as to transfix the part, in a direction from the external to the inner canthus; and by the knife being carried on, with its cutting edge looking downwards, a flap of the cornea is made. This flap is then laid hold of by means of forceps, and removed either with the knife or with scissors. The aqueous humour immediately escapes, and in most cases the crystalline lens and vitreous humour are also discharged. The eye consequently shrinks, and retracts within the palpebrae. The cut margins of the cornea soon assume a reddish appear- ance — they form granulations, the wound contracts gradually, z 2