193 OF TUMOURS. Treatment of Tumours. It may be observed generally, that no benefit can be derived from external applications to tumours, such as friction with lini- ments or ointments containing iodine, mercury, &c.; and that, therefore, it is injudicious to employ such temporising measures ; for though a tumour at its commencement appear to be of a very harmless nature, yet it may soon assume a most malignant cha- racter. If an apparently simple tumour increase, and exhibit symptoms of inflammation, it will perhaps be advantageous to apply leeches, to arrest that incited action which affords the acces- sion of new materials ; this, however, cannot check the morbid activity inhei'ent in the new formation, though it may hold the growth in check a little. If a tumour is to be removed by exter- nal applications, it is evident that these must be such as shall prevent the deposit of new matter, and allow the absorbents to remove that which already exists ; for absorption is always going on in a tumour, though it leaves no evidence of its progress, on account of the deposition of new matter exceeding the removal of the old. I must say that I am unacquainted with any reme- dies capable of performing the above indication. The removal of a swelled gland may occasionally be accelerated by such means when stationary, or on the decline, and before cheesy tubercular unorganized matter is infiltrated into its texture; but to trifle so with a new and independent growth is altogether absurd. The knife only is to be depended on. Many of the tumours first described have no malignant dis- position originally, and only require surgical interference when they produce deformity or inconvenience from their bulk. Yet even these ought not to be allowed to attain any great size, how- ever indolent they may appear at first, and however little pain they may produce ; for there is always a danger of their assuming a malignant tendency, or forming connections with important parts, so as to reirder their removal either altogether impracti- cable, or at least attended with much difficulty. Tumours of every kind, when seated near important organs, must be early I’emoved. Glandular tumours, however, even wheir of great 6