INFLAMMATION OF THE BLADDER. 578 Injiammation of the Bladder and posterior part of the Urethra may arise from other causes than suppressed or badly treated gonorrhcea; but, however induced, its symptoms and conse- quences are the same. The presence of calculi or other foreign bodies, over distention, &c. will be treated of hereafter, as causing irritation and inflammation of the viscus. Much vesical irritation is often produced and kept up by disease of the kidney. When inflammation of the bladder is slight, it is attended by uneasy feelings referred to the perineum, pelvis, and glans penis; frequent desire to empty the organ; pain felt acutely before evacuation of the urine, and relieved immediately after- wai’ds; scanty secretion of acrid and highly coloured urine; a discharge of slimy tenacious mucus, either pure or voided along with the urine. In severe cases, most excruciating pain is ex- perienced during the discharge of the contents of the bladder. The urine is often bloody; in general it is of a milky ap- pearance, contaning lymph or puriform matter, and vitiated secretion from the lining membrane. Micturition is almost constant, small quantities being voided at a time. Sometimes the inflammation extends to the ureters and pelves of the kidneys, causing violent pains in the loins, nausea, occasional vomiting, and colicky affections. In very violent cases lymph is effused on the inner surface of the bladder, and may become organised; but such effusion is rare. I met with one remarkable instance of it in my own practice, and have seen several others. An old pensioner fell from a scaffolding, and sustained a severe contusion of the back. Retention of urine came on ; it was drawn off regularly for some weeks, but then severe pelvic symptoms supervened, and at last nothing but a small quantity of purulent matter flowed through the catheter. The symptoms became urgent, the blad- der was very much distended, and rose to the umbilicus; all endeavours to evacuate the urine per urethram failed, the in- strument being always closed by thick pus, and I was obliged to open the bladder pretty freely above the pubes. Much purulent matter mixed with foetid urine escaped from the wound, as also a false membrane which invested the mucous coat of the viscus. The membrane presented a flocculent appearance, in some places distinctly fibrous, in others was thin and transparent; its internal