634. CALCULUS VESICLE. there are several encysted calculi in the same bladder, but in such cases they are seldom of large size. The stone in the bladder—w^hether formed in the kidney, and having descended, or originally concreted in the bladder, either spontaneously or in consequence of the presence of foreign matter — produces very marked and distressing symptoms. There is frequent desire to empty the bladder, and the uneasi- ness is not relieved by doing so. There is pain during and after the evacuation, referred to the course of the urethra, par- ticularly to the orifice. In children, the patient is induced by the pain to grasp the penis, and pull forwards the prepuce, often so habitually as after a time to cause considerable elongation of the latter part. The flow of urine often stops suddenly, and immediately afterwards the pain is unusually severe; the stream reappears on change of position. The body is usually inclined much forwards during the attempts to make water; sometimes the patient rests on his knees and elbows, or on the top of his head, having found that he obtains most ease in these postures. The urine is mixed with ropy mucus, and in long-continued cases with a puriform fluid. After exercise, or unusual exertion, the urine is bloody. A bearing down pain is complained of during the making of water, and often there is simultaneous and involuntary evacuation of the contents of the rectum ; the close sympathy between the bowel and the bladder has been already adverted to. In young persons afflicted with stone, prolapsus of the rectum is common, and sometimes it occurs also in adults. Occasionally there is pain in the testicle, or in the back of the thighs, and very frequently a burning heat in the hollow of one or both feet; sometimes there is a fixed pain in the last situation. Some of the symptoms are more prominent than others, nor is the severity of these uniform. At times the patient is to- lerably free from uneasiness; but then a fit of increased suf- fering supervenes, often attributable to intemperance, or to over-exertion. The intensity of the symptoms also depends on the nature and size of the concretion, and on the idiosyncratic irritability of the patient; in some people the bladder is naturally so acutely irritable as to be thrown into the utmost disorder by the most trifling cause, whilst in others sources of greater irrita- tion produce but very little uneasiness. The mulberry or