435 WOUNDS OF THE NECK. cut extremities had retracted at least three inches; the oeso- phagus was also cut aci’oss, but the extent to which it had re- ceded was not ascertained. A large quantity of blood had been lost; attempts were made to bring the parts together, but were abandoned on account of the violent dyspnoea which was induced. The attendant endeavoured in vain to pass an elastic gum tube into the gullet, from the nose and from the mouth. The patient was kept alive by nutritious enemata. On the second day after the accident, the cut extremities of the larynx were approximated by two ligatures ; and, the retraction being thereby diminished, it was then discovered that there was another wound between the cricoid cartilage and the trachea. All ingesta by the mouth passed through the upper wound. On the fifth day, the liga- tures separated, and the larynx again retracted. On the sixth, an elastic gum catheter was passed into the inferior cut extremity of the gullet, and through this nutritious fluids were regularly administered. The wound granulated, and filled up in some measure; the patient continued to receive both air and nourishment through tubes introduced downwards from the wound in the throat. Whilst pouring in food, saliva was secreted in the mouth in great profusion. The sense of smelling re- mained tolerably acute, and he also possessed the power of im- perfect whispering articulation. When, from the untoward circumstances of the case, or from neglect, the opening in the windpipe remains long open, and becomes fistulous, the larynx contracts, and the voice is in a great measure lost, the patient breathes almost entirely by the unnatural opening, and all the respiratory functions are con- ducted imperfectly. But even this state of parts may admit of remedy, as is exemplified by the following case: Elizabeth Oswald, aged twenty-seven, attempted suicide in 1826, and wounded the larynx through the crico-thyroid ligament. She was under treatment for several months; but was at length abandoned with loss of voice, breathing entirely through a silver tube placed in the original wound. On her applying to me, I found the larynx had contracted; an exceedingly minute aper- ture, not capable of admitting a common dressing probe, ex- tended from the wound towards the glottis, constituting all that remained of the upper part of the natural air passage at this F F 2