RHINOPLASTIC OPERATIONS. 384 sion. But this should not be done till the new nose is con- solidated and perfect. Restoration of the columna is an opei-ation which, in this, and other civilized countries, must be even more frequently required than the restoration of the whole nose. This latter operation came to be practised in consequence of the frequency of mutilations as a punishment; the punishment for some of our sins is left to nature, and she generally relents before the whole of the organ disappears. The column is very frequently destroyed by ulceration, a conse- quence, as before stated, of injury or of constitutional derange- ment. The deformity produced by its loss is not far short of that caused by destruction of the whole nose. Happily, after the ulceration has been checked, the part can be renewed neatly, safely, and without much suffering to the patient. The operation which I have for some years practised successfully, and in a great many instances, is thus performed: — The inner surface of the apex is first pared. A sharp-pointed bistoury is then passed through the upper lip, previously stretched and raised by an assistant, close to the ruins of the former columna, and about an eighth of an inch on one side of the mesial line. The incision is continued down, in a straight direction, to the free margin of the lip ; and a similar one, parallel to the former, is made on the opposite side of the mesial line, so as to insulate a flap composed of skin, mucous membrane, and interposed substance, about a quarter of an inch in breadth. The fraenulum is then divided, and the prolabium of the flap removed. In order to fix the new columna firmly and with accuracy in its proper place, a sewing- needle — its head being covered with sealing-wax to facilitate its introduction--is passed from without through the apex of the nose, and obliquely through the extremity of the elevated flap; the small spear-pointed hare-lip needle answers even better: a few turns of the thread suffice to approximate and retain the surfaces. It is to be observed, that the flap is not twisted round as in the operation already detailed, but simply elevated, so as to do away with the risk of failure. Twisting is here un- necessary, for the mucous lining of the lip, forming the outer surface of the columna, readily assumes the colour and appear- ance of integument, after exposure for some time, as is well known. The fixing of the columna being accomplished, the