OF ASCITES, 5;^8 of cure is greatly augmented. The proceeding is, besides, not so dangerous as might at first be supposed; for effusion of lymph takes place to a considerable extent above the part grasped by the forceps, gluing the portions of bowel firmly to each othei’, and forming a new barrier against any of the faecu- lent matter escaping inwardly. Attempts may be made to repair the loss of substance in the skin by paring the edges of the opening, and affixing a flap taken from the neighbourhood. There is a greater chance of recovery from the inconvenience of artificial anus after hernia than after wounds. If the open- ing in the bowel be near the stomach, the patient will die from inanition. When it is lower in the intestinal tube, nutrition is more perfect, and the patient can be further supported by nutritive enemata. When no natural cure is likely to take place, the inconvenience will be palliated by a truss with a soft pad being worn, so as to retain the faeces till a favourable opportunity occurs for evacuation ; or a soft plug of lint may be inserted into the aperture, and retained by a compress and roller. Prolapsus of the mucous membrane of the gut some- times takes place through the artificial anus, and is reduced with difficulty. The use of a truss or tent, already mentioned, will tend to prevent the occurrence. Great attention to clean- liness is required when the opening cannot be closed. Operations for other kinds of hernia, if discovered during life, are to be conducted on similar principles with those for inguinal and crural. The sui’geon must be guided by his anatomical knowledge. No positive rules can be given. In Ascites, or accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity, the surgeon is not unfrequently called upon to relieve the patient, when the abdominal parietes are much distended, and the functions of the viscera of the abdomen and thorax inter- rupted, He must, however, exercise his own judgment in regal’d to the case, and convince himself of the» propriety of operating. He must examine into the symptoms, and ascertain that the tumour is really caused by accumulation of fluid in the bag of the peritoneum. In ascites, the abdomen has swelled slowly and uniformly, and distinct fluctuation is felt when the hand is placed on one side of the swelling, and gentle