302 DISEASES OF THE EYE. with excruciating pain, and rapid destruction of the bone, and are followed by extinction of life either at an early or remote period. They are entirely beyond the reach of Surgery ; as are also those tumours, occasionally met with in children, which project through the cranial sutures and contain fluid ; such are analogous to the disease named spina bifida, hereafter to be spoken of. I may here remark, that puncture ol the brain, with the view of abstracting fluid in chronic hydrocephalus, is an operation not often likely to be followed by success, and it may even ac- celerate the fatal issue. Some cases are recorded in which be- nefit is said to have arisen from the practice. Pressure was applied and kept up after the evacuation of the fluid. DISEASES OF THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. Of Infiammation and Abscess of the Lachrymal Passages, — In former times, all affections of the lachrymal passages, and of the parts in the neighbourhood, were denominated fistula lachry- malis, and were all treated nearly in the same manner, by opening the sac, and inserting probes, knives, terebrae, scalpra, caustics, and red-hot irons; the anatomy of the various parts being then ill understood, and the opinions as to the origin and nature of the diseases being founded on erroneous theories re- garding the defluxion of acrid humours, formation of impos- thumes, fungous growths, &c. The term, however, which was indiscriminately applied to all diseases in the inner corner of the eye, accompanied with derangement of the lachrymal secretion, is now confined to a distinct form of disease, as will afterwards be mentioned. Inflammation sometimes occurs in the loose cellular tissue covering the lachrymal sac,—whilst that cavity remains free of all disease, — and is attended with some obstructions to the passage of the tears in their natural course, on account of the eyelids becoming swollen, from an extension of the inflammation. The morbid action resembles erysipelas in its nature, and usually terminates in unhealthy suppurations; thin purulent matter lodges in the opened out cellular membrane, a soft boggy tumour is formed, and the superimposed integuments become of a bluish colour, as in the case of other scrofulous collections.