387 INFLAMMATION OF THE ANTRUM MAXILLARE. sometimes to admit the point of a small quill. On making a section of the parts, accumulations of sebaceous or atheromatous matter are found enclosed in cysts of considerable capacity. Turgid veins ramify superficially; and the surface is of a reddish blue or a purple colour, varying its hue from time to time, according to the state of the health, and the changes in the circulation. The enlargement often attains great magnitude, producing much de- formity. Vision is obstructed, and the introduction of food, both solid and liquid, interfered with : the lobes tumble into the wine-glass, spoon, and cup, and sometimes they are so elongated as to require being pulled aside in order to uncover the mouth. Breathing is also impeded more or less, by encroachment on the nasal orifices. The disease may be often attributable to hard living; but many, not intemperate, labour under it. It is desirable to have the tumour removed, even before it has become large; and it can readily be conceived that local ap- plications must fail in bringing the skin and cellular tissue into a healthy condition. Incision is required. If both sides of the nose are affected, a small scalpel is carried down in the mesial line through the altered structure, and, whilst an assistant places his finger in the nostril, the surgeon lays hold of the integument with a sharp hook, and carefully dissects away the diseased parts, first on one side, and then on the other, so that they may correspond exactly, or present the same uniform appearance. The vessels are then tied, and sometimes a considerable number bleed smartly; oozing may continue, but is readily suppressed by continued pressure, the nostrils being well stuffed. After- I wai’ds such dressings are to be employed as agree with the t stages of the sore. After cicatrization, the comfort and appear- I ance of the patient are much enhanced: and there is no risk I of reproduction — the disease is one of the skin, and all that is affected has been removed. Sketches taken from one, of very many patients, on whom I have operated for the removal of I this shocking deformity, are given in the Practical Surgery, I p. 249, 250. Injiammation of the antrum maxillare is occasionally met with; 1 but the surgeon is more frequently called upon to treat the conse- I quences of this action in it. The symptoms of inflammation of the 1 . c c 2