AMPUTATION OF THE ARM. 777 In all amputations of the upper extremity, it is of importance, and indeed a rule scarcely to be departed from, to leave as much of the limb as possible ; for here the longer the stump, the more useful is it to the patient. In accordance with this maxim, am- putation at the elbow-joint may be required, when either disease or injury extends too high for amputation in the forearm, but not too high for the formation of an anterior flap over the joint. The limb is steadied in the supine position, compression being made near the middle of the humeral artery ; the knife is passed horizontally across the condyles close to the bone, and brought downwards and forwards to a sufficient extent for the production of a flap, which is alone to form the protecting cushion. The joint is then cut through, the knife is passed down till obstructed by the olecranon, and with one sweep a semicircular incision of the posterior integument is made. All soft parts in this line are divided, and then the saw is applied to the olecranon process. This amputation is easy, rapid, and beautiful in execution ; and, when the flap is sufficiently large, — as it always may be, for there is no want of soft parts in front, — the stump is well formed and useful. The flap is laid down, and attached by suture to the integument posteriorly ; in due time the adhesive dressing is applied. The circumstance of a secreting surface forming the stump does not seem detrimental, either here, or in the wrist- joint. The synovial fluid soon ceases to distil, and union is not interrupted by it. There is no necessity for scarification, or scraping the cartilage, with the view of hastening cessation of secretion and granulation of the surface. Amputation of the arm is performed by the formation of late- ral flaps, at any point below the insertion of the deltoid muscle. Compression is made on the upper part of the humeral, or on the axillary artery. The limb is held well separated from the side; and care should be taken that, when so raised, its height be convenient to the operator. The knife is entered perpen- dicularly to the shaft of the bone, passed fairly down to it, and then inclined along its side; the operator now grasps the limb below the line of incision with the left hand, and pulls the muscles towards him — it is supposed that the right arm is being amputated, the surgeon standing on the inside, and an assistant