OF WOUNDS. 197 organ ; others, though not of so great a depth as the former, may still, on account of their mere extent, be accompanied with very considerable loss of blood from a number of small branches. It is seldom that fatal effects immediately follow external wounds; but they may and do occur when blood-vessels of the first class only are cut. They are most likely to pi’ove suddenly fatal when the arteries are only partially divided, and when the large veins accompanying them are also involved. When the artery is cut through, its extremities retract, effusion takes place into the sheath and compresses the orifice; the formation of a coagulum within the vessel is thus promoted, and the haemorrhage arrested. But, when a portion onlj' of the circum- ference is divided, the blood continues to flow through the aperture and onwards, as if into a smaller ramification of itself, no retraction or contraction of the vessel can occur, coagula- tion is slow, and the bleeding profuse. I have seen a wound of so small a vessel as the internal mammary prove almost instantaneously fatal. Wounds of the large internal vessels for the most part prove immediately fatal; as wounds of the heart, or the large vessels passing to and from its cavities, at the root of the lungs, or at the upper part of the liver. When the heart, or the vessels within the pericardium, have been divided, it can be readily understood how life should be imme- diately destroyed, since the blood effused into the cavity of the pericardium by its pi'essure completely arrests the action of the heart. But occasionally punctured wounds, in such situations, have not been followed by instant death. In such cases, alarm- ing symptoms occur at the time, but subside, and the patient may for some time suffer no uneasiness, but afterwards expires suddenly during muscular exertion, or perhaps in a fit of violent passion. Blood must have been effused into the pericardium at the first, causing symptoms of, or actual, syncope; but then the aperture in the vessel had become obstructed by coagulum before blood had been poured out in such quantity as to effectually prevent the actions of the heart; at a future period the coagulum gives way, and the subsequent effusion is limited only by the pericardial cavity being completely filled. In wounds, hasmorrhage is the symptom which most alarms the bystanders, and which demands immediate attention; but, to o 3