327 DISEASES OF THE EYE. but this seldom happens; the matter is discharged externally. Suppuration in this situation is often attended with much pain. Abscess of the surface of the cornea is of more frequent occur- rence than one more deeply seated: from its external covering yielding readily to the pressure of the accumulating matter, it generally assumes a pustular form. The fluid in such cases is sometimes absorbed, and no vestige of disease remains in the part; but more frequently the apex of the pustule gives way, and an ulcer is the consequence. A similar result takes place if an artificial opening is made for evacuation of the matter ; and it may be considered as a good rule in practice not to interfere with collections in the cornea, as there is a probable chance of the matter being absorbed, and the cornea regaining its trans- parency ; while it is certain that breach of its surface, in such cases, though made by the most delicate instrument, will give rise to ulceration. Pustular Ophthalmia is at some seasons frequently met with : small pustules, sometimes numerous, form on the conjunctiva, whilst that membrane is turgid and its vessels dilated; the scle- rotic conjunctiva around the cornea is their most common situation, but sometimes almost the whole conjunctival surface appears studded with them. When the cornea is affected, the pustules frequently give way, and produce ulceration ; and when the pustules are numerous, and surrounded by much vascularity, the part becomes opaque as well as ulcerated. In weak constitutions Ulcers of the Cornea occur from slight causes, — exposure to strong light, intemperance, inverted or irregular cilias, a granulated state of the lining of the lids, or from momentary irritation of the part by extraneous matter. The ulcer appears at first circular, but during its progress it often becomes of an irregular form : its surface is depressed and ragged, and can readily be seen by directing the patient to fix the eye, and then looking at the part from one side. The edges are elevated; and the surface, which is of an ash colour, dis- charges an acrid colourless fluid, as in similar affections of all surfaces that are covered with a delicate, tense, and exquisitely sensible expansion. Sometimes the ulcer is very minute and superficial, and enlarges very slowly, if at all; but in other in- Y 4