DISEASES OF THE EYE. 334 the mind; all noise and other sources of irritation should be studiously avoided. If the incited action in the eye do not subside, as it often will not, on removal of the exciting cause, recourse must immedi- ately be had to very active means for its subjugation; for in no other organ does inflammatory action proceed more rapidly to an unfavourable termination. By timely use of antiphlogistic means, those consequences of external ophthalmia, which we have already treated of, may be avoided; and, with respect to most of them, it is much better to prevent their occurrence, than combat them after they have been allowed to take place. The eye is more valuable to a great proportion of people than a limb; and the surgeon is very culpable if he be not master of this part of his profession, and able to undertake the manage- ment of every disease and accident to which the eye is liable. “ In cases of inflammation the general treatment is the same; but each variety requires peculiar attention during the cure, depending on the structure and function of the tissue af- fected.” In the first stage of external ophthalmia, active antiphlogistic measures must be put in force. In full habits, and cases of intense action, general bleeding must be employed, even to fainting, from the veins of the arm or of the neck, or from the temporal artery, — and repeated, if necessary, according to circumstances. Blood is sometimes abstracted by cupping from the temples or the nape of the neck; but it is a painful and uncertain mode of emptying the vessels. Local bloodletting, in many cases, suffices to moderate the action; in all it is most beneficial and important, after the employment of general de- pletion. The application of leeches to the inner canthus is the most effectual method of abstracting blood locally, as at that point the venous return is made from the eye. If placed on the temples, they can produce very little benefit; if on the outer surface of the eyelids, ecchymosis follows, on account of the extreme looseness of the cellular tissue in that situation. Or the angular vein, at the inner canthus, may be opened with a lancet, and a considerable quantity of blood thereby abstracted from the seat of the disease. Leeches applied to the conjunctiva of the lower lid are sometimes advantageous; but leeching and