137 AFFECTIONS OF THE ARTERIAL SYSTEM. or the other becomes dilated, their parietes are thickened, and the valves are altered in structure ; the enlargement of the vessels is generally greatest towards their origin. The dilata- tion of arteries, more especially of the internal ones, is often very great; ultimately the internal coat gives way, and the external, with the surrounding tissues, yields in proportion as the blood diffuses itself. The internal tunic is occasionally burst in consequence of violent and sudden muscular exertion; and, even when the vessels are pretty limber and sound, effu- sion of lymph and obliteration of the vessel ensue, or, more fre- quently, aneurism. Previously to the rupture of the internal tunic, however, there is, in most cases, a morbid alteration in the texture of the vessel. The internal coat becomes dry; its texture is more dense and less elastic, and consequently more brittle. Morbid matter is deposited between the middle and internal coats, and this, by stretching the latter still further, diminishes the elasticity and cohesion of their texture. The deposit is at first to a slight extent and of soft consistence, somewhat resembling condensed fatty matter Afterwards it increases in quantity and consistence, becoming, instead of soft and yielding, dense, hard, and incom- pressible ; in short, calcareous. Though the morbid deposit is at first confined, as above related, its limits are afterwards extended ; calcareous matter is insinuated, either in minute particles or in broad laminae, amongst the fibres of the middle coat, is also found external to it, and occasionally situated in the cellular coat. In fine, the various component parts of the parietes of the vessel degenerate, according to the degree of advancement which the disease has attained ; and such a condition is the predisposing cause to ulceration of the internal coat, and sub- sequent effusion of blood. The steato- matous, ulcerated, earthy degeneration of the proper coats of an artery, as Scarpa, the celebrated professor of Pavia, has it, are well exhibited in the accompanying sketch.