587 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. can form an accurate diagnosis regarding the nature and extent of the stricture. The information thus acquired is afterwards acted on. The principles on which the cure is to be conducted are the same in almost all cases; but the particulars of the treatment must vary according to circumstances. In slight cases, the gentle introduction of a moderately-sized bougie produces a cure by removing the irritability or susceptibility of the surface ; the relaxed membrane is stimulated by the distension made with the bougie, and soon regains its natural tone. It may be necessary to repeat the introduction of the bougie a few times, at consider- able intervals. In tight organic strictiu*e something more's re- quired ; the constricted part must be dilated gradually. Much dexterity and management is often required to pass an instru- ment through a tight stricture, particularly if inflamed ; and in such circumstances the attempt should not be made but on good grounds, and to relieve urgent and dangerous symptoms; but after a bougie or catheter, however small, has been got past, the disease is completely under the control of the surgeon, and a cure must follow if the treatment be properly conducted, and if the bladder and kidneys have remained tolerably sound. The effect of an instrument passed through an organic stricture is to remove the irritability of the lining membrane, to excite the ab- sorbents to remove the newly-formed parts, and to dilate the passage: it may be supposed to act in some measure on the same principle as a bandage applied to a swelled extremity. The instruments introduced must be gradually enlarged till one readily passes of the full size ; that is, one that enters the orifice with some difficulty, and fully distends the rest of the canal. Numerous contrivances have been employed for the dilatation of strictures ; but the preferable instrument is a silver catheter, or a sound made of silver, of steel, or of plated metal. A soft or gum-elastic bougie is sometimes useful in ascertaining the nature and situation of the stricture ; but in the treatment it must give place to the metallic, slightly conical at the point. This, in the hands of a well -qualified person, can be more surely and readily directed than a flexible one, and in its use there is less risk of injury being inflicted on the passage; besides, it does not yield to the action of the diseased part. The practitioner must be pro-