DISEASES OF THE WINDPIPE. 439 F F 4 plete valve, obstructing respiration, and causing death by suf- focation. When the inflammation extends into the bronchi and sub- stance of the lungs, laborious breathing and the mucous rattle occur. The bronchi are obstructed by vitiated mucus, or by lymph, and serum is effused at the base of the brain; and from either or both of these circumstances the patient soon perishes. In children the gums should be looked to, and if swollen or tender, they must be freely scarified; this always affords relief, and often forms the most important part of the treatment. The bow’els must be completely freed from the foetid dark-coloured matter which they contain; and if this be effected at an early period, it will generally be sufficient to arrest the progress of the disease. Calomel is the medicine usually preferred, not only from its excellent qualities as correcting and purging out the vitiated secretions, but also on account of its supposed effect of preventing lymphatic effusion. To the procuring of copious evacuations from the stomach and bowels, the attention of the practitioner ought to be chiefly directed at the commencement. With the same view, emetics are of much service. The warm bath will be of use in promoting the cutaneous discharge, and assisting to allay irritation. When the inflammatory symptoms are violent, bleeding, both local and geneial, is indispensable, and must be had recourse to early; for during the commence- ment only of the disease can it be of service. The first, or acute, inflammatory stage is of but short continuance, speedily terminating in effusion; and when this has occurred, the symp- toms all denote debility of the system, and will be irrepai'ably aggravated by depletion. The most effectual mode of abstracting blood, is by opening the external jugular vein, and this may be followed by the application of leeches to the forepart of the neck ; in the second stage of the disease, their place is to be supplied by blisters, and other counter-irritants. Much benefit will be de- rived from the continued use of nauseating doses of the tartrite of antimony; in the first stage, the vascular action will be thereby subdued, and in the second the medicine acts as a powerful expectorant, determines to the surface, and promotes the evacuations from the bowels. Often, however, the disease