T 66 OF FURUNCULUS AND ANTHRAX. it is better to clean the parts around sores with lint or tow, and to destroy immediately such dressings as have been used. The apartments must be well ventilated, and those who are affected with the disease should be separated from the rest of the patients. The local applications will vary according to the particular circumstances of each case. Strong escharotics may be required to clean the surface of the sores, and put a stop to the sloughing. The nitric acid will answer the purpose well, and is less objectionable than some remedies that have been used ; such as the arsenical solution, or the red hot iron. Of Furunculus and Anthrax. Furunculi, or Boils, most generally occur in unhealthy con- stitutions, particularly in those individuals who are habitually addicted to the use of ardent liquors : they seem to arise from, at least they follow, disorder of the digestive organs. Their seat is in the skin and subjacent cellular tissue. They generally occur in those parts which are possessed of ^ little vitality, as in the back, buttocks, shoulders, the posterior t part of the neck, &c. They are seldom single, are often nu- v merous, and vary in size from a pea to a pigeon’s egg. ^ A boil is of a conical form, elevated above the surface of the ' body ; its base is hard and firm, whilst its apex is acute, soft, of a white colour, and exceedingly painful; the pain experi- enced in the tumour is severe and burning. From the com- i paratively trifling nature of the affection, the assistance of the j surgeon is seldom required, and hence the apex of the tumour generally gives way either spontaneously, or in consequence of being scratched by the patient, or rubbed by the clothes: the purulent matter, which is generally small in quantity, and mixed with blood, is thus discharged. This, however, is at- tended with but little relief in bad forms of the affection; for at the lower part of the cone is situated a considerable quantity of mortified cellular tissue, which must be evacuated before the cavity can heal. In this unhealthy species of inflammation, resolution cannot be expected; on the contrary, suppuration is the natural ter-