396 CONGENITAL DEFICIENCIES. should always be passed close to the free margin of the lip. No further dressing is required, for reasons already assigned. The forceps of different kinds for holding the edge during its removal are worse than useless; and paring with scissors is to be repro- bated, as an effectual means of preventing immediate union. By the plan above recommended, bruising is avoided, and union takes place rapidly. Fissures, more or less extensive, of the hard palate, generally attend double harelip. The position and size of the intermediate portion of the lip, and of the superior maxillary bone, ai’e various; and the operator, in forming his plan of procedure, must be guided by the state of the parts. If the fissures are not very wide — if the intermediate portion of bone, that adhering to the septum narium, is not prominent — and if the soft parts covering this are free and long, the operative procedure is simple. Two such operations as are described for single harelip, the latter performed at an interval of some weeks, are required. Thereby the intervening flap is united first to one side, and then to the other. If the flap is short and free, without osseous projection, the operation may be concluded at once, thus :—The edges are pared on both sides, and the parts brought together as in single harelip, the small intervening flap not preventing apposition below. One pin is passed at the prolabium, the other traverses the flap. In all cases, in fact, the operation may be concluded at once. When the bone projects, and the flap is long, the parts may be rendered favourable for the operation by gentle and continued pressure ; the osseous prominence being reduced, so as to restore the natural position of the soft parts. When, as not unfrequently occurs, there is projection of the bone, and the soft and hard parts seem to be incorporated with the apex of the nose —when, in short, little or no intermediate flap exists, the protruding portion of bone may be removed by cutting forceps down to the level of the palatine arch ; and then the soft parts can be brought together by one operation, as for single harelip.