TREATMENT OF DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. 565 o o 3 and number of incisions, must be varied according to circum- stances. A great part of the affected bowel may be pulled down by a director before being cut, as is sometimes done; but the practice is useless and painful. Should luemorrhage take place, it may be restrained by stuffing the wound gently with lint; if this fail, the bleeding vessels are to be secured by liga- ture; but this is seldom necessary. ^ The bowels should be well cleared out before the operation, so that two or more days may pass over without the parts being required to perform their functions ; and, if the bowels are naturally loose, opiates may be administered. Afterwards copious evacuation is to be procureo by enemata or gentle laxatives. It is necessary to prevent the ex- ternal part of the wound from adhering, until the whole has contracted equally, and begun to be filled up by granulations from the bottom ; and with this view a piece of lint is interposed between the margins. Stuffing the wound daily with large dossils of lint, smeared or not with irritating ointments, is attended with much pain, and certainly impedes the cure. The dressing should be simple and light, and introduced with gentleness and care. The first should be allowed to remain undisturbed till sponta- neously discharged along with the faeculent matter. In the greater number of cases, a second interposition of dressing is all that is required. In all cases, dressing should not be con- tinued long; but as the cavity gradually contracts, discharging laudable pus, and becoming coated with healthy florid granula- tions, the interposed pledgets should be daily diminished, and soon omitted entirely. If the surgeon continue long to stuff the wound it cannot contract, will become callous as before, and a fistula will be reproduced. Injections into the wound, or the application of lint soaked in a gently stimulating lotion, are often beneficial in promoting contraction. But, as already stated, most fistulas get well after proper incision, with but one or two dressings, and without any after application excepting abundance of soap and water. During the cure, the general health must be kept vigorous, and the state of the bowels strictly attended to. In ulcer of the mucous lining, with irritability of action in the bowel, injections of tepid or cold water are useful, by removing irritating matters from the part. By means of a speculum ani