INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 286 party to church, and probably drank some more whiskey during the day. He afterwards felt indisposed, and was seized with sickness and shivering in the afternoon. On Monday he was in a violent fever, and I saw him in the evening. He had been delirious, but was now lying in a state of stupor. There was a hole in the right parietal bone, capable of admitting the point of the little finger, and many loose fragments of bone were felt lying on the dura mater; a trephine was applied, and numerous spicula were removed. Afterwards, the circulation became much excited, he was bled copiously, and antimony was exhi- bited in nauseating doses; but he died early on Wednesday morning. On dissection, there were found marks of violent inflammatory action on the surface of the hemispheres. The vessels were unusually numerous and highly engorged, and lymph and pus were effused in considerable quantity, the arach- noid was opaque, and the cerebral substance was somewhat soft- ened. Had the operation been performed at an earlier period, there is every probability that the inflammation, which proved fatal, would have been averted, as in the following instance: — A quarry man received a blow from a sharp stone of considerable size, which rolled down a precipitous bank, and struck him on the vertex. He lay insensible for half an hour, but recovered, and followed his occupation during the rest of the day. In the evening he came for advice. There was a small wound in the scalp, and the subjacent bone was fractured exactly in the same manner as in the former instance, but he felt no uneasy symptoms whatever. The consequences likely to result from such an injury, and the necessity for trephining, were represented to him; he agreed, and the operation was performed on the spot. Many sharp fragments of the inner table were extracted; he proceeded home, never had a bad symptom afterwards, and consequently required no treatment save dressing of the wound. The operation, if undertaken early, will, in all probability, succeed in averting future evil, more especially if the dura mater be not wounded. As a proof of the unfavourable nature of this latter circumstance, I give the following case: — A young man, aged 18, received a kick on the forehead from a horse, September 9th. He remained perfectly sensible, and did not fall to the ground. Shortly after, he was seized with vomiting.