ULCERS OF THE LIPS. 390 must not be contented, but must make another and more efficient opening. The membrane of the mouth is to be divided on the forepart of the maxillary bone, immediately above the first small grinder, and a large perforator then pushed into the antral cavity; little force is required, for the parietes are soft and par- tially absorbed. The perforation should be of a size sufficient to admit the little finger; thereby a free and dependent exit is allowed for the concrete as well as the fluid matter. Curdy and very offensive stuff is sometimes found in great abundance in this cavity. If the discharge is very foetid, and long of drying up, and if there is an appearance of disease in the osseous pai’i- etes, injections into the cavity may be required, though seldom. They are occasionally useful in dislodging the atheromatous matter. In general the discharge gradually diminishes, the membrane of the antrum resumes its healthy condition and func- tions, and the aperture in its parietes is shut by a fine ligament- ous substance. Ulcers of Lips. — The prolabium is liable to ulceration from various causes; from long-continued irritations, as sharp corners of teeth, rugged tartar on the external surfaces of the teeth, the habitual use of a short tobacco-pipe; from external violence; from the application of acrid matter; or from an ulcerative dis- position unconnected with external circumstances. The con- stant and free motion of the parts is prejudicial to healing, and consequently the soi*es often remain long open. Though ulcers on the lips are generally of a bad character, it does not follow that all are so. Many are simple; but these, after remaining long, are apt to degenerate. Others from the first assume ma- lignant action, and unfortunately they are more frequently met with than simple and well disposed sores. The malignant sore often commences in a warty excrescence which ulcerates at the base; the ulceration extends, the warty appearance is succeeded by ragged and angry fleshy points, the surrounding parts become indurated, and the stony hardness spreads. The appearance which the sore presents is that of open cancer, described at page 175. and here represented. The ulceration may either be limited in depth and extent to a small part of the lip, or may involve the greater part of the prolabium, and that without