624 SARCOCELE. stances of the case should appear favourable. Rest is enjoined ; and a radical cure is not to be attempted till the fluid has col- lected a second, or perhaps a third time, and become colour- less. Acute inflammation of the testicle, from sympathy with the urethra, and sudden suppression of discharge from the anterior part of the canal, has been already treated of. The inflam- mation may also be the result of external violence. When the urethra is diseased, the testicle is irritable, and its circulation easily excited. After subsidence of the inflammatory attack, swelling, particularly of the epididymis, or of the posterior part of the gland, seldom altogether disappears. The new matter is not entirely absorbed; and thickening and induration remain, to an extent depending on the violence of the action and the propriety of the treatment. Enlargements of the body of the gland are generally attri- buted to injury. But often they occur without such cause being assignable; and may be the result of chronic excited action, kindled in deposit produced by a previous acute inflam- matory attack. Such indolent swellings attain considerable size. The tumour is of an irregular surface, and feels hard and unyielding; there is always more or less effusion of fluid into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, adding to the bulk of the swelling. Indeed, the size and consistence of the tumour can be correctly ascertained only after evacuation of this fluid. Many of these tumours, as already observed, are of firm consistence; others are soft and doughy. They occur at the middle period of life, or before it. Some are resolved easily, and by ordinary attention. Others enlarge, notwithstanding the most judicious treatment; they gradually soften, and at length fluctuation becomes apparent. Curdy matter is evacu- ated by incision, perhaps mixed with a small quantity of thin unhealthy matter; and from the wound projects a pale fungous growth furnishing profuse discharge. The gland has now lost all appearance of its original structure; a section of it presents a homogeneous surface, of a greyish colour, and soft consistence, at some places broken down and mixed with tubercular matter and pus. The fungus is of the same nature as the rest of the