266 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. and granulation has commenced, the loss of substance is rapidly repaired in this region, more especially when the patient is young and healthy. General or partial support, by bandaging, is required in many cases, as by a handkerchief, split cloths, or a roller applied in various forms. Wounds of the Temporal Artery are either the result of acci- dent, or made intentionally for the purpose of abstracting blood; and it may be here proper to make a few remarks regarding this latter circumstance. When it is wished to take away blood from the head, no one thinks of opening the trunk of the tem- poral artery; its anterior branch is generally chosen. By some the vessel is first exposed by means of a scalpel, and then opened with a lancet. But preliminary incisions are altogether unneces- sary. The vessel ought not to be cut entirely through, and the incision should extend obliquely across its coui’se; and care is to be taken that the external aperture shall be larger than that in the cellular tissue involving the artery, as thus the blood escapes freely, and no risk is incurred of its becoming infiltrated into the surrounding parts. When the branch is of the ordinary size, a sufficient quantity of blood is readily obtained from it; but if, from its small size, or a faulty form of incision, blood does not flow freely and quickly, a cupping-glass may be applied, and its lower edge slightly raised. This latter precaution is absolutely necessary, for if neglected, little or no blood can escape, the artery being firmly compressed against the cranium by the edge of the exhausted glass. No other mode of cupping ought to be practised on the temples, for the cupping by scarifi- cation is here both unwarrantable and unnecessary—unwarran- table, because the cicatrised scarifications leave an unseemly and permanent mark on a prominent part of the countenance,— and unnecessary, since there can be no occasion for six or eight incisions when one is fully sufficient. The bleeding may be readily stopped, after the requisite quantity has flowed, by a small graduated compress placed over the wound, and retained by bandages, which surround the head, and are afterwards twisted and brought under the chin in order to increase the security. If by these means the bleeding is not readily restrained, the vessel may be divided throughout its whole cir- cumference, by entering the lancet at the original wound, and