495 AFFECTION OF THE FINGERS. months, is very seldom followed by cure. If the tumour is placed over a bone, sudden and firm compression should be made with the thumb, so as to rupture the cyst, or with the same view it may be struck sharply by an obtuse body. The contents are thus extravasated into the cellular tissue, and are speedily absorbed; the cyst inflames, and becomes obliterated. Sometimes the excitement is insufficient for complete closure of the cyst, and the swelling returns. When the cyst is thick, the tumour of long duration, and the person impatient of pain, it may be punctured by a cataract needle of any kind; one thin and double-edged is probably the most convenient. The instrument is introduced through the skin, at some distance from the swelling; and, by moving the point of the needle after penetration, the cyst is divided freely. The needle is with- drawn, and the orifice closed by the finger. The contents are then squeezed into the cellular tissue, and this is followed by the same favourable results as in the preceding method. Re- moval of such tumours by dissection is unnecessary, and also attended with risk. I have removed several large ones by in- cision ; but the whole cyst can seldom be taken away, and there is great risk of inflammation ensuing, followed by sloughing of the tendons, or by rigidity of the part. From my experience of the unfavourable consequences of incision, I should not again adopt such a proceeding. Setons have been passed through the swellings, but 1 cannot attest either their efficacy or their safety. Exostoses of the phalanges of the Angers are rarely met with. Sometimes bony enlargement occurs, involving many of the phalanges along with several of the metacarpal bones. In such cases, both hands are often similarly diseased, and other parts of the osseous system also affected. When the tumour is limited to one or two fingers of one hand, then, to get rid of the de- formity and inconvenience, the patient may desire its removal. The whole of the bone affected should be taken away, lest the disease be reproduced. Spina ventosa^ acute or chronic, more frequently the latter, is sometimes met with in the metacarpal bones, or in the phalanges.