GONORRHCEA AND LEUCORRHCEA. 660 then made by the side of the crus clitoridis, and through this the finger reaches the neck of the bladder, more by dilatation than by additional use of the knife. In one case I removed a very large stone by incision. By a straight grooved staff the urethra vras depressed; a straight blunt-pointed bistoury, being slid along the groove, was carried upwards and outwards, first on the left side, and then on the right — dividing the urethra and parts exterior, so as to form a track of wound, which, after dilatation, would admit of the ready passage of the stone. Extraction was easy. Incontinence continued for many months, but ultimately was in a great mea- sure removed by promoting farther contraction of the opening by the cautery. The preferable plan, and one I have since then followed in a few instances, is dilatation to some extent, and by a proper instrument; then slight incision on each side upwards and outwards; then further dilatation; in a few minutes, with- out much pain, the finger is admitted, then the forceps. The stone is then extracted quickly, with but little pain, and no bad consequences follow. Gonorrhcea in females is often confounded with Leucorrhoea^ which is a very common complaint both in married and unmar- ried women. Leucorrhoea sometimes occurs at a very early period of life, at the age of ten or sooner; and in such circum- stances affections of the glandular and osseous systems often supervene. Frequently it precedes the accession of the coloured menstrual discharge, and in many instances is substituted for it; it is always most profuse after the menstrual period. In leucor- rhoea there is generally neither heat nor pain during the passing of urine, and the colour of the discharge differs from that of gonor- rhoea, though sometimes very slightly; the stain of gonorrhoeal matter is yellow with a black border; leucorrhoeal is white or yellowish, but does not possess the latter characteristic. The appli- cation of leucorrhoeal matter will induce discharge from the urethra or from the external parts of some males, but the affec- tion thus caused is, perhaps, not so violent, nor of so long du- ration, as that which arises from specific contagion. The effects of leucorrhoea on the system are very troublesome. There is general debility, disorder of the stomach, pains of the back,