AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. 465 tion by this method : but if large and powerful instruments be introduced, and force applied, the parts may sustain severe injury, and troublesome consequences ensue: indeed sucb pro- ceedings have proved fatal. Foreign bodies are also occasionally impacted in the nostrils : the procedure above described is to be adopted. Sometimes they are discharged by the posterior nares during attempts at extraction. Polypus of the meatus auditorius externus is generally of pretty firm consistence, pyriform, sometimes slightly lobulated and warty-looking; it adheres by a narrow neck to the parietes of the tube near the margin of the membrana tympani, is at- tended with slight discharge, and with deafness to a greater or less extent. Extraction is the only means of cure. The body of tbe tumour is depressed and pulled outwards by tbe flat end of a probe slightly bent; delicate forceps are introduced gently, and passed up to the neck of the polypus, which is then firmly grasped; by combining slight twisting with gentle extractive force, it is readily removed. Or a flat scoop, with a sharp round edge, is passed along till obstructed, and by slight rotatory motion of the edge, the neck of the tumour is divided. After a day or two, a mild escharotic may be applied with the view of preventing reproduction; a bit of charpie sprinkled with the oxidum hy- drargyri rubrum may be pushed up to where the tumour was attached, and the application may be repeated several times, one or two days intervening. Even after this the tumour some- times returns, again rendering extraction necessary. Deafness is attributable to various causes besides those already mentioned. Accumulation of cerumen in the external meatus is the most common. The cerumen is often mixed with wool, and other extraneous substances, which the patient may have been in the habit of introducing as preservatives from cold, and thus a large and firm plug is formed, completely blocking the meatus. It is removable by the assiduous injection of tepid water, the best solvent of cerumen. The whole may not be brought away at the first sitting; but the injection must be repeated again H H