501 AFFECTIONS OF THE MAMMA. withdrawn. Fever attends, more or less violent. Such tumours seldom if ever subside or are resolved ; suppuration takes place, and the matter generally comes to the surface at more than one point. This abscess originates in the substance of the gland ; but collections occasionally form in the cellular tissue beneath the mamma, either spontaneously, as in bad constitutions, or in consequence of injury. In either case, and particularly in the latter, the swelling is great, and the suppuration extensive; troublesome and tedious sinuses remain unless early and free openings are made. Leeching is of little use in mammary swelling during lactation ; cold and evaporating lotions seem to do harm by producing de- termination from the surface to the deeper parts. The gland is to be kept as free from secretion as possible, and supported by a handkerchief tied round the neck ; moderate diet should be en- joined, and laxatives given occasionally. Fomentations are be- neficial at first, but are superseded by poultice when matter appears to have formed and to be making its way to the surface. Two or more openings are generally necessary, to afford free outlet to the matter; indeed, an incision is indicated wherever the integuments are elevated, thin, and shining. Afterwards poulticing is continued for some days, and succeeded by other suitable applications. The discharge seldom ceases, so long as the secretion of milk is encouraged. Adolescent males are sometimes affected by troublesome ful- ness and uneasiness of the mammillae. Little or no treatment is required, the inconvenience subsiding gradually and spon- taneously. Indolent enlargements of the mammary gland occur, though rarely. They sometimes attain an immense size; and are often attributable to the menstrual discharge having been inoppor- tunely arrested. Such tumours have, from their great bulk, required extirpation. Sarcomatous tumours of various kinds are met with, either in the cellular tissue under the mamma, or in the substance of the gland — tumours not of the gland, though in it. Such are generally traced to injury, as to a bruise by falling against the corner of a table or chair, an accidental push from the elbow of another, &c. Simple sarcoma is the most frequent formation K K 3