36 OF SUPPURATIOK. and, perhaps, occasionally employed: in those abscesses which are comparatively recent, and in which the surrounding parts are still in a state of over-excitement, they are quite inadmissible. The employment of setons and injections in any case of abscess is not much to be commended or trusted . to. Caustic, the potassa fusa, may be frequently employed with advantage for opening chronic abscesses, especially when they are the consequence of glandular enlargement, and undermine the integuments, which show no tendency to adhere to the sub- jacent parts. The potass is best used in the solid form and well pointed; not in paste, as is sometimes practised. By its application the unhealthy surface is destroyed, and the sur- rounding parts are stimulated so as to assume a sufficient degree of action to throw off the portions which have be- come useless, and to form new and healthy granulations, whilst the surrounding effusion of lymph or serum is for the most part speedily absorbed. But it can never be employed in acute abscesses without aggravating the disease; and in collections which are deeply seated, it cannot be of much service, for in these a considerable thickness of healthy parts must be de- stroyed, and if the potass be applied, it will afterwards be necessary to cut through the slough, as was practised by the older surgeons, in order to evacuate the matter and give relief to the patient; or else to continue the application of the caustic for an inordinate space of time, which is a practice altogether unnecessary, extremely cruel, and productive of much irritation, constitutional as well as local. A too common result of abscess, when inertly treated, is the formation of a Sinus; that is, a canal, the circumference of which is condensed by deposited lymph, and which furnishes a discharge of unhealthy purulent matter, frequently thin and gleety. Several sinuses frequently unite, and evacuate their contents by one opening. Previously to treating a sinus, its extent must be carefully examined by the probe; this requires considerable caution, for the full extent of the canal may not be discovered, in consequence of its tortuous course, or from its diverging into collateral branches; or the probe, by being used too forcibly, may pass into parts altogether unconnected with the morbid cavity. Thus, in exploring a