199 OF WOUNDS. which obstruct it. The flow of blood through the divided vessel being prevented, the circulating fluid necessarily passes through the nearest collateral branches, leaving the blood in the extremity of the larger trunk in a state of comparative rest; consequently, coagulation occurs in this situation. The internal coagulum, however, is small, and not sufficient to occupy completely the cavity of the vessel; it is of a conical form, its apex being towards the heart, and opposite to the first collateral branch, and its base resting on the external coagulum, and there adhering to the internal surface of the artery. But, whilst this latter pro- cess is advancing, the capillary vessels supplying the cut margins of the artery have begun to act; they throw out coagulating lymph, and continue to do so until their secretion has completely filled the vessel immediately opposite to its divided margins; thus a third and more effectual coagulum is formed, — one of plastic matter, situated between the external and internal coagula of blood, and in general closely adherent to them. Lymph is also effused externally to the artery and its sheath, forming a dense stratum, which separates the extremity of the vessel from the external wound; it becomes organised, forms granulations, and thus the parts are consolidated, and the wound cicatrised. When the artery is permanently obstructed by the adhesion of its cut margins, the external coagulum can be dispensed with, and is gradually absorbed. Afterwards all the newly-formed parts are condensed, and diminish in size; the artery contracts, its internal surface finally embraces the coagulated blood which lay loose in its canal; its coats appear to be thickened, and it is firm and hard. Ultimately, in consequence of the continuance of absorption, it becomes much more attenuated, so as scarcely to differ from the surrounding cellular tissue. Similar changes occur in the lower extremity of the divided artery; in general it retracts farther, its orifice is more contracted, and, the flow of blood being much less profuse than in the superior, the natural means for its temporary closure are sooner accomplished. When an artery has been divided close to the origin of a collateral branch, no bloody coagulum can form internally, for the blood in that situation is necessarily in a state of constant motion. If the haemorrhage is suppressed artificially, either by ligature, or by otherwise well-applied pressure, no external coagulum is o 4