FRACTURE OF THE FEMUR. 713 and all other untoward symptoms must be actively met, and their consequences either averted or got over as far as possible. Fracture of the Sacrum is uncommon, as also detachment or fracture of the Coccyx. The former accident happens in con- sequence of a fall from a great height. There is little or no displacement whether the fracture is transverse or longitudinal; sometimes there is splintering of the bone. Acute pain is occa- sioned by motion of the limbs and of the trunk, and by pressure over the injured part. Abscess is apt to follow, both under the integument, and in the concavity of the bone, and the chief duty of the surgeon is to prevent this if possible. Fractures of the Thigh. — On account of the thick muscular covering, much attention is required to enable the surgeon to form an accurate diagnosis regarding the effects of an injury of the upper part of the femur. The necessity for ascertaining what the injury really is, need not be insisted on. Consequences dreadful to the patient have too often followed blunders in dia- gnosis. As in the accidents of the shoulder-joint, some idea as to the exact injury may be formed by ascertaining how the force was applied; but this, alone, may sometimes mislead. Careful manipulation is to be chiefly trusted to. Fracture within the capsule is met with most frequently in those of advanced age, when the form of the neck of the bone has been altered, — when it has become shorter, and attached less obliquely to the shaft, as is sometimes the case; the bones, too, are then more brittle than in earlier life. The accident often happens from slight force, applied either to the farther end of the bone or to the trochanter, as by a fall in going up or down stairs. Though the height often be not great, yet the patient’s energies are weakened, he can make no effort to break the fall, and the weight of the body is thrown on either the fore or the back part of the trochanter. Though the fracture, in such an accident, generally extends beyond the capsule, and the pro- cesses are broken to a greater or less extent, yet occasionally the head of the bone is separated by transverse break of the neck without farther injury. This fracture occurs sometimes in those of middle life; and even in children, separation of the