AFFECTIONS OF THE MAMMA. 500 The symptoms and consequences of inflammation of the vein have been already detailed. The affection is attended with great pain, and with swelling from effusion into the cellular tissue around the course of the vessel; the integuments are inflamed and tense; sero-purulent secretion soon takes place in the in- filtrated cellular tissue, both deep and subcutaneous, followed by sloughing, and separation of the skin from its subjacent con- nexions ; even death of the muscular structure sometimes ensues — the pectoral muscles have been found black and soft. The local treatment must be active. Incisions are made early into tense parts, to prevent internal mischief; and if the vein in the neighbourhood of the wound be filled with pus, it should be laid open freely. The evacuation of the matter affords great relief; afterwards bread poultices or water dressings are to be applied to the wounds, the other parts should be assiduously fomented, and attention given to the position of the limb. The bowels are to be attended to, and the secretions promoted by mercurials with stimulants, as camphor with calomel, or the hydrargyrum cum creta. When the tongue gets moist at the edges, tonics and sti- mulants of a more permanent and powerful action are necessary. I have not witnessed any bad effects of venesection attribut- able to puncture of the tendon or fascia, or to partial division of twigs of the cutaneous nerves. In spasmodic or painful affections arising from the latter cause, slight extension of the incision is recommended, so as to divide entirely the injured branch. Inflammatory tumour of the Mamma occurs generally during lactation; and is attributable to injury, perhaps slight, during the then excited state of the secreting vessels — to sudden ex- posure to cold — to interruption to the flow of the secretion. It occurs, however, independently of this ,state — sometimes at the age of puberty, during the development of the gland — or at other periods of life, either spontaneously, or in consequence of external violence. The last class of cases are usually more severe than those first alluded to; some are more indolent than others ; almost all are preceded by shivering. There is swelling of the part, a sensation of weight in it, and dull pain ; then throb- bing heat, and increase of suffering. The surface is inflamed, and the nipple concealed by the tumescence. The milk cannot be