OF HERNIA. 518 almost direct, and from its becoming oblique and elongated during growth, prevention of protrusion may be effected. Descent must never be allowed during such attempts at cure. But in adults such a fortunate result can scarcely be expected; the truss must be constantly worn during the day—in bed it may be disused — and the patient must rest satisfied with thereby escaping those dangers to which protrusion of the hernia would render him always liable. Great care should be taken to ascer- tain in the morning, before the truss is applied, that no protru- sion exists. If the opening be not much dilated, it may contract even in adults when protrusion is sedulously prevented. The patient will also require to avoid the causes of hernia. If he is subject to cough, or labours under bad urinary disease, by which the abdominal muscles are called frequently and fully into action, there is no chance of a cure; nothing but the continued use of a truss will afford safety. Hernia is rendered irreducible, 1. By the formation of adhe- sions between the sac and the included parts. 2. By induration of the protruded omentum, and by accumulation of fat in it, or in the appendiculae of protruded large intestine. 3. By con- traction of the abdominal cavity from long-continued displace- ment of a large portion of its contents. 4. By the nature and connexions of the protruded part, as in hernia of the sigmoid flexure, or of the caput coecum coli. 5. By firm compression of the abdomen. 6. By the tightness of the opening giving rise to engorgement of the protruded parts. 7. By accumulation of faeces, solid or fluid, in the protruded portion of bowel. With care, some of these causes may be got over, and the tumour reduced. In iiTeducible hernia the use of a bag truss is indis- pensable to prevent increase of the protrusion. In irreducible femoral hernia of small size, a hollow pad with a weak spring is used with advantage, to give support to the contained parts, prevent farther protrusion, and guard the tumour against ex- ternal violence. The patient must avoid violent exertion, keep his bowels open, and be careful of his diet; he is always in danger, and should know it. Many have lost their lives from blows otherwise not dangerous; and even straining at stool is sufficient to force additional portions of viscera into the neck of the sac, and thereby induce most serious distress. Ruptures