CIRSOCELE. 621 sometimes with slight fever. This fluid, however, is quickly absorbed — usually in from four to six days — the swelling sub- sides, as also the pain, and the patient remains free of the disease. Whilst this salutary action is in progress, the recumbent posture must be strictly enjoined, along with low diet and suspension of the organ; and sometimes, though rarely, it may be necessary to have recourse to more active means to moderate inflammation. Should the excitement appear insufficient after a day or two, the surfaces may be rubbed against each other with the fingers, and gently squeezed, or the patient may be directed to walk about occasionally through his room until pain is felt. If the disease return, as need scarcely be dreaded, injection is to be repeated, either again with wine, or with a more potent fluid. The term Cirsocele is applied to varix of the spermatic veins. The affection seldom extends to the inguinal aperture, and is usually situated on the left side. The tumour is somewhat pyri- form, the larger extremity resting on the testicle, and by its peculiar appearance and feel its structure is at once apparent; the veins are seen through the integument. Pressure from below upwai’ds, during the recumbent posture, diminishes the swelling; pressure above augments it, particularly if the patient change his posture, and exert the abdominal muscles. Some- times a dull pain in the back is complained of, relieved by sus- pension of the scrotum, and often wasting of the testicle slowly advances. In some cases the swelling attains a large size, elon- gating the scrotum, and proving a source of very great uneasi- ness to the patient — so great that some have requested and urged castration. Commonly it is sufficient to wear a bag truss, and avoid all causes of irritation to the parts; thus increase of swelling is prevented, and the inconvenience rendered trifling. If pain, with redness of the integument, and additional enlarge- ment, should supervene, I’est and the recumbent posture must be enjoined for a time, combined perhaps with low diet and local depletion. But in cases of large inconvenient tumour, accom- panied with atrophy of the testicle, rather than accede to the wishes of the patient and perform castration, the treatment re- commended many centuries ago may be put in practice — the application of a heated wire to the veins. The upper part of