FISTULA. 556 in many instances hardness, deeply seated, is felt. On intro- ducing the finger into the rectum, the aperture in the coats of the bowel is perceived, or a part of the bowel feels more boggy and tender than the rest; through this point a curved probe, introduced along the finger, may be passed into the sinus, and being then directed downwards, reaches the outer extremity of the canal, causes the integuments to project, or is readily felt from the surface. The internal opening is usually immediately within the sphincter, seldom higher. The discharge, in general, is rather profuse, the bowel is very irritable, desire to evacuate it is frequent, and the faeces are often tinged with blood. There is a sensation of itching about the fundament, the heat of the parts is felt by the patient to be increased, he is unable to bear pressure there, and sits on one buttock: in most cases the bladder sympathizes considerably. The giving way of the bowel may be produced by ulceration commencing in the mucous membi’ane, but is more frequently the result of inflammatory action in the surrounding cellular tissue. The aperture is the seat of acute pain when pressed upon, and during evacuation of the bowel. Great light is thrown on such cases by the use of a proper speculum. But its introduction can seldom be borne in cases of inflammation, abscess, or recent fistula. In ulceration of the coats within the sphincter it is useful. Considerable in- formation can certainly be obtained by the finger; but to the sense of touch, however acute, it is better, when admissible, to add that of vision. The speculum, made of silver or steel, and having its internal surface highly polished, is introduced gently into the anus, and expanded fully; and by changing the situ- ation of the instrument, and holding a light so as to illuminate the interior, the surface of the bowel for five or six inches above the anus can be examined accurately, as if it were an external part of the body. Simple indurations and contractions of the lower part of the bowel follow long-continued irritation and inflammation of its parietes. The part is not an uncommon seat of stricture, and sometimes the bowel is constricted at two or more points near each other; frequently the stricture is extensive and firm, in other cases it is narrow, consisting merely of a thin band. It is