111. AND DISEASES THENCE ARISING. nature, and is with difficulty obtained by the most active interference; and this disease will most generally be found to affect the cancellated structure. The comparative frequency of one or other of the terminations of inflammation depends much on the kind of hone implicated. Caries most frequently occurs in the heads of long and in the cancellated structure of the short bones, as unhealthy suppuration most frequently takes place in the loose, fatty, and cellular tissues of the soft parts. The formation of abscess in the cancelli is generally preceded by deposit of tubercular matter, isolated or collected in masses, and by the softening of this cheesy sub- stance. When pus has formed in the substance of a bone, ^;he outer lamella, in the end, becomes absorbed, and the effusion undermines the periosteum, which, from the distension, also ulcerates: the matter then spreads into the neighbouring cellular tissue, or makes its way to the surface, and is evacuated, or, what is still worse, it escapes into an articulation. The discharge is often continued, as already stated, in consequence of a dead portion of the cancellated structure being imbedded either in the carious cavity, or in the soft parts, where they sometimes are lodged for a long period. It was formerly remarked that bones become highly sensible from incited action; hence, during the progress of this dis- ease, which is attended with more or less inflammation, the patient generally suffers most excruciating agony — so great, in general, as to prevent him, perhaps for weeks, from enjoying the least repose. The affected part is considerably swollen, but the enlargement is seldom so general, or so great as in the diseased state of the ligaments and other apparatus of a joint. White swelling, however, may be the precursor of caries ; or, in other words, a disease commencing in the bursae, ligaments, synovial membrane, or cartilage, may extend to the bone ; and breach of continuity, attended with weak action, be the conse- quence. In caries the affected portion appears neither to possess vitality enough to enable it to repair the breach, nor to be sufficiently deprived of vitality to be thrown off by the sur- rounding parts. Considerable portions of dead bone are occa- sionally found in carious cavities, in the heads of bones, and even in the vertebral column. Small portions are also detached