734 LUXATION OF THE CLAVICLE. place, they are easily slipped into the space betwixt the jaw and the cheek. There is no necessity for bandaging, as retentive ap- paratus ; the patient is not likely to yawn for some time after. Luxation of the clavicle, at either end, is produced by force applied to the point of the shoulder. It is seldom that the sternal extremity is separated from its connections. When this accident does happen, it is easily I'ecognised; the end of the bone is prominent and loose, and is distinctly felt riding over the top of the sternum. Replacement is effected by bringing back the shoulder; but the bone is with difficulty retained in the proper position, and is long in becoming fixed; a certain degree of deformity is ever after present. Displacement of the scapular extremity is by no means rare, and occurs to a greater or less extent, according to the lacera- tion of the ligaments. If those only are torn which connect the end of the bone to the acromion, there is mere rising of the end. But if — as is often the case when the violence has been great, as in a fall either from a height or with great velocity — the conoid and trapezoid ligaments, connecting the tuberosity of the bone with the coracoid process, have given way, then the end of the bone projects, pushes out the deltoid, and gives rise to con- siderable flattening of the shoulder. The arm falls forwards, and cannot be moved but with pain ; nor is the patient able to raise it by its own muscular power. If the surgeon grasps the middle of the bone, he finds the end movable; and the evident and deforming projection puts an end to any doubt regarding the nature of the case. The bone is readily reduced by raising the arm, and carrying the scapula backwards. The limb must be retained in the proper position for many weeks, if a cure without interruption, and with as little deformity as possible, is desired; but after the utmost care and patience, there still remains, in almost every case, some projection more than before the accident. The ligaments are slow in uniting, and the union is imperfect and weak. The requisite apparatus is the same as for fractured clavicle, but must be retained for a longer time. The patient experiences great relief from the limb being put up in this manner and maintained so; and inflammatory action, with much of the swelling, is averted.