622 HEMATOCELE. the tumour is grasped and made prominent, the veins are separated as much as possible from the other parts composing the chord, and a small-pointed cautery, a glover’s needle, for example, is inserted at several points. This is followed by some pain, and increase of swelling. Inflammation and obliteration of the veins is produced at the cauterised points, the swelling gradually diminishes, and ixltimately a dense chord is all that remains. The cure is radical, and I have never seen the effects prove too severe. Rest and antiphlogistic regimen are of course necessary for some days after the application ; abstraction of blood will seldom be required. Within the last few years I have been in the habit of passing two needles under the veins at an interval of about half an inch from each other, and twisting a thread firmly over them and the superimposed integuments. Of course the other parts of the chord are held aside by the finger and thumb, and the needles are withdrawn within a few days; as soon, in short, as consolidation of the interposed substance has taken place. This operation is preferable to any other. Hdomatocele is an effusion of blood, either into the cellular tissue of the scrotum, or within the tunica vaginalis, or in both. It is generally the consequence of a bruise or wound. From the loose nature of the cellular tissue, the effusion into it is apt, if proper attention be not given, to take place to a great, 4ind to the patient and friends alarming extent. This I have wit- nessed after the opei'ation for hernia, and after removal of the testicle — bleeding from some small artery continues, the blood is by the dressings or pressure prevented from escaping externally, it is consequently extravasated into the cellular structure, giving rise to tumour, often of a very dark colour; and in some cases this swelling, occurring after the operation for hernia, has been mistaken for re-descent of the bowel. The blood must either be absorbed or discharged. Absorption is the more safe and desirable, but necessarily tedious, and more or less thickening and enlargement may remain for a long time. Discharge, whether spontaneous or by incision, is usually followed by un- healthy suppuration of the infiltrated and partially broken down cellular tissue, sloughing of it, tardy separation of the dead parts, and tedious, perhaps exhausting, flow of matter.