AFFECTIONS OF THE MAMMA. 503 K K 4 days after the cessation. The position of the patient should be sitting, unless the dissection is expected to be tedious ; but it ought not to be so, — the extirpation of glands, or the detach- ment of the tumour from parts to which it may have contracted firm adhesions, can alone cause delay; and when these circum- stances exist, interference is not allowable. Any warrantable operation on the mamma can be completed in a very few minutes. Two elliptical incisions are made from the border of the pectoral muscle, in the direction of the fibres, embracing the nipple and any portion of the integument which may be adherent or altered. The surgeon need nevei’ hesitate to sacri- fice the nipple, for in this disease it can be of no further use; besides, the malignant action is apt to return in it when saved, it being almost always adherent to the tumour: it must be removed. The incisions are made quickly with either a scalpel, or a sharp-])ointed and broad bistoury ; the lower should be the first, that the flow of blood may not interfere with it and obscure its course. This is carried at once througli the skin and subjacent adipose tissue, and then the upper is made ra- pidly, to get over the most painful part of the operation as soon as possible. The dissection is next proceeded in, from the axillary region forw'ards, and the tumour detached first on one side, and then on the other. A few strokes of the knife will separate the remaining cellular attachments to the fascia of the muscle, or of the fascia to the muscle. The surface of the wound and of the extirpated mass should be carefully examined, so that no part may remain whose structure is altered. The vessels are tied; and after oozing has ceased, if sufficient integument has been saved, the edges of the wound are put together and retained. The patient is placed in bed, with the head raised and the arm slung. Operation is scarcely justifiable when it is evident that the absorbents are affected. Yet a small glandular tumour on the border of the axilla, without any enlargement more deeply seated, may be removed along with the mamma. With this view, the incisions should be made so as to include the tumour, and detach it previously to the mamma being interfered with. But when swelling has taken place deep in the axilla, it is impos- sible to ascertain its exact extent, and it may be considered very certain that a chain of altered and enlarged glands lie along the