DISEASES OF THE EYE. 340 and ultimately closes; but the eye is necessarily much shrunk, and totally useless as an organ of vision. Generally suppur- ation takes place, causing complete disorganisation of the parts; and the preceding inflammatory action may be so intense, and attended with so much constitutional disturbance, as to require active measures for its moderation. Deformity may be in a great measure removed by adapting an artificial eye to the shrivelled remains of the natural one. When it is necessary to remove only a small part of the cornea, the aqueous humour alone escapes, and during the cure of the wound the patient not unfrequently enjoys a tolerable degree of vision; but after the wound has completely closed, vision is again lost completely. Hy dr ophthalmia, also, is a disease in which little hope can be entertained of materially benefiting the patient. In the slighter cases, in which no very annoying symptoms accompany the affection, vision may be improved by the use of optical instruments; mercurial preparations may be employed in mo- deration, with the view of promoting absorption of the super- abundant fluid. When the disease has made considerable pro- gress, temporary relief may be obtained from puncturing the cornea at its lower part, so as to discharge the accumulated aqueous humour; but a cure can scarcely be expected from such a practice, however often the paracentesis may be repeated. In the worst cases the pain is so excruciating, and the system so much disturbed by the local affection, as almost to warrant the destruction of the organ, in order to relieve the patient; but, after all, even such severe measures will most probably prove unavailing. In Exophthalmos the treatment must vary according to the circumstances which cause the protrusion of the eyeball. Of Internal Ophthalmia. — Inflammation of the internal parts of the eyeball sometimes supervenes on conjunctival inflammation, and then the distinctive characters of the two affections are not perceptible. When inflammatory action attacks the deep parts primarily, the external ciliary vessels ramifying on the sclerotic coat are seen, enlarged, shining through the conjunctiva; and, as they advance towards the clearer part of the eye, they form a zone of a pink colour, whose vessels run in a straight direction