335 DISEASES OF THE EYE. scarification are more useful in the chronic stage : and the latter is injurious in acute ophthalmia. Saline purgatives, and anti- monial medicines, a very material part of the antiphlogistic regimen, must not be omitted. Enemata, with occasional pedi- luvia, are much recommended by some Continental writers. In bilious habits emetics, followed by mercurial purges, will be found very useful. With respect to topical treatment, warm applications are found to afford decided relief in the first stage, and are, in consequence, generally used. By some, however, cold water, or water with vinegar, is applied from the first. Poultices, whether warm or cold, prove annoying from their weight. Warm fomentations, simple or anodyne, are preferable, and may be repeated according to the feelings of the patient; or the eye may be exposed to the steam of water. When by these means the violence of the symptoms has abated, as usually happens in the course of a very few days, the organ must be gradually accustomed to its natural stimulus, light. The shade must be discontinued, and the room no longer darkened; and now leeching becomes of great service, while the evacuation is to be followed by gently stimulating or astringent applications, so as to produce contraction of the still dilated, though partially emptied, vessels. Various collyria may be employed for this purpose. Solutions of the sulphate of zinc, of muriate of mercury, of sulphate of alum, of acetate of lead, or of the lapis divinus — wine of opium — the citrine ointment, or the unguentum oxydi hydrargyri rubri, &c. — or stimulating vapours of various kinds. Camphor is a good addi- tion to many of the applications. The collyria may be cold, or slightly warmed ; and may be dropped into the outer canthus, — flowing over the eye, and escaping by the inner canthus, accord- ing to the natural course of the fluids of the eye; or they may be inserted at the inner canthus, the head being immediately afterwards inclined so as to allow the fluid to pass towards the external canthus ; or they may be applied by means of an eye- glass. Warm fomentations, and other relaxing remedies, how- ever useful during the first stage, are worse than useless, are hurtful in the highest degree, when the affection has passed into a chronic state; as also are antiphlogistic means, and exclusion of light, — remedies so essentially necessary in the first stage.