201 OF WOUNDS. some natural processes that occur in complete division. In cases of laceration of an artery, when its coats have been forcibly torn rather than divided, little or no bleeding takes place. The vessel retracts; the lacerated margins of its inner coat become puckered up, so as to contract greatly the orifice of the vessel; the lacerated sheath is pulled out to a point, and closed at a little distance from the divided inner coats. If a large artery is torn asunder in the dead body, this stretching out and contraction of the sheath will prevent injection passing ; in short, the imme- diate effects of the injury are such as to favour the instant for- mation of coagula, by which the haemorrhage is arrested until the orifices of the vessel be permanently closed by the adhesive process. Thus, in instances where the whole of an extremity has been torn off, the patients have generally lost but a very small quantity of blood. From wounds of veins the blood flows, not in a sub-saltatory but in a uniform stream : its colour is dark, and the flow is easily suppressed. The common opinion is, that to place a ligature on a vein is dangerous, and to be scrupulously avoided. The process of reparation, besides, in a wounded vein, is different fi’om that in an artery. Veins are less disposed to the secreting action by which adhesion is perfected; and, when inflamed, the inflammation is extremely apt to extend along the coats of the vessel; which latter circumstance has been ascribed to the great proportion of cellular tissue in their coats. When punc- tured longitudinally, the lips of the wound remain in contact, and cicatrisation, by means of effused lymph, is soon effected; in fact, the wound heals by the first intention. But if opened obliquely or transversely, not to a great extent, the immediate result is discharge of blood, and, when this has ceased, a co- agulum forms in the wound, the margins of which remain separate; and this coagulum generally communicates with blood effused into the sheath of the vessel. After some time, the lips of the wound, encircling the coagulum which occupies the aperture, and which has temporarily averted the haemorrhage, become somewhat turgid, and increased in vascularity; they then appear to assume a secreting action, by which a mem- branous substance, of extreme delicacy, is produced; and the extent of this membrane is increased until it form an expansion.