638 CALCULUS VESICiE. passage, whether naturally capacious and free from morbid contraction or not, and also upon the condition of the prostate gland. Notwithstanding the greater irritability of the parts in young persons, this operation may be readily performed on them; on several occasions I have removed from children con- cretions of considerable size through the natural passage. Various contrivances have been used for the purpose. Modi- fications of what ai-e called Hunter’s forceps have been recom- mended, — two elastic blades shut by being withdrawn into a canula, and made either straight or curved; but they are not so applicable as the forceps of Sir A. Cooper, as modified by Weiss. These are of different curves and sizes, and the handles should be made of metal, smooth on the flat surfaces; for thus the concretion will be more readily felt. The instrument is passed along the urethra, and used in the bladder as a sound; when it has touched the stone the blades are opened, and by raising the handle, pressing the convex part downwards, and then allowing the blades to close slowly, the concretion is embraced. If the stone lie on the forepart of the instrument, on its concavity, it will fall between the blades as soon as they are sufficiently separated. By observing whether or not the wire goes home into the canula, it is ascertained whether or not the foreign body is between the blades; if it is not, the manoeuvring must be repeated; if it is, the instrument is to be withdrawn care- fully — of course bringing the concretion along with it. Some slight resistance is felt in passing the prostate, as also anterior to the sinus; and on reaching the orifice, some little force is requisite to complete the removal, or the orifice may be dilated by a slight incision so as to facilitate the disentanglement of the forceps with the concretion. By one or more operations of this nature many stones may be removed, and the patient thus freed entirely from the disease. There is no great risk of seizing and pinching the coats of the bladder with this instrument, whilst there is a tolerable certainty of doing so with most of the others. On one occasion, when practising the operation on the dead body, I found that the instrument had got several stones in its gi’asp, and was kept so dilated as to be withdrawn with much difficulty— there being no means of disentangling the stones but