FRACTURE OF THE FEMUR. 714 head of the bone may on good grounds be supposed occasionally to take place. The marks of fracture within the capsular ligament are in- ability to move the limb, pain about the joint on attempts being made to move it, and shortening to a slight extent, as ascer- tained by comparison with the sound limb; the patient being laid straight on his back, with the crests of the ilia in a line, either the knees or the ankles are looked to, and the compara- tive length of the limbs thereby observed. In some cases, neither shortening nor deformity is apparent for some time after the accident; there is merely want of power, and crepi- tation produced by rotation ; but retraction of the thigh would after a time inevitably occur, and has done so when the nature of the injury was not at first ascertained, nor proper treatment dopted. Most frequently there is eversion of the toes, and to a considerable extent; sometimes there is inversion, and this is owing to the limb either having been placed in that position in falling, or having acquired it after the injury has been inflicted. The rotators outward are the more powerful; the limb naturally inclines outwards, and when in the recumbent posture, the weight of the foot favours eversion. But in fracture the muscles do not act as in a sound limb; and when the limb is once placed, the patient will not by his own efforts alter the position. Thus it is that inversion not unfrequently happens in this form of fracture, although the opposite state is that which, from a consideration of the muscles involved, is a -priori to be expected. In inversion the limb presents somewhat of the appearance arising from the most common luxation; but it possesses greater mobility, and has not the want of prominence occasioned by displacement of the articulating extremity of the bone. The facility of lengthening the member, and the crepitation felt on a proper and more attentive manipulation, will remove all doubt. On examining the injured hip, motion to some extent can be effected, though with excruciating suffering to the patient. On stretching the limb to its original length, and then rotating slightly, crepitation can be felt by the hand, or heard by the ear, placed over the trochanter major. Fracture is much more frequently met with outside of the