196 OF WOUNDS. In general, regular dissection is unnecessary in the removal of encysted tumours. An incision is made, or an elliptical por- tion cut out; the contents escape, and the cyst, being then laid hold of by dissecting forceps, is readily separated. In some situations, as on the eyelids, under the tongue, or amongst tendons, the sac, which is thin, is not so easy of extraction; it is then inseparable, either naturally, or from previous inflammation. Caustic is used with safety to desti'oy those parts which cannot be detached, and for this purpose the potass is to be preferred. When, however, the tumour is large, a part of the integuments covering it must be removed, otherwise a large cavity will be left, in which pus might accumulate. In this case, the base of the tumour is to be surrounded by two elliptical incisions, and the cyst dissected out entire, leaving only integument sufficient to cover the exposed surface. In the smaller tumours, it is vain to attempt regular dissection; a portion of the cyst will be left, and the disease reproduced : whereas, by using the potass, the operation is much more speedy, and always successful. The making a minute aperture, and squeezing out the contents, is at best but a palliative measure, and is often followed by severe constitutional disturbance. OF WOUNDS. These vary in extent and nature. The instrument by which they are inflicted, the violence attending the injury, and the nature and importance of the parts divided, or in the neigh- boui’hood of the wound, must all be attended to, for, from an accurate knowledge of these circumstances, the treatment of the case comes to be conducted accordingly. Wounds are divided into incised, punctured, bruised, and lacerated; that is, into such as are inflicted by a sharp-edged, sharp-pointed, or an obtuse body. In the first kind, there is greater or less effusion of blood, accord- ing to the size and number of the vessels divided. Some extend but a little way beyond the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and are consequently attended with but slight bleeding ; others penetrate to a greater depth, and occasion haemorrhage from a large vessel, or other alarming symptoms, by having reached some important