FRACTURE OF THE FEMUR. 716 vancing very different from reparation — necrosis. The marks of this accident are so conspicuous, that the surgeon is satis- fied of what has happened without enquiring for crepitation. Rapid and great swelling takes place, if reduction and coapta- tion are not soon resorted to; the bloodvessels are torn more and more by the ends of the bone, and effusion of blood into the intermuscular cellular tissue is easy. Very soon more ex- tensive and dangerous swelling takes place, the result of inflam- matory action, accompanied with startings of the muscles and greater retraction of the limb. Fractures of the middle and lower thirds of the bone are not attended with such great risk, and are more manageable in every way. There is less disfiguration — the ends of the bone are not drawn by the action of the muscles so far apart. The fracture is either oblique or transverse, according to the direc- tion of the force applied; and the bruising and the degree of swelling are also dependent on the same circumstance. From transverse fracture fissure sometimes extends, separating one or other condyle. The reparation of injury in the upper part of the femur is opposed by a variety of circumstances. Fractures of the neck of the bone are almost uniformly met with in those whose powers of life have been nearly exhausted. The whole injury is confined within the synovial capsule, and the fibrous tissues which support that are unyielding, and but slightly vascular ; consequently, in fracture of the neck of the femur, there occurs none of the swelling and increased vascularity of the surrounding tissues, which follow fracture of other bones, or other parts of this bone : no temporary callus can be formed ; from this cause, support of the disunited parts is deficient. The head and neck of the bone are not so well supplied with bloodvessels as the other parts; those arteries which pass along the ligamentum teres are the chief support. And perhaps the influx of blood is not increased, in consequence of injury, to such a degree as in other parts; in these, when the surrounding parts are bruised or otherwise injured by fracture in their immediate vicinity, their vascular action is soon excited, the vessels ramifying on the periosteum are enlarged, and blood is poured into the bone at all points. Instead of these salutary changes, the secretion of