179 OF TUMOURS. N 2 considerable density, ramifying irregularly throughout its struc- ture; and betwixt these is insinuated a firm substance, generally of a grey colour, and frequently of an almost cartilaginous con- sistence. Such is the structure most frequently observed; but in this morbid formation, as in all others, the appearances may be said to vary in almost every instance. Sometimes the fibres are indistinct, and of a yellowish or dirty grey colour; and the interfibrous matter is often found to vary in density and colour in different tumours, being at one time dense and almost trans- parent, at another opaque and cartilaginous, and sometimes rather soft, brownish, and occasionally tinged with blood. From attentive examination, it appears extremely probable that the enlargement is at first produced by infiltration of lymph betwixt the fibrillae of a nervous twig, which become separated and enclosed by the deposit — that they afterwards increase in size — that the interfibrous matter is deposited in greater quantity, and is farther condensed — and that thereby the nervous fila- ments are still more separated and extenuated. In short, it would appear that the fibrous matter is nervous, though altered, and that the interposed substance is oi’ganised and condensed lymph. The tumour, at first extremely minute, enlarges slowly; when deep, it can only be obscurely felt, and its existence is with difficulty discovered by manipulation; but the attending symptoms ai’e so peculiar, and so forcibly developed, as to lead the surgeon at once to an accurate diagnosis. When it is sub- cutaneous, the skin is rendered slightly prominent, and the size, density, and loose connections of the growth, are readily ascer- tained. The slightest pressure causes the most excruciating torment, and totally unmans the patient, even though induced by the most trifling movement of the adjoining muscles. From a fearful and well-grounded knowledge of this circumstance, the patient is extremely anxious to preserve the limb in a state of complete rest, and, in fact, he is often wholly unable to use it; although the part is completely set at rest, still he frequently suffers from paroxysms of severe pain, commencing in the tumour and shooting through the limb. The painful sensations are sometimes very much alleviated by gentle friction with the hand. The disease is most frequent in the extremities, and in the inferior more than in the superior.