230 OF ULCERS. the bandage being first applied. A feeling of uneasiness in the limb sometimes follows such dressing, but is of short duration ; should it increase, so as to amount to pain, the elevation of the limb and the pouring of cold water occasionally over the dress- ings will soon restore the parts to comfort. Or the adhesive plaster may be slit up behind, immediately after its application; indentation of the limb being thereby avoided, and sufficient pressure at the same time kept up on the sore. If possible, the dressings ought not to be removed before the second day, as much irritation will be produced by their frequent renewal. The benefits arising from this mode of treatment are truly sur- prising ; the slow and indolent ulcer is speedily converted into the simple purulent sore; the white and I’ecent cutaneous substance encircles small pointed and florid granulations, which bleed from the slightest rudeness of touch; and the space formerly occu- pied by an unsightly sore is soon diminished to a small and firm cicatrix. It is only necessary to continue this mode of dressing so long as the granulating surface is below the level of the sur- rounding surface. Then the object being attained, the deranged state of the cellular tissue being got rid of, and the ulcer put in a state favourable for cicatrisation, the sulphate of zinc lotion not over strong may be resorted to; positive rest and support of the affected part being still enjoined and observed. In the old and debilitated, however, in whom the indolent sore most frequently occurs, the integuments remain purple and shining, and fi’om very slight causes the cicatrix is absorbed, and breach of surface is reproduced. These sores are often connected with a varicose state of the veins. In all such cases, a degree of compression on the affected limb must be maintained, both during the continuance of the sore, and after it has healed. The usual situation of such sores is on the leg, and the varicose state of the veins does not, in general, extend above the knee; in such cases, a radical cure may be attained (provided the patient wishes to encounter the attendant risks, rather than submit to a continuance of the disease) by effecting an obliteration of the saphena major vein. The manner of doing this, and its effects, were mentioned while treating of diseased veins. In some cases, the saphena minor is also varicose to some extent, the varices on which must also be