258 OF ULCERS OF THE GENITAL ORGANS. has no power to prevent the occurrence of nodes, for these often form during its action. Affections of the periosteum are very fre- quent in horses and other lower animals, and also easily excited in some human subjects who have neither had pox nor been put under mercury ; but in no instance of venereal disease have I ob- served serious affections of the bones where mercury had not been given. Even the advocates for mercurialising speak of mercu- rial nodes. It has been asserted that nodes do not occur when mercury has been given for liver or other complaints; but they do form under such circumstances, though not so frequently as when the medicine has been exhibited during venereal symptoms. A cachectic state is often induced by a continued use of mercu- rial preparations, or at least by mercury and disease together, in constitutions not originally strong. It is marked by pale lips; bloodless conjunctiva; a rough anserine skin: a relaxed state of the mucous membranes; haemorrhages from these, particularly from the gums, which may prove fatal, as I have myself witnessed; exfoliations of the alveolar processes ; slimy stools; pale urine; pains of the limbs; sores, showing great indolence, or even as- suming malignant action; dropsical symptoms, and other evils, of which a lengthened catalogue might be made out. Such symp- toms were often met with when mercury was exhibited for every trifling or suspected sign of disease arising from carnal conjunc- tion. On this subject, Mr. Samuel Cooper has well remarked: “ Experience has fully convinced me, that in no forms of chancre, nor in any other stages of the venereal disease, is it proper to exhibit mercury in the unmerciful quantity, and for the prodi- gious length of time, which custom, ignorance, and prejudice, used to sanction in former days. Violent salivations ought, at all events, to be for ever exploded. When I was an apprentice at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, most of the venereal patients in that establishment were seen with their ulcerated tongues hang- ing out of their mouths, their faces prodigiously swelled, and their saliva flowing out in streams. The wards were not suffi- ciently ventilated, and the stench was so great, that the places well deserved the appellation of foul. Yet, notwithstanding mercury was thus pushed (as the favourite expression was), it was then common to see many patients suffer the most dreadful mutilations, in consequence of sloughing ulcers of the penis;