OF SUPPURATION. 24 ative absorption, particularly towards the surface — or, if that be difficult, towards a mucous outlet—as is exemplified by the bursting into the bowels or bronchise of abscess of the liver. But in some instances, when no lymph is previously effused, and no cyst is formed, the matter is not confined, but pervades the cellular substance extensively, and is generally followed by more or less sloughing of that tissue, and by great constitutional disturbance. This most frequently occurs in patients of a de- bilitated habit, in whom the incited action has been so slight as not to cause the effusion of lymph, by which nature usually sets bounds to the suppurating process. M. Gendrin advanced the opinion that pus was nothing but transformed blood; but his experiments on frogs are at least doubtful, since Mr. Gulliver, on repeating them, could not by any means induce the process of suppuration in these animals. It has been rendered probable by this gentleman’s ob- servations that suppuration is a sort of proximate analysis of the blood, the fibrine being added to the contiguous parts, as in causing them to swell, forming the cysts of abscesses ; the blood globules altered into pus being discharged as useless and excre- mentitious matter. Pure pus is heavier than water, of a yellowish-white colour, somewhat of the consistence of cream. It is very little inclined to putrefaction, less so, perhaps, than any animal fluid not oily. It is composed of globules, and a clear transparent fluid, co- agulable, it has been said, by the muriate of ammonia. When a solution of this salt produces any change, it is by rendering the pus more ropy ; not coagulation, but a sort of gelatinisation, follows. It is said also to be sweet and ” mawkish to the taste.” In unhealthy pus, such as already noticed, or in vitiated muco puriform secretion, the colour and consistence are different, and flakes, resembling portions of lymph, are seen floating in it: they consist of fibrine thrown off with the pus, instead of being used for reparation and bounding the extent of the abscess; and by this latter circumstance such fluid is distinguished from the pure or laudable pus. In purulent matter also, especially that of an unhealthy character, the existence of a quantity of sulphuretted hydrogen is indicated by the blackening of silver probes, and of various substances applied to the sore. It is necessary to bear