OF TUMOURS. 159 it communicates \vith the surrounding parts, receiving vascular ramifications from them. As the growth of the tumour pro- ceeds, the surrounding parts yield, are condensed, and form an envelope for the new formation; the neighbouring blood- vessels are excited to a greater degree of action, and more blood is poured into the vessels of the tumour; the action of these in turn is very vigorous, and the increase of the new growth is more and more rapid. They become, it would appear, dilated and tortuous. Morbid enlargement, or rather new produc- tions, often attain an enormous size; some have weighed, when recent, upwards of 60 or 70 lbs. Tumours differ much in structure; and though their general appearance may not be dis- similar, one will scarcely be found exactly resembling another. In many cases, the external appearance proves no certain index of the nature of the tumour; sometimes, however, its feel and general external character leads the experienced surgeon to form a correct estimate of its internal structure. It is impossible, by any process of reasoning, to account for the different actions which these growths possess : and even minute anatomical inves- tigation, either of healthy or morbid structures, has not as yet thrown much light upon the subject. Tumours are divided into Solid and Encysted. The solid are generally enveloped by a dense cellular sheath of the surround- ing cellular substance, yielding and becoming condensed in pro- portion as the tumour increases in size; this covering appears as a barrier between the healthy and diseased parts, shutting out the latter, as much as possible, from connection with the rest of the body, and preventing the former from participating in the injurious tendencies of the latter. Some tumours have no such limit, but extend in the direction where there is the least resist- ance, hold a free intercourse with the surrounding parts, and impart to them their morbid disposition and action ; others are limited in their situation and communications, but prove dan- gerous or annoying from their bulk. Some grow rapidly, and prove troublesome in a few weeks or months; others remain without much increase for years, and produce little or no incon- venience. Occasionally tumours partly resemble the texture in which they grow ; those of a fatty nature are frequently found to have their nidus in the adipose tissue; cartilaginous tumours