OF ULCERS. 232 substance; but then they are flabby and exuberant, new skin is formed slowly, if at all, and the sore does not contract; but by removing the dead or half-dead surface, a healthy and firm foundation is prepared, on which is securely and gradually raised the new matter for cicatrisation. But caustics are applied inju- diciously to firm and healthy granulations which have not yet reached the level of the surrounding parts; they are only useful in repressing exuberant granulations, or in destroying half-dead parts, which interrupt or deteriorate the cure: and when em- ployed, it should be effectually, and once for all. Along with the topical treatment of ulcers, internal means are, in most cases, indispensable. Thus, in indolent ulcers, the state of the constitution is often sluggish, and ought to be changed by the exhibition of alteratives or stimulants; with this view, much benefit is derived from a prudent and restrained use of mercury, from the lytta vesicatoria, from minute and oc- casional doses of arsenic, from the free exhibition of sarsaparilla, and from generous diet, porter, and wine. It is, however, al- together impossible to lay down fixed rules for tbe management of sores; every one has some peculiarity in its nature and ap- pearance, every one requires some peculiarity in the applications and mode of dressing, and what may suit well one day will often prove inert or injurious on the succeeding. Again, when any one application or internal remedy is found to agree with the sore, it ought not to be changed for fashion’s sake, from caprice or routine. In this department of surgery, one prac- titioner excels another, not by his superior knowledge of the various applications, but by his acuteness in selecting the remedy adapted to the particular state of the sore, and in accommodating the various ointments, lotions, or powders, to the different characters which the ulcer assumes during its progress. The healing of sores is very easy in some constitutions, and very difficult in others. Hence, it has been supposed that the long existence of a sore is a salutary process of nature, tending to relieve or prevent some more serious affection, and on this ac- count some are little solicitous to procure its cicatrisation, or at least are careful that the cure shall not be a speedy one. If, indeed, an extensive sore, or a series of sores, be suddenly dried up, the circumstance must be considered as very unfortunate.