S52 DISEASES OF THE EYE. with a view of preventing the opposite eye from suffering by sympathy; while others consider it more safe to refrain from operating, lest violent inflammatory action should follow, and, by extending to the other eye, cause disease there. However, when the cataractous eye does not present such appearances as forbid operation, I conceive it both prudent and safe to remove the obstruction to vision, provided after-treatment is carefully attended to, and all untoward symptoms actively combated as soon as they appear. There is still a considerable difference of opinion on the subject; but the patient, being anxious to get rid of an inconvenience and deformity, often decides for the surgeon. When both eyes are cataractous, a question arises as to operating on both eyes at once. From my own experience I should say, that both eyes ought not to be operated on at one time: if they are, there is great risk of violent inflammation being established, and of the operation failing to restore vision. Immediately after one eye has been operated on, the other becomes very unsteady, and is altogether in an unfavourable state for operation; and, if interfered with, the chance of a happy result is but slight. But by operating on each eye at different times, much less risk is incurred, and the chance of success is doubled. Cataract may be operated upon at all ages, excepting infancy and the period of dentition. In congenital cataract, the eyes acquire an uncontrollable rolling motion, and, if operation be delayed till the patient has attained a consider- able age, such motion cannot be afterwards prevented. In such cases, therefore, the disease should be attacked as soon as den- tition is completed, for then an operation can be undertaken with as little risk of injury to the organ as at a more advanced age; and a child of twenty months or two years is unconscious of what is intended, and can be more readily secured than at an after period ; besides the best period for education is lost if an operation be not done early. Cataract is not remediable but by surgical operation. It may be removed altogether by incision of the tunics of the eye, and extraction of the opaque body; or by the introduction of a needle, it may be displaced from the axis of vision, or so dis- turbed as to be acted on and removed by the absorbents. Operation with the needle is more generally applicable than