43 OF MORTIFICATION. became cold, insensible, and discoloured, and were gradually separated from the body. The disease attacked patients of both sexes and every age, did not appear to be infectious, and was frequently fatal. It has occurred in this country from the use of unsound wheat. A tendency to mortification sometimes arises from a peculiar state of the atmosphere, want of cleanli- ness, poor and irregular diet, &c. Cancrum oris, for example, and sloughing of the pudendum in children, occur in those of the poorer classes who live in low, damp, and dirty situations; and little or no incited action precedes the sloughing. The same may be said of the phagedmnic affections of the genital organs. Mortification and ulceration seem to differ merely in this,—in the latter, a part which, from any cause, is unfitted to remain a portion of the living body, is only prevented from dying by absorption just as it is about to lose its vitality; whilst in mortification the part perishes too soon, or in too great quantity, to admit of absorption. Sloughing phagedaena is a sort of connecting link. - Mortification, to a greater or less extent, may be produced in any constitution, and at any age, by the application of heated substances, caustics, acids, &c.; by the effusion of acrid matter into the cellular substances, as urine or putrid sanies; by the interruption of the circulation and nervous energy, as from liga- tures or improperly applied bandages — or by natural strictures, as those in hernia and paraphymosis; by continued pressure, more especially in such patients as have, from long suffering and confinement, had the powers of the circulating system weakened ; and by violent contusions, as in fractures, compound luxations, and gunshot injuries. A frequent source of mortification, in inclement seasons and climates, is exposure to extreme cold. In this case, the cold is not the direct, but the indirect cause ; the power of the parts is very much weakened by exposure to the low temperature, and is thereby rendered incapable of re- sisting the incited action which follows the stimulus of sudden transition from cold to heat, even though the degree of increase in temperature should not exceed that of the natural standard. That cold is not the direct cause of mortification, has been un- deniably proved by facts derived from military practice. No symptoms of inflammation or gangrene occur when the soldier