DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 102 tion of the limb ; but if it is extensive stitches become indispens- able. The parts must be kept in a state of complete relaxation and rest; cold cloths or iced vi^ater, allowed to drop or run over the surface by capillary attraction, should be assiduously applied. The patient’s bowels must be freely opened, and he is to be kept on low diet. If inflammatory action occur, bleeding, locally and generally, must be had recourse to ener- getically, accompanied with warm fomentations to the parts; and, at the same time, preparations of antimony, and other saline medicines, are to be administered internally. If there be reason, from the symptoms, to suspect the formation of matter, the parts ought to be attentively examined, in order to detect its presence; and, when discovered to exist, it must be evacuated without delay. In chronic cases, even local bleeding to any great extent is inadmissible. In some a few leeches may be applied, followed by counter irritation, with advantage. The employment of counter irritants is, perhaps, chiefly to be trusted to in the treatment of those more chronic affections of the joints in which, from the painful feelings, there is reason to dread disease of cartilage or bone. Of these, blis- ters are most in use; though, from my own experience, I cannot much recommend them. Their constant repetition is exceed- ingly annoying, and the slow progress which is made towards a cure under their use is far from encouraging. Tartrate of anti- mony, applied in the form either of ointment or of plaster, is generally productive of much advantage, in the first instance, by causing a great degree of superficial irritation, and relieving the internal parts. After the pustules have been fully developed, its use is to be discontinued till the surface be nearly whole, when it is again to be resumed, if the recurrence of painful feelings should demand it. Caustic issues have been much praised, and are occasionally beneficial. An eschar is made by the caustic potass applied to the skin, or by rubbing the bichloride of mercury, or any other caustic, into scarifications made by the lancet: the slough separates, and pus is discharged. Instead of promoting a continuation of the discharge, by applying savine ointment, and inserting foreign bodies, or employing other irri- tating dressings, it is better, when the sore begins to heal, to repeat the application of the caustic to another part; or, when