726 FRACTURE OF THE LEG. Fractures of the middle and lower portions of the bones are treated most advantageously, whether simple or compound, in the bent position, the angle being made more or less obtuse, according to the degree of flexion most conducive to easy re- duction and retention. Extension is made on the limb, and the parts brought into as natural and handsome a shape as possible; in doing so, the appearance of the sound member should be kept in view. There is seldom any difficulty in ac- complishing reduction; the extending and counter-extending power need be but slight; the upper part of the limb is steadied by an assistant, whilst the lower is stretched and moulded by the hands of the surgeon. In compound frac- tures at this part, the portions of bone completely detached from the hard and soft parts are to be extracted. And if reduc- tion cannot be effected in consequence of a sharp and long end of the bone projecting through a narrow wound, either the portion must be abridged by the saw or cutting pliers, or the wound must be enlarged. Sometimes the one mode is prefer- able — sometimes the other — occasionally both are required When the protruding portion composes but a small portion of the shaft, though perhaps of considerable length, it should be taken away; but when, on the contrary, it is more thick than long, it is better to enlarge the wound; but on this subject no general rules can be laid down. The splint is the same as that recommended when treating of fractured thigh, composed of a thigh and leg-piece, with a movable foot-board — the double inclined^ plane, improved by the late Mr. MTntyre of Newcastle and others. A very simple and efficient apparatus has been used in our hospital for some years back. It an- swers every purpose fully better than the others, and can be had of all the instrument makers for a third of the expense of those previously in use. The foot-board is fixed so as to make the leg-piece of the proper length, and the splint is se- cured at a convenient angle. It is padded by means of a cushion filled with oat chaffi The foot is rolled separately ; the limb is then raised carefully, and laid down on the splint placed quickly beneath by an assistant; it is retained in a pi’oper posi- tion by the hands of the assistant, whilst a roller is carried from the toes round the foot-board, and along the limb to the knee.