727 FRACTURE OF THE LEG. A broad roller is then made to surround the thigh and splint, and having been turned several times I'ound the loins, is secured to the upper part of the cushion. The limb is thus rendered independent of the motions of the trunk ; it is made as of apiece with the splint. It should he raised considerably above the level of the trunk, whilst the patient is in bed, in order, by favouring the return of blood, to prevent swelling and inflam- matory action. The wound, if any, is to be approximated. If discharge follow, part of the bandage may be undone from day to day, for the purpose either of employing fomentation or of applying suitable dressing, and still the limb is kept perfectly steady. Abscesses must be opened early — spiculae removed — constitutional symptoms warded off, and, if they do occur, combated, — at one time inflammatory action must be kept down — at another and more advanced stage, the strength must be supported by all means. In simple fracture it is sel- dom necessary to undo the bandage, till the apparatus is loosened by subsidence of the swelling — and if the fracture be early reduced, and kept steady, that will be but slight. Then the bandages are undone and reapplied, and the position of the limb attended to. It is seldom necessary to interfere with the leg during readjustment, but should there be any deviation, even considerable, from the proper position, it is easily reme- died at the end of the first, second, third, or even of the fourth week; but the sooner the better. The patient may be removed from bed, and may sit up during the greater part of the day, with the heel on a level with the pelvis, within the first week. His. health, appetite, and spirits, are thus kept up, sore back is avoided, the tedium of confinement diminished, and the cure greatly accelerated. At the end of five, six, seven, or eight weeks, according to the age, and as the consolidation advances, the patient may be allowed to move about on crutches, some few days after removal of the apparatus, the foot and leg being still bandaged, and supported by light splints, or the bandages may be starched and applied moist, with portions of coarse brown paper interposed. A firm case is thus formed for the protection of the limb and retention of the bones. No weight should be put on the limb for several weeks after, otherwise a 3 A 4