INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 265 frequently form in the loose cellular tissue of the eyelids, when the parts are affected with inflammation, whether superficial or deeply seated. As to treatment, after the infliction of an injury, the scalp ought to be shaved, and the wound cleansed of coagula and foreign substances. If a large flap of integument is detached, it should be replaced, and retained as nearly as possible in its natural situation; and if, for this latter purpose, slips of uninitiating adhe- sive plaster and methodical compression prove insufficient, it will be necessary to employ a very few points of interrupted suture: these, however, must be removed at an early period, that is, when either adhesion or suppuration has commenced, and ought, if possible, to be altogether dispensed with, being apt in this situation to produce injurious effects by their irritation. Light dressing is afterwards applied. On the accession of swelling, heat, and pain, the parts are to be well fomented with a hot de- coction of chamomile flowers, or hops, and afterwards covered with a warm and soft poultice; and should these symptoms con- tinue, the fomentation ought to be frequently repeated. Fo- mentation and poultice are also the best applications when a day or two has elapsed between the receipt of the injury, and the patient’s application for cure. The constitutional symptoms are to be moderated, and may in many instances be averted, by the exhibition of antimonials and purgatives; and by general blood- letting, when demanded and authorised by the symptoms and the state of the constitution. Punctures or incisions are to be employed according to circumstances, in order to lessen the vascular congestion of the part, and prevent the formation of matter, to evacuate it if already secreted, or to relieve inflam- matory tension and promote the formation of pus at the incised parts, where ei’ysipelatous inflammation is threatened, healthy suppuration in such circumstances often appearing to be critical. In many unpromising cases of lacerated scalp, when a great part of the cranium has been exposed, and par- tially deprived of its periosteum, a rapid cure has taken place without the formation of much matter. The detached scalp, though much torn and bruised, ought not at first to be removed, it being more prudent to leave nature to determine how much must be destroyed. After the sloughs, if any, have separated.