CONGENITAL DEFICIENCIES. 398 the fissure. But it is a proceeding which, to insure success, requires not only great steadiness, coolness, and dexterity on the part of the operator, but the utmost courage, submission, and self-denial on the part of the patient. These qualifications can scarcely be expected in patients under twelve or fourteen; and, consequently, the operation should not be attempted till after that time of life. Before proceeding to operate, it should first be ascertained that the fissure is not of such extent as to prevent apposition of its edges, without great dragging of the parts ; for, if the separa- tion be wide, temporai’y approximation may pex’haps be effected by ligatures strongly applied, but the apposition will not be com- plete or accurate throughout the whole fissure, and adhesion will not take place; the palate will be too much stretched, as to throw off the ligatures by ulceration at the transfixed points of its margins. The patient must be made aware of the nicety of the operation, of the responsibility that rests upon himself, and be exhorted to steadiness and patience. A single exclamation of pain may subvert the whole proceedings. He is seated op- posite to a strong light, and made to open the mouth wide; if necessary, the jaws may be kept separate by a wooden wedge, placed so as not to interfere with the operator. The head is thrown back, and held steadily by an assistant. The operator depresses the tongue by the forefinger of the left hand. A long, narrow, sharp-pointed bistoury, is passed through the velum, close to its attachment with the palatine plate, and about a six- teenth part of an inch from the edge of the fissure: it is then carried downwards to the point of the uvula, so as to detach a narrow slip from the whole edge. The same is done on the op- posite side of the fissure during the proceeding, and to facilitate it the point of the uvula on each side may be held by long and properly pointed forceps. After allowing the patient a short rest, the coagula and mucus are cleaned away from the parts, to prepare for union. Long bent needles, in fixed handles, and armed, are passed through the pared edges on each side. On one side the ligature is thin, the opposite thick and strong; the former is attached to the loop of the latter, and withdrawn, leaving the strong ligature passed through both apertures; and by this the margins are gradually approximated, and retained by a firm