598 RETENTION OF URINE. The patient soon learns to pass the instrument himself, and thereby saves the surgeon from frequent attendance, whilst, at the same time, the bladder is opportunely relieved. Stimu- lants, as the tinctura lyttae, given internally, with external friction, blistering, and the application of strychnine to the raw surface, may contribute towards restoration of the muscular power of the organ. Injections into the bladder have been recommended, but are both hurtful and inefficient. Ene- mata, containing turpentine, or other stimulating fluids, are of service. In retention from inflamed urethra, the catheter should, if possible, be dispensed with. The introduction of it is excru- ciatingly painful, and will certainly aggravate the original af- fection. Blood should be abstracted both from the system and from the perineum; fomentations, with the warm bath or the hip bath, are afterwards to be employed. The retention is usually induced by hard exercise, or intemperance in living; these of course must be abandoned, and their opposites en- joined. Camphor, alone, or combined with opium or hyos- cyamus, is to be given internally in large doses. Opium may also be useful, administered in the form of an enema or sup- pository. If relief is not soon afforded by such soothing mea- sures, the bladder must be relieved by the catheter; and if the surgeon be foiled in the introduction of this, as he ought not to be, the only resource is to puncture the bladder from the rectum —a harsh measure, to be sure, and one not indicative of surgical talent, but still preferable, in the eyes of both patient and prac- titioner, to death. In retention from abscess in perineo, a little delay is allowable under the employment of palliatives, when the affection is acute. The abscess must be freely opened as soon as its seat is dis- covered; and until the evacuation of the matter, the use of the catheter should be deferred if possible. In cases of chronic abscess, the catheter must be used, and does no harm. In retention from injury of the perineum, the catheter should be passed before the patient attempts to make water, and the instrument must be retained ; thus extravasation of urine in ad- dition to the blood into the cellular tissue will be avoided. If extravasation has occurred, the perineum, scrotum, or other