RHINOPLASTIC OPERATIONS. 382 with the finger and thumb, or with a liook. It is then twisted round, the lower part being left undisturbed. This attachment at the root of the nose may be narrow and long, so as to admit of its being twisted, but it is not to be cut thin; it must embrace the fibres of the corrugator supercilii, so that its vascular supply may be abundant. The incision on the side opposite to which it is proposed to make the turn may be brought a little lower than the other, so as to facilitate the twisting. After bleeding has ceased, the flap is applied to its new situation, and retained in apposition with the raw edges of the truncated organ by a few points of interrupted or convoluted suture; a little oiled lint is placed in the nostrils to support the flap, but no other dressing should be applied. To cover the part with pledgets of lint smeared with ointment, and adhesive strap, can answer no good purpose, and the subsequent removal of such must endanger the adhesion. The attention must now be directed to the wound of the fore- head ; the lower part is easily brought together, and retained by a stitch; thereby the whole surface is diminished, and what remains will soon be repaired by granulation. It is at first dressed merely with a pledget saturated with tepid water, after- wards some stimulating lotion may be gradually added. The oper- ation should not be performed in very cold weather, and even in summer the patient should be enjoined not to leave his chamber. The lint may be removed in three or four days, and then, too, some of the stitches may perhaps be dispensed with. The flap will be found adherent, but loose, and raised by every expiration ; very soon granulations rise from the inner surface, the part de- rives support from below, and becoming firm, preserves its form well. It will be necessary during the cure to keep the nostrils of their proper size and shape, by means of dossils of lint, or well fitted tubes. Nothing has as yet been said of the columna. In the Indian operation it is pi’ovided for by a slip purposely brought down from the forehead, and attached to the point which the root of the original columna occupied. Their flap is shaped as in the following figure. In the greatet number of foreheads, an encroachment must be made on the hairy scalp, in order to obtain this part of the flap; and after bringing it down and ingrafting it into the lip, there is a risk of its not adhering, as happened in a case on which I