WOUNDS OF THE NECK. 431 of the external carotid are wounded, and the loss may prove fatal ; but the haemorrhage generally ceases on syncope taking place; and if the patient be then discovered, means should be immediately adopted for permanently arresting it. Its recur- rence may cause death, on the patient recovering from the first faint; or he may die some days after, from the effects of loss of blood. Haemorrhage, though to no very alarming extent, is always to be dreaded in those advanced in life; though in most cases the fatal result is not attributable solely to the bleeding, but is expedited by other circumstances, as defective supply of proper nourishment, and an unfavourable state of the mind. Some patients seem to be going on most favourably towards a cure, but within two days after the injury, are suddenly seized with difficult breathing, and die in a few minutes. On the ex- amination of such, blood is sometimes found in the ramifications of the bronchial tubes, and the lungs can contain little or no air; or the bronchial tubes and ramifications are loaded with adherent mucus; in either case the patients die from asphyxia. In others, nothing remarkable is observed; perhaps passage of the air may have been prevented by inspissated mucus lodging in the windpipe around the wound, and closing the aperture, or by faulty adapta- tion of the divided surfaces. Likewise, during motion of the head, or attempts to swallow, either the upper or lower part of the wind- pipe may change its relative position ; the continuity of the tube will be thereby destroyed, either partially or wholly, and suffo- cation ensue. When the wound is large and transverse, as the majority of such wounds are, there is difficulty in freeing the air- passage from mucus. This result becomes evident, when we consider how coughing is effected in the healthy state of parts — that the upper part of the windpipe is contracted by its own muscles, and the air driven through, by sudden action of the muscles of the chest, in a forcible and small stream, so as to carry the mucus along with it. This process cannot be accom- plished when the muscles employed in contracting the orifice of the larynx are injured, or when an opening is formed below the glottis, through which the patient breathes, either wholly or in part. In other cases, death is more slow. The patient is seized with dyspnoea, great anxiety, and occasional spasmodic action of