OF WOUNDS. 2M of the limb to its detriment. It is followed by severe inflamma- tory action and profuse suppuration. In order to prevent these untoward results, it was formerly the practice immediately to dilate the wound; but this is hurtful, for if the wound be deep, as it generally is, dilatation of its whole extent is a proceeding severe in itself, and in its consequences; whilst, if the external part only of the wound is dilated, the operation will entirely fail to effect what is intended. The knife will be used in great good time where a foreign body is found to be lodged in the wound, when tension has occurred, or matter has formed. Some- times the wound heals’ throughout its whole tract by adhesion, without any bad symptoms being so much as threatened. Setons, recommended in this class of wounds, are of no service. It is not the narrowness of the external opening, as is sometimes sup- posed, that is the cause of all the mischief, but the injury and consequent inflammation of deep-seated parts. Poisoned wounds are rare in this country. Wounds by the stings of certain trifling insects produce considerable swelling in some constitutions, and when the injury has been inflicted on a loose texture. In some parts of this country, the bite of a small adder causes pain, swelling, and unhealthy suppuration of the part, with some constitutional disturbance, but the results are seldom serious, and never fatal. In warmer climates, the bites of some snakes are followed by the most violent symptoms; in some cases proving fatal in a few hours, in others after a day or two. Great swelling occurs almost immediately, attended with excruciating pain, and extends upward along the limb; vision becomes impaired, the patient lies in a state of stupor, and ulti- mately succumbs under convulsions and delirium ; the symptoms vary in particular instances accoi’ding to idiosyncrasies and the state of the constitution when the injury is inflicted. In this country, the bites of rabid animals are more dangerous than those of animals naturally poisonous. Rabies most frequently occurs in dogs, and others of that species, such as wolves, foxes, &c. They become dull, sluggish, and irritable ; have unnatural appetites and cravings, devouring their excrement and urine; the stomach is generally found full of chopped straw, pieces of wood, &c. Derangement of the cerebral functions is not com- plete, — they know and obey their master. They are often not