LUXATION OF THE FINGERS. 745 accident, however, is rare. I have never seen simple dislocation of any of the metacarpal bones. Dislocation of the Fingers is produced by force applied to the extremities of the phalanges; the displacement is always backwards, excepting at the middle joint, where the bone of the middle phalanx is sometimes, but very rarely, luxated forwards. The remarkable projection on the back part of the finger marks the nature of the accident, even to the most careless observer. Reduction is accomplished by extension combined with flexion. In the case of the distal phalanges, it may sometimes be neces- sary to fasten a cord to the tip of the finger, in order to obtain sufficient extending power. After replacement, the application of temporary splints and bandage is prudent. Compound luxations, however carefully treated, almost uniformly come to amputation. Luxation of the first joint of the thumb is rather an uncom- mon accident, and is not easily managed. The base of the first phalanx is displaced backwards upon the distal extremity of the metacarpal bone, causing a remarkable prominence on the dorsal aspect, and a corresponding depression on the palmar. The thumb is shortened, deformed, and almost immoveable; the swelling and pain are severe. This displacement is generally produced by the application of foi’ce to the point of the thumb, as in falling on it, or in coming against a resisting body with the thumb straight. The deformity is such as at once to apprise even the most inattentive or inexperienced of the true nature of the injury; but the treatment is very difficult and puzzling even in the hands of the best informed surgeons. The base of the bone seems to slip through the lateral ligaments, and remain firmly locked in their embrace; and these being very strong, and in a state of complete tension, defy all usual attempts at reduction. The end of a silk handkerchief, or thick soft cord, is to be attached to the distal extremity of the displaced phalanx, by means of the clove-hitch : and with this extension is made, either by the surgeon alone, or by one or more assistants,— fre- quently several are required. Counter-extension is made by the surgeon or assistant grasping the forearm, or another handker- chief may be passed betwixt the thumb and forefinger for an