485 INJURIES AT THE BEND OF THE ARM. the opening in the artery; in fact, a pulsating and gradually increasing aneurism is established. Or a sac is formed, into which blood is propelled from the artery, and which also communicates with the opening in the vein. This state of parts is denominated varicose aneurism; it is very rare. Or, again, no extravasation takes place, and the artery and vein unite by lymph effused around the openings, the wounds remaining unclosed, and forming a permanent communication between the vessels. Thus, a portion of the arterial contents is constantly being injected into the vein, producing a thrilling sensation, but little or no tumour. The passage of the blood through the narrow aperture is also accompanied by a peculiar noise, closely resembling that caused by the motion of the fly- wheel in a musical box. This disease is termed aneurismal varix, and is not so rare as the preceding. For this treatment is seldom requisite. In recent cases of false aneurism, the sac may be cut into, the vessel exposed, and tied above and below the opening. This is recommended from its being found that the tumour is sometimes slow of disappearing after ligature of the vessel at a distance above. But when the tumour is of considerable duration and size con- taining coagula, and the surrounding parts are separated and altered in structure, there is no doubt as to the propriety of tying the humeral near its middle — as also, in the case of spontaneous aneurism. The vessel is not deep, but much entangled with nerves and veins. A free incision is made over its course, dividing the skin, cellular tissue, and fascia; the sheath is opened, and a ligature passed round the exposed artery. But it must be recollected that high division of the humeral is not un- common, and, before casting the knots, pressure should be made on the vessel with the finger against the loop of the ligature, and the effects on the tumour watched; if pulsation cease, and the tumour become flaccid, the ligature should be secured; but, if no effect is produced on the swelling, high division is demonstrated, and the other branch must be looked for. Pulsation is certain to return in the tumour, after a few days, and if slow in again disappearing, gentle pressure should be employed — the arm, hand, and fingers being previously band- aged, to prevent infiltration of the limb. I I 3