PHYMOSIS AND PARAPHYMOSIS. 611 divided either laterally or in front. The flaps are at first loose and flabby, but shrink as the oedeniatous swelling subsides. A straight director is introduced within the praeputial orifice — the groove pointing downwards — and passed down to the re- flection, close to the fraenum ; a sharp-pointed curved bistoury is slid along the groove till it also reaches the reflection ; by raising the handle and pushing it forwards, the integuments are transfixed there, and withdrawal of the knife by a rapid sweep completes the incision. Care must be taken not to pass the director into the urethra instead of into the prmputial cavity. It is very seldom that ligature is required to arrest bleeding. Should the cellular tissue of the divided part not have been the seat of solid effusion, the integument and the lining membrane of the prepuce separate, leaving a large raw surface; and to prevent this a small suture should be passed between the mem- brane and skin on each side of the wound: these mav be with- drawn on the second or third day, the cellular tissue having then become consolidated, so as not to admit of retraction. A warm bread poultice, or water dressing, is the best application for tlie first few days; afterwards healing of the cut surfaces may be promoted by the application of a gently stimulating lotion. Should oedema of the prepuce remain, this may soon be effaced by bandaging. By this operation sufficient space is obtained for uncovering the glans, under any circumstances ; and besides, to this part of the organ is still preserved its natural investment, not in the least curtailed either in size or in efficiency—the glans can be uncovered and covered at will; whereas by any other mode of incision the unseemly flaps always fall away, leav- ing the greater part of the glans constantly uncovered, and placing the patient, if not in a worse, at least in the same pre- dicament, as if he had been subjected to regular circumcision. There is danger in allowing the state of phymosis to exist long; it has been already observed, that this condition of the parts predisposes to ulceration, vegetations, and morbid seci’e- tions ; but besides, experience has shown, that very many cases of cancer of the penis are attributable to phymosis, either con- genital, or of long duration. In all cases, when the orifice of the prepuce is so tight as not to admit of exposure of the glans, the operation is expedient, the existing state of parts being very R R 2