29 OF SUPPURATION. isation throughout is delicate, and the patient is frequently of a handsome, though infirm, structure. Constitutions, in every respect strong and originally vigorous, may, from various causes, become weak, and present many of the symptoms usually termed scrophulous. I recollect a young patient, born of healthy parents, who had enjoyed excellent health, becoming covered with ulcers and chronic abscesses, in consequence of exposure to cold during menstruation. To the continued irregular and imprudent exhibition of mercu- rial alteratives, as they are called, may be attributed the cachectic and scrophulous constitutions of many thousands of patients of all ages. The strumous diathesis is said to depend upon a want of balance, or proportion, between the solids and circulating fluids. Want of action and power in the organs forming and circulating the blood, disordered digestion, and various other circumstances which it is unnecessary to detail, have also been considered as causes of this state of the constitution. Many suppose that the diathesis, or a disposition to the dia- thesis, is always congenital; and this opinion is supported by the majority of cases. However, certain circumstances produce a scrophulous habit of body in patients who previously appeared to be vigorous and healthy, and untainted with any peculiar disposition to disease. Of these predisposing causes may be mentioned, poor diet, an impure atmosphere, exposure to damp and cold, inattention to cleanliness, the latter circumstance acting sometimes by producing local irritation; in fact, what- ever deranges the general health, seems, in many cases, to induce the strumous diathesis. Some constitutions are incapable of resisting any unusual incitement of the vascular system, or of repairing the consequences of the action, or of any injury, in whatever way inflicted. In such individuals, all the parts of the body are deficient in power — some, however, are more so than others, and, consequently, more readily give way; thus, the lympliatic system, the mucous membranes, the skin, the bones and their coverings, generally suffer in the first in- stance. Glandular swellings of all kinds, and in all situations, often followed by suppuration, are apt to occur from irritations of