242 OF ULCERS OF THE GENITAL ORGANS, The usual secondary symptoms are those attendant on a pa- pular eruption. There is fever, with pains referred to the head, to the joints, chiefly the larger ones, and to the chest, which latter symptom is sometimes attended with dyspnoea. This in- disposition is followed by the appearance of a papular eruption, termed lichen, on the face and trunk, the extremities being less thickly studded. The fever subsides in a great measure after the eruption appears and comes fully out; but fresh crops of papulae may appear, and, in this case, the fever continues little abated until the eruption begins to fade. The eruption consists, in the first instance, of simple elevations or pimples of a red colour, and these do not appear at once, but gradually : so that some have assumed the form of cones, with minute collections of matter in their apices, whilst others are mere elevations of the cuticle. When they fade the spots are of a copper tint, and become covered with thin scales, in consequence of the cuticle desquamating; but this latter appearance can never be con- founded with the scaly eruptions following another description of primary sore. In all cutaneous eruptions, attended with any febrile action, there is a tendency to sore throat, with tender- ness of the eyes ; and this eruption is not exempt from a similar affection: the fauces feel raw and tender, and are pained in deglutition; on looking into the throat, the mucous surface is found red and swollen, and the tonsils are generally enlarged; but there is seldom any breach of surface; and, when this does occur, it is rather entitled to the appellation of excoriation than of ulceration. Occasionally the surface is covered with a thin coating of lymph, and sometimes this is confined to the situa- tion of the mucous crypts, so as to give a false appearance of small sores. As in similar affections, unconnected with any discoverable cause, the lymphatic glands, at the angle of the jaw, are not unfrequently swollen and painful. Such is the usually mild character of this affection ; but if its progress has been interrupted by any means, more particularly by mercury, it assumes a more complicated form, and a less tractable nature. If that mineral is administered in the usual style, and at the commencement, when the fever and other symptoms are high, the patient’s sufferings are all much aggra- vated. After the fever has subsided, the eruption will often be