354 DISEASES or THE EYE. needle should be of a conical form, thickest towards the handle, so as to prevent the humours from escaping during its intro- duction. It should also be straight, excepting a short curvature of its point, rather slim than otherwise, and not longer than from an inch to an inch and a quarter. The extracts of belladonna or stramonium should be used in all cases, pre- viously to determining upon operations, in order to ascertain the state of the humours, the size of the cataract, and whether adhesion of the iris to the capsule of the lens exist or not. Dilatation so produced is allowed to disappear almost en- tirely before the operation is proceeded in. It is sometimes necessary to steady the eye. by means of a speculum, and the wire one of Pellier is the best. By pushing the needle, held like a writing pen, gently forwards, and towards the inner canthus, in a direction almost parallel with the iris, its point is seen in the posterior chamber, opposite the pupil. The instru- ment is then fixed in the opaque lens, and the cataract is depressed obliquely downwards; the needle is disentangled by a gentle twisting motion, and then withdrawn in the same direction as it was entered. Before depressing, it is necessary to lacerate the capsule of the lens, and this is accomplished by giving the needle a rotatory motion, and moving its point in different directions; the anterior portion of the vitreous humouT is at the same time disturbed. Laceration of the capsule may be too great, and allow the lens to escape entire into the anterior chamber; inflammatory action is in consequence excited, and subsides only when an opening has been made in the cornea, and the offending body extracted. If the cataract rise to its Original situation on withdrawing the needle, it should be again depressed, and kept down by the instrument for a short time; and when the needle is then removed, its point should be very carefully disentangled. The lens is said frequently to regain its usual situation, a considerable time after the operation; but in many such cases, the opacity in the pupil is not occasioned by the lens, but by the capsule having become opaque. It is said to have arisen, when very solid, twenty or thirty years after depression; and that in many cases no absorption of it occurs. When the vitreous humour has become disorganised, the lens often floats about, rising and falling with the motions of the head.