WOUNDS OF THE NECK. 430 portant, in order to save blood. For when the trunks of the arteries are divided at the commencement of the dissection, they are easily secured temporarily by the fingers of an assistant: the operation is proceeded in and accomplished with scarcely any further haemorrhage, and in many instances no other vessels require ligature ; whereas, if an opposite course be pursued, the same vessels will be divided three or four different times; the haemorrhage will be greater, and the operation delayed. By cutting also in the direction of the vessels and nerves, fewer arteries are divided, and nerves are less apt to be injured, than if the incisions were made across. Wounds inflicted with the view of effecting suicide are gene- rally on the fore and upper part of the neck, and their severity depends on the resolution of the individual. Some penetrate the integuments merely, and are consequently of slight extent; there is little bleeding, and the edges are easil}”^ brought together, after the cessation of bleeding and when the surfaces are glazed, by inclining the head forwards, and introducing a few points of suture. Others divide the muscles, and branches of the lingual or of the superior thyroid arteries; such wounds are gaping, more extensive than the former, and accompanied with smart haemor- rhage. Some penetrate the mouth, separating the os hyoides, tongue, and epiglottis from the thyroid cartilage. Occasionally the wound is lower, through the thyroid, or betwixt that carti- lage and the cricoid; and sometimes through these into the gullet: it is seldom lower. Such are truly horrible; the counte- nance is contorted, and presents a frightful expression; inspir- ation is difficult, hurried, and noisy, and at each expiration blood frothed with air is forcibly ejected from the wound. I have seen wounds of the trachea, near the top of the sternum, but without extensive division of the lateral parts; large wounds, such as are usually made at the upper part of the neck, could not be inflicted here without division of the large vessels, and instant death. Some determined suicides reach the vessels even high in the neck, dividing every thing down to the vertebrae; immediate dissolution takes place from loss of blood. But, in general, mere opening of the air-passage is all that is aimed at, there being a vulgar notion that this is sufficient for the extinction of life. A considerable quantity of blood is lost, though the branches only