762 AMPUTATION. patient as possible, and to make them of such a form as to cover the end of the bone effectually — so that pressure may, after a time, be borne without risk of ulceration of the soft parts, or exfoliation of the bone. « In all cases, and in all situations and circumstances, haemor- rhage can be restrained during completion of the incisions, and during the employment of means to close the cut ends of the vessels, by means of very slight but exact pressure on the trunk of the principal vessel. The point at which this is to be applied should be at as short a distance as possible above the place of incision, and at the same time above the origin of any branches which must be cut. Not the slightest pressure should be made until the instant when the incisions are about to be commenced, so that no venous congestion may take place in the limb. All the blood in the limb, below the incisions, must necessarily be lost. The veins are more easily compressed than the arteries, and pressure, made a short time before the operation, may arrest the return of the blood, whilst it may not completely stop its in- flux ; thus engorgement of the lower part of the limb is produced, and the quantity of blood that must be lost is increased. For a similar reason, pressure, sufiiciently firm to stop arterial haemor- rhage, is to be continued till the principal branches are tied, and then entirely removed; for the continuance of even slight pressure will increase the flow from the surface of the stump — blood, flowing in, and being arrested in its venous return, trickles out through the open ends of the veins. If a circular band be used for the compression, such as the screw tourniquet, it should be put on quickly, and screwed up at once, and then the incisions should not be delayed one instant after; there should be no relaxation of the pressure at any part of the operation ; and as soon as the principal vessels have been se- cured, the apparatus should be altogether removed — otherwise, as already stated, rapid oozing will continue from the face of the stump. It is my confirmed opinion, that much more blood is lost from the use of a tourniquet than without it. I would rather trust to a no very efficient assistant, than put on a tourni- quet. It is evident that compression on the whole circumference of a limb must completely interrupt venous return, and cause the increase of haemorrhage already mentioned; whereas pres-