312 DISEASES OF THE EYE. marked by an eminent author, must be varied and regulated according to circumstances; — by the degree of obstruction in the duct, by the state of the coverings of the sac, of the sac itself, and of the subjacent bone, and by the general state and habit of the patient. Encanthis is a tumour situated in the corner of the eye. The caruncula lachrymalis appears to be the original seat of the disease, at least it is involved at an early period. The growth is at first small, and appears to be simple enlargement of the caruncle; it is of a reddish colour, and its surface is studded with numerous granulations. It often attains a very considerable size; and, on ac- ^ count of its propinquity to the lachry- mal passages, is accompanied with watering of the eye, the puncta being either involved in the growth, or compressed or displaced by it. Sometimes the whole inner corner of the eye, from the margin of the cornea to the inner junction of the eyelids, is occupied by the granulated swelling; and in such cases it is not uncommon for the tumour to extend itself outwards, in the form of a lunated appendage, on the under surface of each lid; thereby the motions and functions of the ball are much impeded, and a prominent deformity is occasioned. In most instances the growth seems to be a simple enlargement of structure, and is of a benign nature; but sometimes it is firm, hard, of rather a livid hue, with a smooth slimy surface, and is decidedly malignant, — enlarging, and gradually involving the surrounding parts. Cancerous ulceration, attacking and destroying the eyelids, and the parts around the ball of the eye, often commences in the situation of the caruncle, or in a wart on the edge of the lid. Cancer, though a rare and uncommon disease of the eye- ball, frequently seizes on the appendages of the eye, extending rapidly in all directions, and often completely detaching the ball by ulceration. Warty tumours also occur on the conjunc- tiva of the lids, or of the ball, and are inconvenient as a source of much irritation to the neighbouring parts, even though of a benign nature in themselves.