405 ULCERS OF PALATE. side — on the posterior and anterior surfaces of the pendulous velum; sometimes the ulceration appears to have extended from the nostrils. Often the uvula is entirely lost; it is not long since I saw two uvulas, in one day, as black as a bit of coal, surrounded by ulceration, and just about to drop away. Ulcer- ation of the posterior surface of the velum is marked by dark redness, and swelling of the anterior. Sometimes it happens, that by deepening of the ulcers, the velum is perforated at one or more points, and the edge of the opening healing, a perma- nent deficiency remains. The whole of the soft palate may be destroyed, either by one extending ulceration, or by repeated attacks. When cicatrisation takes place, the posterior nares are narrowed, deformed, or even completely closed. Along with ulceration of the fauces, abscesses frequently form in the coverings of the hard palate; they ai'e either the consequence or the cause of necrosis of part of the bone. Whatever their origin, more or less of the bone with which the matter is in contact, dies and separates; and thus openings are established between the cavities of the mouth and nostril. This is produc- tive of great inconvenience, the patient speaks very indistinctly, and, when taking food, a part of the more fluid ingesta returns by the nostrils. During the progress of the exfoliation, the breath is intolerably foetid. Such is an outline of mercurial products in the mouth. Erup- tions and ulcers on the surface of the body often accompany or follow them; and the patient gets into a bad state of health — becomes in short cachectic. The state of the system must be ameliorated if possible; and chiefly by attention to the digestive organs. These may be im- proved by such medicines, as ipecacuan, taraxacum, gentian, rhu- barb, scammony, aloes,—given in various doses and combinations, according to the circumstances of the individual case. The first two possess many of the good qualities of calomel, in I’egard to the biliary secretion, and leave no evils behind them. Sarsa- parilla is a most important remedy, and the form of its exhibition should be varied when its effects begin to diminish. The dif- ferent applications which may be made to the sores have been mentioned formerly; of them all, the nitrate of silver is the most generally useful, either in solution or in substance. It is used D D 3