OF HERNIA. 512 patient died on the third day after. An analogous case is on record; and a third has been related to me by an old and ex- perienced surgeon: in that instance, both the anterior and posterior layer of the tunica vaginalis, together with the true sac, were simultaneously divided; omentum and intestine pro- truded into the vaginal coat, and for a time the opening through the posterior part of that cavity and sac was mistaken for the inguinal ring. On extension of the incision, the nature of the case became more apparent, the stricture was relieved, and the protrusion reduced. A case, in many respects similar to those above described, occurred a few years ago in my practice at the North London Hospital. It is recorded in the Lancet, and in the Practical Surgery. Children are sometimes born with deficiency of the umbili- cus, and protrusion of bowel into the loose cellular tissue of the umbilical chord ; the disease is termed congenital exomphalos. Almost all the viscera of the abdomen and pelvis are liable to protrusion — the stomach — the spleen — the omentum — the great and small intestines, and even some of their most fixed parts — the ovaria — the bladder. Also, right portions of the viscera occasionally escape on the left side of the parietes, and the left at the right. Hernial protrusion has received different names, according to the nature of its contents. When composed of a portion of intestine, it is termed Enterocele; Epiplocele, when composed of omentum; and Entero-epiplocele, when both intestine and omentum have escaped; and, as already observed, different names are also applied, according to the situation of the pro- trusion. The inguinal and crural forms of hernia being the most com- mon, will chiefly occupy our attention. The inguinal is di- vided into true or oblique inguinal, and into direct or ventro- inguinal. In the oblique, the protrusion passes along the inguinal canal. This course is in young persons short; but as the muscles become developed it is lengthened to about two inches, reckoning from the external ring to the funnel-like opening through the transverse fascia. The appearance of the swelling in this canal leads to diagnosis betwixt the oblique and direct hernia; but in chronic cases, this distinction is often in a great