OF MALIGNANT PUSTULE. 237 introduced into the stomach produces this disease, though by some it is maintained that even the respiration of effluvia from putrescent substances pi'oduces malignant fever, wuth foetid evacuations and gangrenous patches on the skin. In the West of Scotland, an instance occurred some years ago, in which several persons lost their lives from eating the flesh of dead animals which had been washed ashore. The occurrence of ' malignant pustule is rare in this country. Some time since, I met with a well-marked case in a shoemaker, who had been employed in killing some sickly pigs. Whilst turning over and removing the abdominal viscera of one of them, he had scratched his finger slightly with a pin stuck in his jacket, and he then perceived that the contact of some putrid matter from the intestines caused great pain. On the third or fourth day afterwards, he presented himself with a malignant pustule formed on the hand between the fore and middle fingers. The pain was very intense, and the disease seemed to be fast extend- ing. Active treatment was employed, and the patient had a speedy recovery. The disease generally attacks the hands, neck, face, or shoul" ders of butchers and others, who carry, or in some way deal in, carrion. It has also taken place in consequence of the hand being introduced into the rectum — a veterinary method of removing scybala — of an animal labouring under putrescent disease. A pustule appears on the part affected, containing a serous or a dark-coloured fluid ; and the base ulcerates, extending through the skin to the subjacent parts; at first it is accom- panied with a pricking sensation, afterwards the pustule enlarges and becomes brown, and the pain is burning and itching. The vesicle when opened, or when it has burst spontaneously, fur- nishes a few drops of red serum, and the pain is thereby relieved for a few hours. A hard, moveable, and circumscribed tubercle forms, without alteration of the surrounding skin. The bottom of the sore is yellow, greenish, or livid, and the sensation is that of acute heat and erosion. Phlyctenae spread around. The tubercle becomes black in the centre, and an eschar forms; the patient becomes irritable and languid. The gangrenous point begins to extend, and that alarmingly; great swelling takes place, elastic, red, and shining, more emphysematous than in-