9 OF INFLAMMATION. nerves. The pulsations of the arteries become rapid and strong, the sanguiferous system being unable to relieve itself by effusion, in consequence of the obstruction of the exhalants. If the extreme vessels are in any way obstructed, and the general circulation in consequence much accelerated, the inter- nal viscera become oppressed, and are interrupted in their functions; and relief is experienced only when relaxation oc- curs in the vessels upon the surface of the body. Thus, in any violent and continued exertion, there is a sense of oppression in the chest, and the functions of the encephalon are somewhat disordered, but as soon as perspiration breaks out the relief is instantaneous, and the animal can, without difficulty, persevere in its exertions. In inflammatory fever, the breathing is often difficult, and the appetite declines; the patient is restless and watchful, and when he does sleep, he is not thereby refreshed. In the more violent cases, the sensorial functions are much disturbed; even delirium supervenes, with violent muscular exertion and convulsions, and may be followed by coma, should the local affection not subside. The delirium attendant on violent dis- eases and accidents may often be considered a beneficent effect of nature’s operations; for the patient, frequently losing all consciousness of his situation, seems to be under the influence of the most pleasing hallucinations, and is freed from the more lamentable state of severe mental as well as bodily affliction. Writers on Inflammation have expatiated at great length on Sympathies ; and these have been divided into, 1st, The Partial —the Remote, the Continuous, and the Contiguous; — Remote, when parts sympathise, though situated at a considerable dis- tance from each other; — Contiguous, when the sympathetic action seems to be produced, in separate parts, merely from juxtaposition ; — Continuous, when the action extends in parts which are of similar texture, and conjoined with that which is primarily affected. — 2d, Universal, where the whole system suffers along with parts of it. For instance, the whole system is often disturbed by a deranged state of the alimentary canal, and, conversely, the bowels, or the skin, the brain, the osseous or any other of the textures, may suffer from a general disorder. The system''sympathises much more with some parts than