776 AMPUTATION OF THE FOREARM. these are afterwards removed, and their place supplied by the adhesive plaster. Amputation, at any point between the wrist and elbow-joints, requires, in all, the same method of incision, but the nearer to the elbow the better is the stump ; at the wrist the flaps are com- posed principally of integuments and tendons, and the cushion so formed for the bones is very inferior to one of muscle. Com- pression is made and the limb steadied as before; the surgeon with his left hand grasps the wrist, and places the forearm in the middle state between pi’onation and supination. In the right forearm, the knife, held perpendicularly, is entered over the centre of the radius, and its point, after reaching the bone, is inclined inwards so as to pass round it; transfixion is then made, the knife passing close to the palmar surface of the bones, and emerging at a point opposite to its entrance; and then by rapid motion downwards and inwards, a proper flap is formed. The instrument is again introduced over the radius, at a little dis- tance from the upper part of the first wound, and passed on the opposite side of the bones, emerging also in the first incision and at a similar point; another flap is made. These are retracted, the knife is swept round the bones, and passed freely between them, to divide the remaining muscular substance, and after this has been completed, the saw is applied. During the sawing it is well to preserve the limb in the same position as during the incisions, and to apply the instrument perpendicularly; thus both bones will be divided at once, and the risk of splintering diminished. In transfixion, great care is required that the point of the knife pass across, not between, the bones, and with this view a slight change of position is useful; during the transfixion for the inner flap, the surgeon, as soon as he feels the knife rounding the radius, rotates the forearm gently inwards, and in transfixing for the outer flap similar rotation is made outwards. In this situation, and others where the soft parts are less thick in one aspect than the other, it is by much a preferable plan to make a flap first, by cutting from without inwards, as already described in regard to the wrist, and then to transfix for the formation of the second flap. This is delineated in ihe Practical Surgery, p. 330. Sometimes slight difficulty is experienced in tying the interosseal artery. The flaps are brought together, and treated in the way already mentioned.