542 OF OVARIAN DISEASE. infant could then be felt readily through the parietes, and per- haps some one might have been found heroic enough to have divided them and explored the tumour. The young woman, however, was in the last stage of phthisis, and soon died. A wonderfully tuberculated omentum, a very small portion of which is here represented, filled the peritoneal cavity; the uterus and its appendages were quite healthy. Operation has also been proposed, when, on dissection, the liver was found to compose the abdominal swelling. Such cases, a long list of which might be given, render the prudent surgeon very cautious in his diagnosis of abdominal tumours, and chary of operative interference with them. The abdomen has been opened, as already stated, and the result has been such as to render the perpetrator indictable for cul- pable homicide, and to qualify him for such punishment as his rash and reckless conduct richly deserved. A less severe censure might have sufficed, had not the example been followed by similar proceedings, and equally direful results; and these have been such as to render any condemnatory remarks not only justifiable but absolutely necessary. A great many un- fortunate women have, I am afraid, been sacrificed to a desire for false reputation. The attempts to remove abdominal tumours by incision of the pai’ietes were some time ago very numerous; and, as might have been expected, the issues were highly unsatisfactory to those concerned. Such doings, how- ever, were recorded in print, represented in plates, and more- over puffed and placarded ad nauseam. The majority of those who were thus “ dissected, to see what part was disaffected,” perished within forty-eight hours. One woman survived for some time, after having been subjected to this operation, im- properly so termed. In her there was a tumour, but of such a size, and so connected, that it could not be removed. A second survived the extirpation of one ovarium ; and the other, also diseased, was left for a further exhibition of daring intrepidity. It is not easy to conceive how the proposal could have been seri- ously entertained by any sane individual, far less put in practice and persevered in, when disaster after disaster crowned every at- tempt. It is my opinion, and I believe that I express the sentiments of a very large portion of the profession, that the repetition of