356 DISEASES OF THE EYE. ation can be performed without much disturbance of the organ, and it is applicable when the cataract is soft or fluid, as in chil- dren, or its consistence doubtful. Young subjects should be placed recumbent during the operation, and rolled up in a sheet, so that they can have no command over their limbs. Extraction, in favourable circumstances, and in dexterous hands, is a beautiful operation, and most satisfactory; but ought not to be undertaken unless the surgeon has perfect con- fldence in himself. It can be resorted to only in adults, great steadiness on the part of the patient being absolutely necessary. The case, too, must be judiciously chosen. The conjunctiva must be sound, and indeed almost no operation on the eye should be undertaken unless this membrane is in a healthy con- dition ; the cornea should be transparent in every part—the an- terior chamber of a proper size — the pupil regular — the iris steady, and not protruded — and the cataract solid; there should be no rolling motion of the eyeball, and no adhesions of the iris. I repeat, the iris should be steady, for a tremulous motion of it indicates disorganisation and fluidity of the vitreous humour; in such a case, the humour can with difficulty be pre- vented from escaping; or the lens may fall into the bottom of the eye, and all efforts to remove it will then prove abortive. And though such descent of the lens should not occur, still the organ is in a very unfavourable state for operation, being apt to become affected with deep inflammation, followed by complete amaurosis, or by closure of the pupil. The patient is prepared for the operation by moderate living, and attention to the secretions and digestive organs, for some time previously; and after the operation leeching may be necessary either as a precau- tionary measure, or when inflammation has occurred. Imme- diately before having recourse to any of the operations for cataract, a small blister may be applied with advantage behind one or both ears, and kept open for some few days, as a pre- cautionary measure against inflammatory action in the organ operated upon. The operator is usually seated immediately before the patient, and so that his breast may be on the same level with the patient’s head; if not ambidextrous, he may often be obliged to assume very awkward attitudes. The recumbent position, however, is