369 POLYPUS OF THE NOSE. discharge of a dirty mucous fluid, both externally and into the pharynx. Soft mucous polypus may exist for many years, without depressing the palate, or projecting into the fauces. The anterior nasal cavity is its most frequent seat, and it widens and fills up the fissure between the anterior and posterior cavities: frequently it projects backwards, but is not visible, though it may be felt with the finger behind the soft palate. Its growth is slow. It may become malignant, as well as other adventitious structures equally simple; but such an occurrence is extremely rare. It may exist for many years; and, when at length re- moved, will be found of simple structure ; and, if the operation be well conducted, no reproduction will take place. The tumours are supposed to be easily regenerated; but the truth is, that they are seldom eradicated completely. In general some are left, and these, emei’ging from the narrow space or cells in which they were confined, soon become fully developed — they expand, and speedily take the place of those which were removed. They can never be got rid of at one sitting: the operation requires repetition once and again ; and of this the patient should at the first be made aware. Malignant Polypi are met with in different degrees of ad- vancement. Many are firm and fibrous, with an irregular surface and wide attachment — do not grow with great i-apidity — furnish a sanious and bloody discharge, and give rise to painful feelings. If interfered with, their increase is accelerated. If removed completely, reproduction may not take place. Tumours with bi’oad bases, and of soft medullary consistence, attended with extensive change in the structure of the mem- brane, and softening of the bones and cartilages, grow very rapidly, fill the cavities and expand them, giving rise to great deformity, as seen above. They show themselves on the face, through the nostrils — protrude through the floor of the orbit — get into the mouth behind the palate, through the tuberous processes of the superior maxillary bone — or project through the alveolar processes. The discharge from them is profuse and foetid, and in some cases blood flows in no small quantity. Such growths usually commence in one or other of the sinuses B B