ANEURISMAL VARIX OF THE THIGH. 676 The thigh may be the seat of aneurismal varix, the result of wound, as in the following case. Fourteen years ago, a young man wounded the lower part of his thigh deeply by the acci- dental thrust of a narrow chisel. The puncture was in the direction of the femoral artery; violent hmmorrhage was the immediate consequence, and after he had fainted the wound was stuffed and compression applied. In eight days the parts had healed, and he returned to work as usual. But about twelve months afterwards, troublesome pulsation was perceived in the part, at the same time the veins of the leg became vari- cose, and a succession of ulcers formed on the lower and an- terior portion of the limb. The affection attracted but little of his notice till about six months since, when he observed a con- siderable swelling in the site of the wound, beating strongly, and the pulsations accompanied with a peculiar thrilling sound and feel — not confined to the tumour, though strongest there, but extending to the groin along the course of the femoral vein, which was evidently much dilated throughout its whole course. At present the tumour is nearly equal to the fist in size, of regular surface and globular form, pulsating very strongly, and imparting to the hand the peculiar sensation of aneurismal varix, remarkably distinct and powerful. The pulsation and thrilling are continued, in a less degree, to Poupart’s ligament, and down to the calf of the leg. On applying the ear close to the tumour, or listening through the stethoscope, the peculiar noise is not only felt, but heard of almost startling intensity — somewhat resembling the noise of complicated and powerful machinery, softened ahd confused by distance. By making firm pressure on the tumour, the thrill is lost, and the regular pul- sation alone perceived; at the same time, the turgescence of the femoral vein disappears, and on compressing the femoral artery in the middle of the thigh, both pulsation and thrilling are arrested, and the swelling much diminished, — but only temporarily, for the collateral circulation is free and complete. He feels little pain, but exercise and exertion of every kind are seriously impeded ; constant and firm pressure on the swelling, with uniform compression of the whole limb, has been em- ployed, with the effect of relieving all the symptoms, and rendering the limb much more useful, and by its continuance