114 OF INFLAMMATION OF BONE most frequently it is necessary, for the accomplishment of this purpose, that incited action occur to a very considerable degree; and the diseased parts, already extremely weak, have not sufficient power to withstand the action, but perish ; whilst the action of the surrounding parts, not being increased to such a degree as to overcome their powers, throws off the dead, secretes a more bland discharge, and deposits healthy granulations, which gradually fill up the cavity. Treatment. — In inflammation of bone, resolution must be brought about, if possible; the other terminations are to be prevented by all possible means, since they frequently endanger the limb, and even the life, of the patient, and, at best, never admit of a speedy cure. To promote resolution, blood must be drawn copiously from the part; and general bleeding may also be required, though in some constitutions it cannot be safely carried to any great extent. After local bleeding, fomentations assiduously applied will tend much to relieve the sufferings of the patient. Purgatives, nauseating doses of antimony, and all safe measures likely to subdue the vascular action, must at the same time be adopted. Free incisions through the periosteum sometimes relieve the pain, and cut short the disease, the dis- tended vessels being thereby emptied ; but such practice is only a last resource, when the action has resisted all other means, and threatens an unfavourable termination. If, notwithstanding the resolutive means employed, the inflammation proceeds unabated, and suppuration occurs, the effused pus ought never to be allowed to remain on the surface of the bone, but must be evacuated by early incision. Otherwise the pressure of the extraneous fluid will cause absorption of the bone, or detachment of periosteum and superficial necrosis; the absorbed surface will, in its turn, secrete pus, and thus an ulcer will be produced; and, from the vascular action becoming debilitated in consequence of the previous incitation, that ulcer will in all probability degenerate into caries. Much mischief is produced by squeezing and bandaging tightly the inflamed parts, as can readily be under- stood ; yet such practice is frequently adopted after suppuration. By it the inflammatory action is excited anew, the formation of matter is very much increased, and however useful such manipulation may be in stiffness of a joint, or mere swelling of