LIGATURE OF THE CAROTID. 478 fascia is then divided carefully, with the hand unsupported. During the incision, the parts should be a little relaxed by atten- tion to the position of the head. The sheath of the vessels is exposed by cautious division of the cellular tissue which occu- pies the space betwixt it and the cervical fascia. Thin copper spatulae, bent to suit the purpose, are used to keep the edges of the wound apart. In general there is very little bleeding; but, that the operator may be sure of what he cuts, it is necessary frequently to clear the cavity with a bit of soft sponge. Each step of the operation should be slowly and surely accomplished; the least hurry is culpable. When the slight oozing has ceased, the common sheath,—which is distinctly seen, with the descendens noni lying on its fore part, — is to be opened to a slight extent with the point of the knife — the hand steady and unsupported, and no director used. The descendens noni is left to the inner « side. The internal jugular vein, swelling up on account of the struggles and hurried respiration of the patient, has in some cases been found troublesome at this period of the operation, rendering the opening of the sheath and the use of the needle difficult. I have not met with any such obstacle in the cases in which I have been concerned. The aneurism needle should be slightly curved, with a perforation near the point; and the point should neither be bulbous, nor at all sharp, but all of the same thickness, and well blunted at the extremity and edges. It is introduced, carrying a firm round ligature of flax or silk, well waxed, through the opening in the sheath, betwixt the par vagum and the artery, and from the outer side. The point is moved very slightly from side to side, and carried under the artery; no force being used, as it is unnecessary, and apt to be injurious. The instrument is thus gently insinuated, not thrust, through the cellular tissue, and made to appear on the opposite side of the vessel, with its point towards the trachea. It ought to be passed close to the arterial coats, and care must be taken to avoid including within its track part of the common sheath, or the descending branch of the ninth. Unless the surgeon be in- deed very rash, there is little risk of the vein or par vagum being injured; to include them along with the artery would argue no small degree of most deplorable ignorance. The loop of the ligature is laid hold of either with the fingers, with for-