687 FRACTURES. cess is more rapid in young people than in those advanced in life, and will depend more on the extent of the injury, and its vicinity to the centre of the circulation than on the size of the broken bone. The requisite length of confinement is regu- lated by these circumstances, and by the use to which the part is to be afterwards put; the lower limbs require longer time for consolidation than the upper. In the treatment of fracture, as in solution of continuity in the soft parts, great advantage is gained by placing the dis- joined parts as nearly in their original position as possible, retaining them so, and allowing of no motion. These indica- tions ought to be accomplished very soon after the accident; many evils are thus prevented — the further laceration of the soft parts, the inflammatory effusion into all the tissues, and the consequent startings and spasms of the muscles. This cannot be too much insisted on. There is much folly and ab- surdity in allowing a broken limb to lie unrestrained — leaving the ends of the bones displaced, the one riding over the other — whilst attempts are being made to keep down the inflammation, by applying leeches, cold lotions, or large poultices — all perfectly ineffectual so long as the palpable cause of incited action remains unheeded. The circumstances which kindle and keep up inflam- mation should always be understood; they are easily discovered in fracture, and when understood should never be lost sight of. If the parts be replaced there will seldom be inflammation ; if they remain displaced, the inflammation is so great that it is impos- sible to subdue it by any means short of removal of the cause. There is also an impossibility,—not to mention the patient’s sufferings, — of reducing bones to a good position some weeks after the accident. Such practice has been extensively followed and recommended by some, even modern writers; they set about reducing a fracture at a period after the accident, at which, by proper treatment, union would have been completed, or at least far advanced. The confinement and suffering of the patient are increased threefold, and after all the cure is bad, and there is a risk of false joint. In all fractures, whether simple or compound, comminuted or complicated, if an attempt is to be made to save the limb, let reduction be immediate; coaptation and retention of the sepa-