463 AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. In their consequences. Collections nearer the surface, under the membrane lining the meatus, are, though not so dangerous, also attended with oreat suffering: and severe constitutional symptoms. The disease may occur at all ages, but is most common in children during: dentition : in them it is often accom- panied with convulsions and head symptoms, leading to a suspicion. of hydrocephalus being established. The symptoms are all much relieved on the occurrence of copious purulent discharge. Suppuration in the organ of hearing often follows eruptive diseases; and both ears, or one, may continue to discharge for a long time. There is always more or less derangement of the functions of the parts. When the disease is external, pei'haps hearing may not be much affected; but when, as often happens, the ossicula, nervous expansions, membrane, parietes, are all destroyed or injured, hearing is lost, or rendered at least very ohtuse. Purulent discharge often continues for the rest of the patient’s life, at one time scanty, at another profuse, and preceded or accompanied by inflammatory symptoms. Open- ings form over the mastoid process, communicating with the cells; and these are often connected with abscess betwixt the dura mater and pars petrosa of the temporal bone. Abscesses, too, of the middle lobe of the cerebrum, or in the cerebellum, are sometimes evacuated tlu’ough the meatus auditorius. In all cases, but in the last more particularly, the patient suffers extremely on the discharge being suppressed, and is again relieved on its recurrence. At length, fever and delirium may supervene, terminating in coma and death; I have dissected many who have perished in this manner. Or, after long com- tinued discharge from the meatus, perhaps with paralysis of one side of the face, a soft tumour of the dura mater will be found lying over the pars petrosa, having caused extensive absorption of the bone, and exposed the semicircular canals, cochlea, tym- panum, &c. filled with purulent matter. Abscess of the tym- panum itself discharges long; and large, flabby, soft granulations fill up the meatus, very different in appearance from the solid tumours which sometimes occupy that situation. Ordinary earache — inflammation extending along the mea- tus externus, and confined to the lining membrane — will be