25 OF SUPPURATION. in mindj that a matter resembling pus in many particulars, but in reality differing essentially from it, has generally been re- garded as true purulent fluid; for it results, from some observ- ations of Mr. Gulliver, that the pulpy matter, so frequently found in the substance of fibrinous clots of the heart and veins, is simply fibrine which has coagulated and passed into the state of softening, which he regards as a very frequent ele- mentary disease. The subject is one of great interest, because it is connected with the theory of suppuration, and tends to modify materially our views on the pathology of the veins. The symptoms attendant on suppuration vary much according to the nature of the parts involved. In general, it is accompanied with the subsidence of acute pain and fever ; but, in unyielding textures, the increase of swelling, by the formation of purulent matter, is often attended with an aggravation of the symptoms, and with an increase of danger to the structures affected. The pain which accompanies suppuration is dull, and attended with a sensation of fulness and throbbing, and an increase of the tu- mour ; ultimately the parietes of the abscess become absorbed, and the collection, being more superficial, the most careless observer must be convinced of its existence, by the less equivocal signs of fluctuation and pointing. In general, especially when the abscess is deeply seated, a greater or less degree of oedema surrounds it, producing a soft pitting tumour; but not unfre- quently, when the degree of excitement is more intense, lymph, instead of serum, is effused, rendering the part more hard and resisting : in such cases it may be difficult to discover the exist- ence of purulent matter, and the tactus eruditus, as it is called, will be found of material service ; for, though pus is neither acrid nor corroding, still, if allowed to remain for any long period, much mischief may be caused — the bones may become diseased — muscles and tendons may slough — and the matter may discharge itself, by means of ulceration, into certain cavities and canals, and produce very serious consequences. Of the bad effects pro- duced by the pressure and irritation of extensive and undisturbed collections of purulent matter, every practitioner must have seen numerous examples. Still, through prejudice, erroneously con- ceived opinions, or sei’vile imitation, the greatest dread seems, with many, to exist of the practice of giving a free exit to the contents of such depots.