373 DISEASE OF THE ANTRUM. the morbid growth are separated with a blunt-pointed bistoury; and a scoop is used to turn out the diseased mass. The root of the tumour is then touched with a red-hot iron, and by this implement, or by dossils of lint, the haemorrhage is easily arrested. But such operations, considering the result of those which have been pi’actised, are scarcely justifiable. It has been proposed for this disease to remove the tumour, along with its investment — to separate and dissect out the superior maxillary bone. It is a very severe operation, and one which puts the patient’s life in imminent jeopardy, from profuse haemorrhage or constitutional disturbance. In one case, the surgeon began the operation after having tied the common carotid of the affect'“d side; but, having made the incisions of the cheek and palate, was obliged to desist, on account of the violent bleeding: eight days after, the common trunk of the temporal and internal maxillary was tied on the opposite side, and the incisions repeated, but the result was the same ; the growth increased, and the patient perished. The disease is very insidious in its progi’ess, and has gained much ground before the patient becomes alarmed and applies for surgical aid. The parietes of the antrum are ex- panded and softened ; the tumour has projected behind through the tuberous process, upwards through tlie plate of the orbit, or inwards to the nostril; and has contaminated by its presence and contact all the neighbouring parts. Then removal of the max- illai-y bone, or of all the bones in that side of the face, can be of no service. The disease is seldom if ever seen by the surgeon early enough to admit of any operation being practised with the least chance of ultimate success. At a sufficiently early period, the removal of the bone—of the parietes of the cavity contain- ing, and from which the tumour has grown, must without doubt afford a better chance, and is, in every point of view, to be pre- ferred to the old operation described above of what was called trephining the antrum. In one case of soft and brain-like tumour filling the antrum, and evidently commencing there, I succeeded in removing the entire disease. The patient remained sound. I have more than once seen the operation performed for this soft and malignant growth of only some months standing; portions of the bone and tumour crumbled under the fingers of the operator — the operation was harsh, painful, and appalling B B 3