404 ULCERS OF PALATE. eflPect, and without altering either the pitch, quality, or compass of the voice. No doubt, unpleasant results might follow ex- tensive incisions of the parts, as division of the anterior fold of the palate, and removal of the whole tonsil; but by paring off the prominent parts of the glands no risk is incurred. Ulcers of the Palate, Sfc. are said to have arisen almost uni- formly from contamination of the system, following sores on the genital organs. Now, at least, they seldom and scarcely ever occur from this cause, unless most execrable practice has been resorted to. Foul and extensive ulcers of the membrane of the mouth, of the tongue, of the gums, and of the folds of the palate, are common in those who have used mercury recently; and those whose constitutions have been saturated with mer- cury, or who have taken only alterative doses for a considerable time, are for a long while liable to ulcerations of these parts on exposure to moisture and cold — one set of sores healing, but others soon breaking out. It is, indeed, very rai'e to meet with sores in these situations that are not thus accounted for: certainly such as are by recurrence deep, extensive, and trouble- some, are not seen unless in those who have suffered from mercurial medicines. Slight excoriations are not uncommon in indivi- duals of the soundest and most untainted systems; but even in very young subjects, if the sore is of considerable size, and slow in healing, it will generally be found that some preparation of mercury, probably calomel, had been given previously, and perhaps without precaution and care. Calomel, as well as other forms of the mineral, is too often and too freely given, and without proper consideration; the ruin of many good con- stitutions is attributable to this cause, and to this cause alone. How long mercurial poisons continue to exercise a prejudicial influence on the constitution, is a question not easily determined. In many, its dominion is long and powerful. Frequently its effects are developed years after its exhibition, from acci- dental circumstances, such as change in the mode of living, derangement of the stomach and its appendages, exposure to inclement weather, change of climate, &c. Sores form in various situations, between the pillars of the fauces — in the site of the tonsils — on the uvula, and by its