251 AND THEIR CONSEQUENCES. The means employed for accomplishing this end are very various: oily applications, alkaline and spirituous washes, &c. with the view either of preventing the matter from coming into contact with the genitals, or of completely removing it, when it has been but a short time applied. There is one certain method of avoiding disease, which it is unnecessary to mention. In all affections of the penis, it is of the utmost importance to keep its extre- mity bound up to the abdomen, in order to prevent congestion or inflammatory swelling. Celsus knew this well; “ Sursumque coles ad ventrem deligandus est, quod in omni curatione ejus necessarium est; ” rest and quiet must be strictly observed; the patient must be confined to the recumbent position, particularly when the sore is irritable, when swelling or bubo has occm-red or is threatened; and when the system is excited, and the erup- tion has commenced, the bowels must be kept gently open, the patient’s diet must be low, and the parts surrounding the sore are to be kept carefully clean. Whatever the nature of the ulcer may be, it is safe and prudent, in the first instance, to change its action by the use of the nitrate of silver, or to destroy the surface by the free application of escha- rotics, as nitric acid, or solution of nitrate of mercury: the moi’bid poison is thus got rid of, and the surrounding parts stimulated to a proper degree of action. This is absolutely necessary in the phagedenic form of ulcer, whether of an acute or chronic nature. But, in most cases, the patient does not apply for medical assistance till the sore has been of so long duration as to preclude all hope of counteracting the virus by any local application. The simple superficial sores, and those with elevated margins, must be treated on the same principles as if they were totally unconnected with any specific cause ; and the applications must be varied according to the peculiarities of the part affected, and the different appearances which the surface assumes during the progress of cure. Lotion is the form of application found pre- ferable in most cases, and may consist of calomel and lime- water, with mucilage, called the black wash; of muriate of mercury, with lime-water, called the yellow wash; of a solution of sulphate of zinc, with spirit of a solution of nitrate of silver, or of sulphate of copper. The linimentum asruginis or Bar-