OSTEOSARCOMA OF THE JAW. 425 pressed, and the bistoury carried backwai'ds along the internal surface, to effect detachment as far as the angle. The bone is still more depressed, and the temporal muscle cut from the co- I’onoid process. The mass is thus loosened, and forced down- wards and backwards on the neck; the forepart of the capsule is then cut, and the bone twisted out. Separation of the re- maining attachments is completed by a few rapid strokes of the knife, and the whole mass removed. Haemorrhage is then to be permanently arrested, but instead of immediately tying every open mouth which presents itself, it is sometimes better to expose the common trunk of the internal maxillary and temporal arteries — which is easily effected, as it emerges from under the digastric muscle — and to pass a ligature beneath it, by means of an aneurism needle, 'fliis is more quickly done than the applying of ligatures to the many branches of this trunk which have been divided. The other vessels — the facial, branches of the lingual, &c. — are then tied, the cavity is filled with charpie, and the in- cisions of the soft parts are carefully closed. In these, union by the first intention usually takes place nearly throughout the whole extent; suppuration occurs from the deep wound; the charpie is dislodged gradatim, and removed; granulations spring up; and, after some time, the cavity is obliterated. The cheek must necessarily fall inward very considerably, but the deformity is not to be compared to that caused by the tumour. During granulation, the patient is made comfortable by the frequent use of tepid gargles, lodgment of pus in the mouth being thereby diminished. Articulation and mastication are not so perfect as when the jaw was entire and sound; but the patient gradually becomes accustomed to the want, and these functions improve. A contrivance described in the Practical Surgery, is used to pre- vent the remaining portion of jaw from being drawn towards the mesial line, and to keep the teeth opposite to those of the corre- sponding side of the upper jaw. Partial paralysis of the side of the face necessarily follows, for there is no possibility of ac- complishing disarticulation of the jaw without dividing many branches of the portio dura. Supposing that the portion of the jaw between the angle and symphysis had been removed on account of osteosarcoma, and that the ramus subsequently became affected, it is no easy matter