291 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. liable to result from wounds of the dura mater have been already mentioned, and illustrated by an example. The operation of trephine must also be resorted to in cases of punctured fracture. One perforation will generally be suffi- cient to enable the surgeon to remove the detached fragments of the inner table. In fractures with depression, when the brain is oppressed and its functions suspended, means must be taken to- elevate the displaced portion or portions to their natural level, and so remove the pressure. For the accomplishment of this purpose, it may or may not be necessary to divide the integuments. If they are entire, which is rarely the case, a crucial incision must be made, or one in the form of the letter T, and the flaps raised so as to show the extent of depression. No portion of the integuments ought to be cut away; the preparatory process of scalping, formerly in use, has been abandoned as cruel and unnecessary. If a wound already exists, but is not sufficiently large, it may be dilated in such a direction as appears most likely to facilitate the after part of the proceedings. The elevation can often be then effected by the judicious application of the lever, its point being carefully placed under the depressed portion, and the sound part of the bone being made the fixed point on which the instrument acts. Those depressed portions which are completely detached, must be removed; but those which adhere, either to the dura mater or to the scalp, ought to be left after having been raised to their former sites, as they will furnish a large contribution towards the filling up of the deficient parietes. Reparation of the skull, when a small por- tion is removed, or when a single narrow fracture exists, is effected by bone; but when the opening is large, the deficiency is always repaired by a dense ligament, to which the dura mater and integuments adhere. By employing a small saw— repre- sented in both ancient and modern surgical works — so as to widen the fracture, or remove a projecting corner of bone, sufficient room may be obfained for the introduction of the lever and the removal of splinters. In old subjects, the bones are brittle, and a small corner may be readily removed by plyers, or cutting forceps, so as to allow the depression to be raised. But it may be necessary, in order to elevate portions that u 2