OF ULCERS OF THE GENITAL ORGANS, 252 badoes naphtha are often useful in foul sores. Ointments, if at all, ought to be used sparingly. The application of dry lint, or the sprinkling of a little fine powder, is often all that is requi- site. Of course these applications must be varied, according to the particular circumstances of each case. Buboes are to be treated in the same way as any other inflammatory swellings; local means being taken at the com- mencement to subdue the inflammatory action, and resolve the swelling. Rest is indispensable. When they are stationary, the application of a blister will either cause resolution or sup- puration, and so the enlargement will be got rid of, either in the one way or the other. The painting of a rubefacient solu- tion of iodine occasionally on the swelling is also useful, and preferable to frictions with iodine ointment. When they have passed into a decidedly chronic state, absorption may be pro- moted by pressure, or, again, means must be taken to hasten suppuration, and the matter which forms is to be early eva- cuated. If suppuration occur in the cellular tissue, and not in the substance of the enlarged gland, neither cicatrisation, nor a permanent cure, can be expected until the prominent and indurated parts have been destroyed by the caustic potass. In phagedena, bread and water poultices or tepid water dressing are, in the first place, to be applied, and the pain and irrita-, tion may be soothed by solutions of opium, or extract of poppy. If bands of skin intersect the ulcerated parts, they are to be divided, as being a source of irritation which prevents healing. If the frsenum prseputii be surrounded by ulceration and undermined, it must be incised for a similar reason. It is often advisable, also, to divide the prepuce. After the process of destruction has ceased, gently stimulating washes will promote contraction of the sore. It is an important fact, that the majority of primary ulcers can be made to heal without mercury. Cavillers object to the mercurial washes, supposing that they may act by affecting the constitution. The sores with hardened edges, chancres, heal as well as others, when mercury is not employed, but much more slowly. In some mercury is injurious: in chancres it promotes the cure. In any case, I would never think of order- ing it, unless the progress wei'e very tedious, the ulcer being indolent and contumacious; then mercury may be advantage-