426 OSTEOSARCOMA OF THE JAW. to effect disarticulation, as I have experienced. — The patient was a female, aged 30, of delicate constitution, and subject to toothache from infancy. I removed an osteosarcomatous tu- mour, extending from the angle to the canine tooth, on the right side. Division was made wide of the existing disease, and the sawn surfaces appeared quite healthy ; but about five months afterwai’ds, symptoms of return occurred in the ramus, and ten months after the first operation disarticulation was indispensable. The operation was accomplished with very considerable dif- ficulty, on account of there being no lever to overcome the action of the temporal muscle. After separating the attachments as much as possible, an attempt was made to force down the coronoid process, from under the zygoma, by pushing the lower end of the bone backwards, in order to divide the insertion of the temporal muscle; but this proved ineffectual. The capsular ligament of the joint was then divided, and the bone with dif- ficulty turned over from behind, forwards. It was then de- tached underneath the coronoid process, pulled down from under the zygoma, and the temporal muscle at length divided at its insertion. In none of these operations is there a necessity for preliminary exposure and ligature of either the carotid artery or its branches; by so doing, a great addition is made to the patient’s sufferings, the real operation is only commenced when the patient supposes it should have been finished, and he is thus annoyed and worn out. The flow of blood is easily moderated, or altogether ar- rested, by the pressure of an assistant’s fingers against the fore- part of the vertebrae, below the angle of the jaw. The position of the patient is either recumbent, with the face turned from the operator, or sitting with the head supported and steadied. The instruments required are, a very strong, sharp-pointed bistoury, for division of the soft parts; saws, of which Key’s is to be preferred for notching the bone; strong and long pliers, for completing its section; an aneurism needle, for securing the common trunk of the temporal and internal maxillary artery; dissecting and artery forceps, hooks blunt and sharp, narrow copper spatulae, ligatures, &c.