TRACHEOTOMY. 454 sented. The poor fellow had worn a small silver tube in an opening in his windpipe for many years. It was originally introduced on account of long-continued disease of the larynx, with dreadful suffering and constant sense of impending suffocation. He could not be made to dispense with the tube entirely, as he felt im- mediately on the wound closing a threatening of return of his painful and dangei’ous symptoms. A small one was substituted for that at first used. He led a very irregular life, used a vast quantity of opium, and no small amount of spi- rituous liquors. He used to be out in the open air occasionally all night, and suffered repeatedly under attacks of bronchitis. He was under treat- ment again and again in the hospital, on account of rheumatic affection and deranged digestive organs. He used occasionally to present himself, complaining of difficult breathing, and stating that his silver tube was too short. He could articu- late tolerably well when he stopped with his finger the orifice of the silver tube ; at all times a part of the respired air passing through the natural channel. Latterly, he used to suffer from threatening of suffocation, and he used to relieve himself of the cause of this, viz. the inspissated and ropy mucus which got entangled in the trachea, then not suspected to be in a diseased state, by pushing through the opening in his neck and into the bronchi, long turkey’s feathers; of these he car- ried a good store, and some are now in my possession. This feat he performed without causing the slightest excitement or coughing. Ultimately, and about twelve years after the oper- ation had been performed, he died, principally from diseased viscera. His liver was enormously enlarged and altered in struc- ture : the larynx is seen to be very much contracted at two points. The tube is observed to be considerably dilated below the contractions. The introduction of tubes into the larynx has been supposed likely to supersede bronchotomy in some cases; and it is said that their presence does not produce so much irritation as has been stated. But the practice must, in all cases, be most troublesome to