18 OF INFLAMMATION. flammatory pitch, the union by the first intention is interrupted, and the wound must heal by granulation with suppuration. The process of adhesion will be more properly attended to when treating of wounds. The various terminations of inflammation are salutary or de- structive, according to circumstances; but resolution is, in general, the one most to be desired; complete resolution, how- ever, perhaps seldom occurs ; after the inflammatory action has attained a certain point, this cannot be expected to happen. Resolution takes place in consequence of the re-establishment of the circulation in the capillaries, in which the blood had stag- nated; hence the diminution of the increased action in the larger vessels — the effused fibrine, at the same time, if there was much swelling, is partly absorbed. The circulation in the part be- comes again natural, and the circulating fluid also resuming its healthy properties, the redness and sensation of throbbing cease. In consequence of the blood-vessels regaining their contractility, the nervous system is no longer preternaturally stimulated, and thus the increased sensibility is done away with. In short, when inflammation terminates in resolution, the part is left in the same state in which it was previous to the supervention of the attack. It is not an instantaneous process, but gradual in its completion. Again, it not unfrequently happens, when inflammation has occurred in the surface, and continued for a short period, that it spontaneously disappears, and does not again return ; the action is said to terminate in Delitescence, and of course this is always a favourable occurrence. But if the inflammation, after having suddenly disappeared, attacks another part at a distance from that first affected, the change is termed Metastasis. If the in- flammation leaves an internal viscus, and appears on the surface of the body, the circumstance is favourable ; but if it leaves the latter to attack the former, the result is highly dangerous. Treatment. — In the treatment of inflammation, with a view of procuring resolution, our attention must be first directed to the exciting cause: it is, if possible, to be discovered, and re- moved. Thus, foreign bodies are to be extracted — fractures reduced — strictures divided—unnatural accumulations of fluid withdrawn, &c. In many cases, if the exciting cause is re-