CALCULUS VESICA. 636 water may be injected. In the contracted state of the viscus, the stone may escape detection, if of no great size, from being embraced by the bladder, and concealed in its folds; or, on the contrary, it may be discovered either after or during evacuation of the urine, having eluded the surgeon’s search during an over- distended state of the viscus. Also, it may be discovered in one position of the patient, whilst it is lost in another. When the symptoms are decided, examination is to be made, both during the recumbent posture, and during the erect, with the body bent forwards, and likewise with the bladder in various states of full- ness ; and if unsuccessful, the search is to be repeated. But in general no difficulty is experienced in discovering the stone. The instrument used should be pretty large, with a smooth metallic handle, and either with a large curve and long point, or straight till near the farther end, and then having a short curve. The latter form is preferable, as admitting of the curved part being introduced completely within the bladder, and turned in all directions and into every part of the viscus — the urethra being brought into a straight line by the remaining part of the instrument. The posterior fundus, behind the prostate, is the situation most commonly occupied by the stone during the re- cumbent posture; and thei*e it is in a measure concealed, when small and the gland enlarged. The surgeon, aware of this examines that part of the organ very carefully, and, as already stated, explores every corner with the utmost gentleness, and at the same time minutely, never employing the slightest force or rudeness of search. Upon bringing the instrument in contact with the foreign body, or moving it quickly upon it by turning the handle, the sharp, clear sound of the stroke can be distinctly heard; and this is one reason why the instrument should be throughout metallic. The prudent surgeon is not satisfied of the existence of calculus in the bladder without this sign. Not a few practitioners have been deceived, and have sub- jected their patients to incision of the bladder when no stone was there. A false and deceptive grating is sometimes felt during the passage of the instrument through the prostate; or the point may be made to rub against dense and rough fasciculi of the bladder; or a more distinct feeling, as of stone, may be communicated from the instrument being brought in contact