DISLOCATIONS. 731 but the extent of laceration varies in different joints, according to the direction of luxation and the degree of displacement. The rent may be small, closely embracing the neck of the bone ; or there may be an extensive gap on the side opposite to that on •which the luxation has taken place. In an articulation sur- rounded by muscular substance, there is also laceration of this to a greater or less extent. In some individuals, dislocation is very apt to occur, perhaps from peculiar laxity of fibre; and if in any person luxation of a joint has once been produced, the accident is apt to occur again and again from but slight causes. In general, the mobility of the luxated joint is much di- minished ; the limb is either shortened or lengthened; its contour is changed; the injury is attended with violent pain; the patient is sick and pale; the system receives a shock, from which it gradually recovers after some lime. Then swelling, from effused blood, takes place; and this is followed, after some hours, by excited action of the vessels and farther effusion, giving rise to greater stiffness and pain on attempts at motion. If no means are taken to replace the bone, the painful feelings subside along with the swelling, the limb remains long useless, and is the seat of occasional lancinating pains, but at last motion and utility are to a certain extent restored by the formation of a new joint — the head of the bone, and the parts on which it rests, mutually accommodating themselves to each other, by degrees, and permitting a limited extent of motion. Post mortem examination, years after the occurrence of the injury, shows change in the form of the bones — the head is flattened, and in the bone on which it lies there is a corresponding depression, formed partly by the deposition of new matter, partly by ab- sorption of the old; in dislocation on the dorsum of the ilium, for example, there is excavation by absorption opposite to the centre of the head of the femur, and round this new osseous matter is deposited so as to form the cavity into a cup resem- bling the acetabulum. New processes are formed for the attach- ment of the muscles, and the old are absorbed to a remarkable extent. There are also new ligaments ; and a sort of capsule is formed by condensation of the surrounding cellular tissue. The new articulating surface becomes quite smooth internally, and is covered, if not by cartilage, by a smooth substance which an-