OF TETANUS. 221 rations of parts, including the principal blood-vessels and nerves — fractures of the heads of bones, with openings into the joints —' and in bad compound fractures, more especially of the thigh (for all compound fractures of the upper part of the thigh are dangerous), amputate at once. When the limb has been retained, and gangrene arises in consequence of the exter- nal injury, and when there is no reason to suppose that any internal cause is also in existence; or when the violence of inflammatory action has subsided, and the patient is become hectic, with profuse purulent discharge, and with disunited bones, then amputate. But, in this latter case, the chance of recovery is not so great, and the proportion of recoveries small; whereas, in the immediate or primary operations, the very I’everse holds true. Such is the experience of the greater num- ber of military surgeons. In civil practice, the results are some- what different; a greater proportion of primary amputations are unsuccessful, and the secondary turn out more favourably than the statements of military surgeons would lead one to believe. In all cases, the judgment of the surgeon must guide him in his determination. The circumstances of the case, and the pro- bable contingencies, must be all duly considered, and he must not proceed with his knife where there exists even a slight chance of preserving the limb. Paralysis occasionally follows wounds of the arm, fore-arm, face, &c., inflicted by accident or operation, and this arises from an important nerve, or set of nerves, being divided. In cases of simple division, without much separation of the parts, reunion of the nerves may take place, and their functions be restored. If the limb remains paralysed, after cicatrisation of the wound, tepid effusions, friction, either dry or with lini- ment, stimulating applications, &c., may sometimes be advan- tageously employed. TETANUS Is a disease which occasionally follows a wound, but rarely in this country. It is a spasmodic contraction, with rigidity, of the voluntary muscles, in some cases involving the whole body, in others the upper part of it only, and in some it is confined