64g CALCULUS VESICA. Stone by such means, unless its size and consistence were such that it would yield to one or two attacks. A plan of crushing the stone, by forcing one part of an ap- paratus against another by the stroke of a hammer, has been lately promulgated, and by a person who previously maintained that the grinding and rasping was quite perfect, though now regarding them as nought. This percuteur has a short bend at its farther extremity, one half separates from and slides on the other, and both are provided with teeth. It is very possible to entangle a portion of the bladder betwixt its blades; and, be- sides, these may bend or break, as they have done in several very bad and abominable cases, in which incisions were required to disengage the instrument from the patient’s urethra or bladder. A stone may also be laid hold of by the apparatus, and being so hard as not to yield to the impulse of the hammer, may become fixed in such a way as it cannot be freed from the grasp, there being no provision for pushing it out as in the lithotriteur. It will be seen from what has been stated, that I am not so sanguine — and I trust I shall be excused of presumption in giving an opinion upon the subject — as to suppose that the breaking up of the stone in the bladder will ever entirely super- sede lithotomy. That it would do so was at one time industri- ously represented, and perhaps believed, by some of the advocates and promoters of lithotrity. If, by some miraculous interposi- tion of Providence, the deposits from the urine should uni- formly be pulverisable, and that bladders be made of less irritable stuff than they are, and if, above all, the affected in- dividuals could only be prevailed upon to apply in due time, then might such pleasant anticipations be entertained, and then might we with some reason hope to see them realised; but as matters now are, urinary concretions must, in a great many in- stances, be cut out of the bladder. Nor is it a circumstance to be very much deplored, since, in good hands, the patient neither endures so much suffering, nor incurs so much risk, as by the proceedings already detailed. The cure, besides, is far less tedious. The stone-grinders, whilst they conceal their own unfortunate results, endeavour to depreciate lithotomy by blazon- ing abroad the practice of some unlucky surgeon, who, perhaps.