37 OF SUPPURATION. sinus at the lower part of the leg, or in the foot, the probe may be pushed to a considerable extent beneath the tendi- nous sheaths of the muscles, and induce the surgeon to adopt treatment unnecessarily severe. In the treatment, we may at first employ setons, injections, and graduated pressure, as for- merly explained; and if these fail, the canal must be freely laid open by the knife — a mode of practice much more effectual; then there is formed a cavity similar to that of a recent ab- scess, and to be treated accordingly. Incision is most frequently necessary when the sinus exists in adipose substance, in tendi- nous structure, in parts possessed of little vitality, and in patients of a sluggish and enfeebled constitution. In sinus, as well as in chronic abscess, the potass is of essential service; a stick of it may be introduced into the canal, and if the sinus is super- ficial, the integuments may be divided by this caustic as effec- tually as by the knife. The indolent and callous surface of the sore is thereby destroyed, and the effects are similar to those which have been already mentioned, when speaking of the use of potass in abscess ; in fact, by its application the sinus is trans- formed into an acute and open abscess. Foreign bodies, such as diseased and dead portions of bones, must be early removed ; for it is to be remembered that these are much more frequently the cause than the consequence of suppuration. The healing of an abscess which has been opened closely resembles the process of union by the second intention in a flesh wound; granulations arise, attended by the secretion of pus, the cavity gradually contracts ; the surrounding effusion is ab- sorbed along with a portion of the adipose matter ; and on the granulations reaching the surface, new skin is formed, and the parts coalesce. After abscesses have been opened, the fomentations, poultices, or warm-water dressing, as recommended in the treatment of ulcers, are to be continued, but only for a limited time. The power of the system must be carefully supported by exposure to a pure atmosphere; by nourishing food ; by the exhibition of wine, tonics, and such medicines as promote digestion. In cases where the system is unusually inert, it may be proper to administer stimulants. The most powerful stimulants are fre- quently necessary, and by steady perseverance in the use of D 3