INJURIES OF THE SHOULDER. 704 Separation of the head of the bone occurs occasionally in young persons, presenting the same appeai’ances and symptoms as fracture of the neck of the humerus in later life. Each, by a little care, is distinguishable from dislocation, even after swelling has supervened. And it is highly necessary that the diagnosis should be correct and prompt, otherwise atrociously cruel and unnecessary proceedings will be adopted, and irreparable mis- chief occasioned. Luxation is attended with flattening of the shoulder and elongation of the arm, to a greater or less degree, according to the position of the head of the bone. But the elbow does not come to the side, and the motions of the limb are abridged; it cannot be abducted to any extent, if the scapula is fixed. The head of the bone is felt under the pec- toral muscle, or in the axilla; and on rotating the arm gently, by laying hold of the forearm, and using it, when bent, as a lever, the head and shaft are found to move simultaneously, all of a piece, and no crepitation is felt. Besides, the history of the accident is an excellent guide towards correctly ascertaining the nature of the injury. If the patient, in falling, have invo- luntarily stretched out his arm, in order to save himself, and alighted with his whole weight on the palm or elbow, dislocation will most probably have occurred. If, on the contrary, he have pitched upon the shoulder, without any intermediate breaking of the fall, fracture is to be expected. The evil consequences of false diagnosis, and of treatment formed thereon, are very apparent. A dislocation may be put, up and treated as a fracture, perhaps till too late for reduction j and the patient will possess but weak and imperfect motion of the limb, after having undergone long suflhring. On the con- trary, dreadful torments are inflicted on the patient when fracture is treated as luxation. The force applied with the view of reduc- tion is in all circumstances very painful, but, when exerted on a fractured bone, must prove absolute torture; and during the whole treatment, the fragments are, perhaps, every now and then, by renewed attempts torn separate, and union so prevented. Severe inflammatory action follows the reductive violence, and is kept alive or regenerated by the loose and projecting fractured ends of the bone ; extensive suppurations, attended with fever, ensue.