761 AMPUTATION. press the experienced surgeon with a certainty that in a short time gangrene must ensue, and render the success of any attempt to save life very problematical. When the extent of injury is such that, though gangrene may not be dreaded, yet it is plain that extensive suppurations and exfoliations must necessarily take place, a question may arise as to whether immediate amputation is to be performed or not. This will be decided by the circum- stances in which the patient is placed, and often also by his own feelings upon the subject. He may choose to run some risk, and endure much suffering, with even a very slight chance of ultimately preserving his limb. In cases of traumatic gangrene of the chronic form, amputation is not only justifiable, but im- perative; as also in those cases of severe fracture in which die patient is sinking under profuse discharge, with disunited bones. And the same absolute necessity for operation exists in many diseased joints, and in some diseased bones, when the patient’s safety would otherwise be endangered, or when, on mature con- sideration, it is evident that the member, if retained, must for ever be an encumbrance, and worse than useless. Certain tumours of bones, tumours involving joints, tumours and ulcers of the soft parts of a malignant nature, and without appreciable disease of the lymphatic system, will also demand recourse to the amputating knife. Patients, too, will be met with, who, after undergoing all the suffering attendant on disease of long dura- tion — as exfoliation of bone and sloughing of tendons, following deep suppuration — will, to get rid of the annoyance of the stiff and deformed member, or part of a member, not only submit to, but urge and insist on, the removal of the offending part. Amputation will also occasionally be required for badly-formed stumps, as those in which the end of the bone protrudes through ulcer of the integument, and is necrosed — or those in which the bone has been sawn of an inconvenient length. Many precautions are to be observed in this operation. It is not to be commenced without due consideration as to the position of the operator, and of his assistants — their several duties — the form of incision — the length of the stump—the difficulties, if any, which may be expected, and the best means of obviating them. The most prominent objects are, to save undue effusion of blood, to effect the incisions with as little suffering to the