OF HEMORRHOIDS OR PILES. 550 Affections of the Rectum and neighhourinj Parts. Of Hcemorrhoids or Piles. — Piles are blind, furnishing no discharge, except a mucous or puriform fluid; or open, pouring out a greater or less quantity of blood from time to time. They are usually of small size, invested by the mucous membrane, thickened, congested, and consequently of a dark colour; and either within the sphincter or projecting externally. Internally, they may sometimes consist of blood, coagulated or not, effused between the mucous and muscular coats of the intestine; but in general their inner structure is venous, at least in the first instance. Branches of the haemorrhoidal veins, ramifying near the inner surface of the gut, become varicose, probably from their superior trunks being compressed by hardened faeculent matter or other obstructions. The varix protrudes the super- imposed mucous membrane; and at first the excrescence is composed of the dilated venous trunks containing fluid blood, and invested by the membrane, which inflames, thickens, loses its villous character, and discharges a vitiated secretion. In this stage the tumour is easily compressible, and by pressure may be made to disappear almost entirely, the communications between the varicose vessels and the trunks above being still unobstructed. But inflammatory action is soon kindled in the incommoded venous branches, as frequently happens in varix of the lower extremities; their coats become changed, are thick- ened, effuse lymph externally and internally, adhere to one another, and are ultimately matted into one confused and solid mass; the contained blood coagulates, becomes fibrinous, the whole tumour feels hard and firm, and often is exceedingly painful. At length all traces of venous structure disappear; the tumour seems to consist chiefly of effused lymph, condensed cellular tissue, and coagula. In not a few instances, however, the contents of the veins remain partially fluid, and a communication exists between the vessels of the tumour and those of the surrounding parts. That such is the usual structure of piles I am convinced, from repeated and careful dissection of the tumours.