132 OF MOLLITIES OSSIUM, RACHITIS, ETC. generally enlarged to a greater or less degree, and the bones of the cranium are thickened and spongy ; not unfrequently the intellectual faculties remain acute. In adolescents and adults the limbs seldom become aifected; the bones composing the spinal column are the seat of the disease, and, along with the distortion of the spine, the position of the ribs is necessarily altered. Certain rare cases have occurred, in which all the bones of the adult were softened to a very great degree. In one remarkable instance, the patient complained of an annoying sense of tightness in the limb most affected, and, on examin- ation, the softened bone was found greatly depressed at that point, as if a strong ligature had been drawn tightly round it. Mr. Howship, who attended the patient, was so kind as to pre- sent me some years ago with a portion of the altered femur, which consists of a fatty-looking substance, and appears to contain little or no earthy matter. Though incurvation of the spine occurs in boys, and even in adults,still it is most frequently met with in young females; and in them it is often induced by their having assumed a bad habit by sitting long in one constrained and awkward posture, as in writing or drawing, without, perhaps, the bones being unnaturally soft in the first instance. It often follows affections of the lower limbs, as of the knee or hip-joint; and is also caused by short- ening of a limb, which has been negligently or ineffectually treated after fracture during childhood, or by the patient being allowed to continue a custom of standing awkwardly on one leg. In the very remarkable specimen represented in Plates I. and II., the curvature seems to have resulted from the tremen- dous enlargement and consequent weight of the head. The whole skeleton (head, thorax, pelvis, and extremities) is de- formed, flattened, and twisted. This may have arisen more readily in consequence of the atrophy of the bones, and re- tardation of their growth, produced by the long confine- ment to bed. The number of ossa triquetra in the lamb- doidal suture must attract attention. The patient attained the age of twenty-five. The affection commenced from birth. At first, during slight curvature from such causes, the spine can be brought into its original straight position by the volun- tary action of its muscles. After some time, however, the