OF SUPPURATION. 35 must always be made at the most dependent part, which is also, generally, the thinnest; thereby a free exit is allowed to the matter. If the incision be not made in a dependent part, a considerable quantity of the matter will be retained within the abscess, and can only be evacuated at the time by squeezing the parts — at all times a very cruel and improper practice — applying compresses, &c., which produce much irritation and unnecessary inconvenience to the patient. The cavity of the abscess inflames, the discharge becomes bloody and putrid, and great constitutional disturbance is apt to follow. When, again, the opening is sufficiently large, properly placed, and the matter flows out through the elasticity of the coverings, no air enters, the cyst gradually contracts, and the cure is soon completed. When the abscess has been deeply seated, and the incision made through a considerable thickness of healthy parts, it is some- times, though very rarely, necessary to introduce a small piece of lint between the edges of the wound, otherwise they may speedily adhere, and the discharge of the matter be in this way prevented. In consequence of smart haemorrhage, also, it may be proper to stuff the wound with lint, and retain it for an hour or two; but in general the practice of stuffing abscesses, or the openings into them, is hurtful. After the incision, as already remarked, it is unnecessary and injurious to discharge the pus by forcibly squeezing the sides of the abscess ; the application of a poultice will promote the evacuation of the matter, and allay the irrita- tion. In chronic abscesses of large size, it is sometimes neces- sary to make a counter opening— that is, an opening in a p i t of the tumour opposite to the original opening, in order that the matter may be more completely discharged. Setons intro- duced into the cavity of phlegmonous abscesses some time after their evacuation, are highly injurious, as causing much irrita- tion in parts which are already in a morbid state of excitement; but in chronic collections, which show no disposition to heal, their use may sometimes be followed by good effects, on the same principle that they were hurtful in the preceding case; if they should not cause a sufficient degree of excitement, they may be smeared with some stimulating ointment. In extensive collections, in which the matter is not sufficiently evacuated by the external aperture, injections are by some recommended, D 2