AND THEIR CONSEQUENCES. 241 produce, as readily as any other sores, enlargement of the in- guinal glands; they are a source of irritation, the effects of which may be extended along the lymphatic vessels, to the cluster of glands through which the absorbents pass, so as to cause inflammatory action, ending in indurated enlargement; or venereal virus from the sore may be taken up by the lymphatics, deposited in the glandular structure, and produce a similar af- fection. Buboes thus caused are situated in the upper cluster of inguinal glands; if the lower cluster is affected, it is to be presumed that the cause is not in the organs of generation, but in some part of the inferior extremity. From the existence of bubo, nothing can be deduced as to the nature of the poison, or the probable effects to be produced on the constitution ; for en- largement of glands in the course of their lymphatics will occur from irritation, whether connected with a mild or malignant virus, or with one totally devoid of any poisonous quality. From the simple ulcer there arises a constitutional affection, in all respects resembling that which follows gonorrhoea (a dis- ease which will be treated of under affections of particular mu- cous surfaces) ; but before attending to this, it will be proper to advert to another form of vdcer, which differs but slightly from the preceding in primary and secondary symptoms. It is a sore with a brown surface, either on a level with, or above, the sui’- rounding parts, with defined and elevated edges, with no carti- laginous hardness of base or margins, and Avith no tendency to spread either by sloughing or by ulceration. Such may occur in the same situation as the simple sores, but they often form on the outer surface of the prepuce, or on the scrotum ; and are not unfrequently met with round the orifice of the prepuce, which is a most troublesome situation, as, in healing, they generally pro- duce phymosis. Sores and fissures in this situation are very often kept up by the tense and irritable state of the aperture. The bubo which follows this differs from that caused by the simple sore, in having, after ulceration of the integument, a greater disposition to burrow; and this tendency is moi’e marked where mercury has been employed. From either of these forms of ulcer, it sometimes happens that constitutional affections arise, either during the existence of the sore, or some weeks after it has cicatrised. R