SCHIRRO-CONTRACTED RECTUM. 559 Schirro-contracted Rectum, a malignant and truly horrible disease, may be the consequence of inflammatory action, or of neglected stricture. The neighbouring parts are involved in cartilaginous induration ; the surface of the bowel is lobulated and ulcerated, its cavity is contracted, and the discharge is profuse, sanious, bloody, and putrid; there is frequent desire to void the contents of the gut, but in general nothing but flatus and puriform fluid is evacuated; when fasces do pass, dreadful pain is excited, and continues for some time. The difficulty of voiding faeculent matter becomes greater and greater, frequent attacks of ileus occur, and in one of them the patient expires. During the progress of the disease, the func- tions of the bladder become disturbed; change of structure in it and in the vagina takes places; and frequently the cavities of the rectum, bladder, and vagina are laid into one by inve- terate and malignant ulceration. The affection is more com- mon in females than in males, and rarely occurs in young persons. The countenance has the sallow hue peculiar to cai- cinoma, and in the advanced form of the disease becomes still more cadaverous from profuse discharge of matter and frequent haemorrhage. The cellular tissue, anterior to the rectum, is liable to be- come the seat of tumour. Malignant medullary formations occasionally form here, causing most distressing symptoms; by displacing the bowel they may obstruct its canal, and simulate stricture or schirro-contraction. Prolapsus Ani. Folds of the lining membrane of the lower portion of the rectum are apt to protrude during evacuation, as already mentioned, in those labouring under haemorrhoids. These are readily replaced, and the painful feelings relieved, if the attempt be made before swelling and engorgement of the vessels and cellular tissue take place. Protrusion, how- ever, is sometimes to a great extent; the sphincter is relaxed, and the lower part of the bowel is retained within it with difficulty; indeed there is often more of the lining membrane of the gut without the sphincter than within it. The mu- cous lining becomes insensible, thickened, and white; and the