ULCERS OF THE LIPS. S92 Simple ulcers of the lips may be made to heal readily,—by abstracting the exciting cause, preventing motion of the lip by the restraint of a bandage, disusing the part as much as possible, and by employing such applications to the sore as are best suited to the character and appearance which it may present; but it must be borne in mind that all remedies can be of little service unless motion of the lip be prevented. Soi’es of a bad kind must be attacked early, otherwise no hope of success can be entertained. Escharotics are not to be trusted to; the knife is the only effectual means of removing the disease. When the sore does not involve much of the lip, the molar teeth having been lost, and the alveolar processes absorbed, the cheeks are thus rendered flabby and relaxed: in such circumstances, all the diseased part is taken away with facility, and the features are not thereby deformed, but rather improved. The part cut away resembles the letter V, the angle being towards the chin: this form of incision is preferable, on account of the diseased portion being chiefly in the prolabium, and the parts afterwards coming together very neatly and readily. The lip is stretched by the operator and his assistant laying hold of the prolabium on each side of the portion destined to be taken away; a narrow straight bistoury is passed through the lip, at the angle of the form of incision; and the operator, standing in front of the patient, makes the first incision towards himself, by bringing the knife up to the prolabium. He then takes hold of the part to be removed, and laying the edge of the knife on the prolabium at the other side of the induration, cuts down to the point where the instru- ment originally entered. The incisions must always be made far from the indurated parts. The edges of the wound are retained in apposition by means of convoluted suture, as for- merly described. When the wound is extensive, as when a con- siderable part of the cheek is involved, approximation may be accomplished by a few points of interrupted suture, and after- wards the parts may be more securely and accurately fixed by convoluted sutures placed between the interrupted. When a large portion of the cheek is removed, as for disease which had commenced at the angle of the mouth and extended around, all the parts cannot be brought into contact, and some of the defi- ciency remains to'be filled up by granulation. The neighbour-