FOREIGN BODIES IN THE GULLET. 459 consequently endowed with malignant action, the treatment can only be palliative — there is no hope of a radical cure. Dysphagia may arise from an aneurismal tumour of the arch of the aorta, or of the large arterial trunks passing off from it, pressing on the oesophagus, and so narrowing its calibre. In such cases, also, no hope of success from any treatment can be entertained; often the case terminates fatally in a very sudden manner, in consequence of the aneurismal tumour giving way at the point which protrudes on the gullet; the contents are dis- charged into the stomach, or ejected by the mouth. If treatment by bougies be attempted in dysphagia arising from such a cause, the practitioner not being aware of the nature of the disease, the fatal issue will be fearfully hastened — a very unpleasant consequence of any practice. Foreign bodies lodged in the oesophagus produce difficult de- glutition, and, if large, may obstruct the passage completely; much irritation is also caused to the parts with which they are in contact, and inflammatory action kindled in them. A large substance firmly impacted likewise creates difficulty of breathing, by compressing the posterior part of the trachea. Indeed every consequence is of such an annoying nature, as to render dis- lodgment and removal of the offending substance necessary, though there were no apprehension of danger from its long-con- tinued presence. The proceedings must be varied according to the consistence, form, size, and situation of the foreign body. There are a great many instruments for effecting dislodgment and extraction, but the great majority of them are more curious and ingenious than applicable to the purpose intended; few are of any use. A pi'obang, mounted with a bit of sponge, or with an ivory-ball — a blunt flat hook attached to a whalebone probe — and long curved forceps, constitute the whole useful apparatus. The feelings of the patient are generally sufficient to mark the position which the body occupies; he is made to throw the parts into action, by attempts to swallow the saliva, and during the attempt to point to the seat of pain. But by this both patient and surgeon may be deceived, for pain and a feeling of foreign matter being lodged often remain at a fixed point, after the body