OF ULCERS. 225 spine, or on other parts of the surface; while others administer stimulants, and enemata with tobacco and turpentine. When there is reason to apprehend that the symptoms arise in con- sequence of laceration or partial division of a nervous trunk, it has been recommended to complete the division of it; and the practice is worthy of adoption, as in some cases it appears to have been successful. Little good can result from scarification of the wound. Amputation of the wounded member has also been pro- posed, particularly in chronic cases, and in one or two it has suc- ceeded. I have made trial of it in but one instance, and in that it failed. Acute tetanus had followed a lacerated wound betwixt the thumb and forefinger; amputation of the fore-arm was per- formed, and immediately after the operation, the spasms abated; but they soon returned, notwithstanding the free use of opium, and other remedies, and the patient died. In this case, the branch of the median nerve was found partially divided, and its cut extremities were thickened and inflamed. During the opei’ation, I wished to abstract a considerable quantity of blood, but the arteries seemed to be so spasmodically contracted, as to permit the flow of a small quantity only. On examination after death, the median nerve was of its natural appearance, excepting at the bend of the arm, where it was of a bright-red colour. No change could be perceived in the brain or spinal chord, though the examination was conducted with the utmost care. OF ULCERS. By ulcer is generally understood a breach of continuity in the soft parts of the body, with secretion of pundent or other fluid. But as suppuration may be independent of ulceration, so may we occasionally see a loss of substance like an ulcer on the surface of parts, without the production of pus, or any other morbid secretion, of which some instances are noted in the remarks on Atrophy of Articular Cartilage. Mr. Burns, in his excellent volume on the principles of surgery, has extended the term to the reparative process, as well as the destructive; this, if adopted, would lead to confusion and misapprehension. Ulcers vary much in disposition and appearance, follow Q