LUXATION OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. 735 The infei’ior angle of the Scapula occasionally escapes from under the border of the latissimus dorsi, usually with some laceration of the muscular fibres. The displacement is occa- sioned by raising the arm above the head to an unusual ex- tent. The angle of the bone projects considerably, and the muscle is felt playing beneath it distinctly during motion of the parts; the movements of the limb are limited and painful. The parts may be brought into their original position by pressing the angle of the scapula towards the ribs, whilst the arm is much raised; and the bone is afterwards confined in its proper place by a broad bandage passed pretty tightly round the chest. The retentive apparatus must be continued for a considerable time, and in some cases a cure may be so effected; but in general the bone soon regains its former unnatural position, and continues to do so, however often and however easilv it may be replaced. The parts gradually become accustomed to the change in relative position, and little inconvenience is expe- rienced. Luxation of the Shoulder-joint is prevented, by the arrange- ment and structure of the parts, from taking place in any direction excepting towards the axilla — downwards into the hollow of the arm-pit, downwards and forwards under the lower border of the pectoral muscle. Occasionally, though very rarely indeed, displacement occurs backwards. On the anterior and inferior aspects, the articulation is not supported, as at its other sides, either by muscular substance or by processes of bone. The accident is occasioned sometimes, though rarely, by direct violence, as by a blow on the back part of the shoulder ; and of such I have seen a few examples. But, in almost every instance, the displacement is caused by force applied to the distal extremity of the humerus ; either imme- diately, as by falling on the elbow, or through the forearm, as when a person endeavours to break a fall by stretching out the arm, and alights with the whole weight of the body on the palm. The accident may also result from forcible abduction of the extremity, particularly when the power is applied near the extremity of the limb. There is laceration, to a greater or less extent, of the capsule, and of the muscles immediately