INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN. 513 any such incisions and gropings would be unpardonable. — 1. On account of the difficulty, nay, impossibility, of forming a correct diagnosis; of ascertaining with certainty what organ is in- volved ; of ascertaining the structure and disposition of the tumour, if any, and to what parts it is adherent. 2. Because the ovarian disease, in general, even though extensive, does not threaten imminently a fatal termination, being slow in its pro- gress, and the greater number of the swellings being not of a malignant nature. The solid tumours are sometimes of a bad kind, as already stated ; but enlargement by fluid is much more fre- quent in the ovaria than that by solid and new matter. 3. If the tumour be malignant, it will be impossible to ascertain to what extent the parts are involved by the diseased action, or whether the lymphatics are affected or not. There is a strong proba- bility of the lymphatic system being involved, even at a very early period; and then the extirpation of the tumour—sup- posing the mass to be so situated as to admit of removal without difficulty or danger — cannot be attended with any advantage; in every point of view, therefore, interference is unadvisable. 4. The operative attempt is attended with imminent danger. There is almost a certainty of the patient being almost instantly de- stroyed by it, as shown by the sad experience of the past. “ We are not the arbiters of life and death of those who apply to us for relief. If people die in consequence of disease, it cannot be helped. They submit to it because they know it is inevitable. But we had better refrain from making such experiments as may pro- bably destroy them, and bring disgrace upon the profession.” Bruises of the abdomen are apt to be followed by inflamma- tion of the contained parts, particularly of the serous membrane. Occasionally lacerations of the viscera, both solid and floating, but more frequently of the former, are produced by bruising or squeezing of the abdomen, as by a blow, or by a heavy body passing over; they may also follow a violent concussion of the parts by falling from a height. The liver is the organ most frequently torn, and death is commonly the result, rapid, and principally from haemorrhage. The laceration is generally on the convex surface; extravasation takes place under the peri- toneal covering; or this is torn, and the effusion is into the