582 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. the effused lymph having become much condensed after organ- isation ; others are less dense in their structure, and exceedingly elastic. From repeated attacks of inflammation at the con- stricted part, and around, additional lymph is effused and organised, and thus the extent and tightness of the stricture is increased. The urethra is generally constricted at those parts which are naturally the tightest; at the orifice—betwixt three and four inches from it — and betwixt six and seven inches from that point; the most frequent site is perhaps anterior to the sinus. Contraction of the orifice is frequently the consequence of cicatrisation, and generally proves obstinate; in some cases the smallest probe is passed with difficulty. Considerable portions of the anterior part of the canal suffer contraction from the effect of ulceration; and congenital malformations of the orifice give rise to many affections both of the urethra and bladder. Contractions in different parts of the canal depend much upon one another. When a tight stricture exists, the passage anteriorly is never fully distended, and becomes permanehtly contracted in consequence; whilst more or less dilatation is produced be- hind the tight part, wherever that may be. The enlarge- ment often is very great, the urine lodges in the cavity formed by dilatation, and can be pressed out in a stream, or dribbles away after the patient supposes that he has done making water. Mucous and sabulous deposits often lodge in it; and calculi are occasionally retained there, may attain a large size, and may give rise to very unpleasant and even dangerous symptoms^ Not unfrequently ulceration takes place behind the stricture, and the uriiie becomes insinuated into the cellular texture; but this tissue immediately around is in general condensed previously to the giving way of the canal, and so prepared by lymphatic effusion as to oppose effectually extensive infiltration. Such is not the case, as will afterwards be explained, when solution of continuity in the urethra, or of the cyst of an abscess, takes place in consequence of distension of the bladder. In the gradual escape of urine by ulceration behind the constricted point — the urethra being neither altogether ob- structed, nor nearly so — abscess forms in the cellular tissue, exterior to the ulcerating part. The suppuration is often slow