LIGATURE OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. 481 of the vessel would not be expected to take place at the deligated point, one or more collateral branches arising close to the liga- ture. On the outside of the scalenus there is no such objection. But the vessel is deep, even in the healthy state, and much more so when aneurism has appeared in the axilla, and has attained but even a small size. But again, when the tumour is large, the shoulder is much elevated, and firmly fixed in its exalted level, so as greatly to increase the depth of the vessel. The shoulder is to be depressed as much as possible, and the head thrown to the opposite side. An incision is made along the upper margin of the clavicle, and a second perpendicular to the first. These must be proportioned to the size of the patient, and the supposed depth of the vessel. It is better to err in making the external incisions too large than too small; neither the pain nor the duration of the cure is much increased thereby. But, by an opposite course, both the difficulties and the dangers of the operation are rendered far greater. The external jugular vein must be avoided if possible by the knife; it should be de- tached slightly, and pulled inwards. The supra-scapular artery, running in a line with the clavicle, ought also to be saved; it acts a principal part in performing the anastomosing circulation after ligature of the trunk; and, although the arm would receive a sufficiency of blood from other branches, it is well to keep this entire—not to mention the trouble which wound of it would occasion the operator, by constantly filling his incisions with blood, and the delay caused by the application of ligatures to the bleeding extremities. Its division can easily be guarded against, and should be avoided. The subclavian vein is not in the way; it is lower down under the clavicle than where the surgeon requires to introduce his instruments. The fascia and cellular tissue are divided carefully, until the cervical plexus of nerves appears, and then the artery is to be looked for on the same level with the plexus, and towards its sternal margin. But, in cutting for this or any other vessel, it must be recollected that pulsation is a very uncertain guide. It is communicated to the neighbouring parts, and often is scarcely to be felt at all, or is at least very indistinct. In any situation pulsation is very per- ceptible before division of the integuments, and other super- imposed parts ; but after resistance has been removed by exposure