791 EXCISION OF DISEASED BONES. the soft texture underneath, — but they are seldom requisite. The bleeding from tlie soft parts is free; the vessels do not retract, and may require the application of a needle and liga- ture. That from the bone is easily arrested by pressure; the cavity is filled with charpie or with dossils of lint, and these are supported by a bandage. Some days after, this dressing is re- moved, having been previously softened and loosened by fo- mentation and poultice. The cavity should now be examined carefully, to ascertain whether or not all the diseased parts have been taken away; it is then dressed daily from the bottom. If parts of the surface assume an unhealthy aspect, the granulations being either backward or flabby, to these escharotics should be applied—the most suitable is the red oxide of mercury. Gra- dually the cavity fills up, and a depressed, firm, and permanent cicatrix is obtained. It need not excite surprise, however, if, in not a few cases, after matters have proceeded apparently very favourably for some time, the surface become pale, soft, and glistening; the discharge thin, acrid, and profuse; the integu- ments around tumid and discoloured, — if, in short, the disease be in no long time fully re-established. The tarsal and carpal bones are often the subjects of this operation. In a few cases I have removed several, in others one or a portion of one, with success. In one instance the greater part of the astragulus was taken away, along with the ends of the tibia and fibula. There remained, in consequence, a large opening across the joint, through which a cord was passed, to facilitate gradual and piecemeal discharge of remaining por- tions of diseased bone. The articulation could actually be seen through. The seton was gradually diminished, and the aper- ture closed. • The foot was thus preserved, and the leg was but little shortened ; the limb proved strong and extremely useful, but the ankle-joint retained little or no power of motion. I have also again and again trephined the os calcis and removed large portions of it; the cuboid likewise has been taken away, alono- with the base of the metatarsal bone or bones in con- O nection with it; in some of these cases an excellent cure fol- lowed, in others amputation of the foot was afterwards neces- sary. Some have ventured to cut away the articulating ends of the 3 E 4