449 TRACHEOTOMY. rally settled in some remote ramification of the bronchial tubes ; abscess commonly, sooner or later, takes place around, purulent expectoration follows, all the symptoms of pulmonary phthisis are established, the patient becomes hectic, and dies. The existence of the foreign body, when suspected, is to be ascertained by accurate and attentive examination along the forepart of the neck, and by listening carefully to the sounds which may be present in the trachea; but the urgency and con- tinuance of the symptoms will seldom leave the surgeon to enter- tain a doubt. If he attentively watch the patient, he can scarcely be mistaken. It has been recommended to examine the oeso- phagus previously to adopting active measures, a large foreign body impacted in that passage being capable of materially ob- structing respiration by compression of the trachea; and it is safe and prudent to follow this recommendation whenever the least uncertainty exists regarding the real nature of the case. When a foreign body has lodged in the windpipe, tracheotomy should be had recourse to without delay. In general, the of- fending substance presents itself immediately after the division of the trachea, and is expelled by a strong current of air. But in some cases it may be necessary to introduce instruments — probes, scoops, or small forceps — upwards or downwai’ds, to dislodge and extract the body. A case in which a foreign body, which had lodged in the right bronchus for about six months, was successfully extracted, is detailed fully in the Lancet, and noticed shortly in \he Practical Surgery, p. 371. A little blood from the wound may cause coughing for some minutes, but this soon ceases; the wound is closed after a few hours, re- spiration is completely re-established, and all that the surgeon has then to combat are the evil effects on the mucous membrane which the contact of a foreign body may have occasioned. Tracheotomy is, in nearly all cases, preferable to laryngotomy. In disease of the windpipe, as formerly stated, it is better to cut into a sound part of the passage, or at least as far as possible from the seat of the disease. When an adult, for example, labours under acute laryngitis, the effused lymph is generally confined to the larynx, as was already mentioned; an opening below the thyroid gland is removed from the effusion, and by means of it G G