452 TRACHEOTOMY. of some frothy mucus, mixed with blood, the patient becomes | quiet and tranquil, breathes easily, and feels composed and re- j lieved. The form of the tube — the calibre gradually increasing | from below towards the orifice — completely prevents any farther ; ingress of blood, by the uniform compression which it makes on | the edges of the wound. The secretion of mucus in the trachea : is increased by the presence of the foreign body, but the patient easily frees himself from its annoyance, being instructed to place his finger on the orifice of the tube, so as to narrow the aperture, ' when he wishes to cough and expectorate. In those cases where the operation has been performed without there being diminution of calibre of upper part by swelling or otherwise, expectoration through the tube is more difficult. Mucus, however, is apt to adhere to the inner surface of the tube, and thereby obstruct bi’eathing; to prevent this, it is necessary occasionally to in- troduce a feather, or a probe wrapped round with lint, for some hours after the operation; the attendance of an assistant may be necessary for this purpose, but the patient readily un- dertakes the duty himself, on being made aware of its necessity. A double tube has been recommended, to facilitate the keeping of the passage clear, the inner one being occasionally withdrawn, cleaned, and replaced. But this is not in ordinary cases ne- cessary. The frequent introduction of a feather, or probe, is sufficient for some hours after the operation, and in a very short time the patient finds that he breathes freely, though the tube is removed for a few minutes, in order to be cleaned. At first, a funnel-shaped tube is used, to compress the edges of the wound and prevent oozing, as already mentioned; afterwards, one of uniform calibre is more easily coughed through. The patient should be kept in an atmosphere of warm and equal i temperature, and it is also prudent to place some cloth of very loose texture over the tube, that the temperature of the respired air may resemble as much as possible that passing through the | whole track of the windpipe; thus bronchitis may be averted. In some cases, the necessity for continuing the tube speedily goes off, the larynx, in consequence of rest, having recovered its healthy state and action. After eight or ten days, on taking out the tube, and closing the aperture in the trachea, the patient breathes and speaks well, and continues to do so.