705 FRACTURE OF THE HUMERUS. and may destroy the patient. Undetected fracture may also be treated as a bruise of the soft parts only; then every motion of the body and limb is productive of excruciating pain, and there is much risk of uncontrollable inflammation being excited — all which would have been warded off, by placing the bones in a proper and steady position in the first instance; the adaptation of a pad in the axilla is followed by immediate and great relief. Such mistakes are quite inexcusable. By one.carefid examina- tion, — productive no doubt of considerable uneasiness to the patient in some conditions of the parts — the real state of matters should be ascertained; and then the practice founded on the knowledge so obtained will be followed with speedy cessation, or at least great diminution of pain, and with every probability of restoring the limb to strength and usefulness. Fractures of the glenoid cavity, of the neck of the scapula, and of the neck of the humerus, are all treated by the same simple, though effectual, apparatus as employed for injuries of the clavicle. It requires to be re-adapted occasionally, to have the parts under the crossings of the bandage, and under the knots of the shawl i-etaining the pad, well protected by soft pads, and it must be worn for four or five weeks — perhaps, in some cases, even a short time longer’. Then gentle passive motion of the limb is to be employed, gradually increased as the painful feelings abate. If the parts are at once placed in apposition, and accurately retained, no abstraction of blood, either general or local, is required at the time, and is not likely to be called for during any stage of the treatment. No cold evaporating lotions are necessary ; fomentations are sometimes useful. Fracture of the shaft of the humerus is either oblique or transverse, according to the direction of the force applied. There is considerable displacement. The limb is always short- ened to a certain extent, and the natural contour destroyed; the arm is useless, and bent towards the trunk, and the muscles are in a state of spasmodic contraction. The nature of the injury is at once and readily recognised. There is unusual and unnatural mobility of the arm, and distinct crepitation at the fractured point. There is great pain from the pressure of the lower extremity of the bone upon the nervous trunks. The z z