217 OF WOUNDS. the Inoculation of virus, they would be of very common occur- rence, considering that wounds are so frequently I’eceived during dissection; but it is seldom comparatively that any unpleasant symptoms follow such an accident. In all cases, however, it is prudent to adopt measures in order to prevent absorption of the virus. With this view, the wound is made to bleed by means of pressure or suction, and by the latter method the exposed sur- face is most effectually purified ; afterwards nitrate of silver may be applied to deaden the surface, and protect it by an eschar. If such means be unavailing, the after symptoms must be en- countered as they appear, local inflammation subdued, tension relieved, abscesses apened, sloughs removed, &c. General bleed- ing is seldom admissible, but pui’gatives and antimonials will prove beneficial at the commencement; afterwards the strength is to be supported, and, if the patient be much reduced, stimu- lants are to be liberally administered. We shall next treat briefly of gunshot wounds ; under this head are included the contused and the lacerated, caused by splinters, &c. The vitality of the injured surface is generally destroyed at once, whence bleeding seldom occurs, even after whole limbs have been shot away; in some cases, however’, haemorrhage is profuse, as when a large artery has been wounded by small shot. The effects on the system are extremely various; some persons are affected with tremors, anxiety, and depression from slight wounds; while the most severe injuries are often unac- companied by any disturbance of the nerves. The shock is generally of short duration, disappearing soon, on the patient’s being reassured and encouraged, or after his taking a little wine or opium. In gunshot wounds, those inflicted from a distance or close at hand can in general be readily distinguished. In the lattei’, the wound is large and lacerated, portions of the wadding are impacted, and the skin around is marked with grains of gunpowder. In the former, the wound is small and clean. When a ball passes through a fleshy part, the opening at its entrance is small and depressed; whilst that by which it escaped is open, with everted edges. When it follows a super- ficial course, its track is marked by a wheal, or elevation of the skin with discoloration. At one time, it was believed that the most serious consequences resulted from a ball passing close past