533 OF HERNIA. merit, as in other forms of protrusion; and if this be done in early life, and the apparatus carefully worn, the opening con- tracts, and the patient may ultimately be cured. The tumour may become strangulated, though rarely in the adult; it is ge- nerally large, and almost solely occurs in females. The sac has no covering but the skin and cellular tissue and fatty matter. A small incision is made through the sac and its investments, either on one side of the tumour, or in the mesial line at its lower aspect. The stricture is then divided with care, the parts reduced, the wound approximated, and a compress applied. Opening the tumour throughout its whole extent is hazardous and unnecessary. The same remarks apply to the proceedings in cases of ventral hernia. In corpulent females the tumour is sometimes scarcely prominent, and is only discovered as a flat- tened cake through the fatty matter. The contents of hernia are often in a very bad state, either dark-coloured throughout, or studded with dark tender spots. Lymph is often effused all over the parts, gluing them to one another, and to the sac. This effusion, which generally takes place to the greatest extent at the neck of the sac, is a wise pro- vision made by nature against the accidents of the disease; in- asmuch as a barrier is thereby formed between the cavity of the abdomen and the extruded parts, preventing, in a great measure, the destruction of the latter from affecting the abdominal viscera. For example, a portion of protruded intestine sloughs, the faeculent matter is effused, and, had not this adhesion to the neck existed, the gut might have slipped back into the abdomen, its contents would have escaped there, and a fatal result would have been the inevitable consequence. Still, notwithstanding the salutary effusion, thei bowel may ulcerate at its upper part, and, giving way within the belly, produce rapid death. The bowel, where embraced by the stricture, is contracted and thickened, and dilated above. At the lower part of this dila- tation the coats are apt to give way by ulceration, even after incision of the constricting parts and reduction. The contraction does not disappear quickly. In some cases it continues to such an extent as to keep up obstructions to the faecal matter, and cause a fatal issue from this cause alone, as noticed above. Often, on opening the sac, in long neglected cases, a discharge mm3