CALCULUS VESICA. 635 oxalate of lime calculus, a specimen of which is here sketched, is of very rough surface, and gives rise to the most violent symptoms. But the project- ing portions of this, or of other rugged concretions, may become covered by ad- ditional and smoother deposit — or the surface may become smooth, polished, and water-worn, receiving no addition for a long time — and in such circumstances the sufferings are mitigated. However, in consequence of fresh incrustation, they may soon become again much aggravated, and almost intolerable. The increase of the stone is in some cases exceedingly slow ; after many years, the size may not exceed that of half a wal- nut. In others, large dimensions are attained within a short period. The mulberry is always of gradual formation; and the rapidly increasing are generally of the alkaline and earthy or alternating character. The symptoms above detailed — many, and sometimes all of them — may be produced by other causes than stone in the bladder. Irritation of the bowels, more particularly of the lower, by worms, foreign bodies, or faeculent matter of a bad kind — irritation of the kidney — alteration of structure of this viscus, and the lodgment of concretions in its pelvis — are all attended by many of the symptoms of vesical calculus. Irrita- bility of the bladder, the nature of which has been elsewhere detailed, also possesses somewhat similar indications; but the pain is usually referred to the hypogastric region and the peri- neum, as well as to the point of the penis, perhaps more fre- quently, and is generally relieved after evacuation of the urine: such is not the case in calculus. The symptoms and sizes of stone, when severe, will lead the patient to take such means as are necessary to ascertain the cause of them—to ascertain whether or not stone exists in the bladder. The term soundmg is applied to such examination. In this pro- ceeding the bladder should contain some urine, so that the object may be effected more readily, and with less pain to the patient; he should be desired to retain his urine for one, two, or three hours, as he may be able; or from four to six ounces of tepid