WOUNDS OF THE NECK. 428 Spasmodic action of the muscles of the face, without pain, sometimes follows wounds and other injuries of the nerves which supply them; and sometimes no cause can be assigned for the occurrence. In this affection also, the application of nitrate of silver to the integuments over the nerves may sometimes be made with advantage. Division of the parotid duct, or wound of the gland itself, is occasionally followed by the formation of a fistulous aperture, discharging saliva over the cheek. We endeavour to prevent this by accurate union of the recent wound. After the fistula has formed, an opening is to be made from it into the mouth, and kept pervious; the external aperture is then closed by suture after excision of the smooth edges, or is made to contract by the repeated application of a heated wire; pressure alone is of little use. All wounds of the face are to be put into the most favoui’able state for healing without granulation, so that deformity may be prevented as much as possible. The twisted suture is best adapted for this purpose; more accurate coaptation being thereby obtained than by the interrupted form. In extensive wounds, the parts may be brought somewhat into their proper position by a few points of interrupted suture; twisted sutures are then placed in the intervals, and the isinglass plaster is of use in closing those points which may still gape slightly; in many cases, the greater part of the approximation may be accomplished by isinglass plaster alone. Deep wounds behind the angle of the jaw, and at the lateral and lower parts of the neck, are highly dangerous; indeed they are almost certainly and immediately fatal, as can readily be understood when the large blood-vessels and important nerves are considered which have their course in these parts, and which must be either wounded or completely divided. The bleeding has in some cases been arrested by immediate ligature of the divided extremities of the vessel, by firm and permanent pres- sure, or by pressui'e at first, and ligature of the trunk of the vessel on the recuri’ence of haemorrhage after the lapse of many days; of these methods immediate ligature of each extremity' is certainly the safest and best. In lacerated wounds violent hae- morrhage may take place some time after the infliction of the