DISEASES OF THE EYE. 321 metastasis of inflammation takes place from one eye to another ; so that a person may be seen one day with severe inflammation of the right, and on the following day with a similar affection of the left, and the right entirely free from disease. Another cause, sometimes met with, of inflammatory action in the con- junctiva, is the lodgment of large foreign bodies in the orbit, with or without destruction of the eye; as splinters of wood, straws, rusty iron nails, sharp portions of stone, &c. penetrating the globe of the eye, or parts in the immediate neighbourhood. Upon i-emoval of the cause, the redness, discharge of tea»*s, pain, &c. sometimes subside without inflammation having been established, the vessels of the part regaining their contractility; but if the cause is continued for any considerable time the effects do not rapidly abate. Wounds and other injuries of the organ are generally followed by inflammation. But a simple clean wound or puncture made with a fine instrument, as in many operations, and in a favourable constitution, frequently produces little or no excitement of the part. The degree of excitement must of course depend upon the nature of the wound, the structure of the parts involved, the lodgment or not of the body by which the wound is inflicted, and many accidental cir- cumstances. The eye may be injured by acids or by lime, and the textures acted upon chemically ; again, the membrane may be wounded by pieces of hot metal, and then the destructive action is both chemical and mechanical: in both cases active inflammation of the injured conjunctiva is kindled. The state of the patient’s constitution modifies very much inflammatory action of the eye, however induced; and it has been observed, that dark eyes bear injury or incited action better than those of a light hue. Not unfrequently conjunctivitis is a secondary affection, accompanying eruptile diseases, as measles or small- pox. In considering the disease, it is necessary to keep in mind the loose connection of the membrane with the subjacent parts, as well as its own texture and functions. In conjunctival inflammation, the patient first feels a degree of pain and stiffness in moving the organ; and has always a feeling as if a foreign body were present, whether such is the case or not. There is also a degree of itching with a sensation Y