171 OF TUMOURS. been said, of enlarged and varicose capillaries, interspersed 'with the peculiar matter of cancer. It would even seem that these dilated aneurismal or varicose vessels, in morbid growths, are from the first gorged with what has been called heterologous matter. Judging from the imperfect account which has yet been given of them, it would appear, from the observations of Mr. Kiernan, that cancerous growths are entirely vascular in their early stages, — composed, in fact, of capillaries filled with cancerous matter, which shoot from the free surfaces of mem- branes in a flocculent or villous form, having no albuminous matrix, as has been commonly imagined in regard to adventitious growths generally; the progress of the cancerous tumour ap- pearing to depend on the multiplication of the capillaries, their becoming remarkably varicose, tortuous, and dilated, the dilatation being accompanied by thinning, by more or less absorption of their coats, so as to allow of the escape partially of the accumulated matter from their cavities. Thus may be formed a tumour of unlimited extent. As the secerning vessels are excited to undue action in all cases where they have to form and supply preternatural growths, it is to be expected that they will in such cases become enlarged. Accordingly, the enlarge- ment both of the smaller arteries and veins in tumours, generally, is a fact with which surgeons who have been in the habit of operating on such parts must be familiar. Farther, the enlarge- ment of the capillaries in inflammation has been shown by the experiments of Hastings, and Thompson; and Mr. Gulliver, who informs me that he has seen pus in the capillaries of a suppurating surface, remarks, in regard to the observation of Professor Muller, as to the capillaries having only the diameter of a blood corpuscle, that these vessels become during suppu- ration sufficiently dilated to admit of rows of pus globules. Thus, during the formation of an ordinary product of inflammation, the capillary vessels are enlarged; and if excited to still further activity, and for a more protracted period, in the nutrition and formation of tumours, the minute vessels will become still more dilated, and filled with other materials than purulent matter. In a melanotic eye, which I lately examined with Mr. Dalrymple, there was a part in which the black matter seemed to be con- tained within the capillary vessels.