688 FRACTURES, rated parts cannot be made too soon. A neglected case may be met with, in which the intensity of inflammatory action in all the tissues may forbid immediate interference. But even though inflammatory action has taken place to some extent, there are no surer means of arresting it than removal of its cause — the irregular ends of the bones being taken away from among the soft parts — provided it can be done without violence or in- crease of tension. Reduction is facilitated by proper position of the limb, by relaxation of certain sets of muscles. Extension and counter-extension are made, and but very little force is required; the surgeon extends the limb with one hand, and resists with the other; when the system is excited, and the muscles act spasmodically, an assistant may be required to steady the limb, and to resist the extending power which the surgeon employs. Then the position of the limb and of the patient, when long confinement is required, must be considered, and rendered as easy as possible, though at the same time secure. The apparatus for retaining the bones in the right position must be varied according to circumstances. In compound fractures, when the wound is so small and clean that adhesion readily takes place, the cure is as rapid as in the simplest form of accident; but when the soft parts are much lacerated, the breach in them must be repaired by granu- lation ; there will be profuse discharge from the wound, with risk of deep suppuration, and union of the bones will be slow. To accomplish reduction, long and sharp pieces of bone may require to be removed by means either of the saw or of the forceps, or else the wound must be dilated; both proceedings may be necessary in some cases. Detached portions of bone, and foreign bodies, if any, must be taken away; and tlie edge of the wound may be approximated when a reasonable chance of ad- hesion exists. The limb must then be properly placed and secured- Inflammatory action, should it threaten, must be kept down, but bleeding and purging are to be employed with caution. The action and its consequences ai’e moderated by one or two depletions, but these must not be had recourse to without due consideration of circumstances; strength is required to effect the action necessary for union, and to withstand the sub- sequent suppurations, though these may be prevented or at least