OF HERNIA. 517 the cicatrix. By many, castration was considered necessary for the cure of scrotal hernia. Such harsh measures were founded on erroneous and imperfect ideas of the nature of the disease, which are not often to be met with in the present day. Opera- tions for unincarcerated hernia are not justifiable, and those who have operated in such circumstances give a very unfavourable account of the experiment. The external applications employed to reduce hernia are various. Some are supposed to produce corrugation of the integuments, and contraction of the cremaster muscle, and thereby to force up the protruded intestine; others ai’e of an astringent character, and their administrator may gravely believe and say, that by them he expects to tan the living scrotum, to reduce tlie hernia, and to present an insuperable obstacle to its reproduction. But all such means are visionary, and practically ineffectual; no external or internal remedy can attenuate and reduce the hernial sac, remove adhesion, or produce contraction of the tendinous and rigid apertures. Herniae are either reducible or irreducible. A hernia is said to be reducible, when the protruded bowel or viscus readily returns into the abdomen on the application of pressure to the swelling, or on the patient assuming the recumbent posture. When recent, the swelling may not be made to disappear without considerable difficulty; but, after the disease has become of long duration, the aperture through which the protrusion has taken place dilates and is relaxed, and admits of the ready passage of the hernial contents: such tumours are usually of considerable size. But reducible herniae should not be permitted to enlarge, since their protrusion can be prevented by simple and safe means; after reduction, a properly fitted bandage, termed a Truss, is applied over the aperture and canal, and by the co^mpression thus made the opening is rendered impervious to the abdominal viscera. In inguinal hernia, the pad of the truss must make equable com- pression over the whole of the canal; in the other species, the aperture is less extensive, and the pressure more direct. Perse- verance in the use of a well-adapted truss is highly necessary in children from the first, so that a chance may be afforded of per- manent cure by contraction of the opening and development of the surrounding parts. In young persons the canal is short, and L L 8