OF HERNIA. 51 [ of the tunica vaginalis; but being insufficient to withstand the impulse of the abdominal contents, yields before it, and de- scending along with the protruding portion of bowel, forms its envelope, or the proper hernial sac, within the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. Such is the opinion generally adopted in regard to the nature of hernia infantilis; but its accuracy is doubtful. It seems more probable that the bowel, covered by a fold of peritoneum, is protruded into the cellular tissue of the spermatic chord, after closure and contraction of the spermatic process, and descending till it reach the upper and posterior part of the tunica vaginalis, adheres to this tunic, bulges it forwards, and is covered by it. On cutting down in such a case, the hernial tumour may appear to be lodged within the tunica vaginalis; whereas the bowel is actually placed exterior to the tunic and behind it. Indeed, the case is similar to the common scrotal hernia, only the tumour is behind, not anterior to the vaginal coat. And this relation of parts is more apt to occur in the infant than in the adult; for in the former the testicle does not for some time descend fully into the scrotum, and whilst it is lodged in the groin a fold of peritoneum pi'otruded into the spermatic chord may soon contract adhesion with the tunica vaginalis, afterwards descending along with it and the testicle. The subjoined case, illustrative of the preceding state- ment, came under my observation in 1814. — J. S. aet 21, was admitted into the Royal Infirmary, with symptoms of strangulation which had been of eight davs’ duration. The hernia had existed from infancy; it was on the right side, and tolerably large. In the operation, on dividing the integuments and various coverings, a sac was opened, which proved to be the tunica vaginalis, containing the testicle, a considerable quantity of serum, and a large smooth transparent tumour above the testicle and behind the posterior layer of the tunica vaginalis. The operator was puzzled, but finally determined on cutting into this tumour; it proved to be the hernial sac, covered by the tunica vaginalis, containing three or four ounces of serum and a portion of omentum. The protrusion could not be returned; after relieving the stricture, the omentum was cut away, and the bleeding vessels tied separately. The