509 OF HERNIA. and crural, — the effects of pressure or action of the muscles on the abdominal contents being concentrated towards the lower part of the cavity. It is but rarely that the bowels protrude through the sacro-ischiatic notch, or tlu’ough the obturator fora- men, or by the side of the vagina, or betwixt the bladder and rectum. It is of great importance for the student to study attentively and reffect on both the healthy and morbid anatomy of this disease. When a hernia is strangulated, there is an absolute necessity for early interference ; the bowels are obstructed, and their action inverted ; feculent vomiting ensues, and enteritis is threatened, with all its dangerous consequences. He may meet with the affection at a very early period of his practice, and may be so situated as to command no assistance or advice ; he must be guided by his own judgment and knowledge. He should be well aware of the relations of the parts to each other, and the changes likely to have been occasioned by the disease. If, through delay, the patient lose his life, or if an operation be attempted, and its object improperly accomplished, or not ac- complished at all, his reputation may be blasted. But if he interfere skilfully, and at the proper time, and save his patient, relieving him at once from all his painful and dreadful symp- toms, great credit and professional fame may be in consequence acquired. An examination of the healthy anatomy is not suffi- cient; many changes take place, which mere anatomical and physiological knowledge could never anticipate. Extraordinaiy displacements and adhesions occur. The parts are altogether changed ; and repeated examination of the morbid state alone can impart the requisite knowledge to one previously well ac- quainted with the healthy structure. In consequence of laceration or separation of fibres, hernia may occur suddenly, and even in the best formed parts, from very violent exertion — as in leaping, wrestling, pulling, lifting heavy weights; from sudden exertion of the abdominal muscles in any way; from blows, &c. Or the protrusion may come on gradually, after slight exertions, where the tendons are na- turally weak or deficient; or it may be slowly induced by repeated and almost constant muscular action, as in urinary, intestinal, and pulmonary complaints: in such cases, slight