OF WOUNDS. 210 circumstances, it is not to be wondered at if adhesion should be completed in a shorter time than when the surfaces are brought together immediately after their division; in each instance the process is the same, only in the one it has to proceed from its very commencement, whilst in the other it is previously all but perfected, and after the parts have been put together, the last stage only requires completion. It is only in a particular stage of a granulating surface, that adhesion will take place speedily, when the discharge is diminished, but healthy, and the granu- lations florid and firm. When a wound is to heal by granulation, the exposed surface at first is dry, painful, and slightly swelled, and afterwards a thin discharge of bloody serum is poured out, with relief to the painful sensations; the surface is at this time covered by a thin layer of coagulated lymph, and the parts, if approximated, are in the most favourable state for adhesion. Soon, however, the vessels assume a different mode of action, and secrete a fluid which becomes purulent; the effused lymph has been organised, forms a living part of the surface from which it was deposited, and is covered and protected, in its yet delicate condition, by the purulent fluid. This new matter is disposed in numerous small conical projections of a florid colour; and these, by their own power, form others similar to themselves, at the same time discharging purulent matter; so that, in a healthy constitution, the cavity is soon filled by the granulations, which come to the same level as the surrounding integument. Sometimes they are exuberant, soft, and spongy, and in this state possessed of little sensibility, and but ill supplied with blood-vessels. At others, they are slow in approaching the surface, and then often mor- bidly sensible. In all cases, the new matter is very apt to be absorbed, either from the state of the patient’s health, or from the nature of the applications; and foreign substances, in a state of solution or minute division, are more readily taken into the system from the I’aw surface than from the sound skin. When, then, the granulations approach the skin, the sore con- tracts, the newly formed parts being modelled into a more firm and dense condition by the action of the absorbents. Some- times, in superficial sores, the skin is seen spreading from several parts near the centre; but at these points portions of the