558 STRICTURES. higher bowels. The gut above the stricture is always more or less dilated. The symptoms which lead the surgeon to suspect the exist- ence of stricture, are — difficulty in voiding the excrements; a long time occupied in the evacuation, with pain and much straining; small thin portions of faepulent matter coming away, when the matter is consistent; discharge of puriform fluid, mixed with a slimy mucus; itching and heat in the parts; and irritability of the urinary organs. Strictures of the urethra and rectum often co-exist, as ex- emplified by the following case: — A middle-aged man, when in Holland, laboured under a very deep and extensive fistula in ano. Sinuses were divided in all directions, and some healed; one, however, remained open, leading towards the gut from near the tuberosity of the ischium on the left side. He was desired to keep this open by means of bougies, which, as many were used, he manufactured himself out of cloth and plaster. On one occasion a portion passed deeply, and could not be extracted; but his alarm at this occurrence was appeased on being told that the foreign body would be absorbed. His condition at that time was very miserable; and inflammation was often excited in the parts, with fresh collections of matter. At the same time, he laboured under stricture of the rectum and urethra. He applied to me fifteen years after the com- mencement of the disease. Then the most troublesome symp- tom was a constant itching in the perineum, and round the anus, preventing sleep, and causing much excoriation from involuntary scratching; besides, he was annoyed by seminal emissions, and frequent desire to make water. I first divided a small internal fistula, and some time afterwards operated on a large complete one; in the latter instance, a foreign body was felt deep in the wound, the incision was extended, and a large portion of bougie, firmly impacted, was with some difficulty withdrawn. Some days after, other portions of bougie were extracted along with numerous hairs ; and these continued to be discharged for many weeks. The symptoms were much re- lieved. An occasional itching remained, but disappeared after the cure of a very bad stricture in the urethra. He recovered perfectly from the complication of diseases.