708 FRACTURE OF THE OLECRANON. elbow-joint employed. Obstinate rigidity of the parts is thus guarded against. Fracture of the condyles has been already alluded to. It may be farther observed, that the exact nature of the accident is often difficult to detect; in all cases accurate and careful manipulation is required. Displacement of one or other of the bones of the forearm almost uniformly attends this fracture, sometimes rendering diagnosis obscure. Fracture of the olecranon process of the ulna is occasioned by falls on the point of the elbow; or the bone may be snapped asunder by powerful and sudden action of the triceps extensor cubiti, when the arm is much and quickly bent. The injury is readily recognised; there is inability to extend the forearm by its own muscular powers, a considerable space is felt between the separated portions of the bone, and the upper fragment is movable as well as detached; these marks of the injury are rendered more conspicuous by bending the joint. Crepitation is produced by moving the limb when extended, and the separated parts thereby approximated. Bloody swelling soon takes place, large and extensive when bruising of the soft parts has been great — and this is usually the case, in consequence of the injury being almost always the result of direct violence. In some cases the pi’ocess is comminuted. Compound fracture is rare, and likely to be productive of serious consequences. I have treated and witnessed several cases. In one the process was cut off by the patient falling out of bed on an earthenware vessel, which broke under the limb. The joint is necessarily opened. Violent inflammation soon commences, and can very seldom be kept within moderate bounds. Dis- charge of increased and vitiated synovial secretion takes place, followed by profuse and unhealthy suppuration. The cartilages ulcerate, and then the bones. The cellular tissue around becomes infiltrated, the parts swell and are discoloured, and collections of matter form probably at more points than one; perhaps there is a succession of abscesses. The condyles, and often a portion of the shaft of the bone, are denuded by the suppuration, and superficial necrosis results. Ultimately the patient grows hectic. Amputation had to be resorted to in