diseases OF THE JOINTS. 104- cicatrisation cannot be expected, a cure by anchylosis is, by these means, much more likely to occur. The dressings may be left undisturbed for the space of a week or two; at which period, and, in many cases, sooner, they will be found much slackened, in consequence of the swelling being greatly reduced. By repetition of the application at intervals, the disease will, in a great many instances, rapidly cease, and the joint resume almost its natural appearance ; but the period at which this takes place will be found to vary much according to circumstances. If, however, the plasters produce such irri- tation as to cause a return of inflammatoiy action, their use must be discontinued till such action has been subdued by the usual means. If the thickening of the external parts has occurred to such an extent as to cause immobility of the joint, or if partial anchylosis has ensued, the limb may be brought to the most convenient position, the knee nearly, but not quite, straight, the elbow half bent, and so on, by the cautious use of a jointed splint, fitted with an extending screw. The practi- tioner is not to be deterred from having recourse to the above practice, even when matter has collected and burst externally, for sometimes under its employment the cavities of abscesses contract rapidly. A.fter the swelling and other symptoms of disease have subsided, the joint is to be slightly moved, but with great care; and, by a gradual increase of the movement, the natural motion of the part may be ultimately restored. The great object in treating chronic affections of joints must be to give them support, and prevent motion as much as possible. This is effected pretty well in the articulations, removed from the trunk, by the process above described, modified according to circumstances. The filth and smell arising from the plasters often becomes annoying, and, above all, the eruptions and excoriations produced by them prove so troublesome that the application requires to be discontinued. The principal and most essential indication, that of securing repose to the affected parts, is fully as well obtained by the application of well-adjusted splints. These may be formed of lint soaked in a mu- cilage of gum acacia, as described in the Practical Surgery, p. 137., or coarse linen may be smeared over thickly with a coating of mucilage mixed with common whiting, and another layer of linen spread over that. This is laid out smooth and allowed to