678 CARTILAGINOUS BODIES IN THE KNEE-JOINT. as to make the patient desirous to have it dissected out. This is easily and safely effected; the incisions are made in the direction of the limb, and it is kept at rest in the extended portion for some time, so as to favour the healing of the wound. Unyielding parts, habituated to pressure, defend themselves by the interposition of a moveable bag containing fluid; betwixt them and the surface the cellular tissue condenses into a cyst, its internal surface assuming a serous appearance, and secreting a fluid resembling the synovial. Such adventitious bursae are not unfrequent on the ankles and feet, as in tailors, or others usually sitting cross-legged. They may attain a considerable size, and so produce deformity; but they should not be inter- fered with unless they become inconvenient, as from excited action. When the extremity of the metatarsal bone of the great toe is large, and consequently the seat of pressure, a bursal form- ation is produced in the soft parts covering it; this from increase of pressure, or other irritation, may inflame — forming the pain- ful and troublesome disease termed Bunnion. Sometimes un- healthy abscess occurs, with thickening, infiltration, and con- densation of the surrounding cellular tissue; in such cases, incision and poultice are required, and occasionally it is ne- cessary to destroy the unsound cellular tissue and the degenerated cyst by free application of the caustic potass. The cyst is thus got rid of, healthy granulation takes place, and by afterwards avoiding undue pressure upon the part, a permanent cure is obtained. r It has been elsewhere mentioned, that cartilaginous bodies sometimes form within articulating cavities, occasionally at- tached by a narrow and slender connection with the secreting surface, but generally loose, seldom numerous, and usually of no great size. They are most commonly met with in the knee- joint, producing inconvenience by impeding progression. Some- times they are neither painful nor annoying, being small, and seldom becoming interposed between the articulating extremities of the bones during motion; such ought not to be interfered with. But when large, they may be so troublesome as to war- rant incision and removal. The foreign body is made to project