7U0 AMPUTATION. germ of a new growth, of a tumour contrary to nature—deposit increases in and around the nucleus, and this formation, though at first of a simple nature, may become rapid in its growth, and may assume a troublesome or even a malignant action; and sometimes all this may occur at an early period, before the attention either of the patient or of the practitioner has been drawn to the action or to its effects. Many tumours can be traced to the effects of a bruise. In the treatment of bruise, the parts should be placed in a state of absolute rest, and methodically fomented. Local bleed- ing is seldom required, and is of little use; at first it is hurtful. When, from the extent or number of the bruises, fever follows, general antiphlogistic measures must be resorted to. Cold and astringent applications, and other repercussives, as also stimulants, are pernicious in the first stage, and are not very useful at any time. Opening of the cavity must be carefully avoided, except- ing when absorption has ceased, when the tumour has increased and become painful, and when the effused blood is putrescent, and unhealthy suppuration has commenced. Then the cavity should be opened freely, and by poulticing the clots and sloughs are got quit of; afterwards the parts must be supported, as also the strength of the patient. When from long want of use, in tedious cases, the parts have become cold, shrunk, and weak, as also happens in sprain, friction, champooing, tepid affusion, pas- sive motion, and voluntary motion short of giving pain, will all be of use as tending to restoi’e the circulation, the nervous energy, and the muscular developement. If oedema remain, bandaging or a laced support will be required. Amputation.— Every endeavour, which skill and experience can suggest, must he made before mutilation of the body, by the removal of even the smallest portion of one of its members, is resorted to. But there are cases in which mutilation, though a harsh I’emedy, is still indispensable for the saving of life. There are others in which it is prudent and proper to resort to operation, in consequence of a member becoming perfectly un- serviceable, and likely to impair the usefulness of the individual. Such are very bad and complicated fractures and luxations — laceration of the soft parts of a limb to such an extent as to im-