FRACTURE OF THE LOWER JAW. 691 Y Y The existence of fracture of the ossa nasi is very readily as- certained; the part is distorted, being either uniformly de- pressed, or hollow at some points, and abruptly prominent and sharp at others. With the view of remedying deformity pro- duced by displacement, and preventing the bad consequences already spoken of, the bones must be restored to their original position. They are to be raised by means of a strong px'obe or director, covered with lint, and introduced high into the cavity. Whilst, by means of this instrument, pressui'e outwards is made, the fingers of the surgeon are applied externally, so as to mould the organ into a proper shape. Unless force be again applied to the part, there is no risk of subsequent dis- placement ; no apparatus is required to preserve the bones in situ. In compound fracture the detached spiculm are to be picked out, and the wound cleansed of blood and extraneous bodies; its edges are to be brought neatly together, and retained by one or more stitches, with slips of unirritating plaster. Inflammatory symptoms are to be warded off and combated by purgatives, antimonials, local abstraction of blood, and fomentations. Form- ation of matter in the nasal cavity is to be prevented, by scarifi- cation of the swollen membrane that fills the nostrils and pre- cludes the passage of air; and if matter has been allowed to collect, it must be early discharged. Opening into the frontal sinus, whether the result of acci- dent or of exfoliation, may sometimes be closed by paring the edges of the integuments and bringing them together, or by covering the deficiency with a flap borrowed from a neighbour- ing part. Such measures should not be resorted to, in the case of opening from accident, till after all inordinate action has sub- sided, otherwise adhesion will fail. Cases of fracture of the superior maxilla, os males, and zygoma have been met with. Great displacement cannot occur, nor is any peculiarity of treatment required. If the fracture is com- pound, loose portions of bone may require removal. The inferior maxilla is exposed to violence, but from its con- struction and consistence is capable of resisting a great degree of force. It may be broken at various points ; the usual site of fracture is where the canine or the first small molar tooth is