1 438 DISEASES OF THE WINDPIPE. constitution gradually attaining its former state of composure. Too frequently, however, the inflammatory action proceeds un- 1 abated, and terminates in effusion of lymph, which is generally j of great extent, adhering to the surface of the mucous lining, and j forming what is termed a false or adventitious tubular membrane. On the occurrence of lymphatic formation, dyspnoea is much ag- gravated ; and the second stage of the disease is then said to have | commenced. Occasionally the patient sinks before effusion has taken place. The extent to which the pseudo-membranous de- ' posit occurs is extremely various; in some cases it is confined to the larynx, or to the upper part of it; in others it lines the | whole of the windpipe, and often is prolonged, either in flakes j or tubes, into the ramifications of the bronchi. In general, it | is not at every point adherent to the mucous membrane, but more or less detached, particularly at its inferior extremity, by a quantity of vitiated mucus which intervenes between it and the mucous surface, and is intimately adherent to the latter. The | mucous membrane is also slightly elevated by effusion into the subjacent cellular tissue. By the formation of false membrane, the symptoms may be j so much increased as to cause speedy dissolution; but in many ! cases the patient’s strength is not altogether exhausted, and the j extraneous substance by its irritation causes frequent and violent attempts to expectorate, by wdiich the lymph is not unfrequently expelled either entire or in irregular portions; the relief thereby j afforded, though considerable, is in general temporary, for lymph is speedily redeposited, or there is a profuse muco-purulent ; expectoration, and the patient succumbs. It has been already I stated that a portion of the false membrane is usually detached jj from the lining membrane of the canal, and from this the exist- jj ence of the membrane is in general easily recognised; for on its being moved by the passage of air in the canal, a peculiar j! sound is frequently audible, and has been compared to that made jj by the movement of the valve or clapper of a pump. When i, perceived during inspiration, it indicates that the membrane is , detached at its superior extremity; when in expiration, that the ; separation has occurred inferiorly. A fatal termination may suddenly take place, in consequence of the detached extremity being so displaced by the passage of the air as to form a com-