DISEASES OF THE EYE. 355 A A 2 In reclination, the point of tlie needle is placed on the upper and anterior surface of the lens ; and by raising the handle, and pushing the point slightly forward towards the inner part of the eye, the lens is removed from the axis of vision, placed inferior to it, and has the relative situation of its surfaces changed — its anterior surface becoming the upper, and the posterior the under; the superior, posterior; and the inferior, anterior. Solid cataracts only can be depressed or reclined. When a cataract is fluid, it is sufficient to puncture, or lacerate slightly, the anterior part of the capsule; as then the opaque contents will be diffused through the aqueous humour, and soon removed by the absorbents. Should the capsule become opaque, after the removal of its contents, the needle must be at a future period inti’oduced; the capsule is to be lacerated and reduced to minute shreds, so that it may escape into the anterior chamber. In the soft or caseous cataract, displacement is not easily effected; and the surgeon must rest satisfied with exposing a part or the whole of it to the action of the aqueous humour. The above operations may be had recourse to when — from diminution of the anterior chamber, adhesions of the iris, a morbid state of the pupil, and the temper of the patient — ex- traction cannot be attempted. When the cataract is small, it is immaterial how it is displaced; when large and solid, reclination is to be preferred. The operator is obliged to decide as to the mode of finishing the operation, after he has introduced the needle, and thereby ascertained the consistence of the cataract. If it is so soft as to permit the needle to move in all directions, it is impossible to displace it; it must be broken up, and left in situ. In the mode of operation termed keratonyxis, the needle is introduced through the cornea, about two or three lines from its margin, and the cataract is either depressed or broken up for solution. Depression through the cornea is, however, an operation not to be recommended, as the surgeon has much less command over the motion of his instrument, necessary in this form of procedure, than where it is introduced through the sclerotic coat. The pupil is previously dilated by belladonna, and the dilatation should be continued for some time after- wards. The puncture may be made at any part of the corneal circumference; it soon heals, and leaves no scar. The oper-