OF WOUNDS. 213 p 3 rapidly, in consequence of the infiltration of putrid serosity into the cellular tissue. In the treatment of bruised wounds, the position of the parts must be carefully attended to ; they must be placed in a state of relaxation. In general, it is unnecessary to retain the margins of the wound in contact, for adhesion cannot occur — suppuration must ensue, and is to be desired — and the dead and dying parts must be loosened and discharged before union can take place. Sometimes, as when a large flap has been detached, and the parts not much injured otherwise, approximation ought to be accomplished, for the reasons already mentioned. In almost all cases, and most certainly in those in which the mechanical injury has been severe, and its effects extensive, violent inflammatory action is to be dreaded, and measures must be taken to ward it off: not- withstanding the prophylactic treatment, violent imflammation often comes on, and then recourse must be had to the means proper for the subduing of it. Blood is to be taken from the part, if necessary, and soothing applications used, in the form of fomentation and poultice. The main indications are to prevent extravasation into the substance of the limb, and strongly excited action. When the sloughs begin to separate, emollient poultices promote the suppuration and discharge of dead matter, and afterwards the sore must be dressed, according to the nature of the case, with the applications most fit for granulating sores in their different degrees of action and advancement. During the after treatment, the sides of the sore ought to be well supported, so as to prevent, as much as possible, suppuration from extend- ing along the neighbouring cellular tissue; but, at the same time, the dressing must not be so tightly applied as to cause irritation. When abscesses have formed in the neighbourhood, the cavities should be freely exposed by incision ; thus a free discharge will be given to the matter, and the cavity brought to granulate from the bottom. During the suppurating stage, the patient’s strength must be maintained by generous diet. Punctured wounds are dangerous, from the deep and internal effusion of blood and serum which usually attends them. The effusion, wdiich in open wounds is poured out externally, and moderates and prevents the excited action from exceeding what is salutary, is, in punctured wounds, poured into the substance