URINARY AND GENITAL ORGANS. 568 safe incision in the site of the anus. Even through a consider- able depth of soft parts, the impulse of the fluid in the bowel is distinctly felt during exertion of the abdominal muscles. If incision through the integuments and cellular tissue prove in- sufficient, a sharp-pointed bistoury is pushed onwards in the direction of the bowel, under the guidance of the forefinger of the left hand, carefully avoiding the bladder, vagina, and uterus, as also the vessels within the pelvis. To reach the bowel is an object of great consequence, yet the risk incurred in its accom- plishment must be considered, and the incisions made within certain limits. The opening scarcely requires to be kept per- vious by the use of bougies, the functions of the parts being sufficient for the establishment of the anus. Affections of the Mucous Membranes of the Urinary and Genital Organs. — It has been previously observed, that these mem- branes closely sympathise with the skin and with the mucous linings of the digestive organs. Stimulating substances intro- duced into the stomach frequently produce irritation of the urinary organs; and if the stimulants be employed in large quantities, and continued for some time, inflammation of the mucous membrane investing the bladder and urethra will be induced, with vitiated and increased secretion from the parts. In children, dentition is a common cause of urinary irritation; and not unfrequently discharge from the urethra comes on during the cutting of the teeth. The application of acrid matters, as cantharides, to the skin, will occasion unpleasant effects in the urinary organs; and these unpleasant and dis- tressing symptoms often supervene upon disappearance of cuta- neous diseases. In short, the practitioner, in attending to affections of these parts, must ever bear in mind the close sympathy which exists between them and the external surface, the stomach, and the intestines, particularly the lower. Of Gonorrhoea, or inflammation of the Urethra.— The morbid action is usually limited to the extremity of the canal, seldom extending more than two or three inches from the orifice. There is itching and heat at the orifice, with swelling and redness of the glans, and of the lips of the urethra, and generally the whole