INCONTINENCE OF URINE. 606 have recovered from the operation, and lived in misery for months and years, passing their urine through a canula retained in the wound. An incision is made above the symphysis pubis, in the mesial line, dividing the integuments and cellular tissue, to the extent of from one to two inches; on thus exposing the coats of the bladder, a flat trocar with a canula is pushed into the cavity of the visciis, at the lower part of the wound; the trocar is withdrawn, and the urine evacuated. The treatment of enlarged prostate is palliative — attention to the general health, the occasional administration of anodyne suppositories or enemata, prevention of accumulation in the lower bowels, either by gentle laxatives or the throwing up of bland fluid, and the avoiding as far as possible all sources to ex- citement, of mind as well as body. The radical cure, it has been said, is extirpation of the gland, but the cool proposal of such an operation would indicate either ignorance, or dereliction of principle, or mental obliquity, or all combined. In retention from effusion of blood into the cavity of the bladder, a long catheter will sometimes evacuate the urine, and after some time also the blood; for the latter, though at first co- agulated, ultimately becomes dissolved in the urine, and passes oflF along with it, even through a catheter of no very large ca- libre. Should this fail, and the symptoms continue urgent, an exhausting syringe should be employed, well adapted to the extremity of the catheter. After the urine has been thus eva- cuated, should a suspicion remain of coagula being still in the bladder, tepid water may be injected with the view of promoting the breaking down of the clots, and then the exhaustion may be repeated. Incontinence of Urine, as already observed, is a common result of distension of the bladder and of stricture. But it also occurs as a primary affection, particularly in young people, from irrit- ability of the posterior part of the urethra not suffering the urine to accumulate within the bladder as in ordinary circumstances. It is sometimes removed by the application of a blister to the perineum, and by the patient attending to empty the bladder at intervals during the night. Attention to the state of the bowels is necessary in such cases. The clearing them of worms or sordes.