394 CONGENITAL DEFICIENCIES. in order that circulation may be vigorous in the part. The inte- guments helow the chin are naturally loose, and consequently the margins of the wound there are readily approximated. The flap soon becomes cedematous, and remains so for some weeks ; it must be supported by a compress and bandage. After adhe- sion of its upper part is completed, the mental attachment, which prevented the lower portion from uniting, is to be removed; a bistoury is introduced beneath the non-adhering point, and car- ried down so as to divide the attachment, which is then removed by a second stroke of the knife. The lower part of the flap is now laid flat and close to the chin, and supported by a bandage. In the adult, union may be retarded by the edges of the flap twisting inwards, and interposing the hairs upon them between the opposed surfaces; when such is the case, the offending mar- gins must be pared away. The advantages of such an opera- tion, when successful, are too evident to require detail. Removal of glands in the neck or beneath the jaw, that have become diseased in consequence of malignant disease in the lip, is attended with danger, and not followed by any benefit. But for this disease I have known most bloody and cruel operations undertaken, — even portions of the jaw to which the glandular tumours adhered have been cut out. Such proceedings cannot be too strongly reprobated. Congenital D^ciencies of Lips, Palate, ^c. — Congenital de- ficiency of the lip uniformly occurs in the upper one; it is either simple or complicated. Frequently there is only a fissure on one side of the mesial line. This may, though seldom, be combined with division of the soft or of the hard palate; or there may be a fissure on each side of the mesial line, with an intervening flap. The flap may be either of the same length as the rest of the lip, or more or less shortened; and it may be either free, or attached to part of the alveolar process. In such cases as the latter, the central alveolar processes and teeth often project considerably beyond the arch of the hard palate, greatly increasing the deformity. The deficiency of the lip produces a disgusting and horrible deformity of the countenance; and when there is division of the palate, the voice is indistinct, or almost unintelligible.