629 CALCULUS VESICA. s s 3 poultice, and attention to the constitution. Collection of the matter should never be waited for; and when depots have formed, a free and dependent opening should be made early. Sometimes the patient may perish, exhausted by the profuse discharge and the disturbance of the system, in cases that have been neglected, or in which infiltration is rapid and extensive and the powers of life weak. Calculus Vesicce. Morbid action of the kidneys, producing altered secretion of the urine and deposition fi’om it, takes place in consequence of derangement of the digestive organs — often occasioned by the free use of acids, or of acescent diet, such as fruit tarts, or drink containing a great quantity of saccharine matter. Many causes, which have not as yet been well ascertained or understood, seem to influence and predispose to calculous disorders. The prevalence of these affections in particular districts has been attributed to the quality of the water, or to the use of peculiar food or beverages; but such opinions, in all probability, have been adopted neither on very good grounds, nor after due inquiiy and consideration. The county of Norfolk, and the eastern part of Scotland from the Frith of Forth northwards, are districts very similarly situated, exposed to cold and piercing winds, and appear to furnish a greater number of cases of stone than the rest of Great Britain, with Ireland to boot. The reason of this, as already stated, has not been satisfactorily explained. But this disorder, like gout, seems also to adhere to families, to be transmitted from one ge- neration to another. Some children seem almost to come into the world labouring under calculus. The symptoms are noticed very soon after birth, and often patients labouring under stone are presented to the surgeon at the tender age of twelve or eighteen months. The depositions from the urine are va- rious. The deposit chiefly affecting chil- dren is of a dark colour, dense, hard, and crystallised; but one lighter coloured, and more friable, sometimes precedes the formation of this dark concretion,