706 FRACTURE OF THE HUMERUS. large vessels are seldom torn — though the branches of the humeral artery, and the vessel itself, have in a few cases been ruptured — but there is often considerable bloody swelling in this as in all fractures. Occasionally, when the violence has been great, either the upper or the lower fractured end is thrust through the skin. When the inferior part of the shaft is broken, there is less displacement than when the fracture is towards the middle of the bone. Fracture above the condyles sometimes extends through them; and the one may be detached from the other either with or without fracture of the shaft. When such an accident is suspected, the position of the condyles in regard to the ends of the bones of the forearm should be accurately ob- served. Flexion and extension of the forearm can be readily performed, though with pain; not so, when the bones are lux- ated. Crepitation is detected along the line of fracture, during motion of the limb, and when the condyles are laid hold of and moved upon each other, or on the shaft. In fracture of the middle of the shaft, coaptation is easily accomplished ; slight extension is made by one hand grasping the elbow, whilst, by the other, the bones are brought together, and the straightness and outline of the limb restored. The proper position is readily maintained by two splints of bookbinders’ pasteboard, or of leather prepared for the purpose, one applied from over the acromion process to beyond the point of the elbow, the other from the axilla, and also passing over the elbow on the inside; thus the neighbouring joints are fixed, and the muscles rendered inactive. The conjoined breadth of the splints should be sufficient to embrace the limb almost entirely; some space being left, so that when the swelling subsides, they may neither meet, and consequently lie loose, nor overlap each other. They are softened by steeping in hot water, so that they may embrace every part of the limb to which they are applied; and the extremities should be rounded off, to prevent galling of the parts. They are padded with soft flannel, lint, or cotton wadding, or, what is better, with finely carded tow, and retained by a circular roller applied from the points of the fingers up to the shoulder. The binding should proceed from below upwards, to avoid swelling from obstructed circulation.