772 AMPUTATION OF THE FINGERS. a cushion over the exposed surface of the middle phalanx, and is retained so by the adhesive composition formerly mentioned, or by one or two turns of a linen bandage. The other method of operation is the reverse of the preceding. The joint is ex- tended, the bistoury is made to transfix close to the joint and at its anterior part, and by then carrying it downwards and for- wards, as before, a similar flap is formed; this is retracted by an assistant, and with one sweep of the knife the articulation is divided from before backw'ards. By either method the flap is the same. By similar procedure the amputation at the middle articulation is performed. It is sometimes an object to save as much as possible of the proximal phalanx, when amputation is rendered necessary by disease of the middle articulation, or of the distal extremity of the bone. In such cases, two semicircular flaps are made by cutting from without, either on the lateral, or on the thenal and anconal aspects, and the bone is divided either by a small saw or by the cutting pliers. The flaps are retained in apposition, and the bleeding arrested by bandaging. Amputation at the proximal articulation is also performed by double flap. In the previous operations an assistant steadies and supports the hand; in this he has likewise to bend the rest of the fingers, and to separate as widely as possible those neigh- bouring to the one about to be removed. The operator seats himself before the patient, gi-asps the finger so as to manage its movements with the left hand, and holding the knife perpen- dicularly, with its point upwards, lays it over the knuckle, and carries it obliquely upwards so as to open that side of the arti- culation. He then pushes the finger towards the opposite side, and with the point of the knife completes the loosening of the articulation; for this the blade of the instrument should never be employed, otherwise the integument will be cross-cut and mangled. After separation of the base of the phalanx by the point, the blade is passed behind, and carrying it downwards and outwards, a flap is formed similar to the first — both pro- portioned to the size of the wound which they are to cover, and the bone which they are to protect. The fingers may also be removed by the oval method, as described and delineated in the Practical Surgery. The flaps are retained in contact by bring-