268 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. Staid for a time by this means, but upon the circulation becoming again active, fresh haemorrhage must and does take place; the parts around are separated and engorged more and more, the blood escapes in alarming quantities, and the patient is saved only by the occurrence of syncope. To search for, and make a clean dissection of the wounded part of the vessel in such cases, is impossible. A long and deep incision must be made through the swollen and diseased parts in the course of the arterial branch, and a ligature passed under it, on each side of the ulcer- ated point, by means of the common curved suture-needle, or of one in a fixed handle. The ligatures should be at a consider- able distance from each other, in order that they may surround healthy parts of the vessel; after they have been firmly tied, all risk of further haemorrhage is gone. Of course the ligatures should enclose as little as possible of the parts surrounding the artery. A poultice is perhaps the best application for a few days, and under its soothing influence the effects of the con- tinued compression, which had been previously employed, soon subside. The after applications must be varied according to the appearances which the part presents. Laceration of a large or small Blood Vessel is a frequent consequence of Bruise of the Scalp. — Blood is effused, and the surrounding parts are thereby separated to a greater or less extent; and thus a tumour is formed, either rapidly or slowly, according to the size of the injured vessel. The swell- ing is in general large, soft in the centre, and hard towards its circumference; the blood in the latter situation being coagu- lated, and firmly impacted in the condensed cellular tissue; whilst in the centre it is fluid, or at least partially so, and occupies a free cavity. These characters of the tumour are apt to mislead a careless or inexperienced examiner, the feel being in some degree similar to that attending fracture with depression, but still easily distinguishable from it by attentive and experienced manipulation. By pressing the finger or thumb firmly on the centre of the tumour, the blood is dis- placed, and the bone felt distinctly. In slight cases of this affection, no treatment is required, as the tumour is of no importance, and soon disappears, by the effused blood being absorbed. When, however, the swelling is accompanied with