INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 279 ascertained to be extensively detached around the opening; it was found necessary to remove a large portion of hone by means of the trephine and cutting pliers, and then the dura mater soon became united with the integuments of the head. Many months afterwards, the patient complained of severe pain in the back of the neck; an abscess formed in that situation, and pointing under the right scapula, was opened. Weakness of the right arm and of the inferior extremity suddenly supervened, and the patient gradually sunk. On examination after death, the cer- vical portion of the spinal cord was found much softened, with infiltration of purulent matter into its substance. The deficiency in the cranium was supplied by a ligamentous expansion, to which the dura mater and scalp adhered intimately. Of Compression of the Brain. — Compression is produced by extravasation within the cranium of blood or other fluid, by the lodgement of a foreign body on the surface of the brain, or in its substance, or by displacement inwards of portions of the cranial bones; and these causes are usually the effects of external injury. It may either follow the injury instantaneously, or supervene some time thereafter. Many examples have occurred of a patient, at first insensible, with symptoms of concussion, having had the functions of the brain restored almost entirely, and again having- relapsed very quickly into a comatose state, in consequence of extravasation of blood. The whole circulation is at first lowered by the shock of the commotion, and the blood scarcely flows in the cerebral vessels; but on its restoration, blood is poured out from the lacerated vessels, or from those which have been so injured in their coats as to be unable to withstand the increasing impulse of their contents. As was already observed, the symp- toms of compression are often mixed up with those of commo- tion, but, when an interval of sensibility has occurred, mistake in diagnosis can scarcely occur. Compression is attended with slow, stertorous breathing; a distinct slow pulse; a relaxed state of the limbs, features, and sphincters; and dilated pupil. Total insensibility to external impressions attends compression of the brain, whatever the cause of it may be. These symptoms may, and do sometimes, gradually disappear after a time. But they may continue unabated, and the patient may gradually sink under them. Or, again, his dissolution may be preceded T A