750 LUXATION OF THE HIP-JOINT. The reduction is in many cases difficult. In young and muscular individuals, after the lapse of some hours, when re- action has occurred, the muscles are rigidly contracted, and the head of the bone is not easily dislodged. Extension, made to a certain extent and continued, is not so useful or essential here as in other forms of luxation of this joint. Adduction, carrying the injured thigh quickly and forcibly over the other, is gene- rally successful; and the reduction is favoured by at the same time raising up the neck of the bone, by means of a towel or wooden roller passed under the upper part of the thigh. There is also no such advantage from rotating the bone as in other luxations. It is very often necessary, even in recent cases, to adopt measures to weaken muscular exertions; and again, in cases of three weeks’ duration, I have found no difficulty. The head of the bone, when dislodged from the foramen obturatorium, may slip past the cotyloid cavity, for it is impos- sible to regulate its direction; it comes to be acted upon by muscles which have been displaced, some being compressed and partially paralysed, whilst others are excited; they have been put out of their usual condition and relation, and act irregularly. The head of the bone may, from this cause, get into the sacro- ischiatic notch. This has occurred to me; but I have found no difficulty in removing it from thence, and effecting reduction satisfactorily. Displacement into the sacro-ischiatic notch is attended with great and remarkable inversion of the toes, slight shortening of the limb, and prominence of the head of the bone felt under the gluteus maximus. It is the least common form of luxation. Reduction is attempted by extension and rotation outwards, at the same time pulling the head of the bone towards the ace- tabulum by means of a towel passed under the thigh. Luxation of the head of the femur on the pubes is perhaps more frequent than any other, excepting that on the dorsum of the ilium. The limb is not much shortened, the toes are everted, the trochanter major is depressed, and nearer to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium than usually, and the head of the bone is both seen and felt prominent in the groin. Much pain, swelling, and sometimes more or less paralysis of the limb, are occasioned by this displacement; the femoral artery and vein lie immediately interior to the head of the bone, and are