DISEASES OF THE EYE. 318 The permanent cure of the disease is effected either by removal or by destruction of the roots of the cilia. The whole edge of the eyelid, or the offending part of it, is removed with a sharp narrow bistoury, the operator steadying the parts by laying hold of the cilia with the fingers of his left hand. It is necessary to remove the mere edge only, the cilia and their roots, and not the whole of the tarsal cartilage, as has been proposed. Inversion of the lid, from contraction of a cicatrix in the con- junctiva, may be counteracted, by destroying with caustic, or removing with cutting instruments, a portion of the outer in- teguments, corresponding to the internal cicatrix. Forceps with broad points are used for taking up a fold of the skin, and an oval portion is then excised with a knife or scissors, cutting instruments being less painful and more precise than caustics. Of the latter, the sulphuric acid has been particularly recom- mended for this purpose. The contraction of the wound releases the cilia from the power of the internal cicatrix, and the parts are restored to their healthy state. The term Pterygium is employed to denote a thickened and vascular state of part of the conjunctiva. The diseased portion is generally of a triangular form, commencing at the inner corner of the eye, extending towards the cornea, gradually diminishing in breadth, and terminating in a sharp apex, either at the margin of the cornea, or some- where between its margin and centre. The thickening is seldom great, but the vessels which tra- verse the thickened part are nu- merous, enlarged, and tortuous — are, in fact, varicose. The base of the pterygium is always on the circumference of the eye, generally at the inner corner, and its apex is seldom, if ever, situated beyond the centre of the cornea: frequently the sclerotic con- junctiva alone is affected. The motions of the eye are little disturbed by the disease, but vision is materially impaired when a considerable part of the cornea is covered. Pterygium is in general single, but sometimes, though very rarely, there are two