OF LUMBAR ABSCESS. 546 itself; but it is not unfrequently met with on the outside of the vessels, either lower or higher in the thigh, above Poupart’s ligament, in the loins over the crest of the ilium, and occasion- ally the matter is insinuated under the pelvic fascia and appears by the side of the anus. Large and neglected collections may work their way to the surface in two or three of these situa- tions at the same time. The disease is often attributable to a sprain or wrench of the loins, or to exposure to cold and over-fatigue. Occasionally the mischief is confined entirely to the soft parts; the vertebrae, a portion of the os innominatum, or the sacrum, may be denuded and of irregular surface, but this is evidently the result of the pressure of the abscess. A striking example of this, and of the extensive destruction of parts which this affection sometimes produces, may be shortly stated. — A very large lumbar abscess formed within a few weeks, in consequence of great and con- tinued fatigue and exposure to bad weather. At first it had been trifled with. At last it was opened in the usual situation in the thigh, and a vast quantity of matter evacuated. Thirty- six hours afterwards, the patient was suddenly suffocated by a flow of purulent mattei\into and through the air passages. On dissection, the cavity of the abscess was found to be immense, opening through the diaphragm into the lung which was ad- herent, and communicating with the bronchi. The fore part of the lumbar vertebrae was exposed, and in some parts stripped of the theca; but there were no cavities in the bone, and no disease of the interposed cartilages. Such cases are now and then met with, of abscess in the loins not originating in any vice either of the bones or of any other part of the apparatus of the spinal column. Most frequently, however, the collections have their foundation in ulceration of the bodies of the vertebrae. The patient has had tenderness in the part, weakness of the back and of the lower limbs, and increase of pain on pressing or striking some particular spinous processes — perhaps slight excurvation. Then pain in extending the thigh supervenes, followed by swelling and other signs of abscess. This is preceded generally by deposit of tubercular matter in their cancellated “texture. Sometimes the disease seems to originate in the ligaments and articulating surfaces;