IMPERFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. 614 lymphatics still appear unaffected. In this operation the inte- guments must be freely removed, otherwise the cut orifice of the urethra will be obstructed by their puckering and contraction during cicatrisation of the wound. With this view, the skin is drawn forwards and stretched by the left hand, and then with one sweep of a long knife a transverse incision is made at once through all the parts composing the organ. Two or three ves- sels by the side of the septum may require ligatures. The skin retracts considerably, leaving the cut surface free; the wound granulates, contracts, and cicatrises. It is advisable to cut the urethra a little longer than the body of the organ. If diminu- tion in the canal of the urethra be threatened during the cica- trisation, it is to be obviated by the occasional use of a short conical bougie. Imperfections about the orifice of the urethra are by no means uncommon. Often there is a mere vestige of the orifice of the urethra in the natural situation, the opening being situated half an inch ora whole inch behind, and on the lower part — Hypo- spadias ; in such cases the prepuce is generally short. Sometimes the urethra is deficient to a great extent, termin- ating immediately before the scrotum, or even behind it. A child had passed no water thirty hours after its birth. The bladder was distended. The genital organs were imperfect; the urethra was wanting, and the penis was diminutive and ab- normal. A small trocar was passed from the vestige of the ori- fice onwards, in the proper course, guided by the finger in the rectum. The urethra seemed to have terminated at the bulb; the canula reached this, and was retained for twenty-four hours. Afterwards the urine passed readily through the canal, partly natural, but principally artificial, and the power of retaining it became perfect. In adults the hypospadias is inconvenient; the orifice is often contracted, and the whole parts are irritable; and the ejacula- tion of the seminal fluid is unsatisfactory to the parties concerned. The deficiency may be repaired in some measure, when there is abundance of skin to spare, but no rules can be laid down for such irregular operations. Imperfection of the urethra anteriorly, on the dorsum, is rare — Epispadias. The following is rather a remarkable instance.