CALCULUS VESICA. 658 sible to divide the cyst sufficiently without wounding the rec- tum, and I therefore determined to lay the howel, the cyst, and the track of the wound into one cavity. This was effected hy cutting the upper and anterior part of the cyst, passing a hlunt-pointed and curved bistoury behind the remainder of the cyst, insinuating it through the coats of the gut at that part, meeting the point with the forefinger of the left hand passed per anum, and then carrying the instrument forwards to the surface. A strong scoop, much curved, was passed behind the stone, and without much difficulty extraction was thereby com- pleted. Not above a few table-spoonfuls of blood were lost during the operation, in which not much time was occupied, and no bleeding took place after reaction was established. The cure proceeded favourably, though necessarily slow and tedious, the more so since the patient had been very much reduced by the previous suffering. Some superficial sloughing took place in the wound, hut the sloughs soon separated, and healthy discharge and granulation followed. By keeping the bowels gently open, the annoyance from faeculent evacuation by the wound was in some measure diminished. The patient was daily out of bed, and took food in good quantity and with relish. At the end of the fifth week, however, he was seized with a severe bowel attack — vomiting, purging, cold extremities, &c. — and the effects of this were never surmounted. The real Asiatic cholera was at the time prevalent, and the patient was under great apprehension of an attack. The weak state in which it left him continued and increased: he was soon confined entirely to bed, the wound made no progress in closing, sloughing of the back took place, and he sank about the end of the eighth week from the operation. Calculi sometimes lodge in the urethra, obstructing the flow of urine, becoming firmly impacted, and increasing in size. If in the perineal portion of the canal, they are to be fixed and made prominent by being grasped with the fingers, and then exposed by an incision made in the raphe : they are turned out, either with the finger, or by means of a small scoop. If situated in the part covei'ed by the scrotum, the opening should be made, if possible, behind, not anterior to it, for a wound in the latter site will be closed with difficulty. When in the posterior part