DIVISION OF THE FR^NUM LINGU.E. 413 of great pain under the jaw on seeing any thing savoury, that, as the vulgar phrase is, made her mouth water. Various unsuc- cessful attempts had been made to remove it. A small incision of the surface of the duct was made, but the foreign body eluded the grasp of the forceps, and completely disappeared. The patient was given a bit of bread to chew, and almost immediately the concretion was expelled. Tumours, unconnected with the salivary ducts, occasionally form in the loose cellular tissue under the tongue. They may be either sarcomatous or encysted ; the former are rare. 1 have removed several solid tumours, principally adipose, from this situation. They were loosely connected, and taken away without almost any dissection; indeed they were lifted out with the fingers, after division of the membrane of the mouth and of the cellular cyst which surrounded them. One was as large as an orange, and of a flattened form. The tongue had been displaced by the swelling, and articulation, deglutition, and breathing impeded. The patient, an old lady, had a good recovery. The case had been by some mistaken for ranula; and I mention this circumstance, lest others may reckon more on the situation of a swelling, than on its feel and other external characters. A sketch of the tumour is given at page 162. Encysted tumours below the tongue are common. The cysts are generally thin and adherent, the contents albuminous and glairy. They attain a large size, and prove very inconvenient. Occasionally the cysts are thick and more loosely attached; such usually contain atheromatous matter. I removed one uncom- monly large, from the inner surface of which numerous hairs were growing. Encysted tumours here can seldom be removed by dissection; the depth of their situation, their firm connexion, the awkward situation in which the patient is necessarily placed, and the risk of haemorrhage, forbid the surgeon from attempting regular ex- tirpation. A more simple and equally effectual procedure is as follows : — The membrane of the mouth and the cyst are di- vided by the point of a bistoury ; and if the tumour be large, and the distention great, an oval portion of the parietes may be cut out. The contents are thus evacuated. The bleeding is