17 OF INFLAMMATION, consequence of very intense cold, it is produced by the sudden ap- plication of heat whilst the temperature of the part is greatly be- low the natural standard, as will afterwards he more particularly illustrated. But the inflammatory action may be produced} even though no heat be afterwards applied directly to the part, by its vessels being too rapidly brought into a degree of action similar to that of the surrounding parts which are in their na- tural condition. Sudden and general diminution of temperature seems to act as an exciting cause, by producing an instantane- ous suppression of the transpiration. Another exciting cause of the inflammation, is the retention of the secreted fluids, causing unnatural distension of canals or cavities, and is exemplified by cystitis occurring in consequence of retention of urine. Cer- tain states of the constitution are justly supposed to excite inflammation, in particular textures. Other exciting causes of inflammation might be enumerated, but these will be more naturally explained, and more fully considered, whilst treating of inflammation of the various tissues and organs. Their effects are various and diversified, according to the intensity of the cause, the structure, function, and sympathies of the part af- fected, and the state of the system. And it is also to be re- membered, that not unfrequently inflammatory action appears, whilst we can assign no cause for its production. Inflammation is said to terminate in Resolution, Suppuration, and Mortification. The application of the word termination, howevei’, is injudicious ; for in general the inflammatory action, though much abated, is not extinguished by the occurrence of suppuration or mortification, but often continues in the sur- rounding parts with unabated intensity; and not unfrequently several of the terminations occur combined with each other. Adhesion has also been mentioned as a termination of inflam- mation, but perhaps improperly; for, although, in certain parts of the body, as in the serous cavities, adhesion is produced in consequence of inflammatory action, and during its progress, still the process of adhesion is altogether independent of this action in other textures, such as the cellular. In the unit- ing of a flesh wound, a certain degree of incited action of the blood-vessels is necessary for the accomplishment of the adhesive process; but should that incited action reach the in- c