OF SUPPURATION. 27 tions, and acts as a temporary cuticle. A crust is formed by the evaporation of the thinner part of the fluid; and we frequently see small sores healing rapidly when thus protected. In some instances, we adopt the hint given to us by nature, and produce a scab by the application of powders, lunar caustic, &c. The discharge does not always consist of laudable purulent matter. Pus formed in the diseased part itself has particu- lar characters, according to the tissue involved; thin and greyish in bones, opaque and caseiform in cellular tissue, floc- culent in serous, and greenish and thready in mucous mem- branes ; it is said to be reddish in the liver, and yellowish grey in muscles. Its sensible properties are various, often very of- fensive when proceeding from a cavity containing decayed bones, and it degenerates in consequence of disturbance of the constitution, or of the part affected. It is also frequently sup- pressed, in consequence of overaction in the vessels of the part, or from debility, partial or general. Suppression of a purulent discharge is to be regarded as an untoward symptom, fraught with considerable danger, being generally followed by the most violent constitutional disturbance. Certain cases would seem to warrant the belief that a species of metastasis occurs; that the matter is absorbed, and again de- posited in some other part, perhaps, of the utmost importance in the animal economy. The danger arising, when the pus is not separated from the blood, has already been adverted to. No wonder, if from any cause it does not escape by its accustomed channel, that an effort should be made to deposit it somewhere else, for the temporary relief of the system. The most vascular parts are commonly chosen, as the lungs, spleen, and liver. In the cavities of joints, also, matter is often found in great quantities. This is sometimes indicated by the occurrence of tenderness and swelling for only a short period previously; but, in other cases, its presence has never been suspected. In purulent collections, after wounds from accident or operation, on the suspension of the discharge, the patient becomes affected with severe constitutional irritation, and gradually sinks; the existence of purulent depots in the viscera of the chest or abdomen, being perhaps not indicated by any, unless very equivocal, symptoms, and these appearing only a short time