527 OF HERNIA. traded, and the contracted state of the abdominal cavity: in such cases the incision should be only to such an extent as is sufficient to enable the operator to reach the stricture. The first cut is carried through the skin and fatty matter, not deeper. The layers are then divided successively, with the hand unsup- ported ; and this is done only at the middle and projecting part of the swelling. It is unnecessary to prolong the incision of the layers along the whole extent of the wound in the integu- ments, at this stage of the proceedings. In the direct hernia, which is of rare occurrence, there is but one proper layer, —that furnished by the superficial abdominal fascia : not unfrequently there is an imperfect additional envelope, furnished by fibres from the edge of the external ring; sometimes the tumour does not escape through the external ring, and is then of course covered by the tendon of the external oblique; of this I have seen but one instance, and that in a female; but in the common inguinal hernia there are three or foui’, and these are thickened more or less according to the size and duration of the tumour. The di- vision of these layers must necessarily be conducted with great care and caution. At length the sac is exposed. This is opened by pinching up a portion betwixt the nails of the thumb and fore- finger, or with dissecting forceps, and then cutting with the blade of the knife laid horizontall3\ On wounding the sac, there is usu- ally evacuated a small quantity of brownish serous fluid. The probe-pointed bistoury is then taken up, and insinuated into the opening; and by this instrument, guided on the forefinger of the left hand, the sac and its coverings are divided up to near the ring, and down to near the bottom of the tumour. The hernial con- tents are thus exposed. These are unravelled, and examined attentively; if only brownish red, from accumulation of the venous blood, of unbroken surface and unadherent, they are fit to be reduced. The stricture is felt for with the forefinger of the left hand, and into it either the point of the finger or the nail is gently insinuated. The protruded parts, if voluminous, are held down by an assistant; and along the forepart of the finger is passed a probe-pointed, narrow, and slightly curved knife. In carrying this upwards, the blade is placed flat on the finger, and its point, and no more, is passed through the contracted part; its edge is then turned forwards, its back resting on the