FISTULA. 554 bourhood of the anus, on one or both sides, with dark dis- colouration of the integuments, and burning pain. The affection resembles carbuncle. The precursory symptoms are soon fol- lowed by partial suppuration, and extensive sloughing of the cellular tissue. At first there is excitement of the system, but symptoms of debility, and flagging of the vital powers, soon pre- sent themselves — irregular pulse, delirium, disordered stomach, hiccough, vomiting, and cold extremities. The disease is one of great danger, and the patient can be saved only by free and early incision, and the judicious employment of stimulants. In some instances the inflammation is merely superficial, seated merely in the integuments, and followed by slow col- lection of matter. It is indeed seldom that a cavity formed by abscess near the anus fills up entirely, however large and free the opening into it may have been. The parietes contract, but the hardness ai’ound is not entirely dissipated; the opening may close for a little while, but is soon found again discharging, and may continue to do so for months or years. A sinus is thus formed. Fresh col- lections and openings, either externally or internally, are apt to occur, with extensive induration of the cellular tissue, and disease of the gut. Instead of a single sinus, a number of col- lateral ones are formed, all running into the main canal, like branches to a common sewer, or by-lanes opening into one spa- cious street. The disease is one of frequent occurrence amongst females; and often from a false sense of delicacy its existence is not declared till it has advanced to a state of truly horrible per- fection. Fistula is generally the consequence of abscess in the cellular substance near the anus. By the term is understood a sinus or track, with narrow orifice and hard parietes, discharging thin gleety matter. If the track extends from the cavity of the gut to the surface, flatus must often pass through the narrow and tortuous canal, and, from a peculiar noise being produced by its passage, the name of Fistula has probably been adopted. The term cannot be properly applied to recent cavities of abscesses, but only when their sacs have contracted, their lining has be- come callous, and their discharge thin and almost colourless.