DISEASES OF THE EYE. 329 ous humour is from time to time discharged. By this condition of parts vision is much impaired, the cornea being always more or Jess flaccid. Touching the fistulous opening with the nitrate of silver, reduced by scraping to a very fine point, will often promote a healthy action in the tissue, and effect adhesion of its sides. Tire pearly speck which remains after cicatrisation of a cor- neal sore is termed Leucoma, and is permanent. It is generally of an uniform colour, but occasionally a black speck, is per- ceptible in some part of it. For, when an ulcer lays open the anterior chamber, part or the whole of the aqueous humour is evacuated, and the iris falls forward; a portion of the iris falling into the opening, provided this is not in the centre of the cornea, closes it up, and becomes adherent to that part. If the opening is large, the prolapsus of the iris is considerable; and in some cases this membrane, being pressed on by the hu- mours, is forced through the opening in the form of a small bag. This change of position is termed Hernia of the Iris ; and the dark sacculated portion of the iris which projects from the sur- face of the cornea is called Myocephalon, from its resemblance to the head of a fly. The myocephalon may remain for a considerable time, or may sphacelate and drop away. The pupil is thus rendered irregular, is perhaps nearly obliterated, or is drawn down behind the opaque part, and thereby rendered totally useless to the patient. The impairment of vision caused by Leucoma depends on the size and situation of the speck. The disease is irremediable, though the thin cloudy opacity, which frequently surrounds the leucoma, may be dissi- pated. The operation of artificial pupil is sometimes required, in order to afford a degree of vision in this affection of the cornea, ~ as well as in the speck of a similar appearance occa- sioned by effusion and organisation of lymph betwixt the deep lamellae of the cornea, and which is termed Albugo. Albugo occurs during the intensity of inflammatory attacks. It also is surrounded occasionally by thinner opacity, but not depressed and unequal on the surface, as leucoma sometimes is. Large and tortuous vessels are generally seen passing into albu- gines, but meshes of dilated vessels are seldom present. When