LIGATURE OF THE AXILLARY. 483 I I 2 The axillary 'portion of the brachial artery cannot require to be tied for true aneurism. Were the aneurism seated at the border of the axilla, and the upper portion of the vessel beneath the clavicle free, the best, wisest, and safest proceeding is to tie the subclavian. Then, the shoulder not being raised, the vessel is not so deep as when the aneurism involves the whole axilla. The incisions are not so deep nor so extensive, and do not impli- cate so important neighbouring parts as those for ligature of the axillary artery ; and besides, the vessel is tied farther from the diseased part. The axillary artery may be tied on account of wounds, either immediately upon the infliction of the injury, or some time afterwards. The dissection is difficult, the vein being much in the way, and the vessel surrounded by nerves, and intimately connected with them by dense cellular tissue. The artery is more involved at the middle portion of the axilla than at the superior and inferior; at that point, too, the cephalic vein, as well as the axillary, impedes the operator. To reach the upper portion of the artery, much muscular substance must be divided. An extensive incision, in the course of the vessel, is made through the integuments. The pectoralis major is got through by separation and division of the fibres, the incision in it being made with as little cross-cutting as possible. Part of the pectoralis minor, probably the superior half of the muscle, must also be cut. The parts are then exposed, the vein to the inner side of the artery, and the nerves inter- laced. The vessel is carefully isolated at one point, and there secured. It is almost impracticable to reach the middle portion of the axillary — supposing the vessel to be divided into three equal portions — without injurious interference with the nerves. If operating with the view of tying the extremities of the vessel wounded at this point, the probability is that the nerves have been divided along with the artery, and then the proceedings are more simple. The incisions are made in the direction of the bleeding point; this is I'eached, and each extremity of the vessel secui'ely tied. The lower third of the artery is less involved with the vein and nerves, and can be reached without division of muscular