275 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. T 2 from mere evacuants. The latter ingredient would seem, by its local stimulus, to impart energy to the bowels sufficient for the correct performances of their functions, while the former tends to allay spasm and irritation, both locally and generally. If the circulation becomes unduly excited, abstraction of blood from the system, in sufficient quantities and at proper intervals, is absolutely necessary; and the depletion must be regulated by the symptoms and circumstances of each case. The action will in general be more speedily and effectually moderated by one copious bleeding at the commencement, than by repeated bleedings to a less extent. An easy and open state of the bowels is of much importance in the excited stage. Mer- cin’ial pi'eparations are sometimes useful, as they are known to possess the power of causing the absorption of coagulated lymph and serum, and probably of preventing their effusion. In cases where insensibility continues after the arterial excite- ment has been subdued, counter-irritation on the head or the back of the neck is often useful, as the application of blisters, or the rubbing in of antimonial ointment. These are supposed to act by causing an unusual influx of blood to the surface, pro- ducing a change in that fluid by the copious purulent, serous, and lymphatic secretions from the irritated part, and thereby diminishing the distended and engorged state of the internal vessels, which might produce considerable compression of the brain. If, at a late period in the case, the powers of life begin to flag, stimulants must be again had recourse to, and may now be pushed pretty freely, there being less risk of inordinate action ensuing, and much reason to fear that life can be prolonged only by the continued use of powerful means for the excitement of the system. Nor ought the surgeon to cease stimulating though the vital powers continue to diminish in spite of the treatment, and though the circumstances of the case may be so hopeless as to lead him to suppose that death cannot be further delayed; for many patients, who would otherwise have neces- sarily perished, have, by the continued use of stimuli, recovered under my care their sensibility, and been ultimately restored to health. Separation of the Dura Mater from the cranium, with more