618 HYDROCELE. for its origin is most frequently attributable to external injury — blows or bruises, followed by rapid swelling, which, after a time, subsides, leaving perhaps some enlargement of the testicle, or of the more superficial tissues, and succeeded by the gradual appearance of the disease in question. Sometimes it is attributed to powerful and habitual muscular exertion, as in blowing wind instruments, lifting heavy weights, &c.; and perhaps the impediment to the venous return, so produced, may be the cause of the effusion. The accumulation, as already stated, is gradual, and consequently the formation of the swelling is proportionally slow. It commences at the lower part of the sci’otum, and by degrees ascends, at first globular, afterwards of a pyriform shape; after it has attained a considerable size, the testicle cannot be felt in its usual situation, for it is now placed not at the bottom of the bag but towards its middle and posterior aspect, and if the tumour be tense it can scarcely be felt at all. The raphe is displaced to the opposite side, the usual puckering of the scrotum has disappeared, and the tumour feels light in proportion to its size. On manipulation it is found yielding and elastic, and in all ordinary cases a distinct fluctuation is communicated to the fingers during alter- nate pressure. And by using the hand as a shade, the rays of light are made to permeate the swelling, rendering it more or less transparent according to the thickness and density of the covering, and the hue of the contained fluid. It is seldom that the distension of the vaginal coat is to such an extent as to reach the groin, consequently the spermatic chord is felt to be free, as also the inguinal aperture; and even when the swelling does reach so high, the upper part is the least tense, permitting displacement of the fluid and distinct perception of the chord. The patient complains of a sense of dragging and weight in the parts, and of uneasiness and inconvenience during exertion, but seldom of pain. When large, the tumour is ne- cessarily covered by bori’owed integument, often so as almost entirely to conceal the penis. In many cases the testicle is in- creased in size and indurated, and sometimes this enlargement forms a considerable part of the swelling. Occasionally the spermatic veins are varicose; and this has been, by some, con- sidered one of the causes of the disease. Hydrocele is occasion-