773 AMPUTATION OF THE FINGERS. ing the neighbouring fingers towards each other. This also suffices, in general, to suppress the bleeding, but sometimes one or both digital arteries require ligature. At first, cold cloths are probably the best applications, with the view of stopping the oozing, and warding off inflammatory action. Vascular excite- ment is very apt to follow this amputation, when performed for disease of the finger, as after neglected or severe whitlow; the soft parts in which the incisions are made are generally infil- trated and condensed, and prone to inflammation. The surface around is red, tense, and shining, on the second or third day; the back of the hand, the palm, and perhaps the forearm, are then involved in inflammation of the surface, and infiltration of the cellular tissue; and in all probability, free incisions, fol- lowed by poultice and fomentation, will be necessary to restore the parts to quietude. Such consequences are to be guarded against as much as possible, by attention to the system, and by avoiding all irritating dressing. The phalanges of the thumb are removed in the same manner as those of the fingers. Amputation of the metacarpal bone is accomplished thus. The thumb is grasped by the fingers of the left hand, and so managed. The bistoury, held in the same manner as for amputation at the proximal articulation of the finger, is placed with its point on the web betwixt the thumb and forefinger, and carried in one sweep rapidly upwards in a slightly oblique direction, till it is stopped by the os trapezium. The point is used to effect disarticulation, the member being at the same time pushed steadily outwards; the blade is then placed behind the base, carried downwards close to the side of the bone, and is not to be brought out till sufficiently low down for forming a flap to cover the whole wound. The flaps may be formed otherwise, and much more handsomely, by transfixion of the ball of the thumb, as shown in the Practical Surgery, p. 32*2. After arresting the haemorrhage, the flap is laid smoothly down, and retained in its proper position by bandage or slips of the adhesive plaster. The metacarpal bone of the little finger is removed by the same method of incision as for the thumb. In amputation of the fingers, the incisions sometimes require to extend beyond the proximal articulation, on account of dis- ease having involved that part; in other words, it may be ne- 3 D 3