361 DISEASES OF THE CONTENTS OF THE ORBIT. at the lower part is by much the most useful; but, if the lower part of the cornea is opaque, it must be made opposite to the inner or outer clear part. The point of the needle is en- tangled in the attached margin of the iris, and by raising the hand quickly, and partially withdrawing the instrument, the connexions are separated to a sufficient extent. Effusion of blood into the chamber, and to considerable extent, follows these proceedings; and it is only after its absorption that it can be ascertained whether benefit is likely to result or not. After all these operations, inflammatory action requires to be kept down by antiphlogistic measures, abstraction of blood, purga- tives, antimonials, and, perhaps, mercurial preparations. It is questionable whether belladonna can be useful in preventing closure of an artificial pupil. Wounds of the Eyeball and its Neighbourhood. — Wounds near the eye, though unimportant in themselves, require considerable attention, on account of the eye, or its appendages, being likely to suffer in consequence. Thus, transverse wounds of the fore- head or eyebrow, if their edges be not approximated accurately and soon, may cause prolapsus of the eyelids; or the eyelids may become swollen and turgid, or erysipelatous, in consequence of inflammatory action attacking the wound. When wounds of the forehead are in a perpendicular direction, their margins are easily preserved in apposition, having little tendency to retract, and there is no risk of the relative situation of the eyelids being altered. If there be considerable loss of substance in the lower part of the forehead, from the nature of the wound, when in- flicted, or from its having become the seat of unhealthy suppu- ration, on cicatrisation of the part the eyelid will be drawn upwards, and perhaps more or less everted. There is reason to believe that a degree of blindness, and even complete amaurosis, has been caused by wound of the eyebrow, the superciliary nerve having been contused, wounded, or otherwise injured; or the functions of the eyeball may be disturbed by concussion from injury. Paralysis, also, of the levator palpebrae superioris, or of several of the muscles belonging to the eyeball, may follow in- jury of the forehead and neighbouring parts, from either lace- ration or concussion of the nerves. Wounds of the eyelids, particularly when neglected, may cause much change of relative