723 FRACTURE OF THE LEG. bony union. In transverse, the obstacles to correct apposition are great; the upper portion is acted on by the muscles on the fore part of the thigh, to a greater or less degree, in almost any position; tliere is increase and vitiation of the synovial secretion, and when the bones are approximated, this fluid is interposed. The union is therefore almost uniformly ligament- ous, and, fortunately, this is as strong and as rapidly effected as that by bone. When the treatment is not of the most approved kind, a long portion of ligament is produced, and the limb remains weak. But union by a short ligament is undoubtedly the most desirable result, the member is as useful as when bone is the uniting medium, and ligament is less subject to dis- ruption ; bony union is, for a long time, apt to give way on the application of even slight force. The fragments are to be approximated, and brought nearly into contact, by placing the limb, with the knee extended, and the thigh slightly bent on the pelvis. The limb is retained in this position by the application of a straight splint behind, hol- lowed at the extremities, extending from a little below the tuberosity of the ischium to below the middle of the leg, and retained by a roller, not at all tight; the foot and lower part of the limb must be previously bandaged to prevent infiltration. All apparatus with straps, buckles, and apertures to receive the portions of the bone, are worse than useless. The splint re- quires to be worn for some time after the patient gets into the erect position, which ought not to be before six weeks after the accident. Fracture may occur at any part of the leg. One or both bones may give way, either transversly or obliquely, according to the application of the force. The transverse fracture is pro- duced by a direct blow, by a heavy body striking or falling on the limb, or by the lower part of the limb being fixed whilst the body is in rapid motion ; the oblique is caused by force ap- plied in the direction of the bones — as when a person falls or leaps from a height, and alights on one foot, the limb being extended and the body erect. In the latter description of ac- cident, it is frequently supposed, erroneously, that but one bone has given way; fracture of the tibia perhaps is perceived some 3 A 2