WOUNDS OF THE NECK. 434 apply his finger over part of the orifice of the tube, when it is wished to clear the passage from mucus. The operation of tracheotomy should be had recourse to in such cases without hesitation or delay; there is no danger from its performance, but much from its being withheld. If the mouth or gullet have not been opened by the cut- ting instrument, or only slightly, the patient may be allowed to swallow naturally; though it is true that even the slightest motion of the parts affects the wound injuriously. But, as already observed, immediate union is not to be expected; swallowing, or attempting to swallow, saliva, produces an involuntary action of the muscles, quite as prejudicial as the swallowing of liquids in large quantity does; and these motions cannot be pi’evented, since the patient has no control over them. If the wound of the mouth or gullet is extensive, portions of the ingesta are apt to interfere with the air-tube, particularly if the wound is high, and the epiglottis cut away or disfigured. In such cases, soups and other nuti’itious fluids are conveyed through an elastic tube, passed by the mouth over the root of the tongue to beyond the injured part, and introduced only when it becomes necessary to administer food; or a small tube may be passed by the nostril, and retained. If the wound is very severe, and the necessity for thus conveying nourishment likely to continue long, the latter method is adopted; it is more difficult in execution than the former, but when the instrument is once passed, no further trouble is given to either the patient or surgeon. Small quan- tities of nourishment are to be given frequently, of such strength as the symptoms indicate; many patients have died from inat- tention on this score. Many have died suddenly and unexpectedly (though this should not be, if symptoms and circumstances were attended to) from the effects of apparently slight wounds; whilst others have recovered, when I’ecovery was unlooked for, after dreadful in- juries, and these perhaps not treated in the most approved manner. In illustration, I shall briefly detail, though it did not fall under my own observation, an interesting and re- markable case of recovery. A criminal under confinement at- tempted suicide by transverse wound of the throat. The larynx was severed at the upper part of the cricoid cartilage, and the