AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER-JOINT, 780 in the case of the large axillary artery, why should it be objected to, on the score of inefficiency, in the minor amputations ? parti- cularly when it is evident, putting efficiency out of the question, that it is preferable to compression by the tourniquet, or any other circular apparatus; — more quickly applied and relaxed; less painful, less formidable; always ready, and independent of the instrument-maker. The compression is made above the clavicle, so as to secure the subclavian, where it passes over the first rib. The thumb of a steady assistant is placed deeply into the cavity of the lower triangular space of the neck, immediately above the first large sinuosity of the clavicle. The pressure thus made is quite effectual; but as it requires to be firm and uniform, and as there is always a risk of the thumb giving way from exhaustion, it is better to interpose some mechanical con- trivance when the assistant is either diffident or inexperienced. The best apparatus for this purpose is a common door-key. A bit of lint or cloth is wrapped round the handle, and this part is then pressed down on the vessel. As in other amputations, the pressure is not commenced till the knife is about to enter. The flaps may be double, on the outer and inner aspects, or one may be made sufficiently large to cover the whole wound. The patient is seated on a chair, and secured by a person placed behind. The arm is raised a little from the side, and supported by an assistant. Two oblique incisions are made, commencing high on each side of the shoulder, and converging gradually till they meet near the insertion of the deltoid. The triangular flap, so marked out, is dissected rapidly upwards, close to the bone, and kept raised by an assistant. The person supporting the arm then uses it as a lever, carrying it downwards and back- wards ; the joint, thus made more palpable, is cut into by a semicircular sweep of the knife across it; the head of the bone is now dislocated, and the rest of the capsule and fibrous tissue exterior to it divided; the blade of the knife is insinuated be- hind the head of the bone, and carried rapidly through the remaining soft parts. In no amputation can I conceive any ne- cessity for suspending the incisions, in order to secure vessels, provided the pressure is well applied, and the knife used dexter- ously. Here very little blood should be lost. The vessels divided in the formation of the flap are small, and the axillary is not