STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 589 passage, is of a peculiar grating nature, and when once felt, will scarcely be forgotten or mistaken. By means of a good knowledge of the natural course of the urethra, and an acquaintance with the feelings just alluded to, but which cannot be graphically de- scribed, the surgeon of experience is enabled to avoid blunders, and to pass an instrument with safety through the tightest stric- tures. It is, however, an operation of very great difficulty in aggravated cases, perhaps the most difficult in surgery; facility in passing the catheter is acquired only by practice and ex- perience. The greatest caution is required, along with con- siderable fortitude and perseverance. When the instrument has been fairly lodged in the bladdei’, it is to be retained. A tape is attached to each of the rings at the neck of the catheter, is brought under the thigh, and fastened to a bandage passed round the waist; this simple retentive ap- paratus is quite effectual, and suits the erect as well as the recumbent posture. A peg, of metal or wood, is placed in the mouth of the catheter, that the patient may be kept dry, and at the same time have it in his power to relieve the bladder as often as necessary. The instrument should be retained for twenty-four hours at least, and, if the patient can bear it, for forty-eight, or even more. At first it occasions considerable uneasiness, pain, and excitement, but these gradually subside; when severe, they may be allayed by opiates. The parts make efforts to get rid of the foreign body, and these efforts are salu- tary. Discharge takes place from the membrane, and cozes by the side of the catheter ; relaxation occurs, often to a very great extent; and, on moving the handle of the instrument, it is found to be not only less firmly grasped, but to possess considerable freedom of motion in the contracted part. Thus a most suc- cessful inroad is made upon the disease, and the after treatment thereby happily abridged. The instrument is withdrawn, and time afforded for the parts to become quiet. After the lapse of two, three, or four days, according as the uneasy feelings dis- appear, a larger instrument is introduced, and retained perhaps for half an hour ; and the successive introduction of instruments — sounds being now adopted — at proper intervals, and in proper graduation, is continued as in ordinary cases. Some- times, though rarely, the good effects of the first introduction