763 AMPUTATION. sure on only two points of the same circumference, as is effected by the hand of an assistant, is not liable to this objection. Besides, the latter mode is more quickly applied, and more readily removed, causes infinitely less pain to the patient, and is equally effectual in arresting the flow in the main arterial trunk. Neither does it interfere with the due contraction and retraction of the divided tissues. The incisions should always be made rapidly; and after their completion, the sur- geon, if distrustful of his assistant, or if his hand has become cramped and tired, may himself grasp the limb and compress the vessel, giving the foi’ceps or ligatui’es to another. The first step in the operation is to arrange the measures for temporary arrestment of the bleeding. The patient is placed in a favourable position, either sitting or lying, as may be most convenient for the particular amputation, and is firmly secured by one or more assistants; all the apparatus must be in good order and conveniently placed, and an assistant should be sta- tioned to attend to them, and hand those required. The com- pressor and the operator are each at their post, and ready to act in concert. The incisions may be made either from without in- wards, or from within outwards, after transfixion of the limb. The latter mode is to be preferred when practicable, as re- quiring less pressure; the parts are more stretched than in the former method, are therefore more easily and rapidly cut, and consequently less pain is inflicted. To the inexperienced trans- fixion may appear cruel, it may appal them, but in reality it is almost unattended with pain; it is rapidly executed, and renders the operator capable of completing his work with great quick- ness and little suffering, and at the same time with neatness and precision. The knife should be of a size and length propor- tioned to the incisions, straight-backed, and with a good point; of a form to pass tlu ough readily, yet strong, and not too broad. With one sweep of this, the incisions are made at once, through the muscles, through the cellular and fatty tissues, and through the integument — or vice versa, if the mode from without in- wards be preferred. By these parts being cut rapidly and at once, their connexions with each other are not separated, the cut surface is smooth, and the parts are in the most favoui’able state for becoming agglutinated and consolidated; the bone is