OF HERNIA. M M 4 5'S5 tlie abdominal or crural ring downwards, to each other, and to the hernial sac. The hernial sac seldom sloughs entirely ; in almost every case its neck remains sound; to this remaining part the in- testine adheres. The deficiency in the integuments and cellular tissue, through which the fteculent matter escapes, gradually contracts, and the aperture in that portion of the hernial sac which is exterior to the intestine also diminishes; but at the same time dilatation takes place in the immediate vicinity of the intestinal orifices, so that a funnel-like cavity is formed for the evacuation of faeces, extending from the opening in the bowel to the opening in the skin — its narrowest part being at the latter situation, its most capacious surrounding tlie intestine. The cellular tissue intermediate between the integument and hernial sac becomes condensed, and forms a membranous lining. By this cavity an imperfect communication is established be- tween the two portions of bowel, part of the faeculent matter returning through the lower intestinal orifice, and part escaping externally. But this communication must be indeed very im- perfect at first, since the two portions of bowel lie parallel to each other, and their coalescing sides form an acute angular projection into this funnel-shaped cavity. The lower portion is necessarily much diminished in calibre, being in a great measure unaccustomed to the usual distension, and its collapsed orifice is retracted a little higher than that of the superior. On account of these circumstances faeculent matter cannot pass straight onwards from one portion of bowel to the other, but must first traverse the funnel-shaped cavity; and even then it is but a small quantity that reaches the rectum. Indeed, in most cases of artificial anus, nothing but occasional flatus passes by the original outlet for weeks or months. After some time the bowel retracts, but cannot leave the adhesion in the groin: by this retraction the orifices may be brought in a more direct line with each other, and the natural passage of the feces be somewhat assisted. When one or more slight patches of discolouration are ob- served after division of the sac, it may be returned, it being most probable that the parts will recover after removal of the stricture. When any portion has given way, of course no one can contemplate reduction; and when the whole calibre has