OF HERNIA. 519 L L 4 often come down during an attack of bowel complaint, or after a dose of purgative medicine. The term incarceration of hernia is employed to indicate a slight degree of strangulation, when the hernial contents are con- fined from any cause, and when the circulation in the protruded bowel and the course of the faeculent matter are nevertheless uninterrupted. By many it is applied indiscriminately with strangulation. Strangulation arises, not fi’om any change in the neck of the sac or in the tendinous aperture, but from increase of volume in the proti’uded parts, caused by accumulation of the solid, fluid, or gaseous contents of the bowel, followed by interruption to its circulation ; or the interruption to the flow of blood may precede the distension. The circulation is more readily retarded or arrested in the veins than in the arteries, and consequently the engorgement of the bowel is at first caused by venous turges- cence; but when the flow in the arteries is at all impeded, the infiltration and exudation become more rapid, and the part quickly perishes — sphacelates. The symptoms which accom- pany and indicate strangulation are of a very imposing nature, and cannot be neglected; and it is fortunate that such is the case, for no disease is fraught with greater or more immediate danger to the patient, or requires more the early interference of a skilful and expert surgeon. The tumour becomes tense and painful, and the integument is sometimes red and shining; the pain is much increased by pressure, and extends over the abdomen, but continues most severe near the neck of the swelling; sick- ness and inclination to vomit quickly follow; the patient feels languid; his countenance soon assumes a contracted anxious appearance; the circulation is hurried ; the pulse beats wiry and hard, though at first it may have been full. If relief is not afforded, all the symptoms are speedily aggi’avated; vomiting comes on, and is frequent; no discharge can be procured from the upper bowels, though the lower may be, and often are, evacu- ated by injections or by natural efforts: if the upper bowels evacuate downwards, the strangulation cannot be of the whole calibre of the gut, but only of a part. Pain and heat in the tumour and belly increase; and the former becomes very tender, and tense as a drum. The circulation is more hurried, and