646 CALCULUS VESICA. tuberosity of the ischium — and is continued till nearly past the lower part of the orifice of the bowel. The forefinger of the left hand is then introduced into the wound, and the resisting fibres of the transverse muscle of the perineum, and of the levator ani, are touched with the edge of the knife directed downwards. Wound of the rectum is avoided by pressing it downwards and to the opposite side by the finger; indeed the finger should be constantly in the wound as a guide to the knife. In this stage of the proceedings, incision upwards would be likely to interfere with the artery of the bulb, whatever its disti’ibution may be, — whether the vessel come from the pudic, or from the posterior iliac. It occupies nearly the same relative situation in either case, and by care can always be avoided during the second incision. Division of it occasions most pro- fuse, alarming, and dangerous haemorrhage. 1 have seen the patient lose much blood in consequence during the incisions; and after the occurrence of reaction, have seen the blood soak- ing through the mattrass, dropping from the foot of the bed, and collecting in pools on the floor. The bleeding is difficult to arrest; the application of ligature is very troublesome, if not impracticable, and efficient pressure cannot be made with safety. In my own practice I have had little or no trouble from haemorrhage — chiefly, I believe, from never cutting upwards after the first incision. One instance of secondary bleeding occurred. The patient was sixty-one years of age, and had laboured under symptoms of stone for eight years. He had been dyspeptic for some weeks before the operation, but otherwise appeared a favourable subject. Very little blood was lost during the operation, but on the fifth day haemorrhage occurred to the extent of seven ounces; on the eighth day, the same amount was lost; on the twelfth, a pound ; on the sixteenth, five ounces; on the seventeenth, about a pound. The bleeding was uniformly preceded by a feverish attack; and the blood had a florid, ar- terial appearance, and flowed rapidly. It proceeded from the interior of the wound, and a suppurating cavity in the neigh- bourhood of the prostate was felt by the finger. From the prostatic side of this abscess, the blood appeared to spring; probably a considerable branch of the pudic ramifying in this situation had been opened by unhealthy ulceration. Pressure