83 OF DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. to the effect of mercury or syphilis. The periosteum around the articular ends of the bones becomes swelled and painful; the affection is very slow in its progress ; abundant deposition of adventitious bone takes place, often in short spiculae, gradu- ally encroaching around the joint, which ultimately becomes involved. A good specimen is here given. The disease was of twelve months’ duration, and was attributable to rheumatic in- flammation supervening upon sprain. The affection involves extensively all the bones composing the articulation. Although wounds penetrating the larger joints are attended with danger, the synovial membranes are possessed of consider- able powers of reparation, and often heal readily after severe in- juries. An occasional result of inflammation is adhesion between the layers of the membrane, but this is by no means so frequent as in the serous tissues. The reparative power of cartilage is so low that the best termination that can be expected from the ordinary forms of ulceration, is union between the abraded surfaces. In experiments which have been made on the lower animals, portions of cartilage which had been removed from their joints were never reproduced, but the functions of the part were soon restored by the cut surface becoming smooth. In like manner there is occasionally to be seen in museums a circum- scribed indentation in human articular cartilage, as if it had been destroyed by a small ulcer in this situation, which had cicatrized without any reproduction of the destroyed tissue. On Hypertrophy and Atrophy of the Articular Cartilages, with Eburnation of the Surfaces of the Bones. It has been already observed (at page 74.), that the cartilages are occasionally swelled and softened in cases of chronic inflam- mation ; and it now remains to notice instances in which they become hypertrophied or atrophied, apparently without inflammatory action. Although these affections are not likely to come often under the treatment of the surgeon in civil life, yet they are of much importance to the naval or military practitioner, since an accurate knowledge of them will lead him to institute a careful inquiry when a man complains of inability to sustain G 2