467 AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. bent, and on the handle there should be a mark to show the direc- tion of the point; the distance of the termination of the tube from the nasal orifice ought also to be marked. The instrument is passed along the floor of the nostril, and then its point is directed upwards and outwards, whilst the handle is pressed towards the septum narium. It has been proposed, moreovei’, to force a stream of cold and condensed air into the internal ear, and to apply aetherial vapours to the cavity of the tympanum. The attempts have been made on an extensive scale in all sorts of cases, and quite indiscriminately. This plan of curing deafness has been well advertised, and unblushingly puffed in scientific and other journals. Not one case of deafness in a hundred pro- bably depends upon any affection of the eustachian tube : vitiated mucus cannot even be displaced by injection of air or other fluid, unless the membrane of the tympanum be ruptured; this has indeed been accomplished by the operation in question, and then the mucosity could only be forced into the cavity of the tympanum, so as, if possible, to make matters worse. Nervous deafness, like functional amaurosis, may sometimes be relieved or even removed entirely by stimulating frictions, or the application of strychnine to a raw surface behind the auricle, and by attention to the general health. Puncture of the Tympanum has been recommended as a remedy for deafness arising, or supposed to arise, from obstruction of the eustachian tube; but I believe it has not succeeded in above one out of twenty cases. The puncture is apt to close very soon; and though the hearing may be improved for a short time, the advantage gained soon disappears. The means of keeping the puncture open are not easily applicable; perhaps the most effectual is to touch the edges occasionally with pencil-pointed lunar stone. The puncture is generally made with a short- pointed trocar, such as is used for hydrocele. The canula is passed down to the membrane, and placed on one side of its centre, lest the long head of the malleus should be interfered with. The trocar is then pushed on gently, and should pene- trate but a very short distance, for fear of injuring the import- ant parts at the bottom of the cavity. By some a sharp-pointed probe is used, passed through a quill; or an instrument about the same size with the probe is made for the purpose, with a H H 2