AMPUTATION. 768 surgeon is saved much troublesome and dirty work,—for union by the first intention seldom fails. Bleeding within a few hours after the operation, before excited action of the vessels has commenced, is easily arrested by expo- sure of the surface, removal of all clots, for by these haemorrhage is encouraged, and by including the open vessels in ligatures. For the accomplishment of this, the period and mode of dress- ing, above recommended, afford great facility, as has been al- ready observed. Haemorrhage at a later period is not common. It happens occasionally in consequence of the stump having acquired an unhealthy condition, from sloughing, — or from abscess, as when this occurs round ligatures which have been retained, along with the slough of the vessel and cellular tissue, both ends having been cut away. The matter formed during separation of the ligature in the usual way, escapes readily along the protruding end, but when there is merely a knot, the inte- guments have most probably closed over, there is no direct outlet; the matter is confined, and causes ulceration of the coats of the vessel as well as of the surrounding tissues. In this kind of haemorrhage, it is needless to attempt finding the bleeding point by tearing open the stump, separating any adhesions that may have formed, causing much pain and retardation of cure. And even though the bleeding vessel or vessels could be found, they are not in a state to hold a ligature. The artery is surrounded by sloughing cellular substance, its coats are tender, and in no condition to assume a healthy action necessary for permanent closure after deligation. If ligature is applied, the included part quickly separates, and then the vessel is as open as before. Astringents, and even the cautery, are useless. Ligature of the main arterial trunk, above the origin of branches supplying the stump, so as to weaken for a time the circulation, is found to be effectual. I have had recourse to this in many cases, and uni- formly with success. Some years ago, several occurred in the Royal Infirmary, within a very short time of one another; it was during rather an unhealthy season, and at the time I was making trial of cutting off both ends of the ligatures. They were all after removal of the lower limb ; one patient died — the amputation was high, through the trochanter minor, and the vessel tied secondarily was the common iliac; this had the effect