38 OF SUPPURATION. them, patients have often been saved in very hopeless circum- stances. Great attention must be paid to the bowels, and the secretions poured into them, for on the .condition and quality of these the state of the constitution materially depends. The internal use of cantharides is often advantageous in chronic suppurations and abscesses, but it is inadmissible in cases where enlarged glands occupy dangerous situations, either externally or internally ; unless the tumours are in progress towards re- solution, suppuration is certainly induced, and may be produc- tive of the worst consequences. The glands not unfrequently become enlarged during the exhibition of this medicine ; and such an occurrence must be watched attentively. In illustration of the good effects of stimuli in certain cases, it may be men- tioned that the cavities of abscesses are often speedily effaced by granulations, and that obstinate sores frequently contract and cicatrise, after the occurrence of a febrile attack, though they had previously shown no disposition to heal. In glandular swellings. Deobstruents, as they have been called, are used; and with this view, mercury is often had recourse to; this medicine, however, instead of producing a salutary effect, very generally tends still farther to impair the consti- tution. Preparations of iodine, exhibited both externally and internally, appear to be sometimes of use when the swellings have become stationary, or are inclined to subside. Iodine may be given in combination or not with iron. It is a medicine exhibited very generally and indiscriminately, and is very much more trusted to than it deserves to be. When the tumours are - irritable, fomentations may be employed, and advantage taken of sea-bathing, warm or cold. The common adhesive or soap plaster, spread on soft leather, or the ammoniacal plaster, are often applied with advantage to indolent glandular swellings. Blistering is sometimes resorted to with good effect, and in some situations pressure may be usefully employed. In the treatment of lai’ge indolent collections, it was proposed by Mr. Abernethy to make a small and indirect aperture, and to evacuate the contents of the abscess as often as the matter accumulated ; but a great degree of constitutional irritation frequently supervenes upon this proceeding, and the discharge becomes bloody, putrid, and mixed with a considerable quantity