OF WOUNDS. S16 Strongly recommended and extensively employed by Mr. Youatt, whose experience in this disease is very great. This application should scarcely be trusted to alone. The removal of parts wounded by snakes, even after violent symptoms have appeared, has proved successful, ammonia having been at the same time administered internally. In some instances, arsenic has been found efficacious when given in large doses, and frequently re- peated. Wounds received during dissection occasionally have unplea- sant consequences from the absorption of animal matter. The absorbents leading from the wounded part become swelled and painful, and in slight cases there are shivering and general indisposition for some days. The more violent symptoms arise from examining bodies which are rather recent, and in which putrefaction is just commencing, and very frequently from in- specting the bodies of females who have died of puerperal dis- eases. The absorption may take place from punctures made by scissors, the point of a knife, or spiculae of bone, or from old scratches, or chops by the side of the nail or on the hand. There is little or no danger from an open and bleeding wound, as by the flow of blood the part is completely cleaned; it is generally from slight punctures that untoward symptoms need be apprehended. Effects similar to those resulting from wounds in dissection often occur in nurses and others who have pricked themselves with pins while washing foul clothes, or from handling poultices or dressings removed from bad, putrid, or sloughing surfaces. The symptoms already mentioned are soon followed by others more severe : shivering continues, and the patient is seized with vomiting; the part affected, and often the greater part of the arm, becomes red and much swollen; the cellular tissue is infiltrated with serum often dark and putrescent, abscesses form at various points along the limb to the axilla, and purulent matter is diffused throughout the unhealthy cel- lular tissue, which in many instances sloughs, and gives rise to extensive sores. Typhoid symptoms soon appear, and in the more aggravated cases speedily prove fatal. When such local and constitutional symptoms arise, it will generally be found that the patient was of a broken-up constitution previ- ously to the infliction of the wound; did they solely depend on