OF SCALDS AND BURNS. 259 other patients, whose noses and palates were gone; others, who were covered with nodes and dreadful phagedenic sores.” This woful picture is not exaggerated, and cannot be too strongly impressed on the minds of young practitioners. A small quan- tity of mercury will affect violently some constitutions; as of those who have been in warm climates, or who have taken much of the drug, even in this countiy. Eczema Rubrum, a disease resulting from external causes, but which may also be produced by mercury, often arises from but a very small quantity of that medicine even applied externally. It most frequently affects the scrotum and upper and inner parts of the thighs. It is preceded by heat and itching in the part; a dif- fused redness appears, and the affected surface is rendered rough by the eruption of numerous minute vesicles. In a short time, these vesicles, if not ruptured, attain the size of a pin’s head, and the included serum becomes opaque and milky. The affection soon extends over the rest of the body in successive large patches, and is accompanied with considerable swelling of the integu- ments, tenderness of the skin, and itching. The vesicles burst, and discharge a thin acrid fluid, which renders the surrounding- surface painful, inflamed, and excoriated. The discharge be- ; comes thicker, adhesive, and foetid, and by its drying, partial i yellowish incrustations are formed. The disease terminates in desquamation, and in some cases, the hair and nails are also lost. It is preceded and accompanied with smart fever, and general disorder of the system. Erethismus is another occasional consequence of mercury, I characterised by remarkable depression of strength; small, quick, I and often unequal pulse; anxiety, sighing, and trembling; a I pale contracted countenance, and occasional vomiting. While i in this state, sudden exertions are apt to prove fatal. Of Scalds and Burns. Different degrees of injury are inflicted on the surface from i the application of heated solids or fluids. The term scald is i generally confined to the effects of heated fluids, whilst burn I denotes the consequences of the application of a heated solid, or s 2