FISTULA. 555 The fistula may be one of three varieties—blind external, blind internal, complete. The first denoting that the sinus opens externally, but does not communicate, either at its origin or elsewhere, with the cavity of the bowel. The second, that it communicates with the bowel, but does not open externally. The last, that it both communicates with the bowel and opens externally. Some contend that fistulae are always complete, that they commence from within, and that the internal opening is always at one particular point; but such, according to my ex- perience, is far from being the case. Fistulae occur in children, though rarely; generally in people advanced in life. The cavity of the sinus, after long conti- nuance, becomes coated with an expansion resembling mucous membrane, and secretes a discharge of mucous character. In every case, it is necessary that the surgeon should ascer- tain, as accurately as possible, the extent and nature of the fistula; and, with this view, examination with the probe is I'e- quisite. The probe is introduced into the canal, when the fistula is an external one, 9,nd directed through its windings, so as to discover its direction, length, and divarications; the guid- ance of the instrument is facilitated, and the information aug- mented, by the forefinger being placed in the rectum. Sometimes all the by-paths cannot be detected, until the orifice of the canal is enlarged. When the fistula is complete, the probe, entered at the external extremity, can be passed into the bowel so as to be felt by the finger in the rectum ; but it must be remembered that the internal opening is not always at the inner termination of the sinus, but often seated more externally — the cellular tissue being destroyed to a considerable extent above it, so as to form a large unhealthy abscess, communicating with the main ti’ack of the fistula. But the gut may not be opened into, though denuded to a large extent, and forming part of the walls of the sinus; and in some instances, the sinus may not come within a considerable distance of the bowel. An internal fistula is more diflScult of detection. The symp- toms leading to a suspicion of its existence are — puriform dis- charge from the bowel, increased on going to stool, and then accompanied with tenesmus; pressure on the side of the anus, causing pain, and sometimes an augmentation of discharge; and