VENESECTION. 497 as it arose. If the collection is large and obstinate, repeated blistering may be had recourse to; and if that fail, a seton may be passed through the cavity. But the last-mentioned practice is sometimes followed by more action than is desirable, inflam- mation of the surrounding cellular tissue supervening, and ab- scesses forming, perhaps extensive. When the collection is puru- lent, a free opening is to be made into the bursa, and the case treated in other respects as a common abscess. If indolent swelling of the cellular tissue, and spongy thickening of the synovial surface of the bursa, remain after incision, the appli- cation of the caustic potass may be required. In extensive and acute inflammation spreading to the surrounding parts, free inci- sions are often necessary, along with proper constitutional treat- ment, in order to prevent destruction of the cellular tissue and skin. Venesection, at the bend of the arm, is too often resorted to by thoughtless or ill-educated practitioners, to the detriment of the patient; as after accidents befoi’e reaction has occurred, in local pains not inflammatoiy, &c. It is very often had recourse to by those who have no correct ideas of the actions of the animal eco- nomy, who have not within their heads a peg to hang an idea upon ; or, if they have, they are too lazy to think and to combine their ideas, so as to come to a proper conclusion regai'ding what is the most proper and judicious course to be pursued in any one case. They follow a routine, and bleeding is too genei’ally the commencement of it. But venesection is absolutely required in many cases, and must often be the principal dependence of the surgeon for removino’ or preventing evil consequences. After injuries, when the circu- lation has been restored, particularly when parts important to life are involved — in the first stage of inflammatory attacks, with violent constitutional disturbance — in inflammatory affec- tion of vital or important organs — in these, bleeding is employed to an extent sufficient to control the action. But, even in such circumstances, the practitioner must be cautious not to push de- pletion too far, but to stop short at the proper time, so that the life of the patient may not be endangered, nor his health im- paired, more by the treatment than by the disease. K K