359 DISEASES OF THE EYE. avoided, and antiphlogistic treatment adopted. Should violent pain supervene, bleeding, both local and general, and other means for subduing inflammatory action, must be had recourse to. The eyelids should not be raised or exposed for at least three days, unless in extraordinary circumstances. Belladonna is of use when gradual contraction of the pupil occurs. In very favourable cases, vision is completely restored in the eye; in others, the functions of the two eyes do not correspond, and vision is confused: the patient requires to wear a convex glass before the one which has been operated on. The operation of making an artificial jmpil is far from being uniformly successful, and ought not to be had recourse to un- less vision is entirely lost, or so much impaired as to be insuffi- cient for the guidance of the patient’s steps. It is necessary on account of central opacity of the cornea — leucoma with entanglement of the iris — and entire closure of the pupil, or diminution of it, with concealment of the remainder by corneal opacity. It may be required after badly performed extraction of a ca- taract, the iris beinj? entangled in the scar of the incision, at a distance from the junction of the cornea with the sclerotic; or on account of closed pupil from inflammation, when, perhaps, the cornea is all clear. The operation is varied according to the size of the anterior chamber, the presence or absence of the crystalline lens, the extent of sound cornea, and the condition of the iris. Interference is useless when disease of the retina is suspected, from the extent of the previous disease — from violent inflammation, with or without dischai’ge of part of the contents of the eyeball. Three distinct methods of operation are pur- sued. I. Simple division of the iris, or corotomia, may be practised when the iris is stretched, as after extraction. It is performed by introducing a small knife, like a needle, through the anterior or posterior chamber, — the surgeon being in this regulated by the size of the anterior chamber and the presence or absence of the lens, — pushing its point through the iris, or cutting that mem- brane vertically, horizontally, or both, to an extent sufficient for A A 4