DISTORTION OF THE NECK. 474 deformity of the trunk or of the limbs. In such cases, the twist is generally to the right side, the ear approaching the shoulder. No treatment can be effectual, unless the other curvatures are corrected; for the head is placed so to preserve the equilibrium of the body. The head is to be supported, and its weight removed from the vertebral column by a curved iron rod, attached to the back of stays fastened on the loins, leathern straps passing from the top of the rod under the chin and over the occiput. By the use of such apparatus for a considerable time, the vertebral column may regain its perpendicular direc- tion, and all deformity of the neck be consequently removed. The application of such a machine is required after the division of the sterno-mastoid, so that the head may be kept straight until the muscle is re-united of a proper length, and any change in the form of the bones may be got over. In slight cases, this treatment is not required ; on giving sup- port to the trunk, and raising the shoulders to an equal level, the muscles of the back, perhaps stimulated by powerful and repeated friction, gradually bring the column into its proper form. Then the position of the head to one side is no longer required to balance the bod}'. But a cure can be expected only, when no material change has taken place in the form of the individual bones. Excurvation of the cervical vertebrae, — bending of the head forwards, and perhaps a little to one side, generally to the right, — takes place as a consequence of disorganisation of the liga- ments and connecting fibro-cartilages of the vertebrae, with sub- sequent ulceration of the bones. The disease generally occurs in the superior vertebrae ; in the articulation of the atlas with the occiput, or with the vertebra dentata, or in the articulation of the latter with the one below. The articulations on the left side are usually affected first. There is stiffness, pain, and swelling of the soft parts covering the affected bones, attributed perhaps to exposure to cold, as when sitting in a draught, and supposed to be merely crick of the neck. The posterior cervical muscles are weakened, and the head is bent forwards. The pa- tient is unable to support his head by the usual muscular action, and when in the erect position places his hands on the temples, to prevent it from dropping, and to keep it steady. Difficulty