OF WOUNDS, 20S when pressure ought not; styptics promote the contraction and retraction of the divided extremities, and thereby expedite the formation of a coagulum. Escharotics form a slough, which, adhering to the extremity of the vessel, stops the flow of blood, and the cut margins of the vessel, being stimulated by the ap- plication, soon cohere. Active stimulating applications merely cause effusion quickly of coagulated lymph, and thus often arrest haemorrhage from very vascular surfaces better than the so called styptics. Not unfrequently, after the separation of the slough, it is found that union has not taken place, and haemorrhage is renewed; from this circumstance, the remedy cannot be trusted to, except when the divided vessels or vessel are of small size. It may be stated, generally, that these means are of little avail without methodical pressure. In oozing from small vessels, pressure may be applied by means of agaric, sponge, or lint. In bleeding from small vessels, where there is general oozing from the surface, and pressure cannot readily be made, applications tending to produce effusion of lymph — stimulants, such as tur- pentine or creosote, are often remarkably efficacious, and very speedily so; but in wounds of the larger vessels, the most efficient mean is a graduated compress of lint placed immediately on the external wound, and supported by a firmly-applied bandage. The bandage ought to encircle not only the wounded part, but every part of the limb with a uniform tightness, not so great as to arrest the general circulation ; the parts are thereby supported, and engorgement prevented. This method, when employed previously to the effusion of much blood into the cellular tissue, has proved effectual in wounds even of the brachial, femoral, and carotid arteries. When blood has been exten- sively injected into the limb, when the aperture in the vessel has remained pervious, and when a large diffused aneurism exists, bandaging is worse than useless. By its application in such a case the limb becomes discoloured and swells extensively; there is a risk of mortification from impeded circulation. If a small quantity only of blood has escaped, its diffusion and increase may be prevented by the bandage: but a cyst will nevertheless be formed in the cellular tissue; its parietes will communicate with the margins of the aperture in the artery, its cavity with the canal of the vessel; an aneurism of the false