539 OF ASCITES. tapping made at the other. 'Ihere is considerable difficulty of breathing, uneasiness in the abdomen, usually increased by pressure, thirst, and scanty secretion of urine. It ought to be remembered that other affections have been confounded with ascites, and lamentable operative mistakes committed in con- sequence. Trocars have been thrust into the belly for tym- panitis, either of the bowels or of the peritoneum — for solid tumours of the viscera — for enlargement of the ovaria. As already hinted, the operation of tapping the abdomen is to be undertaken only when the distention is very great, when the functions of the thoracic and abdominal viscera are inter- fered with, and when diuretics, and other means of getting rid of the fluid, have failed to diminish the accumulation. The trocar employed is either flat, with a spring steel canula, or round; when the latter is used, and the abdominal parietes are not very tense, a small incision is first made with a lancet or bistoury; a large trocar with blunted edges and point can then be readily and safely introduced; the flat one enters easily, and requires no previous wound, but does not permit so rapid and free a flow. The point usually chosen for the puncture is either in the linea alba, a little below the umbilicus, the blad- der being previously emptied, — a precaution which should always be attended to, though in general there is little danger of wounding this organ — or midway betwixt the superior anterior spinous process of the ilium and the umbilicus, with the view of penetrating the parietes in the linea semilunaris. The latter situation, however, can seldom be obtained with accuracy, for the parietes yield irregularly. Little bleeding follows the puncture at either point; but the risk of haemor- rhage is greater at the latter, for branches of the circumflex artery may be wounded. More serious bleeding is liable to occur, from the veins ramifying on the abdominal viscera giving way, on x'emoval of their support, as the serum flows off. Fainting, also, may take place from accumulation in the branches of the vena portarum, unless the fluid is withdrawn slowly, and the precaution adopted of supporting the parietes with a broad band both during and after evacuation. Band- ages are made for this purpose, with tapes and straps attached, and are well fitted for it. Three or four yards of flannel, how-