DISEASES OF THE NOSE. 378 the prominent part of the organ produce swelling with discolor- ation, and that is followed by abscess and ulceration. Internal ulceration is frequently caused by the continued use of snuff, or the presence of other irritating matters, — by irritation commu- nicated from diseased gums or alveoli, or from decayed or crowded teeth, particularly the incisors of the upper jaw — by stumps in any part of the mouth, or the pivoting of artificial teeth on them — or by introducing the dentist’s perforator, with a view of destroying the nerve of a tooth. I have seen ulcer- ation, and loss of substance in the skin membranes and bones of the face, arising from each and all of these causes. The ulceration occasionally commences, even in young sub- jects, in a wart or fissure on the integuments of the nose or upper lip; it thence extends to the alse and floor of the nostrils; the cartilages, and even the bones, are destroyed; the discharge is thin, acrid, bloody, and foetid, and the action is with much difficulty controlled. The disease is met with of various degrees of severity and malignancy; it may cease spontaneously, may appear to be arrested by constitutional and local treatment, or, resisting all means employed against it, may go on consuming portions of the face, both hard and soft; destroying the nose, lips, and eyelids, and ultimately the bones in their neighbour- hood. Horrid cases are occasionally met with, in which scarcely the vestige of a feature is discernible—the patient is nourished, and life is often protracted for a long period, by food conveyed over the root of the tongue, through funnels or tubes. Noli m.e tangere, and lupus, are names applied to the advanced stages of the disease. Ozoena, which denotes the internal ulceration of the nose, or rather the discharge indicating such, is generally of long conti- nuance. The discharge is at one time profuse, at another scanty; sometimes it ceases almost entirely, but the accompanying foetor, of a most disgusting nature, is still perceptible on ap- proaching the patient, or coming within the influence of the air expired over the diseased surface; the stench is particularly offensive when portions of bone are separating. The bones may die either from inflammatory action in them running high, or from being uncovered and deprived of support by ulceration of the investing membrane. In many cases, the disease is not