DISEASES OF THE EYE. 308 thence some relief may follow. Much dexterity is required in using either the probe or syringe. The puncta are often very small, and it is in general necessary to dilate them by means of the point of a common pin, before any instrument can be passed through them into the sac. The point of the probe being introduced into the punctum, either superior or inferior, must first be carried towards the nose for about 2-lOths of an inch, the instrument being lightly held betwixt thfe fore and middle fingers of the right hand. It is then directed downwards and backwards. Care must be taken to prevent entanglement in folds of the membrane. Should obstruction be felt, the instrument is withdrawn a little, and then care- fully and gently carried in the right direction. The small syringe is managed with one hand, whilst, with the fore-finger of the other, the punctum not occupied by the pipe is com- pressed. Neither can much or any benefit be expected to follow attempts to force obstruction in the lachrymal passages, by the weight of a column of mercury. A plan of dilating and recti- fying the nasal duct by styles introduced through the puncta has been proposed, but scarcely deserves to be mentioned as a means of cure. When suppuration is threatened, with increase of the swelling, inability of the patient to empty the sac by pressure, redness of the integuments. See., an early opening should be made into the tumour, in order to prevent further and more serious mischief. A small opening into the sac cannot be productive of so much injury as forcible dilatation of the canaliculi, followed by and causing ulceration. The point of a straight narrow bistoury is to be entered into the sac, and carried on into the nasal duct, the knife being pushed downwards, backwards, and a little inwards, in the direction of that passage. The point to be punctured can always be readily ascertained by feeling for the firm ligament which attaches the orbicularis palpebrarum to the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, as the upper orifice of the ductus ad narem is situated immediately below this ten- don; by introducing the knife below the ligament, and within the sharp edge of the orbit, and then carrying it forward in the direction already mentioned, the surgeon cannot fail to enter the