AMPUTATION, 76a of completely arresting the haemorrhage, but the previous loss of blood proved too much for the system to recover from ; trans- fusion was had recourse to, and produced temporary benefit. The others, cases of amputation below the knee, made most fa- vourable recoveries after ligature of the superficial femoral, and m more than one the stump healed veiy rapidly after its read- justment. Indeed, it is not unfrequently found that when the flaps are separated, from whatever cause, and replaced when the granulations have appeared, there follows a rapid union and cure. When healing by the first intention has failed, fomentation and poultices are generally the most grateful and beneficial ap- plications for a day or two. Afterwards, when suppuration has been fairly established, and the stump begins to be flabby and oedematous, simple di'essing and uniform support by bandaging are required, sometimes along with compresses on particular points to prevent lodgment of matter. Sometimes the secondary hiemorrhage is not an arterial and rapid flow, but a slow and continued oozing from a cavity, ulcerated, dark, and angry, round the end of the bone; this seems to arise from diseased action in the cancellated tissue of the bone. Removal of the coagula, stuffing the cavit}' with dry lint, and the application and continuance of firm pressure, ge- nerally suffice for its arrestment. Hitherto, these genei’al observations on amputation have re- garded the operation by flaps only; the circular method has not been mentioned. The reason is, that the circular amputation has been, it is hoped, in a great measure abandoned in this country. And its inferiority to the method by flaps is so obvi- ous, and so generally acknowledged, that detail of the different steps of the operation is, I conceive, here altogether unnecessary. It is more tedious in performance, more painful to the patient, does not afford so good a covering for the end of the bone, and consequently not so convenient and useful a support for an arti- ficial limb, and the cure of the wound is protracted. The stump is almost always conical, the end of the bone is, ultimately at least, covered only by integument, and from even very slight pressure this is apt to ulcerate; exfoliation of the bone follows to a greater or less extent, or unhealthy ulcer of the soft parts 3 D