OF SUPPURATION. 38 an equal quantity of grated bread and linseed meal, (if not adul- terated with mustard, as is sometimes the case,) mixed with a sufficient quantity of boiling water, form excellent and soothing cataplasms. Their use, however, may be persevered in too long ; for, after an abscess has given way, the suppuration may be kept up in consequence of continuing the poultice. The open- ing will enlarge, the skin become undermined, loose, and flabby, the abscess will extend, while the process of granulation may be in a great measure suspended. In many cases, the poulticing cannot be continued until an opening has formed naturally, and the cure is often much accelerated by the artificial evacu- ation of the matter. When the abscess is situated deeply, or beneath a fascia, a free and early opening must be made. For example, when suppuration has occurred in the cellular tissue beneath the fascia lata of the thigh, it at first naturally tends towards the surface, but its progress is impeded by the tendinous aponeurosis; a painful feeling of tension is thereby occasioned, and the matter extends where there is least re- sistance, making its way in all directions into the surrounding cellular tissue — separating the muscles — isolating the arterial trunks—burrowing beneath the fascia over the whole limb, and producing most serious, and often irreparable mischief, with violent constitutional disturbance. The bad effects of delay are again daily witnessed in neglected cases of paronychia; most excruciating pain is produced — the system is seriously affected —the tendons slough, and the member is rendered useless. By the continued presence of purulent matter, absorption, ulceration, caries, and even death, of bone, is frequently produced, all which might have been prevented by its timely evacuation. If pus collect in the neighbourhood of cavities or canals, it is of the utmost importance that it be early discharged ; and the evil effects of negligent and dilatory treatment are well exemplified in the following cases:—A patient had been allowed to suffer, for a long time, under an extensive abscess at the lower part of the neck, beneath the origins of the sterno-mastoid muscles. The abscess at length gave way externally ; but the patient was at the same time seized with profuse expectoration of pus, and during expiration the air escaped through the external openings in the neck. It was evident that the abscess communicated with D