OF HERNIA. 537 aid of lymph and granulations, the breach in the parietes of the bowel is repaired gradually, the faeces resume their natural course, and the external opening heals. When the whole calibre has sloughed, and even when a large extent of bowel has come away, there is still a chance of the patient recovering from the_artificial anus by natural means, after the lapse of many months. As already remarked, the intestinal orifices retract, and come more into a straight line. A mucous discharge occurs from the lower bowels along with the passage of flatus, and at last part of the faeces is voided by the rectum. The discharge from the external opening di- minishes, and ultimately ceases, perhaps only a minute fistula remaining, through which a few drops of fluid, sometimes faecu- lent, sometimes limpid, may occasionally escape. The funnel- shaped cavity previously contracts into a narrow fistula. This desirable result may be assisted and hastened by gentle pres- sure ; and, after the fieculent discharge has nearly ceased from the fistulous opening, the healing of this may be accelerated by the cautery lightly applied. It has been proposed to destroy the projecting septum between the two portions of bowel, either by ligature or by the pressure of forceps; but this should not be attempted unless nature seems unable to effect a cure. The former method consists in including a considerable part of the septum in ligature, so as to induce condensation of the parts by effusion of lymph, and destruction of the projecting portion. This has not been found very successful. The application of for- ceps presents a more rational expectation of cure. The external opening is dilated, and the situation of the septum ascertained. One blade of metallic forceps, with blunt serrated edges, — Dupuytren’s, — is passed into the one intestinal orifice, and the other into the opposite; the handles of the instrument are then approximated, locked, and fastened with a screw, and by means of the last-mentioned part of the apparatus the degi'ee of pressure is regulated. Pain of the abdomen, furred tongue, loss of appetite, sickness, vomiting, and constitutional irritation, generally follow this proceeding, but gradually subside on the employment of enemata and fomentations, and on lessening the pressure of the fot’ceps. The septum cannot long withstand the continued compression, and by its destruction the chance