626 CASTRATION. lead, I have found in several instances effectual; repeated sloughing of the protruded matter takes place; it sinks to the level of the integument, and ultimately below it, and then the employment of slightly stimulating dressing induces contraction and closure. Not unfrequently the testicle is attacked by swellings of a more serious nature — medullary sarcoma is common, as also both fibrous and soft tumours, with cysts; scirrhus is more rare. These morbid alterations may take place at once — that is, the swelling may be from the first malignant— or they may super- vene on tumours originally simple and benign. The tumour increases with the usual rapidity; to describe minutely the suc- cessive stages, would be but repetition of what has been already stated more than once, in treating of similar diseases in other organs. The medullary tumour often attains a very large size before the integuments give way; it may in some cases be mis- taken for hydrocele, unless the history be attended to, and care- ful manipulation made : elasticity must not be confounded with fluctuation. After ulceration has taken place, the formation of a bleeding fungus is not uncommon; indeed, the testicle is one of the most frequent seats of fungus haematodes. The inguinal glands are in general affected early, and swell to a large size, ulcerating extensively, bleeding, and throwing out fungi; not unfrequently the chord feels free and soft, presenting to all appearance a healthy structure between the inguinal and scrotal swellings. In the advanced stages of scirrhous testicle, the chord and its inte- gument are thickened and hard. The progress of this tumour is slower than that of the medullary, but equally certain. The cystic sarcomata, when fibrous, may remain long apparently in an indolent state, and without affection of the lymphatics ; but when soft, the cystic contents are often bloody, the medullary matter soon breaks down, and then the integuments yield, and the malignant advance is rapid. It need scarcely be observed, that in such cases nothing but the knife, used at an early period, when the tumour is yet latent and the lymphatics uninvolved, can save the patient. Castration must be performed; and even this is in too many cases insufficient to annul the malignant dis- position of which the parts have become the seat. As already stated, it must be had recourse to before hard and knotted swell-