DISEASES OF THE EYE. 306 neglected, ultimately give way by sloughing. A small ragged opening, often indirect, is formed, and the contents of the sac are not thereby all discharged; the thinner fluid only escaping, whilst the more viscid remains and clogs the aperture. The swelling is not much diminished; the margins of the aperture thicken, become indurated, and contract, the purulent con- tents of the sac are gradually discharged, and the tears after- wards flow through the opening. The parts are now in that condition to which the term Fistula lachrymalis is with propriety applied. The swelling of the canal may gradually subside, the tears re- sume their wonted course, and the opening may then contract, and the parts cicatrise; but frequently the fis- tula remains open for a long period, gradually diminishing in diameter, and only a small passage, almost imperceptible, ultimately remaining, through which a few drops of lachrymal fluid are occasionally discharged. Sometimes the fistula closes entirely without the obstruction of the nasal duct having been removed, and the lachrymal sac remains in consequence distended ; then the tears or mucus, either clear or turbid, can generally be squeezed through the puncta. It frequently happens that the meibomian glands are the seat of morbid action, along with the lachrymal passages; their secretion is changed, becoming in some cases thick and caseous, in others puriform. By some, affection of the meibomian glands has been considered as the cause of inflammation and abscess of the lachrymal sac. This opinion, however, cannot be agreed to, for the diseases are not always coexistent; and besides, the affection of the surface of the lachrymal sac and ductus ad narem is as likely to be the consequence of morbid action, extending upwards from the nostrils, as of morbid secretion from the eyelids blocking up and irritating the puncta and the lachrymal passages. Disease of the meibomian glands in the under eyelid often exists along with disease of the lachrymal passages, but the latter is generally the primary affection; the conjunctival covering of the eyelid is at the same time inflamed, swollen, and often granulated. In some cases of abscess in the lachrymal sac, before the inte-