1 '722 FRACTURE OF THE PATELLA. Fracture of the Patella is generally simple. It is occasioned either by great force applied to the bone directly, or by the action of the strong extensor muscles — the knee being sud- denly bent, and the bone snapped across over the end of the femur. The degree of immediate swelling, and of incited ac- tion, will vary according to the mode of infliction. When the injury is caused by a blow upon the part, the bone may be broken either transversely or vertically, or both; either the upper or the lower portion may be vertically split, usually the upper; sometimes there is considerable comminution. Mus- cular action produces transverse fracture only. The nature and extent of the injury is readily ascertained. The patient is unable to extend the limb, and cannot support weight on it; in the bent position, a space is felt in the situation of the patella, the lower portion is found nearly in its place, but the other is drawn upwards on the fore part of the thigh; by extension of the limb and flexure of the thigh the portions are approximated, and crepitus is perceived when they are brought in contact. These symptoms are perceptii>le through any quantity of bloody effusion. By attentive manipulation, com- minution and vertical splitting may also be detected. The cir- cumstances attending the accident will, in most instances, lead to a tolerably accurate expectation of the state of parts. The ligament of the patella does not often give way from muscular action ; it is much stronger than the bone, and the latter consequently snaps. It may be, and has been, divided, along with the superimposed integument, by a fall on a sharp substance. This accident is followed by lameness, the liga- mentous tissue does not soon unite, and the limb is long in re- gaining its usefulness; sometimes the union is imperfect, and the member remains weak. Division of the integuments over a fractured patella is a very serious accident. The joint is opened, and such a state both of the limb and of the constitution must in general sooner or later occur as to cause necessity for amputation. Cases have, however, occurred, in which compound fracture of the patella has been cured. The bone unites, under favourable circumstances, in the same way as any other. In longitudinal fracture there is almost always