336 DISEASES OF THE EYE. In ophthalmia, attended with profuse 'purulent discharge, the structure of the eye is in great danger of being destroyed, from the intensity of the action, and its liability to extend to the deep parts of the organ; the most active practice is required from the first. Copious general depletion, ad deliquium, must be quickly had recourse to; and the patient must be freely purged, and kept in a state of partial nausea for some time, by exhibition of antimonials. After general bloodletting, the repeated appli- cation of leeches to the inner canthus is necessary, in order to empty sufficiently the vessels of the part. Where the chemosis is so extensive as to bury the cornea, as it were, beneath the folds of the swollen conjunctiva, sloughing of the transparent tunic is frequently threatened. In order to arrest this fatal result, much good is often obtained by division of the chemosis. A sharp-pointed bistoury is passed through the swollen mem- brane, and radiating incisions practised, commencing at the corneal margins, and directing them towards the circumference of the globe. Sometimes four or even five of such divisions are called for, while care is taken not to wound the sclerotic coat beneath. A considerable quantity of blood is sometimes lost by this procedure, and, the chemosis subsiding, the cornea is saved. Infusion of tobacco, solutions of acetate of lead, and nitrate of silver, aether and laudanum, have been used as ap- plications to the eye from the very commencement of the affec- tion; but the propriety of the practice appears very questionable. Blistering the nape of the neck proves highly beneficial, after the employment of the antiphlogistic measures; and in many cases it is necessary to keep up discharge from the blistered surface for some time. On subsidence of the violent symptoms, the swelled conjunctiva is to be attacked with escharotics and stimulants, as the nitras argenti, sulphas cupri, or various col- lyria: then only can such applications be advantageous; at an earlier period they must do harm. They repress the exuberant granulations which may have formed, or may be forming, on the conjunctiva of the eyelids, promote contraction of the dilated vessels, diminish the relaxation of all the tissues, and stimulate the now dormant action of the part into a healthy state of excitement. Gently stimulating collyria may be injected be- twixt the lids, by means of a small syringe. In granulated