208 OF WOUNDS, no effused blood be interposed. In many cases the margins of the wound can be accurately adjusted by careful attention to the position of the part, or by the application of a few strips of ad- hesive plaster; but the latter, from indiscriminate use, often prove the source of much irritation, and totally frustrate the end for which they are designed. When employed, they ought to be narrow and few. If such means be considered insufficient, recourse must be had to a few points of interrupted suture, and these are not productive of the bad consequences which have been by some attributed to them. When neatly applied, they can pro- duce but little irritation, more especially if removed as soon as their presence is unnecessary, that is, as soon as adhesion has fairly commenced, and the natural bond of union is of such strength as to need no artificial assistance. By these the edges of the wound are more neatly and suitably placed than by any other means; they meet easily, without the puckering or over- lapping of each other; and, from the circumstance of sutures obtaining a more just coaptation, they can be sooner discon- tinued. In most wounds no other dressing is required; but in some a combination of sutures, adhesive plaster, and com- press, is necessary. Of late, I have greatly dispensed with stitches and the com- mon adhesive plaster, using, instead of the latter, slips of glazed riband smeared with a saturated solution of isinglass in bi’andy, which is much less irritating and more tenacious than the com- mon adhesive compost. The parts are fixed temporarily with a single stitch, or two at most, and cloths dipped in cold water are placed over the wound; the ribbons are not applied till the ad- hesive substance has partly congealed, and the oozing of blood ceased. The divided margins being approximated by the fin- gers of an assistant, the ribands are laid gently over, and held for a few seconds. Soon after a sufficient number have been applied the stitches are withdrawn, being no longer necessary. No other dressing is required unless suppuration occur; the ribands will adhere firmly till the completion of the cure, and thus the pain and irritation caused by frequent dressing is avoided. Even the largest wounds, as after amputation, are treated in this manner with the most satisfactory results. Of late years a plaster, made by coating oiled silk with a solution