AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER-JOINT. 781 cut till the incisions are nearly completed; as soon as the limb has dropped, the surgeon places his finger on the mouth of the artery, and then applies his ligature as quickly as possible; the pressure may now be removed, and the minor vessels secured leisurely. The flap covers the wound completely, and is easily retained. Or two flaps may be made by transfixion. In operating thus on the right limb, the surgeon, standing in front of the patient, enters the knife a little below the point of the acromion, passes it across the outer aspect of the joint, and by inclination of the handle outwards, makes its point to appear on the inside of the outer margin of the axilla; by carrying it downwards and out- wards to a sufficient extent, the outer flap is formed. This is immediately elevated by an assistant, and then the arm is pujhed upwards, and across the chest, so as to render the joint more accessible; the ligaments are cut, the bone disarticulated, the knife passed beyond its head, and placed with the edge parallel to the shaft of the humerus, and the arm restored to its former position ; the inner flap is then made, by carrying the instru- ment downwards and inwards. In the left limb, the knife is entered on the inside of the outer border of the axilla, and brought out below and in front of the extremity of the acro- mion, reversing the order of the former incisions; after the outer flap has been so formed, the joint is cut across, the knife passed beyond the head of the bone, and the inner flap made, as before. Accidental injury, as already stated, is the most frequent cause for amputation at this part, and this will always influence the method of incision. There is nothing peculiar in the after- treatment of the stump. But it ought always to be remembered, that the operation is one of great severity; that a large part of the body has been suddenly removed; that, consequently, there is risk of the mere shock being dangerous, and of an untoward constitutional condition supervening — and, therefore, the after- attendance should be zealous and careful. The phalanges of the toes are removed in the same way as those of the fingers. This latter operation may be required on account of bad onychia, large exostosis or injury. This and