PHARYNGITIS. 455 the surgeon, and painful to the patient; and, in my opinion, con- tinuance of it is in the great majority of cases impracticable. Besides, it is difficult, and not unattended with danger. Bron- chotomy is quite safe, and not likely to be followed by such suffering to the patient, or by any other unpleasant consequence, to which the other method is liable. Pharyngitis.— Inflammation of the Pharynx is of rare occur- rence. The inflammation may extend from neighbouring parts, or be produced by the direct application of an irritating or stimulating cause, as the lodgment of foreign bodies, of pins, fish-bones, seeds, portions of hard food; or by the application of acrid fluids to the membrane, acids, hot water, 8cc. In one instance which I met with, it occurred in a very violent form, in consequence of a large and sharp portion of an earthenware plate having been swallowed so far by the patient whilst eating his porridge, and becoming firmly impacted in the lower part of the pharynx. I have seen a considerable number of instances in which the disease was produced by the swallowing of soap lees, a fluid, it would appear, highly acrid, occasioning a severe de- gree of inflammation, and even destroying a portion of the parietes. A man employed by the police in fumigating houses during the prevalence of cholera, had given to him as a practical joke a glass of sulphuric acid instead of whiskey. He suffered at the time, as may be supposed, most excruciating pain, violent inflam- mation supervened, followed by a bad stricture of the gullet. Deglutition is difficult and painful; an exquisite degree of pain is occasioned by pressure on the sides of the neck, and the circulation is more or less excited. Redness and swelling: of a O portion of the mucous membrane can be observed on looking into the fauces. The changes which occur in the membrane are similar to those produced in the windpipe by inflammation. Resolution will generally be effected by the application of leeches to the neck, the exhibition of purgatives and diapho- retics, and strict observance of the antiphlogistic regimen. If the inflammation does not soon subside, it sometimes happens that constriction of the passage occurs, either from thickening or oedematous swelling of a portion of the mucous G G 4