VARICOSE STATE OF VEINS. 157 tlie disease is thus more and more aggravated. The left limb is generally the one affected; and this circumstance may pro- bably be explained by the pressure of the sigmoid flexure of the colon on the left iliac vein. In the majority of cases, the palliative treatment can only be adopted. The limb must be used as little as possible, and, if practicable, be kept in a state of complete rest; the veins must also be supported by the application of a bandage, or the wearing of a laced stocking. The Indian rubber bandage worn over the stocking or drawers answers fully as well as any other method. In some instances, the application of cold has been of advantage, by promoting the contraction of the dilated vessels. When pregnancy is the cause, it is needless to commence any me- thod of cure, until the cause be removed; and the same remark is applicable when the affection arises from habitual constipation. The varices occasionally become inflamed, painful, and much swollen, with considerable oedema of the whole limb. Their contents become coagulated, and their coats thickened ; in the end, the swelling abates and the vessels are closed. In cer- tain cases, this spontaneous cure, a radical one, may be imitated by the surgeon ; an escharotic being applied over the trunk of the vein at a healthy point, whereby inflammation is produced in the coats of the vessel, and obliteration of its cavity accom- plished : the caustic which will be found most convenient and effectual, is the potassa fusa. The caustic may be made into a paste with soap; or a solid piece, of the size of a split pea, is placed over the vein, and there retained for a few hours by plaster or bandage. The vessel being obliterated, the lower venous branches necessarily pour their contents into those deeply seated; as they freely communicate with these, they readily empty themselves of their accumulated contents, and soon re- gain their calibre under the employment of bandaging. When the varicose veins are numerous, as is generally the case, the potass is to be applied to the healthy point of the larger trunk in which they terminate. But the practice is not unattended with danger, for the coats of the vessel may ulcerate in con- sequence of the application, and violent haemorrhage ensue; the degree of inflammation excited may be greater than that intended, and extend so as to give rise to suppuration