484 INJUKIES AT THE BEND OF THE ARM. fibres. The arm is abducted and elevated as much as possible. The axilla is thus exposed. A free incision is made in the course of the vessel, which, by cautious dissection, is brought into view; it can then be dealt with as may be required. Spontaneous aneurism is of rare occurrence, lower in the brachial artery than its axillary portion. However, it is some- times met with at the bend of the arm. But the aneurismal tumour in this situation is more frequently the consequence of wound of the vessel, inflicted whilst opening a superimposed vein. The mode of proceeding in venesection, the precau- tions to be employed, and the evils that sometimes follow this little operation, will be treated of by and by. Wounding of the artery is not so common an accident now as formerly. Venesection is not so universally and unnecessarily resorted to as formerly, and is performed by better instructed practi- tioners. Puncture of the brachial artery, at the bend of the arm, is not uniformly followed by extravasation of blood, or by the formation of aneurism. That it is wounded is known by the impetuous and saltatory flow of florid blood, accompanied with a whizzing noise. In such circumstances, the thumb is placed firmly over the wound; the fingers separately, the hand and the forearm of the patient are all supported by uniform bandaging ; and a graduated compress, supplying the place of the thumb, is firmly applied, and must be retained for many days. Thus ex- travasation is effectually prevented. But the measures must be adopted instantly, before the edges of the opening are rounded, and any quantity of blood has escaped into the cellular tissue; the apparatus must be well applied and retained. When pressure is required on any point, it is absolutely necessary to give support to the lower part of the limb, as was formerly insisted on; and the proceeding is, if possible, more necessary in this case, the requisite pressure being very great. If ordinary compression only, sufficient to prevent the flow of blood through the opening in the integuments, is applied, blood is extravasated into the cellular tissue, breaking it up, and causing condensation beyond; fluid blood accumulates in the space thus formed; the surrounding cellular tissue is more and more condensed, at length consti- tuting a firm sac, confining the fluid, and communicating with