579 INFLAMMATION OF THE BLADDER. ¥ p 2 surface was irregular, as if from the deposition of minute gran- ules of recent lymph. The patient died exhausted, after having survived about three weeks, voiding his urine partly by the wound, and partly per urethram. It should perhaps be men- tioned, that those who saw him immediately after the accident supposed that blood was extensively effused into the bladder, and attempted to extract the suspected extravasation by means of an exhausting syringe through a catheter, probably not passed into the bladder. Occasionally, though rarely, the inflammation extends to the peritoneal covering of the bladder, and thence to the external surface of the intestines. The bladder becomes thickened, and lymph is effused between j its coats, from repeated attacks of inflammation, or from long I continued irritation in consequence of resistance to the ex- pulsion of its contents. The mucous membrane is thickened, relaxed, and of a flocculent appearance; the fibres of the mus- [ cular coat are enlarged, and, bulging out, form projections along their course; the mucous membrane is extended often to a con- i siderable extent between the projections of the enlarged muscular [ fasciculi, forming pouches. The cavity of the organ is generally ( diminished in proportion to the thickening of its parietes, and i there is a loss of balance betwixt the retaining and expelling powers. Irritable bladder is generally a symptom of some other af- fection. There is profuse mucous discharge; frequent mic- turition; pain, increased by distention of the organ, and relieved by evacuation. The coats are more vascular than in the natural state; sometimes the muscular is strengthened, and ulceration of i the mucous membrane is not infrequent. Occasionally this I latter tunic is the seat of tumour. In the treatment of inflammation of the bladder, after re- i moval of its causes, antiphlogistic means occupy a prominent I situation, and are to be regulated according to circumstances. Leeches to the perineum and hypogastrium — soothing in- jections into the rectum — opium or hyoscyamus, either by the I mouth or in the form of suppository—fomentation and the warm bath — are all valuable remedies in this affection. When injections into the rectum are used, they should not exceed three