668 POLYPUS VAGINA. copiously leeched, and afterwards fomented; strict rest and an- tiphlogistic regimen must be observed, and when matter has formed, a free opening should be made eat'ly, to prevent deep and extensive mischief. A sinus sometimes, though rarely, results; generally the cavity fills up, and the discharge ceases in a very few days. These parts are much more vascular than the lower part of the bowel, and when in a diseased condition, are not of necessity so frequently put in action ; hence exten- sive incision and division of the sphincter is here very seldom necessary. Tumours of various kinds are met with about the external female organs; more rarely, internally. Encysted tumours of the labia are not uncommon, and sometimes solid swellings, varying in size and structure, grow from these parts. I had occasion to remove one of the latter description, which weighed many pounds, and had been productive of great and long in- convenience. The general rules for the extirpation of tumours apply to them. Considerable haemorrhage may be expected. The operation must be done so as to deform and impair the functions of the parts as little as possible. New and unnatural growths, or enlargements of the natural parts, as of the prepuce of the clitoris, or of the internal labia, sometimes occur, and may require curtailment. The external parts of elderly females may be the seat of warty excrescences, degenerating into malignant ulcer, and demanding free removal by incision. Tumours of a medullary nature sometimes proceed from the interior of the pelvis, and displace and interfere with the func- tions of the vagina, bladder, and the neighbouring parts; such cases are of coui’se hopeless, and the treatment must be merely palliative. Polypous tumours, of various size, structure, and consistence, sometimes grow from the cavity of the uterus, or from its ori- fice, or from the parietes of the vagina. They are generally attached by a narrow pedicle, except when of a truly malignant nature — occasioning discharge, mucous and vitiated, sometimes bloody, often profuse. Bearing-down pains are complained of, and the health declines in consequence of the discharge. Most