507 AFFECTIONS OF THE CHEST. the intercostal substance takes place; the integuments bulge outwards, and distinct fluctuation is perceived. The skin has been allowed to become thin, and even to give way, without the nature of the case being known ; but this can be the result only of ignorance or of inattention. In such cases the ribs have been denuded, and become necrosed to a large extent, — the sequestra separating slowly and in fragments, and causing long-continued and wasting dischai’ge. It is plain, therefore, that pointing of the matter should never be waited for. Chronic collections are occasionally met with of some years’ duration, and producing great enlargement of the chest. Surgical interference with such is less likely to prove beneficial than with the acute. Wounds of the large bloodvessels of the chest, or of the cavities of the heart, are almost immediately fatal. Mere punc- tures, how'ever, of these parts, have closed for a time, and in some cases even permanently. All wmunds of the chest, though not involving bloodvessels of a large size, are productive of severe consequences — effusion of blood or bloody fluids into the cavities, escape of air into the external cellular tissue, col- lapse of the lung, and inflammation and its results, are always to be dreaded. The danger is not uniformly tantamount to the extent of injury inflicted. Individuals have recovered from extensive wounds causing profuse haemorrhage, and great dis- placement and laceration of the parts ; whilst, from much slighter injuries, untoward and fatal consequences have quickly resulted. Wounds may penetrate the chest, and be continued into the abdomen; the stomach, liver, and intestines — one or all —may be perforated as well as the lung; in such cases the haemorrhage is in general speedily fatal. Injury of the inter- costal arteries, and of the mammary and its branches, is at- tended with serious bleeding. It is easily arrested, however, by pressure. A piece of fine linen is pushed into the wound, followed by charpie, so as to form a small bag within the chest, a little larger than the opening; by pulling this gently outwards and fixing it, efficient pressure is made on the bleeding vessel. At the same time the motions of the chest are to be restrained by bandaging; indeed this is necessary in almost all injuries of that part. When reaction has been established, antiphlogistic