TREATMENT OF DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. 566 the ulcer can be readily exposed; it may be touched occasion- ally with the nitrate of silver, in substance or solution, or, if very indolent, with a solution of the bichloride of mercury. When the irritation is very great, and the lower part of the bowel fre- quently in a state of spasmodic action, the sphincter may be di- vided so as to allow the parts to remain quiet; and anodyne suppositories or soothing enemata will then be used with much greater advantage than previously. To obtain reparation of breach of structure in any part, rest is a principal part of the treatment; and in the case of the rectum and other mucous canals it is pre-eminently required. Strictures of the rectum are treated by bougies of wood, plaster, or elastic gum, introduced at intervals, and gradually enlarged. The bougie should be smooth in the surface, and rounded at the point; also slightly curved, so as to suit the figure of the bowel; and with a narrow neck, so as to remain without the irritation caused by distention of the sphincter. At first it should be of such a size as can without much diffi- culty be pushed past the stricture, and, as this relaxes, the size of the instrument must be proportionally increased till it com- pletely fills the bowel when dilated to the natural calibre. The bougie may at each time be retained from a quarter of an hour to an hour, according to the feelings of the patient. Supposi- tories and enemata are at the same time employed; the latter to clear out the lower bowels, the former to allay the irritation which accompanies the disease, and which may be increased temporarily by the bougies. When the stricture is callous, and will not yield by dilatation, it may be divided with the knife, and notched at various points of its circumference; and, when the parts have begun to granulate, recourse to the bougie will soon effect a cure. When fistula and stricture co-exist, both are got rid of at once by the usual operation for the former, and by the after treatment peculiar to each. In malignant contractions of the gut, all that can be done is to palliate the disease by anodynes, administered by the mouth, or applied topically. Injections, bland, and occasionally ano- dyne, tend to diminish irritation; bougies aggravate the disease. At the commencement, the diseased parts may be removed by the knife or by ligature, and relief and exemption follow, at