OF MORTIFICATION. 48 where much fever is present, it may often be necessary to keep the patient on low diet: exhibit salines and mild purgatives in the first instance. The effects of food should be attentively watched, and its quantity increased or diminished accordingly. On the subsidence of the fever, and when sphacelus has occurred, wine and animal food must be given abundantly. Stimulants, strictly so called, are not admissible until the line of separation be formed, and their exhibition must then be regulated by the circumstances of the case. Opium and other anodynes are found necessary during the progress of the dis- ease, to allay irritation and produce sleep ; opium has been recommended on very high authority, that of Mr. Pott, in mortification of the lower limbs. The bowels must be attended to. Peruvian bark was at one time supposed to be a specific in this disease, but experience has not borne out the opinion ; it seldom agrees in substance, and the decoction, with or without the compound tincture or sul- phate of quina, will be found much more useful in support- ing the power and tone of the digestive organs. After the line of separation has been formed, and not till then, the sur- geon may interfere, and assist nature in her work, dividing the exposed bones or ligaments by which the dead parts still adhere to the living; or he may perform amputation immediately be- low the line of demarcation. Amputation in the sound parts cannot be recommended: for vitality is impaired throughout the system, and more particularly near and above the line of demarcation, where, though the structure seems entire, yet the incisions are made in parts really diseased, and which would almost certainly and speedily mortify. In fact, amputation above the line of separation, in whatever way performed, is seldom if ever productive of advantage in spontaneous gangrene. In order to prevent the occurrence of gangrene after expo- sure to intense cold, the frigid part must be cautiously and slowly restored to its natural temperature; first, by being either placed in very cold water, or rubbed with snow; afterwards, by the degree of warmth in the applications, and surrounding atmo- sphere, being gradually increased. In acute gangrene, and in robust constitutions, when the affection arises from over-action, abstraction of blood is had