468 BRONCHOCELE. canula to fit. But these are by much too small; even the punc- ture with a trocar closes, notwithstanding the application of nitrate of silver. I have lately used a sort of punch, such as is employed for making holes in leather, of a pretty large size, and neatly made, with the edge very keen, and on a small stalk. This is introduced; and when obstructed, having reached the j bottom of the canal, an attempt is made, with a rapid turn of j the hand, to cut out a portion of the membrane. I have thus j succeeded in improving immensely the hearing of one gentle- j man, enabling him to hear at four or five times the distance he . could formerly. He had repeatedly submitted to punctures before I saw him; and, previously to the operation with the punch, I passed through the membrane a trocar, made large, and well pointed for the purpose; but notwithstanding this, and the application of the nitrate of silver, I was unable to preserve the advantage gained longer than a very few days. In suitable cases, the operation is worthy of trial, being unattended with ■ pain or any dangerous consequences. A very ingenious little , instrument, contrived for the purpose by M. Fabricci, may be i had of Weiss, cutler. Strand; by it the piece of membrane is fixed by a small screw, before being punched out. Bronchocele is not rare in some districts of Great Britain, but | unattended with the same peculiarities of countenance and mind as in some other countries. The majority of those affected come from mountainous districts. The disease generally com- | mences early in life, and females are more subject to it than males; indeed almost all who present themselves are females. ; The tumours are of various sizes, involving either the whole I gland, or only a part. One lobe is usually in a state of greater advancement than the other. The swelling is for the most part soft and yielding, the integuments are thin and moveable, and large veins shine through them. It is unattended with pain, or i any great inconvenience, though sometimes it equals in size the patient’s head, or nearly so, and then it is troublesome from bulk alone. In general, there is little or no obstruction to de- j glutition or respiration, and the health is not impaired. The j tumour is always of slow growth, at length becomes stationary, | and the patient gets reconciled to the deformity. Its structure j is that of the simplest form of tumour, a genuine hypertrophy.