370 POLYPUS OF THE NOSE. connected with the cavity of the nose — sometimes, though rarely, in the frontal sinus. When seated in the antrum maxil- lare, pain is experienced in the cheek for a short time before swelling occurs. Soon the part enlarges, its coverings are thickened, the bony cavity expands, and the patient’s sufferings are excruciating. The teeth loosen, and sanious matter is discharged from their roots. The tumour extends into the nostril, and soon runs the course already mentioned. Malignant disease sometimes, though rarely, commences in the anterior cavity of the nostril. No satisfactory cause can be assigned for the appearance of either the benign or malignant form of polypus. The nostrils can be readily cleared of benign polypi, but sel- dom completely, as already stated, by one operation : in several cases, wherein only one or two tumours obstructed the cavities, I have had no occasion to repeat my interference. If the attach- ments are broad and extensive, a small curved blunt-pointed bistoury, or probe-scissors, may be employed for their separation. Sometimes the tumours can be pushed off by the finger, or by a probe with a blunt and forked extremity ; then they either are blown out by the patient, or fall into the posterior cavity, thence into the pharynx, and are coughed up or swallowed. In cases such as are usually met with, forceps and a small vulsellum are the best instruments. The forceps should be about half the size of those generally used or sold by cutlers as polypus forceps. The patient is seated facing a good light, and the body of the prominent tumour is laid hold of by the vulsellum ; the forceps are then introduced, with the blades expanded, and carried back- wards so as to reach its neck, which is then to be firmly grasped by the instrument, and gently twisted, so as to separate its con- nexions with the membrane. No force, no jerking or pulling, is allowable. It may happen, even with the gentlest and most careful management, that a small fragment of bone comes away along with the tumour; but this generally can or should be avoided: the cure is not rendered more certain by such an occurrence, as has been supposed. One tumour being thus detached, the same process is repeated with the others, till the cavity is cleared so far as haemorrhage or the patient’s fortitude will admit. Both nostrils, if, as is usually the case, both are