FRACTURES. 684 toward circumstances do not exist in simple fracture, the soft parts being but slightly injured. Fracture is compound when the integuments are divided by the external force, so as to expose the broken bone. But the wound may not penetrate to the bone; and then the accident is termed fracture with wound, not compound fracture. The soft parts are often divided by the sharp end of the bone; this is frequently the case in oblique fracture, occasioned by a fall from a height, the lower fractured extremity being pushed forcibly upwards. The muscles are usually much injured. The wound is either large or small, lacerated or clean. Fracture, simple or compound, is comminuted when the bone is divided at the broken point into fragments, either small and loose, or large and adherent to the covering of the bone and other soft parts. Fracture may be complicated with wound or displacement of a neighbouring joint, and with laceration of large blood-vessels and nerves. Union of divided bones, as of soft parts, is preceded by incited circulation in the part, and effusion of organisable matter. The extent of action is regulated by that of the injury, whether inflicted by accident or by operation. If the soft parts have not been much bruised, if the bone and its covering are merely separated and slightly displaced, and then speedily put in contact, the incited action and the effusion are limited to the divided parts. There is no irregu- larity Afterwards at the point of fracture, the new matter that is not required being absorbed soon after deposition ; the bone is smooth and even as before. The deposit of new matter under the peri- osteum and into the medullary canal is here well exhibited. By this means only is the bone kept together for. a very considerable period; afterwards the broken ends are united, and the temporary callus absorbed. If, on the contrary, there is much dis- placement, and if that is not entirely removed, in- tense action ensues both in the soft and hard parts there is great effusion of new matter, or callus, soft