605 RETENTION OF URINE. into discredit and contempt. Delay is more dangerous than even the worst mode of making and opening into the bladder; and while life exists, the patient should have his chance. Some defer extreme measures from day to day, either from hesitation or from a false hope that matters may ultimately change for the better, but the delay of one hour is in many cases most hazard- ous. In retention from disease of the prostate extravasation of urine is more dangerous — more certainly fatal — than in other circumstances. Here a part of the vesical parietes gives way by sloughing, and the fluid is effused within the ilio-vesical fas- cia ; in other cases the extravasation is usually beyond that fascia, and beneath the fascia of the perineum. Puncture by the Rectum is, in cases of enlarged prostate, inad- missible and highly dangerous ; the operator must either per- forate the gland, or enter the cavity of the abdomen. Even in the healthy state of parts, there is very little space between the posterior part of the prostate and the reflection of the perito- neum. The operator having ascertained that the prostate is sound, and the rectum empty, introduces the fore and middle fingers of the left hand into the bowel, and along these passes a trocar and canula from four to five inches in length, of moderate calibre, and of a curve rather greater than that of the sacrum. He places the point of this instrument on the part to be per- forated, and fixes it there, the point of the 'trocar being liitherto withdrawn within the canula; the stilet is then pi’otruded, and both carried onwards into the bladdei-. The part to be per- forated is immediately behind the prostate and in the mesial line. Puncture above the Pubes is easily enough performed when the bladder is capacious, but it is at best a dangerous operation. The wound is made through loose cellular tissue ; urinary ex- travasation into that tissue is apt to occur, and often proves fatal. If the bowels are inflamed, or evince a tendency towards inflam- matory action, the danger is increased, for a formidable wound is made in the immediate vicinity of the bowels. The operation has been resorted to when the catheter might have been passed without much difficulty ; this statement may appear harsh, but it is too true, and can be borne out by indisputable facts. It is brought forward more as a caution to the young than as a re- flection on the senior members of the profession. Some patients