FRACTURES. 686 Fragments ai’e sometimes entirely detached at the time of the accident, and perish at once; or are so slightly connected with the shaft that they lose their vitality on the first accession of inflammation, become surrounded by purulent matter, part from their slight attacliments, and come towards the surface. Or the shaft itself may be so bruised by the violence of the injury as to be incapable of resisting incited action, though slight. By malpractice, such untoward consequences as the preceding, and many others beside, are frequently induced. The uniting medium of separated bones remains soft for some time, as was already observed; and often, whether from the state of the constitution, or the circumstances connected with the fracture, the parts remain long moveable. Pregnancy is said to prevent union ; but I have often seen fractures in preg- nant women unite as speedily and firmly as if the patients had not been in that state, and otherwise in robust health; profuse uterine or vaginal discharges, or determination to particular parts or organs, will certainly retard union. In ordinary cases, the limb, if not lying altogether straight, can be moulded into a proper form after the lapse of eight or ten days from the time of injury, without the patient suffering any great degree of pain, without the process of union being at all interrupted, or the cure protracted; even at the late period of five or six weeks, badly united fractures may some- times be much improved by gradual pressure and change of position. A gentleman fell from his horse, and sustained simple fracture of both bones of the leg, near the middle. It had been laid and retained o'n its side. I saw him exactly six weeks after the injury; the leg was much curved forwards, and the foot turned outwards. The limb was placed on the heel, and a long splint, with a foot-piece, applied on the outside; by attention to its position, and by gradually tightening of the bandages, it soon became quite handsome. Care should be taken not to allow the patient to rest too soon on the fractured limb; for though quite straight, symmetrical, and of the proper length, when the retentive apparatus is discontinued, it may become short and deformed in a few days from even slight weight being put upon it. The period at which firm union takes place varies; the pro-