58 OF ERYSIPELAS. exposure to cold, or to heat, — the former acting only as a remote, the latter as an immediate, cause. As an example of its occurring in consequence of heat, it is a common remark, that cooks, who are necessarily much exposed to the fire, are fre- quently the subjects of erysipelas of the face; but in the ma- jority of such cases, there may be other causes in operation, — the abuse of ardent spirits, and habitual overcharging of the system with stimulating food. It is more commonly met with in summer than in winter. And in certain states of the atmo- sphere, even in healthy situations, a degree of erysipelas is apt to occur after wounds by operation or accident. It is often periodical, especially in females who have ceased to menstruate, always recurring at regular intervals ; it attacks parts of the body, most generally the face, in some cases monthly, in some once in the year, and in others once every two years. It sometimes appears to occur as a natural mean of relief from impending alfections of more serious nature, as of the system or of internal organs. Those who have once been afflicted with the disease become more liable to its attacks. Erysipelas is generally preceded and accompanied with more or less disturbance of the digestive organs. In Bilious Erysi- pelas, the portion of skin affected is said to present a more yellow colour than in the phlegmonous, the derangement of the diges- tive organs is greater, and hence the origin of the distinctive term; fits of shivering occur, the patient complains of a bitter taste in his mouth, and the tongue is furred and of a brown colour. In the Phlegmonous, in which other textures than the skin are often affected, viz. the subcutaneous and intermuscular cel- lular tissue, and the fasciae, the pain is more intense, and of a throbbing kind ; the swelling is hard, more deeply seated, and more extensive; there is considerable tension ; and the redness is of a darker hue. Nausea and a bitter taste in the mouth do not precede the erysipelatous appearance, but the skin and tongue are dry, and there is great thirst. When the disease begins to subside, then the foul tongue supervenes, with the bitter taste and nausea. Erysipelas, of a contagious and violent character, frequently occurs, and is apt to spread extensively, in badly aired situations,