328 DISEASES OF THE EYE. tances it extends rapidly in depth and size, with great pain and irritability of the organ, and intolerance of light. Occasionally their increase is expedited by partial sloughing- At first, when the ulcer is minute, the part often retains its natural transparency. But as the disease advances, when the sore spreads superficially either by the sloughing or the ulcerative process, or by both, the cornea becomes opaque, often to a considerable extent, around the ulcerated part; and if the ulcer extends deeply, so as to perforate the tunics, the aqueous humour escapes, the iris falls forward, and the pupil becomes distorted ; in either case vision is impaired or desti’oyed. In some cases gi’eat relief follows discharge of the humour, and the consequent flaccidity of the cornea, the ulcers seeming to have been prolonged and irritated by the fulness of the chamber. Sometimes an ulcer will pene- trate the laminae of the cornea, even to the aqueous membrane. This latter tissue may resist the ulcerative process, and will then be pushed forward into the opening by the pressure of the aqueous fluid. This is the hernia of the aqueous membrane, so called, instances of which have been known to acquire a consider- able size before the bag has given way. Abrasion of the conjunctival covering of the cornea is pro- duced by accident, or follows incited action of the vessels. The abraded surface either ulcerates, or contracts and heals kindly, with or without opacity of the part. Bi’each of sui’face in the cornea, — whether an ulcer, an abrasion, or a raw surface, caused by the giving way of a pustule, or of a small abscess, — is constantly liable to irritation, on account of not being pro- tected by mucous membrane and mucous discharge : even the contact of the tears irritates, and keeps up inflammatory action in the membranes. When the ulcerative process ceases, lymph is effused, and a greyish halo forms around the sore; the ash colour of the surface of the sore disappears, and is succeeded by florid granulations, extremely minute, which fill up the cavity: cicatrisation follows in due time, with subsidence of all the symptoms and appearances of inflammation. There I’emains, however, an opaque speck of a pearly hue corresponding to the soi’e, but occupying rather less space. When the cornea is per- forated by ulceration, the sore sometimes shows no disposition to heal, becoming a fistulous aperture through which the aque-