490 PARONYCHIA. emptied — further suppuration is prevented, and the tissues are perhaps saved from destruction. Fomentation and poultice are used till the swelling begins to disappear, and the discharge to diminish; and the hardened cuticle is removed, when detached. The cure is completed by bandaging, and such applications to the wound as its appearance may render suitable. Should in- # flammation recommence and extend, or abscess threaten in other parts, recourse must again be had to free incision, followed by the treatment already described. Destruction of the articulating apparatus, with ulceration of the opposed surfaces of the bones, is indicated by indolent swell- ing around, by unhealthy and profuse discharge, by distinct grating being produced on motion, and by marked and unnatural looseness of the joint. In such circumstances, amputation of the finger above the diseased part is fully warranted. But if the patient is obstinate in refusing to submit, or if he is in that rank of life where stiffness of the finger is of no great conse- quence, the member should be kept steady in a convenient posi- tion, so as to favour anchylosis. By splints and bandaging it is preserved in a state of semiflexion, so that, after the cure by anchylosis, it may not be in the way when the patient lays hold of any thing, as it would be were it bent into the palm, nor ex- posed when the other fingers are bent, as must be the case were it kept quite straight. Still the finger is often very useless — worse than useless — when stiff either from loss of the tendons or from destruction of the joint; and more particularly when its position is awkward. So much inconvenience does it give rise to, that patients, who peremptorily refused amputation whilst the case was recent, often return, after a tedious and painful cure by anchylosis, soliciting removal of the deformed and annoying member. When the thumb, however, is the seat of disease, it is of great moment to save any part of it. A stiff joint in the thumb is of less consequence than in a finger; it can still be brought to oppose the rest of the hand in seizing and retaining hold of objects. To promote anchylosis, the affected articulation must be kept at perfect rest, and for a very considerable time. By pursuing this practice, the thumb, represented at p. 488. though in a very bad state, the joint being thoroughly disorgan- ised, was preserved. In severe cases of whitlow, all the fingers,