672 LIGATURE OF THE EXTERNAL ILIAC. signs are suflBciently distinct. The old operation — opening the tumour by direct incision, and tying tlie vessel close to the cyst — has been performed successfully in one remarkable case on record. But this is attended with much risk, there being no means of commanding the bleeding during the incisions, nor until the ligature is placed and secured. The preferable pro- ceeding is to tie the internal iliac near its origin, as has been put in practice successfully in a few cases. The same incisions are made as for reaching the common iliac, and then the sacro- iliac junction is felt for; with the nail of the forefinger the cellular tissue is cautiously and gently separated, and a needle and ligature placed under the vessel. In a corpulent adult, a needle, with a moveable point, may perhaps be useful, as also the copper spatulae, to keep the parts aside; and a serrenoeud may assist in the securing of the noose. It was the fashion once, and perhaps is so still, for every young and aspiring surgeon, when he was about to attempt lithotomy for the first time, to invent or alter some strange crooked tool, for smoothing, as he thought, his way into the bladder. The rage now, more espe- cially on the other side of the Atlantic, is all for curious aneu- rism needles and tonsil shavers. It ought never to be forgotten, that the simplicity of any proceeding and of every machine is the measure of their perfection. I have had by me a lot of needles, all very ingenious, at the various operations for aneurism which I have had occasion to perform — many of them of the most difficult nature — and the simple needle has always been found to answer the purpose most perfectly. , Aneurism in the groin is not uncommon, and is very easily recognised. The old operation has been attempted, and unsuc- cessfully. Ligature has been placed on the distal side of the tumour, with no favourable result. One horrid example of the latter operation is on record, in which the femoral artery had been completely obliterated spontaneously, and nerves, vein, and portions of the muscles, were all included in ligature, by one random thrust of a large sharp needle. The external iliac is to be tied — a proceeding now regarded as one of the regular oper- ations of surgery, and likely to insure a favourable result. It was first undertaken in a case of secondary bleeding after liga-