OF INFLAMMATION. 19 c 2 moved, nothing more is required: the inflammation speedily subsides. If the cause cannot be removed, or if, after its removal, the inflammation proceeds unabated, the arterial action must he reduced by general and local abstraction of blood. By general depletion, the action of the "whole sanguiferous system is diminished, as well as of those vessels more immediately en- gaged in the morbid action ; hut the affected capillaries are still dilated, and less capable than the larger trunks of effective con- traction to propel their contents ; and are therefore only suffi- ciently depleted by the local abstraction of blood, by leeches, cupping, punctures, or incisions. Blood may be drawn either from arteries or from veins. In Arteriotomy, the blood is discharged more rapidly, and its flow is of longer continuance, than from a vein, so that the system may thereby be almost completely deprived of its circulating fluid; and perhaps a more speedy impression may be made on the inflammatory action. One objection to venesection is, that after frequent and copious venous haemorrhage, the internal vessels become gorged with blood, and a disposition to apoplexy is induced. But bleeding is not to be had recourse to without due con- sideration of the age, strength, constitution, and idiosyncrasy of the patient; if employed, it must be modified according to these ; and it has already been mentioned, that depletion is not always to be persevered in on account of the presence of the buffy coat. Bleeding is materially assisted in reducing the activity of the circulation, by the employment of saline purgatives, along with nauseating doses of antimony. Diaphoretics are of essential service in promoting the action of the exhalants, and thereby relieving the affected capillaries. The exhibition of opium is frequently advantageous, more especially after depletion, in allaying the painful sensations when severe, and averting re- action, and also in procuring refreshing sleep, when the patient is anxious and restless. Digitalis has been administered, with the view of reducing the arterial action; but it has been fully established, that this medicine acts at first as a direct stimulant, and that it is only after its use has been continued for some time that its effects become sedative.