694 FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. inents are of great strength, and the bones yield sooner than they do; and in the greater number of severe injuries of joints this is the case more or less. A very well marked specimen of luxation, without the slight- est fracture of the fourth from the fifth cervical vertebra is deli- neated on the last page. The injury was occasioned by the person falling backwards over a high paling, on which he was sitting, and alighting on the back of the head: along with the proper ligaments, the spinal chord is seen to be torn. The patient, of course, did not survive many days, being almost perfectly paralysed. In general, either the bodies or the processes of the vertebrae are broken, and sometimes comminuted; occasionally the bodies are broken entirely through, with considerable displacement, the upper or lower end, as may be, projecting. There is twisting or bending of the trunk or neck, the articulating processes on one side only being displaced, whilst the ligaments on the other re- main pretty entire. In some cases, either the spinous processes, or the articular, are separated without yielding of the bodies of the vertebra, or of the interposed substance; then there is bending of the trunk forwards. The symptoms vary according to the site of the injury, and the extent of violence inflicted on the spinal chord. This im- portant organ may suffer concussion without fracture or displace- ment of the bones; its functions may be consequently more or less disturbed, and paralysis occasioned of those parts that are supplied with nerves from below the injured point. Without fracture, too, vessels may give way within the canal, and by compression from effused fluid urgent symptoms will be pro- duced. The power of motion may be lost whilst sensation is retained, and vice versa; but in general both are either impaired or destroyed. In one case that came under my cai’e, there was power of motion in one limb and no sensation, whilst in the other there was no motion but the usual sensation. Patients may recover from the effects of a severe blow on the spinal column and consequent concussion of the chord, but very frequently they do not. Changes may take place at a late period in the chord or its membranes, in consequence of the injury — as