160 OF TUMOURS. project frora the surfaces of bones or of a joint, are subsequently detached, and lie loose in its cavity; growths of a cellular struc- ture internally, and invested by an apparently mucous lining, protrude from the surface of mucous membranes. Others differ, not only from the texture in which they are situated, and from which they derive their nutritive vessels, but also from every other part of the healthy structure. In one instance, a con- genital tumour was found to be composed of an aggregation of numerous materials, many of them resembling the healthy tex- tures of the body. But again, tumours are constantly met with, composed of matter which in no respect resembles any of the natural tissues of the body: those are what have been called heterologous formations. The simple tumour is mere enlargement of a part, from the infiltration of solid matter deposited by its blood-vessels. There can be little doubt that the action which lays the foundation of such enlargement is inflammatory: in consequence of inflam- mation of the tissue, lymph is effused into the cellular substance during the progress of the incited action; and after it has sub- sided, the dilated and debilitated vessels probably do not regain their condition, as to size and vigour, but remain somewhat dilated, and continue to free themselves from portions of their contents ; thus the cellular tissue is opened out in proportion as the infiltration advances, and the process may be occasionally accelerated by fresh attacks of subacute inflammatory action. The patient at first feels pain, heat, &c., as in an inflammatory tumour; these afterwards abate, and ultimately go off entirely; and during the increase of the swelling, little or no pain is experienced, unless when these subacute inflammatory attacks supervene, and then it is but slight; or unless the enlargement be resisted by an unyielding structure, and then it is acute and troublesome. The size and rapidity of increase in such tumours will vary according to circumstances ; the vessels of the part soon regain their size and action, either by the efforts of nature or of art, so that the tumour will have attained no great size, and be stationary in its progress, being denied the materials necessary for its increase. If the morbid action be thus stopped, the absorbents will remove the newly-formed matter, and restore the parts to their healthy condition. But when the deposition pro-