OF HOSPITAL GAISTGRENE. 233 and the consequences may even be fatal; but such an occur- rence is unusual, and the patient may in, general be saved by the timely insertion of an issue in the neighbourhood of the sore, or by an active employment of what is best calculated to insure a renewed discharge. Some sores have a disposition to extend by sloughing, and such frequently attack the lips and pudenda of weakly children; they are also met with, amongst the lowest class of prostitutes, in the cleft of the nates, in the groin, &c., and in such cases the sore closely resembles hospital gangrene. Of Hospital or Contagious Gangrene, and Sloughing Phagoedena, This disease has been long known, and has proved very fatal in crowded and badly-aired hospitals. It may break out at any season, but hot, sultry, and damp weather is most favourable to it. No breach of surface, however small, is secure from its attack. The wound becomes painful and swollen, and loses its healthy, florid appearance; the granulations are flabby, and appear as if distended with air ; vesicles form, containing serum or a bloody fluid; the pain is stinging; the secretions are sus- pended ; and the wound is either altogether dry, or covered with slimy, tenacious, and peculiarly offensive matter. An ichorous discharge follows, the pain increases. The sore assumes a circular form, and its edges are everted; erysipelas attacks the surrounding integuments, often extending over the whole limb, and forming a principal feature of the disease. In fact, violent erysipelas and hospital gangrene are affections very closely allied to each other, often arising at the same time, and from the same causes. Both are accompanied with great constitutional dis- turbance ; but in erysipelas, this generally precedes, whilst in hospital gangrene, it follows, the appearance of the malady. The lymphatic glands, in the neighbourhood of the gangren- ous part, inflame and suppurate, the skin gives way, and the gangrene soon seizes the newly-formed sore. Fever super- venes, the pulse is often full and strong, and the surface hot; there is gi*eat nausea and thirst; the tongue is brown, and the bowels much disordered. The inflammation and ichorous dis- charge increase. A thick slough covers the sore, and its foetor