AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. 462 days afterwards through an elastic tube passed by the mouth or nares into the gullet, with its extremity one or two inches beyond the wound. Its introduction requires caution; an instance is on record of a tube being passed with the view of conveying nourish- ment, in which the surgeon did not discover that its extremity had slipped into the larynx till after the injection of some fluid. It is recommended to wait for some minutes before proceeding to inject, and that, if during that time no air pass through the tube, the instrument may be considered certainly in the oeso- phagus. It is seldom that the opening of the oesophagus will close by the first intention, and therefore accurate approximation of the external wound need not be attempted. Removal of noxious matter from the stomach is now successfully practised by the aid of instruments. This is required when the excitability of the organ has been impaired or destroyed, and emetics in consequence do not act. It is unnecessary here to treat of the emetics which act most quickly, or which are most proper in different cases, nor of anti- dotes for various poisons. Many stomach pumps have been contrived, and their merits have caused much rivalry; but they are all constructed on much the same principle. People, too, seem to indulge the inventors by swallowing deleterious sub- stances much more frequently than before. There has been a demand for cases of poisoning, and the supply has kept pace pretty well with the demand. Now-a~days twenty seem to attempt suicide by poison for one that did so long ago. Most vegetable narcotics — those which do not act with great rapidity, can be removed mechanically; but some of the mi- neral poisons are heavy and difficult of solution, and are not so readily extracted. Read’s apparatus appears to me the simplest and the best, for this and various other purposes. Am- ple directions for its use are given along with the instrument. Inflammation and Abscess of the Ear are either deep-seated, or confined to the external meatus. Suppurations in the inter- nal parts — in the cavity of the tympanum, or in the mastoid cells — are often attended with the most violent symptoms, ex- cruciating pain, fever, delirium. Such are highly dangerous