OF LUMBAR ABSCESS. 545 spite of the most active and judicious management. The in- flammatory symptoms are to be combated by free abstraction of blood; in short, the utmost endeavours must be made to keep the action within bounds. When the intestines are wounded, the injured part may protrude; or the relative size of the openings, through the parietes and bowel may be such, that the intestinal contents do not escape into the peritoneal bag. A natural cure sometimes takes place by adhesion of the surface of the bowel to the lining of the parietes round the wound, faeculent matter con- tinuing to be discharged externally; after a time the opening may contract, and the discharge diminish and ultimately cease; or an artificial anus may be permanently established, and this is not so easily cured as that following upon hernia. Wounds of the intestines, whether transverse or longitudinal, attended with fieculent escape into the peritoneal cavity, are not uniformly fatal. Effusion of lymph takes place around, gluing the wounded bowel to the peritoneal surface of a neighbouring fold, or forming a sort of pouch within which the extravasation is limited. The treatment consists in absolute rest, and most rigid antiphlogistic regimen; manual interference with the wounded part is not generally advisable. Lumbar Abscess is generally chronic ; the collection of matter is gradual and slow. Sometimes it is acute, and rather rapid in its appearance. It may originate in the sheath either of the psoas or of the iliacus muscle; more frequently it seems to form behind these, and is connected with diseased bone. The precursory symptoms are often not particularly attended to ; these are rigors and pain of the loins. As the disease advances, the patient feels great pain in the erect position, and in general the pain is aggravated by extending the thigh. Thickening and slight glandular enlargement takes place in the groin ; there is an evident fulness there; and then swelling appears on the inner side of the femoral vessels, beneath the pubal portion of the fascia lata. This swelling is more prominent in the erect position, and is also increased by exertion of the abdominal muscles; an impulse is given to it on coughing. As it ad- vances, and comes more to the surface, fluctuation is perceived. This is the most common site in which the abscess presents N N