ENLARGEMENT OF TONSILS. 403 Stance, and from unusual vascularity. The inconvenient size produces nausea and cough ; it is even said that the tumour has, in some instances, got entangled in the rima glottidis, suffo- cating the patient, or at least giving rise to the most alarming symptoms. In some cases the elongation appears to have kept up cough and expectoration for months or years. The parts may be touched with a bit of sponge, dipped in the tinct. muriatis ferri; but a more useful remedy is the powder of alum, applied either on a spatula, or by insufflation. Astringent decoctions, or solutions, are of little use. But in cases of large and long continued enlargements, the swelling cannot be ex- pected to subside under such treatment, and recourse must be had to curtailment by cutting instruments, of which the best for this purpose are long blunt-pointed scissors and forceps, with hooked points. The patient is made to open his mouth wide; the surgeon then introduces the instruments into the mouth, and watching an opportunity when the uvula is nearly stationary, suddenly seizes and clips off a sufficient portion. This is followed by instant relief. Frequently an oedematous swelling of the uvula, of a crystal- line appearance, resembling a large grape, accompanies ulcer- ation in the neighbourhood; puncturing of the part, and attention to the cause of the affection, are sufficient for the cure. When the blood-vessels of the uvula are in a state of chronic enlarge- ment, scarification is also employed with advantage. Chronic Enlargement of the Tonsils occasionally takes place in children, but generally in persons from eighteen to twenty- four years of age, or in such adults as are subject to irritations in the neighbourhood of the organs. A delicacy of constitution is supposed to be indicated by the affection. One or both tonsils may be enlarged, usually both. The surface of the tu- mour is irregular; the mucous follicles are enlarged, and often filled with sebaceous matter. The swellings in each side gradually approach each other, meet, and by narrowing the isthmus, seriously interfere with the functions of the parts. Little pain is felt, and that is dull, occasionally shooting through the ear. Respiration is at all times fettered, and during sleep noisy. Occasionally the swellings exceed their usual size, from some accidental excitement of the circulation. They may sub-