RHINOPLASTIC OPERATIONS. 385 edges of the lip must be neatly brought together by the twisted suture. Two needles will be found sufficient, one being passed close to the edge of the lip; and they should be introduced deeply through its substance; two thirds, at least, of its thickness must be superficial to them. Should troublesome bleeding take place from the coronary arteries, a needle is to be passed so as to transfix their extremities. The whole cut surface is thus approx- imated ; the vessels being compressed, bleeding is prevented ; and firm union of the whole wound is secured. The ligature of silk, which is twisted round the needles, should be pretty thick and waxed; and care must be taken that it is applied smoothly. After some turns are made round the lower needle, the ends should be secured by a double knot; a second thread is then to be used for the other needle, and also seciu’ed. With a view of compressing and coaptating the edges of the interposed part of the wound, the thread may be carried from one needle to the other, and twisted round them several times; but in doing this, care must be taken not to pull them towards each other, else the object of their application will be frustrated, and the wound rendered puckered and unequal. Last of all, the points of the needles are to be cut off' with pliers. No farther dressing is required; as previously remarked, no good end can be answered by any application, and the separation of dressing may afterwards be troublesome; discharges from the neigli- I bouring passages are retained by it, fcetor is produced, and I union interrupted. The needles may be removed on the second , or third day; their ends are cleared of coagulated blood, and, ( after being turned gently round on their axes, they are to be . cautiously withdrawn, without disturbing the thread or the crust ! which has been formed about them by the serous and bloody ; discharge. This often remains attached for some days after re- moval of the needles, and forms a good protection and bond of union to the tender parts. Some care is afterwards required I from the surgeon and patient in raising up the alae, by filling 1 them with lint, and thus compressing the pillar, so as to diminish i the oedematous swelling which takes place to a greater or less ' degree in it, and to repress the granulations. It is besides necessary to push upwards the lower part of the column, so that it may come into its proper situation; and this is done by the I c c