755 SPRAIN. brane and articulating cartilages are attributable, and can be traced, to badly managed sprains; and in some constitutions^ but slight injury, combined with a little bad treatment, suffices to destroy a joint. When the case is well managed, the pain is never great, and soon abates; the swelling after a few days slackens; the discolouration becomes greater, the serum being absorbed, and the effused blood shining through the skin ; the integuments appear green, blue, red, purple — these hues either being present all at the same time, or occurring successively; the discolouration often extends far from the joint. The mobility and strength of the joint are recovered gradually. Perhaps no injury is more frequently mismanaged, by those both in and out of the profession. Every old woman thinks she can cure a sprain; most absurd and hurtful measures are resorted to; the injured parts are kept in motion; cold lotions and cold affusions are employed, and at the same time stimu- lating frictions : probably attempts are made, either by leeching or by puncturing, to extract the effused blood; and many similar follies are committed. The proper treatment certainly appears to consist principally in absolute rest and position. If there is any displacement it must be rectified immediately. If there is any fracture ; or if there is a tendency to redisplacement after reduction; or if the patient is restless either from folly or from insensibility, as when the head has been injured by the accident, when the patient is under the influence of strong liquors, or when he labours under delirium tremens,—a splint or splints must be applied to secure immobility of the parts, at the same time without such compression as may interfere with swelling from effusion; the effusion is a salutary process, and should be encouraged, not repressed. By absolute rest and elevation of the linb, the extent of the swelling is limited, and inflammation warded off. Fomentations, properly employed, afford much relief; at first they probably encourage the serous effusion. The integuments soon become relaxed, during the regular use of fomentation, and tension and vascular action sub- side, as also pain. The swelling then abates, and is no longer hard; it pits on pressure, and the skin has a puckered appear- ance. Then gentle friction becomes advantageous, and uniform support should be aflbrded by the application of a flannel roller. 3c 2