DISEASES OF THE EYE. 351 being absorbed; but most frequently an operation is required to remove the opaque body from the axis of vision, though no hurry is necessary in having recourse to it. The chance of suc- cess from operation must depend very much on the state of the different parts of the eye, on the kind of cataract, and on the state of the constitution. Many remedies, external and internal, and mercury amongst the rest, have been employed with the view of dissipating cataracts ; but all are of no use. An oper- ation, of one kind or another, only can be relied on. And still, even in favourable cases, and in the best hands, the contin- gencies attending operation are so great, that success cannot be absolutely promised or expected. The mode of operating, and the kind of operation, must be varied according to circumstances ; and great experience is required to determine the proper course of procedure in each case. Steadiness is absolutely necessary both in the patient and the operator, in order that the proceed- ings may be carried to a happy conclusion. The operator must have a good eye ; a steady, light, and skilful hand; a fine touch ; courage and caution — qualifications necessary in all surgical operations, and in none more so than in those on the eye. When cataract is spontaneous, and vision not altogether lost the patient being able to distinguish bright objects, though unable to direct his steps or follow his avocation — when the pupil is quite sensible to the application or abstraction of light, or to the use of belladonna, &c. — when all the external parts are sound, the cornea clear, the chambers of the proper size, and no reason to suspect that the retina is affected — the prognosis in regard to the effects of operation is good. When, on the contrary, the organ or the constitution is not sound — when the patient is irritable in habit or temper, or subject to gouty, rheumatic, or catarrhal complaints — when headach has preceded the opacity, and vision is gone, or nearly so, with flashes of light seeming to pass before the eyes — the prognosis is very unfavourable. But even total blindness must not always be considered as an indication of operation proving useless, for sometimes the retina recovers its sensibility after removal of the cataract, and thus sight has been restored in very hopeless cases. There is no objection against opex'ating, though one eye only is aflPected. By some, operation is recommended as prudent.