506 AFFECTIONS OF THE CHEST. the patient. The patient is placed horizontally, with the shoulders slightly elevated; and the affected side should be as dependent as possible, that he may be readily turned over on his face should the breathing become embarrassed. The position of the diaphragm, in regard to the inner surface of the false and lower true ribs, must be kept in view. When the distension is great, this important muscle is displaced; it is pushed downwards, car- rying before it the viscera in the upper part of the abdomen; it is thus removed far from the place at which the incision is usually made. The point of election, as it is called, is between the fifth and sixth ribs, and midway between the sternum and the spine. An incision is made through the integuments, over the upper edge of the sixth rib, an inch and a half in extent; in this situation there is no risk of wounding the intercostal artery. If the operator intend to shut the cavity as soon as the fluid has been discharged, the integuments are drawn upwards previously to making the incision, in order that they may after- wards overlap the wound. A cautious opening is then made through the intercostal muscles, and the pleura punctured. This is immediately followed by forcible ejection of fluid. The wound of the pleura is then enlarged by a probe-pointed knife. The thrust of a trocar, or sharp-pointed bistoury, is here inad- missible, as in some cases the diaphragm, perhaps the liver or stomach, or even the lung, might be ivounded. The fluid at first escapes rapidly ; afterwards it is ejected chiefly during ex- piration. After its discharge, a tent is placed in the wound, over which a compress is put, and the chest is firmly bandaged. The closure cannot be maintained safely longer than twenty-four hours; the dressing must be undone, the tent removed, and the matter again allowed to flow. I would certainly not recommend any attempt to heal the wound by the first intention. In conse- quence of continued closure, the secretion soon becomes very .profuse, mixed with blood, and of a putrid nature; irritative fever is established. The treatment principally consists in ob- taining gradual, and at the same time free, evacuation of the fluid, restraining the motions of the chest, and supporting the general strength. As the discharge ceases, the lung may in part expand; it may, however, continue collapsed, become consoli- dated, and the chest fall in. In neglected cases, absorption of