FRACTURE OF THE RIBS. 701 either of the extremities. The fracture is generally transverse; occasionally, and I’arely, oblique. Sharp portions are seldom detached. The skin is sometimes divided, but more frequently the pleura and lungs are torn by the spiculae projecting inter- nally; hence effusion into the chest, and emphysema of the sub-cutaneous cellular tissue near the fracture, take place. The emphysema, if permitted, extends over the greater part of the chest, and even farther. Fracture of the ribs is attended with pain, particularly during full inspiration ; and if the injury is severe, the patient is in- capable, without great pain and exertion, of accomplishing full inspiration. He uses his handkerchief, sneezes, and coughs, with the utmost difficulty. Crepitation is felt by the patient, and is easily detected by the surgeon, by placing the hand on the suspected point, and desiring the patient to attempt full in- spiration so as to grate the surfaces on each other. Motions of the trunk, and often of the upper extremities also, are attended with aggravation of the symptoms. In some cases attentive ex- amination is necessary to discover crepitus — in certain situations, and when perhaps one rib oHlv has given way, especially if some time have elapsed betwixt the infliction of the injury and the application of the patient for relief. In the slighter cases, it is sufficient to restrain the motions of the chest by a broad bandage applied firmly round it; and a split cloth, or a scapulary, may be passed over the shoulders and attached to the circular bandage to prevent its being dis- placed. Great and immediate relief is thus afforded. In those of a plethoric habit, blood may be taken from the arm, some hours after the injury, with relief and advantage; it may ward off an inflammatory attack — and it is absolutely necessary to adopt this practice on the slightest indication of such super- vening. The appearance of the countenance, and the state of the pulse and respiration, must be watched; and on the first becoming anxious, the second strong and accelerated, and the third hurried and imperfect, active measures must be employed — venesection, antimony, purgatives, diaphoretics, anodynes — one or all according to circumstances. In the more severe in- juries the same practice is pursued; and the symptoms are watched with great care. The air in the cellular tissue, if