115 AND DISEASES THENCE ARISING. bursae, and sheaths of tendons, still, in inflammation and abscess of bones or joints, it is extremely prejudicial, and from its indiscriminate employment by those ignorant of the profession, ! many limbs have been destroyed. General chronic periostitis, which is produced by exposure to cold, or occurs after or j during mercurial courses, and is often supposed to be a symp- |i tom of syphilis, is relieved by the internal exhibition of the I bichloride of mercury, or other mercurial preparations, combined i: with sarsaparilla and diaphoretics. In many instances such an I affection will yield to no other treatment; and thus the prac- I titiouer is Occasionally obliged to have recourse to a somewhat I paradoxical practice, that of giving mercury for a disease which i seems to have been produced by that mineral. In inflammation of the short bones or heads of the long bones, if the action do not yield to topical bleeding and be- comes chronic, counter irritants must be employed. Blisters repeated are often useful in subduing the remaining action, and in obstinate cases small caustic issues are sometimes of service. During the adhesion of the eschar, the best application is a common poultice or water dressing, which, on the separation of the dead part, may be exchanged for any simple ointment, it i not being at all desirable in general to check the discharge and I heal up the breach of surface. Moxa is sometimes employed to ! make an issue in these and other cases, but it is not superior , in any respect to the potential cautery, whilst its employment is generally very alarming to the patient. The sores following the use of the moxa are in some instances tedious in healing ; I and this may be ascribed to the vitality of the surrounding parts having been diminished by the application. In cases of atrophy of bone, and where there is reason to sus- pect the scrophulous or tubercular deposit to be going on, the affected part should not be much used, and means taken to give tone to the system. Preparations of iron are often exhibited with advantage. The combination of iodine with iron may sometimes ; answer. Abscesses should be opened early, so as to prevent exten- I sion of the mischief. In abscess in the shafts of the long bones, it is occasionally necessary to make an opening through the outer lamella by the trephine, so as to evacuate its contents. Some instructive cases have been given by Sir B. Brodie, illustrative I 2