DISTORTION OF THE NECK. 472 rated from each other, with unhealthy purulent matter interposed — the trachea, the oesophagus, or the mediastinum, opened into. Such cases have been formerly alluded to. The lymphatic glands, situated amongst the fat and cellular tissue between the deep and superficial cervical fasciae imme- diately above the sternum, may become enlarged. When the tumour is large, breathing is impeded by compression of the parts beneath, and pain and much inconvenience are endured on account of its limited situation and resisting investments. Purulent collections in the anterior mediastinum and under the sternum are scarcely remediable. These are chronic or acute. One of the great dangers following the operations on the larger vessels at the root of the neck, in which the deep fascia is necessarily divided, is infiltration into, and acute abscess of, the anterior mediastinum. In chronic collections the parietes of the cavity on one side are fixed, on the other have constant motion; and thus the surfaces, however healthy and well disposed, are prevented from coming together and adhering. The dis- charge continues, and at length wears out the patient, pulmonary affection perhaps supervening. The same unfavourable causes operate in other situations, in the iliac fossa, and in chronic collec- tions under the cranium. In chronic abscess of the mediastinum, no dependent opening can be obtained, unless by perforation of the sternum. This is perhaps warranted by oedematous swelling over some part of the bone, indicating, along with other symp- toms, the existence of matter beneath. Purulent collections sometimes form in the substance of the sternum, communicate with the mediastinum, and involve the lower part of the neck. The thymus gland is said to be liable to chronic enlargement in young subjects of weak constitution, causing serious impedi- ment to respiration and deglutition; the tumour is confined above and anteriorly, and consequently presses backwards on the trachea and gullet. Suppuration may take place in the swelling, and the matter ultimately be diffused in the medi- astinum. Distortion of the Neck arises from a variety of causes, and is either temporary or permanent. The head is often kept in an unnatural position for weeks by glandular swelling. Enlarge-