DISEASES OF THE EYE. 350 margin, and is of a spotted or mottled appearance, and in gene- ral not uniformly opaque. No black ring around the opacity is observed, though the pupil be dilated; and the motions of the iris are sometimes slow. The opaque spots are said sometimes to move when the position of the head is changed. The anterior portion of the capsule, the posterior, or the whole, may be affected; but the anterior is the part which most commonly becomes opaque in the first instance. In many cases both lens and capsule are affected; and then the catai’act is termed capsulo-lenticular. Occasionally the dis- eased lens, in such circumstances, is of fluid consistence ; and in many cases is spotted. Portions of lymph, organised or not, lodged in the posterior chamber, have by some been termed spurious or adventitious cataract; since, when the pupil is shut by such effusion, the appearances presented are somewhat similar to those caused by opacity of the lens, or of its capsule. Such deposits, however, can readily he distinguished from true cataract, being in general of a yellowish colour, in close contact with the posterior surface of the iris, and, when organised, often streaked with red vessels. Generally, too, the pupil is irregular from adhesions between the lymph and the pupillary margin of the iris. Cataract would, in some cases, appear to be hereditary, and frequently it is a congenital affection. In very young children it may be caused by imprudent exposure to strong light. In adults it often seems to be produced by the action of strong reflected light, as by exposure to intense fires in forges, glass- houses, &c. or by a dependent position of the head, accompanied with exposure to light. People advanced in life are most sub- ject to the disease. It is not an unfrequent consequence of internal ophthalmia, and almost invariably follows the slightest wound or most delicate puncture of the lens: it often occurs after slight injury of the lens or its capsule, inflicted during attempts to form an artificial pupil. Cataract may occur rapidly from extensive dilatation of the lenticular vessels; or from such an injury of the eye as causes laceration of the vessels supplying the capsule and lens, detaches them from their other connexions, and consequently leaves them without a nutritive source. Cataract sometimes, though rarely, disappears spontaneously.