TREATMENT OF DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. 563 perineum, and hot fomentations afterwards used. Internal antiphlogistics are at the same time not to be neglected. In retention of urine, or great irritability of the bladder, in conse- quence of the affection of the rectum, the perineum should be leeched and fomented, perhaps, also, the lower part of the ab- domen ; the use of the catheter should be avoided if possible. When induration takes place in the cellular tissue by the side of the anus, or in the perineum, suppuration must in all proba- bility occur, and poultices, with occasional fomentation, are to be used, though only for a short time; for, as already men- tioned, pointing of the matter is not to be waited for in diis situation; incision must be had recourse to early, in order to prevent bad consequences. Leeching is sometimes used here, as in purulent foifnations in other parts, from gross ignorance of the real state of matters; and sometimes their use is continued after fluctuation is distinct, and until the pus begins to ooze through the leech-bites ; such is very useless and very dan- gerous practice; in most cases the internal parts are exten- sively destroyed before the matter comes spontaneously to the surface. In the carbunculous state of the cellular tissue, near the rectum, with extensive infiltration, dark integument, and a tendency to sloughing, an early and free opening must be made wherever matter is suspected to have formed, however deeply seated, and in whatever quantity, and whether the parts are indui'ated or not; nothing but mischief can result from delay. When the cellular substance is destroyed, the incision must be proportionally extensive, to afford a free exit for slough as well as matter. During the suppuration which follows, the system will require good support, and most probably a free administra- tion of stimuli. « It has been I'ecommended that, in abscess extending along the gut, the cavities of the bowel and abscess should be at once laid into one by incision. I have done so, but always found the cure to be tedious. It is better that the matter should first be eva- cuated through an external opening, that the painful symptoms and constitutional disturbance should be allowed to subside; and that after the cavity has contracted, and the extent of the sinus has been ascertained, the operation should be performed. In o o 2