759 BRUISE. formed partly by the direct injury, and partly by the subsequent effusion, and this is quickly filled with blood, partly fluid and partly coagulated. Immediate tumour forms; and the integu- ment is discoloured, often beyond the principal swelling. The injury may, or may not, be attended with division of the inte- guments, or with fracture or displacement of the bones ; but all injuries of the hard parts are attended with more or less bruising of the soft. Bruise is most frequently produced by a blow, and is most severe when the violence is resisted by an unyielding part, as by bone; a squeeze between two bodies, particularly if they be in motion, also inflicts extensive contusion. The swelling continues to increase for some time, and then gradually disappears along with the pain. As the tumour subsides, the discolouration increases; the thinner parts of the eflusion have been absorbed, and the clot then shines through the skin, im- parting to it various hues. Bruise may be followed by inflammatory action. Then ef- fusion is increased, bloody fluid is poured both into the cavity and into the unbroken cellular tissue, the whole parts become extremely tender, the surface inflames, and the excited action is apt to terminate unfavourably in the various tissues. Not unfrequently sloughing takes place, both of the skin and of the cellular tissue and fatty matter, with unhealthy suppuration and infiltration; and constitutional disturbance accompanies. All this is likely, nay, certain, to follow admission of air into the cavity filled with effused blood, whether by accidental wound or by intentional division of the integument. Meddle- some surgery is unfortunate here, as well as in many other cases. After scarifications, punctures, leechings, or incisions, the blood often seems to undergo a putrefactive process, and unhealthy suppuration is quickly established. Sometimes the clot is not entirely absorbed, and considerable swelling i-emains for a long time, perhaps with slight tenderness of the part; a foundation is thus laid for abscess, either chronic or acute. Frequently the inflammatory action following on bruise is not so violent and rapid as that above described, but is limited in its consequences chiefly to the effusion of coagulable lymph. This may not be altogether absorbed along with the other effusion, it may become organised, and be the nucleus or 3 c 4