4S;2 LIGATURE OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. of the vessel, it ceases almost entirely. The sense of touch is the principal guide, and, to experienced fingers, the feel of nerves is different from those of arteries. The ligature has been passed round one of the cei’vical plexus, as happened in one of my own cases; the mistake was, however, not without its use, for, on discovering that it was a nerve, I retained the ligature, no knot having been cast, and by it pulled the nerve out of the way, so as to allow of the artery being more readily secured. The artery is felt as it crosses over the first rib, and by pressure there, pulsation in the arm is stopt; sometimes it may be even seen. The knife, guided by the finger, is then used very cau- tiously to prepai’e the vessel for ligature. The vessel may be found unsound, and dilated to a further extent than had been expected; and then it may be necessary to trace it towards the heart, and even to divide the scalenus anticus in part, the phrenic nerve being kept free from injury, in order to expose a sound portion for the application of the ligature. This was found necessary in one of my own cases, and also in one operated on by the Baron Dupuytren. A blunt-pointed needle is passed, either plain or with a separable point, and the knots made as was formerly described. A piece of strong wire doubled, and either notched or perforated at the extremities, affords assistance in securing the knots in so deep and contracted a space. Various kinds of serre-noeuds and needles have been recommended; but the simpler the instruments employed are, and the less a surgeon depends on them, the more likely is he to succeed in his under- taking. During the time that this sheet was passing through the press, a case of aneurism above the right clavicle came under treatment in the hospital, on which it was proposed to perform the operation of tying the trunks of the subclavian and carotid as they pass off from the innominata. The necessary incisions were made, but the innominata was found wanting. After some trouble- some dissection, the subclavian artery, which appeared to have come off irregularly, was discovered crossing from the left to the right side, to take its place betwixt the scaleni, rather more than half an inch behind the carotid, and close upon the fore part of the vertebrae. The ligature was placed on the mesial side of the pneumo-gastric nerve, and close to it. Up to this, the twenty-second day, the case is going on most favourably.