OF HERNIA. 528 finger; and by raising the handle gently, a slight incision is made into the more resisting fibres, in the dii’ection of the mesial line. The instrument is withdrawn with the same caution as in its introduction. The finger now enters easily, and by raising it gently and repeatedly the parts are dilated. It is then passed upwards to the site of the internal ring; and, if this be found narrow and contracted, the edge of the knife is to be directed against it in a similar way, and dilatation to a sufficient extent effected. Now reduction is to be commenced, and in doing so the same precautions are to be observed as in the employment of the taxis. The hernial sac ought in the first place to be fixed by the fingers of the assistant placed in the bottom of it, so that it may be prevented from sliding up along with the contents. A neglect of this rule is often observed to lead to much embar- rassment. The parts seem to have passed back into the general cavity ; but on withdrawing the pressure they fall down again from the canal, along with the sac which had slipped up so far with them. In general, the omentum, if any, is put back first, and then the bowel; but this must depend on the relative quan- tity of the parts, and other cii’cumstances. With the right hand the bowel is to be compressed as uniformly as possible; and, if at all obstinate, its reduction may perhaps be accelerated by pulling down a small portion at the neck, so as to facilitate the return of the faecal contents. By gentle pressure with the fore- fingers one portion is put back after another: it is wrong to attempt sudden and entire reduction; it should be gradual and successive. In many cases, from adhesion, or from the bulk and nature of the hernia, the parts, though sound, cannot or ought not to be reduced ; a portion may be got back, but part requires to remain. This can often be ascertained beforehand by properly conducted and previous inquiry into the history of the case, as to the duration of the disease, and the period at which the whole tumour could be made to disappear. In such cases, the stricture should always be freely relieved. When the bowel is mortified, and its contents effused into the sac, care is to be taken not to detach or disturb the adhesions at the neck, and the bowel should be opened so as to allow of free discharge. When the bowel or omentum are comparatively sound, though irreducible, the surgeon must rest contented with relieving the stricture ; then cover the