304 DISEASES OF THE EYE. in the nasal duct, in consequence of which, the tears are inter- rupted in their natural course downwards, and either accumulate in, and distend the sac, or flow over on the cheek, the puncta lachrymalia remaining open. After increased vascular action has been produced, the lachrymal secretion is increased to a greater or less degree, and much inconvenience is caused to the patient by the profuse discharge following an unnatural course. When inflammation is intense, lymph is effused into the passages, producing obstruction sometimes complete. The mucous lining of the nasal duct becomes swollen, from the vascular excitement, either throughout its whole extent, or at one point only; and in either case the flow of the tears must be interrupted, either partially or wholly, according to the degree of swelling. The vitiated secretion of the part may also contribute towards nar- rowing the canal, by lodging and concreting there. But a more complete and permanent obstruction is formed by effusion of lymph, under or on the mucous lining, as happens in other canals of similar construction: And in this case also, the stricture may be partial or complete, according to the quantity of effused matter, and the extent of surface affected. As the inflammation abates, mucous fluid is copiously effused from the surface of the sac, and the swelling increases, though the pain is less. The collected fluid may be partially evacuated through the puncta, either spontaneously, or in consequence of the patient instinctively pressing with his finger on the swollen part; or the puncta may be obstructed by the same causes as the nasal duct, and then the discharge of the fluid is prevented in both directions; it consequently accumulates still more, and causes greater bulging. Fluctuation is perceptible, and the col- lection protrudes outwards and forwards, being least resisted in these directions. It is seldom that the puncta are obstructed, and consequently the swelling does not attain any great size, the sac being relieved by some of its contents always flowing upwards, after a certain degree of distension. As the inflam- mation farther subsides, the mucous secretion diminishes, and the accumulation and swelling are less: in fact, the patient may at this period prevent a tumour from forming in the corner of of his eye, by from time to time pressing gently on the sac, and forcing the lachrymal secretion upwards, as it begins to accu-