DISTORTION OF THE FEET. 679 on one side, and, having been made as superficial as possible at a favourable point, is fixed by the fingers of an assistant. The integuments are then drawn to one side, and an incision made over the body, the capsule is cut to as limited an extent as possible, and removal effected by pressure—or it may be laid hold of by a hook, and extracted; if the cartilaginous substance be attached by a pedicle, this must be divided, but with great caution. The integuments are immediately allowed to resume their natural situation, and so to close the wound of the capsule by overlapping it; the skin is then accurately approxi- mated by adhesive plasters. The limb is kept extended, and not the slightest motion of the joint permitted. The patient is confined constantly to the recumbent posture, purged, and kept on low diet; the utmost vigilance is necessary to prevent inflammation of the synovial apparatus. In some patients on whom I have performed this operation, the wound closed by the first intention, and no untoward symptom threatened, motion and the erect position being resumed in a few weeks. But in the last case which came under my care, though the ex- tirpation was performed with the utmost care, most violent in- flammation supervened; the wound opened, synovial secretion flowed out in large quantity, profuse escape of unhealthy matter followed, and exhausting discharge continued for many weeks. At one time the constitutional disturbance was so great as to endanger life; the limb was saved with difficulty, the joint an- chylosed. From the result of this case, I am disposed to dis- suade operative interference, unless the patient strenuously urge it, and be willing to take the responsibility for the consequences on himself. Congenital distortion of the feet appears in many cases to be hereditary ; and often several in one family are born with si- milar deformities. The foot is turned either outwards or in- wards, usually inwards. The bones of the tarsus may be de- ficient, or imperfectly formed, but generally they are natural in their formation, unnatural merely in their relation to each other and to the ankle-joint, the muscles and tendons being also per- fect. In such cases the deformity can be remedied, during childhood, by mechanical means — apparatus being worn, con- trived so as gradually to bring the parts into a proper relation to X X 4