OF SUPPURATION. accordingly. The integuments in the neighbourhood of the ulcer are of a purple hue, and become undermined, from the extension of the disease in the subjacent cellular tissue. The discharge is thin and gleety—the sore is of an unhealthy and debilitated character, and makes but little attempt at repar- ation ; its surface is covered by a viscid fluid, and sloughing oc- casionally occurs in consequence of the extreme debility of the parts. Numerous sinuses frequently extend in a superficial direction, and render the cure more tedious and complicated. Those of a scrophulous constitution are most liable to be affected with caries, softening, and other diseases of the bones and their coverings ; these, however,' will afterwards be treated of, along with ulceration of cartilages, diseases of ligaments and synovial membranes, lumbar abscess, &c. ; all of which affec- tions, in the plurality of instances, are connected with the stru- mous diathesis. In the treatment of abscesses, the principal indications are, to remove any degree of inflammatory action with which the surrounding parts may be affected — to keep the part moist, clean, and at rest — to remove all source of local irritation — to promote and accelerate the progress of the matter to the sur- face — and, lastly, to give it free vent; for though it sometimes happens that collections of purulent matter disappear, still the occurrence is so rare, that to treat abscess generally when in an advanced stage with the expectation of resolution would be highly injudicious. By blistering and pressure, however, tumours con- taining a small quantity of purulent fluid can occasionally be dis- cussed. Warm fomentations afford great relief, especially at the commencement, when there still remains a considerable degree of surrounding inflammation. These may be either what are termed anodyne, or not; in general, fomentation with camo- mile flowers or hops, contained in a woollen bag, and wrung out of warm water, will be found the most convenient and efficient, and is well entitled to the term anodyne, which is usually applied to others of a complicated, and not more efficacious, character. Poultices are of material service, par- ticularly when the collection is advancing to maturation ; and their composition is of little importance, provided they are moist, warm, and soft. Stale bread soaked with hot water, or