OF HERNIA. 514 ginalis; and in females into the labium. The tumour often attains an immense size, from continued application of the causes that produced it,—laborious occupations, or straining of muscles in any way. When of long duration, and not attended to, it is not uncommon for the swelling to hang as low as the middle of the thigh, or even down to the knee. In such cases, the testicles often are wasted, and the penis concealed; indeed the skin of the penis, as well as of the lower part of the abdomen, is stretched over the tumour. Crural or femoral hernia is, on the contrary, seldom larger than a small apple. Sometimes, but very rarely, the tumour is of large dimensions. I have seen one containing the transverse arch of the colon, the omentum, and a yard and a half of small intestine. The tumour is repre- sented some pages further on. When a very large hernia remains always full, the cavity of the abdomen diminishes in size; in fact, it adapts itself to its contents; and this must be kept in mind when interfering with such cases. Inguinal hernia most frequently occurs in males, the femoral in females; and the reason of this is obvious on comparing the size of the inguinal and crural openings in the sexes. In the male, the inguinal opening is much larger than the femoral; in the female, the femoral is the larger, — the inguinal is small, containing only the round ligament of the uterus. The causes of hernia act equally on both openings, and therefore it is to be expected that protrusion will take place where there is the least resistance, where the parietes are most defi- cient. Hernia can seldom be mistaken for any other swelling, by one at all acquainted with his profession, and who makes his examination attentively. The history, and the mode of its ap- pearance, are to be attended to. The swelling proceeds from above — at times it recedes on the patient lying on his back and making pressure on the swelling—a distinct impulse is commu- nicated to it on exertion of the abdominal muscles, as in cough- ing— the tumour is generally elastic, and its neck can be felt extending from the lower abdominal aperture. Also, the two kinds, inguinal and crural, can scarcely be confounded with each other; the former is above, the latter below, the ligament