637 CALCULUS VESICiE. with particles of sabulous matter entangled in mucus, and ad- herent to the inner coat. The last deception is to be expected only in those advanced in life. But the greater number of those cut unnecessarily have been young persons. In them the symptoms of stone are closely simulated by irritations of the alimentary canal, and the crying of the patient prevents the stroke on the stone from being distinctly heard. Perhaps the practitioner may be very anxious to discover a stone and have the glory of removing it, and is satisfied with feeling a rubbing or grating of the instrument; he cuts into the bladder, and to his dismay and discomfiture nothing is found. No foreign body may have existed; or perhaps some small particles of sand which gave rise to the feeling may have escaped detection, being carried off along with the urine and blood. On the con- trary, cases have occurred in which a stone actually existed, but was overlooked ; and the patient, after recovering fi’om the first incisions, has been i-elieved by a second and better conducted operation. In diseases of the urinary organs, the surgeon cannot be too cautious and considerate in all his proceedings and inter- ferences. For example : I on one occasion went to see an oper- ation for stone in the bladder, and was asked to feel the stone, but could not. There was merely a sense of grating during the introduction of the instrument; and the operator was dissuaded from his intention. The patient did not live many weeks; a small ulcerated cavity was found in the situation of the veru- montanum, but no stone. By a dexterous use of the sound the size of the foreign body can be tolerably well judged of, as well as the state of its sur- face, and it may also be known whether there are more stones than one. The bent part of the instrument is passed over and beyond the calculus, and then under it, if possible, so as to ascer- tain its thickness; and by moving it on each side, the other di- mensions are also arrived at. No information can be obtained as to the size of the stone — at least in adults, and when it is not encysted — from any examination by the rectum. Concretions resembling horse beans in size, and even larger, can be brought through the adult urethra without incision, by means of pi’operly constructed forceps. The facility with which this is accomplished will depend much on the state of the