707 FRACTURE OF THE HUMERUS. and do away with the necessity of removing the apparatus arising from this cause. It is well to place a wooden splint on the outside, retained by an additional bandage, so as to steady the parts till the pasteboard or leather has dried, and formed a firm mould or case for the limb; then the wood is no longer necessary, and should be removed. The forearm is bent at right angles, and the humerus fixed to the trunk. In simple fracture, thei’e is in general no necessity for interfering with the apparatus until the bandage slackens, in consequence of the swelling subsiding; then, usually at the end of eight days, it is to be reapplied. One splint is carefully raised, whilst the other is kept fixed and the parts steadied, and the limb is ascertained to be sti’aight and of a proper length; if not, then, or even later, the position of the bones may be rectified without causing much uneasiness. The patient need not be confined to bed on account of a simple fracture ; he may walk about with the arm supported in a sling. In compound fracture similar splints are applied, after due attention has been paid to the wound and to the position of the bones. The patient is placed on his back in bed ; and the splints are retained by slips of bandage, double, one end being passed through the loop and secured to the other by a running noose. This method of deligation affords facility for the removal of the splints, in order to examine into the state of the limb and dress the wound. It also permits the apparatus being slackened in the first instance during the swelling, and of being after- wards tightened, without lifting the limb or disturbing its po- sition. Fracture at the distal extremity of the humerus is managed most conveniently with the limb in the straight position. The fragments are placed accurately together, aad one splint placed on the fore part, another posteriorly. The forearm is kept in a state of supination. At the end of about twenty days the appa- ratus should be removed, and the position of the articulation changed if possible. The forearm is to be bent slightly, and a splint applied, — made to fit accurately, and with a joint corre- sponding to the bend of the arm. This should be occasionally removed, provided consolidation of the fractured bones has ad- vanced so far as to admit of it, and slight passive motion of the z z 2