106 OF INFLAMMATION OF BONE, firing and blistering of horses does good in the majority of the diseases of tendons, bursae, bones, and joints. In some instances, it may be necessary to have recourse to soothing applications, as fomentations to affected joints, and to employ general anti- phlogistic means suited to the age, strength, and constitution of the patient. In the greater number of cases in young sub- jects, after the stomach and bowels are unloaded, the system must be supported by tonics and nutritious food ; none are more beneficial than the preparations of iron. When the occurrence of anchylosis affords the only hope, this process ought to be encouraged by rest, and the limb at the same time kept in that position which will be most useful in after life; this will be effected here also by the employment of splints. In cases of disease of the knee, ankle, elbow, or wrist joints, notwithstanding every thing that can be done, the disease often runs its course, abscesses form and give way, the patient’s health declines, and he becomes emaciated and hectic. In such cases amputation, when not contra-indicated by internal disease, must be had recourse to, as the only remedy. In some few instances, the excision of the diseased extremities of the bones may supersede this operation; but this will be discussed in a future part of the work. Every circumstance must be well weighed before mutilation be resorted to; and there can be little doubt that thousands of limbs have been saved by the employment of the means above mentioned, which would have been otherwise doomed to amputation. Hydrops articuli will in general be got rid of by the use of friction, either dry or with liniments ; by stimulating plasters or by blisters ; and by the proper application of bandages. Mercurial ointments are used in this affection, and often with very great benefit. Electricity has been recommended. In neuralgic affections of joints, it is clear that the symptoms are to be combated by general and not by local means, at least of a severe nature. The patient must be amused and occupied, exercise in the open air must be enjoined, and attention paid to diet. The state of the digestive organs and secretions should be looked to, and corrected if need be. Medicines directed to the regulation of the functions of the uterus are essential in the majority of cases. When there is reason to suspect the lodg-