194 OF TUMOURS. size and long continuance, are not to be rashly interfered with, when they arise from irritation in the neighbourhood. Those in which it is feared that malignant action has com- menced cannot be trifled with; and the only means which afford a chance of the patient’s being effectually delivered from them is an operation. With a view to their complete extirpation, the external incisions ought always to be free, so as to admit of the after-dissection being easily and rapidly performed: they ought also to be made in the direction of the muscular fibres, whether these lie above or beneath the tumour. In this way the margins of the wound are easily brought into apposition, and there retained; whereas, if the fibres be divided transversely, the wound will gape, and union by the first intention be ren- dered absolutely impossible. If there is no reason to suppose that the tumour is malignant, little or no integument ought to be removed, unless the growth is of a large size; but, when malignity is dreaded, all the discoloured, tense, and adherent integument, all that is permeated by dilated and tortuous ves- sels, ought to be taken away, and the incisions made at a distance from the disease. In all cases they ought to commence at the point where the principal vessels enter ; these are thus divided at the outset, can be readily secured by ligature, or by the fingers of an assistant, and the dissection is proceeded in without risk or in- terruption from farther haemorrhage. If the opposite course be pursued, the vessels will be divided two or more times during the operation, and thus the performance of it will either be delayed by the application of numerous ligatures, or will be attended with a considerable loss of blood. After the tumour has been exposed it ought to be principally detached in one direction, as in this way its removal will be sooner accomplished, and not first cut on one side and then on another. If malignant, great care should be taken that all the diseased mass be removed, for a minute portion remaining will form a nucleus in which similar diseased actions are certain to arise; in most instances, it will be pru- dent not only to remove the parts actually diseased, but those also which are in immediate connection with the tumour, though at the time they appear healthy. All important parts must be cai’efully avoided. After removal of the mass, and the complete cessation of bleeding, the edges of the wound must be approxi-