DISEASES OF THE EYE. 313 Extirpation, by means of a small pointed knife, or curved scissors, is the only means to be relied on for the cure of such warty tumours, and of encanthis. The growth must be fixed and pulled outwards with a small hook, and carefully dissected away; the eyelids, and, if necessary, the ball of the eye, being kept fixed with the fingers, or by means of a speculum: the fingers are generally sufficient, and more convenient than any instrument. If, from the appearance of the parts, and from induration surrounding the tumour, malignant action has evi- dently taken place or is dreaded, then the incisions must be made wide of the base of the swelling. For malignant, open, and extensive ulcerations, nothing can be done farther than to allay the pain, and soothe the constitutional disturbance. On the whole, encanthis is a rare disease; however, I have seen, and operated on, several instances of it. Encysted Tumours of the Eyelids. — These occur beneath the conjunctival lining of either the upper or under lid, but most frequently in the former. They form rapidly, but seldom attain any very considerable size; and may be found to contain, along with glairy fluid, a mixture of pus, or curdy matter. The contents, however, are generally glairy, rarely atheroma- tous. The cysts are very thin and adherent, and the tumour projects externally, forming a dusky red elevation of the integuments. They cause considerable deformity, watering of the eye, and stiffness and difficulty in moving the lids. On evert- ing the eyelid, the contents of the tumour are seen shining through the distended conjunctiva, and present a bluish appearance. They are seldom single, and are not remediable but by operation. It is improper to attempt their extirpation from without, as there is a certainty of cutting completely through the eyelid, the inner covering of the cyst being merely attenuated conjunctiva. The lid is to be everted, and an incision made into the promi- nent and thin cyst with the point of a cataract knife; the con- tents can then be readily scooped out with the end of a probe. It is impossible to dissect out the tender cyst entire, and, when