59 OF ERYSIPELAS. where a number of patients with sores are crowded together, with- out due attention being paid to cleanliness and proper dressing. Hospital Erysipelas, as this species is termed, is nearly allied to that dreadful disease, Hospital Gangrene, and the two affec- tions are often blended. It comes on after operations, or in patients who have sustained an external injury by accident. In unhealthy hospitals it not unfrequently appears in previously sound parts, and without any assignable cause; and, from its following the slightest wound, recourse cannot be had with safety even to venesection, cupping, or leeching. It is a dread- ful scourge in many hospitals, more especially during particular seasons of the year—during hot, damp weather, and in spring and autumn, attacking the patients indiscriminately. Of late years Erysipelas appeared in the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, during the wet and changeable summers which prevailed; some of the cases were very severe, and a few ter- minated fatally. It was very satisfactory, however, to observe that it did not spread as it used to do formerly, that patients occupying the beds immediately around those affected, though afflicted with sores and in indifferent health, remained exempt from the disease; and that many of the most severe cases did not originate in the house, but were brought from the crowded and unhealthy parts of the city. The same may be said of the disease as it has shown itself in the North London Hospital since it was opened for the reception of patients up to the present time. Hospital Erysipelas is for the most part preceded by violent constitutional symptoms, derangement of the chylopoietic vis- cera, shivering, brown tongue, and a bitter taste in the mouth; if there is a sore on the body, it assumes a sloughy aspect; the surrounding skin becomes of a dark red colour, and there is a feeling of tension, accompanied with a burning pain. The erysipelas extends rapidly, and generally terminates in sup- puration and sloughing of the cellular substance, or, if inertly treated, in immediate gangrene of the parts. The concomitant fever is generally low, and though, in the first instance, the circulation may be vigorous, symptoms of debility will speedily appear. It will be more fully dwelt upon, along with Hospital Gangrene.