682 FRACTURES. produces very little, if any, impediment to progression, and of course is quite effectual in eradicating this most annoying though apparently simple disease. Of Fractures. — Deformity, shortening, loss of power, un- natural motion on extending and moving the part, pain, and grating, mark solution of continuity in bone, or fracture. Swel- ling, with spasmodic action of the muscles, soon takes place. One or several of these symptoms may be wanting; there is little deformity, and no shortening, when one of two or more parallel bones is fractured. In fracture of the extremities, ex- trication of air into the cellular tissue, about the ends of the bone, is not unfrequent, though difficult to account for — giving rise to crepitation, superficial, and quite a distinct sensation from that imparted by the broken bone. Bones become brittle as age increases, and fragility is also induced by certain disordered and debilitated states of the con- stitution. In some patients, the bones give way on very slight force being applied, after what may have been supposed a rheumatic attack; the thigh is broken by turning in bed, or by walking from the bed to a chair. In one instance, I had put up a fracture of the thigh with a long splint, and in three weeks afterwards the humerug was broken over the end of the splint during an attempt by the patient at change of posture. In many such cases union either does not take place, or is very imperfect. In children, the bones frequently contain little earthy matter, bend easily, and often break partially on the convexity of the curve. Even at the age of twelve or thirteen, bending of the bones from injury sometimes occurs to a great extent, as of the fore- arm from a fall on the palm of the hand; in ad- justing the parts, a slight crackling is heard when they are brought nearly straight. Complete solu- tion of continuity, though more rare, is occasion- ally met with in very young subjects. Fractures are generally the result of great force