85 OF DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. absorption of the cartilage from the outer condyle of the femur and corresponding part of the tibia, with a thinning and dege- neration of the inter-articular cartilage into a tissue resembling the cellular. The hard, polished, and ivory-like appearance of the articular surface, would lead us to suppose that it contained an unusual quantity of earthy matter, yet an analysis by Dr. Davy, here given, shows the contrary. Composition of the polished Articular Composition of the Shaft. Surface Phosphate of lime, &c. 58‘8 Phosphate of lime - 54"2 Animal matter - 41’2 Animal matter - 45‘8 100-0 100-0 In many instances where the disease is of long standing, a deposit of adventitious bone takes place around the articular surfaces, and this may occur to such an extent as to produce anchylosis of the joint, the articular extremities of the bone often presenting several irregular depressions, and becoming variously altered in shapes, as shown in the cuts, p. 99. It is curious that the atrophy of cartilage is generally seen in its early stage to attack the joints in pairs, and to occur also in corresponding parts of the articular surfaces; a fact which coincides with the disposition of caries to appear simultaneously or successively in corresponding molar teeth. Of the causes of the disease but little is known, although it is generally attributed, like some other obscure affections, to the effect of rheumatism. It often follows in old people upon long disuse and confinement of a limb to one position, as during the cure of fractures. A very valuable specimen was presented to me lately by my friend Mr. Busk, of the Dreadnought hospital ship. The elbow had been apparently subjected to great in- jury. The radius and ulna had been fractured : the former had united, whilst a false joint had been formed betwixt the portions of the ulna. There is profuse deposit of bone around the elbow- joint, which must have been quite stiff, or nearly so, as regarded flexion and extension ; but the end of the radius and corre- sponding articulation of the humerus are beautifully polished. This polish is not unfrequently seen also upon disunited fractures, G 3