305 DISEASES OF THE EYE. mulate. This state of matters may continue for a long period, without causing much inconvenience, and getting neither better nor worse; the patient is merely obliged to apply his finger and handkerchief more frequently to his eye than would otherwise be required. In almost all cases, the obstruction of the nasal duct is complete, or nearly so, and consequently the fluid cannot pass downwai’ds into the nose, though it may occasionally appear to do so, on account of the discharge from the Schneiderian membrane being increased at the same time with that of the lachrymal sac. The ductus ad narem, though wide in the skeleton, is of very limited dimensions in the living body, and is in consequence readily made impermeable to mucous fluid, by even slight thickening of its lining membrane. It has been already observed that the above-mentioned con- dition of the parts may continue for a considerable period; but in other cases purulent matter soon forms within the distended sac; or, at least, the contents of that organ are so altered in colour and consistence as to resemble intimately purulent fluid. The secretion may or may not be pus, probably it is not in some cases; but as the decision of this point is practically unimportant, the description of it as purulent can scarcely be objected to. In most cases, when the puncta either are or become clear, no suppuration, or deterioration of mucus into fluid like pus, occurs; merely chronic distension of the sac continues, the patient being able tb avert incited action, by occasionally squeezing out the contents, and thereby removing tension. There is merely an Epiphora ; or, as it is otherwise called, Blenorrhaea, or Stillicidium lachrymarum. The last term is by some applied to increased lachrymal secretion, with- out affection of the sac, the tears being secreted more quickly than the puncta can carry them away, and consequently running over on the cheeks, excoriating the surface, and producing an irritable condition of the eye. The simple epiphora may be of long duration, yet the parts are extremely liable to assume inordinate action, in consequence of slight injury, or exposure to cold; thus suppuration will ensue. When purulent matter forms, fluctuation becomes more dis- tinct, the pain increases, and there is slight headach and fever. The integuments inflame more and more, and, if the case is X