AFFECTIONS OF THE CHEST. 505 of physic; but the affection not imfrequently occurs in conse- quence of wounds or other external injuries, and its terminations must be shortly noticed. Effusion of serum may take place into the cavities, attended with subsidence of the symptoms of pleuritis. In such circum- stances, the lung collapses, either entirely, or still admits a small quantity of air ; and, if the collection lodge for a consider- able time, that side of the chest enlarges. When the cavity is not quite full, the fluid is heard to be troubled, and on motion of the trunk a sound of splashing is perceived. Part of the cavity may be occupied with air which has escaped from an opening in the lung; or halitus maybe extricated from the accumulated secretion. There are other signs, sufficiently distinct, imparting a knowledge of such effusion. The previous history of the case leads to a shrewd suspicion. The chest is unnaturally immov- able, as well as enlarged; the intercostal spaces are widened, and ultimately protuberant; there is.dulness on percussion, and no respiratory murmur perceptible in those parts where there is fluid: the sounds are natural in that part of the lung which is permeable to air, and distended. Suppuration often is the result of the incited action ; and purulent matter forms in the cavity of the pleura, generally without breach of surface. The membrane is covered with lymph, more or less extensively organised. Empyema is esta- blished. Suppuration may take place in the substance of the lungs, and from ulceration the matter may escape, in small quantity at a time, into the bronchial tubes, giving relief to the patient; or it may be poured in pi'ofusely and suddenly, so as to cause instant suffocation; or it may work its way into the cavity of the pleura, and occupy the same place as if it had been secreted by that membrane. Or, again, if the lung adhere to the costal pleura, the matter may approach the surface of the body, by the aid of interstitial absorption of the intervening parts, and the collection may then be opened, like a common superficial abscess, by division of the integuments only. When the pleura is full, the chest enlarges, the integuments become oedematous; and if, from the preceding and collateral circumstances, no doubt exist of the presence of matter, para- centesis may be performed with a chance of relieving and saving