PARONYCHIA. 489 connecting them, is not only attended with great suffering, but followed by total uselessness of the part. The wounds may, after a tedious process, heal up; but the finger remains de- formed and immovable, in a contracted or extended position, as may be. The disease may be occasioned by bruises or punctures, the instrument with which the puncture is inflicted being impreg- nated, or not, with some putrid animal mattei*. Violent inflam- matory action almost uniformly follows opening of the articula- tions, and also lacerated wounds over the joints. Compound fractures and dislocations of the phalanges are certainly followed by a severe form of inflammation. But the disease is met with in all degrees of intensity, occurring without any assignable cause. It prevails in spring and autumn; and is common in hard-working people, in butchers, cooks, &c. In superficial whitlow, the bowels must be attended to, and blood may be abstracted locally, either by punctures or by the application of leeches along the side of the finger, hot fomenta- tion being assiduously and regularly employed afterwards. Or the nitrate of silver may be rubbed lightly over the discoloured parts; frequently the inflammation may be arrested, and reso- lution speedily effected, by this simple application, laxative or purgative medicines being at the same time administered, as required. The collections which form are evacuated by simple division of the cuticle, and this, when hard, should be clipped away; poultices are used for a short time, and then the raw surface is dressed simply, and the finger bandaged daily. The hand should be kept constantly elevated. The swelling is soon reduced, the cuticle is regenerated, and free motion of the finger returns gradually. In more severe cases, fomentation and copious abstraction of blood by leeching, at a very early stage, may effectually suppress the inflammatory action; but patients seldom apply till after the opportunity for this treatment has passed. When tension ' has occurred, whether purulent matter has formed or not, a deep and free longitudinal incision must be made, including the affected tissues. This is uniformly followed by great relief, all the violent symptoms subside, and the action is limited; the effusion, if any, escapes, and the affected blood-vessels are