DISEASES OF THE E\E. 309 nasal duct. The knife should be followed by a pi’obe, and ought not to be entirely withdrawn till the probe is fairly lodged in the duct, otherwise the surgeon will experience much difficulty in the after proceedings. If the knife be not pushed into the duct, a blunt instrument can scarcely be introduced afterwards. Some force is required, but is not hurtful, provided it be made in the proper direction, so as to remove the obstruction in the duct without injuring the bones and other parts in the neigh- bourhood. After the operation, some drops of blood should escape from the corresponding nostril, showing that it has fairly entered this passage; or the patient being made to expire forci- bly, the nostrils being at the same time compressed with the fingers, air, blood, and mucus are forced upwards through the opening made. Many and various modes have been pursued with a view of securing a pervious state of the nasal duct. Instruments of dif- ferent kinds have been introduced through the puncta, through the opening in the sac, and through the termination of the duct under the spongy bone, and have been retained for a longer or shorter period, according to the fancy, or theory, or plan of the surgeon. The first of the methods of introduction is abandoned, as already stated. By the ancients the passages in fault were got rid of altogether, being either cauterised or destroyed by escharotics. The passing of probes into the duct from its lower aperture is useful in removing trifling obstructions caused by concretion of deteriorated mucus, or slight thickening of the lining membrane, and in chronic dilatation of the sac with probable contraction of the duct. But, at the same time, it is an operation requiring much dexterity, and which ought not to be attempted till after much practice on the dead body. The first introduction of the instrument is always the most difficult, from obstruction by a valvular projection of the membrane at the lower orifice, the use of which in the healthy state of the parts must be apparent. Destruction of it renders after-introduction of instruments much more easy. But the preferable practice is making an opening into the sac, and then introducing instruments from the upper orifice of the X 3