OSTEOSARCOMA OF THE JAW. 424 bone, to a considerable extent, without any apparent affection of the lymphatics. Nothing untoward occurred in the opei-ation, and the case was proceeding favourably; but after some weeks the patient was seized with violent erysipelas of the face and head, and perished. One objection to the operation is, that the muscular attachments of the tongue to the symphysis cannot be divided without some risk; the antagonist muscles are unre- strained; the os hyoides and root of the tongue may be drawn backwards upon the forepart of the vertebrae, so as to close the air-passage, and cause suffocation. This is guarded against by the introduction of a thick ligature. The disposition to re- traction soon ceases. Disarticulation of one side of the jaw is not unfrequently necessary; it is absolutely required when the tumour encroaches upon and involves the angle and ramus. It is a more severe operation than excision of part of the bone, and attended with greater risk; yet it may be advised and undertaken with a very fair and probable chance of ultimate success. The incision of the cheek is made to incline more upwards than those recom- mended for partial excision, and is extended to over the arti- culation of the jaw ; from this point, another is made in the direction of the ramus, and prolonged an inch or more beyond the angle. A third incision is made perpendicular to the first, or to the lower lip, over that part of the bone in front which is to be divided. The flap is turned down, and the muscles and membrane of the mouth separated from the bone opposite to the last incision; after which, the finger is passed through to com- plete the detachment. A preferable form of incision along the posterior border of the ramus and under the base of the jaw and tumour to over the point at which the bone is to be sawn, but without division of the lip, is recommended in the Practical Surgery. This method 1 have practised repeatedly; the cicatrix is then completely out of sight, and in the male is entirely covered and concealed. During the cure, also, the discharges escape more readily, the opening being quite dependent. The bone is then divided at that point by the saw and pliers, the tooth in the line of the track having been extracted previously to the commencement of the operation. The cut end of the jaw is laid hold of by the left hand, and de-