623 HEMATOCELE. Haematocele of the vaginal coat may supervene on hydro- cele, in consequence of external injury ; or bloody effusion may take place from the vessels of the membrane, from sudden abstraction of their customary support, after evacuation of the serous fluid, and whether injection has been resorted to or not; — as happens in careless tapping for ascites. Some of the diagnostic marks of hydrocele are thereby lost; there is no translucency of the swelling, and fluctuation is either indistinct, or altogether imperceptible. The appearance of the contents varies according to the time which has elapsed betwixt their discharge and the occurrence of the extravasation ; if short, coagula float in a thin bloody fluid; if considerable, the liquid is thick, dark, and putrid. Bloody effusion into the scrotal cellular tissue produces a dark appearance of the integuments, and the swelling has a dougliy feel. At one or more points, where the cells are broken down and much blood has collected, fluctuation is perceived more or less distinct. The treatment consists of rest, the recumbent posture, support of the swelling on a small cushion, and the employment of fomentation when the parts are painful. The absorption pro- ceeds slowly ; and after some time, when all painful feelings have ceased, stimulant embrocation may be used, with the view’ of expediting it; a solution of the muriate of ammonia, of the sul- phate of alumina, or of other astringent stimulating salts, may be employed in strength proportioned to the feelings of the patient and the progress of the case. If the tumour suddenly become painful, and increase in size, indicating putrefaction of the blood, and commixture of it with puriform matter, a free incision is to be made, and poultices applied. When the parts have become quiet, and suppuration has been established, poulticing is to be discontinued, and mild and light dressing employed. When, on tapping a hydrocele, the fluid is found to be bloody, injection is not to be resorted to, though the other circum-