406 ULCERS OF THE TONGUE. at intervals of two or three days, not to destroy living texture, but to diminish irritability and dispose to heal. If there be no great loss of substance, deficiency in the soft parts may be re- paired by operation after the ulcerative disposition has ceased. In deficiency of the palate — during the progress of the ulcer- ation in the bone and the parts investing it, and for some time after it has ceased — the inconvenience is lessened by filling the opening with crumb of bread softened, and made into a paste by kneading; this must be frequently renewed, otherwise it collects discharge, and becomes offensive. After cicatrization of the margins, and contraction of the opening, a metallic plate may be fitted in. Ulcers of the Tongue. — Such as are not of a malignant kind are readily healed on improving the state of the digestive organs and general health. The state of the organ indicates that of the chylopoietic viscera, it enjoys intimate sympathy with the other parts of the alimentary canal, and why it should suffer from de- rangements of them is readily understood. The sores may be continued by local irritations, as by friction on encrusted tartar, or sharp or decayed portions of teeth, or by repeated application of heat, as in smoking. In consequence of long-continued irri- tation, like similar ulcers of the lips, they take on malignant action. The malignant ulcer generally occurs in patients past the meridian of life. Yet I have seen the greater part of the tongue involved in carcinomatous swell- ing in young subjects ; from one girl, twelve years of age, I was obliged to- remove one half of the organ vertically. Stony induration surrounds the ex- posed surface to a considerable extent, and the sore presents all the charac- teristic appearances of cancer. In many cases the induration precedes ulcer- ation, in others follows it. A most extensive and dreadful disease of the organ is here represented; along with induration of the whole organ, ulcer- ation had penetrated like a tunnel from the apex to the base ; oedema of the