DISEASES OF THE EYE. 360 the transmission of light. If the anterior chamber be of its na- tural size, a small opening may be made in the cornea with a cataract knife, or a double-edged broad and thin one; and through this opening small scissors may be introduced for division of the iris. II. Corectomia, or cutting out a portion of the iris, so as to make the opening oval, square, or angular. This is performed by introducing, through an aperture in the cornea, scissors and forceps, or hooks, double or single — the latter to lay hold of the iris, the former to divide it. After the escape of the aqueous humour, a portion of the iris may be made to protrude; and, on the projecting portion being cut off, the membrane, with a proper opening in it, regains its natural situation, in consequence of discharge of the humour from behind. This operation is ap- plicable only in few cases; the whole, or the greater part, of the cornea must be clear, and the anterior chamber not dimi- nished in size, so that sufficient room may be afforded for the introduction of instruments between the iris and the concave surface of the cornea. In those cases where the natural pupil remains along with a still transparent lens, while vision has been destroyed by a central opacity of the cornea, the use of sharp and pointed in- struments is forbidden. Sharp hooks or scissors would endanger wound of the crystalline, and the case becoming complicated with traumatic cataract. The blunt hook, as proposed and used by Mr. Tyrrell, is here to be preferred. A small opening is made through the cornea, as the most convenient part, and the hook carefully introduced and entangled in the existing pupil: the iris is then di’awn to the corneal wound, and either left entangled in the section, or removed by a pair of curved scissors. A pupil is thus formed opposite to the remaining transparent portion of the cornea. III. Corodialysis, or separation of the iris from its ciliary attachments, is the method most easily performed, and most gene- rally applicable. The eye is fixed either with the fingers or with a speculum; and a curved needle, perhaps more curved than that usually employed for cataract, is introduced either behind or before the iris, and at the upper, outer, inner, or lower part of the ball, as circumstances may require. An artificial pupil