183 OF TUMOURS. In many encysted tumours, hairs grow from the internal membrane of the cyst, often numerous, and are generally found in those situated on the eyelids ; in some the hairs are destitute of bulbs, lie loose within the tumour, and are often rolled into a globular form. The adhesions of these tumours are in general very slight and easily bx’oken up, but when seated amongst tendons, or in unyielding parts, they are often extremely firm. Violent inflammatory action may follow injuries of the tumours, or the making of even minute openings into them ; suppuration occurs, the discharge is thin, foetid, and often bloody ; there is much pain, and fre- quently severe constitutional irritation. Occasionally, a fungus, bleeding or not, is pi'otruded thi'ough the aperture; more fre- quently, however, the opening heals, and the tumour remains as befoi’e. External injuries sometimes appear to check the secret- ing action, and to excite the absoi'bents to remove the morbid growths, and this with or without rupture of the cyst. Thus, in the case of an encysted tumour the size of a hen’s egg, on the external lateral ligament of the knee joint, free and pretty rough manipulation was necessary to ascertain its nature and exact situation; in consequence of which, the tumour gradually dis- appeared, and no traces of it remained twelve days afterwards. Others of less size, I have known to disappear in a much shorter period. Of Tumours of Bones. The vascular action of bones, in their healthy state, is feeble, but, as in other feeble parts, it is easily excited, and disease of an obstinate and unyielding nature is apt to follow. The morbid growths vary much in texture. The most fre- quent are the osseous, or those of the same structure with the original bone; but even these differ much in the density and arrangement of their particles ; they have been termed exostoses. They may be of gi’eat density, and are then called the hard, or ivory; these never attain a large size, seldom exceed that of a bean, have a smooth and polished surface, and are of a flattened and hemispheroidal form, their greatest circumference being at N 4