SPINA VENT03A OF THE JAW. 419 proceeds slowly, and the expansion of the bone is gradual and uniform ; in other instances, the swelling rapidly attains a large size. As the disease advances, the bony parietes become re- markably thin and delicate, particularly at the more prominent parts of the tumour; and at many points bone is deficient, and its place supplied by membranous expansion. Occasionally alteration of structure takes place in the cyst; solid matter is added, either bony or fibro-cartilaginous, and morbid action proceeds in the new deposit. In acute cases, in which the secretion and distension are rapid, severe pain is felt in the part at the first, and usually continues but little unabated ; when the swelling is slow and gradual, considerable pain is experienced during the inflammatory stage, but soon diminishes, or ceases entirely. In every instance, the features are deformed, and the functions of the mouth more or less impeded. Osteosarcoma may supervene on spina ventosa — morbid action occurring in the parietes, and morbid deposit ensuing, as in the following instance. — The patient was a male, aged 21. Swelling had existed for a considerable time at the posterior part of the lower jaw on the left side. The wisdom tooth and last large grinder, their pulps probably having been blighted, never appeared, and the swelling occupied their situation. The bone was expanded on each side; the upper surface of the tumour was soft, its growth had been gradual, and no great pain or uneasiness was experienced. I cut out an oval portion of the cyst where it projected into the mouth, and well-digested matter was evacuated; a seton was then passed out near the angle of the jaw, and wmrn for some weeks. The plates of the bone approximated, the cavity contracted, and the discharge ceased. Two years afterwai’ds rapid swelling took place in the same situation, suppuration occurred, and the matter was again discharged by incision; the tumour then subsided. Again inflam- matory swelling occurred twelve months afterwards; the same course was followed and the patient relieved. A hard swelling now occupies the jaw from its angle to the canine tooth, it is in- creasing in size; the necessity for its removal is apparent, and has been decided upon. Very shortly after writing the above, the patient submitted to the disarticulation and removal of fully half of the jaw, represented here. He made a rapid recovery,