OF HERNIA. 532 of the abdominal parietes. And this fact requires to be attended to, after operation as well as during the taxis, so as to facilitate replacement of the protruded parts. The same attention to the state of the parts in judging of thepro- priety or not of reduction after operation, and the same after treat- ment, both genei’al and local, is requisite in crural hernia as in inguinal. When the parts are reduced, the edges of the wound are brought together by means of a few stitches; agraduated compress, of proper dimensions, is applied, and retained by a spica bandage. If this is neglected, there is a risk of the parts again descend- ing. Afterwards large mild enemata are to be administered, and, after some hours, purgatives, so as to procure copious and free evacuation of the bowels. In many cases after reduction, the bowels cannot by any means be got to act downwards. This seems sometimes to arise from a sort of paralytic state of the fibres of the part which has been extruded and compressed. Again, it often arises from an indentation of the coats of the bowel at the point where they have been tightly embraced and com- pressed by the sharp edge of the opening, as here repre- sented. The engorged and dark state of the upper portion of bowel contrasts well with the lower, which is generally empty, contracted, and pale. If the stomach continue un- settled, a sinapism may be applied to the epigastrium, or solid opium exhibited. Subse- quently it may be necessary to bleed locally, or generally, or both; in other cases the sti'ength from the first requires sup- port. After cicatrisation, a well adapted truss must be con- stantly worn. Umbilical hernia is generally congenital. The tendinous parie- tes are often deficient to a great extent, and there is consequently much fulness along the umbilical chord. The plan of embracing such tumours in children by ligature, as at one time extensively practised, is now abandoned, there being much risk of peritoneal inflammation and fatal issue. The surgeon is now content with reducing th^ hernia, and applying a tru&s, to prevent displace-