AFFECTIONS OF THE ABDOMEN. 508 treatment must be pursued, and it generally requires to be ex- tremely active. Bloody, serous, or purulent fluids, lodging in the cavity of the pleura, are to be evacuated, if need be, either by incision or by enlargement of the original wound. In the course of the cure hectic usually supervenes to a greater or less degree, and requires the reverse of the previous treat- ment. Affections of the Abdomen. Inflammation of the peritoneum, when idiopathic, is generally treated by the physician. But it occurs in consequence of wound, obstruction from hernia, or affection of the lower bowels. There is a burning heat in the belly; the pain is constant and increasing, much aggravated by the slightest pressure or exer- tion of the abdominal muscles, and the patient, in consequence, lies with these muscles in a state of relaxation. The pain is of a very different character from that arising from spasm, induced by the irritating nature of the intestinal contents, which super- venes in paroxysms, and is relieved by pressure or by evacua- tion. In inflammation the countenance is very anxious, and generally pale; the extremities are cold and bathed in per- spiration ; the patient vomits frequently; and the bowels are generally constipated. The pulse is small, wiry, and rapid. Hernia has been classed with tumours. It is a swelling, but of a peculiar kind, and attended in some states by peculiar symptoms. The term rupture is in common use instead of hernia, but was at first applied from a false notion of the disease. There is a descent of viscera, but not often rupture of the parietes. By hernia is meant protrusion or escape of the contents of any cavity, but the term is most frequently applied in regard to the abdomen. The protrusion may occur at various parts of the abdomen; through the diaphragm, constituting Phrenic Hernia; through the umbilicus, constituting Exomphalos; through the dilated apertures for ti’ansmission of vessels, constituting Ventral Hernia ; through the inguinal canal, constituting Inguinal Hernia; through the crural apertiu’e, constituting Crural or Femoral Hernia. The most frequent forms are the inguinal