CALCULUS VESICA. 639 by farther expansion of the blades, which was impossible. A great many foreign bodies— pieces of pebble — had been introduced; but had the same number of urinary concretions been laid hold of—which is scarcely possible — those farthest from the point and most compressed would have crumbled down, and thus the expansion of the blades would have been diminished. I have not experienced the least difficulty in operating with this instrument, in numerous cases, and at all periods of life. The pre- ferable instrument for the piu’pose is, however, the small screw scoop. The concretion can by its use be crushed and I'educed in volume, so that the urethra does not suffer in the extraction, and the patient is saved much pain. The safety of the proceeding is its greatest recommendation. It is very seldom that any unpleasant symptoms follow; there may, perhaps, be a trifling effusion of blood, and some slight pain in making water may continue for a day or two. Should either irritability of the bladder, or symptoms indicating inflammation of the mucous coat supervene, these must forthwith be combated. Conci’etions of such a size as cannot be made to pass through the neck of the bladder, and along the urethra, and yet are not much larger than a filbert, may, if soft and friable, be laid hold of in the bladder by properly contrived instruments, and acted upon so as to be reduced to powder and fragments, which may either pass off along with the urine, or be extracted by means of forceps. This proceeding is not advisable in children, owing to the small size of the parts and their greater irritability, and in consideration also of the concretions in them being in general exceedingly dense; as formerly noticed, they are most frequently composed of the oxalate of lime. In the adult, it cannot be adopted with safety and propriety, when the bladder is irritable and will not bear a certain degree of distension, and when the prostate gland is large. The cases in which the con- cretion is small, soft, or brittle, and the parts sound and free from irritation, form but a small proportion of those labouring under stone who present themselves to an operating surgeon. However, the bruising, grinding, and rubbing down of stones has been tried in all kinds of cases, but with neither a satisfac- tory nor an encoui’aging result; a case will now and then be met with favourable to these proceedings, but they can never