712 FRACTURE OF THE PELVIS. force, as by a loaded vehicle passing over the body, or by a fall from a great height. The accident is usually attended with serious injury of the viscera contained in the pelvic cavity, or in that of the abdomen ; they may be either ruptured, or lacerated by sharp projecting spiculae, or merely bruised. The nature and extent of the injury is not easily ascertained. There is great pain on motion of the body or of the limbs, and usually extensive extravasation of blood in the soft parts ; these circum- stances, along with the symptoms that may arise from internal organs which have been injured, and a knowledge of the way in which the injury was inflicted, lead to a strong suspicion of fracture of the pelvis. A portion of the crest of the ilium may be broken off, without serious mischief ensuing, and may unite favourably. More ex- tensive fractures, deeper in the pelvis, as in the neighbourhood of the acetabulum, are attended with excruciating pain on the least motion ; in these the existence of fracture may be suspected from the first, but the extent of the injury is not fully known till after death. Fractures near the symphysis, and of the rami, either of the os pubis or ischium, are usually attended with in- jury to the bladder, or to the urethra. Wound of the bladder is almost necessarily fatal, extravasation of urine, with all its fearful consequences, taking place in the loose cellular tissue connecting the upper part of the viscus to the parietes of the pelvis, and in the cellular tissue behind the peritoneum. The urethra may be lacerated by the sharp edge of fractured bone, or it may be ruptured by direct violence applied to itself. The latter case sometimes accompanies partial diastasis of the sym- physis, produced by the person falling astride on a beam. Either injury separately is sufficiently dangerous, and a patient with both is in a very precarious situation. Great extravasation of blood takes place in the perineum, scrotum, penis, and tops of the thighs, infiltration of urine quickly follows, retention super- venes, abscesses form, and the patient perishes under a train of symptoms already detailed when treating of the urinary organs. The treatment is seldom satisfactoi’y. Absolute rest must be procured, and with this view the limbs are to be secured, and a broad band passed round the pelvis. The state of the viscera must be attended to; collections of matter must be evacuated;