407 ULCERS OF THE TONGUE. glottis supervened. Sooner or later the absorbents are affected, becoming swollen, painful, and bard; and, as in malignant affections of other parts, the disposition and action is not limited to those in the immediate neighbourhood of the primary disease. The tongue is subject to simple induration, which is totally un- connected with malignant disposition, and subsides on improve- ment of the digestive organs ; occasionally repeated leeching of the part accelerates the cure. Enough has already been said about removing the local irritating cause, when such can be discovered ; and the maxim, though most important, need not be formally repeated in regard to affections of the tongue. The simple ulcer heals unoer the usual applications to sores or mucous surfaces, the general health being at the same time attended to. For malignant disease, nothing but very early removal of the part can avail. But this is not always either advisable or practicable: the disease may have involved the organ too extensively, and the lymphatics may have too widely participated in the action. When the diseased part is small, and nothing contraindicates surgical interference, it may be removed by the bistoury; usually the bleeding is very slight, but if troublesome it is easily arrested by the cautery. When the disease is extensive, ligatures are to be employed. During the process a vulsellum is useful for grasping the morbid part, and securing the organ. The ligatures should be strong, and are introduced by needles in fixed handles. They may either be passed at once, or be preceded by finer ones, by which they are afterwards drawn through. The tongue is transfixed beyond the induration, and, if one ligature is sufficient, its noose is divided, and the parts tied separately, so as to include the mass. But frequently several ligatures are required, and their portions must be so disposed as not only to isolate all the in- durated and ulcerated part, but also some of the neighbouring sound structure. They are tied firmly, to cut off vitality as completely as possible, and at once. Considerable swelling and profuse salivation follow, but gradually subside. In a short time fresh ligatures are passed through the old perforations, and drawn from time to time, till the part sloughs and drops away. This will not be found necessary if incisions are made betwixt the parts of the ligature in the first instance, so as to permit of their n D 4