POLYPUS OF THE NOSE. 367 Of Nasal Polypi. — These tumours vary in texture and dis- position, as formerly stated: but the soft mucous or benign polypus is, fortunately, by much the most frequent. Generally a great many coexist in one or both nostrils, growing from different parts of the Schneiderian membrane. Sometimes there is but one tumour, of a large size; and in some cases a large cyst, containing colourless fluid, fills the nostril. When numerous, they are in different stages of growth, and generally adhere to the membrane by a narrow neck, though sometimes several are attached by the same pedicle. It is not uncommon to remove ten or twelve polypi, or even a greater numbei’, before the nostril is cleared. The parietes of the narrow passage betwixt the anterior and posterior nares is their most common situation, though their bases may proceed from the cells of the superior spongy bone. The membranous covering of the inferior spongy bone, or of the anterior cavity of the nostril, is often at the same time relaxed: indeed, this of itself causes slight obstruction to the passage of air, and may be mistaken for polypus by the patient and the unexperienced. Projection of the cartilaginous septum to one side, with thickening of its covering, may also give rise to the same mistake. This formation is not uncommon, indeed it is rather frequent; and the projection is generally to the left side, with corresponding depression of the right. The circumstance may perhaps be accounted for by the pressure of the thumb overbalancing that of the fingers in the habitual practice of clearing the emunctory. In polypus, the passage of air is obstructed, the patient feels as if labouring under a common cold — his head is stuffed : in cold and dry weather air passes through the cavity, though with difficulty; in a damp day the obstruction is complete. The tumour evidently increases, comes lower down, and even pro- jects upon the lip. There is watering of the eyes, the lachrymal secretions being prevented from flowing into the nostrils ; and, in cases of old standing, the patient is deaf, from the pressure of the tumours on the extremities of the Eustachian tubes. This latter symptom is not constant, but depends on the position of the tumours. I recollect an old gentleman, an elder of the kirk, afflicted with nasal polypus, who for thirty years had not