448 l-OREIGN BODIES IN THE WINDPIPE. breathing and rapid general emphysema. The patient, a young soldier, died soon after the injury. Large or foreign bodies, as coins, pebbles, portions of stone or of coal, seeds of fruit, &c., put heedlessly into the mouth, are apt to become impacted in the rima glottidis, and give rise to severe and dangerous dyspnoea, or even cause sudden dissolu- tion. Smaller and smooth substances pass through into the trachea. Such accidents happen most frequently to children. Peas, beans, small shells, &c., slip into the air-passage, are ob- structed for a short time in the rima, but are soon forced by the convulsive actions of the patient into the trachea, and frequently lodge in the right bronchus, it being more capacious, and more a continuation of the trachea than the left; or they remain loose in the trachea, and are moved up and down by the passage of the air. Immediately on their introduction, most violent cough- ing takes place, respiration is convulsive and imperfect, the patient writhes in agony, and is in dread of instant suffocation; the countenance becomes inflated and livid, and most strenuous efforts are made by nature to expel the foreign body. At length he is exhausted, and an interval of perfect quiet ensues ; but this is soon interrupted by renewed attempts at expulsion. After a time, the intervals of repose increase in duration, and in many cases are so long continued, as to lull the patient and his friends into a belief that the windpipe contains no extraneous substance. But still violent fits of coughing supervene from time to time, and the dyspnoea is very alarming; on attentive examination, the presence of this foreign body may be ascertained beyond doubt by the peculiar noise produced by its movements in the passage; at the same time, thin mucus is copiously discharged from the lining membrane. Occasionally the foreign body becomes so placed in the canal as to form a complete valve, and then the labours of the patient to dislodge it are most painfully severe; if they fail, he is suffocated. During laborious breathing the neck sometimes becomes emphysematous. The parts may at length get accustomed to the presence of the foreign body, and all uneasiness subside. But danger, though not immediate, still remains. Foreign bodies have remained for years without causing much inconvenience ; but in such cases they have gene-