544 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN. abdominal cavity. When the quantity of blood is not so great as to cause speedy dissolution, the patient may sui'vive for some time, and even ultimately recover. Reaction is slow, the patient continuing a long time pale, exhausted, and almost pulseless; there is tenderness in the hypogastric region, with swelling. The spleen is liable to similar injury, and pours out a large quantity of blood. The gall-bladder has sometimes been torn, as also portions of the small intestines, by a blow or kick, or by a heavy body passing over the abdomen, as the wheel of a loaded waggon. The escape of the contents is followed by sickness, rigour, quick, weak, and indistinct pulse, most excruciating pain, a sense of heat diffused all over the abdomen, and rapid sinking of the powers of life; a fatal termination generally occurs within twelve hours. The same train of symptoms supervene when the contents of the intestinal canal have been effused into the peritoneal cavity, through an opening in the stomach or bowel, caused either by slow destruction of the coats, the peri- toneum giving way last, or by a rapid ulceration or sloughing process, as in hernia. The patient may live in agony for a day or two, but death generally takes place much within twenty-four hours. The same may be said of the rupture of the bladder, from external violence, with effusion of urine into the peritoneal sac. No treatment is of any avail; venesection hastens the sinking. Fomentation over the abdomen, and sedatives either by the mouth or by the anus, soothe the patient, and render his last moments more calm. Penetrating wounds of the peritoneal cavity, if they reach the solid viscera and large vessels connected with them, are attended with effusion of blood externally and internally, in quantities proportioned to the size of the external aperture, the importance of the vessels concerned, and the vascularity of the part. The patient may perish from the bleeding, either instantly or after some time; or inflammation and its consequences supervene in a violent form, and destroy him at a more remote period. The mere opening of the peritoneal cavity, and to a very slight extent, without the slightest injury of the contained parts, is often attended with a great shock to the system, and is followed by inflammatory action, which may run on to a fatal issue, in