TRACHEOTOMY. 453 In other instances, the difficult breathing recurs soon after withdrawal of the tube, the morbid state of the laryngeal mucous membrane having not been wholly removed. In such circum- stances, the tube must be replaced and continued, but a smaller one suffices, less mucus is secreted, and a considerable quantity of air passes through the larynx; in short, the patient requires merely a small tube to obviate the danger which might arise from complete closure of the artificial opening, and to com- pensate for the narrowness of the natural canal. He speaks tolerably well, on placing his finger over the orifice of the tube. In course of time, the lai’ynx may recover, and the tube be no longer necessary. In some cases, a tube of a certain size must be worn during the remainder of life; and it does not generally cause much inconveni- ence. Attempts to discontinue its use give rise to di’eadful suffer- ing ; the difficult breathing, threatened suffocation, and horrible feelings during the night, all recur. The box of the larynx has fallen in, as it were, in consequence of having been long disused, and is unable to resume its functions to their full extent. Besides, great, though gradual, change of structure has in all probability taken place. In several such cases, I have attempted to restore the natural dimensions of the passage, by the occasional intro- duction of bougies, gradually increased in size; but in none have I completely succeeded, except in the case of attempted suicide which has been already detailed shortly. In all, my attempts were at first followed by encouraging amelioration, but untoward symptoms occurring forced me to abandon them, though repeatedly persevered in. In one man, I succeeded in restoring natural respiration and closing the opening in the neck, but this was not of long continuance; a fresh accession of difficult breathing made renewal of the artificial opening absolutely necessary within a few months. Still the I'esults are not such as to forbid further trials ; and at any rate, it is now well under- stood that much greater freedom may be safely used with the air-tube than was formerly imagined; yet it must be acknow- ledged that little benefit can be expected to follow such, or any treatment, in many cases of contraction of the canal, from long- continued disease. The larynx and trachea obtained from the patient whose case is alluded to above are here repre- G G 3