277 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. the right hemisphere of the brain was found of the healthy appearance; but four ounces of pus lay over the left hemisphere, between the dura mater and arachnoid, which latter membrane was of a granular appearance; there was also a small sloughy spot of the dura mater over the left anterior lobe. — A woman, aged 40, fell down and sustained a wound of the scalp on the upper part of the occipital bone on the left side; she suffered but little from the accident, and continued to live freely and irregularly. Seven days after the injury she was seized with shivering : and on the ninth day she lay comatose, voiding her fasces and urine involuntarily. The wound was pale and gleety, and the surrounding scalp puffy ; the bone was bare and white; pupils dilated; pulse slow. The trephine was applied, and fluc- tuation felt beneath the exposed dura mater, which was other- wise unchanged in appeai'ance; the membrane was divided by a trifling crucial incision, but only a small quantity of bloody serum escaped. Shortly after the operation she became quite sensible, but again sunk into a state of stupor, with slightly stertorous breathing and contracted pupils. However, all traces of coma disappeared next day, and she recovered soon and perfectly, apparently without having received either benefit or injury from the operation of trephine. Purulent Collections under the Cranium, between the bone and dura mater, are not of very frequent occurrence, when symptoms are well watched and treatment properly conducted. But these collections certainly may and do occur, and usually at a consider- able period after the accident: many such cases are related by the older authors. Their attendant symptoms are materially different from those of extravasated blood; in the latter case, all the symptoms of compression ensue immediately after the effusion has occurred, and that is generally very shortly after the injury. But matter is not formed till after a considerable period has elapsed; it is not attended with symptoms of compression sud- denly supervening, but is preceded by restlessness or febrile excitement; and in the later stages only of the affection do the symptoms of cerebral compression manifest themselves. By the external injury, those blood-vessels by which the dura mater is attached to the skull, and by which it communicates with the T 3