INFLAMMATION OF THE ANTRUM MAXILLARE. 389 matter comes to the surface. If not interfered with, it usually escapes through the sockets of decayed teeth, or, the anterior thin parietes being absorbed, it comes down by the side of the canine or small molar teeth, and is discharged slowly, so as to annoy the patient by its flavour and foetor, without the abscess being emptied, or a chance of cure afforded. Accumulations of fluid sometimes takes place in this cavity, give rise to great enlargement of the sinus, and continue for many months, without pain or much inconvenience, and without any matter escaping. The bony parietes are attenuated, yield to slight pressure, and return to their original level with a ci’ack- ling noise, such as is produced by parchment. The contained fluid is thin, greyish, and contains flocculent solid particles. In short, the antrum maxillare is occasionally the seat of chronic, as well as of acute abscess. Cancerous ulceration sometimes takes place in the cavity; the matter is not long confined, the parietes soon soften, the teeth drop out, the alveolar processes disappear, and a large opening is formed, which furnishes a fetid, sanious discharge. In inflammation of the antrum, carious teeth must be removed, blood must be abstracted from the neighbourhood of the affected part — leeches being applied to the gums, the Schneiderian membrane, and the integuments — and fomentations to the cheek should be fi'equently and assiduously employed. When the cavity has become distended with ffuid — mucous, muco- purulent, or purulent — such must be evacuated without delay; and the opening must be of such size, and so situated, that the ffuid may escape as soon as secreted. In removing diseased or crowded teeth opposite the part, an opening may be made from the extremities of the fangs having projected into the cavity; it is in a good situation, but cannot easily be made of sufficient size; an aperture of but small extent may be sufficient for the draining of an abscess in soft parts, but hei’e the divided texture is un- yielding, and the perforation must be free. Bad teeth are taken away with the view of abstracting a source of irritation which may give rise to, keep up, or induce a return of collection in the antrum; but extraction of sound teeth, to obtain an exit for the matter, is not warrantable. Even when they are extracted for a different reason, and discharge of matter follows, the surgeon c c 3