VENESECTION. 499 K K 2 be completely obstructed, or at least the blood will not come away so smartly as at first. The blood may also cease to flow quickly from over-tightness of the ligature, and from threatening of syncope; in the former case the ligature is adjusted, in the latter the patient is placed in the recumbent position. When the superficial veins are emptied, the blood flowing by those deep- seated is to be directed to the wound by muscular action ; with this view the patient is made to grasp the lancet-case, or any other solid body, in his hand, and turn it round. If the open- ing in the integument is too small, the flow gradually diminishes, and at length stops, in consequence of blood being insinuated into the cellular tissue, coagulating, and so forming what is termed a thrombus, which plugs the wound. When a sufficient quantity has been obtained, the ligature on the arm is removed, and pressure made below the wound. The integuments around are washed and dried; and two or three small compresses of lint placed on the opening, one above the other, are retained by a riband or narrow bandage, applied in the form of the figure 8; the bandage should be so tight as to prevent the escape of blood, without arresting the flow towards the heart. The arm should be disused for a few hours; and after twenty-four or thirty-six hours, the bandage may be removed, when the opening will usually be found closed. Besides puncture of the humeral artery, or of its branches, other unpleasant circumstances may follow this little operation. The thrombus — a small bloody tumour from infiltration into the cellular tissue around the opening in the vein— proves trou- blesome, as already remarked, by preventing the flow, and may render a fresh opening necessary, either in the same arm or in the other. Afterwards it generally disappears gradually by ab- sorption ; or the opening in the integuments may not close, and the coagulum be separated and discharged after some days. Inflammation and abscess round the opening sometimes super- venes. It is treated by fomentation, poultice, and rest, and the matter must be evacuated by free incision. Inflammation of the surface, with diffuse infiltration into the cellular tissue, is also met with after vene.section; the treatment of such an affection is the same as when it occurs in other situations and circum- stances.