41 OF MORTIFICATION. may be increased beyond its resources, in the same way as the imprudent application of stimulants to a part debilitated by an excessive degree of cold causes its sphacelation, in consequence of the arterial action induced being greater than what the power of the part can support. The mineral acids may be useful in checking the inordinate perspiration; opium, astringents, and absorbents, in arresting the diarrhoea; but all are of little avail unless the exciting cause is removed, and to this latter circum- stance the attention of the practitioner ought therefore to be chiefly directed. It is not always quite safe, however, to free the patient at once of a great suppurating drain. Upon the healing up of extensive and long-continued ulcers, it is often necessary, in order to prevent oppression of and congestion in the viscera of the chest, abdomen, or head, to insert an issue or seton, and gradually withdraw it. In amputations also, more especially in patients above the middle period of life, to rid them of disease which has caused hectic and wasting, in consequence of profuse discharge, it is often advisable to keep part of the wound open, so that it may suppurate, heal, and dry up slowly. Mortification, or the death of a part, is also one of the results of inflammatory action, and the term has been subdivided into Gangrene and Sphacelus. Gangrene is that state in which the larger arterial and nervous trunks still continue to perform their functions ; a portion of the natural temperature remains, and the part may be supposed still capable of recovery. Sphacelus, again, expresses complete death, when, putrefaction being no longer resisted, the part becomes black, cold, insensible, and foetid; but, in general, the distinction between the terms is not strictly attended to. A division of more importance is into humid and dry, or traumatic and chronic, gangrene ; humid or traumatic being applied to mortification produced by external in- jury ; dry or chronic to that resulting from a constitutional cause. Mortification is not always a result of inflammation; it is sometimes preceded by incited action of the vessels, sometimes not. It follows as a matter of course that if inflammatory action is so violent as to cause stagnation of blood in most or all the vessels of a part, and this is continued, there must be a con- sequent failure of nutrition, which will terminate in mortification.