298 DISEASES OF THE SCALP. this purpose lint frequently wetted with tepid water is the best dressing: spirituous or greasy applications can do no good. A free discharge for the matter should be afforded, and the wound kept clean. If the exfoliation goes on slowly, perforation in the dead bone may be made at different points down to the living parts, with the view of expediting the process. Exfoliations are sometimes retained by surrounding granulations overlapping their edges and confining them in their situation; or are fixed by atmospheric pressure, after separation has taken place from the parts underneath by the action of the absorbents, in the same way as a boy’s leathern sucker becomes firmly fastened to the stone to which it is applied. In such circumstances a small screw may be fixed into a perforation carefully made in the bone, and thus the dead part may be lifted out without pain or difficulty, when otherwise it might have lain for many weeks, keeping up the discharge. In this way the large sequestrum, represented at p. 296., was extracted from its bed. The pow- dered red precipitate of mercury may be occasionally sprinkled on the parts surrounding the dead portion, in order that the granulations embracing it may be destroyed, and the part more completely detached. The general health must be all along carefully attended to. Sarsaparilla with guiac, sassafras, meze- reon, &c. is often useful, more especially if pains in other parts continue to annoy the patient. Under such medicines he in general improves very rapidly in appetite, flesh, and strength. The scalp is sometimes, though rarely, the seat of malignant ulcer. In the early stage the ulceration is not of great extent, and affects only the soft parts; perhaps it is confined at first to the common integument, but is extremely apt to extend to the deeper layers which invest the cranium, and even to the bone itself. It is by no means uncommon to find the cranium very extensively diseased, though the affection originated in the superimposed soft parts. Such ulceration of the bone is of a peculiarly destructive nature; it is a disease of the osseous tissue, corresponding to the most malignant ulceration of the soft parts. The bone around the ulcerated cavity is spongy and soft, its margin is irregular, and bristles with numerous spiculae; the centre is composed of soft morbid deposit, entangling small portions of bone which have become detached, and flabby.