783 AMPUTATION OF THE FOOT. up along tlie inside of the bone, till stopped by the tarsus. The surgeon now presses the toe outwards, so as to assist the dis- articulation ; and after this has been completed, the bistoury is carried downwards, close to the outside of the bone, and not brought out till past the lower articulation. The external flap thus formed is then laid accurately down, so as to cover the wound, and retained. The preferable mode of making the flap, so as to expose the metatarsal bone for division or dis- articulation, is well illustrated in the Practical Surgery^ p. 337. The entire bone must be removed in such cases as that here sketched. In cases in which the shaft is comparatively sound, and the disease is principally seated in the articula- tion with its distant extremity, the shaft may be divided with the cutting forceps at a point sufficiently removed from the disease. The operations on the other metatarsal bones are the same as those on the metacarpal. They may be removed, either entirely or in part, along with the corresponding phalanges, by operative procedure similar to that practised on the hand. Sometimes disease of the^o^ is not so extensive as to require or justify removal of the whole organ ; the metatarsal bones are not involved throughout their whole extent. The same remark applies to injury by accident. In such circumstances, ampu- tation is performed at the articulation of the metatarsal bones with the tarsus. The operator first ascertains the exact site of these joints, and then transfixes the foot at that point, passing the knife close along the plantar aspect of the bones; carrying the instrument downwards, a sufficient flap is formed to cover the stump, or a semicircular flap may be made and reflected by cutting from without inwards. The integuments on the dorsum are then divided in the line of articulation, the joints divided successively, and the parts removed. The flap is raised, adjusted, and retained. In dividing the articulations,