OF INFLAMMATION OF THE SEROUS MEMBRANES. Vi- lli inflammation of this tissue, metastasis is also apt to occur, from one part of the membrane to another, and from the mem- brane to the external surface. Cynanche, for instance, often follows upon erysipelas of the face and scalp, and vice versa. The passages, the internal surfaces of which are invested by a mucous membrane, are those subservient to respiration, nu- trition, generation, and the urinary secretions; in other words, the mucous surfaces are the Pneumogastric and the Genito- urinary. Their particular diseases will he treated of here- after. Of Inflammation of the Serous Membranes, On such an extensive subject it is unnecessary to enter fully; not that the inquiry is uninteresting, or that a knowledge of the diseases of the internal cavities, and the mode of treating them, is not required of the surgical practitioner before he can enter into practice, with safety to his patients and comfort and satisfaction to himself, hut we have a very important class of diseases to bring under review in a limited space, and it is pro- perly the province of others to treat of internal disorders, and to describe the best mode of alleviating or curing them. It is, however, the duty of the surgeon to treat the inflammatory affections of some of the serous membranes, and the conse- quences of inflammatory action in most of them; and it is therefore highly necessary that he understand the symptoms, progress, and consequences of such actions. The affections of the serous membranes are principally under the management of the physician; but they not unfrequently follow wounds and surgical operations, and the diseases of several of them are purely surgical. Inflammation of a serous membrane is at- tended with heat and pain, aggravated by motion of the parts and by pressure ; the natural secretion is increased in quantity, the process of exhalation being incited, and that of absorption weakened; the serous fluid accumulates. The secretion be- comes altered in quality, and assumes a milky appearance; lymph is effused, generally mixed with purulent matter, and floats in the fluid, or adheres to the surface of the membrane, which is rough and flocculent. The adherent lymph becomes F 4