414 TUMOURS OF THE GUMS. allowed to cease, and, the cavity having been wiped out clean, a stick of caustic potass is applied to the surface, so as to annihi- late the cyst effectually. This I believe to be the only radical and safe mode of removal; after any other, the tumour is certain to be reproduced. It has been recommended to pass a seton, so as to excite inflammatory action, and lead to obliteration of the cyst. I have made trial of this practice, but most dangerous swelling ensued, the mouth was rapidly filled, and the system alarmingly shaken; after all the disease was not eradicated. Tumours beneath the tongue, however originating, occasionally inflame, and become the seat of unhealthy abscess. A large and painful swelling forms, and projects under the chin. The matter gradually approaches the surface, and perhaps evacuates itself imperfectly into the mouth, or the integuments give way, and afford an external issue. In such cases, an early incision from the mouth may prevent the internal mischief, and the disfigur- ation of the countenance which would otherwise ensue may, in short, limit the suppuration; at a later period a free opening requires to be made below the chin, in the mesial line, and in the direction of the muscular fibres. A ready drain is thus obtained for the matter, and the cavity of the abscess gradually contracts. Tumours of the Gums are usually hard, and not inclined to increase rapidly. They are of the same consistence as the parts to which they are attached, and grow either inwardly, outwardly, or both. They surround one or more teeth, which at last become loose, the alveolar processes then soften, and form part of the swelling. O These may degenerate, and grow rapidly, or the tumour may be soft (tumor mail moris) from the fii'st. The attention of the patient is directed to the part by the occurrence of discharge from about the teeth, which loosen one after another. A soft tumour arises from the sockets after either extrusion or extraction of the teeth, it grows rapidly, and involves more and more of the gums and alveolar processes. Angry ulceration attacks the pro- minent parts of the swelling; the bone is softened to a consider- able extent around; the discharge is thin, bloody, and profuse. Ultimately the lymphatics become affected, neighbouring parts