70 OF INFLAMMATION OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANES. after a time subsides, the rugae disappear, the membrane becomes thickened and indurated, and gradually assumes an appearance exactly resembling that of the skin. In natural paraphymosis, the delicate membrane which, in the healthy state of parts, lines the internal surface of the prepuce, becomes converted into a cuticular covering. In neglected and long-continued excori- ation of the nates, the raw surface, which was at first tender and irritable, and discharged a serous fluid, becomes villous, less sensible, and discharges a fluid similar to a mucous secretion. In sinuses also of long duration, the secreting surface becomes changed, so as to resemble a mucous membrane, and the dis- charge, from being purulent or gleety, becomes mucous, or at least resembles a mucous fluid. A mucous surface, when inflamed, has for a short time, perhaps, at first, its functions suspended; it then furnishes a secretion, increased in quantity, and but little changed in appearance from the healthy fluid; afterwards the discharge resembles pu- rulent matter, and is termed muco-purulent. When, however, the inflammation is violent, the discharge becomes bloody, or is altogether suppressed, and the membrane is thickened. Inflam- mation of a mucous membrane is very apt to spread with great rapidity, in this respect resembling the corresponding affection of the skin. It is attended with a sense of itching, and a burn- ing pain. This pain is much increased by the muscles sur- rounding the parts being thrown into action, as in expelling their contents, more especially if these be of an acrid quality. The membrane is thickened, and of a spongy appearance; its sur- face is red, and sometimes covered with flakes of lymph; occa- sionally it is much softened, and coated with a viscid adherent mucus; and it would appear, in many instances, that, in acute inflammation, the membrane is generally softened, whilst it becomes indurated from chronic inflammatory action. When the inflammation is violent, and consequently rapid, consider- able quantities of lymph are effused either on the surface of the membrane, or into the submucous tissue: and the lymph sub- sequently becoming organised, the membrane is much thickened, and a contraction is the consequence. The functions of a part lined with mucous membrane are more or less deranged, in con- sequence of the vitiation of the secreted fluid.