400 INFLAMMATION OF FAUCES. ternal pressure. There is more or less concomitant fever, pre- ceded by slight shivering. Removal of the local cause, and mild antiphlogistic measures, are usually sufficient to effect resolution, and put a stop to the disease. General bleeding will seldom be required; blood is abstracted locally, either by scarifying the internal surface, or by applying leeches at the angle of the jaw. Fomentations afford much relief, and may be applied either externally, or internally by inhalation of the steam of water, or of water and vinegar. The greatest benefit is experienced from this remedy during the early stage, it being then employed either to promote salutary effusion and effect resolution, or at a later period to forward the secretion of purulent matter. At the same time, antimonials, purgatives, warm drinks, diaphoretics, and the pediluvium, are not to be neglected. In the relaxed state of the parts, after subsidence of the violent symptoms, stimulating and astringent gai’gles may be used with advantage. But in neglected cases, or those originally violent, suppura- tion, sometimes extensive and dangerous, occurs in the cellular tissue, betwixt the pillars of the soft palate, or betwixt the layers of the velum. The swelling thereby formed may be so large as to impede the passage of air by both the mouth and nostrils. The mouth is opened with difficulty and pain; de- glutition is seriously impeded, or altogether impracticable; the voice is weak and indistinct; and the countenance is swollen and discoloured. Life is endangered by the risk of the purulent matter bursting out suddenly during the painful and laborious efforts at respiration, and escaping into the air passages; fatal results have thus taken place, and to prevent such the abscess should be opened early. When the swelling is large, and attended with alarming symptoms, the matter is most conve- niently evacuated by a flat and long trocar and canula. If the abscess be small, and the breathing not affected, there will be no danger in allowing the collection to burst spontaneously. Sup- puration may also occur in the external glandular tumour, or in the surrounding cellular tissue. When sloughing to any extent takes place, it is in patients of an extremely debilitated habit of body, or when the affection is attendant on disease of a malig- nant character. Metastasis may take place to the larynx, to the