720 FRACTURE OF THE FEMUR. been turned round the ankle, should be passed through the notches, so as to be firmly attached to the end of the splint, thereby preventing the foot from shifting. A broad bandage is applied round the pelvis over the groin, and down the thigh, investing all that part of the limb left uncovered by the previous bandaging. A broad band, like a riding belt, is fastened round the pelvis, so as to bind the splint to the trunk, and thereby keep the broken surfaces of the bone in contact. A large handkerchief, or shawl, is brought under the perineum, and its ends secured through the openings at the top of the board. It is evident that, the splint being thus securely fixed and made as part of the limb, tightening of the perineal band will extend the member, and preserve it of its proper length. By care and attention in applying the apparatus, and in adjusting the cushions about the ankle and perineum, there is little or no risk of the skin giving way. The bandages will require to be re-applied once or twice during the cure, and the perineal band should be tightened fre- quently. The apparatus is retained for six or eight weeks, the time necessary for union varying according to circumstances. After its removal, great care must be taken at first in moving the limb and in putting weight upon it: it should be accustomed to its former functions very gradually. The same apparatus is the most effectual for all fractures of the thigh; but those near the distal extremity, and in the lower third of the bone, may be managed tolerably well on the double inclined plane — MTntyre’s splint, the thigh-piece of which is double, the one portion sliding on the other, and made to shorten and lengthen by means of a screw, without removal from the patient. To this the limb is secured by bandaging from the toes upwards; the upper bandage, which should be broad, being continued close to the perineum, and then passed several times round the loins. By elongating the thigh-piece by means of the screw, extension is kept up. Great complaint is commonly made by the patient of pain and stiffness in the knee for a long time after the treatment of broken thigh in the bent position. There is no possibility of treating fracture of the thigh, with any satisfaction or credit, on the outside of the limb with the knee bent; however attentively the splints are placed, shorten-