652 CALCULUS VESICA. is lower than the corresponding portion of the prostatic section ; thus the draining away of the urine is favoured, but it conduces very much to the patient’s safety to ensure still farther its free escape by the insertion of a tube—part passes through the tube, and drops from its orifice, part flows by its side according to the laws of capillary attraction. For some hours after the operation, it is necessary to clear out the instrument frequently by means of a feather, otherwise its extremity will soon become obstructed by coagula; in short, this must be persevered in till colourless flow from the orifice shows that the internal oozing of blood has ceased, and that nothing is passing but urine. When by salutary effusion from the vessels the surface of the wound be' comes consolidated and imperviable to the urine, the tube is to be withdrawn, but not till then; in young persons it may be removed after twenty-four hours, but in those advanced in life and of relaxed habit it must be retained for forty-eight or more. The tube is also of service should bleeding continue from branches of the superficial pudic, from small arterial twigs in the neighbourhood of the prostate, or from venous ramifications and the plexus which surrounds the neck of the bladder; for it admits of the application of efficient pressure to the bleeding point, without interfering with the escape of urine, and so increasing the danger of infiltration. Slips of lint are pushed along it to a sufficient depth, and are retained, if necessary, by compress and bandage, the orifice of the tube being left clear. But, as already stated, it is indeed very seldom that this proceeding will be required, if the operation have been conducted with pi-oper caution. After the tube has been secured by its tapes, or during this process, the patient is unbound; he is placed in bed with the thighs separated and bent, and must be kept very quiet. Di- luents are administered copiously, to encourage the secretion of urine; he cannot wet too much. His nourishment must be very sparing, consisting chiefly of bland fluids; and all sources of inquietude and irritation must be carefully avoided. De- pletion, whether general or local, will very seldom be required; danger is not to be apprehended from inflammation so much as from infiltration of the cellular tissue by urine. In the fatal