78 OF DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. chronic affections of the joints, and all the apparatus is sooner or later involved. When the cartilage has been extensively absorbed, a grating sensation is felt in moving the articular sur- faces of the bones upon each other. In consequence, also, of the softening and disorganisation of the lateral and other liga- ments, the affected articulation at length becomes unnaturally loose, which is owing in some measure, also, to the muscles being wasted and paralysed from pain and disuse. At an earlier stage of the disease, the joint may be rigid from deposition of lymph into the contiguous cellular tissue, and contraction of the muscles. Purulent matter not unfrequently collects in the substance of the hones, which in all cases ultimately become softened in a remarkable manner. In many subjects, without actual disease of the osseous tissue, the heads of the bones are so altered in consistence, are so deficient of earthy matter, as to be easily cut with a knife. It has been a matter of dispute, whether, in this affection, the articulating extremities of the hones are enlarged or not; and the supposition that they are always more or less increased in size, or hyper- trophied, has arisen from the extensive effusion and indurated state of the soft parts being mistaken for this enlargement. In the first stages of the disease, they are seldom, if ever, enlarged; but when ulceration of the bone has occurred, new osseous matter is deposited to a greater or less degree in the neighbourhood of the ulcer, — an attempt by nature towards a cure, hut too often an ineffectual one. The bones, in strumous subjects, are often much enlarged, from collection of purulent matter in their substance giving rise to a sort of spina ventosa. I removed the upper extremity of a boy lately on account of extensive disease about the elbow. The ulna to near the wrist was swollen enormously by purulent collections in its medullary canal. In cases when the whole of the articulating extremity of the bone is not enlarged, still that portion which is more imme- diately concerned in the articulation is often considerably expanded. Frequently when the knee is the seat of the disease, the lymphatic glands in the groin are enlarged; and when the elbow or wrist joints are affected, there is often a similar en-