427 WOUNDS OF THE FACE AND NECK. Wounds of the Face and Neck. Accidental wounds of the face may involve the more important blood-vessels and nerves, and interfere with the eye or its appendages, with the nose, or with the mouth. Injury of these parts is to be avoided in incisions premeditated for the I'emoval of disease or deformity; and, in in such premeditated wounds, the line of incision should always be, if possible, in the direction of the muscular fibres. Tlie bleeding seldom proves troublesome; pressure on the vessels, as they pass over the bones, arrests it temporarily; and ligature is seldom required, accurate adaptation of the divided surfaces proving sufficient for effecting permanent closure of the divided branches. Paralysis, more or less extensive, follows division of the nerves and muscles. Put paralysis of the face also arises from a variety of other causes ; it often remains after injuries of the head, probably in consequence of extravasation on the brain ; it attends on morbid formations in the substance of the brain, or in its membranes, and follows long-continued irritation in the neighbourhood of the nerves. Paralysis from the last-men- tioned causes is not likely to be recovered from; that following simple division of nerve, may disappear after a considerable time, the nervous tissue reuniting, and resuming its functions. When there is reason to suppose that the nervous function is alone deranged, while the structure remains sound and the continuity undissolved, advantage may follow the application of strychnine to a raw surface over the course of the affected nerves. In Tic Doloureux, division of the nerves of the face, as they pass out of the foramina, is seldom resorted to; nor ought it to be practised, unless at the urgent request of the patient, and after all other means have failed to afford relief; and even then the operation is scarcely warrantable, since it may be said never to have succeeded in affording permanent relief. We must trust to milder measures, to the removal of local irritations, to paying strict attention to the digestive organs, to the administration of purgatives, tonics, and anodynes; occasionally benefit has resulted from the external use of the nitrate of silver, applied so as to cause very slight vesication. Ointments containing veratria and aconitine have been used with advantage, and the endermic application of the salts of morphia has also been found useful.