OF ERYSIPELAS. 62 extract of belladonna, in doses of one-sixteenth of a grain, may then he substituted with great advantage, and often with the most extraordinary effect upon the disease. In very many cases, the strength is from the first to be supported by all possible means, by nourishing diet, by the exhibition of wine, quinine, and other tonics; more particularly in old people — in constitu- tions debilitated by disease — in unhealthy situations, and when the fever is of the typhoid kind. Bleeding by leeches is not admissible, for the leech-bites prove a source of irritation, and are liable to suppurate; erysipelas has often been produced by leeching. In erythema, the mere outer surface of the skin only being slightly affected, and not to any very great extent, advantage sometimes results from the application of nitrate of silver. A strong solution may be pencilled upon the part, or, after being wetted, the affected surface may be gently rubbed over with the solid caustic. The pain and uneasy sensations in the part being thereby diminished or removed, and extension of the disease seeming to be arrested. Discoloration caused by such practice is of little consequence, as desquamation must follow. It is ques- tionable how far it may be safe to apply lunar caustic to any extensively inflamed surface, more especially of the head and face, lest metastasis should occur. The inflammatory action in the skin is subdued by the application, whilst it may advance, in the cellular tissue, to suppuration and sloughing, if other means are not adopted; and from the hard and blackened state of the cuticle, the condition of the subjacent parts is not readily perceived. The remedy is only applicable to erythema, and most advantageously as a means of bounding it. The line should be drawn at some distance from the affected tissues; and if so, it is seldom that the disease oversteps it. Local abstraction of blood, by puncture or incision, proves ex- ceedingly beneficial in cases of erysipelas, whatever its degree. It must be borne in mind by the practitioner, when called to treat the disease, that the state of parts is very various, and this may depend upon the original nature of the disease, upon its site or duration. The surface of the skin only may be affected — that and the subjacent cellular tissue may be involved, gorged with serous, lymphatic, or purulent infiltration — there may exist