LUXATION OF THE LOWER JAW. 733 by the accident, and in consequence interposes an obstacle to the head of the bone slipping into its socket. After reduction, inflammatory action in the articulation and its neighbourhood is to be expected, to a greater or less degree, particularly when much force has been employed, and means must be taken to avert this; local remedies are generally sufficient, along with perfect rest. In luxation of the loicer jaic, both articulating ends are most frequently dislodged. They can escape in but one direction, forwards into the temporal fossm; when both are dislodged, the mouth is widely open, and fixedly so, the chin is drawn down- wai'ds and backwards. When one is displaced, the jaws are partially opened, the chin is twisted to a side, and immovable. Great pain is experienced from the pressure of the condyles of the bone on the temporal muscles, from stretching of the fibres of the pterygoids, and from interruption to the functions, by pressure, of the contiguous bloodvessels and nerves. Masti- cation is impossible, the speech is altered, and indeed articu- lation may be said to be impracticable. It is supposed by the vulgar that the accident is particularly apt to happen to infants and young persons. Nurses are in consequence careful, when a child yawns, to support the chin, and pronounce an accompanying blessing. The articulating cavity is then shallow, yet luxation must be rare in young sub- jects. In my own experience no instance of dislocated jaw has occurred but in adults; and then, either from over-opening of the jaws, or from powerful muscular action during depression of the inferior maxilla. The nature of the injury is at once known; and the displace- ment is easily remedied. But I have met with instances where, through ineffectual attempts at reduction, the unnatural position has been allowed to continue for many hours, to the great distress of the individual. The object in view is to depress the ramus — one or both, as may be — and to raise the chin. This is effected by pressure with the thumbs on or in the situation of the m.olar teeth, whilst with the fingers the jaw is moved up- wards and backwards. The thumbs need not be protected by a glove, as is generally recommended; on the bone resuming its