590 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. and retention of the instrument quickly disappear, the stricture becoming tight and unyielding as before; when this takes place, the practice is to be repeated, but not till after several days, and then the instrument will be retained with advantage for a longer time than before, provided no untoward symptoms are caused by its lodgement. There are very few strictures, indeed, which will not yield to this treatment, when judiciously planned and perseveringly followed. Fistulous openings generally close in a short time, when once the urethra has been widened. Their contraction may some- times, however, prove slow and imperfect, even after the stric- ture has been entirely removed, and the application of the cau- tery may be requisite; to accomplish this, when the opening terminates in the rectum, a speculum ani is required, by which to view the aperture, and ascertain its site, and along which to pass the heated wire with safety to the bowel. The cautery is not to be applied so as to produce an extensive slough, and much loss of substance, but lightly to the edges. On the separation of the superficial eschar, the margins are raw, excited, and swollen, with a disposition to granulate; and during cicatrisation of the sore, considerable contraction takes place, independent of the formation of new matter. After the contraction thus elFected has occurred to its full extent, and not before, the cautery is reapplied; and by a few repetitions of the instrument at long intervals, the opening is brought to close. At one time attempts to destroy the contraction of the urethra, by the application of caustic to the stricture, were in great vogue; but the total inefficiency of such practice is now generally acknow- ledged. The armed bougie was in many cases applied hundreds of times, at considerable intervals; and the mode of treatment, though trying, tedious, and hurtful to the patient, must have proved useful to the surgeon—but to him alone. Years were spent in such trifling, and not unfrequently serious consequences followed this treatment, or rather neglect, of the disease. Cut- ting catheters are dangerous, as well as inefficient for the cure of stricture; thrusting at the end of a long stricture can avail but little, and in the hands of most practitioners the instrument is as likely to perforate the coats of the urethra as to enter the stricture.