444 DISEASES OF THE WINDPIPE. and subsequently ulcerates; or ulceration may extend from the fauces. In some cases, the ulcers of the larynx are few, and of slight extent; in others, they are more numerous, and of con- siderable width and depth; and in some there is extensive and uninterrupted destruction of the surface, surrounded by thickened and elevated mucous membrane. This disease is termed Phthi- sis Laryngea. It is characterised by constant tickling cough with expectoi’ation of purulent matter; by pain in the region of the larynx increased on pressure; by great prostration of strength, with general sinking of the vital powers, and fre- quently by hectic fever. From extension of the ulceration, the vocal chords, the ventricles of the larynx, and the mucous folds forming the rima glottidis, are more or less injured, and frequently altogether obliterated; partial or complete aphonia is the consequence. In phthisis laryngea, especially when advanced, swelling from serous effusion, to a greater or less degree, almost certainly supervenes, the oedema is found in the upper surface of the epiglottis, beneath the mucous membrane, upper and fore part of the pharynx, and occasionally also in the lips of the glottis, — an effect of the contiguous ulceration, — in the same way as oedema glottidis supervenes on ulceration of the lining membrane of fauces and pharynx; the usual train of symptoms denoting phthisis laryngea may thus be interrupted by those of oedema of the glottis becoming (each paroxysm) more and more urgent, terminating in suffocation or relieved by tracheotomy. From the reasons which have been already stated, inspiration is performed with difficulty, and accompanied with a wheezing and rattling sound, resembling the passage of air through a narrow aperture lined with viscid fluid. Deglutition is difficult; and, from the inactive state of the muscles which naturally close the glottis during swallowing, and from the greater or less destruction of the epiglottis, a portion of the fluid taken by the mouth escapes into the windpipe, produces violent coughing, and is ejected by the mouth or nostrils. As the disease advances, the lungs become affected, the patient is incapacitated for oi’di- nary exertion by the dyspnoea which ensues, he grows weak and languid, and seems, in fact, to labour under phthisis pulmonalis. Not unfrequently the two diseases are combined; but, in the