CARIES OF THE TEETH. 416 or of long duration, it not unfrequently happens that abscesses form within the substance of the jawbone, and occasionally to a considerable extent — a portion of the bone having become inflamed, and the action terminating in suppuration and partial caries. This is more apt to occur in the inferior than in the superior maxillary bone; and, if allowed to proceed, the osse- ous cyst containing the purulent matter gradually enlarges, the plates of the bone are separated and expanded, the parietes become attenuated, and the affection is termed spina ventosa. Purulent collections in this situation also seem, in many in- stances, to arise from, or at least to be preceded by, the form- ation of a cyst around the decayed root of a tooth. Such cysts are generally of small size, and pyriform shape; exter- fnally thej' are smooth, membranous, and of rather a delicate texture ; internally, they are lined by lymph of soft consistence, and contain purulent matter. In fact, they are purulent depots, which form in conse- quence of inflammation around the fangs of the teeth, and from which the matter is occasionally discharged through a small aperture at the upper part of the cyst, and by the side of the affected tooth. They sometimes attain a very considerable size. Mercury is perhaps the most common cause of this disease; but it is also produced by certain operations on the teeth, and by the presence of carious teeth or of stumps. Caries of the teeth is an extremely common affection, and in some instances seems to arise from an unhealthy state of the constitution; but it is most frequently produced b}" the teeth having suffered from chemical agents, as when the mineral acids have been taken for a considerable time as medicines, or when the individual is in the habit of consuming sweetmeats and con- fections. Sometimes the disease remains almost stationary, and may give little or no annoyance for a number of years; in other instances, its progress is very rapid. A portion of the tooth gradually decays, and this is at first unattended with any un- easy sensation; but when, from continuance of the destructive process, the central cavity has been exposed, the pain is excru- ciating, attended with headache, and swelling of the surrounding