OF ULCERS. t Q 2 be better accomplished by touching the surface lightly with lunar caustic or bine stone; the fluids on the part are thereby immediately coagulated, a crust is quickly formed, and by covering it with charpie, it is retained in its situation, whilst the process of cicatrisation proceeds beneath it: if a small quantity of matter should be secreted, it readily escapes by the sides of the crust, without disturbing either it or its covering; the limb should be raised above the level of the trunk. Sores on the lower limbs are always difficult to manage. The reparative process is tedious, on account of their situation; the parts are at a distance from the centre of circulation, their action is weak, the return of blood is tardy, and the same facility is not afforded of restraining the motions of the part as in the upper extremi- ties. In persons of a good constitution, however, the simple purulent sore often heals speedily, even in the lower limbs. Before cicatrisation can take place, it is essential that the granulating surface should be on a level with the sound surface around; this soon takes place when a favourable position is observed, and the part is kept at rest; but by neglect, the new matter is often absorbed. Again, the healing process cannot advance where the granulations are exuberant, large, and flabby, and have risen above the proper level: they must be kept in check by due compression, and by astringent lotions, containing salts of zinc, copper, &c. The constant meddling with sores, the touching them with this, that, or the other caustic, is much to be reprobated. Should it be necessary to destroy granula- tions, and bring them down to the surrounding surface, one good rubbing with the blue stone will generally suffice. If the ulcer is large, the granulations close to the cicatrix should only be destroyed, leaving the centre to be dealt with as the cure advances. During the cure, the patient must be a good deal confined to the recumbent posture; when erect, a bandage or laced stocking must be applied to the limb; thus the return of blood is assisted, swelling is prevented, and the affected parts placed in a state of comparative rest. Much pressure ought to be avoided, as it is apt to produce bad effects upon the sore, causing absorption of the granulations, thin bloody discharge, and great tenderness of the surface. After cicatrisation, the scars may be absorbed, and