741 LUXATION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. impracticable, the limb cannot be brought quite into the ex- tended state, and rotation is difficult and painful. Swelling soon takes place, and consequently the hollows are filled up, and the processes of the bones obscured. Yet the olecranon and inner condyle can always be recognised and felt, and their relative position ascertained ; the form of the end of the humerus, its hollows, and its prominences, can be distinctly discerned, both before and after the swelling, the soft parts being stretched over the bone; and by rotating the limb with one hand, whilst the other is placed over the outer and back part of the joint, the situation of the head of the radius is detected. Thus the relations of the bones to one another are discovered; and this must be done at once, whatever pain may be produced by the examination, for it is a saving of suffering in the end. Yet the nature of this injury would seem difficult of detection — a fact scarcely intelligible by any one who is careful in his manipula- tions, and who possesses common observation, and a sound knowledge of anatomy. Many cases of unreduced luxation are met with ; I have seen it in both elbows of the same person ; and I have had a dozen of cases, in as many months, of unreduced elbows shown too late for attempts at reduction. The frequent occurrence of such blunders is the more lamentable, as it is almost impossible to replace the bones after three or four weeks; indeed, I have been foiled at the end of two weeks. The parts soon accommodate themselves to their new position, the olecra- non process shortens, motion rapidly increases, and the bones get more and more secure in their new relations, — osseous matter being deposited laterally, forming cavities for their lodgement, and new ligamentous matter confining them thereto. After a time, flexion can be made to a right angle; and the limb becomes tolerably useful. By unsuccessful attempts to restore the natural position, inflammation is excited; and thus the salutary processes, commenced by nature for reparation of the displacement, are interrupted and delayed; in young per- sons such disease of the joint may be produced as might lead to loss of the extremity. Luxation of the Radius alone, backwards on the outer con- dyle, is sometimes met with; but this bone is seldom singly 3 B 3