RHINOPLASTIC OPERATIONS. 380 away the discharge and correct the foetor, as diluted tincture of myrrh, or of aloes, a lotion containing a proportion of kre- osote, the sulphate of zinc, solutions of the chlorides of lime or soda, &c. Applications, soothing or stimulant, are made to the exposed sores according to their appearance and disposition. When the ulcer is of an angry and irritable aspect, it is to be touched lightly with the nitrate of silver, in substance or solu- tion, and then covered with a bread and Avater poultice. Fow- ler’s solution of arsenic is useful in some cases, when the object is to clean or destroy the surface ; this is also effected by a slight application of the potass. A very manageable and efficient escharotic is the chloride of zinc. It is mixed with an equal quantity of dried plaster of Paris or flour, and made into a paste, with a few drops of water for application. Black wash sometimes agrees well, as also a liniment of olive oil and lime- water, with citrine ointment (three parts of the former ingre- dients to one of the latter), or the sulphate of zinc lotion. When the sore is very indolent, showing no signs of granulation, it may be touched occasionally with spirit of turpentine, either pure or combined with alcohol, and afterwards covered with an ointment composed of ung. cerae and spir. terebinthinae ; under this application ulcers often heal, after having resisted all others. But nitrate of silver applied gently, and repeated at the interval of two or three days, will, in the majority of cases, be found the most efficient remedy, combined with the simple dressing of tepid water. Constitutional treatment must not be neglected. When the disease cannot be traced to mercurial action, small doses of the bichloride of mercury are allowable when excitement is re- quired. The arsenical solution given internally sometimes pro- duces good effects. In foul internal disease of the nostrils with cachexia, no medicine exerts so beneficial an influence on the general health and local disease, as sarsaparilla, exhibited either in decoction, in extract, or in powder. Loss of substance, from ulceration or injury, is repaired by surgical operation. A portion of integument is borrowed from some other part, and by the adhesive process is made to cover and supply the deficiency. Such operations were contrived and practised by Sicilian and Italian surgeons some centuries ago, and were revived in our day in Germany. The integument was