74 OF DISEASES OF THE JOINTS, and the activity of the absorbents is diminished, the fluid accu- mulates within the joint, producing Hydrops Articuli. This accumulation of fluid in joints may take place without being preceded by any apparent inflammation, and may remain a long time without any visible change of structure in the membrane. The knee is more frequently the seat of dropsy than any other joint. When the action is more violent, and is not actively opposed, lymph is effused on the inner surface of the membrane, or is deposited amongst the ligamentous and cellular tissues external to the joint, in consequence of which, the membrane and ex- ternal ligaments become thickened, and of an almost cartilagin- ous consistence. Serum is effused into the more superficial cellular tissue, filling up the hollows around the joint, conceal- ing the protuberances of the bones, and producing a globular swelling. The articulating surfaces become ulcerated, and matter forms within the capsular ligament; or the pus is deposited ex- teriorly to the joint, and gradually approaches the surface. But although ulceration is so prone to occur in the cartilages, the synovial membranes do not readily take on this action, unless from the progress of matter, formed within the joint, towards the surface. The synovial lining of the bursae and sheaths of the tendons are extremely indisposed to ulcerate ; and it may be remarked, that, while suppuration without ulceration is common in the synovial membranes, the cartilages, on the other hand, afford frequent instances of ulceration without suppura- tion, of which more particular mention v/ill be made in the sequel. The cartilage is occasionally swelled and softened where the disease has long existed. Along with ulceration of the cartilage, a portion of it may become dead, or either state may occur separately; and in many cases, the substance of the bone also becomes affected, of which two classes of cases may occur, viz. great inflammation on the articular surface of the bone, with separation of the car- tilage by the ulcerative process in this situation; and inflamma- tion of the medullary web, leading to atrophy of the cancelli, collections of pus therein, or even death of a portion of the spongy texture of the bone, as will be more particularly treated of in the chapter on diseases of the osseous tissue.