337 DISEASES OF THE EYE. conjunctiva, it is sometimes necessary to remove a greater or less part of the diseased membrane by escharotics, the knife, or scissors; and after this has been accomplished it is well to encourage bleeding to a slight extent. In removing part of the palpebi’al conjunctiva, care must be taken to avoid injuring the cartilage of the tarsus; and, in the lower lid, not to take away too large a portion, lest entropion should occur during cicatri- sation. In hospital practice, the infected should be separated from the healthy; and promiscuous use of towels and sponges must not be allowed. In. Purulent Ophthalmia of Children, antiphlogistic means must be pursued, if the patient is seen during the first stage of the disease; but children do not bear depletion well. After the dis- charge is established, the surface of the eye must be kept free of matter, by frequent injection of a bland, tepid, fluid; and sti- mulating or astringent collyria should be applied three or four times a-day. When Inflammation of the Cornea is established, it is exceed- ingly difficult to procure contraction of the vessels. Active an- tiphlogistic measures must be employed in the acute stage; and in the chronic, stimulant applications are to be had recourse to. As, however, corneitis is frequently kept up in its chronic form, from deficient constitutional power in strumous habits, strict attention must be paid to the diet and secretions of the patient. Mild mercurial alteratives, diaphoretics, and tonics combined, will often effect a cure, where all local treatment has been tried in vain. When a large plexus of vessels remain dilated on the part, the most effectual method of removal is to divide them, as they ramify on the sclerotic, by means of scissors, or a fine knife, and afterwards to employ stimulating applications. The irritability of ulcers on the cornea is diminished by the application of nitrate of silver, in solution or substance. If in solution, the application is used in the proportion of three to ten grains of the salt to the ounce of distilled water; if in substance, a portion, finely pointed, is gently applied to the sore, which may be afterwards besmeared with a little oil or simple ointment, in order to confine the action of the nitrate z