316 DISEASES OF THE EYE. membrane is a serious evil; and in some cases the cornea be- comes extensively ulcerated, unusually vascular, and opaque. When the conjunctiva only is in fault, the deformity is slight, and the state of matters is readily ameliorated by excision of the relaxed portion. This is done by sharp curved scissors. As the wound gradually contracts, the eyelid is drawn inwards, and, on cicatrisation taking place, the parts have become restored to their healthy condition. Care, however, should be taken that too much of the swollen conjunctiva is not removed, otherwise the subsequent contraction may cause inversion of the lid. Combined with the above practice, relaxation of the lid itself will in many cases be remedied by removal of a portion of it in the form of the letter V, by means of a sharp-pointed bistoury: the edges of the incisions are afterwards put together by a point of interrupted suture. When eversion arises from a cicatrix of the integuments, the part in fault may be divided; but a tem- porary benefit only can be procured. For, during the healing of the wound, the parts again contract; and, though a portion of the conjunctiva is at the same time removed, the contraction internally will hardly counteract that which is going on exter- nally. In order fully to obviate the evil of this contraction of the cicatrix in inveterate cases of ectropion, a form of plastic operation may be successfully resorted to. The cicatrix being dissected out, and the tarsal cartilage brought neatly into po- sition, a piece of integument from the temple or cheek may be adapted, and a portion of a new eyelid formed. The parts may sometimes be brought into a good position without the necessity of borrowing any portion of integument. A V-shaped incision can be made, the apex pointing downwards, so as to loosen the under lid; and after it has been drawn upwards and put straight, the edges of the lower part of the exposed space are united by suture. Entropion.) or inversion, consists in the turning in of the tarsal margins of the lids, and generally takes place during inflam- mation and swelling of the conjunctival lining of the lid. During violent inflammation of the lid the conjunctiva and integuments are much swollen, and bulge out externally; by the projection