OF DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 82 moveable, or nearly so. In complete anchylosis, the cancellous texture of the two bones, after some time, becomes perfectly con- tinuous, so that they in fact constitute but one bone, as seen in cut, p. 96. A very perfect specimen of anchylosed knee joint is also delineated on the preceding page. But even after this happens, the disease is still apt to recur from slight causes, the bony or ligamentous union being disturbed or destroyed, and the original disease attacking the parts with fresh activity ; abscesses form,— may be extensive both in size and number, — and thereby the health is again undermined. So that the patient, after under- going much suffering and risk, preserves, perhaps only for a few years, a limb which is almost useless to him, and which must be removed at last. In other cases, the union is permanent, the disease does not return; by care and time the limb is brought into the most convenient position, and proves of considerable service. The joints are often affected by rheumatic and gouty inflam- mation : and there are three species of disease, tolerably distinct in their pathological characters, generally attributed to these causes. In one there is a deposit of ehalky-looking matter, composed chiefly of super-lithate of soda, on the articular sur- faces of the synovial membrane and cartilage, but most abun- dantly in the cellular tissue outside the joint, an affection in which the cartilage is seldom known to ulcerate. In the second, the cartilages are atrophied, as if worn away by attrition, the arti- cular surfaces of the bone being much modified in shape, more or less denuded of cartilage, and remarkably polished and hard, so as to have been compared to porcelain, as will be described in another section. In the third, the fibrous tissue in the neighbourhood of a joint is primarily affected, the synovial membrane and cartilages not becoming involved till the disease is much advanced. It is not uncommon in the elbow of middle-aged persons who have been much exposed to atmospherical vicissitudes, and is sometimes attributed