551 OF HAEMORRHOIDS OR PILES. The neighbouring parts often swell and inflame. Sometimes one or two tumours only exist; or they occur in numbers, clustered together, and form a large irregular mass, inflamed, and often ulcerated. Acute pain is experienced in the part, when touched and after straining at stool ; by straining too, such as are attached within the sphincter are pushed out, together with folds of the mucous membrane, and, if allowed to remain, are constricted by the sphincter, swell in consequence, ulcerate or slough, and discharge blood. The bleeding often is very vio- lent in such cases, or when the tumour is punctured; the blood flowing in great quantity, and in a rapid stream. The haemor- rhage is often periodical, both in males and females; in the latter, it would seem occasionally to take the place of the men- strual flux. The soft bluish tumours that are compressible, and fluctuate when large, furnish blood more readily and pro- fusely than the hard and tuberculated. Much irritation is produced by piles, and some of them are more irritable than others. There are often extensive exco- riation of the nates around, and profuse discharge from the raw parts, particularly when the tumours are external. In such cases, flat, hard, warty excrescences often form in the cleft of the nates, and increase the irritation; these are ■ termed fici, mariscae, and condylomata. In internal piles, a frequent desire to go to stool is induced, and more or less of the mucous coat of the rectum is protruded and swollen. The tumour, along with the protruded portion of bowel, may become strangulated if not replaced. By such or other causes inflammation is excited, which often extends to the neighbouring parts, and terminates in abscess; but this is not so apt to occur from tumours seated high in the rectum as from those about the verge of the anus. The usual cause of piles is obstruction to the return of blood in the haemorrhoidal veins; and this may be occasioned by ad- vanced pregnancy, habitual distension of the colon and sigmoid flexure, with hardened faeces, or tumours of the abdominal viscera. Injlamviation of the Rectum is attended with excruciating pain, *N .N 4