342 DISEASES OF THE EYE. stant. As the disease advances, the cornea is rendered opaque by the fulness of the chambers, and the aqueous humour becomes turbid and of a milky appearance ; or lymph is effused into the anterior chamber, and floats about in flaky portions. Occasion- ally the vessels of the iris are so distended as to give way, causing effusion of blood into the chamber, often in considerable quantity. More frequently, however, purifoi’m fluid is deposited, occa- sioning the appearance termed Hypopium. The pus is either fluid or of a thick curdy consistence: when fluid and thin, it mixes with the aqueous humour, rendering it white and opaque ; if of firmer consistence, it lodges in the lower part of the cham- ber, but changes its position, and mixes partially with the humour, on the head being moved; when dense and curdy, it remains separate from the humour, and its position is not altered by motions of the head. During the progress of the inflammatory action, all the symp- toms increase; the pain shoots to the top of the head, and is much aggravated by pressure on the eyeball. Of course vision is materially impaired. Constitutional disturbance always ac- companies the affection, and exists in a greater or less degree according to the extent of the disease. The iris may be prima- rily affected, but the other textures, both external and more deeply seated, too often become involved; and in aggravated cases the whole eyeball suffers. When the most internal parts, as the choroid coat, the retina, and the vitreous humour, are affected, sudden and bright flashes of light disturb the patient, whilst vision is rapidly lost, and for ever. Occasionally the in- tense over-action terminates in suppuration of all the affected textures, and the eyeball soon becomes completely disorga- nised. In Rheumatic Ophthalmia the appearances of the diseased eye are similar to those in ophthalmia produced by any other cause. But the affection is accompanied with, and seems to arise from, I’heumatic diathesis. There is pain in many of the joints, and frequently in the scalp and portions of the face, increased on hanging the head, and by pressing the parts. The pains are re- mittent, supervene at night, and subside in the morning. In general the ophthalmia is external; but in severe cases the in-