LUXATION OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. 736 investing the fibrous tissue round the articulating cavity. With- out disruption, complete luxation cannot exist — the articulating surfaces cannot be separated, nor can the head of the humerus be altered in position; subluxation, or, in other words, a sprain, may occur in such circumstances, but true luxation cannot. Bruises of the shoulder, with or without fracture, either of the scapula or of the upper part of the humerus, must not be mistaken for dislocation, for the consequences of such a blunder are fearful. In both descriptions of accident, the appearances of the limb are somewhat similar, and hence the examination requires to be particularly accurate and careful. In both there is flattening of the shoulder, but in fracture there is crepitus, motion to an unnatural extent, though painful, and greater suffering during manipulation; in dislocation no crepitus at all resembling that in fracture can be perceived, the motions of the limb are very limited, and the displaced head of the bone can almost always be felt. The direction of the force, too, as al- ready observed, when on the subject of fracture, is an important assistant in diagnosis; from falls or blows upon the shoulder we may expect fracture, from falls on the elbow or palm, luxation. In dislocation an indistinct feeling, sometimes amounting to obscure crepitation, is occasionally perceived during rotation of the limb; and this arises from one or more of the tendinous attachments of the muscles having, during their disruption, torn away a portion of their osseous attachment. Great pain attends on dislocated humerus, from the head of the bone compressing and stretching the axillary plexus; and the interruptibn to the flow of the blood produces tingling at the points of the fingers, numbness of the whole limb, and after a time swelling of the hand and forearm. Flattening of the shoulder, and depression under the acromion, are the most prominent marks of displacement having occurred, and are at once apparent. They are more distinctly perceived on com- paring the two shouldei’s; then the acromion on the affected side stands remarkably outwards. The projection is not so apparent when the immediate swelling from effused blood has been fully formed, but the hollow under the acromion can be felt through any quantity of extravasated blood. The arm