631 CALCULUS VESICA. of the vessel as the urine cools, they are termed either mor phous, or amorphous, according as they are crystallised or not. To correct the calculous diathesis is an object of much im- portance; solution of the concretion in the bladder is now allowed to be impracticable. The principal attention is to be directed to the digestive organs and skin ; these must be brought into a sound state by attention to diet, and the exhibition of laxatives, tonics, antacids, &c., as the individual case may require, by exercise and baths. And much benefit is also derived from the use of either alkalies or acids in solution, according to the nature of the deposit. The uric acid diathesis is the most frequent; in that, alkalies, as the carbonates of soda or potash, ai’e to be employed; the potash is preferable. Diuretics and diluents are useful in carrying off the sand, and relieving the painful symptoms; Venice turpentine with squill is on this principle often a valuable remedy, and in some cases colchicum proves of benefit. The symptoms attendant on the collection and passing of sand, or gravel, as it is commonly termed, are, — pain in the loins; heat in making water; heat in the urethra occurring af- terwards, continuing for some time, and usually at the orifice; frequent desire to empty the bladder; and an occasional mix- ture of blood with the^ urine. When aggregations of the de- posit, forming concretions of some size, pass along the ureters, violent pain is felt in the course of these tubes. Often the patient complains of colicky pains all over the abdomen, and of sickness without vomiting. There is pain in the thighs and testicles, with retraction of the testicle on the affected side. The calculous deposit may, instead of passing off' along with the urine, be accumulated in the body, forming concretions. It is produced by the kidneys, and in them the concretions may be formed and lodged; or it may not accumulate until it has reached the bladder. Usually the stones are produced in the former situation, and after having attained some size descend by the ureters, causing much pain. It is not often that they remain in the pelvis or infundibula till they have become too large to descend; in such cases they increase in their original situation, producing, in general, much more uneasiness and greater danger than if they had reached the bladder. Or they s s 4