TUMOURS OF THE GENITAL ORGANS. 667 thus re-established, and menstruation again occurred, and with- out interruption. A case, in which the vagina was obliterated to the extent of from two to three inches, occurred some months ago at the North London Hospital. It took place, it appears, after an accouchement, the genital organs being raw and sore, with considerable loss of substance from phagedaenic ulceration. A large tumour could be felt betwixt the hand placed on the hy- pogastric region and the finger in the rectum. The patient was exceedingly urgent in her entreaties to have the canal restored, and the attempt was made. The contiguous viscera being emp- tied, a trocar, guided by the finger in the bowel, was pushed in the course of the vagina as far as was thought safe; Le canula was retained, and, some days after its withdrawal, the part was further dilated by gentian root. It was intended to have carried the pointed instrument further, but symptoms of peritoneal inflammation supervened about the tenth day, and in spite of active treatment proved fatal. The uterus, os uteri, and from an inch and a half to two inches of the upper part of the vagina, were enormously distended with dark, putrid, grumous, and bloody fluid, of the consistence of tar; the trocar had reached the parietes of the cavity, and, if pushed forward another line, must have entered the vagina, and allowed the fluid to es- cape. Thei’e was a quantity of putrid and dark-coloured serosity in the cellular tissue of the pelvis and behind the peri- toneum. It is to be regretted that I did not feel warranted in the first instance in pushing the instrument forward more boldly. Had the fluid been allowed to drain off, the probability is, that the future infiltration and peritonitis would not have occurred. The intention was, being foiled in the first attempt, to dilate the canal sufficiently to admit the finger, and by the direct guidance of that to carry the perforation farther. Violent and deep inflammation of the external parts of ge- neration is not uncommon, — the result of bruise or wound. It is generally met with in the lower class of prostitutes. The in- flammation often attacks the vagina and neighbouring parts, followed by great swelling; and, if not allayed, extensive ab- scess forms, with much fever and pain; pointing takes place betwixt the external and internal labia. The parts must be