INCONTINENCE OF URINE. 607 and the exhibition of tonics is sometimes also useful. Children, and even mothers, sometimes have recourse to a more effectual method, the application of a tight ligature round the penis. But of the folly and danger of such practice, the following may serve as an example. A. R., when 8 years old, passed a brass curtain- ring over his penis to prevent incontinence of urine during the night, and thereby escape chastisement, to which he had been frequently subjected. Great swelling soon took place round the ring, and he was unable to remove the jugum. He experi- enced much pain and difficulty in voiding his urine; the integu- ments under the ring gradually ulcerated, the ring appeared to sink into the substance of the penis, and the swelling subsided. The integuments met and adhered, the foreign body was con- cealed, and all uneasiness soon ceased. The penis performed well all that was required of it; the urine passed easily, and after a while he became the father of a fine family. When be- tween fifty and sixty years of age, he applied to me. For some years previously difficulty in making water had been coming on, and frequent desire to pass it in the night-time rendered him very uncomfortable. He was under the necessity of having a vessel constantly in bed, and was generally disturbed every half hour. The penis had become very unserviceable, and he was now anxious to have the ring removed. A broad hard sub- stance was felt surrounding the penis, close to the symphysis; an incision was made into the urethra at that part, and a calculus easily extracted. The uneasy symptoms quickly disappeared, and the patient recovered with a small fistula at the incised part, which could have been removed without difficulty, had not all treatment been obstinately resisted. The calculus resem- bled a prune in size, of a crescentic form, with one of the apices detached, and was apparently composed of uric acid, coated with the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate. On making a section of it, about two-thirds of the brass curtain-ring, par- tially decomposed, were found firmly impacted in the centre. It would appear that a portion of the ring had speedily made its way into the urethra, had been acted upon and washed away by the urine; while the remainder coming more gradually in contact with that fluid, had become incrusted with deposit, and formed the nucleus of the calculus. It is strange that the penis