690 FRACTURE OF THE OSSA NASI. wait for the suppurative stage. When the patient has become hectic from profuse and long continued discharge, when, per- haps, no union has taken place — then also the limb must be removed. In civil practice, patients as often recover from secondary as from primary amputation. But according to the experience of military surgeons, the result is otherwise — many recover after primary and few after secondaiy; much may de- pend on the accommodation of the patient afterwards. A great deal must necessaidly be left to the judgment, discretion, and conscientiousness of the surgeon. Fractures of the eranium were treated of as connected with disturbance of the important organ which it protects. The bones of the face are occasionally broken and displaced. The frontal sinus is sometimes opened by fracture of the exter- nal plate. No small degree of force is required to effect this injury: — I recollect an instance of it, with opening into the sinus, occasioned by an attempt at suicide; the man had struck his forehead violently with a large stone, wishing to knock his head to pieces. The integuments are generally divided, and during expiration, blood, sometimes frothy, is poured out through the opening. When there is no wound of the integu- ment, emphysema of the forehead and eyebrows has resulted from disruption of the bones that compose this cavity, or others connected with the nostrils. The ossa nasi are fractured and displaced by direct violence. They may be broken and comminuted without much displace- ment, or separated from their connections and depressed jrith- out much fracture. Even slight cases are generally attended with laceration of the Schneiderian membrane, and with profuse haemorrhage from the nostrils. The soft parts over the bones are thin and tense, and consequently in many cases divided. Great swelling is apt to ensue, at first either bloody or oedema- tous. Inflammatory swelling to a great extent, both externally and internally, is to be dreaded and guarded against. Ab- scess of the Schneiderian membrane, frequently of the septum narium, occurs from slight injuries, if neglected; and, if not actively and properly treated, may terminate in loss of substance and consequent deformity of the features.