181 OF TUMOURS. attached to the mucous membrane, and also to the subjacent parts, by means of a broad base; and its form and structure vary according to the particular action which it has assumed. Most frequently it is encephaloid, of an irregular form, and often presenting a cauliflower appearance, its surface being studded with numerous excrescences, of medullary consistence and colour. Such tumours will be afterwards treated of, as occurring in different situations. OF ENCYSTED TUMOURS. Along with these have been classed the enlargements of bursae, sheaths of tendons, &c., but with equal propriety might we include hydrocele and other collections in natural cavities. Encysted tumours are almost always situated superficially. The skin is distended, seldom inflamed, and often contains enlarged blood-vessels, which give it a streaked appearance. They consist of an external cyst, which is in some instances extremely thin and delicate, in others dense, of considerable thickness, and composed of fibrous looking substance, occasionally it is almost cartilaginous; the internal structure may be said to be almost always more or less fluid, but varies much in consistence. The tumour is surrounded with condensed cellular substance, which is of greater or less thickness and sti’ength according to the size of the tumour. Some of these tumours are supposed, and on good grounds, to be mere enlargements of the natural mucous follicles, in consequence of obstruction in their ducts, by hardened and vitiated secretion; the cyst, therefore, will be at first thin and delicate; its contents will resemble the natural secretion of the follicle, and in many cases may be readily squeezed out. There is a black point on the most prominent part, marking the obstructed orifice of the follicle, and the sac is found at this point to adhere firmly to the skin. Even after all other marks of its original formation have disappeared, the situation of the orifice is sometimes indicated by small dark spots, by depression, or by a minute ulcer. Encysted tumours, or wens, as they have been called, often appear to be hereditary; seldom occur single, and are met with N 3