RETENTION OF URINE. 597 some time; or retention may be complete, and, if not relieved, the bladder may slough. It is to be recollected, that in retention of urine, from what- ever cause, and particularly in that arising from prostatic en- largement, the urethra is elongated, and the bladder rises into the abdomen like the gravid uterus. The reason of such change of relative situation is sufficiently obvious, being chiefly mechanical. Fungous, or other tumours, furnishing blood or vitiated puriform matter, now and then grow from the internal su’’face of the bladder, unconnected with the prostate gland. Worms, too, occasionally lodge in the bladder. Either of these cir- cumstances may induce retention of urine. Another cause of obstruction is hernia of the bladder. There is no disease in which the patient is more liable to be ‘ bungled out of his life,’ than in retention of urine. Great credit is to be gained by judicious and skilful management of the various stages, and by expert use of the catheter in difficult cases, when other practitioners, perhaps, after being foiled, have proposed operations alarming to the patient, and, in themselves, dangerous. In no disease are patients more grateful for relief, for in this the agony is often unbearable. Immediate abate- ment of all painful symptoms follows skilful and prompt mea- sures ; and the superior science of one man over others is made apparent to the most ignorant observer. In over-distended bladder from paralysis, the catheter can in general be passed without difficulty. It should be of a large size, and its intro- duction should be repeated as often as nature calls for relief, perhaps three or four times during the twenty-four hours, until the viscus regains its tone; and this, unless irrecoverably lost, will generally be restored in a few weeks at most. Re- peated introduction of the instrument is here preferable to the retaining of it; the latter measure should always be avoided, unless absolutely indispensable, for a foreign body lodging in the urethra and neck of the bladder must always be a source of more or less irritation; and experience shows that the bladder sooner recovers its tone wlien the instrument is intro- duced only to draw off the urine, when the uncomfortable feel- ings of distension come on, than when it is constantly retained. Q Q 3