52 OF MORTIFICATION. no expression of anxiety in the countenance. R Haust. Con. Vin. Full diet. “ 28. The suppuration on the inner side of the arm is more copious, and the discharge is more fetid. The livid spots on the outer side of the arm have not extended, and there is some slight redness around them. Pulse 104, of good strength ; tongue clean and moist; heat of skin still natural; appetite good; bowels moved once since the last report. Continue. A little Sol. Chlor. Calcis to be added to the dressing. “ 29. The dry and shrivelled state of the extremity has ex- tended as high as the middle of the fore-arm. The discharge is much the same as before in quantity, but is more fetid. The separation between the gangrenous and the sound parts, which had begun on the outer side of the arm when she was admitted, is extending a little, both towards the inner and the outer side. Pulse 90, of moderate strength; skin natural; tongue clean and moist; bowels open ; appetite excellent. “ SO. Much the same as yesterday; sleeps a little better. “31. The suppuration is more copious; the discharge ex- tremely fetid. The dead parts on the inner side of the humerus are gradually becoming more detached. No change in the ap- pearance of the living spots beyond the line of separation ; pulse 102, of pretty good strength; bowels continue regular, and the appetite is good. Cont. vinum et haust. “ Feb. 2. The separation of the gangrenous parts on the inner side of the arm has advanced a little more since last referred to. The livid spots have disappeared, with the exception of the largest, where a small superficial slough has formed. The dis- eased parts were removed to-day, the line of separation being fairly established, and suppuration having taken place in a great part of its extent. The soft parts were divided by means of a pair of scissors, cutting as near to the living parts as could be done with safety; the bone was then denuded as high up as possible, by passing a bistoury round it, and it was then divided by the saw. There was no bleeding from the soft parts, and only slight oozing from the bone, which was found to be alive where it was divided. Cont. vinum et haust. “ 3. Continues in much the same state as yesterday; pulse 104, of good strength; tongue clean and moist; bowels moved