BRONCHOCELE. 469 and it is seldom that its action degenei'ates. It is often made up also partly of cysts containing serosity, or glairy albuminous fluid. Internal remedies have been prescribed, with the view of arresting the growth, and promoting absorption of the enlarged thyroid — burnt sponge — muriate of lime — muriate of baryta, &c. The use of iodine, externally and internally, has in many cases been attended with beneficial effects. Tumours have diminished, and even disappeared entirely, during the employ- ment of this medicine ; but in others, the diminution has been either trifling or none. The insertion of setons has been strongly recommended ; and many patients are said to have been thus cured. I have tried this plan in one case only ; it certainly had the effect of diminishing the swelling; but for some time great trouble was experienced from bleeding, whenever the cord was drawn, and the patient afterwards became much weakened by the profuse discharge. The proposal to tie the thyroid arteries, for the cure of bronchocele, has been put in practice, but without a favourable result. Extirpation of such growths has been repeatedly attempted ; but the patients, almost without exception, have perished from haemorrhage, under the hands of the knivesmen. The immense supply of blood afforded to the gland in the healthy state must be kept in mind, as also the enlargement of the vessels propor- tional to the increase of the part. Not arteries alone, but enor- mous veins, are to be encountered. The tumour is in the vici- nity of important organs, and of the trunks of large vessels and nerves, and probably has become attached to them. In short, the operation is attended with such risks, with so absolute a cer- tainty almost of fatal result, as not to be warranted under any circumstances, far less for removal of deformity only. Enlargement of the isthmus alone gives rise to more severe symptoms apparently, and may warrant an attempt at removal; but this can scarcely be accomplished altogether by incision. Such is my impression, and under this impression I proceeded very cautiously in a case of this nature with which I had to deal. ■— J. R., a rat-catcher, aged forty-seven, from the Highlands, was admitted into the Royal Infirmary. The isthmus of the thyroid gland was enlarged to the size of a goose’s egg. The tumour H H 3