GONORRHCEA. 569 penis appears more full than natural. When making water, the patient experiences acute heat and pain, often most agonizing — chiefly referable to the extremity of the passage, and extending for two or three inches backwards. The urine is discharged in a small and scattered stream, the anterior part of the urethra being diminished in calibre by the swollen and turgid state of its lining membrane. The diminution may be in part caused by spasm of the muscles surrounding the canal, in consequence of the morbid excitement in it; or by fear, as the patient dreads making water, well knowing the excruciating pain which he must in consequence undergo. During erection, there is great increase of pain. The lips of the urethra, and the glans ai’ound, are often tender, and partially excoriated through neglect of ab- lution. There is seldom, if ever, any breach of structure in the canal; there is discharge of increased and vitiated secretion, without ulcerative absorption; the matter is poured out from the relaxed, but entire, mucous membrane. In severe cases, the erections are abnormal, and attended with much pain, constituting chordee. This troublesome symptom usually occurs during the night; the inflamed membrane is stretched, and great pain is felt along the course of the urethra. From extension of the inflammation to the vascular tissue around the canal, and effusion of lymph into it, the penis is bent down- wards during erection, the corpus spongiosum not admitting of so complete distention as the corpora cavernosa. Sometimes a portion of the spongy body is obliterated permanently by the effusion, causing deformity of the organ, and imperfect erection. I have also seen the penis bent to an inconvenient extent from a similar affection of the corpora cavernosa. After the uneasy and painful sensations have continued for some time, puriform matter, of a greenish or yellow colour, is secreted by the inflamed membrane, and discharged in profusion. The discharge changes very much as to quantity and quality, according to the intensity of the action and duration of the dis- ease, and is also modified by the constitution of the individual. When the discharge is suppressed, either from the imprudence of the patient, or from bad treatment, the inflammation is much increased; and when the secretion returns it is in general thin and bloody. As the disease abates, the matter becomes thick.