SPRAIN. 757 dons on the upper and fore, lateral and under parts of the abdomen, affords an example of laceration of tendinous fibre from violent exertion. The tendons of the limbs are more fre- quently injured, and in the lower oftener than in the upper. I have more than once seen the tendon of the biceps torn in violent exertion. In the thigh, too, some fibres occasionally give way from a similar cause. The supra-muscular fascia in the arm and thigh is apt to give way at one or more points during powerful ex- ertion of the muscles, causing deformity by protrusion of muscle through the torn space. But it is in the apparatus for extend- ing the foot, and raising the weight of the body, that laceration of tendon most frequently takes place. The accident is uncommon till after the middle period of life, when the body has become heavier, when muscular exertions have been less habitually practised, and when the fibre has grown more rigid. The pei’- son in raising himself over some slight obstruction in walking, perhaps attempting to pass a small ditch or stile, suddenly “ breaks down.” Or in dancing, — an amusement which he has long discontinued — a sudden snap is felt, with immediate lameness and slight pain in the back of the limb ; swelling and discolouration follow; and these symptoms and signs vaiy in in- tensity according to the extent of the injury. Laceration may have been slight; the pain, swelling, and lameness are propor- tional, and at first an inconsiderable void can be felt at the upper part of the tendinous termination of the gastrocnemii. Some- times no change is perceptible, and in such cases some have been of opinion that the slender tendon of the plantaris has given way and caused the lameness ; but this is doubtful, and it seems more probable that stretching and yielding has taken place in some part of the tendon of the gastrocnemii, which had been in powerful action — probably, the tendinous and muscular tis- sues have been separated to a slight extent. Occasionally the tendo Achillis is found completely torn through, and its upper end retracted; in such cases a large space is occasioned at the injured part, when the knee is extended and the foot bent. Sometimes the tendo Achillis is cut through; I have seen both completely divided in the same individual — he received a wound by a cutlass across the back of both limbs, while en- deavouring to escape from the mate of a vessel, in which he had 3 c 3