HYDROCELE. 620 prevent reproduction. I at one period made trial of it in several instances, and generally with success; but am now in- clined to avoid it, having more than once experienced much difficulty in keeping within moderate bounds the inflammatory action which succeeded its application. Injection is now gener- ally practised; and if carefully performed, it is unattended with risk, and is almost invariably successful. Various fluids may be employed — cold water, wine, wine and water, spirits, a solution of the sulphate of zinc, &c. I have generally used pure port wine ; and have scarcely ever seen its effects either excessive or defi- cient. I can remember very few cases in which the disease re- turned after this injection. Having ascertained that the testicle is sound, or but slightly enlarged — for injection of the tunica vaginalis is incompatible with diseased testicle — the fluid is drawn off by means of a round trocar. The canula is left in the wound, and to it is adapted the nozzle of a brass stop-cock attached to a small elastic bottle. By means of these instru- ments the wine is injected in sufficient quantity to distend the tunic moderately, taking care that the extremity of the canula is completely within the cavity, otherwise the cellular tissue will be injected, and violent inflammation ensue, terminating in un- healthy suppuration and sloughing. By turning the cock, the wine is retained until the patient begin to feel pain shooting upwards to the loins, when it is to be evacuated. He may not feel any uneasiness, however, and then it will be necessary to draw off the fluid and inject a fresh quantity. If this, too, fail a more stimulating fluid must be used, a solution of sulphate of zinc, spirits and water, or pure ardent spirits. It is supposed that this treatment is effectual by inducing adhesive inflamma- tion, and obliteration of the cavity by adhesion off the tunica vaginalis to the tunica albuginea; but this does not by any means frequently happen. There may in some cases be a little lymph deposited, but not in sufficient quantity to cause adhesion. The excitement following injection seems to change the action in the parts without altering their structure or relation — to re-establish the healthy balance between the exhalants and ab- sorbents. Its first effect is to produce increase of swelling from fresh effusion into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, accom- panied with redness of the integument and considerable pain —