256 OP ULCERS OF THE GENITAL ORGANS, This medicine is employed in cachexia, following or not the use of mercury, and is directed against eruptions, sore throat, and pains in the limbs. The constitutional symptoms of the scaly disease, or true pox, when they occur, which is now but seldom, are decidedly bene- fited by a prudent employment of mercury. It may be admi- nistered externally or internally, though the latter method is the one generally adopted. It may be introduced into the system under various forms, according to the particular circumstances of the case, or the ideas of the practitioner. The most common form, and the simplest, is the pil. hydrargyri; but for this may be substituted hydrargyrum cum creta, Plummer’s pill, or calo- mel with antimony. In painful affections of the bones, with or without swelling, the mui’iate of mercury (bichloride) is the form which I have found most efficacious; one eighth of a grain of the muriate being given thrice a day in a pill; or the medi' cine may be given in solution. The iodide of mercury is also a very useful medicine in some cases. It is impossible, and would be absurd, to lay down any precise rules as to the quantity of mercury which is necessai’y for the cure of pox: in some patients the system is with difficulty put under its influence, whilst in others a single grain will produce salivation, constitutional dis- turbance, and eczema. When the mouth becomes affected the mercury ought to be discontinued: much harm and no good resulting from the medicine being pushed to profuse salivation: the tongue swells hideously, the teeth loosen, and portions of the jaw die and exfoliate. It is sufficient that the system be under the influence of mercury; and that circumstance is marked by the tenderness of the gums. If, after the medicine has been disused, the disease does not appear to recede, it may be resumed in the same moderate way as before; but there certainly can be no use in continuing mercury after the symptoms of venereal affection have ceased. Nodes may still exist, portions of bone may be dying, abscesses forming, and various other changes of structure going on, but these are no reasons for a continuance of the mercury. If they have originated from the venereal affection, that cause has been removed, and the diseased actions will now proceed altogether independently of their original cause. Mercury proved beneficial in removing a disease of