175 OF TUMOURS. fee ted months or even years after the removal of the original and exciting tumour ; the immediate cause being taken away, yet the inherent disposition to malignant action is too often left, not to be eradicated. In fact, the disease generally returns, either in the original integuments, in the form of tubercles or buds, in the cicatrix, or in the glands; very frequently all are affected. It seems also to spring not unfrequently from fascia. Such enlargements of the glands have been said to arise, in the first instance, from irritation, and not from any participation in malignant action; and on this supposition, though in general extremely incorrect, cruel, bloody, and unnecessary operations have been performed. Cancer seizes either the mucous or the cutaneous surface, with hardness and a warty excrescence; this ulcerates, and is sur - rounded by a hardened base. The process of destruction advances, and the ulcerated part presents the same appearances as those of a sore arising from a similar action in a deeply- seated carcinomatous tumour. The glands also enlarge, and assume the same aspect as if they had been the original seat of the disease. Some pathologists seem disposed to deny this, but apparently on no very sufficient grounds. Fungus Hcematodes Has been much confounded with medullary sarcoma, but the two diseases are materially different. Fungus haematodes almost always supervenes on other morbid formations, when they have been ulcerated and exposed; and the particular formation which most frequently precedes is the medullo-sarcomatous; a bleed- ing fungus, however, occasionally protrudes from tumours of a different character, which, though they may have been at first simple, have degenerated, ulcerated, and assumed a malignant action. The disease certainly does not occur so frequently as some have asserted; for many, instead of limiting the application of the term to those fungous protrusions which bleed, honour with the appellation of fungus haematodes every growth which protrudes after the ulceration of a tumour, and every tumour which is,unusually prominent, of soft consistence, and of a some-