488 PARONYCHIA. vera of the fingers, thei’e is a plentiful distribution of nerves of sensation; and, consequently, in superficial whitlow, the pain is often severe, with throbbing, and an occasional feeling of itch- ing. The part is swelled and red, and the redness is diffused. After a short continuance, the swelling increases at some points, often about the root of the nail, from effused fluid betwixt the cuticle and rete mucosum; the fluid is sometimes serous, gene- rally sero-purulent. In the deeper-seated inflammation, the pain, throbbing, heat, and swelling, are all greater. The pain is more intense, and almost intolerable, allowing the patient little or no rest; and the throbbing extends to the vessels of the hand and forearm. A considerable degree of fever attends. The action either involves one phalanx, or extends over the whole finger, and ultimately attacks the hand. The palm is hard, pained, and swelled ; and, in advanced cases, swelling takes place above the annular ligament. Often the surface of the back of the hand is also inflamed, and the cellular tissue loaded with serum. The disease, if not actively and properly treated, terminates in a very short time ; in two or three days suppuration articulations is destroyed. Abscesses also form in the palm, on the back of the hand and finger, and sometimes under the always followed by loss of motion in the finger; neither is exfoliation of the greater part of the distal phalanx always attended v.ith much deformity or shortening, a nucleus being often left from which bone may be reproduced. But destruction of the whole flexor or extensor tendons of one of the middle or proximal phalanges, or destruction of one of the articulations takes place, with slough- ing of the cellular tissue, of the sheaths of the tendons, and of the tendons them- selves. Either ulceration or necrosis — often both in combination — occurs in the phalanges; or the appara- tus of one or more of the fascia of the forearm. The separation of portions of one of the tendons is not