DISEASES OF THE EYE. 324 tinues to discharge puriform fluid. The latter state of the lining of the lid produces disease of the cornea, opacity of a greenish colour, or an ulcer with intolerance of light, and other symptoms of disorganisation proceeding in that tissue. The disease is supposed to be contagious, and was the scourge of the British army for many years after the campaign in Egj'pt. In that country it seems to be caused by exposure to cold and damp during the night, and the intense I'ays of light during the day, more especially when these causes act on eyes which have not been accustomed to such vicissitudes. After its invasion, it is communicable to others by contact of the morbid secretion; and in individuals who have once been affected the disease is very apt to recur when they are crowded together in unhealthy situations. A disease of equal malignity, and resembling in all respects the Egyptian ophthalmia, occurs from the application of gonor- rhoeal matter to the conjunctiva, or on sudden suppression of the gonorrhoeal discharge, — metastasis of the action sometimes takes place from the urethi’al membrane to the conjunctiva. The eye is seldom saved from the destructive effects of the violent in- flammation which follows the contact of the morbid fluid. Of all forms of purulent ophthalmia, the gonorrhoeal is the most rapid in its course and destructive in its effects. Children are not unfi'equently the victims of purulent oph- thalmia— the ophthalmia neonatorum. Immediately after birth the conjunctival lining of the eyelids seems unusually red and turgid, and a great degree of swelling soon takes place, so as to render separation of the eyelids very difficult. Occasionally eversion of the lids occurs, when the child cries, from sudden and forcible contraction of the strong external fibres of the or- bicular muscle. In general, the lids soon relapse into their former situation; but sometimes the eversion I’emains, if the in- ternally projecting tumour of the conjunctiva is allowed to become still more swelled from strangulation, caused by the outer margin of the reflected lid. The inflammation spreads over the ball; and, in general, the swelling of the conjunctiva, being greatest at the circumference of the eye, bulges out the eyelids, and turns in their margins. Puriform matter is secreted copiously, and is confined, more especially when, from inatten-