491 ONYCHIA. the whole hand, and even the wrist, long remain rigid; but the rigidity is gradually dissipated by friction, and by motion, at first gentle and passive. Chronic thickening and contraction of the palmar aponeurosis occui's occasionally, and, in some cases, to such an extent as to disable the hand almost entirely. The fingers are permanently bent, the palm is hard, and the integument puckered. The most severe examples which I have witnessed occurred in those who were in the frequent habit of playing keyed or stringed instruments; in others no cause could be assigned. Frictions with all kinds of oils and compound liniments, plasters, oint- ments, &c. have been tried as remedies for this affection, but in vain. The tendinous slips passing to the contracted fingers have been divided, and the origin of the palmar fascia has been cut across, but without permanent benefit. Indeed I believe the disease to be incurable. The term Onychia is sometimes, and not without good reason, designated maligna; it is applied to ulceration about the nail. Some of such sores are small, and not indisposed to heal; others are very obstinate. They occur at all periods of life, frequently during infancy. They usually commence in a small and irritable tumour or granulation by the side of the nail, or at its root, with swelling and redness around. This may follow bruises or laceration and removal of the nail, extravasation under it, and various injuries of the part. The disease is also met with in the toes, most frequently the great one, causing much lameness; then it is generally owing to the pressure of tight shoes. In many cases the ulceration is extensive, shreds of the nail pro- jecting through the angry surface; there is considerable loss of substance ; the discharge is thin, bloody, acrid, and abominably foetid ; the edges of the sore are jagged, and the integuments around are of either a bright or a dark i-ed, according to the stage of the disease. Sometimes the bone is exposed, and in- volved in ulceration; or, instead of having lost substance, it is found of an unusually spongy and open texture, and with recent osseous matter superadded. A violent burning pain attends the disease when advanced; the absorbents are irritated and in-