645 CALCULUS VESICA. standing behind tlie patient, leaves the surgeon with both his hands at liberty, and with the patient’s perineum all clear. The operator is thus enabled to guide the knife by the left liand; whereas, if he use a straight staff, his left hand must be solely devoted to the management of this instrument during the most delicate part of the incisions. The staff is introduced either before or after the patient has been secured. The fixing of the patient is in this operation very necessary and important; on the proper management of that depends much the facility of completing the operation quickly and satisfactorily. Children are easily and conveniently held on the lap of an assistant, who, grasping the knees, places and secures the limbs so as to expose the perineum. In adults ligatures are indispensable; the hands and ankles are to be fixed together by means of strong and broad worsted tapes ; and, in addition, the pelvis requires to be secured, and the limbs must be retained well separated, by two steady and power- ful assistants, pressing obliquely down towards each other. A band may also with advantage be passed under the hams, and tied round the patient’s neck : the proper position is thus still further secured. The patient is placed on a firm table, of a height convenient to the operator, who is seated on a low stool. A table from two feet and a half to three feet in height, with a stool about a foot lower, will be found to suit very well. The instruments likely to be required are disposed in the folds of a towel placed on the floor, on the right side of the operator, and at a convenient distance. Before proceeding to incise, the finger is introduced into the rectum to ascertain that it is in an empty state, and also to pro- mote its contraction. A knife is used, with blade and handle somewhat longer than those of a common dissecting knife, and without any edge till within an inch and a half from the point,— held lightly in the fingers, the end of the handle resting on the palm. It is introduced close to the raphe, on the left side, and nearly opposite to where the erector penis and accelerator urinae approach each other. Its point is made to penetrate through the skin, fat, and superficial fascia of the perineum, and is carried downwards with a slight sawing motion, by the side of the anus — about midway betwixt the anus and the point of the T T 3