OF MORTIFICATION. 54 the outside of a parlour window, and stood on the sill. The window-sash, upon which she was depending for support, being suddenly drawn down by a person inside, she was precipitated into an area, a distance of fifteen feet. She was immediately picked up, and conveyed to the hospital. The house-surgeon detected a compound fracture of the ulna, and a fracture of the radius, both fractures being a little above the wrist-joint of the right arm. The fracture was adjusted, and the wound, which was interiorly to, and behind, the wrist, dressed in the usual manner. A dose of house-medicine was administered ; suitable directions were given in case of the occurrence of pain or swelling; she was sent home, and desired to remain quiet. The following morning (Saturday) she was visited by the house- surgeon, who found her comfortable, but she had passed a sleepless night. On Sunday morning the affected part became so intolerably painful that she tore off the splints and bandages, which one of the dressers of the hospital had a short time be- fore re-adjusted; in the evening she was in great pain, and the arm was much swollen. 12. To-day (Monday) she was admitted into the hospital; water-dressing was applied to the wound. The bandages were re-applied, and an anodyne administered in the evening, with the effect of producing some rest. “ 13. The pain and swelling were so great during the night that the house-surgeon was called up to see her, and ordered the application of fomentations; this morning she is much more comfortable. “ 14. On removing the whole of the apparatus this morning early, mortification was found to have taken place in the limb ; at the time of Mr. Liston’s visit in the middle of the day, the limb was very swollen, the fingers were of a black colour, the forearm livid, there were vesications near the elbow with fetid discharge. There was a good deal of fever with slight delirium; pulse irregular, quick. Mr. Liston considered the only chance the patient had was the immediate amputation of the limb at the shoulder. The patient’s consent having been readily ob- tained, Mr. Liston proceeded at once to the “ Operation.—He first introduced a long double-pointed knife under the acromion, and brought the point out at the lower