475 DISTORTION OF THE NECK. of swallowing is a prominent symptom from the first, as can readily be imagined when the close application of the constric- tors of the pharynx to the fore part of the affected bones is kept in remembrance. The position of the head also renders deglu- tition awkward. The disease is attended with great suffering, evinced by marked anxiety of the countenance; and the pain is most violent during the night. The complaint is too fre- quently trifled with at the commencement, being not under- stood, nor its danger appreciated. The swelling increases, with pain, and the chin falls down on the sternum. The patient grows emaciated, and perhaps becomes weak in the lower limbs, and even in the upper; the faeces and urine are imperfectly retained. Occasionally, abscess forms behind the upper part of the pharynx, increasing the pain and the difficulty of deglutition. On making an examination through the open- ings by which the abscess has emptied itself spontaneously, the bone is felt bare ; and portions, even large, of the vertebrae, or vertebra, are, after some time, discharged, so as to expose the theca of the spinal cord. Even in such circumstances patients have lingered on, and that for so long a period as to allow of some unprincipled fool advertising a perfect recovery. The termination of caries of the cervical vertebrae, often without any appearance of abscess, is in general fatal and sudden. The head, slipping from its support, falls forwards or to a side, causing immediate and complete paralysis of the whole body; dissolution soon follows. On examination, the articulating sur- faces of the vertebrae are found displaced, and the shreds of ligaments which connected them ruptured. The atlas is sepa- rated from the occiput; or the processus dentatus, escaping from its situation, in consequence of destruction of its confining liga- ments, is found compressing the medulla oblongata. This pro- cess is very often destroyed almost entirely, or it is so far de- tached by ulceration at its root as to be easily broken off. The disease in general seems to commence in the articulations, whereas, in the vertebrae with larger bodies, abscess and ulcer- ation have their foundation and origin more frequently in the deposit of tubercular matter in the cancellated texture of the bones. In other instances, the termination may be more slow and gradual ; the patient is worn out by long suffering and con-