60 OF ERYSIPELAS. In all cases of erysipelas there is more or less concomitant fever, modified by the extent of the local affection—by the age of the patient — by the previous habits and state of health — by the constitution — and by other circumstances. The pulse is accelerated, and is either of a sthenic or asthenic cha- racter, according to the state of the system and type of the pre- vailing fever. There is headach, languor, thirst, restlessness, and even delirium, especially when the face or scalp is the seat of the disease. Erysipelas may terminate in resolution. If this takes place in the first stage of the disease, the redness gradually declines, along with the swelling, the cuticle exfoliates, and the part regains its usual appearance, the skin remaining loose and shri- velled. If it occurs after vesications have formed, the effused fluid is absorbed, a scab forms, and desquamates along with portions of the cuticle. It may terminate in suppuration, when the inflammation has extended to the cellular substance. This termination is most frequent when the disease is situated in an extremity, seldom when in the face, though small purulent collections occasionally form in the eyelids. Circumscribed collections of pus often present themselves after the disappearance of the erysipe- latous inflammation; but the purulent matter is generally diffused through the filamentous tissue, and is of a thin, un- healthy appearance, and mixed with sloughs of the cellular substance. By the infiltration of matter, the integuments, fasciae, and muscles are extensively separated from each other, in consequence of which the parts frequently die, their nutritive supply being cut off. Acrid sanious matter is often infiltrated extensively into the subcutaneous cellular tissue round a wound or sore. The su- perimposed integuments are of a dark brown colour, and the part is boggy. Sloughing of the cellular membrane here takes place in consequence of the infiltration, and not from inflam- matory action having been established. The affection has been termed Diffuse Cellular Inflammation, but a more proper ap- pellation is Diffuse Cellular Infiltration; the cellular tissue, even where treatment is adopted at an early period, can scarcely be prevented from perishing.