451 TRACHEOTOMY. hyoid muscles, and to feel for any stray vessels which may be in the way; for the thyroid arteries sometimes cross the line of incision, and it may happen that some of the larger arteries of the neck, by following an unusual course, become liable to injury, if the operation were rashly performed. The plexus of veins on the forepart of the neck is pushed downwards, and the isthmus of the thyi’oid gland, if it exist, is displaced slightly upwards ; thus the rings of the trachea are cleared. The patient is desired to swallow his saliva, in order to elongate and stretch the windpipe; and the surgeon, seizing the favourable oppor- tunity, pushes the point of the knife, with its back towards the top of the sternum, into the tube at the lower part of the incision. The instrument is carried steadily upwards, so as to divide three or four rings. It is not at all necessary to cut out any part of the rings of the trachea as recommended by some writers; con- traction of the tube may afterwards result; nor can any good purpose be served by making the opening crucial. If the operation has been undertaken for the removal of a foreign body, its object is usually accomplished immediately on division of the rings; if not, the substance must be dislodged by proper instruments, as was previously remarked. The opening is allowed to close after the oozing of blood has entirely ceased; but its edges must be kept asunder till then, lest the blood be drawn into the bronchial tubes, which occurrence, however slowly it take place, is always dangerous. The union and cicatrisation of such longitudinal wounds are soon accom- plished ; they close permanently in a few days, even after having been open for many weeks with a foreign substance interposed between their edges. The same obstacles do not interfere as in transverse wounds; on the contrary, every circumstance is in favour of rapid union. When the object of the operation is to relieve respiration, im- peded by disease in the superior part of the canal, a silver tube, of convenient curve, length, and calibre, is introduced into the wound immediately on the knife being withdrawn, and secured by tapes attached to the rings at the orifice of the tube, and tied round the neck. Frequently a violent fit of coughing, alarming to the patient, follows the introduction, in consequence of some blood having entered the trachea. But on the ejection G G 2