659 CALCULUS VESICiE. of the canal, they are reached by incision on the left side of the perineum and opening of the membranous portion. After such operations, the wound, if not anterior to the scrotum, usually closes in a few days. Calculus of the female is exceedingly rare. Concretions are not so apt to be retained in the bladder as in males; they are passed by the urethra. The symptoms are similar to those which have been described as indicating stone in the other sex. Sound- ing is easy ; it is performed with an instrument slightly bent at the farther extremity, and considerably shorter than those em- ployed in the male. Even when the calculi are of considerable size, they can be removed, as well as other foreign matter, by dilatation of the urethra, effected gradually. Portions of gen- tian root, and sponge tents, were formerly used for this purpose; but of late years various dilators have been contrived. Some are really new, others have been published as such, though cor- rectly represented in works some hundred years old. Their blades are made to separate in a parallel direction by peculiar adaptation of the screw ; and, by gradually and very slowly in- creasing their separation, uniform dilatation is effected. Very soon the opening is sufficient to admit the finger; then the size of the stone is ascertained, and, if necessary, the dilatation is continued to a sufficient extent. When thus the canal has been widened so as to admit of the passage of the stone, forceps are introduced, and extraction accomplished in a direction down- wards, that is, towards the vagina. Incontinence of urine is apt to continue for some time after this operation, if the dilata- tion have been considerable, as well as after the I’emoval of larger stones by incision. Incision has been proposed in various directions — into the vagina, or by the side of it, upwards and outwards; and it has also been recommended to cut the bladder, on the fore and lateral part of its neck, without interfering with the urethra. By the latter method the chance of incontinence remaining is diminished, but there is a risk of urinary infiltration, and this will require to be provided against by the use of a tube, as after the lateral operation in the male. A staff is introduced, and by it the urethra is depressed towards the vagina. An incision is V V 2