OF TUMOURS. 174 action, either carcinomatous or of another kind; thus, in one instance, a simple ulcer, produced by a burn, assumed a foul and unhealthy aspect, and ultimately degenerated into a most malignant sore. Various malignant actions commence in glands of the conglobate or conglomerate kind, at first simply enlarged from irritation or injury. The female breast often becomes indurated from a blow, or from milk abscess, and remains for a series of years, half a lifetime perhaps, without any perceptible change in the enlargement and induration; but the tumour fre- quently is roused into activity at the critical time of life, and malignant action ultimately commences. The menstrual period ought to be particularly attended to in affections of the mamma more especially, but also in all tumours and ulcers; for both during and befoi’e it tumours become larger and more painful, the whole system appears to be excited, then relaxed, and all morbid actions seem to possess increased activity. In this disease, as in soft cancer, as it has been called, (and they occasionally pass into each other,) the bloody masses, or sacs containing bloody fluid, are to be dreaded, and when they exist are to be considered as very unfavourable; for if, on the removal of a carcinomatous tumour, such appearances be found, the disease will certainly return; a new tumour, of even a worse character than the preceding, will be formed; a fungus will be protruded, and from this haemorrhage will occur. The lymphatic glands, both above and below the tumour, generally enlarge early in the disease, become hard, and cut like cartilage, and with a grating noise. Frequently they become converted into a dense and fibrous substance, resembling carci- noma ; sometimes they are softened and broken down at several points, and contain a purulent or bloody fluid. They enlarge, coalesce, and form irregular masses, which rise more and more above the surface; the superimposed integuments give way, and then occur those destructive ravages by ulceration and sloughing already described. The lymphatic vessels entering these tumours and emerging from them feel hard and wiry, as if thickened. The integuments in the neighbourhood of the tumours, and in the course of these absorbents, are of a blue colour, and the veins enlarged and tortuous; the limb below the enlargement swells and is oedematous. The absorbents often become af-