OF SUPPURATION. 30 various descriptions, but more so in constitutions originally weak, or which have become debilitated by disease or any other cause. The larger glandular tumours are formed by congrega- tion and agglutination of the smaller ones, and by the deposition of adventitious matter in the connecting cellular substance ; separation of the smaller tumours composing these, naturally, or under the use of deobstruents exhibited internally, or applied to the surface, is a highly favourable sign, and equally encourag- ing to the surgeon and the patient. Dentition, the presence of carious teeth, of stumps of teeth, excoriations behind the ears, eruptions on the scalp, affections of the lining membranes of the eyelids, mouth, or nose, of the skin of the face, are daily found giving rise to glandular swellings in the neck; whilst irritations in the urethra, excoriation or slight disease about the anus, corns or sores about the feet or toes, pro- duce similar affections of the glands in the groin. Such sources of irritation are, of course, to be looked for in the first instance, and will often materially influence the diagnosis, though too much is occasionally attributed to their influence. Such glandular tu- mours, however, sometimes occur spontaneously, or, at least, without any evident cause. They have been mistaken for other diseases, according to their situation—for aneurism, hernia, or venereal bubo ; the latter mistake is often committed uninten- tionally by the ignorant, or designedly by the unprincipled. Tumours formed by the enlargement of glands are frequently productive of dangerous consequences. If situated in the neck, they may render breathing and deglutition extremely difficult, and in the event of their suppurating, the purulent matter may be discharged into the trachea or gullet; fatal results have fol- lowed the giving way of an abscess into the former canal. The breathing is also seriously impeded by enlargement of the bron- chial glands, by the pressure of which the lungs may be much condensed, and unfitted for their functions. The immediate effect of enlargement of the mesenteric glands, is interruption to the passage of the chyle, and a consequent decline of the powers of life. Such tumours in the abdomen have been mis- taken for enlargement of the liver, spleen, ovarium, &c., and the most noxious treatment employed. Inflammatory glandular enlargements terminate either in rer