oQ2 TREATMENT OF DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. ligature, the separate portions of which are applied tightly to the corresponding parts of the base. This operation is very inconsiderately and indiscriminately employed. It can only be warrantable when the tumours are so large as to obstruct the orifice so perfectly as to prevent evacuation, unless they are extruded. Before proceeding to this measure, the bowels should be emptied by mild and repeated purgatives, and after- wards all stimuli should be avoided. It is imprudent to apply ligature to several tumours at once, for serious consequences will most probably ensue, inflammation of the bowel, obstinate constipation, and general excitement. Excision of such piles is contra-indicated by the risk of profuse haemorrhage. The bleed- ing is into the cavity of the bowel, a coagulum is there formed which encourages the flow; and from this cause, and the peculiar situation of the bleeding point, it is with difficulty arrested. When the tumours are external, ligature may certainly be adopted; but here there is no objection to the use of the knife, and excision is much less painful and more speedy. The tumours, along with protruded portions of the mucous lining of the rectum that cannot be reduced, and are changed in struc- ture and function, are readily taken away by the rapid stroke of sharp curved scissors. Or they may be laid hold of and stretched, and their base divided by one or more sweeps of a bistoury. The removal of these tumours, or of a portion of the loose fold of skin or altered mucous membrane which occupies the sphincter in the direction of the bowel, is in general fol- lowed by a cure of the prolapsus. The sphincter now acts fully, and on the cicatrisation of the open surface contraction of the tissues occurs to such an extent as to produce a perma- nent cure without interference with the internal parts. Should hmmorrhage follow upon the removal of external tumours or folds, the surgeon has it completely under command. Pressure by a large graduated compress is generally sufficient. In inflammation of the rectum, the exciting cause often is not discovered ; when detected it should be removed without delay. In simple inflammation of the part with violent fever, general bleeding may be required; and in all cases blood should be abstracted locally and freely. Leeches are to be applied to the verge of the anus, and the lower part of the