273 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. Remarkable effects sometimes result from commotion of the brain; the patient may suffer loss of vision or of hearing, either partial or complete; or partial paralysis may occur ; of the mus- cles, for instance, supplied by the portio dura. In many cases such affections may be supposed to arise from compression of nerves, or other Imsion subsequent to and caused by the effects of con- cussion, and probably connected with fracture of the base of the cranium. Again, it occasionally happens that the senses are rendered more acute than previously, and of this I shall mention an example which came under my own observation. An old nurse sustained fracture of the vertex, with slight de- pression of the broken part, in consequence of some rubbish having fallen on her from a considerable height. Stupor, along with the other symptoms of concussion, was the immediate effect of the injury, but disappeared in two or three days. Her hearing, which previously to the accident had been long so obtuse as to render it necessary for her to discontinue her employment, became so intensely acute, that the most trifling noise became a source of pain. She gave immediate orders for the clock to be stopped, the ticking of which annoyed her greatly. Her hearing gradually became of the natural intensity, and continued perfect. In this case there can be little doubt that restoration of a sense which had long remained dormant arose entirely from cerebral commotion, for no discharge of blood or other fluid occurred from the ears, by which cerumen accumulated in these organs might have been displaced. People sometimes forget languages from hurts of the brain, whilst they retain memory in other respects; or, rather, the memory on cer- tain things becomes injured, but remains quite perfect on others. Treatment. — Whilst the circulation remains depressed after injuries of the head, or of other parts of the body, it is a com- mon practice to abstract blood; but it is one which cannot be too much reprobated, for it is attended with great risk, and can be productive of no benefit; the feeble remains of vital power, whilst struggling as it were against the depressing cause, may by depletion be quickly annihilated, when the vigour which they still retained might have been sufficient, if encouraged and sup- ported, to overcome those effects of external injury which had so far reduced them. T