314 DISEASES OF THE EYE. this is attempted, the cure can seldom be permanent. If, after incision and discharge of the contents, nothing farther is done, the disease will almost certainly return, in consequence of the re- maining cyst reassuming a secreting action. The only effectual and radical cure is the application of a finely-pointed piece of caustic potass to the interior of the cyst, after discharge of the contents and cessation of bleeding. The cyst is thereby com- pletely destroyed. A slip of soft lint, dipped in oil, is inter- posed betwixt the lid and eyeball, for an hour or two, in order to protect that delicate organ from the caustic. The wound suppurates and heals kindly, and no mark is visible, the incision having been made from within. I have had no instance of return of the disease since adopting this practice ; and I have operated on many which had been previously treated by other and ineffectual means. The laceration of the cyst with a pointed probe is sometimes followed by a permanent cure, but it cannot be depended upon. Closure of the Eyelids may be either congenital, or a conse- quence of injuries, as burns of the parts. The closure may be complete or partial. In general it is partial, though perhaps extensive; and the adhesions can be readily separated by the point of a knife, a small probe having been previously introduced beneath; or a small and narrow probe-pointed bistoury may be conveniently used for the purpose. In the after treatment means must, of course, be taken to prevent the lids from again adhering. Ectropion^ or eversion of the eyelids, may be produced, merely by swelling of the conjunctival lining protruding the lid: or the lid may be relaxed, and the conjunctiva may swell in conse- quence of repeated inflammation of the parts, caused by frequent and careless exposure; or the disease may be the result of con- traction, by cicatrisation of the integuments of the face, as after burns, extensive superficial wounds in the neighbourhood of the eye, or the effect of periosteal disease of the orbit. The affection may exist to a greater or less degree, being in some instances scarcely visible, and not troublesome, whilst in others, the eye-