647 CALCULUS VESICLE. proved always eflFectual at the time, the haemorrhage recurring on the loosening and separation of the lint. After the last bleeding the dressing was retained for some days, and on its removal no recurrence took place. The patient had been much exhausted by this severe loss of blood, but, notwithstanding, made a good, and by no means tedious, recovery. In one case, also, troublesome haemorrhage occurred within twelve hours from the operation on a patient advanced in life. The bleeding was arrested with some difficulty by ligature and pi’essure. The patient died on the third day. The cause of the bleeding was found to be ossification, as it is called, or earthy degeneration of the coats of the vessels. The bleeding was from the external hasmorrhoidals. The artery of the bulb was untouched. Many patients have perished within the first day or two from bleeding, owing to the using of the knife too freely, and in an improper direction. By very slight application of the edge to the resisting fibres, and by gentle dilatation with tbe finger, the membranous portion of the urethra is reached. The knife is passed over the back of the forefinger in the wound, and lodged in the groove of the staff; it is then carried forwards through the prostate, with the edge directed downwards and outwards, cutting the gland obliquely. In this incision the knife is raised very little from the groove, the object being to divide the gland to the extent of no more than barely three quarters of an inch. By so doing, the reflection of the pelvic fascia remains unin- jured, and the boundary is left entire betwixt the external cellular tissue, and that loose and very fine texture immediately exterior to the bladder — betwixt it and the fascia lining the pelvis; thus the risk of urinary infiltration is done away with, at least much diminished. There is great danger in dividing the base of the prostate completely, and much more in cutting any part of the coats of the bladder. When the kmfe enters the groove of the staff, this latter instrument must be held very steady; if it be at all withdrawn, its point may escape through the wound, and mislead the knife. There is no great risk of wounding the trunk of the pudic artery, unless by using either a broad instrument called the gorget, or a concealed knife. The former is now almost wholly abandoned. Besides endangering the pudic, it is apt to lacerate T T 4