OF TUMOURS. 177 tion of firm pressure on the limb above the seat of the disease is even insufficient to arrest the flow of blood; and though this may, in some degree, be explained by supposing the continued stream to be venous, still it must be confessed that the disease appears connected with a peculiar haemorrhagic tendency. Fi’equently the fungus is found to communicate with, or rather to arise from, numerous cysts of a glossy appearance, from which also blood is copiously effused. The surrounding tissues are completely dis- organised in the immediate neighbourhood, and also much altered in structure for a considerable extent around; the mus- cles, besides their disorganisation, have acquired a peculiar brown hue. Sometimes the haemorrhage does not seem to pro- ceed so much from the fungus as from the subjacent cysts; for when a superficial incision or puncture is made into it, the bleeding is often inconsiderable, and only becomes alarming after masses of coagulated blood have been removed, and the cysts thereby exposed. Occasionally the fungus communicates with a cavity of enormous size, filled with blood, partly coagu- lated and partly fluid, and from the parietes of which the haemorrhage proceeds. When the disease has supervened on a medullo-sarcomatous tumour, the coagulated blood is mixed with a substance resembling the brain in a state of putrescence. It may supervene on polypous tumours, particularly of the antrum; and of this I have seen several instances. Sometimes it is produced after the removal of a tumour apparently not of malignant character, and in this case it frequently does not appear till the wound has almost cicatrised. When once esta- blished, it proceeds with all its virulency. The diseased paiTs may be removed as frequently as they appear; but they will be reproduced, and the disease will assume a still more frightful aspect, both in extent and malignity. In consequence of the repeated and profuse loss of blood, the patient is gradually worn out, becomes hectic, is affected with nausea, vomiting, and indistinct articulation, with all the symp- toms of extreme debility, and he generally sinks exhausted, or may be suddenly carried off by profuse haemorrhage. The size of the bleeding fungus is extremely various, but it is rarely large; in fact, we frequently find that the most violent haemorrhage occurs from those of a small size; and in illustra- N