LUXATION OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. 737 admits of very little motion, is lengthened and abducted. The elbow cannot be brought close to the side, and attempts to do SO are productive of great suffering. The patient has little or no muscular command over the upper arm. Rotation and ele- vation of the limb require considerable force, and are prac- ticable only to a very limited extent; during attempts at the former, as already mentioned, obscure crepitus is sometimes perceived. The abduction is most remarkable in the dislocation directly downwards; and in this form of the accident, the fingers easily detect the head of the bone lying in the axilla, deep, yet distinct, particularly during attempted rotation. When the head of the bone lies forward by the coracoid process, and under the pectoralis major, it can be felt, and the prominence occasioned by it can be clearly seen in thin people, before swelling has occurred, and after its subsidence. The bone sometimes lodges in an intermediate situation, and then the signs peculiar to each form of displacement are mixed. When reduction is not accom- plished, the bloody swelling first occurs to obscure the signs; this may in part subside, but then the inflammatory super- venes ; both after a time disappear, the muscles waste, and then all the signs are very apparent. After some weeks, the motions of the limb become more extensive, not in consequence of the head of the humerus having changed its position, or re- turned into the glenoid cavity, but from the scapula moving on the ribs more freely, and to a greater extent than usual. At last, but not till after a long period, considerable motion be- twixt the bones can be effected; the scapula, where the head of the humerus rests, having furnished an adventitious cavity, to which the latter has adapted itself. But free motion can never be regained, for the movements that are effected are chiefly produced by the action of the muscles of the scapula. Replacement, even in very recent cases, sometimes is accom- plished with difficulty in those whose muscles are fully de- veloped. But in general a successful result will follow simple measures, particularly if the patient is taken unawares — as by rotating the arm with one hand whilst the fingers of the other are placed in the axilla, then suddenly lifting the head of the bone outwards, and at the same time performing abduction — the patient being all along assured that he will not be put to 3 B