ABSCESS OF THE NECK. 470 was extremely hard and irregular on its surface, but not painful when touched ; it appeared to be adherent to the trachea, and did not admit of much motion. The voice was considerably impaired, and breathing much impeded, inspiration being diffi- cult and attended with a loud wheezing noise. On making unusual exertion, even though inconsiderable, the dyspnoea was much increased ; and on ascending a height, or even remaining for some time in a stooping posture, it amounted almost to suffo- cation. There was no pain or uneasiness in the larynx or tra- chea. The disease was of three years’ duration. A seton had been introduced, but effected no diminution, and rendered the tumour more dense and less moveable than formerly. I surrounded the lower part of the tumour by two semicircular incisions, and, dissecting cautiously beneath its base, detached it from its more loose connections, not interfering with the central portion and its connection to the trachea. During the progress of the dissection, the blood flowed most profusely from both arteries and veins, but was restrained by securing the former with ligature, and compressing the latter with sponge. An armed needle was then passed through the centre of the tumour, as close to the trachea as possible, and its remaining attachment enclosed by the separate portions of the ligature firmly applied. Every thing proceeded favourably. The tumour soon came away; the wound healed with a firm cicatrix, and in about a month the patient went home well. I met him by chance, in Aberdeen, twelve months afterwards, free of complaint, and breathing easily un- der all circumstances, his neck presenting no vestige of the tumour. Glandular Tumours of the Neck, as formerly noticed, arise from various irritations; and some constitutions are more sub- ject to them than others. The nature of the enlargement is dependent on the cause; it may be simple or malignant. Simple swellings often attain a large size; the lymphatic glands in both spaces of the neck, and on one or both sides, get immensely enlarged, the cellular tissue around is infiltrated with solid mat- ter, and all matted together. Great deformity is produced; the head is turned with difficulty, and twisted to one side; often there is not much pain. After some time, the swelling