515 OF HERNIA. of Poupart. It will be proper, however, to enumerate shortly the diseases for which hernia may be mistaken. Cirsocele may be confounded with inguinal hernia. Cirsocele, being a varix of the spermatic veins, enlarges on coughing and during the erect posture, like hernia; but in general the com- position of the tumour can be ascertained by the feel which it imparts when handled, — the veins feel like a handful of earth- worms. Besides, the swelling is made to disappear, on emptying the dilated veins by pressure upwards; and, if the surgeon then firmly compress the inguinal aperture, the tumour will rapidly reappeai’, on account of the venous flow being interrupted, par- ticularly if the patient exert his abdominal muscles, or assume the erect posture. Whereas, had hernia existed, the swelling could not have been reproduced ; and, on the patient being di- rected to cough, a distinct impulse would have been felt with the fingei*. Hrjdrocele of the tunica vaginalis may be confounded with scrotal hernia, if its distinctive characters be not understood or attended to. The pyramidal swelling presents an equal surface, fluctuates, and is generally diaphanous ; its formation is gradual, commencing at the lower part, and slowly ascending; the tes- ticle cannot be readily felt at the bottom of the scrotum; there is no swelling at the inguinal canal, and the chord is felt free; the tumour is not affected by the position, motion, or exertions of the patient. These circumstances plainly indicate the nature of the case. Bubo, sarcocele, and acute swelling of the testicle, are sufficiently distinguished from hernia by their situation, form, feel, and history, and cannot be confounded with it save by the profoundly ignorant. Hydrocele of the spermatic chord is more likely to lead to deception when large; but it is generally small and circumscribed, involving the middle of the chord, leaving the inguinal aperture free, and the upper part of the spermatic chord distinct. Besides, whatever may be its size, its formation is always slow and indolent, — it is never capable of being pushed into the abdomen, and it is unaffected by those circumstances which contribute to mark hernia. But hydrocele of the chord and hernia may coexist, as in the following in- stance:— A gentleman had swelling in the course of the sper- matic chord for many years, while in a warm climate. Bandages were applied, and great pain thereby occasioned. After his L L 2