418 SPINA VENTOSA OF THE JAW. ternally, and a fistula remains, which cannot be got rid of, unless, as in most other affections, the cause be removed. The cavity of the abscess must be opened into either from without or within, and after the subsequent irritation has subsided, the cause must be removed ; carious teeth or stumps are not to be taken away during the inflamed state of the parts, but after the pain and inflammation have subsided in consequence of free evacuation of the purulent matter. After these have abated, and not till then, the offending bodies are to be ex- tracted, both in order to procure a more speedy and effectual cure, and with a view to prevent recurrence of the disease. If a portion of the jaw has become necrosed, the sequesti’a are to be extracted as soon as they become loose, and openings and counter-openings must be made, according to circumstances, so as to afford a free outlet to the matter. The extraction of teeth, the crowns of which have not been destroyed, is accomplished most readily by the dexterous use of variously shaped forceps. Stumps may be occasionally extracted also by forceps, but the lever is generally required to loosen them from their sockets. The old key instrument and pelicans are now superseded by those above mentioned. Spina Ventosa of the Jaw often originates, as before mentioned, in a small cyst at the root of a decayed or dead tooth. An enor- mously large one extracted along with the stump attached is here shown: it is sketched from a specimen in the collection of Mr* Nasmyth, of Edinburgh. The disease is usually situated on one side of the lower jaw; but sometimes occurs in the upper, and is at first un- connected with the cavity of the antrum. Inflammation has taken place in the internal structure of the bone; matter is secreted by the medullary vessels, and collects in the can- cellated texture. Purulent formation advances, the cancelli are broken down, the external laminae of the jaw are extended, protruded, and attenuated; and then the internal cavity en- larges, containing pus, perhaps mixed with other fluids, and with disorganised particles of bone. Sometimes the collection