DISEASES OF THE SCALP. 295 damp bed, sitting with wet clothes or on the cold ground; but such affections are very apt to occur in those whose consti- tution has degenerated into that peculiar cachetic state formerly mentioned, after mercurial courses, whether short or severe; or in those who for some real or fancied derangement of the di- gestive organs have persevered in swallowing, for months or even years, the universal panacea of some practitioners, Plum- mer’s or blue pill. The bones and their coverings, of even the best constituted, can scarcely resist a perseverance in such a course. The swelling of the scalp is often general, and is slightly cedematous; some points are more elevated than others, feel soft, and are the seat of extreme pain when pressed upon. But such affections frequently flit from one part to another; what was most unsound, at one time, recovering itself, and painful swell- lings attacking that which was comparatively free of disease. The same holds true in regard to the other bones at the commencement of the affection; but when much change of structure takes place, then the pain and swelling become fixed. The pains are most severe during the night, being then so violent as to deprive the patient of rest, and even prevent him from placing his head on the pillow: they abate towards morning, and remain tolerable during the day. They are always aggra- vated by change in the atmosphere from dryness to moisture, and the prevalence of easterly winds is peculiarly distressing to patients afflicted with such diseases. The swelling is composed of thickened and vascular periosteum with cedematous integu- ments. The bone too is often increased in size, and condensed, from continuance of increased vascular action; and its surface is roughened in consequence of its texture being opened out, and new bone having been deposited. Death of portions of the bone often follows, either spontaneously, or after slight bruises received during the continuance of the disease. A few acci- dental blows on the head, and a perseverance in the use of mer- curial alteratives for a series of years, gave rise to the state of matters represented in the accompanying illustrations. The large dead portion represented was removed some months be- fore death. Here the deficiency in the cranial bones is partly owing to ulceration, partly to death of portions of them. The patient’s health becomes undermined by want of sleep and *u 4