LUXATION OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. -739 attempts at reduction too soon, leaving his patient disabled for life. For making counter-extension to the extension by pulleys, a broad strong belt is useful, perforated near the middle for transmission of the injured arm; it is passed round the body so as to fix the trunk and scapula, coming under the axilla of the sound side, and being then fastened by means of a hook to a ring in the wall. Luxations of the shoulder-joint may be, and have been, reduced after the lapse of two or three months; but the diffi- culty increases, and the chance of success diminishes, in propor- tion to the time which has elapsed since the date of the accident. And in deciding upon making the attempt, many circumstances are to be weighed and considered — the patient’s period of life and his occupations, the state of the parts, the degree of motion that has been acquired, and the treatment, if any, which has been previously followed. Perhaps the most important con- sideration is regarding the state of the parts, as indicated by the degree of motion. If the movements be to such an extent as to favour the supposition of the head of the bone having been furnished with a new recipient cavity, to which it has in a great measure accommodated itself, and that the glenoid cavity has, from disuse, become altered, the surgeon can scarcely hope for advantage to his patient from attempts to break up the new articulating apparatus, and re-establish the old. The patient will, most probably, be put to a great deal of pain and some danger, without experiencing improvement to the limb; indeed the motions and power may prove less than before. In old men, too, force sufficient for reduction cannot be employed without great risk of laceration of nerves, blood-vessels, and muscles. But if the patient be young, the motions still limited, and the articulation apparently not changed by solid effusion, reduction may be attempted with a fair prospect of success, and without injury. In all such cases, however, the surgeon must watch every step of the proceedings, and have sufficient experience to stop short of inflicting irreparable mischief. No standard can be fixed for the degree of force that is necessary and safe; he may be foiled, even after the most powerful efforts, in a disloca- tion of two or three weeks’ duration; whilst, by the use of but slight force, he may succeed in one of as many months. 3b 2