674 LIGATURE OF FEMORAL ARTERY. of the tumour, and deep extensive abscess may form in the soft parts. The superficial femoral is to be tied, and the preferable point is where it is crossed by the sartorius muscle. This is always a better practice than removal of the limb, which has not unfrequently been resorted to in cases of large aneurism; there is great risk in such a proceeding, the anastomosing vessels in the thigh are all much enlarged, profuse haemorrhage takes place during the incisions, not completely arrested by any pressure, and probably twenty arteries or more require ligature, as I have witnessed ; after all, the occurrence of secondary bleeding is not unlikely. I have tied the femoral artery, with a favourable result, in some cases of very large aneurismal tumour, and in one instance after the cyst had been imprudently punctured. An incision is made from three to four inches in length, and in an oblique direction in regard to the thigh, tracing the inner border of the sartorious muscle, and so placed that its middle may correspond with that part of the artery on which the ligature is to be put. In order to insure the wound being thus situated, there is no need for measurements; these are but a clumsy substitue for anatomical knowledge. The surgeon, well acquainted with the relative situation of the parts, finds it sufficient to ascertain the exact course of the muscle by manipulation, whilst the thigh is slightly bent, and then guides his knife by the eye, unfettered with mathematical diagrams. The muscle is exposed almost by the first incision; the dissection is then continued through the cellular tissue on its inner border, until the sheath of the blood- vessels is reached, the branches of the crural nerve on the fore part being carefully placed aside uninjured; the sheath is cau- tiously opened immediately above where the muscle conceals it, and the artery separated from its connections to a very slight extent; the needle is then passed, and the ligature applied. The operation, when thus conducted, is exceedingly simple. But embarrassment and delay have often been experienced from following an opposite method, cutting down on the out- side of the sartorius; the muscle must either be dissected from its attachments and turned over, or cut across; or the artery cannot be found, and an additional external wound is neces- sary.