84 OF DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. the fatigue of marching with the burden of a heavy knapsack; and they are of considerable interest in a physiological point of view, because they tend to show the inherent vitality of carti- lage, and that it is liable to serious organic changes quite inde- pendently of diseased action in the surrounding tissues. Some examples of hypertrophy of cartilage, principally affect- ing that of the patella, have been described by Mr. Gulliver, and figured in the third fasciculus of drawings from the Army Anatomical Museum. In these the cartilage is swelled so as to form a ridge across the articular surface of the bone, the hyper- trophied part being perfectly smooth, except where its continuity is interrupted by irregular fissures, as if the perpendicular car- tilaginous fibres were split into bundles of variable size and shape. These cases occurred in young and middle-aged men who died of pulmonary consumption ; and it is probable that the disease would be more frequently found, if it were more fre- quently looked for, since it does not seem to have been accom- panied by any change in the surrounding parts, and would perhaps only be indicated by weakness of a joint rendering it unfit for severe work. The atrophy, or absorption of cartilage, is so frequently seen in the. joints of old subjects, that some authors have been dis- posed to regard it rather as a physiological than a pathological condition. It is, however, unquestionably a disease ; and in the drawings above mentioned, are some specimens of it from a soldier under the middle age. The cartilage seems in the first instance to be opened out in its texture, and numerous little villous processes appear on its surface, often as if its fibres were enlarged after absorption of the substance which connected them. The thinning sometimes takes place in patches, occasionally in grooves, corresponding to the motions of the articular surfaces ; the subjacent bone becomes at length completely denuded, and soon presents a polished porcelain-like surface, which is so re- markable that it is commonly known under the name of por- cellaneous deposit. It is obvious that, when the disease has proceeded thus far, the joint must become more or less deformed, and its motions considerably impeded. Accordingly, old men are often seen at work with much rigidity of the joints, parti- cularly of the knee, which is frequently projected inwards, from