DISEASES OF THE EYE. 333 ing exposure of the parts. The application of an emollient poultice, with the addition of hyoscyamus, is beneficial when it has been found impossible to remove the whole of a fine powder. When particles of lunar caustic have, by accident, come in con- tact with the eye, they are to be removed, as soon after insertion as possible, by a fine hair pencil dipped in oil or fresh butter, not in water. Small loose bodies are generally carried, by the increased lachrymal secretion, along the sulcus formed by the apposition of the eyelids, to the inner canthus, and there dis- charged. And, in order to favour this natural process for remov- ing extraneous matter, the patient should be directed to keep the eyelids shut, and as quiet as possible, to cover them with his hands, and to blow his nose forcibly : thus the greater number of the extraneous particles will be got rid of. Those which re- main lodged in the membranes must be speedily x’emoved by those artificial means which have been already enumerated. If entropion is the cause of the inflammation, the eyelashes are either plucked out, or completely destroyed by I’emoval of their roots. The inflamed organ should be carefully protected from the stimulus of strong light; the patient is to be placed in a darkened room, and the eye protected by a thin green shade. The shade, however, may be worn too long, so as to induce an extremely weak and tender state of the organ. If there be good grounds for believing that the incited action has been caused by suppression of any discharge, that should be encouraged to return, and the cause of the suppression must be avoided. If a gonorrhoea have been suddenly arrested by the employment of stimulating injections, these must be instantly discontinued ; and some have even gone so far, in such cases, as to introduce bougies impregnated with gonorrhoeal matter, in order to procure a renewal of the discharge. In cases of sup- pression of purulent discharge from the ears, or the surrounding parts, followed by external ophthalmia,'a blister or sinapism should be applied in the neighbourhood of the part from which the discharge formerly issued. When the menstrual evacuation has been arrested, leeches and fomentations should be applied to the pudenda, or around the anus, and emmenagogiies adminis- tered internally; the patient should be placed in a quiet and well ventilated apartment, and kept free from any emotions of