479 LIGATURE OF THE ARTERIA INNOMINATA. ceps, or with a small blunt hook, and drawn towards the surface of the wound. It is then divided, and one half retained, whilst the other is withdrawn along with the needle. The ves- sel must not be raised up from its situation, or detached from its cellular and vascular connexions, more than is merely sufficient for transmission of the needle. A single knot is cast upon the remaining half of the ligature, passed down, and tied firmly on the vessel, by the forefingers of the operator. This is se- cured by the finger of an assistant, whilst the ends are again passed through, so as to complete the reef-knot, and run down tight as before, the assistant slowly withdrawing his finger to make way for the ligature. A third knot may be made to insure security; but is seldom, if ever, necessary. As already observed, every thing must be done with deliberation and cau- tion, and the operation may be thus safely concluded in a very few minutes. One end of the ligature may be cut away close to the knot, or both brought out of the wound. The edges of the wound are put together, after all oozing has ceased, by one or two stitches, and the intermediate application of isinglass plaster ; bandaging is unnecessary, and might be hurtful. The patient is placed in bed, with the head elevated considerably, so as to relax the neck. The wound will probably heal by the first intention, excepting in the immediate neighbourhood of the ligature; and the separation of this may be looked for from the tenth to the twentieth day. Then all risk of danger may be considered as past. Ligature of the Arteria Innominata has been pi'actised in very few cases. It may possibly be required for aneurism of the subclavian, or of the root of the carotid; or for large axillary aneurism, greatly raising the shoulder, and involving the parts at the root of the neck. The patient should be placed recumbent, with the head well thrown back. An incision from two inches and a half to three inches in extent is made in the course of the carotid, termin- ating over the sterno-clavicular articulation. If the incision is made more towards the inner border of the left mastoid muscle, greater space is gained. From that point, another is carried along the upper margin of the clavicle, to the extent of an inch and a half. The sternal attachment of the