DISEASES OF THE EYEo 348 no general rule can, with any propriety, be laid down as to our selection of remedial measures. Glaucoma, or green cataract, is a disease of the hyaloid mem- brane and vitreous humour, probably depending on a varicose state of the bloodvessels. The pupil is usually dilated, irre- gularly oblong, the iris being narrowed towards the upper and inner side. There is a dull shining appearance at the bottom of the eye, not fixed as in cataract, but varying according to the position of the light. The lens becomes opaque and greenish as the disease advances, vision gradually diminishes, and the iris is immovable. After sight is lost, the patient has a per- ception of a luminous appearance in the organ when pressed upon. Both eyes are generally affected, one after the other; headach, often violent, attends the disease; many remedies, both external and internal, may be tried on recommendation, though without effect: the disease seldom, if ever, admits of cure. Of Cataract, or opacity of the crystalline lens and its cap- sule, attended with partial loss of vision. — The disease is, in general, gradual in its progress: but sometimes it advances rapidly, as when occasioned by a blow or wound. When slow, the opacity commences in the centre of the lens, and extends gradually towards the circumference. Before any change can be perceived in the organ, the patient sees objects as if covered with a mist or veil; and, as the opacity becomes distinct, vision is gradually impaired. During the day, vision is very indis- tinct, as the pupil is contracted, and the rays of light reach the retina only through the opaque centre of the cataract. But during twilight vision improves, as then the pupil becomes di- lated, and admits of transmission of light through a portion of the transparent vitreous humour, as well as through the semi- opaque margins of the crystalline lens : for a similar reason, it is also more distinct after the application of belladonna or hyoscy- amus either to the eye or to its neighbourhood. In the ordinary state of parts, a clear black ring is often visible ai’ound the opacity, either from the margins of the lens being unaffected, or from the posterior surface of the pupillary portion of the iris