549 N N 3 OF SPINA BIFIDA. During the discharge the strength requires support; and the attention to tlie original mischief must not be neglected or intermitted. Spina Bifida is a congenital fluctuating tumour, with defi- ciency of the subjacent vertebras. It is usually situated in the lumbar region, sometimes in the dorsal, and often over the sacrum. The size of the swelling varies according to the age of the child, and the extent of deficiency in the parietes of the spinal canal. The spinous processes are either impei'fect or altogether wanting, and over the space so formed the tumour is situated. Its contents are usually of a serous character, thin and colourless; sometimes they are turbid and flaky. The parietes seem to be a continuation, or protrusion, of the mem- branes of the spinal chord, thickened and somewhat altered in structure, and usually in close contact with and adherent to the integuments. By pressure the size of the tumour is di- minished ; but, if firm or long continued, unpleasant effects are apt to result. There is often debility of the lower limbs, and the disease is not unfrequently coexistent with hydrocephalus. Children with this affection seldom live more than a few years. The application of gentle, uniform, and continued pressure affbx’ds support to the parts, and prevents increase of the tu- mour; and, under this palliative treatment, life may be both rendered more comfortable and prolonged. It has been pro- posed to combine continued pressure with occasional puncturing of the cyst by means of a fine needle, with the view of di- minishing the tumour and ultimately obtaining entire oblitera- tion of the cyst. The practice has been made trial of, and the result may warrant repetition ; caution, however, is neces- sary, for the too free opening of the tumour is often followed by a rapidly fatal issue. A case occurred to me not long since, in which the tumour, of large size, was situated over the sacrum. The fluid was evacuated by a small trocar and canula, the parietes shrank, and a very satisfactory cure re- sulted.