228 OF ULCERS. sores reproduced, by external injuries, or an unhealthy state of the body; and so much does the state of a sore depend upon that of the general health, that the one is a good index of the other. II. In the second class of sores, or those with weak action, the granulations are flabby, of a pale colour, and possessed of little sensibility or vascularity; the discharge is gleety, and the surface is liable to be destroyed by ulceration or sloughing, upon the slightest excitement of the circulation in the part. The surrounding integuments are generally of a bluish colour, in consequence of their separation from the subjacent parts; and in several places of the neighbourhood, small, unhealthy, detached abscesses may exist; at some points of the sore, glairy fluid is seen to ooze out on pressure, and a probe can be passed pretty deeply into the cavity of an abscess in the soft parts beneath. These sores may arise from an unhealthy condition of the cellular tissue, taking place spontaneously, or following slight injury; they are attributable to the state of the constitution, and may result from an ulcer, originally of a health}^ character, which has remained long open, in consequence of its great size, or other impediments to its contraction. It is the business of the surgeon, in cases of this description, first to obtain a sound foundation, by destroying the unhealthy skin and cellular tissue; the free application of caustic potass will answer this end most readily and effectually. Its applica- tion is attended with considerable pain, but the practice is more successful and less severe than the removal of the unsound parts by the knife or other means. The small abscesses may be all freely laid open ; the diseased cellular tissue may be cut into, or cut away; in short, incisions may be made in all directions, and in every portion of the affected part; but still it will be found that the granulations, as they appear, become pale and flabby, that they spring from a loose and powerless base; matter will again collect; the surrounding skin will again be undermined; no progress will be made towards soundness. But by attention to the state of the constitution, and the application of potass, the neighbouring sound parts have their actions roused, and the healing is carried on rapidly. After its application, a poultice may be applied for a few days, and followed by water dressing, and then stimulants, both internally and externally employed