57 OF ERYSIPELAS. sipelas has been classed amongst cutaneous affections in the order bullm. The erysipelatous redness does not terminate abruptly, and is not defined by a distinct boundary, as some I have asserted, but becomes gradually lost in the surrounding I parts. It frequently involves the contiguous parts one after ! another, and extends with great rapidity. It often leaves one part suddenly, and attacks another, either in the neighbourhood, or situated at a considerable distance; in other words, metas- tasis takes place. The disease takes on this erratic character without our being able to assign any good reason for it; and this form of the disease is frequently attended by symptoms of typhoid fever. When it disappears suddenly, or is repelled by cold ap- I plications, affections of the internal organs sometimes supervene, I as of the bowels, lungs, or brain ; the diseased action leaving I the external surface, and attacking the deeply-seated organs ; thus, in a case of erysipelas of the ankle and foot, the external symptoms disappeared suddenly, and an affection of the lungs supervened, under which the patient sunk; and in erysipelas ; of the face and scalp, the sudden disappearance of the redness is frequently followed by delirium and coma. Again, in acute disease of an internal part, the symptoms are much meliorated, and often entirely removed, by inflammation of the skin being induced artificially, or occurring spontaneously. The integuments of the face and head are frequently attacked by erysipelas, in consequence of wounds and bruises of the face or scalp, even though very slight, and it often takes place here spontaneously, as in other parts of the body. Erysipelas commonly arises from constitutional derangement, as is shown by the symptoms which precede it, and also by the efficacy of internal remedies in checking its progress; in such instances, external applications, unaccompanied with consti- tutional treatment, produce little or no effect. It is often pro- duced around a wound by the employment of improper dressing, rancid ointments, or irritating plasters, by a too free use of the part, or by the friction and irritation of the patient’s clothes. It occurs most readily in those who live freely, indulging in the imprudent use of spirituous liquors, and whose constitutional powers are thereby considerably weakened. It is also said to be sometimes caused by violent passions, as anger or grief; and by