DISEASES OF THE CONTENTS OF THE ORBIT. 362 situation in the parts, and thereby produce both inconvenience and deformity. In some instances, the relative position of the puncta lachrymalia is altered by the cicatrices of the eyelids or tarsal cartilages, when the original wound has been imperfectly adapted : hence results an incurable epiphora. In wounds, such as those above mentioned, it is of great importance to bring the raw edges into contact, and retain them so; and, in most cases, one or more points of interrupted suture are necessary. Adhesive plaster may be at the same time ap- plied, but of itself is insufficient to effect permanent coaptation. Wounds of the eyeball, however slight, require much attention, being inflicted on an important and highly sensible organ, and there being always a risk of destructive inflammatory action. If the breach of surface be clean, simple, and superficial, rest of the parts will in general be sufficient to effect a cure. Lace- rated wounds, and such as penetrate into the interior of the eye- ball, cannot be expected to heal without morbid action having been excited: inflammation must be anxiously looked for, and actively combated as soon as it appears. When a foreign body lodges in the wound, it must be early removed. But in certain cases it is imprudent to attempt extraction of foreign matter; as when a small shot, or other minute substance, has lodged in the interior of the eyeball. In such circumstances we can only adopt such measures as prevent and subdue morbid excitement. The organ may remain little disturbed for a short period, but violent inflammatory action soon occurs, and, though subdued for a time, again breaks forth, and, by its successive attacks, may ultimately destroy the eyeball. Frequently all endeavours to avert untoward results are unavailing, and the functions of the organ are more or less impaired — the cornea may become opaque, the iris may protrude, the pupil may become irregular, contracted, or obliterated — the crystalline lens may lose its transparency, amaurosis may occur from injury of the retina, the humours may be evacuated, and the eye sink in its socket. The entrance of a large foreign body into the orbit may displace the globe, and cause it to protrude between the eyelids : in such a case the body should be removed and the ball gently replaced ; vision may be soon regained; but, if the protrusion has been such as to cause much stretching of the optic nerve, blindness