87 OF DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. The term white-swelling, which ought to be discarded from surgery, was at one time made to include all the different affections to which joints are liable in weak constitutions — thickening of the parts, with an external colourless swelling — collections of matter about articulations, with or without an external aperture — effusion of fluids into the cavities of joints, or into the bursm — destruction of cartilage by ulceration, or in consequence of portions becoming dead — absorption, ulcer- ation, caries or intractable ulceration of the bone adjoining the articulation. Those under twenty years of age are most liable to chronic affections of the joints, and they occur very frequently in chil- dren. Great anxiety is often shown by friends of patients to account for chronic disease of a joint, so as to save their whole generation from the imputation of being tainted w'ith scrophula. It is attributed, sometimes correctly enough, to some injury per- haps trifling; to a sprain, or twist, or squeeze from a tight shoe, or to a bruise from falling; and it is no doubt true, that young or old people of the most healthy constitutions, if thrown out of health from any cause, will present all the appearances of scrophula, and become affected with chronic diseases of the mucous membi’anes, glands, joints, or bones, from very slight existing causes. Such affections advance slowly; all the articulations are liable to them; but those which are most subject to the disease are the hip, knee, ankle, and elbow. Of these, the knee-joint is most frequently affected, probably from the greater extent of cancellated and articulating surface. In young persons of unhealthy constitutions, the joints not unfrequently become affected one after another, and superficial abscesses form, ter- minating in open sores. I was obliged to amputate the upper extremity of a young lady a few days ago, in which a metacarpal bone and its articulation, the entire chain of carpal bones, the wrist and elbow joints, were all thoroughly involved in disease. Neuralgic Affections of Joints. The joints, like other parts of the body, are very often the seat of painful affections, without organic disease existing. G 4