632 CALCULUS VESIC.E. may enter the ureters, and lodge in these canals, distending and obstructing them. The concretions may be caused by the lodgment of ex- traneous substances in the urinary passages. Foreign bodies ntroduced, even in the most healthy persons, are soon incrusted by calculous matter; and the rapidity of the incrustation is in proportion to the tendency to the calculous diathesis. At first the deposit is generally of a brownish colour. Catheters re- tained in the bladder are soon blocked up by it. Needles, bodkins, leaden bullets, seeds of vegetables, kernels of fruit, bits of catheters or bougies, have been found forming nuclei to urinary calculi—more frequently in females than in males, for obvious reasons. Some concretions are formed on the nucleus of condensed vitiated secretion from the mucous coat of the bladder, and partly consist of this deposit from the membi’ane. Such are generally of a dirty white colour, soft, friable, small, and nu- merous ; it is seldom that they are collected into masses of any considerable size. They are usually adherent to the mucous membrane, sometimes forming a broad and thin sheet covering it extensively; other stones, though composed of calculous de- posit from the urine, are equally friable as the preceding, and also both numerous and small. So brittle is their structure that they frequently break up by rubbing upon one another, or by being compressed one against the other by the action of the mus- cular coat of the bladder. Their laminae in fragments, and the nuclei entire, are, in consequence, often evacuated along with the urine in considerable numbers. Even large and apparently very solid concretions break up most unaccountably in the bladder. This may be, perhaps, so far understood when more than one stone is present. A sketch from a specimen in my collection is here introduced. It was obtained from the body of a medical man. He had, it seems, laboured under symptoms of stone for a long period, and ten years previously to the attack which terminated fatally, had himself ascertained by sounding the existence of calculus in his bladder. One Sunday morning I met this gentleman in consultation about a case of injury of the hip-joint. In three days afterwards I was called to visit himself, nearly moribund, from inflammation of the urinary