288 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. and a similar fragment was situated over the right optic nerve. Many cases illustrating the danger of punctured fracture might be related, but are unnecessary, in as much as they would lead to the mere repetition of such facts as have been already stated. Fracture of the external table alone must be rare, but we occasionally see in museums specimens exhibiting a small por- tion of the outer table driven into the subjacent cancelli, without any fracture of the inner table. This kind of injury belongs entirely to that period of life in which the diploe is of consider- able thickness. The treatment would of course be simply that adapted to contusion or concussion. It is also possible for a blow on the head to produce fracture of the brittle inner table, the outer table remaining entire. However uncommon such a form of injury may be, as its effects may possibly be very serious, it is right to bear it in mind. A splinter of the inner table thus driven into the dura mater might cause violent symptoms and even death. Wounds of the Brain.—^ Laceration of this organ to a slight extent, with more or less extravasation of blood, often takes place, without external wound, and when the patient has symp- toms of concussion only. In such cases, the blood may be absorbed, and the laesion repaired, without permanent impair- ment of the sensorial functions. Wounds of it, along with fracture of the skull, are often very extensive; and portions of its substance may be either severely injured, or entirely sepa- rated. Loss of substance, even to a considerable extent, in the upper part of the hemispheres, may occur, without bad symptoms or consequences ensuing. The exposed surface of the brain granulates, and is healed as other parts of soft structure. Gene- rally, however, untoward symptoms result sooner or later in such cases. Haemorrhage occurs from the injured part, and a clot protrudes from the external wound. Or the cerebral sub- stance in the neighbourhood of the wound softens, and becomes converted into a semi-fluid mass, often mixed with pus; and a fungous growth, connected with the disorganised matter, gradually protrudes through the aperture in the cranium, and is repressed with difficulty. If removed by knife or ligature, it is