AND DISEASES THENCE ARISING. 107 merit of sordes or worms in the intestinal canal of children so affected, the balsam of copaiba, in doses of ^ss., or more, on an empty stomach, followed, if need be, by brisk purgatives, will be found to answer admirably. Tonics, such as preparations of iron, of quina, &c., are then given with advantage : many apparently bad cases yield at once to such treatment. As local applications, anodynes, fomentations, or cold lotions are employed, according to circumstances. Frictions with gently stimulating liniments, belladonna, veratria, &c., may be used as occasion demands. The patient must be encouraged to use the affected limb as much as possible; and the use of all severe and heroic remedies, as bleeding, blistering, counter irritation, setons, issues, or moxas, discountenanced. Of Inflammation of Bo7ie, and Diseases thence arismg. Bones grow and are nourished by the same means, and are subject to the same laws, with other parts of the system. Like all the tissues of a white colour, particularly when their growth is completed, they are less freely supplied with blood-vessels and nerves than other parts. When incited action of the blood- vessels occurs in the harder textures, sensibility is roused to an exquisite degree, and the healthy and perverted processes often advance with great vigour and amazing rapidity. Inflammation of bone often arises from external injury, and in some constitutions from very slight causes. Its occurrence is supposed to be favoured by a syphilitic taint, but the inflamma- tory disposition is much more frequently produced in a system vitiated by the abuse of mercury. From the unyielding nature of the tissue, the pain attendant on inflammatory action is dread- fully excruciating ; it is also most violent during the night, even in chronic cases, a circumstance wdiich does not admit of satis- factory explanation. The integuments over the inflamed bone are swollen, and the tumour is oedematous ; whilst a hard and solid tumefaction exists in the more deeply-seated parts, caused partly by enlargement of the osseous tissue and partly by effusion of lymph into the cellular substance. The bone is imbedded in a gelatinous or lymphatic effusion, situated mostly beneath the periosteum. This membrane is more vascular than in its