787 AMPUTATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. rating high in the limb the flaps be made laterally, there will be imminent risk of the bone protruding through the upper part of the wound ; for the patient uniformly raises the stump to- wards his abdomen. No antagonist muscular power is left to oppose the action of the muscles inserted into the trochanter minor, and the elevation of the stump is involuntary : it always occurs to a remarkable extent in young persons. On this ac- count, anterior and posterior flaps are here far preferable to the lateral; for then the more the stump is raised, the better is the end of the bone covered — the anterior flap folds over it. Trans- fixion is therefore made horizontally; and the posterior flap should be a little longer than the anterior. But in the lower part of the limb, lateral flaps are not only not liable to the same objection, but preferable to the anterior and posterior. In the neighbourhood of the knee-joint, the soft parts consist almost entirely of ligamentous tissue on the fore and back part, and proper cushions can be obtained only from the sides. Trans- fixion is therefore made perpendicularly. Thus the bone will be well covered by parts likely soon to adhere; and there is no risk of protrusion, for muscles are left to counteract the eleva- tors, and there is sufficient lever in the limb whereby to control its motions. And it may be here mentioned, that after all am- putations, when startings of the muscles are not only painful, but disturb the position of the stump, the limb should be bound down by a broad band, passed across it a short way above the wound, and fastened firmly at each end to the bed or pillow; at the same time anodynes are to be administered. I have long since come to the conclusion that the femur in amputation should not be sawn lower than its middle; the method by anterior and posterior flap is therefore the only one applicable. Amputation at the hip-joint is deservedly ranked amongst the most formidable operations in surgery. It ought, therefore, never to be performed but as a last and necessitous resource for the salvation of life. At the same time, when necessity for it is obvious and acknowledged, and no other means can be of any avail, hesitation and delay should never take place; otherwise the last and only chance of saving the patient will pass away, and the operation, when at length performed, will but hasten 3 E 2