FRACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE. 698 In another patient, in whom sensation in one limb without motion, and in the other motion without sensation, remained after severe injury of the spine by a fall from a high window, complete recovery was obtained by the internal use of strych- nine, and repeated application of the moxa. Slow degenerations of the spinal chord are not easily com- bated with success. Considerable changes of structure have taken place, as shown by the symptoms, before the patient be- comes alarmed and applies for relief. He has had a feeling of distention about the lower part of the bowels, and voids his urine with some difficulty ; perhaps he suspects stricture of the urethra as the cause. He lifts his feet awkwardly, sets them down clumsily, and all of a piece; his knees totter, there is no feeling about his buttocks, and a numbness round the anus. At length he is for the first time alarmed by incontinence of urine having supervened, or by the limbs having sunk under the weight of the trunk, and by his coming to the ground with violence. The remedial means are local abstraction of blood fz’om over the seat of the disease, followed by friction and coun- ter-irritation. Strychnine may be tried in some cases. But it is indeed seldom that the progress of the case is satisfactory. Fracture of the Clavicle. —This bone is liable to be broken by indirect violence, as by falls on the point of the shoulder, from horseback, or from the top of a carriage; or by a fall with a carriage, the person being inside — of this accident I have met with three or rfour instances. It may also be broken by direct violence, as by a blow on the bone, or by the person striking it against a hard substance in a fall. It generally gives way about the middle. The fracture, when occasioned by force applied to the acromial extremity, is usually oblique; transverse when the force is applied to the shaft of the bone. The dis- placement is in most cases great; but when the fracture is at the bend near the scapular extremity, — a not very uncommon accident, — disjunction of the fractured extremities is prevented by the attachments of the conoid and trapezoid ligaments. In ordinary cases, that fractured extremity projects which is at- tached to the sternum, whilst the scapular portion is depressed and carried inwards. In short, the scapular portion is dis-