INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 278 pericranium and more external parts, are lacerated, or other- wise materially injured, inflammatory action is excited in the connecting medium, unhealthy suppuration ensues, and by the accumulation of matter, the membrane is completely separated from the cranium, and generally participates in the morbid action. It may ultimately slough and give way, and the matter will then be effused internally. A similar process goes on in regard to the bone and its pericranium, a tumour forms exter- nally, and the bone, being deprived of its supply of blood, neces- sarily dies, either in part, or throughout its whole thickness. When an external wound exists, the altered appearance of the bone, with the sloughy state of the detached pericranium, gives evident warning of the mischief which is proceeding internally. The general symptoms of suppuration are the same, whether the collection forms in the substance of the brain, or on its surface. Perhaps the symptoms are not so severe, nor the col- lection so speedily fatal, when in the substance of the brain, as when situated immediately under the bone, or at the base of the cranium. The external marks already mentioned, are generally indicative of the site of such internal collection, but not uni- formly. Formation of matter in the diploe of the skull, in consequence of external injury, is of rare occurrence; and when it does occur, somewhat similar symptoms and appearances ultimately ensue as when the suppuration commences between the bone and dura mater. Sometimes the abscess under the bone is of a chronic nature, as in the following case : — The patient, a boy, set. 11, received a blow on the vertex, after which a puffy tumour formed in the injured scalp, and was freely incised. He afterwards became subject to epileptic fits, which were relieved by copious evacu- ation of matter from the wound. Exfoliation of the cranium occurred; one small sequestrum was separated, which involved the whole thickness of the bone, and a collection of matter between the dura mater and skull-cap was thereby exposed. The contained matter was evacuated, and the wound was care- fully dressed, with the view of procuring adhesion between the membrane and bone, but without effect. The dfira mater was