247 AND THEIR CONSEQUENCES. R 4 distinguishing mark. The non-syphilitic ulcers may have sur- rounding hardness from the first, or in consequence of the appli- cation of stimulants and escharotics; but this is diffused into the neighbourhood, and is not, it is said, of that remarkable solidity peculiar to chancre. It is seldom that more than one chancre occurs: the usual situation is on the glans and lining of the pre- puce; but they occasionally form on the outer surface of the pi’epuce, and on the dorsum penis. In the latter situation the sore assumes a somewhat diffei’ent appearance: it is, in general, larger, the hardness of the base is not so great, the excavation is less, and the surface is of a livid hue. When allowed to pro- ceed uninterrupted, the livid surface is alternated with that of a light brown or tawny colour. Chancre is an indolent ulcer when compared with the phagedenic or sloughing sore, the ulceration proceeds very slowly, and, in proportion as it advances, the sur- rounding hardness increases. It is also contumacious and obsti- nate in taking on any reparative action. Phymosis occasionally takes place, in consequence of chancre situated at the orifice of the prepuce, but not so frequently as when that situation is occupied by superficial sores of a more active nature. Bubo sometimes appears in both groins, or in one; sometimes on the same side with the sore, often on the opposite, and not unfre- quently when the sore is healing, or after it has healed. It may suppurate and give way, or may subside without having advanced to suppuration. It differs in no respect from the swelling of the glands from other causes, either in its swelled or open state. Neither does the occurrence of a bubo render it more probable that constitutional symptoms will follow. Enlargement of the glands is often caused, or at least hastened, by the patient con- tinuing to walk about and exert himself during the existence of a sore, and whilst the absorbents are in an irritable state; but a bubo may be caused by irritation or excoriation in any way pro- duced ; and it not unfrequently occurs without any apparent cause. In some cases of chancre or other ulcer, the absorbents along the dorsum penis become swollen, and occasionally sup- purate. In former times, it was not uncommon for the surgeon to insist that all swellings in the groin were venereal, though no primary sore had ever existed : the virus was said to be absorbed from an unbroken surface; the patient’s system was saturated