OF SUPPURATION. 21 sequently, the neighbouring arterial trunks, in order to sustain that incited action, supply the part with a larger proportion of their contents than it usually receives; and the necessary con- sequence of the stimulated part receiving an additional supply of blood is, that the part originally inflamed receives less. The efiect, indeed, seems analogous to that of topical bleeding, with this difference — that it is more permanent. Besides, it deter- mines suppuration on the surface, and so renders it less neces- sary for the vessels to produce pus in a worse situation — the deeper seated parts. But it must be borne in mind, that this method is not to be resorted to in the commencement, or during the active state, of the inflammatory action, but only when that action has begun to decline, otherwise the disease may be much aggravated, instead of being relieved. If, notwithstanding all the means employed to procure reso- lution, the inflammatory action continues unabated, the result next to be desired and accelerated is Suppuration; and with this view, it becomes necessary to change the treatment, both local and general. Above all, disuse and a proper position of the affected part must not be neglected. Unless absolute repose is strictly en- joined and attended to, and the return of blood from the inflamed tissues is favoured, very great difficulty will, in the majority of cases, be experienced in removing any of the signs or symptoms of inflammatory action, even by the most energetic means, ge- neral or local. This will be more fully insisted upon in the progress of the work. Of Suppuration as a Consequence of Inflammatory Action. It has already been stated, that the blood is stagnated in the capillaries occupying the centre of the inflamed part, as well as extravasated in the contiguous cellular tissue. Pus has long been considered as a secretion; but, from the time of Mr. Hunter downwards, a great similarity between the globules of pus and those of blood has been recognised; the former, however, are spherical, larger, and rougher on the surface, and are not so re- gular in size as those of blood; their diameter is between c 3