ABSCESS OF THE NECK. 471 becomes looser than before; its various portions separate, and gradually disappear; or the centre becomes soft, suppuration spreads extensively, and the surrounding hardness either goes oftj or becomes partial. Discussion of the swelling is to be promoted, and, if possible, the cause removed; and fomentation, friction, pressure, internal stimulants are to be employed, according to the state of the parts, along with what are called deobstruents, in the first in- stance. When suppuration cannot be arrested, the attention must be directed to prevent the integuments from being de- stroyed. With this view, the abscess should not be permitted to give way spontaneously, lest an opening be formed whose cicatrisation would cause deformity, and leave a stain on the race and generation. An artificial aperture must be made early; and in the upper and most exposed parts of the neck this should be in the direction of the folds, and small. When many and extensive collections have formed, when the integuments have been undermined and attenuated before advice is sought, it is impossible to prevent deformity. The knife and potass are required, for reasons assigned in the pre- ceding part of this work; and the detached glands, as well as the thinned skin, stand in need of their free application. Deep-seated collections may originate in glandular disease, or commence in the cellular tissue; they occasionally follow transverse wounds of the neck. Great infiltration of the cel- lular tissue supervenes over the trachea and sternum, and also under the fasciee; purulent matter is secreted in the cells, and the parts are extensively separated; sloughing is prevented only by free and earlj' incision. The nature and extent of the coverings of an abscess seated deeply in the neck are to be kept in view — the platysma myoides, the superficial and deep cervical fasciae. Collections under these interfere with the functions of the neighbouring parts, and are attended with great pain, which is somewhat relieved by resting the chin on the sternum, and so relaxing the fasciae. The matter makes its way to the top of the sternum, and generally points on the outside of the sterno-mastoid muscles. But before the integu- ments become thin, the deep parts have been seriously injured — the cellular tissue has sloughed, the muscles have been sepa- H H 4