75 OF DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. These changes often compose the primary disease, and to them the affections of the synovial membrane and other parts succeed. Such occurrences are attended with alarming disturbance of the constitution, with fever, and even with the most threatening and dangerous symptoms, such as delirium and coma. If the patient survive, and the matter be evacuated from the joints by openings into its cavity, hectic fever is almost certain to supervene. An opinion has been broached lately by Mr. Key, that the ulceration of cartilage was consequent upon the increased vas- cularity, and thickening of the synovial membrane, that the cartilage, in fact, was removed by the action of the vessels raiiii- fying in the membrane, and the prolongations or fringes from it in its diseased condition. Occasionally these fringes corre- spond, in a remarkable manner, to the breach of surface in the cartilage ; but again, ulceration is frequently met with far removed from the membrane. It is also seen, in cases where an opportunity is afforded of making the examination in the earlier stage of disease, that ulceration exists to some extent whilst the synovial membrane is unaffected. And certain cases, in which the cartilage is affected with hypertrophy, and the common form of atrophy of this part in old people, are altogether adverse to Mr. Key’s views. When ulceration takes place at a point removed from the attachments of the synovial membrane, it appears to proceed more frequently from the attached than from the free surface of the cartilage; then the adventitious membrane occupying the rugged spaces, and which under the microscope appears highly vascular, is connected apparently with the medullary web. In acute inflammation of the synovial membrane, and in cases where the cartilage is ulcerated, the pain is very intense, and the spasms of the limb most distressing. This happens when the surface is ulcerated, and perhaps to no great extent. We know that in the horse an ulcerated hollow in the cartilaginous covering of the navicular bone, not so large as to contain a grain of barley, will cause such lameness and suffering as to render the animal so affected perfectly useless. If he is not destroyed at this stage, as many valuable animals have been.