chimney-sweeper’s cancer. 615 — The man was aged 26, robust and healthy. The whole ex- tent of the urethra anterior to the pubes was exposed superiorly, there being a wide fissure through the corpora cavernosa and glans. The penis was retracted considerably, so that the pos- terior part of the fissure lay beneath the symphysis pubis. The numerous lacunae of the urethra were beautifully distinct, and the mucous membrane was seen covered by their secretion. When the patient made water, the urine, after emerging from beneath the pubes, divided into numerous small streams, some of which spread over the side of the penis, while others passed along the exposed urethra. The callous margins of the fissure, formed by the corpora cavernosa and glans, were carefully pared, and, a catheter having been introduced, the raw surfaces were retained in apposition by suture. The wound healed perfectly, almost entirely by the first intention ; and the organ both looked well and proved efficient. The malformation was congenital, and was considered by the patient as analogous to harelip ; but the story I’elated to account for it in consequence of an impres- sion made in his mother’s imagination, was not very plausible. The disease of the external parts of the male genital organs, commonly called Chimncij-sweeper's Cancer^ is one of a formidable and intractable nature, but fortunately not very often met with. The scrotum is the part usually attacked. A wart forms, generally at the lower part, assumes an irritable appearance, and quickly degenerates into open ulceration of a malignant character. The ulcer extends rapidly, consuming the neighbouring integument, and involving the testicle and other subjacent parts in induration and enlargement. The induration extends along the spermatic chord, and the lymphatics participate in the diseased action at an early period. The discharge from the sore is acrid, sanious, and possessed of much foetor; sometimes fungi protrude, but more commonly the surface is excavated and smooth. Not un- frequently the skin surrounding the ulcer is studded, to a con- siderable extent, with numerous clusters of warts, of an unhealthy and angry aspect. A very aggravated specimen of the disease is here represented. The general health is soon undermined, and the disease advances from bad to worse with the usual cer- tainty and rapidity of malignant action. It seldom occurs till R R 4