661 LEUCORRHCEA. sides, and limbs, a sallow bloodless complexion, paleness of the lips. It is often a cause, at other times a consequence, of mis- carriage. Sometimes it is accompanied with a prolapsus uteri, sometimes with thickening of the os uteri. The dischai’ge which attends ulceration of the parts, from whatever cause, is generally bloody, sometimes it is thick, and of a laudable aspect, sometimes thin and foetid. More or less discharge attends poly- pus, and is often profuse and coloured. In gonorrhoea the inflammation is usually limited to the ex- ternal parts, but sometimes extends along the vagina. In neg- lected cases great tumefactiou of the labia takes place, along with excoriation of the neighbouring parts, patchy ulcera*^ion around, and swelling of the absorbents and of the inguinal glands. Heat, pain, and scalding, are experienced in making water, but in comparison with the other sex, females suffer little or nothing from this disease. The parts are much less compli- cated; and bad effects seldom follow either the affection or the remedies employed, however strong. The inflammatory stage must be subdued by antiphlogistic measures, proportioned to the intensity of the action and the state of the constitution ; they seldom, if ever, require to be at all severe. Turpentines, and other internal remedies, which may prove beneficial in the gonorrhoea of males, are of little use. The external means are to be chiefly trusted to, consisting of astringent and stimulating washes; when the vagina is affected, the solutions must be thrown up by means of a syringe. In leucorrhoea, the same external ti'eatment is requii’ed, and the use of a syringe is always necessary. The washes most com- monly employed are — solution of the sulphate of zinc, of alum, and of the nitrate of silver, or a decoction of oak bark or galls. In leucorrhcea the internal exhibition of prepara- tions of iron and of tinct. lyttae in pretty large doses may be considered as almost a specific, stimulating the whole system, and correcting that state of morbid debility, both general and local, on which the vitiated secretion depends; and the in- jection for the vagina, which is perhaps most efficacious, is the solution of the nitrate of silver. The solid caustic may often be rubbed over the surface of the vagina affected by bad leucorrhoea or gonorrhoea, when exposed and brought into view u u 3