301 DISEASES OF THE SCALP. it is unnecessary to adopt any preparatory measures for its re- moval, not even to shave the scalp: the surface may be cleared a little with scissors. The swelling is transfixed, in the direc- tion of the fibres of the occipito frontalis, by means of a curved sharp-pointed bistoui’y, and its internal structure is exposed by the knife being carried outwards. The soft contents are evacu- ated, and the sac is easily extracted by means of common dis- secting forceps. The integuments are then laid down and re- tained in apposition, no sutures being necessary, and in many cases the wound heals by adhesion ; sometimes a small coagulum forms between the edges of the wound, and is detached some days afterwards; then slight suppuration ensues. In larger tumours, however, a straight and narrow knife is perhaps the most convenient instrument for accomplishing removal. The part is transfixed, and in most cases it is necessary to take away an elliptical portion of the integuments, a part of the cyst cor- responding to which is of course simultaneously removed ; the remainder of the sac is pulled out by the forceps. If the adhe- sions at certain points are firm, they may be touched with the extremity of the knife, so as to expedite the extraction; and if after the operation there is reason to believe that the whole of the secreting surface has not been taken away, a pointed piece of caustic potass may be applied to the suspected parts. If the tumour is very large, the cyst can often be removed without difficulty unopened, sufficient integument being left to cover the exposed surface. In consequence of such operations on the scalp, erysipelas often supervenes, and precautions ought there- fore to be adopted to prevent its occurrence, by a little prepara- tion beforehand, by keeping the patient’s bowels freely open, confining him to moderate and mild diet, and avoiding exposure to moist atmosphere and easterly winds. Osseous tumours of the cranium seldom attain any great size, and are in general neither troublesome nor dangerous. Small ivory exostoses ai’e the tumours most frequently met with in this situation, and require no treatment whatever. Tumours of malignant character occur, though rarely; com- mencing either in the diploe of the skull or on the surface of the dura mater, soon enlarging, and involving the parts around. Two or more sometimes form in one patient; they are attended