DISEASES OF THE EYE. 330 the affection is recent, it sometimes disappears under proper treatment, especially in young subjects; but the albugo is by no means so readily removed as the Nehula, or thin cloudy opacity which is the frequent consequence of obstinate chronic dilatation of the conjunctival vessels. Nebula is superficial, and consists of mere thickening of the conjunctival covering, from lymph having been effused. It impairs vision, but does not destroy it, for the affected part remains semi-transparent. In strumous constitutions specks of the cornea are often ac- companied with ulceration of the edges of the palpebrse, and destruction of the cilise — the ophthalmia tarsi. The margins of the eyelids are red and slightly tumid, and discharge an acrid fluid; the cilim are matted together; pustules form at their roots; the bags which secrete them are laid open and destroyed, and they consequently fall out. The affection is often of long duration, and may be in part prolonged by vitiated secretion from the meibomian glands. During its progress it excites very considerable irritation in the whole eye, and, as has been already stated, opacities of the cornea not unfrequently accompany it. Veins become enlarged, and varicose on the conjunctiva, as also their minute ramifications on the clear part of the ball; small reddish lines appear on the cornea, and around them is “ dif- fused a thin, milky, or albuminous humour,” which destroys its transparency at that part. Such spots may be solitary or nu- merous, and darken the cornea either partially or entirely. They are always surrounded with a fasciculus of enlarged veins. In elderly people a dim opaque ring, of a greyish colour, sometimes encircles the margins of the cornea, and is called Arcus Senilis ; but this can scarcely be looked upon as a disease. Sometimes the cornea presents a spotted appearance; and this state of the organ is generally attended by obstinate inflam- matory action in the part. The affection, however, is rare. I have seen several instances of it: in one, both corneae were spotted, and sight was almost destroyed, without much irritability of the organ. The disease yielded to external stimulants, and the internal use of the bichloride of mercury. It is met with in a chronic and very intractable form. The cornea may sometimes be rendered dim by over-distension, the aqueous humour being unusually copious.