DISUNITED FRACTURE. 729 applied — one of pasteboard on each side, with a wooden one exteriorly till the pasteboard hardened. He soon cut away the ends of the splints—within thirty-six hours after they had been put on —so as to allow motion of the fingers and hand, sufficient for indulgence in card-playing. The splints were still farther shortened, and wholly removed much too soon; shortly after- wards he fell from horseback. No union took place by bone. Unless in the case of previous disease of the bone, disunion is generally attributable to some carelessness or recklessness, either of the surgeon or of the patient. If any osseous deposit has taken place, it is absorbed; the ends of the bone are diminished in size by interstitial absorp- tion ; ligamentous or fibro-cartilaginous tissue is formed round the wasted extremities; and the surrounding cellular tissue being thickened and condensed, a sort of synovial pouch is formed, in which the ends, by this time smooth and rounded off, move freely. The limb is shortened in some degree, and its actions are very much diminished in force, there being no sufficient support for the muscles. The bones of the leg and of the fore- arm are occasionally the seat of false joint, sometimes the femur, but most frequently the humerus. By the tight application of a firm and broad belt of leather, the part is steadied, and the limb rendered more serviceable. Various measures have been proposed and practised with the view of promoting a salutary increase of action in the parts, by which osseous deposit in sufficient quantity to form a firm unit- ing medium might be procured. The ends of the bones have been exposed by incision, and removed either by the saw or by cutting pliers; they have then been placed together, retained by proper apparatus, and the case treated as one of compound fracture. The ends have been cut down upon, rubbed over with escharotics, as caustic potass, and afterwards treated as in the former method. Setons have been passed between the ends of the bones, and been retained till sufficient action has occurred ; they have been then withdrawn, and the limb steadied by splints and bandaging. To the last method I would, from some experience, give the preference. It is the least severe, both immediately and conse- cutively; it is the most readily accomplished, and the most likely