OF SUPPURATION. 28 before dissolution. A late writer bas endeavoured to connect this with inflammation of the veins ; but such an opinion is not borne out by observation, although the two circumstances may occasionally coexist. In many cases the veins of a limb are found filled with pus, yet their coats present no marks of in-: flammatory action having existed in them. Their mouths are open in the wound, from failure of that healthy action by which they would have been closed by coagulated lymph, and the matter appears to be taken up by them as secreted. From the discharge varying according to the state of the sys- tem, the latter can in general be accurately ascertained by exa- | mination of the sores which afflict the patient. In collections of matter not far removed from the surface, the I most superficial, and generally the most dependent, portion of , the parietes appears inflamed ; its inner surface is gradually absorbed; and, when it has thus become attenuated, a portion of the integument sloughs or ulcerates. A communication is established with the diseased parts, through the external surface, thus providing an aperture for the evacuation of the matter —of extraneous substances — or of parts of the body which have either mortified, or otherwise become useless to the system. In such collections, more especially if deeply seated, the matter generally seeks the surface, or extends in the course of the blood-vessels. Cold abscesses, as they are called, often contain as much flaky fibrinous matter as true pus ; hence one of the signs of inflammation, swelling, is absent; the fibrine being discharged instead of having been added to the neighbouring parts. As formerly remarked, suppuration occurs much more readily in some constitutions than in others; and patients peculiarly liable to the formation of abscesses, without any great degree of previous excited action of the blood-vessels, are said to labour under Struma or Scrophula. These terms are by some used to denote a distinct or specific disease, while others con- sider them merely as a peculiar state of the constitution. The strumous diathesis is said to be marked by hair and irides of a very light colour, and by the skin being of a peculiar white hue ; but, in some instances, tbe complexion is unusually | dark and sallow. The upper lip generally presents a swollen ap- pearance, as also the columna and alae of the nose. The organ-