GONORRHCEA. 573 considerable time. Discharge is often brought back, as already observed, by the excitement of sexual connexion. In simple inflammation of the urethra, with discharge, little or no treatment is required ; if the patient keep quiet, and avoid the causes which gave rise to the affection, the symptoms will disappear in a short time. But virulent gonorrhoea is often very unmanageable, particularly if it has been allowed to follow its own course, and consequently to make head before it is attacked. It is no easy matter to arrest it after the parts have got into the habit of furnishing discharge, and particularly if it has been aggravated by thoughtlessness and imprudence of the patient. All violent exercise should be avoided, as also indulgence in venery and liquors. A great variety of remedies, both external and internal, have been employed. General bleeding has been recommended, but never can be required in simple clap. If the bladder, or other important organ, become affected, depletion will be indispensable. Abstraction of blood by leeches from the perineum may be required, when from any cause the inffammation extends beyond its usual seat; and great relief is afforded by afterwards employing hot foment- ations, or the bidet, and by diaphoretics given internally. Mercury was used in clap by those who conscientiously be- lieved that the disease was the same as what they called syphilis. But it had been better far for mankind had such a term, or the notions associated with it, never been broached; or at least had mercury never been considered as necessary for the cure of affections of the genital organs. In gonorrhoea mercury may do much harm; it never can do good, either in the way of cure or prevention. The disease has often been contracted, whilst the system was saturated with the mineral. Frequent and violent purgings with neutral salts — a common plan of treatment amongst the unprofessional and inexperienced — are hurtful; the extremity of the rectum is irritated, and may inffame, and the urethra, from intimate sympathy, will suffer accordingly. Turpentine, copaiba, cu- bebs, buchu, &c. have been long employed in all forms of the disease; of these, copaiba, administered from the first, and not after the infiammatory symptoms have subsided, is perhaps the one chiefly to be relied on. It may be taken pure, with