322 DISEASES OF THE EYE. of fulness in the part, and this is followed by redness of the membrane, becoming more and more intense. If the disease gain ground, the colour changes to a darkish red or purple hue. To the redness succeeds heat, with profuse and hot lachryma- tion. Then swelling supervenes, often to a great extent: the vessels, both veins and arteries, are much gorged, and effusion of serum or blood takes place into the loose cellular tissue which connects the conjunctiva to the sclerotic. In some cases, the effusion in this situation is very consider- able ; lymph as well as blood is deposited, and a bulging for- wards of the conjunctiva is produced; the stretched membrane becomes thickened, of a raw granulated appearance, and a bright scarlet hue, and the cornea appears sunk in the midst of the swelling, and almost hid by it: this state of matters is termed Injlammatory Chemosis^ and only occurs when the excitement is very intense. Blood is frequently effused beneath the conjunctiva in small quantity, in consequence of a bruise or other injury of the eye,— from violent exertion, as during coughing,— or from a less de- gree of inflammatory action than in the preceding case; but the swelling thereby occasioned is comparatively trifling, and the effusion is, in general, speedily absorbed. To this affection the term Ecchymosis is attached. In inflammation of the external parts of the eye, the redness begins from the margins of the organ, and gradually diffuses itself towards the cornea. Such is not the case in inflammation more deeply seated. There is intolerance of light in a slight degree, and the patient is inclined to keep the eyelids shut. At first the discharge from the conjunctiva and meibomian glands is increased and changed, and flows occasionally over the cheek, producing a scalding sensation. When the eyelids are at rest, as during the night, they become glued together by the viscid fluid from the meibomian follicles; but, if the inflammation increases in intensity, the discharge is arrested. In external inflammation there is moi*e or less constitutional disturbance, proportioned to the violence of the action and the irritability of the system. In most instances the patient com- plains of headach. The above symptoms subside along with the inflammation;