212 OF WOUNDS. formed, the edges of the wound are to be gently brought to- gether, so as to render the quantity of new matter requisite for filling up the cavity as small as possible. Nature will then accomplish the union in her own way, and we can only assist and minister to her ,• for who thinks now of healing wounds by pure force of surgery? The dressings ought to be light, the ointment, if any is used, scanty; in some cases the application may be dry; but in many cases various lo- tions will be found of much advantage. These latter are used of different qualities, according to the nature of the sore; and these can be of little avail unless evaporation be prevented, by a piece of oil-silk laid on the outer surface of the dressing. In most granulating wounds, they require to be of a mildly stimu- lating nature, and the one which I have most frequently em- ployed is a weak solution of the sulphate of zinc. The in- teguments round the wound may be occasionally washed, to prevent excoriation, but no good can accrue from washing the sore; its natural discharge is its best protection, and if super- abundant, it can be removed by means of dry lint or tow from the surrounding parts. From bruised and lacerated wounds there is little or no haemorrhage, but in proportion to the severity of the bruise, is the bleeding slight, and the danger great. The blood- vessels are so toi'n and twisted as to permit the spontaneous and temporary suppression of haemorrhage to occur almost im- mediately; and the larger arteries may escape entirely, owing to their elasticity. Sometimes after bruised wounds, such as those inflicted by gunshot, the large vessels bleed instantly and violently; often, however, haemorrhage occurs only after the sloughs separate, many days after the infliction of the injury, and then it is generally very profuse; in some instances, limbs are torn, bruised, or shot away, without haemorrhage occurring to any great degree, or at any period. Frequently the vitality of the parts surrounding the wpund is much diminished; and the whole limb is apt to become gangrenous, either immediately, on account of the extreme violence of the injury, or consecu- tively, from greatly excited action going on in parts whose power of resistance has been much impaired : it often arises also from constitutional peculiarity. The gangrene extends often