403 ENLARGEMENT OF TONSILS. D D 2 side very considerably on removal of the cause, or abatement of its operation, for there is nothing malignant in their nature. It is true, as I have seen, that the tonsils may be involved in malignant disease spreading from the neighbouring parts; but in the affection under consideration, no mark of malignancy appears, as far as I know. There is mere enlargement and opening out of the texture, without much, if any, change in structure or consistence; the part may be cut into without the risk of exciting unhealthy action, and the divided surface cicatrises readily. Deobstruents, and iodine, as the most efficient, may be given, with perhaps some effect. In the adult, when the affection is troublesome, permanent, and of long duration, the exuberant matter must be removed, and this is accomplished either by ligature or by incision. The former method is the more dif- ficult, tedious, painful, inconvenient, and dangerous. It is seldom that one ligature, with a simple noose, suffices; it is necessary to transfix the tumour, and, separating the portions of the ligature, to include the upper and under halves in distinct nooses. The latter method is the preferable. It is not requisite to cut out the whole tonsil, and there is risk in attempting such a measure, but that part only is removed which projects beyond the arches of the palate and the natural level of the gland. Long curved scissors may be employed, but the straight probe-pointed bistoury is more convenient; and this, to insure security, may be blunted to within an inch and a half of its point, or rolled so far in lint. To facilitate incifion, the tumour is laid hold of by a sharp hook, or, what is better, by a vulsellum. Occasionally violent attempts at retching occur during the operation; but there is little pain or hmmorrhage. The complicated machines invented for this purpose are worse than useless. The healing of the sore is hastened by foment- ations and mild gargles, and by either stimulating or soothing- applications, as circumstances require. Excision of the tonsils is said to produce the bad effect of changing the pitch of the voice — taking from the high, and adding to the low notes. I have performed the operation, as above described, on professional vocalists, to remedy indistinct- ness of articulation and constant hoarseness, with the desired