FRACTURES, Y Y G89 moderated by timely depletion. Abscesses are to be opened early, the parts are fomented, and then perhaps poulticed. The limb must all along be kept in a correct position, dead portions of bone must be removed when detached, and the strength sup- ported by generous diet and wine. Opiates are of great use in alleviating the pains and twitchings in the limb. Poulticing is to be continued only for a short time; in many cases it may be altogether superseded by fomentations; and the latter should be used only when abscess is threatened, or when the patient is much pained at one or more parts of the limb. Support and gentle pressiu’e are indispensable soon after evacuation of the matter, when no fresh collection is threatened. Tlie injury is often so great as at once to demand removal of the limb. There is no alternative, when, from laceration of the soft parts, superficial, deep, or both — comminution of the bone to a great extent — rupture of large vessels — and opening of joints — either gangrene or an overpowering suppuration are rendered not only probable but almost certain. The period at which the operation is to be undertaken requires judicious selection. Some patients are not affected constitutionally even by great and violent injury, sucb as dreadful laceration of the limbs; whilst others, even after slight wounds, are seized with delirium, tremors, vomiting, lowness of spirits, depressed circu- lation, paleness of the surface, and appear on the eve either of rapid sinking or of immediate dissolution. In the first class of patients immediate amputation may be bad recouise to with safety and advantage. In the second, the patient must be re- assured, and stimulated both by external and internal means ; in short, reaction must be brought about, and then let the surgeon operate. If he amputate before this, his patient will most probably die on the table, or very soon after his removal from it; re-action will never take place, and sinking of the vital powers be accelerated by the ill judged interference, A greater or less time is required for the occurrence of re-action in differ- ent individuals; the usual period is from two to six hours. Commencement of it is a sufficient warrant for operation; the surgeon must not delay till inflammatory fever has been lighted up, for then he will interfere with great disadvantage. He must then subdue the inordinate action as much as possible, and