599 RETENTION OF URINE. parts, must be freely incised wherever the urine has been ef- fused, in order to prevent the direful effects of lodgement of that fluid; and then the catheter should be passed and retained as in the former instance. If the surgeon be foiled in in- troducing an instrument, as he may be, and if the prostate be sound, the bladder must be relieved by puncture from the rectum. Retention from stricture is, as already observed, the most difficult to manage. No time can be put off in bleeding or warm bathing, in giving internal remedies, or exhibiting ene- mata. The viscus is making violent efforts to I’elieve itself, and if these are left unassisted, or not rendered unnecessaiy, they may prove the patient’s destruction. The system may be drained of blood, and the body parboiled, without the patient being re- lieved. The case requires immediate and decided practice; for whilst the surgeon is consulting about what is to be done, the urethra may give way, and the patient be lost. The discharge of a small quantity of urine may follow the introduction of small flexible bougies, up to the contracted point, but the bladder is not relieved. The throwing of cold water on the thighs may, in slight cases, induce such contraction of the expelling muscles as may overcome the resistance in the urethra, and this method has been had recourse to after failui’e with the catheter; but he must be a very poor surgeon indeed who is foiled, when such practice afterwards proves successful. Immediate recourse must be had to the firm silver catheter, proportioned in size to the tightness of the stricture, and the difficulties afforded to its introduction must be overcome by skill and perseverance; it is no easy matter to pass the instru- ment in many cases, and particularly when ineffectual attempts have been made previously. By gentle insinuation, and per- severance in moderate pressure, properly directed, the obstacle can always be overcome, — and that without the infliction of any injury to the parts. I may here observe, that I have never yet been foiled in passing the catheter, though very many severe and difficult cases have fallen to my lot; in other words, I have never been obliged to abandon my attempts to obtain an exit for the urine by its natural passage, and, as a last resource, to mutilate and endanger a patient by making an unnatux’al aper-. Q Q 4