681 EXOSTOSIS OF DISTAL PHALANX. the deformity. The patient is besides put to much pain in the attempts to do so. The gastrognomii and their tendon are un- naturally short and vicious in their conformation. By pi’ocuring elongation of the tendon, the cure is very much abridged, and the difficulties of the instrument maker very considerably abated. The ends of the tendon, if divided (and this can easily and safely be done vrithout loss of blood by the introduction and proper use of a double edged stout needle), are retracted a good deal, and the space is speedily filled up by new matter, which soon assumes the functions and appearance of tendon. In the permanently extended foot, which is less common, this little operation is attended with the beneficial and rapid improve- ment here shown, the thickening, where the tendon has reunited, is still observable. The phalanges of the toes in general resemble those of the fingers in their diseased actions. Exostosis of the extremity of the distal phalanx, however, has no analogy in the upper ex- tremity ; it is by no means an uncommon affection, and usually occurs in the great toe. The growth is generally globular and rough in its exti’emity, narrow at its origin, attached on the dorsal aspect, projecting obliquely upwards, and always of similar structure with the phalanx. Sometimes they are met with of a patient complains merely of pain in the part while walking; soon the pain increases so as to impede progression very seri- ously ; then the nail is found to be raised at its margin, and to cover a hard, unyielding, and tender swelling. The elevation of the nail increases, and the tumour becomes more apparent, covered by hardened cuticle, causing great uneasiness, and almost entirely preventing walking exercise. It has been recommended to expose the tumour by incision, and remove it at its origin. This affords temporary relief, but the disease is generally in no long time reproduced, and the in- cision must either be repeated, or the phalanx amputated. The preferable practice, according to my experience, is to remove the phalanx at once. It is less tedious and painful than the incision, size nearly equal to that of the bone from which they spring, but the majority are considerably smaller. The only one I have met with springing from a small toe is here sketched. At first the