AFFECTIONS OF THE ARTERIAL SYSTEM. 149 L 3 applied, there is a risk of gangrene. The temperature after- wards rises, and soon gets above the natural standard ; the blood, from obstruction in the internal parts, being chiefly de- termined to the surface. After the collateral circulation has been completely established, the limb regains its natural tem- perature. Secondary haemorrhage is occasionally a consequence of this operation ; nor is it to be wondered at, should one ligature only be used, seeing that this is often clumsily applied; the cellular tissue being lacerated, and the vessel detached from its connec- tions by the use of blunt instruments, directors, and silver knives. When many ligatures are employed and foreign substances placed in the wound, the patient can scarcely be expected to escape profuse bleeding. If, however, the operation by single ligature be properly performed, and the coats of the artery be sound at the deligated point, the occurrence of secondary hae- morrhage must be rare. It generally supervenes when the ligature is about to separate : at first there is a thin bloody discharge, afterwards the quantity of blood is more copious; it is evacuated at first in a gentle and continued stream, but afterwards per saltum, and in profusion. The discharge not unfrequently stops for a short time, but, on the circulation being excited, it again returns ; and the patient soon dies, unless active measures be practicable, and immediately resorted to. Com- pression can be of no use; nor can astringents, nor venesection, which I have actually seen practised in such cases. The appli- cation of a ligature betwixt the heart and the open point of the vessel affords the only chance of saving the patient; the surgeon must interfere, and do what is in his power — he cannot look on and see the patient bleed to death. Occasionally the aneurismal sac deviates from its usual struc- ture and appearance. Sometimes osseous or calcareous matter is found deposited, to a greater or less extent, in the substance of the parietes of the sac, or between the laminae of fibi'ine which it contains. The tumour may also occupy unexpected situations, occurring after fracture of the bones and laceration of an artery, and perhaps from more slight external injuries. A disease of bone, somewhat resembling aneurism in that tissue, will be afterwards noticed.