OF DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 77 of the joint. When the disease is advancing, the patient may feel no acute pain, but merely a reluctance to use the limb ; and from this, if long continued, the muscles, and afterwards the bones, become wasted. Wasting of the limbs in children, often of one of the lower, frequently arises from disorder of the bowels, and the irritation and debility attendant on teething. This must be distinguished from the wasting accompanying diseased joint. The history of the case, the period at which the weakness of the limb was observed, and its appearance, will lead to a correct diagnosis. The swelling is often irregular, being more protuberant at one part than another, from the fluid or the addition of solid matter being accumulated where the least resistance is afforded; but the slighter inequalities are generally filled up by oedema of the cellular texture. As the disease proceeds, matter forms in the joint, and is often attended with great pain and fever ; or the pus is effused into the bursm, into the surrounding cellular tissue, or into the filamentous tissue amongst the tendinous sheaths of the muscles in the neighbourhood; being allowed to re- main without an outlet, it at length communicates with the cavity of the joint. Portions of the cartilages are absorbed, though this, as already noticed, may occur at the very commencement of the disease; the subjacent bone becomes affected by ulceration, or perhaps its vitality is partially de- stroyed. When matter has accumulated, a portion of the cap- sular ligament generally ulcerates, the pus escapes, and is ulti- mately discharged externally. When the disease begins with swelling, which is of a chronic character, and produces but little inconvenience, and when the more urgent symptoms supervene after the swelling has continued for a considerable time, there is every reason to suppose that the disease has originated in the synovial membrane, or perhaps in the osseous cancelli, and this is generally met with in poorly fed and strumous subjects. But when the first symptoms have been pain and stiffness of the joint, without change of its appearance, and when the swelling has occurred after these symptoms have been of some duration, then it is probable that the car- tilages are the primary seat of mischief. For the most part, however, the symptoms have a general resemblance in most