287 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. which recurred at intervals; his pulse was regular, but feeble; pupils dilated. On the centre of the forehead, there was an irregular wound, which extended to the root of the nose; and on introducing the finger, the os fronds was found fractured, and a small portion of it comminuted and depressed. The tre- phine was applied, and several detached portions were removed, with some difficulty, from beneath the undepressed portion of the bone. A spiculum had lacerated the dura mater, and pene- trated the substance of the brain, to the depth of half an inch; on removing it, a small portion of cerebi’al matter escaped. The fracture extended apparently in the direction of the right orbit. In the afternoon, the pulse was sixty-four, of good strength, and the pain in the wound had slightly increased. He was bled to fourteen ounces, and ordered an antimonial solution. After- wards, the pain of the head increased, the pulse rose, the scalp around the wound became the seat of puffy swelling, and several small abscesses formed: the antiphlogistic regimen was rigor- ously followed, and the abscesses were freely opened as soon as they began to form. On the 21st, a, portion of the brain had sloughed, and there was some appearance of fungus cei’ebri; an incision was made into a swelling over the right temporal muscle, and ^viii of blood allowed to flow. On the 22d, several portions of brain were discharged, the pulse was 100, and intermit- ting. Next day, he was delirious, and a hernia cerebri pro- truded, of sloughy appearance, and considerable size; pulse 142. Soon afterwards he became comatose; and died early in the morning of the 23d. On dissection, the integuments and pericranium surrounding the aperture, in the frontal bone, were found much thickened, and infiltrated with pus and serum. The dura mater at the wound had a sloughy appearance. There was great effusion of purulent matter, under the dura mater, investing the right hemisphere of the brain; the corresponding tunica arachnoidea was thickened and opaque; and between it and the pia mater there was considerable deposition of lymph and pus. The fungus was collapsed, of a dark colour, soft consistence, and connected with the anterior lobes; the sur- rounding cerebral matter was much softened, and mixed with pus. The fracture extended through the orbitar plate of the right os frontis, over which lay two small spicula of bone;