253 AND THEIR CONSEQUENCES. ously used, and moderately continued, until the callosity disappear. It is no easy matter to say, judging from the appearance of the ulcer, whether secondary syphilitic symp- toms are likely to arise in consequence of it or not, or what their nature may be should they occur : they follow upon sores of all characters, and, again, do not appear, after what might be set down as the genuine Hunterian chancre. What- ever the nature and appearance of the ulcer may have been in the first instance, should it become stationary, and show no disposition to heal under local means, mercury may then be given cautiously, and with advantage. Considering that very obstinate sores are now seldom met with, it would seem that very little mercury is required in the treatment of primary venereal ulcers. During the progress of acute inflammatory action, this medicine should not be given for the primary affec- tion, whatever the nature of the ulcer. Mercury cannot prevent constitutional affections. Constitutional symptoms do not often occur, taking place scarcely in one case out of a hundred of all the forms of sores which present themselves. In the papular form mercury is hurtful, as already remarked: it interferes with the natural and mild progress of the affection, frequently gives rise to iritis, and produces pains of the joints and bones. The powers of the con- stitution, aided by simple remedies, are sufficient: the cure may be tedious, but cannot be destructive. Wliereas, if mercury be considered as the only specific, its use will be long continued; it will frequently be resumed after it has been dispensed with on the supposition that the virus is destroyed; and by the effects of excessive mercurial irritation, combined with those of the dis- ease, tampered with and aggravated, the patient may ultimately perish. The fever, which precedes and attends the eruption, must be moderated by depletion, antimonial medicines, and pur- gatives ; but depletion ought not to be carried far, lest the erup- tion be thus checked and disappear ; and the patient ought to be carefully removed from external circumstances which might pro- duce a similar effect. After the eruption has come fully out, and the febrile symptoms subsided, it will be sufficient to attend to the general health, and employ the decoction of sarsaparilla, a medicine which excites the secretions, and more especially promotes diaphoresis. In short, the treatment may be said to