LUXATION OF THE WRIST. 744 In mere sprain of the wrist, large swelling soon forms 'anr teriorly, from extravasated blood, resembling somewhat pro- jection of the bones, and so leading towards fallacy in diagnosis; indeed it is not unreasonable to suppose that dislocation here does not occur so frequently as is imagined. Fracture also near or through the distal extremity of the radius, an accident for- merly mentioned as exceedingly common from falls on the hand, is very apt to be mistaken for luxation. On this account, and because in every injury of the wrist the parts are soon obscured by bloody swelling, there is a strong necessity for early and accurate examination. Subluxation not unfrequently occurs ; in other words, the attachments of the bones of the forearm to each other are broken up, and their extremities separated to an unnatural distance. The accident is distinctly marked by the deformity, the absence of hard projection, and by the unusual space be- tween the radius and ulna occupied by a soft and yielding swelling. Replacement is accomplished much in the same manner as in complete luxation, the bones being compressed towards each other with one hand, whilst extension is made with the other; afterwards splints must be applied and retained. Compound luxations of the wrist are occasionally met with, and, like compound fractures in this situation, are always trouble- some, and often terminate unfavourably. The soft parts are sparing, possessed of little vitality, and much injured by the ac- cident ; consequently reparation proceeds very slowly, and is generally superseded by unhealthy and profuse suppuration, perhaps accompanied with more or less sloughing of tendons and integument. If the ends of the bones protrude bare, shat- tered, and split, they should be removed by means of either the saw or the cutting pliers, previously to attempts at reduction; the wound should then be approximated, and the cure conducted on ordinary principles. Sometimes a single bone of the Carpus is displaced, usually backwards. It is quite loose and moveable, and is easily replaced, but in almost every case redisplacement occurs, the bone at one time occupying its proper situation, at others forming an incon- venient and unseemly prominence on the back of the wrist, dimi- nished by extension, and increased by flexion of the joint. The