STRICTURE OF THE GULLET. 457 difficult deglutition. Some patients can swallow only liquids ; and when an attempt is made to get over any solid substance, this is stopped at the contraction, and completely obstructs the passage. In such cases, patients will frequently apply for relief, in order that the portion of food may be pushed through the nai- row’ed portion of the canal; with the accomplishment of this many are quite satisfied, and are unwilling to submit to farther treat- ment, obstruction to solid matter being the only inconvenience experienced. But when contraction is great, and the involved portion of the canal almost obliterated, little food of any kind can pass into the stomach, the patient becomes feeble and emaciated, and ultimately dies from inanition. The subjects of this affection are generally far advanced in years, and in them it often occurs without any evident cause. If pharyngitis have subsided, either spontaneously or after antiphlogistic treatment, and symptoms of stricture supervene, the existence or non-existence of this latter disease must be ascertained by gentle and cautious introduction of a gum-elastic bougie or ivory-ball probe. If stricture exist, the descent of the instrument will be resisted at the contracted point, and most frequently at the lower part of the pharynx ; this, in the adult, will be at a distance of about nine inches from the incisor teeth. When the seat of the stricture is ascertained, a bougie is to be introduced, sufficiently small to pass through it; and when this has been pushed beyond, the disease, if unattended with malig- nant disposition or action, is completely in the power of the surgeon. After sufficient time has been allowed for the irrita- tion following the first introduction to subside, a larger bougie is to be passed, and retained as long as its presence can be endured. This practice must be continued, till, by gradual increase of the bougie, the canal is dilated so as to admit readily an instrument sufficient to distend the gullet in its healthy state. Thus the passage will be gently and gradually dilated, till it regain its original calibre. The process is partly mechanical, but also greatly dependent on vital action ; by the presence of the bougie the parts are stimulated, the fluid, which may be effused beneath the mucous membrane or into its substance, is absorbed, and the new solid matter is also gradually removed by increased action of the absorbents. But if the bougie be