DISEASES OF THE EYE. 341 towards the margin of the cornea; but between the zone and the cox’nea a distinct white line is often interposed. Then large arborescent and reticulated vessels soon appear on the white part of the eye; and from their being more superficial than the first, and of a brighter hue, it is obvious that they belong to the conjunctiva. They also approach the clear part of the eye, and, if numerous, obscure the former vessels — as also the red zone and white line — for they pass over them, and reach the corneal margins, and often go beyond it, in continuous ramifications. The sclerotic, in consequence, assumes a pink red colour, and the cornea becomes dim. The iris may be primarily and principally affected, and, if so, the disease is termed Iritis; but in most cases all the other in- ternal parts suffer more or less. The iris changes its appear- ance, becomes of a dusky hue, either in part or throughout, and red vessels are sometimes distinctly seen in it; from grey or blue it changes to a greenish colour, and when formerly black or brown it becomes reddish. The size of the pupil diminishes, and the contraction is often irregular, when the inflammatory action is intense. The iris swells perceptibly, and the pupil loses its dark colour, or is almost entirely closed, either from effusion of lymph, or from inflammation and consequent opacity of the crystalline lens and its capsule. The iris projects forwards, and diminishes the capacity of the anterior chamber; the pupil is irregular, and often assumes an angular appearance; and the irregularity becomes permanent from adhesion of the pupillary margin of the iris to the capsule of the lens, lymph being effused and organised, and forming a firm uniting medium between the parts. Occasionally adhesions form at the middle of the iris, and cause so great contraction as to give the pupil an appearance of being double. Of course irregularities of the pupil are most distinct when the part is dilated, either spontaneously or by the application of belladonna. Tubercles sometimes form on the iids, and not unfrequently it presents a granulated appearance. From the commencement of the inflammatory attack the patient feels great pain in the organ and in the forehead, and there is great intolerance of light. There is a feeling of tension of the eyeball, followed by deep throbbing pain increasing every in- z 3