169 OF TUMOURS. which gradually increase; anasarca frequently supervenes ; the functions of the organs affected are much impeded, or even altogether destroyed, and thereby the sinking of the powers of life is accelerated accordinij to the viscera affected and the extent of the disease. Melanosis occurs most frequently in advanced life, though it is not confined to it; whereas encepha- loid attacks indiscriminately all ages. Of Carcinomatous Tumours. The most malignant and intractable of tumours is the Carcinomatous. This term is applied to the disease in its occult state, whilst Cancer, a tei’m pretty indiscriminately em- ployed, may denote its condition after ulceration. The word scirrhus is often used synonymously with carcinoma; but the former has been, and still is, improperly employed to denote in- durations and enlargements of structures in all situations, and has been altogether so much abused as to warrant its being erased from the nomenclature of diseases. Carcinoma seldom occurs before the age of thirty, and generally not till a later period of life; there are instances, however, of its appearance at a much earlier period. Very frequently it is not primary, but supervenes on adventitious formations originally of an innocuous character, and which might have long remained so. All tumours, though at first not of a hurtful tendency, are liable to assume malignant action, either from a constitutional cause, from external injury, or from latent disposition. When it occurs in newly-formed parts, the surrounding cellular substance is frequently condensed and thickened, so as to form a cyst round the tumour ; and when it supervenes on chronic tumours, the cysts which en- veloped these remain, for some time, as entire and distinct as formerly, though the character of their contents is remarkably changed. Afterwards the cyst may be contaminated with the same disposition as its contents, assume the same action, and be converted into a similar substance. When the disease is seated in the lymphatic glands, the cyst is at first distinct, and gradually disappears ; whilst in this affection of the conglomerate glands a cyst is at no time perceptible, and the cancei’ous matter