2 OF INFLAMMATION. proceed more slowly in some constitutions, and in some parts of the body, than in others ; and that changes of structure and morbid products, such as generally result from, inflammatory action, even occasionally occur, without the prominent symptoms of inflammation being experienced by the patient or detected by the practitioner. The term Morbid is used in contradistinction to what is called Healthy Inflammation; but inflammatory action is generally connected, more or less, with a diseased or disordered state of some part of the body. In many circumstances it is highly ne- cessary that a certain degree of incited action of the vessels should occur, and continue for a certain time ; as during the uniting of fractures, the adhesion of wounds, and the healing of some sores — and thus far it is healthful: when, however, the action becomes excessive, it must, for this reason, be considered morbid, as it frustrates the natural reparative process ; if the action, in fact, proceeds farther than is necessary for reparation, it becomes a disease, and leads to absorption or destruction of parts. In animals possessing the‘greatest powers of reparation, inflammation, it appears, does not take place at all, or is very slight, and scarcely ever proceeds to suppuration. Redness is the flrst sign of inflammation to be considered; this is observed, in the living body, on the surface, or at the extremities of those canals which terminate externally. The inflamed conjunctiva affords a conspicuous example of this ap- pearance. In a subject that has suffered from an internal in- flammatory attack, a good opportunity is frequently afforded of observing the enlarged and injected state of the vessels on which the red colour depends. But inflammation may have existed to a certain degree, and yet the parts may be pale, from the capil- laries having emptied themselves into the veins immediately after the patient’s death. The paleness may be also in part caused by the influx of the red globules being impeded immedi- ately after death, or when the patient is in articulo mortis, in consequence of the contraction of the vessels, which is well known to occur at that period. It has been said that redness is not essential to inflammation ; for serous vessels may be altered in size and function by this action, and yet not be sufficiently dilated to receive the red