186 OF TUMOURS. internal structure. By the pressure of the new formation, the parietes of the hone are pushed outwards, in some cases attenu- ated, in others thickened by deposition of new osseous matter, inflammatory action having been induced by the pressure. As the internal formation increases, the parietes are extended, and are generally much attenuated, becoming in some places thin as paper, and diaphanous; they also would seem to lose a portion of their earthy matter, for they are flexible, somewhat elastic, and not of their usual density. Frequently they are in several places deficient, and their situation occupied by a membranous expansion, sometimes thin and delicate, but mostly thick and ligamentous; in some cases, the external lamina appears to be converted into a substance resembling the internal growth, with which it is continuous. The investing periosteum is much thick- ened, and its blood-vessels ax’e enlarged. Occasionally, the deficiency of the bone is not supplied by any membranous ex- pansion, and the morbid growth protrudes, fungous. The internal structure varies much in appeai’ance; generally it is brown and soft, in some places broken down and mixed with a dark-coloured fluid, or with gelatiniform matter; sometimes it is much more dense, and resembles cartilage; in others, the cavity contains an ichorous fluid, mixed with small portions of more solid matter; in the advanced stage of the disease, the contents are often of the encephaloid nature, either in its homogeneous and solid form, or softened, broken down, and mixed with blood, or with a lard-like substance. Sometimes the cancelli of the bone are not destroyed, but extended, forming numerous cavi- ties of considerable size, in which the morbid matter is deposited ; in other instances, there is no appearance of cancellated struc- ture, and the diseased mass contains rough osseous spicula, some detached, some loosely connected with each other, and others projecting from the inner surface of the bony parietes of the tumour. At the commencement of the disease, the patient feels acute pain in the part, the constitution is disturbed; afterwards, the pain becomes more dull, and there is a considerable swelling externally, v'hich feels hard, and slightly elastic; in the ad- vanced stage, the pain again becomes severe, and is of a lancinating kind, and the system is much deranged, the tu- mour is softer, often presents a sense of distinct fluctuation.