185 OF TUMOURS. and projecting into the morbid mass: the spaces are filled up by a cartilaginous substance. The growth is sometimes rapid, and the tumour soon becomes troublesome from its immense size. Frequently a bone is much enlarged throughout its whole extent, or the greater part of it, and presents a cancellated tex- ture ; sometimes, also, it is much thickened, and, at the same time, of great solidity; but such enlargements cannot be con- sidered as tumours of bones, or exostoses, any more than those nodules of new osseous matter, which are effused in consequence of inflammation of the osseous tissue. The most frequent cause of exostoses appears to be external injury; their progress is slow, attended with slight dull pain, and often accompanied with no inconvenience; their existence can be readily ascertained, a hard and immoveable body being felt where no bone exists in the natural state of parts; but when the tumour projects into an internal cavity, the diagnosis is rendered obscure. Most fre- quently, they remain stationary, after having attained a certain size, and are productive of little inconvenience, the surrounding parts having accommodated themselves to the new formation. Occasionally, suppuration occurs in the soft parts, the matter comes to the surface, and a troublesome abscess is formed. To this class of tumours would I confine the term exostosis, not including those consisting of softer materials, and possessed of a less benign action. Of Osteosarcoma. By this term is meant, an enlargement and alteration in the structure of a bone, accompanied with the deposition of a mor- bid sarcomatous substance internally. This morbid change appears to be the consequence of inflammation, and its origin is frequently attributed to some mechanical injury or local irrita- tion. In the commencement of the disease, the bone is slightly enlarged, perhaps somewhat thickened in its outer laminae; and on a section of it being made, is found to contain a brown fleshy substance instead of its cancelli. This appears to be formed in consequence of a morbid action, perhaps inflammatory, of its