740 LUXATION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. Much assistance is obtained by the means formerly adverted to as auxiliary, by weakening the muscular energy. Of these, nauseating doses of antimony are most generally employed, and being the most safe, may be recommended to be tried first; and if these fail to produce the desired effect, the patient may be bled freely, if he be young and robust, more especially since this will assist to avert the inflammatory action likely to follow the violent reduction. Tobacco produces the most complete pros- tration of muscular power, and may consequently be resorted to in extreme cases; but it ought, if possible, to be avoided, as its use is far from being void of danger. The warm bath cannot always be procured; when at hand, it merits adoption, being both safe and effectual, particularly if combined with antimony or bleeding. The extension should not be commenced till these means have begun to take effect, but everything should be pre- pared, so that it may be applied at a moment’s warning. After all attempts at reduction, whether successful or not, it is neces- sary to moderate the inflammation that ensues, by local bleeding and fomentation, combined, if necessary, with nauseating laxa- tives : general depletion is seldom required. Luxation of the Elbow-joint is an extremely common accident, particularly in young persons, before the bony processes have been fully formed. It is produced by wrenches, or by force applied to the farther end of the forearm, the bones neither breaking nor bending. Sometimes, though very rarely, it is caused by direct violence, as in a fall, and then may be combined with fracture of one or both bones of the forearm; but in other circumstances, fracture and luxation can scarcely coexist. In general, both bones of the forearm are displaced backwards, sometimes a little to the ulnar side. The coronoid process occupies the cavity for the reception of the olecranon, and the head of the radius lodges behind the external condyle; the extremity is shortened, and looks twisted; it is slightly flexed, and in the middle state between pronation and supina- tion. Unnatural lateral motion can be produced, but flexion is