OF INFLAMMATION OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANES, 69 potass w ill be found of much service, the half-dead cellular sub stance being thereby completely destroyed, and the surrounding parts stimulated to a new and superior degree of action, neces- sary for the removal of the mortified parts, and reparation of the breach of surface. Poultices and fomentations may after- wards be employed, followed by the warm water dressing, medi- cated or not. The stomach and bowels must be put into proper i order by the exhibition of suitable medicines; and the vis vitae may be still farther supported by the administration of tonics and stimulants. If, after the separation of the sloughs, the exposed surface shall assume an indolent or debilitated action, stimulating dressings, such as turpentine liniment, or elemi ointment may be employed. Such practice will be found sufficient to procure a speedy and favourable termination of the disease, in this country, where we have not to combat any of those malignant diseases with which carbuncle is accompanied in other climates. Of Inflammation of the Mucous Membranes. Mucous Membranes and the skin are analogous in structure, somewhat similar in function, and sympathise closely with each I other in health and in disease. Both are endowed with that peculiar degree of sensibility which enables them to bear with impunity the impressions of foreign bodies ; and both are pro- I tected from the influence of these bodies by an inorganic covering; the cutis and rete mucosum by the epidermis; the corium of mucous membranes by a laminated epithelium. They are the seat of all excretions, and by them all substances are i introduced from without into the system. The capillary portion of the vascular system appears to have somewhat the same arrangement in both ; the distribution of blood to the f mucous membranes being, however, more copious. At the commencement and extremity of the alimentary canal, they insensibly pass into each other by means of an intermediate j structure, of which the prolabium may serve as an example. In particular circumstances, they change into each other, both in appearance and in function. Thus, in prolapsus of the gut J or of the vagina, the discharge from the protruded mucous surface I F 3