OF INFLAMMATION. 6 tards the cure. Pains arising from local irritations are often treated in a similar way, whilst the removal of the cause would be much more likely to restore the natural action of the parts. Though inflammation does not always accompany the sensation of pain, yet the latter, in a greater or less degree, attends in- flammatory action ; and, perhaps, it is fortunate that it does so. Because, were it not for the occurrence of pain, the patient’s attention would not be directed to the disease; he would con- tinue to use the part as if in health, and the affection would thus be much aggravated. Whereas, according to the existing provision of nature, pain is felt at the commencement of the action, the presence of which the patient is thereby made aware of; and he is compelled to employ such measures for its re- moval as reason naturally dictates, of which none is more effectual than disusing the affected part. The nerves are thus the safeguards of the various parts of the body in health — their nurses in disease. A part deprived of sensation may be used, even to the destruction of its texture, without producing any impression on the sensorium, and consequently without the animal being conscious of it. The presence of pain, as a symptom of inflammation, may be easily explained. The connexion of the vascular with the nerv- ous system is very constant and intimate. Their ramifications accompany each other, and are contained in the same cellular sheath; and without the reciprocal influence of each, neither could perform its functions perfectly. By injecting a limb soon after its separation from an animal, and before its vital heat has departed, spasms of all muscles are sometimes produced; showing the intimate connexion between these two systems. This, however, is distinct from the contractions of the muscular fibre produced by the application of stimuli. In the former case, the contractions are universal, and induced through the medium of the nerves. In the latter, the irritability of the fibre is excited. When the circulation is excited, the nerves accompanying the affected vessels are unusually compressed, and overstimu- lated by the circulating fluid, in which, probably, some change takes place, and in this manner unnatural impressions are pro- duced ; the nerves themselves are likewise the seat of disease,