202 OF WOUNDS. investing the outer surface of the clot; it then becomes thickened, by addition of matter, similar to itself, from the recent vessels which ramify in it. At the same time it forms adhesions to the surrounding cellular tissue, and resembles the original tunics of the vein. After being consolidated, so as to prevent the flow of blood through that part, the coagulum, formed to arrest the haemorrhage until a more complete barrier should be furnished is gradually absorbed. But the membrane long remains smooth, thin, and diaphanous, and can be thereby readily distinguished from the original coats. This reparative process is much longer in being finished than the corresponding one in arteries; and, from what has been stated, it is evident that the two actions differ in other respects than the time requisite to complete them. When a vein has been completely divided, the extremities are closed by means similar to those which have been already detailed in regard to arteries. In many, nay in most, instances of haemorrhage from a wounded artery, the surgeon cannot wait for the natural pro- cesses by which the flow of blood is arrested, but must have recourse to immediate and certain means. In division of the smaller arteries, or in minute wounds of the larger, pressure, well applied, will often be sufficient. In both cases it immediately stops the flow: in the former, it prevents the blood from pene- trating into that portion of the sheath which has been vacated by the retracted artery; and it being thereby confined, and kept in a state of rest, coagulation soon takes place. At the same time, the compression brings the divided margins of the vessel into close apposition, and thereby permanent closure, by ad- hesion, is quickly accomplished. In the latter, the mere cir- cumstance of the escape of blood being prevented naturally hastens the closure of the minute aperture by the natural process; and, if the compression be accurate and very firm, the opposite surfaces of the vessel, being brought in contact, may adhere, and the canal be obliterated at the wounded point. It is obvious that, in this latter class, pressure can only be of ad- vantage immediately after the infliction of the wound, and not when blood is extravasated to a great extent. Pressure may be used along with styptics, or along with es- charotics, actual or potential. They may be often employed