767 AMPUTATION. glazed. Under this management, there is less chance of bleed- ing breaking out afresh than when the limb is encompassed by bandages and pledgets of lint, perhaps compressed so as to in- terfere with the return of the blood, and heated by superfluous dressings. If bleeding to any extent should occur, as there is always a risk of, after the patient has become warm and com- fortable in bed, and reaction has been established, there is but little pain or annoyance in reaching the bleeding point, and taking measures to stop the flow ; the few stitches are soon clipped away, and then the surface of the wound is completely exposed, and ligatures can be applied to those vessels which require them. Then, after removing all coagula, sutures are placed in the same perforations, and the stump is in as favour- able a state as previously. I now generally leave the wound quite open, until all risk of heemorrhage has ceased, and, if one or two stitches are required, these are put in at the time of applying the plaster. After six or eight hours, as already stated, any clots that have formed are to be taken away gently, and the glazed edges of the wound are then brought accurately and neatly together by the adhesive composition already recommended, — with the differ- ence of its being spread upon slips of oiled silk, which I have found to be more pliable, and altogether preferable to the glazed riband. Interstices are left for the sutures and the ends of the ligatures, and the latter may now be abridged slightly. This mode of keeping the edges in contact I can confidently recom- mend from experience. The plasters are much more adhesive than those in common use, do not irritate, and are not loosened by discharge. The plaster is now to be had spread ready for use, as formerly noticed. After twelve or twenty-four hours, often much earlier, the sutures are clipped through and I'emoved. No other dressing is required till the end of the cure, provided this proceed favourably. The part is kept cool, and the slight dis- charge which occurs in a day or two is wiped up from time to time, if it be in such abundance as to reach the oiled cloth over the pillow on which the stump is laid. No disturbance of the parts is necessary as when ointments, bandages, and compresses are employed, or straps that require frequent removal and reap- plication. The patient suffers comparatively nothing; and the