OF SCALDS AND BURNS. 2(51 to perform, as well as those sympathies which it holds with in- ternal parts, on which life principally depends. In trifling burns cold applications are generally used—as im- mersing the part in cold or iced water. A great variety of remedies are employed, spiritous, watery, acid, alkaline, cold or hot; some apply a coat of cotton or flour, some of tar or pitch, and they state that when these artificial crusts separate, the skin is found healed beneath; in fact, every practitioner, and almost every individual, possesses a favourite application for this very common accident. Some have recommended holding the part to the fire, or plunging it into hot liquid ; but this practice, and all similar, are too severe ever to become general, when milder means prove equally effec- tual. Perhaps the most common applications are, a mixture of lime-water and olive oil, or the ceratum acetatis plumbi. The vesicles, when left to themselves, burst, expose an irritable surface, and the acrid discharge from them excoriates the sur- rounding skin. Their contents ought to be evacuated by a small puncture, and the cuticle being left carefully undisturbed, a scab soon forms, by which the part is protected while healing. In extensive injuries of the skin, where the cuticle has been altogether destroyed, finely carded cotton is sometimes applied; it is of use in somewhat the same way as the cuticle in the former instance, and being a sort of cushion over the part, prevents it from being irritated by bed or body clothes, or by the patient’s I resting on it. It soon becomes soaked with the discharge, and I must either be frequently changed, or become a receptacle for I pus to putrefy in, and maggots to breed; on account of these I circumstances it is objectionable. Dusting the part with common flour, starch, or hair powder, is equally advanta- geous, and much more convenient; relief is afforded by its immediate application; the parts are cooled; the flour, ab- sorbing the discharge, is soon formed into crusts, which effec- tually protect the surface; and the after-secretion readily I escapes from beneath this, no more moisture being imbibed than is merely sufficient for the encrustation. The artificial covering ought not to be removed until completely detached, I by purulent matter accumulating beneath it; then its presence can be of no service, and its removal is accomplished by foment- ation or poultice, and without pain to the patient; whereas, by s 3