724 FRACTURE OF THE LEG. few inches from the distal end, whilst the fibula at that part is entire; but by attentive manipulation, it will often be found that the fibula has sustained fracture, within a short space of its upper extremity; the force was applied to the ends of the bones, and they gave way, each at the weakest point. 'rhe tibia is broken at its upper part, near the tuberosity, with or without similar injury of the fibula. There is consider- able displacement, particularly in the bent position of the knee; there is no restraint to the action of the extensor muscles in- serted immediately above the point of fracture, and these, though not acting with unusual power, cause protrusion of the upper end of the tibia, the condyles of the femur serving as a fulcrum over which the muscles are stretched. This injury is usually the result of direct violence. Fracture of one bone, at a point lower in the limb, is not at- tended with much displacement or deformity. Indeed, attentive manipulation is often required to detect the site of the injury; and a sense of crepitation is perceived, only when the lower and upper portions of the bone are pressed on alternately or during rotation of the foot. When both bones are broken, the displace- ment and swelling are great. The foot is sometimes turned in- wards, but usually it falls outwards ; and if there has been much laceration of the soft parts, with or without division of the in- teguments, the lower portion of the limb hangs quite loose. By the application of great force, as by a rope being twisted round and run tight on the limb, both bones and soft parts may be reduced almost to a pulp, without much or any division of the integument. Such an accident is followed by rapid and great swelling, violent incited action, gangrene, and severe constitutional disturbance. The progress of the mortification is not in all cases uniform; in some, the swelling and discolor- ation extend to the groin and trunk in two or three days, at- tended with furious delirium; in others, the disorganisation of the limb is very slow, some days elapsing before it reaches the knee, and in these the constitutional symptoms are less severe. In some cases there is extensive wound of the integuments, without serious injury of the bone, muscles, or vessels. The skin either has been divided by the external force acting upon the resisting- bone, or the sharp fractured end of the bone has