521 OF HERNIA. toms just detailed commences in any case, the surgeon must im- mediately and anxiously inquire as to the existence of external her- nia, for often the disease is concealed, particularly by females: all parts where protrusion is likely to occur must be examined atten- tively. At the same time, the surgeon must bear in mind that pain of the abdomen, with symptoms i-esembling those of strangu- lation— in fact, that enteritis, with obstruction, may exist along with hernia, but independent of it. A person with hernia is as liable as any other, if not more so, to inflammatory attacks in the abdomen from a variety of causes. The portion of bowel in the tumour may participate or not in the general abdominal affection ; if unaffected, it may be reduced ; it is neither painful nor tense. Again, in large ruptures, inflammation of the con- tents may take place without strangulation, and without affection of the parts within the abdomen. All circumstances bearing on the case must be well considered by the surgeon, before making up his mind as to the nature of the affection. Returning the contents of the hernia into the abdomen is the only effectual means of countei’acting the direful effects of strangulation ; and the propriety of an early recourse to this measui’e must be quite apparent. It is indispensable, and no delay is warrantable. The means for accomplishing it must be varied, according to the state of the parts, the duration of stran- gulation, and the general symptoms. The most simple method, and that which should first be attempted in ordinary cases, is the taxis; that is, reduction by pressure with the hand. In this, the position of the patient is of importance; it should be such as effects relaxation of the tendinous structures tlu'ough which the hernia has protruded, and through which it is to be returned. With this view he is placed on his back, with the shoulders and pelvis elevated, and in crural hernia the thigh is bent on the trunk, and turned towards the opposite side; tims the aperture is relaxed along with the fasciae which compose it. Long ago, the positions into which patients were forced for the cure of hernia were various, and generally awkward ; they all tended towards more or less complete inversion of the erect posture, and thus it was supposed that the abdominal bowels dragged on those protruded, and thereby assisted reduction. But the vis- cera are equally pressed on in every position of the body; it is