POLYPUS OF THE NOSE. 371 B B 2 stuffed, may be emptied at the first sitting, so as to enable the patient to blow through them. When the tumours filling the passage to the throat have been removed, so as to allow the ready egress and ingress of air, and when the forceps can be passed along the floor of the cavity, and are expanded and shut without meeting any obstruction, examination is to be made with the finger. In those who have long laboured under the disease, the fissure between the cavities is so much expanded as to admit the little finger easily, and by it the situation of the remaining tumours is ascertained, and instruments guided to them. After the operation the nostrils are stuffed gently with lint, to prevent the access of cold air; and, if the hasmorrhage be profuse, long pieces of lint pushed well back will generally be sufficient to arrest it: if not, the posterior cavity must be plugged from behind. It is prudent to prepare for the stuffing posteriorly in bad cases in which violent haemorrhage may be expected. Instruments with springs, &c., have been contrived for the purpose, but are useless, and cannot always be had. A loop of thin flexible wire, or of thick catgut, is passed along the floor of the nostril, and on reaching the thi'oat is caught by the finger, or by a hook or forceps, and brought into the mouth. A piece of strong thread is then attached to the wire or catgut, and the latter is withdrawn ; one extremity of the thread hang- ing from the nostril, the other from the mouth. To the middle of the thread a piece of lint rolled up to the size of the point of the thumb is affixed, and this is pulled back into the mouth, and directed into the posterior nares with the fingers ; by the pressure of these, and by pulling at the thread, the dossil is firmly wedged into the aperture. Lint is preferable to sponge, as being more easily removed; the sponge swells, and is apt to produce inconvenience. The plug must be well pro- portioned to the opening: if too large, it cannot be lodged in its situation ; if too small, it does not fill it, and may be pulled through altogether. It should be smaller, of course, for young- subjects and females than in adult males. It may be necessary to close both nostrils in this mannei-, when both are bleedin<i- profusely, or when they communicate through an aperture in the septum. The anterior cavity is then closed with lint, and the