DISLOCATIONS. 732 swers the purpose tolerably well; the old is gradually filled up and obliterated, the prominences being absorbed, and the cavity occupied by new deposit. These changes do not take place so rapidly as is generally supposed ; the cartilage and synovial sur- face are not much altered for months after the occurrence of luxation; and if replacement be effected, the functions of the parts are soon performed as before the injury. In some articulations, on account of the formation of the op- posed surfaces, attempts at reduction prove ineffectual after the lapse of two or three weeks; in others, of more simple con- struction, it may be accomplished after some months. The simple mode of reduction is to put the patient off his guard, so that the muscles may be in a state of relaxation, and then to move the limb artfully in the proper direction, without much force. Occasionally, the bone is pulled into its place by the action of the muscles, during the patient’s efforts to place the limb in a comfortable position. Considerable force, however, is sometimes required in even recent luxations of large joints, and means must also be taken to weaken the muscular power. The patient, if young and robust, may be bled to syncope, or placed in the warm bath till a sense of fainting supervenes; or an enema of tobacco infusion may be administered, and smoking of tobacco may have the same effect when the patient has not been addicted to the noxious habit; or antimonial solution may be given in nauseating doses. Several or all of these methods may be necessary in some cases, particularly if the dislocation be of long standing. When thus general exhaustion has been procui’ed, counj:er-extension and extension are to be had re- course to. The former consists in having the patient, and the bone next to the trunk, fixed immovably by fitting laques and belts; and the latter is made by one or more assistants, or, if need be, with the help of pulleys. During extension, advantage is in many cases gained by lateral force and by rotation of the limb, the bone being thereby moved from its position, and brought within the sphere of muscular action, by which it is drawn suddenly into its proper place. In some cases, there is no doubt but considerable laceration is occasioned by the efforts at reduction, and perhaps this is in some degree necessary to a successful issue — as when the capsule has been slightly lacerated