OF INFLAMMATION OF VEINS. 153 are to be depended upon. The cases are innumerable in which I have been obliged to employ the ligature in an effectual manner, combined or not with incision, where caustics, injec- tions, puncturings, setons, and even imperfectly applied liga- tures, had been previously resorted to in vain. Besides, in children there is as much resistance and crying, and as much anxiety in parents, produced by a slight operation, as by a more effectual one. Of Inflammation of Veins. Veins are very susceptible of inflammation, and the action is very apt to extend along the coats rapidly; in some cases it reaches the right side of the heart, producing most violent symptoms, and speedy dissolution. Inflammation in the venous, as in the other tissues, may ter- minate in resolution. Otherwise, lymph is secreted, whereby the coats of the vessel become thickened, and its internal surface agglutinated, causing obliteration of the canal to a greater or less extent. Suppuration also occurs, and the pus may be deposited in a cyst formed amongst the coats of the vessels; or, as is most frequently the case, it is secreted from the internal coat, and occupies the canal of the vein. It then generally accumulates, its passage into the circulation being prevented by a deposition of lymph sufficient to occupy the calibre of the vessel betwixt the heart and the seat of the purulent matter. The termination in purulent secretion is accompanied with a high degree of constitutional irritation, and typhoid symptoms, more especially if any pus finds its way into the circulation. The integuments in the course of the inflamed vessel or vessels are of a dark red colour, and great pain is caused by pressure. Often there is a considerable oedematous swelling of the limb, occasionally followed by the formation of unhealthy pus, diffused in the cellular membrane, causing sloughing of that tissue, or of the soft parts more deeply seated. This disease generally follows an accidental wound or ope- ration, as venesection or amputation ; it is also of frequent occur- rence after the application of a ligature to the extremity of a