DISEASES OF THE EYE. 326 junctival covering, of the middle tunics or cornea propria, and, lastly, of the third coat, the capsule of the aqueous humour: such distinctions, however, are found to effect no good practical end, and it is unnecessary to follow them. One particular layer of the cornea may be first attacked, but the whole structure soon becomes involved. The inflammation generally commences in the conjunctival covering. Vision is necessarily much obscured from even slight inflammatory affection of the cornea. Part only of the organ may be affected, but frequently the whole is involved. Sometimes only one or two vessels remain dilated; but still they, passing over the centre of the cornea, render vision indistinct. Opacity of the cornea, to a greater or less degree, always attends dilatation of its vessels. In inflammation of the internal and middle tunics of the cornea, most of the enlarged vessels which traverse it are seen to be continuations of those that ramify in the conjunctival cover- ing; while the anastomotic vessels-derived from the sclerotic coat are smaller and less apparent than those of the conjunctiva. The cornea, and the sclerotic immediately surrounding it, fre- quently appear to be almost entirely covered with meshes of their dilated capillaiues. At first the whole cornea has a clouded appearance, but as the disease advances portions become distinctly opaque, and at these points either lymph or pus is effused. Sometimes matter collects between the laminae, distends them, and, causing ulceration, discharges itself either into the anterior chamber or externally. Inflammation of the cornea arises fre- quently from lodgment of a foreign body in it: and ulcers of it are often produced by a similar cause. If the extraneous mat- ter is not removed soon after its insertion, nature commences her endeavours to detach it, and the process employed is ulcer- ation. Sometimes, however, a sac is formed around the foreign body as in other parts, and no ulcer is produced. Ulceration of the cornea also takes place in order to afford an exit to matter formed between its layers deeply or superficially. Deep abscess of the cornea is by no means a rare consequence of violent inflammatory action in the part. A minute opaque spot is at first seen ; this extends, assumes a yellow colour, and does not change its situation on the head being moved. The internal lamellae may ulcerate in consequence of the pressure;