INJURIES OF THE SHOULDER. 702 eflFused in great quantity about the neck and face, and inter- fering with the functions of the parts, is to be evacuated by punctures. If the emphysema is slight, and confined to the neighbourhood of the injured part, farther extrication is pre- vented by the timely and accurate application of a bandage; the air already in the cellular tissue speedily disappears. The effusion into the chest is also in general absorbed; but it may remain and increase, and from violence of action purulent se- cretion may be mixed with the serous. The breathing then becomes embarrassed, the chest swells, and the integuments are oedematous. The action of the lung is either much impaired or entirely arrested, as is ascertained by auscultation. In such circumstances, evacuation of the effused fluid may be I’equired. The Sternum is sometimes fractured, or, in young persons, the bones composing it disjoined; but the occurrence is ex- ceedingly rare. The displacement is not great; and is rectified by changing the position of the trunk. The same treatment is required as for fracture of the ribs. Abscess has formed under the bone, as the result of the injury; but by antiphlogistic means, local and general, this may be in most cases prevented. Fracture in the vicinity of the shoulder-joint requires to be most accurately examined, that a correct diagnosis may be formed, and the pi’actice be judicious and decided. Portions of the upper part of the humerus are torn off, along with the attachments of the short muscles, during violent ex- ertions, particularly if the limb is in an awkward position. This is followed by want of power, great swelling, and considerable deformity. Some indistinct crepitation is perceived; the arti- culation is afterwai’ds stiff, and the bone of an unnatural form. But these indications of the injury gradually disappear. More extensive solution of the continuity of the bone takes place, generally in consequence of a direct and violent blow on the shoulder. The patient is unable to raise the arm, though with great pain it can be placed in any position that it occupies naturally; it can be abducted and raised, perhaps to a greater extent and more readily than when sound. The shoulder is flattened, and the limb apparently lengthened. The elbow is