719 FRACTURE OF THE FEMUR. In these cases, the application of apparatus with the view of adapting and retaining the parts, is productive of great annoy- ance, and is apt to produce either ulceration or sloughing of the integuments at various parts; and confinement to one constrained position for a considerable time has a mischievous effect on the general health. Instead, the limb is placed in the easiest posture, either extended and slightly retained, or bent over a double inclined plane formed by pillows, with the knee of the affected side fixed to the opposite; a broad band is passed round the trochanters and pelvis, so as to restrain motion without causing inconvenience; and when pain about the thigh is troublesome, fomentation may be used. After some weeks, when the uneasy feelings have subsided, the position is changed, the patient is set up, and encouraged to move about, supporting the weight of the body upon crutches. In more favourable subjects, whether the fracture is suspected to be without or within the joint, either entirely or partially, the broken surfaces are to be brought in contact, and retained im- movably in apposition for a time sufficient to admit of union. The limb is put up in apparatus not requiring removal, and but little re-adjustment. This can be effected only in the extended position. Many splints, with foot-boards, straps, and screws, are intended for this purpose, some to be attached to the injured limb, others to the sound one; but the apparatus which is most simple, and easily procured at all times and in all circumstances, is at once the best and the most efficient. This is a straight wooden board, not too thick to feel cumbrous, and not too thin to be pliable or easily broken; in breadth corresponding to the dimensions of the limb, in length sufficient to extend, from two, three, or four inches beyond the heel, to near the axilla ; deeply notched at two places at its lower end, and perforated by two holes at the upper. The splint, well padded, is applied to the extended limb, the ankles being protected by proper adjustment of the pads. The apparatus is retained by bandaging. A com- mon roller is applied round the limb, from the toes to near the knee, so as to prevent infiltration, which would otherwise follow pressure above by the rest of the appai’atus. The splint is then attached to the limb by involving both in a roller from the foot to above the knee; and in doing this, the bandage, after having