751 LUXATION OF THE KNEE. compressed, and the crural nerves are stretched over it. In attempting reduction, rotation inwards should be employed during extension, accompanied with endeavours to lift the upper part of the bone towards the acetabulum. Luxation of the Bones of the Leg — separation of them from the end of the femur — seldom occurs. It can be the effect only of great violence and great laceration. Most frequently fracture is concomitant, perhaps with wound; and such acci- dents require amputation, either primarily or secondarily. Sub- luxation, from laceration of the internal lateral ligament, is not so unfrequent. It is most common in females, the natural con- formation of their thigh-bones disposing them to bend inwards; and from falling awkwardly, particularly if carrying a weight, the ligament is apt to give way. The limb is pained, deformed, and unable to support the body, and swelling to a considerable extent soon follows. Reduction is extremely easy; and the parts are retained in site by the application of a wooden splint, to either the outer or the posterior side of the joint, the leg and foot being previously bandaged. The joint remains long weak, and never recovers entirely; a sustaining apparatus, fitted on the outside, retained by straps, and with a joint opposite to the arti- culation, is required to be constantly worn when the patient wishes to use the limb. Luxation of the Patella is spoken of by some as common. Others of much experience have not met with a single instance of it. .1 have never seen this accident. The bone, it is said, may be displaced outwards, inwards, or upwards. The first form of luxation is the most frequent, and is caused by a severe fall, with the foot twisted outwards and the knee in- wards. Displacement inwards is produced by direct violence applied to the outer part of the bone, or by the foot being turned inwards in a fall. Displacement upwards can occur only after laceration of the ligamentum patellae, the bone being then drawn up by the unresisted action of the muscles on the fore part of the thigh. In dislocation outwards, the bone has been found “ resting with its inner edge upon the outer surface of the condyle, the fore part facing obliquely forwards and inwards.”