13 OF INFLAMMATION. incapable of again speedily contracting; the blood, also, from being stagnant, becomes of a darker colour. The larger trunks propelling blood into the distended and comparatively inert capillaries, which are incapable of transmitting into the veins the same quantity of fluid which they receive, will cause the throbbing or pulsating sensation. The blood circulating in the parts around is sometimes apparently changed in quality; it is redder, flocculi appear floating in it, and the globules disappear. These last may have been broken down, or partial decomposition may have taken place from a loss of vital power in the vessels themselves. The blood globules are, perhaps, merely compressed; for when- ever motion is produced in the fluid, they speedily re-appear. Fresh globules also And their way into the affected capillaries from neighbouring vessels. The alteration in the component parts of the blood has been supposed to depend upon the previous state of the inflamed vessels in which it is contained: it is said soon to re-assume its natural appearance, when brought into a healthy vessel, and reference is made to experiments on the web of the frog’s foot. When once altered, it is, however, questionable if the blood ever re-assumes its natural appear- ance; of course the blood which takes the place of that which was stagnated in the capillaries will be natural. If there have been extensive inflammation, and therefore much altered blood, one of two things will happen, viz. inflammatory fever and its consequences, or the discharge of the offending matter (the altered blood) as pus. We may also conclude that the blood of an inflamed part undergoes chemical changes; for when the part becomes gangrenous, the blood then loses its red colour, and assumes a yellowish-brown hue, from the absorption of its colouring matter, which necessarily implies an alteration in its chemical constitution. It seems not unlikely, that the change which is early observed in the appearance of the blood of an inflamed part is the commencement of a chemical process, which, if the vessels do not regain their contractile power, ter- minates in the total destruction of the ordinary properties of that fluid. It is probable that the more modern speculators in medical science have paid too little attention to the state of the fluids, and to the fact that, when diseased action occurs in a