FRACTURES. 683 applied directly to the shaft of a bone, or to its extremity; but they are also not unfrequently caused by twisting of the limb whilst the muscles are in powerful action. Bones are broken transversely; but more frequently there is a degree of obliquity in the fracture, and the fragments are generally detached. A bone may be split longitudinally, as from a musketball striking its shaft in the centre; and fissui*es often extend from a cross break to a considerable extent, some- times into joints. Swelling is often rapid, from extravasation of blood; at other times it is slow, and of a serous character. At first it is soft and yielding, but after a time painful inflammatory tumescence super- venes, the violence and extent of which will depend on the severity of the injury, and very much also on the treatment to which the parts are subjected. If the bones be put as nearly as possible into their original position, and retained so, judici- ously — the limb being laid in a comfortable and unconstrained posture, and the bandages, splints, &c., properly adapted — little or no pain or inflammatory swelling will occur; no more action ensues than is required for reparation of the injury. If, on the contrary, the bones are allowed to remain unreduced —■ perhaps after being well handled — their broken ends, laying among the soft parts, are pulled about by violent spasms, lace- rations of the muscles and vessels is increased, effusion, swelling, and violent inffammatory action occur, the pain becomes excru- ciating, fever and delirium follow ; there is an imminent risk of gangrene, and extensive suppiu’ation among the muscles is al- most inevitable. If the patient recover, the union is bad, and the limb deformed. A fracture is said to be simple, where there is no wound of the superimposed integuments. The external parts may be bruised, or the deep structure much injured, with laceration of the vessels and rapid and great swelling; or there may be little or no injury of the soft parts. Great danger may exist without division of the integuments; these, yielding under the force, may remain entire, whilst by great and direct violence the bone is com- minuted, the muscles broken up, and the vessels and nerves torn, — the limb is infiltrated with blood, and must become gangre- nous as soon as reaction takes place. But usually these un-