U6 DISEASES OF THE WINDPIPE. extensive and deep, have healed even after the discharge of portions of dead, sometimes ossified, cartilage. The symptoms abate; the patient recovers, though in general with imperfect voice, as might be expected. It may even be practicable to employ topical applications to the ulcers within the cavity of the larynx, as in the following case, which, though unsuccessful, shows the advantages to be expected from similar procedure adopted at a more early period. T. C., aged 22, had laboured under the symptoms of phthisis laryngea for five months previous to his application. He was much emaciated, and experienced great difficulty in swallowing, on account of the irritation induced in the region of the glottis; he had occasional cough, purulent sputa, and aphonia almost complete. The larynx was painful when pressed, the epiglottis was seen to be oedematous, and the general symptoms were of a hectic character. The oedema of the epiglottis was reduced by scarification. The symptoms increased, notwithstanding counter-irritation and tonic remedies. The stethoscopic indications regarding the chest were so far favourable. Tracheotomy was performed, and the patient felt very much relieved in consequence. On the tenth day after the operation, the inner surface of the larynx was touched with a strong solu- tion of the nitrate of silver, applied by means of a bit of lint wrapped round the end of a probe slightly bent, and introduced upwards from the wound. The solution was applied every second or third day, and under its use the patient w'as remark- ably benefited. He swallowed, spoke, slept, and looked better; the purulent sputa diminished, and the cough abated. He com- plained of less pain in the larynx, and seemed to be regaining strength, though slowly. But after the lapse of several weeks, from imprudent exposure to cold, evident symptoms of bronchitis supervened, under which his constitution, already shattered, speedily sank. The larynx was found extensively ulcerated, but at a number of points there were distinct marks of recent cicatrisation. The state of the lungs clearly showed that phthisis pulmonalis had not only com- menced, but made considerable progress. The practice here detailed has been repeated again and again with good success.