EXCISION OF JOINTS. 792 bones composing the knee-joint. This may be accomplished without much difficulty. The patella is either removed entirely or turned to a side, the ligamentous and tendinous attachments are divided, and the ends of the bones thus exposed; by cutting close to and towards them, little risk is incurred of wounding the bloodvessels and nerves in the popliteal space. The saw is readily applied in a horizontal direction. After tying the vessels, and approximating the edges of the wound, the limb is placed in the straight position, and retained fixedly so by the application of splints. Much constitutional disturbance is to be expected, as well as profuse and tedious suppuration. There are few surgeons so rash as to have recourse to this operation. One or two patients, it is true, have lived in spite of it, retain- ing the limb in a tolerably useful state. But in others, — and these constitute the majority, — amputation was after all re- quired, and that proved insufficient to save the patient. In short, the results of excision of the knee-joint do not justify its repetition. The articulating ends of the bones composing the shoulder- joint have been removed; and this may be done with advantage on account either of disease or of injury. This joint is, like others, liable to ulceration of the cartilages, either primary, or in consequence of abscess and degeneration of the soft parts around. The disease is attended usually with painful feelings increased by motion, and the patient is indisposed to attempt motion. Sometimes merely weakness of the limb is complained of, and the attention is drawn to the wasted appearance of the muscles, particularly of the upper arm ; the deltoid seems shrunk almost to nothing. The motions above the shoulder are lost; and abduction is impracticable. Much pain is pro- duced by pushing sharply the articulating surfaces into contact, and is further increased by rotation. The enforcement of strict and absolute rest of the joint, the establishment of a drain in the soft parts immediately neighbouring, and attention to the general health, often prove sufficient to arrest the progress of this disease. If, however, it is neglected, abscess forms sooner or later. On cutting into this, and introducing the finger, the joint is discovered to be open; the head of the bone is found detached from the soft parts, and unsupported. Or this state