564 TREATMENT OF DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. the operation the knife is now employed; but in former times the ligature and cautery were in constant use. The old surgeons supposed that there was something malignant in the hardness and callosity attending this disease, and were not contented with opening the cavities, but endeavoured to dissect out the whole parts; and, if foiled in this, they finished the work with a red- hot iron. Indeed the practice of excision was recently in vogue in the Parisian hospitals. But the operation for fistula has been much simplified. The bowel is generally so much separated from its connexions as to he incapable of again adhering, or of furnishing granulations; and, though capable, healing is effectually prevented by the frequent motion of the parts caused by the action of the sphincter and levator of the anus. One side of the cavity is fixed, whilst the other is in motion. It becomes necessary to lay the cavities of the bowel and of the fistula into one. This can generally be effected with great ease; a salutary degree of excitement follows the use of the knife, rest to the parts is procured, the edges are allowed to retract and adhere to the opposite surface, and the wound heals quickly from the bottom. The surgeon, in his operative procedure on these parts, must use both hands equally well, otherwise he must vary his position, and often put his patient in a very awkward predicament, more particularly if a female. The patient is placed in a stooping posture, with the legs unbent, or kneeling on a chair, and resting his arms on its back, the fundament being turned towards the light. The sur- geon inserts the finger, well soaped and oiled, into the rectum, and with the other hand insinuates a curved-probe-pointed bis- toury into the sinus, using the instrument merely as a probe. Having reached the extreme depth of the canal, the direction of the instrument’s point is changed so as to apply its cutting surface to the coats of the bowel, at that part. The instrument on being thus passed into the bowel is fixed by the finger, and by drawing both outwards, the coats of the bowel and the parts intervening between them and the sinus are divided. All colla- teral sinuses extending towards the perineum and buttock must be freely divided, for they cannot be expected to contract other- wise. Such is all that is necessary in the generality of cases; but it is evident that the steps of the operation, and the extent