220 OF WOUNDS. geon is not justified in cutting for balls, unless they are easily felt, and not deeply lodged. In order to discover the foreign body, probes will sometimes be required; the finger often answers the purpose best, unless when the wound is of considerable depth. If, on examination, the ball cannot be discovered, and if there is rea- son to think that it has followed an indirect course, the surgeon will, sometimes, be assisted in his search by placing the patient in that position in which he received the wound, and then judging of the circumstances most likely to alFect the foreign body in its passage. In many cases, extraction can be accomplished by means of the finger alone; in others, forceps and scoops, various in length and size, are indispensable. Afterwards, light dress- ings are to be employed; and in the first instance, cold ap- plications may prove advantageous in keeping down the inflammatory action; but when inflammation has commenced, and to encoui’age suppuration, warm fomentations and poul- tices are to be preferred ; they will in many cases be both more grateful to the patient and more beneficial in their re- sults, when used even from the commencement. Afterwards, it will be necessary to afford sufficient support to the parts by bandaging, and to change the applications according to the particular circumstances : — soothing, if the wound be irritable, stimulating, if inert, and gently escharotic, if the granulations be exuberant. In severe injuries of the limbs, the surgeon must be guided by the state of the part, and of the constitution, by the circum- stances in which he is placed, as to accommodation, and mode of transportation, &c., in deciding on the removal of the part by amputation, — or on making an attempt to save it, by trusting to, and assisting, the processes of nature. The question whe- ther to amputate immediately, and on the spot, merely allowing the shock, if any exist, to pass away, or to delay till suppuration occur, is now scarcely a matter of dispute. When it is evident, from the extent, violence, and nature of the injury, that there is danger of speedy mortification, or of extensive and severe inflam- mation and suppuration, amputation is to be instantly performed, — delay is inadmissible. In comminution of the hard, with contusion and laceration of the soft parts — where limbs have been shattered and completely detached, or nearly so — in lace-