OF INFLAMMATION. 8 crease of temperature is very slight indeed. It has been proved by the most decided experiments of Mr. Hunter, on the mucous canals of animals, first when in health, and again after violent inflammation had been excited, that little or no vari- ation of temperature can be observed. The elevation of tem- perature is probably constant, thougli only amounting to a degree, or even less. As the blood is the source of heat, where- ever an increased quantity is circulated, there should, to some extent, be increased heat. The effects of an incited action of the vessels on the system at large must now be adverted to; or, in other words, that general disturbance in the system which attends inflammatory incitation, and which occurs in a degree proportioned to the power of the exciting cause, and the kind of texture primarily affected. The functions both of the sanguiferous and nervous systems are deranged, producing a state termed Symptomatic or Sympathetic Inflammatory Fever. From some observations of my friend Mr. Gulliver, it is probable that this state is fre- quently, if not generally, dependent on changes in the blood , consequent on inflammation. A sort of decomposition of part | of the fluid and vitiation of the remainder; the flbrine being i separated and effused into the injured part for the purposes of reparation, while the blood globules are converted into pus in the capillaries, and mixed with the circulating fluid. Thus the presence of pus in the blood may become the proximate cause of the fever; but if an outlet to the matter be established, if it be discharged by the occurrence of suppuration in a cavity or on a surface, the case is benefited and the constitution relieved. This points to an important principle in practice. Nature puts it in operation in small-pox, for example—how favourable it is for the pustules to come out, and to what danger is not the pa- tient exposed if they are repelled. During the paroxysm of inflammatory fever all the secretions and excretions are diminished or suppressed; and hence the hot dry state of the skin, the thirst with foul and dry tongue, the scanty and high coloured urine, and the constipation of the bowels. This last symptom, however, though it may arise partially from the diminished secretion of mucus, yet is often dependent on disturbance of the functions of the brain and