395 CONGENITAL DEFICIENCIES. The simple fissure of the lip, without deficiency of the palate, is easily remediable by opei’ation. As already mentioned, the fissure is to one side of the mesial line; and its edges, covered by a continuation of the prolabium, are rounded off at their lower part. The operation is not attended with much loss of blood, nor is it very painful. It can be performed at any period of life, but in young children it is not advisable to have recourse to more severe operations on these or other parts. Children bear the loss of blood badly, and their nervous system is apt to be shaken; convulsions are induced, and often terminate fatally. The most proper age for removing deformity by operation is from two and a half to four years; there is then no danger in- curred, and during the growth of the individual the parts re- cover more and more their natural and healthy appearance. The operation for single harelip consists in paring off freely the edges of the fissure, and removing completely the rounded corners at the free margin, thus. This is most neatly, quickly, and easily accomplished by passing a straight bistoury through, from without inwards, so as to pene- trate the membrane of the mouth, above the angle of fissure. The parts are stretched by the fingers of the surgeon or assistant, whilst the instrument is carried downwards, so as to detach a flap composed of the edge and rounded corner. Unless the rounded portions are taken clean away, an unseemly notch is left in the prolabium, where in the natural structure it is prominent. A similar proceeding is followed on the opposite side. Haemorrhage is prevented by the assistant making gentle pressure whilst he stretches the lip. Two sewing needles, the heads covered with a small nodule of sealing wax, are introduced as directed after the operation for removal of diseased parts in the lower lip, and the twisted suture completed. For some years I have used pins made purposely; they are spear-pointed and tempered near their points. From their length they can be easily inserted without being fixed in a handle, or provided with a head; they are to be had of Messrs. Philp and Whicker (Savigny’s), St. James’s-street. One needle