OF TUMOURS. 168 the mamma and testicle, and the disease did not return; but in the other cases the result has been as above stated. Encepha- loid disease of the internal organs frequently supervenes on that of the external parts, and accelerates the patient’s dissolution; when in such situations they are beyond the reach of surgical art, and their existence is only, if at all, ascertained, in order to enhance the unfavourable nature of the surgeon’s prognosis. Of Melanoid Tumours. The Melanoid tumour is rather of rare occurrence in the human subject: it originates in the cellular tissue, and most frequently attacks the internal viscera; sometimes it occurs in the eyeball, where it has been seen with the encephaloid disease, and occasionally melanotic matter is diffused amongst the cellular tissue throughout the whole body, even in that of the bones. The external surface of the tumour is generally of a shining and mottled appearance; internally it consists of a homogeneous black matter infiltrated into the cellular tissue, which is condensed, and in some cases distinctly increased in vascularity. The tumour, seldom of a large size, extends chiefly in a lateral direction. Occasionally it is pretty firm; in other instances it is soft, broken down, and semifluid. The melanotic matter is not always so deposited as to form a distinct tumour, but frequently seems to be sparsely infiltrated into the cellular tissue; and occasionally it is diffused in so minute a quantity as merely to tinge the part, or form dark streaks. Sometimes it is infiltrated in the substance of an organ, and sometimes it is effused on its surface; occasionally it is surrounded by a distinct delicate sheath; usually it is confined by no envelope, excepting the partial condensation of surrounding parts. In the skin it sometimes presents in a tubercular form. The tumour is said to be chiefly composed of albumen, mixed with a peculiar colouring matter. The disease mostly occurs in the trunk, sel- dom in the extremities; it is not uncommon in the orbit, and in the internal oi’gans the melanotic deposits are generally both numerous and extensive. There is seldom paioj and the patient seems to sufler chiefly from lassitude and extreme debility.