RETENTION OF URINE. 596 When the affection is less acute, the prostate slowly enlarges, from opening out of its texture, and deposition of new matter in the interstices, it becomes hypertrophied. The whole gland may enlarge uniformly, but generally one part protrudes more than the others. When the third lobe enlarges, it necessarily projects into the bladder, or into the prostatic portion of the urethra, and there acting like a valve, causes much more for- midable obstruction to the flow of urine than does enlargement of the lateral lobes; the obstruction is the more complete the ffreater the distension of the bladder. At first, this lobe is o but slightly prominent, and of a conical form; but as it en- larges, its regularity of shape disappears, the tumour is nodu- lated, and in general somewhat pyriform. It occasionally pro- jects to one side of the passage. The affection is seldom met w'ith, unless in old people. In consequence of prostatic enlargement, pain is felt in the perineum, with occasional throbbing, and a sense of weight; there is frequent desire to make water, the bladder is irritable and discharges ropy mucus. There is more or less irritation of the lower bowels; there is an almost constant desire to empty the rectum, from a feeling of fulness there, and pain, often severe, is felt on going to stool; when the enlargement is great, the bowel is considerably compressed, and the faeces, when solid, are passed flattened like portions of tape. Frequently there is thin mucous discharge from the urethra. In making water, the urine, as it were, hesitates, and after a while passes away at first in drops, and afterwards in a scanty and irregular stream; pain is felt at the point of the penis, in the loins and hips, and often in the inside of one or both thighs. On at- tempting to pass the catheter, its extremity is obstructed in the prostatic region, and the swelling can be felt by the finger introduced into the anus. Examination of the tumour, per anum, is very often a painful proceeding; it is best ac- complished after a catheter or sound has been introduced. The disease is often coexistent with calculus in the bladder. The tumour is very seldom malignant, but proves both troublesome and dangerous from its size. The bladder may become dis- tended in consequence, though retaining the power of partially relieving itself; or the urine may come away involuntarily after