494 GANGLIA. cavity, the redundant osseous deposit gradually diminishes, the openings in the integuments close, and the swelling subsides. In some rare cases, it may be necessary to take away the offend- ing part, in consequence of the health alarmingly declining. Collections in the Thecoe of the flexor tendons are occasionally met with. Those of the thumb and forefinger are most frequently affected. The swelling often attains considerable size. The fluid o is colourless and glairy, mixed with small cartilaginous bodies of a flattened form, and the size of mustard seeds, or split peas. The swelling sometimes extends under the annular ligament, and under the fascia of the forearm. Alternate pressure on the different parts of the swelling is attended by a very peculiar sensation. Motion of the parts is seriously retarded. Accumulation of the fluid is not prevented by any means. Puncture has been practised successfully in several instances, in others a good deal of inflammatory action followed. On the escape of the fluid, the motions of the parts are so far regained. Ganglia are collections in the bursae, of various sizes, about the wrist. They are situated more frequently on the fore than on the back part. Sometimes they occur, small, on the sides of the fingers. At first they are attended with pain, afterwards with inconvenience only. The swelling is usually globular; but when large, as on the back of the wrist, the form is rendered irregular by the pressure of the tendons. The cyst is generally of considerable thickness, the fluid glairy and albuminous. They present an unseemly appearance, and when awkwardly situated, retard the motions of the limb. Frequently they form without apparent cause; sometimes they are attributed, and perhaps rightly, to a twist or over exertion of the wrist, like windgall in hard-wrought horses, who have been put to work when young, and before their full strength has been attained. The affection is most frequently met with in females of the lower ranks; in them the stucture of the limbs is more delicate than in males, and they are often obliged to use great exertions with the upper extremities before the growth of the body is completed. Friction is of no use. Continued pressure on the swelling, by coins or small pieces of lead bound down for weeks or