73 OF DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. attending violent inflammation of those cavities and their cover- ings, caused by the escape of a greater or less quantity of irritat- ing extraneous matter. Purulent collections also, in the solid internal viscera, are thus allowed to discharge themselves exter- nally. The nature, symptoms, and consequences of inflammation of serous membrane, will be more fully considered under the diseases of particular parts. Of Inflammation of Tissues composing the Articulations. Inflammation of the synovial surface occurs in consequence of wounds, bruises, or sprains, and often from exposure to cold: from the latter cause, the knee and elbow joints most fre- quently suffer, as they are generally more exposed to its in- fluence, and not so well covered with muscular substance as the others. Constitutional diseases, such as certain fevers, are followed sometimes by effusion of serous fluid into joints. Purulent matter is also deposited in joints during certain forms of suppurative fever; and this is attended by rapid change of structure. There is heat, throbbing, pain, and swefling of the part, sometimes redness of the surface, and great constitutional disturbance; the symptoms and appearances, however, vary much, according to the extent of the joint which is involved. When part of the capsule is affected, the inflammation spreads rapidly over all the surface ; the synovial membranes resembling the serous in this respect, as well as in healthy structure and function. Like the serous, too, they are shut sacs, are smooth on their surface, and furnish a secretion, the synovial, for facilitating the motion between opposing surfaces; it is, how- ever, somewhat more glairy than the serous. Neither, in their healthy state, are possessed of much sensibility, nor are liga- ments, tendons, tendinous sheaths, and bursse, which two latter textures resemble in every respect the synovial; when inflamed, they become most exquisitely sensible. The in- cited action of the blood-vessels is followed by increased dis- charge, which is less glairy and albuminous, partaking more of the serous character. When the incited action soon terminates,