670 LIGATURE OF THE COMMON ILIAC ARTERY. sary. Attention to the general health, with local applications, would, in all probability, have restored the parts to a healthy condition in the greater number. Malignant disease affecting the uterus may be removed, at an early stage, by incision, with propriety and safety and I have done so successfully. The part is examined by means of a hollow tube of tin, polished inside, gently and cautiously introduced. A dilator as well as a speculum is required in the operative pro- ceedings for removal of the parts; and for this purpose the instrument mentioned, when treating of vesico-vaginai fistula, is to be employed. When this has been introduced, the os uteri is laid hold of by one or more vulsella, and pulled down; the diseased portion is then removed by a blunt-pointed knife, the incisions being carried beyond the hard and altered part. There is not much loss of blood, and it is easily arrested by stuffing the vagina. Afterwards bland fluids are injected, and, after a time, those of a gently stimulating nature, to wash away the superfluous discharge, and promote healing. The state of the sore can be occasionally examined by means of the speculum, and nitrate of silver or other applications employed when necessary. When the disease is in an advanced stage, the neck of the uterus is involved completely, and there is an uncertainty as to how far the morbid alteration extends. Only palliative treat- ment can be adopted, — soothing applications, and internal remedies according to the symptoms. The practice of some, however, is more bold and decisive. The uterus has been cut out by incision of the abdominal parietes. It has also been removed through the outlet of the pelvis. As was to be ex- pected, the patients have perished from loss of blood, and the shock of such barbarous proceedings ; one or two, perhaps, sur- vived, only to die from extension of the disease to the internal parts, within a very few months. Such doings are not justi- fiable ; and, if repeated, should be punished by the execration of all professional men of sound sense and principle. The Common Iliac artery may require ligature, on account of extensive aneurism, involving the internal iliac, or its branches at their origin, or encroaching on the external iliac to near the bifurcation. It may also be necessary, in consequence