OF DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 86 as in the neck of the femur. Atrophy of the cartilages has been seen where no rheumatism was ever known to have troubled the patients; and they are more generally disposed to ascribe it to the effect of incessant hard work. At all events it is comparatively rare among women, and in the upper ranks of society; and the wasting often presents very much the appearance which would result from the effects of attrition, as if the wear of the cartilage had not been supplied by a corresponding reproduction. It is probable, therefore, that, the affection is attributable to defective nutrition, somewhat allied to certain changes in the cornea, which are known to proceed from this cause, and which are also unattended by inflammation or the formation of pus. The symptoms of the disease are generally obvious enough in the more advanced stages by the crackling which may be heard when the joint is moved ; and in the early stage a grating may be felt by a careful manipulation. Scrophuloiis Disease of Joints. Affections of the membranes, ligaments, and bones, often occur in persons of weak constitutions, and proceed very gra- dually. They have been all classed under the general term of white swelling. They most frequently present themselves with- out any assignable cause, or are attributed to the slightest in- juries. The disease generally commences in the cancellated texture of the bones: these are soft and light, and contain in their cells a quantity of caseous or tubercular matter. The soft- ness is attributable to an interstitial atrophy of the bony tissue, as well as to an alteration in the proportion of its constituents; the animal matter being in excess, with a corresponding defi- ciency of the phosphate of lime. There is an increased vascu- larity of the medullary membrane, and the cancellated texture contains thin brownish-looking fluid instead of marrow. In cases of disease which has commenced in the cancellated texture, there is hardly any pain at first, and the progress of the disease is remarkably insidious. When the lower extremity is affected, the child is observed to limp ; the limb wastes ; it appears to be longer, partly from atrophy of the muscles, partly from relax- ation of the ligaments and effusion into the joint.