INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 2S5 are driven down upon the dura mater, and by them the mem- bi’ane is often severely lacerated. If these be not removed soon after the accident, inflammatory action is almost invariably lighted up on the surface of the brain; and we cannot expect to allay or avert such action by general antiphlogistic means, how- ever energetically applied, so long as their exciting cause remains. It is in such cases, I repeat, that the operation of tre- phining is imperiously called for. Sometimes, however, patients are found to recover from punctured fracture of the cranium, without the operation having been performed, as in the following case, the only one so terminating with which I have met: — On the 4th September, I was consulted by a gentleman, aged 35, who had received a punctured fracture of the cranium, on the 29th of August; a heavy dung fork had fallen from the top of a haystack, and struck him on the upper part of the head. Imme- diately after the accident he became confused, but not insen- sible; he lost the power of motion in the right lower extremity, but almost instantly regained it. Next day the right arm be- came weak, and when I saw him, he was almost wholly unable to move it: he could not bend his fingers, nor raise the arm, and he retained the power of exercising but very slight motion in the elbow-joint. There was a small wound of the scalp, nearly healed, over the posterior part of the left parietal bone, close to the sagittal suture, and nearly midway between its two extremities. A probe passed down to, and through, the bone; and there was slight swelling of the scalp around the wound. He had felt pain in the right ear, and in the forehead, whilst stooping, for some days after the accident. No blood had ever escaped from the ear. A fit of shivering occurred on the night following the injury, but never returned. He soon recovered completely. I subjoin a case of an opposite description. A coachman was knocked down, late on a Saturday night, and fell with his head on the corner of a stone on which masons had been recently working. After being carried to his lodgings, he recovered from the stupor produced by the combined causes of liquor and blows ; and next morning he went to have his head dressed by an apothecary, who with difficulty extracted a fragment of the stone from the wound of the head. The patient then drove a