300 DISEASES OF THE SCALP. unfrequent. The latter are easily removed, being seldom of large size, and their attachments being loose, unless when they have been irritated by accident or maltreatment. When sarco- matous growths do occur, they are to be excised, with those pre- cautions which were formei'ly mentioned when treating of tumours generally. Vascular growths not unfrequently form in the scalp, and attain considerable size; in general they are either congenital, or the degenerations of naevi materni. They may be so exten- sive as to forbid surgical interference; or they may be so indo- lent, may partake so much of the nature of simple varix, as not to warrant it. If small, they can be readily removed by the knife, the incisions being made rapidly, and wide of the diseased struc- ture. If the tumour be prominent, extensive, and at all active, the employment of ligature is a more safe and equally effectual practice. One or two ligatures may suffice to encircle the swelling; or, as in other parts of the body, it may be necessary to pass a great many double ones beneath the part, to separate their extremities, and to tie them to each other ai’ound the base of the tumour, the last being drawn so as to tighten all the others. Little benefit can be expected from tying, either at once or at different periods, the larger arterial trunks whose ramifications supply the diseased structure, the inosculation amongst the vessels around the tumour being so extremely free. But, in cases where the disease cannot be otherwise combated with any hope of success, ligature of the common carotid, on the affected side, may be tried as a last resource. The practice has proved successful in some cases of this disease, involving parts of the head and face to such an extent, or in such a situation, as to forbid any attempt at removal of the growth. Encysted tumours frequently form in the scalp, and, if undis- turbed, become large; they seldom occur singly. The disease appears in many cases to be hereditary, and it frequently happens that several members of one family are at the same time afflicted with it. The contents of the tumours vary as to consistence, but are generally atheromatous. The cyst is thick, and loosely connected with the surrounding cellular tissue ; but as the tumour increases, the adhesions often become firm and intimate, more especially towards the skin. When the tumour is of small size,