WOUNDS OF THE NECK. 432 the muscles of respiration, which symptoms gradually become more urgent and alarming. They are attributable to awkward position of the parts, to swelling around the wound, inflam- matory or oedematous and rapid or slow, or to bronchitis. To the latter affection patients breathing through artificial openings in the larynx or trachea are peculiarly subject, probably from the inspired air not being heated, as in natural respiration, before it enters the bronchial tubes. A view from behind is here introduced of the larynx of a patient who some weeks pre- viously attempted suicide by wounding the foi’e part of the neck. By some mismanage- ment the edges of the incision were kept asun- der, and they cicatrised. The patient was seized with difficult breathing, the inspirations were rare, long, and laborious; he had threaten- ing of suffocation during his disturbed sleep* These symptoms were disregarded. He started up suddenly in the night, caught hold of the patient in the next bed, and fell down in a state of asphyxia, from which he could not be recovered. The oedematous swelling of the rima glottidis is remarkable; beyond that is seen the rounded opening betwixt the thyroid cartilage and epiglottis, which is in a normal state. is to be arrested as speedily as possible by ligature, and the patient placed in bed with the head and shoulders raised. The edges of the wound are brought together by attention to the position of the head; but, provided the patient breathes easily with the wound open, closure should not be attempted till after eight, ten, or twelve hours — that is, not until all oozing of blood has ceased; the time depends on the extent to which the air-tube has been divided. There is little chance of immediate union taking place; and the wound not being approximated when recent and bleeding, does not diminish the chance, but on the contrary augments it. Adhesion is pre- vented by the insinuation of air and mucus betwixt the edges, by frequent motion of the edges on each other, by the slightest change in the position of the head, either rotatory or nodding,