INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 283 of a girl seven years of age, whose head had been squeezed between a wall and the back of a cart, and thereby considerably flattened. She lay insensible for several days, with all the symp- toms of compression, and with blood flowing in small quantity from the nose, mouth, and right ear. An extensive abscess formed over the right temporal bone. She ultimately recovered, but remained affected with paralysis of the right side of the face and amaurosis of the left eye ; sensation in the paralysed parts being quite perfect. Fractures of the upper part of the cranium are generally at- tended with displacement to a greater or less extent, and with wound of the cranial coverings. The size of the depressed por- tion, the depth to which it is displaced, and the extent of wound, will depend upon the nature and intensity of the force applied. When both tables are broken, the fracture of the inner is almost always more extensive than that of the outer one, as fissures will extend furthest in the most brittle part. A broken frag- ment, comprehending the entire thickness of the skull, presents generally a much larger portion of the inner than of the outer table, so much so that the piece would sometimes not admit of removal, though perfectly detached, without enlarging the open- ing in the outer table. Fractures, with depression of a consider- able portion of one of the flat bones, are sometimes unattended with any alarming symptoms. The effects of the injury soon disappear, and even in cases where the depression has been very considerable, and where, from the escape of brain, it was evident that both this organ and its membranes had been seriously injured, no bad symptoms have occurred to retard the patient’s recovery. Symptoms of compressed brain, however, may gene- rally be expected to attend depression of any considerable portion of bone below its natural level. Still the brain may become accustomed to the pressure, and the symptoms may gradually subside without surgical interference. And if the indications of compression are not very alarming, the coma not very profound, a little delay is allowable, means being taken to avert inffamma- tory action : for danger is not imminent, the cure niay not be expedited by operative aid, and there is chance of injury result- ing from rash interference. But it is in general necessary to remove the cause of the