RETENTION OF URINE. 601 sadly painful, serious, and difficult; both are dangerous, and to be avoided. The symptoms of extravasation of urine have been already detailed. The practice must be bold, and adopted vrithout hesi- tation or delay. No bulging or fluctuation in the perineum is to be waited for. It is to be kept in view, that the escape of urine into the open cellular tissue may occur in a case of bad structure, from rapid ulceration or sloughing, without any of the dilated portion of the canal behind, induration or abscess having preceded it; in the greater number of cases the infiltra- tion arises from the going way of the parietes of a cavity com- municating with the canal. Urinary infiltration thus supervenes upon urinous abscess. Extravasation can never be mistaken or overlooked by a man of any experience, and who is endowed with common observation. The effect and extent of the peri- neal fascia must be borne in mind; it diminishes or precludes — when the point at which the urethra has given way is interior to it — external appearance of the mischief, and by confining the deleterious fluid increases the infiltration internally. A free and deep incision holds out the only chance of relief; punctures or trifling scratches are worse than useless; neither is there any need of passing bougies or catheters, or of puncturing the bladder. The following instructive case may be briefly detailed. A man applied at a public hospital for relief, with a large swell- ing in the hypogastrium, occasioned by extensive infiltration of urine into the cellular tissue of the abdominal parietes. The tumour was mistaken for distension of the bladder, and a lone: trocar was plunged in above the pubes without a drop of urine escaping. The patient died during the night. The bladder was found contracted, and the external cellular tissue of the abdomen full of urine, from the giving way of the urethra. When judicious and energetic practice is adopted without delay, patients often make wonderful recoveries. The following may serve as an example : — An elderly man laboured under retention, and his bladder became distended to a very great degree; attempts had been made to relieve him, but proved unsuccessful. A catheter was passed, and retained for three days. During my absence in the country retention again occurred, followed by extravasation. On my return I found