718 FRACTURE OF THE FEMUR. rough and irregular portions of the bone are absorbed, and the neck of the femur, from interstitial absorption, almost disappears; its diminished head lies in and is attached to the cotyloid cavity, and is rubbed upon by the opposed surface of the shaft. Short- ening of the limb is an inevitable result: at first the power of motion is slight, and the support afforded to the body weak; in course of time the member becomes strong and useful. Many bones are preserved and exhibited, in which fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, with bony union, is supposed to have taken place; but there are strong grounds for suspecting that many such have not sustained actual fracture. The neck of the bone may be shortened, and set on awkwardly, and there may be masses of new osseous deposit round the neck and the trochanters. Perhaps the history of the case is known. — An old person sustains an injury of the hip by falling, or by a blow on the trochanter; great lameness ensues, and, after a confine- ment of many weeks, the patient begins to use the member, which, however, remains considerably shortened. But all this may have taken place, and, on examination after death, the parts may have presented the appearances above alluded to, with- out any fracture. The change in the bone is the consequence of diseased action induced by the injury. The bloodvessels of the bone and its coverings are excited, and new osseous matter is formed at various points; at the same time, interstitial absorption of the cancellated texture of the neck gradually advances, and the bone is consequently altered in length and form. These appearances alone, therefore, do not warrant the confident belief of fracture having occurred, even though the history should seem to favour the assumption. And it ought to be recollected, that mere bruising of the parts about the hip is not unfrequently attended with inability to move the limb, with eversion of the foot, so as to relax the muscles which have suffered, and some- times with slight apparent lengthening. This change in the form of the head and neck of the thigh-bone is not found only in old subjects. Some drawings from patients under forty and fifty years are given at pages 99. and 100., exhibiting in a re- markable manner this deformity. In many patients advanced in life, who have sustained fracture of the neck of the femur, there is little, if any, chance of union.