RETENTION OP URINE. 662 by the speculum, with the best effects. When the menstruation is irregular, blisters and sinapisms may be applied to the loins, with cold bathing, general and local. In gonorrhoea, when only the external parts are inflamed and furnish discharge, the appli- cation of a solution of the sulphate or of the acetate of zinc to the parts, by means of lint, effects a cure in a few days — along with strict attention to cleanliness, the observance of rest, regu- lation of diet, and occasional doses of gentle physic. Gonorrhoeal Lichen not unfrequently follows suppression of the discharge both in males and females. It is preceded by smart fever, headach, and violent pains in the limbs. Inflam- mation of the fauces is generally present, with superficial ulcer- ation or excoriation; and sometimes the abraded portions of the mucous lining are covered with a whitish exudation. The symptoms subside on the appearance of the eruption, which is papular. It generally appears first on the breast and arms, and then extends over the whole body, accompanied with slight itching. If the case proceeds favourably, the red papulae disappear in a few days, leaving blains in their stead. De- squamation of the cuticle generally follows. This affection must not be confounded with a cutaneous eruption which some- times follows the use of copaiba, and which is a species of urticaria. When the fever is violent, bleeding must be had recourse to, but not to a great extent, and only when it cannot with safety be avoided. Gentle laxatives are to be given. Diaphoretics are very beneficial, and the patient should not be exposed to cold or wet, but kept rather warm, otherwise the eruption may be re- pelled, the affection thereby prolonged, and the constitutional disturbance augmented. The fauces soon recover under the use of simple gargles. Mercury is hurtful. Retention of Urine in females arises from tumours, natural or morbid, of the uterus, or of the vagina and appendages, from displacement of these parts, or from foreign bodies lodged in them. But the consideration of such affections belongs to the accoucheur. Retention takes place in females from paralysis of the blad-