91 OF DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. Affections of Synovial Pouches or Bursce. Bursae are lined by a membrane, greatly resembling the synovial in appearance, function, and disease. They are fre- quently the seat of inflammation of an acute character; but in most instances the action is of short duration, and generally terminates in an increase and accumulation of the secreted fluid. The attendant pain is very severe, and much increased by any motion of the neighbouring parts. Occasionally a portion of the cellular substance, which is exposed to pressure of motion, as over a prominent portion of bone, assumes the appearance of a bursa, secretes a similar fluid, and is similarly affected in consequence of inffammation. These adventitious bursae are met with in various situations. Bunion is a good example of such a bursa thickened from long-con- tinued pressure. They are seen on the outer ankles of tailors, on the shins of boot-closers, on the forehead, p oint of the elbow, &c. Disease of the bursae may occur from external injury, and they often become affected subsequently to disease of the neigh- bouring joint. If the action is violent, lymph is effused on the inner surface, or external to its cavity, causing considerable thickening. The sac is thus sometimes all but obliterated. Tumours, originally housemaid’s knee, aggravated by continued pressure, are met with over the ligament of the patella in almost a solid state. Occasionally the action terminates in suppuration, pus being effused to a greater or less extent into the cavity; and if allowed to remain or accumulate, the abscess extends, and frequently communicates with the neighbouring joint, which may not have been previously diseased. In chronic cases of enlarged bursae, especially of the bursal thecae of the tendons of the wrist or ankle, we not unfrequently meet with loose cartila- ginous bodies of various sizes, and of a flattened oval form, float- ing in the accumulated fluid. These have been also supposed to be formed by portions of lymph which have been deposited on the surface, condensed in structure, and afterwards become detached. When inflammatory action has commenced in a bursa, it must be subdued by copious topical bleeding, along witli the