711 FRACTURE OF THE PELVIS. splint should be retained on the outside of the limb for a few hours; but this precaution is scarcely required when but one has suffered. Similar treatment, along with attention to the wound, is required in compound fracture. The metacarpal hones and phalanges of the fingers are subject to fractures, both simple and compound. The metacarpal bone supporting the little finger most frequently suffers from force applied to the knuckle, as in pugilistic encounters. The other metacarpal bones are occasionally broken from crushing of the hand, as by a heavy body falling on it, or by its becoming en- tangled amongst machinery. The injury is readily ascertained by moving the fingei’s, and pressing in the course of the bone. On laying hold of the distal end of the bone suspected to have given way, placing the fingers over the shaft, and attempting slight motion, distinct crepitation is perceived. For the cure, motion of the parts must be prevented for a sufficient time, and inflammation warded off when threatened; there is little or no displacement, and consequently retentive apparatus can be almost wholly dispensed with. Simple fractm’es of the phalanges are recognised and treated by even the most unleai’ned in the surgical profession. The deformity is so striking as to render mistakes as to the nature of the accident impossible; reduction is accomplished without dif- ficulty ; and the bones are kept in their proper places by a small splint, either of wood or pasteboard, placed on each side of the finger, and retained by a narrow roller fixed by glue or starch. Compound fractures of the phalanges are almost uniformly followed by most violent inflammatory action in all the tissues, terminating in disease of the joints, and in death of the tendi- nous and fibrous tissues. The suppuration is profuse and un- healthy, and the infiltration of the soft parts extensive. The diseased action not unfrequently pervades the palm of the hand. In the great majority of cases, necessity for amputation arrives sooner or later. Fracture of the bones composing the pelvis occasionally takes place, but can be produced only by the application of great z z 4