DISEASES OF THE CONTENTS OF THE ORBIT. 365 the eye are seldom involved: part remains sound, but com- pressed and disfigured by the morbid mass, and the humours ai'e either absorbed or discharged. Circumscribed tumours, exterior to the ball, and surrounded by a cellular cyst, may be removed by careful and cautious dissection, without injury to the important parts. A free in- cision is made along the edge of the orbit, in the course of the fibres of the sphincter oculi. The tumour is exposed, laid hold of with a hook or small vulsellum, and separated from its attach- ments by a knife, the edge of which is directed towards the new growth. A man, aged 26, had laboured under blindness with exophthalmos for eighteen months. -A tumour could be felt above the eyeball, which I dissected out, along with the lachrymal gland, to which it adhered. It was of medullo-sarcomatous structure, and of the size of a plum : at one point it contained a mass of coagulated blood. After its removal, the eye resumed its place and functions. The patient remains well; but such favourable cases are rare. If the affection be more extensive, it may be necessary to remove all the contents of the orbit: but, in disease involving the entire structures, there is little chance of the patient re- maining free from it: it almost uniformly returns, as is also the case whenever the disease has commenced in parts of the eyeball. The optic nerve is often affected at an early period: its cut surface is unsound; and from this, again, springs a fungus which grows rapidly. But under many circumstances the surgeon is not only justified in removing the orbital con- tents, but called upon to do so. The operation, though cruel and painful, need not be tedious. The commissure of the eye- lids is divided with the point of a bistoury, and the fore part of the ball laid hold of firmly and deeply with a vulsellum —that is, forceps provided with a double hook at each extremity of the blades. A straight bistoury is then entered at the margin of the orbit, pushed down to the base, as near as possible to the entrance of the optic nerve, and carried round the tumour rapidly, the blade towards the handle being made to move more quickly than the point. The nerve is cut across, and, after the removal of the morbid mass, the cavity is sponged out and examined. The lachrymal gland, and other soft parts, particularly if al-