ENLARGEMENT OF UVULA. 401 tracliea, or to the lungs, either spontaneously, or in consequence of repellent applications. Chronic abscesses are occasionally met with in these parts, or behind the upper part of the pharynx, unconnected with disease of the subjacent bones. The matter must be evacuated as soon as its existence is ascertained. No great accumulation should be allowed to take place in any situation, far less in the imme- diate neighbourhood of important parts. Scarification of the tonsils and surrounding membrane is seldom required. A lancet concealed in a canula, with a spiral spring to withdraw its point, is used for this purpose, and lor opening abscesses; but dangerous and fatal results may ensue, and have actually followed such incisions of these parts. A sharp instrument directed outwards, made to penetrate' either by the rash thrust of an ignorant and careless practitioner, or j by a hurried movement of an unsteady patient, may reach the I common trunk of the temporal and internal maxillary arteries, or even the internal carotid. The sheathed lancet may be useful in the hands of such as are not habituated to the use of instru- ments ; but scarification of the parts and puncturing of abscesses can be effected safely by a straight, sharp-pointed bistoury, covered with a slip of lint to within three-quarters of an inch of its point. The patient’s head is steadied by an assistant, the point of the instrument directed backwards, not at all outwards, and its edge upwards so as to avoid wounding the tongue, ‘ which is also to be kept out of the way by the forefinger of the left hand. New formations about the isthmus faucium, are rarely met with. Small warty excrescences, and small pendulous, fatty, or polypous tumours, are occasionally seen. These, if productive of inconvenience, can be easily removed by cutting instru- I ments. i Enlargements of the uvula and tonsils are common, impeding j deglutition, and producing indistinct and burring articulation. If large, respiration is interfered with. Elongation and Enlargement of the Uvula attends inflammatory attacks in the fauces, but may continue for a long time after- wards. The organ is increased in volume, both in length and in breadth, from interstitial deposition of new organised sub- D D