191 OF TUMOURS. mission into the hospital, it had been punctured; nothing but blood escaped. It was evident from the rapid growth of the tumour, and the severity of the symptoms, that the patient would soon be destroyed if no operation were attempted. There were no signs of evil in the thoracic viscera, the ribs and in- tercostal muscles were unaffected; though the tumour was firmly fixed to the scapula, yet that bone was moveable as the one on the opposite side, and the vessels and nerves in the axilla were quite unconnected with the swelling. The operation was commenced by making an incision from the axilla to the lower and posterior part of the tumour. The latissimus dorsi was then cut across at about two inches from its insertion, so as to expose the inner edge of the tumour, with a view to tie the sub- scapular artery in the first instance; in this, however, I was foiled, owing to its depth. The dissection was proceeded with to where the brandies from the suprascapular were expected to enter. In detaching the tumour from the spine of the scapula, the knife and fingers suddenly dipped into its substance. This was attended with a profuse gush of florid blood, with coagula; by a sponge thrust into the cavity, the haemorrhage was in a great degree arrested ; at the same time an attempt made to compress the subclavian failed, on account of the arm being much raised to facilitate the dissection in the axilla. The patient, exhausted, made some efforts to vomit, and dropped his head from the pillow, pale, cold, and almost lifeless. Then only the nature of the case became apparent. The sponge being- withdrawn, one rapid incision completely separated the upper edge of the tumour, so as to expose its cavity; and, directed by the warm gush of blood, a large vessel at the upper corner, which with open mouth was pouring its contents into the sac, was immediately secured. The coagula being removed, by dis- secting under the finger, the subscapular artery was then separated, so that an aneurysm needle could be passed under it at its origin from the axillary, and about an inch from the sac. After securing this and two other large vessels which supplied the cavity, the tumour was dissected from the ribs without farther haemorrhage, cutting the diseased scapula and the under part of the sac. It was then found necessary to saw off the ragged and spongy part of the scapula, leaving only about a