293 DISEASES OF THE SCALP. After the circle of bone is separated on all sides, it is to be removed by forceps, or by means of the lever; and the sharp points ought to be taken from the edge of the perforation by means of the latter instrument, otherwise the dura mater may be fretted and torn when following the natural motions of the brain. The lever must be strong, and simple in its construc- tion. And after a sufficient space of bone has been removed, its point is to be introduced cautiously under the part that requires elevation; the edge of the sound bone at various points affords a fulcrum, and by persevering and steady efforts, the object of the operation will be accomplished. The dressing of the wound should be simple; the integuments are made to cover the aperture, or as much of it as possible, and due sup- port is given by compress and bandage. The after treatment must be varied, and conducted according to circumstances. It may become necessary to repress the granulations, or else to soothe the wound and abate inflammatory action in the sur- rounding parts. Perhaps incisions may be required, to prevent the formation of matter, and destruction of the cellular tissue, and of the tendinous expansion, or to evacuate fluid already secreted. The patient’s strength may require support. He may stand in need of stimulants; or, on the contrary, the most active means may be required to subdue vascular action, and to prevent the evil consequences which would result to the important parts within the cranium from such overaction. Inflammation of the Scalp occurs either spontaneously, or in consequence of external injury, though slight; and is generally met with in those who have lived freely and irregularly, and are of a bad habit of body. It is more dangerous than inflamma- tion of any other part of the surface, on account of the sympathy and connection which exists between the parts affected and those situated internally: frequently, at an early stage of the affec- tion, delirium occurs, with violent fever. In slight cases, in which the external surface merely is affected, there is little swelling, and but little pain or fever. But when all the peri- cranial coverings are involved, the symptoms are uniformly severe. The swelling is elevated and puffy, and extends to the eyelids, to the face, and, in some cases, even to the neck: the u 3