158 OF TUMOURS, in the vessel and the most alarming constitutional disturb-, ance. These unfavourable results, however, must he of rare occurrence. Success has, however, followed the practice in innumerable instances. A much preferable method, as being less painful and unattended with risk, is that of passing needles under the vessel, and twisting a piece of thick and strong silk round them. Two needles should be applied together, at an interval of about half an inch, at whatever points it is thought right to close the vein. Coagulation takes place in the included part, and also frequently for some distance below it; the coats of the vessel are thickened, and its canal closed. The needles are with- drawn before they begin to cut their way out by ulceration, — say at the end of from three to five days,—according as the parts become condensed. The needles suited to the purpose are soft, but tempered at the point, which is spear-shaped; the ends are cut off with plyers after the thread is fixed. Other operations have been performed on the veins, to procure a radical cure of varix ; one or more ligatures have been passed round the vessel, as in the operation for aneurism; and the vessel has been divided, or a portion of it dissected out, and its cut extremities after- wards either compressed or secured. Such proceedings are now almost entirely abandoned. Of Tumours. A tumour is a swelling or new production, and not a part of the original composition of the body. Blood may have been efiPused, and the coagulated part, becoming organised, is in- creased in size by deposits from the vessels which enter it; or perhaps the blood, the coloured part of it at all events, is taken up and lymph is deposited, which, if not also removed, “ under- goes further changes of a secondary nature, and remains a para- site or new structure.” Its structure and growth are modified according to the action which its own vessels assume, independ- ently of the surrounding vascular system. The blood-vessels may enter this new growth by a narrow pedicle ; or it may be of such a form as to present an extensive surface, by which