LUXATION OF THE HIP-JOINT. 746 assistant to hold on by. '^The extending force should be made in a direction towards the palm, and almost uniformly requires to be great and long continued, even in recent cases. The bone may occasionally be jerked into its place by a sudden attempt at flexion of the joint, during steady pulling that has been continued for some time. But cases have occurred in which all attempts have proved ineffectual, and it has been found necessary to divide one of the lateral ligaments. From what has been already stated, the reason why this proceeding should facilitate reduction is sufficiently obvious. I had recourse to it in one instance,— one in which difficulty of reduction was not to have been ex- pected. The accident was very recent, not an hour had elapsed; the patient was an old man, and very drunk; no resistance to the reductive measures could have been offered by muscular energy ; yet very powerful force was applied and persevered in without avail. At last the external lateral ligament was divided by the point of a very narrow and fine bistoury, and then re- placement was immediate and easy. Some inflammation followed, but was kept within bounds, and the man regained the use of the articulation. In other cases, again, the bone is replaced by the use of but very slight force, provided it be applied, as already stated, in a direction towards the palm of the hand. The last phalanx is equally liable to luxation in the thumb as in the fingers, and has no peculiarity of treatment. Lvxation of the Hip-joint.—The great strength of the liga- ments, the depth and fitness of the bony and cartilaginous cavity for the reception of the head of the bone, and the great power of the muscles surrounding the articulation, render dislocation here both difficult and rare. The accident is generally produced by great and sudden force, applied either to the distal end of the femur, or to the farther extremity of the limb, as by falling from a considerable height, by the foot slipping whilst the per- son is supporting a heavy weight, by falls from or with a horse, &c. The luxation, in a great majority of cases, takes place up- wards and backwards, the head of the bone lying on the dorsum of the ilium. The limb is shortened to the extent of from an inch and a half to two inches and a half, the toes are turned in, the thigh is slightly bent upon the pelvis, and very firmly fixed.