AMPUTATION OF THE LEG. 786 right. In muscular subjects two semilunar flaps had better be made, one from the anterior aspect of the limb, the other from the posterior, the muscles being cut short in the ham, and the incision made to reach the popliteal artery. It has been proposed to excise the head of the fibula after formation of the flap, instead of sawing it across at a correspond- ing point with the tibia. At one time I put this modification into extensive practice, with the effect of imjiroving the appear- ance of the stump very considerably ; but in several cases, unto- ward consequences took place. Discharge of synovia occurred on the second day, followed by very profuse suppuration, which proved of long continuance, and very exhausting; in more than one case, the joint became anchylosed, rendering the stump very inefficient as a means of support, in consequence of being fixed at an inconvenient angle; and one patient sank, exhausted by the profusion of the discharge. I then found, from repeated ex- amination of the parts on the dead subject, that it was very diffi- cult, nay impossible, to excise the head of the bone without dividing the capsular ligament, and wounding the synovial pouch, or opening a bursal cavity, beneath the popliteus muscle, communicating with that of the knee-joint. It is scarcely neces- sary to add, I have since wholly abandoned this method of operation. It has been already observed that high amputation of the leg is preferable amongst the working classes. The limb is of much greater use to the patient than were the stump longer; he is able to follow his occupation with greater ease and security, and at less expense, by resting on the knee, than by using the artificial limb applied to the middle of the leg. The wealthier patient, how- ever, can afford a more expensive support, and a less efficient, though more handsome continuation of the limb suffices. In such circumstances, amputation is performed at the middle of the leg; after cicatrisation, the artist supplies an artificial sup- port resembling the natural limb; and thus the motion of the knee is preserved. The same directions apply to this operation as to that immediately below the knee. In amputation of the thigh, the same method of incision is followed as in amputation of the arm. But, according to the point of removal, the direction of the flaps varies. If in ope-