715 FRACTURE OF THE FEMUR. capsular ligament, generally passing obliquely through the tro- chanters, and communicating with fissures in various directions. Splinters are often detached, and sometimes the small trochan- ter is broken off. Here, also, there is inability to move the joint, violent pain on attempting it, swelling and deformity of the member; there is shortening to a greater extent than in the fracture within the capsule; there is free motion in all directions ; rotation, abduction, adduction, flexion, and often extension, can be effected to an unnatural and unusual extent — the degree of motion is no longer limited by the ligamentous attachments of the head and neck of the bone. Here, also, the limb is most frequently everted, but occasionally inverted; and that even when, from the direction and extent of the fracture, neither the rotators outwards nor the rotators inwards have been deprived of the power of acting. In some cases of fracture, partly within and partly without the capsule, all the usual marks of this injury are present, but it is impossible to move the limb without employing consider- able force. This arises from the broken portions being jammed together, the neck of the bone being, as it were, di'iven into and wedged in the cancellated texture of the trochanter major, or of the upper part of the shaft. The trochanter major is sometimes, though rarely, detached, without separation of the neck of the bone from its shaft. In this injury there is apparent lengthening of the limb, and flattening of the hip; the patient is able to use the member, though not freely. Before swelling has taken place, crepitation can be perceived on laying hold of the trochanter whilst the limb is in motion; and the trochanter itself is found to be in a slight degree moveable. Fracture of the upper part of the shaft is attended with im- mediate and great shortening; the limb is much misshapen, and lies on its outer side, with the knee partially bent. The upper fragment of the bone projects ; the resistance to the action of the psoas and iliacus is in a great measure done away with, consequently these muscles raise the upper, whilst the lower end falls back and is drawn upwards behind the other. In mismanaged cases, I have found on dissection the lower end of the bone lying in the sacro-ischiatic notch, and a process ad-