WOUNDS OF THE NECK. 429 injury, from ulceration or sloughing of a large artery; in such circumstances either permanent pressure may be resorted to, or ligature applied to the vessel above and below the open point. Dissections for the removal of morbid growths in the situations o just mentioned must be conducted with much caution, and with a full recollection of the relative anatomy. Unless the tumour be tolerably loose and defined, it ought not to be interfered with. But it is to be recollected that tumours of these parts are bound down by their condensed coverings —the platysma myoides and cervical fasciae; and that after division of these, the tumour, if not intimately incorporated with the neighbouring tissues, is loosened, and often enough can be readily detached. From constant external pressure, tumours growing rapidly spread amongst the deep parts, and often form firm attachments. The parotid is displaced, and almost entirely absorbed, by the pressure of tumours growing out of the lymphatic glands which are lodged on its anterior surface. Such tumours attain a large size, and occupy the exact situation of the parotid; on their removal, the space betwixt the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process is completely exposed, and the styloid and pterygoid processes can be distinctly felt. From these circumstances many have been led to believe that they have dissected out the parotid; but this and the other salivary glands seldom if ever degenerate. And if the parotid do become the seat of carcinoma or medullary sarcoma, it is impossible to remove it with either safety or advan- tage. Even in the healthy state, removal of the parotid is a trou- blesome dissection; and the difficulty must be greatly increased when enlargement has taken place from disease, when neigh- bouring parts are involved, when firm and deep connections have been formed, and important structures encroached upon. I have taken away many tumours from the site of the parotid, and some of large size, but would scarcely attempt, or boast as some have done of having removed, the diseased gland itself. The incisions, for the removal of the tumours of which we have been speaking, are to be made in the direction of the fibres of those muscles which are interposed betwixt them and the integuments, in the direction of the blood-vessels and nerves, and towards those points where the vessels are expected to enter the diseased mass. Attention to the last recommendation is im-