OF INFLAMMATION. 5 the species of resistance offered; at first it is serous, then mixed with fibrin, and consequently spontaneously coagulable. Cceteris parihus, the greater the resistance, the less the effusion, and the more violent the inflammatory action; the chance of its speedy and favourable termination is also more diminished. Even the enlargement of the blood-vessels produces a certain degree of intumescence previous to effusion. The relief to the vessels by effusion giving rise to swelling, when it occurs in loose cellular tissues, may he considered as a beneficent provision of nature. But in vital organs it may be productive of the most serious consequences ; as in these, very slight effusion will often endanger the structure of the organ, destroy its functions, aiid not unfrequently be attended with fatal consequences. The nature of the effused fluid varies according to the degree of violence and advancement of the action, and is also modified by the texture in which that action occurs. It may consist of serum, lymph, blood, or pus. In inflammation, in short, exhal- ation, though at first diminished, is soon much increased, whilst the powers of the absorbent vessels are diminished, or at least do not maintain their usual relation to those of the exhalants. Pain is the next symptom enumerated. Here the very com- mon error of supposing that where there is pain there must al- ways be inflammation may be noticed. Some diseases attended with the most acute paifl, as Tic Douloureux and Cramp, are generally unattended with inflammation. Many chronic dis- eases, too, are accompanied with violent and long-continued paroxysms of pain, without excited cii’culation of the part. This erroneous opinion often gives rise to highly prejudicial proceedings, as — the exhausting, by copious depletions, the vital powers of patients, already enfeebled by continued disease or treatment — the consequent aggravation of the urgent symp- toms — and, the then only termination of the disease and of the practice, death. Again, it is true that we must bleed, in some cases, with the view of preventing the occurrence of inflammation ; yet the prophylactic treatment may be carried too far, as in cases of violent injuries, or after severe operations. In these instances, the immediate abstraction of blood, so far from being beneficial, expedites the dissolution of the patient, or at least greatly re- B 3