STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 584 less; but even such cases can, by proper management, be re- lieved, or permanently cured. Ulceration of the urethra, ori- ginating in consequence of stricture, may proceed even after the stricture is removed, and give rise to abscess and fistula. Many patients labour under stricture, and even tolerably bad ones, without being aware of it. But the surgeon is led to suspect the existence of stricture, by complaints which the pa- tients wish to be relieved of, and which they often suppose to arise from totally different causes — pains in the loins or hips, indolent swelling of the testicle, or of the inguinal glands, irri- tability about the fundament, gleet. On inquiring about the stream of urine, the patient may declare that it is as good as possible; and many say so without intending to deceive, for the stream diminishes so gradually, that the patient is not aware till after he is-relieved that he has been voiding his urine in a very shabby and imperfect manner. On questioning further, it is dis- covered that the stream is forked or twisted, or divided into several small ones; that there is frequent desire to empty the bladder, during the night particularly; and that at first the urine comes away only in drops. A long time is occupied in passing even a small quantity of urine, and the patient has to strain much; in bad cases he is almost always obliged to go to the water-closet when inclined to make \yater, lest the contents of the rectum be evacuated by the great exertion of the levator ani and ab- dominal muscles, necessary to overcome the obstruction in the urethra. By the straining hernia is also frequently induced. In consequence of the almost constant endeavours to over- come the resistance afforded by the stricture, the bladder becomes much strengthened in the coats, and diminishes in size. All the coats are affected, but particularly the mus- cular ; the surface becomes fasiculated ; the fibres grow fleshy and strong, and are collected in large bundles. Cysts form, often of a large size ; some are caused by interlacement of the enlarged muscular fibres, others are produced by out- ward protrusion of the mucous coat. This membrane being, by excessive muscular action in the viscus, pushed between the enlarged fasciculi, dilates into a bag, and forms a cyst of greater or less size, communicating with the cavity of the bladder, generally by a narrow neck ; the protruded mem-