742 LUXATION OF THE WRIST. displaced far from its original site. A hollow is felt below the end of the humerus, on the outer and fore part, and there is a corresponding prominence behind; the head of the bone is found unnaturally moveable on rotation, and this motion is dif- ficult and painful; the arm is extended, presenting a twisted appearance, and flexion is very limited. Extension is to be made, along with pronation. Sometimes the radius is displaced forwards. The coronoid process of the ulna is occasionally broken off; there is no de- formity during flexion of the elbow, but when the limb is ex- tended, the olecranon is drawn upwards. In luxation of both bones, reduction is much facilitated by position of the arm. The arm and forearm are extended, and the limb is brought well behind the trunk, so as to relax the triceps; then the surgeon performs extension and counter-ex- tension, pulling the forearm with one hand, whilst he pushes with the other placed on the scapula. If the force thus em- ployed prove insufficient, as it seldom will in recent cases, the patient may be placed on his face, on a couch, and on the limb being brought into the favourable position already noticed, counter-extension may be made by the heel planted against the inferior costa of the scapula, whilst the wrist is pulled with both hands. It is seldom necessary to employ pulleys, excepting in cases of old standing; if so, the only peculiarity in their appli- cation to this joint is the direction of the force, backwards. And this I consider to be a very material part of the manipulations, for, by attention to it, I have succeeded after previous failures, —after great force had been applied, causing excoriation and swelling of almost the whole limb. In luxation of the radius, backwards, flexion and pronation, combined, if necessary, with extension, will generally effect replacement. Dislocation at the Wrist is very unfrequent. The articulation is naturally strong, admitting of little motion, the bones being accurately fitted to each other, whilst the retaining ligamentous apparatus is both copious and unyielding; on this account greater force is required to effect displacement here than at either the elbow or shoulder-joints, and violence applied to the hand usually causes fractui’e of one or both bones of the fore-