CALCULUS VESICA. 641 inapplicable, and highly dangerous machines have been produced, a few efficient and perfectly safe. The knowledge of the fact that the curvature of the urethra can be effaced, and a perfectly straight instrument, or one with a short curve can be passed into the bladder with equal ease and freedom from uneasiness as a largely curved one, has facili- tated very much the application of means for seizing and acting upon a stone in the bladder. The three-branched instrument, which it is unnecessary to describe, as it can be readily seen and obtained, can be without difficulty brought in contact with the stone, the bladder being partially distended by urine, or filled to the requisite extent by tepid water injected through the outer canula of the apparatus. The branches are then so far expanded, and the drill withdrawn ; and by a little cautious management, turning the instrument, altering the degree of expansion, and sounding with the drill, the stone is seized, and then fixed by pulling back the inner canula. By turning the drill with the fingers, and pulling back forcibly the inner canula so as to close the branches, the con- cretion may at once be pulverised; or it may be again seized, and attacked by the drill on a different side. The operation may, if necessary, be repeated after the lapse of eight or ten days, or sooner, if the irritation caused by the former have sub- sided. Diluents are to be given so as to facilitate the washing out of the detritus, and strict rest and abstinence from stimuli must be observed for a few days. Various forms of drill have been contrived for acting cn a large surface of the stone; others for scooping it out, the shell to be afterwards broken into fragments and triturated; they ai’e all unsafe and ineffectual. The instrument is also so constructed that a drill-bow may be used, and the apparatus may be fixed by what mechanics call a bench, or it may be attached, by com- plicated machinery, to the table on which the patient is laid, and be there secured in a proper position. But all this implies an intention of attacking large and dense stones, and a repetition of the attempts. So far as my experience goes, — (and besides having seen Civiale and others operate, I have myself employed the instruments in many cases, and very successfully,) — I should dissuade from all endeavours to rid the patient of T T