774 AMPUTATION OF THE FINGERS. cessary to remove more or less of the metacarpal bone along with the finger. The method of incision will vary according to the extent to which the bone is diseased. When the operation is required for disease of merely the distal extremity, the in- cisions are made in the same form as for amputation of the joint, only they are on each side sufficiently high to be beyond dis- eased bone. They may either be made from below upwards in the usual way, or be commenced at their highest point on the dorsum of the metacarpal bone. After the soft parts have been separated from the bone, by a few touches of the knife after formation of the principal incisions, removal is completed either by the cutting pliers or the metacarpal bow-saw — the former I have found the more convenient instrument. It is applied perpendicularly, and should always have its smooth surface in contact with the part to be retained, otherwise the cut part will be rough and irregular. Section is completed more rapidly than by the saw, and, by attention to the above precaution, the stump is equally smooth, if not more so. The wound is brought and retained in contact by approximation of the fingers. But in taking away any considerable portion of the metacarpal bone, it is of importance to preserve the palm uninjured. With this view, the knife is entered over the centre of the bone on its dorsal aspect, above the diseased part, and carried straight downwards till near the articulation, when it is made to diverge for the formation of lateral flaps; the integuments in the track of the longitudinal wound are then dissected backwards, so as to expose the bone completely, and the bistoury is passed round the bone throughout its whole extent, the edge being kept close to it, — in order that the soft parts may be separated, and that without unnecessary width of wound or implication of the pul- mar arches and branches proceeding from them. Then the bone is clipped at the proper point by the cutting pliers; or the section of the bone may be performed before separation of the soft parts from its under surface, as, by raising the cut end, this part of the operation may be facilitated. Here the metacarpal saw is inapplicable. Before quitting this part of the amputations, it may be ob- served, that no good can result from taking away a metacarpal bone and leaving a finger, or from removing a proximal phalanx