254 OF ULCERS OF THE GENITAL ORGANS, consist in allowing the disease, in a great measure, to follow its own course, taking measures to prevent it from being interrupted, and merely moderating such violent symptoms as may precede or accompany it. In the pustular form of eruption the general treatment is the same as in the papular. Mercury is hurtful, and increases the tendency to burrow. When the surface is nearly covered with pustules and ulcers in all stages, desquamation may be hastened by fumigations of sulphur, the general sulphur bath, lotions of sulphuret of potass, nitro-muriatic baths, vapour baths, or by smearing the affected surface with equal parts of tar and sulphur ointment. In phagedena the patient ought to be, if possible, placed in an airy and healthful situation. In most cases free blood-letting may be necessary at the commencement, and will be advantage- ously followed by purgatives and antimonials. The patient ought to be strictly confined to his room, and ordered low diet with diluents. Afterwards, the internal use of nitric acid, the decoction of sarsaparilla, and an occasional dose of Dover’s pow- der at night, will be beneficial, particularly if sleep be disturbed with pain of the bones and joints. Mercury, even in small quantities, protracts the disease, and in lai’ge doses it hastens the ulceration and sloughing. When all febrile symptoms have subsided, when the ulcers are nearly healed, when no fresh pus- tules appear, and when desquamation is begun, alterative doses of mercury, as a blue pill or grey powder every second night, may sometimes be ventured upon, will tend to hasten the cure, and will not, possibly, be followed by any unpleasant symptoms. The safe course is to. promote the secretions by some safe substi- tute — preparations of sarsaparilla, ipecacuan, taraxacum, &c. In fact, in all scaly eruptions, whether scaly from their com- mencement, or having become so in their latter stages and pre- viously to their disappearance, mercury, prudently administered, will be useful by expediting the cure, and not injurious by deranging the system. The tar or citrine ointments may be applied to the eruptions and cutaneous ulcers. For the ulcers of the throat, unless in a sloughing state, the lunar stone appears to be almost a specific, removing the irrita- bility of the sores, and protecting them from further irritation