OF HERNIA. 534 takes place of foetid air and thin faeculent matter, the bowel has mortified either entirely or in patches; in the latter case, pre- senting the appearance of having been perforated at various points. Few constitutions can bear up under such mischief. In some, if an opening be not made, the integuments slough, and the patient, rallying after discharge from the bowel takes place, recovers after losing a portion of integument, of intestine, and perhaps of omentum. In others, and they constitute the majority, the system sinks, before discharge from the bowel is effected, by sloughing of the external parts. The surgeon is called on to operate in the worst possible cir- cumstances, provided the patient is not in articulo mortis. Even after many days of faeculent vomiting the bowels may be found tolerably healthy. The sac must be opened carefully, and the stricture is to be relieved without disturbing the adhesions that have formed. The bowel, when dead, or evidently gangrenous, is to be opened, and the discharge of faeces by the wound pi’o- moted. If returned into the abdomen, the sloughs will separate, in all probability, and faeculent effusion take place, causing death in a very few hours. Sometimes the patient lingers longer than could be expected, and I have known a female survive upwards of a hundred hours after the occurrence of effusion into the abdo- men, from the giving way of an ulcer in the stomach. The dressing should be light, and the patient’s strength must be sup- ported in every way, by the mouth, and by the anus when the injured part is high in the canal. The separation of the sloughs is to be encouraged. The extent of sloughing need not dis- hearten the surgeon, for large portions of bowel, sevei’al feet in length, have mortified, and the patients recovered, with artificial anus, either temporary or for life. In artificial anus, when this has followed upon destruction of the bowel to a considerable extent, the intestine has contracted firm adhesion to the hernial sac at the opening in the abdominal parietes; through the opening in the bowel exterior to this the faeculent matter is discharged externally, and by the adhesion is prevented from being effused into the abdominal cavity. The pro- truded bowel in which the sphacelation has occurred may be said to be thereby divided into an upper and an under portion, — one, the upper, discharging, the other, collapsed and empty; these lie parallel to each other, in close contact, and usually adhering, frpm