42 OF MORTIFICATION. Humid or traumatic gangrene frequently occurs without pre- vious inflammation, the injury being so severe as at once to deprive the part of its vitality. Dry or chronic mortiflcation is often unpreceded by inflammatory action, or at least it is slight and of very short duration. It is preceded by stagnation, or is at all events coincident with this stagnation, not in the smaller vessels only, but in the trunks leading to the affected part. In humid gangrene, swelling with erethismus generally precedes the death of the parts ; whereas in the dry, whether the sur- face change colour immediately or not, they shrink immedi- ately. In the former they quickly lose their vitality, and con- sequently retain a considerable portion of their fluids; in the latter the process is much slower, and they become dry and shrivelled. The most common remote cause of spontaneous mortification is a rigid state of the arteries, most frequently met with in the inferior extremities of elderly persons, in consequence of the deposition of calcareous matter between the internal and middle coat; this calcareous degeneration may be confined to a part of the limb, or may pervade the whole of it, and even extend throughout the arterial system. There are many cases in which disease of the arteries has existed, though no gangrene oc- curred ; but this by no means invalidates the assertion, since, when arteries are thus affected, the part cannot withstand spha- celus when exposed to any of its immediate causes. An at- tempt has been made to connect mortification with an inflamed state of the arterial coats. This opinion is not confirmed by experience. Obstruction from coagulation of their contents, and inflammation of the venous trunks, sometimes precedes death of the extreme parts in old people, and seems to act as a direct cause. After wet seasons, spontaneous gangrene has pre- vailed as an endemial disease on the Continent, where rye is a principal article of food. The rye is subject to a disease called .Ergot; the grains become large, black, and have a horny con- sistence ; and the use of it, when thus diseased, is assigned as the cause of gangrene. The patients who have suffered from the use of this ergot or cockspur rye have experienced pain and heat, with swelling, generally in the lower limbs, though occasionally in the upper. These symptoms abating, the parts