OF INFLAMMATION OF VEINS. 154 vein. Many patients have died of this disease, induced hy the application of a ligature to the vena saphena major, for the cure of varix. Wounding of large veins ought to be studiously avoided; and if wounded, the bleeding from them should, if possible, he arrested hy pressure. When from any cause the extremity of a large vein in a wound is not closed, when it is not plugged up by plastic matter, pus seems to enter it readily, and hy mixing with the circulating fluid causes dreadful mis- chief; great constitutional disturbance accompanies the purulent deposits which follow in the solid viscera and in the joints. Inflammation of veins is a very unmanageable disease; the exhibition of purgatives and antimonials will be prudent, in order to evacuate the bowels, produce diaphoresis, and diminish the force of the circulation; the pain will also he much relieved by the application of warm fomentations to the afiected part. General depletion is not admissible unless at the very com- mencement of the disease, and local bleeding must he had recourse to with very great caution ; for by copious abstraction of blood, gangrene may be induced, or at least hastened. The limb must be altogether disused and elevated, the patient being kept in a state of complete rest, and not exposed to any excite- ment or anxiety. Blisters have been employed, but with no good effect. If the vein is much distended, and it is evident that it contains a confined accumulation of pus, it ought to be treated as a common abscess, the matter evacuated by an incision, and various dressings employed, according to circumstances. Such practice I have found successful, and not followed by any untoward symptoms. The abscess is often limited at each extre- mity by the deposition of lymph in the canal of the vessel; and after the evacuation of its contents, the cavity contracts, and the portion of the vessel which has been the seat of suppuration becomes completely impervious. Inflammation of a vein is also occasionally followed by the sudden appearance of a purulent depot in some part of the body, external or internal, at a distance from the inflamed part. Thus, in inflammation of a vein in the fore-arm, it is not unusual to And an abscess formed suddenly in the axilla on the opposite side; after amputation, or other capital operation, the patient is often suddenly affected with violent symptoms of disease in the