OF TUMOURS. 163 The skin becomes thickened and of a red hue, and the tumour itself is much more vascular. From this cause it is apt to assume a new mode of action, and to change in structure and in cha- racter, invariably for the worse. I have removed a few tumours, originally of this benign species, but which had apparently de- generated and assumed a malignant action. In one, distinct indurated bands, radiating from a central mass of the same kind, are discernible. In two others, as a consequence of pressure, condensation and ultimate softening had occurred. The largest alluded to was removed from betwixt the shoulders of a soldier, and had borne the pressure of his knapsack for eight or l^en years. It was attached by a thickish neck, presented the com- mon lobulated appearance of adipose sarcoma ; but its external surface, its feel, and section, were very different. The patient does not complain of any pain or uneasiness in the tumour, unless inflammation be excited in it; then the pain and other symptoms are such as attend incited action, and the sensations which are afterwards experienced vary according to the character which the tumour assumes. Certain changes may occur in its texture, though not in its general character or disposition; thus osseous or earthy matter is occasionally depo- sited in some part of the tumour, while the surrounding adipose substance retains - its appearance and density. Suppuration, it is said, has followed inflammatory action, excited in an adipose sarcoma. Of Fibrous Tumours. Fibrous tumours are not uncommon, and are formed in vari- ous textures. In general they are composed of a substance of a dirty grey colour and considerable density, through which minute. Arm, ligamentous fibres ramify; in some cases irregu- larly, in others radiating from the centre of the tumour. The new formation is surrounded by condensed cellular tissue, to which it intimately adheres, and does not mingle irregularly with the surrounding parts ; in this respect differing from malig- nant tumours, which occasionally contain fibrous matter. It cannot be considered of an equally innocuous nature with those already described, but is still, in its original state, not of a M 2