666 STRICTURE OF VAGINA. hypogastrium, general uneasiness in the parts, and sometimes swelling of them to a great extent. On division of the membrane, there is sometimes an escape of many pounds of dark, thick, putrid fluid, and all the symptoms quickly subside. A cautious incision is made in the mesial line, until the obstruction be completely divided; if an opening be found, a probe, or director, is intro- duced, and by this the knife is guided. There is seldom any risk of the parts again coalescing; when the obstruction, how- ever, is unusually thick, the insertion of dressing between the edges during granulation may be necessary to prevent con- traction. Unnatural adhesions of the external labia occasionally take place, occurring in early life from the healing of excoriation and ulceration caused by neglect of cleanliness. Perhaps the closure is not to such an extent as to prevent escape of the discharges, but still it is inconvenient and requires attention. The parts must be divided in the proper direction and to the necessary extent, and, by the interposition of dressing, reclosure is pre- vented. Contraction of the vagina at a distance from the orifice some- times occurs. On one occasion I was requested by an accou- cheur to examine and divide a very tight, firm stricture, scarcely admitting the finger. Labour had commenced, and the ex- pulsion of the foetus was prevented by the stricture; it was attributed to injury inflicted in a former delivery. By a probe- pointed bistoury, guided on the finger, it was notched pretty deeply at many points —a proceeding which I have frequently followed with advantage in simple stricture of the rectum. Every thing proceeded happily. Occasionally the contraction of the vagina is to a great extent; the uterine discharges are not permitted to escape at all, and great uneasiness is thereby occasioned. In one case, in which the canal may be said to have been wholly obliterated, from what cause or at what period it did not distinctly appear, I ascertained the position of the uterus by the finger passed into the bowel, pushed a curved trocar on to it through a con- siderable thickness of parts, and afterwards dilated this artificial passage by bougies gradually incressed in size. The vagina was