162 OP TUMOURS. traces of the texture in which it was formed are destroyed.- It may he considered as the next in order to the one already men- tioned, both as to the simplicity of its structure and action ; but in consequence of its action being independent of those of the neighbouring parts, and liable to change from even slight causes, it is very apt to degenerate into those tumours which are more complex and injurious. Adipose Tumours. Another species of tumour seems to be composed almost entirely of fatty matter insinuated amongst extended and deli- cate cellular substance, and has been therefore termed adipose. It is surrounded by a cyst of dense cellular tissue, and to this it loosely adheres ; its blood-vessels are few, and it is of an inactive and innocuous character. It is generally lobulated, and often attains a large size. It is not only irregularly prominent on its outer surface, but in its whole circumference, and its lobuli often insinuate themselves to a great depth amongst nerves, blood- vessels, and other important parts; owing to this circumstance they frequently prove a source of the greatest inconvenience from their bulk, for of themselves they are neither hurtful, nor possess any disposition to involve those parts, with which they are in contact. This tumour is found only in the cellular and adipose tissues. From its loose connection with its envelope, it admits of ready removal by operation. A tumour of this kind is here represented, which, but for this circumstance, owing to its awkward situation under the tongue, could not by any pos- sibility have been extirpated. It is fully larger than an orange, and had caused very great sulFering. It is not so much lobulated as fatty tu- mours generally are. The adhesions of adipose tumours are, however, rendered firm and more numerous by pressure or external stimulants—in fact, by what- ever induces inflammatory action in its substance or in its surrounding connec- tions; and from this cause the extraction is often rendered exceedingly difficult.