PHVMOSIS AND PARAPHYMOSIS. 612 inconvenient; but it becomes a matter of absolute necessity, when there are extensive sores on the prepuce or glans, when there is much tumefaction or hardening of the parts, when urinary con- cretions lodge in the praeputial cavity, or in the orifice of the ui’ethra, when vegetations or warts form on the glans, and when the praeputial orifice is so contracted as seriously to im- pede the flow of urine. In paraphymosis there is a necessity for early interference, in order to save the organ ; indeed active and decided measures are as imperiously called for here, as in the case of strangulated hernia : and it ought to be remembered that the organ is one of importance, and that its loss would render most people very miser- able. To attempt relaxation by fomentations, and such like, is absolute folly ; the stricture cannot yield to such remedies ; and, from increase of swelling, strangulation will become more and more complete. Cold, too, is incapable of reducing the swelling; cold, or astringents, cannot possibly diminish the size of the vessels, whilst return of the blood in them is prevented by tight stricture; and so long as the stricture remains, the serous effu- sion cannot subside, but will increase. Besides, the application of cold may hasten the occurrence of gangrene, inasmuch as it tends to diminish the power of parts which are already in a weakly condition. The parts must be instantly replaced. With the fingers of the right hand, the surgeon grasps the glans, and by firm and continued pressure diminishes its volume, whilst with the left he endeavours, by steady pulling, to reflect the swollen prepuce over the glans, which he is at the same time pushing back, as well as lessening. By uniformity and perse- verance in these manipulations, more than by any force, replace- ment will often be accomplished. He will be able to judge, from the duration of the disease, and from the appearance and feel of the parts, whether simple reduction, that is, without having recourse to the knife, be practicable or not. In some cases, particularly when gangrene is imminent, and when the ulceration is extensive, there is danger of materially injuring the glans, if attempts at reduction are injudiciously perse- vered in. When he is foiled in reduction, or deems the at- tempting of it imprudent, the stricture must be divided; and in this simple operation great errors are often committed from