235 OF HOSPITAL GANGRENE. sick, has no appetite, and labours under other symptoms of de- ranged stomach; there is restlessness, with a small quick pulse, and all the symptoms of a weakened and sinking system. The ulceration becomes more rapid, the discharge is bloody and pe- culiarly offensive; all the symptoms increase in violence, and may proceed for fifteen or twenty days, or terminate in four or five, either in convalescence or death. Hospital gangrene is supposed to arise from a variety of causes : from the state of the atmosphere, moist and hot—from inattention to cleanliness, the parts around the sore being seldom wiped, the matter collecting amongst the dressings, and becoming acrid by putrescence — from irritating applications, as rancid oint- ments — from a too stimulating diet, and from the abuse of wine and spirits — from mechanical irritation, in moving the wounded over rough roads and in bad conveyances, as after great engage- ments — from specific contagion without immediate contact. After being once generated, it is propagated by direct communi- cation, by the application of morbific matter from sponges, dressings, or instruments. It is not easy to say how the disease originates. In the treatment of this scourge, great attention must be paid to cleanliness in all circumstances. Free ventilation must be constantly preserved in the apartments of the sick, and fumiga- tions assiduously employed. The infected ought to be separated from the others, and but few patients placed in the same ward. Stagnant drains and accumulations of filth out of doors are to be removed; otherwise, during hot weather, the atmosphere becomes much vitiated. Care must be taken, also, to destroy all the dressings which have been used; not to employ sponges, but to wipe the surface in the neighbourhood of the sore occa- sionally with tow, which is to be burnt immediately, being an article of little value, and easily procured. Too much attention cannot be paid to the cleaning of those instruments with which gangrenous sores have been treated, before they be applied to healthy wounds. As to the constitutional treatment, the ali- mentary canal must first be purged of its solid contents, and the secretions afterwards kept in as good a condition as possible. When the wound or sore is surrounded with intense inflamma- tion, and when the skin is dry and the pulse strong and full.