OF DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 92 exhibition of purgatives; in most cases general blood-letting will not be required. After the inflammation has subsided, the parts remain swollen, from the effusion either of serum oi- ly mph ; stimulating applications may then be employed with advantage. In general, the ammoniacal plaster, or the brushing over the surface with tincture of iodine will answer. Blisters are sometimes employed with the same view. In obstinate cases, when the tumour is of no large size, a seton may be passed, retained till suppuration has taken place, and gradually with- di’awn. Great risk attends interference with bursae of large size near joints or cysts containing serous or glairy fluid in any situation. Even trifling punctures into such have been some- times followed by inflammation of the inner secreting surface and violent constitutional disturbance. When suppuration has occurred, it will in many instances be prudent to evacuate the matter by one or more incisions, in order to prevent farther mis- chief, especially if the bursa, a superficial one, is in the neigh- bourhood of a joint. After the matter has been evacuated, the cavity gradually contracts, and ultimately the bursa is completely obliterated. Diseased bursae, near the surface, and unconnected with important parts, have been dissected out. The operation is not often necessary, and in some situations attended with con- siderable risk. Tumours, solid or nearly so, arising from dis- eased bursa of long standing, may sometimes require to be so treated. Of Coxalgia, Morhus Coxarius, or Hip-joint Disease. This disease has been supposed to commence in the carti- lages ; it appears, however, to originate indiscriminately in the cartilage and the bone, as well as in the membrane lining the capsule and investing the cartilage and the ligaments; but whether it begins in one or other of these tissues, it soon, if neglected, involves them all. It affects patients of all ages, though children under twelve are most generally its victims; and in these it often makes considerable progress without its existence being suspected. The patient is observed to be a little lame, and to be awkward in the use of the affected limb, but he experiences little or no pain in the first instance; and if he does, it is of a dull kind, and