DISEASES OF THE WINDPIPE. 437 lining the glottis is thickened, and covered also by a viscid mucus; the passage is thus much contracted; the muscles, by the action of which the rima is opened, participate in the inflammatory action, and are thereby incapacitated for the full performance of their functions. While inspiration is thus difficult, expiration is more easy, all the powerful muscles of the chest combining to empty the lungs of the little air which they receive. In croup, there is confusion and pain of the head, the lips are of a livid hue, and the veins of the neck are much distended. Respiration is extremely laborious, the chest and nostrils heave, and all the auxiliary muscles of respiration are called into play. Sleep is broken and unrefreshing; the patient starts, much alarmed, from a feeling of impending suffocation, and catches at the nearest object. The circulation is accelerated, and be- comes weak and irregular as the disease advances. A common cause of croup is exposure to cold and damp; but the frequency of its occurrence in children is attributable to dentition. Dentition induces a long catalogue of infantile dis- eases, and is intimately connected with most cases of croup. Children are besides of a peculiarly irritable system; and in them disorder of the digestive organs may, in many instances, be considered as at least a predisposing cause, and in all cases it is a constant attendant on the disease. It may also be oc- casioned by inflammatory action extending to the larynx and trachea from a neighbouring surface; from the fauces, for instance. In some instances inflammatory swelling has been produced by the direct application of stimuli to the membrane; as by the patient inadvertently swallowing boiling water, and a portion of the hot fluid, or rather of the steam, being drawn into the windpipe. It is supposed that certain slight degrees of this affection are to be ascribed to spasm; in nervous and hysterical females, paroxysms of slight difficulty in breathing are not of unfrequent occurrence, and in them it may be ascribed, with much probability, to a spas- modic action. The expiration may be then performed with difficulty, and occasionally there is almost complete aphonia. In children, dyspnoea, apparently dependent on spasm, is produced by some affection of the base of the brain. The most desirable termination of the disease is of course resolution — the cough, pain, and uneasiness subsiding, and the F F 3