OF ULCERS. 229 according to circumstances, the parts being all along well sup- ported. The long continued use of warm fomentations, or poultices, is prejudicial, as tending to diminish still farther the action of the parts; ointments can be of little service, and will generally do harm. III. Indolent ulcers, which have long existed, are frequently met with on the lower limbs. Their margins are thick and insensible— their sui'faces smooth, hollow, and of a pale colour — the discharge is scanty, and adheres to the surface. A sore, having been long open and neglected, degenerates into this state. Poultices are to be applied for a day or two, to clean the surface, promote the discharge, and soften the callous margins. This is the more necessary, if, as is often the case, the sore, or the surrounding integuments, are inflamed when the patient applies for I'elief. Afterwards, the applications must be of such a nature as to moderate the discharge and keep the granulatio*ns firm and healthy. In such cases only is adhesive plaster appli- cable, and in them it produces the most beneficial results. Sup- posing the ulcer to be situated on the fore and middle part of the leg, a bandage should first be firmly applied from the toes to a little below the sore; the ulcerated part of the limb is then encircled by narrow strips of adhesive plaster, tightly drawn, and with the extremities of each strip crossing immediately over the ulcer. A pledget of tow is placed on the plasters to absorb the dis- charge, and the bandage is brought over dressings, and continued for some w'ay upward. By this application, the margins of the sore, it is supposed, are brought nearer to each other, and the ulcerated surface diminished; the sluggish granulations and the subjacent parts are stimulated, and a more vigorous action being excited, the process of reparation proceeds speedily and effectu- ally ; the surrounding parts, previously turgid and cedematous, are by the pressure brought to the same level with the newly- secreted matter, and new skin is quickly formed. In the previous state of matters, the old skin was much elevated, and an action was in progress, causing a continuance of that elevation; by the compression, the whole limb is properly supported, serous effusion prevented, absorption excited, and oedema removed; the livid swelling of the lower part of the limb, which might arise from the tightness of the adhesive plastei’, is obviated by Q 3