FOREIGN BODIES IN THE GULLET. 460 has passed down; similar deception occurs in other situations, as in regard to extraneous substances in the eye, urethra, &c. Small and sharp substances seldom remain long in the oeso- phagus, but readily descend into the stomach and intestines; they then either escape along with the faeces, or, as some- times happens, penetrate the parietes of the alimentary canal, generally near its termination. On leaving the stomach or the intestines, by gradual perforation, they frequently travel great distances in the trunk or limbs, without causing much incon- venience, — effusion of lymph surrounding them, and filling up their track. They will appear, long after their insertion, at a far distant point, approach the surface, and gradually make their way through the integument, or be readily extracted. When they enter from the surface, also, they often come within reach long afterwards, and far from their point of entrance. Needles, thus travelling, become oxidised. They are easily removed, on coming near the surface, by fixing them with the fingers, and making a small incision over the more superficial extremity. A needle may sometimes be taken out, by making pressure on both ends, and so forcing the point through the integument. Small pointed bodies, needles, pins, fish-bones, &c. often get entangled in the root of the tongue or in the folds of the palate ; on opening the mouth they can be seen, and are easily brought away. If lodged in the pharynx, they can be reached by the finger. The patient is seated with the head thrown back, and the jaws extended; the finger is introduced with determina- tion, regardless of attempts to vomit, and swiftly passed into all the sinuosities by the side of the epiglottis, into the pouches betwixt the os hyoides and cornua of the thyroid cartilage, so that no part is left unsearched. The substance, when felt, may be extracted with the finger by entangling it in the point of the nail; or curved forceps may be introduced, and applied conveniently to the body by the guidance of the finger. Great care and caution is required in dislodging the foreign body, when both ends, as is often the case, have penetrated the parietes; if it be rudely grasped and pulled, the parts are la- cerated ; or it breaks, and the surgeon, after bringing out the portion held in the forceps, may find great difficulty in detecting and disentangling the oth. r. I have often found it very trouble-