FORMATION OF NEW LIP. 393 ing parts stretch, and the deformity that may be the immediate result of the operation in a great measure disappears after some time. In cases of superficial and malignant ulceration of great extent, no attempt can be made to bring the parts together after excision; great deformity, and almost total closure of the mouth, would be the consequence. The diseased parts must be freely removed (for this is the primary and essential part of the opera- tion, all other considei'ations yielding to it), and the deformity will prove much slighter than might be supposed: granulations arise, and considerable reparation of the lost parts thence ensues. Still there is a risk of the sore, at first healthy and active, gra- dually assuming the nature of that for which the incisions were made. It may be necessary to remove the whole lip, or the greater part of it. Hence arises much inconvenience to the patient; he is much reduced by the profuse secretion and loss of saliva; the surrounding parts are excoriated and irritable; his clothes are wetted ; his speech is very indistinct; his teeth become thickly coated with tartar; and he is in short kept in a state of constant annoyance. The part may be supplied from under the chin; but this reparative operation should not be performed at the same time with removal of the original and carcinomatous lip. By making two operations, with a considerable time intervening, the chance of success is greater, and indeed the difficulty is much diminished. After removal of the disease, allow the parts to fill up by granulation and contract as far as they will, then form a new lip. I have done so in several instances ; in one case, the parts had perished by external violence; in another, they had been destroyed by some powerful escharotic. A piece of soft leather, of the size and shape of the under lip, is placed under the chin, and a corresponding portion of the integuments is reflected upwards, an attachment being left at the symphysis menti. The callous margins of the space formerly occupied by the original lip are pared; and the flap, having been twisted round, is adapted to the edges of the wound, and retained by points of interrupted or convoluted suture. To insure adhe- sion, the attachment at the chin should be left thick and fleshy; the flap should not consist of mere integument, but contain no small share of the subcutaneous cellular and adipose tissues,