12 OF INFLAMMATION. fact, to be, as insisted upon by some writers on the subject, a state of excitement, then of collapse, followed, if the life of the part is not destroyed, by re-action. When a part is stimulated, the circulation is accelerated, and a greater quantity of blood is transmitted by its vessels: if the excitement is speedily removed, they recover themselves, though perhaps a little dilated, and no inflammation ensues. If, for instance, a foreign body of any kind gets entangled betwixt the upper eyelid and the bulb of the eye, and it is permitted to remain a few moments only, redness of the whole surface of the conjunctiva takes place, but it is transitory, and disappears entirely some short time after the ex- traction of the foreign body. If, however, it is permitted to continue longer in contact with this sensible surface, the mem- brane reddens more and more, and becomes thickened. Violent pain, with discharge of tears, and alteration of the secretion from the mucous surface, take place, ophthalmia is, in fact, established. If the exciting cause is applied for a sufficient length of time, the extreme vessels lose their contractility, they are weakened, become dilated, and the contained blood circulates slowly. When inflammation is fairly established in a part, the capillaries become considerably dilated, and the blood is often completely stagnated in the inflammatory point. In the circumference of this focus, it is accelerated as formerly noticed : the blood is probably stag- nated for two or three days in the capillaries and in the contigu- ous cellular tissue, when the action is at all violent. It, however, begins to move again; it loses its colouring matter, while stag- nated ; the flbrin is assimilated to the neighbouring parts, or rather effused, so as to cause the thickening, and the blood globules have possibly undergone a change,, and been converted into those of pus. If the disease be of a limited extent, and without breach of surface, they are carried into the circulation very gradually, and in such small numbers as not to produce injury to the health; otherwise the contamination of the blood by a large quantity of pus causes inflammatory fever. It is pro- bable that the permanent dilatation occurs in consequence of the larger vessels in the immediate vicinity being incited, and pro- pelling more blood into the minute capillaries than they can readily return into the corresponding veins; and in consequence of so great a degree of distension being produced, the vessels are