408 INFLAMMATION OF THE TONGUE. being tightly drawn. The swelling may be relieved by hot fo- mentations, and opiates mitigate the pain. The discharge is profuse and foetid. A weak solution of the chloride of soda, vinegar with honey, or a solution of the mel boracis, may be used as gargles. The healing of the wound is to be promoted by applications suited to the appearances which it may assume. Inflammation of the Tongue occasionally occurs during certain ^ eruptive diseases, and sometimes in consequence of accidental t circumstances, as stings in the part from venomous insects ; but 1 it is not a common affection, and is generally produced by the i abuse of mercury. When that poison was used more freely than ' now, the disease in question was by no means rare. It was then customary to see patients who were made to spit some gallons in a day, for the cure of a venereal affection, supposed or real, with their faces swollen, and their tongues protruding from their mouths, enormously enlarged. This con- sequence of the exhibition of mercury is more apt to occur in some constitutions than in others, and I have seen it pro- duced in a violent form by the patient’s taking only two Plummer’s pills. In this case the patient, an old gentleman of bx’oken constitution, had been filled brimful of mercury, over and over again, for one disease or another in warm climates. The tongue swells rapidly, fills the mouth, and protrudes of a brown colour, from effused serum, with great enlarge- ment of the papillfe. The patient is unable to speak, deglutition and respiration are much impeded, and thirst is excessive. In some instances the inflammation proceeds to suppuration, \ but the more general termination is resolution. ; In the more mild cases, a cure will generally be procured by ’ evacuating the bowels freely by means of saline purgatives, and J by local abstraction of blood; the blood may be obtained either from the application of leeches, from opening several of the * enlarged superficial veins, or from slight scarifications. After- wards astringent lotions may be employed. But in more severe i|| cases of glossitis, the tumour is productive of very great incon- \ I i