338 DISEASES OF THE EYE. to the ulcerated part. It is not necessary, but, on the con- trary, hurtful, to rub the caustic freely on the sore; a very slight application is sufficient to coagulate the secretions on the part, and form a covering for protection of the surface. In two or three days afterwards, when the temporary covering has become detached, and when the irritability of the sore has in consequence returned, it will be necessary to repeat the application, but not till then. On each application, and few are in general required, the sore is found reduced in size considerably. The collyrium nitratis argenti is very useful in many obstinate cases of affections of the eye and eyelids, the strength of the solution being varied, according to circum- stances. In Alhugo and Leucoma, pi’oposals have been made for ex- cising, scraping, or perforating the opaque part; but the cure by such means is worse than the disease, as a raw surface is left larger than the previous opacity, and the cicatrix which must inevitably form also occupies a larger space, and is equally opaque. Leucoma and Albugo are incurable diseases, though the opacities may become somewhat thinner, by natural pro- cesses, after the lapse of a long period. Nebulce, however, are often removable. During the treatment of them, or, rather, be- fore beginning to treat them, it is of the utmost importance to attend to the state of the surface of the eye, and of the lids and eyelashes. Stimulating substances may be applied in cases where the opacities are thin: powders of calomel, aloes, sugar, &c. have been blown into the eye; stimulating lotions or ointments are preferable; one containing the nitrate of silver, with the addition of a proportion of the liq. sub-acet. plumbi, is sometimes used with advantage. These, however, are often of no avail, unless the dilated vessels, when such exist, are divided, or a portion dissected out; afterwards stimulants will he effica- cious, and must be used assiduously. The vessels may require to be divided again and again. In Ophthalmia tarsi, gently stimulating ointments or lotions are to be used, and in obstinate cases much advantage will result from the application of blisters behind the ears and to the nape of the neck, or from the insertion of a seton in the latter situation. In children it is necessary to correct the state of the