3 OF INFLAMMATIONc globules of the blood. And, again, that serous vessels may be enlarged so as to admit the red globules; and a part that is colourless when in the healthy state may, in consequence, assume a highly red hue when in an inflamed condition. This may be observed in the cornea lucida, which, when violently inflamed, is pervaded by numerous vessels, visible to the naked eye, distended with red blood, ramifying over the whole of it, and freely inosculating with each other. Some have even supposed that these vessels are newly formed, in conse- quence of inflammatory action. This opinion is, however, eiTo- neous; as the vessels existed in the cornea previously, and are only increased in size, so as to admit of the accumulation of a sufficient number of red particles to render the vessels visible. The speedy, and, in many cases, instantaneous, appearance of red vessels where they could not previously be observed, de- cidedly overturns the opinion that new vessels are in such a case formed. New vessels are seldom formed, unless after a breach of structure, or in cases where morbid deposits become vascular. There is no proof of the existence of mere serous vessels in the human body, as any one may ascertain who is accustomed to examine the capillaries with a good microscope. Vessels which are so small as to admit only a very few, say one, or at most two rows of globules, would, of course, appear colourless, and these are what have been called serous vessels. The globules of blood are so small as to be invisible to the naked eye; and vessels carry- ing only one series of them would appear colourless. No vessels belonging to the sanguiferous system have ever been observed less in character than a blood globule ; and this, so far as I have been able to observe, is, as nearly as possible, inch. They appear to be flattened discs; and whether those of the human body have a central nucleus or not, seems, as yet, very doubtful. The globules are here shewn upon a scale of 4 „ part of an inch, linear, and in different posi- tions. They are represented, as seen in the greater num- ber of microscopes, having a B 2 ■ 3^ ') ) :o % >J Y ‘ a V V (3 ) /■ c y