INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 272 circumference towards the centre, now acting from the centre towards the circumference ; and then the propulsions and recoil- ings may be repeated, though gradually lessening in their inten- sity, until the effect of the original impulse is lost, and all vibra- tion consequently ceases. But concussion may be caused by an impulse received not immediately on the cranium, but on some other part of the body, as when a person falls from a considerable height and alights on the feet or buttocks; and in such a case also its effects may be indirectly communicated to it through the brain, and may produce equally violent effects, without there ever being any appreciable lesion of the cerebral matter. The circulation may be merely disturbed, or laceration of the brain may occur with extx’avasation of blood into its sub- stance. It may present the appearance of having been bruised, or the tear of its substance may be extensive. A multitude of minute vessels may be torn without the substance of the brain being much broken, in which case bloody specks will be observed over a large surface of the interior of the organ. In many fatal cases no change in the state, either of the vessels or of the cerebral substance, is perceptible on minute examination. The organ in these cases has been merely disturbed and shaken, without visible rupture or hurt having occurred. Again, many patients are supposed to labour under concussion only, in whom fracture of the base of the cranium, or extravasation of blood on the surface, or into the substance of the brain, are discovered after death. It is always difficult to distinguish between the effects of mere concussion and those of compression of the brain by extravasated fluid; for, in the greater number of cases, the symptoms of both affections are blended togethei*. In both there is insensibility from the first; but if an interval of sensi- bility occur, diagnosis is rendered more easy and certain, it being a fact well verified by experience, that the state of stupor which precedes the return of correct intellectual function is the effect of concussion, and that there is every reason to believe that the insensibility into which the patient subsequently sinks, is caused by compression of the brain; if compression existed from the first, the stupor might not be of longer duration than if it were the effect of concussion, but its stillness would not be interrupted by any restoration of mental exercise, however short.