DISEASES OF THE CONTENTS OF THE ORBIT. 363 more or less complete remains. Fatal effects may follow wound of the eye, on account of the foreign body, as a sharp-pointed instrument, penetrating the thin parietes of the orbit, splinter- ing the bone, and injuring the brain. Orbital Injlammation. — Inflammation seldom attacks the parts situated between the orbit and the eyeball; but, when it does, the affection is very serious. The action is very acute, and proceeds rapidly to suppuration. The pain is excruciating, extends to the whole head, accompanied with a sensation of extreme tension in the orbit, and is much increased by the slightest motion of the eye: and from the matter accumulating around the ball, and being confined to the unyielding orbit, by the dense fibrous expansion which extends from the margin of the orbit to the anterior surface of the eyeball, the globe is pushed forwards, and distends the lids. The palpebrae become erysipelatous, and swollen by serous effusion. Violent inflam- matory fever occurs; and, as the disease advances, all the symp- toms are aggravated, and become almost intolerable. The globe is farther protruded, and the retina is insensible to light. At length the accumulated matter makes its way to the surface, and is discharged, giving great relief to the patient, and permitting the protruded globe to regain its situation. The inflammation seldom extends to the eyeball. In the early stage of this affection, the most decidedly anti- phlogistic measures are imperiously called for. When fluctuation can be felt, or when the symptoms indicate that suppuration has taken place, whether fluctuation is perceptible or not, an early opening into the affected part should be made through the dense orbital ligament. Thus a free exit is allowed for the matter, the patient is instantaneously relieved, and the extent of the local mischief is limited. It is unsafe to wait for the spontaneous evacuation of the matter : such a process is necessarily tedious, and, before it has been accomplished, the orbital bones may have become diseased; they may have given way at certain points, and the matter may have escaped within the cranium. The artificial opening should always be free, and deep if necessary. Tumours in the Orbit. — Sarcomatous tumours occasionally form in the cellular tissue of the orbit. They occur at all periods