456 STRICTURE OF THE GULLET. membrane, or from effusion of lymph, and adhesion of the op- posed surfaces. The common seat of stricture, as in other mucous canals, is that portion of the tube which is naturally the nar- rowest, the lower part of the pharynx and commencement of the oesophagus, immediately behind the cricoid cartilage: occasionally it takes place in other parts of the canal. In general, the contraction is of small extent, and unaccompanied with much thickening around. The tube immediately above the constricted point is more or less dilated, and often to so enormous a size as almost to resemble a first stomach. In the majority of cases, the parietes of this pouch are attenuated; but occasionally they are much thickened, and the seat of a purulent collection, which subsequently opens into the general cavity. In cases of long standing, ulceration often occurs, usually limited to the neighbourhood of the stricture. When the parts immediately below the stricture are ulcerated, the circum- stance is often attributed to the retching which generally at- tends the disease; but it appears to be the result of morbid action, seated in the parts themselves, similar to the ulcerative process in the larynx following inflammatory affection. But ulceration occurs as frequently above the stricture as below it; and, besides the natural cause to which it is referable, is often produced, or at least aggravated, by injudicious or unskilful attempts to remove the constriction. Though the ulcers seldom enlarge to any great extent, yet, in some rare cases, a portion of the parietes of the canal is perforated, and a communi- cation thus established with the trachea, or with the cellular substance amongst the muscles of the neck. Or the ulcers, from either long continuance, or inherent disposition, may assume a malignant action, extend rapidly in both width and depth, throw out fungous and unhealthy granulations, form sinuous false passages, and produce a most horrible and intract- able disease. But strictures are often of temporary dura- tion, and appear to depend on spasmodic contraction of the circular muscular fibres of the tube. And dysphagia may also arise from an opposite condition of the fibres — from paralysis, in consequence of cerebral affection, a fatal symptom in any disease. The prominent symptom of stricture of the oesophagus is