170 OF TUMOURS. insinuates itself, and is lost, in the surrounding substance. The carcinomatous tumour is of great density, and communicates a peculiarly grating sensation and noise when cut. In its section there appears a central point, or nucleus, from which dense ligamentous bands of a white colour proceed towards the cir- cumference, diverging in regular succession, as rays of light from a luminous body; or the larger bands subdivide into smaller ones, which follow a similar course with their parent trunk, or ramify regularly; or, from the first, follow an irregular and intricate course, uniting with and crossing one another, so as to present a retiform appearance. In general, the interposed substance is of a greyish colour, extremely dense, and generally homogeneous, though sometimes granular. Often the liga- mentous bands are so numerous, and so intimately interwoven, as to leave little or no room for any intervening substance. Sometimes, and most frequently in the advanced state of the tumour, the greyish matter appears to have been broken down and removed, its situation being occupied by a glairy or turbid fluid, by a soft pulpy substance, or by blood; the parietes of such cysts are formed by the whitish bands, which sometimes appear to be much thickened, and coated with a membranous lining. The term gelatiniform cancer has been applied to that kind in which the reticulated texture is filled with glairy-looking fluid. Frequently, as has been already observed, the external cyst or covering becomes assimilated to the substance of the tumour, and the ligamentous bands then shoot forward into the surround- ing tissues, more especially the cellular and adipose, establish a new footing for the disease, and thereby gradually enlarge the boundaries of the original tumour. All parts in its immediate neighbourhood become affected, and none withstand its mor- bid and destructive inffuence; bone, muscle, ligament, skin, and membrane, are successively or simultaneously involved; and even the blood-vessels and nerves. From what has been already said, it is almost superfluous to add that the tumour is most malignant, incessantly encroaching on the neighbouring parts, and imparting to them its own disposition; and this too frequently continues to exist after the removal of the pri- mary source of the evil. The disease, in its commence- ment, occupies a minute and limited space, composed, it has