OSTEOSARCOMA OF THE JAW. 422 indented by the teeth of the uppei’ jaw; it separates the jaws to a greater or less extent, prevents closure of the lips, induces salivation, and impedes the taking of nourishment. The tumour is one of those which are apt to be reproduced, and if unmo- lested, gradually undermines the system, and ultimately the patient perishes very miserably. At one time every instance of it was regarded as hopeless; but of late a great many tumoui’s, in various stages of advancement, have been removed successfully by British and foreign surgeons. In some instances, the portion of the jaw containing the morbid growth has been sawn out; in others, one half of the bone, or more, has been removed by dis- articulation, after being divided beyond the diseased part. A very few weeks ago, I had occasion to remove fully three fourths of this bone, from the site of the first large molar on the left side to the condyle of the right. The patient, an elderly female, is convalescent. The operation is severe, and to a spectator shocking enough ; but it can be undertaken with safety, and in most cases with almost a certainty of favourable termination. In no other way, assuredly, can the disease be eradicated. Partial excisions, applications of the cautery, &c. only hasten the malig- nant process. To expose the tumour and admit of the bone being readily divided, incision of the soft parts requires to be extensive. And previously to determining on the plan of operation, the extent of the disease must be ascertained accurately. If, for example, the tumour is included between the lateral incisor tooth and last molar on the same side — these teeth must be extracted to permit division at these points. A semilunar incision may then be made along the base of the jaw, the horns of the incision pointing upwards and passing over the space which was occupied by the extracted teeth. The flap is dissected up, and the mem- brane of the cheek divided along the line of incision. The bis- toury is then carried along the inside of the bone so as to divide the membrane of the mouth and separate the attachments of the muscles. The tongue is pushed aside, and a copper spatula placed under the jaw at the part to be divided, in order that the soft parts may not be injured during the sawing. A small narrow saw, or one commonly known by the name of Key’s, is applied to the bone at the points where the teeth were extracted.