784 AMPUTATION OF THE LEG. it is to be recollected, that the base of the second metatarsal bone, reckoning from that of the great toe, is lodged con- siderably higher than the others; and, therefore, the knife must be inclined upwards at that point, or else the use of the saw is requisite. The stump thus formed proves ex- ceedingly useful: the subsequent lameness is not great; the heel and tarsus compose a very efficient support for the weight of the body, and the flexion is unimpaired; by attention, too, the deformity may be in a great measui’e concealed. In shoi’t, the surgeon who amputates above the ankle, for disease or injury not extending to the articulation of the metatarsus with the tarsus, is guilty of a serious error. The disease may reach higher than is compatible with the preceding operation, and yet it may be possible to save the heel. In such cases amputation is performed in the articulations of the os calcis with the os cuboides, and of the astragalus with the os naviculare. The plan of the incisions is the same as that for the operation at the bases of the metatarsal bones. No amputation is more frequently performed than that of the leg. Operation near the ankle is inadmissible; sufficiency of soft parts, for the protection of the stump, cannot be procured lower than the calf. Incision is consequently limited to two points, either immediately below the tuberosity of the tibia, or in the bellies of the ffasti’ocnemii. The former is the situation O to be preferred in hospital practice, and amongst the lower orders generally; the latter is suitable to the better classes of society, that is, to those who can afford to purchase an expensive artifi- cial support. The amputation below the tibial tuberosity being the most frequently required, will, with propriety, be described first. Suppose the right leg is to suffer. — The operator places himself on its inner side, according to the general rule formerly inculcated, and grasps the lower part of the limb with his left hand, an assistant supporting the foot at a proper height, and controlling motion. The knife is entered over the fibula, on its outer aspect, and carried upwards along that bone for an inch and a half, or two inches; it is then brought across the limb in a semilunar direction, the convexity of this incision pointing towards the foot, and after reaching the inner and lower part of