WOUNDS OF THE NECK. 433 by the action of the muscles of the os hyoides, and by attempt- ing to swallow food or saliva. Every circumstance is opposed to complete approximation and immediate union of transverse wounds of the throat. Plasters and bandages surrounding the part are inapplicable, and unwarrantable from the interruption thereby caused to breathing and circulation ; they likewise prevent the escape of mucus and air. Emphysema is apt to occur in consequence, and may prove troublesome ; the cellular tissue of the neck becomes filled, so as to interfere with free respiration, and the infiltration of air extends over the face and chest. Neither can many stitches be used without bad effects. The corners of an extensive wound may be kept together by points of suture ; and one may be placed at the middle, through the integuments only, to prevent overlapping or inversion of the edges. The head is placed in a comfortable position, inclined forwards, and se- cured by a bandage passed round it, with the ends brought down and fixed to a band round the chest. In many cases the patient I'equires to be watched attentively, to have the motions of his hands restrained by proper means, in order to prevent him from interfering with the wound, or committing other insane acts which might prove dangerous. The state of the breathing and of the pulse must be strictly attended to ; inflam- matory symptoms must be actively combated, and swelling pre- vented from gaining a dangerous extent, by bleeding, general and local. But depletion is indeed very seldom necessary, the loss of blood in the first instance proving a pretty effectual pre- ventive of inflammation; it is more frequently requisite to ad- minister nourishment or even stimulants; but these must be given gradually in those advanced in life, and in those who have lost much blood. The slightest difficulty or noisiness of breathing must be closely watched, and on the occurrence of any alarming symp- tom, energetic measures adopted. Swelling about the wound, producing difficult expectoration and a diminished current of air, may require the making of a longitudinal opening into the trachea below the wound, and the insertion of a tube. Thus the respiration is quickly relieved ; and the patient is soon able to regulate the size of the aperture; he is readily taught to F F