OF INFLAMMATION OF BONE, 116 of the good effects of this practice. I subjoin one out of many from my own hospital practice. “ W. A., aged 2%, was admitted Oct. 26, 1837, under the care of Mr. Liston. He is a policeman of weak conformation. He states that when about six or seven years of age he was first attacked with an aching pain in the right leg, near its middle, and since that period has been subject to three or four attacks every year. These usually were experienced in the spring, during rough, windy, and cold weather, and continued from one to three weeks. The pain was always aggravated at night, and so trifling in the day that he was always able to go about. These attacks ceased to occur when he was between 15 and 16 years of age, and since that time, until last May, he has been free from them. He states that up to about his 16th year the bone of the leg gradually enlarged in its middle portion, but then became stationary, and at the period of entering the police the difference between the bones of both legs was not great; this was about two years ago. Since then he has been accustomed to walk for a considerable length of time daily. During some months he was obliged to do the night work, and then he was much exposed to cold and wet. Last May, while thus engaged, he experienced again an aching pain in the middle of the right tibia; this was aggravated at night; and after a fortnight’s duration, during which it became gradually worse, he was obliged to give up his duties in the police, being unable to continue them any longer. At this time he consulted the surgeon of the subdivision with v/hich he was connected ; his treatment was fomentations to the leg and aperient medicine occasionally. Not being much relieved by this, he afterwards ordered the application of leeches on three several occasions, and mercury to salivation. At the end of three weeks he returned to his duty. In the latter part of September he was again attacked with pain during night duty ; this pain increased rapidly in severity, and after three nights he was again obliged to leave duty. He was now treated again with the frequent and copious application of leeches at different intervals, and likewise took some pills, which did not affect his mouth. This treat- ment, with frequent fomentations, was persevered in for a month, but without permanent benefit, and then he was