SPRAIN. 754 The elbow and shoulder are frequently sprained, as also the hip and knee; but the injury most frequently occurs in the wrist and ankle. It is generally occasioned by a fall, the foot or hand coming awkwardly to the ground, the muscles being at the time relaxed and unprepared; by over-exertion in lifting heavy weights; by entanglement and twisting of the limb, &c. The ankle is often sprained by what is called a false step; the fore part of the foot comes in contact with an obstacle unexpectedly, the foot is twisted under the limb, the weight of the body is thrown on the apparatus of one side of the joint, and this is in consequence immoderately and unnaturally stretched. Violent pain immediately occurs, and the patient is sick and faint. Discolouration and rapid swelling take place from extravasation of blood into the cellular tissue, into the sheaths of the tendons, and perhaps into the synovial pouches, in consequence of lace- ration of the bloodvessels. ElFusion of serum and increased secretion of synovia afterwards occur, from incited action of the vessels. Thus the joint is deformed. Attentive examination is re- quired to guard against mistakes; the existence or non-existence either of displacement or of fracture must be at once ascer- tained by determined and perfect manipulation; the parts must be pressed and moved, to such an extent as is necessary, notwith- standing the pain thereby occasioned, and notwithstanding the resistance afforded by the patient. It has been already stated that luxation of the wrist is not uncommon ; that separation of the one bone of the forearm from the other, and transverse fracture or splitting of the radius, at the distal extremity, are accidents by no means rare. Great disfiguration follows simple sprain, much swelling taking place on the fore part of the limb from effusion under the fascia, and there is also much serous and bloody infil- tration of the cellular tissue on the back of the hand and forearm. In the ankle, the ends of the bones must be carefully examined, and also the fibula in its whole extent, that the existence or non-existence of fracture may be ascertained, and that the sur- geon may be guided to a correct mode of treatment. If the joint is not put at rest immediately, the extravasation is in- creased, and, in consequence, the pain and inflammatory swelling also; and parts of the joint at first not involved in the injury may thus be made to suffer. Many diseases of synovial mem-