721 FRACTURE OF THE FEMUR. ing, eversion of the foot, and deformity of the whole limb, are sure to follow. No greater absurdity and cruelty are conceivable than leaving the fracture unadjusted for weeks, making attempts to subdue consequent over-action, and then endeavouring to reduce and retain the bones at a period when otherwise they should have been firmly united. “ Experience teacheth ” not “fools,” and cannot amend those whom prejudice has blinded. Compound fracture of the thigh, if circumstances do not forbid attempts to save the limb, is to be reduced and retained in the same way as the simple, the wound being attended to, and means taken to subdue inflammatory action. Abscesses must be opened timeously, the limb must be equably supported, and the powers of the system preserved. The application of force may, in young persons, detach the epiphysis of the lower end of the femur, and displace it to a greater or less extent; and if the accident be not detected, the epiphysis will become consolidated with the shaft in this un- natural position, impairing the usefulness of the member, and probably laying the foundation for disease in or around the articulation. Reduction is easy, and the retentive treatment is the same as that recommended generally for fractui'e of the thigh near the knee-joint. I have met with one well-marked case of this form of diastasis. A girl sustained an injury of the knee when fourteen years of age, in consequence of the limb having been entangled amongst the spokes of a carriage-wheel in motion ; the knee continued painful and swoln, and she had a halt in walking. After the lapse of about three years, extensive suppuration occurred in the lower part of the thigh and round the knee- joint, and amputation very soon became indis- pensable for the preservation of life. The synovial apparatus was much diseased, and the epiphysis of the lower end of the femur was found displaced forwards and upwards, so that only the posterior part I’ested on the tibia; in fact, it was turned, as here shown, almost half round on the shaft: firm union by bone had taken place. 3 A