OF TUMOURS. 161 ceeds in a superior ratio to absorption, the new matter becomes organised, and, by means of its own vessels, secretes a substance similar to itself, whereby the increase of the tumour becomes more rapid, and the new structure may attain an enormous bulk. Thus the tumour is formed, not merely by dilatation of capillary vessels, and extension of its original tissue, but by the formation of new matter, which, becoming organised, assumes a secreting power. At first the former circumstance is the chief cause of the enlargement; but after the latter process has ex- isted for some time, the tumour loses much of its resemblance to the primary tissue, assumes a more dense structure and a different action, and therefore cannot be designated a simple enlargement. This species of tumour, or rather this enlargement which precedes the formation of a tumour, is chiefly met with in the cellular and glandular structures. Sometimes it is described under the term of oedema solidum. In the scrotum, where the cellular tissue is remarkably loose and extensile, such tumours attain a very large size. They are found in this country, though more frequently in warm climates. I removed one from this situation successfully, which weighed upwards of 44ilbs.; it had been of twelve years’ duration, and caused much inconvenience to the patient. It is sketched in the Practical Surgery, p.307. It occurs in the mamma, apparently in consequence of suppression of the menstrual discharge; the gland becomes enlarged, there is no pain in the tumour, and it feels soft and doughy. When the subcutaneous cellular tissue is the seat of the disease, the tumour is often of considerable extent, but rarely forms a great protuberance. It sometimes is situated in the coverings of the nose, which, as they become enlarged, lose their natural colour, and assume a purple hue; the mucous follicles also are often much enlarged, and occasionally emit a profuse discharge of their secretions. It can be readily understood that in this situ- ation the tumour is a source of much annoyance, from its par- tially obstructing respiration, and even vision, interfering with the functions of the parts and the comfort of the patient. It has been already observed, that when simple enlargement exists for some time the structure changes. It becomes more dense, and assumes a peculiar action, independent of that of the surrounding parts. It has a harder and more firm feel, and all M