523 OF HERNIA. himself of all particulars — as to the duration of strangulation, the previous state of the tumour, if it was all, or only in part reducible, as to its size, &c. — before proceeding in any way. Great mischief is likely to accrue from the tumour being han- dled, perhaps roughly, by many people. If the taxis is gone about, however, in proper time, and in the right way, it ought almost always to prove successful. It is very desirable Indeed that this should be the case, seeing that all the bad symptoms in ninety-nine out of a hundred cases instantly subside; whereas, after the reduction by incision, there is always great risk from the opening of the peritoneal sac alone. Certain means may assist the taxis, but they shovdd not be long continued or often repeated. Venesection can be employed only in strong plethoric patients, in the very first stage of stran- gulation, and before the patient is exhausted by the distressing symptoms. It is had recourse to in order to induce syncope, or an approach to it; during which general relaxation takes place, and reduction may be attempted with advantage. With that view the patient is placed erect, and a large orifice made in the vein of one or both arms, so that a moderate quantity of blood suddenly abstracted may have a powerful effect on the system. In several cases I have found this practice beneficial, but am inclined to say that, in general, it will not be followed with suc- cess. In a favourable case, one attempt of this kind may be made, but not repeated. In many states of the constitution, and in the latter stages of the disease, bad consequences must follow the practice. But in regard to it or any other remedy, it would be folly to lay down positive general rules ; what may prove useful in one or two instances may answer very badly in the majority of cases that come under treatment. Local bloodletting can have no effect in diminishing the size of strangulated parts; though in inflammation of the contents of the tumour, without strangulation, no more powerful means can be employed. Purgatives have been recommended with the view of extri- cating the bowel by increased peristaltic motion; but the symptoms will, to a certainty, be aggravated by their use. Purgative enemata can do little good: if in small quantity, they empty only the rectum ; if large, they may reach the strangulated part, but will scarcely have the effect of extricating it.