748 LUXATION OF THE HIP-JOINT. of no long standing, auxiliary means are required, — bleeding, antimony, &c., as formerly noticed. In old eases, no attempts at reduction should be made until the patient has been brought into a relaxed state, approaching to collapse, by one or more of the auxiliary means, and by such as are best suited to the particular circumstances of the case; in such instances also the extension, rotation, &c. must be persevered in for some time,— they are not at once successful. Frequently, particularly in recent cases, I’eduction is accompanied and indicated by an au- dible and perceptible snap, occasioned by the head of the bone slipping into the cotyloid cavity; the motions are again readily performed, and the limb resumes its proper length and shape. The muscular and articulating apparatus must be kept quiet for some time afterwards; a band should be passed round the knees, and the patient strictly confined to the recumbent pos- ture ; at the same time, fomentations are to be used about the joint, to the perineum, and to the part where the lacque was applied. It is rarely necessary to have recourse to abstraction of blood from the neighbourhood of the articulation. There is no great risk of the bone again escaping from its situation. I have but once witnessed such an accident. A female suffered luxation of the hip nearly a month previously to her admission into the Royal Infirmary, and reduction was unavoidably deferred for three days more. It was accomplished without difficulty, and the usual precautions were afterwards adopted; but next day it was discovered that luxation had again taken place. The patient had cunningly contrived to have ardent spirits brought to her, and indulged freely in these, got out of bed, and slipped down. Replacement was again effected, more easily than before; the limbs were firmly secured to each other, confinement to bed and no farther indulgence in liquor were strictly enjoined, and after thirteen or fourteen days the limb fully regained its functions. Luxation of the hip downwards and forwards, the head of the femur lying in the thyroid foramen, is generally produced by a fall under a heavy load, the thigh being at the same time forcibly abducted. I have also seen it occasioned by a fall with a restive horse. The limb is elongated considerably, and ad- vanced a little forwards; the trochanter major is depressed, the