OF MOLLITIES OSSIUM, RACHITIS, ETC. 135 more common than that from softening of the bones. It is attended with the formation of purulent matter, which pre- sents in the loins, at the top of the thigh, or near the anus; the bones may become affected secondarily, though much less frequently, in consequence of the formation and accu- mulation of purulent matter in their neighbourhood. There is pain in the loins; the patient walks in a stooping posture, and often complains of pain in the knee or thigh. The lower limbs sometimes become paralytic, as also the sphincters and extremities of the hollow viscera ; this, however, may arise, without curvature, from softening of, or effusion on, the chord, or diseased thickening of its membranes. In some cases the palsy supervenes slowly; at first the patient has an awkward gait; he lifts his feet high to avoid stumbling, and afterwards puts them down clumsily and suddenly: the foot, in some cases, is extended, so that the patient is unable to plant the sole on the ground. Retention of urine occurs, and is followed by in- continence, with copious deposits. In the treatment of Rachitis, the chief indication to be ful- filled is to support and increase the powers of the system ; and this may be accomplished by affording the patient a gene- rous diet, keeping the bowels in good order, enjoining gentle exercise and exposure to pure air, by the assiduous use of frictions, and by supporting the softened bones by properly applied and light machinery. Much mischief ma}' be done by clumsy and heavy apparatus which confine the movements of the patient; the muscles are wasted, consequently the spinal column is weakened, the general health is impaired, and the disease is aggravated. Some have recommended the internal administration of the phosphate and muriate of lime, but their efficacy is extremely doubtful. Preparations of iron seem to answer much better in the greater number of cases. In cases of curved spine, apparently arising from bad habit, the patient should be in no degree confined at writing, or drawing, or music ; her posture while at work or play ought to be attended to, as well as her mode of walking and standing ; and, if awk- ward, prohibited. Gymnastic exercises of the more gentle kinds ought to be enjoined, such as those with poles and light wooden clubs, the turning of a wheel, the exercise with balls, K 4