f 412 DISEASES OF THE WINDPIPE. to cold or moisture, or supervening rapidly when discharge from the ulcerations is by any accident suddenly suppressed. The difficult breathing, with cough and violent attempts at expecto- ration, takes place in paroxysms, and often to so alarming a de- gree as to threaten immediate suffocation, especially during the night. The patient, if he has fallen asleep, often starts up suddenly, and catches at the nearest object, having dreamed probably of drowning or strangulation. Deglutition is seriously impeded, the strength is exhausted, the body is emaciated, the features become contracted, and evince great anxiety. As already stated, the serous effusion is chiefly situated in the upper part of the larynx, particularly on the lips of the glottis, and on the inferior surface of the epi- glottis ; and on introducing the Anger, a soft swelling can be felt beneath this cartilage. Perhaps the annexed sketch exhibits the most complete instance of oedematous swelling of the rima glottidis ! to be found in collections of morbid ! * anatomy. The patient was brought to the Royal Infirmary labouring under all the symptoms of the disease in a very aggravated form. Tracheotomy was performed without delay, and with , instant relief. The patient fell into a quiet and profound sleep, which lasted for six or seven hours. He started up suddenly and fell down dead; probably the end of the tube had become obstructed by mucus. It is scarcely to be supposed that '<< the patient could have breathed at all with such a state of parts j at the top of the air-tube, as here represented. Could any of < the swelling have come on in the interval betwixt the perform- ance of the operation and his sudden death ? In some instances, the disease rapidly proceeds to a fatal termination, the glottis ' being speedily and entirely shut by the swelling; in others, the | patient lingers for weeks, or even months. ) Depletion, local and general, especially the former, if em- ployed on the first appearance of the inflammatory symptoms, i Mull often arrest their progress; but if practised at a more