548 OF LUMBAR ABSCESS. ease is diminished earlier in general than the sensation, in con- sequence, possibly, of the mischief commencing in the anterior part of the bodies of the vertebrae. It is wonderful to what extent disease may extend in the vertebral column, without much impairment of the functions of the spinal chord, and how perfectly the functions are restored in cases where it has suffered. The lumbar vertebrae are those most frequently affected, but the ulceration may also be either in the dorsal region or in the pelvis. Disease of the last lumbar vertebra at its connection with the sacrum, or disease of the sacrum itself, is attended with abscess around, which descends into the pelvis, displacing the bowel, and appearing by the side of the buttock. Such abscesses may have been allowed to come to the sur- face, and to discharge their contents spontaneously; or they may have been at a late period opened either at one point or at several. In these circumstances, the discharge is generally profuse, long continued, and attended with exhaustion and hectic, gradually but surely destroying the patient. But, by good management, a perfect and permanent recovery may in many cases be obtained. When the vertebrae are affected, absolute rest must be enjoined and enforced; and a drain is to be established by the sides of the spinous processes, either by moxa, potass, or seton — it is immaterial which. The dis- charge is kept up by occasionally dressing the issue for a few hours with an acrid ointment, so as to reproduce a slough. When the abscess begins to present, it should be opened as early as possible, and a free exit allowed to the matter; the discharge should be at no time confined. The opening of the cavity, and again shutting it up, however carefully conducted, is in almost every instance followed by alarming and hazardous results. Rapid accumulation of putrid and bloody matter takes place, and air is extricated within the cavity; the vessels of the cyst, being unsupported, part with their contents; irrita- tive fever is lighted up, with rapid pulse, anxious countenance, and delirium. These symptoms are relieved only by imme- diate evacuation of the fluid. Some slight constitutional dis- turbance follows the making of a free opening, but quickly subsides; then the discharge improves in quality, becomes more pure and unmixed, diminishes in quantity, and gradually ceases.