RETENTION OF URINE. 595 Q Q 2 place, particularly of the prepuce, when it has been pulled at and bruised during the patient’s efforts to make water, and this must not be confounded with infiltration of urine ; I have seen it occur some time after the bladder had been relieved by the catheter. Infiltration of putrid serosity into the cellular tissue of the prepuce, the subcutaneous tissues of the penis, scrotum, and lower part of the abdomen occasionally also takes place to a great extent, after the bladder has been relieved by the catheter, the coverings are destroyed, and the patient may, even despite of active treatment, perish in consequence. In such cases, a small quantity of urine may possibly have escaped into the cellular tissue before the bladder has been I’elieved, so as to commence the mischief. Retention from the lodgment of calculi. Temporary ob- struction to the flow of urine is sometimes experienced from calculus in the bladder. Complete and fatal retention has arisen from calculi having become impacted in the urethra, and been allowed to remain there, blocking up the passage entirely. Retention from affections of the prostate gland and neck of the bladder, inflammatory or indolent. In acute inflammation of the prostate gland and cervix vesicas, the other parts around swell, the mucous membrane becomes turgid, and the mucous secretion is increased. Suppuration may take place, and an abscess, chronic or acute, form in the substance of the gland, or in the cellular tissue exterior; the parietes of the abscess may give way, and the matter be discharged into the bladder, into the rectum, or into the cellular tissue of the perineum. — Bloody and mucous discharge from the urethra, frequent desire to make water, sudden stoppage of the urine whilst making water, pain in the glans penis, and other symptoms of stone in the bladder, followed a fall on the back. Afterwards, a tumour pointed into the rectum, and was opened ; purulent matter was profusely discharged, and afterwards urine escaped through the aperture. The patient died in three weeks, from irritative fever, with gastro-enteritic symptoms. Along with thickening of the bladder, and disease of its mucous coat, there was found a large abscess of the cellular tissue, communicating with an abscess in the third lobe of the prostate gland, and that with the cavity of the bladder.