420 SPINA VKNTOSA OF THE JAW. and showed himself to me and the pupils ; t the hospital a short time since, and fully five years from the time of the operation, in remarkably good health, and very little deformed by his loss. His whisker effectually conceals the mark of the incisions. But in general, after free evacuation of the purulent matter from a bony cavity, even of very large size, the space between the parietes diminishes rapidly, the distended and attenuated bone contracts and is condensed, the new deposition is absorbed, and the parts regain their natural and healthy appearance. In the slighter cases of spina ventosa, removal of the offending teeth or portions of teeth, is generally sufficient; the matter escapes freely enough from the sockets, and the discharge soon ceases. When the cavity is considerable and its parietes thin, a counter-opening at the base of the jaw is required; and it is often of advantage to introduce a small cord from the opening in the mouth through the counter-opening, and to continue its use for a short time, drawing it backwards and forwards in the cavity occasionally. For making the counter opening and placing the seton at the same time, a strong needle in a fixed handle is most convenient. This practice I have employed in a good many instances, and can confidently recommend as successful. In a large spina ventosa, not complicated with solid growth, the parietes may be removed freely and with safety; the cavity is dressed to the bottom, and gradually fills up by granulation. The division of the integuments to expose the tumour must vary according to the circumstances of the case; the incision of the bone will generally be accomplished by a strong bistoury. Such procedure will seldom fail in procuring a cure, and is less severe, less dangerous, and productive of less deformity, than division of the jaw and entire removal of the diseased portions, an operation which can very seldom be war- ranted for spina ventosa. In the following case, the tumour was the largest of this kind which I have met with in the jaw, and yielded to the treatment just noticed. The patient was a male get. 48; he applied to me in 1821. The tumour had been of