764 AMPUTATION. more deeply covered, and the stump of a handsomer and more useful shape, than when the parts are cut successively and with detachment. The operator places himself so that he may grasp the part to be removed, during the sawing of the bone, without change of position. The incisions are made with the left hand free; but as soon as the saw is in the right, the left should take firm hold of the limb below the wound. During the operation, the limb is supported by an assistant, either sitting or kneeling before the patient; but the regulating of the position of the limb, during sawing, is not to be intrusted to him alone. He may, from anxiety to facilitate the action of the saw, snap the bone and splinter it when it has been little more than half divided; or, from dread of this, he may lock the instrument, and so delay completion of the operation. The management of the lower part of the limb should always be by the person using the saw. This instrument should have its teeth well set, and be provided with a workmanlike handle. It is worked steadily and not hurriedly, with very slight pressure, and that pressure em- ployed only when pushing forwards. Before its application, all the soft parts must necessarily be divided completely; and this is done by carrying the knife, after formation of the flaps, round the bone, with its edge rasping on it, and as high up as possible. The instrument is then placed accurately on the point thus exposed, close to the soft parts, and during the saw- ing the flaps are well retracted by the hands of an assistant. The saw may be worked either horizontally or vertically: the latter direction is to be preferred, for thus, when the section is nearly completed, the uncut part of bone is deep, and less likely to snap on the weight of the limb being allowed to operate, or when undue pressure is made downwards. If splintering of the bone have occurred, whether from neglect of the foregoing precautions, or by other accident, the sharp projecting parts should be taken away, and the cut surface made quite smooth by means of the bone-pliers; and with this instrument also, the sharp edge of the bone may be rounded off, in cases where sub- sequent pressure might cause ulceration or sloughing of part of the integument of the stump. The arteries are tied close to their connexions. Their cut