HYDROCELE. 619 ally complicated by the presence of hernia, when a careful examination must be instituted in order to understand the exact share each disease has in the production of the swelling. In cases of very slow increase, and in persons of advanced age, the vaginal coat and its investments are not unfrequently much thickened, so as to obscure the sense of fluctuation, and destroy the transparency of the tumour. Sometimes deposit of earthy matter takes place between the layers of the membrane, render- ing it hard, rigid, and in a measure osseous; in such cases cholesterine has been found in the contained fluid; sometimes the cavity is intersected by membranous filaments, delicate and reticulated; sometimes complete septa subdivide it into several compartments. The fluid is generally thin, albuminous, and of a straw colour; in some cases paler, and coagulating on cooling, being gelatinous; in others of a dark colour, probably from admixture of blood. The treatment is either palliative or radical. The former consists in evacuating the fluid from time to time, according as the feelings of the patient demand it; in children this simple tapping is often successful in preventing return of the disease. But here tlie disease often enough disappears under the use of a stimulating lotion, as a strong solution of the muriate of ammonia. The swelling is grasped from behind by the left hand, and compressed so as to I’ender the middle and fore part tense and prominent; into this a trocar and canula are plunged, piercing the coverings in a perpendicular direction, and then inclining the canula upwards, the stilet having been partially withdrawn, so as to avoid wounding the testicle. The venous branches ap- parent on the surface must be of course avoided. When fairly passed witliin the cavity, the trocar is withdrawn entirely, and the fluid escapes through the canula — gentle pressure being employed towards the conclusion. The wound usually heals in a few hours. Various means of radical cure have been pro- posed — incision, seton, caustic, and the injection of stimulating fluids. Incision and the seton are now abandoned, and do not require notice. The application of caustic perhaps may prove efficient in children when tapping has failed, and in youths; an aperture is thus made, through which the fluid escapes, and at the same time considej-able excitement is induced, which may