CALCULUS VESICA. 648 the neck of the bladder, pushing the prostate before it, and so tearing its cellular connexions. The latter, the lithotome cache, makes the internal wound larger than the external; the coats of the bladder are slit up to an unnecessary extent, being cut much more easily than the prostate, and the instrument not affording sufficient resistance to the gland. Through the prostatic opening the finger is easily passed into the bladder, and the stone felt. The staff is then withdrawn. Sometimes it is a troublesome matter to reach the bladder with the finger, in consequence of the straining and struggling of the patient, causing the organ to ascend in the pelvis; the difficulty is overcome by patiently waiting till these exertions cease. By steady and gradual movements of the finger in the wound of the prostate, the opening is much dilated, so as to admit of the ready introduction of instruments for laying hold of and removing the stone. Indeed, the neck of the bladder is capable of dilatation without any incision. In a case of perineal abscess containing a portion of exfoliated bone, on account of which incision was made, it was found that the cavity communicated with the urethra; lest other foreign matter should remain, I introduced my finger into this aperture in the membranous por- tion, and found that by the most gentle movement I could not only easily reach the bladder, but dilate the opening in it to a very considerable extent. By the finger in the bladder, the size and position of the stone is ascertained; and no extracting instrument should be employed till after the finger is in contact with the stone. When it is of moderate size, and after having been turned, if neces- sary, into the most favourable position for extraction, the for- ceps are introduced. This instrument should be tolerably long, so as to afford power in its use; and the extremities of its blades should be covered with coarse linen, for thus it is not so likely to slip or to chip the stone as those with raised and projecting teeth. For flat stones, the forceps should be flat-mouthed; for round, more open, hollowed, and bent at the points; or for the latter description of stone, forceps with a sliding joint may be used. The object is to lay hold of the concretion by as many points as possible — to bring a large surface in contact with the instrument. Those with the sliding joint are of no service