AMPUTATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. 788 his exit from tliis world, — and besides inflict an injury to science, by intimidating practitioners, and affording subject of reproach and ridicule to the thoughtless and uninformed part of the public. I prefer the formation of anterior and posterior flaps, — as follows. The patient is placed recumbent on a firm table, his nates resting on, or rather projecting a little over, the front edge. The sound limb is separated from the one to be re- moved, and held aside by an assistant. Or it is secured to the foot of the table by a towel, the necessity for an additional assis- tant being thus done away with, and more freedom in his move- ments afforded to the operator. Indeed, in all amputations of the lower extremity, this is the preferable method of fixing the sound limb. The other limb is supported by an experienced and intelligent assistant, who understands, and is able to perform, the movements to facilitate the different steps of the operation. The compression is intrusted also to an experienced and steady assistant, who, standing by the patient’s side, presses firmly with one or both thumbs on the femoral artery, where it passes over the pubes; and in this more than in any other operation should the pressure be delayed till the instant of incision, for otherwise the blood lost in the limb will be immense. Trans- fixion, by a knife proportioned in size to the dimensions of the limb, is made horizontally, the instrument being passed in a somewhat semicircular direction, so as to include as much of the soft parts as possible; an anterior flap is made by cutting down- wards. During the passage of the knife across the joint, the assistant rotates the limb a little, so as to facilitate the bringing of the instrument out with its point well inwards; in the left limb the rotation will be inwards, in the right outwards. After formation of the flap, the assistant abducts forcibly, and presses downwards; the joint is opened, the round ligament cut, the capsule divided, and the blade of the knife placed behind the head of the bone and the large trochanter; the posterior flap is then made rapidly. After transfixion for the superior flap, and when the sawing motion downwards has advanced but a little way, the compressing assistant shifts one of his hands into the incision, immediately behind the back of the knife, and so obtains a firm grasp of the femoral artery previously to its division. He retains this hold, at the same time retracting the flap, during the rest of