297 DISEASES OF THE SCALP. out antimony. Moderate diet and strict abstinence from wine and other internal stimulants should be enjoined ; the patient, soon experiencing the good effects of temperance, is exceedingly willing to restrict himself to a somewhat antiphlogistic regimen. In cases of violent fixed pains, with swelling and threatening of matter forming, incision may be sometimes practised with relief to the patient, but is not to be had recourse to unless there is a risk of the bone suffering. Local abstraction of blood is advantageous, and may, if necessary, be followed by counter irritation, as the application of blisters or sinapisms. Friction with stimulating substances, or with opiate liniments, is often useful when the disease begins to yield, the pain and puffiness of the parts being thereby dispelled. The hair should be kept short during the cure, and ought not to be allowed to grow till the scalp is firm and sound. The disease is often so far advanced that, in spite of the most active treatment, abscess forms in one or more points; and, on the matter being evacuated, the bone is found denuded. Exfo- liation is then very likely to take place. Exfoliation generally follows denudation of the bone by acci- dent, but not uniformly. When the periosteum is stripped off by violent injury, the bone in some cases does not lose its natural colour; granulations arise from the exposed part, and ii again becomes covered without any part of its substance having been destroyed. Again, careful removal of the periosteal covering, as in excising a tumour or ulcer by the knife, may be followed by death of the outer table of the skull; small portions only separating in some cases, whilst in others a large part of the bone, and of considerable thickness, perishes. The cranial bones may in part become dead throughout their entire thickness, and separate, either after a severe bruise, or in consequence of inflammatory action following injury or arising from disease. The process of separation is either speedy or tedious, according to the vigour of the constitution. The deficiency is repaired, in a great measure, from the subjacent bone, when its whole thick- ness is not thrown off But when the breach is complete, the surrounding parts assume the reparative action ; the granulations from the dura mater and integuments coalesce, and a dense membrane fills up the space. The denuded bone should be kept covered and moist, and for