655 CALCULUS VESICA. tunity. This is certainly better practice than the using of much force, or dilating the wound by incision to a dangerous extent, but it is very far from being so good as the immediate removal of the foreign body, smoothly and quickly, skilfully, and without violence; and it has been already observed, that the cases are very few indeed in which the stone cannot be removed through the prostatic opening without the employment of any force, and without inflicting any injury to the parts through which it passes—without hazard and without delay. The sooner the method d deux temps is expunged from the list of surgical opera- tions, the better will it be for suffering humanity and the credit of our art. In those rare cases in which the stone is so large that it cannot be brought through the outlet of the pelvis, it must either be broken into fragments, or removed entire through incision above the pubes ; as already stated, it is probable that the high operation is the safer proceeding. It is, however, an operation attended with much danger. The wound is necessarily exten- sive, and important parts are liable to be interfered with ; and, from not being dependent, the escape of the urine by it is almost certain to cause infiltration of the cellular tissue surrounding the bladder — an occurrence almost always proving fatal and that rapidly. The first part of the procedure is to insure distension of the bladder, so that it may rise in the pelvis, and afford sufficient space between its lower part and the an- terior reflection of the peritoneum; but this may prove either very difficult or altogether impossible, even with the aid of injection by the urethra, in consequence of the unyielding con- tracted state of the viscus, and the great thickening of its coats. An incision is made through the integument and fatty matter, from three to four inches in length in the mesial line, and ter- minating over the symphysis pubis; the recti and pyramidal muscles are then separated, the cellular tissue cautiously divided, and the fore and lower part of the distended bladder exposed. The coats are pierced at the most inferior part, and an opening made sufficient for the introduction of the finger. By the finger the dimensions of the stone are ascertained, and then the wound is enlarged upwards to such an extent as will by di- latation admit of the extraction. Forceps are introduced, of