CALCULUS VESICiE. 650 either by the knife, or by laceration in cruel attempts to extract the stone through an insufficient opening. When the stones are small, the scoop is the preferable instru- ment. By it the bladder may be soon cleared, even when the concretions are numerous. It is introduced along with the finger, is brought in contact with the foreign body, and passed beyond it or beneath it. Then the point of the finger is placed on the lower part of the stone, so as to steady and secure it, and the scoop and finger retaining this relation are gradually withdrawn along with the stone. More than one, perhaps, may be removed at each withdrawal of the instrument. The flat and slightly bent lever, usually forming the handle of the scoop, is useful should the forceps unfortunately slip during extraction, leaving the calculus impacted in the wound; by insinuating this instru- ment behind the stone, and employing it partly as a lever, partly as an extractor, removal is completed. If the stone break, which should not often happen if the for- ceps be used properly, the fragments must be carefully brought away, the larger by the forceps, the others by the scoop. The sand and detritus which may remain are washed away by inject- ing tepid water into the bladder, afterwards promoting copious secretion of urine by diluents. After almost every operation for stone, particularly when the concretions are numerous, or when they have broken into frag- ments, a searcher is useful to ascertain whether or not all have , been removed. It is a slightly curved sound, wdth a bulbous point. Having been introduced by the wound, it is passed into every part of the bladder with great care, with the view of de- tecting small calculi, or fragments, which may have escaped the search of the finger, forceps, and scoop. Besides this precaution, the extracted fragments should be carefully examined, and the stones built up, that the surgeon may better judge if they be all there. The surface of the stone affords considerable informa- tion ; if it be uniformly rough, the likelihood is that it is solitary; if one or more points are smooth, it is probable that these have been occasioned by the attrition of other calculi. If suspicion still exist of part remaining, examination may be made through the wound, during the suppurative stage, six or eight days after ' the operation, before it has closed much.