325 DISEASES OF THE EYE Y 3 tion, the margins of the lids are allowed to become glued to- gether. They often adhere so firmly as to require a very considerable force for their separation, and when opened the matter gushes out as if from the cavity of an abscess. From confinement of the matter the inflammation is still more in- creased, and the cornea involved. Whitish specks form on it, or it ulcerates, and the ulcers make their way into the anterior chamber of the eye; or portions of it slough, causing partial loss of the organ and openings into the chamber, in consequence of which the aqueous humour is discharged, and the cornea sinks and becomes flaccid. In many instances the cornea becomes opaque, changed in texture, and increased in thickness, so as to form a convex projection from betwixt the eyelids, termed Staphyloma; the sclerotic coat also is occa- sionally affected in a similar manner. A frequent cause of purulent ophthalmia in children is imprudent exposure of the eyes to strong light, the parent or nurse not re- membering that the organ must be gradu- ally accustomed to the stimulus. Exposure to cold may also induce the inflammatory action. The appli- cation of leucorrhoeal or gonorrhoeal matter to the eyes of the child, whilst passing through the vagina of the mother, is per- haps the most common cause of the disease. A very unhealthy state of the constitution accompanies the affection : the scalp and other parts of the surface are frequently covered with eruptions. A singular result sometimes follows the purulent ophthalmia of infants. A small opaque spot is observed on the capsule of the lens, which remains through life a central spurious capsular cataract. Inflammation of the Cornea supervenes on simple conjunctival inflammation, and frequently on the purulent. The vessels of the part, both veins and arteries, previously carrying single and therefore invisible blood corpuscules, become much di- lated, are filled with numerous globules, and hence are rendered red and conspicuous to the unassisted eye. Writers on ophthal- mic surgery, in their rage for refinement, speak of three kinds of this inflammation — inflammation of the external or con-