OF MORTIFICATION. 50 when these are made merely into the sphacelated part, they can be productive of good only by allowing the escape of matter; when they extend more deeply, they are injurious. This prac- tice, however, as will be hereafter noticed, is adopted with the best effects when mortification is threatened. When the sloughs become loose, they must be removed bit by bit with scissors; and when the sphacelated part has separated entirely, the healing of the breach is to be promoted by judicious dressing, bandaging, and by proper position. In mortification of an extremity, in consequence of injury, removal of the part by incision in the sound substance was formerly as much dreaded as in chronic cases before the separ- ation had commenced; but such fears have now subsided, and the practice of delay has been in a great measure relinquished, — amputation being performed in the sound part, at a consi- derable distance from the mortified or even gangrenous tissues, and during the progress of the disease, occasionally with a favourable result. If the surgeon defer the operation until a line of separation have begun to form, he will soon discover the danger of his delay; the constitution will, in the majority of cases, rapidly sink under the malady before the progress of the disease is in any measure checked, or any attempt is made to throw ofif the mortified parts. Two cases, which lately occurred in my hospital practice, are here introduced from the “Lancet” to show how different the progress is, and how opposite the practice ought to be. Both the patients made excellent and rapid recoveries. “ Sarah Arnold, aet. 75, was admitted on the 26th of January. She has been a person of great mental and bodily activity, and has enjoyed excellent health from her infancy, until her present illness, although necessarily exposed, from the nature of her occupation, a gatherer and hawker of water cresses, to all varieties of weather. About six weeks ago, without being more than usually exposed to cold, she was seized with severe rigors. Two days afterwards she began to complain of slight pain, with clinching of the fingers, which at the same time became discoloured at the tips, and were partially de- prived of sensation. This at first did not give rise to much uneasiness, and no treatment was employed ; and it was not