496 ENLARGEMENT OF BURSA OVER OLECRANON. The same treatment is applicable here, as that already detailed in regard to similar affections of the lower jaw. Amputation above the tumour may sometimes be necessary. The hands of infants are sometimes found deformed, turned inwards, as the feet are more frequentl}'. Some of the carpal bones are compressed, from the awkward position of the limb, but become properly developed, if the parts are placed in their proper position as soon as the deformity is observed, and kept so. But the displacement is unmanageable if long neglected. Congenital deficiency of the fingers is a deformity and incon- venience, but cannot be remedied. Adhesion of one or more of the fingers, even to their points, is met with occasionally as a congenital affection. Separation is readily accomplished; but the dressing requires to be carefully attended to. Adhesions may result from careless management of extensive abrasion or ulceration, or from a burn, and such are not so easily remedi- able. Superfluities may be abridged. Some children are born with two thumbs or two little fingers; these have generally only, a cutaneous attachment to the rest of the hand, and that is easily divided by the knife or scissors. The redundancy should properly be removed by the obstetrical practitioner, as soon as it is observed. The Bursa over the Olecranon Process is liable to enlarge- ment, by gradual accumulation of the secretion, in consequence of habitual pressure on the elbow. The contents are either serous or glairy, usually the latter, and the swelling is indo- lent. But acute swelling not unfrequently takes place in this situation, from external injury; then the tumour is formed rapidly, there is heat and pain in the part, and the integuments are discoloured around: in such cases the bursa is filled with pure blood, or with a sero-purulent and bloody fluid. Inflam- mation of the bursa often follows bruises and lacerated wounds, and is apt to extend to the forearm and arm; causing extensive and deep effusion, great tension of the parts, and severe consti- tutional disturbance. In the chronic cases of bursal enlargement, pressure is to be avoided; and by the permanent application of an ammoniacal or of a gum and mercurial plaster, absorption of the fluid niay in general be procured — the swelling disappearing as gradually