516 OF HERNIA. return to this country, pain in the belly and vomiting seized him on a Monday morning, and continued with more or less violence till the Sunday following. Then the vomiting became fseculent, the belly excruciatingly painful and tender, the tumour tense, and the pulse weak. A physician opposed operative measures, having been convinced that his former complaint was a hydrocele of the chord. But I conceived that the symptoms warranted cutting down on the parts, and did so. A hernia was found containing omentum and a fold of bowel; a hydrocele of the chord lay alongside of it. Crural hernia has been mistaken for bubo, and vice versa. Lumbar abscess and varix of the femoral vein are also supposed to resemble it in some measure. The situation and form of the tumour in lumbar abscess is very different from those of hernia; and the mode of examination recommended in regard to cir- socele is equally applicable to the detection of dilated femoral vein. The distinctions between crural hernia and bubo are too obvious to require mention. Patients with unreduced hernia are constantly in great danger; as bruising of the swelling, or accumulation of faeces in the pro- truded bowel, are likely to occasion very unpleasant conse- quences. They are generally troubled with indigestion, flatu- lence, and constipation; a slight degree of constriction at the neck of the tumour produces an obstruction to the intestinal contents; the viscera in the sac have not due support and pres- sure, hence accumulations take place in them, and may be productive of serious and even fatal effects. No protrusion, in which these circumstances are likely to occur, should be allowed to exist, if possible. So afraid were the ancients of allowing hernia to remain unreduced, that it was their custom to cut all patients labouring under rupture who would submit to the operation ; and this was generally performed by itinerant quacks. They returned the protrusion without opening the sac, and then the neck of the tumour was either stitched up, or tied along with or without the spermatic chord. The actual cautery, and the most powerful caustics, were also applied to the parts by some, and dreadful were the effects; yet after the neck of the sac had been destroyed, and perhaps the bone ex- posed and exfoliated, protrusion again look place by the side of