276 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. or less extravasation of blood between, sometimes takes place as a consequence of blows on the head, even though not severe. The blood may be absorbed, or an unhealthy abscess may form between the bone and membrane, attended with violent, dangerous, and, if neglected, fatal results. The internal mis- chief is not without external marks of its occurrence. If the scalp is undivided, a puffy tumour forms ; and, when it has been injured, the wound degenerates, its surface is pale, and the dis- charge gleety; the exposed bone appears white and dry. If is also preceded by general disorder of the system, by restlessness and fever; there is sickness, occasional vomiting, shivering, pain of the forehead and back of the neck; in some cases, delirium and convulsions, and perhaps partial paralysis, and ultimately coma. All these symptoms, however, may exist without indicat- ing precisely either the existence or the site of abscess, as I experienced in the following cases. A middle-aged man was brought intoxicated into the Royal Infirmary with a lacerated wound of the scalp, over the upper part of the occipital bone, on the riyht side of the mesial line. For thirteen days after the accident he did well, walking about the wards in good health, with the wound healing kindly; but on the fourteenth he became affected with hot skin, restlessness, slight incoherency, severe pain in the head, and intolerance of light, with a full, but not quick pulse. A vein was opened, but after three ounces of blood had ffowed, he was seized with rigors, vomiting, and violent convulsions; and these symptoms again occurred after the application of leeches to the head. Rigors returned at various intervals ; stupor supervened and gradually increased. He became delirious on the eighteenth. A consider- able part of the bone was exposed and dead, and there was a puffy swelling of the scalp around the wound. On the nineteenth he lay insensible. A portion of the dead bone was removed by the trephine, and the dura mater was found covered with lymph, but no appearance of effused blood or pus could be perceived. He seemed to suffer nothing from the operation, but continued insensible, passing his urine and feeces in bed, with dilated pupils, quick breathing, and subsultus tendinum: his pulse, which had previously never been above 80, now rose to 100. He died on the morning after the operation. On dissection.