612 GONORRHOEA. that the poison which produces chancre is the same with that which gives rise to gonorrhoea, the action being modified by the texture in which the virus is lodged: such an opinion has been found to be wholly untenable. Gonorrhoea supervenes at various periods after exposure to the infection, from twenty-four hours to six or eight weeks, but generally in from ten to twenty days; often the time cannot be correctly ascertained; much depends on the idiosyncratic susceptibility of the urethra, on the degree of acridity in the matter applied, and other contingent circumstances. When the discharge becomes more clear and thin, and the inflammatory symptoms have disappeared, the disease is termed Gleet. The passage remains contracted in some degree, from relaxation of the mucous surface; there is a desire to make water more frequently than usual, and the urine is passed in a tortuous or scattered stream; in many cases the discharge continues profuse. There is now no pain nor scalding during the passage of urine, but these are readily reinduced by slight excess; perhaps there is a trifling chordee. After connexion, the discharge returns as if fresh infection had been caught, though such be not the case; both in simple gleet, and in that attending stricture, the seemingly virulent symptoms come on speedily, often appearing within a few hours after the coitus. In gleet the matter is no longer green or yellow, but whitish and flaky; the globules are contained in a mucous instead of a serous fluid. The disease is usually attendant on stricture, but occurs frequently without any organised con- traction, the discharge being furnished by the vessels of the surface, which have become weak and relaxed in consequence of previous excited action. In feeble constitutions, inflam- mation of the urethra is almost always followed by long-con- tinued and intractable discharge. A practitioner is not unfrequently asked when the infection of gonorrhoea is not communicable, and if an individual in whom the discharge is very slight, or has just disappeared, is likely to contaminate a healthy female. The question is a difficult one to answer. In general it is prudent to err, if at all, on the safe side — by expressing doubts, and dissuading from intercourse until all discharge shall have entirely ceased for a