79 OF DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. largement of the glands in the axilla: such glandular tumours have not rarely been confounded with those accompanying malignant disease, and measures which were absolutely neces- sary for the salvation of the patient, have thus been delayed or neglected. When the disease is extensive, and has endured for a con- siderable period, hectic fever supervenes, and is aggravated after the abscesses give way. The patient becomes much weakened and emaciated, and loses his appetite; the pulse is rapid, with night sweats, diarrhoea, &c. ; and from a continuation of the hectic cause, the life is endangered. In some cases, however, the health is restored, and the disease abates spontaneously ; in others, the disease is arrested, and a complete cure accom- plished, by the careful employment of such means as will be afterwards mentioned. The appearances produced by inflammation and consequent disease of the synovial membrane, are the following. In the first stage, the internal surface of the capsular ligament, and the rest of the synovial membrane, is found of a red hue, its formerly colourless vessels being now made apparent, from enlargement and consequent injection with a greater quantity of red blood ; and the serum within the cavity of the joint is more abundant than in the natural state. When the disease has been of longer continuance, the membrane is found con- siderably thickened, its usual smooth glossy surface is destroyed, it is irregularly flocculent, and frequently of a light yellow colour. The interarticular adipose tissue also seems to be increased in volume, from being infiltrated with a serous fluid, by the dis- charge of which the diseased blood-vessels may have attempted to relieve themselves. When the inflammation has been in- tense, or of long duration, lymph is secreted, and deposited on the external surface of the membrane, forming an intimate union between it and the ligaments, and producing thickening of the external apparatus. Or the lymph is also effused on the inner surface of the membrane, to which it adheres and becomes organised; this is generally accompanied by the formation of purulent matter; the organised effusion is often so extensive as to conceal almost the whole of the synovial