525 or HERNIA. i I or in the form of vapour; but the former method is generally i preferred. A drachm of the leaves is infused in a pound of water for ten minutes, and one half of the liquid injected ; if this prove insufficient to prostrate the patient, the rest is ad- ministered after the lapse of a short interval. But many people have thus been poisoned, and the indiscriminate employment of the supposed remedy cannot be too strongly reprobated; its effects are most severe and unmanageable; the state of collapse is most complete and alarming, and it is often dif- ficult, if not impossible, to bring the patient out of it — to ! procure reaction. In some cases reduction may be accom- plished during the state of extreme debility which follows its . use, but I have often seen it fail, and have witnessed the opera- I tion afterwards performed on the patients, who wei’e at the time * without pulsation, and from whom little blood flowed after the incisions; they never, of course, rallied, and sunk rapidly. Indeed the patient is always in a very unfavourable state for operation 4 after the exhibition of the tobacco enema, thougb certainly in a very favourable state for reduction being attempted. The strong ‘ objection to the medicine I conceive to be its being so ex- . tremely unmanageable; it is impossible to say whether the I depression of the vital powers that must ensue will be just sufficient to induce that relaxation and debility necessary or . favourable to reduction, or whether it will proceed uncon- 5 trollable to such a degree as to extinguish life. In genei’al it f produces intolerable nausea and depression, universal relax- ation of the muscles, coldness of the surface, with clammy f exudation, vomiting, violent retching, vertigo, and perhaps : insensibility. Were I so unfortunate as to be the subject of strangulated hernia, I should certainly have no tobacco used. After unsuccessful trial of the taxis, I might submit to be bled 1 ad deliquium, and have a surgeon to attempt reduction during syncope; if somewhat more advanced in life, I should prefer the warm bath; if taxis then failed, I should certainly be oper- ated on in a very few minutes afterwards. If the surgeon, after mature consideration, make up his mind as to the course of practice he would wish pursued in his own case, he will be fully alive to the necessity of impressing the utility of it on his patients, and have little difficulty in persuading them to