OF TUMOURS. 165 in others, these only occupy certain parts, and compose but a minor feature in the structure. The sacs are generally lined with a delicate and smooth membrane, which is often vascular at various points ; some contain a transparent and glairy fluid, albuminous or gelatinous; some bloody serum; some purulent, some curdy matter, or this mixed with a serous or purulent fluid; some pure blood; some a fluid like printer’s ink; and not a few are occupied by a dense elastic substance, which, on a section being made of the tumour, rises irregular and ragged above the cut surface. Some tumours are smooth ; others lobulated or tuberculated. Of Encephaloid Tumours. The tumour which comes next to be described is decidedly malignant. It is the Encephaloid, or Medullaiy Sarcoma. Although these tumours have been called encephaloid and me- dullary, it must not be understood that their intimate structure has any relation to that of the brain or marrow ; for this rea- son the old term fungoid is perhaps a preferable one, since it leads to no false notion as to their nature, while it expresses a condition which at one time or other is remarkably charac- teristic of them. This tumour consists of a homogeneous mat- ter, resembling the substance of tbe brain in colour and consistence. It rarely has a distinct cyst; occasionally it is subdivided by membi'anous bands. It is always soft, though often more so in some parts than in others; portions of it being frequently so much softened and broken down as to resemble thick cream in consistence, and these are generally of a darker colour, from being mixed with a gi’eater or less quantity of efi’used blood. Partial or universal softening only occurs after the tumour has existed for some time, for in its ori- ginal state its structure and density are uniform throughout; and, on making a section of it, some few drops of blood may escape from vessels, the coats of which are of a very delicate nature. Some of these vessels seem to give way, in consequence of the process of softening, for we frequently meet with fluid blood, or masses of fibrine, in the midst of the pulpy matter; M 3