349 DISEASES OF THE EYE. being pushed forwards by enlargement of the lens. Patients, having become aware of the great improvement of vision caused by dilatation of the pupil, are often contented to use narcotic remedies externally, so long as they retain their dilating in- fluence — and, strange to say, they do not soon lose it — instead of submitting to any operation. As cataract advances, even luminous bodies cannot be accurately distinguished, though the situation from which the light proceeds is perceived; thus the patient in a clear light may have an indistinct perception of a candle or window, and in some cases even of the bars of the window. The motions of the iris are not affected, unless, in rare cases, when the cataract is large and compresses the iris; or when the functions of the third pair of nerves have been in any way impaired ; or when the iris has been the seat of acute inflammation. Cataract may be confounded with other diseases of the eye, as with amaurosis. But, in amaurosis, opacity, when it exists, is deep, concave, greenish, or of a metallic appearance; whereas, in cataract, it is of a more or less white colour, convex, and situated immediately behind the pupil. Cataract may be lenticular only, the lens being opaque whilst its capsule remains transparent. In such a case the disease is slow in its progress, and the opacity uniformly commences in the centre of the lens, and gradually extends to the circumference. The degree of opacity varies in diffei’ent cases, from cloudy dimness to complete whiteness. In general the predominant hue is white or greyish, but not unfrequently the opacity is of several colours, and occasionally of a mottled appearance. The consist- ence also of lenticular cataract varies, being sometimes fluid, occasionally extremely dense and almost osseous, but most fre- quently of caseous consistence. When fluid, the cataract is of larger size than the healthy lens ; when caseous, the part usually retains its former dimensions; and when dense, the lens is often considerably diminished in size. The motions of the pupil are seldom, if ever, affected. Cataract may be entirely capsular, the capsule being opaque, whilst the lens either remains free of disease, or has been removed by natural or artificial processes. The opacity in this case does not always commence in the centre, but frequently begins at the