OF INFLAMMATION OF BONE, 124 detailing these experiments, is published in the Medico-Chir, Transactions. The separation of the dead part from the living is accom- plished with greater or less ease, according to the bone which is affected, the state of the constitution, and the general health; in the bones of the superior extremity, this, as well as every other action, proceeds more rapidly than in those of the inferior. It occurs in consequence of absorption of the living part of the bone, which is in close proximity to the dead. The sequestrum, if large, is not pushed off, as some have supposed, by granula- tions deposited on the living margin of the bone. A small portion of the inner shell, when completely detached, may some- times be observed to be extruded from a cloaca by granulations from the living bone. During its progress, matter forms, makes its way to the surface, and is discharged through minute, and often numerous apertures, which afterwards become fistulous. The soft parts are thickened and indurated, and the integuments are red, and sometimes of a livid colour. Formation of matter upon a bone is occasionally the cause of necrosis, the periosteum being destroyed or separated from its connections by the pressure or insinuation of the pus. I have seen several instances in which it followed neglected erysipelas of the lower extremity. The matter is in general thick and laudable; at first it is secreted profusely, but afterwards in smaller quantity. The external openings, or papillae, through which it is discharged, are found to lead to cloacae, or apertures in the new and living bone, which encase the dead, and through these the dead portions can be discovered by the probe ; and it will thus be ascertained whether the sequestrum is fixed or detached: when loose, it can some- times be moved upward and downward in the cavity. When the shaft of a bone is much affected, the whole limb is enlarged, by the inflammation having extended to a considerable distance above and below the portion about to become necrosed. The unshapely appearance of the limb continues until the sequestra are dis- charged ; for by their presence incited action is still continued, and subsides only after their removal. Some time before any portion of bone has become dead, or begun to be separated, great effusion of new bone has, in general, occurred; thus a prepara-