531 OF HERNIA. bistoury is passed in close contact, and with the edge towards the pubes ; its mere point is pushed beyond, and then the posi- tion of the blade is changed : its back is turned upon the finger. This slight motion is of itself often sufficient to relieve tlie constriction on the protruded parts, and permit tlieir reduction ; if not, a few more fibres are cut by raising the handle of the knife gently from the palm of the hand. The direction of this incision is towards the tuberosity of the pubes, inwards and forwai’ds. Thus only the crescentic portion of the crural arch is cut; and the division of this produces sufficient relaxation of the neighbouring parts. There is danger in cutting direct’y forwards, particularly in the male, at least if the incision be made to any considerable extent; there is a risk of wounding the spermatic chord, and the obturator arteiy has also been met with in a few instances coursing round the neck of the sac. This dis- tribution of the artery, however, is rare, and can occur only when the epigastric and obturator arise by a long common trunk, and even then it may not encircle the neck of a hernia, as I have wit- nessed. Occasionally a vessel of considerable size passes round the opening, connecting the epigastric with the obturator, when these arteries follow their usual course; and this also may surround the neck of the sac. If vessels should exist in this situation in a person the subject of operation, as has not happened so far as I know, they would be felt by the finger used to conduct the knife. And the bistoury should never be passed — for there is no necessity for it — through the opening so far as to meet with a vessel, even if awkwardly placed. The danger of cutting forwai’d and to any extent has already been spoken of; such incision can answer no good purpose. The stricture is not in Poupart’s ligament — though at one time it was proposed to cut this through without interfering with the tumour at all—but in the crural arch underneath, and in a manner independent of the strong tendinous chord and expansion. The crural arch is formed by the junction of the fasciae of the thigh and abdomen, superficial and deep. It is inserted into the linea ileo-pectinea, where the tendon of the external oblique bas no connection, and is strengthened by fibres from the internal oblique, transverse, and recti muscles. The crural aperture formed by this arch is relaxed by flexion and inversion of the thigh, and by relaxation