310 DISEASES OF THE EYE. duct; more especially in cases where the swelling and pain are considerable. The instruments employed for dilatation of the passage are tubes and styles. The tubes are made either of sil- ver or gold, of equal calibre throughout, and of the same length as the passage. For some time after their introduction they cause much irritation ; this gradually diminishes, and the wound heals over them. But, according to my experience, their effects are not satisfactory. The iri'itation which they at first occasion generally subsides, but abscess again occurs, with much swelling, and it becomes necessary to remove the foreign body. Again, the tube sometimes becomes obstructed by thickening and concretion of the discharge, and then, when it is necessary to remove it, the process is found to be by no means an easy one; a free incision is required ; a screw must be fastened into the tube, or, when that cannot be accomplished, the foreign body must be laid firmly hold of with strong forceps; altogether the extraction is very painful, and often extremely tedious. In short, the practice of introducing tubes does not appear to be founded on sound surgical principles. After extensive and impartial trial of both the tubes and style, I decidedly prefer the use of the latter. On the point of the bistoury being fairly lodged in the lachrymal duct, a probe is passed along it; the knife is then withdrawn, and the passage is gently dilated by the probe. The probe again is followed by the style, which should be made of silver, of the same thickness throughout, of the same length as the duct, and with a flattened head placed obliquely to the body of the style. The size of the style should be at first small, and gradually increased. The irritation caused by the first introduction is in many cases very severe, but the parts soon accommodate themselves to the pre- sence of the foreign body; the pain and swelling diminish, as also the discharge. If a large style be pushed forcibly in at first, violent inflammatory action will ensue, and much mischief may be produced. After irritation has gone off, the tears pass readily down into the nose by the sides of the style, according to the laws of capillary attraction, little or no fluid escapes from the external opening, the wound contracts around the instru- ment, and, its head being covered with black wax, no deformity is produced. The instrument should be removed from time to