195 OF TUMOURS. mated, so as to favour union by the first intention ; if this fail, granulation must be promoted, and the wound dressed according to the particular cii’cumstances of the case. All operations on malignant tumours, in their advanced stages, are unwarrantable; they are necessarily painful and severe, and cruel because una- vailing ; they often, indeed, expedite the dissolution of the patient. If the integuments over the tumour have ulcerated, and if the lymphatics in the neighbourhood are diseased, the disease if re- moved will certainly be reproduced, and the succeeding tumour will be still more malignant. The operation ought, if at all, to be performed when the disease is in its incipient state, for then oidy can success be expected. Exostoses need not be interfered with, unless they are the source of much inconvenience, either from their size and form, or from their having been detached, and lodged amongst the adjacent soft parts. If loose, they can be removed in the same way as any other extraneous body; if firm, their attachment must be divided by a saw, or by cutting pliei’s, close to the bone from which they spring. Sometimes, as in the scapula or other flat bone, a portion of the original bony tissue can he cut out along with the new growth, and this renders the chance of any return of disease much less likely. Osteo-sarcomatous tumours are to be taken away, along with the part of the bone in which they are imbedded, and, if possible, before the integuments have ulcerated. The incisions must be made, and the bone sawn, at a healthy part. The removal of the entire bone in which the disease has commenced, when practica- ble, will afford a still better chance of immunity from farther disease. In spina ventosa more is seldom required than to lay open the cavity, give vent to the matter, and then treat the case on the same principles as in abscess of the soft parts. The cellular tumours, partly cartilaginous, partly osseous, ought not to be permitted to remain; the operation can generally be done without much difficulty; and thus the danger of their degener- ating avoided. Frequently, however, a considerable part of the bone must be removed along with the tumour, since the neigh- bouring tissue is generally softened, and intimately adherent to the diseased part, which it somewhat resembles in structure. o 2