415 INFLAMMATION AND ABSCESS OF THE GUMS. are contaminated, malignant action acquires a firm footing, and extends, the patient becomes hectic, and dies. Each kind of tumour should be removed freely and early; the untoward results of the latter have been already mentioned ; and 1 believe that, if the former be allowed to proceed un- checked, the tumour may ultimately extend to the bone, and osteosarcoma of the jaw, more or less extensive, be established. The disease must be attacked at an early period of its existence, and teeth, sockets, and soft parts taken freely away, by means of a strong knife and saw, or cutting forceps. After excision, the actual or potential cautery should be applied, otherwise the disease is apt to recur. Portions of involved bone, which may have escaped the knife, are by the caustic made to exfoliate. When the potassa fusa is used for the purpose of destroying what cannot be readily reached by the knife, and when it is pushed into the alveoli and applied to the altered gum, its action must be limited by the immediate use of vinegar, diluted or not. Liflammation of the Gums and neighbouring parts is at- tended with violent pain, swelling, and throbbing, difficulty in opening the mouth, headache, and fever. Inflammation of the soft parts runs its course speedily, and, as the cause is seldom removed during the existence of the inflammatory action, ge- nerally terminates in suppuration, so giving rise to what is termed parulis or gumboil. Frequently the inflammation ex- tends to the sockets of the teeth, which seldom resist the action long, but from their low degree of vitality soon become ne- crosed ; and by the presence of the dead portions of bone, a fresh accession is given to the disease. Severe pain is ex- perienced on touching the teeth whose alveoli are affected; they project and become loose; purulent matter is secreted, and oozes out between the loosened teeth and diseased gums. Ab- scesses form, and point in different situations; the gums are tumid and spongy; through the openings in them the bone can be felt bare, and the purulent matter is situated within or around the alveoli, and under the mucous membrane and cellu- lar tissue which invest them. When the inflammation has been either intense from the first.