OSTEOSARCOMA OF THE JAW. 421 three or four years’ duration, equalled a large fist in size, and involved the left side of the lower jaw at the junction of the ramus with the body of the bone. The sac extended behind the coronoid process, and downwards, through the substance of the jaw, amongst the hyoid muscles. Several carious teeth and stumps were imbedded in the swelling; the projection was chiefly lateral, the parietes were yielding, and the line of the jaw could be traced from below. There was occasional slight discharge of purulent matter from tha neighbourhood of the involved teeth. The cheek was laid open, and the bony and cartilaginous parietes of the cavity completely removed; the bleeding from the bony surface was arrested by cautei’y and pressure. The soft parts united kindly, and the patient obtained a rapid, perfect, and permanent cure, returning home with the cheek united in ten days after the operation. Solid Tumour of the Lower Jaw— Osteosarcoma—commences in the internal structure of the bone, frequently in the neigh- bourhood of stumps. The origin may be traced to external injury of the part; or the disease may take place in the jaw, either along with osteosarcomatous tumours of other bones, or subsequently to their development; in such circumstances a peculiar disposition of the system is the only cause that can be assigned. The tumour generally occupies the lateral parts of the bone. Its growth may be either slow or rapid, and is attended with dull uneasiness, rather than acute pain. At first the morbid deposit is confined to the cancellated texture, but as it increases the external laminae are distended, and at last give way at one or more points, and the tumour protrudes fungous into the mouth. The consistence of the mass is various, it may be soft and brain-like, or cartilaginous, mixed with bone and fibrous matter in various proportions; but the anatomical characters of these tumours have been already detailed and need not be here repeated. The features are much deformed, the swelling seri- ously incommodes the neighbouring parts; the teeth loosen and drop away, and fungi arise from the sockets; a foetid, thin, sometimes bloody discharge is secreted copiously, and the health declines. The part protruding around the gums is deeply E E 3