FRACTURE OF THE RIBS. 700 generally within twenty days, and that without any unseemly exuberance of callus. No evaporating lotions are necessary. No compresses or splints need be applied over the bone. If the patient be bruised in other parts, and become feverish, it may be requisite to abstract blood and exhibit antimonials, pur- gatives, &c. But all inflammation, arising from the fracture, subsides on the accomplishment of reduction, adaptation, and retention of the portions. If the fractui’e be compound, the edges of the wound should be brought together and retained, so as to favour immediate union. The body of the scapida is broken, generally by a severe injury of the chest, as by a hard and heavy body passing over it. There is little or no displacement; and the accident is not easily de- tected, more especially after swelling has taken place. It is sufficient to restrain motion; and this is effected by passing a bandage round the chest, over the scapula, and round the arm. The acromion process may be broken off; but the accident is rather uncommon. The fracture is produced by direct violence — a blow or a fall on that point. The spine of the bone also is sometimes broken by a like cause. Portions of the acromion may be separated along with the ligaments connecting the cla- vicle to it, in the accident of dislocation of the scapular ex- tremity of that bone. The acromion is occasionally broken into fragments by heavy falls on the point of the shoulder. There is a slight appearance of flattening of the shoulder at first, and then great swelling. Crepitation is felt by pressing gently and alternately with the points of the fingers over the fractured part. The arm requires to be raised and supported by a sling. Fracture of the Ribs.—One rib, or more, may be broken by injuries in various ways — by blows of the fist—falls on hard bodies—pressure on the chest by heavy bodies passing over or falling upon it. They generally give way anteriorly to the angles, at the most convex point; but sometimes near the spine or the sternum. At the same time they may be partially luxated at