331 DISEASES OF THE EYE. Occasionally sloughing takes place in the cornea from over- action. It is dangerous to the structure and functions of the organ, according to the extent to which it occurs. Ossification of the cornea is said to take place; but few cases are on record, and these were in very old people. The cornea sometimes becomes conical to a great degree in persons considerably advanced in life. The cone has its apex in the centre of the organ, seems thick and crystalline when viewed laterally, and when looked on from the front has a spark- ling appearance. In some cases it is opaque in the cen- tre, and occasionally its surface is irregular. Vision of objects at any distance is very indis- tinct ; those placed within an inch or two of the eye are most distinctly seen, especially if looked on through a small aperture. The disease usually affects both eyes, though not always in an equal degree. The patients cannot judge accurately of distance, and see objects multiplied and disfigured. Staphyloma has been already alluded to as an occasional con- sequence of purulent ophthalmia in children. The cornea is thickened, prominent, and opaque; and in most cases vision is either much impaired or entirely lost. The prominence varies in different cases, being sometimes very little elevated beyond the natural state of the part, while in other instances it protrudes from between the eyelids. After having attained a certain size it often becomes stationary ; but very frequently it continues to enlarge gradually. When the prominence is large, much incon- venience arises from the eyelids not being allowed to close; and the eye, being thereby deprived of its natural covering, is ex- tremely liable to become inflamed from external irritation. When one eye is affected with staphyloma, the other not unfre- quently becomes similarly diseased. Dropsy of the anterior chamber, or Hydrophthalmia, occasion- ally takes place in persons of weak constitutions. The aqueous humour is either secreted in greater abundance than it usually is, or absorption is diminished. The cornea gradually accom-