POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 673 ture of the femoral, and since, has often been performed for the cure of inguinal aneurism, with almost uniform success. It has also been practised successfully, on account of haemorrhage after amputation. I was under the necessity lately of putting a liga- ture round the external iliac, on account of profuse bleeding from an opening in the groin, made five weeks previously, to secure the common femoral, on account of haemorrhage from a stump of the thigh. This operation should have been had re- course to in the first instance, the deligation of the common femoral being an opei'ation not likely to be followed by perma- nent closure of the vessel, in consequence of its shortness, and the branches given off from it both above and below. The patient ultimately I’ecovered from these three capital operations. The incisions are made in the same direction as recommended for ligature of the common and internal iliacs, but not nearly so extensive. This is preferable to incision, either in the di- rection of the vessel, or of a semilunar form with one of the corners pointing upwards; the abdominal muscles are less weakened, less injury being inflicted on them, and no trouble- some bloodvessels are encountered. The artery is well circum- stanced for the application of ligature, affording a considerable extent without the giving off of any branches. It is easily exposed by cautious separation of the cellular tissue, and the ligature is secured either towards its middle, or at its upper part, according to the size and situation of the aneurism. Popliteal aneurism is of more frequent occurrence than any of the preceding; and in regard to it, also, the old operation has deservedly fallen into disuse. It seems in most cases to be occa- sioned by partial laceration of the coats of the vessel; a sudden pain, and a feeling as of the receipt of an injury on the part, are generally felt, during some violent or unusual exertion; the pain continues, and an unwonted beating is soon perceived in the ham, along with inconsiderable swelling; the tumour with pulsation increases, and may ultimately attain a large size, causing pain, general uneasiness in the limb, and lameness, sometimes oedema. In cases of long duration, and when the patient is cachectic, the bones become diseased, absorption being caused by the pressure X X