466 AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. and again, till the membrane of the tympanum is free. A powerful syringe is required. By the use of a speculum, the con- dition of the external tube and membrane of the tympanum can be ascertained. But it is perhaps unnecessary to enlarge farther here on this subject, tor such is the division of labour in these days, that a distinct profession is founded on the operation of squirt- ing water into the external ear; it is true that other operations are talked of by these Aurists, as they style themselves, but the advantage to be derived from any of them is often very doubtful. They talk of deafness as arising from a deficient secretion of cerumen, from dryness, or from eruptions in the meatus; and heating stimulant applications are poured in — oils, ointments, mercurial salts, acetic acid, garlic, &c. all combined. They even go so far as to recommend mercurials to correct the state of the general health, to improve or rectify the functions of the chylopoietic viscera, the assistant chylopoietic, and the whole of the digestive organs, upon derangement of which, say they, many cases of deafness depend. The fools who apply to such charlatans certainly deserve to have their pockets well drained, but ought scarcely to be poisoned by them. It has been proposed to pass probes and tubes into the eusta- chian tubes, to re-establish their continuity if obliterated, or dilate them if partially closed. No doubt deafness often depends on ob- struction of this outlet from the tympanum, the requisite reverbe- ration being perhaps thereby impeded. It may be closed by swell- ing of the lining membrane by inspissated mucus, by destruction of its extremity from ulceration, by the cicatrisation of ulcers in the immediate neighbourhood, by congenital deficiency, or by pres- sure of neighbouring swellings, or of morbid growths, producing temporary or permanent obstruction. None but the first two causes could possibly admit of the use of the probe, and even then it can scarcely be required. By removal of the cause of such turgescence at the end of the tube, or in the neighbouring parts, — which can often be detected, being local, — by counter- irritation, &c., a cure is much more likely to be effected than by the introduction of probes. Not that the operation is exceed- ingly difficult; for, after practice on the dead body, a probe can readily be passed into the eustachian tube of the living from the nostril. The instrument is fixed in a handle, with its point slightly