656 CALCULUS VESICA. sufficient length and grasp, and the foreign body removed with- out laceration or bruising of the parts. The patient is then laid on his side, a piece of dressing being interposed between the edges of the wound to favour the discharge of the urine externally. The escape of this fluid may be free and copious, and the wound may close favourably; but the majority of the patients on whom this operation has been performed, have perished either from urinary infiltration, from peritoneal in- flammation, or from exhaustion. Fortunately, I have never had occasion to resort to it. It has been proposed to combine this mode of operation with wound of the posterior part of the urethra from the perineum, in order that a free and depending outlet may be afforded to the urine, and also, that by introducing instruments into the bladder from the lower opening, the organ may be elevated and stretched so that its fore part may afford sufficient space for the high incision without danger to the peritoneum. With this view the perineum is incised, similarly but to a less extent than in the lateral operation, and the membranous part of the urethra opened. Through this aperture the sound with a stilet for elevating the bladder is passed, and intrusted to an assist- ant; the incision above the pubes is then made, the stone extracted, and a tube is left in the perineal wound for dis- charge of the urine. The plan, though complicated, appears feasible, and likely to diminish hazard by preventing infiltra- tion. The recto-vesical method should never be I’esorted to in pre- ference to the lateral; in other words, it is unwarrantable, in my opinion, in those cases to which the lateral operation is ap- plicable. It consists in exposing the neck of the bladder by division upwards of the sphincter ani and lower part of the rectum, and then either making a section of the prostate in the usual way, or dividing also the coats of the bladder in the pos- terior fundus, when the concretion is large. The cure is tedious and harassing : the urine and feeces are discharged together, and hardened faeculent matter may accumulate within the bladder; the wound is long in contracting, and often cannot be made to close completely without much trouble, and after a long time; often a fistulous opening remains, communicating