AND DISEASES THENCE ARISING. 113 a considerable cavity is formed, with irregular margins and surface; not unfrequently it contains dead portions of the cancellated structure, in some of a dark, in others of a light colour ; or it is occupied, in the recent state, by a substance resembling lard. The surrounding bone is much softened, and, after maceration, becomes exceedingly light. The disease is generally* confined to one or two bones, but occasionally involves a whole chain. It may be limited to a part of one bone in a joint, or may embrace the whole of it. Its extent will depend on the severity of the primary action, or on the degree and duration of the pressure of fluid which has been allowed to exist, whether from the nature of the superincumbent texture or the carelessness of the surgeon. Interstitial absorption of those hones which are in the neigh- bourhood of the carious ulceration often occurs in the tarsus and carpus. The superincumbent integuments are livid and cold, and pain is felt in the situation of the hones ; yet they are not affected with continuous ulceration, but portions of their substance are gradually removed by absorption, so that they are much loosened in texture, and may be altogether de- stroyed, or come to consist merely of a thin and reticulated osseous shell, whilst at the same time their cartilaginous surfaces often remain in their healthy condition. The constitutional disorder attendant on caries is at first very great; the sympathetic fever is followed by hectic, under which, and the discharge, many patients sink. The general affection in some degree keeps pace with the local in violence and duration. The irritation is in some cases so great as to de- stroy the patient in a very few months or weeks; but not unfrequently a constitution, by no means strong, will be enabled to bear up for a long period under very extensive disease of a bone. The paroxysms of pain and inflammation occasion fresh attacks of constitutional derangement: this occurs till the patient’s health and strength are exhausted, and he sinks under the disease, or is relieved by the spontaneous or artificial re- moval of the cause. A natural cure of caries may occur in consequence of the diseased parts so far recovering their natural degree of vascular action as to form granulations and repair the breach; hut I