LIGATURE OF THE COMMON ILIAC ARTERY, 671 of wound of the artery, or in cases of secondary hasmorrhage from branches of either the external or the internal iliac. An incision is made through the abdominal parietes, com- menced over the passage of the cord through the transverse fascia, and extending upwards, and a little outwards, for five or six inches; its extent depending on the size of the patient, the thickness of the parts to be divided, and the consequent depth of the vessel. By this first incision, the skin and superficial fascia of the abdomen are divided, and then the muscles are penetrated, the line of the preliminary wound admitting of their being cut in the direction of the fibres. After the external oblique has been passed, the proceedings require to be conducted with great caution. The fibres are cut by the hand unsupported, and then the transverse fascia is scratched through, slightly and with gi’eat precaution, cutting upon the finger or a director in- troduced at the lower angle of the wound. By means of the finger, the opening is dilated, and the fascia separated from the peritoneum. This membrane and the parts within it are then, with the utmost gentleness, pushed inwards and upwards, by the hands of an assistant, so as to expose the bottom of the wound. The course of the vessel is now felt for, and by separating the edges of the wound, either by the fingers, or by broad and thin copper spatulm, its bifurcation may be seen. About an inch, or so above this point, the artery is slightly detached from its connections by the point of the knife, separating it from the vein on its posterior and inner surface, and a blunt-pointed needle, armed with a firm ligature, is pushed beneath, without force, and close to the coats of the vessel. The deligation is made firmly, and both ends of the ligature are brought out at the wound; this is then approximated by a sufficient number of stitches, and a compress and bandage applied. This operation is not often required. I had recourse to it once in bleeding, after very high amputation of the thigh, oc- cui’ring some days after the operation. The haemorrhage was effectually arrested, but the patient did not recover from the effects of the previous loss of blood, and continued to sink. Aneurism of the branches of the internal iliac, whether spon- taneous or the result of wound, is rare. When it does exist, its