INFLAMMATION OF THE RECTUM. 553 bowel or imbedded in its coats—as hardened feculent matter, alvine and biliary concretions, bones of small animals, needles, pins. Effusion often takes place into the loose cellular tissue round the bowel, with hard swelling, followed by unhealthy and ex- tensive suppuration. Rigors generally precede the formation of matter, and violent fever almost always attends, abating, along with all the painful feelings, on evacuation of the fluid. Still the discharge continues, and the patient is kept uncom- fortable and unhappy. Resolution can very rarely be procured; suppuration is the almost uniform termination of the action, and in persons of bad habit this sometimes occurs in these parts without any assignable cause, and without previous warning. The purulent collections are often very extensive, both ex- ternally and internally, the integuments are all undermined, and in some cases it is difficult to ascertain the depth of the abscess, even with the aid of a long probe. Owing to the loose nature of the texture surrounding the gut, abscesses near the anus often attain a great size, and extend deeply before there is much external indication of their ex- istence ; a hardness is felt on pressing the fingers deeply by the side of the tuberosity of the ischium ; this is at first obscure, but gradually becomes more developed; and at last a small dark red spot appears, indicating that the matter has approached the surface, and is most superficial at that part. But the surgeon should not wait for the pointing here, as the matter may burrow much previously, and abscess form in the substance of the sphincter, or exterior to it. If the matter does not cause ul- ceration of the coats of the intestine, and escape into its cavity, pointing takes place, and the pus is discharged externally, in general through a small opening. The matter is of a very of- fensive odour. The external aperture, and even the whole cavity of the abscess, may be at a distance from the gut, but in most cases the matter is close to it: its coats are denuded, and often ulcerated through. The surrounding degree of indu- ration, the quantity of contained matter, the extent of the cavity, and the situation of the opening, vary almost in every instance. Cases occur of induration, often very extensive, in the neigh-