OF HERNIA. 513 measure done away with. In large and old oblique ruptures the neck of the tumour is shortened, and the openings of the canal are approximated and more in a direct line. They are also immensely dilated, being often enlarged to such an extent as to admit all the fingers of the hand, when placed in a conical form, — and this even in the living body, the loose integument receding along with the tumour. The epigastric artery is situ- ated behind the neck of the sac, on its inner side; and it is much displaced inwards in cases of old standing. The direct hernia passes through the parietes opposite to the external ring, and does not come in contact with the spermatic chord until it has reached that point. Its neck is short, and the epigastric artery is on its outer side. The coverings of the two tumours are different. Those of the oblique are such as the chord pos- sesses— a prolongation of the transverse fascia, a covering from the cremaster muscle, fibres from the edge of the external ring, and the superficial fascia of the abdomen. The direct has only the last. A very old woman was operated upon in the North London Hospital a few days ago, for strangulated hernia of several days standing. The tumour was high in the inguinal region: on cutting down upon it, the tendon of the external oblique was found to cover it completely. The external ring was occupied by a mass of fatty matter, which probably had been displaced. The tendon was divided, and the sac, of considerable size, exposed. The opening through which the protrusion had taken place was very small, and situated a good deal to the mesial side of the internal aperture of the canal. The hernia was at the time of operation supposed to be ventro-inguinal. The patient was relieved for a time, but eventually sunk ex- hausted. An opportunity was thus unfortunately afforded of verifying the opinion formed. The hernia had two proper coverings, the superficial abdominal fascia and the tendon of the externa] oblique. The opening w’as inside the epigastric. The portion of bowel which had been extruded and returned was very tender, but it had adhered to the peritoneum, close to the place where it had been confined. The oblique inguinal, when recent and Small, is termed Bubonocele; but when large, it generally descends into the scrotum — oscheocele — of course exterior to the tunica va- L L