710 FRACTURE OF THE FOREARM. two first points the fracture will probably have been produced by direct violence; but near the carpus, it is usually the result of force applied to its extremity, as by falls in which the weight of the body is thrown on the palm of the hand. The ulna is usually broken by force directly applied, as when the arm is brought in contact with hard bodies in falls. By direct violence also, both bones may give way about the middle, and at cor- responding points: or, when force is applied in the direction of the bones, the ulna may be found broken near the wrist, and the radius near the elbow. When one bone is broken, there is little displacement. The power of motion is lost to a considerable degree, and there is some deformity, but little or no shortening. The existence of fracture is ascertained by tracing the bones with the fingers, and by gently rotating the limb; the broken portions moving on each other produce distinct crepitation. When the radius is broken near its middle, the forearm is kept pronated, and the broken extremities are drawn towards the ulna; by bringing the limb towards the supine position, the ends come together, and the one bone is removed from the other. Fracture of the radius near or through its distal extremity produces displacement of the wrist, with great deformity; and this is increased by bloody effusion into the sheaths of the tendons, and into the superficial cellular tissue. In fracture of both bones, there is much de- formity and shortening of the limb; the power of moving the hand is lost; the muscles are bruised and torn, and great swel- ling soon results. There is little^difficulty in remedying the slight displacement which takes place when but one bone is broken, and in retaining the parts in a favourable position. In children, occasionally, one of the bones of the forearm is broken, the other being bent very considerably, so as to cause great defoi’mity. When both have given way, slight extension is required, and the fore- arm is placed in the middle state between pronation and supin- ation. Two pasteboard splints, softened in hot water, and padded with tow, are applied, one on each aspect, from a little above the elbow to over the fingers; the outer should extend to the tips of the fingers, the inner need not pass the palm; they are retained by a roller. In fracture of both bones, a wooden