239 AND THEIR CONSEQUENCES. time; and though this may be, perhaps, partly owing to a change in the poison itself, it is mainly attributable to the mild- ness of the measures by which it has been, and is, opposed. Evex’y form of the affection, as soon as it appeared, was at one time opposed by a counter poison, mercury; and the prac- titioner, relying implicitly on this mineral as a specific, and not being fully aware of its dangerous properties, continued to gorge the system with the supposed remedy, subverting the constitution of his patient, making, in many cases, no impression on the disease, but still persevering in the use of a poison equal, if not more potent, than the one which it was intended to destroy. The change of treatment has been propitious to our science and to mankind. But let it not be inferred that mer- cury now is, or ought to be, entirely dismissed from the treat- ment of this disease, or from practice generally : often no other means are effectual; but it should always be prescribed most cautiously and sparingly. The effects of the venereal virus are divided into primary or local, and secondary or constitutional; and these present a great variety in their appearances, characters, and tendencies. They are sometimes modified by the constitution, or by the remedies ordered in the first stage; but there can be no doubt that different poisons exist, producing distinct kinds of ulcers, which again are succeeded by different constitutional affec- tions. The most common kind of sore is the simple ulcer, at first excavated, in consequence of the process of ulceration con- tinuing ; afterwards the ulceration stops, and granulations, somewhat fungous, supply its place, so that the surface is raised above the level of the surrounding parts, and has a smooth, soft appearance; there is no hardness of the edges, and there is no tendency to slough or extend by ulceration. Sometimes it commences in the form of a pustule, which soon gives way, dis- charging its contents, and leaving an exposed surface, in which the process of ulceration quickly proceeds; but often it arises from simple abrasion of the surface. Different forms of sores may exist on the glans and prepuce at the same time; and it is maintained, that one sore may produce another of a different kind, and the same is asserted with regard to eruptions. The simple