307 DISEASES OF THE EYE. guments give way, the subjacent bone becomes diseased in con- sequence of the pressure of the confined matter; portions are affected by necrosis, and after their separation considerable de- formity is produced. The exfoliation is often very tedious, and is attended with discharge of foetid thin fluid from the nostril, and from the ill-conditioned lachrymal fistula. Fistula lachrymalis is often merely one of the symptoms of disease in the bones of the nose, with obstruction of the nasal duct, — as in patients who have suffered from mercury. Treatment. — In the treatment of epiphora or blenorrhaea — that is, chronic collection of a mucous fluid in the lachrymal sac, with weeping of the eye — a primary object of attention is the state of the general health. The habit of the patient will com- monly be found weak, and, if not decidedly strumous, at least inclining towards that diathesis. In such cases the digestive organs must, if possible, be brought into a vigorous state by tonics and nourishing regimen. The local treatment chiefly consists in applying stimulants to the internal surfaces of the palpebrae and lachrymal sac. For this purpose, solutions of stimulating and astringent substances, termed collyria, and various ointments, are employed. At first they ought to be used of rather a mild nature, and their stimulating power must be afterwards increased gradually. The applications are placed between the eyelids, and, becoming mixed with the natural secretion, pervade the dis- eased surfaces; and, being taken up by the puncta lachrymalia, are afterwards conveyed into the sac. It was formerly the custom to inject the fluids into the sac; but this is unnecessary so long as the puncta and canaliculi remain pervious, and the permeability of these can be readily ascertained by means of a small probe. Permanent pressure on the sac can be productive of no good effect, and is extremely liable to do harm. The re- peated application of very small blisters over the sac has been found useful. Introducing minute gold probes through the puncta has been much recommended, but in the generality of cases can be of little service. The probes are too limber for removing mecha- nical obstruction, or for affecting in any way the contracted or strictured duct. But passing of the probe may tend to remove the irritability of the passage, as happens in the urethra, and x 2