640 CALCULUS VESICA. become generally applicable, and^ attempts to make them so will, as experience has shown, be followed by disappointment and disaster. A stone of a larger size than I have indicated, and of dense structure, may be laid hold of in the bladder, and may by repeated and tedious operations be broken into fragments; but each sitting, as it is called, of the patient, and each attack upon the stone, is attended with more pain, greater risk, and far more exhaustion, than its removal by incision would inflict. The repeated introduction of the instruments, their expansion, and the turning of them about in the bladder, and, if their object is accomplished, the action of the angular and rough surfaces of the fragments on the mucous coat, are certainly fol- lowed by an attack of inflammation of the viscus, always tedious and annoying — often excruciating, dangerous, perhaps fatal. Attacks of inflammation of the testicle are also not uncommon, probably from irritation of the prostate, and from the pinching and bruising of the verumontanum, which it is almost impos- sible to avoid, whatever care and precaution be adopted, when the three-branched instrument is used. In turning to the records of Lithotrity— and under this term we shall include all attempts to break down stones within the bladder, whether by drilling, or filing, or hammering — it will be found that many patients have died from the mere exploration; and altogether, nearly a half of those who have fallen into the hands of the experi- menters and adventurers have perished in consequence. Every successful case is well advertised; the dead men rest in peace. But still the operation of breaking up a stone in the bladder is very advisable in certain cases, and may be resorted to with every prospect of a safe, speedy, and successful conclusion. But it can be recommended and employed only within certain limits; the case must be well chosen, and every circumstance must be perfectly favourable as regards the condition of the urinary pas- sage and of the bladder, and the size and nature of the stone. Every operating surgeon should make himself well acquainted with the instruments and their mode of application, so that he may resort to them as occasion requires. A great deal of ingenuity has been expended of late years in inventing and improving tipon the apparatus. Many useless,