580 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. or four ounces, and they should contain from thirty to sixty drops of laudanum, or a corresponding quantity of the liquor opii sedativus. But an anodyne suppository is perhaps more simple and more efficacious. The effect of these remedies is almost instantaneous; all pain goes off; the patient becomes quiet, loses all recollection of his former sufferings, and often remains in a state of great comfort for twelve or sixteen hours. The suppository may be repeated as need be; the preferable time for its exhibition is the hour of sleep. Camphor, given by the mouth in full doses, is a powerful remedy for allaying irritation of the bladder, from whatever causes induced; as is copaiba, less nauseous and more trustworthy than cubebs or buchu. The copaiba will often remove speedily the most intense irritation, when all other means have failed. The bowels are to be kept gently open, and all stimuli disused; diet should be low, drink copious and bland. Washing out the bladder with anodyne or other fluids, and the application of blisters to the perineum and neighbouring parts, have been recommended, but are often more injurious than useful. Of Stricture of the Urethra. — By stricture is understood a narrowing or contraction of a mucous canal, from deranged action, or from morbid alteration of its structure. It may arise from relaxation and turgescence of the parietes, or from effusion of lymph either under the lining membrane, or on its surface. Spasmodic stricture has been spoken of by some writers, but is most probably an imaginary disease. An irri- table urethra, in which organic disease does not exist to any great extent, may contract at some point, diminish the stream of urine, and prevent the introduction of instruments, or retain them by closing firmly round, and in such circumstances the ob- struction does probably depend on spasm of the muscular fibres surrounding the urethra; yet to such a state of the canal the term stricture cannot be applied with any degree of propriety. True, organic, or permanent strictures of the urethra vary in their degree of constriction, becoming tighter when irritated by improper treatment, hard living, or exposure to damp or cold; indeed all mucous canals are sensibly affected by cold and damp. From these causes a combination may be produced of permanent