793 EXCISION OF JOINTS. of parts may be ascertained to exist by examination through a sinus, either with a probe, or with the finger after dilatation. In these circumstances, an attempt may be made to check dis- ease, and preserve the arm, by excision of the obnoxious parts of the bone. And this kind of operation is also justifiable when the head of the humerus has been shattered by musket shot; or when it has been exposed and injured by a splinter, or by a large shot, and the joint laid open. The situation and course of the incisions will be so far regulated by the openings or wounds already existing. They should always be made in the direction of the fibres of the deltoid, and the posterior aspect of the articulation is preferable to the anterior. One incision, from the back of the acromion process to near the insertion of the muscle, is sufficient to expose the head of the bone, to allow all its remaining attachments to be separated, and to admit of its being turned out so as to be conveniently acted on by the saw. The head of the bone merely is taken away. In sepa- rating the soft parts from its neck, the edge of the knife should be always directed to the bone, to avoid the nerves and vessels on the inside. In some cases of injury, very little additional wound may be requisite. The glenoid cavity may, in conse- quence of being seriously involved in disease, also require re- moval ; this is best accomplished by large cross-cutting pliers. Few vessels require ligature. The edges of the wound are brought together ; the elbow is supported, and the arm fixed to the trunk, in order to keep the bones in apposition, and prevent motion. This position must be retained during the rest of the cure; and when the wound is on the outside of the shoulder, as recommended, the dressing of it does not in- terfere with the retentive apparatus. The discharge gradually ceases, and cicatrisation is obtained, though not till after a considerable time, at least in general. The cut ends of the bones accommodate themselves to each other, and a sort of new joint is formed — but never strong. The motions of the fore- arm are perfect, though perhaps weakened; those of the upper arm are very incomplete. I have both performed and assisted in the operation repeatedly, and never experienced any diffi- culty ; a cure has not always followed, but in some cases the limb has become very useful.