644 CALCULUS VESICLE. is prejudicial. Unless his digestive apparatus be in disorder, or he be labouring under some other affection incompatible with his safety should an operation be performed, the sooner he is cut the better. Delay often inflicts much mental suffering, is apt to induce despondency, and to weaken the defensive and reparative powers of the system. On the night before the operation, a dose of castor-oil, or other mild purgative, is to be administered, so as to obtain an empty state of the lower bowels ; should this fail, an enema must be given. The existence of a stone should be ascertained immediately before proceeding to the operation ; it is not enough that the sounding was satisfactory the day before, or at any former period; and the operator will also, for his own sake, satisfy those who are met as his advisers and assistants of the fact that there is a stone in the bladder. All apparatus that may be required should be at hand. A grooved staff, a knife, forceps, a scoop, and an elastic gum tube, are in general sufficient. A Read’s syringe should also be provided, lest the stone should prove brittle, and crumble under the forceps. When the oper- ator has, by previous examination, ascertained that the stone is of an unusually large size, then he must be provided with a narrow, straight, and probe-pointed knife, with forceps of considerable length and grasp, and also with forceps so con- structed as to effect crushing of the stone, should this prove necessaiy. The staff should be curved, of a size sufficient to fill the urethra, or nearly so, and with the groove placed betwixt the convex surface and the side presented to the left of the patient. This form of instrument will prove the most convenient guide into the bladder. It is introduced fairly into the viscus, and made to touch the stone audibly. Its concave surface is raised towards the arch of the pubes, and retained thus, firmly hooked under the bones — as if with the intent of lifting the patient from the table — perpendicularly straight, without any inclina- tion of the handle, or any bulging of the convexity towards the perineum. After being properly placed, the instrument is intrusted to an experienced assistant, who keeps it exactly in the same position from the beginning to the conclusion of the incisions. He at the same time elevates the scrotum, and