561 TREATMENT OF DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. clyster pipes, bougies, &c., which have been passed up per anum. From being the source of constant irritation, and obstructing the functions of the part, they demand removal. Alvine con- cretions are now rare; they are usually situated in the caput caecum coli, sometimes in the sigmoid flexure, or in the arch of the colon; they may descend into the rectum, and lodge there. Children are sometimes born with the anus imperforate, the extremity of the rectum being covered merely by integument, or the bowel terminating an inch or two above the usual site of the anus ; or the rectum may be wholly deficient. In the lust case, the colon may end in a blind sac at the fundus of the bladder, or it may open either into that viscus or into the vagina. Treatment of Affections of the Rectum^ — In the treatment of haemorrhoids, the cause should be removed if possible; and this may suffice for the cure. When the tumours are recent and small, they may be made to disappear by the use of astrin- gent ointments or decoctions, as of galls, kino, oak-bark, and by sedulous attention to cleanliness of the part. In inflamed tumours, blood may be extracted by leeches or punctures, and hot fomentations afterwards used. Recent haemorrhoids are sometimes got rid of at once by the puncture of a lancet, by which a clot of grumous blood is discharged, with immediate subsidence of the swelling, and abatement of pain. When con- ! striction of internal tumours or folds of bowel by the sphincter , has occurred, the tumour should be replaced if possible. In i irritability of the sphincter, a bougie is sometimes used with advantage; and incision of the muscle, by which rest is afforded to the parts, will often effect a cure, after the failure of all other means : this is essential when rugged ulcers or fissures j occupy the orifice; the division may be made on either side, certainly not in the mesial line. In most cases, the tumour must be got rid of by the knife or ligature. When the piles are f internal, removal by ligature is to be prefen-ed; the patient being made to strain, and thereby bring the tumours as low as possible, a ligature is placed round the base of the swell- ing, provided its form conveniently admits of it; otherwise the base is pierced by a fixed needle armed with a double o o