409 ENLARGEMENT OF TONGUE. vellience to the patient, and is not unattended with danger; the difficulty in breathing may amount almost to suffocation, and in such the treatment must be active. Several free incisions are to be made longitudinally on the dorsum of the tongue; from these the effused fluids are evacuated, a considerable quantity of blood escapes, and consequently the tumour speedily subsides. Super- ficial incisions are not sufficient, and the practitioner should not shrink from cutting tolerably deep; for although the wounds may appear ghastly in the engorged and tumid condition of the organ, yet, when the swelling subsides, and the tongue regains its usual bulk, their size, as in other situations, is so remarkably diminished, that they resemble trifling scarifications, and, in some instances, are almost imperceptible. Their extent and num- ber must vary according to the size of the tumour, and the urgency of the concomitant symptoms. If such practice should fail in diminishing the swelling, and affording relief to the respir- ation, it may become necessary to perform tracheotomy. If the inflammation terminate in suppuration, the abscess must be treated on the same principles as those occurring in other parts of the body. The tongue is also subject to gradual and permanent enlarge- ment. A remarkable case of this nature occurred to me some years ago, and I shall here detail it shortly. The patient was a male, aged 19. The tongue was of a very large size, compressible and elastic, projected three or four inches from the lips, and completely filled the cavity of the mouth. It was of a dark brown hue, in some places livid ; its surface was rough, at some points granulated, at others fissured, and at many traversed by large venous trunks. At the back part of the dorsum, the papillse were much enlarged, granulated points were numerous, and several plexuses of dilated blood-vessels ramified immediately beneath the investino; membrane. 4'here was occasional bleedinor from an ul- cerated fissure near the centre of the dorsum and also from the lateral parts of the protruded portion ; in the latter situation, several cicatrices were visible. Saliva flowed in a continuous stream from the apex of the tumour. The lower jaw, much separated from the upper, was elongated and unusually narrow; the teeth, particularly those in front, were placed at a distance from each other, were covered with tartar, and projected almost