OF MORTIFICATION. 53 once ; skin natural; appetite good ; suppuration very free. Cent. “ 5. Suppuration copious; a portion of the dead parts left have separated, and left a healthy florid granulating surface. Continues much the same. “ 6. Discharge copious, and much less fetid; bowels regular; pulse 100, of good strength; tongue clean; appetite good; wishes for more food. To have an additional chop. Cont. alia. “ 8. The greater part of the sloughs have separated, and have left a healthy florid granulating surface; no change in the ge- neral symptoms. Continue. “ 9. The stump looks well, and the posterior part of the cut end of the bone is covered by healthy granulations. « In some notes of this case, kindly furnished me by the late Professor Fergus of King’s College, who had an opportunity of watching the appearances for some time be- fore the admission of the patient here, it is mentioned that the flow of blood in the veins was exceedingly slow, and that hard knotty tumours could be felt in the parts before they became sphacelated. These swellings all along preceded the mortification. It is mentioned, besides, that the patient had a sort of fit, but that it could not exactly be ascertained whether or not she lost consciousness. Her left arm is said to have been motionless from and after that time. There is considerable dis- crepancy in the accounts of the mode of invasion, and of the duration of the disease, before the line of separation became ap- parent. A period of six weeks is stated in our case-book to have elapsed from the attack to the admission of the patient into this hospital. It would appear, however, from the other history, that not more than three weeks had passed over. The old lady is not very distinct in her account; at one time she makes a statement with great minuteness, and very soon after contradicts herself on almost every point. When pressed on the subject, she states that she got disgusted with her condition, became despondent and careless about everything, and that her recollection is not now very good.” “ S. W., aged 16, was admitted March 12, under the care of Mr. Liston. She is a servant girl, of sanguine temperament and good constitution. On Friday, March 9, she was cleaning E 3