LUXATION OF THE HIP-JOINT. 747 Before swelling has occurred, and also after it has subsided, the head of the bone can be felt lying under the gluteus. The trochanter is evidently out of place, being depressed, and lying farther up and back than usual. This is strikingly observable on comparing the injured limb with the opposite. Attempts to move the limb and effect rotation produce great pain. Large swelling soon follows, along with greater stiffness and immobi- lity. If the head of the bone is not replaced, the pain gradually subsides, and, after some months, freedom of motion is regained to a slight extent; the patient is able to walk, but with a great halt. At first, reduction is accomplished with no great difficulty. Within a very short time after the occurrence of the injury, before the patient had recovered from the shock, whilst he still lay sick, faint, and powerless, I have succeeded in effecting reduction of the femur quite unassisted, — extending with one hand, grasping the thigh behind, and, at the same time, ro- tating it outwards by pressure of the forearm on the leg, coun- ter-extension being made by the left hand on the symphysis pubis. When a few hours have intervened, assistance and ap- paratus are requisite. The patient is secured by a broad band, — a common sheet suits very well, — passed under the peri- neum. The lacque is fixed above the knee, with a knot that will not run, a towel wrung out of cold water being applied next to the skin, in order to increase the securitv of the hold and prevent excoriation. A well-padded broad iron ring, tight- ened on the limb by a screw, and provided with suitable straps for attachment of the pulleys, is very useful, — fully more convenient than the common woollen lacque. Extension may be made by one or more assistants; but this may prove ineffec- tual, and it is better at once to have recourse to the pulleys: these are not alarming to the patient, and, being efficient, will in the end materially diminish his suffering. The extension should be gradual, steady, and persevering; the rotation of the limb during extension should be principally outwards, effected by laying hold of the ankle, and using the leg as a lever. This motion is peculiarly successful when the bone has yielded a little to the extension, when it has changed its place, and come nearly on a line with the cotyloid cavity. In some cases, even