UTERINE DISEASE. 669 of such tumours are benign, troublesome only from thei.' bulk and situation, and from tne irritation which they produce in the surrounding membrane. They very frequently have their origin in the substance of the uterus, and are extruded from it, covered by the mucous lining. Removal by ligature is gene- rally the most advisable method of extirpation. The site and nature of the attachment are ascertained, and a strong wire of fine silver, or a piece of whipcord, is noosed round the base by the finger, and pushed down close to the origin, care being taken not to include the healthy parts beyond the growth. The liga- ture is tightened by passing it through a canula, or along a strong probe, with a ring at each extremity, to the lower of which it is secured. It is drawn more tightly from time to time, till the tumour drop away. A double canula, the por- tions of which can be separated, is often used for the purpose. By practice only can dexterity in such manipulation be ac- quired; the object being understood, it must be attained by perseverance. Malignant disease of the uterus is common. Various morbid alterations are here met with; soft, or hard, or bloody masses, earthy deposits, &c. The disease generally commences in the neck, with fulness and thickening; in many females it is attri- butable to faulty menstruation, to leucorrhoea, or to other irri- tations in the neighbourhood. Ulceration sometimes occurs, not of a malignant nature, from similar causes; but in old females this is either of a bad kind from the first, or dege- nerates, presenting all the usual characters of malignant sore on a mucous surface. The surrounding induration is usually great, and quickly spreads to the neck and body of the organ, contaminating also the neighbouring tissues and the lymphatics. Some blood-thirsty accoucheurs and operators have attacked the uterus unrelentingly; more than one appears to have been seized with the monomania of cutting out part or the whole of the organ. Numerous females, at a period of life when malignant diseases rarely show themselves, have been subjected to excision of the os and cervix uteri. Some forty or fifty were operated on within a very few months; in almost all of these cases the proceeding was, without a doubt, cruel, reckless, and unneces-