INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 267 moving its point laterally. Then compression is to be again employed, by the assistance of which the natural processes for closing the divided extremities are speedily accomplished. When this artery has been injured by external violence, the wound of the integuments is generally large, and the bleeding profuse. In such cases, both ends of the vessel must be pulled out by means of forceps, and tied separately; afterwards the integuments are to be approximated and supported. Unpleasant consequences sometimes result from the simple operation of opening the temporal artery, and occasionally also from accidental wounds of that vessel. The integuments unite, and may soon heal; but, from the compression not being sufficient, a small quantity of blood is insinuated into the cellular tissue, which becomes condensed for a consider- able extent around the wound, and ultimately a sac is formed, which communicates with the ununited opening in the artery, and is consequently filled with sanguineous clots; in short, an aneurismal tumour is formed. For the cure of this untoward occurrence, the artery may be tied between the heart and tumour, as in the case of spontaneous aneurism; but in conse- quence of the free inosculation which exists between the numer- ous ramifications of the artery, this measure may not prove suc- cessful, and it will be found necessary, either then or afterwards, to secure the vessel beyond the tumour. But there is another mode of procedure. Frc-m the tumour being generally small and circumscribed, excision of the whole of it can be effected easily, and so as to leave but a slight scar: this operation is not liable to failure, and is not more severe than the first mentioned. After the removal of the diseased part by elliptical incisions, the two ends of the artery are to be included in separate ligatures, and the edges of the wound kept together. A more troublesome accident sometimes takes place, — ulcer- ation of, and over, the vessel, wdth effusion of serous and puru- lent fluids into the surrounding cellular tissue, often to a great extent. A profuse flow of blood bursts from the ulcerated surface, perhaps twelve, fifteen, or twenty days after the vessel had been opened, and, if active means are not speedily adopted, the haemorrhage by its recurrence may prove very dangerous. In such cases compression is of no avail; the bleeding may be