RETENTION OF URINE. 663 u u 4 der, and the same treatment is necessary as in the case of the male. Hysterical women often take it into their heads that they are unable to empty the bladder, and will not attempt it; and though it may be difficult to convince them of their mis- take, yet when they are left to themselves for a little, and begin to feel some of the torments which attend retention, they con- trive to get rid of their burden, and that without any very great exertion. Sometimes they omit attempting to empty the bladder when they could, and then they cannot effect it when they would do so. Others are still more whimsical, and will push into the viscus needle-cases, bodkins, portions of tobacco-pipes, and such like. The surgeon should be aware of such whims and fanc'es. There is, in general, no difficulty in passing the catheter. A short one is preferable, there being less chance of giving pain; and the operation must, of course, be proceeded in with the utmost regard to delicacy. The forefinger is placed in the upper part of the orifice of the vagina, and the point of the instrument, when placed a little above this mark, readily slips into the ure- thra. It is recommended to use the clitoris as the guide, placing the finger on this, and moving the point of the instrument thence downwards; but when this method is pursued, the cathe- ter is apt to enter the more patent passage. The instrument is to be carried gently onwards, in a horizontal direction, till the urine flows. In some cases of enlai’gement and displacement of the neighbouring parts, the urethra is elongated, and its course irregular ; in such, a long elastic catheter is required. If ob- jections are made to the use of the catheter, at an early period of I’etention, nitrous ether may be given internally, fomentations applied to the hypogastrium, and a turpentine enema adminis- tered. Puncture of the bladder can seldom, if ever, be neces- sai’y in the female ; if it should be required, the opening may be made either above the pubes or through the vagina. From the latter method there is a risk of fistula remaining; but this, as will afterwards be noticed, can in some cases be ultimately made to close. The operation above the pubes has, in some instances, been necessary during parturition, when instruments could not be passed by the urethra, nor through the coats of the vagina and bladder.