CANCER OF THE PENIS. U13 ignorance of the nature of the disease, and of the relative situ- ation of the parts. It is necessary to divide only the edge of the prepuce, which, from being reflected, alone composes the stricture. The anterior and posterior swellings are to be sepa- rated as far as possible, and in the very bottom of the depression between them the stricture is exposed; a slight incision, a scratch, through this, either with the point of a bistoury, or with a lancet, is sufficient; the tight edge of the prepuce—the only part in fault — is divided, and then, by the process already detailed, reduction can be readily effected. After reduction, a minute notch in the extreme edge of the prepuce is the only deformity visible, except the swelling. But if, from ignorance of the true seat of the stricture, extensive incisions have been made, pretty much at random, the organ may be considerably disfigured — and that unnecessarily. By fomentations, rest, and low diet, the effusion will be dissipated in a very few days. Reduction is difficult when the contraction has continued for some time, and the tissues have become glued together by effused lymph. Malignant ulcer, with induration of the surrounding parts, and contamination of the lymphatics, occurs occasionally on the glans penis, or on the lining membrane of the prepuce. As before observed, it is most frequently met with in those who have laboured under congenital phymosis; in that state of the organ, its extremity is apt to inflame, swell, and ulcerate, in consequence of accumulation and acrimony of the secretions from the membrane of the prepuce: indolent swellings form in the groin ; and in one case, I recollect, these assumed a malig- nant action, a frightful ulcer formed, and the patient was de- stroyed, after division of the prepuce, and after the ulceration on it had been long healed, and the part had apparently become quite sound. Early removal of the diseased part, by incision wide of the indurated and altered structure surrounding the ulcer, is the only means of saving the patient, of preventing glandular inguinal tumour, ulceration of it, haemorrhage, hectic, and death. When the prepuce solely is involved, removal of this is sufficient, either entirely or in part, as circumstances may de- mand. When the glans and coverings, as also the body of the organ, are involved, amputation is to be performed, provided the