412 DEPOSITION OF EARTHY MATTER. ally by occasional introduction of variously sized probes. Often it is necessary to make a small incision in the situation of the orifice, and introduce a bit of gum-elastic bougie, by continuing the use of which for some time, permanency of the opening may be obtained. Deposition of earthy Matter — principally phosphate of lime — not unfrequently takes place in the extremity of the submaxil- lary and sublingual ducts, and the concretion so formed is often of considerable size; some are lai'ger than an almond. The colour is either white or yellowish, and the surface either smooth or roughened by nodules; in all the calcareous matter is friable, and disposed in concentric layers. They are of the same nature as the earthy deposits, called tartar, which form on those teeth opposite to the extremities of the salivary ducts. The foreign body produces uneasiness in the mouth, swelling, and indistinct- ness of speech: occasionally painful swelling of the salivary gland and surrounding parts takes place. Conci’etions also form, though very rarely, in the extremity of the parotid duct, and are attended with like inconvenience; of this I have seen only two cases. The foreign body is easily removed; an incision is made through the membrane of the mouth, and the concretion dis- lodged by forceps, a scoop, or the fingers. The saliva regains its course, and irritation subsides. Sometimes the foreign body is exposed by ulceration, and might ultimately escape from its, bed spontaneously. A figure of a salivary calculus of consi- derable size is here given. When the con- cretion is small, its extraction is not so easily accomplished as might be supposed. It is apt to slip back out of reach, so that it can- not be seized, brought forward and extracted either by scoops or forceps The flow of saliva must be promoted by giving the patient something to masticate; the probabilityis, that the foreign body will then be presented, and perhaps expelled, if the open- ing of the duct has been previously dilated. A young lady was brought to me lately suffering great uneasiness from the presence of a concretion, not larger than a millet seed. She complained