588 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. vided with a full assortment of catheters and metallic bougies, each one differing from the other in size ; for, as already observed, the size of the instrument passed must be gradually increased : and, besides, the calibre of the canal varies much in different indivi- duals ; what is a full size for one person may be but a trifle in the urethra of another. The bougies are arranged by what is termed a size-plate, or gauge, a flat piece of metal, containing fifteen or sixteen circular perforations, which commence about the size of a small crow-quill, and gradually enlarge in diameter. These apertures are numbered, and the bougie which fills one has the corresponding number imprinted on it. By reference to the numbers, the surgeon is at once made aware of the pro- gress he has made towards a cure. In the more common and simple cases, a regular and gradual ascent in this scale is all that is required, allowing a proper in- terval to elapse betwixt the introductions. But in tight and un- yielding stricture, small, firm, silver catheters are required. One of these of a size proportioned to the contraction of the canal — and the calibre often must be extremely minute — is passed through the stricture or strictures by dexterous, persevering, and at the same time gentle pressure in the proper direction. If the diseased part be anterior to the bulb, it can be grasped between the fingers of the left hand, whilst with the right the instrument is insinuated into it; thus the part is steadied, and the course of the catheter made more certain and safe. If it be posterior, assistance in the introduction, and information as to the direction and progress of the instrument are obtained by the forefinger of the left hand being placed in the bowel; and this is the more necessary when the stricture is of an elastic nature. Considerable experience is requisite to enable the surgeon to be aware of the progress he is making with the instrument, and whether or not it is advancing fairly in the canal; much infor- mation as to this is imparted by the sense of feeling. If the point of the instrument be within the contracted part, it will be felt embraced and obstructed, and on withdrawing the pressure, it will be stationary; if it have not entered the stricture, but is pushing it before it, resilience will be felt as soon as the pressure is either diminished or removed. The sensation imparted when the instrument has left the canal, and is entering into a false