703 INJURIES OF THE SHOULDER. readily put to tlie side. On raising the humerus, rotating it, and moving it to and fro, crepitation is distinctly perceived — but not so readily after swelling has taken place. The swelling also obscures the appearances observed immediately after the infliction of the injury, — the flattening of the shoulder, and apparent elongation of the arm. By the fingers of one hand, pressed deep into the axilla, the head of the humerus can be discovered; and, on rotating the shaft of the bone with the other hand, grasping the elbow and pushing upwards at the same time, crepitation is perceived, and the upper portion of the bone is ascertained to be unaffected by the rotation of the shaft. The nature of the injury is then sufficiently apparent. But the shaft of the humerus may, by such manipulation, be ascertained to be entire. Still, from the direction of the force which effected the injury, the flattening of the shoulder, the re- markable falling down of the arm, the loss of power, the free motion, and from the crepitation, though peihaps indistinct, it is evident that fracture has occurred. Then, by the fingers in the axilla, whilst the humerus is raised and moved in different directions, crepitation is recognised deeper and less distinct than in the former case; and the surgeon is warranted in be- lieving that the glenoid cavity has suffered — that it is broken into fragments, or that it is separated from the body of the scapula by fracture of its neck; he is also warranted in adopting the means of cure suitable to such an accident. Many such injuries are supposed to occui-, yet it is strange that preparations illustrative of it are scarcely to be met with in our collections of morbid specimens. How both detachment and luxation of the head of the hu- merus should occur, can scarcely be explained. Luxation cer- tainly cannot take place after fracture; no force can be applied to the head of the bone sufficient to displace it. It is barely possible, that after luxation, force may be applied to the bone so as to fracture its neck. This accident is of very rare oc- currence, though by some supposed to be otherwise. I have had an opportunity of examining but one case, and that was very distinct; the head of the bone, completely detached from the shaft, lay in the axilla. Comminution of the head of the bone, with displacement of the fragments, is not uncommon.