657 CALCULUS VESICA. with tlie bladder and rectum, and through this the urine con- tinues to be in part discharged. It has been argued, that the recto-vesical method is advisable, with the view of obtaining more room for extraction of the stone; but to me it appears that the divided rectum will occupy just as much space in the outlet as when entire and empty. Circumstances may, how- ever, occur, rendering this operation, or a modification of it, absolutely necessary, as in the following case — the only instance in which I have encountered an encysted stone. The patient, aged 64, of a spare habit of body, was seized with symptoms of stone in the bladder about twenty-four years pi’eviously to my seeing him; at that time he was sounded, but no stone could be discovered. The symptoms gradually subsided, and ultimately disappeared, and he remained for considerably more than twelve years totally free from any affection of the urinary organs. But, about three years previous to the opei'ation, the symptoms returned, and again attentive examination of the bladder was made, without detecting any stone; on introducing the finger into the rectum, however, as high as possible, a firm substance was felt, globular, of considerable size, and very slightly move- able. From this time the symptoms gradually increased in severity, ultimately becoming almost intolerable. At length the presence of a stone was distinctly ascertained by sounding, and the instrument was passed beneath as well as over the calculus; from simultaneous examination by the rectum, it was evident that the hard bulging body was connected with the foreign matter struck by the sound. The lateral operation was per- formed, and, expecting to meet with a large stone, both sides of the prostate were divided. The forceps were introduced, but the stone, though easily laid hold of, could not be moved. Attempts with the instrument were accordingly abandoned, and further examination made by the finger, when it was found that the stone lay fixed in the lower and anterior part of the viscus, that it was firmly enveloped by a cyst situated between the rectum and posterior part of the prostate, and that only a part, small in proportion to its body, projected into the cavity of the bladder. Of this unusual and untoward circumstance, the medical gentlemen present were also satisfied by manual examination. It was quite apparent that it would be impos- u u