299 DISEASES OF THE SCALP. almost lifeless granulations shoot from the distempered mass. Such disease, when the patient does not soon succumb to its virulence, advances to a frightful extent, affecting a large surface, destroying the whole thickness of the bone, and even exposing the internal parts. In a case of this description, which occurred in the Royal Infirmary under my care, the anterior half of the cranium was totally destroyed, the left orbit contained a putrid mass, consisting of the disorganised eye mixed with pus and bloody fluid; the dura mater was exposed, and sloughed at several points, and the unhealthy discharge from the parts lodged on the surface of the brain. In malignant dis- ease of scalp, as of other parts, the lymphatics become second- arily affected : the absorbents feel hard and thickened, the glands in the neighbourhood enlarge and ulcerate, and the sore thereby formed soon assumes the characters of decided malignancy, — hard everted edges, an angry surface, and foetid thin discharge. Before the disease has become very extensive in the scalp, and w'hen it is still limited to the superficial parts, it may be removed by the knife; the incisions being made at a considerable dis- tance from the margins of the ulcer, so that those parts which may be supposed to have assumed a disposition to malignant action, may be taken away along with the ulcer. In moi-e advanced cases, it may be necessary that the incisions should extend in depth to the bone; and it may be prudent to insist on a portion of the bone exfoliating, the periosteum being removed, and some potential cautery applied to the exposed surface, — as the alumen ustum, oxydum hydrargyri rubrum, &c. The actual cautery cannot be applied with safety to the cranium. Even where the integuments only are removed, and that to a small extent, and in a proper form, it is vain to think of approxi- mating the parts and procuring union by adhesion ; the wound must granulate. There is no difficulty in suppressing haemor- rhage; either ligature or temporary pressure may be employed according to circumstances. Mild dressings are to be applied, and proper support afforded. The parts should be kept clean, and for that purpose the surrounding scalp must shaved re- peatedly. Tumours of the Scalp. —Tumours of a sarcomatous nature are seldom met with in this situation, but the adipose are not so