180 OF TUMOURS. The larger nervous trunks sometimes become diseased, being affected with an enlargement resembling the structure and ap- pearance of the preceding tumour, and such enlargements are termed Neuromata. Occasionally a portion of a nervous trunk is thus enlarged, from a blow or wound; and sometimes there can be no cause assigned. Nerves when divided, become bulbous on that extremity towards their centre. In stumps this is well seen; whilst all the tissues entering into it, after a time shrink, and become more or less atrophied (bone, muscles, vessels, &c.), the extremities of the nerves swell out and present a bul- bous appearance. When these tumours are connected to, and only covered by, integument, or when they are adherent to the ligamentous substance covering the bone, and become exposed to pressure, as in badly made stumps, the patient often suffers excruciating agony. The nervous trunk above is, in general, slightly enlarged, sometimes has a tortuous course; and in some instances the neurilemmal blood-vessels are considerably in- creased in size. The same symptoms exist, though in a less acute form, as in the painful tubercle. Of Polypus. A common species of tumour is that which is attached to a mucous sui’face, and is called Polypus. Polypi vary in struc- ture and disposition ; some are simple and benign, othei’s are most malignant. The simple mucous polypus has a shining ap- pearance, being invested by an extremely delicate membrane, in some degree resembling the mucous, and moistened by a fluid similar to the mucous secretion; it is of soft consistence and homogeneous structure. They are generally light brown, sometimes greyish, and in some degree diaphanous. They are connected to the mucous membrane by a narrow pedicle; gene- rally occur in clusters, and are of pyriform shape; one or more are often suspended from one narrow base, and they seldom attain a large size. They possess but little vascularity, though occasionally minute vessels are seen i-amifying pretty freely on their surface, and may be considered as almost devoid of sen- sibility. The malignant polypus, on the contrary, is always