236 OF MALIGNANT PUSTULE. with all the other symptoms of an inflammatory diathesis, imme- diate recourse must be had to free abstraction of blood from the system, as thus only can the progress of the disease be efficiently arrested; and if inflammatory symptoms exist, when there is reason to expect the occurrence of the disease, though no symp- tom of it has yet appeared, then, too, venesection combined wdth purgatives is demanded, as being the most powerful preventives. Emetics are also recommended. When the affection is from its commencement accompanied with typhoid symptoms, depleting measures must do irreparable mischief: in such cases, the local pain and irritation will be relieved by the exhibition of opium or camphor, and it may also be of service to preserve a perspir- able state of the surface by means of Dover’s powder, or other diaphoretics. Preparations of Peruvian bark, the decoction with or without the tincture and acid, or the sulphate of quina, are often given with great advantage — opium is also usefully exhibited. Vinegar, weak acids, the nitric and muriatic acids diluted, have been used as external applications, and nitrate of silver, the red oxide of mercury, and the actual cautery, have been applied with the view of removing the diseased parts, and procuring a healthy surface. Arsenic in solution, used so as to produce a slough, followed by hot dressings, has been supposed to be serviceable. A much safer and more powerful application is the strong nitric acid, which sometimes requires to be applied over the diseased surface very freely, and repeated if need be. The Malignant Pustule Is a gangrenous inflammation of the skin, rarely extending to the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and in this respect differs from carbuncle, which commences and is seated in the cellular tex- ture. It arises from the application of the fluids of animals which have died of putrid diseases common in some marshy and low situations. It is communicated not only by matter from the diseased part, but also by the blood of the animal; thus it is frequently observed in those who handle the recent skin or flesh; and the excrements also appear to be possessed of the poisonous principle. It spreads from one person to another by contact. There is much reason to doubt, whether carrion