440 DISEASES OF THE WINDPIPE. defies all sanative measures, and advances unsubdued to a fatal termination. Tracheotomy has been both proposed and performed in this disease. Recourse to it is not warrantable till the later period of the affection, and then it will be found unavailing. If per- formed early, there is found no obstruction to respiration that can be removed; it can therefore be of no service, and is not required. If it be undertaken at a more advanced period, lymph will most probably be found to extend below the in- cision ; the bronchial tubes and the substance of the lungs are then the principal seat of the disease, and consequently the operation is futile, at least in children. When first I entered on practice I was several times prevailed on to perform trache- otomy on children labouring under croup; the results were un- successful, and from my own experience I cannot recommend the practice. The fauces and larynx of children are occasionally injured, as stated above, by the attempt to swallow by mistake boiling water, and inhaling the steam. The alarming symptoms follow in a very few hours, in consequence of the formation of numerous minute vesicles, with swelling, from effusion of serum into the submucous tissue. Great pain is generally experienced at the moment, but after crying violently the child may fall asleep and awaken croupy, and with threatened suffocation. By this time inflammatory action has been fairly established, the submucous effusion has begun to take place, and it is this that gives rise to the danger. The excited action is to be combated by leeching and exhibition of calomel in small doses, with or without opium frequently repeated, so as to arrest the lymphatic effusion, which is apt to supervene. When these means fail, tracheotomy must be resorted to without delay. The fauces and upper part of the larynx are only involved at first; this practice is sound, and good success may be expected from the operation. The breathing has been suddenly suspended in children by the attempt to swallow acrid fluids, such as alkaline solutions, or concentrated acids. Cynanche laryngea, in adults, is of comparatively rare oc- currence ; at least that kind of inflammation of the windpipe, which in children is so rapid in its progress, and so prone to terminate in effusion of lymph, is not often met with in persons