540 OF OVARIAN DISEASE. ever, with each end split, are equally effectual, and can always be readily obtained — a consideration of consequence in the choice of all apparatus. After the band has been applied, a person is placed on each side to tighten it gradually by steady pulling at the ends, which are carefully crossed behind. An opening is made in the cloth, opposite to where it is proposed to puncture, and the operation is then proceeded in. Sometimes the flow is impeded by the omentum or a fold of bowel falling forward on the canula, and closing or diminishing the opening ; this is remedied by passing a tube along the canula, closed at the extremity, but perforated at the sides near it, and about half an inch longer than the canula. After the cavity has been emptied, the patient is placed recumbent, and a long broad flannel bandage applied over the whole abdomen, and retained, so as to prevent shifting, by straps passed over the shoulders and under the perineum. Collections occur in the ovaria. The fluid is generally glairy, sometimes thick and gelatinous, often turbid and dark coloured. Not unfrequently the main cyst is subdivided, either by mem- branous septa, or by an aggregation of smaller cysts of the natui’e of hydatids. The swelling is at first on one side, and gradually rises out of the pelvis; often it remains long mov- able ; it increases, becomes more fixed, and ultimately fills the abdomen, displacing the viscera, and giving rise to feelings of much uneasiness, deformity, and loss of health. The cyst is generally thick; sometimes it is thin at one or more points, and this may give way, causing effusion of the contents into the peritoneal sac. Fluctuation is perceptible in many cases; in others it is obscured by the thickness of the cyst and viscidity of its contents. Many such swellings may be punctured both with advantage and with safety, but generally the tapping re- quires frequent repetition. Some patients require tapping, merely as a mean of improving the figure and relieving uneasy feelings, once, twice, or thrice a year; their existence is not much embittered or abridged by the disease. A large round trocar is necessary for the purpose; and the puncture is made at the softest and most prominent point of the tumour, a small incision through the integument being premised.