FRACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE. 699 placed, the sternal is nearly in situ; though, from the depres- sion of the former, the prominence of the latter appears to arise from displacement. The arm falls forwards and down- wards. The fracture is sometimes compound. The wound is gene- rally small, and occasioned by the projection of the sternal por- tion ; or the integument may be divided by the external force. The nature of the accident is readily recognised. The deformity is very apparent. There is swelling, from extra- vasated blood, over the bone; the shoulder is unnaturally ap- proximated to the chest, and depressed. The motions of the extremity, those above the shoulder, are impaired. Crepitation is felt on raising the arm, and can-ying it backwai'ds so as to bring the fractured surfaces into contact. When the patient is seen immediately after the accident, the bones are to be placed in apposition, and retained, without delay, and before inflammatory swelling has come on. No complicated apparatus is required. A pad, firm, though of soft material, and large enough to fill the arm-pit completely, is rolled in a shawl and placed in the axilla; it is retained by tying the shawl over the opposite shoulder, a soft pad being interposed between the knot and the skin to prevent excori- ation, and is farther secured by tying the ends under the axilla of the uninjured extremity, which should also be protected by a small cushion. A few tuims of a roller, or a handkerchief, are placed round the arm and chest, so as to secure and fix the limb; so the retentive appai’atus is completed. The shoulder is thus raised, and removed from its unnatural position ; and the fractured extremities of the clavicle, previously placed in accu- rate contact, are prevented from being again displaced. The elbow and forearm should be supported by a sling, otherwise the unsupported weight of the limb dragging on the shoulder will cause considerable pain, and subsequent displacement will be apt to occui’. In order to prevent swelling, it is sometimes advisable to support by a bandage the hand and forearm. The apparatus should be looked to occasionally, adjusted and tight- ened ; and the cushions should be replaced by fresh ones, to prevent excoriation and uneasiness. The bone will be found to lie quite smooth, to remain of its proper length, to unite,