743 LUXATION OF THE WRIST. 3 B 4 arm, not luxation of their extremities. Luxation, however, sometimes occurs, either from violent twisting, or from falling on the palm of the hand; and the displacement may be either of both bones or of one. In the latter case, it is almost uni- formly the radius that suffers; in the former, the luxation is forwards. Dislocation of the distal extremity of the radius is generally produced by a sudden wrench or twist. The bone is felt loose and prominent, sometimes riding over the upper part of the carpus. The position of the hand is towards pronation, supin- ation cannot be performed, and, on attempting it, great pain is occasioned. Reduction is readily accomplished, by pulling the palm with one hand, whilst with the other the head of the bone is pressed backwards into its situation. Displacement of both bones is more frequently the result of a fall on the palm, with the hand bent much backwards. In this case there are two projections, so distinct as at once to mark the true nature of the accident, one anteriorly, formed by the ends of the radius and ulna, the other posteriorly by the carpus; above the posterior prominence there is a considerable de- pression. Here also reduction is easy; it is sufficient to per- form simple extension with one hand, whilst with the other the wrist is moulded into its proper form. The after treatment, however, requires attention, for extensive laceration of tendi- nous and ligamentous tissue, perhaps combined with fracture of the bony processes to a greater or less extent, must have taken place to admit of displacement; in consequence violent inflam- mation is to be expected, and means must be taken to avert it. On account of this laceration, also, mere reduction is not suf- ficient, retentive apparatus must be applied; as soon as the limb has been made straight, a pasteboard splint is to be applied on each side, as in fracture of the forearm, and retained with a roller, a wooden splint being placed exteriorly until the paste- board hardens. This precautionary measure is also necessary to avert redisplacement in dislocation of the radius singly; in both accidents the apparatus should be retained for at least a fortnight. Afterwards, passive motion, gradually increased and combined with friction, is requisite to prevent stiffness of the joint.