410 ENLARGEMENT OF TONGUE, horizontally from the sockets. A depression was felt at the symphysis menti, as if the two portions of the jaw were asunder, and the intervening space occupied by ligamentous matter. The enlargement was congenital, and the organ swelled rapidly, it was stated, every three months to a much larger size, and subsided gradually. The bleeding was most frequent and profuse when the swelling was greatest, and then too he suffered much pain in the part. Articulation was very indistinct, and could be under- stood only by those who were accustomed to be near him. He swallowed, and even masticated pretty freely. From the perio- dical enlargement and diminution, from the repeated haemor- rhages, and from erectile tissue being visible on many parts of the surface, I considered the structure of the tumour to be in part similar to that of aneurism by anastomosis, and to be throughout extremely vascular. I therefore did not attempt re- moval by incision, but in the first instance intercepted its vascu- lar supply by tying both lingual arteries. The tumour was not affected immediately on the application of the ligatures, but soon began to diminish gradually. Every thing was proceeding favourably; but, on the seventh day, the tongue was attacked with inflammatory swelling, which advanced unsubdued, not- withstanding the most active treatment. Sloughing commenced at the apex, and appeared extending backwards : I then isolated the protruded portion of the organ by ligature, and thus re- moved it in three or four days. At that time he complained of no pain, and felt very comfortable. But his system became much disordered soon after; abscesses formed rapidly over both wrists and on the hands, unhealthy infiltration of the cellular tissue took place at the root of the tongue, and amongst the deep muscles at the upper part of the neck, the parts became gangren - ous, and he died. Dissection showed that the greater part of the tumour was composed of erectile tissue. A sketch of the lower jaw is here appended, in order to show the alteration in form, both at the symphysis and in the rami, which had re-