OF HERNIA. 510 pain is usually felt at the site of the protrusion before the tumour is perceived. The disease is often congenital. But the common cause of abdominal hernia is powerful action of the abdominal muscles, compressing the viscera to a greater or less degree, and with more or less suddenness ; the viscera resisting the compressing force, react on the parietes, and these, yielding at the points which are naturally weak or deficient, permit enlargement of the coerced cavity by protrusion of part of the contents. When the compression and reaction are sud- den and violent, the protrusion is the same; but when the former are not sufficient to overcome the cohesion of the pa- rietes by a single occurrence, by repetition the morbid end is gradually effected, the hernia is proportionally slow in making its appearance, and gradual in its increase. To understand the nature of congenital scrotal hernia, the student must recollect that the testicle in the foetus is lodged in the cavity of the abdomen immediately below the kidneys, and resting on the psoas muscle; that it gradually descends into a process of peritoneum, called spermatic, which extends from the general peritoneal cavity down towards the scrotum, and which ultimately constitutes the tunica vaginalis. The orifice of this peritoneal pouch not closing immediately after the descent, may permit a fold of intestine to slip into its cavity, and remain in contact with the testicle. Or the testicle may, though rarely, contract in the abdomen an adhesion to a por- tion of bowel, and in its descent bring this along with it. In either case the bowel remains in its new situation, and con- stitutes congenital hernia. Hernia infantilis differs from the hernia congenita, and is a kind of protrusion peculiar to the early period of infancy. In the congenital form the protruded intestine is in immediate con- tact with the testicle, and surrounded by the tunica vaginalis testis; but in hernia infantilis a process of peritoneum is inter- posed betwixt the intestine and the vaginal coat. The affection occurs after the abdominal aperture of the spermatic process has closed, but before the rest of that process has become in- corporated with the spermatic vessels and their surrounding cellular tissue. In fact, only the peritoneum proper has closed, and forms the septum between the cavities of the abdomen and