397 CONGENITAL DEFICIENCIES. In some cases, when the space between the palatine plates of the superior maxillary bone is wide, it may be necessary, by mechanical contrivance, fitting on metallic apparatus possessing a strong spring, to approximate the bones before attempting to unite the lip. The cases must be very rare, where the soft parts cannot be otherwise brought together : when they can be united, their equable and continued pressure will have the effect of gradually approximating the hard parts. When the hard palate is deficient, the patient is subjected to great inconvenience from food escaping into tbe cavities of the nose, and, in later life, horrid wretchedness of articulation oc- curs. It can readily be understood, that surgery is of very little avail here. Recourse must be had to mechanical contrivance. A plate of metal (gold or platina), or a piece of ivory, or of sea-horse bone, may be fitted to the opening, and retained either by accurate adaptation, having sponge or caoutchouc attached to the upper surface, or by wires, elastic or not, resting on the neighbouring teeth. It may be made of a piece with artificial teeth, if any are required. The sponge is objectionable, as re- taining the discharge, and thereby imparting an unpleasant odour to the expired air. But it is no easy matter, and often altogether impracticable, to retain such apparatus when the soft palate is also deficient. The time at which such contrivance is to be adapted may admit of some dispute. If done early in life, the natural tendency of the parts to approximate may be interfered with and subverted; if dispensed with till a later period, the patient gets into a habit of snuffling and speaking so indistinctly, that the closing of the aperture is productive of little or no improvement. Perhaps the period of commencing the child’s education should be delayed till he be seven, eight, nine, or even ten years of age, and then the artificial palate may be applied advantageously in every respect. Fissure of the soft palate is usually accompanied with sepa- ration of the bones from which it is suspended. The size of the fissure is various, and depends very much upon the state of the hard parts. In some cases, the extent of separation is great; in others, the edges are readily approximated by making the patient throw the muscles into action. The latter class admit of operation with a view to permanent union of the edges of