OP DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 89 ation is irregular. Males in delicate health are also subject to similar affections. On Growths from the Synovial Membrane, and Loose Substances in the Joints. The synovial membrane is sometimes studded on its inner aspect with loose fleshy or semicar til aginous substances project- ing into the cavity of the joint. The entire surface of the membrane is occasionally covered with these bodies, which are of a white or yellowish colour, and very variable in size and shape; the smallest presenting the form of villi not much larger than those of the jejunum, the largest having somewhat the magni- tude and appearance of the appendices epiploicae of the large intestine, while many of an intermediate size approach in ap- pearance to a lemon seed. In some instances the membrane is only partially pervaded by them, and they are not unfrequently arranged like a fringe around the edge of the articular surfaces. They are generally very smooth on the surface, which appears to be perfectly continuous, if not identical, with the synovial membrane. Their attachment is frequently broad, and occa- sionally very narrow and pedunculated, often merely filament- ous, so that a little further thinning of the part, or slight force acting on the body, would remove it from the capsule, and throw it loose into the cavity of the articulation. The disease has been most frequently seen in the knee, and sometimes in the elbow. The affection is obscure in its nature; it is slow in its pro- gress ; the joint is the seat of pain after and during exercise, probably from the morbid processes interfering wdth the motions of the articular surfaces. As the disease advances, the joint be- comes swelled and elastic, unattended generally by ulceration of the tissues within or around it. In examining the part, when the articular surfaces are moved on each other, it will be found that their motion is more or less interfered with ; and consider- able irregularity in their action may be felt by the hand placed firmly on the joint during the procedure. Loose bodies may be found in the articulations, particularly in the knee and elbow, under the circumstances just described;