353 DISEASES OF THE EYE. that with the knife, and is more easily performed. But much mischief may be done with the needle, if the operator be not both cautious and dexterous; by unskilful use of it many eyes have been lost. In operations for cataract on the adult, the patient, having the eye which is not the subject of operation covered, may be seated on a low chair, opposite and near to a north window, in order that clear light may be obtained. His head is supported on the breast of an intelligent assistant standing behind. The upper eyelid is raised by the assistant’s fore and middle fingers of the left or right hand, applied so as to stretch the lid over the bulb; and the other hand is placed under the patient’s chin, to steady the head. The eye may be very well fixed by the fingers of the right or left hand of the operator himself. He is, in that case, more conveniently placed behind or above the patient’s head. The use of a speculum, for elevating the lid or fixing the ball, is seldom admissible; and, if the eye be so unsteady or sunk as to require it, the surgeon ought not to attempt ex- traction. No one method can be exclusively followed; by a man of judgment, experience, and skill, the operation will be varied according to circumstances. " The operation may be performed with the needle. The cataract is either depressed or reclined, and is then said to be couched. Depression is preferred by many good authorities in surgery. The needle is introduced at a line — or a line and a half, so as to avoid the ciliary processes — from the junction of the cornea with the sclerotic, towards the external canthus, and below the transverse diameter of the eye ; and the opaque lens, if solid, is entangled with the point of the instrument, and pushed into the lower part of the ball. Thus the opaque body is removed from the axis of vision, so as not to obstruct the passage of rays of light to the retina; and, in successful cases, it is highly probable that the lens, after being detached and displaced, is altogether removed by the ab- sorbents. Violent inflammation occasionally takes place after the operation, followed with destruction of the eye from sup- puration ; or the iris becomes paralytic; or the pupil closes, and sight is gradually lost; or the cornea becomes flaccid, with congestion of the vessels and turbidity of the humours. The A A