617 HYDROCELE. occurs also occasionally as a consequence of injury of the genital organs, or interferes with bad strictures, without any disease of these parts, and without the least cause for the suspicion of urine having escaped into the cellular tissue. This, together with the skin, is destroyed, and the testicles exposed. The only chance of saving the tissues consists in early and free incision of the most dependent part of the swelling, generally the inferior and posterior. Some cases and remarks on this subject will be found in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxii. p. 288. Encysted hydrocele of the chord occurs in children niore frequently than in adults. The fluid is thin and clear, and contained in a distinct cyst, of a smooth, shining, serous ap- pearance internally; this cyst may be either an unobliterated portion of the congenital spermatic process, or composed of thickened and condensed cellular tissue, strengthened exteriorly by the expansion of the cremaster muscle. The tumour is seldom large, usually of an oval form, and situated nearly midway between the testicle and groin; causing no pain, but proving inconvenient simply from its bulk and situation; fluc- tuating, and sometimes partially diaphanous; evidently circum- scribed, the chord both above and below being natural to both sight and touch; not altered by change of posture or by muscular exertion. Sometimes it encroaches both on the groin and on the testicle, but even then attentive manipulation readily distinguishes it from swellings connected with these parts. Discharge of the fluid by means of a small trocar and canula, not only dissipates the swelling, but often effects a permanent cure, particularly in young persons — the cyst either ceasing to exercise a secretory function, or becoming obliterated. If re- accumulation take place, the treatment is to be conducted on the same principles as in hydrocele of the vaginal coat. Hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis is exceedingly common, particularly amongst labouring people, and occurs apparently with equal frequency at all ages. It is a gradual accumulation within the tunica vaginalis of a fluid partaking .more or less of the serous character, furnished by the exhalants of that mem- brane, — but whether from excessive secretion or deficient absorption, it is difficult to determine. It is probable that the accumulation is the I’esult of excited action in the part.