343 DISEASES OF THE EYE. z 4 ternal parts become affected, and the eye is sometimes lost by giving way of the cornea. Internal ophthalmia is often occasioned by wounds inflicted either accidentally or by operation. Laceration of the iris in the extraction of cataract, or an improper performance of the operation for cataract with a needle, is by no means an un- frequent cause of the affection. Iritis often occurs during the exhibition of mercury in undue quantities, and is said also to be a symptom of syphilitic taint. It is, in many cases, preceded by cutaneous eruption, and seems to be the consequence of the eruption being repelled, or interfered with in its progress. Choroiditis.— The choroid membrane is sometimes primarily affected; but more frequently the inflammation of this tunic is the consequence of sclerotitis, or the disease last described. When the result of the former cause, it generally takes on the rheumatic type. The early symptoms are zonular redness of the sclerotic, accompanied by general impairment of vision, so that the patient expresses himself as if looking through gauze or some dark netwoi'k. Presently the sight becomes more and more im- paired, until a complete amaurosis results. The pupil is gene- rally in a semi-dilated state, and, instead of presenting the intense black hue of the healthy eye, it reflects a greenish gray colour, dependent upon the effusion of a turbid fluid between the cho- roid and retina. The nervous structures, becoming thus pressed upon, lose their sensibility to light, and are paralysed. This form of inflammation is generally chronic, and imperceptibly advances to the iris anteriorly, and to the retina within; the ul- timate termination being complete glaucoma. Various dull and heavy pains accompany this affection; and, in the latter stages, acute circum-orbitar neuralgia is the most distressing concomi- tant. By long-continued chronic inflammation the sclerotic coat appears to lose its powers of resistance — the accumulating fluid pushes before it the weakened tunic, and Staphyloma Scleroticoo is produced. This protrusion of the external tunic sometimes takes place in various parts, and to a considei’able extent, so that the figure of the globe is entirely lost. The thinning of the sclerotic at these points allows the dark hue of the choroid to shine through, and this, together with the bunched-like