271 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. in the cellular tissue beneath the arachnoid. In more advanced cases, thin patches of lymph, or more extensive strata of it, cover the arachnoid and the inner surface of the dura mater; a puri- form fluid is found effused between these membranes, and some- times blood and matter are deposited in some part of the cerebral substance; bloody serum is effused into the cavities, and at the base of the brain. The above symptoms and ap- pearances sometimes follow injuries not at first thought severe, but are most frequently the result of such as are attended with laesion of the bone, or of the internal parts. It is not at all improbable that concussion is produced after a manner somewhat resembling the following. The brain has a natural tendency to remain at rest, but is liable to be brought into a state of commotion by impulses on the cranium being communicated to it. When a slight blow is indicted on the skull, only a slight commotion of the brain is induced, the cranial contents are, as it were, slightly jumbled, and a temporary and trifling confusion of its functions follows. When, however, the stroke is more severe, the brain is separated from its cranial at- tachments, both at the point struck and at the part directly opposite, — it is thrown upon itself towards its centre; its sub- stance is thereby condensed, its diameter in the direction of the impulse is diminished, and a separation between the brain and cranium is formed at each extremity of that diameter. By post mortem examinations, it has been ascertained that condensation of the substance of the brain does exist in cases of severe con- cussion. Such commotion may be sufficient to cause instant extinction of life, or the brain may gradually resume its former condition, or with only such slight incited action as may be required to re-unite the dura mater with the inner table of the skull. Extravasation of blood or serum is extremely liable to occur in such cases, the vessels being either compressed, stretched, or otherwise thrown out of their natural relations along with the other cranial contents, reparation can only take place by absorp- tion of the extravasated fluid, and gradual deposition of plastic matter. When extravasation takes place to a greater extent, compression is the consequence, as will be more fully explained further on. Perhaps the brain does not recover itself gradually, but suddenly; the impulse, which was at first directed from the