294 DISEASES OF THE SCALP. constitutional symptoms run high, and there is considerable risk of the patient dying comatose. If he recover, and if the disease is little interfered with, but allowed to take its own course, much sero-purulent fluid is infiltrated into the cellular tissue, which generally perishes, along with a greater or less portion of the tendinous expansion lost by sloughing. Often, in neg- lected cases, a large abscess foi*ms, separating perhaps one half of the scalp, and bulging over the ear. The constitutional treatment must vary according to the nature of the symptoms which present themselves ; in some cases they show great vascular excitement, and in others they bear unequivocal evidence of general debility from the first. In slight cases of the local affection, it is sufficient to relieve the tension, and abstract blood and effused serum by means of a few punctures, and afterwards to use warm fomentation. More violent cases require free incision in the direction of the fibres of the occipito-frontalis muscle, and thus only can destruction of the parts beaverted; the incision must necessarily be deep, for the scalp is often swollen to the thickness of one or more inches. When a depot of matter has formed, it must be evacuated early, otherwise there is a risk of the bone becoming extensively de- nuded and exfoliation ensuing. Chronic thickening of the Scalp is a consequence, by no means unfrequent, of slight injuries in those of strumous habit, but may also occur without any assignable cause. In delicate sub- jects it is often attended with chronic periostitis of other bones besides those of the cranium. The patient perhaps complains of pains about the shoulders, in the tibiae, femora, the tuber- osities of the ischia, the sternum, the cervical vertebrae, or in the clavicles and ribs. He cannot bear pressure on some points without suffering the most excruciating agony. The pain is also much increased by motion of the parts, as by coughing when the ribs are affected. Such painful affections of parts external to cavities are often mistaken for diseases of the internal organs, and are treated as such by violent bleedings, purgings, and starvation, to the still farther impairment of the patient’s constitution. The symptoms are frequently and correctly attributed to exposure to cold and moistui'e, sleeping in a