OF TUMOURS. 190 tion; but in such instances the patient is generally weak and cachectic. The largest tumour of this species which I have seen, occurred in the lower part of the femur. It measured, in breadth, seven inches, in length, seven and one fourth. The parietes were composed of an extremely thin lamina of bone, and in this there were numerous deficiencies supplied by delicate liga- mentous matter; its cavity was divided into several compart- ments by thin septa, partly osseous and partly membranous. A representation of the femur so affected is given in the Prac- tical Surgery, p. 312. The patient was a boy of twelve years of age; amputation of the limb was earnestly advised, the friends objected, he died hectic. Besides these tumours a species of an anomalous character is sometimes met with, appearing to arise from an aneurismal or varicose state of the venous radicles or capillaries, and partaking somewhat also of the nature of fungus hsematodes. I shall detail shortly the more important circumstances of one case. The patient, a lad aged sixteen, was admitted into a public hospital on the 7th of November, 1819, on account of a tumour over the left scapula. It was there deemed imprudent and inadvis- able to attempt operation; and, after the application of leeches, he was dismissed, at the end of eight days. He then applied to me. The tumour was very large, hard, inelastic, firmly attached to the left scapula, and extending from its spine over all its lower surface. It also stretched into the axilla to within half an inch of the nervous and vascular plexus, and a large arterial trunk could be felt along its under surface. The arm hung useless, and, from the wasting of the muscles, was hardly half the size of the other. According to his own account, the uneasiness produced by the tumour was trifling when compared with the lancinating and excruciating pains in the limb. On attempting to move the tumour inde- pendently of the scapula, crepitation was distinctly perceived, as if from fracture of osseous spicula. A tumour was first per- ceived about three months previous, situated immediately below the spine of the scapula, about the size of a filbert, of a flat form, and attended with distinct pulsation; it had subsequently increased with great rapidity. About ten days before his ad-