270 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. degree of squinting exists. The muscles are neither much relaxed, nor spasmodically contracted. After a time, the circu- lation is restored, and the heat of the surface returns, with more or less of regained sensibility. The pulse either becomes altogether natural, or else more slow or more rapid than in health. The circulation is then easily excited; by even raising the patient in bed, the pulsations of the carotids are increased, in some cases, by fifteen or twenty beats. Sensibility returns, always very gradually, and in some cases more slowly than in others; frequently the patient becomes quite collected after the lapse of some hours or a few days, but in other instances a degree of mental confusion remains for many weeks; occasion- ally the intellect continues weak for a lengthened period, and sometimes even for the remainder of life. When the insensibility has begun to diminish, the patient can be roused with less difficulty ; if pinched, he complains of it by uttering some inarticulate sounds, or by attempting to move himself further from the quarter whence he supposes the injury to come; he answers, though with unwillingness, loud questions regarding the pain which he suffers, and points to the part where it is chiefly felt. As the stupor goes off, symptoms of inflammatory action, or a threatening of it in a greater or less degree, manifest themselves. The pulse becomes more rapid and sharp, the skin is hot and dry, the face is flushed, the conjunctiva is redder than usual, and the pupils are often much contracted: the patient is restless, and tosses about in bed; mutters confusedly to himself; often attempts to enact a part in some fanciful scene which he supposes to be passing around him, or talks rapidly and incoherently concerning circumstances which have formerly occurred. His flitting ideas are often of an alarming nature; he endeavours to get out of bed, and struggles violently if opposed. He frequently puts his hand towards his head, and gives other indications of suffering acute pain in that region, much increased by any movement of the part. Such symptoms are often followed by vomiting and rigors, and too frequently by convulsions, more furious delirium, and coma. On examination after death, an increased vascularity of the cerebral membranes is observed; there is an effusion of gelatinous-looking matter on the surface of the membranes, and