AND THEIR CONSEQUENCES. 251 which they are not a part but a consequence ; and, if that medi- cine be now blindly persevered in, the only effect will be to ruin the constitution, and thereby greatly retard the cure of those affections which, if the natural powers of the system had been merely supported, or in a great measure left to theiuselves, would have soon ceased to annoy the patient or alarm the anti- syphilitic mercurialist. Slight swellings and pains of the bones often yield to local abstraction of blood, friction, and the internal use of the com- pound decoction of sarsaparilla. Nodes, however, sometimes continue to enlarge, and occasion much pain, notwithstanding these means; and in such circumstances much relief will be afforded by a free incision over the affected part, from whatever cause the swelling may proceed. When the pain has subsided, and the swelling remains stationary, a decrease of it may be sometimes effected by a blister. Of the bad effects of mercury on the constitution much might be said. Treatises have been written on mercurial pox, a spe- cies reported to be much the most violent; and others have detailed an accumulation of evils, under the title of mercurial disease. There is no doubt that extensive, deep, and sloughy ulcers of the throat are produced by mercury; and of this I witnessed the following unexceptionable instance : — The fauces presented one extensive mass of ulceration, sloughing at its mar- gins, and the uvula was almost detached. The patient was an old and emaciated woman, who neither had, nor could be sup- posed to have, any venereal complaints. She employed herself in coating mirrors with quicksilver, and to that she ascribed her malady. In fact, her system had been long under the influence of mercury, in consequence of her occupation. When I visited her, her daughter and husband, the latter of whom was paralytic, and almost bedridden, were affected, from the same cause, with a pustular eruption of the face, with disease of the nostrils, and snivelling. Another old woman had numerous and deep ulcers of the fauces, tongue, and lips, having been kept unmercifully under mercury for nine continuous months. She had, besides, taken it from time to time, for upwards of four years, though her sole complaint was slight sore throat. Pains of the joints, too, I believe, are attributable to the use of mercury. That medicine s