696 FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. Bruises of the loins often lay the foundation for degeneration and abscess of the kidney, with many of the symptoms of cal- culus vesicae, attended with red tongue and hectic, ultimately terminating fatally. The effects of concussion of the spine are frequently developed long after the infliction of the injury. There is formication, numbness, and difficulty of regulating the motions, in one or more limbs. Still the muscles are not shrunk, nor imable to perform powerful movements; but the patient cannot put his hand or foot to the place he wishes, and cannot support the weight of the body without assistance. Sensation in the limbs is lost to a greater or less degree, their heat is diminished, and it is fouud difficult to preserve their temperatui’e equable. The symptoms increase till the limbs become totally useless. Along with the lower limbs the bladder is affected, though not always. The urine is not voided with force, and incontinence occurs from distension. Sometimes excitement of the viscus follows; the secretions from its surface are increased, and often mixed with blood. Yet patients survive long under such circumstances, digestion and the other important functions are well performed, and the intellect is unimpaired. Prognosis in injuries of the spine is unfavourable, as well as in disease of the chord, whether the result of injury or not. From the treatment much need not be expected; but still no chance is to be thrown away, even in the most unfavourable cases. The attention must be directed towards alleviation of the symptoms. TJ'he comfort of the patient must be looked to in regard to the situation of the injured bones and other parts, even where there is reason to believe that the chord is lacerated or completely divided, and that there is no chance of recovery. In less severe cases, by placing the injured parts in their proper position, and retaining them by splints placed along the sides of the spinous processes; — by keeping down inflammatory action, palliating all the symptoms as much as possible, and attending to the state of the bladder if necessary ^—un looked for recoveries have taken place. It has been proposed to treat the spine, in cases of severe and alarming fracture, in the same manner as the cranium — by