249 AND THEIR CONSEQUENCES. adhering to it, like a slough, which cannot be washed away.” Such idceration may be simulated by excavated soi’es attending the phagedenic form of disease; and it ought to be more espe- cially distinguished from an affection to which the tonsil is extremely liable, irregularity of its surface, enlargement, and effusion of lymph, in consequence of chronic inflammation. A more serious part of the secondary disease is affection of the deep-seated parts, ligaments, periosteum, and bones. The bones nearest the surface are principally affected: a swelling gradually forms on the tibia or ulna, without discoloration of the integuments, and without pain occurring till after a long time. The pain is most severe during the night. The inflammation of the periosteum is often very violent, the subjacent bone, as in the head or extremities, becomes dead, and exfoliates ; but it remains to be seen whether this will take place when mercui’y is more sparingly, if at all, administered. Ulcers betwixt the toes, occurring along with the above symptoms, are supposed to be venereal: they are unseemly, and peculiarly foetid. Such are the affections, local and constitutional, arising from a venereal cause; but the latter may be simulated. Many affections of the skin, mucous membi'anes, and bones, resembling the venereal disease, may be produced by disorder of the con- stitution, by a decay of the digestive organs, by unwholesome food, and exposure to inclement weather, by inattention to cleanliness, and many other circumstances. Morbid poisons, not venereal, but of various kinds, may exist, and cause much mischief. A disease resembling syphilis was produced by the cruel practice of transplanting teeth from sound people into the jaws of persons in the higher ranks of life, whose corresponding teeth were decayed. 'Fhe latter were the affected party, and that justly. A very infectious disease was at one time common in the poorer parts of Scotland, and known under the name of sibbens, or sivvens, chiefly occurring amongst the poor, ill-fed, badly-clothed, and worse-housed people in the Highlands. It was communicable by very slight contact, by kissing the lips of an infected person, smoking the same pipe, drinking out of the same cup, or using the same spoon. Cases of it are still