AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR. 464 relieved by leeching behind the auricle, and by assiduous and regular fomentation afterwards. But suppuration is seldom prevented. The abscess may sometimes be opened, with great relief. If deeply seated, the parts are soothed by fomentation and poultice, till spontaneous evacuation of the matter occurs; this is then to be washed away, from time to time, by the injection of a warm and bland fluid ; the abscess gradually closes, and the discharge slowly disappears. In cases of long-continued dis- charge, it is generally impossible to ascertain from what depth the matter comes, and there is always great risk in using means to arrest its flow. The patient must submit to the annoyance. The discharge can be moderated, or altogether suppressed, by injections of astringent salts, but the practice is unsafe, and in most cases unwarrantable. The parts are to be kept clean by frequent ablution with tepid water, lime water, or other bland fluids; and cotton or wool may be worn in the meatus to take up the discharge, and prevent bad effects from cold. Discharge from the external meatus, and about the auricle, is often kept up by irritation in the mouth, in both children and adults; this should be looked to, and the offending cause removed, if possible. Foreign bodies are frequently lodged by children in the meatus auditorius externus — peas, beads, shells, shot, pins, &c. By awkward attempts at removal they are pushed deep into the cavity; and the membrane of the tympanum is sometimes broken, as indicated by effusion of blood, and swelling of the parts. Violent inflammatory symptoms may be caused by such substances, and will be seriously aggravated by unsuccessful at- tempts at extraction. Sometimes they are allowed to remain for days or weeks; in such circumstances seeds swell, separate, and begin to throw out a germ, thus fixing themselves more firmly in the passage. They are easily removed at first, by a small silver scoop, of convenient size and form; and even at a later period, a determined, though not forcible, attempt with the instrument will be followed with success. The scoop is gently and gradually insinuated betwixt the membrane and foreign body; and on its handle being then raised the body is extruded. It is seldom that any excitement follows extrac-