388 INFLAMMATION OF THE ANTRUM MAXILLARE. antrum are violent throbbing pain, referred to the part affected, to the temple, and to the teeth implanted in the alveolar pro- cesses that form the lower part of the cavity; the side of the face is swelled from infiltration of the soft parts, and the Schneiderian membrane of the corresponding nostril is generally observed red and swollen. The affection can frequently be traced to ex- posure to cold ; it may be the result of external violence; but is usually an extension of disease in the sockets of decayed teeth. Unless active and early measures are taken to subdue the in- flammatory attack, the antrum becomes distended by increased and vitiated discharge from its lining membrane. The swelling of the cheek becomes more apparent, since, to increased in- filtration of the soft parts, enlai’gement of the cavity is super- added. The enlargement of the side of the face, and the bulging into the orbit are seen in the accom- panying cut. The membrane covering the small aperture through which the antrum and nostril com- municate partakes of the general thickening, and thus no outlet is left for the accumulating fluid. The escape of matter from the nostril, on the head being turned to the opposite side, has been laid down as an indication of accumula- tion or abscess in the antrum; the statement is incorrect, and is a result of surgery being professed by those who have not practised it, but judge of morbid states and their signs and symptoms by the healthy condition of parts only. In the skeleton, fluid no doubt will run over from the osseous shell, in some positions of the skull; but it cannot escape from the cavity when covered with membrane, and that membrane subject to vital actions. In short, the symptom is not observable in the disease in question. Ex- tensive ulceration of the parietes of the antrum towards the nose may, perhaps, take place, as a consequence of the accumulation, and the matter may then escape by the nostril, if not allowed an exit otherwise; but such is not a common occurrence. In general, the cavity is considerably enlarged before the