178 OF TUMOURS. tion of this, I shall briefly relate the following case. A man, aged forty, had been afflicted for some time with ulceration in the ham, and exfoliation of the posterior part of the femur. The sore healed ; but about two years afterwards the cicatrix became ulcerated, and produced a very small fungus, resembling, in fact, a minute cluster of exuberant granulations: from this blood was effused in small quantity, and was easily restrained by the application of a bandage; but the haemorrhage returned at various intervals for upwards of a week, became extremely pro- fuse and altogether uncontrollable. By this the patient was greatly exhausted, and amputation was rendered absolutely necessary. On examining the limb, the lower portion of the femur was found somewhat enlarged, its internal structure com- pletely destroyed, and the periosteum on the inner side much thickened. On the posterior and inner part of the bone, about three inches above its articulation, there was a small fungous tumour of an irregular surface, and of soft consistence, resem- bling congealed tallow. From this excrescence, the blood had been effused into a cyst formed amongst the muscles, and after- wards discharged externally. He recovered from the amputa- tion, and remained well. The Painful Tubercle, Though of small size, and not possessed of malignant action or disposition, is a tumour of very great interest, on account of the excruciating pain with which it is accompanied. It is mostly situated in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, but not unfrequently in the intermuscular cellular substance; one tumour of this species which I removed was so deep as to be in immediate contact with the sheath of the posterior tibial nerve. The tumour, generally of the size of a garden pea, rarely exceeds that of a cherry. It is invested by a dense ligamentous cyst, to which it intimately adheres; but occasionally the capsule is thin and cellular: in many instances its surface is perfectly smooth, in others it is slightly nodulated. It is not connected with any large nervous trunk; but minute nervous fibrillae can occasionally be traced expanding on its surface, and apparently entering its sub- stance. Internally it is composed of numerous whitish fibres, of