303 DISEASES OF THE EYE. Though the affection isatfii’st unconnected with the lachrymal sac, this organ may ultimately be involved. It may become the seat of a like unhealthy inflammation, and matter may con- sequently form within its cavity; or, on account of the pressure of interstitial deposit around, the parietes of the sac may ulcerate before the abcess of the cellular tissue in front has discharged externally. I'hus, the cavities of the laclirymal sac, and of the external abscess, will communicate with each other. If, after an external aperture has been made either by nature or by art, any doubt exist as to whether the sac is involved or not, such doubt will soon be removed by dexterous use of the probe. In the treatment of this affection, it will be necessary, at the commencement, as in all other local inflammatory diseases, to attempt the accomplishment of resolution, by attention to the general health, local abstraction of blood, and warm fomenta- tions. When matter has formed, it ought to be evacuated as soon as possible by a small incision, as there will then be less risk of the deeper parts becoming secondarily affected ; or if the integuments have sloughed, and the matter has been discharged spontaneously, the natural opening may be enlarged either with the knife, or with the caustic potass. If it be discovered that the lachrymal sac is opened into, the same treatment is neces- sary as if it remained entire; the matter is to be allowed free exit, and granulation encouraged; in most cases, the aper- ture in the sac is soon repaired, and the parts heal as quickly and soundly as if the disease had been confined to the external cellular tissue. Light dressing during the cure, preferable in all cases, is more especially necessary in this situation. Of Inflammation of the Lachrymal Sac. — When the lachrymal sac becomes inflamed, it enlarges considerably; the swelling is small, hard, circumscribed, deeply seated, and extremely painful, more especially on pressure. At first the integuments are of their natural appearance, the increased action being confined to the sac, but they are soon involved, and often to a considerable extent; they become red and swollen, and as the surrounding parts are affected, the swelling increases. In some cases, the eyelids, the caruncle, and the conjunctival covering of the eye, participate in the inflammatory action. The inflammation is in most instances caused, or at least preceded, by some obstruction