INFLAMMATION OF FAUCES. 399 knot. A second point of suture, and a third, if necessary, is applied in the same way, and as represented in the “ Practical Surgery,” p. 503. Or a single short curved needle may be used. It is introduced by means of a portaiguille, with a long handle, and passed through, first from the outside of one edge, and then from the inside of the other. A ligature, either of thread or of pewter wire, can thus be conveyed at once; if the latter is employed, it is secured by twisting, and the ends cut off by pliers; the needle is attached to the wire by a female screw in its end. It is advisable to make incisions in the direc- tion of the fissure on each side, through the mucous lining, in order to take off the strain from the stitches. Afterwards, success depends on the patient. All attempts at articulation, and even deglutition, must be strictly forbidden for three, four, or five days. Inflammation of the Soft Palate,Uvula, and Tonsils, requires in general little surgical treatment. Reiterated attacks may some- times be traced to the progress of a wisdom-tooth, or to the pre- sence of stumps in the posterior part of the upper or lower jaw. Perhaps the most common cause is sudden suppression of the dis- charges from the skin, and from the adjoining mucous surfaces, in consequence of exposure to cold. The affection is accompanied with pain and difficulty in swallowing, and frequent and difficult excretion of,mucus. The secretion of the saliva is increased, the attempts to swallow it are frequent, and the inflamed parts being thereby put in motion, the pain is aggravated. From the inflammatory action extending along the eustachian tube, the patient describes the pain as shooting towards the ear. The parts are red, and soon become swollen ; in some cases to so great an extent, as completely to prevent deglutition; occa- sionally the breathing is impeded; but the inflammatory swelling must be very great indeed, to obstruct the openings into both mouth and nostrils, and thereby threaten suffocation. The voice is hoarse, croaking, and husky ; and, when the swelling is considerable, the patient speaks only in a whisper. The internal swelling is often accompanied by an external painful tumour of the lymphatic glands, and the pain is much increased by ex-