68 OF FURUNCULUS AND ANTHRAX. the base is deeply-seated, hard, and unyielding. The integu- ments are at first of a bright colour, but afterwards assume a dark-red or reddish-brown hue. The pain is violent and burn- ing. The process of suppuration is very tedious, and the mat- ter that is formed is small in quantity. If the tumour is not interfered with, ulceration occurs in its surface, producing va- rious apertures, through which the matter is evacuated. The discharge is thin and unhealthy, excoriating the neighbouring surface; and the mortified cellular tissue, remaining at the base of the swelling, keeps up the irritation. The extent of a carbuncle is frequently great, both as to width and depth; on the back, or buttocks, it not unfrequently attains an im- mense size. In one instance, the whole posterior part of the neck was involved; the cellular tissue, muscles, and tendons, sloughed; and the vertebrae were ultimately exposed. In an- other case, the whole occiput, the posterior and lateral parts of the neck, and the space betwixt the shoulders, exhibited one continuous mass of carbuncle. By making free incisions, pro- curing early separation of the sloughing parts, and supporting the strength of their constitutions, both patients recovered, though considerably advanced in life. It seldom occurs in the face or head, and when it does, it generally proves fatal. In a male patient in the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, aged forty-eight, a carbuncle of the size of a very large orange was situated in the centre of the forehead; by active local and constitutional treatment, he soon got well. The affection is sometimes attended with typhoid symptoms, rigors, profuse perspiration, nausea, vomiting, disordered bowels, loss of appetite, anxiety, restlessness, difficult respiration, pal- pitations, faintings, pale white tongue, low pulse, pale or tur- bid urine, headach, giddiness, drowsiness, and, in severe cases, with delirium. In old or exhausted patients, the prognosis is unfavourable. An early and free incision must be made into the tumour; if the swelling is large or extensive, the preferable form of incision is the crucial; the ill-formed matter is thus evacuated, the slough exposed, and more readily allowed to escape. If the mortification of the cellular tissue be extensive, and the sloughs prove firmly adherent, the free employment of the caustic