DISEASES OF THE EYE. 319 or more pterygia on one eye; and, in such cases, the patient’s vision is seriously affected, in consequence of the apices of the different pterygia uniting and coalescing on the cornea, and investing the greater part of that organ with a thick and dark shade. When several occur, they sometimes unite throughout their whole extent, and cover the half or more of the eye. This disease is very common amongst negroes and persons residing in equatorial climates. When the pterygium is of considerable size, extending over the cornea, the only remedy is excision. The apex of the web is laid hold of and pulled outwards by forceps or a hook, and the whole diseased part is then carefully dissected off with scissors, the incisions commencing at the apex, and being carried on to the base. The wound gradually contracts; and though an opaque cicatrix must form on the corneal surface, the speck is of much less dimensions than the space formerly occupied by the pterygium. If the web be thin and not exceedingly vascular, it may be sufficient to make a semicircular section of it trans- versely, by means of a hook and scissors, between its base and the margin of the cornea; its growth is thereby arrested, and there is a probable chance of its beginning to diminish, and ultimately disappearing. When it is small, and so situated as to cause no impairment of vision, it is prudent and good practice not to interfere with it at all. Diseases or the Eyeball are numerous, and various in their nature. Some are acute, others chronic; and their attack is either sudden, or slow and insidious. Most of them are attended with pain and other annoying symptoms, and some cause loss of vision. Some are cured by internal means; others require surgical operations ; and the cure is either complete and permanent, or palliative and temporary. Some destroy the organ, and others, still more malignant, cause extinction of life. All require much attention and care. Of Ophthalmia, or Inflammation of the Eye. — The symptoms and appearances of ophthalmia vary much according to the particular texture or textures affected. They require to be minutely attended to, that the treatment may be varied in such