Savouries andi AD VERT1SEMLNTS. r THE HIGII-.CLASS WASHING MATERIAL 6 \ Ji l ^ J (Hcgd.) FOR DAY AND NIGHT WEAR IN ALL CLIMATES. Dally Telegraph says: “ ‘ Viyella ’ is an ideal material for both sexes, for both day and night wear.” For MEN’S Day Shirts, Night Shirts, Pyjamas, Ac. „ LADIES’ Shirts, Blouses, Nightdresses, Ac. „ CHILDREN’S Frocks, Sleeping Suits, Ac. To be obtained from all leading Drapers and Outfitters, or name of nearest sent on application to VIYELLA,’ Blue Boar Court, LONDON, E.C. See the 1 Viyella ’ Label on the selvedge every five yards. ‘ Viyella ’ Hosiery Underwear and1 Viyella' Gloves can also be obtained.AD VER TISEMENTS. ‘Indispensable for the outdoor girl.’ a ‘PIRLE’ COSTUME does not ‘ Spot ’ or ‘ Cockle ’ with rain or sea=water. heart!) ana home says : “For all Weathers. One word should be in the mouth of those who are about to buy gowns for outdoor wear—is the material ‘Pirle’ finished? If so, it will not spot or cockle, rain has no effect upon it, and even sea-water fails to mark.” To be obtained from the Leading Drapers, Or Full Particulars from— EDWARD RIPLEY & SON (Ltd.), iooc, Queen Victoria St., London.AD VER TISEMENTS. Flannelette. If purchasers of this useful material for underwear all the year round would buy the best English make, which can be obtained from all leading drapers, they would avoid the risks they undoubtedly run with the inferior qualities of Flannelette. I-I u. 1 LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Bateman A hLL- ttes lebrated ■test. 30106023424111 5 yards.•ol • SAVOURIES AND SWEETSAD VER TISEME NTS. IV Ask your GROCER for TO-DAY’S Leading Lines. RED DELICIOUS FOR BREAKFAST & AFTER DINNER. WHITE COFFEE & BLUE In making, use less quantity, it being much stronger than ordinary COFFEE. England’s Best Yalue! “BONCOLA” TEA HAS NO EQUAL. PERFECT FLAVOUR. Selected from the Finest Fruit. EXCELSIOR CANNED Peaches, rn|l|TQ Apricots, mUi I Oi Pears, Greengages. Excelsior Sardines. Double Crown & Salmon & Lobster. In flat & tall tins, packed from the finest selected Fish only & cannot be surpassed. PEATMOOR Old Scotch WHISKY. "Soft, Mellow, Delightful. Carries the Wild Rough Scent of the Highland Breeze.” SOLD THROUGHOUT THE WORLD BY Grocers, Tea & Coffee Dealers, & Italian Warehousemen.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS SUITABLE FOE LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS By Miss M. L. ALLEN (Mrs. A. Macaire) AUTHOR OF “BREAKFAST DI3HES,” “SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES’ TI1IRT1ET11 EDITION LONDON CROSBY LOCKWOOD AND SON 7, STATIONERS’ HALL COURT, LUDGATE IIILL 1906Ceosbt Lockwood & Sox, 7, Stationers’ Hall Court, London, E.C. IMPORTANT WORKS ON PASTRY AND GONFEGTIONERY. B7 , THE SAME AUTHOR. Twenty-Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo., Is. sewed. BKEAKFAST DISHES. For Every Morning of Three Months. By Miss M. L. Allen (Mrs. A. Macaire), Author of “ Savouries and Sweets,” etc. Crown 8t>o„ Is. sewed. THE BREAD AND BISCUIT--BAKER’S AND ' SUGAR-BOILER’S ASSISTANT. Including a large ivnriety of Modern Recipes, with Remarks on the Art of Bread-making, and Chemistry as applied to Bread-making. By R. AVells. Crown 8ro., Is. sewed. THE PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER’S GUIDE, for Hotels, Restaurants, and the Trade in general. Adapted also for Family Use. Including a large variety of Modern Recipes and Useful Hints and Instructions. By R. Wells. Crown 8uo., is. sewed. THE MODERN FLOUR CONFECTIONER, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL. Containing a Large. Selection of Recipes for Cheap Cakes. Biscuits, etc.; also Recipes for Dain- ties for the Working Man’s Table. By It. Wells. Crown 8vo., 6s. cloth. ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY: A Guide for Bakers, Confectioners, and Pastrycooks. Including a variety of Modem Recipes, and Remarks on Decorative and Coloured Work; with upwards of One Hundred Original Designs. By R. Wells.PREFACE. Emboldened by the kindly reception given by the public to “ Breakfast Dishes,” and the flattering notice of the Press, I have ventured to bring out “ Savouries and Sweets,” trusting that it will be as favourably received as its predecessor. The -first part of the book will be found to contain a large number of receipts for those piquant little dishes that are now so universally served at dinners be- tween “ the sweets ” and “ the dessert,” including a great many savoury omelettes and fondus. The second part consists of a varied collection of receipts,- both old and new, for puddings, tarts, fritters, pancakes, jellies, custards, creams, souffles, syllabubs, junkets, and sweet omelettes, which I can confidently recommend as delicious and easy of preparation. I must here express my indebtedness to E. J. B. for her practical help, which has been of the greatest service to me in the compilation of this little book. M. L. A.AD VER TISEMENTS. BIRD’S CUSTARD POWOEfl Makes a perfect high-class Custard at a minimum cost and trouble. Used by all the leading Diplomas of the South Kensington School of Cookery. Invaluable also for a variety of Sweet Dishes, recipes for which accompany each Packet. No Eggs! No Risk! No Trouble! USE ALSO Bird’s BIanc=Mange Powder Bird’s Crystal Jelly Powder Bird ’S Concentrated Egg=Powder Bird’s Baking Powder. -SECONTENTS. Part I.—SAVOURIES. Page Tongue Squares . . 3 Iced Parmesan Pyra- mids .... 3 Olive and Caper Toasts 3 Westphalia Balls . 4 Chicken Creams . . 4 Herrings’ Roe and Mushrooms on Toast 4 Cheese Ramequins . 5 Lobster Creams . . 5 Potted Cheese on Toasts 5 Macaroni Balls . . 6 Champignons en Caisse 6 Bengal Toasts . . 6 Aigrettes of Parmesan 7 Calfs Brains on Toast . 7 Mushroom Toasts . 7 Shanklin Eggs . . 8 Petits Pots de Con- somme . '. .8 Dressed Crab . . 8 Page Indian Sandwiches . 9 Zephyrs ... 9 Macaroni Cheese . 10 Gherkin Toasts . . 10 Fried Ramequins . . 10 Viscount Sandwiches . 11 Creme de Fromage . 11 Anchovy Eggs . . 12 Scotch Woodcock . 12 Savoury Trifles . . 12 Anchovy Toast with Egg 13 Cheese Fritters . . 13 Savoury Eggs . .13 Sardines en Caisse . 14 Anchovy Toast Aux Tomatoes . . .14 Lobster h la Creme . 14 Cauliflower au Gratin . 15 Oysters h. l’Indienne . 15 Rissotto k la Milanaise 15 Bombay Toast . . 16viii CONTENTS. Page “Potatoes au Gratin . 16 Golden Eggs . . 16 Genoese Eggs . . 17 Gascony Butter . . 17 Eggs k l’Annecy . . 17 'Potato Souffle . . 18 Tomato Sandwiches . 18 Canapis k la Windsor . 18 Anchovies in Olives . 19 Parmese Rice . . 19 KidneyandCheeseToast 19 Oysters Fried in Batter. 20 Cheese Biscuits with Anchovies. . .20 Tricolour Toasts . . 21 Tomato Omelet . . 21 Tomatoes au Gratin . 21 Shrimp Toasts . . 22 Tomato Toast . . 22 Curried Eggs . . 23 Canapis of Sardines . 23 Truffes h la Serviette . 23 Oyster Toasts . . 24 Vegetable Marrow a l’Espagnole . . 24 Imitation Foie Gras . 24 Marrow Toasts . . 25 Egg and Ham Toasts . 25 Boiled or Stewed Cheese 26 Ham Toasts . . .26 Victoria Sandwiches . 26 Shrimps Scalloped . 27 Puffed Eggs . . .27 Shrimp Canapis . 27 Savoury Beetroot . Page 28 Eggs in Pipkins . 28 Savoury Pudding . 28 Macaroni with Tomato Sauce 29 Angels on Horseback . 29 Scalloped Salsify . 29 Kidneys Sautds 30 Sunshiny Eggs 30 Cheese Canapis . 30 Hungarian Patties 31 Eggs en Caisse 31 French Pie . 3^ Savoury Tomatoes 32- Cheese Toast 33 Sardine Sandwiches 33 Cheese Straws 33 Canapis de Volaille 34 Cheese Trifles 34 Anchovy Omelet . 34 Ham Omelet. 35 Asparagus Omelet 35 Parmesan Puffs 35 Cheese Omelet 36 Spanish Rice . *. 36 Welsh Rabbit 36 * Buttered Eggs 37 Kidney Omelet 37 Cheese Fondu 37 Savoury Toast 38 French Bean Omelet . 38 Anchovy and Whipped Cream 38 Devilled Almonds 39CONTENTS. IX Part II.—SWEETS. Puddings, &c. Page Christmas Pudding . 43 Bakewell „ . 43 Lemon Dumplings . 44 Mince Pies, Mincemeat for . . .44 Lemon Snow Pudding . 45 Castle Puddings . . 45 Cheese Cakes . . 46 Meringues . . .47 Sponge Souffle . . 48 Almond Pudding . . 48 Hunter’s „ . 49 Brandy „ . 49 Potatoe Fritters . . 49 Pineapple, Apricot, or Orange Fritters . . 50 Sweet Omelet . . 50 Five Minutes Swiss Roll 51 Apple Shape. . . 52 Carrot Pudding . . 53 Rice Fruit Pudding . 53 Rich Custard „ . 54 Victoria Sandwiches . 54 Potato Vanilla Souffle . 54 Open Golden Tart . 55 Blay Custard Pudding . 55 Page Snow Pudding . . 56 Macaroon Basket . . 56 Bread Fritters . . 57 Fig Pudding. . . 57 Marmalade Pudding . 58 Swiss Roll . . .58 Apple Meringue . . 59 Manchester Pudding . 59 Rice Snowballs . . 59 Batter for Fritters. . 60 Cake Fritters . . 60 Canadian Floating Islands . . .60 Molasses Sauce Pud- ding . . . .61 Potato Pudding . . 61 Popovers . . .61 Hasty Pudding . . 61 Boiled Custards . . 62 Guards’ Pudding . . 62 Boiled Lemon Pudding. 63 Bird’s Nest Puddings . 63 Currant Shape . . 63 Swiss Pancake . . 64 Apple Charlotte . . 64 Almond Souffle . . 64 Gingerbread Pudding . 65CONTENTS. X Page Excellent German Pud- ding . . . .65 Sultana Pudding . . 65 Unripe Fruit Tarts . 66 Canadian Cherry Pie . 66 Snowdon Pudding . 67 French Pancakes . . 68 Boiled Cocoanut Pud- ding . . . .69 Tomato Pie . . .69 Lemon Tart . . .70 Vegetable Marrow Pud- ding . . . .70 Quince Tart . . .70 Apricot Tart * . .71 Superior Treacle Pud- ding . . . .71 Ginger Pudding . . 72 Strawberry Tart . . 72 Bread and Butter Fritters . . .73 Brandy Custards . . 78 Nougat Baskets . . 74 Apple Rings. . .75 Stewed Quinces . . 75 Petit Choux . . .76 Buttered Orange Juice. 76 Cheese Cake Mixture (for keeping) . . 77 Orange Butter Pyra- mids . . . .78 Sugar Cakes . . .78 Caramel Pudding . . 80 Chocolate Pudding t. 81 London Pudding . Lemon Honeycomb Sponge Pudding . Ratafia „ Nun’s „ Croquettes de Riz k Fleur d’Orange . Vermicelli Pudding Prune Shape. Spanish Custards . German Puffs Baked Gingerbread Excellent Jam Pudding 89 Baked Apple Tart. . 89 Boiled Rice (superior) . 90 Orange Cheese Cakes . 90 Stewed Pears . . 91 Chestnut Pudding. . 91 Orange Tart . . .92 Egg and Wine Custards 93 Apple Snowballs . . 93 Cocoanut Cheese Cakes 94 Citron Pudding . . 94 Orange Sponge . .* 95 Raspberry „ . . 95 Baked Plum Pudding . 95 Tipsy Cake . . .96 An Excellent Trifle . 96 Small Almond Pudding 98 Wafer Pudding . . 99 Wafers filled with Cream . . .99 Buttermilk Curds. . 100 Admiral Pudding. . 101 Page . 82 . 83 . 83 . 84 . 84 la . 84 . 86 . 87 . 88 . 88 . 88CONTENTS. xi Page Page Swiss Pudding 102 Strawberry Fool with Pancakes fried without Cream 73 Butter or Lard . 102 Petit Choux filled with Muffin Pudding . 103 Cream 76 Almond Hedgehog Yellow Lemon Cream . 77 Pudding . 104 Pistachio Cream 78 Cowslip Pudding . 105 South Devon Junket Stewed Apples with with Cream . 79 Apricot Jam 106 Coffee Cream 82 Baked Quince Pudding 106 Cream Whips . 83 Old English Prune Lemon „ 86 Pudding . 107 Blanc Mange 87 Pancakes 107 Spanish Custard 83 Baked Lemon Pudding 108 Trifle with Cream 96 Castle Baskets 108 Stone Cream. 97 v? Wafers filled with Creams, &c. Cream , 99 Velvet Cream 45 Swiss Cream. 100 Chocolate Cream . 46 Buttermilk Curds 100 Meringues with Cream. 47 Charlotte Russe 100 Apricot Cream . ' . 47 Velvet Cream 101 Pineapple Cream . 51 Mosaic „ 102 Gooseberry Fool . 52 Brown Bread Ice Strawberry Cream . 52 Cream . . . 103 Apple Custard . . 53 Almond Hedgehog with Macaroon Baskets filled Cream . 104 with Cream 56 Canadian Floating Jellies, &c. Islands 60 Claret Jelly . . 46 Boiled Custards with Apple Jelly Shape . 52 Cream 62 Orange Jelly. . 67 Rice Cream . 66 Venetian Jelly . 67 Apple Fool with Cream 68 Fruit Jelly . . 71 Cocoanut Cream . 69 Lemon Sponge . 74CONTENTS. Xll Rice Blanc Mange P ag:e . 77 Jamange . 85 Calfs Foot Jelly . . 86 Blanc Mange . 87 Dutch Jan Mange . 92 Port Wine Jelly . . 93 Excellent Sherry Jelly. 98 Clear Lemon Jelly . 99 Riband Jelly. . . 105 Syllabubs. Old English Syllabub . 79 Staffordshire Syllabub . 79 Whip Syllabub . . 96Part 1. c SAVOURIES.VI AD VER TISEMENTS. THE MOST SATISFACTORY Soup Thickener is Sold in 1 lb. and £ lb. Tins by all Grocers. KEEN, ROBINSON & CO., Ltd., LONDON, E.SAVOURIES. Tongue Squares. For Four Persons.—2 ozs. of grated tongue; 6 squares of bread; 1 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese; cayenne and salt to taste. Fry some squares of bread, sprinkle grated Par- mesan cheese on them, season with cayenne and salt. Heap each toast nice and high with grated tongue. Serve either hot or cold. Iced Parmesan Pyramids. For Four Persons.—Cheese biscuits, as on page 33; % pint of cream; 1 oz. of Parmesan cheese; a pinch of white pepper; a pinch of salt. Make some square cheese biscuits by receipt given for cheese straws, page 33, and bake them. When done allow them to get cold. Whip some cream to a stiff froth, flavour highly with cayenne, white pepper, and salt; add Parmesan cheese to taste. Ice, pile up on each square of pastry, and serve. (This is excel- lent without being iced.) Olive and Caper Toasts. For Four Persons.—6 rounds of bread the size of the top of a claret class; 6 anchovies; 12 olives; 1 teaspoonful of capers. Spread some anchovies, previously passed through a sieve, on small rounds of fried bread. Chop some b 24 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. olives and capers fine and sprinkle thickly on the top of the toasts. These can be eaten either hot or cold; if hot, they must be put into the oven for ten minutes. Westphalia Balls. For Four Persons.—% lb. of boiled potatoes; 2 ozs. of grated ham; 1 oz. of butter; 2 eggs; 1 gill of cream ot milk; cayenne and salt to taste; some bread-crumbs; fat for frying. Pass some boiled potatoes through a sieve, mix with it two ounces of grated ham, a little butter, one egg well beaten, cayenne and salt; if not quite moist enough add some cream; form into small balls, egg and bread crumb them and fry a nice gold in a frying basket plunged in a saucepan of boiling fat. Chicken Creams. For Six Persons.—y2 lb. of chicken; 3 ozs. of ham; 1 oz. of butter; 2 eggs; y2 pint of cream; pepper (white); cayenne and salt to taste. Pound the chicken and ham, pass it through a sieve, add the butter melted, the eggs well beaten, and lastly the cream, which must be whipped; season with pepper and salt. Mix all lightly to- gether, put into an oiled mould and steam half an hour. These can be made in small tins and steamed for fifteen minutes. Herrings’ Roe and Mushrooms on Toast. For Four Persons.—6 rounds of toast the size of the top of a tumbler; the roes of three herrings; 6 flap mushrooms; 2 ozs. of butter; cayenne; salt.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 3 Make some rounds of buttered toast, season well with pepper and cayenne, on each toast place half the soft roe of a herring which has been lightly fried, and on the top of this one fried mushroom, which ought to cover the toast. Serve very hot. Cheese Ramequins. For Four Persons.—i oz. of butter; y? oz. of flour; y pint of new milk; 3 eggs; 3 ozs. of grated cheese. First melt the butter, mix in the flour, add the milk, stir and cook well. Then beat in'the yolks of two eggs, sprinkle in the cheese, add three whites which have been whisked to a froth, mix in lightly, and put into the cases. Bake a quartey of an hour. Lobster Creams. For Four Persons.—Half a lobster; y2 pint of cream; cayenne and salt; ramequin cases ; parsley. Whip some cream till it is nice and stiff, season it highly with cayenne and salt; cut up some pieces of lobster and mix with the cream. Put into cases with some coral on the top of each, and a sprig of parsley to garnish it with.. Potted Cream on Toasts. For Six or Eight Persons.—As many rounds of bread as required; % lb. Gloucester cheese; 2 ozs. of butter; salt to taste; 1 tablespoonful of made mustard (Finch’s); 1 table- spoonful of port or sherry. Fry some rounds of bread and put the following mixture on them, and put them into the oven just to heat; grate quarter pound of rich cheese, beat it to a smooth paste with two ounces of butter, seasonSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 6 with salt, mace, a little made Finch’s mustard, one tablespoonful of port or sherry. This will keep for a week or more if it is put into a pot with melted butter on the top. Macaroni Balls. For Six Persons.—3 ozs. of macaroni; 2 eggs; 1 oz. of grated Parmesan; a little crushed vermicelli; butter for frying. f Boil two ounces of macaroni, cut it into small pieces and drain, put into a saucepan with the yolk of one egg and one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese; season with pepper and salt, cook for a few minutes, then put on a plate to get cold. Form into balls, egg and vermicelli them, and fry a nice light colour. Champignons en Caisse. For Six Persons.—12 large mushrooms; 1 dessertspoonful of chopped parsley; z finely chopped eschalot; 1 oz. of butter; salt and pepper to taste. Peel some mushrooms and cut them up small; put them into paper or china cases, which should be well buttered. Add pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and a little eschalot if liked. Cook in a brisk oven and serve hot. Bengal Toasts. For Four Persons.—6 rounds of bread; 2 ozs. of ham; 1 gill of cream; cayenne; 1 oz. of Bengal chutney; 1 oz. of Parmesan cheese. Fry some small rounds of bread and put the following mixture on them: chop fine some leanSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. ham, which make into a stiff paste with cream, season with cayenne. Spread this on the toasts, them a layer of Bengal chutney, and over that a little^ Parmesan cheese. Bake till a light brown and serve hot. Aigrettes of Parmesan. For from Four to Six Persons.—% pint of water; 2 ozs. of butter; 2 ozs. of flour; 2 ozs. of Parmesan; 2 eggs; cayenne and salt to taste; fat for frying. Take quarter pint of water and two ounces of butter, put into a small saucepan, let it boil, then shake in two ounces of flour, stirring all the time; it must be well cooked. Add cayenne and salt," two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, stir well, and mix in by degrees two eggs well beaten. Have ready some boiling fat, and drop in about a dessert- spoonful of the mixture at a time and fry a golden brown, and serve very hot. The great secret in this is to make it at the last moment. Calfs Brains on Toast. For Six Persons.—Half the brains of a calf; 1 oz. of ham; 1 gill of cream;’ 1 oz. of bread crumbs; cayenne and salt to taste; butter for frying the crumbs. Wash in salt and water and then boil a calf’s brains; when boiled chop them up with a little ham, cayenne, salt, and a little cream. Put on to fried toasts with fried bread crumbs on the top of each. Mushroom Toasts. For Four Persons.—6 rounds of bread; 10 large mush- rooms ; J4 a gill of cream or stock; pepper and salt to taste; oz. of Parmesan cheese.8 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Fry some small rounds of bread nice and crisp, and put the following mixture on them: mince the mushrooms fine, add pepper, salt, a little cream or stock, and stew till tender. When sufficiently cooked, heap the mushrooms nice and high on the toasts,| sprinkle Parmesan cheese over each, and brown with a salamander. Serve very hot. Shanklin Eggs. For Six or Seven Persons.—4 eggs; 8 olives; 4 red chillies; 8 pieces of fried bread; salt to taste. Hard boil the eggs, take out the yolks and pass Ihern through a wire sieve, with the olives and red1 chillies; mix all together, adding a little salt, and put them back into the whites; serve on fried bread. The eggs should be cut longways. This dish is best cold. Petits Pots de Consommg. For Six to Eight Persons.—pint of stock; 1 slice of ham, about 2 ozs.; 1 bunch of sweet herbs; 4 eggs; white pepper and salt to taste. Take half a pint of good stock, put it into a sauce- pan with a slice of ham and a bunch of sweet herbs, stew till the stock is well flavoured. Then strain, add the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two eggs well whisked, mix and strain again. Pour into little tins, stand them in a saucepan of hot water to steam for ten minutes, season with white pepper and a little salt. Dressed Crab. For Six Persons.—1 crab; 2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs; 2 tablespoonfuls of salad oil; 1 tablespoonful of vinegar; pepper and salt to taste.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 9 Pick all the meat from a fresh crab, mix it in a basin with one tablespoonful of finely grated bread crumbs, two of salad oil, one of vinegar, pepper and salt. Put it back into the shell, strew bread crumbs on it, and bake half an hour. Serve very hot. Indian Sandwiches. For Six Persons.—The breast of a cooked chicken; i oz. of ham or tongue; 4 boned anchovies; 2 tablespoonfuls of white sauce ; 1 dessertspoonful of curry powder ; a squeeze of lemon; 12 squares of fried bread; 1 oz. of grated cheese; ■1 oz. of butter; butter for frying bread. Cut into dice either chicken, veal, or game. Take some ham or tongue and four boned anchovies, also cut into dice; next put two tablespoonfuls of white sauce and one dessertspoonful of curry powder or paste into a saucepan, boil a few minutes and add the above ingredients and a squeeze of lemon. Have ready double the number of fried rounds of bread, and put the mixture between them; mix a little grated cheese with butter and spread on the top of each sandwich and place in the oven to get very hot. Zephyrs. For Six or Seven Persons.—% pint of cream; 1 good tablespoonful of dissolved gelatine; 2 ozs. of grated Parmesan cheese; *4 pint of milk; cayenne and salt to taste; some aspic jelly. Take quarter of a pint of cream, one good table- spoonful of dissolved gelatine in milk, two of grated Parmesan cheese, cayenne and salt to taste. Warm the milk in which the gelatine is dissolved, add the cheese, stir on the fire for a few moments, take it off10 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS and add the whisked cream; pour into small moulds and let it set. When cold turn them out and garnish the dish with aspic cut into dice. Macaroni Cheese. For Four or Five Persons.—3 ozs. of macaroni; 1 oz. of flour; *4 pint of milk; 1 oz. of butter; 3 tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan; cayenne and salt to taste. Boil the macaroni till tender with an onion and some salt in the water, drain it well; make a thick white sauce and add the grated Parmesan cheese, cayenne and salt to taste; butter a dish well, place a layer of macaroni on it, then one of sauce, and so on till you have sufficient. Sprinkle cheese on the top, and put into the oven to brown. Gherkin Toasts. For Four Persons.—5 squares of bread; 2 ozs. of Parme- san cheese; 8 gherkins; 2 eggs; cayenne and salt to taste. Fry some squares of bread, sprinkle Parmesan cheese on each; chop some gherkins very fine, and cover half the toast with them, and the other half with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg passed through a sieve; season with salt and cayenne. Fried Ramequins. For Three Persons.—lb. of Gloucester cheese; 1 oz. of butter; 2 eggs; cayenne and salt to taste. Grate quarter pound of cheese, melt one ounce of butter; when the butter is cool mix with it theSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. ii whites of two eggs whisked to a froth, lay buttered papers in a frying-pan, put slices of bread on them and the cheese on the top, fry them five minutes, and serve them very hot. Viscount Sandwiches. For Eight or Ten Persons.—A tin loaf; 6 ozs. of butter; 6 ozs. of anchovies; 4 eggs; 1 pint of consomm6; a few sprigs of parsley for garnishing. Take a tin loaf of bread and cut some very thin slices, spread them with butter and anchovies pounded and passed through a sieve; stamp them out with a small round cutter, place some filleted anchovies upon them. Make a custard with the yolks of four eggs and a quarter of a pint of good con- somme, steam it in a plain mould. When cooked leave it till cold, then turn out, cut into thin slices and stamp it out with the same cutter as used for the bread, and place a round of custard between the rounds of the bread and anchovies. Serve on a nap- kin and garnish with parsley. Cr£me de Fromage. For Four Persons.—2 tablespoonfuls of Parmesan; 2 tablespoonfuls of cream; cayenne and salt to taste; a little thin puff paste; x egg; 1 oz. of vermicelli. Take two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, and not quite two of cream, a little cayenne and salt. Mix into a smooth thick cream, and spread on some thin puff paste which has been cut with a round cutter, double it over, press the edges well together, egg and vermicelli them, fry in boiling fat. Serve very hot.2 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Anchovy Eggs. For Six Persons.—3 eggs; 3 teaspoonfuls of anchovy sauce; 1 oz. of butter; cayenne and salt to taste; 6 rounds of fried bread. Boil the eggs hard, when cold shell them and cut! in half lengthways, take out the yolks and pass them through a sieve, and to every egg add one teaspoon- ful of anchovy sauce, cayenne pepper, and a small piece of butter; beat all together and replace in the whites. These eggs can be eaten either hot or cold, and should be served on fried rounds of bread. Scotch Woodcock. For Four Persons.—2 slices of bread, y, inch thick; 2 ozs. of butter; 2 tablespoonfuls of anchovy sauce; 2 eggs; % pint of new milk. Two slices of bread toasted and buttered on both sides, cover one side thinly with anchovy paste or sauce, put the toasts on the top of each other and cut into four. Have ready the yolks of two eggs well beaten with a quarter of a pint of new milk, set over the fire to thicken, but not to boil; pour it over the toast, and serve as hot as possible. Savoury Trifles. For Two Persons.—2 ozs. of game or chicken; 12 pickled mushrooms; a gill of cream; cayenne, white pepper, salt to taste; fried bread or ramequin cases. Mince fine any kind of game, chicken, or veal, with a few pickled mushrooms, a little cream, cayenne pepper and salt. Heat thoroughly in a saucepan, and serve either on fried bread or in small cases.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 13 Anchovy Toast with Egg. For Four Persons.—6 anchovies; 6 rounds of fried bread; 2 eggs. Pound and pass through a sieve six anchovies, spread on rounds of fried bread; boil hard two eggs and pass the yolks through a sieve, sprinkle thickly over the anchovy toasts and serve very hot. Cheese Fritters. For Four Persons.—r oz. of macaroni; r large table- spoonful of grated cheese; r large tablespoonful of cream; r teaspoonful of Finch’s mustard; salt and cayenne to taste; 1 egg; 1 oz. of vermicelli. One ounce of macaroni well boiled and cut very small, one heaped-up tablespoonful of grated cheese,' one heaped-up tablespoonful of cream; mix all together, season with pepper and salt, also a little, mustard if liked. Make some good puff paste and roll it out thin, cut into rounds and place some of the! mixture on each round, double them over, egg and' vermicelli them, fry a light gold. Serve hot. Savoury Eggs. For Four Persons.—4 eggs; r oz. of ham; r eschalot; Y-2 gill of cream; 2 sprigs of parsley; cayenne and salt to. taste; as much chopped tarragon, chervil, and chives as will! fill a teaspoon; J4 pint of Mayonnaise sauce. Boil some eggs till quite hard; when cold shell' them, cut in half and take out the yolks, pass through a sieve and mix with some finely chopped ham, pars- ley, a little eschalot, cream, cayenne pepper and salt; mix well together and replace in the whites. Put them on a small dish and pour round them aSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. *4 good Mayonnaise sauce, in which you should have a little chopped parsley, chervil, tarragon, and chives. Sardines en Caisse. For Four Persons.—5 ramequin cases; 5 sardines; a dessertspoonful of anchovy sauce; 1 oz. of butter; 1 table- spoonful of cream; 1 oz. of fried bread crumbs; cayenne; black pepper and salt to taste. Bone and pound some sardines, add a little cream, anchovy sauce, cayenne, black pepper and salt, and some melted butter; mix all well together, place in the cases and put into the oven to heat thoroughly. Sprinkle bread crumbs on the top of each. Anchovy Toast aux Tomatoes. For Four Persons.—6 anchovies; a tablespoonful of tomato sauce; cayenne; 4 or 5 squares of fried bread. Take six anchovies, bone and pass through a sieve; mix with a little tomato sauce and cayenne, spread thickly on fried squares of bread, and serve very hot. Lobster k la Creme. For Six Persons.—1 lobster; y2 teaspoonful of salt; y2 teaspoonful of pepper; a little nutmeg; 2 teaspoonfuls of vinegar; 1 teaspoonful of sherry; 2 ozs. of butter; 1 oz. of flour; y pint of cream; a few sprigs of parsley. Pick the meat from a fresh lobster, mince it finely and put it into a saucepan with half a teaspoonful of salt, the same quantity of pepper, a little nutmeg, two teaspoonfuls of vinegar and one of sherry. When quite hot, add two ounces of butter lightly rolled in flour, and a quarter of a pint of cream;SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. :5 simmer gently for ten minutes, stirring all the time, and when thoroughly heated put the mixture into the shell of the lobster, place it on a napkin, and garnish it with parsley. Cauliflower au Gratin. For Six Persons.—i cauliflower; i oz. of butter; i oz. of flour; a teacupful of milk; 2 ozs. of grated Parmesan; cayenne and salt to taste. Boil a nice cauliflower till tender, drain well, and then put it on the dish you intend to serve it on. Press it together so that the sauce goes over it and does not sink into it. Take one ounce of butter, one ounce of flour, a teacupful of milk, two ounces grated cheese; melt the butter, mix in the flour, add the milk and boil; sprinkle in the cheese, cayenne and salt to taste, pour over the cauliflower, adding a little cheese on the top, and put into the oven to brown. Oysters a I’lndienne. For Six Persons.—r doz. oysters; 1 dessertspoonful of curry powder; 1 dessertspoonful of flour; pint of cream; 1 onion; a slice of apple; J4 teaspoonful of lemon juice; 3 ozs. of rice. Take one dozen oysters, one dessertspoonful of curry powder, one dessertspoonful of flour-, quarter of a pint of cream, a little onion, a slice of apple, half a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Make the curry sauce, add the oysters, and serve with rice round them. Rissotto a la Milanaise. For Four Persons.—2 ozs. of butter; 1 onion; a cupful of rice; a pinch of saffron; *4 pint of stock; a cupful of grated cheese; salt and cayenne to taste. Put a good sized piece of butter into a stewpan and add a small quantity of minced onion, let it justSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. i6 colour, but not brown; take a cupful of rice, and let it cook in the butter about five minutes, add a small pinch of saffron. Take sufficient stock to cook the rice, fifteen or twenty minutes will cook it; when cooked add nearly the same quantity of grated cheese as rice, and cook three minutes more, stirring the cheese in well. Serve very hot. Bombay Toast. For Three Persons.—i oz. of anchovies; i oz. of butter; 2 eggs 5 4 squares of fried bread; cayenne to taste. Take one ounce of anchovies, one ounce of butter, and pass through a sieve; melt it in a saucepan, and as it melts add the beaten yolks of two eggs. Stir till as thick as buttered eggs and serve on fried bread. Potatoes au Gratin. For Six Persons.—8 potatoes; r gill of milk; i table- spoonful of flour; i egg; a teacupful of grated cheese; salt and cayenne to taste; i oz. of bread crumbs. Slice some boiled potatoes and put a layer in a pie dish, then spread a layer of thick white sauce with the yolk of an egg and cheese in it over the potatoes, then another layer of potatoes till the dish is full. Sprinkle the top with bread crumbs and cheese. Bake about twenty minutes. Golden Eggs. For Four Persons.—6 eggs; r oz. of bread crumbs; butter for frying; salt; cayenne; % pint of rich white sauce; a squeeze of lemon. Hard boil some eggs, shell them and sprinkle them with flour and salt; beat up a raw egg and dip the17 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. hard-boiled ones in it, roll them in bread crumbs and fry a good golden colour. Serve with white sauce. Genoese Eggs. For Four Persons.—3 eggs; 3 tablespoonfuls of rice; 2 ozs. of butter; 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley; pepper and salt to taste; 1 onion; some slices of buttered toast. Two or three hard-boiled eggs chopped very fine; mix thoroughly with three tablespoonfuls of rice well boiled, but each grain must be dry and separate. Put into a stewpan with a bit of butter, a little chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a little onion; when quite hot serve on a slice of fried or buttered toast. Gascony Butter. For Four Persons.—1 oz. of chopped parsley; 2 ozs. of anchovies; 2 ozs. of butter; cayenne to taste. Take equal quantities of parsley picked and par- boiled, of anchovies washed, boned, and pounded, also fresh butter; mix the ingredients well together, add cayenne, and pass all through a hair sieve; shape into little balls and garnish with parsley. Eggs k I’Annecy. For Four Persons.—6 eggs; 1 oz. of butter; 2 ozs. of chopped mushrooms (if tinned mushrooms are used, 1 table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup must be added); 1 tablespoon- ful of chopped paTsley; half an onion; 5 pieces of fried bread. Hard boil some eggs, put them into cold water, and then shell, cut them in half and take out the yolks, chop them fine. Put a nice-sized piece of butter into a saucepan with some chopped mushrooms, then cSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. i8 add the yolks with some chopped parsley and a little onion. Stir all well together and add one or two raw eggs, according to the quantity. Serve on fried toast. Potato Souffld. For Four Persons.—6 potatoes; i gill of cream; cayenne and salt to taste; 2 eggs. Roast six large potatoes, cut off the top of each one carefully, turn them into a basin and mash them till quite smooth, add a little cream, cayenne, salt, and the yolks of two eggs; mix well and put them back into the skins. Bake for twenty minutes, and serve very hot. Tomato Sandwiches. For Four Persons.—8 slices of bread and butter; 3.to- matoes; pepper and salt to taste; 1 basket of mustard and cress, or 1 lettuce. Cut some slices of bread and butter, season well with pepper and salt, put a slice of tomato on the bread and another slice of bread on that. Cut into oblong shapes, serve on a napkin with mustard and cress or lettuce in the centre. Canapis a la Windsor. For Four Persons.—2 ozs. of chicken or game; 1 oz. of Parmesan cheese; 3 anchovies; 3 rounds of fried bread; a tablespoonful of fried bread crumbs; 2 ozs. of butter; cayenne to taste. Take a little chicken or game, a little ham, some Parmesan cheese, three anchovies washed and boned, a pat of butter, cayenne pepper and salt; pound all together and pass through a sieve. Have ready some fried bread cut in rounds; spread this mix-19 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. ture thick on each round, sprinkle fried bread crumbs on them, and place in the oven for ten minutes. Serve very hot. Anchovies in Olives. For Two Persons.—3 anchovies; 9 French olives; J4 oz. melted butter; cayenne to taste; 3 small squares of fried bread. Pass through a sieve some boned anchovies and mix with some melted butter and cayenne pepper. Peel some French olives and fill the inside with the above mixture. Serve on fried rounds of bread, three or four olives on each round. If liked, a little of the mixture may be spread on the rounds. Parmese Rice, For Three Persons.—1 onion; pint of shelled shrimps or bits of lobster; 1 dessertspoonful of dry mustard (Finch’s); 1 teacupful of rice; 1 tablespoonful of Parmesan cheese; salt to taste. Fry a sliced onion in butter with a few shelled shrimps or bits of lobster, stirring in a dessert- spoonful of dry mustard. When hot put in a cup- ful of very dry well-boiled rice—each grain should be separate—and a tablespoonful of Parmesan cheese; stir and cook a few minutes. Serve very hot. Kidney and Cheese Toast. For Three Persons.—2 kidneys; r teaspoonful of chopped parsley; 1 eschalot; 2 ozs. of butter; r teaspoonful of Worcester sauce; 1 tablespoonful of fried bread crumbs; 1 dessertspoonful of flour; 1 tablespoonful of Parmesan cheese; pepper and salt to taste. Split the kidneys and chop them up fine. Put some chopped parsley and a little eschalot into a20 SAVOURIES AND S WEE IS. stewpan with some butter; let all fry together lightly. When done add a little Worcester sauce and flour, and boil for a few minutes to cook the flour; add pepper and salt to taste. Butter lightly a slice of toast, cover with the mince, and above that put fried bread crumbs and a thick sprinkling of Par- mesan cheese. Put into the oven for a few minutes, and serve very hot. Oysters fried in Batter. For Three Persons.—3 tablespoonfuls of flour; tea- spoonful of oil; 2 eggs; salt and cayenne to taste; x dozen oysters. Take three tablespoonfuls of flour, a little salt, and half a teaspoonful of oil; mix very lightly with tepid water. Whisk the whites of two eggs into a stiff froth and mix with the paste. Dip each oyster in the batter ana fry a light brown. A little cayenne is a great improvement to the batter. Cheese Biscuits with Anchovies. For Four Persons.—8 cheese biscuits; 3 anchovies; 1 egg; 1 oz. of butter; 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley; cayenne to taste. Make some cheese biscuits by the same receipt as given for Cheese Straws (page 33), and when baked put the following mixture between two: pass some boned anchovies through a sieve, add the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, a small piece of butter, some chopped parsley and cayenne. Mix all together, and when between the biscuits put into the oven to heat.21 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Tricolour Toasts. For Four Persons.—5 squares of bread; 3 or 4 anchovies; 2 eggs; 9 gherkins or olives, or 20 capers. Fry some squares of bread, and spread some anchovies which have been passed through a sieve on each; boil two eggs hard. Pass the whites and yolks through a wire sieve separately. Chop some gherkins or olives or capers, whichever is most liked, and arrange the toast with the whites, then the yolk, and lastly the gherkins or capers. In that way you get three colours, a band of each. These toasts are best cold. Tomato Omelet. For Three Persons.—4 tomatoes; * tablespoonful of flour; 1 gill of milk; 4 eggs; salt and pepper to taste; 2 ozs. of butter for frying. Take four ripe tomatoes, peel them and chop them small; beat a tablespoonful of flour to a smooth paste with a little milk; add four well beaten eggs, a little pepper and salt and the tomatoes. Fry the omelet in the usual way, and serve very hot.« Tomatoes au Gratin. For Four Persons.—4 tomatoes; 6 mushrooms; 1 onion; 2 eggs; 2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs; 2 teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley; 2 teaspoonfuls of grated Parmesan; salt and pepper to taste. Cut off the bottom of the tomatoes and take the inside out carefully; chop up a few mushrooms, an onion, and some parsley till quite fine; season with salt and pepper; fry the whole for a few minutes, add the yolks of two eggs. Mix and fill the tomatoes,22 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. sprinkle the top of each with equal quantities of cheese and bread crumbs and put into the oven to brown. Shrimp Toasts. Foe Four Persons.—5 rounds of bread; % pint of shelled shrimps; 2 ozs. of butter; 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce; 1 tablespoonful of cream; 1 tablespoonful of bread crumbs; cayenne to taste. Fry some rounds of bread; take quarter of a pint of shelled shrimps and put them into a saucepan with a little butter, sprinkle in a tablespoonful of flour, add a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, a little cream and cayenne pepper; mix well together and let it boil two minutes. Place on the rounds of bread with fried crumbs on the top of each. Tomato Toast. For Four Persons.—3 tomatoes; 3 red chillies; 1 onion; oz. butter; 1 dessertspoonful of milk; 1 tablespoonful of crumbs; 1 egg; salt and cayenne to taste. Take three large tomatoes, put them into boiling water for two minutes, then peel them and chop very fine with three red chillies, salt, and a small onion. Put half an ounce of butter in a pan with a dessert- spoonful of milk, add the tomatoes and chillies, cook for a few minutes and mix a well beaten egg with it. Cook till the mixture is the thickness of buttered eggs, serve on slices of buttered toast, and sprinkle fried bread crumbs on the top.2 3 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Curried Eggs. For Four Persons.—i oz. butter; 3 eggs; 1 table- spoonful of cream; 1 dessertspoonful of curry powder or paste; salt to taste. Take one ounce of butter, three eggs, one table- spoonful of cream, one dessertspoonful of curry paste or powder. Put the butter into a pan to melt, add the eggs, cream, and curry paste; salt to taste, stir till it gets thick and serve on buttered toast. Canapis of Sardines. For Four Persons.—5 pieces of fried bread; 5 sardines; 2 eggs; 1 teaspoonful of Finch’s mustard; 1 teaspoonful of vinegar; 1 tablespoonful of mixed minced parsley, chives, and tarragon ; 5 pickled gherkins. Fry some pieces of bread the length and width of a sardine; take some sardines and strip them from the bone, lay one half of them aside and pound the other half with the yolks of one or two hard-boiled eggs and some butter. Add mustard, pepper, chives, minced parsley, tarragon, and a teaspoonful of vine- gar. Mix all these ingredients thoroughly, spread the mixture on the toast, and lay a half sardine on each. Place in the oven to get hot, and serve with a small pickled gherkin on each. Truffles a la Serviette. For Six Persons.—10 truffles; 1 onion; 1 slice of bacon; a bunch of mixed herbs; pepper and a good deal of salt; 1 wineglass of sherry; 1 pint of stock. Take some good-sized fresh truffles, wash tho- roughly, put them in a saucepan with an onion, a slice of bacon, herbs, pepper and salt; boil them inSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 24 stock with a wineglass of sherry. Boil till tender, and serve on a napkin. Oyster Toasts. For Four Persons.—5 squares of fried bread; 1 dozen oysters; 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce; 1 teaspoonful of flour; 1 gill of cream; pepper and salt to taste. Take some oysters and cut them into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with a little cream, a sprin- kle of flour, a few drops of anchovy sauce, cayenne pepper and salt. Heat thoroughly and serve on fried bread. Vegetable Marrow a l’Espagnole. For Four Persons.—1 vegetable marrow; 2 large toma- toes; 1 oz. of butter; x onion; pint of stock; pepper and salt to taste. Slice an onion and two large tomatoes, fry them in a little butter. When they are cooked, put in the marrow cut into nice square pieces, moisten with a little hot stock, add pepper and salt; let the whole stew gently till the marrow is cooked. Serve hot. Imitation Foie Gras. For Six Persons.—1/2 lb. of calf’s liver; lb. of bacon; 1 carrot; 1 turnip ; 1 onion; 1 bouquet of herbs ; cayenne and salt to taste. Take half a pound of calf’s liver, quarter of a pound of rather fat bacon, a carrot, turnip, onion, a bouquet of herbs, pepper and salt. Cut up the bacon, put it into a frying-pan and fry gently, cut the liver up and put it in also; the vegetables must be cut up and fried. Stir over the fire till it isSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 25 cooked; it must not be brown. Turn the contents into a mortar, pound until the meat is fine, then rub through a hair sieve. The vegetables are merely to give the liver a nice flavour, so need not be pounded or passed through a sieve. Marrow Toasts. For Four Persons.—2 marrow bones; 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley; a few drops of lemon juice; 5 squares of fried bread or toast. ' Boil two marrow bones, and when they are suffi- ciently cooked, take out the marrow and place on small squares of hot buttered toast; sprinkle chopped parsley and a squeeze of lemon juice on each. Serve very hot. Egg and Ham Toasts. For Four Persons.—5 rounds of fried bread; 2 ozs. o. ham; x gill of cream; 5 eggs; 1 spoonful of chopped parsley; 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Fry some rounds of bread sufficiently large to hold a poached egg. Before frying, mark them lightly with a cutter about an inch from the edge all the way round. The bread must be an inch in thickness. When fried, run a knife round the mark and take out the middle; care must be taken so as to leave about half an inch thickness at the bottom. Fill up the space with finely chopped ham moistened with cream; add chopped parsley, a little lemon juice and cayenne. Place a poached egg on the top of the mixture and serve very hot.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 26 Boiled or Stewed Cheese. For Six Persons.—4 ozs. of Cheshire cheese; 2 eggs; 1 dessertspoonful of cream; 1 oz. of butter; a little salt. Scrape four ounces of Cheshire cheese, add the yolks of two eggs well beaten, a dessertspoonful of cream and a little butter; put it into a saucepan and set it on the fire for ten minutes, stirring the whole time. Serve on a hot-water dish. Ham Toasts. For Four Persons.—2 tablespoonfuls of cream; 2 table- spoonfuls of ham; 1 tablespoonful of bread crumbs; 1 tea- spoonful of chopped parsley; 1 anchovy; 1 tablespoonful of fried crumbs; 5 pieces of toasted bread. Take of cooked ham finely minced two tablespoon- fuls, one of bread crumbs, two of cream, a little chopped parsley, and a little pepper and dry mustard, one anchovy chopped fine; put all into a saucepan and heat thoroughly. Serve on squares of hot but- tered toast, with fried bread crumbs on the top. Victoria Sandwiches. For Four Persons.—8 anchovies; 8 slices of thin brown bread and butter; 2 eggs; 1 small bunch of mustard and cress; a little parsley for garnishing. Wash eight anchovies, bone them, and take out the backbones, divide them into halves. Cut an equal number of thin slices of brown bread and butter ; put between two slices alternate layers of hard-boiled eggs, cut in thin slices, mustard and cress, cut small, and the fillets of the anchovies, press the slices closely together, and with a sharp knife cut them into small squares. Serve on a nap- kin and garnish with parsley.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Shrimps Scalloped. For Four Persons.—z/2 pint of shelled shrimps; i gill of milk; i dessertspoonful of flour; i oz. of butter;i table- spoonful of bread crumbs; i teaspoonful of anchovy sauce; cayenne to taste. Butter some small scallop shells, and fill them with shrimps. Make a thick white sauce with a lump of butter in it and a little anchovy sauce, add cayenne pepper, pour over the shrimps, put bread crumbs on each, and brown in the oven. Puffed Eggs. For Six Persons.—4 eggs; 1 pint of cream or new milk; y2 oz. of butter; 1 red chilli; 3 olives; 6 capers; pint of good gravy. Beat four eggs lightly, and mix with them about a pint of cream or new milk; season with salt and pepper. Butter some small moulds and pour in the mixture, put the moulds into a saucepan with about two inches of water at the bottom of it; steam twenty minutes, turn them out and serve with a thick brown gravy; chop two red chillies, three olives and a few capers and add to the gravy. Shrimp Canapis. For Four Persons.—y2 oz. of fresh butter; 6 rounds of bread fried; % pint of shrimps; 1 gill of milk; 1 teaspoon- ful of anchovy sauce; a little parsley for garnishing; 1 dessertspoonful of flour. Fry some rounds of bread and spread some shrimp sauce on them; ornament them by placing some picked shrimps upon them, and place them in a circle on a dish overlapping each other. Garnish with parsley in the centre.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 28 Savoury Beetroot. For Four Persons.—i slice of onion; half a beetroot, or ,the whole of a small one; teaspoonful of salt; J4 tea- spoonful of dry Finch’s mustard; teaspoonful of anchovy sauce; 3 tablespoonfuls of cream; 3 tablespoonfuls of milk. Fry a slice of onion in butter, then mix together half a teaspoonful of salt, half of dry mustard, half of anchovy sauce, one of flour, three of cream, and (three of milk; pour it over the onion in the saucepan 'and boil five minutes; lastly, slice in a moderate- sized boiled beetroot. If you have no cream, use double quantity of milk and a little more flour. This is to be eaten cold. Eggs in Pipkins. For Four Persons.—4 eggs; 4 tablespoonfuls of cream; 1 saltspoonful of salt; ^ saltspoonful of cayenne. Break a new-laid egg into each pipkin, add a table- spoonful of cream, cayenne, and salt; put into a hot oven for five minutes, and serve. Savoury Pudding. For Four to Six Persons.—% pint of bread crumbs; a small bunch of thyme and parsley; a teaspoonful of curry powder; 2 eggs; 6 slices of cheese; 3 ozs. of fresh butter; 1 pint of warm milk; salt and pepper to taste. Mix well together half a pint of bread crumbs, a little thyme and parsley, a teaspoonful of curry powder, two hard-boiled eggs chopped small, a few slices of cheese crumbled up, two ounces of fresh butter dissolved in a pint of warm milk, and two raw eggs beaten well. Let this soak for half an hour before baking. A shallow dish should be used, and a cool oven is necessary. The top should have a fewSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 29 bits of butter spread over it, and be covered with a plate until half done, when it must be removed for the pudding to brown. Bake one hour and a half. Macaroni with Tomato Sauce. For Six Persons.—lb. of macaroni; 1 oz. of butter; 1 onion; 2% ozs. of grated Gruykre cheese; 2Yi ozs. of grated Parmesan; a suspicion of nutmeg; teaspoonful of pepper; salt to taste; 6 tablespoonfuls of cream. Boil half a pound of macaroni in water with a lump of butter, an onion, two cloves, and salt; when done, drain the macaroni and place in a saucepan with two and a half ounces of grated Gruyere cheese, and two and a half ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a little grated nutmeg, some coarse black pepper, and six tablespoonfuls of cream. Toss and stir well until the cheese becomes thick and stringy. Dish up with tomato sauce in the middle of the dish. Angels on Horseback. For Six Persons.—8 large oysters; 8 slices of fat bacon; cayenne to taste; 8 small pieces of toast. Take some large cooking oysters, and put each in a piece of fat bacon, tying it up with a bit of white cotton, and toast them before the fire over a piece of toast. Serve as soon as the bacon is cooked. Scalloped Salsify. For Two Persons.—4 roots of salsify; a lemon or 1 gill of vinegar; oz. of salt; J4 pint of milk; 1 tablespoonful of flour ; 1 oz. of butter; 1 dessertspoonful of anchovy sauce ; 1 tablespoonful of fried crumbs of bread; 2 scallop shells. Scrape some roots of salsify, cut them into short lengths, and throw them into cold water with eitherSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 30 lemon juice or vinegar in it. Boil them till tender in well-salted water; when cooked, drain and put into a thick white sauce, to which you have added a little anchovy sauce and cayenne pepper. Put them into scallop shells and sprinkle fried crumbs on them. Serve very hot. Kidneys Sautds. For Three Persons.—2 kidneys; 1 oz. of butter; 4 pieces of fried bread; 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley; cayenne and salt to taste. Slice and parboil two kidneys, then fry them in a frying-pan with a nice bit of butter; toss them till done; add pepper, salt, a little minced parsley and lemon juice; season well with cayenne and salt. Serve on fried toasts. Sunshiny Eggs. For Three Persons.—1 oz. butter; 3 eggs; pepper and salt to taste; 3 tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce. Melt a little butter in an omelet pan, sprinkle salt upon it, break as many eggs as required, and fry these for about two minutes, care being taken that they do not spread too much. Put them on a hot dish, sprinkle well with pepper, and pour some thick tomato sauce over them. Cheese Canapis. For Three Persons.—4 rounds of fried bread; 1 tea- spoonful of dry mustard (Finch’s); 2 tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan; cayenne and salt to taste; 12 capers or nastur- tium seeds. , Fry some small rounds of bread a nice colour, spread a little mustard on each round; sprinkle over that a layer of grated Parmesan cheese, add cayenne and salt to taste. Put them in a quick ovenSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 3i till the cheese is dissolved. A few capers on each toast is a great improvement. Serve as hot as pos- sible. Pickled nasturtiums can be used instead of capers. Hungarian Patties. Foe Foue Peesons.—lb. of flour; lb. of lard; 2 eggs 5 V* teaspoonful of lemon juice; teaspoonful of bak- ing powder; 2 ozs. of chicken; 6 mushrooms; 1 anchovy; i teaspoonful of lemon peel; l/2 pint of milk; oz. of butter; cayenne and salt to taste. Half a pound of flour, quarter of a pound of lard, the yolk of one egg, half a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and half a teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix into a paste lightly. Line some patty tins with it, and have ready the following mixture: mince some chicken, add to it a few mushrooms, an anchovy, a little lemon peel, cayenne pepper and salt; mince all together and mix with some nice white sauce, put into the patty tins, cover with paste, brush them over with an egg, and bake in a hot oven. Eggs en Caisse. Foe Foue Peesons.—4 ramequin cases; 1 oz. of butter; 4 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs; 4 teaspoonfuls of mixed chopped parsley and chives; cayenne and salt to taste; 4 eggs. Prepare some small paper or china cases by butter- ing them well; spriifkle the cases thickly with a mixture of bread crumbs, chopped parsley, chives, cayenne, and salt. Break an egg into each case, and cook in the oven till the eggs are nicely set. Put crumbs on the top of each.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 32 French Pie. For Six or Eight Persons.—i]/2 lbs. of calf’s liver; i eschalot; i teaspoonful of cayenne; J4 teaspoonful of black pepper; y2 lb. of unsmoked fat bacon; % lb. of veal or chicken; a pint of good stock; ozs. of gelatine. i Boil the calf’s liver; when cold, put it through a mincing machine twice, and pound it in a mortar with an eschalot, mace, nutmeg, cayenne, black pepper, and salt; season highly. Line a china mould with very thin slices of bacon (it must be fat), then put a layer of, cooked veal, rabbit, poultry, or game, aut in thin slices; next a thick layer of the pounded liver, and so on, until the mould is full. Pour in some good gravy or stock in which some gelatine has been melted, cover the top with bacon, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours. More gravy should be added when the mould comes out of the oven. Let it set till quite cold and turn out. .This is an excel- lent dish for luncheon. Savoury Tomatoes. For Five Persons.—3 tomatoes; 2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs; 1 tablespoonful of grated cheese; 1 table- spoonful of cream; l/2 teaspoonful of sugar; cayenne and salt; 6 slices of unsmoked bacon; 6 rounds of buttered toast. Take three large tomatoes and cut them into halves, take out the insides and mix thoroughly with some bread crumbs, a little grated cheese, a gill of cream, cayenne, salt, and half a teaspoonful of sugar; replace in the halves, and on top of each half place a thin slice of unsmoked bacon. Put into the oven to cook, and when the bacon is done the tomatoes will be cooked. Serve each half on a round piece of thin buttered toast.33 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Cheese Toast For Two Persons.—2 ozs. of cheese; 1 egg; 1 gill of milk; pepper and salt to taste; 4 slices of buttered toast. Grate some cheese, add pepper and salt, a well- beaten egg, and sufficient milk to make it like cream. Warm all together in a saucepan and pour over some slices of hot buttered toast. It must be very hot. Sardine Sandwiches. For Twenty-Four Sandwiches.—24 slices of thin bread and butter; 12 sardines; 2 eggs; 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley; 1 teaspoonful of cayenne and black pepper; 1 bunch of watercress or one lettuce. Cut some slices of thin bread and butter, and put the following mixture on 'each slice: bone and pass through a sieve twelve sardines, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and a nice piece of butter; add some finely-chopped parsley, and season highly with black pepper and cayenne, mix all well together. Cut the sandwiches into oblong shapes and serve with cress or lettuce in the middle. Cheese Straws. For Six Persons.—2 ozs. of flour; 2 ozs. of cheese (Par- mesan); 1 oz. of lard; 1 oz. of butter; 1 gill of water; cayenne and salt. Take two ounces of flour, two ounces of cheese, one ounce lard, one ounce butter; mix into a light paste with a little water, cayenne, and salt, roll out the paste very thin, cut into straws, and bake in a quick oven. D34 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Canapis de Volaille. For Four Persons.—8 slices of bread and butter; half a lettuce; 2 ozs. of chicken; 4 anchovies; cayenne; 1 bunch of watercress. Cut some thin slices of bread and butter, spread on them some shred lettuce, and on the lettuce spread Mayonnaise sauce, and on that place some thin slices of chicken and fillets of anchovies, then another slice of bread and butter. Cut into oblong shapes, and serve on a napkin with cress or lettuce in the middle. t Cheese Trifles. For Four Persons.—1 oz. of grated cheese; 1 egg; cayenne and salt to taste; 1 dessertspoonful of cream; enough puff paste to line four patty pans. Put some thin puff paste into patty tins; mix one ounce of grated cheese, the yolk of one egg, a little cayenne pepper, salt, and a dessertspoonful of cream. Whisk the white to a froth and stir it in lightly. Place in the patty tins and bake in a quick oven. Anchovy Omelet. For Four Persons.—6 fillets of anchovies; 6 pieces of fried bread; 6 eggs; pepper and salt to taste; 3 ozs. of butter for frying. Take six fillets of anchovy; fry some pieces of bread the same size as the anchovies, and place a fillet on each piece of bread; beat up six eggs, season with pepper and salt. With half the quantity make a thin flat omelet like a pancake. Do not turn, but lay it on a hot dish, over its surface distribute the pieces of fried bread and anchovy; with the remainder of the omelet make another like the firstSAVOURIES AND SIVEETS. 35 and lay it over the other. Set it a few minutes before the fire to make the two edges adhere, and serve very hot. Ham Omelet. For Three Persons.—i oz. of ham; 4 eggs; % tea- spoonful of pepper; 2 ozs. of butter for frying. Mince one ounce of ham very fine, and if un- cooked fry it for a minute or two in a little butter. Break four eggs into a basin, beat them well, and stir in with them the minced ham and a quarter of a tea- spoonful of pepper. Put two ounces of butter into the omelet pan, and when hot add the eggs and stir quickly until the mixture sets. Fry a light brown and serve very hot. Asparagus Omelet. For Four Persons.—25 heads of asparagus; 4 eggs; pepper and salt to taste; 2 ozs. of butter; y2 pint of brown gravy. Boil twenty-five heads of asparagus and when 'tender cut the' green ends into very small pieces; mix them with four well-beaten eggs and add a little pepper and salt. Melt a piece of butter, about two ounces, in an omelet pan, pour in the mixture, stir till it thickens, fold it over, and serve with a clear brown gravy. Parmesan Puffs. For Three Persons.—4^ ozs. of bread crumbs; 4 ozs. of grated Parmesan; 2 ozs. of fresh butter; J4 teaspoonful of cayenne and salt mixed; 2 eggs. Put four ounces of finely-grated bread crumbs, four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, two ounces3& SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. of fresh butter, and a little salt and cayenne into a mortar and pound them thoroughly. Bind the mix- ture together with a well-beaten egg, and make it into balls the size of a walnut; egg and bread crumb them and fry a nice light colour. Drain them and serve very hot piled on a napkin. Cheese Omelet. For Three Persons.—4 eggs; 2 tablespoonfuls of Par- mesan; Yi teaspoonful of parsley; cayenne and salt to taste; 2 ozs. of butter for frying. Break four eggs into a basin, add a little salt and pepper, two tablespoonfuls of Parmesan cheese. Beat all well, add a little finely chopped parsley; put two ounces of butter on omelet pan, pour it in. Brown nicely and serve. Spanish Rice. For Four Persons.—J4 lb. of rice; J4 oz. of butter; 2 tomatoes; 1 tablespoonful of grated cheese; pepper and salt to taste. Boil half a pound of rice as for curry. Dry it well, and fry it with a slice of butter till it is lightly browned. Stir into it two large toasted tomatoes and a tablespoonful of grated cheese. Season with pepper and salt. Serve it piled high on a dish. Welsh Rabbit. For Two Persons.—3 slices of buttered toast; 3 slices of cheese; ]/2 teaspoonful of mustard and salt mixed. Make some slices of buttered toast, cover them with slices of cheese, spread a little mustard over the cheese, and set in a Dutch oven before the fire to melt. Serve very hot.37 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Buttered Eggs. For Three Persons.—2 eggs; 1 oz. of butter; pepper and salt to taste; three slices of buttered toast. Take two eggs and one ounce of butter; melt the butter and add the eggs, stirring it the whole time. As soon as it thickens sufficiently, put it on slices of hot buttered toast, season with cayenne and salt. Kidney Omelet. For Two Persons.—3 eggs; 1 kidney; 2% ozs. of butter; cayenne and salt to taste. Take three eggs, one kidney, two and a half ounces of butter; skin the kidney and cut it very small, fry it in some of the butter till cooked. Mix the in- gredients for the omelet well, taking care to whisk the yolks and whites separately; season with pepper and salt, add the kidney. Melt the butter in the omelet pan and fry the omelet till nice and brown, turn and serve. Cheese Fondu. * For Four Persons.—1 oz. of flour; 1 oz. of butter; % pint of new milk; cayenne and salt to taste; 3 ozs. of grated Parmesan ; 3 eggs. Melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan, mix smoothly with it one ounce of flour, a pinch of salt and cayenne, and a quarter of a pint of new milk; simmer the mixture gently over the fire, stirring it all the time, till it is as thick as melted butter; stir into it three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese. Turn it into a basin, and mix with it the yolks of two well-beaten eggs, whisk the whites of three to a stiffSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 3? cayenne to taste; 8 fillets of anchovies. froth, and just before the fondu is baked add them. Pour the mixture into a well-oiled round tin, and bake twenty minutes. The tin ought only to be half full, as the fondu will rise a great deal. Savoury Toast. For Three Persons.—3 anchovies; saltspoonful of Finch’s dry mustard; r oz. of butter; cayenne to taste; 1 egg; 1 tablespoonful of cream; 1 large slice of brown bread and butter toast. Bone three anchovies, beat them to a paste, add a pinch of dry mustard, a small piece of butter and cayenne; put it into a saucepan with the yolk of an egg and a tablespoonful of cream, stir well over the lire, but do not let it boil. Make a slice of brown bread toast, butter it well, and pour the above over it. French Bean Omelet. For Three Persons.—2 tablespoonfuls of boiled French beans; 4 eggs; 2 tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan; 2 ozs. of butter for frying; salt and pepper to taste. Cut up the^French beans into small pieces, and stir them into the eggs, which have been well beaten; next add grated Parmesan cheese, salt, and pepper. When thoroughly mixed, put the whole into an omelet pan with two ounces of butter, fry a pale brown, and serve very hot. Anchovy and Whipped Cream. For Four Persons.—5 squares of toast buttered; 1 egg; 1 oz. of butter; 2 teaspoonfuls of anchovy paste; 1 tea- spoonful of mushroom ketchup; 6 olives; y, pint of cream ;39 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Make some toast, cut it into neat square pieces, butter it, then spread thickly upon it the following mixture: stir in a jam-pot (placed in a saucepan of hot water over the fire) the beaten yolk of one egg, a small lump of butter, a little cayenne, some anchovy sauce or paste, a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, a few finely chopped olives, and a gill of cream, until the thickness of a rich custard (it must on no account be allowed to boil). Whip some rich cream to a froth, let it drain awhile on a sieve, then pile it up on each piece of toast over the anchovy custard. Fillet and bone some anchovies (if very salt they must be well soaked), cut the fillets into halves, lay four strips against the piled-up cream on each square of toast (the ends meeting at the top). Serve cold. Devilled Almonds. For Six Persons.—% lb. of sweet almonds; cayenne and salt to taste; 2 ozs. of butter for frying. Blanch some sweet almonds, sprinkle them with cayenne pepper and a little salt, fry them in butter until a rich golden colour, place them on brown paper to drain off the fat. Serve them cold.Part II. SWEETSNOTE. In cold or cool weather the quantities of gelatine given in the receipts for jellies and creams may be considerably lessened.SWEETS. Rich Christmas Pudding. For Twelve Persons.—V2 lb. of flour; i lb. of suet; J4 lb. of currants; i lb. of raisins; 2 ozs. of candied peel; y2 lb. of grated bread; x/2 lb. of sugar; 1 lemon; 1 teaspoon- ful of spice; 8 eggs; 1 wineglass of rum or brandy. Chop the suet finely, well dry the currants, stone and chop the raisins, grate the bread, pound the sugar, grate the lemon peel; mix all the dry ingre- dients together, then add the eggs (the whites and yolks beaten separately), and afterwards the rum or brandy. Boil twenty-four hours in a well-buttered round basin, serve with brandy butter, made as follows: half a pint of cream whisked to a froth, one wineglassful of brandy, sugar to taste, quarter pound of chopped blanched almonds. To be served in a tureen and eaten cold with the pudding. Bakewell Pudding. For Six Persons.—Enough puff paste to line a pie-dish; 2 02s. of candied peel; % lb. of blackberry jam; % lb. of apricot jam; % lb. of strawberry jam; % lb. of cheese cake mixture; % lb. of sugar; % lb. of butter; 4 eggs. Line a pie -dish with paste covered with chopped candied peel, place on it several layers of different coloured jam, and then a layer of cheese cake mix-44 VOURIES-AND SWEET'S. ture (page 46). _ G ''find add the sugar to it, the yolks of » wnite of one egg, and the chopped air*' r our on the rop of .the layers of preserve, and ^ ite some fine sugc over it. Bake in a moderate oven an hour knd a 'quarter. Lemon Dur ”ngs. Foa Two Persons.—1 ■’ t ozs._ of sugar; lb. of bread crumbs; % lb/ ' 2 eggs. Squeeze the lemon into the grated brea^ crumbs, and ? me grated rind of the lemon. Shred the suet very fine and put it with the rest of the ingredients, beat two eggs well and add theitf. Make into small dumplings., md boil three hours. Serve with sugar dusted over them. W.1 ^Mincemeat for Mince Pies. . i l[it for Several Months.—2*4 lbs. of raisins; 2^/2 r.urrants; 2]4 lbs. of suet; 2J4 lbs. of apples; 2 lbs. •§ar; lbs. of orange peel; 1 oz. of m’lspice; 2 sticks cinnamon; 1 bottle of sherry; pints of brandy. One • weight of mincemeat will make 18 mi .ce pies. , 1 i, Two a id a half pounds of r ms, two and a half pounds of currants,• ' " and” half pounds of beef suet, the same'quarii c les, with two pounds of sugar, one and a ha . ^unds of orange neel, one ounce of allspice, a very little cinnamon, a Pottle of sherry, and a pint of brandy. Chop all the ingre- dients well except the currants; mix thoroughly^ put into a nice jar, and keep-tightly tied down, until wanted for use, and then add a little fresn brandy to the mince used. Bake in small patty ti^s lined'with puff paste about three-quarters of an hour in a quick oven. 945 SAVOURIES AND SWEET. Lemc"* -ing. For Four Persons.—- e; x/2 lb. of white sugar; 4 lerr^us; 2 eggs. Dissolve half ai ounce of gelatine in water, add half a pound of white ougar and the juice of four lemons. Boil for ten minutes. Strain and let i' stand till cold and i ' to thicken, then add the whites of two eggs ■ en and whisk all to- gether until light. Put in. ’ Jish and stand to g;.t cold. Velvet Cream. For Ten Persons.—% oz. ' isinglass; 1 teacupful of sherry; 1 lemon; 2 ozs. of uga '.0 pint of cream. Dissolve three-quarters of ’ h 0 of isir a small quantity of water, a t pa^,.. the juice and grated rind of hich ti^ Tj^B taste. When dissolved strain t ’ be rati rirv‘ stir it into a pint of cream. Po. flintil Urrii. allow to get coid. 'fe in hhV ' '-ev " Car+le Puddings. For Five Persons.— rgs; 3 . .of butter; 2 ozs. of sugar; 2 ozs. of flour; 1 on; .ltspocnful of vanilla; tins or cups for baking in. T,reigl two eggs in the shell, and take the same weight of butter, sugar, and flour; put the butter into a basip before the fire till half melted, then beat itf'o a cream. Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs together for .en minutes and mix them lightly with the butter, add the sugar, then the flour, add some grated lemompeel and a few drops of vanilla. Bak? twenty minutes in a slow oven in cups.SAVOU. 'S AND SWEETS. <0 f ! aret Jelly. Foe Ten Persons.—i oz. of isinglass; y2 bottle of claret; half a lemon; i cupful of ’■ac'~verry juice; i tablespoonful of brandy; J4 lb. of loaf sug J4 pint of cream; salt- spoonful of vanilla. ' 'Boil for a few minutes on ice of Swinburn’s isinglass with half a bottle of claret, the juice and rind of half a lemon, a small teacupful of raspberry juice, a tablespoonful of brandy, half a pound of loaf sugar. Pour into a china mould and put aside till the following day. When i/ is to be used, serve with a garnish of whipped cream flavoured with vanilla. Chocolate Cream. For Ten Persons.—i oz. of gelatine; 3 ozs. of chocolate; 2 ozs. of sugar; z/x pintd milk; 3 eggs; y2 pint of cream; 1 teaspoonful of vanill ’ Cover one ;eme: of gelatine with water; pound three ourIcgsi£EVERpcolate with castor sugar to taste, put it t&nbs; 2 ^-quarters of a pint of milk into a sauccc lbs- °Q it thickens; do not allow it to boil, *' but whffnf; ^ b?ely dissolved take away from fire and stir in the yolks of three pr^dously beaten eggs and add the gelatine, whisk in half a pint of cream. When the mixture is nearly cool put into it a tea- spoonful of vanilla. Pour into a china mould and allow to stand in a cool place until the following day. Cheese Cakes. For Twelve Cheese Cakes.—4 eggs; % lb. of sugar; 2 lemons; 2 ozs. of butter; sufficient puff paste to line the patty pans. Beat the yolks of four eggs till ne „ a quarter of a pound of castor sugar and the juice A v white, addSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 47 and grated rind of two lemons. Line some patty pans with good puff paste, put some of the mixture into each with a tiny piece of butter on top, and bake in a hot oven. Meringues. For Eight Persons.—6 eggs; 12 ozs. of castor sugar; 1 teaspoonful of vanilla; J4 pint of cream. For meringues use equal weight of sugar and eggs. Put the castor sugar on a wire sieve and sift it through on to a paper; put some of the sugar into a copper stewpan and whip the whites of the eggs used gently until quite firm with it; put in the rest of the sugar with a dessert-spoon very lightly. When firm enough to bear an egg laid on it take it out of the copper stewpan with a table-spoon and place it in rows on white writing paper. Cast sugar all over. Place the paper on which the shapes are on a baking tin. The oven must be rather hot and the door must be kept open. Bake' until firm and of a pale colour. Take out, heat a knife in hot water and cut the meringueg off the paper they are baked on; take out some of the soft inside and fill with whipped vanilla-flavoured cream properly sweetened. Jam two cases together, letting the cream bulge out at the sides. Apricot Cream. For Ten Persons.—y2 oz. of isinglass; yx of a cup of milk; 4 bitter almonds; 6 ozs. of apricot jam; pint of milk; % pint of cream; 2 eggs; 2 ozs. of sugar. Dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in a stewpan with three-quarters of a cupful of milk, simmer itSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 48 over a slow fire till dissolved, stirring occasionally; strain into a teacup through a fine sieve. Mix four pounded bitter almonds with six ounces of apricot jam rubbed through a sieve, put it into a saucepan with half a pint of milk, stir till it thickens, but do not allow it to boil; take way from the fire and whisk in the beaten yolks of two eggs. Whisk to a stiff froth half a pint of cream sweetened, and stir it lightly into the other ingredients, then add the isinglass not quite cold. Pour into a china mould and allow to set until next day. Sponge Souffle. For Four Persons.—Four penny sponge cakes; % lb. strawberry jam; 1 glass of sherry; 1 oz. castor sugar; 3 eggs; /4 a saltspoonful of vanilla. Use stale sponge cakes. Cut in halves and spread each half with strawberry jam; pour a glass and a half of sherry over the cakes, beat the whites of three eggs to a froth with a little white castor sugar and a few drops of vanilla. Place in lumps over the cakes and set in an oven. Almond Pudding. For Four or Five Persons.—lb. of almonds; lb. of bread crumbs; lb. of suet; 3 eggs; J4 pot of apricot jam. Mix the pounded almonds with the fiftely grated bread crumbs, suet, the well-beaten eggs, and half a pot of apricot jam. Put in a china mould and boil three-quarters of an hour. Turn out before serving.49 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Hunter’s Pudding. For Eight Persons.—lb. of castor sugar; lb. of suet; lb. of flour; lb. of currants; J4 lb. of stoned raisins; % a lemon; 6 Jamaica peppers; 4 eggs; 1 glass of brandy; 1 pint of milk; saltspoonful of salt. Mix the castor sugar tfith the suet, flour, currants, stoned raisins, the rind of half a lemon shred very finely, the peppers finely powdered, four eggs, a glass of brandy, a little salt, and sufficient milk to make it of a proper consistence. Boil in a floured * cloth for nine hours and serve with sweet sauce. Brandy Pudding. For Six Persons.—% lb. of dried cherries; 2 French rolls; lb. of macaroons; 1 glass of brandy; 1 glass of sherry; 3 eggs; 1 pint of cream or milk; a lemon. Line a mould with dried cherries, then thin slices of French roll, afterwards with macaroons.' Repeat cherries, roll, and macaroons until the mould is full; sprinkle a glass of brandy and one of sherry. Beat three eggs, yolks and whites, and add to a pint of milk or cream, lightly sweetened, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Sink the liquid into the solid parts. Steam one hour. * Potato Fritters. For Four Persons.—4 large potatoes; 1 pint of milk; lb. of macaroons; saltspoonful of vanilla; 3 eggs; 1 oz. of bread crumbs; 2 ozs. of lard for frying. Boil and mash four potatoes, stir them into a pint of milk, warm for fifteen minutes; flavour with E5° SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. pounded macaroons and a drop of vanilla; boil and- add two yolks of eggs, stir with a wooden spoon until a thick batter, pour into a dish; when cold roll into balls, egg and bread crumb them and fry in boiling lard. Place on a brown paper in front of the fire to drain; sprinkle with castor sugar. Pineapple, Apricot, or Orange Fritters. For Four Persons.—2 oranges, or 4 slices of pine, or 6 halves of apricots; 1 wineglassful of brandy; 2 ozs. of sugar; 1 lemon. To make white*batter, or if preferred, as on page 31. 2 tablespoonfuls of flour; 1 dessertspoonful of salad oil; 1 gill of water (more may be used if required); 1 egg (the white only to be used, and well beaten, put in just before the batter is to be used). Cut the fruit into slices, halves, or quarters, soak in brandy with some sugar and lemon peel for an hour, drain, dip in batter and fry; drain once more, and serve sprinkled with powdered sugar. Sweet Omelet. For Three Persons.—3 eggs; % saltspoonful of salt; 2 teaspoonfuls of castor sugar; 1 ozi.of butter for frying; ^ lb. c>f jam. Beat separately the yolks and whites of three eggs, adding a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt to the whites, which must bft whipped to a stiff froth. Beat the yolks to a cream, and add a tablespoonful of castor sugar to them ; mix lightly with the whites. Heat an ounce of butter in an omelet pan, and when it is quite hot pom in the mixture. 'Stir it quickly with a spoon till it begins to set. The pan must be shaken to prevent the omelet sticking to it. Warm some quince or apricot jam, and when theSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. S' omelet is of a nice yellow colour, take it out of the pan, spread the jam on one half, fold the other over, dust with castor sugar and serve. Pineapple Cream. For Four or Five Persons.—pot of pineapple jam; %. oz. of gelatine; 2 ozs. of castor sugar; J4 lemon; a pint of cream. Rub half a pot of pineapple jam through a sieve with a wooden spoon. ‘Soak three-quarters of an ounce of best gelatine in three tablespoonfuls of water, then put it in a saucepan on the fire and stir until quite melted; add two ounces of castor sugar and the juice of half a lemon; pour through a strainer and mix with the jam. Whisk half a pint of cream to a stiff froth; add this lightly to the other • ingredients and stir. Pour into a well-scalded mould that has been rinsed out with cold water. Five Minutes Swiss Roll. For Three Persons.—1 tablespoonful of flour ; 1 table- spoonful of sugar; 1 teaspoonful of baking powder; 1 egg; % lb. of apricot jam; oz. of castor sugar. Take one tablespoonful of flour, one of sugar, a teaspoonful of baking powder* and one egg well beaten; mix all together and pour into a small long dripping tin that has been previously greased. It should be from a quarter of an inch to half in thick- ness. Bake lightly for five minutes. Have ready some warmed apricot jam, spread it over the surface of the pastry, roll up like a bolster. Dust over with castor sugar and serve.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 5* Apple Shape. ¥ For Six or Seven Persons.—i lb. of apples; 4 ozs. of sugar; J4 pint of water; 1 lemon; 1 oz. of gelatine. Cut a pound of apples into small pieces, having previously peeled and cored them. Stew them with four ounces of sugar and half a pint of water; squeeze the juice of a lemon over the apples and grate a little of the rind, but only the outside. Cook the apples till quite tender, stirring every now and then. Dissolve some gelatine, about an ounce, with a quarter of a pint of water, and then stir it well while on the fire after it has swelled sufficiently; rub the apples through a sieve and stir in the gelatine. Scald a mould and then rinse it out in cold water, pour the mixture into it and stand it in a cool place. Gooseberry Fool. For Ten Persons.—1 quart of gooseberries; x pirft of water; sugar to taste; 1 quart of milk; 2 eggs. Put a quart of gooseberries into a pint of water in a stewpan; when the fruit begins to swell drain the water from them and press them through a colander, sweeten to taste, and set to get cool. Beat in a quart of milk the yolks of two eggs, stir it over the fire until it begins to simmer, then take it off and stir it gradually into the cool gooseberries. Serve when cold. Strawberry Cream without Cream. For Four or Five Persons.—l/2 lb. of strawberry jam; U lb. of sugar; 4 eggs. Rub some strawberry jam through a wire sieve; mix a quarter of a pound of sugar well sifted. Beat53 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. with these the whites of four eggs for one hour, and put in lumps in a glass dish. Carrot Pudding. For Three or Four Persons.—2 ozs. of carrots; 2 penny sponge cakes ; 1 teacupful of milk ; 3 ozs. of butter ; 1 wineglassful of sherry; wineglassful of brandy; i]/2 ozs. of sugar; 1 oz. of candied peel. Rub three ounces of tenderly boiled carrots through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon. Pour upon two penny sponge cakes a teacupful of boiling •milk; whisk three eggs to a froth, and then beat the milk and cake smooth. Mix the carrots, eggs, and! milk together, with three ounces of butter, a wine- glassful of sherry, half a wineglass of brandy, and enough white sugar to sweeten it. Put it into a dish, garnish the top with candied peel cut in thin slices. Bake in a warm oven for twenty minutes. Rice Fruit Pudding. For Six Persons.—1 breakfast-cupful of rice; % lb. of fruit; 2 ozs. of castor sugar; 2 eggs. Swell some rice with a little milk over the fire; mix fruit of any kind with it (raisins, quartered apples, currants, or gooseberries), sweeten, break the eggs into the rice to bind it, and boil well in a floured cloth or mould. Apple Custard. For Six Persons.—6 pippins; y2 lb. of loaf sugar; 6 cloves; pint of custard, as on page 62. Pare 'and slice six pippins, melt half a pound of loaf sugar in half a pint of water and six cloves, andSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 54 skim; put in the apples and stew till the liquor is nearly gone. Lay them in a deep dish, take out the cloves; when they are cold pour in a pint of custard and let it cook by setting the dish in boiling water. It is delicious. Rich Custard Pudding. Foe Four Persons.—4 eggs; 1 pint of milk; 1 gill of cream ; a,lemon; *4 saltspoonful of salt; 1 oz. of sugar. Whip four eggs and a pint of new milk, a gill of sweet cream, and the grated rind of half a lemon, a little salt; sweeten to taste. Boil until just thick, and lay in a glass dish. Whip' some cream and lay over the top. Victoria Sandwiches. Fsr Eight or Ten Person.—3 eggs; 6 ozs. of butter; 6 ozs. of sugar; 6 ozs. of flourj 1 pot of apricot jam. Take three eggs, their weight in butter, sugar, and flour; mix the butter and sugar first, then the flour and the eggs well beaten. Bake in a baking tin in a slow oven. When a pale brown, cut in halves, spread one half with apricot jam and place the other half over it. Cut to any shape the sand- wiches are required. Serve cold. Potato Vanilla Souffte. For Five Persons.—4 potatoes; 1 oz. of butter; pint of milk; 1 oz. of sugar; % saltspoonful of vanilla. Bake four good-sized potatoes for three-quarters of an hour; when soft scoop out all the inside of the55 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. potatoes and rub it through a wire sieve. Boil an ounce of butter and quarter pint of milk; add sugar to taste and fifteen drops of vanilla, then the sifted potato smoothly. Add the yolks of three eggs one by one, beating well together with a wooden spoon. Beat the whites of four eggs and a pinch of salt, and beat them separately in another basin to a stiff froth. Mix all together carefully, and bake in a well-greased souffle tin in a hot oven, until it rises well and is of a pale brown colour. The tin should be only half filled with the mixture. Open Golden Tart. For Four Persons.—Enough short paste to line a mould; 2 ozs. of grated bread crumbs; i cupful of golden syrup. Line a plain fiat mould with short paste, rolled rather thin. Mix some golden syrup with some finely grated bread crumbs, cover the paste about half an inch in thickness. Add more golden syrup from time to time while baking if the contents of the tart seems too dry. Blay Custard Pudding, For Four or Five Persons.—4 eggs; 1 pint of milk; 2 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar; % lb. of apricot jam; 1 oz. of bread crumbs; % saltspoonful of vanilla. Beat the yolks of four eggs to a cream, add a pint of milk and two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Whip the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, adding a pinch of salt. Place a thick layer of apricot or strawberry jam at the bottom of a neat-looking pie- dish and spread over it a thin layer of fine bread56 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. crumbs. Lightly mix the yolks and whites together, and pour the mixture into the pie dish and bake until the custard is set. Whip the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, adding a drop or two of vanilla and some sugar; place on the top of the custard in the pie dish and bake until of a fine brown colour. Serve cold. Snow Pudding. For Six Persons.—J4 lb. of loaf sugar; 2 lemons; 2 eggs; y2 oz. of gelatine; pint of milk. Take half a pound of loaf sugar, the juice of two lemons, and the whites of two eggs. Dissolve half an ounce of Nelson’s gelatine in half a pint of cold water gently by the fire, not allowing it to boil, and stirring it occasionally; put all into a large basin and whisk for an hour, it will then turn out like a thick white cream. Pour it into a china mould and stand to get cold. Make a custard of the yolks of two eggs, and when cold turn the shape out into a glass dish, and pour the custard round it. Macaroon Basket. For Eight Persons.—2 ozs. of butter; % lb. of loaf sugar; 2 doz. macaroons; J4 lb. of crystallised cherries; J4 pint of cream; J4 saltspoonful of vanilla; % lb. of loaf sugar for the handle. Use an ordinary cake baking tin, smear the sides and bottom well with butter. Dissolve three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar in half a pint of water, stir over the fire. Dip the marcaroons separately into the syrup and cover the bottom and sides of the mould, letting each macaroon touch its neighbour. Commence from the bottom and work upwards.57 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Allow each row of macaroons to be cold before adding another. When firmly set remove from the tin or mould, and fill with crystallised cherries and whipped cream flavoured with a little vanilla and sweetened. Make a handle to the basket by boiling a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar with a little water over a clear fire, with a little gum water to clear it. It will be sufficiently boiled when a little plunged into cold water on a stick will break off brittle. Pour it on a slightly oiled marble slab, pull it, cut into lengths, and twist two pieces together. Fasten, before it has time to get cold, on to the sides of the macaroon basket. Bread Fritters. For Three Persons.—i pint of bread; i pint of boiling milk; 3 eggs; 1 tablespoonful of brandy or sherry; 1 table- spoonful of butter; J4 oz. of salt; 2 ozs. of sugar; % a lemon; 2 ozs. of butter for frying. Break a pint of stale bread into very small pieces. Pour a pint of boiling milk over it, for ten minutes cover up. When perfectly soaked beat till smooth, and add three well-beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of brandy or sherry, one of butter, a little salt and sugar to taste; beat it light. Dissolve a piece of butter in an omelet-pan, pour the butter into it and allow it to fry gently. When one side is brown turn the pan- cake over and fry on the other. Lay one over the other for serving, cut through in quarters, squeeze a lemon over the whole, and dust with castor sugar. Fig Pudding. For Six Persons.—% lb. of dried figs; 3 ozs. of suet; 2 ozs. of bread crumbs; 2 ozs. of flour; saltspoonfu! of nutmeg; 1 egg; 2 tablespoonfuls of milk.S» SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Finely chop a quarter of a pound of dried figs, three ounces of suet, two ounces of bread crumbs to be added after the suet is well rubbed into two ounces of flour, add to them the chopped figs, the sugar, and a suspicion of nutmeg. Mix well together. Break one egg into a basin, and add two tablespoon- fuls of milk; stir this with the other ingredients. Cover with a greased paper and stand in a saucepan of boiling water half way up the sides of the basin. Steam six hours. Marmalade Pudding. For Four Persons.—3 ozs. of suet; 4 ozs. of bread crumbs; 3 tablespoorfuls of marmalade; 1 egg; 1 lemon; 1ozs. of candied peel. Mix three ounces of suet with four of bread crumbs. Put this in a basin with three tablespoon- fuls of marmalade. Beat an egg and mix with the ingredients, also the grated rind of a lemon and an ounce and a half of candied peel as well as the lemon juice. Cover with a greased paper and steam four hours. Swiss Roll. For Three Persons.—1ozs. of butter; ij4 ozs. of sugar; ozs. of flour; 2 eggs; 2 tablespoonfuls of milk; x teaspoonful of baking powder; % lb. of apricot jam. Beat the butter to a cream, add the same weight of sugar, put in three-quarters of an ounce of flour and a well-beaten egg, then add three-quarters of an ounce more flour and another egg; mix well together. Mix one teaspoonful of baking powder with two tablespoonfuls of milk and add to the ingredients. Bake ten minutes on a greased paper fitted, into a59 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. baking tin. Spread it when just browned with apricot jam, roll it up carefully, and sift castor sugar over it. Apple Meringue. For Four or Five Persons.—4 apples; 2 ozs. of butter; 5 ozs. of pounded sugar; 1 tablespoonful of blackberry jam; 2 eggs. Cut into quarters four apples, take out the core, and cut in slices. Stew over a brisk fire for a quarter of an hour with two ounces of butter and two ounces of pounded sugar. When cool add a tablespoonful of blackberry jam, or apricot, pile up in a dish and cover with the whites of two eggs whipped stiff, with three ounces of castor sugar. Sprinkle more sugar over and bake for ten minutes till of a pale brown colour. Manchester Pudding. For Four or Five Persons.—% lb. of bread crumbs; J4 pint of milk; % lb. of butter; 2 ozs. of sugar; 3 eggs; 1 lemon; lb. of apricot jam. Boil a quarter of a pound of bread ten minutes in half a pint of milk, pour it into a basin, add a quarter of a pound of butter, two ounces of sugar, three eggs well beaten, and the grated rind of a lemon. Line a pie dish with apricot jam, pour in the above mixture and bake an hour. Serve in the pie dish in which it was baked. Rice Snowballs. For Six Persons.—1 teacupful of rice; 1 quart of milk; 2 ozs. of sugar; 1 bay leaf; % saltspoonful of vanilla; 2 ozs. of butter.6o SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Simmer for five hours a teacupful of rice in a quart of milk, stirring it every little while. Flavour with bay leaves, and, after it has been removed from the fire, a little vanilla. When nearly done stir in a piece of butter the size of an egg, and sugar to taste. Put into cups and turn out when cold. Batter for Fritters. For Three Persons.—4 ozs. of flour; % pint of water; 1 oz. of butter; 1 egg; 1 pinch of salt; J4 oz. of sugar; 2 ozs. of butter for frying. Mix four ounces of flour with a quarter pint of water into a smooth batter; dissolve one ounce of butter over a slow fire and then stir into the flour; add the white of one egg beaten to* a stiff froth and stir lightly; put in salt and sugar to taste. Fry in butter. Cake Fritters. For Four Persons.—5 small rounds of cake; pint of cream; 4 dessertspoonfuls of apricot jam; ozs. of butter for frying. Cut a stale cake into pretty-looking shapes, either round, oblong, or square, about an inch in thickness; pour a little cream over each piece and fry in butter a light brown; spread with apricot or strawberry jam. Canadian Floating Islands. For Six Persons.—1 egg; 3 ozs. of currant jelly; 1 quart of cream. Take the white of an egg, beat to a froth, add a glass of currant jelly, beat them together until a spoon will stand up in it; drop a spoonful at a time into a bowl of sweet rich cream.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. ti Molasses Sauce Pudding. For Four or Five Persons.—3 ozs. of butter; 3 ozs. of flour; J4 pint of milk; 3 ozs. of sifted sugar; 1 egg. Sauce.—3 ozs. of molasses; 3 ozs. of sugar; 1 tablespoonful of flour. Take three ounces of butter and beat it to a cream; smoothly mix it with three ounces of flour, half a pint of boiling milk, three ounces of finely sifted sugar, and an egg well beaten; pour into a buttered basin and bake for twenty minutes. Turn out to serve, and pour round the pudding a sauce made of equal parts of sugar and molasses boiled together with a little flour stirred in. Potato Pudding. For Four Persons.—% lb. of potatoes; % lb. of butter; Y lb. of sugar; 2 eggs; 1 lemon. Mash a quarter pound of potatoes, while hot rub in quarter pound of butter, then add quarter pound of sugar, then two eggs well beaten, and last of all the juice of one lemon. Popovers. For Four Persons.—3 eggs; 3 cupfuls of flour; 3 cup- fuls of milk; 1 oz. of sugar; pint of fruit sauce. Beat three eggs very light, add three cups of milk, sugar to taste, then three cups of flour; beat rapidly and smoothly. Half fill some cups with the mixture and serve with fruit sauce. Bake. Hasty Pudding. For Three Persons.—1 cupful of Indian maize; 1 quart of milk; 2 ozs. of butter; 2 ozs. of sugar.62 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Sprinkle and stir some Indian maize into boiling milk till the consistence of cream; boil three-quarters of an hour. Serve in a silver dish; eat with butter and sugar. Boiled Custards. Foe Eight or Ten Persons.—1% pints of milk; 2 bay leaves; % saltspoonful of cinnamon ; 8 eggs; 2 ozs. of castor sugar; y pint of cream; % lb. of sweet almonds. Put a pint and a half of milk in a clean saucepan, with two bay leaves and a very little cinnamon, over a slow fire till it boils. Grate twelve sweet almonds into a basin, and break in four eggs and four more yolks. Mix sufficient castor sugar to sweeten; whisk all well together. When the milk boils take it off the fire and stir in half a pint of cream, then mix the whisk well with it and strain it through a hair sieve into another saucepan. Put it on a slow fire and stir it till it begins to thicken (if it boils it will spoil). Remove from the fire and stir till it is cool, or it will curdle. As soon as it is cold pour into glasses, put some chopped almonds on the top of each, and serve. Guards’ Pudding. For Six Persons.—3 02s. of butter; 3 ozs. of bread; 3 ozs. of loaf sugar; 3 eggs; 3 tablespoonfuls of strawberry jam; 1 saltspoonful of carbonate of soda; pint of wine sauce. Mix well three ounces of melted butter, three ounces of bread crumbs, three ounces of loaf sugar, three eggs well beaten, three tablespoonfuls of straw- berry jam, one saltspoon of carbonate of soda. Steam two hours and serve with wine sauce.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 63 Boiled Lemon Pudding. For Six Persons.—y lb. of suet; i lemon; the crumb of half-a-quartern loaf; }£ lb. of loaf sugar; 2 eggs; glass of brandy; a glass of sherry; y2 oz. of citron peel; 12 blanched sweet almonds. A quarter of a pound of suet, half the peel and the juice of one lemon, the crumb of a half-quartern loaf, quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, two eggs, the whites and yolks to be beaten separately, a little brandy, half a glass of sherry, some almonds cut in three pieces, a few slices of citron peel. To be boiled an hour. Birds’ Nest Pudding. For Six Persons.—6 apples; 6 eggs; 1 quart of milk; 2 bay leaves; y2 saltspoonful of vanilla; a lemon; 6 cloves; 1 wineglassful of brandy; 2 ozs. of chopped almonds. Take six large apples, dig out the cores, make a custard (six eggs to a quart of milk, two bay leaves, and a few drops of vanilla); place a little finely cut lemon peel inside each apple, and one clove. Lay the fruit in a dish, pour the custard over, and bake half an hour. A wineglassful of brandy may be added to the custard if liked; also some blanched chopped almonds, just before serving, can be scat' tered about over the dish. To be served cold. Currant Shape. For Six or Eight Persons.—y2 pot of black currant jelly; 2 ozs. of sugar; 1 pint of water; 4 drops of vanilla; 7 ozs. of ground rice. Boil half a pot of black currant jelly with a pint of water, add two ounces of sugar and some drops of vanilla. When boiling, add seven ounces of ground64 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. rice. Boil for ten minutes, stirring all the time; pour into a mould well soaked in cold water. Turn out when set and serve with cream. Swiss Pancake. For Three Persons.—2 pieces of bread; y pint of milk; 2 tablespoonfuls of flour; ij4 ozs. of butter for frying; % lb. of apricot jam; y, oz. of sifted sugar. Cut two pieces of bread half an inch thick and three inches long, dip in milk and flour, fry a light brown, spread apricot jam between the two, sift sugar over and serve. Apple Charlotte. For Eight Persons.—6 apples; 3 ozs. of bread crumbs; 3 ozs. of brown sugar; 3 ozs. of butter; 1 teacupful of water; 4 slices of buttered bread; J4 pint of cream to be served with it. Peel and core six large apples; arrange in a deep tart dish a layer of bread crumbs, over them a layer of apples sliced, over which strew brown sugar and bits of butter. Then cover with a layer of crumbs, then another of apples, sugar and butter until the dish is full; pour over all a teacup of water. Cover the whole with a close layer of thin slices of buttered bread.; press a plate firmly over the tart dish and bake slowly. Serve with cream and sugar. Almond Souffle. For Three Persons.—1 oz. of butter; 3 tablespoonfuls of flour; Y-i pint of milk; 1 tablespoonful of sugar; 4 eggs; 2 ozs. of blanched almonds. Mix one ounce of butter and three tablespoonfuls of flour, and, gradually, half a pint of milk. Boil to65 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. a thick paste, stirring all the time; add a tablespoon- ful of sugar, the beaten yolks of four eggs, some chopped almonds, the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth with a knife. Bake in a souffle dish. Gingerbread Pudding. For Eight Persons.—lb. of flour; ^ lb. of suet; lb. of bread crumbs; % lb. of sugar; 1 oz. of ground ginger. Mix all together with treacle and a little water. Boil four hours. It can be boiled or baked; if the latter, mix thinner. Excellent German Pudding. For Eight Persons.—% lb. of pea-flour; 6 eggs; % lb. of sugar; oz. of sweet almonds; 2 bitter almonds; J4 a lemon. Half a pound of pea-flour mixed with the yolks of six eggs for half an hour, a quarter of a pound of sugar, half an ounce of sweet almonds, one or two bitter almonds, the grated rind of half a lemon; add, finally, the stiff snow of six eggs. Boil the whole for an hour in a well-buttered tin. • Sultana Pudding. For Eight Persons.—lb. of sultana raisins; lb. of suet; 1 breakfast-cupful of bread crumbs; 2 tablespoonfuls of flour; 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar; 2 well-beaten eggs; *4 pint of milk; 1 teaspoonful of ginger; *4 saltspoonful of nutmeg; 1 tablespoonful of brandy. Mix together half a pound of sultana raisins, half a pound of finely chopped suet, a large cupful of FSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 66 bread crumbs, two tablespoonfuls of flour, two table- spoonfuls of sugar, two well-beaten eggs, half a pint of milk, a teaspoonful of ground ginger, a very little nutmeg, a tablespoonful of brandy. Boil in a but- tered mould five hours, with a floured cloth tied over the top. Green or Unripe Fruit Tarts. For Six Persons.—i quart of fruit; lb. of sugar; enough puff paste to cover a pie dish; i oz. of castor sugar. If green or unripe fruit is used for tarts, it should be first stewed with half its weight of sugar and a little water, and then poured with its syrup into a pie dish and covered with puff paste. Castor sugar should always be sifted over a fruit tart before send- ing it to table. Canadian Cherry Pie. For Five Persons.—i quart of cherries; i handful of flour; 54 pint of molasses. Stone your cherries, lay some paste in a deep dish, add your fruit; fill the dish with molasses, over which sprinkle a handful of flour. Cover with a rich puff paste and bake half an hour. Rice Cream. For Eight Persons.—J4 lb- of rice; i pint of new milk; i lemon; i oz. of gelatine; pint of cream; % lb. of sifted sugar. Let a quarter of a pound of rice simmer in a pint of new milk till it is reduced to a smooth mash, flavour with lemon. Soak one ounce of gelatine inSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 67 a basin with some warm water for about half an hour, add to the rice, and let it boil for a few minutes, stirring well. Turn into a basin to get cold. Whip half a pint of cream to a stiff froth, add quarter of a pound of sifted sugar to it. When the rice is cold stir in the cream. Put into a mould and let it stiffen. Orange Jelly. For Five Persons.—6 oranges; y oz. of gelatine; J4 lb. of sugar (about); 1 lemon. Take six oranges, grate the skins, mix the grated peel with the juice and pour through a sieve. Dis- solve three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine, and mix up enough powdered sugar to sweeten the mixture. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Let it boil, stirring it well all the time. Pour into a china mould. Snowdon Pudding. For Five Persons.—y lb. of suet; y lb. of ground rice; y lb. of castor sugar; 2 eggs; 2 ozs. of orange marmalade. Mix well together a quarter of a pound of finely chopped suet, the same weight of ground rice and castor sugar, two ounces of orange marmalade. Beat two eggs and mix all well together. Put the pudding into a buttered mould or basin, and boil two hours. Turn out and serve with arrowroot sauce flavoured with sugared sherry. Venetian Jelly. For Ten Persons.—y lb. of candied peel; pint of jelly as on page 98; 4 sponge cakes; y lb. of ratafias; 1 glass of brandy or sherry; y pint of custard as on page 62; y oz. of gelatine.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 63 Garnish a plain mould round with candied peel cut into strips, half fill the mould with jelly; while it is setting, steep some sponge cakes and ratafias in sherry or brandy, and pour over some rich thick cus- tard that has been made with some gelatine in it. Fill up the mould, let it set, and then turn out. Apple Fool. For Six Persons.—i quart of apples; i pint of water; J4 a lemon; % lb. of sugar; i quart of milk; 4 eggs; J4 pint of cream. Put your apples into a stewpan with half their measure of water. When they are quite soft press them with the back of a spoon through a wire sieve; flavour with a little lemon juice and sweeten to taste. Put a quart of milk over the fire, with the yolks of four eggs beaten up in it; stir over the fire till it begins to simmer, then allow it to cool, and add half a pint of cream stirred gradually into the cold apples. Let it stand till cold and serve it in a glass dish. French Pancakes. For Two Persons.—1 egg; 1 oz. of-butter; 1 oz. of sifted sugar; 1 oz. of flour; % pint of milk; % lb. of apricot jam. Break an egg into a basin and beat it well with one ounce of butter; stir in one ounce of sifted loaf sugar and one ounce of flour, and when well mixed a quarter of a pint of milk; beat for ten minutes, put on small buttered plates, and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Heat some apricot or other jam, and spread on one half of each pancake, folding the other over. Serve in a silver dish on a napkin.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 69 Boiled Cocoanut Pudding, For Six Persons.—1 cocoanut; % lb. of sugar; 1 cupful of milk; 2 eggs; J4 cupful of bread crumbs; 2 ozs. of butter; Yt a lemon; 4 ozs. of candied cherries; oz. of sifted sugar. For serving with the above Pudding.—1 small cocoanut; 3 czs. of castor sugar; pint of water; pint of cream; 1 egg- Grate finely the white nut, previously removing the brown outside; mix with a quarter of a pound of sugar, a cupful of new milk, and the milk contained in the nut, the whites and yolks of two eggs, half a cupful of bread crumbs, two ounces of butter beaten to a cream, the grated rind of half a lemon, four ounces of candied cherries. Boil three hours in a basin or china mould, covered with a well floured cloth; when done, turn out on to a silver dish, served with sugar sifted over the pudding, and if liked sur- rounded with cocoanut sauce, made as follows: Cocoanut Cream—Boil the finely grated white kernel of a small cocoanut with the same weight of castor sugar in half a pint of water, strain through a wire sieve, put the mixture on the fire again and add half a pint of cream, or as a substitute, three-quarters of a pint of new milk thickened with a little arrowroot. Let it boil; remove from the fire, and when a trifle cooler put in the beaten yolk of an egg, after which allow it to simmer for a few minutes. Tomato Pie. For Six Persons.—1 y2 lb. of tomatoes; % saltspoonful of salt; 3 ozs. of sugar; J4 a lemon; x egg; % pint of cream; enough paste to cover a pie dish. Skin and slice ripe tomatoes, and lay in a pie dish; sprinkle over them a very little salt. For a poundSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. ?o of tomatoes, two ounces of sugar, the juice of half a lemon, one well-beaten egg mixed with half a cup of cream is to be poured over the tomatoes when the pie dish is full. Cover with a rich paste, and bake in a hot oven at first, gradually getting cooler, for somewhat over half an hour. Lemon Tart. For Four Persons^—4 lemons; 1 tablespoonful of flour; 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar; 1 pint of water; enough paste to line and cover a pie dish. Slice four lemons very thin, lay in a rich paste, sprinkle over one tablespoonful of flour, one cupful of sugar, fill the pie dish nearly full of water and cover with paste. Bake an hour. Vegetable Marrow Pudding. For Six Persons.—1 marrow; 1 pint of milk; lb. of sugar; 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger; 1 egg; 1 cupful of flour; enough puff paste to cover the pie dish. Stew the marrow, strain through a sieve; add a pint of milk, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a Jtea- spoonful of ground ginger, an egg, and a teacupful of flour. Bake in a pie dish. Quince Tart. For Six or Seven Persons.—6 apples; 2 quinces; half their weight of sugar; 1 gill of water; enough puff paste to cover a pie dish. Peel six apples and two ripe quinces, stew and sweeten to taste; when quite tender, place in a pie dish, cover with rich paste, and bake half an hour.71 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Apricot Tart. For Six or Seven Persons.—i quart of green apricots; i cupful of water; half their weight of sugar; enough puff paste to cover a pie dish. Take sufficient green apricots to fill your pie dish, and put them into a stewpan with a cupful of water and half their weight in sugar; when thoroughly stewed put, together with the juice, into a pie dish, cover with rich light paste, and bake in a hot oven. Fruit Jelly. For Eight Persons.—i oz. of gelatine; J4 lb. of castor sugar; % pint of water; 3 eggs; Yt a lemon; 1 tumblerful of champagne; 1 quart of mixed fruit. Dissolve one ounce of gelatine and add it to half a pound of castor sugar and half a pint of water; whip to a froth the whites of three eggs and lightly stir into the other ingredients, also the juice of half a lemon; put in a saucepan, stir until it boils, and then pass twice through a jelly bag. When cold, add a tumblerful of champagne. Stew some mixed fruit cut in slices (apples, pears, cherries, plums, apricots) in syrup, leave until cool; fill a mould with layers of fruit and jelly. When thoroughly set, turn out of the mould and serve. Superior Treacle Pudding. For Four Persons.—2 ozs. of suet; % lb. of flour; 1 salt- spoonful of carbonate of soda; 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger; 1 egg; 1 teacupful of treacle; 4 tablespoonfuls of milk; 1 ot. of butter. Chop two ounces of suet very fine, rub it into a quarter of a pound of flour, add a small saltspoonfulSA VO UR IE S AND SWEETS. 72 of carbonate of soda, a pinch of salt, one teaspoonful of ground ginger. Beat up an egg, mix a teacupful of treacle and four tablespoonfuls of milk with it, and stir this into the other mixture. If the pudding is not sufficiently moist add more milk. Grease a basin, put the pudding into it, cover with greased paper; stand the basin in a saucepan with enough boiling water to come half way up the sides and steam for two hours. If liked, the pudding can then' be turned out of the basin, some treacle poured over it, and stood on a baking tin in the oven to brown. Ginger Pudding. For Five Persons.—4 ozs. of crumb of French roll; 4 ozs. of preserved ginger; 2 teaspoonfuls of ginger syrup; 4 ozs. of castor sugar; 4 eggs. ^ Soak four ounces of crumb of French roll for two hours. Mix with it and beat well together for twenty minutes four ounces of preserved ginger; cut fine, two teaspoonfuls of ginger syrup, four ounces of castor sugar, and four eggs with the whites and yolks beaten separately. Put into a well-buttered mould and cover with buttered paper; steam three hours. Strawberry Tart. For Six Persons.—1 quart of strawberries; their weight in sugar; 1 gill of water; enough paste to line a shallow tart tin. Line a shallow tart mould with light paste. Boil some strawberries in their own weight of sugar and a little water. Bake the paste with a large piece of bread in it; when done, take out the bread, placeSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. the strawberries in its place, pass the syrup through a sieve and pour over the fruit. Serve either hot or cold. Strawberry Fool. For Six Persons.—i pot of strawberry jam; U/2 pint of milk; i egg. Press either fresh fruit or strawberry jam. through a hair sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. Sim- mer some milk with the yolk of an egg beaten up in it; add the cream when cooling and stir all the ingredients into the fruit. Serve cold. Bread and Butter Fritters. For Three Persons.—2 pieces of bread and butter; 2 ozs. of jam; y2 oz. of castor sugar; J4 pint of batter as on page 66. Take two pieces of bread and butter, spread" with strawberry jam; lay one on top of the other, cut into squares, dip in a good batter and fry a nice brown. Sprinkle with white sugar and serve on a napkin. Brandy Custards. For Six or Eight Persons.—1 pint of milk boiled ;. 2 large teaspoonfuls of cornflour; ^ of a teacup of cold milk; 4 eggs; 2 wineglasses of brandy; % lb. of almonds. Put a pint of milk on to boil. Mix two heaped-up teaspoonfuls of cornflour with three-quarters of a tea- cup of cold milk, and gradually pour the boiled milk, when nearly cold, to it; add the beaten yolks of four eggs, *and sugar to taste at the same time. Place itSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 74 all together on. the fire until it thickens, and then add two wineglasses of brandy and some chopped almonds. Lemon Sponge. For Six Persons.—oz. of isinglass; i pint of water; J/i lb. of pounded sugar; 2 lemons; 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy. ... Simmer half an ounce of isinglass in a pint of water three-quarters of an hour, and when cold add half a pound of pounded sugar, the rind of one lemon grated and the juice of two, two tablespoonfuls of brandy and the white of one egg previously beaten to a froth. Whisk all the ingredients well together. Pour into a mould and do not turn out till next day. Nougat Baskets. For Six Persons.—J4 lb. of almonds; lb. of sifted sugar; 2 ozs. of butter; y2 pint of cream; saltspoonful of vanilla. Blanch half a pound of almonds and cut each lengthways into narrow pieces, lay them on a dish in front of the fire to get dry. Melt in a pan a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf sugar, and when it is a light brown mix in the almonds. You will have a soft paste which will harden when cold. Make some ■small moulds very hot and butter them well inside, iput some of the mixture into them, and with the ihandle of a teaspoon which has been well buttered ■spread it round the mould as thinly as possible. When cold turn out and send to table with some sweetened whipped and vanilla-flavoured cream in each one. Make a handle to the baskets by twistingSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 75 some of the sugar mixture and bending it into shape across the top of each mould, or by using a little cut angelica. Apple Rings. A delicious dish, to be eaten cold. Foe Six Persons.—i quart of apples; the weight of the apples in sugar; pint of water; i lemon; a few drops of cochineal. Take equal weight of apples and loaf sugar; peel and core the apples and cut them in rings not too thin. Put the sugar in a preserving pan with a little water to prevent it from burning, and boil a quarter of an hour. Take off the scum, lay the apple rings carefully into the syrup with some lemon juice and peel added for flavouring, bring it to the boil once, and let it stand and simmer for five hours. Remove the apple, place in a glass dish, colour the syrup with a little cochineal, strain and pour over the apples. Let it stand till cold and serve. Stewed Quinces. For Eight Persons.—8 quinces; the same weight of sugar; pint of water. Take equal weight of fruit and loaf sugar. Boil your quinces in water till rather tender; take them out, peel, core, and quarter them. Boil the sugar with a little water for a quarter of an hour, remove from the fire, put in the fruit, and allow to simmer, but not boil, for from five to six hours. No colouring is required. Take out the quinces, lay them regu- larly in a dish, and pour the syrup over them. Serve cold.:6 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Petit Choux. For Eight or Ten Persons.—5 ozs. of flour; 1 oz. of butter; J4 pint of water; 4 yolks of eggs; 3 whites of eggs ; % pint of rich cream; 1 oz. of sugar; % saltspoonful of vanilla. For icing.—1 lb. of icing sugar to 2 whites of eggs. Put the butter and water on the fire in a small saucepan, when boiling dust in the flour and beat over the fire for three minutes, take off and drop in the eggs one by one. Mould into shapes with two dessertspoons and bake for one hour in a slow oven; cover with icing and fill with cream sweetened and flavoured. To make the icing, mix in a basin one pound of icing sugar with the whites of two eggs until a thick smooth paste; do not previously beat the whites; this will take a long while. Lay the icing on with cold hands; allow to harden in a cool oven. Buttered Orange Juice. For Ten or Twelve Persons.—6 Seville oranges; 3 tablespoonfuls of rose water; 6 yolks of fcggs; 3 whites of eggs; J4 lb. of castor sugar; 1 oz. of butter. Mix the juice of six Seville oranges with three tablespoonfuls of rose water, and add to the ycfts of six and the whites of three eggs that have been'well beaten. Strain the liquor to half a pound of pounded sugar; put in a china-lined preserving pan a^d stir over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken, then put in a piece of butter the size of a walnut, ke£p it over the fire a few minutes longer. Pour into a flat dish and eat cold.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 77 Cheese Cake Mixture for keeping). For Two Dozen Cheese Cakes.—2 lemons; J4 lb. of sugar; 4 yolks of eggs; % lb. of butter. Rub off the rind of two lemons on half a pound of loaf sugar, the juice of three squeezed on the sugar, the yolks of four eggs, a quarter of a pound of butter. Mix all together, pour into a jar, stand in a saucepan of water, stir the whole time and boil' till the con- sistency of cream. Will keep a month, and can be used either for large open tarts or for smaller ones baked in patty pans. Rice Blanc Mange. For Eight or Ten Persons.—% lb. of rice (ground) ! lIA pint of milk; 2 ozs. of sugar; 3 drops of vanilla; J4 lb. of apricot jam. 4 A quarter of a pound of ground rice mixed with a quarter of a pint of milk. Boil a pint of milk tvith sugar to taste, pour while boiling into the rice, then boil the whole twenty minutes, stirring all the time; add a few drops of vanilla. Pour into a mould, serve with apricot jam. Yellow Lemon Cream (without cream), Fo^light Persons.—4 lemons; 9 ozs. of sugar; 6 eggs. Rub a few lumps of sugar on four lemons before paring them; pare very thin and put the rind into half a pint of water. Squeeze the juice on seven ounces of finely pounded sugar; beat the yolks of six eggs well; add the peel and juice, and beat together some time. Strain through a flannel into a78 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. block tin saucepan, set over a gentle fire and stir one way until pretty thick; it must not quite boil or it will curdle. Pour into jelly glasses and serve cold. Pistachio Cream. For Six Persons.—4 ozs. of pistachio nuts; 1 gill of rose water; 1 pint of cream; sugar to taste. Blanch four ounces of pistachio nuts, beat them fine with a little rose water, add the paste to a pint of cream, sweeten to taste; let it just boil, and put into jelly glasses. Orange Butter Pyramids. For Eight or Ten Persons.—6 eggs; 2 ozs. of sugar; 3 ozs. of butter; 2 ozs. of almonds; 1 gill of orange flower water; 1 gill of orange juice. Boil the eggs hard, beat them in a mortar with the sugar, three ounces of butter, and two ounces of blanched almonds beaten to a paste; moisten with orange juice and a little orange flower water. Rub through a colander. Pile up lightly on sweet bis- cuits made as follows:— Sugar Cakes. For Eight Persons.—1 lb. of flour; lb. of loaf sugar; J4 lb. of butter; 1 egg; oz. of lemon peel chopped. Roll out thin and cut with a cake cutter. Bake in a hot oven. When cold, pile up the orange butter lightly upon them and serve.79 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Old English Syllabub. Foe Twenty Persons.—i pint of port; i pint of sherry; Yi pint of brandy; sugar to taste; i bowl of milk; y2 lb. of clotted cream; % of a nutmeg. In a large china bowl put a pint of port and a pint of sherry and half a pint of brandy, sugar to taste; milk into the bowl. In twenty minutes cover it high with clotted cream; grate a little nutmeg over it. Serve. Staffordshire Syllabub. For Two Dozen Persons.—r pint of cider; i pint of claret; y2 pint of brandy; sugar to taste; % of a nutmeg; i bowl of milk. Put a pint of cider, a pint of claret, half a pint of brandy, sugar to taste, and a little nutmeg, into a bowl. Milk the cow into the bowl till it be full, or pour warm milk from a large teapot from a height into it. (An old-fashioned receipt. Syllabubs used formerly to be universal at haymaking parties. The fluid from the bowl was ladled into glass cups and served to the company.) South Devon Junket. For Eight or Ten Persons.—i dessertspoonful of essence of rennet; 4 teaspoonfuls of powdered sugar; 1 wineglass, of brandy; 1 pint of new milk; % lb. of Devonshire cream; % saltspoonful of nutmeg. Put in the bottom of a glass dish a dessertspoonful of essence of rennet, the powdered sugar, and the brandy. Pour on this the warmed new milk (the warmth of milk from the cow). Mix this up. Spread over the top a quarter of a pound of thick DevonshireSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. So cream; scatter over it two teaspoonfuls of powdered white sugar. Grate a very little nutmeg over. Let it stand five hours* when it is ready for use. Caramel Pudding. For Six Persons.—3 ozs. of stale bread crumos; 3 ozs. of lump sugar; 1 tablespoonful of water; 2 eggs; 2 ozs. of crushed Savoy biscuits; 1 tablespoonful of castor sugar; pint of milk; 1 teaspoonful of essence of vanilla; some butter and sugar for the mould. Put the bread and biscuit crumbs into a bowl. Put the lump sugar and tablespoonful of water into a small saucepan, set on the fire; the sugar will melt and become afterwards brown. Shake the pan gently, so that no part may become black. When the whole is a rich coffee-colour pour into the milk, which will make the sugar form a hard porous mass, but will melt in a few minutes. When the mixture is quite melted, pour over the crumbs; stir well, add the castor sugar; break the eggs, separate the whites and yolks, add the yolks to the crumbs and beat well; whip the whites to a stiff froth on a plate; stir the froth lightly and thoroughly into the pud- ding. ' Add some vanilla essence (only a drop or two, as the flavour is very strong). Prepare a mould as follows: Smear thickly with butter (not very salt); put in a tablespoonful of castor sugar and shake about so that it coats every part of the mould. This gives the pudding a glaze when turned out. Pour in the mixture, and cover the top with buttered paper. Steam by setting in a pan of boiling water for one hour. The water should not come to one inch from the top of the mould; care must be taken not to let the water boil over the edges of the mould- <81 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Sauce for Caramel Pudding. i teaspoonful of arrowroot; % pint of milk; i oz. of castor sugar; i egg; a few drops of essence of vanilla. Mix the arrowroot with a little of the cold milk, put the rest of the milk on to boil. When boiling, pour on to the mixed arrowroot; stir, and pour back into the saucepan. Boil gently three minutes; take off the fire, and add sugar, and pour the sauce on the beaten yolk of an egg. Stir very thoroughly, add the vanilla, and pour round the pudding. Chocolate Pudding. For Six Persons.—% lb. of chocolate; % lb. of sponge cake crumbs; % lb. of butter; % pint of milk; 3 eggs; 3 ozs. of sifted sugar. Heat together the butter and milk. When boiling stir in the grated chocolate and sifted cake crumbs. Continue stirring over the fire until it thickens and leaves the sides of the pan. Let it cool a little; then add the sugar and vanilla; then one by one the well- beaten yolks of the eggs. Whisk the whites very stiffly and lightly; add them to the mixture. Place in a buttered mould; cover with buttered paper, and steam for two hours. Serve with German sauce. German Sauce. The yolks of 2 eggs; y2 pint of sherry; 1 tablespoonful of castor sugar. Beat up the eggs with the sugar, warm the wine; mix with the eggs thoroughly, put into a jar, and whisk well over the fire until it becomes a thick creamy froth. Set the jar in a saucepan of boiling water. G82 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. London Pudding. For Four or Six Persons.—}£ lb. of apricot jam; 8 sponge finger biscuits; tablespoonful of flour; i oz. of butter; y2 pint of milk; i lemon; 2 yolks of eggs; 2 whites of eggs. Line a pie dish with puff paste; then, spread a thick layer of apricot jam, then a layer of sponge finger biscuits. Mix together half a tablespoonful of flour and one ounce of butter. Boil half a pint of milk, and pour it on the flour and butter. Add sugar to taste, the grated peel of a lemon. Stir over the fire till as thick as good cream; let it cool a little; then add the beaten yolks of two eggs, and beat all the ingredients well together, and pour it on the cakes. Beat the whites to a firm froth; lay it on the pudding. Bake for at least half an hour in a moderate oven. Coffee Cream. For Eight or Nine Persons.—1 calf’s foot; 1 teacupful of coffee; 1 pint of cream; 2 ozs. of finely pounded sugar; J4 oz. of isinglass. Boil a calf’s foot in water till it wastes to a pint of jelly; clear off sediment and fat. Make a teacup of very strong coffee; clear it with a bit of isinglass, to be perfectly bright; pour it to the jelly, and add a pint of cream. Sweeten to taste with finely pounded sugar. Give one boil up, and pour into a dish. It should be jelly, but not stiff, with the addition of a little isinglass to the calf’s foot jelly. This cream can be poured, when cool, into a china mould, and turned out a firm shape.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Lemon Honeycomb. For Four Persons.—i lemon; i egg; i pint of cream; i oz. of sugar. Sweeten the juice of a lemon, and put it in the dish that you wish to serve it in; mix the beaten white of an egg with a pint of rich cream and a little sugar; whisk it, and as the froth rises put it on the lemon juice. Do it the day before it is to be used. Cream Whips. For Six or Eight Persons.—i pint of cream; i pint of water; % lb. of powdered sugar; 3 lemons. Whisk to a strong froth a pint of cream and a pint of water, a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, and the juice of three lemons. Take the froth off as it rises with a skimmer, and lay on a sieve to drain; go on skimming as long as any froth rises. Keep in a cool place five hours before using, lying on a sieve. Sponge Puddings. For Four or Six Persons.—2 eggs; 4 ozs. of flour; 4 ozs. of butter; 4 ozs. of sugar; pint of sherry. Two eggs, the weight of them in flour, butter and sugar. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar, and stir it well with the butter; whip the eggs and put them in, also the flour; mix all well together. Bake in little buttered moulds, and turn out when done. Serve hot with wine sauce poured round them.84 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Ratafia Pudding. 'For Eight Persons.—J4 lb. of candied cherries; J4 lb. of candied peel; lb. of ratifias; i French roll; i pint of milk; 5 eggs; 2*4 ozs. of sugar; 1 wineglassful of brandy. Butter a pudding mould and line it with candied cherries and pieces of candied peel; fill it three parts full of ratafias and the crumb of a French roll and layers of cherries and peel. Make a custard with a pint of milk and five eggs, leaving out the whites of two. Sweeten to taste. Pour over the whole a wine- glass of brandy; steam three-quarters of an hour. If boiled, the water must not cover the pudding basin. Nun’s Pudding. For Four Persons.—2 eggs; 1 tablespoonful of powdered sugar; 2 tablespoonfuls of sifted flour; 1 pint of milk; % lb. of macaroons; 1 oz. of powdered sugar; 2 ozs. of grated cocoanut. Beat the eggs well; add to them the powdered sugar and sifted flour. Mix all well together, and add by degrees nearly a pint of milk; set it over a clear fire and stir till it thickens. Have ready a shallow dish with some macaroons in it, pour over the mixture, and cover the top with powdered sugar and grated cocoanut. Serve cold. Croquettes de Riz a la Fleur d’Orange. For Six or Eight Persons.—6 ozs. of rice; % pint of milk or cream; 3 ozs. of fresh butter; 3 ozs. of pounded sugar; 7 yolks of eggs; 1 gill of orange flower water; lb. of bread crumbs; lard for frying; 1 pot of strawberry jam. Take six ounces of rice well picked and washed; put it on the fire with the milk or cream. When theSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. rice is well boiled, add the fresh butter, the sugar, and four yolks of eggs. Mix all well together, and put it on the fire to give consistency; add enough orange flower water to give a flavour.- When the ingredients are sufficiently consolidated, take it off the fire and put it on a plate to cool. Have ready some crumbs of bread passed through a sieve, and three yolks of eggs broken and beaten up in a basin. Make up little balls of the rice preparation, dip each one again and again into beaten egg, then into the crumbs. Roll them well, and fry in boiling lard; drain before piling up in a hot dish, and sprinkle sugar over them. Heat some strawberry jam; make a wall of it round the dish, and pile up the croquettes in the middle. Jamange. For Eight or Nine Persons.—i oz. of isinglass; i quart of water ; 2 lemons; % lb- °f sugar; pint of white wine ; 6 yolks of eggs. Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in a pint of water. Put in a saucepan the juice and peel of two lemons and a quarter of a pound of sugar in a pint of water; let it simmer gently for a few minutes, and stand by J he side of the fire for twenty minutes more. Add the dissolved isinglass, and stir gently into the saucepan; then pour in half a pint of white wine. Strain the mixture into a mug; then add the well- beaten yolks of six eggs; place the mug in a sauce- pan of boiling water; stir continually, but do not let it boil, until it thickens; strain through muslin, and when cool pour into a china mould that has been soaked in cold water.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 86 Lemon Whips. Foe Six Persons.—%. lb. of sugar; 2 lemons; 1 pint of cream; 1 glass of sherry; glass of brandy. Rub a quarter of a pound of sugar on the rind of two lemons; pound the sugar; mix with it the juice of the lemons, one pint of cream, a glass of sherry, and half a glass of brandy. Whip to a stiff froth. Serve on a glass dish, or in custard glasses. Vermicelli Pudding. For Four Persons.—1 oz. of vermicelli; 1 pint of milk; 2 ozs. of butter; 3 eggs; r gill of rose water; ozs. of sugar. t Boil one ounce of vermicelli in a pint of new milk till nearly dissolved; mix with it two ounces of butter, three eggs well beaten, a little rose water. Sugar to taste. Bake in a pie dish lined with puff paste. Calf’s Foot Jelly. 1 calf’s foot; 3 pints of water; 3 cloves; % saltspoonful of cinnamon; sugar to taste; pint of sherry; 1 tablespoon- ful of brandy; 1 lemon; 3 whites and shells of eggs. Boil a calf’s foot in three pints of water until reduced to a quart, with three cloves and a little cinnamon. Let it stand till quite cold; then care- fully take off all the fat, and put the clear jelly into a saucepan (observing to leave all the settling behind); melt it over the fire, and sweeten to taste with loaf sugar. Half a pint of sherry, and a table- spoonful of brandy, the juice of a large lemon, the whites and shells of three eggs that have been pre-SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 87 viously beaten to a stiff froth, are to be added after the mixture has been removed from the fire and nearly cold. Stir all well together, letting it simmer five minutes. Run it four or five times through a jelly bag till perfectly clear. Have in the bowl into which the jelly is strained a thinly cut piece of lemon peel, and let the mixture drop on to it. This im- proves the colour of the jelly. When nearly cool pour into a mould that has been plunged in very cold water. Turn out when stiff and serve. Blanc Mange. For Eight or Nine Persons.—ozs. 0! isinglass; pints of milk; 1 lemon; pint of cream; 2 laurel leaves; sugar to taste. Dissolve an ounce and a half of isinglass; stir it into a pint and a half of boiling milk;; add the rind of a lemon and half a pint of cream, two laurel leaves, and sugar to taste. Pass through a flannel bag into a mould. Prune Shape. For Ten Persons.—1 lb. of prunes; J4 oz. of gelatine; pint of cold water; 4 ozs. of sugar; 1 saltspoonful of cochineal; 1 lb. of Devonshire clotted cream. Put one pound of prunes in a saucepan, cover with cold water; set them on the fire and boil for a minute or two. Drain them on a sieve; take out the stones, and blanch the kernels. Dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in half a pint of cold water; put it in a saucepan with four ounces of sugar, and let it boil for five minutes. Colour with cochineal; place the prunes and kernels in it; pour the whole into a88 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. mould that has a space left in the middle. Let it stand in a cool place until set, then turn out. Fill the space in the centre of the prunes with Devon* shire clotted cream or with fresh cream sweetened' and whipped. Spanish Custard. For Six Persons.—pint of cream; pint of milk; 3 ozs. of ground rice; 2 tablespoonfuls of orange flower water; 1 pint of cream for sauce. Boil half a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, three ounces of ground rice, two tablespoonfuls of orange flower water. Sweeten to taste. Boil the mixture until it becomes stiff, stirring all the time. Pour it into a shape, and turn out when cold. Serve with cream poured round it. German PuflFs. For Six Persons.—1 pint of milk; 1 tablespoonful of flour; 1 egg; J4 oz. of butter; J4 oz. of white sugar; pint of wine sauce. Make some milk thick by boiling some flour in it. Allow if to stand till cold; then add one egg, a very small piece of butter, a little white sugar. Bake in little tin moulds buttered. Turn out and serve hot with fruit sauce. Baked Gingerbread Pudding. For Twelve Persons.—y2 lb. of treacle; % lb. of flour; % lb. of butter; % lb. of coarse sugar; 1 oz. of ginger; % oz. of ground allspice; yx teaspoonful of carbonate of soda; 3 eggs; pint of warm milk. Put the flour into a basin with the sugar, ginger, and allspice. Mix these well together; turn theSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 89 butter to a cream, and add the treacle to it, then the other ingredients; stir well. Dissolve the carbonate of soda in the milk, which is to be made warm. Mix .he whole into a smooth dough with the eggs, which should be previously well whisked. Pour the mixture into a flat buttered tin, and bake half an hour in a good oven. An Excellent Jam Pudding quickly prepared. For Six Persons.—1 stale roll; % lb. of blackberry jam; % lb. of apricot jam; 1 glass of sherry; 1 glass of brandy; 1 lemon; 1 oz. of sugar; 1 oz. of sweet almonds; 1 pint of custard. Take a stale roll, or ordinary household bread will do, cut into slices half an inch thick. Cut off all crust; spread each slice thickly with blackberry and apricot jam alternately, pile up one upon another. Any jam that one may have answers very well. The bread should be cut in nice pieces with a pastry cutter, either in oblongs or rounds. Take a glassful of sherry and one of brandy; mix with them the juice of one lemon, and sugar to taste; pour over the bread until every drop is absorbed. Take an ounce of sweet almonds, blanch them, cut in four pieces lengthways ; stick them thickly over the soaked bread and jam. Make a custard, as on page 68, pour over the bread, and serve cold. Very Superior Baked Apple Tart. For Six or Seven Persons.—lb. of apples; l/2 lb. of loaf sugar; 6 ozs. of butter; y pint of milk; 2 lemons; 2 ozs. of chopped almonds; 1 oz. of citron peel; y2 oz. of orange peel; J4 glass of brandy; 6 whites of eggs; enough puff paste, to line a pie dish.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. <p Grate the apples and mix with half a pound of lump sugar, well pounded. Melt six ounces of butter in milk; mix with it the juice of two lemons and the rind of one, a few chopped blanched almonds, some finely shred citron and orange peel, half a glass of brandy, and the well-whisked whites of six eggs. Stir the whole of the ingredients together. Line a pie dish or flat tart tin with rich puff paste; lay the mixture on it, and bake half an hour in a quick oven. Boiled Rice Pudding. For Six Persons.—% lb. of rice; i pint of milk; i oz. of butter; 4 yolks of eggs; 2 whites of eggs; 4 ozs. of suet; 4 ozs. of sugar; 4 ozs. of currants; 1 wineglassful of brandy; % saltspocmful of nutmeg. Boil very well the whole rice in a pint of milk with a small piece of butter. When cool, add the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, four ounces of suet, four ounces of sugar, four ounces of currants, a very little nutmeg, a wineglassful of brandy. Mix well together and boil two hours. Orange Cheese Cakes. For Twelve or Fourteen Tarts.—2 large oranges; lb. of sugar; 6 yolks of eggs; *4 lb. of fresh butter; J4 glass of brandy; J4 glass of sherry; puff paste for lining patty pans. Boil the peel of two large oranges in three waters to take off the bitter taste, and until it is tender. Pound in a mortar with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, the yolks of six eggs, half a pound of fresh butter, half a glass of brandy, and the same of sherry.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 9> Beat fine, pound, and mix all together. Lay a puff paste round your patty pans, then half fill with the above mixture, and bake. Stewed Pears. For Eight Persons.—6 pears; i pint of water; lb. of loaf sugar; 2 cloves; 1 lemon (rind of, and juice). Pare six large pears and divide them in quarters, and put into cold water as you peel them, to preserve the colour. Put in a stewpan with sufficient water to cover them, which must be measured, and half a pound of loaf sugar allowed to each pint, two cloves and the rind of a lemon cut very thin. Stew gently for twelve hours, cover them with the pear peeling, and on no account let them boil. They should be of a very fine colour. Before taking the pears off the fire, add the juice of a lemon. Chestnut Pudding. For Eight or Ten Persons.—30 chestnuts; 5 ozs. of butter to every 8 ozs. of nuts; 4 ozs. of loaf sugar; 6 eggs; % pint of milk; lb. of candied cherries. Boil the chestnuts in water until tender; dry in an oven, shell and skin them, then pound in a mortar. To every eight ounces add five of butter beaten to a cream, four ounces of loaf sugar, six fresh eggs, a quarter of a pint of milk. Butter a china mould; cover the top and sides with dried cherries, or any other candied fruit. Put in the mixture, cover with buttered writing paper, and bake in a quick oven for an hour and a quarter, or steam for an hour and a half.92 SAVOURIES ND SWEETS. Orange Tart. Foe Six Persons.—4 yolks of eggs; 4 ozs. of fresh butter; 4 ozs. of loaf sugar; % l13- °f candied orange peel; sufficient puff paste to cover the bottom of a tart dish. Take the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, with four ounces of fresh butter, four ounces of lump sugar; melt the butter and sugar together. When nearly cold, add the eggs to it. Lay a puff crust in your pie dish, cover the paste with small pieces of candied orange peel, pour the mixture over it, and bake in a quick oven for a little more than an hour. To Candy Orange Peel for the above. Cut the peel of an orange, or oranges, very thin longways. Put the rind into strong salt and water for six days, then boil in plenty of water till tender. Take out and lay on a sieve to drain. Make a thin syrup of fine loaf sugar, a pound to a quart of water; boil over a slow fire till the sugar begins to candy round the peel. Take out and grate fine sugar over, drain and dry before the fire. Do not let the sauce- pan be covered when boiling. Dutch Jan Mange. Steep an ounce and three-quarters of isinglass in one pint of boiling water with the rind of half a lemon. Let it stand till cold, then put in half a pint of sherry, or any other white wine, the yolks of eight eggs (well beaten), the juice of two lemons, sugar to taste. Boil for five minutes. Stir the whole time the mixture is on the fire. Strain through a piece of muslin into a basin, and afterwards stir for five minutes. Dip your mould in cold water before pour- ing the jan mange into it.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 93 Port Wine Jelly. For Eight Persons.—ij4 ozs. of isinglass; i pint of port wine; 3 ozs. of sugar candy; y pint of whipped cream; 4 drops of vanilla; 1 oz. of pounded sugar. Steep the isinglass in a pint of port wine all night. Next morning boil it for half an hour with three ounces of sugar candy. Dip a mould in cold water and pour the mixture into it through a jelly bag. Stand till cold; turn out and serve with sweetened whipped cream all round the shape. Egg and Wine Custards. ''For Twelve Persons.—saltspoonful of grated nutmeg; pint of water; 1 quart of white wine; 6 yolks of eggs; 2 ozs. of pounded loaf sugar, or more if required. Boil a very little nutmeg and mace in a quarter of a pint of water, and add a quart of white wine. Mix a little of the wine cold with the eggs that have been well beaten. Make the spice and wine boil; then take it away from the fire, and when cool add the yolks of the eggs; stir it over the fire till it nearly boils. Great care must be taken that the wine does not boil after the eggs are put in, or it will curdle directly. Take the saucepan from the fire, sweeten to taste, and whisk the contents to a stiff froth. Pour into jelly glasses. Apple Snowballs. For Eight Persons.—8 apples; y lb. of candied peel; 8 cloves; % lb. of pounded loaf sugar; 1 lemon; 1 egg; 1 gill of orange flower water; y lb. of rice; 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry; y2 pint of milk; 1 dessertspoonful of arrowroot. Take1 some large apples, pare them, and cut outSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 94 the core. Fill with candied orange peel, a squeeze of lemon juice, one clove, and some pounded sugar. Wash some rice, and strew it on a cloth very thick. Wash the outsides of the apples with egg and orange flower water; roll them in the rice. Boil them in a cloth. When sent to table, pour arrowroot sauce, flavoured with sherry and sweetened, over the snow- balls. Cocoanut Cheese Cakes. For Eight Persons.—i cocoanut; 3 ozs. of loaf sugar; J4 gill of water; 3 yolks of eggs; 1 white of egg; 1 oz. of blanched almonds; enough puff paste to line 8 or 10 patty pans. Grate the white of a cocoanut Dissolve three ounces of white sugar in half a gill of water, then add the cocoanut, and boil seven or eight minutes. Take off the fire, and when nearly cold add the yolks of three eggs, previously well beaten, and the white of one, as well as one ounce of finely chopped blanched almonds. Cover some patty pans with puff paste, lay some of the cocoanut mixture in each, and bake until the paste is done. Serve hot. Citron Pudding. For Four Persons.—% pint of milk; 2 ozs. of loaf sugar; 1 oz. of grated citron; J4 a lemon; 4 or 5 little tin moulds. Mix together half a pint of milk, two ounces of loaf sugar, three eggs, and one tablespoonful of flour, one ounce of grated citron, the juice of half a lemon. Pour the mixture into buttered cups or moulds; they must be only half full. Bake in an oven 'twenty minutes, and turn out of moulds before send- ing to table. Serve hot and quickly.ss SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Orange Sponge. For Eight or Ten Persons.—i oz. of isinglass; x pint of1 water; 6 large oranges; 2 Tangerine oranges; 7 ozs. of sugar. Dissolve the isinglass in one pint of water for two hours; then mix with it the juice of the large oranges and that of the Tangerine, and the finely powdered sugar. Whisk well together until it be- comes a sponge. Put into a mould. Raspberry Sponge. For Eight or Ten Persons.—1 oz. of isinglass; J4 pintf of water; 1 pint of cream; y lb. of loaf sugar; y? the rind of a lemon; lb. pot of raspberry jam; pint of milk. Dissolve the isinglass in half a pint of water, and strain it. Beat the cream with a quarter of a pound' of pounded loaf sugar, and half the grated rind of ai lemon. Beat a half-pound pot of raspberry jam ori jelly in half a pint of milk. If jam is used run it through a sieve. Mix all the ingredients, and whisk until a sponge. Baked Plum Pudding. For Eight Persons.—yx lb. of flour; y2 lb. of suet; y lb. of currants; % lb. of sultanas; 2 ozs. of sugar; 3 eggs; y pint of milk. Mix the flour, the suet, the currants, and the sul- tanas with a little sugar. When well mixed add the well-beaten eggs and the milk. Bake an hour and a half. .SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 96 Whip Syllabub. For Eight or Ten Persons.—pints of cream; 3 wine- glasses of brandy; 1 lemon; 6 glasses of sherry; % pint of milk; 2 ozs. of sugar. To three half-pints of cream, three wineglasses of brandy with the juice of one lemon squeezed into it, and six glasses of sherry; let the mixture be well sweetened and whisked some time to be solid, then add the milk. As the froth rises, lay it on a sieve to drain, then placejt on the top of the mixture. To be served in jelly glasses. Tipsy Cake. For Ten or Twelve Persons.—1 large sponge cake; 1 tumblerful of mixed sherry and brandy; 1 lemon; 1 oz. of sugar; 21/2 ozs. of almonds; 1% pints of custard (see page 68). Take a stale sponge cake that has been baked in a pretty mould. Pour as much mixed sherry and brandy over it as it will absorb, taking the liquor that flows into the dish, and pouring it over the cake again and again. Pour the juice of a lemon that has been previously sweetened over the cake. Blanch some sweet almonds, cut in four pieces lengthways, stick all over the cake. Prepare a rich cream cus- tard, and when cold pour round the cake. (See page 68.) Serve cold. An Excellent Trifle. For Ten or Twelve Persons.—6 penny sponge cakes; % lb. of ratafias; lb. of macaroons; 1 tumbler of mixed sherry and brandy; % lb. of blanched almonds; lb. of apricot jam; 1 lemon; l/a oz. of sugar; 1 pint of rich cream; 6 lumps of sugar; 2 whites of eggs.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 97 Take six penny sponge cakes and lay them in a large glass dish; cover them with ratafias and maca- roons ; pour over the whole half a tumbler of brandy and sherry mixed, sufficient to moisten the cakes, but not enough to run out. When the mixed wine and brandy is quite absorbed, stick the cakes with blanched almonds cut lengthways, cover between the almonds with apricot jam put on thickly. Sweeten the juice of one lemon, and pour over the jam. The day before it is required to be used, whip a pint of good cream which has been warmed, having pre- viously stirred into it a wineglassful of sherry and one of brandy, the juice of one lemon, and six lumps of sugar on which the rind of the lemon has been rubbed. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and lightly mix it with a fork into the cream mixture. Whisk until the whole is frothed; set it on a sieve in a cool place until the next day. It will take between one and two hours to whip the cream. Cover the soaked cakes with the cream, piled as high as possible; ornament with flowers. Stone Cream. For Eight Persons.—lb. of apricot jam; 2 glassfuls of orange wine; 1 quart of cream; % oz. of isinglass; oz. of almonds. Cover the bottom, of a glass dish with apricot jam. Pour some orange wine upon it. Take the cream, set it on a slow fire with the isinglass till it is dis- solved, stirring all the time. Strain it through a sieve, stirring until it is cool enough to pour upon the preserve. When firm, stick it with blanched pointed almonds. HSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 98 Small Almond Pudding. For Six Persons.—J4 lb. of sweet almonds; 5 02s. of bitter almonds; % lb. of butter; 2 tablespoonfuls of cream; 3 ozs. of sugar; 1 tablespoonful of brandy; 6 or 7 teacups. .iPeurrd half a pound of sweet almonds with five ounces of fitter ones and a spoonful of water. Then mix *4 lb- °f butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream (warmed with the butter), four eggs, a tablespoonful of brandy, three ounces of sugar. Butter some cups, and fill. Bake and turn out. Excellent Sherry Jelly. For Ten Persons.—1 oz. of Nelson’s gelatine; pint of cold water; J4 pint of boiling water; pint of lemon juice; 3 or 4 lemons; 3 whites of eggs; 5 ozs. of loaf sugar. Steep one ounce of Nelson’s opaque gelatine in a quarter of a pint of cold water; when soft add to it half a pint of boiling water, which will dissolve it. Put it into a pan with a quarter of a pint of lemon juice (three or four lemons) and the rind of one and a half, the whites of three eggs well beaten to a strong froth and the shells crushed, five ounces of loaf sugar. Stir gently until it boils, but not after. Let it boil gently for five minutes—no longer. When & the mixture is taken off the fire put in a wineglassful of cold water. Let it stand a few minutes near the fire, covered up. Pour it on to half a bottle of sherry and" half a teacupful of brandy in a basin, then strain the whole through a flannel bag, pre- viously rinsed in boiling water once or twice. Pour into a mould that has been plunged into cold water and allow to stand until set.99 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Clear Lemon Jelly. Foe Eight Persons.—i oz. of gelatine; pint of cold water; pint of boiling water; 2 lemon rinds; 1 gill of lemon juice; lb. of loaf sugar; 5 eggs (the whites and shells). Steep the gelatine in water; when soft add half a pint of boiling water, the rind of two‘lemons, and a gill of juice, half a pound of loaf sugar, and the whites and shells of five eggs. Boil well together, and strain through a jelly bag. Wafer Pudding. For Five Persons.—1% teaspoonfuls of flour; 1 egg; 2 tablespoonfuls of cream; 1 tablespoonful of butter; 10 tea- spoonfuls of milk; 1 oz. of castor sugar. Beat together for ten minutes the flour, the egg, the cream, the butter (warmed in the milk), and one ounce of castor sugar. Bake in saucers a nice brown. Wafers Filled with Cream. For Six Persons.—2 ozs. of flour; % lb. of loaf sugar; 2 eggs; 1 oz. of wax; ^ pint of cream; 1 teaspoonful of cochineal; ^ saltspoonful of vanilla; i1/^ oz. of sugar. Beat well together the flour, the loaf sugar, and the eggs; roll out. Bake on a sheet of tin or copper which has been rubbed with wax. Bake in a quick oven. Cut out six circles, and curl up when hot. Fill up with whipped cream, flavoured with vanilla and sweetened. Place in a circle on a dish, and serve cold. The cream may be coloured pink with cochineaLSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 100 Swiss Cream. For Ten Persons.—i pint of thin cream or milk; lemons; 2 ozs. of sugar; 3 teaspoonfuls of flour; 12 sponge lingers; 6 macaroons; lb. of candied cherries and peel mixed. One /pint ci good milk or thin cream with sufficient sugar previously rubbed on lemon to sweeten tho- roughly. Boil the milk, and when nearly cold add the juice of one lemon and a half with three tea- spoonfuls of flour rubbed very smooth. Stir it until it thickens on the fire, and then pour it into a dish in which sponge fingers and macaroons have been pre- viously arranged. Add a whip ornamented with can- died peel and preserved cherries. Buttermilk Curds. For Eight Persons.—3 pints of milk; pints of butter- milk ; 1 tablespoonful of flour; 3 yolks of eggs; 1 break- fast-cupful of cream; 2 ozs. of fine sugar. Put the rich new milk on the fire, and when it boils have ready the buttermilk, in which is mixed the flour and the yolks of three eggs. Put this into the boiling milk; only stir it once when just again on the boil, take it off the fire and let it stand a quarter of an hour; then with a skimmer take out the curds and lay them on a sieve. When drained, mix the curd in a bowl with a breakfast-cup of cream and fine sugar. Lay in a dish, and eat cream, sugar, and sherry with it. Charlotte Russe. For Ten Persons.—ij4 ozs. of gelatine; 1 pint of milk; 3 yolks of eggs ; J4 pint of cream ; 1 glass of sherry; 1 lemon; 8 large lumps of sugar; J4 saltspoonful of cochineal; 24 Savoy cakes.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. lot Melt the gelatine in a pint of milk, stir in three yolks of eggs, let it thicken a little. Take off the fire, and when cold add the cream and sherry, the peel of a lemon, and eight large lumps of sugar, on which grate the peel. Then whip it twenty minutes, or until it becomes thick. Plunge a mould in cold water, line the sides with Savoy cakes, cut off the ends, and make them stand. Pour in the whipped cream, which you can either colour pink with cochi- neal or leave white. Turn out when set and serve. Admiral Pudding. For Six or Eight Persons.—y2 lb. of potatoes; & lb. of carrots; y2 lb. of flour; % lb. of suet; % lb. of sugar; J4 lb. of currants; % lb. of candied peel; 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy, for sauce, ii} arrowroot. Rub to a paste some previously boiled potatoes and the carrots; add, and well mix, the flour, the suet, the sugar, currants, and candied peel. Boil in a basin for four hours. Serve with brandy sauce. Velvet Cream. For Six Persons.—yz pint of cream; l/2 oz. of gelatine; 1 oz. of sugar; 1 pot of apricot jam; 1 gill of lemon juice; 1 teaspoonful of grated lemon peel; 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry. To a pint of cream use half an ounce of gelatine, and sugar to taste. Put on the fire and keep stirring until the gelatine is dissolved; take it off the fire, strain it, and keep stirring till almost cold. Have ready prepared in a glass dish a pot of apricot jam, mixed with a little lemon juice and grated peel, two tablespoonfuls of sherry. Pour the cream' over it, and let it stand until the following day. Serve in the glass dish.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 102 Swiss Pudding. Foe Five Persons.—6 penny sponge cakes; i glassful of brandy; 3 whites of eggs; 1 gill of lemon juice; ozs. of castor sugar; 1 pint of custard, as on page 68. __ Soak some sponge cakes in wine, add a little brandy; when well soaked cover them with a custard. Then beat up the whites of three eggs with some castor sugar and lemon juice into a stiff froth. Put in the oven to set for a quarter of an hour. Mosaic Cream. For Eight Persons.—y pint of cream; 5 yolks 01 eggs; 1 oz. of isinglass; J4 pint of water; 3 penny sponge cakes; 1 wineglass of brandy; % lb. of apricots (candied); % lb. of greengages (candied); 2 ozs. of candied cherries or straw- berries. Make half a pint of cream into a custard with the yolks of five eggs; stir into it half an ounce of isin- glass dissolved in half a pint of water. Soak three sponge cakes in brandy. Put into the bottom of a handsome mould some halved candied apricots and greengages, interspersed with candied cherries or strawberries. Pour in a little custard upon this to coven it, let it stand till quite cold, then add a layer of cakes, then some custard cake, and candied fruit, until the mould is full. Let it stand to get tho- roughly cold. Dip the mould for one moment in boiling water before turning it out. Wine Pancakes fried without Butter or Lard. For Five Persons.—3 eggs; y pint of cream; 2 ozs. of sugar; % of a glass of sherry; 1 oz. of flour (about).SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 103 Beat three eggs very well; mix when strained with the cream, the sugar, the sherry, and as much flour as will make it almost as thick as ordinary pancake batter, but not quite. Heat the frying pan tolerably hot, wipe it with a clean cloth, pour in the batter, and make thin pancakes. Serve very hot. Muffin Pudding. For Eight Persons.—J4 lb. of dried cherries; ^ lb. of candied angelica; 3 muffins; 4 eggs; pint of milk; 2 ozs. of sugar; 2 drops of vanilla; J4 pint of wine sauce. Put the mould you are going to use into a stewpan of water on the fire; see that the water comes very little more than half way up the sides of the mould. Take out your mould and well butter the inside; stick dried cherries and pieces of candied angelica, or any other pretty dried fruit that is liked; stick all over the mould. Pull to pieces some muffins, put in a good many dried cherries mixed up with the pieces of muffin, that should fill the mould about three parts. Whisk up four eggs, just to break the yolks, and pour upon them three-quarters of a pint of boiling milk. Sweeten it to taste. Whisk all well together. When a trifle cooler put in a drop or two of vanilla. Pour into the mould, tie a cloth over it and put it into the boiling water in the stewpan. Boil an hour and a quarter. Serve very hot with wine sauce. Brown Bread Ice Cream. For Eight Persons.—1 loaf of brown bread; 1 pint of cream; 2j£ ozs. of sugar; 4 lbs. of rice (rough). Grate as fine as possible stale brown bread; soak it in cream for three hours, put it in a pewter ice-J04 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. pot and proceed as follows: Get a few pounds of ice, break it almost to a powder, throw a large hand- ful and a half of salt among it. You must prepare it in as cold a part of the house as possible. Put your pewter ice-pot into the bucket containing the broken-up ice, draw the ice round the pot so as to cover every possible part; keep turning it round briskly by means of the handle. Every five minutes open the pot, stir well, and remove the parts that ice round the edges. Close up and cover with ice until it is as firm as butter. Put the ice into moulds, and place in fresh ice and salt, or serve in glasses. There should be holes in, the bottom of the bucket to let the water escape. Almond Hedgehog, For Six Persons.—1% lbs. of almonds; i gill of orange flower water; 6 yolks of eggs; 5 whites of eggs; J4 pint of cream; 1 oz. of sugar; % lb. of fresh butter. Custard for Sauce.—2 yolks of eggs; J4 oz. of sugar; Yi pint of cream; 3 drops of vanilla. Take a pound of blanched almonds, beat them well in a mortar with a little orange flower water; make them into a stiff paste, then beat in the yolks of six eggs; put the whites of five into half a pint of rich cream, sweeten with sugar, mix with it a quarter of a pound of sweet butter melted. Set the whole on a slow fire and keep constantly stirring till it is stiff enough to be made in the form of a hedgehog. Then stick it full of blanched almonds cut lengthwise to resemble the bristles of a hedgehog; put it into a dish and pour round it a good custard made with half a pint of cream and the yolks of two eggs, sweetened to taste, and flavoured with a drop or two of vanilla.Ic5 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Cowslip Pudding. For Six or Seven Persons.—x/2 peck of cowslips; }( lb. of Naples biscuits; J4 pint of cream; i pint of milk; 3 eggs; 1 tablespoonful of rose water; 2y2 ozs. of sugar. Take the flowers of half a peck of cowslips, cut and pound them small, with a quarter of a pound of Naples biscuits grated, and a pint and half of cream, or a pint of milk and half a pint of cream. Boil them a little, then take off the fire and beat up eight eggs with a little cream and rose water. Sweeten to taste, mix well together, butter a dish and put it in; bake it, and when done dust fine sugar over it and serve. Riband Jelly. For Ten Persons.—2 calves feet; 5 quarts of water; 3 ozs. of gelatine; 5 whites of eggs; 5 shells; 2 glasses of sherry; 2y2 ozs. of sugar; 4 drops of vanilla; 1 saltspoon- ful of cochineal; 1 saltspoonful of spinach extract; y2 salt- spoonful of saffron ; 1 tablespoonful of orange flower water ; i gill of cream. Take out the large bones of two calves’ feet, put the feet into a pot with five quarts of water and three ounces of gelatine, boil till it comes to one quart; strain it through a flannel bag, let it stand twenty-four hours, then scrape off all the fat from the top very clean, then slice it. Put to it the whites of five eggs beaten to a froth, and their crushed chells; boil it a little, then put in wine and sugar tu taste. Strain through a flannel bag into a mould that has been previously dipped in cold water, run in as much jelly as will cover the bottom of the mould half an inch deep, let it stand to get cold; colour a little of the jelly with cochineal and flavour with a drop or two of vanilla. When the first layer is perfectly cold run106 SA VO UR IE S AND SWEETS. through a jelly bag the red layer about half an inch in thickness, and proceed as above with a green layer (coloured with spinach), a white one (made so with thick cream), a yellow one (coloured with saffron), then another red one, and a layer of natural jelly for the top. Each fresh layer must not be very warm, or the one below it will run; orange flower water may be added to the saffron layer if liked. Stewed Apples with Apricot Jam 'and Cream. For Eight Persons.—y lb. of sugar; y2 pint of water; 8 pared apples; y2 lb. of apricot jam; J4 pint of cream; y2 oz. of castor sugar. Boil half a pound of sugar and half a pint of water, after the sugar is dissolved boil ten minutes. Have ready six or eight pared and cored apples, place them in the syrup, and let them stand simmering for five hours until tender. Carefully take out the apples, fill with apricot jam, place in a glass dish; pour the syrup round and place a little sweetened whipped cream on the top of each apple. Baked Quince Pudding. For Eight Persons.—6 quinces; 2y2 ozs. of sugar; 1 tea- spoonful of ground ginger; 3 yolks of eggs; % pint of milk; y2 pint of cream; 3 whites of eggs. Scald your quinces very tender, pare six very thin, scrape off the soft part, mix it with sugar very sweet, put in a teaspoonful of ground ginger; beat the yolks of three eggs, and add half a pint of milk and half a pint of cream. Stir the mixture into the quinces till107 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. of a good thickness; butter a pie dish, put in the mixture, cover with sweetened whipped whites of the eggs, and bake. An Old English Prune Pudding For Six Persons.—i pint of milk; 3 yolks of eggs; 1whites of eggs ; 2 spoonfuls of flour ; 1 spoonful of ground ginger; lb. of prunes; 2 ozs. of sugar; 1 oz. of butter or Yi pint of cream; 2 ozs. of almonds; glass of brandy; 4 drops of vanilla. Take a pint of milk, beat three eggs and half the whites with a gill of milk, and two spoonfuls of flour and one of ground ginger; then by degrees add all tfye milk, mix half a pound of prunes; tie up in a floured cloth and boil an hour. Clarify butter and pour over it before serving; or, which is much nicer, mix a little brandy with some sweetened cream and a few chopped blanched almonds, and pour over the pudding. Spanish Fritters. For Six Persons.—1 roll; 2 eggs; 1 pint of milk; lb. of sugar; oil for frying; 1 oz. of coloured sugarplums. Take the inside of a roll and slice it in three, then soak the pieces in milk, pass it through a batter of eggs, fry them in oil; when almost done repass them in another batter, then let them fry till they are done, drain off the oil and lay on a dish. Cover each fritter with small coloured sugarplums, and pour clarified sugar round them; serve very hot Pancakes. For Four Persons.—1 cupful of flour; 1 cupful of boiling milk; 1 oz. of melted butter; 1 oz. of sugar; 3 eggs; butter for frying.108 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. * < \ Pour upon a cupful of flour a cupful of boiling milk; when cold add some melted butter, sugar to taste, and the wel(-beaten yolks and whites of three eggs; fry in butter till brown. Baked Lemon Pudding. ' Foe Six Persons.—2 lemons; lb. of sugar; 2 whites of eggs; 3 yolks of eggs; enough puff paste to line a pie dish. Put the juice of two lemons to half a pound of lump sugar, the whites of two eggs beaten to a froth. Mix the ternon juice and sugar and let the whole stand aside for half an hour, then add the rind of the lemons grated, and the yolks of three eggs; line a flat dish with paste and bake in a slow oven. Castle Baskets. ^ For Six Persons.—6 castle puddings as on page 45 ; X lb. of red currant j4lly; lb. of sugar; lb. of apricot jam ; 1 gill of lemomjuice; % pint of cream; 3 ozs. of angelica for handles. ' Make some castle puddings, as on page 45, and bake them; let them' stand till cold, then turn out of their moulds. Carefully scoop out the middles, cover the outside thickly with red currant jelly or apricot jam aod roll in white or pink sugar; put a dessertspoonful of jam into each case; make a whip of cream, sugar, and a few drops of lemon juice (make it the day before it is wanted, and let it be put on a sieve to drain); fill each case with cream well piled up. Cut some angelica into suitable strips and form handles to the baskets; serve cold. PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, LONDON AND BKCCLES.AD VERTISEMENTS. HARRY PECK & C2J “ Archer ” Brand .. Table Dainties .. Potted Meats, Game, Fish, • * Galantines, Tongues, Pates, Soups, and Sausages. Packed in China, Glass . and Tins . ABSOLUTELY THE BEST AND PUREST. 10 Prize Medals awarded for Excellence of Quality.viii AD VER TISEMENTS. BOOKS ON GARDENING, &c. THE HORTICULTURAL NOTE BOOK. A Manual of Practical Rules, Data, and Tables, for the use of Students, Gardeners, Nurserymen, and others interested in Flower, Fruit, and Vegetable Culture, or in the Laying-out and Management of Gardens. By J. C. Newsham. Fcap. 8vo, 7s. 6d. net. A PLAIN GUIDE TO GOOD GARDENING; or, How to Grow Vegetables, Fruits, and Flowers. With Practical Notes on Soils, Manures, Seeds, Planting Laying out of Gardens, etc. By Samuel Wood. T hird Edition. With Numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 35. 6d. cloth. THE LADIES’ MULTUM-IN-PARVO FLOWER GARDEN AND AMATEUR’S COMPLETE GUIDE. By Samuel Wood. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. THE FORCING GARDEN ; or, How to Grow Early Fruits, Flowers, and Vegetables. With Plans and Estimates for Building Glass Houses, Pits, Frames, etc. By Samuel Wood. Crown 8vo, 3j. 6d. cloth. MARKET AND KITCHEN GARDENING. By Contrt- butors to “ The Garden." Compiled by C. W. Shaw, Late Editor of “ Gardening Illustrated432 pp., 3X. 6d. cloth. COTTAGE GARDENING ; or Flowers, Fruits, and Vegetables for small Gardens. By E. Hobday, is. 6d. cloth limp. KITCHEN GARDENING MADE EASY. Showing how to Prepare and Lay Out the Ground; the best means of Cultivating every Known Vegetable and Herb, with Cultural Directions for the Management of them all the year round. By G. M. F. Glknny. if. 6d. cloth. GARDEN RECEIPTS. Edited by Charles W. Quinn. if. 6d. cloth. THE ART OF GRAFTING AND BUDDING. By Charles Baltet. Translated from the French, with upwards of One Hundred and Eighty Illustrations. 3f. cloth. MULTUM-IN-PARVO GARDENING; or. How to make One Acre of Land produce ^620 a-year, by the Cultivation of Fruits and Vegetables ; also, How to Grow Flowers in Three Glass Houses, so as to realise .£176 per annum clear Profit. By Samuel Wood, Author of “ Good Gardening,” etc. Fifth and Cheaper Edition, revised, with Additions. Crown 8vo, is. sewed. CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON, 7, STATIONERS' HALL COURT, LONDON, E.C.AD VER T1SEMENTS. IX Just Published, NEW EDITION, 838 Pages, Large Crown 8vo, cloth. Price 6s. 8d. net. EVERY MAN’S OWN LAWYER. A HANDY BOOK Vv. OF THE PRINCIPLES OF LAW AND EQUITY . COMPRISING THE RIGHTS AND WRONGS OF INDIVIDUALS. \ Landlord and Tenant. Vendors and Purchasers. Conveyances, Leases, Mortgages. Registration of Title to Land. Contracts and Agreements. Joint-stock Companies. Masters, Servants, and Workmen. Dealings with money. Suretyship. Cheques, Bills, and Notes. Bills of Sale. Bankruptcy. Partnership. Shipping Law. Life, Fire, and Marine Insurance. Accident and Fidelity Insurance. Commercial Law. Criminal Law. Parliamentary Elections. Local Government. Public Health and Nuisances. Rates, Taxes, and Death Duties. Husband and Wife. Divorce. Infancy. Custody of Children. Trustees and Executors. Game Laws. Gaming. Innkeepers. Horses and Dogs. Motoring. Liability for Negligence. Libel and Slander. Copyright, Patents, Trade Marks. Clergymen, Doctors, and Lawyers. Forms of Agreements, Wills, Codicils, Notices, etc. By A BARRISTER. Carefully Kevised, including the Legislation of Last Session. TO WHICH IS ADDED A CONCISE DICTIONARY OF LEGAL TERMS. London :-CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON, 7, Stationers’ Hall Court, E.C.-"ST •' have never feted Core, that I like «o we'll * » CHAS- ^CAMERON, C.B., MD ' president of the Roycli College of Surgeons, '/reland." ini" “h^'-he^e T'l “ 115 afdy nerves wllllean and sound sleep by night. V *