490 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK tablespoonfuls of French wine vinegar, and pour this over the potatoes. Mingle the whole carefully, so as not to break the potato slices. Dish up in a salad bowl. Sprinkle over with chopped parsley and serve. 1520. Mayonnaise de Celeri et Woix (Walnut and Celery Mayonnaise).—1 stalk white celery, £ pint peeled walnuts, 1 gill stiff mayonnaise (No. 277), salt and pepper, 1 tablespoonful double cream. Trim and wash the celery, cut it into small shreds or julienne shapes, and drain on a sieve or in a salad basket. Cut the walnuts (previously shelled and peeled) into small pieces, mix both celery and walnuts, and season with salt and pepper. Add by degrees the mayonnaise and the cream. Dress in a pile on a vegetable dish or a small flat salad bowl. Garnish with a few sprigs of watercress or small radishes, and serve with roast poultry or game. 1521. Salade aax Epinards et CEufs (Spinach and Egg Salad).—A delightful cold dish can be prepared by cooking and dressing the spinach as directed in recipe No. 1368. When cold, season with sweet salad oil and lemon-juice, and press into one or more moulds. Have ready also two hard-boiled eggs and mayonnaise (No. 277) or remoulade (No. 285) sauce. Arrange a bed of shredded lettuce on a dish (border shape), turn the spinach from the moulds in the centre of the dish, cut the eggs into slices and arrange them tastefully on top of the spinach. Mask over the whole with mayonnaise or remoulade sauce, garnish with hard-boiled yolks of eggs rubbed through a sieve and sprigs of watercresses, and serve. 1522. Saiade aux (Eufs {Egg Salad).—6 hard-boiled eggs, % gill cream, \ gill mayonnaise sauce {No. 277), chopped parsley, beetroot, red chillis and capers, salt and pepper, 1 lettuce, 1 slice toasted bread. Peel the eggs, and cut them crosswise into slices, whip the cream till stiff, then add to it the mayonnaise and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Wash and trim the lettuce, place a round .of toasted bread in a salad bowl, dress on this a layer of lettuce leaves, then a layer of mayonnaise, then a layer of slices of eggs, and so on until the eggs and lettuce are used up. Season each layer to taste. Pile up high, sprinkle over'with chopped parsley. Garnish tastefully with slices of beetroot, capers, and red chillis, and serve. 1523. Salade Italienne {Italian Salad).—Cut half a pound of cold roast veal and half a pound of boiled potatoes into convenient- sized dice or slices. To this add four ounces of .cooked and pickled beetroot, four ounces of pickled gherkins, 1 tablespoonful of capers, and a handful of crisp lettuce leaves, season to taste, and pile up in a salad bowl. Pour over some fairly stiff remoulade (No. 285) or mayonnaise (No. 277) sauce, and garnish with stoned olives, slices of smoked Italian sausages, and slices of lemon.