GARNISHING AND GARNITURES 209 prepared after certain typical Italian ways of cooking; it generally implies that the dish is made of or garnished with macaroni, nouilles, ravioli, &c., flavoured with Parmesan cheese, tomato or demi-glace sauce. (See Milanaise and Napolitaine Garnish.) 471. A la Jardiniere.—This signifies a collection of young vegetables cooked after being neatly cut or scooped into shapes ; it is adapted for soups, entrees, and removes. The following is a typical example for an entree garnish :— 1 small turnip, 1 dessertspoonful flour, 1£ oz. butter, 1 pinch caster sugar, ^ gill bechamel sauce, j gill cream, salt, pepper, and pinch of grated nutmeg, parsley, a pint of various kinds of macedoine of vegetables, such as green peas, French beans (cut in short pieces), turnips, carrots scooped out, cauliflower buds, asparagus tips, dec. Wash and peel the turnip, cook it in salted water until tender, strain and rub through a sieve. Mix 1 oz. butter with the flour, stir over the fire for a few minutes, add the turnip pulp, sauce, and seasoning, let it come to a boil; then stir in the cream and keep hot; if found too thick, add a little milk or white stock. Boil the macedoine of vegetables separately in salted water, strain, and put with the sauce. Let it get thoroughly hot without boiling, finish with the remaining butter, and use as required. 472. A la Joinville.—Truffles, coarsely chopped. RichVeloutee sauce (No. 206). Served with poultry and braised meats. 473. A la Louis X V.—New potatoes, centre scooped out, filled with chicken forcemeat and chopped truffles, baked or braised, served with fillets of beef, tournedos, &c. Sauce, Madere or Tomate (No. 272). 474. A la Lyonnaise.—Peeled onions, cut into round slices, dipped in milk and flour, fried and served in centre of dish. Brown Sauce (No. 7). 475. A la Maitre d'Hdtel.—This name is applied, to dishes garnished with parsley butter, or a white sauce containing finely chopped parsley. (See Sauces and Compound Butters.) 476. A la Macedoine.—This also applies to a mixture of vegetables, as for jardiniere, and is used as garnish for soups and entrees. It is also adapted for fruit. A typical" collection of fruit dressed as salad or in jelly. 476 a. A la Milanaise.—Mushrooms, truffles, and smoked and cooked ox-tongue, all cut into julienne-shaped pieces. Cooked macaroni, cut into short pieces, finished together or separately in tomato and Madere sauce, mixed in equal quantities, flavoured with grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese. The macaroni is sometimes substituted by cooked rice, richly seasoned with tomato and cheese. 477. A la Marengo (for Chicken Saute).—Sliced truffles and mushrooms, eggs, fried whole (folded in) in sweet oil. Sauce, Tomate (No. 271) and Espagnole (No. 236), flavoured with wine. p