474 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Parmesan cheese on one side only, adding a small piece of lobster butter on the centre of each. Bake in a very hot oven to brown the surface. 1453. Pommes de Terre au Gratin.—Potato puree prepared with cream, seasoned, dressed on a well buttered gratin dish, covered with bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese and a few small pieces of fresh butter. Bake in a very hot oven. 1454. Croquettes de Pommes de Terre.—Potato puree, seasoned and mixed with yolks of egg, shaped into balls, corks or croquettes, egged, crumbed, and fried in clarified butter, lard or dripping. 1455. Croquettes de Pommes de Terre a la Rouennaise.—Mashed potatoes, prepared as for croquettes, made in size and shape of small eggs or olives, dipped in frying batter, fried in hot fat, drained, sprinkled with salt, and served on a folded napkin. 1456. Pommes de Terre en Puree a la Jackson.—Mashed potatoes finished with cream and seasoned, garnished with fillets of Gorgona anchovies. 1457. Pommes de Terre frisees.—Shapes of curls, small ribbons cut out of large kidney potatoes with a special cutter, resembling curls when fried in clarified butter. Season with salt, dish up, and serve. A capital garnish for entrees, &c. 1458. Pommes de Terre machees.—Potatoes boiled in beef broth, drained, and made into a puree, seasoned with white pepper and a little grated nutmeg, when served sprinkled over with finely chopped parsley. 1459. Pommes de Terre persillees.—Peeled potatoes cut into shapes of walnuts or large olives, boiled in salted water, drained, and fried or sauted in fresh butter. Dish up and sprinkle with chopped parsley. 1460. Quenelles de Pommes de Terre.—Potato puree, well seasoned and mixed with egg-yolks, shaped into quenelles and poached in salt water or seasoned stock, drained, dished up, and sprinkled over with fresh bread-crumbs fried in butter. 1461. Salsifis a la Bechamel.—Wash and scrape some salsify and cook in milk, salted water acidulated with lemon-juice. Drain when done and finish in a well prepared bechamel sauce (No. 202). 1462. Salsifis au Beurre Fondu.—Wash I and scrape the’salsify, cook till tender in salted water acidulated with lemon-juice; drain and dish up, pour over some melted butter, and serve. 1463. Salsifis a la Villevoy (Fried Salsify).—Wash a bundle of salsify. Scrape them carefully and trim them, put each in a basin of water seasoned with lemon-juice as they are cleaned. Cook till tender in salted water and drain when done ; put them in a pie-dish and season with oil, vinegar, and chopped parsley.