340 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Cut the chicken into small pieces, slice the liver finely, peel and chop finely the shallots, and fry the latter for a few seconds in the butter, add the chicken and liver and fry together with the bouquet over a brisk fire till well blended. Remove the bouquet and pound the chicken and liver in a mortar, and rub through a fine sieve. Return the puree, to a stewpan, and season to taste. Add the ground rice, previously mixed with the milk, and cooked in stock ; stir and cook slowly for ten minutes. Let cool a little, then add the cream and the. yolks of eggs, together with the whisked white of one egg. Mix the foie gras, cut into cubes, with the above, and fill up some well- buttered timbale or dariole moulds. Steam for about thirty-five minutes. Dish up and serve with Italienne sauce poured over the pains. 976. Cuisses de Volatile enFdpillotes aux Fpinards.— 4 to 6 raw chicken legs, 6 slices fat bacon, \ pint stock, 1 gill white wine, 1 bay-leaf, thyme, \ carrot, % onion, 1 gill no ell-reduced Espagnole sauce (No. 236), salt, pepper, 6 heart-shaped slices of cooked ham, spinach puree. Take out the bones from the legs, leaving a portion of leg-bone (drum-stick), season with pepper and salt. Line a saute-pan with small pieces of bacon, add the bay-leaf and a sprig of thyme, the carrot and onion sliced; lay in this the chicken legs, moisten with the wine and stock, and cook in a brisk oven till tender. Cut some slices of bacon into heart-shapes, and fry slightly. Press the cooked chicken legs a little, trim, and put each on to a piece of buttered paper (strong white paper should be used), previously cut out into heart-shape. Lay a slice of bacon on the chicken, spread over a layer of spinach puree, and put a slice of ham on top; wrap the buttered paper well round each leg thus prepared, twist it on the ends so as to well fasten it. Range on a buttered saute-pan and bake for about fifteen minutes. Dish up and serve with a sauce made as follows : Strain the liquor left from the chicken, skim off the fat, put the Espagnole sauce with this, and cook a few minutes. Season if necessary, and serve. Note.—The paper used for papillotes should be cut large enough to answer the purpose of wrapping round the legs. They are sent to table in the papers. A cutlet frill may be put on each bone. 977. Cuisses de Volatile d la Florentine.—Chicken legs boned and partially fried in butter when cold immersed in supreme sauce (No. 210), then egged, crumbed in fresh bread-crumbs and grated parmesan cheese, and fried in clarified butter. Served with tomato sauce (No. 271). 978. Filets de Volatile d la Cecile (Chicken Cutlets, Cecile Style) 1 spring chicken, 1 oz. butter, | onion, 1 bay-leaf, 6 oz. foie gras, 2 oz. beef marrow, 1 slice bacon, 2 yolks of egg, 6 oz. cooked as- paragus points, 1 tablespoonful white sauce, potato puree, 2 slices cooked ox-tongue, 1 truffle, pepper and salt, meat glaze, demi-glace sauce (No. 237).