ENTREES CHAZIDES DE VIANDES {EOT MEAT DISHES) 317 butter on top and keep hot. Cut the tongue, truffle, and mushrooms, into fine shreds. Melt the remainder of butter in a stewpan, when hot put in the above, and toss a few minutes over a brisk fire, season with a pinch of cayenne, and a very little nutmeg. Moisten with a little demi-glace if needed. Arrange the macaroni and the above preparation in alternate groups around the dish. 874. His de Veauala ViZleroi {Fried Sweetbread or Sweet- bread Fritters). Cut one or two cooked (boiled and pressed) sweetbreads into slices, about a quarter of an inch in thickness, coat the slices with some well reduced cold veloutee (No. 206) or bechamel (No. 202) sauce. "When set, dip them into a well-made, light frying-batter, and fry them in hot fat a golden brown. Drain, sprinkle with salt and pepper, arrange them neatly on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a suitable sauce (Tomato, No. 271, or piquante, No. 241). 875. His de Venn d la Senn.—Blanch, trim, press, and braise two or three sweetbreads, and when cold cut them into slices (escalopes) of even size. Prepare a farce of foie gras, and when ready mix it with one-fourth of the quantity of Duxelle puree (No. 298), then spread it about a quarter of an inch thick on the slices, and poach them slowly in a saute-pan with a little consomme stock, flavoured with Madeira wine. Select some artichokes of the same size as the slices, and fry in a little butter. When so prepared, sprinkle some truffles cut into very fine Julienne strips on the sweet- bread slices ; dish them up and sauce over carefully, then garnish with prepared nouilles, mixed with tongue, cut into similar strips as the truffles. Serve, and use a well-reduced demi-glace (No. 237) sauce- (flavoured with a little port wine) with this entree.1 876. His de Veau d la MontreuiZ {Sweetbread, Montreuil Style).—1 pair heart sweetbreads, larding-bacon, 2 truffles (large),. 1 carrot, 1 onion, 1 bouquet garni (No. 2), bacon trimmings, seasoning, 1 oz. butter, ^ pint rich ichite stock, 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), 1 glass sherry or Madeira, a little meat glaze (No.. 247), 1 or 2 croutes of fried bread for garnish, 6 to 8 small patty cases, sorrel or spinach puree, % hard-boiled white of egg. Steep the sweetbreads in cold water for about two hours, blanch, cool, drain and trim them. Place the breads between two tins or boards. Cut some thin strips of larding-bacon 'and -truffles, lard the best sides of the sweetbreads alternately with bacon and truffle (three rows). Prepare the vegetables, cut it up in slices, and line the bottom of a braising or saute-pan with these and pieces of bacon, add the butter, bouquet, &c., put in the sweetbreads, larded side up. Season with pepper, salt, and aromatic spice, moisten with stock, cover with buttered paper, bring it to the boil over a quick fire, and 1 This dish was composed by M. Chevriot, chef to Her late Majesty, and served at the dinner given in honour of the Khedive's visit to Windsor, June 28, 1900.