140 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK in some form or the other. If care is taken in preparing this soup it will be quite clear and fit for serving when strained through a wet cloth ; but if found cloudy clarify it as directed in No. 94, taking only half the quantity of meat and' vegetables given in the recipe. 97. Consomme a In, Brisse—3 eggs (whole), 6 egg-yolks, % cooked cauliflower, a cupful of cooked spinach, 6 small French carrots. cooked, a little stock, 8 guarts consomme, a handful of boiled rice, pepper and salt. Prepare three distinct purees of the vegetables, mix with a little stock over the fire. Add to each one whole and two yolks of eggs, season with pepper and salt, press through a hair-sieve ; fill up three equal-sized timbale moulds, well buttered, and cook in a saute-pan in boiling water. When done turn out on a napkin, cut into small squares, put them in a soup-tureen with a handful of boiled rice, pour over the boiling consomme, and serve. 98. Consom me a la Talma.—3^ pints consomme (clarified double broth), 2 oz. Jordan almonds, 1 oz. bitter almonds, \pint milk, 2 whole eggs, 3 yolks of eggs, a little butter, 1 oz. rice, and seasoning. Blanch and peel the almonds, put them in a mortar and pound till quite fine, add the milk, mix thoroughly, and press through a tammy cloth or strong napkin. Break the eggs into a basin, add the yolks, and whisk up a little, so as to well amalgamate the yolks with the whites. Strain the eggs into the almond milk, season with pepper and salt, mix well, and pour into a well-buttered plain charlotte or timbale mould. Put the mould into a stewpan or sautoire containing boil- ing water to about half the height of the mould, cover with a buttered paper, and let simmer until the custard is firm enough to turn out. Let it cool in the mould, then turn on to a wet cloth, and cut the custard into half-inch squares or dice. Meanwhile blanch the rice, parboil in slightly salted water, drain off the water, let it cool, and finish cooking the rice in clear stock. Put a handful of boiled rice and the custard in a soup-tureen, pour the boiling consomme over, and serve. 99. Consomme a la Careme (Clear Soup, Careme Style).—Pre- pare'a stock with 2 gallons of water, 1 lb. of lean veal, 1 lb. of shin of beef, some roast beef bones, a small roast chicken, and a small handful of salt; let it boil up gently, skim well, and add the follow- ing : one onion stuck with a clove, one carrot, one turnip, one leek, a small head of celery, and a few peppercorns. Let all simmer gently from four to five hours, removing fat and scum from time to time, next strain the broth carefully through a napkin. Cook separately in two quarts of broth until done one small carrot, one small turnip, one leek, a few lettuce and a few sorrel leaves, all cut into small round slices about the size of a shilling-piece ; when done add it to the prepared broth, together with two tablespoonfuls of cooked asparagus points. Before serving, place a handful of small rounds of bread-crusts, stamped out the same shape as the vegetable, into the tureen.