22 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK PRACTICAL HINTS IN CHOOSING FISH, MEAT, POULTRY, GAME, VEGETABLES, ETC. The following points and hints are given to assist the inexperi- enced ones in the art of buying, but to become perfect in this branch one needs a great deal of practical experience. How to choose Fish.—In choosing fish the following rules should be observed : —The eyes should be bright, the flesh or body firm, the gills a bright red, and the smell should be swe'et and,pleasant. Fish should never be eaten when out of season, because it often disagrees- with the system. The flesh of white fish should always be firm to the touch; when it is flabby arid has a blueish tinge it is a sign of its inferiority and staleness. Cod, when fresh and sound, should be judged by the redness of the gills, the whiteness, stiffness and firmness of the flesh, and the clear freshness of the eyes. All these are infallible proofs of its being good and fit for use. Salmon, when good, should have a small head, thick shoulders, and a small tail. The flesh should be of a bright red colour, and the scales should be very bright. Mackerel should not be bought unless quite fresh ; the fish will not keep, and should be cooked the day it is bought. Cod may be kept twenty-four hours, and soles the same. Eels should be bought alive. Soles, when fresh, are of a cream-like colour on the under-part, and when stale their appearance is blueish and flabby. Lobsters are at their best when oysters are out of season, in the summer ; in winter male lobsters only are in good condition. The hen lobster is known by her coral spawn, which is used for garnishing white fish, turbot, cod, &c. The quality of the lobster is judged by its weight; a light lobster is not a good one. If a lobster is stale, the tail hangs limp, while if fresh it is drawn under the fish, and if pulled out will spring back again when let go. Crabs, also, are to be judged by their weight and stiffness. If light and limp, they are bad. Oysters, if fresh, will close forcibly on the knife when opened. If the shell gapes the least bit, the oyster is losing its freshness. When dead the shell remains open, and the oyster should not be consumed. Meat.—The most pepular kinds of meat are beef, mutton, veal and pork. Of these, beef is considered to be the most nutritious,, mutton the most digestible, whilst veal and pork, though nourishing, are not nearly so digestible as either beef or mutton. Meat that has an excessive amount of fat is not economical to buy. Joints with undue proportion of bones are very unprofitable. In buying meat always remember the kind best suited for your purpose, whether for