164 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 188. Puree de Poireaux a la Creme (Leek Puree).—1 bunch (6) leeks, 2 oz. butter, 1 pint bechamel sauce, 1 quart white stock, 3 yolks of eggs, 1 gill cream, seasoning, small croutons of fried bread. Choose the leeks as white as possible. Trim and wash them, cut away the green parts and cut the remainder into small pieces. Blanch them in salted water, and drain them. When cool put them in a stewpan with the butter, and stir over the fire for a few minutes without allowing the leeks to get brown; then add the stock and boil till the leeks are tender. Bub the whole through a fine sieve, return the puree to the stewpan, add the bechamel, and cook for another fifteen minutes, stirring from time to time, season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. About five minutes before serving whisk up the egg-yolks with the cream and strain into the soup. Stir over the fire till the liaison is formed. Pour the soup into a hot tureen and add the fried bread croutons ; a pat or two of fresh butter stirred into the soup in little bits a few moments before serving it will greatly enrich its flavour. The soup must on no account be allowed to boil again when once the egg-yolks or butter are added. 189. Creme de Celeri (Celery Cream.). -2 heads young celery, \ small onion, peeled and sliced, 2 oz. butter, oz. four, 1 quart white stock, \ pint cream or milk, 2 yolks of eggs, salt and pepper to taste, a pinch caster sugar. Wash and trim the celery. Blanch it in slightly salted water, drain, cool and cut up into small pieces, melt the butter, when hot put in the onion and celery and stir over the fire for several minutes, sprinkle in the flour and stir again for a few minutes, moisten with the stock and cook till tender. Bub all through a fine sieve and return to the stewpan ; stir in the milk or cream, season to taste, adding also a pinch of sugar. Allow it to get thoroughly hot and serve. A handful of fried bread croutons should be put in to the soup- tureen, or else handed round as the soup is served. 190. Cremede Chicoree an Vet ante.—3 to 4 heads of chicory, 4 oz. butter, 2 quarts stock, 4 tablespoonfuls rice, salt, pepper, ^ gill cream, 1 gill milk, 2 egg-yolks, croutons of fried bread. Trim the chicory and wash thoroughly; drain, cut up rather small and put it in a stewpan with the butter, cook thus for several minutes without allowing the chicory to get brown. Wash and drain the rice, add it, and fry a little longer. Now add the stock and cook the whole till the rice and chicory are tender. Bub all through a fine sieve, return to the fire, add the milk, boil up, season to taste, and put in the cream last of all. Whisk up the egg-yolks and add along with the cream. Stir well, but do not allow it to boil. Serve with croutons of fried bread ; these may be put into the soup-tureen or may be handed round. 191. Potaqe ala St. Germain (Green Peas Soup).—1| pint freshly shelled peas (large marrowfats are best), 1 small bunch parsley, a couple of spring onions, a few sprigs of green mint,