501 SWEET ENTREMETS meal is to be light the sweets may be of a more substantial kind, though elegance of appearance is always to be aimed at. In a recherche meal the sweets should show the touch of a master- hand both as regards the quality and the artistic finish. Like the final touches of a picture the sweet should convey to the palate what the completed picture does to the eye, a certain sense of pleasurable satisfaction. Any suggestion of solidity is out of place in the scheme of a high-class repast. If several sweets are served at one meal the order of service must be from the solid to the light. Sweets are divided into two groups, Hot Sweets and Cold Sweets. PLAIN SWEETS. There are many plain puddings which come under the heading of ‘ Invalid Dietary,’ because they are so simple that they cannot hurt even a delicate constitution. These plain puddings can be made of milk and rice, tapioca, semolina, sago, corn-flour, vermicelli, macaroni, flour, &c. &c. If properly prepared they are both tasty and nourish- ing. Fruit, apples especially, are largely used for simple dishes. Both milk and fruit puddings are inexpensive and wholesome. The drawback in all simple dishes, speaking generally, is that the uneducated cook does not consider them worthy of careful treatment, merely because they are so simple. An intelligent educated cook knows that careful attention is quite as essential in the simplest operation of cooking as it is in the most elaborate. This is a truth which must be grasped by all who wish to succeed. Hot sweets may be further classified as follows : puddings, boiled, steamed, and baked, comprising souffle puddings, fruit puddings, custards, caramels, savarins, fruit fritters (beignets de fruits), pancakes, omelets, beignets, fruit tarts, charlottes, dumplings, &c. &c. ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS). 1561. Ponding d VAutricliienne.—4 eggs, 2 oz. caster sugar, 2 oz. ground almonds, 4 oz. cake-crumbs, £ gill cream, 2 oz. glace cherries, | pint fresh or preserved raspberries. Put the raspberries in a buttered, fire-proof china souffle dish (quart or three-pint size). Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs. Put the former in a basin and the latter in an egg-bowl on the ice. Stir the sugar into the yolks and beat up to a cream, adding the ground almonds and cake-crumbs gradually. Melt the butter apd stir it into the mixture, also the cream. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them carefully into the above preparation. Turn this into the souffle dishes containing the first. Put the glace cherries, previously cut in halves, on top, and bake in