THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 132 Cut the prawns, celery, pickles, and truffles into small dice. Mix with a little remoulade sauce, which is a stiff mayonnaise sauce mixed with finely-chopped parsley, fennel, tarragon leaves, shallots,, and prepared mustard ; add to this just sufficient tomato puree te colour it. Cut the rolls in halves, scoop out the crumb, fill with the mixture, cover the surface with a thin round piece of aspic jelly. Garnish with strips of hard-boiled whites of egg, capers, truffles and parsley ; serve on small dishes. 74. Tartinesd la JBaroda (Little Sandwiches, Baroda Style).— 3 oz. Patna rice, \ lb. cold chicken meat, 2 oz. butter (fresh), \ gill cream, 1 dessertspoonful mulligatawny paste, 1 dessertspoonful of chutney, 1 tablespoonful Allemande (No. 204) or bechamel (No. 202) sauce, | pint white chaud-froid sauce (No. 290), ^ teaspoonful curry powder, some aspic jelly, 6 slices of brown bread buttered. Cut up the chicken and put in a mortar together with the butteiy mulligatawny paste, and chutney, pound well, and add Allemande or bechamel sauce. When quite finely pounded rub all through a sieve,, spread half the slices of brown bread thickly with a layer of this preparation ; if any is left over use it for garnish. Boil the rice, drain, dry, and mix with a little cream, and let cool. Cover the spread slices of bread with plain slices of buttered brown bread, press together, cut into fingers, half-moon or heart shapes. Heat up the chaud-froid sauce, mix it with sufficient curry powder to give it a greenish tint. When nearly cold mask the slices thus prepared, and when the sauce is set glaze them with a coating of half-set aspic. Dress the rice on small round silver dishes in the shape of pyramids ; dress the tartines neatly round each dish. Have ready some set aspic jelly, cut out diamond shapes and garnish the dishes with these, some sprigs of green salad, and some of the puree left over, which is- best done by means of a paper cornet or forcing-bag. Keep tlm dishes on the ice until required for serving. 75. Tartines a la Lucullus.—Take half a pound of puff paste,, give it three consecutive turns, besprinkle the paste each turn with finely-grated Parmesan cheese. Boll out in two long strips about three inches wide and a quarter of an inch thick, and cut in two crossways. Mix a tablespoonful of anchovy paste with sufficient anchovy sauce to form a smooth paste. Spread this evenly over one side of the paste, and cover with the other strip. Cut it into small squares, or oblong strips, place on a baking sheet, prick the sur- face of them with a fork, and bake in a moderately heated oven to a nice light brown. When baked put aside to cool. In the mean- time pound the following in a mortar:—Two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, one ounce of fresh butter, one ounce of bloater paste, a table- spoonful of veloutee or bechamel sauce, and three stoned Spanish olives. Put all through a fine sieve. Put into a small basin and season with a little cayenne. Put this puree in a paper cornet, cut the point, and form an ornamental border on the top of each tartine.