HOBS D'CEUVBE (.APPETISERS) 135 Place a little of the mixture on each croute, put a stoned olive on each, fill with the rest of the mixture through a forcing-bag. Decorate with coral and chopped white of egg. Curl an anchovy fillet round the base of each olive, dish up on little glass dishes, garnish with parsley, and serve. 83. Olives a la Tartare.—Stamp out some slices of brown bread with a 1-inch cutter. Have ready a gill of stiff Tartare sauce (No. 278) in which has been incorporated half a gill of stiff aspic jelly. Dip each round of bread in the sauce to mask completely. Place them on a dish to set. Stone as many Spanish olives as there are rounds of bread, fill each with Tartare sauce, place one in the centre of each croute, dish up on little glass dishes, put a shrimp-tail or small prawnffail in each olive, garnish with parsley, and serve. The rounds of bread must be very thickly masked; if not satis- factory at first, coat for a second or third time. 84. I*elites Caisses a la Casanova.—Cut half a head of washed celery and one large truffle into fine Julienne strips. Season with a little mayonnaise (No. 211) or Tartare sauce ; fill about three parts some very small paper cases ; lay a slice of hard-boiled egg, cut out to size, on top of this, place a bearded oyster on each, and garnish tastefully with ravigote butter (No. 398). This is best effected by means of a paper cornet. 85. Simple Dishes.—A number of simple hors d’oeuvre may be prepared with various kinds of fancy butter, such as Montpellier, anchovy, lobster, crayfish, shrimp, ravigote, maitre d’hotel, and horseradish butter. Any of the abovenamed can be shaped into little balls, tiny pats, or cubes, served on little squares of crisp toast, very small lunch biscuits, or Parmesan biscuits. Little balls of butter are sometimes dished neatly on small china or glass hors d’ceuvre dishes. In that case, little pieces of toast or biscuits are handed round at the same time. 86. Lax fame a VHaile aux Concombres (Smoked Salmon with Cucumber).—1 tin of lax, 1 cucumber, 1 tablespoonful of sweet oil, 1 dessertspoonful Orleans vinegar, pepper and salt, 3 or 4 slices brown bread, butter, a handful of mustard and cress and water- cresses, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. Cut the cucumber into 14-inch pieces, being of the same size as near as possible, cut the peel so as to form stripes of green and white (crinkled). Scoop out some of the centre and round off the bottom of each so as to give thorn the appearance of cups. Chop the pulp scooped out of the centre and put it in a basin, with the oil, vinegar, and chopped parsley. Stamp out some rounds of bread with a 2-inch cutter ; butter them on one side, cover the buttered side with thin slices of preserved lax, cut some of the lax into fine strips and mix with the cucumber pulp, season with pepper and salt. Put the cucumber cups on the prepared rounds of bread, and fill the cavities with the above mixture. Range them neatly on a round dish in the shape of a crown, season the small cress &c., and put it in the centre of the dish.