THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 350 each mould with a layer of forcemeat, so as to completely cover the salpicon. Poach the moulds in the oven. (Place them in a saute- pan with a little water, covered with buttered paper, and cook in the oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes.) When done, unmould and let cool ; egg and crumb them carefully, and fry in very hot fat till of a nice golden colour. Take them up as soon as done, drain them, and dish up on a folded serviette or dish-paper. Serve with a hot ravigote sauce (No. 214). 986. Cassolettes a la Princesse Alice.—Prepare a savoury choux-paste, mix it with half its quantity of finely mashed potatoes, and line some buttered cassolettes or bouchee moulds with it. Prepare a salpicon of finely minced cooked chicken, truffles, and veloutee (No. 206) or supreme (No. 210) sauce, add enough egg-yolks to bind the mixture. Fill the cassolettes with this. Put them on a baking- sheet and bake for twenty minutes in a moderately heated oven. Turn out on a hot dish ; pour some hot Perigord sauce (No. 243) round the base of the dish and serve hot. 987. Crepinettes de Volatile auoc Truffes.—A cooked chicken or some pieces left over, 1 oz. of chopped ham or tongue, 2 small truffles, 2 eggs, about a gill and a half of veloutee sauce (No. 206), b teaspoonful salt, 1 saltspoonfulpepper, nutmeg,pig's caul or veal udder, bread-crumbs, frying-fat, and tomato sauce (No. 271). Remove the meat from the bones, take away the skin and gristle; chop the meat finely, likewise the truffles. Put these together with the ham in a saute-pan, add the sauce, season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Cook for ten minutes, stir occasionally, bind with the yolk of one egg, and spread on a dish to cool. Divide into six or eight parts ; shape these oblong, wrap each in a piece of veal udder or pig’s caul. Dip in beaten egg, roll in bread-crumbs ; when set, egg and crumb again, shape neatly, and fry in hot fat. Drain on a cloth or paper, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with tomato sauce. 988. Croustades de Volatile d la Montpellier.—4 oz. calves' liver, 2 oz. bacon, 1 oz. butter, 2 shallots, 8 oz. chicken, freed from skin and bones, 2 oz. panade, 3 whole eggs, salt, mignonette pepper, aromatic spice, a sprig of thyme and marjoram, 1 truffle, about b lb. shortcrust paste, sauce Madere (No. 237 a). Cut the liver and bacon into thin slices, and season to taste. Peel and chop the shallots finely, fry them in the butter a pale brown colour. Put in the bacon and fry a little, then add the liver, and toss over the fire for a few minutes, together with the thyme and marjoram (only very little of each must be used). Remove the herbs, and pound the remainder in a mortar ; pound the chicken separately, add the panade and three yolks of eggs ; when smooth and thoroughly mixed season with a little aromatic spice, and salt and pepper if found necessary. Now add the liver farce and mix it well together, with the truffle chopped finely. Rub this through a fine wire sieve.