THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 266 of the first course (the term first and second course or service is rarely ever used now, for it fulfils no purpose) ; while in England it is served at the end of the first course. 679. Classification of Entrees.—Entrees are divided into two classes, the hot and cold service. The hot dishes may be sub- divided again into two classes, the light and the solid entrees, or those which are served with a sauce, and those served without a sauce. There are a large number of entrees composed of meat sauted, fried, grilled, broiled, or braised, dressed simply with a good sauce, or if applicable with a dainty vegetable garnish. This garnish and sauce may also be applied to removes ; these, however, differ from entrees, inasmuch as in the former case the pieces are dressed small, while in the latter they usually consist of a boned joint, which is served whole. On the other hand there are other dishes of a more elaborate kind, both in preparation and garnish. All these come under the heading of hot entrees, solid, otherwise known as the small hot meats garnished, such as cutlets, fillets, grenadins, escallops, tournedos, large pates, sweetbreads, fricandeaux, ragouts, fricassees, boudins, quenelles, salmis, compotes, etc. Light entrees consist of various kinds of dainty morsels, such as souffles (small), meat fritters, small pates, bouchees, rissoles, croquettes, cromeskies, fricandines, beignets, timbales, darioles. 680. Cold Entrees.—This is known as the cold service. It is the most elegant and most artistic portion of cookery in general, es- pecially so when large dishes for special occasions are to be prepared, for ball suppers, banquets, wedding breakfasts, grand buffets, &c., where the moulding or ornaments in wax, fat, rice, &c. is required. Flowers, figures, &c., are then introduced in a great variety. A great deal of skill and study are required for this branch of the art. Any cook of ordinary intelligence may, however, by careful study, become an expert in this branch, provided he or she will give it special and sole attention for a time, so as to develop fully some artistic taste and ideas. Various kinds of sauces known as chaud-froid sauces, and aspic jelly, aspic creams, &c., are brought largely into use for cold entrees. Such preparations, or adjuncts, must be prepared with great care : they must be made tasty, and on no account too stiff. The aspic especially should be well flavoured, limpid, and above all transparent and clear ; for if there be any defect in this, then the handsomest dishes are open to criticism, and very justly so. In any cold entree, the cook’s special aim, next to the proper cooking of the articles, must be that of rendering the dish or the dishes effective in appearance. This can only be done by introducing tastefully and pleasingly arranged designs in the decorations. When croutons of rice, bread, &c., are used, they should be cut with precision and taste.