508 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK for an hour and a half, or bake for one hour in a moderately heated oven. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with chocolate sauce. 1582. Ponding au Clio col at meringue.—1 pint milk, 8 eggs, 2 oz. corn-flour, 3 oz. chocolate, vanilla essence, 3 oz. caster sugar. Mix the corn-flour with a little cold milk. Boil the remainder of the milk vith the chocolate and about two ounces of sugar. Stir in the corn-flour and work over the fire until it thickens, cook for about ten minutes, then stir in the yolks of two eggs and one whole egg. Add the vanilla essence and beat all. Have ready a well-buttered pudding or cake tin, pour in the mixture, and cook in a moderate oven in a bain-marie or otherwise. It will take about forty-five minutes to steam, or half an hour to bake. Beat the remaining two whites of eggs to a stiff froth, mix with the sugar left over, add a little vanilla essence or vanilla sugar to flavour. When the pudding is done turn out on a dish, let cool a little, cover quickly with the froth of whites of egg &c., dredge with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes longer. A few shredded almonds may be stuck in the pudding before it is sent to table. 1583. Ponding aux Macrons {Chestnut Pudding).—Prepare a mixture the same as for chocolate pudding (No. 1581), but use only one ounce of chocolate, and add four to six ounces of chestnut puree. Fill into a buttered mould, and bake or steam. Serve with vanilla or custard sauce. 1584. Ponding mix Won illes.—| lb. nouille paste, \ oz. butter, 8 oz. caster sugar, 6 eggs, 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence, 1 oz. mixed peel {candied). Roll out the nouille paste as thinly as possible, fold it and cut into very thin strips, loosen them and drop them into slightly salted fast boiling water containing the 4 oz. of butter. Allow to boil rapidly for five minutes. Take them up carefully with a. perforated ladle or slice, and put them on a sieve to drain. Meanwhile cream the yolks of eggs with the sugar, and add the flavouring essence. Beat up the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth. Butter a plain timbale or ordinary pudding mould. Mix all the ingredients carefully together, adding also the peel, cut into fine shreds, and three parts fill the mould. Cover with a piece of buttered paper, and steam for 1£ hour. Serve hot with a suitable sauce. 1585. Pouding an Pain noir {Brown Bread Pudding).— 6 oz. brown bread-crumbs, £ pint milk, 3 oz. butter, 4 oz. sugar, 3 eggs, 2 oz. mixed candied peel, grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, a pinch of salt. A glass of sherry, if liked. Boil up the milk and pour over the bread-crumbs, add the cinna- mon, candied peel (finely chopped or shredded), and a pinch of salt. Work the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs one at a time, mix in the soaked bread-crumbs, and add a little grated nutmeg. Put the mixture in a well-buttered mould, cover with a buttered paper,