388 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 1136. Filet de Beeuf d la Javanaise.—Trim a piece of fillet of beef (centre cut, weighing about four pounds), wrap it in thin slices of larding bacon, and place in a braising-pan on a mirepoix, bacon, onion, carrot, herbs, celery, &c., and braise in the usual way in the oven till done. Take up, remove the bacon, glaze it well, and let it get cold. Dress the fillet (whole) on a crouton of bread on an oblong dish, garnish the sides with hard-boiled half eggs, filled with macedoine salad, and halves of tomatoes, filled with tartare. dressing. Decorate the top of the fillet with grated horse- radish and parsley. Serve cold as remove for dinner or as a supper or luncheon dish. 1137. Galantine de Beeuf (Galantine of Beef).—1 lb. beef, b lb. bacon, 1 gill stock, 6 oz. bread-crumbs, pepper and salt. Cut the beef and bacon very small, put it into a basin with the bread-crumbs and seasoning. Beat the eggs and stock together, pour into the other ingredients, and mix well. Form into a short roll with the hands, tie in a pudding-cloth, boil for two and a half hours, press slightly until cold, and glaze on top. 1138. Petits Souffles glaces d VFcarlate.—\ lb. cooked ox- tongue, 1 shallot, b pint good brown sauce (No. 237 a), 1 bouguet garni (No. 2), b tomato, b oz. gelatine, 1 gill cream, 1 slice of truffle, 2 tablespoonfuls sherry, b 9^ aspic jelly (No. 38), cochineal, seasoning, 8 small souffle cases. Chop the shallot finely, put it in a stewpan with the sherry, reduce a little, then add the tomato cut in slices, the sauce, and bouquet garni, cook together for ten minutes or longer, and strain. Dissolve the gelatine, strain, and add the above while hot. Cut the tongue into small pieces, pound in a mortar till smooth. Add a little of the sauce and the cream, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Whip the brown preparation on the ice or a cold place until it becomes spongy, then add the puree, season to taste, and colour with a few drops of cochineal, to give it the desired tint. Fill the souffle cases, previously fastened with small paper bands, about half an inch above the cases with the mixture. Freeze in a charged ice-cave for about an hour, garnish the surface with fanciful cuts of truffle or white of egg, mask well with a layer of aspic, return to the ice-cave. Before serving remove the bands, and sprinkle the sides with panurette. 1139. Petites JOangues d VFspagnole.—b 26. cooked ox- tongue, 2 oz. cooked chicken or veal, b 9^1 Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 1 glass sherry, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, b oz. French leaf gelatine, a few drops liquid carmine, white pepper and nutmeg, b pint cooked macedoine of vegetables, about b pint aspic jelly, b oz. meat glaze. Soak the gelatine, boil up the sauce and sherry, reduce a little, and strain. Cut the tongue and chicken, or veal, into small pieces, put in a mortar and pound till smooth. Add the sauce and