629 THE CONSTRUCTION OF MENUS Careme tells us that at grand balls and dinners he used to roast 'fowls and turkeys merely for his soups ; and in his recipes generally talks of two, four, and even six birds, as though they could be got at the rate of eighteenpence apiece. Such a system of cookery can never become general either in this or any other country. To come to the more practical point, viz. the actual construction of menus, it is necessary that this, the most important branch of the subject we are discussing, be illustrated by examples, and I would now refer the enquiring reader to the various specimen menus appended. SPECIMEN MENUS. POTAGE. Poisson Entree Roti Entremet MENU DU DINER. LE 15 JANVIER. A PLAIN DINNER. FRENCH Queux de Boeuf. Filets de Cabillaud a la Normande. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Milanaise. Dinde Botie aux marrons. Pouding k la Viennoise. ENGLISH Ox-tail. Fillets of Cod, Normandy style. Mutton Cutlets, Milanese style. Roast Turkey stuffed with chestnuts. Viennese Pudding. It will be observed that no vegetables have been entered on the above bill of fare. One or two vegetables should be served : these are selected according to taste and season. The following, in addition to potatoes, is a list of vegetables procurable in January :—Artichokes (Globe and Jerusalem), Brussels sprouts, celery, tomatoes, seakale, savoys, cauliflower, salsify, parsnips, turnips, Spanish onions, &c. &c. A complete list of foods in season will be found on page 34. Menu du Diner le 15 Mars. jfrencb Bill of Fare, March 15. JEnglxsb Hurs-d’ceuvre Anchois sur Canapes. Anchovies on croutons of toast. POTAGE. Consomme Brunoise. Clear Soup, Brunoise style. Poisson . Filets d’Anguille 4 la Juive. Sauce Tartare. Fried fillets of Eel, Jewish fashion. Tartare Sauce. Entree . Tournedos a la Bearnaise. Pommes Parisiennes. Tournedos, Bearnaise style. Parisian potatoes. Roti . Canard Roti. Salade a la Francaise. Roast Duck. French Salad. Entremets . . Concombres farcies, etuvees. Riz a l’lmperatrice. Tourte a la Rhubarb. Huitres 4 la Diable en caisses. Stuffed Cucumbers, baked. Rice Mould, Empress style. Rhubarb Tart. Devilled Oysters in cases.