365 ENTREES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) 1053. Mauviettes a la Parmentiev.—6 to 8 larks, boned, 4 oz. bacon, 1 carrot, 1 onion, 1 bay-leaf, 1 small bouquet garni (No. 2), 1 stalk of celery {white), seasoning, hording-bacon, 2 oz. butter, ^ lb. puff-pciste, 1 egg, 2 large potatoes. Chop the celery, previously washed and trimmed very finely, season with salt and pepper, and fill the larks with this, bard and truss them, and place them on a bed of bacon, carrot and onion, cut small; add the butter and bouquet garni and cook in a hot oven for twenty minutes ; baste frequently. Take out and let cool. Wrap each in a piece of puff-paste, so as to hermetically seal each bird in the paste, giving them the shape of small eggs. Place them on a baking- sheet, brush over with beaten egg, and bake for fifteen minutes in a moderate oven ; wash and peel the potatoes, cut them into very fine strips, like straw potatoes, fry them a golden colour in hot fat. Drain and arrange in the shape of a nest on a hot dish ; place the baked larks in the centre, and serve with a thin sauce or gravy. 1054. Mauviettes a la Pompadour.—Prepare the following and place alternately in layers in a stewpan:—£ lb. streaky bacon (cut in slices), \ lb. lean beef, £ lb. veal, 1 carrot, 3 cloves, 10pepper- corns, a few sprigs of savoury herbs, 2 blades of white mace. Cover the stewpan closely, set it on the fire and allow it to draw until the gravy is extracted; then add a pint of boiling stock, and allow to simmer for half an hour or more. Remove the fat and strain. Draw and bone six larks, and stuff them with forcemeat made as follows : —Pound in a mortar three ounces of lean beef ; when quite fine add 3 oz. of bread-crumbs, one yolk of egg, the rind of half a lemon finely chopped, a few sprigs of tarragon-leaves, and the juice of half a lemon. Pound all well, and mix with a tablespoonful of cream. Season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Stuff the birds with this, flatten the breasts, dip them in flour, and fry in butter a nice brown. Pour off the butter. Add the birds to the sauce, cover well, and let simmer for about ten minutes. Have ready six small oval-shaped fried bread croutons, put a thin slice of broiled bacon and a slice of lemon on each. Dress the birds upon these, sauce over, and serve. A glass of Madeira wine will greatly improve the sauce if added when the birds are being simmered. 1055. Mauviettes a la Mentiere.—8 or 9 larks, \ lb. streaky bacon, £ lb. lean beef, £ lb. veal, 1 carrot, 3 cloves, 10 peppercorns, 2 blades whole mace, a few sprigs of savoury herbs, 1J pint stock, forcemeat, 2 oz. butter, pint sauce Perigueux (No. 243), i lb. boiled bacon, 1 lemon, fried bread croustades or croutons. For the Forcemeat.— 3 oz. lean beef, 3 oz. bread-crumbs, 1 yolk of egg, rind of half a lemon, a few sprigs of tarragon, 1 tablespoonful cream, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, lemon-juice. Cut the raw bacon, beef, veal, and carrot (previously scraped) into slices, and place alternately in layers in a stewpan with the cloves, peppercorns, mace, and herbs. Cover the stewpan closely, set it on