558 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK for a few minutes only, so as to set the icing. The gateau is then ready for serving. 1765. fiord are Japonaise a la Gelee Prepare a small savarin border (No. 1627), and bake a light colour. Mask a larger border-mould with maraschino jelly (No. 1709). Coat the cake-border with liquefied apricot marmalade and when set drop it into the prepared mould. Fill up with maraschino jelly and place in the cool to set. Turn out on a cold dish and fill the centre with whipped cream mixed with some ground almonds and a little sugar to taste. 1766. Poires d la Frincesse.—Small pears, stewed whole in a rich syrup ; remove natural stem and replace with strips of angelica. Dress them on a genoise border, previously masked with apricot marmalade. Cover the whole with spun sugar and serve with a suitable fruit syrup. 1767. Dariolettes d la Chantilly.—Prepare a frying-batter as directed in the adjoining recipe. Have ready some hot fat (clarified butter or dripping), dip a dariole fryer (that is, a small copper dariole mould fixed on to a handle) into the fat and then into the batter, so as to completely mask the outside of the mould. Fry in hot fat to a golden colour, then take up and remove the case carefully; continue this until the desired quantity of cases are fried. Put a teaspoonful of apricot marmalade, flavoured with a little maraschino or kirsch, into each case or dariolette. Mix an ounce of ground almonds with half a gill of thick syrup and a gill of whipped cream, and fill the cases with this. Dredge with grated chocolate or ground cinnamon and serve. 1768. Frying-Batter for Dariolettes.—Sift four ounces of flour into a basin, add a dessertspoonful of sweet oil, a pinch of salt, and a teaspoonful of caster sugar. Stir in gently two yolks and one whole egg, and beat up well for several minutes. Then add about three parts of a gill of cold milk or milk and water. When thoroughly mixed the batter will be ready for use. 1769. Denises d la Jalousie.—\ lb. rough puff or puff {feuilletage) paste, confectioner's custard flavoured with almonds, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade. Cut the paste into three parts, roll out rather thin into oblong strips, about two and a half inches wide. Trim the edges, and see that both strips of paste are of one size. Place one piece on a baking- sheet, spread over with a thin layer of dissolved apricot marmalade, cover with the second piece ; spread the centre of the paste with a layer of confectioner’s custard, being careful to leave about half an inch margin all round. Cut the third piece of paste into narrow strips, lay them across in two ways, in the form and shape of lattice- work ; fix the ends of paste with a little water or egg, and run a narrow band of paste round the edge to form a border; pinch the •edges with a paste notcher or gauffre tool, in order to decorate, the