ENTREES CHAUDES DE VIANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) 291 Prepare beforehand the following farce:—Wash the livers and cut them into fine slices. Fry the finely-chopped shallot in butter, put in the liver, and toss over the the fire for a few minutes, season, pound in a mortar with the foie gras and a large tablespoonful of brown sauce, pass through a sieve, divide the farce into eight portions, and spread over one side of the eight fillets. Place each on rounds of fried bread, poach in a hot oven for a few seconds only, brush over with meat-glaze, dish up, place a slice of truffle on top of each, and serve with demi-glace sauce. 778. Filets Mignons a la Rothschild.—2-2^ lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, a little meat-glaze {No. 247), a tablespoonful of finely-grated horseradish, \ gill cream, 2 lb. mashed potatoes, 2 eggs, bread-crumbs, 1 sour cooking-apple, clarified butter for frying purposes, 6-8 preserved mushrooms, seasoning, tomato sauce {No. 271). Trim the fillet of beef and cut crossways six to eight even-sized slices, pare them neatly and season with pepper and salt. Melt some butter in a saute-pan and fry the fillets on both sides over a brisk fire, but taking care that they get cooked rare — i.e. rather underdone in the centre. Mix the mashed potatoes, horseradish, and cream in a stewpan over the fire, when thoroughly hot work in a couple of egg- yolks, stir until the latter begin to bind, then season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and spread the mixture on a dish or plate. Shape this into six to eight (same number as fillets) even-sized balls, flatten them down to about the same shape and thickness as the fillets. Egg, crumb, and fry them in clarified butter. Drain and keep them hot. Remove the stalks of the preserved mushrooms, and toss them in the butter used for frying the fillets. Peel and core the apple and cut it into thin slices, dip them in milk and flour, and fry in hot clarified butter. Place the potato shapes on to a hot dish, and put a fillet upon each, brush these over with liquid meat glaze, and place, a slice of fried apple on top of them. Arrange the fillets tastefully on top of the dish, and put a mushroom-head on top (centre) of the apple slices. Pour some hot tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. It is, of course, safer to leave the frying of the fillets till almost the last. It will only take about five or six minutes to fry them as they should be—viz. rare or underdone ; if fried any longer they will be over-done. 779. Olives de Rceuf {Beef Olives).—1^ to H lb. of fillet of beef or rump steak {cut thick), 1 egg, 2 oz. fresh bread-crumbs, H oz. beef suet, chopped finely, ^ oz. chopped ham, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, £ teaspoonful aromatic spice, a pinch of poiodered street herbs, \ teaspoonful fimely-grated lemon-rind, salt and pepper, f pint brown sauce. Free the meat from skin and fat, and cut it into slices, flatten each slice with a wetted cutlet-bat- they must be rather thin and