DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) 235 a saucepan, and when melted mix well with it a dessertspoonful of flour; add the liquor from the fish and a gill of fish stock, stir till the sauce is quite smooth, then add a couple of teaspoonfuls of cream ; continue cooking, but be careful not to let it actually boil. Lastly, add the yolks of two eggs, beaten up with a teaspoonful of lemon- juice, and flavour with pepper and salt, strain over the fish, and serve hot. 564. Grondin farci etouffe (-Baited Gurnet, stuffed).— 1 gurnet, 2 oz. bread-crumbs, 1 egg, 2 finely-chopped shallots, 1 oz. chopped beef meat, ^ teaspoonful mixed herbs {powdered), 3 chopped mushrooms, 1 oz. butter, 1 glass white wine, sauce matelote (No. 239), anchovy essence! Scale and clean the gurnet, wash and dry it inside and out with a cloth. Prepare the stuffing by mixing the above-mentioned ingredients with about half an egg or more if found necessary, and season to taste. Stuff the inside of the fish with this, and sew up the belly. Truss it with its tail in its mouth, and place it in a well-buttered saute-pan or baking-tin, brush the surface with egg, and cover with bread-crumbs. Place a few tiny pieces of butter on top of the fish, moisten with the wine. Bake in a sharp oven for about twenty or twenty-five minutes. Place the fish on a crouton of fried bread, untruss it, and pour the sauce round the base of the dish. The sauce must be hot, and mixed with a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, and the liquor of the fish must be incorporated into the sauce. 565. Filets de Merlans au Gratin.—4 small whitings filleted, & preserved mushrooms, 1 glass Chablis or Sauterne, 2 oz. butter, chopped parsley, 1 gill sauce Italienne {No. 239), ^ lemon, pepper and salt, bread-crumbs. Trim the fillets neatly, lay them on a buttered silver-plated gfratin or fire-proof china dish, sprinkle over a few drops of lemon-juice, season with pepper and salt, add the wine and a little mushroom liquor if handy, put in the oven for ten minutes. Take out, pour off the liquor, and put into the sauce. Boil up the sauce, cut the mush- rooms into slices, and lay neatly in a row on the fillets ; sauce over carefully, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, place a few little bits of butter here and there, and bake for another ten minutes. Place the dish on another dish and serve. • 566. Filets de Merlans d la Ju t re.—3 medium-sized skinned whitings, 2 tablespoonfuls sweet oil, 1 oz. of vinegar {French wine), 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley, pepper, salt, parsley for garnish, frying-batter, fat for frying, Joinville sauce {No. 229). Remove the fillets, flatten them slightly, fold them in twos, pare neatly, and put in a deep dish ; season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over the oil, vinegar, and chopped parsley, let them lie in soak for one or two hours. Take out, drain, dip in frying-batter (previously prepared), fry in hot clarified fat or butter a golden colour, drain on