SALADES (SALADS) 493 and line the decorated mould with this. Put it in a cool place to set. Meanwhile put the walnuts in a stewpan, cover with boiling water, add a little salt, the mace, bay-leaf, and onion, and boil for ten minutes or so. Drain them and put them in cold water, remove the skin and shake them gently in a towel. Cut them into shreds. Dissolve the gelatine and add to the tomato pulp, season with pepper, salt, and half a teaspoonful of paprika, flavour with the vinegar, boil up, and strain. When almost cold mix with it about half the shredded walnuts, and fill the border-mould with this preparation and put the mould in a cool place until required. Wash and scrub the celery, rinse it well, and dry on a cloth. Cut away all the green parts, and cut the white part into julienne strips. Mix them in a basin with the remainder of the walnuts. Add pepper and salt to taste. When ready for serving mould the border and dress on a round,dish. Season the salad with mayonnaise and place it in the centre of the dish, pile up high, sprinkle with a little chopped gherkin, and serve. A little green salad, lettuce or endive, may be mixed with the celery and walnuts if liked. In that case it should be cut into shreds, or else torn up into very small pieces. 1531. Salade d la JBeauvilliees.—1 carrot, 1 turnip, \ cooked beetroot, 1 small cooked cauliflower, a handful of cooked peas, the same of French beans, \ stick celery, 6 anchovies filleted, £ lb. Lyons sausage cut into thin slices, 10 stoned olives, French capers, salt, pepper, cold ravigote sauce (No. 363). Peel and cleanse the raw vegetables, cut into half-inch cube shapes, and cook separately in salted water ; drain, cool, and put in a basin, add the cauliflower, divided into small sprigs, the peas, and the beans, cut into short lozenge shapes. Cut the anchovy fillets into small strips, about an inch long ; cut the white part of celery, the slices of Lyons sausage, and the beetroot into fine shreds. Mix gently, season with pepper, salt, and a little ravigote sauce, and dress neatly in a salad bowl. Garnish with groups of capers, olives, and finely-chopped beetroot, and serve. Note.—The ravigote sauce may be substituted by a vinaigrette (No. 300) or mayonnaise sauce (No. 277). 1532. Salade d la Villeroi.—Cut into coarse shreds or thin slices one small cucumber (previously pickled), one small cooked beetroot, one lettuce, three cooked potatoes, and four fresh tomatoes; set these on one side and prepare a dressing as follows: Eub one hard-boiled yolk of egg through a sieve into a salad bowl, add three tablespoonfuls of Valentine sauce (No. 283), one small teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful tomato puree, a teaspoonful of prepared mustard, and a pinch of cayenne pepper; mix well and work in gradually two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, one of French wine vinegar, and a dessertspoonful of anchovy essence; add the prepared vegetables, and mix carefully. Dish up in a clean salad bowl, in a