ENTREMETS FBOIDS. ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) 551 the border on a cold dish, dress the prepared apricots on top, sauce over with a thick syrup, and serve. 1741. Mattes aux Amandes (Dates Stuffed with Almond Paste).—Pound four to six ounces of peeled almonds with a few pistachio nuts in a mortar. Add sufficient syrup to form a stiff but smooth paste. Roll this out on a sugared board and cut into oblongs, the size of dates. Stone a number of dates and fill with almond paste. When this is done dip each prepared date into sugar boiled to the crack, i.e. 285 degrees on Senn’s saccharometer. Serve as dessert. Green almonds or French plums may be treated in the same way. 1742. Marrons au Moka (Chestnuts with Coffee Cream).— 3 dozen large chestnuts (Spanish), 4 oz. sugar, | pint black coffee, 1 gill double cream, 3 egg-yolks, 1 inch vanilla-pod. Slit the chestnuts, boil them long enough to remove the shells and inner skins; put them in a stewpan with enough water to cover the vanilla-pod and three ounces of sugar, and cook them till they are quite soft without breaking. Take them up and allow to drain on a sieve. Put the vanilla-pod in with the coffee, add the remainder of the sugar and the cream when nearly boiling, stir in the egg-yolks, and work over the fire till it begins to thicken, then strain. Dish up the chestuuts and pour the prepared sauce over them. Serve cold With whipped cream if liked. 1743. Ho r dure aux Fraises d la Madrid.—1 pint bavaroise custard (No. 1680), £ pint whipped cream, 1 oz. vanilla sugar, 1 oz. best rice, cooked in milk, a small punnet of scarlet strawberries, 1 gill icine-jelly. Prepare the bavaroise as directed, cook a handful of strawberries so as to extract the juice, sweeten with sugar, and strain a couple of tablespoonfuls into the jelly (the latter must be stiff enough to allow this incorporation to set). Wash and cook the rice in milk; when done sweeten with a little sugar and stir into the bavaroise. Mask one or two border-moulds with the prepared jelly (the latter must be a pretty red colour), decorate with picked strawberries and angelica. Mix about half the cream into the rice and bavaroise custard, and when cool enough pour this into the prepared border-moulds. Place it on the ice to set. To serve, unmould it on a round entremets dish; fill the centre with whipped and sweetened cream mixed with the remainder of strawberries and send to table. 1744. Bordure de Marrons a la Chantilly.—About 1 pint Spanish chestnuts, half their weight of loaf sugar, about J pint of milk, ^ oz. French leaf gelatine, 2 inches vanilla-pod, 1 gill cream, ^ oz. vanilla sugar, 1 oz. chocolate, 1 gill sweet jelly. Wipe and shell the chestnuts, scald them in boiling water, and remove the skins. Cook till tender in milk, together with the vanilla- pod. When done take out the vanilla and rub through a wire sieve.