BEURRES COMPOSES (.FLAVOURING BUTTERS), ETC. 199 396. Beurre au Paprika (.Paprika Butter).—Put a tea- spoonful of paprika (Hungarian pepper) on a clean plate and mix with 4 oz. of fresh butter until it resembles a smooth paste, then put it on the ice or in a cool place and use when wanted. 397. jBeurre de Raifort {Horseradish Butter).—Wash a stick of horseradish, scrape off the outer skin, and grate finely the white part. Mix with 8 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful chilli vinegar, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice; season with pepper and salt. Eub through a fine sieve, spread on a plate, and put on the ice. Cut into diamond shapes or little rounds, and serve with grilled fillets of beef (tournedos) or steaks. 398. Beurre Ravigote {Bavigote or Green Butter).—Wash and pick 1^ oz. chervil, 2 oz. spinach, ^ oz. green chives, 1 oz. tarragon, | oz. parsley. Put it in a saucepan with water and blanch. Drain well, and pound in a mortar. Peel three or four shallots, chop finely, cook them in a little butter, until of a golden colour, and put with the herbs ; work in 6 oz. butter, rub through a fine sieve ; add a little pepper and salt, and spinach greening if necessary. The butter is then ready for use. 399. Beurre de Ruisseau {Watercress Butter).—Pick the leaves of the required quantity of watercress, and mince them as fine as possible, dry them in a cloth, then knead them with as much fresh butter as they will take up, adding a very little salt and white pepper. Put the mixture thus obtained on a plate, spread it out evenly, and place on the ice. Stamp opt some little rounds and serve in a glass dish, or use for other purposes as described. 400. Farce de Poisson (Merlon) {Whiting Forcemeat).— Kemove the meat from a large skinned whiting; put into a mortar and pound with 4 oz. of panade and 2 oz. of butter; rub all through a sieve, return to the mortar, and work in gradually 1 tablespoonful of stiff bechamel sauce (cold) (No. 202), 1 whole egg, and 2 yolks. Season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. 401. Veal Godiveau {Quenelles).-—^ lb. lean veal {cushion), i lb. veal suet finely chopped, 2 eggs, 2 oz. panade or pepper, 3 oz. soaked bread, salt, grated nutmeg. Free the meat from skin, fat, and sinews, and cut into very small pieces ; pound the veal and suet together in a mortar until perfectly smooth; then add the eggs pne at a time, also the panade or soaked bread, the latter to be mixed in only in small quantities. Moisten with about a gill of iced water, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Test the consistency in a little boiled water; if found too soft, add a little more bread or panade, and a yolk of egg; if too stiff, add a little more water, stock, or cream. Shape into quenelles the required shape, poach in salted water or stock, and use as required. 402. Farce de Veau {Veal Forcemeat).—Slice lb. of lean veal, free it from skin and sinews, together with £ lb. finely shred beef suet, and 2 oz. of fat bacon cut in strips; pound all well in a