ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES) 347 Remove the fillets from the chicken, take off the skin, larcl each fillet with small strips of tongue and truffle, place them in a buttered saute-pan lined with a slice of bacon, slices of onion, and bay-leaf ; put a few bits of butter on top, moisten with a little white stock. Season with pepper and salt, and cover with buttered paper. Cook slowly for about twenty minutes, baste frequently ; when done take up, and glaze the top with liquid meat glaze. In the meantime prepare a farce as follows :—Pound the foie gras, asparagus points, and beef marrow (previously blanched) in a mortar till smooth, add one yolk of egg, the sauce, and seasoning, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Arrange a meat border of mashed potatoes on a well-buttered silver dish ; this is best done by means of a forcing-bag with a rose tube ; brush over lightly with yolk of egg. Put the prepared farce in the centre of the dish, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about fifteen minutes. Range the cooked fillets neatly on top of the farce ; glaze and serve very hot accompanied with a boat of demi-glace sauce. Pheasant or pigeon fillets may be prepared in the same manner. 979. Kart de Volatile d la Madras (Curried Chicken).— 1 chicken, 2 oz. butter, 1 small onion, 1 dessert-spoonful Madras curry powder, 1 tablespoonful Empress mulligatawny paste, 3 cloves, 1 small piece cinnamon, 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), ^ gill tomato pulp or puree, 1 dessertspoonful freshly-grated or else desiccated cocoanut, the juice of half a lemon, salt, boiled rice. Cut the chicken into neat joints, peel and chop finely the onion. Melt the butter in a stewpan, fry the chicken a light brown colour; then take out the pieces of chicken, fry the onion in the same butter ; when of a pale brown colour add the curry powder and fry a little, stirring all the time over a bright fire; return the chicken to the pan. Mix thoroughly, adding the cocoanut, mulligatawny paste, cloves, and cinnamon. Moisten with the sauce and puree and about half a gill of water or stock, boil up, and skim. Cover the pan and let simmer very gently for about forty minutes. About ten minutes before serving add the lemon-juice and enough salt to taste. When done dish up neatly in the centre of a border of plain boiled rice, or serve the rice separately if so desired. Although the word ‘ curry ’ is given as ‘kari,’ which is the French translation for ‘curry,’ the foregoing recipe is a genuine Indian dish, prepared by an Indian cook. 980. Medallions de Volatile a la Carente.—1 large fotvl or Surrey capon, 2 oz. butter, a mirepoix (bacon, carrot, and onion, cut in dice), a small bunch of savoury herbs, 1 gill white stock, % gill Bearnaise sauce (No. 225), 1 tablespoonful sherry, 1 oz. meat glaze (No. 247), 2 truffles, a few slices of cooked ox tongue, 6 preserved mushrooms, seasoning. Remove the breasts and wing portions of the fowl or capon, take off the skin and sinews ; flatten each piece with a wetted cutlet-bat and pare into round or oval shapes ; each breast should make two shapes. Prepare the mirepoix and fry a little in a saute-pan with a