505 ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) sugar and eggs together, add it to the above, together with the syrup of the apples, flavour with a few drops of vanilla essence and cinnamon, mix thoroughly, and fill into a well buttered and sugared copper pudding-mould, placing the apples in layers between the mixture. Place the mould on a baking-tin in a moderate oven, and bake for one hour. Unmould, and serve with a sauce prepared with the ingredients above stated. 1572. Ponding d VOriente.—4 eggs, 4 oz. caster sugar, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. Vienna flour, 1 oz. corn-flour, 1 tablespoonful coffee extract ; sauce or syrup. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs ; put the former into a basin, the latter into an egg-bowl on the ice. Cream the butter and sugar together for about ten minutes, add the egg-yolks gradually and beat up thoroughly; then mix in the coffee extract. Mix the two kinds of flour and rub through a sieve; whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mingle carefully the flour and egg-whites into the mixture. Three parts fill a plain charlotte or timbale mould, previously well greased. Steam in the usual manner for about one and a half hour. Turn out on to a hot dish and sauce over with a syrup, or better with the following sauce:— 1573. Sauce for Ponding d VOriente.—Put three yolks of eggs into a well-tinned copper bowl or stewpan; add one ounce of sugar, a glass of kirschwasser, a tablespoonful double cream, and half a tea- cupful of freshly made coffee. Whisk this over a saucepan of boiling water from ten to fifteen minutes, long enough to form a liaison ; the sauce is then ready for serving. 1574. Ponding a la Paysanne.—6 oz. white bread-crumbs, 2| oz. butter, about % pint milk, 5 eggs, J lb. sultanas {cleaned), 1 heaped-up tablespoonful apricot jam, 2 oz. caster sugar, \ gill rum, 1 teaspoonful finely-chopped lemon-rind. Soak the crumbs in the milk for half an hour, drain off the superfluous milk, and put the crumbs in a stewpan; add two ounces of butter, and stir over the fire until thoroughly hot. Let cool a little, then add the sugar, the yolks of eggs, lemon-rind, sultanas, jam, and rum. Mix. well, beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix in gradually. Butter the pudding-mould, pour in the mixture, cover with a buttered paper, stand it in a stewpan three- parts full of boiling water, let it come to the boil, and bake in the oven for an hour and a half. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with a sabayon au rhum. 1575. Ponding a la Saxon.—4 sponge cakes, 6 macaroons, a handful of ratafias, 4 eggs, ^ pint of milk, 1 glass of sherry, 2 oz. almonds, 1 gill cream, a few glace cherries, angelica, a few drops vanilla essence. Butter a plain charlotte mould, decorate the bottom with halves of cherries and .strips of angelica. Blanch, peel, shred, and bake the almonds a light brown colour. Sprinkle the sides of the mould with