SALADES (SALADS) 495 top with whipped cream, slices of gherkins, truffles, beetroot, &c., and serve. 1587. Salade de JPerdreati d la Ca/rpentras.— l cold roast partridge, 2 lettuces, \ head celery, mayonnaise dressing (No. 277), 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 truffle, 2 tablespoonfuls vinaigrette (No. 300), 8 stoned French olives, 1 tablespoonful capers, 1 gherkin, pepper and salt. Cut the partridge into neat joints, remove the skin and most of the bones, put in a dish, season with pepper and salt, pour over the vinaigrette, and keep in a cool place for about an hour or more. Wash the lettuce and celery, remove the green leaves, and shred the white portions, season a little. Dress the lettuce, celery, and partridge in alternate layers, in the shape of a dome or pyramid, in a salad bowl, mask with stiff mayonnaise, decorate the surface with fancifully-cut slices and strips of gherkins and truffles. Surround with a garnish of quartered hard-boiled eggs, French olives, and capers, and serve. 1538. Salade de Qibier (Game Salad).—The remains of any kind of cold game, 1 hard-boiled egg, 2 lettuces, pepper, salt, cayenne, mayonnaise sauce (No. 277). Pickled beetroot for garnish. Cut the meat from the bones of the game, remove the skin, and cut the meat into medium-sized dice. Trim and wash the lettuces, pull the leaves from the stalks, and shred them finely; cut out some star shapes from the white of the egg, chop up the yolk and trimmings, and put with the meat. Dress the lettuces, meat, and mayonnaise in alternate layersvin the shape of a pyramid or dome, in a salad bowl. Sprinkle a little seasoning between the layers, cover with mayonnaise sauce. Garnish with stars of sliced beetroot and hard-boiled white of egg. 1539. Salade de Sardines d VMspaynole (Spanish Sardine Salad).—Remove the skin and bones from twelve to sixteen sardines, cut them into short pieces, and mix in a basin with two tablespoonfuls of capers. Season with salt, pepper, and vinegar, and mix with some finely shredded lettuces. Arrange this in a salad bowl, and garnish with stoned Spanish olives filled with anchovy butter. 1540. Salade d la Meuniere (Oyster and Celery Salad).— 1 dozen large oysters, 1 large head 'white celery, ^ gill cream, £ gill tarragon vinegar, 3 yolks of eggs, i teaspoonful made mustard, ^ oz. blitter, salt, cayenne pepper, 1 tablespoonful mayonnaise (No. 277) or Tartare (No. 278) sauce, 1 hard-boiled egg, parsley. Beard the oysters, cut them into quarters, and heat them up in their own liquor without allowing them to boil; heat up the cream, vinegar, and butter, add the mustard, and stir until quite hot, then add the egg-yolks, and keep on the fire while stirring until the liaison is formed. Put in the oysters, heat again, and set on the side to get cool. Wash and trim the celery, remove the outer leaves of the stalk, shred the white portion of the celery and put in a bowl,