THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 118 20. Hints on Boiling Vegetables.—All green vegetables should be put on the fire into fast-boiling, slightly salted water, so that they may be brought quickly to the boiling point again. They should never be left to steep too long in cold water before boiling, as this will tend to toughen them, and in many cases destroys colour and flavour. Green vegetables, such as greens, cabbage, brocoli, savoys, green artichokes, French beans, peas, &c., also cauliflowers and asparagus, must be boiled in water containing a small piece of soda (about the size of a small filbert) in addition to the salt. This retains the natural colour, extracts some of the strong flavour, and in the case of greens &c. the addition of soda is said to make these vegetables more digestible. Soda may be substituted by brown sugar. As soon as cooked strain quickly, for to let them remain longer in the water than is necessary is ruinous. Keep the vegetables hot in a dish over or in hot water till required for serving. Over-done or under-done vegetables are injurious to health. 21. To Blanch Vegetables.-- Vegetables are usually blanched in order to extract some of their bitter flavour or to soften them. Parsley, tarragon, chervil, onions, shallots, &c., are best blanched by plunging them several times into boiling water. All green vegetables should be blanched in copper stewpans in order* to retain their delicate green colour. All vegetables &c. required to be blanched are put on the fire in cold water, and must be brought quickly to the boil, and then be drained and cooled in cold water. Blanching is the prefix of the act of cooking, which is accom- plished in boiling in salted water. 22. To Blanch Bice, &e.—Kice, macaroni, &c., should always be blanched before it is put on to finish cooking. Bice should be picked and washed in several waters. It is put on the fire with plenty of cold water to well cover. It must be brought quickly to the boil and then put into a sieve to drain, allowing cold water to run over so as to cool it. 23. To Clarify Fat.—Cut the fat (beef or sheep’s kidney suet is best for frying purposes) into pieces about half an inch in size ; remove any coarse skin &c. which may be on the fat, put the pieces in an iron stewpan, add about one gill of cold water to every pound of fat, cook over a slow fire, stir from time to time to prevent it from burning ; when sufficiently cooked, which will be seen when it ceases to froth and the liquid is quite clear, move it to the corner of the stove to cool a little, then strain through a sieve. 24. Frying in Fat or Oil.—Successful frying depends upon the fat being perfectly hot (boiling), the use of clean utensils, a brisk and bright fire, and, above all, plenty of clean and good fat. Anything that is fried should be served directly it is taken from the fire and well strained. Fried dishes should never be covered over, for that renders them soft or else tough.