VEGETABLES {LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 465 1398. Potato Chips.—Wash and peel thinly as many even-sized potatoes as may be required, and cut them into very thin slices cross- ways. Drain them in a cloth. Put them in a frying-basket and plunge into boiling hot faJj. When they are almost cooked remove them from the fat for about three minutes, to allow the fat to get hot again. Then plunge in a second time fora few minutes longer to acquire a nice golden brown. Take up, shake well, and sprinkle with fine salt. Dish up, and send to table at once. 1399. Pornmes de Terre a la Pa/risienne.—Peel- the potatoes, scoop them with a vegetable-cutter into round balls, blanch them carefully in salted water, and drain them. Melt two ounces of clarified butter in a saute-pan ; when this is hot put in the potatoes* and toss them over the fire for a few minutes, then bake them in the oven for t m minutes. 1400. Pornmes de Terre d la Bignon.—12 small round potatoes, | lb. raw mutton, 2 oz. fat pork, 1 yolk of egg, 14 oz. butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Cut up the mutton and pork into small pieces, season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Chop until very fine, or pass twice through a mincing machine, and mix with the yolk of an egg. Choose the potatoes of even size, wash them well, and peel thinly. Scoop out part of the inside by means of a vegetable Scoop, leaving the bottom uncut. Blanch them in boiling water for two minutes, drain and fill well with the above described sausage-meat, and close the openings with a piece of potato. Melt the butter in a saute-pan ; when hot lay in the stuffed potatoes, and bake in the oven for twenty minutes Baste well with the butter, dish up, sprinkle with a little finely- chopped parsely, and serve, or use as a garnish for releves or entrees. 1401. Pornmes de Terre d la • lianeerelle.—Wash and peel eight to ten large kidney potatoes, scoop out by means of a vegetable scoop as many balls as possible. Cook them gently in salted water, drain, and place in a stewpan ; add half an ounce of butter and about a gill of bechamel sauce (No. 202), shake over the fire until hot, dish up in the form of a pyramid. Sprinkle over with dissolved fish glaze, and serve. , 1402. Pornmes de Terre d la IJneltes.se.—Wash and peel about two pounds of mealy .potatoes, boil until done, drain off. the water, and let them dry in the oven for a few minutes, covered over; rub them quickly through a wire sieve ; while warm mix with three yolks of eggs, two ounces of clarified butter, and a tablespoonful of cream; season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; when well mixed turn out on a floured board and make twelve parts of equal size ; give each the shape of a square, trace a few lines with a knife, lay them on a buttered baking-sheet, egg the surface, bake them in a quick oven, and dish up. 1403. Pornmes de Terre d la Gastronome.—12 medium- sized potatoes, 2 truffles, \ glass sherry, % pint Espagnole sauce {No. 236), salt and pepper. h h