BEHOVES AND ROASTS 423 1223. Caneton braise a la Bourgogne.—1 good-sized duckling, 6 small button onions, 1 carrot sliced, 3 or 4 slices of bacon, 1 small bunch herbs, 1 glass Burgundy, 1 gill brown sauce, pepper and salt, mashed potatoes, 1 egg-yolk, 1 teaspoonful powdered savoury herbs, 2 slices of lemon. Singe, clean, and truss the duckling ; stuff it with a puree of potatoes previously mixed with egg-yolk and powdered herbs, and highly seasoned with pepper. Line a braising-pan with the bacon ; upon this put the sliced carrot and the button onions, previously peeled and browned in a little butter over a quick fire. Add two thin slices of lemon, and place the duckling on top ; moisten with half the wine and put the pan in a hot oven for ten minutes, to allow the duckling to get browned; take up and add the remainder of wine and a little stock or water, braise over the fire or in the oven till quite done ; taste frequently. The brown sauce should be added about ten minutes before the duckling is done. To serve take up the duckling and place it on a hot dish ; surround with the small onions. Boil up the sauce in the pan, strain it and remove the fat, season, reduce to the right consistency, season to taste with pepper and salt, and pour it round the base of the dish, or send to table separately in a sauce-boat. 1224. Canards d l’ Orange.—Boast one or more ducks, trussed neatly, till done ; baste frequently during the process of roasting. Cut into the usual number of joints and dish up on a hot dish. Garnish with small bunches of watercress and quarters of oranges, from which the pips have been removed; pour a little gravy round the base of the dish and send to table with a boat of orange sauce (No. 259). 1225. Oie rotie farcie (Boast Goose,Stuffed).—1 gooseweigli- ing from 5 to 6 lbs., 1 oz. dripping, 3 onions, 18 sage-leaves, 2 oz. chopped suet, 4 oz. bread-crumbs, 1 egg, pepper and salt. Pick, draw, and singe the goose, wipe the inside with a damp cloth, and stuff in the usual manner with a stuffing made as follows:—Peel the onions, blanch together with the sage-leaves, strain and chop finely. Chop the suet, mix it with the onions and sage, add the bread-crumbs and the egg, previously beaten, season and mingle well. Now truss the goose for roasting, and roast for about an hour and a half before a brisk fire the first half-hour, and a moderate fire after ; baste occasionally. Sprinkle with a little salt just before it is taken up. When done untruss, place on a hot dish. Strain off the fat from the dripping-pan, and keep it for further use. Add some stock or gravy to the pan, season, boil a few minutes, pour on the dish, and serve. 1226. Caneton roti.—Pick and draw a good-sized duckling, singe it, remove the liver and heart, carefully wash and put again inside the bird. Truss neatly, put it on a baking-tin with a little dripping. Boast it in the' oven or in front of the fire for about forty minutes. Bemove the strings, dish up on a hot dish, pour the dripping