239 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) cover with buttered paper, cook in a slow oven for fifteen minutes, dish up, garnish with prawns, and serve with Remoulade sauce. 577. JEperlans farcis a la JPouraine {Stuffed Smelts, Pouraine Style).— Select about twelve large smelts, clean them, and make an incision the whole length of the fish and remove the centre bone. Fill them with whiting forcemeat (No. 400) mixed with six finely chopped mushrooms and chopped parsley. Close them up neatly, dip each in flour and range on a well-buttered dish ; pour over some melted butter, and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Dish up, cover with sauce bechamel (No. 203). Brown the surface in the oven or under a salamander, garnish with lemon quarters and parsley. 578. Souffle d’JEperlans.—12 medium-sized smelts, 1 small whiting, 1 tablespoonful well-reducedbechamel sauce {No.203), 1 white of egg, 1 truffle, \ oz. butter, { gill cream, seasoning, Joinville sauce, {No. 229). Wipe the smelt with a. damp cloth, remove the fillets, skin and bone the whiting, pound the fillets of smelts and whiting in a mortar till smooth, add the bechamel sauce, and season with salt, pepper, and a tiny pinch of cayenne. All the ingredients used must be kept as cold as possible to prevent curdling, it is therefore best to keep them on the ice till wanted. Incorporate the white of egg, and rub all through a fine hair sieve. Whip about a quarter of a gill of double cream, and mix this with the above. Keep the basin containing the farce on the ice whilst stirring in the cream. Grease a plain timbale or charlotte mould with clarified butter, decorate the bottom of the mould with fancifully-cut slices of truffle, arrange the latter in the form of a pretty border or rosette. Three parts fill the mould with the preparation, and poach in the usual manner. 579. JPetoncles d la JPcovene4ale {Scallops in Provenqale Style).—18 scallops, | pint of white stock, 2 oz. of blotter, ^ gill cream; 1 small onion, 2 shallots 1 oz. flour, 3 yolks-of eggs, 3 mushrooms. Put the scallops in a stewpan with one ounce of butter, and let it cook for ten minutes. Peel and chop finely the onion and shallots, blanch them in water, and drain. Put them ii> a saucepan with an ounce of butter, and cook until light brown ; stir in the flour, stir a few minutes over the fire, moisten with scallop liquor and the stock, let it simmer for fifteen minutes, stir in the yolks of eggs, one at a time, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne, put in the scallops, let them get thoroughly hot, but on no account allow the sauce to boil; mix in the cream just before serving, dress the scallops neatly on a dish, pour the remaining sauce round them, garnish the dish with fleurons of puff-pastry, and serve. 580. JPetoncles an Gratin.—Prepare and cook the scallops as above directed, dress in dome-shape on a buttered gratin-dish, sauce over thickly with the sauce when cold, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, place a few small bits of butter here