GARNISHINGS AND GARNITURES 207 446 a. A la Dauphine signifies a special mode of cooking, i.e. braised then coated with thick sauce, egged, crumbed and fried. The garnish consists of small croquettes made of potato puree and choux paste. 447. A la Dubou&et.—Small kidney potatoes, the centres of which are scooped .out, stuffed with forcemeat, either fish or meat, according to the kind of dish it is served with. The potatoes are partly fried and braised in the oven, arranged round a dish of meat, poultry, or fish, or put in the centre. Sauce, Tomate (No. 271). 448. A la Dufferin (for Fish).—Blanched scallops, cut into quarters, bearded oysters cooked in a rich Genoise sauce. Anchovy fillets are added to the garnish the last moment. Sauce, Genoise (No. 245). 449. A la Duclair.—This is characteristic with braised ducks, stuffed with a liver forcemeat seasoned with savoury herbs. Bounds of toasted or fried bread, well buttered on one side, and covered with liver forcemeat, are dressed round the dish. The sauce consists of a demi-glace well reduced with claret and orange-juice. 450. A la Durance (for Fish).—Cray-fish tails, and slices of lobster meat cut into convenient shapes. The sauce consists of Hollandaise (No. 208), tinted with lobster butter (No. 291). 451. A VEcarlate.—Cooked smoked ox-tongue cut into slices, dice, and sometimes chopped. Sauce, Tomate and Espagnole in equal quantities, well reduced. 452. A VEcossaise.—Small timbales lined with thin pancakes, made with a savoury batter, filled with lamb forcemeat, baked in the oven, and dressed round the dish. Sauce, Demi-glace (No. 237). 453. A l’Espagnole.—Small stripped tomatoes and baked stuffing, savoury meat, ham, mushrooms, carrots, &c., braised onions, and stoned olives. Sauce, Espagnole (No. 236), reduced with sherry and gravy. 454. A la Flam ande.—Alternate groups of carrots and turnips, scooped out, parboiled and braised, or boiled, cooked green and French beans, and braised Savoy cabbage. Sauce, Demi-glace (No. 237). 455. A la Financiere.—Blanched sweetbread cut into small slices or dice-shaped pieces, mushroom heads, stoned olives, chicken forcemeat or Godiveau (No. 401), quenelles, cocks’ combs and kernels, and slices of truffles. Sauce, Madere (No. 237 a), reduced. 456. A la Franchise.—This surname being applied to a large number of dishes, soups, fish, entrees, omelettes, sweets, &c., no special garnish can be quoted as a reliable guide ; a la Franqaise must thus be accepted as. signifying certain typical French modes of preparing rich dishes of exquisite flavour. 457. A la Genoise.—Cut some thin strips of nouille paste, rolled out very thinly, boil in salted water, drain and finish in butter, serve in centre of meat or poultry, garnish with dried truffles and mushrooms. Sauce, Madere (No. 237 a).