THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 14 in its highest and most artistic form, is the result of study of the masters of that craft, who, we are bound to admit, have of late produced marvellous improvements by providing what ‘ is pleasant to the eye and good for food.’ Those cooks known as chefs are at once artists, architects, and physicians : they appeal to our senses of colour, of fragrance, of form, and of taste. Recognising that the condition of our souls is largely dependent on the state of our stomachs, their inventive genius is displayed in multifarious methods for what we may call the artistic presentation of nutriment. They can build castles and cathedrals out of cooked meats, flour, rice, and sugar; they can fashion all the flowers that bloom in the spring out of deftly moulded stearine crystals or carved vegetable roots ; they can form all the delicate pieces of a table decoration, and the judicious composition of a well-balanced bill of fare ; they work like dramatists and think like doctors ; for, after all, the ‘ secret ’ of a dinner means good dialogue on the part of the company ; hence the culinary artist may justly be termed the real physician of modern life. So much for the artists and the ‘ haute cuisine ’ ; but it is also most necessary that the importance of good cooking be likewise recognised in ‘ everyday life.’ It is here that cookery in many cases is, owing to lack of better knowledge, often shamefully mismanaged; and as the extravagances and discomforts resulting from bad cooking- are too well known, the importance of good cooking becomes at once apparent. Cookery is eminently experimental; our knowledge is increased through our daily experience and practice in the art. As the widest definition of the objects of cookery, Dr. Thudichum gives ‘ the preparation of food in such a manner that man shall derive the greatest nutrition and cesthetical advantage from its consumption.’ ‘ In all latitudes,’ he says, ‘ cookery has to accommodate itself in an infinite variety of ways to the ages, conditions, and fortunes of men; it has to consider not only the mere nutritive value of its products, but their aesthetic value, which may be defined as value arising from the liking or disliking that various persons with certain natural or acquired tastes manifest toward certain products and preparations.’ The difficulties are only increased when we consider the nature and composition of the several kinds of food, the proper combinations to produce desired effects—how different articles need different methods of treatment, and exposure to heat and moisture, in different ways and at varying degrees of temperature. The action of heat, chemical action, the processes of fermentation, disintegration, and concentration—all are of concern in the preparation of food. Small wonder, then, that failure marks so often our crude attempts to provide suitable nutriment for delicate organisms § for cooking, in its higher significance, has become a fine art. A cook’s business does not merely consist of preparing dishes, nourishing and