ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES) 337 Many people prefer the fowl dressed on a bed of rice ; in which case the rice should be cooked in good stock to the desired consist- ency. This mode of cooking a fowl is known in France as ‘ poeler,’ and is usually performed upon burning embers or charcoal, the pan used being a fireproof earthenware casserole. It would then be more correct to send the fowl to table in the casserole. 952. Poulet a la Duchesses—1 boiled chicken {small), 6 oz. lean liam, 12 preserved mushrooms, 2 French gherkins, i pint veloutee (No. 206) or bechamel (No. 202) sauce, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 lb. potatoes, 1 oz. butter, { gill cream, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg. Free the chicken from skin and bone, and cut the meat into shreds ; cut the ham, mushrooms, and gherkins in a similar manner. Wash, peel, and boil the potatoes, drain, and rub through a fine sieve; put them in a stewpan, mix with the butter and cream, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg ; when thoroughly hot, mix in the egg-yolks-, and keep hot. Bring the sauce to a boil, put in the chicken, ham, and gherkins, stir gently, and let it get hot ; season with pepper and salt. Fill a buttered border-mould with the potato- puree, turn out on a dish, bake in a hot oven for ten minutes. Serve the chicken &c. in the centre, and sprinkle over a little chopped parsley. 958. JPoulet a Jo Hongroise.—l fat tender chicken, 4 oz. butter, f oz. flour, ^ gill white wine, ^ pint milk, 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley, 1 lemon, paprika pepper, salt, nutmeg, 3 oz. rice, .2 oz. cooked ham or tongue, 1 pint stock. Cut the chicken into neat joints, the same as for poulet saute (No. 965), brown the pieces slightly on both sides in a saute-pan, with about two and a half ounces of butter. Season with paprika, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Drain off some of the butter, sprinkle over the flour, and brown a little ; then add the wine and milk (pre- viously boiled), stir well, and simmer very gently from twenty to thirty minutes. Add the parsley last of all; wash, blanch, and cook the rice with stock. Season with nutmeg, salt, and paprika; add remainder of butter, ham, or tongue, cut into small dice. Butter a border-mould, fill up with rice (pack firmly), turn out on a round flat dish. Dress the chicken in the centre of the border, strain the sauce, reduce again, add the juice of half a lemon, and finish with a little more butter. Pour over the, chicken, and serve. 954. Poulet en Cocotte,—1 fowl, trussed for boiling, 8-12 small button onions, 4 oz. bacon, streaky, 2 oz. butter, 12 new pota- toes, 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), 1 glass Marsala or sherry, salt, pepper, chopped parsley. Cut the bacon into dice and fry in a saute-pan with the onions, previously peeled ; take out the onions and put them on a plate : put the fowl in a fire-proof pan (casserole), pour over the bacon and fat, : also a little butter, season with pepper and salt, and let it take colour z