98 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK veloutee, which is subsequently enriched with cream, yolks of eggs, or butter, in order to give it the required distinctive character. Brown Sauces.—The brown sauce, on the other hand, has to go through a process of roasting in the first instance, viz. the preparation of the brown roux, which is roasting flour and butter, to impart the distinctive flavour. This, in addition to the boiling and simmering processes by which the various meats, vegetables, and other ingre- dients are prepared, produces a brown sauce. Ordinary or Plain Sauces.—It must be remembered that ordinary sauces, prepared on the quick system, should be allowed to boil at least ten minutes from the time the liquid is added. When a sauce is cooked- less than ten minutes the flour will not have had time to develop its full flavour for sauces, and the butter only partially separates, which gives to the sauce a greasy appearance. Overcooking of Sauces. —It sometimes happens that by some oversight or error a sauce is cooked so long that it becomes oily. In this case a little cold stock, cold milk, or water should be added, and if the sauce is stirred until it begins to boil, it will again become perfectly smooth, but it must not on any account be allowed to boil any longer. It must be removed from the fire immediately after it boils. Error in Overseasoning. -Many a plain sauce is spoilt by cooks who are too fond of using so-called relishes. They seem to me to be unable to make a sauce without adding one or more dashes of bottled sauces, spices, &c., thinking that these additions must necessarily be an improvement. This practice, I need hardly say, is a much mistaken one, for frequently (nearly always) such additions overpower the •essential, natural flavour of their plain sauces, by overloading them with ingredients which are-'detrimental. A plain sauce as a rule needs nothing in the way of seasoning, except salt and pepper, to bring out the flavour and to awaken the palate. Those who wish for piquancy of flavour will always find means to satisfy their wants from the cruet. Characteristic of Sauces and Seasoning.—No matter what the character of a sauce may be, remember that in all compound sauces, whether plain or high class (rich), the rule for seasoning and flavour- ing is the same in every case: that is, the ingredients used for this purpose should be so proportioned that no flavour predominates over the other, so that by a careful and judicious combination of flavours the sauce or sauces prepared will not fail to be acceptable to the palate of the most refined gourmet. Cook’s Duty regarding Taste.—Furthermore remember that it is a cook’s duty to study the likes and dislikes as to seasoning and flavouring of those for whom she or he works, whereby certain ingredients for every sauce must necessarily be increased or lessened according to taste. If this is done no one need fail to become master of the art of sauce-making, as far as the extraction and com- bination of flavours in sauces is concerned.