253 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (COLD) aftid put it in a mortar with the anchovies ; pound until smooth, then add the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs, mix thoroughly. Now add the wine, chutney, a few drops of lemon-juice, and about half a pint of aspic; season to taste, mix well and rub through a sieve, stir till nearly cold, and mix in a little whipped cream. Fill with this mixture a border mould previously marked with aspic and tastefully decorated with truffle, white of egg, &c. Put the mould on the ice to set. To serve, immerse the mould in tepid water and turn out on a cold round dish. Mix the rice with the remainder of cream (whipped), season to taste, and dress in the centre of the border, pile up high, and decorate it with strips of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg, sprinkle over a little paprika pepper, and serve. 655. Mousse de Homard, frappee.—1 hen lobster, H gill double cream, 1 gill bechamel sauce (No. 203), 1 gill aspic jelly, 2 leaves French leaf gelatine, 1 gill tomato mayonnaise (No. 277), lobster coral, paprika pepper, and salt. Split the lobster, remove the meat from the shell, and chop it very finely. Stir it into the bechamel sauce, season to taste, heat up whilst stirring. Dissolve the gelatine in the aspic and stir into the above puree. Pour into a basin and let cool. Whisk the cream till stiff, mix it with the tomato mayonnaise, and work carefully into the mixture in the basin. Have ready a souffle dish-lining, fastened with a band of paper above the edge ; pour the prepared mixture, as it begins to set, carefully into it, and pack in a tin surrounded with crushed ice and freezing-salt. A properly charged souffle ice-cave or charged ice-box is strongly recommended to be used for this purpose. When slightly frozen (frappe), remove from the ice-cave, sprinkle the top with a combination of fine lobster coral and paprika, then remove paper band, stand the lining in its souffle dish, and send to table at once. In cold weather the two leaves of gelatine may be left out. 656. Escalopes de Eangouste d la Cardinal.—i crawfish or lobster, 6 to & prawns, 1 ounce panade, eggs, salt, pepper, and paprika; 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls bechamel sauce (No. 203), 6 to 8 small eggs, 2 to 3 slices of truffle, fresh bread-crumbs, frying-fat consisting of half dripping and half clarified blotter, Cardinal sauce (No. 218). Break the crawfish or lobster (reserve the spawn and coral, if any), remove the meat and mince small. Heat up in a stewpan with the panade a little butter and enough white sauce to moisten ; when thoroughly hot add two yolks of eggs, season to taste, and stir over the fire till the mixture binds. Spread on a dish or plate and set to cool. Shape six to eight oval croquettes with the ends pointed and the centre of each made hollow (one side only), egg and crumb them carefully, and fry a golden colour in hot fat. Take up, drain, and dish up in a row on a hot dish ; place a small trimmed poached egg in the centre of each croquette. Cover over very carefully with well- reduced Cardinal sauce ; insert a prawn at each end of the croquettes.