155 SOUPS {POTAGES) 159. Bisque auoc Sultres {Oyster Puree).—2 dozen sauce oysters, 1 oz. butter, 1 shallot, 1 slice of onion, 1 saltspoonful curry- powder, 3 pints fish stock {or mutton or veal broth), 1 large table- spoonful cornflour, 2 egg-yolks, | pint cream, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Put the oysters in a small saucepan with their liquor ; place them on a hot fire to poach, then drain, preserving the liquor. Beard half the oysters and cut them into quarters, pound the remainder with the beards in a mortar to a smooth paste, then rub through a sieve. Chop the shallot and onion. Fry them in butter, just long enough to blend, without taking colour, add the curry-powder, the cornflour, and oyster puree, and moisten with the liquor of the oyster and the stock. Stir till it boils, and let simmer for about 20 minutes ; season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, now mix the yolks of eggs with the cream and incorporate with the soup ; stir long enough over the fire to bind the former. Pass the whole through a tammy cloth. Beturn to the stewpan, add the quarters of oysters, re-heat and serve. 160. Bisque d’Ecrevisse {Crayfish Soup).—40 to 50 crayfish, 3 boned anchovies, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. rice, 1 small onion, stuck with 2 cloves, 2 quarts fish stock, 1 French dinner roll, 1 gill cream, 1 teaspoonful lemon-juice, salt and pepper. Take out the gut from the centre fin of the tail of each crayfish, shell the fish, and put the shell and half the tails in a mortar, pound very finely with the anchovies, add the butter, and put the whole in a stewpan over the fire, stir with a wooden spoon till hot, then add the rice, previously washed and drained, fry a little, and moisten with the fish stock. Now add the onion ancl cloves, and let simmer till the rice is quite tender (stir frequently) ; soak the soft part of the roll in a little milk, and add this to the soup. Pass through a tammy or fine sieve, return to the stewpan, season to taste, reheat and add the cream. Just before serving add the lemon-juice and the crayfish tails, and serve with a plate of small fried bread crolitons or small sippets of toasted bread. A little lobster spawn or lobster butter may be added to the soup if liked. 161. Potaqe de Lapin d VOseille {Babbit Soup xoith Sorrel).—1 large tender rabbit, \ lb. shin of beef, 1 lb. knuckle of veal, \ lb. lean bacon, 1 carrot, 1 onion, 3 cloves, 1 leek, 1 blade of mace, 10 peppercorns, 3 yolks of eggs, 1 gill of cteam, 1 handful sorrel-leaves, £ lemon, 2 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, salt, pepper, chopped parsley. Cut up the rabbit into small pieces, bone the breast and put the two fillets in a saute-pan with a handful of bacon cut small and a little butter; fry a little, and cook in the oven till done. Cut the fillets into small dice and keep for garnish. Prepare the vegetables, stick the cloves into the onion, put these together with the pieces of rabbit, bacon, beef, and veal, peppercorns, and mace into a large stewpan; pour in six quarts of water, boil up, skim, and cook slowly for about three hours. Take off the fat and strain. Melt the butter,