618 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, 1 tablespoonful of orange-flower water, puff-paste for lining (No. 1944). Blanch, peel, and dry the almonds, put them in a mortar and pound with the caster sugar until fine, add the yolks of eggs one by one, mix in the cream, the orange-flower water, and the Paisley flour. Line some tartlet-nnjvilds with the puff-paste, put in the mix- ture, and bake in a moderately heated oven. 2009. Tulles (Dessert Macaroons).—-Pound three-quarters of a pound of peeled almonds with four ounces of sugar, add the whites of six eggs, and work into a coarse paste. Flavour with vanilla, and incorporate two or three stiffly whisked whites of eggs. Dress on a buttered baking-sheet like macaroons, with shreds of almonds on top of each. Dredge with caster sugar and bake in a slack oven. When done place each macaroon on oiled rolling pins. 2010. Tartelettes aux Oranges.—2 Jaffa or St. Michael or 4 Tangerine oranges, 3 oz. sugar (caster), 3 oz. butter, 3 yolks and 1 white of eggs, \ teaspoonful vanilla essence, about 4 lb. puff-paste trimmings. k Peel the oranges very thinly, without cutting any of the white part; chop the rind finely. Cream the butter and sugar, add by degrees the yolks of eggs, stir in the vanilla essence, chopped orange- rind, and two tablespoonfuls of orange-juice. Add a pinch of salt to the white of egg, whisk to a stiff froth, and fold into the mixture. Boll out the paste, line from eight to ten tartlet-moulds, prick the paste with a fork, and fill three-parts full with the mixture. Put them on a baking-tin, bake for fifteen minutes in a moderate oven, then dust with sugar, and finish baking. Turn out, cool, and dish up on a folded napkin or dish-paper. 2011. Tartelettes ala Parisienne.—\ lb. of short crust for lining (No. 1943), 2 small eggs, 1 oz. ground almonds, 3 oz. caster sugar, 3 oz. butter (fresh), 1 oz. patent corn-flour, 2 oz. crushed cake-crumbs, Genoise or sponge cakes, 1 dessertspoonful lemon-juicet 4 teaspoonful ground cinnamon, 2 tablespoonfuls cream. Boll out the paste, stamp out some rounds the size of the tartlet- moulds, line these with the paste, and prick the paste with a fork. Cream the buttery with the sugar, work the eggs in gradually, and beat well for some minutes, then add the ground almonds. Moisten the corn-flour with the cream, then mix with the above. Now add.the cake-crumbs (previously rubbed through a sieve), the lemon-juice, cinnamon, and the ground almonds. Fill the lined tartlet-moulds with this preparation, dredge the top with caster sugar, and bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. 2012. Tartelettes aux Artia tides.—For paste : 4 lb. flour, 4 lb. butter, 1 yolk of egg, a teaspoonful caster sugar, a pinch of salt. For mixture : \ lb. almonds (ground), \ lb. caster sugar, f oz'. corn-flour, §■ oz. butter, a grate of nutmeg, 1 whole egg and 1 yolk, 2 tablespoonfuls jam.