THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 262 1 oz. butter, \\ gill bechamel sauce, ^ lemon, | pint aspic jelly, i gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), 1 large truffle, seasoning. Skin the sole, remove the fillets, flatten them carefully with a wetted cutlet-bat, and pare them neatly into six even-sized pieces as near as possible the shape of oval zephires (the shape of the moulds used). Eemove all the meat from the lobster shell, chop it finely and put in a stewpan with half an ounce of butter, the anchovy paste, a few drops of onion-juice, and the parsley. Cook for a few minutes, and moisten with a tablespoonful of sauce, season to taste, and spread on a plate to cool. Spread a layer of this mixture on each fillet, place them in a buttered saute-pan, moisten with two tablespoon- fuls of mushroom liquor, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. When done take up and let cool. Mask six small zephire moulds with a thin layer of aspic, decorate the bottom of each with some fancifully cut slices of truffle. Mix the remainder of bechamel sauce with the mayonnaise, stir in half' the aspic jelly, and strain; coat the moulds with this, place one of the prepared fillets in each mould, and fill up with another layer of the white sauce &c. Put the moulds on the ice till set. Unmould when required for table, dish up neatly on a cold dish, garnish with some kind of dressed salad and chopped aspic, and serve. 676. A lign Hies in Aspic (Eels in Savoury Jelly).—1 eel about 2 lb. in weight, gill vinegar, % lemon, 1 small bunch herbs (bouquet garni), 2 slices of onion, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 pint aspic jelly, 1 raw egg, a few picked shrimps. Clean the eel, remove the head, take out the bones, sprinkle the inside of the fish with salt, pepper and chopped parsley, and tie up in a muslin bag or thin cloth. Place it in a stewpan with the vinegar, a slice of lemon, herbs, and onion slices, add enough water to cover, and cook till tender. The bones and head should be put in with the fish whilst cooking. It will take from half to three quarters of an hour to boil, according to the thickness of the eel. Take out the fish, let it cool, and remove the cloth. Cut the eel into convenient slices, and put on one side. Reduce the liquor in which the fish was boiled, strain it, and add to it the aspic, whisk lightly the white and shell of an egg, stir this into the aspic &c., let it come to the boil (stirring all the time), allow the stewpan to stand for ten minutes on the side of the stove, then strain through a jelly-bag or cloth. Mask the inside of a plain mould completely with the prepared jelly, decorate the bottom and sides neatly with slices of hard-boiled eggs and shrimps. When hot put in the slices of eel, with a layer of jelly between the layers of fish and eggs. Fill up the mould with some more jelly. Allow the contents of the mould to set. When quite firm turn out on to a cold dish, garnish to taste, and send to table. In filling the mould great care must be taken to allow each layer of fish and jelly to set before a second layer is put in. Aspic of lobster, prawn, or fillets of soles is prepared in exactly the same manner. '