SAUCES 185 at first and gradually more, the salad oil, and at intervals a few drops of vinegar; the vinegar is added when the sauce appears too thick. By stirring well, the mixture should become the consistency of very thick cream. At last add the raw cream, stirring all the while. A little cold water may be added if found too thick. In hot weather the basin in which the mayonnaise is made should be placed in a vessel of crushed ice. 278. Sauce Tact are.—Put 2 yolks of eggs in a basin, place it in a shallow pan containing some crushed ice, add a teaspoonful of salt, a good pinch of white pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of mustard ; stir well together, and add, gradually, a pint of salad oil and about £ gill of tarragon vinegar ; when the sauce is smooth and creamy stir in a good tablespoonful of cold bechamel (No. 203) or veloutee (No. 204) sauce, two tablespoonfuls of chopped gherkins, one of chopped capers, one of chopped parsley, and about half a teaspoonful of finely chopped tarragon and chervil. Do not mix the gherkins, capers, &c., until the ss,uce is finished, as it is likely to cause the sauce to turn if put in too soon. A few drops of lemon-juice may be added if the sauce is found too thick. 279. Sauce Suedoise, froide (a cold Sauce suitable for Boast, Game, dec.)—1 gill mayonnaise, £ gill cream, 1 teaspoonful of French mustard, 2 tablespoonfuls finely-grated horseradish. Whip the cream, stir in gradually the mayonnaise, grated horse- radish, and mustard ; add a pinch of caster sugar, and a little salt if needed. 280. Sauce Mousseline verte (a cold Sauce suitable for Fish, ibc.).—1 gill mayonnaise, | gill cold bechamel sauce (No. 203), 1 table- spoonful of picked parsley-leaves, a few sprigs each of tarragon, chervil, and burnet, 2 tablespoonfuls of cooked spinach, 2 hard-boiled yolks of eggs, 2 anchovy fillets, \ gill of cream. Wash and pick the green herbs, steep them in boiling water for a few minutes, drain well, pound in a mortar with the spinach, and rub through a fine sieve. Pound the yolks of eggs and anchovy fillets, mix with the green puree, add the cream, and rub the whole through a sieve. Dilute with mayonnaise and bechamel sauce, add a little seasoning and a teaspoonful of mixed mustard. 281. Sauce verte glacee.—1 medium-sized cucumber, a, few sprigs chervil and tarragon (blanched), spinach greening, 1 dessert- spoonful Orleans vinegar, 1 gill aspic, 1 gill cream, 1^ gill mayonnaise, a pinch of caster sugar, salt and pepper to taste. Peel thinly the cucumber, cut it in half, and remove the seed portion; then slice the two "halves and cook in slightly salted water till tender. Strain off the water and rub the cucumber through a fine sieve. Chop finely the herbs, and add this and the vinegar, with a little spinach greening, to the cucumber puree. Whisk the cream a little, and stir in the above when sufficiently cool. Incorporate by degrees the mayonnaise and the aspic jelly (previously dissolved, but