260 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK with this. Allow it to stand on the ice until quite firm. Immerse in tepid water, turn out on a round entree dish, and serve. If a border mould is used, a little dressed salad should be served in the centre. 671. Filets de Soles en Fers d Cheval.—1 large or 2 small soles, i pint picked shrimps, 1 teaspoonful anchovy paste, 1 tea- spoonful chopped parsley, \ pint bechamel sauce (No. 203), about a pint of aspic jelly (No. 293), lemon, 2 truffles, pepper and salt, 1 oz. of butter, \ gill ivliite wine, 8 horseshoe-shape moulds. Remove.the fillets from the soles, trim them nicely. Chop the shrimps finely, put them in a saucepan on the fire with i oz. butter ; when warm, add the anchovy paste and parsley; moisten with a few drops of bechamel sauce, put on a plate and let cool. Spread one side of the fillets with this mixture, roll up the fillets, shape them well and tie up with some cotton, place them in a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle over with a few drops of lemon-juice, and the wine, season with pepper and salt, cover with a buttered paper, and cook slowly in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Set them on a baking-sheet and let them get quite cold. Put the bechamel sauce with about a gill of aspic in the saute-pan containing the fish liquor, stir over the fire and reduce a little, and strain through a tammy. Trim the fillets neatly, and cut them in twos crossways. Mask the moulds with a coating of aspic jelly. Ornament the bottoms with small slices of truffles to represent the nails, Ac. Cover with a layer of the prepared chaud-froid sauce; when nearly set put in each mould half a fillet; cover well with chaud-froid sauce ; set this again, and fill up with more sauce, finish- ing with a thin coating of aspic. Put them on the ice till set. Turn out on a dish, place them in border shape, put a little salad in the centre and garnish with fancifully cut pieces of aspic and parsley. 672. Filets de Soles d la Mayonnaise (Mayonnaise of Fillets of Sole).—2 medium-sized soles, 1 oz. butter, \ lemon, mushroom liquor, | gill cream, 1 gill mayonnaise (No. 277), £ oz. leaf gelatine, 1 gill aspic., Skin the soles, remove the fillets, trim them and fold each neatly, place them in a well-buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with lemon-juice and mushroom liquor, add the remainder of the butter divided into small bits, cover with a buttered paper and cook in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Take up and put them on a sieve to cool. Soak the gelatine in water, dissolve over the fire, and strain into the aspic. Let this cool a little, then stir in the mayonnaise, whip the cream and add carefully with the above. Coat the inside of a plain border mould with the prepared sauce, when set put in the fillets of soles, pour in a little more of the sauce and place on the ice to set, then fill up with the remainder of the sauce. When firm turn out on a dish, and serve with a neatly dressed salad in the centre. 673. Turban de Filets de Sole ala Montpellier.—Line a border mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly (No. 387) ; when set decorate the sides with truffles and hard-boiled white of egg, then mask with a layer of ‘ Beurre Montpellier,’ prepared as follows :