ENTREES CHAUDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 323 about three-quarters of a pint of Perigueux sauce (No. 243), boil up, and let simmer for a few minutes. Dish up the fillets, left whole, or cut into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, pour over some sauce, and serve the remainder separately. A border of mashed potatoes brushed over with egg, and baked in the oven, will serve well as a base for the fillets, and greatly improves the appearance of the dish. 891. Cdtelettes de Pore a la Robert.—Cut eight to nine small pork cutlets from the best end of the neck of pork. Trim and pare neatly, leaving about half an inch of fat round each cutlet. Put the cutlets in a deep dish, season with pepper and salt and chopped parsley, pour over two tablespoonfuls sweet oil, allow them to remain in soak for half an hour, turn frequently. Drain, and broil over a clear fire. They should be well done, and will take from fifteen to eighteen minutes. Dish up, and serve with sauce Robert (No. 238). 892. Cdtelettes de Pore d la Soubise.—Prepare the cutlets in the same manner as the foregoing, broil them with a little fresh butter in a saute-pan, or on the gridiron. Dish up on a border of mashed potatoes, put a well-reduced soubise puree, or sauce (No. 232), in the centre, and serve sauce demi-glace (No. 237) round the base of the dish. A few drops of liquid meat-glaze or meat extract (Lemco) put over the soubise just before serving will be found an improvement. 893. Pieds de Pore d la Duxelle.—Procure two pairs of pickled pigs’ feet, braise them in richly-flavoured stock until tender. When done take up, remove the bones, and cut each foot in two, lengthwise. Have ready some Duxelle puree (No. 298) ; spread over the inside of each piece with a thick layer of this. When set, cut each in two, egg and crumb twice, and fry in clarified butter a golden colour. Drain on a paper, or cloth. Dish up en couronne, fill up the centre with Duxelle puree and a few heads of mushrooms tossed in butter, garnish with crisp parsley, and serve with sauce Poivrade (No. 263). ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 894. Cotelettes de Pore a la Navarraise.—Pickled pork cutlets, drained well and fried in butter, finished in brown sauce and sliced tomatoes, dressed round a bed of stewed rice. 895. Cotelettes de Pore aux Fines Herbes.—Broiled pork cutlets served with a white wine sauce containing chopped parsley and a small quantity of mixed savoury herbs. 896. Cotes de Pore a la Diplomate. Braised spare ribs of' pork, garnished with small groups of stewed red cabbage, fried pork sausages, and stuffed potatoes. 897. Oreilles de Pore en Vinaigrette.—Boiled pickled pig’s ears, dressed with vinaigrette sauce (No. 300). Garnished with hard- boiled eggs, capers, gherkins, and stoned olives.