THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 68 CHAPTER VIII COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS BOILING Both boiling and steaming are known as the simplest and most economical methods of cooking. Meat loses less weight by boiling or steaming than by any other process. In the case of boiling, the liquor—i.e. the water in which meat etc. is boiled—can be turned to good account. Boiled food is considered wholesome, and is easily digested. Special points to be observed in boiling are: That the water should at all times be kept so as to cover the meat or vegetables or other things to be cooked. If it evaporates, it is best to add hot water, because the sudden introduction of cold water will lower the temperature, which is not always advisable. In boiling meat, the addition of vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, onions, celery, bouquet garni, etc., is a decided improvement, for thereby the flavour of the article boiled as well as the liquor (broth) will be much better in flavour. The exact time for boiling and steaming cannot be fixed in an arbitrary manner, as is the case with roasting. It varies from 20 to 40 minutes to the pound. Discretion as well as experience are the best guides to decide this question. Boiling meats, fish, vegetables, etc., is, within certain limits, the simplest and easiest process of cooking. Boiling implies a process of cooking effected by immersion for a certain period in boiling water or stock. All liquids do not boil at the same degree; but to boil water or stock means raising them to a temperature of 2123 Fahrenheit, though in the strict sense there is very little cooking performed at this heat: most, in fact, is done a little below, which is the degree for simmering, slow-boiling, steaming; or else considerably above it, as is the case with fats or oils, and these also have their boiling point. Milk will boil at a lower temperature than water, whilst slow and gentle simmering often works out as low as 170°, never reaching 212°. Proper simmering heat is 180°.