537 ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) fruit, lemon, and orange peel, shred it into fine shreds. Whip the cream until stiff and mingle with the preserved fruits into the cream. Stir until it commences to set, then pour into a mould and put on the ice to set. When required for table immerse it in tepid water, turn out on a cold dish, and garnish, if handy, with a little chopped jelly. 1691. Creme cuite a la Suisse.—3 oz. glace fruits (cherries, apricot, angelica, etc.), \ pint cream, \ pint milk, 6 yolks and 3 ivhites of eggs, 1| oz. loaf sugar, f oz. French gelatine, 1 glass cura<;oa, 1 gill icine jelly. Mask a quart mould with jelly, decorate the bottom and sides with glace fruits, and set the fruit with a layer of jelly. Put the milk and cream with the sugar in a stewpan, bring to the boil. Mix the eggs in a basin, pour over the boiling milk and cream, stir well, and return to the stewpan. Stir over a slow fire and let it come gradually almost to the boil, strain into a basin, dissolve the gelatine in a little milk, and pass through a strainer into the above ; stir occasionally until nearly cold, then add the liqueur and glace fruit cut into shreds, should any be left over ; pour into the decorated mould when it com- mences to get cool. Stand it in a cool place until set. Immerse in tepid water and dish up on a cold dish. 1692. Creme au Tapioca a la Compote <Je Fruits.— 3 oz. ground or crushed tapioca, 2 oz. loaf sugar, 2 inches vanilla- pod, | pint milk, % pint cream, about a pint of compote of fruit, almonds, and glace cherries for garnish. Put the milk, vanilla-pod, and sugar in a stewpan, let it come to the boil, stir in the tapioca, stir until it boils, and cook for about fifteen minutes. Pour into a basin to cool, whip the cream and mix with the tapioca when cool (remove the vanilla). Fill this into a border-mould, stand it in a cool place till firm, unmould on to a round dish, ornament the border tastefully with blanched and shredded almonds and halves of glace cherries, fill the centre with any kind of stewed fruit, pour some of the fruit syrup round the border, and serve. The fruit may, if liked, be flavoured with a glass of chartreuse or maraschino. 1693. Creme a la Fomaine —3 oz. Jordan almonds and 1 oz. bitter almonds, 1 pint milk, 1 \ gill cream, 4 oz. loaf sugar, 1 tablespoonful orange-jloioer water, 1 oz. French gelatine, 4 yolks of eggs. Blanch and peel the almonds, throw them into cold water, wipe them dry, and chop rather finely. Put the milk into a stewpan and boil up, add the sugar; put the almonds in a copper preserving-pan and stir over the fire until they have acquired a light-brown colour. Add the almonds to the milk and let boil, stir in the yolks of eggs and let them bind over the fire, then remove quickly, and pass through a fine sieve; soak the gelatine in a little cold water, drain and let dissolve, and strain into the cream ; add the orange-flower water while warm, whip the cream, and work in lightly (the cooked