ENTREES CHAUDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 269 bag. Make an incision on one side of each cutlet through the whole of the width, but without cutting the sides ; fill the inside with the above mixture, season with pepper and salt, dip in beaten egg and bread-crumbs ; repeat this again. Fry slowly in clarified butter a golden colour, drain on a cloth, dish up, pour the tomato sauce, pre- viously heated, round the dish, and serve. 684. Cdtelettes d’Agneau grillees (GrilledLamb Cutlets).— Cut eight or ten lamb cutlets from the best end of a neck, and pare and trim them neatly. Place them on or between a gridiron, over or in front of a good clear fire, and cook them for about ten minutes ; during this time the cutlets should be turned at least four times. On no account must the meat be pierced with a fork or skewer, as in so doing some of the juices of the meat will be lost, and the flavour of the meat will thereby be impaired. Season the cutlets with salt and pepper. Adjust a paper frill on each cutlet-bone, dish them up in a circle on a thin border of mashed potatoes (use a round dish in pre- ference to an oval one), fill the centre with nicely cooked and well- seasoned green peas, pour a little hot gravy round the base of the dish, and serve. 685. Cdtelettes d’Agneau a la Mahnaison.—Cut as many lamb cutlets as may be required, trim and pare them neatly, season with pepper and salt, and egg and crumb them. Fry them in clari- fied butter and drain. Dish them up in a circle on a bed of potato puree, previously baked (au gratin) in the oven. Garnish the dish with three distinct coloured purees, i.e. lentil puree, green pea puree, and potato puree, also with small stuffed and baked tomatoes. Send to table with demi-glace sauce (No. 237), well flavoured with lemon-juice. 686. Cdtelettes d’Agueaa d la Lion d’Ov. -8 nice lamb cutlets—centre cut of neck, 1 small foie gras pate, 1 piece lamb leaf fat, 6 oz. veal forcemeat (No. 402), 3 mushrooms, 2 oz. butter, seasoning, bread-crumbs, soubise sauce (No. 232), and demi-glace (No. 239). Trim and pare the cutlets, slit the side of each to the bone, but without parting. Prepare a puree with the foie gras, and fill the openings made with this ; insert a slice of truffle and mushroom here and there ; close up and fry the cutlets a little in butter. Season the raw forcemeat, mix with remainder of foie gras puree, truffles, and mushrooms finely chopped. Cover each cutlet completely with this forcemeat, wrap up in thin leaf fat or pig-caul, egg, crumb, and fry very carefully in a saute-pan containing enough clarified butter or lard to cover them. When done, drain, dish up in a circle, fasten frills on bones, put soubise sauce in the centre, and serve demi-glace round the base of the dish. 687. Cdtelettes d'Agneaa d la Mange.—Lamb cutlets, egged and crumbed in grated Parmesan cheese and bread-crumbs, fried in butter and dressed on a border of savoury rice mixed with finely chopped truffle ; the centre of the dish is garnished with a