195 SAUCES also ; strain the sauce into another saucepan, let it get hot, but not boiling ; stir in the lemon-peel, pistachios, and curayoa, and serve as directed. 378. Sauce au Cognac.—4 oz. loaf sugar, % oz. cornflour, £ gill brandy, ^ pint water. Put the sugar and rather more than a gill and a half of water in a copper stewpan, boil a few minutes, take off the scum, and reduce to a thin syrup. Mix the cornflour with a little cold water, stir into the boiling syrup, and whisk over the fire for about five minutes. Add the brandy, strain, and serve hot with the pudding. 379. Sauce an Kirsch.—Proceed the same as above directed, but substitute | gill of Kirschwasser for the brandy. 380. Strop au Punch.— 4 oz. loaf sugar, 1 orange, i table- spoonful vanilla essence, | gill best rum, gill water. Rub the sugar on the orange-rind to obtain the flavour of half the orange. Put this into a stewpan, add the rum, light it, and cover quickly: let it infuse for a few seconds over the fire, then add the water, vanilla essence, and the piece of the orange, and boil for five minutes ; strain, and serve hot with the pudding. N.B.—If preferred, brandy or Kirschwasser may be used in place of rum. 381. Sabayon au Jladere.—Put 3 oz. castor sugar, 3 yolks of eggs, and £ gill cream in a stewpan, place it in a bain-marie or vessel of boiling water over the fire, stir with a whisk until frothy, then add 1 gill Madeira wine, whisk it until it begins to thicken and is of light appearance, pour over the pudding and serve. 381 a. Sauce aux Fraises.— The pulp of 8 large ripe straw- berries, 1 glass of Sauterne or Ghablis, 1 egg, 1 oz. sugar. Put the fruit pulp, wine, and sugar in a small stewpan, whisk over a moderate fire until almost boiling, then add the egg; continue to whisk until quite frothy; on no account allow it to boil. Serve as soon as ready. 382. Sauce a VAbricot.—3 oz. apricot marmalade, 1 gill sherry or \ gill brandy, 1 gill water, 1 oz. butter. Put the marmalade in a stewpan, and let dissolve with the water and butter. Remove from the fire, add the sherry or brandy, boil up again, strain, and use as required. A liaison of one dessertspoonful of cornflour added to the above will improve the appearance for cook- ing purposes. A little sugar may be added if found necessary. 383. Sauce a V Orange.— 2 yolks of eggs, 1 small orange, 2 oz. caster sugar, f pint milk, 1 glass curaqoa. Boil up the milk and sugar, add the rind of orange finely grated, the tablespoonful of orange-juice, stir in the yolks of eggs, beat well over the fire with a small whisk. When the sauce begins to thicken, place in the bain-marie or a vessel containing boiling water, add the liqueur, and continue to whisk for ten minutes ; the sauce is then ready for serving. 384. Sauce an Chocolat.—4 oz. grated chocolate, 2 oz. icing o 2