THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 472 knife. Plunge them into boiling water, slightly salted; let them come to the boil, then drain them on a cloth. Put them in a saute-pan containing some hot butter, and fry them slightly brown over the fire or in a brisk oven. When done drain off the butter, add a good pinch of fine salt, a little chopped parsley, and a tiny piece of fresh butter. Shake well, then dish up and serve. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1430. Pommes de Terre a la Bordelaise.—Peeled potatoes, thinly sliced, fried lightly in deep fat; then drain, season, and finish in a saute-pan containing enough oiled butter and finely chopped fried onions to toss the potatoes. 1431. Pommes de Terre a la Bourgeoise.—Thickly sliced potatoes, blanched, drained, and stewed in a rich brown sauce, flavoured with thin slices of fried onions. 1432. Pommes de Terre a la Brabanconne.—Mashed potatoes mixed with finely chopped and blanched shallots, parsley, and grated cheese, seasoned with pepper salt, and nutmeg. Dress in the form of a pyramid in a deep dish ; sprinkle the surface with bread-crumbs, grated cheese, and a few bits of butter; bake till brown in a hot oven. 1433. Pommes de Terre a la Bretonne.—Cold boiled potatoes, peeled, cut into squares or large dice, fried slightly in butter, mixed with finely chopped fried onions, chopped parsley; add enough brown sauce to moisten at the last. 1434. Pommes de Terre a la Chateaubriand.—Peeled potatoes cut into quarters, pared to the size and shape of large olives; parboil in salted water, drain and fry in butter, or bake in a sharp oven; dish up and serve with a few small pieces of parsley butter (beurre maitre d’hotel, No. 394) placed on top. 1435. Pommes de Terre a la Colbert.—Cold boiled potatoes cut into squares, seasoned with pepper and salt, tossed in butter, and stewed in a little rich brown sauce ; a little fresh butter and chopped parsley are also added at the last. 1436. Pommes de Terre a la Comtesse.—Thin slices of raw potatoes ranged neatly in a well buttered timbale mould, moistened with very little seasoned veloutee sauce (No. 206), and baked in a hot oven for about thirty minutes. Turn out on a hot dish and serve. 1437. Pommes de Terre a la Dieppoise.—Cold boiled potatoes, cut into slices, together with an equal quantity of slices of cold sausages; fry carefully in butter, season, and serve with a light brown sauce. 1438. Pommes de Terre a la Garfield.—Potatoes cut into small dice, parboiled, drained, and fried in clarified butter. Season and serve. 1439. Pommes de Terre a la Hanovrienne.—Peeled raw potatoes sliced, stewed in white stock just enough to cover ; finish with fresh butter and chopped parsley, and. serve.