310 THE NEW (ENTUKY COOKE BY BOOK finely the trimmings of truffle and tongue, and put this with the farce above prepared. Season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Fill the buttered moulds with this ; range them in a saute- pan containing enough boiling water to three parts cover the moulds. Place a buttered paper on them, and cook in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, pour some hot tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 846. Veal and Ham JPie.—to If lb. lean veal (fillet or cushion part is best for this purpose), about f lb. rate or cooked ham, 2 hard-boiled eggs, a couple of rashers of streaky bacon, chopped parsley, 4 teaspoonful grated lemon-rind, salt and pepper, a grate of nutmeg, stock or water, about 1 lb. of puff-paste, 1 fresh egg. Free the veal from skin and sinews, cut it into thin slices, cut the ham in a similar fashion. Eange the veal, ham, and bacon, in layers in a pie-dish; cover each layer with a few slices of hard-boiled egg, and sprinkle each layer with a little seasoning, salt, pepper, lemon- rind and chopped parsley—one teaspoonful of salt and a quarter teaspoonful of pepper in all should be used—add a pinch of- nufmeg at the last. Put in about half a gill of stock or water. Line the edge of the pie-dish with a strip of paste, brush it over with beaten egg, roll out some more paste about the size of the pie-dish, and cover it carefully with the paste. Trim off the edges, make a hole in the centre of the paste, brush over the whole with egg, cut out a few fanciful shapes of leaves from the remainder of the paste, and fix these in the form of a rosette in the top of the pie round the hole, and after having egged these leaves, bake the pie in a moderate oven for about one and a half to one and three quarters of an hour. Serve hot. If this pie is to be served cold, dissolve a quarter of an ounce of gelatine, and mix with a teaspoonful of ‘ Lemco,’ and pour this into the pie as it leaves the oven. 847. Cdtelettes de Veau dlaDreux.—Broiled veal cutlets larded with tongue, streaky bacon, and pickled gherkins, served with a garniture of sliced mushrooms and sweetbread. Sauce : Tomate (No. 271). 848. Cdtelettes de Veau d la Lorgnette.—Egged, crumbed, and fried veal cutlets. Garnish with rings of onions dipped in milk and flour and fried in clarified butter, and serve with a good gravy. 849. Cdtelettes de Veau d la Saint Cloud. — Yeal cutlets larded with strips of truffles, fried in fresh butter. Garnished with forcemeat quenelles. Sauce : Allemande (No. 204). 850. Bonnes Bouelies de Veau d la Moderne.—l lb. mashed potatoes, 2 oz. butter, 1 gill cream, 3 yolks of eggs, 1 truffle, 6 mitshroonis, the remains of cold veal, 1 gill veloutee sauce (No. 206), 1 gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Remove the skin from the veal, cut it into small slices or mince coarsely, put it in a small stewpan together with the mushrooms and