ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) 507 cloth (previously buttered and floured), put to boil in boiling water, , and cook for an hour and a half, or more. Unmould, and serve with a hot sweet custard sauce; flavour with a dessertspoonful of mara- . schino or curacoa liqueur. 1579. Ponding d la Wellington. 4 oz. finely chopped beef suet, 4 oz. flour, 4 oz. brotvn bread-crumbs, 4oz. sultanas, 1 oz. finely chopped candied orange peel, 4 oz. caster sugar, 1 tablespoonful caramel, 5 eggs, 1 teaspoonful ground cinnamon, 1 small glass Marsala or sherry, 1 gill milk, chestnut puree for garnish, apricot sauce (No. 382). Mix all the dry ingredients in a basin, add the caramel and the eggs, one at a time, moisten with sufficient milk to produce a light consistency, add the wine and a pinch of grated nutmeg, and mix the whole well. Fill up a well-buttered border-mould, cover it with buttered paper, and steam for about three hours. Meanwhile prepare the chestnut puree, flavour it well with cream, vanilla, and sweeten to taste. Unmould the border on a hot dish, pile the puree in the centre of the dish, pour round the apricot sauce, and serve hot. 1580. Ponding mix Cerises (Cherry Pudding).—I lb. best cooking cherries, 6 oz. loaf sugar, an inch cinnamon, 1 gill cream, 3 oz. flour, 2 oz. caster sugar, 4 eggs, the rind of ^ lemon, a pinch of salt, a little butter, £ gill milk. Stone the cherries by means of a wooden skewer or a bent piece of wire, put them in a stewpan with the sugar, cinnamon, and enough water to cover, cook until tender, and allow to cool. Mix the flour with a little milk and a pinch of salt, boil up the cream, and mix both together; add the caster sugar, and stir over the fire until the mixture becomes smooth and leaves the stewpan clean. When cool add the grated rind of half a lemon, separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, and work in the yolks, one at a time. Beat up the whites to a stiff froth, and mix carefully. Butter a pudding-mould, garnish the bottom with a layer of cherries, and fill up alternately with a layer of the prepared mixture and the cherries ; cover with a buttered paper, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about half an hour. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with a suitable fruit syrup. 1581. Ponding an Chocolat.—^ lb. chocolate, % pint milk, 1 oz. caster sugar, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, 2 oz. cake-crumbs, 4 eggs, i teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Break up the chocolate, put it with the milk in a stewpan, and boil up. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, cook a little without taking colour, add the cake-crumbs, moisten with milk, stir over the fire until it becomes thick and leaves the sides of the pan per- fectly clean. Let the mixture get cool, then work the egg-yolks in one by one. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add this as well as the vanilla essence to the preparation, pour into a well- buttered plain mould, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and steam