620 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Coombs's self-raising flour, 4 oz. butter, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoonful milk, 4 oz. sugar, a pinch of salt, raspberry jam, 2 oz. ground almonds, 1 tablespoonful fecula or corn-flour, vanilla essence. Prepare a short-crust paste with the flour, two ounces of butter, two ounces of caster sugar, one egg, and a pinch of salt. Poll it out about one-eighth of an inch thick, stamp out some rounds and line ten or twelve tartlet-moulds, and put a teaspoonful of raspberry jam in the centre of each. Put two ounces of butter in a basin, cream it with two ounces of caster sugar, and, when well worked, add the ground almonds, fecula, and two yolks of eggs ; beat the white of one egg to a froth, and mix with the butter, sugar, &c.; flavour the mixture, and fill the lined tartlet-moulds. Place a thin strip of paste crosswise with caster sugar and bake in a moderate oven from, fifteen to twenty minutes. 2017. Cheese Cakes.—4 eggs, 2 lemons, 1 lb. sugar, 4 oz. butter, rough puff-paste. Put the yolks of the eggs into a basin, add the sugar, and work to a cream; then add the grated rind of one lemon, the juice of two lemons, and the butter previously melted. Place the basin in a stew- pan containing boiling water, add the whisked whites of two eggs to it, and stir the mixture until it thickens, and then allow it to cool. Line some tartlet-tins with a good rough puff-paste made with eight ounces of ribs suet and three-quarters of a pound of flour &c. Three- parts fill them with the prepared mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Brush them over with beaten whites of egg, dredge with caster sugar, and return to the oven for another five minutes to acquire a nice fawny brown colour. An ounce of ground almonds added to the mixture is a great improve- ment. 2018. Dominos.—Genoese pastry (No. 1975), ^ lb. icing sugar, 1 white of egg, apricot marmalade, desiccated cocoanut or almonds, brown vegetable colouring. Cut the pastry into shapes of dominos, coat the sides with a thin layer of marmalade, and dip into finely chopped desiccated cocoanut or almonds. Prepare some royal icing with the white of egg and sugar, and coat the top of each domino with this. Put them aside to set. Add sufficient brown colouring to the remainder of the icing, put it in a forcing-bag or paper cornet. Mark out a thin line to divide each domino, and force out little dots to make them resemble dominos. 2019. Biscuits de Bordeaux.—2 oz. butter, 2 oz. caster sugar, 8 oz. flour, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful orange-juice, 1 small glass old port wine, a pinch of salt, ground cinnamon. Cream the butter and sugar together, add the egg and flour and the other ingredients, knead into a firm paste, roll out on a floured board about one-eighth of an inch thick. Cut out some oblong pieces two inches long by three-quarters of an inch wide, place them on a