578 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK wipe the edges of the dish, bake in a moderately heated oven from ten to fifteen minutes, garnish with parsley, and serve at once. 1841. Eclairs (VAnchois.— Scrape, wipe, and bone one dozen Gorgona anchovies, roll out some short paste or remnants of puff-paste rather thin, enclose each anchovy neatly in the paste ; place them on a baking-sheet, brush over with beaten egg-yolk, mark slightly with a knife, sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese and a pinch of cayenne over each; bake them in a quick oven for ten minutes. Dish up on a folded napkin : garnish with parsley, and serve quickly. 1842. Kedgeree au Paprika (a Breakfast Dish).—4 oz. rice, 24 picked praivns or an equal quantity of shrimps, some rich stock, 1± oz. butter, 1 hard-boiled egg, salt, paprika pepper, ^ oz. grated cheese. Pick, wash, and blanch the rice, drain well, and put it in a stew- pan with the butter ; stir over the fire for a few minutes, then moisten with stock and cook till tender, adding more stock as required; by degrees and as the rice swells while cooking stir frequently to pre- vent it from sticking. Now add sufficient salt to taste, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and enough paprika pepper to give the rice a soft pinkish tint; chop finely the prawns or shrimps, keeping aside a few for garnish; chop the white of the hard-boiled egg, and add both, together with the cheese, to the rice, stir gently until thoroughly hot. Dish up on a hot dish, garnish with hard-boiled yolk of egg (rubbed through a coarse sieve or chopped finely), some prawns or shrimps, and a few sprigs of freshly picked watercresses. Serve hot. 1848. Beignets de Ear eng fume (.Bloater Fritters).—2 bloaters, frying-batter, l\ oz. grated cheeze, frying-fat. Split the bloaters and take out the bones, remove the skins and cut off the heads. Divide each fillet into three or four neat pieces. Mix the frying-batter with an ounce of finely grated cheese ; dip each piece of bloater into the batter, so as to completely cover it, and drop into very hot fat, fry a golden colour, take up, drain well, and dish up. Sprinkle over some grated cheese and serve very hot. 1844. JPaupiettes de Harengs (Boiled Herring Fillets).— 4 to 5 salt herrings (Dutch herrings), 2 hard-boiled eggs, 1 lemon, 3 filleted anchovies, 1^ oz. butter, a pinch of cayenne. Parsley, beet- root, and gherkins for garnish. Steep the herrings in cold water for a few hours. Fillet them, removing the white skin and all bones, cut each lengthways in two and pare neatly. Put the trimmings of the fillets into a mortar together with the anchovies and pound till smooth, add the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs and the butter, season to taste (no salt), and mix thoroughly. Put this through a fine sieve and spread the inside of the herring fillets with a layer of this puree ; roll up neatly. Dip the ends into finely chopped hard-boiled white of eggs. Dish up, sprinkle over some lemon-juice, garnish with thinly-cut slices of lemon, gherkins, beetroot, and parsley ; serve cold.