THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 332 931. Ballotines de Pigeons d la Financiere.—Bordeaux pigeons, boned, stuffed with foie gras and liver farce and truffles, shaped like little galantines, boiled in stock, and glazed, dressed on a crouton of bread, garnished with financiere, i.e. mushrooms, cocks’ combs, kernels, truffles, dice of cooked sweetbread, and sauced over with a rich demi-glace (No. 237). 932. Cdtelettes de Pigeons d la JNigoise.—Bordeaux pigeons cut in halves, boned, and spread over with foie gras farce, shaped like cutlets, egged and crumbed and fried in clarified butter. Dressed on a bed of risotto, mixed with truffles, served with demi- glace sauce (No. 237). 933. Pigeons en Casserole d la Beige.—2 Bordeaux pigeons, 2 oz. butter, 1 gill gravy, \ gill brown sauce, \ gill Marsala or sherry wine, \ cabbage, 6 thin slices bacon, 1 small onion, seasoning. Truss the pigeons as for roasting, put them in an earthenware stewpan (casserole de terre faience) containing the butter (heated); let them take colour over a brisk fire, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. Take up the pigeons, untruss, and cut them into neat joints ; peel the onion, and fry a nice brown in the butter, or else cook it with the pigeon at the beginning. Pour off the fat (butter), blanch the cabbage and divide it into six portions ; fry the bacon, roll up each slice of bacon in a portion of cabbage, arrange these in a layer in the earthenware pan, place the joints of pigeon on top, moisten with the stock, sauce, and the wine. Season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg ; cover the pan and set it in the oven to cook for about half an hour. Remove any fat that may float on the surface, and send the casserole to table as it leaves the' oven. 934. Pigeons d la Polonaise.—2 Bordeaux pigeons, 4 oz. streaky bacon, 8 oz. chicken livers or calf’s liver, 1 small onion, 1 egg, 1 oz. butter, bread-crumbs, seasoning, frying-fat, demi-glace sauce (No. 237). Bone the pigeons, cut the bacon into small pieces, and fry in a saute-pan with a little butter ; when almost done add a finely-minced onion, and fry likewise. Now add the liver, previously cleaned and sliced ; season with finely powdered savoury herbs, salt, and pepper, and cook over a quick fire for a few minutes. Put this in a mortar and pound till fine, then rub through a hair sieve or fine wire sieve. Fill the pigeons with this farce, truss them, and roast them in the oven, basting them frequently with oiled butter. When nearly done take up and let cool. Brush over with beaten egg, and roll in bread* crumbs. Fry them in deep fat (which must be hot) for about ten minutes, then take up, strain, untruss the birds, and dish up ; pour some sauce round the dish, or send some separately to the table. 935. Pigeons en Casserole d la Bogale.—2 Bordeaux pigeons, ^ fowl (large), 2 oz. panade, £ gill bechamel sauce (No. 202),