387 COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME grated horse-radish, mayonnaise cream (No. ‘Ill), salt and. pepper, 1 gill aspic jelly (No. 3.8), watercress. Free the fillet from skin and superfluous fat, cut it into three- quarter inch slices, flatten each slice by means of a cutlet-bat, and trim neatly. Prepare the vegetables, and cut into slices. Melt the butter in a saute-pan. When hot put in the vegetables, the bay-leaf, peppercorns, and herbs ; fry a golden colour over a quick fire, put in the fillets, and let them cook over a brisk fire until three-parts done (they should be somewhat raw, but not too underdone). See that •they are nicely browned on each side. Season to taste with pepper and salt, take them up and place them on a wire tray ; brush them •over while hot with liquefied meat-glaze, and let them cool. When quite cold coat them with mayonnaise cream, into which a table- ;spoonful of horse-radish mustard has been incorporated. Dip the tomatoes into boiling water, and remove the skin ; then cut them into slices, and place a slice of tomato on each fillet. Mask them with half-set aspic jelly, dish up on a round dish in the form of a border, put a little scraped horse-radish in the centre of each fillet, garnish with chopped aspic and watercress, and serve. 1135. Filets <le Mignons en Chaud-froid.—‘l\ to 3 lb. middle cut of fillet of beef, larding-bacon, 2 oz. butter, i small ■onion or 2 shallots, ^ pint brown chaud-froid sauce (No. 291), | pint aspic jelly, 1 truffle, 1 hard-boiled egg, salt and pepper, 1 pint preserved flageolets, parsley, dtc'., mashed potatoes, cream. Free the fillet from skin and fat, and cut it crossways into slices about a quarter of an inch thick ; flatten each slice of fillet with a wetted cutlet-bat and trim them into neat rounds of even size. Stud each fillet with short strips of larding bacon, peel and chop the onion or shallots (use the latter in preference) ; melt the butter in a large saute-pan, and fry them a very pale colour. Put in the fillets and fry over a brisk fire, allowing about four minutes for each side (the meat should be underdone). Take up the fillets, season with pepper and salt, and press them between two boards or plates until cold. Trim the fillets again, mask them completely with brown chaud-froid sauce. When the sauce is set garnish one side (top portion) with a rosette of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg. Now ■cover them with a thin coating of aspic jelly, and put them on a tray on the ice. Drain the flageolets on a sieve, and rub them through, so as to obtain a puree; season this with pepper and salt and a little grated nutmeg, and mix with a little slightly whipped cream. Arrange a small bed of mashed potatoes on an oblong silver dish. Kange the fillets in a row in the centre. Put the prepared puree into a forcing- bag with a rose pipe, and force out a neat border round each of the fillets. Ornament the sides of the dish with the puree, in the shape of rosettes, and some finely-chopped aspic. Serve as an entree for dinner or as a supper dish. c c 2