THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 544 gill of cream, 2 oz. caster sugar, 1 teaspoonful cavona or vanilla essence, 1 oz. moist sugar, red currant jelly, crushed ice, a little butter. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, put the yolks in a basin and whisk up a little, then add the caster sugar and the cream. Melt the moist or brown sugar in a stewpan and allow it to get an amber colour (not caramel), put in the milk and boil up, then stir it into the basin containing the egg-yolks &c. Have ready a well- buttered pudding-mould (a plain charlotte mould is best), add the flavouring essence to the mixture, and strain it into the buttered mould. Put the mould in a saute or other flat stewpan containing some boiling water. Let it come to the boil over the fire, then place a buttered paper on top and steam in the oven for rather more than an hour. When done allow to cool, and set it in a basin, surround the mould with crushed ice, and keep it thus for at least one hour. To serve, dip the mould in warm water for a second or two, unmould on to a cold dish, decorate the top with red currant jelly. The jelly may be cut into cubes or forced through a forcing-bag. 1718. Ponding d VAbricot (Gold Apricot Pudding).—1 gill apricot-pulp, gill milk or cream, f oz. gelatine, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. caster sugar, 1 oz. chopped almonds, a feto drops cochineal, 1 dessertspoonful lemon-juice. Soak the gelatine in a little water, boil up the milk, beat the yolks of eggs in a basin with the sugar, stir in the boiling milk, return to the stewpan over the fire, and stir till it thickens (it must not boil), pour back into the basin, add the gelatine and let dissolve, then add the apricot-pulp and lemon-juice. Strain into another basin. When nearly cold and well stirred fill up into one large or several small moulds. Turn out and serve when quite set. The moulds may be decorated with jelly and fruit before they are filled with the above preparation. 1719. JBordure de Hiz a ax Prunes.—2 oz. rice, 2 oz. caster sugar, lpint milk, the thin rind of % a lemon, 3 yolks of eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, 1 oz. blanched and chopped pis- tachio-kernels, 1 glass maraschino, glace cherries, angelica for garnish, 2 dozen stewed French plums, ^ gill whipped cream, a teaspoonful cinnamon, sugar. Pick and wash the rice, and cook till tender in the milk, add the sugar and lemon-rind, finely chopped, put the lid on the panin which the rice is cooked, and put it in the oven for a few minutes to allow some of the moisture to evaporate ; then add the egg-yolks and the maraschino. Fill a buttered border-mould with the cooked rice, stand the mould in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, and bake in the oven for half an hour. Unmould on a round silver-plated or china dish. When cold mask with liquefied apricot marmalade, and sprinkle with chopped pistachio-nuts. Stone the cooked plums, put them into shape again, insert a short strip of angelica into, each