579 entremets savoureux, bonnes bouches, etc. 1845. Pailles aa Parmesan a la Yarmouth.—Make some cheese straws, as directed in recipe No. 1922, and cut some thin strips of smoked herrings (kippers) the same size as the paste; place one of each together and twist them like a screw* Fix them on a baking-sheet and bake in a sharp oven for a few minutes. 1846. Petits Souffles au Thon.—4 oz. preserved tunny-fish, 6 boned anchovies, 1 hard-boiled egg, 3 boned sardines, 2foz. grated cheese, 3 tablespoonfuls cream, 1£ oz. butter, 4 tablespoonfuls reduced bechamel (No. 202), \ oz. panurette or bread-crumbs, pepper and cayenne, 1 white of egg, 8 china or paper souffle cases. Pound in a mortar the tunny-fish, anchovies, and sardines, add an ounce of grated cheese, one tablespoonful of cream, two tablespoonfuls of well-reduced bechamel sauce, hard-boiled egg, and the butter ; work well till smooth, season with a little pepper and a pinch of cayenne. Rub through a wire sieve, and fill the souffle cases previously buttered three-parts full. Put them on a baking-tin, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. In the meantime put one and a half ounce grated cheese, the remainder of the cream and bechamel sauce, panurette or bread-crumbs, and white of egg well beaten in a small stewpan ; add a pinch of cayenne, and stir over the fire for a few minutes, so as to get it thoroughly hot; put a tablespoonful of this into each of the partly- baked souffles, return to the oven for another five minutes to brown the surface, dish up, and serve very hot. 1847. Tartines de Homard d la St. Martin.—1 oz. lobster puree or lobster butter, 1^ oz. fresh butter, 3 yolks of eggs, ^ glass of old port, salt, cayenne, slices of toasted bread. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the yolks of eggs, and stir over the fire for a few seconds ; leave long enough to heat through without boiling. Remove and add the lobster puree or butter, also the port wine; stir well, season with salt and cayenne. Cut some fingers of freshly-toasted bread, put a thick layer of the preparation on each, put the fingers on a baking-sheet, bake for two minutes in a | hot oven. Dish up, and serve very hot. 1848. Ballons de Saumon fame (Smoked Salmon Bolls).— 1 tin preserved lax or 6 oz. smoked salmon, 6 to 8 small round rolls, 2 hard-boiled eggs, a teaspoonful chopped tarragon, chervil, and chives, 2 tablespoonf uls sweet oil, 1 ditto of French vinegar, a few capers, pepper and salt, parsley. Rasp the rolls all over, cut them into halves, scoop out the crumb, and put to dry in the closet and let cool. Cut some neat strips of the lax or smoked salmon, chop the remainder rather coarsely, chop up the eggs, and put both in a basin, add the chopped herbs, season with the oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. Mix well and fill the rolls with this ; arrange the strips of salmon over the filling of the rolls in the form of lattice-work, put a caper in each cavity. Dish up on a folded napkin or dish-paper in a pyramidal form, garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. p p 2