THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK '254 Place a star or half moon of truffle in the centre of each and serve hot. 657. Fleurettes de Turbot d la Hollandaise.—\ lb. cooked turbot, free f rom skin and bone, ^ pint stiff mayonnaise (No. 277), ^ pint aspic jelly (No. 293), 1 truffle, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley and herbs, 1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce, salt and pepper. Line some oval zephire or dariole moulds with aspic, decorate with strips of truffle to form the shape of a rosette. Mix the remainder of aspic with the mayonnaise, coat the moulds with a layer of this. Take the fish, season with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and a sprig of tarragon ; mix in anchovy sauce and two large tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise. Fill up three parts full the lined moulds with this, finish filling up with the remainder of mayonnaise. Put the moulds on the ice to set. Turn out, dress on a bed of salad or little blocks of aspic. Serve cold. 658. Timbale de Turbot d la Masse.—^ lb. cooked turbot or any other white fish, 8 to 10 prawns, 2 oz. cooked rice, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, 1 teaspoonful anchovy paste, 1 dessertspoonful chutney, a few drops of lemon-juice, 1 tablespoonful rich brown sauce, salt and pepper to taste, | pint aspic jelly, £ oz. gelatine. Free the fish from skin and bones and flake it very finely, mix the anchovy essence, paste, and chutney with the lemon-juice and a table- spoonful of rich brown sauce ; stir well and add a few drops of lemon- juice, a pinch of salt, and cayenne to flavour. Mix in three parts of the fish and half the rice; dissolve the gelatine and strain into the above. Whisk up the aspic until it becomes of a frothy appearance, quickly line or mask the inside of a plain savarin mould. Mix the remainder of whipped aspic with the prepared fish, rice, &c., and fill this into the lined mould as soon as the coating therein is sufficiently set. Place it on the ice for about an hour. Mix the remainder of rice and fish, season with salt and pepper, cayenne and white pepper. Turn out the mould on to a dish, put the rice and fish loosely in the centre, so as to give it a dome-shaped appearance. Trim the prawns and range them neatly round the top of the timbale. The base of the dish can be garnished with diamond-shaped pieces of aspic. 659. Dariole de Saumon d la Moseovienne.—About 1| lb. of cooked salmon, 18 oysters, 3 large truffles, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 oz. anchovy paste, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, | gill cream, about a pint of aspic jelly (No. 38), 6 filleted anchovies, a few slices of cucumber, a, pinch of cayenne, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Flake the salmon, line a medium-sized dariole mould with aspic jelly, ornament with a few slices of truffles, some nice flakes of salmon, and a few cooked and bearded oysters. Set the garnish well with a little aspic and put to cool. Pound the remainder of the fish in a mortar together with six cooked oysters, the hard-boiled egg, and the anchovy paste. Season with a pinch of cayenne pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Rub through a fine sieve, add the tarragon