THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 4G0 Melt 1£ oz. butter in a stewpan, add the flour, stir for a few minutes to cook the flour, then add the minced lettuces, moisten with the gravy, stir with a wooden spoon till the whole simmers, cook for a few minutes, remove the pan from the fire and let cool a little ; next add by degrees the yolks of three eggs and the whites of two, also the cream. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Fill up some well buttered dariole or timbale moulds. Stand them in a saute-pan half filled with boiling water, and poach in the oven for thirty to thirty-five minutes. Unmould on a hot dish and serve with sauce Madere. 1379. JMarrons au Jus {Stewed Chestnuts).—1^ lb. chestnuts, 1 quart stock, 1 small blade mace, 1 piece of celery, 1 small onion, peeled and stuck with a clove, ^ gill brown sauce, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. meat glaze, the juice of | lemon, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Slit the chestnuts and put them in the oven for about ten minutes, then remove the outer husks. Parboil the chestnuts in slightly salted water for about 20 minutes, drain, and remove the inner skin. When peeled put them in a stewpan with the stock, the mace, celery, and onion, and boil till quite tender ; it will probably take from thirty to forty-five minutes. When quite done, i.e. mealy, pour off the stock, drain the chestnuts and return them to the stewpan ; add the butter and toss or saute them over a brisk fire, taking great care so as not to break the chestnuts. Pour off the butter, take out the onion, mace, and celery. Add the meat glaze and the sauce ; when hot put in the lemon juice, season to taste, dish up, and serve hot. 1380. Puree d’Oseille.—Wash and pick about 1 lb. of sorrel, boil till tender in salted water, strain well, and rub through a fine sieve. Melt ^ oz. butter in a stewpan, add a dessertspoonful of flour, cook a little, and add the sorrel; moisten with a gill of cream or stock, season with pepper and salt, stir and cook until it has the desired consistency. Sorrel puree makes a very nice garnish for fricandeau of veal, veal cutlets, paupiettes, poached eggs, &c. If served with the latter the dish should be garnished with croutes of fried or toasted bread. 1381. Puree de JSTavets au Gratin.—2 lbs. young turnips, 3 oz. butter, £ oz. flour, 1 gill bechamel sauce {No. 202), ^ pint rich stock, 1 medium-sized onion, salt, pepper, nutmeg, bread-crumbs. Wash, peel, and slice the turnips, put them into cold water with a little salt. Peel and blanch the onion, chop it finely, then cook for ten minutes in an ounce of butter; add the turnips, previously drained. Stir the whole over a slow fire for about fifteen minutes. Melt an ounce of butter, add the flour, and cook a little without browning, moisten with the stock and boil up while stirring, cook for ten minutes. Now mix both the turnips and thickened stock and let simmer for about half an hour. Pass all through a sieve, season to taste with a pinch of sugar, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Arrange in a pile on a gratin dish. Mask with the white sauce, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and divide the remainder of butter in little bits on