593 ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. and a pinch of grated nutmeg; mix thoroughly. Melt the butter in a stewpan, pour in the eggs, stir over the fire until the mixture begins to set; then add the truffle &c., quickly. Mix well together; stir over the fire for another minute; then turn on a hot dish on a slice of buttered toast; dress in a heap, garnish with a few sippets of toast, and serve. Note.—Cooked ham, tongue, mushrooms, peas, asparagus points, &c., may be used as a change, in place of the truffles, but for cooked vegetables the wine should be omitted and replaced with cream. 1899. (Eufs brouilles a la Turque (Scrambled Eggs, Turkish Style).—Break six to eight eggs into a basin, season with pepper and salt and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Whisk them well and stir into a stewpan containing an ounce of melted butter ; stir over the fire till the eggs are set enough to be turned out, then dress them in the form of a border on a hot round dish. Have ready a saute of chicken livers (finely sliced and tossed in butter, flavoured with shallot and parsley and suitably seasoned) ; put these in the centre of the dish, pour some hot tomato sauce (No. 271) round the base of the dish, and send to table immediately. 1900. (Eufs garnis a la Coquette.—5 neio-laid eggs, 1 oz. butter, about ^ gill cream, 2 oz. lean ham or tongue, salt, cayenne, and nutmeg. Procure five small china souffle cases; butter them well; put a small piece of butter in each of them, also a tablespoonful of cream, a pinch of salt, and a little grated- nutmeg; place them on a baking- sheet in a hot oven or on the top of the stove. When the contents commence to simmer break carefully in each one egg ; put a tiny pinch of cayenne pepper in the centre of each yolk ; put back on the stove or in the oven, and allow the eggs to set lightly. Have ready the ham or tongue finely chopped, sprinkle over the white part, so as to leave the yolks free ; serve very hot. 1901. (Eufs Miroire a la JPrincesse.— Q eggs, 6 rounds fried bread, 1 oz. butter, 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue, parsley, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, asparagus-point ragout, salt and pepper. Melt the butter in a saute-pan ; break the eggs one by one into a basin and slide them into the pan, and cook them in the oven until the whites are set; season lightly with white pepper and salt. Cut them out with a plain round cutter and place each on a crouton of fried bread. Ornament the eggs with alternate little groups of chopped ham or tongue, chopped parsley, and chopped yolk of egg (hard-boiled). Dress them neatly on a round dish ; put them in the oven just a second or two ; fill the centre with a ragout of asparagus points and serve. 1902. (Eufs farcis aux Crevettes.—4 hard-boiled eggs, 12 large or 18 small prawns, 3 Gorgona anchovies, 1-| oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful bechamel sauce (No. 202), salt, pepper, and cayenne, 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271). Q Q