162 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK yolks, and mix with the cream, strain this into the soup; cut the- trufflles and chicken meat into small strips (Julienne shapes), and add also; stir over the fire till thoroughly hot, but avoid boiling, else the eggs will curdle. The soup is then ready for serving. 182. Potage de Faisan d la Diana (Pheasant Puree).—1 pheasant, 1 mirepoix of bacon, onion, carrot, and herbs, 2 oz. butter,. 1 oz. flour, % gill cream, 2 oz. pearl barley (orge perle), 1 gill claret, 2 oz. raw ham, 1 leek, 3 pints good stock, salt and pepper, small game quenelles for garnish (No. 404). Truss the pheasant as for roasting, place it on a roasting pan with a little dripping and the mirepoix above named. Roast it in the oven till three parts done, then take up the bird, untruss it, and remove the fillets from the breast. Cut the carcase into small pieces and fry in the mirepoix, adding about an ounce of butter and the ham cut up- small. Stir in the flour and let it get a^ chestnut brown colour, add’ the barley and stir the whole a few minutes longer over the fire. Moisten with the wine and add gradually the stock and about a pint of water. Stir till it boils, skim, and let simmer for about 1\ hour. Pound the fillets of pheasant in a mortar with the remainder of the butter, and add the cream ; when sufficiently pounded, rub the whole through a fine sieve. Pass the soup through a tammy, return to the stewpan, add the puree above named, season to taste, re-heat, and serve with some very small game quenelles. 183. Creme d’Asperges a la Printaniere.—1 bundle asparagus, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, 3 pints white stock, 1 pint milk, pepper, nutmeg, salt, sugar, 1 gill cream, a handful of cooked green peas and beans. Clean the asparagus, cut off the tips and cook separately, as these will be required for garnish; cut the stalks, as far as tender, into small pieces, wash thoroughly in salted water, boil till partly cooked in salted water and drain. Put the butter in a stewpan, when melted add the flour, cook a little, stir in the stock and milk, let it boil up, skim, add the asparagus, season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a good pinch of sugar. Cook till tender, and rub through a fine sieve. Return to stewpan, add cream, and a little more milk if needed. Put peas, French beans, and cooked asparagus tips (about a handful of the latter) in a soup-tureen, pour the puree over, and serve. 184. Creme de Concombre d la Heine (Cucumber Cream). —3 large cucumbers, 3 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, 2 pints chicken stock, 1 pint of milk, 1 gill cream, 2 egg-yolks, seasoning, bread croutons. Peel the cucumbers, cut them into quarters, remove the seeds, and slice coarsely. Parboil in salted water, drain, and put in a stewpan with one ounce of butter, let stew for about half an hour ; season with pepper, salt, and half a teaspoonful of sugar. Melt the remaining two- ounces of butter in another stewpan, stir in the flour, cook it without browning ; add the cooked cucumber, dilute with the stock, boil up, skim, add the milk boiling. Cook slowly for twenty minutes. Rub-