331 ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES) pepper, and put in the oven with about an ounce of butter, spread on top of the goose. Cook them carefully, first in rather a fierce heat, to brown the surface nicely, and subsequently in moderate heat; baste frequently during this process. When nearly done take up the goose, cut it into neat joints or convenient-sized pieces. Have ready about a gill of rich brown sauce into which incorporate a small glass of port wine and a teaspoonful of red-currant jelly; place the pieces of goose into, this and cook gently till quite tender. Mean- while prepare a celery sauce, by mincing finely the white part of a cleaned and washed celery head ; fry this with an ounce of butter for a few minutes over the fire, stir in a tablespoonful of flour, cook while stirring for five minutes, and moisten with about three-quarters of a pint of white stock, stir till it boils, and stew gently for twenty minutes. Pass it through a sieve, re-heat, season, and serve with the goose. 926. Ole a la Mont-Vernon.—Eoast goose, stuffed with a mixture of boiled onions finely chopped, and mashed potatoes, dished up with a border of halves of apples, baked in the oven till brown with goose-fat, and served with thin brown sauce flavoured with a little red currant jelly. 927. Ole braisee a la Da aphi noise.—Braised goose, stuffed with chestnut puree, minced shallot, and seasoning, served with a brown sauce mixed with some orange-juice and finely shredded orange- peel. 928. Pigeons ala Coquette.—2 Bordeaux pigeons, 6 fresh eggs, 6 artichokes buttered (preserved), 1 oz. butter, 1 gill rich brown sauce (No. 248), 1 tablespoonful port wine, seasoning, a gill rich supreme (No. 210) or veloutee sauce (No. 206). Truss and wash the pigeons in the usual manner. Remove bones and skin and pound the meat in a mortar till quite smooth, then add the butter, and season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Boil the eggs till hard, remove the shells, and cut a piece off the bottom to make them stand ; cut also a piece off the top, so as to scoop out the yolks ; put the latter with the pigeon farce in the mortar and mix the whole thoroughly with this and the brown sauce. Rub through a fine sieve, and add the wine (the latter may be omitted). Put the prepared farce in a forcing-bag, and fill the whites of egg shapes by means of this ; place each on an artichoke bottom (fond d’artichaut), force a thin border of farce round the edge, and range them on a buttered saute-pan. Heat up thoroughly in the oven, placing previously a buttered paper over the top, then •dish up and sauce over with hot supreme or veloutee sauce. 929. Pigeons a la Ste-Menehould.—Braised pigeons (whole) cut into halves, glazed, sprinkled with bread-crumbs and oiled butter, and browned in a sharp oven, served with sauce Remoulade (No. 285). 930. Pigeons a la Villageoise.—Pigeons, braised whole in butter, herbs, &c., similar to that in casserole (No. 933), served with a thin brown sauce flavoured with lemon-juice.