SAUCES AND THEIR COMPOSITION On the Reduction of Sauces. —We reduce or boil down sauces to give them the necessary strength. This is usually the case with the compounds into which stocks, essences, fumets, &c., have been in- corporated : these are added for the express purpose of reduction, and should be in a concentrated form, so as to lessen as much as possible the labour of boiling or simmering. All sauces which need to be reduced must be strained and freed from fat, they must be put on a quick fire at first, and must be stirred with a wooden spatula or spoon to prevent the sauce from adhering to the bottom of the saucepan in which the sauce is put. The necessary quantity of stock &c. re- quired for its improvement is next added, it is then allowed to boil until it has acquired the desired consistency : when this is effected the sauce is passed through a tammy cloth. Various Kinds of Sauces.—Having explained the difference between white and brown sauces, and having given minute details of the various thickenings (liaisons), as well as other important points concerning sauces and their preparation, I will now'give a list of the various sauces most frequently used in cookery. There are two groups of sauces: I. Hot Sauces.—These are divided into three sections : (1) Plain (2) Savoury (3) Sweet II. Cold Sauces.—These are divided into three sections : (1) Chaud-froid ' (2) Salad (3) Sweet I. HOT SAUCES (1) Plain Sauces.—These include : Melted Butter Egg Onion (white Caper Sauce Anchovy White Sauce or brown) Fennel Brown Parsley Mustard Bread, &c. &c. (2) Savour ry Sauces.—(a) White Sauces : Bechamel Cardinal Bavigote Maltre d’Hotel Cream Mornay Shrimp Plucne Oyster Veloutee Provencale Bearnaise Mussel Dutch or Celery Chicken Poulette Hollandaise Echalotte Supreme Fines Herbes Lobster Allemande Cucumber Soubise Normande Horseradish Mousseline, &c, (b) Brown Espagnole Sauces : Truffle Milanaise Genoise Bordelaise Pompadour Olive Lyonnaise Tomato Curry Turtle Reforme Chasseur Italienne Poivrade Bigarade Matelotte Bretonne Salmis Perigord Mushroom Financiere Piquante Game Orange Kobert Madere Estragon, &c. H 2