THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK in a saucepan, and keep hot. Chop liver and heart very finely, mix with the blood (if any), and add to the stew about a quarter of an hour before it is done. Have ready some godiveau quenelles and croutes of fried bread. Dish up the civet as neatly as possible, decorate with braised onions, croutons, and godiveau quenelles round the base of the dish, and serve with a small dish of red currant jelly. 1107. Grenadins de Tyler re a la JTanoverienne.—1 hare, larding bacon, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. streaky bacon, a glass Gliablis or Sauterne wine, 1 pint Espagnole sauce (No. 236), a small bouquet garni (No. 2), 1 onion stuck toith 2 cloves, 2 oz. sultanas, a 2-inch stick of cinnamon, a small bunch of parsley, - 1 tablespoonful red currant jelly, salt and pepper, croutons of fried bread, a handful of glace cherries. Remove the fillets from the hare, cut them into scollops, flatten slightly and lard one side of each scollop with strips of larding bacon. Cut up the two ounces of bacon and put it in a saute-pan with an ounce of butter, fry a little and season, then put in the slices of larded hare, larded sides upwards, fry lightly, add the bouquet garni and the wine, and cover. Place the pan in the oven for about ten minutes. Cut the best portion of the remainder of the hare into neat joints ; fry these in a stewpan with two ounces of butter until nicely browned, add the brown sauce, parsley, onion, cinnamon, red currant jelly, and the sultanas, previously picked and soaked in tepid water. Cook slowly until tender, then take out the parsley, onion, cinnamon, carefully remove the fat, and season to taste with pepper and salt. Cut the glace cherries in halves and heat up in some rich gravy, and mix with the ragout of hare. To dish up place each scollop on a heart-shaped fried bread-crouton, and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish ; put the ragout of hare and cherries in the centre (piled up high), reduce the sauce, skim again, and pour it carefully over the meat. Serve hot. 1108. Turban de Lievre d la Bohemienne.—1 small hare, 3 oz. butter, 3 oz. bacon, 1 small carrot, 1 onion, 2 cloves, 1 inch cinnamon-stick, 1 gill icell-reduced Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 1 glass port wine, ahoitt 8 oz. panade, aromatic spice, salt, pepper, 1 gill demi-glace (No. 237) or madere (No. 237a) sauce, about 12 glace cherries, 18 to 24 marbles of potato croquettes. Remove the fillets of the hare, cut them into neat dice of even size. Melt two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, add to it the bacon, cut into small pieces, the carrot, onion, previously prepared and sliced, also the cloves and cinnamon, fry a little, then put in the fillets, fry them over a quick fire, and finish cooking them in the oven until they are quite tender. Take up the pieces of fillet and keep them hot. Pound about three-quarters of a pound of the remainder of the hare (freed from skin, bone, and sinews) in a mortar; when smooth add to it the panade, the wine, and Espagnole sauce, mix well, season to taste, and rub through a fine sieve (the bacon used for frying the