THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 712 pin (lardoire, /.) small strips of bacon (lardon, /.) into a piece of meat, poultry., or fish. Liaison, /. The mixture of yolk of eggs, cream, &c., used for thickening or binding white soups and sauces. Lit, /. Thin slices of meat spread in layers for culmary purposes. Lunch, e. Dejeuner a la fourchette,/. A repast between breakfast and dinner. The word is derived from the Welsh Llwne, lunching or hurrying. Robert Burns, in his Holy Friar, says, ‘ An’ cheese, an’ bread, frae women’s laps, was dealt about in lunches.’ Macedoine, /. A mixture of various kinds of vegetables or fruits, cut in even-shaped discs. The name is also applied to a collection of ripe fruit set in jelly in a mould, or a fruit salad flavoured with liqueurs and syrup. Maitre d’Hotel (ala),/. Hotel steward’s fashion. Also the name of a flavour- ing butter, mixed with chopped parsley and seasoned with lemon-juice, pepper, and salt. Served on grilled meats or fish. Maitre d’Hotel sauce is a white sauce with chopped parsley. Dishes thus generally signify quickly and plainly prepared food in which parsley is used as the principal flavouring. Mayonnaise, /. A cold salad, sauce, or dressing. It is said to have been in- vented by the chef to the Due de Richelieu, after the victory of Mahon (Mahonnaise). Menu, /. The bill of fare. Literally the word means minute detail of courses. A list of the dishes which are to be served at a meal. Menus were first used in 1541. Pronounce ‘ menu ’ 1 mennoo,’ so that the second syllable is sounded as something be- tween ‘ new ’ and ‘ noo.’ Meringue, /.- Light pastry, made of white of eggs and sugar, filled with cream or ice. Nougat, /. Almond rock candy. A sweetmeat made with sugar, honey, almonds, pistachios, &c. Panade, or Panada. A culinary paste of flour and water, or soaked bread, used in the preparation of forcemeat and stuffing. Panure,/., or paner, to crumb. Signifies anything that is bread-crumbed. Panurette. Finely grated rusks, pre- | pared a delicate red, used for/ crumb- ing and decorative purposes. Paprika. Hungarian red pepper. A kind of sweet capsicum of a brilliant scarlet colour; it is less pungent than the Spanish pepper. Parmesan. Name of an Italian cheese, largely used for culinary purposes. Parson’s Nose. This name is given to the exteme end portion of the tail of a fowl. Patd, f. A pie ; pastry ; a savoury meat pastry, or a raised pie. Pate de Foie Gras,/. A well known delicacy prepared from the livers of fat geese. Alsace is the most cele- brated coimtry where the so-called terrines de foie gras are made. This delicacy was first introduced by a cook named Close. Piping, e. The process of decoration by means of icing for ornamenting cakes, pastry, and small goods. Piquante, /. Sharp of flavour, stimu- lating, pungent or sour. Pistaches, /. Pistachios, e. Kernels of the nut of the turpentine tree, used for flavouring and garnishing gelatines, sweets, &c. Potage, /. Soup, e. A nourishing broth or liquor, forming the first course of a dinner. Pot-au-feu, /., is an economical and wholesome beef broth. It is the standard dish of all classes in France, and the origin of beef stock. Potpourri, A stew of various kinds of meats and spices ; a favourite dish in Spain. Potted. Fish or meat puree preserved in a pot. Profitrolles, /. Very small fried choux- paste balls, creamed inside, used for garnishing soups, &c. Puree, /. A smooth pulp; mashed vegetables; thick soups. The name is also given to meat or fish which is cooked, pounded in a mortar, and passed through a sieve. Quenelles, /. Forcemeat of different kinds, composed of fish, poultry, or meat, eggs, &c., shaped in various forms—balls, ovals, &c. They are used for garnishing for soups or entrees, or are served separately as entrees. Ragout, /. A rich stew of meat, highly seasoned. /