ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. 585 chopped cooked chicken, ham, or tongue, mushrooms and truffles, moistened with white sauce and seasoned to taste, spread on a plate and let cool. Boll out some puff or rough puff paste, stamp out some rounds, place a teaspoonful of the mixture on each, wet the edge and fold over, so as to give them the shapes of half-moons. Press down the edges of the paste well. Egg and crumb them and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain well, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. (Breakfast or supper dish.) 1866. Zephires a la Montglas.—Mask the interior of six to eight oval fluted zephire moulds with a thin coating of aspic, which must be perfectly clear ; when set sprinkle the sides and bottom with finely chopped truffles and hard-boiled egg rubbed through a wire sieve. Pour a thin layer of white chaud-froid sauce (No. 290), or aspic cream (No. 296), over this and allow to set. Prepare a mixture composed of equal parts of cooked chicken fillets, ox-tongue, truffles, and champignons (mushrooms), all cut into julienne strips, moisten with mayonnaise cream or white chaud-froid sauce and season to taste, fill the moulds with this, finish with a layer of aspic. Put the moulds on the ice for about fifteen minutes, then turn out on a cold dish. Garnish with chopped set aspic, slices of lemon, cucumber, and parsley, and serve immediately. 1867. Devilled Game.—Any kind of cooked game can be used for this dish. Cut it into neat slices, free from skin and bone. Season the slices with cayenne, salt, and paprika, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Dip them into oiled' butter and cover with brown bread-crumbs. Place the slices neatly on a well-buttered baking-tin, and put them in a sharp oven for a few minutes to get browned. Care must be taken that the meat does not get dried up. Dress them in a circle on a dish with a lace-paper; fill the centre with crisp, fresh watercress, previously seasoned with salt and lemon-juice. Serve very hot. 1868. Jombalayah (an American Breakfast Dish).—4 oz. Patna rice, 4 oz. cooked ham, salt, cayenne pepper, 1 lettuce. Boil the rice in slightly salted water (the same as for curry or kedgeree), so that each grain is intact when the rice *^s tender. Drain and cool the rice when done. Mince the ham as finely as pos- sible, and mix both ham and rice carefully in a basin, add a pinch of cayenne pepper, wash the lettuce, and place a layer of leaves on a cold dish, dress rice and ham upon this, and garnish neatly with the heart of the lettuce. Serve cold. 1869. (Eafs d la Colbert.—Take four or six new-laid eggs. Break each very carefully in a cup, season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle over about half a teaspoonful of grated Gruyere or Parmesan cheese; drop each very gently into a pan of hot fat or frying oil; the latter, if of good quality, is preferable for this purpose. Keep the eggs in shape and turn frequently by means of a wooden spoon. Fry them to a pretty golden colour; then take up and drain them on a cloth or