DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 225 clarified butter (half of each), the juice of half a lemon, 1 teaspoonful meat glaze, 1 small glass icliite wine, salt and pepper, about 1 oz: Carolina rice, cooked in rich stock, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. Skin the soles, remove the fillets, flatten, pare and fold them, season with pepper and salt and range them in a well-buttered saute- pan, moisten with lemon-juice and white wine, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. Meanwhile cut the aubergines, freed from skin, into cubes or olive shapes, dip them in seasoned flour, and fry a golden colour in olive oil and clarified butter. When done, take up and drain, cook the rice until it is almost dry, and shape it in the centre of a dish, dress the fillets of soles round the rice shape. Melt an ounce of butter and let it get a nut-brown colour (this is called Beurre Noisette), then put in the chopped parsley and pour over the dish, garnish round the base with the fried aubergines, and serve hot. 532. Filets de Soles d la Borin.—1 medium-sized sole, 2 oz. butter, the juice of 1 lemon (strained), 3 to 4 potatoes, salt, mignonette pepper, chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful double cream. Skin the sole, cut off the fillets and trim them neatly, range them in a saute-pan, previously buttered, season with pepper and salt, add the lemon-juice, cover with a buttered paper, and poach in the oven till tender. GLreat care must be taken to keep the fillets a nice white colour. Lift out the fillets, range them on an oblong dish, and keep hot over a saucepan of boiling water. While the sole is cooking wash and peel the potatoes, cut them into the shape of olives, blanch and drain them, and finish cooking in butter. Add the cream to the fish liquor, stir over the fire till hot (not boiling), drop in a few tiny bits of butter, season to taste, and strain this over the fillets. Surround them with the potato olives, sprinkle some freshly chopped parsley over the fish, and send the dish to table. This is one of the many favourite dishes served at the Maison Bovin in Paris. 533. Filets de Soles d la Catalaine.—Trim and pai;e eight to twelve fillets of soles, fold them neatly and place them in a saute-pan containing one ounce of fresh butter, season with pepper and salt, and cook in the oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Prepare a puree of Jerusalem artichokes, season to taste, and form into a border placed in a hot dish ; dress the fillets upon this. Fill the centre with cepes, previously tossed in butter and seasoned with salt and pepper. Sauce the fillets with a well-reduced bechamel sauce (maigre, No. 203), into which a small quantity of whipped cream has been incorporated. 534. Filets de Soles d la Chasseur Moual.—3 medium- sized soles, 2 large truffles, 1 small whiting, 1 oz. butter, 12 oysters, 12 preserved mushrooms, 1 glass white wine, 3 oz. panade, 2 eggs, seasoning, 1 tablespoonful cream. Sauce, Chasseur Royal (No. 212). Q