THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 598 Three parts fill some buttered china or paper souffle ' cases with this mixture and bake in a sharp ovqn for about fifteen minutes. 1918. Fonda Souffle an Parmesan.—2 oz. Brown & Poison’s corn-flour, f pint milk, 6 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 yolks and 4 whites of eggs, 1 oz. butter. Mix the corn-flour with a little milk, then stir into it the remainder of milk boiling. Stir with a wooden spoon over the fire until it thickens, then add one or two yolks of eggs, the grated cheese, and seasoning (salt, pepper, nutmeg, or cayenne). Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mingle carefully with the above when it has cooled a little. Put the mixture in a well-buttered silver-plated vegetable dish, and bake from eight to ten minutes in a brisk oven. Serve immediately. 1919. Creme an Frontage.—10 yolks of eggs, 8 whites of eggs, 6 oz. butter, 8 oz. grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese, | gill double cream, salt, pepper, cayenne and nutmeg to taste. Put the yolks of eggs and the butter in a stewpan and stir over the fire long enough to bind the former without curdling. Then add the cream. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix these carefully with the above; season with salt, pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and a grate of nutmeg. Pour into a buttered souffle-dish, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. 1920. Tomates farcies an C vat in (Baked Tomatoes)-.— Select some small firm, ripe, and even-sized tomatoes, remove the stems, cut off the top of each, and scoop out the centre without break- ing them. Fry two or three chopped shallots in a little butter, add minced ham, mushrooms, and herbs, and moisten with some brown sauce, incorporate a few bread-crumbs, and season with salt and pepper; fill the tomatoes with this. Sprinkle some bread-crumbs and grated cheese over the top of each, and bake in a sharp oven for about ten minutes. 1921. Fetites Gondoles an Farmesan.—Line twelve small boat-shape or oval moulds with ordinary paste-crust, fill with peas or rice, bake in the oven a nice colour, and take out the rice or dried peas. Put in a stewpan three tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce, warm up, and add about a gill of savoury aspic, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Allow it to reduce a little. Incorporate with one table- spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese and two of grated Gruyere cheese. When perfectly cool add half a gill of whipped double cream. Fill a forcing-bag with the mixture and proceed to fill up the baked crusts, sprinkle the tops with grated Parmesan, and serve. 1922. Failles au Farmesan (Cheese Straws).—About 6 oz. puff-paste, 2 oz. freshly grated Parmesan cheese, cayenne pepper. Roll out the paste, sprinkle well with grated cheese, fold in three, and give it one turn. Allow it to stand for ten minutes, and repeat the operation until the cheese is used up. Do not use any flour for flouring the board ; use grated cheese in place. When rolling out for