616 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK flour, 2 oz. Vienna flour, 3 eggs, \ teaspoonful vanilla essence, 1 oz. caster sugar, a pinch of salt, moka custard for filling, coffee-icing for covering (No. 1966). Put the water, butter, sugar, and salt into a stewpan ; when boil- ing stir in the corn-flour and Vienna flour (previously mixed) ; work it with a wooden spoon over the fire long enough to produce a soft paste which will leave the bottom and sides of the pan clean. Draw the stewpan from the fire, add the flavouring essence, and gradually work in the eggs (leaving out one white). Beat the paste well for some minutes, then put in a large forcing or Savoy bag with a plain tube, and force out even-sized shapes similar to finger-biscuits on to a lightly-buttered baking-tin, about an inch apart from each other. Bake to a nice fawn colour in a moderate oven. When done split the sides with a sharp knife, and till each with a teaspoonful of moka custard. Have some coffee-icing ready, and dip each eclair into it, so as to cover the sides well and smoothly. Place the eclair on a wire tray to set, and dish up when required. 2002. Moka Custard for Filling Eclairs.—1 gill milk, 1 oz. loaf sugar, \ oz. corn-flour, \ pat of fresh butter, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful coffee essence, a few drops of vanilla essence. Put the milk and sugar in a stewpan and boil up. Mix the corn- flour with a little cold milk, pour the boiling milk on this, mix thoroughly, return to the stewpan, and let boil a few minutes ; add the flavouring essences and the butter, stir in the egg-yolks, continue to stir until it binds, pour it into a basin and let cool. 2003. Gateau Mousseline.—6 eggs, 4 oz. caster sugar, 2 oz. fecula (potato or rice flour), the juice and rind of ^ lemon, £ tea- spoonful vanilla essence, 1 oz. shredded almonds. Separate the yolks of four eggs from the whites, put the former in a basin and the latter in an egg-bowl, place it on the ice ; add the sugar to the yolks and work to a cream ; beat in the two remaining eggs (whole, one at a time), grate the lemon-rind, strain the juice, and add both to the mixture, also the vanilla flavouring. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mingle this and the fecula very carefully with the mixture. Have ready a buttered and floured Genoise mould or flat cake tin. Fill with the mixture, sprinkle the top with the shredded almonds, and bake in a moderately heated oven from thirty to forty minutes. 2004. Pelites Galettes d la Nantaise.—6 oz. ground almonds, 1 small glass of kirschwasser, a few drops of vanilla essence, 4 oz. caster sugar, 6 eggs, 2 large tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, transparent icing or fondant icing, angelica, a few blanched almonds split in halves, 3 to 4 glace cherries. Put the ground almonds in a mortar with the sugar, mix well, and work in the kirsch and yolks of eggs one by one. When sufficiently smooth take it out and put it in a basin, add the vanilla essence. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and incorporate with the