THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 116 feathers. If left too long in the water the skin becomes tender, and is likely to become detached in picking. 16. Bon ing Poultry or Game.—To bone poultry or game properly, they must first be picked and lightly singed. Next cut or pull off the legs, a portion of the neck and the pinions, keeping the skin of the neck as long as possible. Carefully remove the crop. Now commence to free the flesh from the carcase, beginning at the neck portion. A small sharp knife should be used for this purpose. Continue to strip off the flesh thus until the carcase is quite detached from the flesh. When you arrive at the thighs, dislocate the first joints, and remove the bones, separate also the stumps from the wings. The nerves which are found in the thighs should be pulled out when the legs are cut off. Boned poultry or game is usually stuffed, and braised or boiled. It is best not to draw the birds until after the flesh is removed. The bones &c. should be utilised for stock essence or ‘fumet,’ for sauces &c. 17. Table showing the Average Time required for Baking M.eat or Birds.—The exact time required for all joints depends necessarily on a variety of circumstances, the kind of fire employed, size and thickness of a joint, the time of year, &c., by which the cook must be guided, and use his or her judgment. Beef (should be rather under than over done). A joint of beef weighing 20 lbs. requires about 4f hours „ „ 10 „ „ „ 2£ „ 6 „ „ „ lf-2 „ Mutton. A joint of mutton weighing 10 lbs. requires 2f hours. 6 „ „ If „ „ „ 4 „ „ If „ Lamb (should be well done). A small leg of lamb requires . . about If hour. Veal (requires to be well done). A joint of veal weighing 10 lbs. requires . 3 hours. „ „ 5 „ „ . n „ Pork (requires to be well done). A joint of pork weighing 8 lbs. requires . 3 hours. „ „ 6 „ „ . . 2 „ Venison (should on no account be overdone). Anoint of venison weighing 10 lbs. requires 2f hours. „ „ 6 „ „ ll „ A haunch of venison . . . „ 4 „ Turkey or Goose. A large-sized turkey requires A medium-sized turkey or goose requires A small turkey or turkey poult requires 2f-3 hours. H-2 „ U