THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 286 766. Filets de Beeuf d la Colbert.—About 2 lb. fillet of beef, 8 oz. butter, 2 tablespoonfids sweet oil {Provence), 3 shallots, ^ glass Marsala or sherry wine, 1^ gill Espagnole sauce {No. 236), chopped parsley, lemon-juice, salt, pepper, cayenne or paprika, Parisienne potatoes {No. 767), fried bread croutes. Trim and pare the piece of fillet, cut it crossways into about eight slices, flatten them slightly, and season with pepper and salt. Melt two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, add the oil, when hot range in the small fillets and fry over a brisk fire for a few minutes. They must be fried quickly on both sides and must be cooked rare (underdone)-. Put them on a plate, pour off most of the fat in the pan, into this put the shallots, previously peeled and chopped finely, fry a little (they must not get brown) ; then add the wine, and the sauce, stir and let boil for a few minutes, gradually add in little bits about an ounce of butter ; season with cayenne or paprika pepper and a little salt if needed, add also about half a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and about a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Return the fillets to the sauce thus prepared, mix well, but avoid boiling again. Dress the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with small round fried potatoes (pommes Parisienne), surround the base of the dish with six to eight heart- shaped slices of bread fried in clarified butter, and send to table hot. 767. Femmes Parisienne.—These are prepared in the same manner as ‘ pommes Chateau,’ the potatoes being scooped out in little round balls, by means of a vegetable-cutter, or scoop. In blanching, great care must be taken ; they should be brought to the boil quickly, else they will be in pieces by the time they are cooked. Ten minutes is ample for baking. They are mostly served as a garnish with fillets of beef, steaks, or tournedos. 768. Filets de Beeuf d la Garibaldi.—2| lb. fillet of beef {middle cut), about £ lb. beef marrow, 1 large truffle, \ lb. ham, 2 eggs, 1 oz. butter, tomato {No. 271) or piquante {No. 241) sauce, salt and pepper, nutmeg, macaroni croquettes for garnish. Cut the fillet into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, beat them a little with a wet knife, and stamp or cut out some rounds about two inches in diameter. Cut as many thin round slices of marrow as you have fillets, blanch them and keep till required. Remove skin and fat from the trimmings of the fillet, cut up small, and pound in a mortar till smooth. Add suet and marrow, about half the quantity that there is meat, pound together thoroughly, mix in the yolks of two eggs, season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg, and rub through a wire sieve. Season the fillets, put a thin slice of blanched marrow and a slice of truffle on each, placing a thin layer of beef farce between them. Put a thin slice of bacon, as nearly as possible the size of the fillets, on the top of each fillet; thus prepared, press slightly together. Cover over completely with a thin layer of farce, chop finely the trimmings of truffle, dip the fillets in white of egg, sprinkle the surface with chopped truffle. Melt the butter in a