144 THE. NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 111. Consomme a la Veneur—2 quarts rich clear consomme (made in the usual way), 2 whites of eggs, 1 tablespoonful of cream,. (2 large truffles, 1 small firm lettuce, 1 small head of white celery, carmine colouring, pepper and salt, tarragon and chervil. Mix the whites of eggs with the cream, colour with a few drops of liquid carmine, and strain through a pointed strainer into a well buttered plain mould, poach in the oven till quite firm. When done, unmould, let cool, and cut into fine Julienne strips, or very small cubes of even size; cut the truffles into similar shapes, put them in a saucepan with a little sherry and heat up. Trim and wash the lettuce and the celery, cut them into fine shreds (use only the hearts of lettuce and celery), cook separately in salted water, strain, and keep hot. Put all the ingredients together with a few tarragon and chervil leaves, finely chopped, into the consomme, season to taste, let it come to the boil, skim, and pour into the soup-tureen. 112. Consomme a la Celestine (Clear Chicken Broth, Celes- tine Style).—Prepare about three quarts of consomme, with one pound of lean veal, one pound of lean beef, one roast fowl, two gallons of water, bones of roast beef, soup vegetables, and seasoning. Boil from four to- five hours and strain ; when cold clarify in the usual way, adding one glass of sherry, and seasoning to. taste. Have ready a pancake- batter, made with two ounces of flour, half an ounce of oiled butter, half an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, two eggs, one gill of milk, one dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, tarragon leaves and chervil, and a pinch of salt. Prepare about six thin pancakes with this, fold them longways, cut them into thin strips, place them in a soup- tureen ; pour over the soup, and serve. 118. Consommeala Grisonne.—Have ready someconsomme. Prepare a pancake batter with the same ingredients as No. 112, leaving out the herbs and using cream instead of milk. When the consomme is boiling force the preparation through a colander quickly into it; let boil gently for a few minutes, when the soup will be ready for serving.- 114. Consomme a la Fortugaise.—2 quarts of consomme, 18 French plums, 2 small leeks, \ oz. butter, a pinch of cayenne. Wash the plums, put them in cold Water with a little salt; bring to the boil, strain, and rinse in cold water ; return to the stewpan in which they were blanched, add sufficient clear stock to well cover, and cook slowly till tender. Wash and clean the leeks, cut into shreds or Julienne-shaped strips about an inch long, wash well in cold water, drain, and cook a few minutes with the butter, pour in some clarified stock or consomme, and cook slowly till tender. Carefully remove all the fat, pour over the consomme, and let simmer for a few minutes. Put the plums in a soup-tureen, add a pinch of cayenne, pour in the- consomme, and serve with some sippets of toasted bread. 115. Consomme a la Florentine.—2 quarts of clear con- somme, 1 turnip, 1 carrot, about 6 oz. chicken forcemeat, spinach- greening.