426 THE NEW CENTUBY COOKEBY BOOK 1233. Lievre farci, etouffe (Stuffed Hare, braised).-—1 hare, 6 oz. cold poultry or game, 6 mushrooms, 1 egg, 2 oz. bread-crumbs, \ dessertspoonful of aromatic seasoning, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 of chopped chives, 1 carrot, 1 onion, 3 cloves, 2 shallots, a bouquet of herbs, 2 glasses red roine, 1 gill brown stock, 4 pint brown sauce, larding-bacon, 4 oz. lean bacon, pepper and salt. Skin, draw, wash, and wipe the hare ; cut out some of the fleshy parts from the sides or underneath, where it will show least, clean and wash the liver and heart; chop these and the flesh cut out very finely, chop likewise the cooked game or poultry, previously freed from skin, bone, and gristle, also the mushrooms ; peel and chop the shallots. Put the chopped ingredients in a basin, add the bread- crumbs, aromatic seasoning, parsley, and chives; mix well and moisten with the egg. Stuff the hare with this, and truss and skewer it. Lard the breast and sides with strips of larding-bacon, cut the lean bacon, carrot, and onion into slices and put into a saute- pan or braisiere, add the cloves and bouquet garni. Place the hare in the pan, moisten with the wine and stock, cover with buttered paper, and braise in a moderately-heated oven for two hours; baste occasionally. During the last half-hour add the sauce, previously heated. Take out the hare, remove the skewers and string and put on a hot dish, strain the sauce into a stewpan, skim off the fat, season with pepper and salt to taste, let simmer for a few minutes. Pour the sauce over the hare, or, if preferred, serve it separately in a sauce-boat. A garniture of quenelles godiveau (No. 401) and mushroom-heads and truffles dressed in groups round the dish will improve the dish, especially if served as a remove. 1234. JBecasses aux Huitves—One brace of woodcocks, 18 oysters, 3 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. bread-crumbs, 1 oz. butter, ^ gill cream, lemon-juice, pepper and salt, mace, ■§• pint demi-glace (No. 237). Pick, draw, and wipe the woodcocks, beard the oysters, and cut them into quarters. Mix the bread-crumbs with the egg-yolks, the cream, and butter, add a few drops of lemon-juice, a pinch of ground mace, and pepper and salt to taste; mix with the oysters and stuff the birds with this ; sew up and truss for roasting. Put the birds in a roasting-tin with a little dripping and bake in a quick oven from thirty to forty minutes; baste occasionally. When done untruss, dish up on two pieces of toasted bread, and serve with demi-glace sauce. 1235. JPerdreaux rdtis d VJEspagnole (Boast Partridge, Spanish Style).—Procure a pair of partridges ready trussed for roasting. Put two well-wiped Gorgona anchovies into the body of each bird. Line a small roasting-tin with a few rashers of bacon, put a layer of sliced tomatoes on top, place in the partridges. Add sufficient salt and pepper to season, also a few sprigs of parsley, baste well with oiled butter, and roast in the oven for a good half-