THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 200 mortar, pass through a sieve, put back to the mortar, season with salt and aromatic spice, chopped parsley, mushrooms, and onions (a tea- spoonful of each) : mix with a small handful of fresh bread-crumbs, work all well for a few minutes longer, bind with two well-beaten eggs. This, like all other forcemeat, should be first tried in boiling- water, and, if firm, light, and well flavoured, it is ready for use. 403. Farce de Volatile (Chicken Forcemeat).—\ lb. raw chicken meat, 1 oz. flour, 1 oz. butter, } gill chicken stock, 1 egg, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Boil the stock and butter, stir in the flour ; cook for 6 minutes, stirring all the time ; the mixture should then appear quite smooth. This is a panade. Spread it on a plate to cool. Free the chicken from skin and sinews, cut up small, and pound in a mortar until smooth. Add the panade, a little at a time, the egg, and a little cream if liked. Mix thoroughly, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Put the whole through a fine sieve. Test the consistency of the forcemeat before shaping into quenelles &c. Use as directed. 404. Farce de Gibier (Game Forcemeat).—1 lb. raw game, free from skin, bones, and gristle, \ lb. lean fresh pork, ^ pint well- reduced game sauce, 1 yolk of egg, 1 chopped shallot, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 bay-leaf finely chopped, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg. Cut the game and pork into small pieces and pound in a mortar till smooth; add the yolk of egg, chopped shallot, parsley and bay- leaf and sauce, work it till perfectly fine, season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, rub through a fine wire sieve, and use as directed. 405. Farce de Fa lsa a {Pheasant Forcemeat).—Put in a mortar | lb. of pheasant freed from bone and skin, pound well, and add 2 tablespoonfuls of reduced Espagnole sauce (No. 236), a wine- glassful of sherry, 2 oz. of foie gras, 1 oz. of panade, 1 egg, and 2 oz. of sausage-meat. Work well, season with pepper and salt and a little aromatic spice, and pass all through a fine sieve. If you find the farce too stiff, work in a little cream or more sauce. Some chopped truffles may be introduced after the farce is passed through the sieve. 406. Farce de Foie de Veau {Liver Farce).—% lb. calf’s liver, £ lb. bacon, 1 small carrot, 1 small turnip, 1 small bunch savoury herbs, 1 small onion, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Cut up the bacon and fry it. Slice the liver and fry with the bacon, chop the vegetables fine and put with the liver, add herbs, and season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Stir over the fire until sufficiently cooked. Remove the herbs and pound the rest in a mortar. Then run through a fine sieve. The farce is then ready for use. 407. Farce de Champignons {Mushroom Forcemeat or