482 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Cook for twenty minutes in the oven, dish up, and sprinkle over with grated Parmesan cheese. 1494. Nouilles au Graf in.—Prepare a stiff but smoothly kneaded paste with half a pound of flour, half an ounce of butter, three yolks of eggs, and a pinch of salt. Allow the paste to stand for at least one hour; then roll out as thinly as possible, fold the pieces rolled out, and cut the paste crossways into narrow strips about an eighth of an inch thick. Loosen the strips (shake them up and dredge with a little flour), put the nouilles into a pan of fast boiling salted water, and boil for about eight minutes; then drain and let cool. Butter a gratin dish ; spread over a little white sauce, then a layer of nouilles ; sprinkle over some grated cheese and a few drops of oiled butter, cover with sauce, and continue thus until the nouilles are used up. See that the last layer is well masked with white sauce ; sprinkle over with bread-crumbs, place a few tiny bits of butter here and there on top of the crumbs, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. The dish is then ready for serving. 1495. JPain de Semoule d la Tomate.—3 oz. semolina or fiorador, 1 pint milk, ^ pint tomato pulp, 2 eggs, 3 fresh tomatoes, 1 bay-leaf, 1 small blade mace, 1 oz. grated cheese, 1 piece celery, pepper and salt, 1 oz. butter, ^ oz. corn-flour. Put half a pint of milk into a stewpan, add bay-leaf, mace, and celery. When boiling stir in the semolina or fiorador, work this over the fire until it thickens ; then add the grated cheese, half an ounce of butter, and half a gill of tomato pulp. Season to taste, stir, and cook gently for at least ten minutes. Take out the bay-leaf, mace, and celery; let the mixture cool a little. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, stir the yolks into the mixture, beat the whites to a stiff froth and add also. Have ready one large or several small well- buttered timbale moulds. Blanch, peel, and slice the tomatoes. Three parts fill the mould or moulds with the mixture, add the sliced tomatoes in layers between the mixture. Put the moulds in a saute- pan containing a little boiling water, cover them with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for at least thirty minutes. Mix the remainder of the milk with the corn-flour, pour into a stewpan, add the remainder of tomato pulp, boil up while stirring, season to taste, and cook for five minutes. Unmould the pain on to a hot dish, strain over the prepared sauce, and serve. 1496. Raviolis a Vltalienne.—£ lb. flour, 2 or' 3 yolks of eggs, salt and pepper, about 6 oz. fish or liver farce, 1J gill good tomato sauce, 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, % oz. butter. Sift the flour on to a paste-board, make a well in the centre of the flour, add a pinch of salt, mix in the yolks of eggs and a little water, and work it to a stiff paste ; this must be kneaded thoroughly for at least ten minutes ; it must be stiff and yet of an elastic texture. Roll out the paste as thinly as possible, stamp out some rounds about the size of half a crown piece, put about a teaspoonful of farce (liver