577 ENTREMETS SAVOVREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. 1838. Petites Croutes a la Colmar (Small Savoury Croutes with Ham).—10 to 12 small croutes of bread, fried in clarified butter or lard, 3 large Gorgona anchovies (boned), 2 hard- boiled eggs, 3 oz. fresh butter, a dust of Nepaulor paprika pepper, a few sprigs of parsley, tarragon, and chervil, 2 or 3 thin slices of cooked ham. Pound the anchovies in a mortar, add to it the yolks of the hard- boiled eggs and the butter, mix well, season with a dust of pepper, chop the parsley and other herbs finely (a teaspoonful in all), and add to the mixture, rub this through a fine sieve and put it in a forcing-bag with a rose pipe. Stamp out the slices of ham to the size of the croutes, allowing one for each, place these on the croutes, force the prepared mixture tastefully on top of the ham, garnish each croute with hard-boiled white of egg (rubbed through a coarse wire sieve). Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. If the savoury puree is desired a deeper pink a few drops of liquid carmine should be mixed with it before it is passed through the sieve. 1839. Petites Pains de Crevettes.—\ pint picked shrimps, 1 gill cream, 1 gill brown stock, 2 eggs, 1 dessertspoonful chutney, 3 Spanish olives, 2 French gherkins, cayenne, and salt. Put shrimps, chutney, gherkins, and olives (stoned) in a mortar, and pound until very fine ; then add the stock. Beat up the cream until stiff. Bub shrimps &c. through a fine sieve, mix with the cream, season with a pinch of cayenne and salt. Have ready six or eight very small timbale or dariole shaped moulds, butter these well, dust with bread-crumbs (panurette is best to use for this purpose).. Put the moulds in a saute-pan three-parts filled with boiling water, cover with buttered paper, steam for about twenty minutes; then turn out and serve with sauce ruisseau (No. 275). 1840. Anchois d la Vatel.—10 or 12 Gorgona anchovies, \ lb. chicken forcemeat, a teaspoonful of finely chopped fine herbs (parsley, tarragon, and chervil—of the latter tivo only a very small quantity), about \ a teaspoonful of chopped shallot, £ oz. of butter, 6 small preserved mushrooms, a glass of white wine, a tablespoon- ful of brown bread-crumbs, 10 or 12 fingers of toasted bread, | oz. of grated cheese. Wipe the anchovies carefully with a cloth, open the middle of each without dividing them entirely in halves ; trim off the head and tail portions, remove the backbone. Mix the forcemeat with the chopped herbs and shallot, and fill the inside of the anchovies with this; press the fish together and put. into shape. Butter a round silver or fireproof china dish, put each fish on a finger of toasted bread, and arrange them neatly on the dish so as to form a pleasing pattern. Chop the mushrooms very finely, sprinkle over the fish ; put the grated cheese and bread-crumbs in a similar way over the surface, place the remaining butter in little bits here and there ;