THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 274 709. Poitrine d’Agneau farcie a la Very. -Boned breast of lamb, stuffed with veal forcemeat and braised, served with French beans, sauted or tossed in butter. Serve with demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 710. Langues d’Agneau a la Duxelle.—Boiled sheeps’ tongues, cutinto halves and spread over with a mixture of bread-crumbs, chopped shallots, parsley and mushrooms, butter and egg-yolks. Dressed on a dish, sauced over with Duxelle sauce (No. 313), and baked in the oven (gratin style). 711. Carbonades de JKouton d la Wantaise.—3 or 4 lbs. best end of neck of mutton or a piece of loin, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 small onion, 1 bouquet garni (No. 2), f pint Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 2 oz. butter, 1 glass port, 24 small stuffed onions, \ pint green peas (cooked), salt, pepper, larding bacon. Bone the meat, pare off all the fat, cut into quarter-inch-thick slices, flatten each a little, trim, and lard with strips of fat bacon. Prepare the vegetables, cut carrot, turnip, and onion into slices, and put in a saute-pan with the butter and bouquet; season and broil a few minutes over a quick fire, put in the larded fillets, let brown slightly on both sides ; drain off the fat, add half a pint of sauce and a glass of port wine, cover and cook slowly in the oven for twenty minutes; take up the fillets, drain and dish up in a row on a small border of mashed potatoes or puree of peas. Free the sauce from its fat, strain into a small stewpan, add the remainder of Espagnole, boil up and moisten the stuffed onions, previously prepared, with this sauce. Dress the latter with the green peas in alternate rows round, the base of the dish. Sauce over a little, and serve the remainder of the sauce in a sauce-boat. 712. Cotelettes de Moutondla Bretonne.—6 cutlets cut from the best end of a neck of mutton, 2 small onions, ^ pint well cooked haricot beans, 2 oz. butter, salt and pepper, brown sauce. Trim and pare the cutlets neatly, fry them in a saute-pan with the butter, turn them frequently .to brown both sides, take up, strain, and keep hot. Mince the onions (peeled), and fry these a golden colour in the butter left from the cutlets ; pour off some of the butter and put in the haricot beans, cook these together for about ten minutes, stir frequently, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a little brown sauce, and rub through a wire sieve. Re-heat, keep up in the centre of a dish, dress the cutlets round the puree, and serve with some rich brown sauce. 713. Cdtelettes de Mouton d la Byron.— Cut, trim, and flatten six or more large mutton cutlets, insert in equal proportion with a larding needle, across the lean part, some strips of raw ham and larding bacon. Put the cutlets in a stewpan with the trimming (but no fat), a small sliced carrot, half an onion stuck with a clove, and a slice of parsley root or celery. Add a quart of mutton stock, season with pepper and salt, and allow to cook slowly for about an