ENTREES CHAUDES DE VIANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) 285 pepper, put them in a hot oven until they take colour, then add the wine and stock, cover with a buttered paper, and continue cooking in the oven until the fillets are tender. Take out the fillets, remove the fat from the mirepoix, add the brown sauce, and cook over the fire for ten minutes. Skim and strain. Prepare the macedoine of vegetables with some carrots, turnips, cut with a vegetable scoop, together with some French beans and peas ; cook separately in salted water, strain, and moisten with bechamel sauce; season to taste, and fill up the artichoke bottoms in a pile ; place them on a saute-pan in the oven to get hot. Cook the egg-plants, cut into thick slices when cold, egg, crumb, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Have ready some cooked rice, nicely seasoned, put a layer of the rice in the centre of an oblong dish, dress the fillets neatly on this, surround with filled artichoke bottoms and fried egg-plant. Pour a little of the sauce, which should be well reduced, over the fillets, and serve the remainder separately. This dish can also be served by leaving the fillet whole, proceeding exactly as described. 764. Cc&urs de Filets de Beeuf d la Car erne.—Cut six to eight half-inch-thick slices from a fillet of beef (middle cut), flatten them a little, and trim closely into round shapes ; season them with salt and pepper. Insert the thin blade of a knife into each fillet, and make an incision sufficiently large to receive a slice of truffled foie gras pate. This done, insert the foie gras. Melt about one and a half ounces of butter in a saute-pan, when hot put the fillets in and saute them over a quick fire, adding during this process a finely-chopped shallot, and fry a light-brown colour. The shallots must not be fried too soon, else they will become too dark before the fillets are sufficiently cooked. Have ready a pint of cooked asparagus points, finished in a little butter and nicely seasoned, also about a gill of Perigord sauce (No. 243). Dress the fillets on croutes in a circle in the centre of a round dish, sauce over carefully with Perigord sauce, put the asparagus points in the centre of the dish, and serve. 765. Filets de Bceuf d la Chateaubriand.—3 double fillets, each weighing about 16 oz., sweet oil, Parisienne potatoes {No. 767), maitre d’hdtel butter {No. 324), Chateaubriand sauce (No. 250), seasoning. The name Chateaubriand is given to a double fillet, cut from the centre of a fillet of beef, the weight varying from sixteen to twenty ounces. Trim and pare the fillets neatly, and flatten slightly so that each is about three-quarters of an inch thick. Season with salt and pepper, baste freely with oil, and broil them over a slow but regular fire from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to requirement—if wanted rare sixteen minutes will suffice. Range them on a hot dish and serve with maitre d’hotel butter, or surround with Parisienne potatoes and pour Chateaubriand sauce over the meat and serve. The latter is the correct way if the above-named dish is required. A Chateau- briand plain is served with maitre d’hotel butter only.