513 ENTREM.ETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) with a few fancifully cut slices of pine-apple, and serve with a sweet sauce or syrup. 1601. Ponding Souffle d la Par men tier.—Wash six large potatoes, bake them in their skins in the oven; when done, break the skin, scoop out the floury part of the potatoes, rub through a sieve. To every half-pound of puree mix two ounces of finely sifted sugar, two ounces of butter, half-pint of boiling cream, and the rind of half a lemon, finely chopped. Beat the mixture with a wooden spoon until perfectly smooth, add three to four yolks of eggs, beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth ; butter and flour a souffle-tin, fasten a paper band, well oiled, round the top, to prevent the mixture overflowing, bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in a well-heated oven, and serve as soon as ready ; turn out. * 1602. Ponding Souffle auoc Framboises.—| lb. ripe rasp- berries, 4 eggs, 2 oz. cake-crumbs or fresh bread-crumbs, 2 oz. caster sugar, 2 oz. fecula, or creme de riz, ^ oz. butter, ^ gill cream. Pick the stalks from the raspberries, put them in a basin with the cream, and mash up small; add the sugar and crumbs. Separate the yolks of eggs from the whites, put the fecula or creme de riz in a basin, stir into this the egg-yolks ; when smooth add to the mixture, whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix gradually with the above. Have ready a well-buttered charlotte mould, lined with buttered paper. Bake in a hot oven for about twenty-five minutes. As soon as cooked the pudding should be sent to table. Serve a suitable sauce or syrup along with the pudding. 1603. Ponding Souffle aux Amandes {Burnt Almond Plodding).—\ pint milk, 1 dessertspoonful creme de riz, a pinch of ground cinnamon, 1 oz. burnt almonds, 4 pint cream, 6 yolks of eggs, 1^ oz. vanilla sugar. Put the milk and cream in a stewpan, and allow to come to the boil, pound the almonds and put into the milk, then add one ounce of vanilla sugar, stir in the yolks of eggs and the mixed creme de riz ; whisk the whole over a gentle fire, in order to bind the eggs: this must be done without allowing the mixture to boil, else it will curdle. Pour this into a well-buttered plated souffle dish, sprinkle over with a pinch of ground cinnamon and sufficient vanilla sugar to cover the surface. Put the dish in a brisk oven for about ten minutes, so that the surface gets browned; then serve quickly. If the oven is not hot enough to brown the. top, hold the dish under a salamander for a few seconds. Note.—Corn-flour, potato flour, or Vienna flour may be used in place of creme de riz. L L