THE NEW CENTUBY COOKERY BOOK 328 Partly roast the ducks, let cool and divide into neat joints. Spread the butter in a flat stewpan or saute-pan, lay in the onion and carrot, previously peeled and cut in slices, also the bouquet garni; put in the pieces of duck, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, cook in a hot oven for about ten minutes, pour off the butter. Moisten with the stock, wine, Espagnole, and tomato sauce, cover with the lid, and let it simmer gently for about three parts of an hour or longer. Take out the pieces of duck, place them in another stewpan, skim the sauce, and strain over the duck. Cut the ox-tongue, mushrooms, and truffles into Julienne shape, put with the above, and simmer for another ten minutes. Put a fried bread croute in the centre of a hot dish, fix it with a little batter, or a little flour and water mixed will do ; if you have no batter handy, put in the oven a few minutes. Dress the pieces of duck and garnishing artistically on and around the croutes, and sauce over gently. Decorate with a few fleurons of puff-paste, previously dipped in a little liquid meat glaze, and serve hot. 914. Ccinavd en Chemise.—Bone a duck, split it open, and spread with a nicely-seasoned liver farce, roll up like a galantine, and tie up in a cloth. Cook in rich stock for forty or fifty minutes, according to size. (The duck must be done rare, almost under- done.) Remove the cloth and braise in the oven for another ten minutes. Serve with orange sauce (No. 259) or Rouennaise sauce (No. 264). 915. Canard grille a la JEranqaise.—Divide a duck down the middle, rub over with a mixture of French mustard, chutney sauce, and seasoning, and broil gently in butter Serve with brown sauce containing white wine, chopped pickled lemons, and preserved musnrooms. 916. Ca neton a la Cain haceres.—1 duckling, trussed for braising, a mirepoix, consisting of bacon, carrot, onion, bay-leaf and herbs, 1 tablespoonful sour cream, 1 oz. butter, 1 large cooked beetroot, 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 gill Espagnole sauce (No. 236), salt and pepper, paprika. Arrange the mirepoix in a braising-pan (copper, or fireproof earthenware), fry it a light brown, place in the duckling, and cook over a brisk fire till the outside of the bird has acquired a golden colour. Place it in the oven for fifteen minutes, then take up, and cut the duckling into small joints. Put the carcass and joints into the pan, add the tomato and Espagnole sauces, season to taste, and let simmer gently for about twenty minutes. Dress the duckling on a croute of fried bread on a dish, and keep hot. While the cooking of the duckling goes on saute (toss) the beetroot, cut into Julienne shapes (strips) in butter, season to taste, and surround the dish with this. Strain the sauce, remove the fat, add the cream, and let reduce to the desired consistency. Pour some of the sauce over the dish and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat.