THE NEW GENTUIiY COOKERY BOOK 506 these, then fill it with alternate layers of slices of sponge cakes, macaroons, and ratafias. Beat up the eggs, mix with the milk, cream, and wine, flavour with vanilla. Pour this into the mould, cover with buttered paper, and let it stand for about an hour. Steam for two hours, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with German sauce or fruit syrup. This pudding is exceedingly nice served cold, in which case it should be garnished with more fruit, and. sent to table with a border of whipped sweetened cream dressed round the base of the pudding. 1576. Ponding a la Schiller.—Prepare about twelve thin pancakes made in the usual manner. Line a cylindrical-shaped mould, well buttered, with a layer of pancakes. Cover one side of the remainder of pancakes with raspberry jam or apricot marmalade, roll up each, and cut into inch pieces, and range them in the mould as neatly as possible, with halves of cherries or apricots laid in between the rows of pancakes. Mix five yolks of eggs with a pint of milk, add three to four ounces of caster sugar, half a teaspoonful of vanilla essence; pour into the mould, stand the mould in a saute-pan with boiling water, cover with buttered paper, and finish cooking in the oven. It will take about forty-five minutes to cook. When done turn out. Coat the whole with apricot marmalade, and send to table with some kind of custard or other light sweet sauce. 1577. Ponding a la St. Jean.—£ lb. chopped suet, ^ lb. preserved pine-apple, 2 oz. preserved ginger, \ lb. glace pears, 8 oz. soft bread-crumbs, ^ lb. sponge-cake crumbs, 1 lemon, ^ glass Madeira, ^ glass St. James's rum, 5 eggs, 2 oz,. caster sugar, \ gill milk or cream. Have ready the suet finely chopped, the pine-apple cut into small dice, ginger and pears chopped finely, and put into a basin with the cake and bread-crumbs. Moisten with the wine, rum, and juice of the lemon, add the sugar and the rind of half a lemon, finely chopped. Beat up the eggs thoroughly, and mix with the above. Butter a pudding-mould, dust with flour, pour in the preparation, tie over with a buttered paper or cloth, and steam from two to three hours. Remove the paper or cloth, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with sauce sabayon, No. 381. 1578. Ponding d la Victoria.—| lb. beef suet, 4 oz. fresh bread-crumbs, 3 oz. flour, 4 oz. apples, peeled and cored, 4 oz. apricot jam, 2 oz. mixed peel, 3 oz. dried cherries, 3 oz. sugar, 4 eggs, 1 glass brandy, 1^ gill cream. Free the suet from skin and fibre, chop finely, dry and sift the flour, chop the peeled and cored apples finely, and shred the peel. Put these ingredients into a basin, add the cherries cut into quarters, also the remainder of dry ingredients, and jam. Mix thoroughly. Beat up the eggs, and mix with the cream; stir this into the basin and work well, adding the brandy last of all. Fill the mixture into a well-buttered mould, cover with a buttered paper, or tie over with a