133 HOBS D'CEUVRE (APPETISERS) Place half a stoned Spanish olive in the centre of each, curl a strip of anchovy fillet or lax round each olive, strew a few shreds of corni- chons (pickled French gherkins) round the olives, dish up, and serve. 76. Sandwiches d la Bernh ardt.—\ lb. cold meat, lean veal, beef or mutton, 2 oz. fresh mutton, 1 teaspoonful mustard, 1 table- spoonful American tomato chutney, 1 teaspoonful Mango chiotney, 2 small shallots, pepper and salt, mustard and cress, white or .brown bread and butter, parsley. Remove all skin and fat from the meat, cut it into small pieces and put it in a mortar, with an ounce of butter: pound till quite smooth, then add the mustard (mixed), tomato, and mango chutney. Peel and chop finely the shallots, fry them a very pale colour in the remainder of butter, and mix with the above. Season to taste, and rub the whole through a wire sieve. Cut the bread into thin slices, butter them lightly and spread the buttered side with the pre- pared puree, sprinkle some mustard and cress over half the slices, place them together in the usual manner, press them a little, and cut into round, square, or half-moon shapes. Arrange them neatly on a folded napkin or dish-paper, on a plate or dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. 77. Swedish Sandwiches.—Chop finely 1 gherkin, 6 stoned olives, and 1 teaspoonful capers, and mix with i gill stiff mayonnaise sauce (No. 277). Cut some thin slices of bread, butter them, spread half the number of slices of bread (buttered sides) with the above mixture, and spread the remainder of slices with cream cheese (bondons or petit Suisse). Sprinkle over each slice a pinch of cayenne or Nepaul pepper, press the slices (spread sides) together in pairs, cut the pieces into rounds, triangles, ovals or fingers, dish up, garnish, and serve. 78. Appetissants d la Suedoise.—4 slices of stale broion ■bread, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 1J oz. butter, 1 oz. anchovy paste, 4 Spanish olives, 2 gherkins, cooked beetroot, 4 slices preserved lax. Have the slices of bread about half an inch thick. Cut them into triangle shapes, trim down to a convenient size. Hollow out the centre of each by means of a sharp-pointed knife. Fry these in clarified butter a nice golden colour, and drain. Mix the yolks of hard-boiled eggs, butter, and anchovy paste in a mortar, fill the cavity of triangles when cold with this puree. Cut the hard-boiled whites of eggs, gherkins, and beetroot into small •strips. Stone the olives, cut in halves, and fill each with some of the above puree, place half a slice of preserved lax, neatly shaped, on top of this, and arrange the strips of gherkin, egg, and beetroot alter- nately crosswise on each triangle so as to form a lattice pattern. Put a half of filled olive in the centre of each, garnish with a few -sprigs of parsley, and dish up. 79. Nids d la Chartres.—2 hard-boiled eggs, oz. butter, 4 teaspoonful made mustard, 1 small tin or terrine foie-gras, salt ■and pepper, stale bread.