316 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 871. His de Veau d la Toulouse.—Braised larded sweet- bread, served with slices of sweetbread, truffles, chicken quenelles, cocks’ combs, prepared in Allemande sauce (No. 204). Garnish with fancy shapes of fried bread croutons. 872. IHs de Veau a la Louis JPhilippe.—1 large or 2 small sweetbreads, 6 oz. ham, 1 oz. blotter, 1 oz. parsley butter, 8 mush- rooms, 1 small onion, 1 teaspoonful powdered herbs, 2 tablespoonfuls bread-crumbs, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 large truffle, 6 oysters, pepper, and salt, i pint sauce Madere (No. 237a). Soak the sweetbread in cold water, blanch it, and remove the skin and gristle, and cut in slices, about half an inch thick. Chop the ham and mushrooms finely, add the onion, finely chopped, bread-crumbs, and powdered savoury herbs, and mix with the egg-yolks and parsley butter ; season with pepper and salt, and cover the slices of sweetbread completely with this mixture. Place each on a square piece of buttered paper, or if preferred in a butter paper or china case ; put a slice of truffle and a bearded oyster on top ; wrap up neatly if paper is used. Melt a little butter in a saute- pan, put in the papillotes, and bake in the oven for fifteen minutes. Dish up in the papers, on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a boat of sauce Madere. If cases are used, put a tiny piece of butter on top of each, and bake in the oven. 873. His de Veau d la Milanaise (Sweetbread, Milanaise Style).— 1 pair heart sweetbreads, larding-bacon, a mirepoix, a few slices of carrot and turnip, onion, savoury herbs, and bacon trimmings, 1 pint rich white stock, seasoning, demi-glace sauce (No. 237), 1 gill sherry for garnish, 3 oz. macaroni (Spaghetti), 1 bread croustade, 1 oz. grated Parmesan, 1 oz. butter, 1 truffle, 1 oz. cooked ox-tongue, 6 mushrooms, 1 gill Allemande (No. 204) or veloutee (No. 206) sauce. Soak the sweetbreads in cold water for a few hours, parboil till firm, cool, drain and place them between two boards to press. Trim neatly and lard the best side with strips of lar,ding-bacon. Put them in a sautoir on a bed of carrot, onion, herbs, &c. (being the mirepoix as above stated), season with salt, pepper, and aromatic spices (epice culinaire), moisten with the stock and wine. Let it come to a boil, then cover with buttered paper, and finish cooking in a moderate oven. This will take from forty to fifty minutes—frequent basting is very essential. Remove the fat from the stock, take out the sweetbreads, reduce stock, after being strained, to a half-glaze, glaze the sweetbreads, and place on a fried bread croustade on a dish, and keep hot. Heat up the garniture, dress the latter neatly round the base of the dish, and serve with demi-glace sauce. To prepare the garniture Milanaise, break the macaroni into one- inch lengths, and cook till tender in slightly salted water, cool, and drain. Heat up the sauce (Allemande or veloutee), add the grated cheese, and add the macaroni to this. Place a few tiny bits of