845 ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES) 1 egg, 1 gill of rich veal broth {or chicken-broth made from chicken bones), aromatic seasoning. Bone the chicken or pullet in the ordinary way, but do not remove the leg bones. Line with slices of bacon, spread with a layer of forcemeat, previously mixed with a yolk of egg, introducing here and there some thick slices of truffles and slices of cooked ham. Sprinkle with some aromatic seasoning. Cut the foie gras into slices, lay in between the ham and truffles, cover with the remainder of forcemeat. Take up the two ends, fold tightly, and sew up with string. Wrap up the stuffed chicken in a piece of buttered paper. Put the prepared mirepoix (No. 10) in deep saute-pan or braisiere, fry a little, put in the chicken. Add the bouquet garni, wine and stock, or broth. Cook in the oven for about one and a half hour or more, according to the size of the chicken used. Baste well from time to time*. When done take out the chicken, remove the paper and string, cut up in slices, or dress it whole on a hot dish, and serve with Cardinal sauce (No. 218). 974. Cdtelettes de Volatile d la {Richelieu.—1 chicken, 1 tin foie gras {about 6 oz.), 4 oz. fat pork, aromatic spice, pepper and salt, pig's caul, 3 or 4 fresh mushrooms, 4 oz. butter, 1 truffle, bread-crumbs, 1 egg, demi-glace sauce {No. 237), morilles. Remove the fillets of chicken, flatten them, and cut out about ten nice rounds, the size of a four-shilling piece. Pound in a mortar about six oz. of chicken meat free from skin and gristle, cut up the pork and foie gras, pound each separately, then mix well. Season with pepper, salt, and aromatics, and rub the whole through a fine wire sieve. Chop finely the fresh mushrooms (these being previously peeled and trimmed), broil them slightly in some butter over a brisk fire, cut the caul into pieces large enough to envelop a cutlet; put each piece of caul over a cutlet-shaped mould (you will need eight or ten of these). Put a tablespoonful of the prepared farce on the centre of each piece of caul, spread out the farce, now put a chicken fillet on top of this, then a few chopped and broiled mush- rooms, a thin slice of truffle, and finish up with a further layer of farce. Fold in the pig's caul, press the whole lightly into the moulds, so as to obtain correct cutlet shapes. Beat up an egg, add to it an ounce of liquid butter, also a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, mix thoroughly ; coat the cutlets with this, then dip in fresh bread- crumbs. Endeavour to keep the cutlets in neat shapes while crumbing. Fry them in hot butter a nice colour, dish up on a narrow border of mashed potatoes, fill up the centre with broiled morilles or fresh mushrooms, and serve with demi-glace sauce. 975. Rains de Volatile a la Creole.—10 to 12 oz. raw chicken, freed from skin and bone, 2 oz. calves' liver, 4 oz. foie gras, 1 small bouquet garni {No. 2), 2 shallots, 1 gill white stock, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. ground rice, 3 eggs, £ gill milk, 4 gill cream, salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, sauce Italienne {No. 239).