148 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK with the consomme (clarified beef broth) and about a pint of water, and cook slowly for one hour. Wash and pick the sorrel and chervil,and cut into fine shreds. Add this to the soup, and cook a few minutes longer. Remove the scum. Cut the bread-crust into dice and toast slightly; put these in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. 131. Consomme a la Madrid.—Clarify an equal quantity of ■ chicken and beef broth (stock) in the usual manner, add 4 small ripe tomatoes cut into slices to each quart of consomme, and boil < gently for 20 minutes. Strain and serve with a few sprigs of chervil- leaves. This consomme should be of a pinkish tint, and may be served hot or cold. 132. Consomme d la Conde.—Clarified game stock, garnished with very small quenelles of haricot bean puree and cooked partridge fillets, cut into fine shreds, Julienne strips. 133. Consomm e printanier a ax Quenelles.—The garni- ture for this consomme consists of almost any kind of spring vege- tables, such as asparagus tips, French beans, buds of cauliflower, peas, cucumbers, young carrots and turnips, celery, &c., all cut or scooped out in lozenge shapes, balls, or olive shapes. The vegetables are cooked separately in salted water, and when done, strained and mixed together, seasoned with a small jfiece of butter, pepper and salt, and a pinch of sugar. The quenelles are made with chicken force- meat shaped either round or oblong. The quantity served is about a quarter of that of the vegetable garnishing; they are poached in salted water, drained, and put in the consomme with the vegetables. For a plain Consomme Printanier serve the vegetable garnishing with the consomme, omitting the quenelles. 134. Consomme Nesselrode. 2 quarts of consomme, 1 doz. chestnuts, 3 yolks of eggs, \ gill game stock, 1 glass Madeira wine, pepper and salt. Skin the chestnuts, and boil in water or milk until tender; rub through a sieve, mix with the yolk of egg and game stock, season with pepper and salt, and fill into a number of well-buttered olive- shaped moulds ; poach them in the oven for ten minutes, let them cool a little, then turn out and place them in a soup-tureen; add the wine to the consomme, season to taste, and let it boil for a few minutes, and pour gently in the tureen. It is then ready for serving. 135. Consomme a la Dubourg.—The garniture for this con- somme consists of Royal (No. 95.), plainly-cooked rice, and cooked green peas, in equal proportions. 136. Consomme d l’Imperiale.—B quarts of consomme \ lb. raw or cooked chicken meat, 2 whites and 1 yolk of egg, 1 table- spoonful of cream, 1 tablespoonful of bechamel sauce, 2 oz.fat bacon or shred beef suet, about 1 gill white stock, pepper and salt, 3 small carrots, a handful asparagus points. Prepare the consomme in the usual way. Butter a, small flat tin