212 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK CHAPTER XVIII DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT). 496. Bouillabaisse.—1 red mullet, 1 whiting, a small eel, a small lobster, 6 mussels, 1 sole, 2 small onions, a gill of oil, an ounce of butter, a quart of fish stock, a bouquet garni (No. 2), 2 cloves, a clove of garlic, 3 small tomatoes, \ gill of claret, a pinch of Spanish saffron, salt and pepper, cayenne, a crotcte of bread and parsley. Peel and slice the onions, heat the oil in a stewpan and brown the onions, pour off a little of the oil, add the fish stock, claret, the bouquet garni, cloves, also the garlic finely bruised or minced ; dilute the saffron in a little water, and add to the stock. Trim and clean all the fish, cut it into convenient pieces (the sole may be filleted to come in better for garnish ; the mussels are prepared in the usual way). Season the fish with salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne, and one of saffron. Put all the fish into the stewpan containing the stock, and let cook slowly for about twenty minutes. Remove the stalks from the tomatoes, cut them in halves crossways. Squeeze out gently some of the juice, broil them in the butter, and keep warm. Have ready the bread croute, which must be trimmed according to the size of dish used for serving; fry it a golden colour in oil or fat, fix it in the centre of a deep dish by means of white of egg or frying butter. Skim the fat off the fish, and when ready arrange the pieces neatly on and around the crouton, garnish with the tomatoes and parsley, and send to table very hot, with some of the liquor well skimmed and strained. 497. Cotelettes de Saumon d I’Indienne (Salmon Cutlets).—2 to 2| lbs. middle cut of salmon, 2 oz. butter, about \pint of piccalilli or mixed pickles, 1 gill Indian sauce (No. 261), 1 egg, a few small lobster claws, bread-crumbs, pepper and salt. Slit the pieces of salmon down the back in two, take out the bone, remove the skin, and divide each half into three or four cutlet-like pieces. Trim neatly and season with pepper and salt, egg and crumb each cutlet twice. Melt the butter in a saute-pan ; when hot (not burning), range the cutlets in this pan and fry rather briskly on both sides. Drain carefully on paper or a cloth, insert small lobster claws in the ends, dish up in a circle on a thick or thin border of mashed potatoes. Have ready the piccalilli cut into fine julienne strips and heated up in the sauce. Put this garnish in the centre of the dish, pour the same round the cutlets, and serve.