353 ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES) cook both separately in salted water, rub the spinach through a sieve; cut off the soft portions of the asparagus and pass through a sieve ; mix both purees together. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix with the forcemeat. Divide the vegetable puree into two lots, add a yolk of egg and some forcemeat to one and rather more force- meat to the other, so as to give both two different shades of green, resembling asparagus-tops. Butter thoroughly an asparagus mould, fill up with the darker green puree, then the lighter green, and lastly the white forcemeat. Place the mould in a stewpan containing some hot water, cover with a buttered paper, and cook for about one hour or more. When done, turn out on a hot dish. Pour some hot supreme sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. The same dish may be served cold, omitting the supreme sauce and adding a garniture of aspic jelly. 994. Timbale Tarinoise.—b lb. macaroni (boiled), | lb. cooked chicken or rabbit meat, 4 oz. cooked ham, 4 oz. ox-tongue, 6 to 8 preserved mushrooms, 1 oz. butter,, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 1 gill white sauce, ^ gill cream, 1 teaspoonful finely grated lemon-rind, 2 eggs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, demi-glace (No. 237) or Madbre (No. 237 a) sauce. Line a well-buttered timbale mould or ordinary pudding basin with the macaroni. Do this carefully, so that the shape resembles a bee-hive when it is turned out. Cut the remainder of macaroni into short pieces, cut all the meats into Julienne strips or shreds, also the mushrooms. Put these in a stewpan with the butter, stir till hot; add the grated cheese, the white sauce, and the cream ; heat up well without allowing it to actually boil ; then stir in the eggs, previously beaten, and continue stirring over the fire until the mix- ture begins to set. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg and the lemon-rind. Fill the lined mould with this, cover with a piece of buttered paper, stand it in a stewpan half filled with boiling water, and cook in a brisk oven for about half an hour. Turn out on to a hot dish, pour some hot demi-glace or sauce Madere round, and serve. 995. JPillaff de Vola tile (Chicken Pillau).—1 chicken or small fowl, 1 carrot, 6 black peppercorns, 1 piece of green ginger (tohole), 1 blade of mace, 3 oz. butter, 1 to 2 lbs. scrag end of mutton, 3 small onions, 1 clove of garlic, 2 bay-leaves, salt, 2 cloves, 4 to 6 oz. best rice (Patna), 1 large tablespoonful curry or mulligatawny paste. Cut away all the meat from the fowl, free it from skin, and cut. into small conveniently-sized pieces. Chop up the carcass and bones ; put them in a stock-pot or stewpan with the mutton, pre- viously cut in pieces. Add water and soup vegetables to make a stock, which should be allowed to boil for at least two and a half hours. Onion, garlic, green ginger, bay-leaves, and peppercorns should be added, and the stock should by the time it is finished and strained produce about three pints of broth. Fry the pieces of