THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 184 274. Sauce MarseillaIse.—1 lb. ripe tomatoes, 1 carrot, 1 small onion, 1 oz. raw ham, 2 oz. butter, 1^ oz. flour, 1 bay-leaf, 1 gill stoclc, 1 oz. bacon (fat), salt, pepper. Remove the stems of the tomatoes, cut them in halves, crossways, take out the pips and mash up, and put them in a stewpan with the stock and vegetables ; the latter should be washed, peeled, and cut into slices. Cook slowly until tender. Cut up the bacon and ham, put them in a stewpan with an oz. butter, stir over the fire until the butter turns clear ; add the flour, and cook long enough to blend the flour (do not let it get brown); now add the tomato puree and bay-leaf. Remove the fat from the liquor left from the chicken, strain into the above, and cook together slowly for twenty minutes. Season with pepper and salt, and a pinch qf aromatic seasoning. Put through a tammy cloth or hair sieve, heat up again, finish with the remaining ounce of butter, and serve as directed. 275. Sauce Ruisseau (Watercress Sauce).bunch to atercress, \ tablespoonful capers, l^oz. of butter, 1 gillchickenstock,\pintveloutee sauce (No. 206) or Allemande (No. 204), 1 hard-boiled egg, seasoning. Wash, pick, and blanch the cresses, put them in the mortar with the egg, capers, and butter, pound until the grist is fine, and rub through a sieve. Put the sauce and stock in a stewpan, let it boil up together, skim and reduce a little. Whisk in, by degrees, the green puree. Season to taste with pepper and salt, strain through a tammy cloth, return to the stewpan, and keep hot in a bain-marie until required for serving. N.B.—On no account allow the sauce to boil again after it has been strained, or else it will become oily. 276. Sauce Spadacini.—1 gill white wine, J gill vinegar, 2 shallots, a few sprigs of parsley, 2 sprigs of basil, 1 teaspoonful crushed mignonette pepper, 1 tablespoonful tvhite sauce (bechamel (No. 202) or Allemande (No. 204)), 1 tablespoonful tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 small terrine foie gras (about 3 oz.) freed from fat, 1 yolk of egg, 1 oz. butter, 2 pinches of cayenne. Put the wine, vinegar, shallot (chopped finely), herbs, and pepper- corns in a stewpan, cover, and reduce to one half of its original quantity. Add the two kinds of sauces, boil up, and pass through the tammy. Pound the foie gras in a mortar, add the yolk of egg and the butter. Rub this through a sieve and incorporate, in small quantities, into the sauce. Whisk the sauce en bain-marie while this is being done. Season with a pinch of cayenne, and use as directed. The sauce must not be allowed to boil, and when finished should be of similar consistency as a Bearnaise. 277. Sauce Mayonnaise.—2 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful of French mustard, | teaspoonful salt, a pinch of pepper, 1 table- spoonful tarragon vinegar, about f pint best salad oil, 1 table- spoonful of cream. Put the yolks into a basin, add the mustard (raw, not mixed), salt and pepper ; stir quickly with a wooden spoon, adding, drop by drop