CHAPTER XY SAUCES (See also Chapter X. on the composition of sauces) 202. Sauce JBechamel.—• oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, 1^ pint of milk, and meat stock, 1 small onion or shallot, 1 small bouquet garni, 10 peppercorns, \ a bay-leaf, 1 small blade of mace, seasoning. Put the milk on to boil with the onion or shallot (peeled), the bouquet, peppercorns, mace, and hay-leaf. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, and cook a little without browning (or use white roux), stir in the milk, &c. (hot), whisk over the fire until it boils, and let simmer from fifteen to twenty minutes. Take out the bouquet, rub through a sieve or tammy, return to the stewpan, season lightly with a pinch of nutmeg, half-pinch of cayenne, and half a teaspoonful of salt. The sauce is then ready for use. 203. Sauce JBechamel, (Maigre).—1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1 pint milk, 1 small onion, peeled and stuck with a clove, a few parsley-leaves tied in a bunch, ■§• bay-leaf, 1 small blade of mace, salt and pepper. Boil the milk with the onion, clove, parsley, bay-leaf and mace. Melt the butter in the stewpan, stir in the flour, and cook for a few minutes without allowing the flour to brown, then add gradually the milk and other ingredients ; continue to stir till it boils, and let simmer for ten minutes or longer. Strain the sauce and use as re- quired, adding salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. 204. Sauce Allewiande.—Dissolve 1 oz. of butter in a stew- pan, add 1 oz. of flour, stir a few minutes without allowing it to brown, dilute with rather more than a pint of chicken stock, stir until it boils. Season with pepper and salt and grated nutmeg. Let it simmer for half an hour, skim, and finish with a liaison of 2 yolks of eggs, a tablespoonful of cream, and ^ oz. of fresh butter. Stir over the fire until the eggs begin to set, but do not let it boil; add a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice, and pass through a fine strainer or tammy cloth. 205. Sauce dSForwiande.—Dissolve 1^ oz. of butter in a stew- pan, add 1 oz. of flour, stir long enough to cook the flour, moisten with about a pint of white stock and the liquor of the sole. Allow to boil for ten minutes, skim well, and finish with a liaison of 2 yolks of