THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 180 them in a stewpan with a small onion, a piece of carrot, and a piece of turnip all cut in slices, a few sprigs of parsley, a sprig of thyme, one of marjoram, a bay-leaf, a small piece of mace, and one clove, moisten with half a gill sherry, cover and put on the fire to cook for five minutes. Now add a good pint of Espagnole or brown sauce, let it come quickly to a boil, and keep simmering for fifteen minutes longer. Pass through a tammy cloth, return to a clean stewpan, season with a little salt if necessary, and keep hot in the bain-marie until required for serving. 253. Sauce Colbert aax Fines Herbes.—1^ gill Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 1 glass of Madeira wine, 1 tablespoonful of meat glaze (No. 247), H oz. of fresh butter, 1 teaspoonful lemon-juice, chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil—one dessertspoonful in all. Put the sauce into a small stewpan, stir over the fire until hot, add the Madeira wine, and let boil a few minutes. Remove to the side of the stove, and add gradually in little bits the butter and the meat glaze. Beat up with a small whisk, but do not let it boil again. Last of all add the lemon-juice and the chopped herbs; serve as directed. If desired richer, ^ oz. more butter may be added in the manner described. 254. Sauce Fein cesse (Hot Sauce for Fried Chicken, del).— Grate the thin rind of a lemon and the same quantity of horseradish, put them in a small stewpan with 2 tablespoonfuls of French wine vinegar, add a little grated nutmeg, and 8 crushed white peppercorns, boil for several minutes, then add H gills of J)echamel or veloutee sauce. Allow to cook for ten minutes and pass through a fine sieve or tammy. Re-heat, season with salt and more pepper, if needed, work in by means of a whisk 1 oz. of fresh butter and a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, and serve with any kind of fixture of poultry, fish, or meat. 255. Sauce Feforme (for Cutlets a la Rtforme).—This sauce consists of a gill or more of poivrade sauce mixed with a small glass of port wine and one teaspoonful of red currant jelly. Boil well for ten minutes and strain. The usual Reform garnish, consisting of Julienne strips of gherkins, truffles, hard-boiled white of egg and cooked ox-tongue, is served at the same time. 256. Sauce Chevreuil (Venison or Roebuck Sauce).—Mince finely 1 small onion, 1 oz. lean ham, fry these in 1 oz. butter, and add half a gill of vinegar, 12 crushed peppercorns, one bay-leaf and half a small minced carrot, a little thyme and chopped parsley. Cover and boil for ten minutes. Then add ^ pint Espagnol sauce, 1 small glass port wine, and 1 dessert-spoonful of red currant jelly. Cook for ten minutes, skim and strain, season to taste, reheat, and use as required. 257. Sauce JFtusseChop -finely 2 oz. of lean ham, 4 peeled shallots, and fry in butter (about ^ oz.) for a few seconds, then add a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme and a glass of white wine ; cover and let reduce to about half the quantity. To this add about a pint of veloutee