THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 324 898. Oreilles de Pore en Menus Droits. -Pickled pig’s ears, braised and served with finely sliced fried onions. 899. Oreilles de Pore frites, Sauce Tartare.—Boiled pickled pig’s ears, soaked in oil and chopped savoury herbs, dipped in frying batter (No. 35), and fried in clarified butter, served with Tartare sauce.(No. 278). 900. Palais de Pore gratine.—Boiled pig’s palate, seasoned, dished in a gratin dish with bechamel sauce (No. 202), a few sliced mush- rooms, fresh bread-crumbs, small pieces of butter, and baked in a quick oven. 901. Pieds de Cochon a la Sainte-Menehould.—Pickled pig’s feet, boned, boiled, and stuffed, dipped in seasoned frying batter (No. 35), fried in clarified butter, served with piquante (No. 241) or Robert sauce (No. 238). 902. Tete de Pore a la Mobile.—Braised salted pig’s head (previously boned), finished in brown sauce and sliced tomatoes, 'slightly fried, dished up on stewed rice, and served with demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 903. Tete de Pore frite, Sauce Remoulade.—Boiled pickled pig’s head, boned, pressed, and cut into square pieces. Season, egg, crumb, and fry in deep fat. Serve with remoulade sauce (No. 285) and fried parsley. 904. Zampins farci (Stuffed Pig's Foot).—This dish is made from the foot of a young porker, including a part of the leg. It must be salted in brine for some days before it is used. Remove a portion of the bone, and stuff with farce de champignons (No. 407). Prick the rind with a larding-needle, to prevent breaking whilst cooking, and wrap in a cloth, tie both ends, and cook till tender in stock or water. Unwrap, dish up, sauce over with well reduced champagne sauce (No. 262), garnish with groups of French beans, and serve hot. 905. Souffle au Jambon (Ham Souffle).—6 oz. lean cooked ham, a small liqueur glass cognac, | gill Madeira sauce (No. 237 a), 3 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1£ gill milk, 3 yolks and 4 ivhites of eggs, \ teaspoonful aromatic seasoning, a little salt. Cut about two ounces of the ham into small dice of even size ; put these into a cup and add the cognac, cover and keep till required. Cut the remainder qf ham into small slices, and pound in a mortar, adding at the same time about a quarter of the quantity of milk above stated. When smooth, rub through a fine sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, and cook for a few seconds over the fire. Add remainder of the milk gradually, stir with a wooden spoon till it boils, and cook for another ten minutes. Allow to cool a little, then put it in a mortar, add the ham puree, and mix thoroughly. Incorporate one by one the yolks of eggs. Season to taste with aromatics and salt, and pass the whole through a sieve. Add the diced ham and cognac. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and work carefully into the preparation. If the latter be found