ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES) 333 1 egg, 2 finely-chopped shallots, a small bunch savoury herbs, (bouquet garni), 8 to 10 pressed mushrooms, 2 oz. bacon, 1 wine- glassful Marsala -or sherry, 2 oz. butter, k pint demi-glace sauce (No. 237), seasoning. Truss the pigeons, then cut them up into neat joints and fry the pieces in a saute-pan for a few minutes a nice golden colour. In an earthenware pan (French casserole) fry the shallots a pale brown with the bacon, cut into slices, pour off the butter, and lay in the piece of pigeon, the mushrooms (cut into slices), and the bouquet of herbs; season to taste with pepper and salt, and moisten with the sauce and the wine. Put it in the oven and cook for ten minutes, then remove the herbs, and put the chicken farce on top of the pigeons ; return to the oven, and cook very gently from thirty to forty minutes. Send to table in the casserole in which the dish is cooked. 936. Chicken Farce for Pigeons a la Roy ale.—Remove the skin and bones fiym the fowl, and pound the flesh in a mortar till smooth ; add the panade and white sauce, mix thoroughly. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; work in the white of an egg, and rub the whole through a fine sieve (the yolk of an egg can be added if liked). Arrange the farce neatly on top of pigeons in the casserole, and proceed to cook as directed in the foregoing recipe. 937. Cdtelettes de Pigeon (farcies) d la Princesse.— 3 Bordeaux pigeons, 1 bundle of sprue or £ pint asparagus tops, 6 large sauce oysters, f lb. lean beef, 4 oz. butter, £ lb. of panade (No. 8), 1 gill Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 1^ oz. of meat glaze, 3 yolks of eggs, f pint sauce Italienne (No. 239), mashed potatoes for border, pepper and salt. Split the pigeons in halves, remove the breast-bones and beat them flat with a cutlet-bat. Remove fat and sinews from the beef, cut up small and pound in a mortar; add the butter and panade, pound the panade separately before it is added to the meat, work in the egg-yolks, season to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. Mix about a tablespoonful of Espagnole sauce with the forcemeat and spread over the cut side of the pigeons. Place a bearded oyster in the centre of each, folded so as to give it a neat shape, and sew up with strings. Put each in a buttered paper, put them in a buttered saute-pan, and cook them in a hot oven with a glass of sherry and the remainder of brown sauce. Remove the papers, brown them under a salamander, and glaze over with dissolved meat glaze. Take out the strings and dish up on a border of mashed potatoes, with a stew of asparagus points in the centre, and serve with Italienne sauce. The asparagus points should be washed, blanched, and cooked tender in salted water, well strained, moistened with the sauce left over from the pigeons, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar. 938. Petites Timbales de Pigeon d la Supreme.— Remove the meat from two Bordeaux pigeons ; pound it in a mortar with a quarter of a pound of dried beef suet and two ounces of bacon