ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) 565 is warm pour it into a basin containing eight well-beaten yolks of eggs; stir quickly over the fire with a wire whisk until the mixture thickens; stir until it becomes cold ; next mix a pint and a half of whipped cream and one ounce of powdered sponge cake ; put it on the ice, and freeze -when wanted. Line the bottom of an oblong ice- mould with the prepared strawberry ice, let it set firmly ; fill up with the cream last prepared when this is nearly frozen ; cover the mould well, bury in salt and ice, and freeze for two hours. 1789. Biscuits glaces a la Turque.—1 oz. freshly roasted and coarsely ground coffee (plantation and Mocha), \ gill syrup, 2 sheets gelatine, 1 gill double cream, 1 oz. French almond rock, 12 wafer biscuits (oblong shape). Pour the boiling syrup over the coffee, cover, and let stand for a few minutes to infuse, add the gelatine and when dissolved strain into a small basin. Whip the cream till stiff and incorporate with the coffee and almond rock (crushed up). Pour on to a tin and let it set on the ice. Cut it into slices, the same size as the biscuits, and sandwich them together. Place in an ice cave for two hours and serve on a dish, with fancy lace paper or folded napkin. 1790. Bombe glacee a la Venitienne.—Line a bombe- mould with strawberry cream ice, and fill the centre with whipped cream flavoured with vanilla sugar. Cover the mould and set, previously wrapped in paper, in crushed ice and salt; freeze for three hours and serve in the usual manner. Garnish with very small macaroons. 1791. Bombe glacee an Chocolat.—Line a bombe-mould with chocolate-cream ice and fill the centre with vanilla-water ice. Cover the mould tightly and wrap up. Bury it in a pail of broken ice and salt, and freeze for three hours. Dish up and garnish with Swiss ice wafers or chocolate biscuits: 1792. Bombe glacee a la Sicilienne.—Mix a pint of vanilla custard with a handful of finely crushed macaroons, freeze in the usual way, and line a bombe-mould with it. Fill the centre with pine-apple or strawberry-water ice. Cover the mould and proceed as directed in the foregoing recipes ; garnish the dish with small chocolate macaroons. 1793. Coupe glacee a la Bogale.—This is a delightful novelty, suitable both as a second sweet and as dessert ice. Prepare two kinds of ice, lemon-water flavoured with kirschwasser and apricot cream; when sufficiently frozen for moulding pour into as many champagne glasses as needed a liqueur glass of champagne; then fill up with alternate layers of the two kinds of ice, sprinkle some finely crushed macaroons between the layers of ice. Place a small ratafia biscuit on top of each and send to table at once. The glasses for this dish should be rather small. 1794. Compote de Boires en Surprise.—Line an oval- shaped jelly or pudding mould with halves of red pears (preserved) ;