THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 40 Wooden floors are best if saturated with hot linseed oil, which must be well rubbed in, so as to give polish to the surface. The boards must, of course, be closely joined together, before oil is applied. The walls of a kitchen should be either entirely lined with white- glazed tiles or else have a high tiled dado. They can be kept much cleaner than distempered walls, which show every mark—a great disadvantage to any kitchen. Kitchen Furniture.—The furniture of a kitchen should be plain, neat and well made, yet not cumbersome ; it must be so constructed as to be easily cleaned. The stoves, ranges, grills and ovens, being the all-important fittings upon which so much, of the success of a kitchen depends, should be of the very best quality. The fixing of these ought to be done by the respective makers of the apparatus, for they will better understand the work, and it is to their interest to see that everything is carefully done. This applies especially to coal ranges, where the flues must, as everyone knows, be correctly fixed ; if the flues do not work properly, the most expensive stove is useless. Next to the stove the most important piece of furniture is the kitchen table. There are many dresser boards, shelves and flaps, but they are useless to the.cook as compared with a good kitchen table. It should be made of stout deal, as large as the size of the kitchen will permit, fitted with a convenient drawer for holding knives, forks, spoons, clean kitchen cloths, and other necessaries. Not only should the table be the most prominent of the furniture in the kitchen, to which ^11 other fittings must play a subordinate part, but it should be kept at all times ready for immediate use, uncovered and scrupulously clean. The practice of using the table for a chopping-board, trimming-board, pot-board, or for making paste, cannot be too care- fully avoided. In such cases the surface soon becomes scratched and unsightly. Besides the tables, a sufficiency of cupboards and a dresser, with shelves according to requirements, should be provided. For the sake of order, cupboards with sliding doors are preferable to those with hanging doors ; they should be so fixed or placed as to admit thorough cleanliness, light, and ventilation. A good timepiece is also necessary in a well-furnished kitchen, being an aid to punctuality and economy of time. It should be placed in the most conspicuous place. A well-constructed sink is another indispensable article in a kitchen. Stone-ware or iron-work is very serviceable ; iron sinks, however, soon corrode unless painted or enamelled. When wooden sinks are used they should be lined with zinc or copper. Talc sinks last for a long time if properly used. All sinks should be so fixed as to allow free access to all sides for the purpose of cleaning. Frequent flushing with hot water is recommended for sinks and sink pipes; a solution of soda or potash poured down the pipes once