514 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1604. Abricots a la Colbert {Apricots, Colbert Style).—Preserved firm apricots (halves), drained, filled with rice cooked in milk and flavoured with vanilla, coated with reduced apricot marmalade, dipped m beaten egg, rolled in pulverised macaroons, fried slightly brown in clarified butter. Dished up on rounds of fried bread made to adhere to the dish with a little marmalade, and sauced over with a thick apricot sauce. 1605. Pommes a la Conde {Apples, Conde Style).—Pared cored apples, ranged in a buttered sautoir, sprinkled with powdered sugar, lemon-juice, and oiled butter; cooked in the oven, centre filled with apricot puree. Dished up in the centre of a border of rice cooked in milk and sweetened to taste, ornamented with fancifully cut pieces of angelica, crystallised cherries, raisins and almonds, and served with apple syrup. Note.—Almost any kind of fruit can be dressed in the above manner, such as peaches, apricots, pears, &c., and are styled a la Conde. 1606. Ponding Souffle mix Praises {Strawberry Pud- ding).—Proceed the same as directed in Recipe No. 1602, but Substitute for the raspberries half a pound of freshly picked ripe strawberries, and add also some red colouring, cochineal or carmine. 1607. Souffle cl VOrange.—f pint milk, 2 eggs, 2 oz. caster sugar, 1 oz. butter, 3 oz. cake-crumbs, 8 oz. bread-crumbs, 1 orange, 1 glass of noyeau or kirsch, a feio glace cherries. Heat up the milk and pour over the crumbs ; cream the butter and sugar, add the yolks and one white of eggs, stir until stiff; then add the soaked crumbs, the liqueur, half the orange-rind, finely peeled and chopped, also one dessertspoonful of orange-juice. Pile up neatly on a buttered souffle dish, bake a golden brown in a moderately heated oven (about half an hour). Whisk the remaining white of egg to a stiff froth, cover the souffle completely with this, dredge with sugar, garnish with glace cherries ; return to a quick oven for a few minutes to brown, and serve. This souffle is also very nice served cold. 1608. Souffle d- Oranges d la Gilbert.—6 oranges, 3 eggs, 2 oz. caster sugar, 1 glass cura^oa^ 2 oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful fecula or corn-flour, a teaspoonful orange-flower water. Select the oranges of even size and firm and juicy; cut the top portion of each and carefully remove the inside. Rub the pulp through a fine sieve and add to it the liqueur. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, put the former into a small stewpan and the latter into a basin or copper bowl and keep on the ice ; add the sugar and butter to the yolks and stir over a gentle fire until the