THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 524 gill of apricot pulp, and one small glass of rum. Replace the top and mask the whole with a meringue mixture, i.e. two whites of egg whisked till stiff and sweetened with one ounce of caster sugar. Garnish with glace fruits and bake in a slow oven for thirty minutes. Serve hot with a fruit syrup (apricot or peach). 1639. Charlotte de JPommes {Apple Charlotte).—Cut a stale fine-grained sandwich loaf into one quarter-inch thick slices, cut these into strips about one and a half inch wide and of the same length as the charlotte mould which is to be used for this dish. Cut also a sufficient number of triangular-shaped or narrow kite- shaped slices to cover the bottom of the mould. Grease the inside of the charlotte mould with clarified butter. Now dip the shorter pieces of bread into oiled butter and place them, one by one, in the form of a circle at the bottom of the mould ; it is best to allow the slices to overlap each other, the points always meeting in the centre. Next arrange the long strips in a similar fashion, by dipping each into oiled butter and fixing them closely against the sides of the mould (these also should overlap each other). Fill the mould with a well-made, fairly stiff apple puree flavoured with sugar, lemon, and ground cinnamon. A small quantity of cake-crumbs can be added if liked. Trim off the strips of bread that overlap the edge of the mould and bake in a fairly hot oven for about forty minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish and pour a hot fruit syrup round the base of the dish. Serve quickly. 1640. Omelette sucree {Sweet Omelette).—A real French omelette should never be ready before it is required for table. The guests should wait for an omelet. Fresh eggs and fresh butter are indispensable for making a genuine omelette. Break six to eight eggs into a basin, add to them a tablespoonful of cream or milk and beat up with a fork for several—four or five—minutes ; add a pinch of salt and a teaspoonful of caster sugar. Melt one and a half ounce of butter in a clean omelet pan; when hot (not burning hot or smok- ing) pour in the beaten eggs, stir with a spoon over a brisk fire until the mixture begins to set, then shake the pan and fold the contents towards one side (the side opposite the handle of the pan). Let it take colour, i.e. a golden brown (if jam is desired, put it in the centre of the omelet before folding). Give it the shape of a cushion. Turn out quickly on a hot dish ; dredge over with fine caster sugar, decorate the top by means of a red-hot iron, and serve at once. 1641. Omelette d la Charlotte.—3 eggs, \ lemon, 2 oz. caster sugar, 3 oz. flour, \ gill fresh cream, \ tablespoonful orange- flower water, 2 oz. butter, apple marmalade. Break the eggs and separate the whites from the yolks. Beat the yolks with the sugar, add the lemon-rind, chopped finely, and orange- flower water. Whisk the whites of eggs and mix them carefully with the flour and the yolks. Whip the cream until stiff and add to the