THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 38 CHAPTER IV THE KITCHEN ITS CONSTRUCTION AND MANAGEMENT The etymology of the word ‘ kitchen ’ is somewhat involved. It is derived from the Latin ‘ coquina,’ in French it is ‘ cuisine.’ The homely word ‘ kitchen ’ is very similar in sound in various languages. Thus we find it to be ‘cycene’ in Saxon, ‘ kiiche ’ in German, ‘ kiokken ’ in Danish, ‘ coquin ’ in Welsh, ‘ kyshen ’ in Scotch, and ‘ cucina ’ in Italian. The kitchen is the place where food is prepared and cooked for the table, and should be looked upon as the most important part of a house. This is far from generally being the case, for many people about to plan houses think that any room, however small and un- pleasantly situated, is good enough for a kitchen. No greater mistake could be made. A kitchen should be located in one of the brightest and most convenient rooms of a house, it should be well lighted and well ventilated, for the health and comfort of a family, or the success of a commercial establishment, depend greatly upon the results or the productions of this department. The success in cooking is greatly impaired if it has to be done in a badly lighted and badly ventilated kitchen. The character of a person’s work is more or less dependent upon his or her surroundings; hence it can hardly be wondered at that some cooks, shut up in a small, close, and dimly lighted room, whose only outlook is perhaps a back alley, or an underground cellar wall, produce work which falls short of the standard of excellence in cooking. A well-ventilated kitchen is a pleasure to the cook and conducive to the health of all concerned in or about it. Open windows are the best form of ventilators. When the windows are opened, they should be pulled down from the top ; but as some kitchen windows open from pantries, or entries, or passages, some form of independent ventilation should be adopted. It is desirable that the kitchen of an establishment, whether private or otherwise, should be large enough for the purpose of cooking, and adapted to the number of people to be provided for at one time. This is too often disregarded by architects, who sacrifice the kitchen for two or three large reception rooms. Ample space should be provided for the range or stoves, tables,