188 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 292. Green or Pink Chaud-froid Sauce.—Proceed the same as for white chaud-froid sauce, adding a few drops of spinach greening or liquid carmine at the finish. 293. Gelee d VAspic (Aspic Jelly, for General Use).—2 quarts veal stock, 1 small bouquet garni, 2 oz. French leaf gelatine, 1^ gill sherry or Sauterne, 1 gill French wine vinegar, 2 whites of eggs, 2 celery-leaves. The stock should be cold; remove any fat that may be on the surface. Put the’ stock, gelatine, and bouquet of herbs in a stewpan. Cut the celery into small pieces, beat up the whites of eggs a little, and mix with the stock. Stir over a brisk fire continually until nearly boiling, then add the wine and vinegar, and let boil up. Move the stewpan on the side of the stove for about ten minutes. Strain through a jelly-bag or napkin, repeat straining until perfectly clear. Keep the aspic in a basin, and use as required. 294. Aspic Mayonnaise.—^ pint aspic jelly, 1 gill stiff mayonnaise. Dissolve the aspic, and let it get partially cool, then stir it gently into the mayonnaise and use before it begins to set, according to direction. 295. Aspic d la To mate (Tomato Aspic).—1 pint aspic jelly, 4 small ripe tomatoes, or \ pint tomato pulp, ^ oz. French leaf gelatine, 1 dessertspoonful sherry. Blanch and peel the tomatoes, rub through a fine hair sieve, dissolve the gelatine, and add to the pulp. Put the jelly, tomato pulp, and sherry in a stewpan, boil up, skim well, and simmer for a few minutes; pass all through a fine hair sieve, and use as directed. 296. Creme d VAspic (Aspic or Savoury Cream).—Warm up half a gill of bechamel or Allemande sauce, add a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, stir this into half a pint of liquid aspic jelly, mix with a gill of double cream, season with a pinch of cayenne and mignonette pepper. Pass through a sieve or tammy cloth, and use as directed. 297. Mayonnaisede Tornafes.—To a pint of well prepared and fairly stiff mayonnaise add half as much tomato puree or cold tomato sauce. Mix gradually, and season to taste. 298. Puree d la Uuocelle.—Chop 6 or more mushrooms, 3 shallots, a few sprigs of parsley, and 1 truffle. Melt 2 oz. of butter in a stewpan, add 2 oz. of finely chopped cooked ham and the above- named ingredients, stir over the fire for a few minutes, moisten with a glass of white wine and a little stock, < season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a small suspicion of garlic, also a little powdered bay-leaf ; when well reduced stir in four tablespoonfuls of Allemande sauce, boil again, and serve as required. 299. Fumet de Gibier (Fumet of Game).—Carcase of game, 1 small carrot, | onion, 1 bay-leaf, 1 sprig of thyme, 2 oz. rate ham, 1 oz. lard or butter, 1 glass sherry, 1 quart stock. Chop up the carcase, wash,/peel, and slice the carrot, peel and