THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 84 Turkeys, when young, have smooth black legs : when they are- rough and reddish they are old and not likely to cook tender. When freshly killed the eyes of turkeys will be found bright, full and fresh. Norfolk turkeys are reckoned the best. The cock bird is best suited for roasting, and the hen for boiling. Geese, when young, have yellow feet and bills: when old they are of a reddish colour. The feet of freshly killed geese are pliable and soft, but if the bird has been killed some time, the feet are dry and stiff. Green Geese.—Geese are called green until they are from two to- three months old. Ducks.—The rules for choosing geese also apply to ducks; they are known by their feet, which should be supple ; the breast should be firm and plump. Tame ducks have yellow feet, whilst those of wild ducks are red. Venison, when young, is usually judged by the fat, which should be clear and bright in colour. It must be well hung before it is in fit condition for cooking. When it is not wanted very high (ripe), a knife or skewer should be inserted into the meat to ascertain its state, as by so doing one is able to judge by the smell if the venison is the desired freshness or maturity. Grouse.—This group of birds comprises the grouse proper and partridge. Grouse are in season in August, and are then very expensive birds. They are found chiefly in the north of England and Scotland, amongst the heather and morasses. Young grouse are known by a short round spur. Yellow legs and dark bill are signs by which a young partridge may be known ; a rigid vent shows they are fresh. Old game or partridges are very indifferent for eating. The Pheasant, when young, may be known by a short or round spur ; in old birds it is long and pointless. Snipe, Quails, and Ortolans may be known as young birds by the short or round spurs. Ptarmigan, or white grouse, mostly come from Scotland, but are also imported in great quantities from Norway, preserved in ice.. They ought to be hung as long as possible. Woodcocks are in season in November. Young birds are known by a round or short spur; when old the spur is pointed, and the feet are hard and thick. If their bills become moist and their throats are muddy, it is a sign that they have been kept too long. Wild Ducks, Widgeon and Teal are seasonable and often cheap in winter ; but teal are not profitable even then, as they are very lean. Quails, Landrails, Plovers and Larks are delicate food. Hares and Rabbits.—When the ears are dry and tough, the haunch thick, and the claws blunt and rugged, it is a sign that they are old. If the ears are soft and thin, and the claws sharp and smooth, they are young and tender. A hare for roasting should be very young; a leveret is best. Other signs of youth in a hare or