561 ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) press it between two boards, and place some weights on top; let it remain thus for about two hours. Remove weight and board, spread a layer of meringuage over the surface, sprinkle with shredded almonds, place the cake in the oven long enough to set the meringue mixture, and cut into convenient pieces. 1775. Meringues a la Chantilly.—5 whites of eggs, \ lb. caster sugar, 3 dessertspoonfuls vanilla sugar, aboict % pint cream. Take great care in separating the yolks from the whites of eggs ; put the latter in a clean copper egg-bowl with a tiny pinch of salt, and whisk slowly at first, increasing the speed until it becomes a hard froth. Mix in quickly, but sparingly at first, the caster sugar and one dessertspoonful of vanilla sugar. Have ready a large baking- sheet lined with foolscap paper. Put the mixture into two large paper cornets or a forcing-bag (not quite full). If paper cornets are used, cut off the point ends, close the large end, and press out on to the baking-sheet some evenly-sized egg-shapes; dust with sugar, and bake in a very slack oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Remove the shells from the paper, press down carefully the inside part of each shell, and dry in a cool oven. Fill the shells with whipped cream, sweetened with vanilla sugar, place them together in the usual way, dish up, and serve. Meringue shells thus made may be kept for several days, but should be put in a tin box in a dry place. 1776. Compote de Fruits d la Chantilly.—6 to 8 apri- cots, 2 peaches (peeled and cut into quarters), 1 gill of strawberries, -k lb. of cherries, 1 gill of red currants, 1 gill of white currants, \ lb. of black or white grapes, about 6 oz. of caster sugar, 2 table- spoonfuls of Chablis, 1 tablespoonful of brandy, 2 tablespoonfuls of maraschino, about 1 gill of double cream, £ oz. of vanilla sugar. Prepare each kind of fruit, arrange them tastefully in layers in a glass bowl or salad dish, sprinkle each layer with a little caster sugar and dress the fruit so as to come up to a point. Proceed thus with the fruit and sugar, finishing with a layer of strawberries or cherries. When required for the table whip the cream, flavour it with the vanilla sugar, and by means of a forcing-bag or paper cornet cover the sur- face and sides with the cream, endeavouring to give it as pretty a shape as possible. The wine and liqueur should be mixed together, and either poured over the fruit before the cream is put on or else handed round the table as the fruit is served. It is not advisable to use any more wine or liqueur than the above quantities, for too much of it often tends to injure the delicate and natural flavour of the fruit, while the right quantity of the same will be found welcome as well as refreshing. 1777. Nougats et Croqnants.—These are generally known as pibces de confiserie, belonging to the high art of confectionery. Both are comparatively easy to prepare. Nougats are made by boil- ing two parts of sugar to hard crack or pale caramel, mixed with one o o