VEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 479 sheet, sprinkle over with bread-crumbs, grated cheese, and a little oiled butter, and bake in a hot oven. 1481. Tomates a la Marseillaise.—Halves of tomatoes, seasoned, fried in oil. Spread the cut sides with a mixture of hard-boiled egg- yolks, chopped shallots, chives and parsley, butter, and pounded anchovies, sprinkle over with bread-crumbs, and bake in a hot oven. 1482. Tomates a la Sicilienne.—Select some firm tomatoes, scoop out the centre of each, and fill with a mixture of tomato pulp, finely chopped ham, parsley, shallots, mushrooms, and bread-crumbs, moistened with a well-reduced Madere sauce (No. 237 a). Range on baking-sheet, sprinkle over with bread-crumbs, grated cheese, and a few drops of oil, and bake in a hot oven. 1483. Tomates farcies a la Reine. —Fresh tomatoes (firm) scooped out, stuffed with chicken forcemeat, baked, and served with Madere sauce (No. 237 a). 1484. Tomates roties.—Baked tomatoes (cut in halves without de- taching them entirely. Remove the seeds and put a small piece of butter and seasoning in the centre of each. Close up, cover with buttered paper, and bake for about twenty minutes. 1485. Truffes a la Borchardt.—Wash and brush twelve large fresh truffles. Soak them in fresh water for three hours. Drain and put them in a stewpan with sufficient sherry or Marsala wine to cover, add a few crushed peppercorns, cover, and cook for twenty minutes. When this is done hollow out the centre of each truffle by means of a sharp-pointed knife, and fill them with a previously prepared salpicon of finely chopped mushrooms and oysters seasoned with a little white sauce and lemon-juice. Dip each truffle in a rich frying batter, so as to completely cover it with batter. Fry a golden colour in clarified butter and one-fourth of olive oil. Drain them carefully and dish up on a folded napkin or dish paper. Serve with a suitable sauce or use as garnishing. Note.—The interior of the truffles removed must be saved, as it can be used for sauces &c. 1486. Truffes d la Perig our dine.—12 small fresh truffles, or preserved truffes broisees, 1 tin or terrine foie gras naturel weighing about | lb., 2 oz. fresh butter, 1 small glass Marsala or Madeira wine, 1 liqueur glass cognac brandy, about 2 gills aspic (No. 293), 1 small bouquet garni (No. 2), salt, pepper, and aromatic seasoning, 12 small artichoke bottoms (cooked), Tartare sauce (No. 278). Wash and brush thoroughly the truffles (if fresh truffles are used) ; use tepid water for this. Put them in a stewpan with the wine, cognac, and bouquet garni, also a pinch of salt and pepper. Cover