375 ENT BEES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) border with beaten egg, and place it in the oven till it acquires a golden brown colour. Dress the pieces of plover and garniture in the centre of the dish ; sauce well with the sauce, previously skimmed and well reduced. Send to table hot. 1089. Cdtelettes de Pluviers en Caisses.—Boned plovers, stuffed with forcemeat and shaped into cutlets and braised, served in small cutlet-shaped paper cases. Serve chasseur sauce (No. 242) separately with this dish. 1090. Salmis de Pluviers d la Chasseu r (Salmis of Plovers, Hunter’s Style).—Proceed the same as for salmis of duck (No. 911), adding about twelve preserved mushrooms, cut in slices or chopped coarsely, and omitting the olives. The dish should be garnished with eight heart-shaped bread-croutons brushed over with meat glaze or Lemco. 1091. Sarcelles aux Olives (Teal or Widgeon with Olives).— This dish is prepared exactly the same as Salmis de Canard aux Olives (No. 911), using two to three widgeons instead of duck. 1092. Zephires de Canard Suuvage d la JMetropole.— 1 wild duck, 1 dessertspoonful chutney, 4 oz. panade, puff-paste trimmings, glace cherries for garnish, f pint salmis sauce (No. 240), 1 wineglass port wine, 2 yolks of eggs, salt and pepper, cooked sorrel or spinach, Espagnole sauce (No. 236), tomato sauce (No. 271). Remove the meat from the duck, and pound it in a mortar till quite smooth, add the panade and yolks of eggs, gradually mix thoroughly and moisten with about a gill of salmis sauce and half the port wine; season with pepper, salt, and aromatic spice. Test the consistency of the farce before using it in a little boiling stock or water. If found too firm add a little more sauce, and if found too moist a little more panade. Butter a few zephire moulds, fill them with the mixture, and poach in the usual manner from fifteen to twenty minutes. Meanwhile prepare the sauce, using the carcass of the duck, Espagnole and tomato sauce, also the remainder of port wine. Season and strain. If you have no sauce for the farce the salmis sauce must be prepared at the start. Turn out the zephires on a hot dish, arrange them neatly. Place a fancifully cut ring or square border of baked puff-paste on each. Fill the centre with cooked hot and well seasoned sorrel or spinach puree, and put one or two halves of glace cherries in the middle of the spinach or sorrel. Place the dish in a sharp oven for a few minutes, pour a little of the sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1093. Canards sauvages a l’Americaine—Braised wild ducks stuffed with soaked bread well buttered and seasoned. Served with a brown sauce made of boiled duck giblets, chopped shallots, and port wine. 1094. Canards sauvages a la Chasseur.—Braised wild ducks stuffed