ENTREES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) 881 fillets may be added to this farce and will improve its flavour). Fill a well-buttered border mould with the prepared farce, cover with a buttered paper, and steam in the usual manner. When done unmould on to a hot round entree dish ; dress the pieces of fillet in the centre of the border. Reduce the demi-glace sauce, and pour this over the whole; arrange the potato croquettes in a row on top of the border, place the cherries (cut in halves and heated in a little port or sherry) tastefully in the middle. Note.—A couple of teaspoonfuls of Lemco added to the farce is a great improvement. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1109. Civet de Lievre a la Finnoise.—Pickled hare jugged, finished in demi-glace sauce (No. 237) to which a small quantity of sour cream has been added. 1110. —Cotelettes de Lievres a l’Allemande.—Loin of hare cut into cutlets, pared and trimmed ; season, egg, and crumb them, and fry in hot butter. Dish up and garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs and French gherkins. Serve with a white wine sauce. 1111. Lievre en Gite.—Potted hare meat, prepared in tureen with sausage-forcemeat and hare fillets; moistened with Madeira wine, and covered with slices of bacon. Baked in the oven, and served cold in the tureen in which it is cooked. 1112. Lievre farci a la Fermiere. — Trussed boned hare, flattened, stuffed with pork forcemeat, and braised. Dish up, and serve with a brown onion sauce, mixed with finely minced ham and chopped parsley, and reduced with Marsala wine. 1113. Filets de Lievre a la Sicilienne.—Larded fillets of hare, braised and finished in reduced sauce Madere (No 237 a), flavoured with cinnamon and parsley. Dressed in a pyramidal form, and glazed. 1114. Pate de Lievre a la Cumberland (Hare Pie).— 1 small hare, ^ lb. calves’ liver, 4 oz. bacon, 1 shallot, ^ a clove of garlic, 2 oz. butter, seasoning, herbs, thyme and marjoram, 4 tea- spoonful of each, 1 glass port icine, 1 egg, herbs, spoonful of red currant jelly, a little stock. Suitable paste crust. Skin the hare and wash it several times in fresh water ; cut it into joints, and bone each. Put the carcass in a stewpan with water, to make stock, flavour with cloves, a little sauce, bay-leaf, and salt. Skim as it boils, and cook gently for one hour. Wipe the meat, cut it into slices, and fry in an ounce of butter ; add the shallot (peeled and chopped), take out the meat, and let cool. Add the remainder of butter to the stewpan in which the hare was fried ; when hot put in the calves’ liver, previously sliced thinly, and two ounces of the bacon, fry for a short time, and pound all in a mortar till smooth. Bub this through a