165 SOUPS (POTAGES) 1 oz. butter, 3^ pints white stock, 1 whole egg, 3 yolks of eggs, 1 tablespoonful cream, 1 gill milk, pepper and salt. Put the peas in a stewpan, and about a quart of water, a teaspoon- ful of salt, the parsley, spring onions and mint, boil till tender, and rub through a fine sieve. Return to a stewpan, put in the stock and butter and simmer for fifteen minutes longer, then season to taste and add the cream. Mix the milk with the eggs, beat up, season to taste, and strain into a well-buttered charlotte mould. Poach in the usual manner, viz. place the mould in a saute-pan, half full of boiling water, and cook in the oven till set. Unmould and cut the custard into even-sized cubes. Just before serving add a pinch of sugar and a pat of fresh butter to the soup, put in the custard cubes, and serve. 192. JBortsch Polonaise {a Russian Soup).—1 small duck, 1 lb. brisket of beef, 1 bouquet garni, consisting of fennel, marjoram, thyme, bay-leaf, carrot and parsley, 2 cloves, 3 fresh cup mushrooms, 2 oz. butter, 1 small beetroot, 1 leek, 1 cabbage (heart) 1 small piece of celery, parsley, 1 onion, 2 quarts clarified beef broth {white con- somme), £ lb. Italian sausage {cipoleta)f,sour cream, seasoning. Cook the duck in a brisk oven, till tender (not overdone), boil the beef in one quart of seasoned water with the bouquet. Skim well. Remove the fillets of the duck, cut them into dice, cut the cooked beef into similar dice, and put them in a clean stewpan with the broth in which the beef was cooked, strained. Add the mushrooms previously washed, and cut in dice. Cut the remainder of vegetables into fine Julienne strips and blend with the butter, pour off the fat and add the consomme, season to taste ; and cook gently till tender ; remove the scum and fat. Add this to the broth containing the meat. Cook all together for another ten minutes. Just before serving incorporate one to two tablespoonfuls of sour cream and one tablespoonful of beetroot juice. The sausage is cut into very thin slices, and is served in the soup or separately. The remainder of the duck can be used up as salmi or served hot or cold. A little chopped parsley should be added to the soup before it is sent to table. 193. Tschi de Soldot-—This is the name of the most popular soup in Russia. It furnishes the soldier with a satisfying meal, hence the surname 1 de soldat.’ The following is the recipe as transcribed from the MS. of a Russian chef: — 2 quarts consomme {clarified beef broth), 1 small cabbage, 1 leek, 2 small onions, 1 lb. blanched breast or brisket of beef, 1 tablespoonful flour, 2 oz. blotter, 3 tablespoonfuls sour cream, seasoning. Trim and wash the cabbage and the leek, peel the onion and cut all into fine shreds. Use only the heart of the cabbage and the white part of the leek. Melt the butter in a large stewpan, put in the vegetables (previously strained), and cook over a quick fire for about five minutes. Pour off the butter and add the consomme. Cook the beef separately in salted water, when done cut the meat, free from skin and gristle, into small pieces, and add to the soup with some of the