ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) 555 sweet almonds, 2 oz. bitter almonds, 4 oz. caster sugar, 1 glass maraschino, 1 tablespoonful orange-flower water, li oz. flour, 1 oz. butter, k pint milk, 2 yolks of eggs. Put the butter in a stewpan ; when melted stir in the flour, let it cook for a minute or two, pour in the milk (boiling), mix well and work in the yolks of eggs, stir over the fire until the eggs are set, then turn into a basin and let cool. Blanch and peel the almonds, chop them very finely, place on a baking-sheet covered with a piece of paper, and bake in a moderate oven until light brown.. Put the baked almonds in a mortar, pound them, and add by degrees the cooked custard, maraschino, and orange-flower water, mix thoroughly, and use as directed. 1754. Gateau de Savoie d la Chantilly.—Separate seven whites of eggs from the yolks, placing the whites in a copper egg- bowl and the yolks in a white basin ; add half a pound of powdered sugar and a few drops of vanilla essence to the yolks ; work these well together until it has the appearance of a light creamy substance. Sift half a pound of dried flour on to a plate. Add a pinch of salt to the whites of eggs, and whisk them into a stiff froth ; next proceed to mix the whites, the yolks, and the flour carefully, and in small quantities at a time. The mixture is then poured into a well greased and sugared border-mould. Tie a paper band round and above the edge of the mould, and bake in a very slow oven for about half an hour. When done turn out on a sieve to get cool. When ready for serving whisk half a pint or more of double cream. Sweeten slightly with vanilla sugar ; dish up the bordure on a round dish; dress the cream in the centre, and serve. 1755. Gateau cles Anges {Angel Cake). — Beat up ten whites of eggs till quite firm ; then add four ounces of caster and one ounce of vanilla sugar (No. 1970). Beat this up thoroughly for at least twenty minutes, then add four ounces of sifted flour, previously mixed with half a teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Fill up one or more buttered fancy cake moulds and bake in a slack oven for about forty minutes. When done unmould, mask with fondant icing (No. 1964), and decorate with royal icing (No. 1968). 1756. Gateau St. JEmilion.—Prepare a Genoise paste mix- ture ; see that it is well beaten, and add one ounce of chopped baked almonds, three-parts fill a well-buttered plain timbale or charlotte mould with this. Bake it in a moderate oven for about forty-five minutes, or longer, according to the size of the mould. When suffi- ciently baked put the cake on a sieve to cool; then cut off the top slice and scoop out the centre part of the cake. Fill the cavity with a rich caramel bavaroise (No. 1688), flavoured, in addition to vanilla, with half a tablespoonful of kirschwasser and a tablespoonful of mara- schino liqueur. When half set mix in a few blanched or shredded pistachio nuts and some glace cherries cut in quarters ; the cream may then be poured into the cake-shape. Allow it to set in a cool place,