THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 550 or milk and strain into the above. Whip the cream to a stiff froth and work it gradually into the milk &c. as soon as the latter becomes cool enough. Just before the mixture becomes set pour it into the prepared mould ; this must be done very carefully, so as not to disturb the biscuits. Place the mould on the ice for about an hour and a half. To serve turn the contents of the mould on to a silver or glass dish. 1737. Charlotte a la Suisse.—Line a charlotte mould with red wine jelly about a quarter-inch think, and place it on the ice to set; then stamp out a cross from the centre of jelly; remove it and fill the cavity with white cream or bavaroise. Line the sides of the mould with evenly cut slices of Genoise pastry or finger-biscuits. Fill up with alternate layers of vanilla cream and strawberry cream. When set turn out on a dish covered with a folded napkin or dish- paper. Garnish the sides of the charlotte with whipped cream and serve. 1738. Charlotte Basse aux Pist aches.—Decorate the bottom of a plain charlotte mould with wine-jelly and pistachio nuts, trim enough finger-biscuits to go round the sides of the mould, and mask each with smooth chocolate icing (made of dissolved chocolate, white of eggs—icing sugar). When set and dry range them neatly, glaced side towards the tin, round the inside of the mould. See that they fit closely. Prepare a cream by pounding one ounce of blanched and peeled pistachio nuts. Boil this in a gill of milk, dissolve half an ounce of gelatine and strain into the milk, add a dessertspoonful of caster sugar, and flavour with vanilla cream or vanilla sugar. Whip up half a pint of double cream and mix carefully with the above (see that the milk has sufficiently cooled before the cream is added). Pour this carefully into the prepared mould, so as not to disturb the biscuits. Allow it to set on the ice or any cool place, then turn out on a cold dish, garnish with chopped wine-jelly and serve. 1739. Peches a la Pompadour.—Make a custard with one pint milk, three ounces vanilla sugar, three whole and three yolks of eggs, and cook (steam) it in a buttered charlotte mould. When cooked allow the cream to cool, and then unmould it on to a round dish. Build round it some biscuits dipped or soaked in kirsch and apricot marmalade. Immerse the peaches (cooked) in a good syrup flavoured with vanilla, and fix the fruit on top of the biscuits. Decorate with some crystallised fruits, and serve with a strawberry sauce or a kirsch creme. 1740. CEufs en Surprise.—Choose ten to twelve halves of cooked apricots, large size, drain them well, and place them on a well- tinned baking-sheet. Whisk some lemon-jelly on the ice till frothy; when about to set cover each apricot with this, adding as many layers as are necessary. This is to resemble the whites of eggs. Allow to set on the ice. Cook some semolina or florador in milk, flavour with sugar and vanilla, fill up a border-mould, and let cool. Unmould