THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 150 Have ready three even-sized, very small timbale moulds, and butter them well. Break the eggs, put two whole into a basin, four yolks into another basin, and the whites of four into a third basin, beat up each lot separately, than add a pinch of salt, pepper, and nut- meg in each, also the cream evenly divided. Put a few drops of carmine into the basin containing the two whole eggs, mix each lot thoroughly, pass through a pointed strainer separately mto the moulds, place the moulds in a stewpan with boiling water reaching to half their height, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and poach in the oven until firm. When done remove the moulds, let them cool a little, then turn out and cut into neat slices ; place these into a soup-tureen, pour in the hot consomme and serve. 142. Consomme au Hay on (Sago Soup).—3 quarts consomme, 3 oz. sago. Put the consomme in a stewpan, let it boil, stir in the sago with a wooden spoon, let simmer for about half an hour, skim, season to taste, and serve. Remarks.—If the soup is required to be served as a puree or creme, put a gill of cream into a basin, also three yolks of eggs, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, stir with a whisk and pour in the above quantity of soup, then return to the stewpan, stir over the fire for a few minutes longer, taking care not to let it boil again ; a quart of tomato puree added in place of a quart of consomme will also make a good sago soup, proceeding exactly the same as above stated. N.B.—Crushed tapioca, semolina, Indian meal, or floradormay be served in the same manner. 143. Consomme a la Flovador.—2-3 quarts consomme, \ gill milk, 1^ oz. butter, 2 oz. medium-grained Jiorador {or Indian maize), 2 yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Melt the butter in the milk, let it boil, and stir in quickly the florador. Stir over the fire for a few minutes, season with pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Let cool a little, then work in the yolks of eggs. Shape some tiny quenelles by filling a small teaspoon previously dipped in hot water, smooth over with the blade of a knife, also dipped in hot water, scoop out with a second teaspoon and drop into salted boiling water ; proceed thus until the mixture is used up. Poach the quenelles for six minutes until firm ; strain on a sieve, trim a little, and serve with the hot consomme. 144. Consomme aux Fates d’ltalie. Allow about \ gill of Italian paste, or vermicelli, to every quart of clear soup. Drop into the soup when fast boiling, and let them cook for a few minutes. Macaroni, spaghetti, &c., may also be used as garnishing for con- sommes ; but these must be parboiled first and be broken into small pieces before being cooked in the soup. 145. Consomme a la Napoleon.—2 quarts consomme, 6 oz. ravioli paste, 1 oz. foie-gras trimmings, 2 oz. cold chicken, veal, or