146 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK green peas, and the same of cooked French beans cut in strips, may be added to the Julienne garniture. 120. Consomme Bonquetiere.—Fm the same vegetables as in the above, omitting the cabbage. Cut them into slices and stamp out by means of vegetable or column cutters some fanciful-shaped dice. Proceed the same as in the foregoing, and add one gill Eoyal (No. 95) ; cut into small diamond shapes just before serving. 121. Consomme JPaysanne—For 2 quarts of clear soup {No. 94) : 3 carrots, 3 turnips, 1 onion, ^ small cabbage, 3 oz. butter,, a handful of sorrel, a feiv sprigs of chervil, a handful of slightly- toasted sippets of bread, salt, pepper, a pinch of sugar. Wash the vegetables, scrape the carrots, peel the turnips and onion. Cut these into thin slices, stamp out in rounds about an inch in diameter. Cut the cabbage-leaves in a similar way. Put the butter in a stewpan, add the vegetables with the exception of sorrel and chervil. Fry a few7 minutes, season with pepper, salt, and sugar, pour off the butter arid add a quart of water, shred the sorrel and chervil, and add it after the above has simmered for about half an hour. Pour in the clear soup, boil up, skim and simmer for another twenty minutes. Put the toasted bread sippets in a soup-tureen, pour over the soup when ready, and serve. 122. Consomme a la Jardiniere.—For 2 quarts of con- somme : 1 carrot, 2 small turnips, 6 small button onions, ^ cucumber, j of a lettuce, J of a stalk of celery, a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil, pepper, salt, a pinch of sugar. Scrape, peel, and clean the vegetables, scoop out the carrot, turnips, and celery into the shape of peas and small olives. Wash the lettuce- and pull into very small pieces, cut the tarragon and chervil into fine shreds, blanch these and the lettuce-leaves. Cook the onions, carrot,, turnips, celery, and cucumber separately in salted water, drain and put all together with lettuce and herbs in a stewpan. Fill up with the clear soup, add the seasoning, boil gently for about ten minutes, and serve hot. N.B.—Toasted bread cut into small sippets may be served with this soup, but should be handed round separately. 123. Consomme Brunoise.—For 2 quarts of consomme : onion, 2 carrots, 1 turnip, 1 leek, 1 oz. butter, a pinch sugar, pepper and salt. Peel the onion, pare and wash the carrots, turnip, and leek, cut all into very small dice, the smaller the better. Put the vegetables in a stewpan, add the butter, season with very little salt, pepper, and sugar. Cover and keep over a fire for a few minutes, shake the pan well to prevent burning. See that the vegetables get well blended, but do not let them take colour. Pour in the clear soup, and boil gently for about half an hour. Take off the fat, and serve. A few sippets of toasted bread may be served in this soup, and, if liked, a handful of finely-minced lettuce and sorrel may be added along with the above-named vegetables.