ENTREES CHAUDES DE VIANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) 301 moisten with a little brown sauce, and serve in the centre as above directed. 825. Cdtelettes de Venn d la Frangadse.—5 or 6 bones of best end of neck of veal, 2 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful chopped herbs, i teaspoonful chopped lemon-rind, 6 tablespoonfuls bread-crumbs, pepper and salt, 2 egg-yolks, tomato sauce {No. 271). Saw off the chine-bone and the upper part of the rib-bones of the neck, thus leaving the rib-bones about three inches long. Divide into cutlets, flatten with a cutlet-bat, trim neatly, and season. Melt about half an ounce butter, beat up the egg-yolks and mix together on a plate, add the lemon-rind and chopped herbs, and mix thoroughly; dip the cutlets into this, and then into the bread-crumbs. Melt the remainder of butter in a saute or frying pan, and fry the cutlets a golden colour. Drain, dish up, put a frill on each bone, and serve with tomato or demi-glace sauce. 826. jEscalopes de Veau.—About 1^ lb. cushion part of veal (leg), 3 oz. butter, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. Cut the meat into six or seven even-sized slices, flatten each with a cutlet-bat, trim or pare neatly into shape (round or oval), and season lightly with pepper and salt. Melt about an ounce of the butter, beat up the egg, add the parsley and melted butter, and mix thoroughly. Dip each slice of meat into this, and cover with bread- crumbs. Melt the remainder of butter in a saute-pan, when hot put in the cutlets and fry a golden colour, turning each side as it gets brown. Dish up on a thin border of mashed potatoes. Fill the centre with prepared French beans, pour a little gravy or brown sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 827. Escalopes de Veau a la Russe.—About 2i lb. knuckle of veal, 3 oz. clarified butter, 4 oz. pork, 4 oz. beef marrow, 2 oz. anchovy paste, 1 yolk of egg, 1 teaspoonful poiodered savoury herbs, | pint preserved cepes, 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), salt, pepper, bread-crumbs. Trim the veal, cut it into eight even-sized scallops, beat them with a cutlet-bat, and shape neatly. Put two ounces butter in a saute-pan ; when hot, put in the scallops, and fry over a quick fire a nice light-brown colour. As the meat will afterwards be cooked again, the frying process should be done quickly without actually cooking the scallops or cutlets. Place them between two boards, put a weight not too heavy over the top, and keep them until cold. Strain the butter, and keep for further use. Cut the pork and marrow into small pieces, pound in a mortar ; when fine, add the anchovy paste, savoury herbs, egg-yolk,.and a small piece of butter about the size of a nutmeg. Pound thoroughly until smooth, season with pepper and salt, rub through a fine sieve, and cover one side of each scallop thickly with this farce. Put them on a buttered baking- sheet, cover over with a few fried bread-crumbs, sprinkle with oiled