f.4H THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK centre with any kind of fruit compote, pears, peaches, or apricots, and’ send to table with a cold custard sauce. 1730. Chartreuse de Pommes a la Princesse—6 small cooking apples, \ oz. French gelatine, 2 cloves, the rind of b lemon,. 2 oz. angelica, about 3 oz. sugar, a few drops carmine or cochineal, 1 pint jelly, 1 oz. glace cherries, ^ gill of cream, ^ oz. pistachios. Peel, core, and slice the apples ; put them in a stewpan with half a pint of water, the sugar, lemon-rind, and cloves, and cook over the fire; when the apples are thoroughly cooked remove lemon-rind and cloves, and rub all through a fine sieve. Dissolve the gelatine and stir in with the puree while hot. Divide the puree in two, mingle one part with a little thick cream and the other with a few drops of cochineal; pour into separate saute-pans, and put on the ice to set. When- perfectly set, stamp out some half-moon and diamond-shape- pieces. Stand a charlotte mould in some ice, mask the sides with liquid jelly, dip each piece of apple puree into the jelly, and arrange these, together with fancifully cut pieces of angelica, tastefully at the bottom and sides of the mould. Place a smaller mould in the centre of this, so as to leave about an inch of space all round : fill this carefully with half-set jelly and allow it to set firmly. Dissolve separately the trimmings of the puree used ; add the remainder of cream previously whipped, sweeten to taste, mix equally with about a gill of jelly. Remove the mould in the centre and fill the cavity by degrees with layers of this preparation. Be sure you allow each layer to set before you put on the next. Between the layers sprinkle the pistachio nuts, previously blanched, peeled, dried, and chopped. Stand on the ice until required, then immerse in tepid water, turn out, and serve. 1731. Charlotte a la St. Jose.—15 to 20 sponge finger- biscuits, b pint cream, ^ gill milk, 4 oz. preserved pine-apple, ^ oz. gelatine, 1 oz. caster sugar, about 2 gills wine jelly. Mask the bottom of a plain mould with jelly, ornament with fancifully cut slices of pine-apple, with half a glace cherry in the centre ; pour the rest of the jelly when nearly set on this, let it set on the ice, and line the sides with finger-biscuits, the sides and one end of which must be neatly trimmed before being used for lining. Soak the gelatine in the milk ; let it dissolve over the fire ; whip up the cream, mix with the remainder of pine-apple cut into small dice ; add the sugar and a tablespoonful of pine-apple syrup; strain the gelatine and milk into the cream ; mix well, and when cool enough pour carefully into the mould. Keep in a cool place until required, turn out, and serve. 1732. Charlotte aux Praises.—3 doz. or more finger-biscuits, 1 % pint strawberry pulp, 3 oz. caster sugar, 1| gill cream, 1 oz. gelatine. Cut enough finger-biscuits into long triangles to form a rosette at the bottom of a charlotte mould. Stamp out a small round in the