THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 44 insects will get into them. Bread is best kept in earthenware pans, (bread pans) fitted with a lid that has holes to admit air. If no pan is used, bread should be covered with paper or a clean cloth. Onions, shallots, leeks, &c., are best kept in the larder. Dried herbs in separate bags may be conveniently suspended from the ceiling or walls. Flour should be kept in an air-tight tin or flour bin ; it must be raised from the ground to prevent any damp causing rust. Butter should never be closely covered, or it will soon become rancid. It may be kept in an earthenware jar and covered, but the lid must be perforated. Milk absorbs germs of disease more quickly than any other food. Vessels, basins or jugs in which milk is to be kept, must be first •washed and scalded in boiling water. The vessels containing milk should be covered with a clean muslin cloth, or a piece of perforated paper. The floor and shelves of a larder must be kept scrupulously clean, no stray bits of food should be permitted to remain in the larder, or anything stale which might cause a bad smell, and which would be likely to contaminate other food. Meat should be hung up on proper hooks provided for that purpose. The time meat should hang depends on the heat and the humidity of the air ; if it is not kept long enough, it will be hard and tough—if too long, it loses its flavour. It should always be hung where it will have a thorough draught, and be dried every morning to keep it from damp and mustiness. The cook and butcher often lose their credit by meat being cooked too fresh ; as the fishmonger does by fish which he has kept too long. The ice-box or refrigerator must be kept clean and tidy. It should not be left open longer than is absolutely necessary. When meat or fish is placed upon linen direct on the ice, the linen- should be changed every day. Sauces, soups and other liquid food should be kept in earthenware pans or basins. These must be kept clean, the sides wiped with a damp cloth, and should be boiled up every day. They should not be stood in the larder until quite cold. The dust should be carefully removed from the shelves on each day by means of a damp cloth, and then scrubbed or washed as may be necessary (carbolic soap is an excellent thing for washing larder shelves). No brushing should be done in a larder where uncovered food is stored, for the less dust raised the better. After cleaning the larder, leave the door and windows open to dry it thoroughly, as damp, dirt and dust are most detrimental to any room where food is stored.