THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 452 fried in oil, drained, and finished in a rich gravy sauce containing chopped shallots, a clove of crushed garlic, chopped parsley, and lemon juice, seasoned with cayenne pepper and served with croutons arranged round the dish. 1342. Champignons aux Fines Herbes.—Sauted mushrooms in butter, and finished in a rich brown sauce containing finely chopped savoury herbs. 1343. Champignons au Gratin.—Washed and peeled mushrooms seasoned with grated ham, chopped parsley, herbs, shallots, &c., dished on a greased gratin dish, sauced with a well-buttered Madere sauce (No. 237 a) ; sprinkled over with bread-crumbs, and bake in a very hot oven for twenty minutes. 1344. Champignons Farcis a la Napolitaine.—Fresh cup mush- rooms washed and peeled, stuffed with a mixture of celery, garlic, shallots, and parsley, all chopped fine, grated Parmesan cheese, and bread-crumbs. Range on a buttered baking sheet, sprinkle with fresh crumbs and cheese and a few drops of sweet oil, and bake in a hot oven. Serve with a well-seasoned (No. 237) demi-glace sauce. 1345. Choux-Maves a la Creme.—8 small kohl-rabis (turnip-rooted cabbage), 1 oz. butter, ^ gill Allemande (No. 204) or veloutee (No. 206) sauce, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, salt, white pepper, nutmeg, ^ pint white stock. Pare the kohl-rabis, cut into quarters, or, if large, into six equal parts. Blanch them in salted water, plunge them in cold water, and drain. Put the butter in a stewpan, and when hot lay in the blanched kohl-rabis, toss them over the fire for a few minutes (they must not take colour), moisten with the stock, let it come to the boil, take off the scum, put in the sauce, and cook gently until tender (a little more stock or sauce may be added if found necessary); finish with the cream, and add the seasoning. Dish up in a deep vegetable dish, and serve. Great care should be taken so as not to let this vegetable boil again after the cream is added. 1346. Chottx-Mouge au Petit Lard (Bed Cabbage).—1 red cabbage, 2 small onions stuck with a clove, 2 small apples peeled and cored, 4 slices of streaky bacon, 2 oz. butter, 1 glass claret, 1 dessertspoonful flour, pint stock, seasoning. Trim and wash the cabbage, cut into fine shreds, the same as is done for pickling, cut the apples into slices, cut the bacon into small pieces. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the bacon, and fry a little, then add the cabbage, apples, and onions, stir well, sprinkle in a dessertspoonful of flour, and moisten with the claret and stock. Cook for an hour over the fire, then season with salt and pepper, cover, and place it in a hot oven for another hour. When ready for serving take out the onions. This dish can be served with any kind of roast or braised meat, poultry, or game.