SOUPS (POTAGES) 149 mould or pan, spread evenly with a thick layer of forcemeat made as follows : Chop finely the chicken meat, bacon or suet, pound together in a mortar, add gradually the eggs and sauce, pass through a wire sieve, return to the mortar, and add the cream and as much stock as is required to make a nice creamy farce ; season with pepper and salt to taste. Place the mould in the oven till done ; this will take but a few minutes ; cut out some thin rounds about the size of a shilling piece, put in a soup-tureen together with a handful of small rounds of cooked carrots, and the same quantity of cooked asparagus points ; pour over the consomme and serve. 137. Consomme Sal fleetno.—2 quarts consomme, 2 small potatoes, 2 small turnips, 2 small carrots. Wash and peel the vegetables, scoop out with vegetable scoop a little larger than a pea, blanch and boil each kind separately in some clear stock, drain, and keep hot in consomme until wanted. 138. Consomme a la Xavier.—2 or 3 quarts consomme, 3 oz. flour, 1 oz. butter, 1 egg, 1 oz. grated cheese, ^ gill milk, pepper and salt. Put the milk and butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour when boil- ing, stir quickly over the fire until the mixture becomes thick and smooth. Add the cheese (Parmesan or Gruyere is best), season with pepper and salt, work up well and let cool. Beat up the egg and work into the mixture. Three-parts fill a paper cornet or forcing-bag with a plain pipe with this paste, close up the large end, press out some large pea-shapes on to a buttered saute-pan, pour on a little boiling water, and poach for five minutes. Drain on a sieve, and add to the hot consomme about ten minutes before serving. 139. Consomme aux Quenelles frites.—Prepare a quenelle paste as above, shape into small marbles, fry these in hot fat, lard, or butter, a golden brown, drain on a cloth ; pour the hot consomme into the tureen, and put in the fried quenelles just before serving. 140. Consomme Mikado—2 quarts of consomme flavoured with curry, 4 oz. lean veal, 2 oz. lean mutton, the breast of a small chicken, 2 oz. butter, ^ onion, a bouquet garni, 2 tablespoonfuls cooked rice, pepper and salt. The curry to flavour the soup should be added to the stock before it is clarified. Cut the meat into even-sized small pieces, mince the onion finely. Put the butter in a stewpan ; when melted add the bouquet of herbs and minced onion, cook a little, then add the pieces of meat, let it brown a little, put in the clear soup, let it come to a boil, skimming it thoroughly before it boils. Simmer gently for a good half-hour, season with pepper and salt, put in the boiled rice, take out the bouquet, and pour the soup in a hot tureen ready for serving. 141. Consomme a la Christophe Colombo.— 2 quarts of consomme, 6 eggs, 1 gill of cream, a few drops of liquid carmine or cochineal, salt and pepper, a pinch of nutmeg, a little butter.