696 NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK “ Some hae meat, and canna eat, Some wad eat that want it; But we liae meat, and we can eat, And sae the Lord be thankit.”—Barns. “ When friends are met o’er merry cheer, And lovely eyes are laughing near, Then is our banquet crowned.”—W. Scott. “ Let me have the friends who eat my victuals, As various as my dishes.”—W. Scott. “Domestic food is wholesome, though’tis homely, And -foreign dainties poisonous, though tasteful.”—W. Scott. “ A cleare conscience to have well employed and industriously have spent the other houres,. is a perfect seasoning and savoury condiment of tables.”—Montaigne. " Mass and meat ne’er hurt any man.”—Old Saying. There are also many Latin and German mottoes which would be appropriate:— “Ouse virtus et quanta, boni, sit vivere parvo.” “Dona prsesentis cape lsetus horse et linque severa.” “Dum licet in rebus jucundis vive beatus.” “ Impune licebit iEstivam sermone benigno tendere noctem.” “ Dulce est desipere in loco.” “Vivitur parvo bene cui paternum Splendet in mensa tenui salinum, Nec leves somnos timor aut cupido Sordidus aufert.” “Bene est cui Deus obtulit Parca quod satis est, manu.” “Ein froher Gast ist Niemand’s Last.” “ Ein frohlich Gesicht, das beste Gericlit.” “ Bei einem guten Gange, Da wird uns niemals bange.” Hors=d’ceuvre. “ He was a bolcf man that first ate an oyster.”—Dean Swift, Conversation. “ Those oysters, too, that look so plump.”—Toni Hood. “ The treasure of an oyster.”—Antony and Cleopatra, i. 5. “Item—anchovies and sack.”—Henry IV. ii. 4. “ They call for eggs and butter.”—Henry IV. ii. 1. “Dishes alike delightful and appetising.”—Leigh Hunt. “ Send this treasure of an oyster ”— (Antony and Cleopatra); And, behold ! “ a lemon ” follows, (Labour Lost) is raison d’etre. (Henry Y.) adds “ cakes,” adds “wafers,” “ Piece of ice ”—(The Shrew in Taming); “ Courage mountetli with occasion ”— Ah (King John), the wine is blaming. “And this valour comes of sherries ”— (Henry IV.) part of the second; Then “ I prythee take the cork out ”— (As You Like It) thus hath reckoned.—M. F. Brown. Soup—Potage. “A hasty plate of soup.”—Winfield Scott. “ Soup of the evening, beautiful soup.”—Alice in Wonderland. “ Of all the things I ever swallow Good, well dressed turtle beats them hollow It almost makes me wish, I vow, To have two stomachs, like a cow.”—Hood. “ Spoon meat—bespeak a long spoon.”—Comedy of Errors. “ That’s meat and drink to me.”—Merry Wives of Windsor. “ Gravy ! gravy ! gravy ! ”—2 Henry IV. “ Twenty turtles.”—Merry Wives of Windsor, ii. 1. “ The imperious seas breed monsters; for the dish.”—Cymbeline, iv. 2 Ho, aha! “ I smelt sweet savors ” (Taming of the Shrew) exclaims; (Cymbeline) “ hath sauced our broths as Juno had been sick ’’—chef shames. “ I smell it! upon my life it will do well.”—Henry TV. “ Of two evils choose the least.”—Thomas d Kempis.