626 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK the cooking all that is desired, perfect in every way, the confidence of the diner is at once inspired. To order a dinner is to be able to put together a list of dishes; which requires thought, invention, and combination. This is the essence of the art of menu compilation, for it involves four important things : novelty, simplicity, originality, and taste. A well balanced menu must be original, seasonable, and characteristic in every sense; the old-fashioned and dull routine must as much as possible be avoided. The first consideration in making up a menu must be paid to the occasion, season, and the magnitude of the repast to be given. There are menus for quiet-living families, who require but simple and plain meals; the principal object in this case is to escape monotony, to vary the composition of dinners from day to day, while avoiding too much diversity in the same meal. Dinners to be given to a party of friends are not as a rule quite so simple as those served in the ordinary way, but even here there should be moderation in the selection of dishes, for most people will enjoy a meal with few courses, plain but good, far better than an elaborate spread with a lot of unnecessary over-decorated and richly prepared dishes. This, however, is a rule which must be regulated as it were on the sliding scale, for a great deal depends upon the diners and the host’s position and means. The best plan in every case is to hit the happy medium which will satisfy the guests and harmonise with the host’s position. An elaborate ball supper, a state banquet, or a society dinner requires a very different menu from that provided for a little dinner to entertain a few friends. The chief considerations for all menus, whether of a frugal or more important character, may be summarised as follows-:— 1. The kind and style of a meal, and the number of guests expected. 2. To fix the number of courses of which the meal is to consist. 3. The selection of dishes, special attention being paid to the choice thereof, observing that they must bear suitable relation to each other. 4. Observe the season of the year, and be guided accordingly. Menus vary according to the seasons. Certain products are at their best at different periods, therefore it is more or less essential that these must be considered. In January and February oxtail or giblet soup, and all kinds of game, such as wild duck, woodcocks, and snipe, are served. These latter are not procurable in April or May. In April and May, spring soup, crimped salmon, lamb, &c., would be considered most seasonable dishes. 5. In introducing so-called seasonable viands into a menu, see that the remainder of dishes or courses harmonise with them. In the spring, for instance, young poultry and the meat of young animals