CALENDAR OF FOOD IN SEASON Herrings, Fresh July to February Indian Corn . August to December ■John Dories . July to April Kale . December to March Lamb . January to July Landrails October to February Larks . August to February Lettuces, English April to September Lettuces, French December to March Leverets August to March Lobsters July to September Mackerel April to December Maize (See Indian Corn) Medlars September to October Melons (Hot- house) August to September Melons, Rock August to September „ Spanish Water October to March Mulberries . August to September Mullet, Grey and Red . July to October Mushrooms . March to October Mussels August to March Nectarines . August to October Oranges November to June „ Seville February to March Ortolans June to August Oysters. September to April Parsnips September to April Partridges September to February Partri dges, Foreign February to June Peaches August to October Pears . August to December „ Califor- nian . . November to April Peas, English green August to September Perch . July to February Pheasants October to February Pigeons, Bordeaux August to April Pike . July to February Pines, St. Michael’s October to April Pintail . September to March Plaice . May to January. Plovers’ Eggs April to May Plovers, Gol- den and Grey. August to March Plums, Eng- lish . August to September Plums, French July to August Pomegranates October to November Pork September to April Potatoes, New Kidney March to May Ptarmigans . December to May Prairie Hens February to April Prawns. April to August Pumpkins September to October Quinces October to November Raspberries . June to September Red Cabbage September to January Reeves . August to September Rhubarb, Forced December to May Rhubarb, Natural April to July Ruffs August to September Shrimps April to September Salmon. February to October Salsify . December to March Savoys. October to March Scarlet Run- ners . July to October Scallops October to April Skate . October to May Snipe . August to March Spinach March to December Sprats . November to April Strawberries. June to September Sturgeon, Royal September toiMarch Tangerin e Oranges November to February Teal . September to March Tench . July to February Tomatoes March to December Trout . February to September Turkeys September to February Vegetable Marrow August to October Venison May to October Walnuts September to December Whitebait February to August Whiting May to January Widgeons August to March Woodcocks . August to March