159 SOUPS (POTAGES) of paprika. Cook the nouille lozenges in salted water for fifteen minutes, drain them, and add to the soup. Mix the remainder of cream with the egg-yolks in a soup-tureen, pour over the soup, and serve. 172. Potage a laMacMahon.—1 cooked calfs brain, 2 boiled onions, ^ cucumber, 1 teaspoonful curry-powder, 3 yolks of eggs, 4 oz. butter, \ gill cream, 2 quarts of stock, pepper, salt, nutmeg. Peel the cucumber, cut into thick slices, and boil in salted water till tender. Pound the brain and onions in a mortar, add the butter and curry-powder, put in a stewpan with the stock. Boil for twenty minutes and run through a sieve. Return to the fire, mix the eggs with the cream, stir into the soup, heat up, season to taste, and serve with the cooked slices of cucumber. 173. Puree Crecy an Miz.—Wash and scrape ten large French carrots, shred off all the red part, parboil them for five minutes, drain, dry, and put them in a stewpan with three ounces of butter, one large sliced onion, and the white part of a leek ; stir over the fire for a few minutes, add two quarts of stock, season with salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg; allow it to simmer until the carrots are done. Rub the whole through a fine sieve or tammy. Put it on the fire again, add more stock, a dessertspoonful of sugar, a pat of fresh butter, also one ounce of fecule or cornflour mixed first with a little milk or water. Stir well, allow it to simmer for fifteen minutes, add a quarter of a pound of rice boiled in beef broth, skim well, and serve with bread sippets either separate or in the soup-tureen. 174. Potage a VOseille (Sorrel Soup).—4 lb. pickled sorrel- leaves, 4 oz. butter, 3 pints stock, 1^ gill cream, 3 yolks of eggsr | oz. fecule de riz or potato flour, pepper, salt, a pinch of sugar, a handful fried bread croutons. Wash thoroughly the sorrel-leaves, tear them into little pieces, removing the stalks and part of the ribs, cut it in fine shreds, and put in a stewpan with the butter ; stir over the fire until it is well blended and partly cooked. Sprinkle over the fecule or potato flour, add the’stock—or, if wanted for a ‘ soupe maigre,’ use water in place of stock. Let it boil for fifteen minutes, take off the scum, mix the cream and egg-yolks thoroughly, add it to the soup, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar to taste. Keep stirring until quite hot, but do not let it boil again. Put the bread croutons in a soup- tureen, pour over the soup, and serve. 175. Puree a la Nivernoise.—2^ quarts white stock, 8 small turnips, 6 small potatoes, 3 leeks, \ pint cream, 2 oz. butter, 18 small cooked Brussels sprouts, ^ pint cooked jardiniere, pepper, salt, nutmeg. Wash and peel the potatoes and turnips and cut into slices ; wash the leeks, trim off the root and the green part of the leaves, and slice thinly. Put the butter and cut vegetables in a stewpan, and cook over a slow fire from fifteen to twenty minutes, stirring them