489 SALADES (SALADS) Toss all carefully the moment it is required for serving. 1516. Salade d la Demidoff.—8 to 10 new kidney potatoes scraped and cooked in salted water, 2 large truffles, 3 young spring carrots, 2 young spring turnips, 1 lettuce {cabbage), salt, pepper,- a dessertspoonful of finely chopped herbs, salad oil, French wine vinegar. Drain and cool the potatoes, cut them into slices, and put in a basin. Cook the truffles in a little Marsala wine, drain, cool, and slice also; mix these with the potatoes, adding a little chopped herbs (parsley, tarragon, and chervil), salt, pepper, and about a tablespoonful of oil and the same quantity of vinegar. Scrape the carrots, peel the turnips, and cook them separately in salted water, then drain, cool, and cut into slices; season these with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, and chopped herbs, and arrange a neat border in a salad bowl: put the prepared potatoes and truffle salad in the centre. Garnish with lettuce leaves, previously dressed, and send to table. 1517. Winter Salad.—A small head of celery, ipickled beetroot {well boiled), 3 or 4 cold potatoes, pepper and salt, dressing {No. 1554). Peel and slice the potatoes and beetroot, wash the celery and shred not too small, arrange these ingredients in layers in a salad bowl, season to taste, pour over some salad dressing, sprinkle over, if liked, a little chopped parsley. Wipe the sides of the bowl, and mix well when required. 1518. Salade de Pols et Haricots Verts {Green Pea and Bean Salad).—For this salad use preserved peas and French beans or freshly cooked vegetables. If the latter be used, boil them in slightly salted water containing a small piece of soda, or better still a pinch of saleratus, to preserve the green colour. The peas and beans must, of course, be cooked separately. When done drain on a sieve and let them get cool. Cut the beans into pieces of about an inch long. Mix both beans and peas in a bowl, adding the necessary salad dressing, cut a clove of garlic in two, and rub the inside of a salad bowl with the cut side. This will give the salad a much appreciated and not too pronounced flavour. Arrange the prepared salad neatly in the bowl and garnish with rings of hard-boiled white of egg, rounds of sliced beetroot, and parsley. When the flavour of onion is liked, one or two finely chopped shallots may be mixed with this salad. 1519. Salade des Pomme dc Terre {Potato Salad).—1£ lb. small firm potatoes, boiled in the skins, j lb. lean bacon, ^ small onion, salt, pepper, vinegar to taste, 1 tablespoonful mayonnaise {No. 277), parsley. Peel the potatoes, and slice them while hot, cut the bacon into dice, and fry a nice brown in a frying-pan, drain the bacon and put it in a basin with the potatoes and the onion finely chopped. Season with salt and pepper, mix the mayonnaise sauce with about two