THE NEW CENTVBY COOKERY BOOK 606 1955. Almond Paste (Xo. 2).—14 lb. lump sugar, saffron, 1 gill toater, 3 drops almond essence, f lb. ground almonds, 1 egg. Put sugar and water in a copper pan; when dissolved place on the fire and let boil to the small blow degree ; add the almonds and essence, also saffron to give it a yellow tint; turn on a slab and work in one whole egg; work to a soft paste. 1956. Galcttes.—Sift a pound and a half of flour on to the table, make a well, put in the centre of it half a pound of caster sugar, four eggs, a pinch of salt, a quarter of an ounce of ground ammonia, and work into a fairly smooth dough by adding the needed quantity of milk. Roll out about one-third of an inch thick, cut out into rounds with a three- inch round cutter, and place them on a buttered baking-sheet about half an inch apart. Brush over with egg and milk, mark the surface of each by means of a four-pronged fork, and bake in a fairly sharp oven. 1957. Pate 3fadeleine.—1 tb. flour, 4 lb. butter, 1 lb. caster sugar, 1 teaspoonful orange-floioer water, the juice and rind of \ a lemon, 6 eggs. Sift the flour and put it with the sugar and butter (previously oiled) in a stewpan; add the orange-flower water, lemon-juice, and the lemon-rind finely chopped. Work in the yolks of eggs ; beat the whites to snow and incorporate with the mixture. 1958. Creme pdtissiere {Confectioner's Custard).—14 pint milk, 4 oz. sugar, 4 yolks of eggs, \ oz. potato flour (Jecule de pommes de terre), 3 sheets French gelatine, flavouring essence. Boil the milk, add the sugar and flavouring. Beat the yolks of eggs with the fecule, pour gradually the hot milk on to this, and stir over a slow fire until it begins to thicken. Dissolve the gelatine and mix with the above, strain through a fine sieve, let cool, and use as directed. 1959. Creme Frangiparte.—h lb. flour {sifted), 2 oz. butter, £ lb. caster sugar, 1 pint milk, 4 eggs, a pinch of salt. Put into a small stewpan two whole eggs and four yolks, stir in the flour, the sugar, almonds, and a tiny pinch of salt ; stir well with a wooden spoon ; add the milk little by little, stirring well, to avoid the formation of lumps; now add the butter, and stir continuously over a gentle fire, taking great care that it does not burn or stick to the bottom of the pan. Cook for about ten minutes, add flavouring essence, and turn into a basin. Use as required. 1960. Creme d Gateau de Pith trier.—\ lb. caster sugar, 4 lb. butter, 4 lb. sioeet almonds (blanched), 2 eggs, 4 gill double cream. Pound the almonds with the sugar and add one egg. When the almonds are in a smooth paste add the other eggs. Mix thoroughly, and add the cream last. Add any desired flavour and use as required. 1961. Creme, d Gateau fourre.—4 lb. sugar, 4 lb. sweet almonds (blanched), 4 lb. butter.