78 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK cut side of the meat is quickly hardened and the surface browned. A chop, steak, cutlet, or fillet, properly broiled, should have a thin, nicely browned crust, the inside of which must be cooked to suit the requirements and taste of the person for whom it is pre- pared, viz. underdone, raw and juicy, medium, or well-cooked. A gridiron, cleaned and well greased, is the proper utensil for broiling, though some cooks use the frying-pan more often than the gridiron. In broiling on or between a gridiron, special care must be exercised to keep the fat from falling into the fire, as the sudden blaze is likely to impart a smoky and objection- able flavour to the meat. A clear bright fire, not the re- mainder of a good fire, is essen- tial to perfection in grilling. On no account must the meat be pierced with a fork or skewer, or the juices will run out of the holes made, and much of the flavour will thereby be lost. An average-sized chop or steak will require from ten to twelve minutes to broil or grill, during which time it should be turned at least five times. The value of the gridiron, its advantages as well as its abuses, is perhaps nowhere better known than in England, especially in re- lation to chops, cutlets, steaks, kidneys, fish, chicken, bones, mush- rooms, tomatoes, &c. If properly managed by careful and competent hands, nothing can be made more tasty than a grillade. Frying’. — The process of frying is in the truest culinary sense ‘ boiling in fat or oil.’ Eat is but oil solidified, and oil is liquid fat; nevertheless the conditions of boiling in oil are altogether different, and the effects to a certain extent contrary to the mode of boiling in other liquids. For frying,' the fat must be 360 degrees, but boiling oil is about three times as hot as boiling water. In consequence of this, if articles of food are plunged into boiling fat or oil, they offer the very opposite results to what they do in boiling. By the latter method, meat, vegetables, fish, &c., become soft and in some cases dissolved, they become solid boiled meats, &c., or are