ENTREES CHANDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) • 321 over with some hot Madeira sauce, and send a small boat of the same sauce to table with the dish. 884. Vol au Vent de JRis de Veau.—1 lb. puff-paste or feuilletage, 1 large heart sweetbread, 1 gz. butter, 18 small pre- served mushrooms, 2 slices ox-tongue, 1 gill Madeira sauce (No. 237 a), salt and pepper, 1 egg. The puff-paste must be prepared with special care for this dish, and should have at least five turns. Eoll it out to about an inch in thickness, then, with the help of a dessert plate, cut the paste with the point of a sharp knife to the size required. Turn it on to a baking-sheet, brush the surface very carefully and evenly with beaten egg yolk, mark the centre with a large round paste cutter by making an incision, about an inch from the edge of the paste. Trace a few lines in the centre ring by means of the point of a knife, and bake in an evenly heated but not too hot an oven from thirty to forty minutes. When done lift up the cover and take out some of the interior of the pastry. Keep the Vol-au-Vent warm till wanted. Wash, trim, parboil, drain, and pare the sweetbread, cut it into con- venient slices, fry them in the saute-pan with the butter, pour off the butter, season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, &e. Add the Madeira sauce, the tongue, cut into dice or strips, and the mushrooms cut into slices. Cook this for some minutes. Fill the Vol-au-Vent with this preparation, have it placed on a hot dish, put on the lid, and serve immediately. 885. liot/nons aux CEufs brouilles (Calf’s Kidney with Scrambled Eggs).—1 large or 2 small calves’ kidneys, 2 oz. butter, 2 shallots, 1 gill Madeira sauce (No. 237 a), 1 teaspoonful fin ely - chopped parsley or chives, 4 eggs, salt and pepper. Remove skin and fat from the kidneys, cut it into very thin slices, and season with salt and pepper. Peel and chop the shallots, and fry them in a saute or frying pan to a very pale colour, add the kidney slices, and fry over a quick fire for five minutes. This process is called sauteing or tossing. Add the Madeira sauce, and let cook gently for ten minutes. Beat up the eggs, add about a table- spoonful of milk, season to taste, and put it in a stewpan with the remainder of butter (1 oz.). Stir over the fire till it thickens, dress the kidney ill a circle on a hot dish, put the scrambled eggs in the centre (piled up high), sprinkle with chopped parsley or chive, and serve at once. 886. lilauquette de Veau (WhiteVeal Stew).—1| lb. to 2 lb. cushion of veal or fillet, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 12 preserved mush- rooms (champignons), 8 to 10 small onions, 1 bouquet garni (No. 2), | gill white wine (Chablis or Sauterne), \ gill cream, Zyolhs of eggs, lemon-juice, seasoning. Cut the veal into neat square pieces, put it into a stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover, add a good pinch of salt and the juice of half a lemon, bring it to the boil, and remove the scum. Now add