1 CHAPTER XXVIII ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. (SAVOURIES AND BREAKFAST DISHES) 1812. Huitres gratinees en Coquilles (Oysters in Shells). —18 oysters, 1 oz. butter, % lemon, 3 tablespoonfuls bechamel (No. 202), white bread crumbs, cayenne or krona pepper, parsley for garnish. Open the oysters and remove the beards ; ’preserve a little of the liquor and eighteen round shells. Wash the shells and wipe dry ; butter the inside. Put a teaspoonful of bechamel sauce in each of the shells, also a few drops of oyster liquor and lemon-juice ; lay the bearded oysters on this, season with a dust of krona or cayenne, put a little more sauce on top of each ; sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and lay a tiny piece of butter on top of each. Place them on a baking-sheet in a quick oven for ten minutes or less, just long enough to slightly colour the top; dish up on a very hot dish on a folded napkin; garnish with a few sprigs of freshly-picked parsley, and serve as hot as possible. 1813. Huitres d 7a Tsar.—12 oysters, 12 rounds of sliced cooked ox-tongue, 1 oz. anchovy paste, 3 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, i lemon, 3 oz. flour, 1£ oz. butter, 1 yolk of egg, salt, and cayenne. Sift the flour, mix it with two ounces of grated cheese, and rub in the butter ; add a pinch of salt and a dust of cayenne, and work into a stiff paste with egg-yolk. Roll out, stamp out some rounds about two inches in diameter, place them on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake a golden colour. Put the oysters, after having removed the beards, with some of the liquor in a saute-pan ; sprinkle with lemon-juice, a pinch of salt, and a dust of cayenne ; toss over the fire till hot, but do not let them boil. Mix the anchovy paste with the remaining cheese, spread on one side of the baked biscuits. Heat up the rounds of tongue in a little butter and place one on top of the paste, or place the tongue on the biscuit and spread a layer of the paste on the tongue. Put an oyster in the centre of each; bake a few minutes; dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. 1814. Coquilles d la Suedoise.—Open eight to ten large oysters, take out the oysters and beard them. Clean the deep shell of each oyster and place them on the ice to get quite cold. Mean- while mix an ounce of ‘ hygienic caviare ’ with a finely chopped shallot