THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 74 roasted, the condition and form of the meat, as well as its propor- tions of fat and lean, must be considered. Meat of newly killed beasts requires longer cooking than meat which has been hung for a time. In warm weather joints require slightly less time for roasting than in cold. Boned and rolled or stuffed meat requires longer cooking than the same joints would if not rolled, and unstuffed. The meat of young animals and that of old ones requires different treatment. As a rule young flesh, containing less fibrine, requires longer cooking. White meat, such as pork, veal, and lamb, should always be well cooked, and must never be served underdone. It is almost impossible to fix the exact time required for roasting each joint of meat, because so much depends upon circumstances, that no uniform thumb rule can be given. The proper time and process of roasting must be left to the good judgment of the cook, who must be guided by circumstances and conditions. The cook’s business. is to serve the joint as full of nourishing qualities as possible. Though roasting is considered one of the easiest and most simple processes of cookery, it really requires quite as much attention to obtain perfect results as is necessary to prepare so-called ‘ made ’ dishes, the recognised test for good cooks. Baking-.—This is a most convenient form of cooking. Baking is cooking in hot air. Hot air plays a very important part in cookery, and although baking in a close oven is not done by radiant heat, there is a great amount of heat radiated from the sides of the oven and from the top and bottom. The hot air in an oven is likely to become tainted with the fumes of burnt grease &c., and smoke, which too often communicates disagreeable flavours to things baked, more especially to meats. This can be avoided to a large extent if, the oven is kept scrupulously clean, and well ventilated. For braising, roasting, and baking bread, cakes, pastry, &c., puddings, custards, and many savoury meat, vegetable, and farinaceous dishes, the oven will always remain in favour. The ordinary oven temperatures are known by the following- terms :—Very hot, quick, brisk, hot, moderate, slack, slow, gentle. Difference between Baking and Boiling, etc. —The difference between baking and boiling is that by the former method the food is cooked by dry heat, whilst by the latter it is cooked in liquid (moist heat). Baking, as compared with other cooking processes, such as broiling and roasting, differs in this : while by broiling and roasting the food is cooked by full exposure to the hot air, baking is performed in ovens, more or less close structures, whereby the action of dry heat is modified by the presence of the steam that comes from the food which is being baked. Various Ovens.--Besides the ovens attached to ordinary stoves (French system), grates, and ranges, baking is performed in various other kinds of ovens. I refer more especially to bakers’ and pastry-