308 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Turn the moulds on to a cloth, dish the little tongues in a circle on a thin border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, fill up the centre with prepared Macedoine of vegetables or green peas, pour a little sauce Pompadour round the base of the dish, and serve. 841. jPetits Souffles de Veau d la Minute.—£ lb. lean veal, free from shin and sinews, 8 eggs, 1 gill cream, 1 truffle, seasoning, a little bechamel or other white sauce (No. 202), butter. Shred the meat as finely as possible, then pound it in a mortar until quite smooth, adding one by one the yolks of eggs, and lastly the cream. Rub this through a fine hair sieve, and put it in a basin. Beat up the whites of eggs, and mix into the puree. Season lightly with salt, pepper, and a dust of nutmeg. Butter a few small china souffle cases, put about a teaspoonful of bechamel sauce into each, and fill with the prepared farce. Chop finely the truffle and sprinkle this over the top of each. Place the cases on a baking-tin or saute- pan, cover with a buttered "paper. Bake for about fifteen minutes. Serve the cases on a hot dish, covered with a folded napkin. 842. Souffle de Veau (Veal Souffle).— lib. lean veal, 1 gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), 1 gill double cream, 3 eggs, 2 oz. butter, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, 1 small truffle, supreme sauce (No. 210). Free the meat from all skin and gristle, cut it up very small, and pound in a mortar until quite smooth ; add gradually the butter, the yolks of three eggs, and one white of egg, also the sauce (cold),, season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Whisk the two whites of eggs (remaining) to a stiff froth, beat up the cream a little, and mix both carefully into the forcemeat. Decorate the bottom of a well-buttered timbale or plain charlotte mould with thinly sliced, or finely-chopped truffles; and three parts fill it with the preparation. Steam gently for about an hour. Unmould and serve with supreme or other good white sauce. 843. Tend eons de Veau d la Jardiniere.—About 3 lb. neck of veal, 8 to 10 thin slices of bacon, 1 carrot, 1 onion, 1 bay- leaf, a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, 1 oz. butter, i pint white stock, 1 glass Ghablis, meat glaze (No. 247), salt and pepper, jardiniere of vegetables (No. 471). Free the meat from the bones, pare off the skin &c., and cut into scallops or little fillets a little larger than oyster-shells. Blanch them, press, and let cool. Trim neatly into shape, season lightly with salt and pepper, wrap each in a thin slice of bacon, and place in a saute-pan with the butter on a bed of sliced onion, carrot, and herbs. Moisten with the stock and wine, ..cover with a lid, and stew gently in the oven or on the stove for about an hour. When done, drain off the liquor into another saute-pan, add some meat glaze, and reduce to about half the original quantity; remove the fat. Put the tendrons in with the glaze and allow them to get thoroughly blended, so as to introduce the flavour of the glaze. Dish up on a border of