THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 268 mande (No. 204) or bechamel (No. 202) —2 mushrooms, 1 truffle, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, fried parsley, pepper and salt. Roll out the paste, cut it into strips, butter the exterior of some cornet tins, roll the strips of paste round each tin, so that the strip of paste overlaps half the other at each turn, keep all of even size. Egg Over the surface, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and bake on a greased baking-tin (laid flat) in a hot oven. Blanch and cook the sweetbread and celery, cut into small dice, warm up in the sauce, season to taste; add the mushrooms and truffles, also cut in dice. Remove the paste- crust from the tins as soon as baked, fill them with the above mixture, place a star of truffle in the centre of each, dish them neatly on a dish with folded napkin, pointed ends inwards, put a handful of fried parsley in the centre, and serve. 682. Cdtelettes d’Agneau d la Bonaparte.—8 lamb cutlets, 1 oz. of butter, a small onion, \ carrot, a bay-leaf, a bouquet of parsley, 1^ pint of white stock, 3 tablespoonfuls of creme de riz, i oz. meat glaze, \ glass champagne, pepper, and salt, mashed spinach for garnish, a gill of tomato sauce (No. 271). Trim the cutlets neatly, put them in a braisiere or saute-pan with the butter, fry a little on both sides and add sliced onion, sliced carrot, bay-leaf, and parsley, season with pepper and salt. Moisten with the champagne or Chablis wine and about a gill of stock, cover with a buttered paper and braise in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. Mix the creme de riz with a little cold stock, boil up a pint of the stock in a small saucepan. Mix both together and stir until it boils, season to taste. Let it simmer for a few minutes, then pour into little cutlet-moulds slightly greased, or in one round mould. Stand it in a cool place to set. Turn out and put a cutlet on each of these shapes. If the round mould is used it should be turned out, the rice shape cut into slices, and trimmed into rounds the shape of cutlets. Dish the cutlets with a rice shape in a circular row, and keep warm. Strain the gravy from the cutlets, take off the fat, put it in a sauce- pan with the meat glaze, and let it reduce until fit to glaze over the cutlets. Have ready a puree of spinach nicely flavoured, put it in the centre of the cutlets, sauce round with tomato sauce, and serve. The tomato sauce should be allowed to boil up in the saute-pan after the gravy is strained off, in order to impart the essence to the sauce. 683. Cdtelettes d’Agneau d la Cahors.—8 to 10 lamb cutlets (neatly pared), 1 oz. butter, 2 shallots, 3 truffles, 1 table- spoonful meat glaze, | gill sherry, teaspoonful chopped parsley, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 xohole egg, 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), seasoning, bread-crumbs, clarified butter. Peel and chop finely the shallots, fry them a light colour in one oz. butter, add the truffles finely chopped, moisten with the sherry, cover and let it reduce well. Stir in the meat glaze and parsley, bind with the yolks of eggs, stir until it thickens, and putin a forcing-