ENTREES CHANDES DE VIANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) 275 hour. When done drain the cutlets, press them between two boards, and let them cool. Add a gill of Espagnole sauce (No. 236), to the fond, reduce well, and strain. Add a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley and three tarragon-leaves to the sauce, immerse the cutlets in this, and let cool again. Dip in beaten egg and milk, roll in bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat or butter. Drain on a cloth, dish up in a circle. Have ready a ragout of sheeps’ kidneys, fill the centre with same, put a few warm green peas on top, fasten paper frills on the bones, and serve. 714. Cdtelettes deMouton auoc Petits Pais {Mutton Cutlets with Green Peas).—Cut a best end of neck of mutton into cutlets ; trim, flatten, and pare them. Season with pepper and salt, mix a plateful of bread-crumbs with an ounce of finely-chopped lean ham ; dip the cutlets in beaten egg, and cover with bread-crumbs. Melt about two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, and cook the cutlets to a nice golden brown. Take them up, drain them, and dish up in the form of a border on small bed of mashed potatoes and peas. Fill the centre with cooked green peas, pour a little gravy or sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 715. Cdtelettes de Mouton an JNaturel.—Procure the best end of a neck of mutton, saw off the upper part of the rib-bones, so as to leave the bones of the cutlets about three inches long. Saw off the spine-bone close to the end of the ribs, cut or trim off the flat bones adhering to the thick end of the neck, cut slantwise into cutlets. Flatten each a little and pare neatly, and without waste; cut off the skin on the side of each bone, and scrape the ends of the bones ; season with pepper and salt, brush over with oiled butter, and grill; or melt about an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, put in the cutlets when hot, and broil on both sides over a brisk fire. Dish up and serve with plain gravy. 716. Cdtelettes de Mouton d la Soubise—Proceed to cook the cutlets in the same manner as in the foregoing recipe. Dish up in a circle on a very thin - border of mashed potatoes. Sauce round with demi-glace (No. 237) or brown sauce well reduced. Put some onion puree or soubise sauce (No. 232), pile up in the centre, and serve. 717. Cdtelettes de M»uton d la Pompadour.—6 or 8 neatly pared mutton cutlets, 2 oz. butter, 1| gill soubise same {No. 232), 1 gill Pompadour sauce {No. 270), ^ pint macedoine vegetables, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, frying-fat, pepper and salt. Season the cutlets with pepper and salt, and fry slightly in butter, drain and place between two boards to press. Coat both sides of the cutlets with well-reduced cold soubise sauce. Egg and crumb twice. Fry slowly in clarified fat or butter, drain and dish up in a circle. Heat up the macedoine of vegetable with a little Pompadour sauce, season, put in the centre of the dish and serve. Lamb or pork cut- lets are served in the same style. T 2