VEGETABLES {LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 449 Pare the heads and roots of the celery, remove the green parts, cut them into even lengths (three to four inches), and wash thoroughly in salted water. Drain well on a cloth, put them in a saute-pan with the butter divided into little bits and a ladleful of white stock; cover with buttered paper, and let cook slowly for half an hour. Season with salt and pepper ; add the sauce, and put the pan in the oven for thirty minutes. Take up the celery, dress it on toasted bread slices on a hot dish, reduce the sauce, take off the fat, and pour over the celery. 1325. Souffles de Celeri {Celery Souffles).—^ lb. of the white part of celery, H gill milk, ^ bay-leaf, a small blade mace, 1 slice onion, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, pepper, celery salt, 3 eggs, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. Trim and wash the celery, cut it into slices, blanch in salted water, and drain. Put the milk, celery, bay leaf, mace, and onion in a stewpan and boil till tender, remove the mace and bay leaf, and pass the celery through a fine sieve. Put a gill of water and the butter in a stewpan, add a pinch of celery salt, and stir in the flour as soon as the water boils, work vigorously with a wooden spoon for several minutes over the fire, put in the celery puree, and let cool a little. Add the grated cheese. Stir in the yolks of two eggs and one whole egg ; this must be done gradually. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and mingle with the mixture, season with a little cayenne or Nepaul pepper. Three parts fill some paper or china Eamakin or souffle cases. Bake in a hot oven for about ten minutes, arrange the cases on a dish with folded napkin, and serve immediately. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1326. Celeri a la Fermiere. — Prepared celery heads cut into neat pieces, parboiled and drained, seasoned, stewed in stock with a layer of lean pork, finished in a rich brown sauce ; dished up alternately with celery heads and slices of pork. Pour the sauce over and round the dish. 1327. Celeri a la Genevoise.'—Prepared celery heads cut into neat pieces, parboiled, drained, seasoned with pepper, salt, and grated nut- meg, stewed in a saute-pan, with layers of fat bacon and stock. When done drain, range in a baking dish, sauce over with veloutee sauce (No. 206), sprinkle with bread-crumbs and Parmesan cheese, and bake in the oven till the surface is nicely browned. 1328. Celeri a l’ltalienne.—Parboiled celery heads, drained, seasoned, and stewed in rich broth or stock, covered with a layer of thin slices of bacon, served with Italienne sauce (No. 239). The bacon should be served with the celery. 1329. Celeri an Veloute.—Stewed celery finished with veloutee sauce (No. 206), with which a little fresh butter has been incor- porated. G G