SOUPS (POTAGES) 153 Eoast the chicken or fowl for ten minutes in a hot oven, baste frequently and to ensure it being a nice golden brown, take up and place it in the consomme with two tomatoes, previously sliced. Simmer very gently for about one hour. Take out the fowl and place it in a dish to cool. Boil up the consomme again, remove the scum and fat, and strain it into another stewpan. Blanch the remaining two tomatoes, peel them and cut into dice, remove the seeds and place the dice into the soup. Mix the sherry and arrowroot to a smooth paste and stir into the soup. Simmer for another ten minutes. Take the fillet from the fowl or chicken, free it from skin and cut into small dice, put this into the soup, season it to taste with salt and pepper, boil up again, skim, and serve. The remains of the chicken can be utilised for some other purpose. 153. Bouillon de Volatile d VOrge (Chicken Broth with Barley).—Chop up the carcases, necks, and heads of 2 or 3 chickens, fry in a stewpan with 2 oz. of butter ; when nicely browned, pour off the butter, and pour in 2 quarts of good clear veal or chicken stock, simmer for one hour, skim and strain, pour into another stewpan, and let come to the boil. Wash one ounce of pearl barley, and add to the soup when boiling. Season to taste with pepper and salt, simmer for 15 minutes, add a little chopped parsley or chives, and serve. 154. M ulliyatawny, Clear.—2 quarts of clear stock, thelegs of a raw fowl, 1 oz. raw ham, % small onion, 1 teaspoonful curry- powder (mild), 3 tablespoonfuls boiled rice, 1 oz. butter, 1 white of egg- Cut the legs of fowl into pieces, fry in butter until brown, add the curry-powder and fry a little, pour off the fat, moisten with the stock, add the onion and raw ham cut into slices, boil up and skim, simmer for 20 minutes and strain. When cold clarify with the white of egg, add the boiled rice and a handful of chicken meat cut into dice, heat up, and serve. 155. Puree aiioc Huitres (Oyster Soup).—2 dozen large sauce oysters, 2 yolks of eggs, 2| quarts stock (white or fish), 4 oz. flour, 4 oz. butter, | pint cream or milk, lemon, pepper, salt, nutmeg and mace. Beard the oysters, preserve the liquor, cut them into halves or quarters, and put in a basin with a little cream. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour and cook a little, moisten with the stock, add the beards of the oysters and the liquor, stir over the fire until it boils, skim and let simmer for half an hour, season with a little pepper, salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a saltspoonful of ground mace. Put through a sieve, return to the stewpan, boil up, add the cream or milk. Mix the yolks of eggs with the oysters, add a few drops of lemon-juice, and put with the soup. Heat up, but do not let it boil again. The soup is then ready for table. 156. Bisque de Homard d la Mariniere (Lobster Bisque).—Remove the meat, eggs, and coral from two small lobsters ;