351 ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. [HOT DISHES) Should the farce be found too stiff a little brown sauce (Madere) may- be added. Eoll out the paste rather thinly, and line several small croustade or timbale moulds with this ; trim the edges of the paste and prick the bottom to prevent blistering. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mingle rather more than half with the prepared farce (forcemeat). Fill up the lined moulds with this, and put them on a baking-sheet into a fairly hot oven. Bake for about twenty-five to thirty minutes. When half done spread a little of the remaining whipped whites of eggs on top of each croustade, and sprinkle over a little grated cheese, mixed with a pinch of cayenne pepper, and finish baking. The white of egg can be put on the croustades by means of a forcing bag with a large rose pipe, and will cook all the smarter for it. When done unmould carefully, arrange them nicely on a dish and serve with hot sauce Madere. 989. Fricandelles de Volatile d V Allemande.—\ lb. cooked chicken meat or any other kind of poultry, including a little ham or tongue, 1 slice of onion chopped fine, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, H oz. of butter, £ oz. flour, 2 eggs, i gill of gravy' or stock, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, f pint of pancake batter, bread-crumbs, frying-fat. Chop the meat very fine, melt half an ounce of butter in a sauce- pan ; when hot add the chopped onion; fry for three minutes, then add the flour and cook to a golden colour, stir in the gravy, cook five minutes, now add the meat; when thoroughly hot bind with two yolks of eggs, season with pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg; when well mixed remove from the fire. Make four or more pancakes, put them on a paste-board, spread the prepared meat mixture over the pancakes, roll up each neatly, let set, and cut into oblong pieces about two inches long. Beat up the white of an egg a little, dip in each piece, roll in bread-crumbs; when sufficiently set, egg and crumb a second time. Place the fricandelles in a wire basket and fry in hot fat or lard to a golden colour ; drain on a cloth, dish up on a folded napkin or dish-paper, garnish with crisp parsley, and serve. Note.—As an accompaniment to this dish a nicely dressed beetroot or lettuce salad is recommended. In order to make a change, chicken may be substituted by cold fish, or any kind of meat, or scraps left over from a previous meal. 990. Palmettos de Volatile d la Gambetta.—1 lb. chicken {or veal forcemeat), 6 eggs, i gill cream, 1 truffle, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a little clarified blitter, tomato sauce. Butter eight to ten small round dariole moulds, beat up the eggs the same as for an omelet, add the cream, and season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Divide this mixture equally into the moulds, and poach slowly in the oven. Put the forcemeat, previously seasoned, in one or two well-buttered flat moulds, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about twenty minutes. Let cool a little, then stamp out as many rounds as there are moulds, and of the