411 CHAPTER XXIII REMOVES AND ROASTS, WITH HINTS ON CARVING 1193. Aloyau de JBceaf d la Godard.—About 6 lbs. sirloin of beef, £ lb. bacon, 1 sliced carrot, 1 Sliced onion, 1 bouquet of herbs, 1 gill sherry or Sauterne, | pint tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 gill brown sauce (No. 236), 1 pint stock, 2 truffles, 8 mushrooms, 3 arti- choke-bottoms, tjr cooked sweetbread, 8 small chicken quenelles (No. 403), pepper and salt. Remove the bones of the loin, pare nicely. Cut the bacon into strips about one inch and a half long. Make some holes in the meat by means of a wooden skewer, and insert the strips of bacon. Roll and tie firmly. Put the onion, carrot, and bouquet of herbs in a braising-pan, lay the piece of beef on this, moisten with the wine and stock, season with pepper and salt, and braise for two hours in a moderately-heated oven; baste the meat from time to time. Skim off the fat, add the tomato and brown sauce, previously warmed, cook for another three-quarters of an hour. Take up the meat and keep hot, free the sauce from fat, and strain ; boil for another ten minutes. Add the garnishing, consisting of preserved mushroom-heads, quartered artichoke-bottoms, small pieces of sweetbread, slices of truffles, and quenelles. When the latter is thoroughly hot, untie the loin of beef, dish up on a small bed of mashed potatoes ; surround with groups of quenelles, sweetbread, mushrooms, artichokes, &c. Pour some of the sauce over the meat, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat along with the dish. 1194. Filet de Bceuf d la Brillat-Savarin.—Procure the centre-piece (about four pounds) of fillet of beef, remove fat and sinews, lard the top with strips of truffles, cover it with a layer of sliced vegetables, bard it with slices of fat pork, tie up with string ; put it in an oblong braising-tin or baking-pan, season with aromatic spice and salt, moisten with half a pint of white wine and some stock or water; set it in a moderate oven for about one hour; baste occasionally. When done drain and keep warm ; strain the gravy, remove the fat, put it into a stewpan with a pint of brown sauce, one glass of Madeira wine, and let all boil until well reduced. Next remove strings, fat, and vegetables from the fillet, trim, and dish up on a crouton of fried bread ; garnish round the fillet with alternate