THE KITCHEN 43 the sand, and scour the inside of the saucepan to remove all stains ; rinse it well in warm water, and thoroughly dry it before placing it away. Note— If a saucepan has been burnt, put some cold water in it and a lump of soda; let it stand on the stove to boil for an hour, and then scrub it out with a saucepan brush. To clean Copper Moulds, &c.—The following is a simple yet satisfactory method of cleaning copper moulds, copper stewpans, &c. Wash, scour, and scrub them inside and outside with strong soda water (hot), then rinse in cold water. To brighten the copper, put some silver sand into a soup plate or large saucer, mix it with a handful of salt and a little flour, and moisten with vinegar. Dip a dishcloth in the sand and rub the outside of the pans and moulds with this, or dip half of a used lemon into the sand : the latter is better than using a cloth. Clean every part of the outside of copper utensils in this way, and as each utensil is cleaned rinse it in cold water and allow it to drain. Eub thoroughly with a clean dry cloth and put them in their usual place. To keep copper articles bright for several weeks an immersion in boiling ale is recommended. Steep the outside of the copper into hot ale and put them near the fire to dry. Utensils thus treated must not be wiped after being immersed in ale. STOBE-EOOM AND LAEDEB It is hardly necessary to state that both the store-room and larder must be kept scrupulously clean ; if this be neglected, they are apt to harbour disease germs. Both places should be large and airy, especially the latter. The store-room is intended for keeping dry goods, preserved provisions, &c., whilst the larder is used for storing perishable or fresh goods, such as meat, fish, and vegetables. Stores or dry goods bought in large quantities are usually cheaper, and it is advisable to provide ample room for proper storage of such articles. Groceries should, where possible, be bought in quantity, and it is well to remember that at certain times of the year some goods are cheaper than at others. All these details should be carefully noted, and a book kept to enter dates of purchase, quantities, and prices paid. A dry room should be chosen for keeping stores, and this should be amply fitted with drawers, shelves and nails or hooks. There should be earthenware jars for sugar, tins for tea, coffee, biscuits, &c., and a net for lemons and oranges. Jams, pickles, and preserves should be kept in the coolest part of the room. Soap should be bought by the bar and be cut up and stood with spaces between the pieces, being turned at frequent intervals. Starch must be kept very dry. Eice, tapioca and sago must be kept in covered vessels, or