ENTREES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) 373 Season each layer with pepper and salt and a tiny pinch of cayenne ; sprinkle the chopped shallot over the top. Pour in the stock. Melt the butter ; dip each slice of the potatoes (remaining) in the butter and range them neatly on the top of the contents of the dish. This must be done very neatly; the slices must overlap each other and must be arranged in rows, so that the surface is completely covered. Pour the remainder of the melted butter over the potatoes. Sprinkle with a few fried bread-crumbs if handy, and cover with a buttered piece of paper. Cook the dish in a moderately heated oven for about two hours. When done remove the buttered paper, sprinkle the top -of the dish with finely-chopped parsley, place it on a flat dish with a folded napkin or dish-paper, and send to table hot. 1078. Pate de Perdreaux (Partridge Pie).—2 young par- tridges, | lb. lean veal, % lb. boiled bacon or gammon, 1 gill Soubise ■(No. 232) or onion sauce, 1 oz. blotter, 2 hard-boiled eggs, chopped parsley, preserved mushrooms, salt, pepper, and aromatic seasoning. Puff or rough paste for covering. Procure the birds ready trussed, divide them into halves, and fry these slightly in a saute-pan with the butter. Line a pie-dish with thin slices of lean veal and bacon, lay in the birds, season with chopped mushrooms, chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and a good pinch of aromatic spice. Put a layer of veal and bacon slices on the top, and pour the sauce over this; cover this with slices of hard-boiled eggs. Poll out the paste and cover the pie in the usual manner. Bake for a full hour in a fairly well heated oven, and pour a little rich stock or gravy into the pie as it leaves the oven. Serve either hot or cold. 1079. Souffle de Perdreau d VAnglaise.—About 8 oz. ■cooked partridge, 2 oz. brown bread-crumbs, 3 eggs, \ gill cream, | gill brown stock, butter, 3 large truffles, 1 oz. panade (No. 8), pepper, salt, and cayenne. Free the meat from bone, skin, and sinew, cut it up finely, put it into a mortar and pound until smooth ; add the bread-crumbs and panade, mix well, and work in three yolks of eggs, one at a time. When well pounded add the seasoning, stock, and cream, mix thoroughly, and pass it through a fine wire sieve. Butter one large or two small plain moulds, decorate the bottom with fancifully-cut slices of truffles ; when set fill up with the forcemeat, cover with a buttered paper, stand it in a stewpan containing boiling water, and steam for forty-five minutes. Turn out on a hot dish and serve with Madere (No. 237 a) or Perigueux sauce (No. 243). 1080. Salmis de Perdrix blanche d la Re (fence (Salmis of Ptarmigan, Begent Style).—Prepare this salmis the same as that of duck (No. 911), adding a good half-pint of garnishing (a la Begence (No. 489) ten minutes before serving. Beckon one ptar- migan for three persons, or three for eight.