175 SAUCES salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Stir over the fire until it boils, then add a little cream and keep in the bain-marie until required. 228. Sauce 3Iatelote.—^ pint Espagnole sauce (No 236), 1 oz. butter, -5 gill Burgundy wine, fisli stock, liquor or fumet de poisson, It onion, ^ carrot, i gill mushroom liquor. Peel the onion and carrot and mince very fine, fry in a little butter a nice colour, drain off the butter, moisten with the wine and mush- room liquor, let this reduce well, then add the fish stock or liquor left over in the pan in which the fish to be served with this sauce is cooked, boil up again and add the Espagnole. Let simmer for ten minutes, then strain through a fine strainer or cloth, add a small piece of butter, season, if necessary, with a few drops of lemon-juice, salt and pepper, and keep hot. Note.—If you have no Espagnole handy, substitute for it \ oz. of flour, \ oz. of butter, well blended (fried a chestnut brown), and diluted with ^ pint of rich brown stock ; boil well, and use as directed. 229. Sauce Joinville.—1 oz. flour, i gill fish stock, f pint white stock, 8 oz. butter, 3 yolks <of eggs, lobster coral, lemon-juice, salt, and cayenne. Melt 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, and cook a little without browning. Add gradually the fish and white stock, stir until it boils, and let simmer for twenty minutes. Pound the lobster coral in a mortar with an equal quantity of fresh butter, rub through a sieve and stir into the sauce. Stir in the egg-yolks one at a time. Season to taste with a pinch of cayenne, salt, and lemon-juice. Whisk well over a slow fire, or in a bain-marie. Do not let the sauce boil up again. Pass through a fine-pointed strainer or napkin, and serve as directed. 230. Sauce a la Victoria- (for Fish).—^ lb. fresh butter,4, yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful tarragon vinegar, 1 tablespoonful lemon-juice, 1 teaspoonful chili vinegar, ^ gill fish stock, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Cut the butter into small squares, put half the quantity in a stew- pan, place the stewpan in a vessel or large stewpan containing boiling water. Stir in the yolks of eggs by means of a whisk, add lemon-juice, tarragon and chili vinegar, also the stock reduced to half its quantity. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, finish by whisking in the remainder of the pieces of butter. The water in which the stewpan is placed should be kept at boiling point during the process, but on no account must the sauce be allowed to boil. 231. Sauce Gouffe.—1 gill cream, \ gill wine vinegar, 3 yolks 'of eggs, 1 bay-leaf, 6 crushed peppercorns, salt, 2 oz. butter, 2 table- spoonfuls of cream, 1 tablespoonful chopped lobster meat. Put the vinegar, bay-leaf, and peppercorns in a stewpan (covered) ; let it reduce a little. Add the yolks of eggs and stir over the fire until the sauce begins to thicken, then remove and put in a saucepan con- taining boiling water, or in the bain-marie. Work in the butter a