536 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK bake in a slow oven. When done remove the meringue shapes and let cool. Dress them on a dish with alternate layers of bavarois, cut from the vanilla cream, having a meringue for the bottom and for the top. Whisk the cream till stiff, flavour with vanilla sugar, and cover the whole shape with it. Decorate tastefully with halves of cherries and angelica leaves and serve. 1688. Creme renversee.—\ ‘pint milk, 4 eggs, 6 oz. caster sugar, % gill cream, \ teaspoonful lemon-essence. Put two ounces of the sugar with half a gill of water in a copper sugar-boiler; boil until it acquires a light-brown colour, or, in other words, until it is a caramel. Mask quickly the inside of a plain mould (one and a half pint size); when the interior is thoroughly lined with this let it get cool. Beat up the eggs in a basin, add the remainder of the sugar, the milk, cream, and the essence of lemon. Strain the whole into the lined mould, place in a stewpan, fill up with boiling water to half the height of the mould, and cook in a moderately heated oven for forty minutes. This dish can be served hot or cold. Great care must be taken in the turning out if served hot, otherwise it should stand for at least one hour and a half before it is turned out. In either case it is served with its own liquor. 1689. Creme Fraises d la Chart reuse. — 1 small punnet of ripe strawberries, f pint clear wine jelly, % pint cream, 1 glass chartreuse, \ oz. angelica, 4 leaves gelatine. Melt some of the jelly, put a fancy or plain mould in a basin containing crushed ice, and line the inside of the mould thinly with a layer of jelly. Pick out a few of the best fruit, halve them, remove the stalk, and substitute a stalk with small pieces of angelica stuck in each half. Decorate the bottom and sides of the mould with these ; mask well with jelly, so as to keep the fruit firm and in position. Pick the stalks of the remainder of strawberries, and cut them in slices ; melt the remainder of the jelly, put in the sliced fruit, melt the gelatine in a little jelly, and strain into this. Let cool a little, whip the cream, and mix it with the above; add the liqueur and stir over the ice until it begins to set, then pour into the decorated mould. Stand it on the ice until firm, then turn out and serve. 1690. Creme a la Genoise.—% pint milk, 1 gill cream, 2 oz. crushed macaroons, 2 oz. loaf sugar, 1 oz. glace fruit, 4 yolks of eggs, 4 orange, 4 glass cognac brandy, i oz. French gelatine. Put the macaroons in a basin, pour over the brandy,, and let soak. Put the pieces of loaf sugar on the rind of orange, so as to extract the oil and flavour, put the sugar and milk in a stewpan, and bring to the boil. Beat the yolks of eggs a little,' stir ill the boiled milk, return to the stewpan, and stir over a slow fire until it begins to thicken ; then put aside and stir in the gelatine, previously dissolved in a little milk. Strain through a pointed strainer or hair sieve ; now mix in the macaroons and brandy, and let cool a littie. Cut the