232 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK now add one and a half ounce butter and three yolks of eggs, season with pepper and salt, add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, mingle well, and rub through a sieve. Spread one side of each fillet with the forcemeat, roll up, trim a little, and wrap each fillet in a piece of buttered paper. Place them closely in a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle with a few drops of lemon- juice, and cook for five minutes in the oven ; then add the wine, baste well, and cook another ten minutes, or longer if needed. Spread one side of each croute with a little of the remaining forcemeat, and bake for a few minutes. Take up the fillets, remove the paper, place each upright on the croutes, put a mushroom-head on each, and keep hot. In the meantime, knead one ounce butter with the flour, stir over the fire for a few minutes, add the liquor of the fillets and the reduced stock, stir until it boils, and simmer for fifteen minutes ; bmd with the yolk of egg, strain, work in the lobster butter, and season to taste. Dish up the paupiettes, sauce over, sprinkle with chopped parsley, place a star of truffles in the centre of each, and serve. 556. Filets de Soles a la Trouville.— Skin three medium- sized soles, take up the fillets, fold, flatten slightly, and trim them neatly; place in a well-buttered sautoir ;, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; moisten with a gill of white wine and a little white stock, cover over, and let cook for.about fifteen minutes over a quick fire ; drain the fillets and keep warm. Next put in the sautoir a dozen mushroom-heads, with a little of their liquor; also a dozen mussels, and a dozen oysters ; cook these together until thoroughly hot. Dish up the fillets en couronne, alternating each fillet with one large oyster. Reduce the gravy with half a pint of bechamel sauce (No. 203), take out mushrooms and mussels, thicken with two yolks of eggs and a pat of fresh butter ; pass through a napkin or tammy cloth, return to the sautoir with the garnishing; range the heads of mushrooms on the top of the fillets, and the remainder of garnishing in the centre of dish ; sauce over, sprinkle with a little dissolved meat glaze, and serve. 557. Soles a la Vatel.—2 medium-sized soles, % lb. whiting forcemeat (No. 400), 3 small truffles, 12 prawns (picked), 12 mush- room-lieads, 12 cocks’ kernels, 1 gill white icine., 2 French gherkins, 2 oz. butter, parsley and savoury herbs, ^ pint white, sauce,, seasoning. Skin the soles, trim off the fins and heads, slit them. down the back, and carefully remove the bones of each (great care must be taken so as not to break the fish). Season with salt and pepper, and fill the cavities with whiting forcemeat, the latter having been mixed with a little chopped parsley, chopped truffle trimmings, and a tiny pinch of savoury herbs. Place the soles in a buttered saute-pan, moisten them with half a gill white wine, and a tablespoonful of mush- room liquor. Cover with buttered paper and cook in a moderate oven for ten minutes; Take up the soles and put them on a buttered dish;