220 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK and mushroom liquor, season with pepper and salt, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about twelve minutes. Take up, dress neatly on a hot dish, and keep warm. Pour the sauces into the pan containing the liquor, boil up and strain into a stewpan containing the mushrooms, kernels, and quenelles. Allow these to get thoroughly hot. Garnish the dish, reduce the sauce, and pour over the fish, decorate with slices of lemon and fleurons, and serve. 516. Filets de Turbot d la Florentine.—This is one of the most tasty ways of serving turbot .or any kind of white fish. Cut some turbot into small fillets—remove the skin and place in a saute- pan well-buttered, season the fish, moisten with a glass of white wine, and cook for ten minutes in the oven. Range them neatly on a silver- plated dish, and put a layer of prepared spinach over the fillets, so as to completely cover them, pour over this a layer of bechamel sauce, mixed with sufficient grated cheese to flavour, sprinkle over the top some bread-crumbs, grated cheese, and oiled butter, and bake in a very hot oven for about ten minutes. 517. Turbot a la Frovengale.—About 2} lb. turbot (middle cut), ^ pint veloutee sauce (No. 206), 1 gill white wine, 2 small shallots chopped fine, 1 gill white stock, 2 oz. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 tea- spoonful anchovy paste, 2 teaspoonfuls capers, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, a small bunch of parsley and herbs (bouquet) (No. 2). Wash and wipe the fish well, cut it into thick slices or leave whole, place it in a stewpan, season with pepper and salt, and add veloutee sauce, white wine, stock, chopped shallots, and bouquet garni. Set it to simmer slowly until the fish is done, and baste occasionally. Put the fish on a dish and keep warm. Reduce the sauce until you obtain the desired consistency. Remove the herbs, add the yolks of eggs, work in the butter, and pass through a cloth. Return to a smaller stewpan, add the anchovy-paste, chopped parsley, and capers, stir a few minutes over the fire, and pour over the fish. 518. Supreme de Turbot a la Roy ale.—About 21 lb. turbot (middle cut), 2 oz. butter, ^ pint veloutee sauce, 1 shallot, 1 small glass white ' wine, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, half a handful of grated Swiss cheese, salt and pepper, nutmeg. Pare the fillets and skin from the fish, cut the former into heart- shapes, making as little waste as possible. Butter a saute-pan, put in the chopped shallot, arrange the fillets neatly in the pan,, season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, moisten with the white wine, cover and coolr in a quick oven for about ten minutes. Take up the fillets and dress them (6n a buttered oblong silver or gratin dish. Put the sauce into the pan in which the fish was cooked, reduce a little, then add the cream, aAd work in about half the remainder of butter ; pour this over the fillets in the dish, so as to completely cover them, sprinkle over some grated Swiss cheese, and divide the rest of butter in little bits, here and there. Brown in a quick oven for a few minutes, and serve quickly. .