SOUPS {POTAGES) 151 rabbit, 1 tablespoonful bechamel sauce, 1 saltspoonful chopped lemon- rind, \ teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Roll out the paste very thinly, stamp out some rounds with 1^-inch •cutter. Chop up the meat (freed from skin and gristle), lemon-rind and foie-gras very finely, mix with the parsley. Season with pepper and salt, moisten with the sauce, and mix well. Wet the edges of the rounds of paste, put rather more than half a teaspoonful in the centre of each ; close up by pressing the edges well together, giving it the shape of triangular cocked hats. This done, drop them into boiling salted water or white stock, boil from ten to fifteen minutes, drain and put in a soup-tureen ; pour into this the consomme (previously heated), .and serve. 146. Ravioli or Nouille Paste.—i lb. flour, 1 whole or 2 yolks of eggs, \ teaspoonf ul of salt, 1 tablespoonf ul grated Parmesan cheese, a little icater or 'milk. Sift the flour on to a pastry board, make a well in the centre, put in the salt, a dessertspoonful of water (to dissolve the salt), and the <eggs. Mix the whole well together with the cheese, knead it vigorously with the palm of the hand until a smooth ball is formed, wrap up in a floured cloth, and let it rest for an hour or more. Should the paste appear too dry at the beginning, add about a tablespoonful of milk or water. It must, however, be remembered that this class of paste must he rather consistent. 147. Consomme anx Nouilles.—Roll out some nouille paste very thinly on a floured board, fold it lengthways, and cut into very small strips (the finer the strips the better), shake up and put on a floured baking sheet or dish, cover with a cloth, and allow to rest for half an hour. Boil in salted boiling water, strain and drain, and serve in consomme. 148. Consomm e Ravioli—Roll out thinly some ravioli or nouille paste into a long strip, divide it into two parts ; put a row of small heaps of ravioli forcemeat about 2 inches apart on one part, wet round •each heap with a brush. Lay the second piece of paste over the one with the garnish, press down between the rows with the blunt side of a |-inch cutter. Stamp out as many rounds as there are heaps with a 1-inch cutter, place these on a pastry board, and let stand in a cool place for an hour. Cook in salted boiling water for 10 minutes, drain on a cloth, and put in a soup-tureen. Sprinkle over some grated cheese and a few drops of meat glaze, pour over some consomme, and serve. 149. Ravioli Farce.—Pound in a mortar 4 oz. cooked chicken meat, 1 oz. cooked ham, \ oz. grated Parmesan, 1 yolk of egg, 1 table- spoonful cooked spinach, 1 tablespoonful double cream ; season with a little salt, pepper, cayenne, nutmeg, and chopped parsley, rub through a fine sieve, and use as directed. 150. Potage a la Tortue seche {Turtle Soup, Clear, made with Dried Turtle).—% lb. best sun-dried turtle, 1£ gallon good stock, :2 small carrots, 2 turnips, 2 sticks celery, 1 leek, 8 onions, 4 cloves,