THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 622 flour, sugar, and two ounces of the cocoanut. Mix thoroughly, make a well in the centre, beat up the eggs and add them, work into a smooth dough ; roll out about an eighth of an inch thick, cut or stamp out some oblong biscuit shapes or fingers, place them on a buttered baking-sheet, brush over with a little sweetened milk and egg, sprinkle some cocoanut over the top of each. Bake in a moderately heated oven for about twenty minutes. If the paste is found too stiff a little milk or cream should be added. 2025. Boune-Bouche Drops.—3 oz. Vienna flour, 1 oz. Paisley flour, 1 egg, 1 tablespoonful cream, \ lemon, 1^ oz. sugar, H oz. butter, salt, | oz. almonds. Cream the sugar and butter in a basin, add the egg and the lemon- rind finely grated. Beat with a wooden spoon until quite smooth. Mix the Vienna flour and Paisley flour, add a pinch of salt, and rub through a sieve. Stir the flour into the above mixture, moisten with a little cream at first, work it thoroughly and add the remainder of the cream. Blanch the almonds, cut them into shreds, and dry in the oven. Mix about a teaspoonful of lemon-juice and the shredded almonds "with the dough. Drop the mixture in little heaps about 14 inch apart from each other on to a well-buttered baking-tin, dust over with a little caster sugar, and bake in a moderately heated oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. 2026. Biscuit a Cuillere.—8 eggs, \ lb. caster sugar, 6 oz. flour, sifted (or 4 oz. fecula). Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs. Put the yolks in a basin with the sugar, and stir with a wooden spoon or spatula until quite smooth and creamy. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth (add a pinch of salt before beginning to whisk). Work the flour and whites of eggs in small quantities into the creamed yolks (if the eggs are small it will not require more than five ounces of flour). Fill a forcing-bag three-parts full with the mixture, and with a plain pipe (|-inch) press out the paste on to a baking-sheet, covered with white paper, in the shape of -fingers about three inches long; keep them about an inch apart. Proceed thus until the mixture is used up. Dust over with caster sugar. Bake in a moderately heated oven a golden colour. Let them cool on the paper, and remove carefully with a palette knife. Pack into an air-tight tin, and use as required. 2027. Macrons cm Chocolat (Chocolate Chestnuts).—Pre- pare some marrons glaces as directed in the above recipe, coat each carefully with chocolate fondant icing (No. 1969). Dry them in a cool oven for a few minutes, and brush over with gum as soon as removed. 2028. Marrons glaces.—Collect some fine sound chestnuts (Spanish chestnuts are best), slit the skins with a fine-pointed knife. Roast them in a frying-pan over a moderate fire, or blend them in boiling water, till the outer and inner skins can be removed. When they are all peeled drain them and put them into a clean stewpan