DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) 249 615. Cabillaud d la Dieppoise {Fried Cod, Dieppe Style).— Slices of cod, dipped in milk and flour, fried, drained, garnished with parsley and served with white matelote sauce. 616. Cabillaud a la JPortugaise {Cod, Portuguese Style).— Slices of cod fried, served with a sauce composed of tomato sauce, essence of anchovy, and mussels. 617. Cabillaud grille d la Colbert {Grilled Cod, Colbert Style).—Slices of cod dipped in dissolved butter and well floured, grilled, and served with maitre d’hotel butter. 618. Carrelletfrit. Sauce JPersil.—Fillets of flounder egged, crumbed, and fried in fat, seasoned with parsley sauce. 619. Esturgeon d VAnchois.—Boiled sturgeon with anchovy sauce. 620. Esturgeon ala Cardinal {Sturgeon, Cardinal Style).— Boiled sturgeon garnished with quenelles of whiting and crayfish, and served with cardinal sauce. 620 a. JPapillotes d’Esturgeon.—Stewed sturgeon fillets served in paper cases. 621. Earned’ Esturgeon ala Milanaise {Sturgeon Steak, Milanese Style).—Middle piece or steak of sturgeon braised, garnished with eel-pout livers and crayfish tails. 622. Homard d la Bechamel {Baked Lobster, Bechamel Style).—Shells of lobster stuffed with a mixture of minced lobster meat, bechamel sauce, and seasoning, and baked. 623. Homard d la Suedoise {Lobster, Swedish Fashion)..— Border of lobster meat and forcemeat, poached in a fancy border mould and sauced over with anchovy sauce. 624. Homard d la Gloucester {Lobster, Gloucester Style).— Stewed lobster, the meat only being dished up, and served with a sauce composed of lobster butter, egg-yolks, and meat extract. 625. Filets de Maquereau d I’lndienne {Fillets of Mackerel, Indian Style).—Braised fillets of mackerel, served with a curry sauce diluted with a little white wine. 626. Filets de Maquereau au Vin Blanc.— Broiled mackerel, or grilled, served with white wine sauce (No. 216). 626 a. Filet de Maquerea u au Gratin.—Baked fillets of mackerel, gratin style. 627. Maquereau a la Boulonnaise {Mackerel, Boulognese Style).—Boiled mackerel, garnished with mussels and oysters, served with white fish sauce. 628. Filets de Merlans d la Maitre d’Hotcl {Fillets of Whiting, Hotel-keeper's Style).—Broiled fillets of whiting done in parsley butter. 629. Filets de Merlans d la Comtesse {Fillets of Whiting, Countess Style).— Baked fillets of whiting, dressed in paper cases and served with a garnish of crayfish tails and small liver forcemeat balls.