385 COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME hard-boiled white of egg. Mix the macedoine of vegetables with sufficient liquid aspic to make it set when cold. Season with tartare sauce, add any pieces of truffle, tongue, and hard-boiled egg which may be left over. After coating the border mould with a second layer of aspic, and when this is thoroughly set, partly fill the cavity with the dressed macedoine, and finish up with a layer of aspic. Turn out on a round dish when quite set, cut or stamp out the cutlets ; dish them up en couronne on the aspic border. Heap up the remainder of dressed macedoine in the centre; finish with a few leaves of lettuce or endive, and serve. 1130. Mis d’Agneau d la Sevigne (Lambs’ Sweetbreads in Cases).—Parboil eight lambs’ breads, trim them neatly, and lay them in a saute-pan lined with slices of bacon, sliced carrot, onion, and a small bouquet garni. Season the breads and moisten with a glass of Madeira wine and a little stock. Braise in the oven and baste frequently. Take them up and press each into round pastry rings about the size of the breads. Cover with a well-reduced Villeroi sauce (No. 374), to which a sufficient quantity of aspic or dissolved gelatine has been added, to make it fairly firm. When quite set remove the breads from the rings and place them in paper souffle or Ramakin cases. Decorate the top of each with thin slices of truffles cut into pretty shapes, and mask with aspic jelly. Force some cold green pea puree round the edge of each sweetbread and serve. A little mixed salad can, if liked, be put at the bottom of each case before the sweetbreads are placed in. A boat of green mousseline sauce (No. 280) should be handed round with this dish. 1131. Cdtelettes d’Agneau a la Renaissance.—8 or 9 lamb cutlets, 6 oz. calves' liver, 2 oz. butter, 12 preserved mushrooms, 4 oz. bacon, 1 small onion, \ pint aspic cream (No. 296), 3 tablespoonfuls tomato pulp, salt, nutmeg, aromatic spice, aspic jelly, salad for garnish. Trim the cutlets, flatten each a little with a bat, and pare them into neat shapes. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, and cook the cutlets a nice colour on each side. Take up, drain, and press the cutlets. Cut the liver and bacon into thin slices, chop the mush- rooms finely. Peel and chop the onion ; fry in the saute-pan containing the butter left over from the cutlets. When the onions are nicely blended put in the bacon and fry a little, then add the liver, and toss over the fire for about six minutes ; season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and spice, and rub through a fine sieve. Return this to a basin and add the chopped mushrooms, and enough tomato (about two tablespoonfuls) to moisten the farce. Cover one side of each cutlet with this farce ; smooth it well with the edge of a knife. Mix the aspic cream (liquefied) with about a tablespoonful of tomato pulp or tomato sauce (No. 271), season to taste, and coat the covered side of each cutlet with this sauce just as it begins to set. Place the c c