471 VEGETABLES {LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DBESSED Beat the white of egg to a stiff froth, and mix carefully with the puree. Fill the potatoes with this preparation, stand them on a gratin dish or greased baking-sheet with a little puree, so as to make them stand firmly, bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes, and serve as soon as done. 1426. JPommes Soufflees.—Wash and peel six to eight good medium-sized mealy potatoes, cut them into slices (lengthwise) a quarter of an inch thick. Plunge them into a friture of moderately heated fat for about six minutes, lift out, let cool a few moments. Let the fat get quite hot, plunge in the potatoes, move the basket about; the potatoes should then swell. Drain, season with fine salt, dish on a folded napkin. 1427. Timbale JParmentiere.—f lb. mashed potatoes, £ gill cream, 3 to 4 raw potatoes, 2 oz. of butter, 2 small onions, chopped parsley, 3 tomatoes, 3 yolks of eggs, 1 gill of bechamel sauce {No. 202), panurette or brown bread-crumbs, tomato sauce {No. 271), seasoning. Mix the mashed potatoes with half the cream and heat up, season to taste, and add one yolk of egg. Mix well, butter a charlotte or timbale mould, sprinkle the buttered part with panurette or brown bread-crumbs, and line with the potato puree. Peel and blanch the onions, drain and cut them into slices. Slice the tomatoes, heat up the bechamel sauce, and bind with two yolks of eggs. Wash, peel, and slice the raw potatoes ; fill the lined mould with alternate layers of tomatoes, onions, and potatoes; season each layer with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and grated nutmeg, and moisten with a little of the prepared sauce; the latter can be mixed with a little cream or milk if found insufficient. Cover the mould with potato puree. Bake in a moderately heated oven for about an hour. Turn out on a hot dish, pour some hot tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 1428. Timbale de JPommes de Terre a la Mirette.—8 kidney potatoes, 2 oz. butter, 2 truffles, i tablespoonful Liebig Company’s Extract of Beef {lemco), 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. Wash and peel the potatoes, cut them into even-sized dice, and drain on a sieve or on a cloth. Melt one and a half ounce of butter in a saute-pan. When hot put in the potatoes and cook them to a nice golden colour, either over a quick fire or in a fairly hot oven. Great care must be taken not to mash them up while they are being cooked. Cut the truffles into shreds, and mix them with the potatoes. Season to taste, and moisten with lemco, previously mixed with a little stock. Fill the mixture into a plain charlotte mould (well buttered), sprinkle the cheese' between the layers. Pour the remainder of butter (liquefied) over the potatoes &c., and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Unmould and serve very hot. 1429. JPommes rissolees.—Wash and peel thinly some potatoes, cut them into quarters and pare each smoothly with a sharp