518 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK souffle dish, pour in the mixture, dredge with caster sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. Serve quickly and hand round a boat of fruit syrup or wine sauce. 1619. Apple Amber. -3 large apples, 3 oz. sugar, 2 oz. fresh butter, ^ lemon, 3 yolks of eggs and the whites of 2, 1 teaspoonful ground cinnamon, a pinch of ground cloves. Puff-paste trimmings. Candied fruit; cherries and angelica. Peel and core .the apples, cut them into slices, and put in a stew- pan with the sugar and a tablespoonful of water. Simmer gently until tender, then rub through a fine sieve, and return the pulp to a clean pan ; add the rind (finely grated) of half a lemon and its juice, the cinnamon and clove. Mix thoroughly and add about li oz. of butter. When hot stir in the yolks of eggs and let bind. Butter a pie-dish, line the top and edge with puff-paste, decorate the edges, put the preparation of apples &c. in the pie-dish, and bake till the mixture is set and the pastry partly browned. Meanwhile whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, stir in a tablespoonful of caster sugar, and spread this roughly on top of the pie, sprinkle over some sugar, decorate to taste with candied fruits, and bake in a slow oven long enough to set and colour the eggs. 1620. Pannequets a la Mancelle (Pancakes, Mancelle Style).—Fry some thin pancakes, slightly browned, spread them over with a layer of sweet chestnut puree flavoured with maraschino liqueur, roll up, dust with sugar, and glaze them in a hot oven. Dish up; serve hot. 1621. Chestnut Amber.—\ pint milk, 2 tablespoonfuls chest- nut puree (puree de marrons), 2 eggs, 2 oz. bread-crumbs, 1 oz. caster sugar, 1 small lemon, 1 oz. butter. Vanilla flavouring. Boil the milk with the thin rind of half the lemon, and pour over the bread-crumbs ; take out the lemon-rind after a while. Beat the egg-yolks, sugar, and butter to a cream, and add to it the chestnut puree. Mix all the ingredients together, add the strained juice of the lemon, and pour into a well-buttered pie-dish. Bake till firm and slightly brown in a moderately heated oven, then cover with a meringue, produced with the whites of eggs, whisked to a stiff froth and sweetened with sugar. Dredge the top with caster or icing sugar and return to the oven until the meringue is nicely browned. This dish can be served hot or cold. 1622. Peehes an JMz meringue.—1 quart preserved peaches, 6 oz. rice, the rind of 4- lemon, 4 eggs, 10 oz. caster sugar, about 1 quart milk, 1 oz. butter, red currant jelly, 1 glass maraschino. Wash the rice in several courses of water, blanch it and drain well, put it ima stewpan with the milk, boil gently, add 3 oz. sugar, the butter, and lemon-rind. Let it cook slowly for about thirty minutes; remove the lemon-rind, work in the yolks of three eggs, put into a buttered timbale mould, turn out immediately on a hot dish, strain the peaches on a hair sieve, and arrange them in a pyramidal form on top of the