112 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 4 Chopped Far si*-y * Persil hache).—Wash some parsley, trim off some of the stalks if coarse, chop as finely as possible, place it in the corner of a clean cloth, fold the end of the cloth, and hold tightly under the water-tap or rinse in a basin of cold water, squeeze out all the water, and put on a plate till wanted. 5. To Chop an Onion Peel the onion, cutit in two lengthways, leaving the stalk ends. Commence to slice each half without detaching the slices from the stalk. Keep firmly together, and cut through several times crossways ; then cut down horizontally into fine squares, until you come to the stalk. This is the quickest way to mince an onion, but it requires practice. The other way is to peel and chop in the ordinary manner. When fine enough, wash in cold water, drain on a cloth, and use as required. 6. To Chop Mushrooms.—If freshly-gathered mushrooms are used, peel off the skins, trim the stalks, and wash in cold water ; then chop as required, and use immediately. Preserved mushrooms are well drained, and then chopped as required. 7. Liaison in general.—There are a number of processes of thickening soups and sauces, and these are called “liaisons,” in a culinary sense. A liaison may be composed of flour (fecule, arrowooot, cornflour, creme-de-riz, &c.), diluted in either milk, cream, stock, or water, according to the nature of the soup or sauce for which it is required. A liaison should always be strained before it is mixed with the liquid which requires thickening, and the preparation be well stirred whilst the latter is added. The liaison of egg is frequently used for white purees, blanquettes, fricassees, and white sauces. Only the yolks of eggs should be used, mixed with a small quantity of cream, and well beaten. Such liaison should only be added to the preparation for which it is required when it is thoroughly cooked ; part of the soup or sauce is poured on to the liaison, stirred, and then all mixed well together. When once the liaison of egg is added, the preparation must on no account be allowed to boil, but only just get thoroughly heated, so as to form the liaison, thus preventing the eggs from curdling. 8. Fan ade, for* For ceme at, &c—Put half a pint of water and an ounce of butter into a stewpan, add a pinch of salt, stir in gradually when boiling four ounces of sifted flour: work vigorously with a wooden spoon or spatula over the fire for a few minutes. The panade is done when it leaves the sides and bottom of the stewpan perfectly clean. Spread it on a dish or plate, and use when cold. Another way is to soak in tepid water or milk some white bread (without crust) for an hour, put it in a cloth to squeeze out the moisture, turn into a stewpan with an ounce of butter to six ounces of bread ; heat up over a slow fire, stirring all the while, add a pinch of salt, turn on to a plate, and use when cool.