THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 248 edges, fill up with rice or dried peas, lay a piece of buttered paper oh top, wet the edges of the paste and cover with same. Trim the edges, ornament it neatly with a pastry-pincher or otherwise, brush the top with yolk of egg, and decorate according to fancy, with fanciful cuts of paste, leaf-shapes, stars, crescents, &c., brush over with egg, and bake in a slow oven for about an hour. Cut round the inside of the edge and lift up the cover, remove the rice or peas and paper and brush the inside with egg, take off the mould and keep the crust in a warm place until wanted. Skin the sole and eel, remove the fillets from the sole and shape them in a twist, bone the eel, and cut it into pieces; put the fish in a stewpan with the wine, one gill water, the sliced onion, cloves and garlic, season to taste, cover and cook slowly for fifteen minutes. Lift out the fish, and keep hot. Brown the flour in an ounce of butter, moisten with the liquor of the fish, and a little fish stock. Stir and boil gently for twenty minutes. Strain, add the anchovy essence, a little lemon-juice, heads of mushrooms, the tails of prawns or shrimps, and the button onions fried in butter and finished in the oven till tender, let the whole get thoroughly heated, then put in the fish. Heat again, range the whole neatly in the pie-crust, put on the cover, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. ABBREVIATED RECIPES OF OTHER PISH ENTREES, &c. 607. AngwiMe d la Tartare (Fried Eel, with Tartare Sauce).—Parboiled eel, cut in pieces, drained, dipped in batter, fried, dished up en couronne with Tartare sauce in centre. 608. Filets de Brochet pique a la < olbert (Fillets of Pike, Colbert Style).—Filleted pike, larded, stea/med in the oven, with white wine sauce (No. 216). 609. Filets de Brochet d la Lyon naise (Fillets of Pike, Lyonese Style).—Fillets of pike stewed in white wine sauce, and garnished with small marble-shaped potatoes cooked in fish stock. 610. Brochet d la Co stela hie [Pike, Castelaine Style).—Pike stuffed with sliced truffles, tongue, and bacon all finely minced, braised, served with white sauce and a garniture of lobster meat, truffles, and oysters. 611. Brochet d I’Ancienne {Pike, Ancient Style).—Stewed pike, served with white sauce, garnished with truffles, gherkins, mushrooms, and capers. 612. Brochet d la Bemoulade {Pike, Bemoulade Style).— Boiled pike served cold with a thick tartare and mustard sauce. 613. Brochet farci et qratine.—Stuffed pike, baked in gratin style. 614. Brochet d la Favour {Pike, Cavour Style).—Grilled pike garnished with nouilles, grated horseradish, and cubes of carrots, served with rich veloutee sauce (No. 206).