419 REMOVES AND ROASTS moisten with the stock and wine, cover with buttered paper, and set in the oven to cook from one and three-quarters to two hours. When the meat is thoroughly done take it up. Strain the liquor, skim off the fat, and reduce to half-glaze; add the sauce, boil up, season to taste. To serve this dish place the meat on a hot dish, surround with spinach as a garnish, pour a little of the sauce over the meat, and the remainder in a sauce-boat; or cut the meat into thin slices and place again in the original position. Dress the spinach in the shape of a bed on a hot dish, place the meat on top, sauce over lightly, and send to table. Spinach for Garnish.—Cook the spinach in the usual fashion, drain well, and rub through a sieve, or chop it very finely. Melt an ounce and a half of butter in a stewpan, put in the spinach and stir till quite hot, stir in two tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce and a tablespoonful of cream, cook gently for another fifteen minutes, and use as directed. The seasoning should consist of salt, pepper, and nutmeg. 1211. JPoitrine de Venn farcin (Stuffed Calf’s Breast braised).—1 small breast of veal; stuffing, i lb. soft bread-crumbs, 6 oz. sausage meat, 2 chopped walnuts, 1 teaspoonful grated lemon- rind, 1 teaspoonful thyme, basil, and marjoram (powdered), 2 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 egg, and a little milk or stock, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; a mirepoix consisting of carrots, onion, bacon, and a bouquet garni (No. 2), 2 oz. dripping, demi- glace (No. 287) or tomato (No. 271) sauce. Bone the breast of veal and prepare it ready for stuffing. - Prepare the stuffing by mixing all the above-named dry ingredients, and season to taste ; then add the egg, well beaten, and enough milk or stock to form the liaison. Melt the butter, and add also ; sew up the end of the breast. Put the dripping in an oblong braising-pan, or any other pan large enough to hold the stuffed breast ; when the dripping is melted add the mirepoix and fry for a few minutes, then place the breast upon this, brown both sides over a quick fire, add a little stock, and finish cooking in the oven; baste frequently. When done take up, remove the string, cut it into thin slices, dish up, and serve with hot demi-glace or tomato sauce. 1212. Hams and How to Cook them .—The name * ham ’ is given to the hind leg of an animal when it is salted and cured or smoked. The ham of the pig is most popular and unquestionably the finest and most appreciated. The salting process is effected by the use of common salt, saltpetre, and bay salt, with occasional addition of sugar and soda. Wine and sometimes beer are in some places used in order to give the ham a finer flavour. The proportions of seasoning and flavouring substances vary in different localities ; the same may be said of the methods of drying, curing, and smoking. The process of salting and curing generally occupies some three or four weeks ; different countries have different methods, and the various E B 2