105 SEASONING AND FLAVOURING sautes, ragouts, galantines, vol-au-vents, game pies, and numerous other preparations. Pepper.—Pepper is produced from the seed or berries of the plant or shrub known by the name of Piper nigrum, which grows at Malabar and various parts of India. The berry has a dark brown or black cuticle. Black pepper consists of the dried berries ground whole, whilst white pepper is produced from the same berries, after their dark husks have been removed, and ground finely. White pepper is milder than black pepper. Pepper was known to the ancient Greeks, and so highly was it thought of, that when Alaric besieged Rome in 408 a.d., he included in the ransom 3,000 pounds of pepper. As a condiment, pepper is valuable in heightening the flavour and giving piquancy to savoury dishes, and it behoves a cook to know just what pepper should be used for each dish, for by the use or abuse of this- sort of seasoning it is quite possible to make or mar the happiness of a diner. Long Pepper {Piper longum) is a spice similar in taste and smell to the ordinary pepper in common use. It is not so pungent, it is mostly used in making curry powder and in pickles. The plant on which it grows is a native of East India. Mignonette Pepper.—This is ordinary white pepper with the husks removed and crushed finely but not ground. Cayenne Pepper.—Consists of a species of the dried fruit of capsicums, which is red in colour and grows principally in Cayenne. The pods are also imported under the name ‘ chillies.’ It has a powerful pungent flavour, and is very useful for flavouring purposes. It also enters into the composition of curry powder. The plant has been acclimatised in Europe, and its pods are used for pickling, and sometimes for flavouring sauces and stews. Krona Pepper is a bright red pepper made from the Hungarian paprika, capsicum pod, &c. It is much milder than cayenne, and not in the least pungent. It forms one of the most palatable seasonings for the cuisine and table. A Pinch of Salt or Pepper.— This expression is much used in cookery: it is therefore necessary, in order to convey a notion of the accurate quantities of a pinch, to state that a pinch of salt or pepper should be a quarter of an ounce, and a small pinch (mostly applied to cayenne) of an ounce in w'eight. It would, however, be difficult and impracticable to make use of the scales every time a pinch of salt or pepper is required. The best plan is to ascertain the capacity of one’s fingers by weighing the quantity they hold, and then getting accustomed to the exact quantity required for seasoning. In the matter of spices, as well as of herbs and soup vegetables, it is best, to avoid continually referring to the scales, to accustom oneself as much as possible to be able to tell by sight the weight of the needful quantity of ingredients required.