ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) 527 Wash the rice in several courses of water, put it in a stewpan with the milk and the rind of half a lemon, bring it to the boil, cover, and let simmer slowly until tender. Remove the lemon-rind, work in one by one the yolks of eggs and the sugar. Stir over the fire until set and turn on to a plate or dish. When cold divide into eight equal portions, shape into croquets (heart or pear shapes), brush over with beaten egg, crumb, and fry in hot fat a pretty golden colour, strain on a cloth or paper; dredge with sugar and put a strip of angelica in the end of each croquet, dish up, and serve with apricot syrup or lemon-sauce. 1652. J3e iff nets de Pommes {Apple Fritters).—3 or 4 sour cooking-apples, caster sugar, ^ teaspoonful ground cinnamon, 1 dessertspoonful brandy, 1 dessertspoonful kirsch, frying-batter, clarified fat or lard. Prepare the batter as directed in No. 35. Peel the apples thinly, cut into slices about |-inch thick, cut out the cores by means of a column-cutter. Put the slices on a plate, pour over the brandy and kirsch, cover over with another plate, and shake together for a few minutes. Dip the slices of apple into the batter, and drop into the fat previously heated ; fry a golden colour, drain on a cloth. Mix a little ground cinnamon with caster sugar, just enough to flavour ; dust over the fritters with the sugar, dish up, and serve as hot as possible. 1653. JBeignets de Groseilles vertes {Gooseberry Fritters). —A pint of large gooseberries, 1 white and 2 yolks of eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 2 oz. flour, 2 tablespoonfuls water, caster sugar, a pinch of salt, clarified butter or lard. Sift the flour into a basin. Add a pinch of salt, stir in gradually the yolks of eggs, cream, and water, and work into a smooth batter. Let it stand for half an hour. Pick the fruit, beat the white of egg to a stiff froth and mix with the batter. Heat the butter or lard, dip the gooseberries into the batter, drop into the hot butter or lard, and fry a golden colour. Drain on a cloth, sprinkle with caster sugar, dish up, and serve. 1654. JBeignets de Praises.—Select about one pound of large strawberries ; remove the small leaves, but leave on the stalks ; place them in a basin ; sprinkle with a little ground cinnamon ; dissolve some peach marmalade, strain, add a small glass of liqueur brandy, and keep warm. Have ready a small quantity of light frying-batter. Next dip the strawberries into the marmalade, roll in powdered sponge cakes or powdered biscuits, dip each strawberry into the batter, drop them gently in some boiling fat or butter, and fry till crisp and of a nice light colour ; drain, and dish up on a folded napkin. Dust with sugar and serve quickly. 1655. JBeignets de Pei lies-Cl and e.—Proceed in the same manner as above described, using ripe but firm greengages, previously stoned, in place of strawberries. 1656. JBeignets d’Abricot {Apricot Fritters).—8 apricots.