191 SAUCES 325. Sauce Genevois (Geneva Sauce).—A brown fish sauce, flavoured with Madeira wine, garlic, and anchovy essence ; finish with fresh butter liaison. 325 a. Sauce Gibier (Game Sauce).—A brown sauce, flavoured with certain kinds of game essence (fumet de gibier) reduced with red wine. 326. Sauce a la Gloucester {Gloucester Sauce).—A cold sauce for fish or salads, prepared with mayonnaise sauce, cream, chilli vinegar, chopped tarragon, French mustard, and cayenne pepper. 327. Sauce Garibaldi {Garibaldi Sauce).—A brown sauce for meat or fish, flavoured with a suspicion of pounded garlic, capers, curry-powder, mustard, anchovy paste and chilli vinegar. (Careful blending of flavour essential.) 328. Sauce a la Generate {General’s Sauce).—A rich brown sauce made with Madeira or demi-glace as foundation, lemon-juice, tarragon vinegar, Seville orange rinds finely chopped, and sherry flavoured with a suspicion of garlic, bay-leaf, thyme, clove, shallot, mace, salt and pepper. (Careful blending of flavour essential.) 329. Sauce Hessoise {Hessian Sauce).—A kind of cold horse- radish sauce, made with sour cream, grated horseradish and fresh bread-crumbs (previously soaked in milk), seasoned with sugar and salt; served with roast beef or steaks. 330. Sauce Hollandaise verte {Green Butch Sauce).— Hollandaise sauce mixed with young parsley-leaves, boiled, rubbed through a sieve, and pounded. 331. Sauce a la Holstein {Holstein Sauce).—A white sauce for fish, made with bechamel sauce, fish stock and white wine, well reduced ; thickened with egg-yolks and flavoured with lemon-juice and nutmeg. 332. Sauce Hare de Sanglier {Boar’s Head Sauce).—A cold sauce, prepared with bitter orange-juice and the finely chopped rind, sugar, red currant jelly, port wine, and prepared mustard, seasoned with black pepper. This sauce is useful for almost every kind of cold meat, and will keep for some time if bottled. 333. Sauce Homard {Lobster Sauce).—Bechamel sauce mixed with chopped lobster-meat and spawn. 334. Sauce au Jamb on {Ham Sauce).—A brown sauce with finely shredded or chopped ham, chopped chives, shallots and parsley, flavoured with lemon-juice. Suitably served with white meats, veal, pork, or poultry. 335. Sauce Livournaise {Leghorn Sauce).—A cold salad sauce, prepared with pounded anchovy fillets, yolks of eggs, sweet oil, vinegar, chopped parsley, pepper, and nutmeg. 336. Sauce Lyonnaise {Lyons Sauce).—A kind of tomato sauce, with fine shreds of Spanish onions (previously fried in butter) ; finished with meat glaze and lemon-juice. 337. Sauce Maltaise {Maltese Sauce).- Veloutee sauce with