569 ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) preserved fruit, peaches, pine-apple, and apricots, cut them into con- venient pieces (small dice), and put them in a basin with enough syrup to cover, cook till tender half a pint of green gooseberries in syrup and put them with the other fruit. Pour off some of the syrup into a stewpan. Add half a wineglassful of brandy and a liqueur-glassful of maraschino, boil up, and add to the fruit. Mix with the strained juice of three lemons and let cool. Then freeze in the usual manner, and serve in a glass dish or in cups and hand round with ice biscuits, wafers, or sponge fingers. • 1807. Sorbet d’Ananas.—2 lbs. fresh or preserved pine-apple, H lb. caster sugar, 2 lemons, 2 eggs {whites), 1 liqueur-glassful of kirsch, 1 liqueur-glassful rum. Peel the pine-apple thinly (if fresh fruit is used), take out the eyes, and cut into slices. Core out the centre of each slice, and chop the slices very finely. Put it into a basin, add the caster sugar and half a pint of water let it stew thus for four hours or longer. Put three pints of water in a copper stewpan; when boiling add the above, boil up, take off the scum which rises to the top, take off the fire, and let cool. When ready for freezing strain the juice of two lemons into the syrup. Freeze in the usual manner ; when about half frozen stir in the beaten whites of eggs and liqueur. Freeze a little longer. When it has the appearance of a creamy substance it is ready for serving. Fill up in sorbet cups or in glasses with handles, and serve. 1808. Sorbet a la Homaine.—6 oz. loaf sugar, 2 oz. caster- sugar, 3 small lemons, 1 white of egg, 1 glass of Jamaica rum. Rub the loaf sugar on two lemons, so as to extract the oil from the yellow part of the rind ; put the sugar in a copper pan, moisten with 1 gill of water; cut the lemons in halves, and strain the juice into the pan. When the sugar is dissolved add another pint of water, boil up, skim, and cook to a light syrup (about 20 deg.). When cool strain the syrup into a freezer surrounded with crushed ice and freezing salt; proceed to freeze a little. Beat up the white of egg to a stiff froth ; put the caster sugar on the fire with a tablespoonful of water; when dissolved pour into it the stiff whites and mix well; add the rum and mingle with the half-frozen ice mixture. Work well with a spatula, and serve in little goblets or punch-glasses. This quantity will fill seven or eight glasses. 1809. JParfait an Cafe.—4 oz. freshly-roasted coffee, ^ pint vanilla syrup, 4 yolks of eggs, | pint cream, ice and freezing salt. Boil up the syrup and pour over the freshly-roasted (not ground) coffee, so as to make an infusion. Allow it to stand a few minutes, then strain into a basin ; whisk the yolks of eggs in a clean stewpan ; stir in the syrup, set it on the fire and whisk until the yolks begin to bind, strain into a basin; add a few drops of caramel if needed, and let cool on the ice. Freeze in a sorbetiere surrounded with crushed ice and salt; when half-frozen add the cream, previously whipped to