251 DRESSED FISH .AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 645. Sure cle Saumon d la Cambaceres.—Braised head- piece of salmon, garnished with small truffles, mushrooms, and stoned olives, sauced over with a rich brown Genoise (No. 246), seasoned with cayenne and lemon-juice. 646. Sure de Saumon d la Frovenqale.—Braised head- piece of salmon, garnished with stoned parboiled olives, served with a brown fish sauce, flavoured with chopped shallots, parsley, soupgon of garlic, and lemon-juice. 647. Escalopes de Soles a la Vernon.— Fillets of soles, folded and braised with a little rich stock, wine, &c., dressed on a border of savoury rice, centre of dish filled with a ragout of oysters and mussels. Sauce Supreme (No. 210). 648. Filets de Soles d la Neurille.—Fillets of soles, folded, seasoned, and cooked in a saute-pan with a dash of white wine, mushroom liquor, and lemon-juice, dressed in gratin style with white sauce, mushrooms and oysters, sprinkled with bread-crumbs and cheese, and browned in oven before serving. 649. Filets de Soles a la Sauphine.—Fillets of soles, spread over with whiting or other fish farce mixed with finely chopped mushrooms, parsley and shallots, folded, and braised in the oven. When cold, trimmed, egged, crumbed and fried in clarified butter. Small lobster claws are inserted at the end of each fillet, served with lobster sauce. 650. Sdtelets de Sole d la Villeroi.—Fillets of soles, spread with forcemeat and rolled up, fastened on silver skewers, egged and crumbed, and baked with plenty of butter in hot oven. Served with a rich tomato sauce (No. 272). COLD SERVICE FISH ENTREES AND SECOND COURSE DISHES. 651. Cdtelettes de Somard d l’Aspic.—1 small hen lobster, 1 ripe tomato, 2 anchovies, 2 oz. picked shrimps, 1 oz. butter, about 1 pint aspic jelly (No. 293), seasoning. Line ten*cutlet moulds with aspic jelly. Split the lobster, remove the meat, and cut into slices about one-eighth of an inch thick. Cut the tomato in slices, remove skin and pips. Set a slice of lobster and tomato in each mould. Wash and bone the anchovy, pound in a mortar with the butter and shrimps, moisten with sufficient aspic to make the mixture set, and rub through a fine sieve. Season to taste. Fill up the moulds with this; finish with a thin layer of aspic. When set turn out. Dish up neatly on a round dish, fill the centre with the remainder of lobster meat and tomato cut into dice. Garnish with chopped aspic and parsley. Keep in a cool place till required for table. 652. Mayonnaise de Somard—1 large lobster, 4 filleted Gorgona anchovies, 1 hard-boiled egg, 6 stoned olives, 4 pickled