THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY ROOK Butter is sometimes used for deep frying, but it is hardly suitable, because it gets hot too quickly (150°), and is apt to burn before the article to be fried is done. AVERAGE DEGREES OF HEAT REQUIRED FOR FRYING. Butter boils at 150 degrees of Fahrenheit. Lard „ 210 Suet ,, 220 ,, „ Goose fat, &c. 860 ,, ,, Oil 890 to 400 The heat employed in the case of frying has to perform the same work as it does in roasting and boiling. Its effect must be in the first instance to harden the albumen, or in other words to form a thin crust on the outside of whatever is fried. For this reason the fat must be hot and smoking before anything of the kind named can be successfully fried. The best plan to test the proper temperature of fat is to watch it until it is perfectly still; a faint blue smoke will then be seen to rise—the fat is then ready for frying. A small piece of bread thrown into the fat is also a good test: if it turns brown immediately, the heat is correct; if not, the fat is still too cool for frying. The principle causes of failure in frying are: Putting in things to fry before the fat is thoroughly heated. Insufficient quantity of fat in the pan. Too much moisture adhering to the surface of articles to be fried. Sauter or Sauteing’.—The exact meaning of the culinary term sauter or saute is not clearly understood by most English cooks. The translation of this word is ‘jump,’ but the correct meaning is conveyed in the word ‘ toss.’ For instance, if we wish to translate * Pommes de terre saute au beurre,’ ‘ Potatoes jumped in butter ’ would hardly do, so that it is more correct and more expressive if we translate it as ‘ Potatoes tossed in butter ’; and as every English cook knows the meaning of tossing anything over the fire, the culinary term of ‘ saute ’ is more perfectly explained or defined in the word ‘toss.’ Sauteing may also be defined as dry frying. Frying proper is effected in a large quantity of fat, oil, butter, or lard : this is called wet or deep frying, whilst dry frying is to attempt frying with an alleviated, or a less severe heat than the actual frying in deep fat. This is done by using only just enough fat, butter, or lard, to enable one to toss things in the pan over the fire. The pan used for this purpose is either a saute-pan (sautoire or sauteuse), or an ordinary frying- or omelet-pan. saut£ pan