DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 243 -with the sauce, sprinkle with a few drops of liquid meat glaze, and serve hot. It is best to boil up the bechamel sauce and oyster liquor together, adding the egg-yolk and cream, and then strain over the •oysters and quenelles; when once added the ragout must not be allowed to boil again, else it will curdle. 592. Quenelles frites aux Huitres (Fried Oyster Quen- elles).—Blanch and beard 12 to 18 large sauce oysters, drain them and mask each with a layer of chicken forcemeat (Farce de Volaille, No. 403). The farce must cover the oysters on both sides. Egg and •crumb them twice and fry in hot fat a golden colour, drain, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a boat of piquante or white- wine sauce. 593. Petits Pates aux Huitres.—1 lb. of puff-paste, 2 doz. oysters, £ gill cream, 3 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. butter, % teaspoonful lemon- juice, 1 oz. flour, parsley, salt, pepper, fish broth. Prepare the puff or feuilletage paste in the usual way, roll out about a quarter of an inch thick, put it on the ice for five minutes. Stamp out with a 3-inch fancy pastry-cutter eight or nine rounds, turn over, and place them on a baking-sheet, brush the surface with beaten egg, trace an incision with a smaller round cutter, previously dipped in hot water. Bake in hot oven for about twenty minutes, take out the soft part of the inside, save the lids, and keep the patties warm until required. Put the oysters, with their liquor, into a sauce- pan, let them come to the boil, drain them, remove beards, and cut each oyster in two (save the liquor). Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, and cook a little; dilute with the oyster liquor, and sufficient fish stock to form a sauce; let it boil for about ten minutes, add the yolks of eggs and the cream, stir well, but do. not let it boil again; season to taste with pepper and salt, add the lemon-juice, and pass through a fine sieve or tammy. Put the oysters with the sauce, and stir over the fire until the former are thoroughly warm; fill the puff-paste cases, put on the covers, and dish up on a hot dish, with a folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve. 594. Petites Poachers a la Suedoise.—Have ready some puff-paste, roll out about one-eighth of an inch thick; stamp out some rounds to line ten to twelve small patty-pans, trim the edges and fill them with dried peas or rice; bake in a hot oven a bright yellow, allow them to cool a little, take out the peas, but do not take the paste crust out of the patty-pans. Prepare a ragout of sweetbread, lobster, crayfish tails, and broiled bacon, all being cut in dice, in equal proportions and in quantity as may be required to fill the patties ; these are placed in a stewpan and warmed up with two spoonfuls of veloutee or bechamel sauce (No. 203) ; when sufficiently mixed fill up the patties, strew over the surface of each some grated Parmesan cheese and a few crumbs made from fresh bread ; put a few small bits of lobster butter on the top of each, put them in a very R 2