PAT IS SEBIE, ETC. Prepare a short-crust paste by adding a pinch of salt and a tea- spoonful of sugar to the flour, rub in 4 oz. butter, moisten with the yolk of an egg and a few drops of water or milk if needed. Poll out the paste about a quarter of an inch thick, stamp out some rounds, and line a number of buttered tartlet moulds or patty-pans (the above quantities are estimated to produce from eight to nine tartlets). Prick the bottom of each mould with a fork to prevent blisters in baking. Mix the corn-flour with one whole and a yolk of egg. Add the sugar (4 oz.), work in the ground almonds, add the nutmeg and butter (i oz. melted), put about half a teaspoonful of strawberry or raspberry jam in each lined mould, fill up with the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven to a golden colour. 2013. Tartelettes a la Balmoral.—Puff-paste for lining tartlet-moulds, 2 eggs, 2 oz. dried cherries, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. caster sugar, i oz. fecula or 1 oz. corn-flour, 2 oz. crushed sponge-cakes, 2 oz. lemon-peel. Beat the butter and the sugar to a cream, add the egg-yolks one at a time ; chop the cherries and peel very small, and add to the mixture; beat together with the powdered sponge-cakes. Line the tartlet-moulds with puff-paste trimmings. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix this with the corn-flour or fecula carefully into the mixture; fill up the lined moulds (not quite full), dust with sugar, place them on a tin, and bake in a moderate oven for eighteen minutes. 2014. Granville Tartlets.—2 oz. butter, 2 oz. currants, 1 oz. ground rice, 2 whites of eggs, 1 oz. candied peel, 3 oz. sugar, 3 oz. sponge-cake crumbs, f lb. puff-paste (No. 1944), a little water icing (No. 1965), 5 drops of lemon essence, 1 tablespoonful cream, 1 oz. dessert cocoanut. Cream the butter and sugar until perfectly smooth, add the ground rice and crumbs, chop the peel finely and add together with the currants, cream, and flavouring essence. Beat up the whites and amalgamate. Roll out the paste, cut out some rounds, and line small oval tartlet-moulds; put in a spoonful of the mixture, and bake in a moderately heated oven. Cover the tops with water icing or fondant icing, sprinkle with desiccated cocoanut, and serve. 2015. Clarence Tartlets.—2 eggs, 4 oz. caster sugar, 6 oz. fresh butter, a pinch of grated nutmeg, orange flavouring, crystal- lised cherries, puff-paste. Line a dozen tartlet-moulds with puff-paste trimmings. Beat the eggs and sugar to a cream, add a pinch of grated nutmeg and a few drops of orange flavouring. Dissolve the butter and stir into the mixture; fill the tartlets about three-parts full. Place on a bakings sheet and bake to a delicate brown in a moderate oven. When done place a crystallised cherry in the centre of each and ornament round with a few fancifully-cut pieces of angelica. 2016. Tartelettes a la Saint Beals.—6 oz. Vienna or