355 ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES) 1003. Poulet a la Vigo.—Braised chicken, finished in Madeira wine sauce (No. 237 a), dished up and garnished with small ripe tomatoes, scalded, and baked whole. 1004. Poulets braises aux Fines Herbes.—Braised chickens, served with a rich brown sauce, seasoned with finely chopped chives, tarragon, chervil, parsley, garden cress, and flavoured with white wine. 1005. Epigrammes de Poulets aux Truffes.—Boned and skinned chicken, flattened and shaped like collops, fillets, or cutlets, larded with truffles, and cooked in butter. Served with truffle sauce (No. 243). 1006. Fricassee de Poulet a la Chevaliere.—Fricasseed chicken (fillets larded and garnished with fancifully cut slices of truffles, braised, and glazed), dished up with a ragout of mushrooms, truffles, and cocks’ combs. The dish is garnished with small fried chicken croquets. 1007. Fricassee de Poulet a la Havelock.—Fricasseed chicken in a white sauce thickened with a liaison of egg-yolks and fresh butter, fillets larded, braised, and glazed, and decorated with rings of ox-tongue. Dished up and garnished with groups of truffles, mushrooms, and cocks’ combs. 1008. Fricassee de Poulet a la Heine.—Fricasseed chicken, dished up in a pyramidal form, garnished with chicken forcemeat quenelles (No. 403), mushroom-heads, sliced truffles, and fried sippets of bread brushed over with meat glaze. 1009. Fricassee de Poulet a la Saint-Lambert.—Fricasseed chicken dished up in a pyramidal form, surrounded with groups of small braised carrots, green peas, and French beans. 1010. Poulet frit a la Dauphine.—Boiled chicken joints immersed, when cold, in veloutee sauce (No. 206), then egged, crumbed and fried. Dished up and garnished with groups of spring vegetables neatly shaped. Served with bechamel sauce (No. 202). 1011. Poulet frit a la Duchesse.—Boned chicken cut into neat pieces, trimmed and flattened, steeped in lemon-juice, flavoured with savoury herbs and finely chopped onions, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried. Served with duchesse sauce, prepared with veloutee sauce (No. 206), cream, and minced ham. 1012. Poulet frit a la Viennoise.—Boned chicken cut into neat pieces, trimmed and flattened, marinated in savoury herb samure or pickling, drained, egged, crumbed, and fried. Served with tomato sauce (No. 271). 1013. Poulet saute a la Bayonnaise.—Chicken cut into joints and fried in butter, then stewed in brown sauce with coarsely minced ham, sherry wine, small peeled and sliced tomatoes. Dressed' in the centre of a border of stewed rice. 1014. Poulet saute a la Bearnaise.—Saute of chicken finished in a veloutee sauce (No. 206) with the addition of meat glaze (No. 247), white wdne, chopped parsley, and tarragon-leaves, thickened with a liaison of egg-yolks and fresh butter. 2