DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (COLD) 255 vinegar, the cream, and about half a pint of aspic jelly, mix well, and fill the mould with this mixture; put the anchovy fillets, a few slices of truffles, and a few bearded oysters between the farce in filling. Should the mixture not quite fill the mould, fill up with aspic jelly, and put it on the ice until required. Immerse the mould in tepid water, turn out on a round dish, garnish round the sides with chopped ■ aspic and a few fancifully cut slices of cucumber. 660. Dame de Saumon a la JRavif/ote.—About 2| lb. middle cut of salmon, 1 onion, 1 carrot, a small bunch of parsley, 1 gill French wine vinegar, ravigote butter (No. 398), aspic jelly, (No. 88), 1 oz. fresh butter, 2 hard-boiled eggs, ^ pint cooked peas, 1 truffle, and some French gherkins for garnish, peppercorns, salt. Wipe the fish, salt it well, and put it in a fish-kettle with sufficient hot water to cover, add the vinegar, peppercorns, sliced onion and carrot, and parsley. . Bring it slowly to a boil, and keep at the boiling- point (not boiling) until tender. Let the fish remain in the water until cold, then strain carefully, place it on a cloth, remove the skin and put on a small board. Mask the surface with a layer, of ravigote butter, put it on the ice to set, then cover with a layer of half-set aspic jelly. Carefully place the fish on an oval dish, decorate the sides with ravigote butter and fresh butter ; this is best effected by means of a forcing-bag or paper cornet; ornament with green peas and fancifully cut slices of gherkins and truffles. If you have any lobster coral handy use it also in the garnish. Fill the centre of the salmon with a little green salad or a macedoine of cooked vegetables. Cut the eggs into quarters and garnish the sides with them, alternately with little heaps of green peas and chopped aspic jelly. Serve with a boat of Tartare sauce'(No. 278). 661. JPetits Souffles de Saumon d VIndienne.—| lb. cooked salmon, 1 teaspoonful of curry powder, \ teaspoonful curry paste, 2 oz. butter, 2 small tomatoes, 2 small onions, ^ pint fish stock, oz. anchovy paste, 1 dessertspoonful chutney, •§• teaspoonful aromatic seasoning, ^ oz. gelatine, \ gill cream, cochineal, 10 to 12 small souffle cases. Melt the butter in a small saute-pan, and fry in it the onions, previously peeled and sliced ; when the onions are slightly coloured, add the curry powder and cook for a few seconds, then add the sliced tomatoes, curry paste, anchovy paste, and seasoning. Moisten with the fish stock and let simmer for ten minutes. Now put in the fish, finely minced, and the chutney, dissolve the gelatine with a little water, add it to the mixture and rub through a fine sieve, put in a few drops of cochineal to give it a pinkish tint if desired. Whip up the cream and mix with the puree when cool. Fasten a paper band about an inch broad round each souffle case, fill up with the prepara- tion, and stand them in a tin on the ice until required ; then remove the paper bands, put some previously prepared anchovy butter in a paper cornet, ornament the tops to taste, dish up, garnish with fresh