THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 446 vegetable marrow, 2 tablespoonfuls chopped ham, 2 tablespoonfuls chopped suet, 2 tablespoonfuls bread-crumbs, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 1 egg, pepper and salt, 1 oz. butter. Peel the marrow, cut it in half lengthwise, remove the seeds from the centre. Prepare a marrow stuffing from the above ingredients. Boil the marrow for barely fifteen minutes in salted water, take up, drain and cool, lay the marrow in a buttered tin; put the prepared stuffing in each half, sprinkle over a few bread-crumbs, and place a few tiny bits of butter on top, bake in well heated oven for fifteen minutes, dish up and serve hot. Cucumbers can be cooked in the same way. 1309. Vegetable Marrow (aux Fines Herbes.)—Peel thinly two marrows, cut them in halves longways, remove the seedy portion. Have ready a pan half filled with water slightly salted ; let it boil, put in the marrows and cook till tender, then well bake about twenty minutes. When done take up carefully with a slice and place them on sieve to drain, dish upon a vegetable dish on a slice of toasted bread. Melt about three-quarters of an ounce of butter ; when hot add a small shallot, peeled and finely chopped, _ also a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley, and tarragon and chervil leaves; fry for a few seconds and pour over the marrows. ABBKEVIATED BECIPES. 1310. Betteraves sautees au Beurre. Clove-shaped pieces of cooked beetroot tossed in butter. Seasoned, dished up, and served with a rich gravy or thin tomato sauce. 1311. Betteraves a la Bordelaise.—Thickly sliced cooked beetroot slightly fried in sweet oil, flavoured with chopped onion also fried slightly, and finished in a red wine sauce. 1312. Cardons en Croutons a la Veloute.—Stewed cardoons dressed on bread croutons and served with veloutee sauce (No. 206), which should be handed round in a sauce-boat. 1313. Carottes d la JEterli noise.—1 large bunch of young spring carrots, f pint gravy or rich stock, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful caster sugar, 2 oz. butter, \ gill cream, •§■ gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), seasoning. Wash and scrape or turn the carrots, blanch them in slightly salted water and drain ; melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the carrots and the sugar. Toss over the fire for a few minutes, moisten with the gravy or stock. Cover the pan and allow to simmer gently on top of the stove or in a hot oven for about ten minutes. By this time the liquor should be almost absorbed, or at any rate reduced to a glaze. Season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Add also half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Shake the pan well, so as to thoroughly blend the carrots with the seasoning.