ENTBEES CHAUDES DE VIANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) 311 the truffle finely chopped, and sufficient veloutee sauce to moisten ; add a small piece of butter, and stir over the fire until hot. This forms the salpicon. Rub some cooked potatoes through a fine sieve, mix them with a piece of butter and a little cream. Season with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Let the puree get thoroughly hot, then add the yolk of an egg, and work it well until it forms a light paste. Butter some small moulds, line them with the puree. Place about a dessertspoonful of the salpicon in the centre of each mould, cover with potato puree, smooth the top with the blade of a knife, brush over with yolk of egg, and bake in a moderate oven until it is of a golden-brown colour. Warm up the bechamel sauce, add the remaining veloutee sauce and egg-yollt, and stir well over the fire. When hot, finish with a little cream, and add the remaining butter bit by bit. Turn out the little moulds into an entree-dish, pour the sauce round them, and serve hot. The remains of chicken, pigeon, rabbit, or game may be made up in this form. 851. Cevvelles de Veau a a JBeurre noiv.—Remove the skin from three calves’ brains, wash well, drain and cook in richly- flavoured stock for about six minutes, strain well, dish up and sauce over with some hot black butter sauce (No. 244). 852. Cevvelles de Yean d la Milan wise.—Fried calves’ brain served with stewed macaroni and tomato sauce. Garnish the dish with strips of ham, tongue, preserved mushrooms, and finely shredded truffles. 853. Cevvelles de Veau, d la Poalette.—2 nice calves' brains, 1^ oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, ^ pint stock {No. 87), ^ gill cream, 1 yolk of egg, 1 lemon, 1 shallot, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 4 oz. rice, 1 pint veal broth, salt and pepper. Wash and clean the brains in several waters, put them in a stew- pan with sufficient water to cover, add one bay-leaf, one small onion cut into slices, a small bunch of parsley, a teaspoonful of salt and a little lemon-juice. Bring it slowly to the boil, take up the brains, and cut them into dice. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, peel and chop the shallot, fry it in the butter a golden colour, add the flour, and cook a little without browning, stir in the stock (the liquor from the brains may be used for this instead of ordinary stock), bring it to the boil and cook gently for ten minutes, then strain, season to taste, add the remainder of the lemon-juice and the cream. Put the brains in the sauce and re-heat gradually ; add the chopped parsley a few minutes before serving. Wash and pick the rice, blanch it, drain, and cook it in stock till tender ; when the rice is ready for moulding, i.e. sufficiently reduced, and the grains are separate but quite tender, season with salt, pepper and a little grated nutmeg, stir in the yolk of egg, cook a little longer till the egg is set, then fill a well-buttered plain border mould. Shake the mould so as to get the rice well set, then turn out on a hot dish, put the ragoftt of brains in the centre, and serve hot.