THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK >76 1833. Eclairs de Sardines.—Skin carefully some sardines and yu*ap each neatly in a piece of puff-paste, previously spread over with a little anchovy paste. Brush over with egg-yolk and place on a baking-sheet. Mark the surface of the paste crossways with the point of a knife, and bake in a sharp oven for ten minutes. Serve hot or cold. 1834. Sardines a la Waive.—8 or 9 sardines, 3 yolks of eggs, \ oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful cream, | teaspoonful lemon- juice, a few tarragon leaves (finely chopped), a pinch of salt, and a pinch of English mustard, a pinch of cayenne, 8 or 9 fingers of toasted bread. Put the sardines on a hoard and remove the skin carefully with a cloth. (Use boneless sardines, sardines sans aretes, in preference to the ordinary kind.) Place them on a buttered tin and heat up in the oven, to be ready by the time the coating mixture is finished. They must not be heated too soon, otherwise they will get dry. Beat up the egg-yolks in a small stewpan, add the butter, cream, and the seasoning, including the mustard and tarragon. Stir over the fire till the mixture begins to thicken, then add the lemon-juice. Keep hot, but do not allow it to boil. Have the fingers of toasted bread ready, place a sardine on each of them, dish up, and pour about a dessertspoonful of the above mixture over each, so as to completely cover the sardines. Serve hot. 1835. Canapes de Sardines d la Soubise.—Prepare a soubise puree (onion puree); incorporate a little grated cheese and bechamel sauce (No. 202), and reduce to a thick sauce, spread some toasted bread with this and place some skinned and boned sardines upon it. Cut into fingers, cover each with more sauce and sprinkle over grated cheese and bread-crumbs. Bake in a sharp oven for five minutes, dish up, and serve. 1836. Petites Condoles d VAnchois.—Proceed the same as directed in recipe No. 1921, but incorporate sufficient anchovy paste in both the paste crust and the filling to give it the flavour and colour of anchovy. Sprinkle the top of the gondoles with red bread-crumbs (panurette), and bake in a very hot oven for a few minutes. 1837. Canapes a la Madras.—3 anchovies (boned), 3 oz. cooked chicken, 1 dessertspoonful Madras chutney (.Empress brand), 2 hard-boiled egg-yolks; 2 oz. butter, seasoning, pistachios, and toasted bread. Pound anchovies and chicken in a mortar till fine, add the chutney and egg-yolk, pound again and mix thoroughly with one ounce of butter, season to taste with salt, pepper, and cayenne, and rub through a sieve. Cut the toasted bread into oval shapes (by means of a paste-cutter), butter each with a thin layer of butter, and spread over thickly with the prepared farce. Decorate with chopped pistachio nuts. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve.