376 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK with a mixture of minced game and chopped mushrooms. Served with a game sauce (No. 252) into which a little black currant jelly has been incorporated. 1095. Filets de Canards sauvages aux Truffes.—Fillets of wild duck cooked in butter and finished in a rich brown sauce made of wild duck giblets, sliced mushrooms, finely minced shallots, and truffles. 1096. Sarcelle a la Woscovite (Widgeon, Moscow Style).— 1 tender widgeon, 1 small bouquet of herbs, £ glass sherry, 1 oz. butter, \pint-Espagnole sauce (No. 286), 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 gill stock, 2 thin slices cooked ox-tongue, 1 large truffle, 6 mush- rooms, 8 small godiveau quenelles (No. 401), salt, pepper, nutmeg, fried bread croute or croutons. Singe, draw and wipe the bird, cut into neat joints (wings, legs, and breast), chop up the carcass and put it in a stewpan with a little butter. Cook over a quick fire to brown, add the bouquet, moisten with stock, and let simmer for fifteen minutes. Season the joints with salt, pepper, and a small pinch of grated nutmeg. Heat up the butter in a saute-pan, lay in the pieces, and cook over a brisk fire for six minutes. Then add the sherry, cover, and reduce a little, then the sauce (Espagnole and tomato), and let simmer slowly till tender. Cut the tongue and truffles into narrow strips (julienne shape), mince the mushrooms. Put these together with the godiveau quenelles in a stewpan, strain over the prepared gravy of the carcass, previously skimmed, add a little seasoning, and let cook together for ten minutes. Skim the sauce containing the duck. Place the croute of bread in the centre of a hot dish (this should be fastened with a little butter or a mixture of flour and water). Dish up the duck as neatly as possible on the croute, garnish with alternate groups of tongue and truffle, mushrooms and quenelles ; put the gravy with the sauce, boil up, strain the sauce, pour a little over and round the base of the dish. Serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. Adjust some paper frills on the ends of the wings and legs, and serve. Note.—If small bread-croutons are used omit the centre croute and place the former round the base of the dish along with the garniture. 1097. Sarcelles bardees d la Westphalie.—Braised teal barded, served with slices of broiled Westphalian ham, also sliced truffles in the sauce. 1098. Tetras d’Ameriqtie a la Chasseur.—American goose stewed in brown Madeira wine sauce (No. 287a), with chopped mushrooms and shallots. 1099. Andouillettes de Ghibier1 en Caisses a la Frangaise.—4 oz., cooked game, freed from skin and bone, 1 Any kind of chickens, veal, pork, or any other meat may be substituted for game, hut the name then changes; as, Andouillettes de Volaille, Andouillettes de Veau, &c.