523 ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) 1685. Meringuage Sicilienne.—12 to 14 meringue shells (small), 2 oz. strawberry or gooseberry pulp, 1£ pint whipped cream, 4 oz. sugar, glace cherries. Boil the sugar with a little water to the crack (about 300 degrees Fahrenheit). Grease the outside of a charlotte mould, and stand, opening downwards, on a plate; dip the sides of each meringue in the boiled sugar, and place them in rows against the side of the mould, piling one row on the other until the top of the mould is reached. Remove the mould carefully, and put the shape on to a dish. Whip the cream, add the fruit pulp, fill the centre with this, garnish neatly with some glace cherries, and, if liked, with a few fancifully cut leaves of angelica. If preferred, the top may be covered with meringue shells. Serve quickly. 1636. Bonnes Bouehes d la Washington.—5 blood oranges, 2 Bartlett pears, 2 peaches, 2 slices pine-apple, 2 apricots, glace cherries or other fruit in equal parts, 1^ gill claret, 1 gill chartreuse, \ lb. powdered macaroons, meringue mixture. Stew the fruit as for compote, if fresh fruit is used, but bottled fruit will do if the former is not procurable ; cut the fruit into slices about the size of a small cherry, cut the oranges in halves ; carefully remove the pulp, so that the skin remains intact. Rub the pulp through a sieve, and add to it the wine and liqueur; thicken this syrup with macaroons. Mix in the fruit, fill up the orange-rinds, smooth over with the blade of a knife, cover the surface with meringue mixture, ornament to taste, pyramid fashion, dust with sugar, and bake in the oven a golden brown. 1637. Charlotte de Cerises.—\ lb. cooking cherries, the rind of half a lemon, 4 oz. butter, 6 oz. sugar, 1 teaspoonful powdered cinnamon, about 1^ lb. Genoise cake or German zwieback. Stone the cherries, put them in a stewpan with very little water, add the sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, and the cinnamon, also two ounces of butter ; steam over the fire gently until the cherries are tender (shake the pan from time to time). If Genoise cake is used cut it into neat slices, and bake both sides a golden colour. Line the bottom and sides of a well-buttered charlotte mould with these or German zwiebacks; each piece should be dipped in oiled butter, so as to make them hold fast; fill up the mould alternately with baked biscuits (Genoise) or zwiebacks and the cherries, lay them in tightly, sprinkle a little dissolved butter over the top, and bake for half an hour in the oven. Serve with a kirsch syrup. 1638. Charlotte d VImperiale.—Fill a well-buttered plain charlotte mould with Genoise paste and bake it evenly in a fairly hot oven; when done unmould, cut off the top, and remove the soft part of the interior. Place the cake-crust on a dish and fill it with a rich cream composed of six egg-yolks, one pint of cream or milk (boil- ing), a quarter of an ounce of fecula, four ounces of sugar, a quarter-