THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK and about a saltspooonful of paprika pepper, and rub through a sieve. Stir the mayonnaise sauce into the aspic (made liquid, but it must not be hot). Stir until it begins to set, then divide into two equal parts, mix one lot with white sauce (bechamel), and the other with tomato pulp—add a few drops of carmine to the latter to give it a more pronounced red tint. Spread the cut sides of the croutes with a thick layer of the prepared puree, and place them together into their original shapes ; press lightly together, and mask half of them with the prepared white sauce, and the other half with the prepared red sauce. The sauces must of course be merely liquid (half-set). When set arrange them neatly on one or more dishes, garnish with sprigs of freshly picked parsley, and send to table. 53. Tartlettesde Saumon a I’Eeossaise (Salmon Tartlets, Scotch Style).—1 thin slice salmon, 1 small carrot, i onion, 1 bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, 2 oz. butter, lemon-juice, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 cold potato, % celery-root,^beetroot (small), white wine (Ghablisor Graves), tarragon and chervil, pepper and salt, mayonnaise dressing, aspiG jelly (No. 38), short crust, truffle, gherkin or chilli for garnish. Prepare the short crust with ^ lb. flour, \ lb. butter, and the needful quantity of -water. Poll out the paste, stamp out a number of rounds, and line 8 to 10 tartlet moulds with these, prick the bottom of each, fill up with lentils or dried peas, bake a golden colour, turn out lentils or peas, and let the crusts cool. If the salmon be small you will probably require two thin slices ; place it in a buttered saute-pan with the carrot and onion cut into slices, and the herbs. Add a little salt and sufficient water and wine, half and half, to cover the fish, put in a teaspoonful lemon-juice, and cook over a gentle fire for about ten minutes ; let cool, and then stamp out an equal number of rounds a little smaller than the tartlet crusts. Mask each with a thin coating of mayonnaise and aspic, mingled in equal quantities, ornament one side of each with a star of truffles, chillies, or gherkins. Mix the remnants of salmon (meat only) with the potato, celery, the white of a hard-boiled egg, and a fewT' slices of beetroot, all minced rather finely, season with a pinch of cayenne, salt, tarragon and chervil, and enough mayonnaise to moisten. Line the tartlet crusts with this mixture, lay a dressed round of salmon on top of each tartlet, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with chopped aspic and parsley, and serve as hors d’oeuvre or fish entree; if intended for the latter the crusts and salmon must be of a somewhat larger size than for hors d’oeuvre. 54. Tartines a la Cardinal.—1 small lobster, 2 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful anchovy paste, 2 hard-boiled eggs, ^ gill mayonnaise sauce (No.‘Til),l gill aspic jelly (No. 38), thin slices of lightly buttered white or brown bread, 1-2 French gherkins, 1 truffle, seasoning. Remove the meat from the lobster, cut it into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar till smooth. Add the butter, anchovy paste, and the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs. Season with salt, pepper, and