371 ENTREES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) Procure the birds ready trussed. Untruss and bone them, leaving ihe end bone of the legs. Cut the larding bacon into the usual-sized strips or lardons, and lard the breasts of the partridges. Shape them neatly. Line a braising-pan with the trimmings of bacon, herbs, sliced onion, carrot and turnip, peppercorns, cloves, and one ounce of butter. Let this get thoroughly hot, put in the birds, larded side upwards, season with pepper, salt, and aromatics, put a few slices of lean bacon on top, and set it in a hot oven for about fifteen minutes ; then add the port wine and the stock, and braise for about forty minutes, keeping the birds well basted during the process of braising. Take up the partridges, cut them in halves and keep hot, and brush over the surface with meat glaze. Chop up the carcass of the birds, and put this into the pan in which the birds were cooked. Add about half a pint of sauce, and boil up quickly; remove the fat and strain the sauce. Skim well and season to taste. Dish up the birds ■on a border of mashed potatoes, or if preferred on a fried bread- crouton. The mushrooms are served in the centre or dressed on either side. Prepare the mushrooms as follows :—Wash and skin the mush- rooms, chop them finely, and put them in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter and two ounces of ham also chopped finely, and fried a little in the butter. Cook them over a quick fire for about ten minutes, season to taste, and serve as directed. 1074. Celestines de Perdreaux.—3partridges, 2 oz. panade (No. 8), 3 large truffles, % gill rich brown sauce, bread-crumbs, seasoning, frying-fat, chestnut puree for garnish. Remove the breasts from the birds, skin them, and flatten each breast or fillet with a wetted cutlet bat. Take the meat from the legs and wings and pound it in a mortar, add the panade, two or three egg-yolks, and season to taste. When smooth enough rub through a fine sieve. Mince the truffles, and cook for some time in the brown sauce, which should be reduced to an almost puree-like consistency. Spread each fillet with a layer of this ragout, then Avith a layer of forcemeat. Pare each fillet neatly, brush over carefully with beaten egg-white, and cover with bread-crumbs (panurette crumbs are particularly well adapted for this purpose). Fry the prepared fillets in deep fat to a nice brown colour. Drain and dish up in the form of a circle on a hot round dish round a pyramidal shape of chestnut puree. Pour a little demi-glace (No. 237) or tomato sauce (No. 271) round the base of the dish and serve at once. 1075. Perdrix braisees aux Choux (.Braised Partridges with Cabbage).—-2 or 3 partridges, 2 small cabbages, 1 carrot, 1 onion, 8 oz. salt pork or fat bacon, 3 cloves, bouquet garni (No. 2), 1 glass white wine, 1^ pint rich broth, 1 gill Espagnole sauce (No. 236), salt, pepper, nutmeg, 2 oz. dripping. Singe, draw, and wipe the birds, truss them with their wings turned inwards. Put them in a roasting-tin, cover with dripping, and roast for ten minutes. Take up and drain. Wash the cabbages,