THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 270 ragout of cocks’ combs, sweetbread slices, and truffles. Pour a well- seasoned tomato sauce (No. 271) round the base of the dish. 688. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Michelieu.—8 to 10 lamb cutlets, Richelieu garnish (No. 488), 2 oz. butter, 6 to 8 small arti- choke bottoms, ^ pint cooked asparagus points, 1 truffle, salt and pepper, demi-glace sauce (No. 237). Trim, flatten, and pare the cutlets, season them with pepper and salt; clarify the butter, then put it in a saute-pan, when hot place in the cutlets, and cook them over a quick fire. See that each side gets nicely browned. Take up the cutlets, drain off the fat, and dress them in a circle on a thin border of mashed potatoes in a hot dish. Attach a paper ruffle on each cutlet-bone. The artichoke bottoms and asparagus points must be heated beforehand ; toss the latter in a little butter, and season to taste. Put the Richelieu garnish, previously heated, in the centre of the dish. Fill each artichoke bottom with asparagus points, range these neatly round the cutlets. Sprinkle on top of each a little chopped truffle, pour some hot demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 689. Cdtelettes d’Agneau d la Villeroi (Lamb Cutlets icith Cucumber Sauce).—8 good-sized lamb cutlets, 2 oz. fresh butter, ^ pint well-reduced bechamel (No. 202) or Allemande (No 204) sauce, 1 egg,panurette, cracknel biscuits, seasoning, parsley, frying - fat, cucumber sauce (No. 284). Trim the cutlets, flatten and pare nicely, season both sides with gait and pepper, and put in a saute-pan with two ounces of melted butter, and fry the cutlets a light brown on both sides. Drain them, and place them between two tin sheets, with a weight on top. When cold, immerse the cutlets in lukewarm bechamel or Allemande sauce, so as to completely coat them. Place them on a wire tray and let cool. Crush finely a few cracknel biscuits, and roll the coated parts of the cutlets in this. Then dip them in beaten egg, and crumb with panurette. Keep the bones of the cutlets perfectly clean. Fry a nice colour in hot fat. Drain, dish up in a circle, fill the centre with fried parsley, put small paper frills on the bones, and send to table with a boat of cucumber sauce. 690. Ejiigrammes d’Agneau d la Soabi.se.—1 breast of lamb, 2 quarts stock, 1 bunch parsley, 1 bay-leaf, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 onion, 2 cloves, 1^ gill /Lllemande saucfi (No. 204) or veloutee sauce (No. 206), salt and pepper, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, frying-fat, soubise sauce (No. 232). Trim the breast of lamb, cut it in two, blanch it, put it in a stew- pan with the stock (boiling). Let it boil up, skim, add the vegetables &c., previously cleaned, and cook gently till the meat is quite tender. Take up the breast, remove the bones while hot, and place the meat flat under weight. When cold trim, removing all the hard skin and gristle, and cut into convenient pieces. Season with pepper and salt. •Coat each with Allemande or veloutee sauce. This operation is best