542 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK minutes. Strain through a wetted cloth or jelly-bag, or through filtering paper. Pour into a mould and let it set on the ice. Immerse in lukewarm water. Wipe the mould, and turn out quickly on a dish. 1709. Gelee an Marasquin (.Maraschino Jelly).—Proceed the same as directed in the foregoing recipe, omitting the champagne and adding two small glasses of maraschino liqueur in its place ; the sherry used must be of a very pale colour. 1710. Macedoine de Fr uit a la Gelee.—H pint wine jelly, strawberries, apricots, peaches, greengages, raisins, or other kinds of fruit. Dissolve the jelly. Place a copper jelly-mould in a shallow pan of broken ice, pour in a little jelly ; let it set. Arrange a layer of fruit neatly, cover with jelly, and when this is set pour in some more jelly, more layers of fruit, alternating with different kinds. Continue this until the mould is full, but great care must be taken to see that each layer is quite set before another is put in. When fresh fruit cannot be obtained use bottled or tin fruits, but dry each piece on a cloth before it is set in the jelly. Keep the mould on ice until set, then immerse in tepid water, turn out on to a folded napkin or on a silver dish, and serve. 1711. Gelee au JEthum d la JRusse (Russian Rum Jelly).— Mask a fancy jelly-mould with a thin coating of wine-jelly coloured with liquid carmine or cochineal, prepare a punch jelly as directed in recipe No. 1706, using rum for flavouring. Whisk a sufficient quantity to fill the mould till quite frothy. Fill the mould and let set. 1712. Fraises an Gelee (Jellied Strawberries).—Prepare a jelly as directed in recipe No. 1705. Keep it as bright as possible, and colour with a few drops of carmine or spinach greening. Mask a mould with this ; when set fill it gradually with layers of jelly and layers of freshly picked ripe strawberries. See that each layer is set before the next layer of fruit is added. Set in a cool place till firm. Turn out and dish up. 1718. Gelee d la Polonaise.—1^ pint maraschino jelly (No. 1709), 1 pint milk, \ oz. corn-flour, \ oz. gelatine, 1 oz. sugar, 2 yolks of eggs, % teaspoonful vanilla essence, 1 tablespoonful maraschino. Mix the corn-flour with a little cold milk, boil up the remainder of milk with the sugar, then add the mixed corn-flour and stir while it boils ; soak the gelatine in water and add it to the above, beat up the yolks of eggs and add them also. Allow the eggs to bind, and strain the whole into a basin, then add the flavouring essence and the maraschino. Pour this into a flat mould and let it set on the ice. Unmould and cut the custard into small diamond blocks or cube shapes. Set these in a fancy border mould in layer with the jelly. When the mould is full place it in a cool place to set. Turn out and serve as a cold dinner or luncheon sweet.