THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 406 1180. Chartreuse de Faisan d la Balmoral.—\ lb. cold pheasant (freed from skin and bone), 6 or 8 small chicken quenelles (No. 403), 3 large truffles, 6 preserved mushrooms, 3 or 4 cooked cocks' combs, 1£ pint aspic jelly (No. 293), seasoning, 1 gill Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 1 glass sherry, ^ oz.meat-glaze (No. 247), 1 gill ve- loutee or bechamel sauce (No. 202), 1 gill cream, 1 hard-boiled egg. Line a charlotte or large timbale mould with aspic. Ornament the bottom and sides with fancifully cut slices of truffles and white of egg, fix the garniture with liquid aspic. Put the white sauce and one gill of aspic in a stewpan, reduce to one third, add the cream, reduce again, and pass through a tammy. Allow this to cool a little, then mask the inside of the mould. Cut the pheasant meat, mush- rooms, and remainder of truffles into convenient slices or fillets, mix with a sauce composed of Espagnole sauce, sherry, half a pint of aspic, and meat-glaze; reduce well, and mix with meat &c. ; when cooling season the whole to taste, and fill up the mould. Stand on the ice until perfectly firm, immerse in tepid water, and turn out on a dish with folded napkin or dish-paper. Garnish with chopped aspic round the base of the dish, and serve. 1181. Fetites Cremes de Faisan.—6 oz. cooked pheasant meat, f pint veloutee or Allemande sauce (Nos. 204 and 206), \ oz. French gelatine, 1 gill cream, 1 gill aspic (No. 293), 1 gherkin, 2 red chillies, 4 teaspoonful chopped lemon-rind, seasoning. Mask the inside of eight or ten little timbales or dariole moulds with aspic jelly; decorate with little fancifully cut pieces of gherkin and chillies, put on the ice to set. Free the meat from skin and sinews, and pound in a mortar till smooth. Heat up the sauce, soak the gelatine, and let it dissolve in the sauce ; mix the sauce with the pounded meat, add the lemon-rind, a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Put through a fine hair sieve; when cooled a little whip the cream and add to the mixture. Fill up the moulds with this, place on the ice to set. Turn out and dish up. Decorate with chopped aspic and serve. 1182. Mauviettes a VAspic.—Bone from eight to twenty larks, fill them with liver farce (No. 406), wrap up each lark tightly in a small piece of muslin, braise in a rich stock, and put to cool. Line as many small oblong moulds as there are larks with aspic jelly, decorate the bottom and sides with truffles and hard-boiled white of egg, also a few leaves of tarragon and chervil. Allow the decoction to set. Unwrap the larks, put one in each mould, fill up the rest with aspic, and place on the ice to set. Unmould, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. 1183. Galantine de Ferdreaux.—Carefully bone three or four plump partridges, and in doing this see that the skin is in no way torn. Cut open each bird lengthways down the back, and spread out on a board (skin downwards), season with salt and pepper, and spread with a layer of chicken forcemeat' (farce de volaille). Upon