THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 256 parsley, and serve. A few drops of lemon-juice is an improvement with this mixture, and wh^n desired stiffer, a little dissolved aspic jelly may be added before filling the cases. 662. Tranchettes de Saumon en Belle-Vue.—§ lb. cooked salmon, 1 gill plain aspic jelly for lining, tarragon and chervil leaves, \ pint mayonnaise, stiffened, f gill well-reduced aspic (No. 38), 1 large truffle. Line six to eight small oblong or square moulds (sandwich or Neptune shape) with dissolved aspic jelly, decorate with fancifully cut slices of truffle and leaves of tarragon and chervil; when set, coat with a layer of prepared mayonnaise. Flake the fish, season with mayonnaise, and add the remainder of truffles chopped coarsely. Fill up the mounds three parts full with the dressed salmon, finish filling with some mayonnaise and aspic. Let the moulds remain on the ice till wanted, then turn out, dish up, garnish with green salad, and serve. 663. Truite Saumonee d la Norvegienne.—A salmon trout, 1 oz. grated horseradish, 1 gill aspic, ^ gill cream, 1 gill mayonnaise (No. 277), cucumber, tarragon and chervil leaves, 1 small onion stuck with a clove, 1 small bouquet garni, a glass white wine, bechamel sauce (No. 203), border of cooked rice or puree of potatoes with peas, chillies, salt, peppercorns. Wash and clean the fish, half fill a fish-kettle with water, put in the wine, onion and bouquet garni, also a small handful of salt and about twelve peppercorns ; when warm, put in the fish on a tray, let it come to the boil and keep simmering very gently for about thirty minutes (on no account must the water boil). Let the fish cool in its liquid, take up gently in the tray and place on a dish on a bed of rice previously prepared, and carefully remove the skin. Mix half a gill of mayonnaise with the same quantity of aspic, stir on the ice until it begins to thicken, then mask the surface of the trout completely, garnish tastefully with tarragon and chervil leaves, cucumber rind and slices, also some fancifully cut pieces of chilli, coat over with a thin layer of half-set aspic, and set on the ice to cool. Garnish the sides with coarsely chopped aspic jelly and parsley, and serve with the following sauce :— Soak the horseradish in the cream for several hours, rub through a fine sieve, put it into a basin and stir in the remainder of mayon- naise sauce, also a tablespoonful of cold bechamel sauce, season with pepper and salt and a pinch of cayenne if liked. Pour into a sauce- boat and serve with the fish. Note.—If potato puree is used in place of rice for the border, mix the puree with an equal quantity of mashed green peas. As much as possible of the moisture in potatoes and peas must be extracted before the puree is shaped. 664. Truite Samnonee d la Rothschild en Chand- froid.—Procure 1 large,’ or 2 medium-sized salmon-trout, about