186 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK not hot). Stir over the ice with a whisk for a few minutes, season to taste, and fill up an oblong biscuit tin; seal it with paper and lid, and place it in a charged ice-cave for 1| hour. To serve, unmould as usual, cut the shape into neat slices or cubes, and serve with grilled fish or meat, &c. 282. Sauce Vert-JPre.—2 shallots, 3 oz. butter, 2 large table- spoonfuls white-wine vinegar, \pintveloutee (No. 206) or Allemande (No. 204) sauce (ordinary white sauce can be made to do), a small handful spinach, 6 sprigs of curly parsley, 2 to 3 sprigs chives, ■ 3 sprigs tarragon, very little chervil, salt and pepper. Peel and chop finely the shallots, put them in a stewpan with the vinegar and 1 oz. of butter, cover with the lid of the stewpan, and allow to reduce to about half its original quantity. Now add the white sauce (veloutee for preference), and let simmer for a few minutes. Wash, pick, and blanch (parboil) the spinach and remainder of herbs ■ drain and cool, press out all the water, and pound in a mortar with 1 about 1 oz. of butter. Rub this through a fine sieve and mix it with the sauce as above prepared. Whisk in the remainder of the butter, season to taste, and serve. 283. Sauce Valentine.—This sauce is prepared in the same was as ‘Sauce Suedoise’ (No. 279), adding a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and substituting the French mustard with half that quantity of English mustard. 284. Sauce aux Coucombres, froide (Gold Cucumber Sauce).—\ cucumber, ^ gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), £ gill cream, 1 gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), salt, pepper, spinach greening. Peel thinly the cucumber and cut into small pieces, boil in salted water till tender, and rub through a hair sieve. Return the pulp to the stewpan, add the bechamel sauce ; let it reduce to about half the original quantity, and let it cool. Whip the cream until stiff; work in the mayonnaise sauce, and mix slowly with the reduced cold sauce, add a little salt and pepper if needed, also q, few drops of spinach greening; the sauce is then ready for use. 285; Sauce Remoulade.—Blanch a few leaves of tarragon, parsley, burnet, and chives; drain the herbs and chop finely. Put in a basin the yolk of an egg with salt and pepper to taste, stir well with a wooden spoon; work in gradually half a pint of salad oil, and at intervals a few drops of tarragon vinegar. About two table- .spoonfuls of vinegar is required to half a pint of oil. When the sauce is finished add a teaspoonful of made mustard, a pinch of caster sugar, and the chopped herbs. 286. Sauce JEpicurienne (suitablefor Asparagus, Artichokes, or Boiled Fish).—1 cucumber, 1 gill mayonnaise, | gill cream, 1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar, ^ gill aspic jelly (No. 293), 1 tea- spoonful anchovy essence, 1 dessertspoonful chopped gherkins, 1 ' dessertspoonful chutney, pepper, salt, sugar. Peel the cucumber, cut it into small pieces, cook till tender in