233 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) when cold mask over with well reduced white sauce, made in the following manner: Chop up the fish-bones and put them in the saute-pan where the soles were cooked; add a small piece of butter, and stir over the fire for a few minutes; now add half the remainder of the wine, cover and let infuse for another five minutes ; add the white sauce and reduce to half its original quantity, stirring occasion- ally to prevent burning. Season the sauce to taste, and pass through a tammy. When cold, mask the soles as directed. Decorate the fish with fancifully-cut slices of truffle and gherkins, cover with a buttered paper, and place in the oven for another ten minutes. Warm up the garniture—truffles (sliced), cocks’ combs, and mushrooms (whole)—in a little white wine and sauce. Range these neatly in groups round the fish as it leaves the oven, and send to table on the dish in which the soles were cooked. 558. Soles au Vin Blanc.—2 medium-sized soles, 1 glass Sauterne or Chablis wine, 6 mushrooms (preserved), 1 small blade of mace, 2 oz. fresh butter, 2 small shallots (peeled and chopped finely), ^ gill fish or meat stock, pepper and salt, 1 gill bechamel or veloutee sauce, the juice of i lemon, parsley for garnish. Wipe, skin, and trim the soles. Butter a saute-pan, sprinkle over with the chopped shallots, lay in the soles, season with pepper and salt, add the mace, moisten with white wine and stock, cover with buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for ten minutes or longer. When done, take up the fish, put on a dish, and keep hot. Reduce the fish liquor, add the sauce, a few drops of lemon-juice, and tails of mushrooms finely chopped, boil up, season to taste, and strain over the fish. Garnish with the heads of mushrooms slightly tossed in a little butter, and a few sprigs of freshly-picked parsley. Serve hot. 559. Filets de Soles a la Xavier.—2 medium-sized soles, % gill white wine, ^ oz. butter, salt, pepper, enough whiting forcemeat No. 400) to fill a border mould, Xavier sauce (No. 217). Skin the soles, fillet them, tie each fillet in a knot, and place them on a buttered baking-sheet. Season with pepper and salt, add the wine, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook for ten minutes in a quick oven. Butter a border mould, fill up with whiting forcemeat. Cook in the oven in a saute-pan half filled with boiling water for about twenty minutes. When done, turn out on a hot dish. Dress the cooked fillets in a circle on the border. Cover completely with hot Xavier sauce. Sprinkle a few drops of liquid meat glaze over the surface, and serve. Use fish-bones and essence of the fillets in making the above sauce. 560. Faapiettes de Soles d la JNiQoise.—Skin one or two soles, fillet them and spread each fillet with a fish quenelle forcemeat ” (No. 561), mixed with a teaspoonful of finely-mixed fresh herbs, and the same quantity of anchovy paste. Roll up the fillets, place them on a buttered baking-sheet or pan. Cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Prepare a tomato