198 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK a lemon, rub through a fine sieve, spread on a plate, put on the ice, and use as directed. 388. Heurre a la Dtable {Devilled Butter).—Mix 1 oz. or 2 oz. of butter with \ teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, a pinch of curry-powder, a pinch of ground ginger, and a saltspoonful of black pepper. Spread on a plate, and use for grilled cutlets, chops, &c. 389. Hcurve d’Hcrevisses {Crayfish or Shrimp Butter).— Pound \ pint of pickled shrimps or prawns in a mortar till smooth, add 3 oz. of fresh butter, ^ oz. anchovy paste; mix thoroughly and rub through a fine sieve. Keep on the ice till wanted. A little liquid carmine or cochineal may be added to colour if found necessary. 390. Heurre JEspaynol {Spanish Blotter).—Pound 2 oz. of lean ham in a mortar till smooth, then add two tablespoonfuls of well reduced Espagnole sauce (No. 236) ; incorporate by degrees 6 oz. of fresh butter, season to taste with pepper and finely grated nutmeg, and rub through a hair sieve. Keep on the ice till wanted. 391. Heurre de Homard {Lobster Butter).—Procure the eggs and coral of a lobster, wash and dry well; pound in a mortar with double its quantity of fresh butter. Eub through a fine sieve, and keep in a cool place till required. 392. Heurre au Jambon {Ham Blotter).—Pound 4 oz. of finely chopped lean ham (cooked), add 2 oz. of butter and a table- spoonful of double cream; season to taste with white pepper and cayenne. Pass through a fine sieve, put it on the ice, and use as required. 393. Heurre a la Madras {Chutney Blotter).—Pound 4 oz. Mango chutney in a mortar, add a tablespoonful of French mustard, and work in 6-8 oz. of fresh butter, season to taste, and add a few •drops of lemon-juice. Eub through a hair sieve, place it on the ice, and use as required. 394. Heurre Maitre d’Hotel {Maitre d’Hotel Butter).—Mix 1 oz. of fresh butter with 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a sprig of tarragon, and 1 of chervil finely chopped, 1 teaspoonf-ul of lemon juice, a pinch of salt and pepper. Spread on a plate, put on the ice, and shape into pats when quite firm. 395. Heurre Montpellier {Montpellier Butter).—Zoz.parsley, chervil, tarragon, chives and cress, 2 anchovies, 9 yolks of hard- boiled eggs, 3 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful capers, 1 gherkin. Wash and pick the parsley, cress, and herbs ; blanch for three minutes, strain and cool. Drain well in a cloth and pound in a mortar. Put this on a plate, and clean the mortar. Wipe and bone the anchovies ; pound them in a mortar with the egg-yolks, capers, and gherkins. When quite smooth, add the butter and lastly the green puree. Mix the whole well together. Put through a wire sieve, and use as required. A little spinach greening may be added if the herbs should not colour the butter sufficiently.