194 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 367. Sauce liomuiue (Roman Sauce).—A brown sauce for fish, prepared with Espagnole sauce, mixed with currants, sultanas, Italian pine-seeds (pignoli), moistened with a little white wine vinegar ; all pressed through a sieve before serving. 368. Sauce Sicilienne (Sicilian Sauce).—Espagnole sauce, reduced with Marsala wine, seasoned with cayenne pepper; thin rings of onions fried in butter are maxed with tlie sauce just before serving. Served with beef steaks, roast''fillets of beef, &c. 369. Sauce a la Soyev {Soyer fSauce).—A white fish sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs,v shallots, and lemon-juice, thickened with egg-yolks and cream. 370. Sauce Stragotte (Stragotto Sauce).—A kind of rich game sauce, with tomato pulp and Madeira wine, flavoured with soup vegetables, celery, and parsley roots, shallots, cloves, and mace. Generally served with Italian dishes. 371. Sauce Texienne (Texas Sauce).—A kind of curry sauce, with a little saffron, chopped parsley, lemon-juice, finished with fresh butter as a liaison. Served with meat or fish dishes. 372. Sauce Tortile (Turtle Sauce).—A brown sauce, made from turtle stock, with finely chopped shallots, a little anchovy paste, lemon-juice, sherry, and finely chopped lemon-rind ; seasoned with very little cayenne pepper. 373. Sauce TJniverselle (Universal Sauce).—A highly spiced cold sauce, for cold meats, &c., prepared with mushroom ketchup, port wine, shallot vinegar, ground spice, mace, cayenne pepper, and essence of anchovies. 374. Sauce Villeroi (Villeroi Sauce).—A white sauce, with finely chopped cooked ham and tongue, finished with a liaison of egg- yolks and fresh butter. 375. Sauce Verjus (Verjuice Sauce).—Espagnole sauce, with mashed unripe green grapes, or gooseberries cooked in stock, reduced with a little sherry, and finished with fresh butter. Served with roast ducks or pork. 376. Sauce (V York (Yorkshire Sauce).—Consists of Espagnole sauce, finely shredded orange-rind, red currant jelly, port wine, orange-juice, and a little ground cinnamon (careful blending essential). Served with boiled ham or pickled pork. SWEET SAUCES (SAUCES StJCEEES). 377. Sauce au Liqueur.—1 oz. fresh butter, ^oz. flour,1 gill milk, 1 oz. sugar, 1 ivhole egg, ^ teaspoonful vanilla essence, ^ oz. finely chopped pistachios, \ oz. finely chopped lemon-peel, 1 table- spoonful red curagoa. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour and blend over the fire for a few seconds. Moisten slowly with the milk, add the sugar, and stir well over the fire; beat up the egg and add