THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 344 leaves and lemon-juice, cover with another dish, and let stand for two hours. Drain the pieces of chicken, dip them in frying-batter, and cook a light brown in clarified butter, or butter and lard mixed in equal proportions. Drain and keep hot. Peel the onions, cut them into thin slices, and divide into rings ; steep these in milk and dip in flour. Fry in plenty of hot fat till crisp and of a golden brown. Dish up the chickens, and garnish tastefully with the fried onions. Serve with hot tomato sauce. 971. Ailerons de Volatile a la Creole (Chicken Breasts, Creole Style).—2 Surrey fowls or chickens, 6 oz. rice, 1 pint rich stock, 2 oz. butter, 3 truffles (small), 6 artichoke bottovis (small), 14 pint cooked vegetable macedoine, 1 gill sauce aigre-douce (No. 265), aromatic seasoning, salt and pepper. Carefully remove the breasts of the fowls or chickens, leaving the bones on them. Trim them neatly and cut into nice portions, say three of each breast, removing the skin at the same time. Toss the joints in butter in a saute-pan for a few minutes over a brisk fire ; when nicely coloured put the pan in the oven, covered with a piece of buttered paper, and allow to braise for ten or fifteen minutes. Season with aromatics and salt, pour off the fat and add the sauce. Blanch and cook the rice (this must be done beforehand), cook it in stock and add the butter left over from cooking the chickens. Season to taste and let reduce in the oven till almost dry. Mix with the truffles, previously chopped finely. Fill a buttered border mould with the cooked rice ; shake it well, so as to get the rice in firmly, and unmould on a hot dish. Have ready heated the artichoke bottoms and macedoine of vegetables, fill the former with the latter, and place them neatly round the top of the border of rice. Dress the chicken breasts in the centre of the dish, pour over a little of the sauce, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat to be handed round separately. Place the dish in a hot oven for a few minutes to get well heated, and send to table. 972. Turban, de Filets de Volatile (Turban of Chicken Fillets). —Remove the breasts of two fowls, take off the skins and lard with strips of larding bacon. Braise them on a mirepoix of vegetable and bacon, and finish in demi-glace sauce (No. 237). Prepare a border of cooked rice and white mushrooms (champignons), chopped finely and well seasoned. Dress the cooked fillets on this, mask the fillets with a rich supreme sauce (No. 210), pour the demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and garnish with small fleurons of puff-paste. 973. Ball of i ne de Volatile d la Cardinal.—1 fat chicken or pullet, 1 terrine of foie gras pate (No. 9 or 8), 4 slices of streaky bacon, | lb. cooked ham, 4 truffles, 1 glass of white wine, 1 bouquet garni (Mo. 2), a mirepoix (No. 10), J lb. of veal forcemeat (No. 402),