10 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK usually in the form of sausages made from quenelle meat or fine mince. Bouillon, /. A plain clear soup. Un- clarified beef broth. Bouquet garni, /. A small bunch of savoury herbs, parsley, thyme and bay-leaves; a faggot. It is tied up, in order to facilitate its removal after use. Used in stews, stocks, broths, braises, sauces, &c., to impart a rich flavour. Bouquet of Herbs. Green onions, parsley, thyme, tarragon, chervil, &c., tied in a bunch. Braise or Braising, e. A slow cooking- process. Meat cooked in a closely covered stewpan (braising pan or braisiere) to prevent evaporation, so that the meat thus cooked retains not only its own juices, but also those of the articles added for flavouring. Cannelons, /., or Canelons. Small rolls of pastry stuffed with minced meat, &c. Caramel, /. Burnt sugar. A substance made by boiling sugar to a dark brown, used for coating moulds, and as a liquid for colouring. Carmine. Crimson colouring used in confectionery, &c. Caviar,/. Caviare, c. The salted roe of sturgeon or sterlet (fish eggs). Charlotte, /. Name of a hot or cold sweet dish. A corruption of the Old English word Charlyt, which means a dish of custard. Chartreuse. A mixed preparation of vegetables, of meat, or of fruit, served as entree or entremets. Chef de Cuisine, /. Chief of the kitchen, head cook. Compote,/. Usually applied to a deli- cately prepared dish of stewed fruit, or fruits and jelly. The word is also used for certain poultry or game entrees. Condiments. Highly flavoured season- ing, spices, &c. Consomme, /. Clear strong gravy soup, e. The clarified liquor in which meat or poultry has been boiled, or the liquor from the stockpot clarified. Cotelettes, f. Cutlets e. Small slices of meat cut from the neck of veal, mutton, lamb, or pork. Also thin slices of meat from other parts. Court-Bouillon, /. Name given to a rich fish-broth; a highly seasoned fish-stock or fish-stew. Crepes, /. French pancakes,, e. Cretes, /. Giblets of poultry or game. Croissant, /. Half-moon-shaped fancy bread. Croquettes, Friandines, and Rissoles. Names of small light entrees (pre- pared with minced meat, &c.). The words signify something crisply fried. Croustades, /. Shapes of bread fried,, or baked paste crusts, used for serving game, minces, or meats in or upon. Croutons, /. Thin slices of bread cut into shapes and fried, used for garnishing dishes. Cuisine, /. Kitchen, cookery. Faire la cuisine, to cook or to dress victuals. Cuisse, /. Leg, e. Cuisse de volaille, leg of chicken or fowl. Culinaire, /. This is applied to any- thing in connection with the kitchen or the art of cooking. A good cook is called ‘ un artiste culinaire.’ Curry, from the Hindu word khura (palatable, eatable). Kari, /. An Indian condiment; a stew of meat, fish, or fowl; a sharp spiced sauce. Dessert, /. The remains of a meal. Now indicating fruits and sweetmeats served after dinner. The ancient Greeks and Romans already knew this course, as being the custom -of prolonging banquets. Diable, /. Is applied to dishes with sharp and hot seasoning; a la diable, devilled. Dinde, Dindon,/. Turkey, e. Durcelles, /., or Duxelles,/., is the name given to a mixture of chopped mush- rooms, shallots, parsley, &c., used for flavouring sauces, purees, &c. Eclair, /. A French pastry filled with cream. Emince, /. Finely sliced or shred. Endive, /. A species of the genus succory; used as salads and some- times as vegetable. A native of China and Japan, but grown in Europe since the beginning of the sixteenth century. Entree, /. A course of dishes, or corner dish for the first course; the conventional term for hot or cold side dishes. Also defined as dishes- gene- rally served with a sauce. Entremets, /. Dainty dishes of dressed vegetables, hot and cold sweets, and after-dinner savouries served as second course.