THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 234 sauce, add a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, and pass through a fine tammy cloth, stir in an ounce of fresh butter, dish up the fillets (paupiettes), pour over the sauce, and garnish with small blanched and braised gherkins (gourgeons ronds de Nice) cut in two, and sprinkle the fish with grated cheese, and brown in the oven for a few minutes. Serve very hot. 561. Fish Quenelle Forcemeat {Farce a Quenelle de Poisson). —| lb. white fish {whiting, haddock, pike, or cod, free from bone and skin), 2 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, 1 gill cream, 3 eggs, % gill fish stock, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Make a panade by melting one ounce of butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour and cook a little, then add the fish stock, stir the whole well over the fire until the mixture leaves the sides of the pan clean. Spread this on to a plate to get cool. Pound the fish, previously freed from skin and bones, in a mortar ; when quite smooth, add the panade and gradually the yolks of two eggs and one whole egg. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; mix in half the cream and pass the farce through a fine sieve. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, incorporate this and the cream into the forcemeat, and use as directed. 562. Paupiettes de Soles a I’Fmpereur.—2 medium-sized soles, i lb. turbot forcemeat {No. 400), 1 dessert-spoonful chopped chives, chervil, and parsley, 1 small head celery, 1 small onion, 2 oz. butter, 1 gill cream {sour), 8 small potato cassolettes {made by lining 8 dariole moulds with potato paste) {puree Duchesse), carefully baked, seasoning, bechamel sauce {No. 203), grated horseradish, 1 small truffle, anchovy essence. Skin the soles, fillet them, trim the fillets and spread them with turbot farce, or forcemeat, season them, and roll up as paupiettes. Put an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, also the celery and onion, cut into small pieces or slices, fry a little, and place the paupiettes on top of this. Cover with buttered paper and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Heat the cream, add about half a gill of bechamel sauce, season with paprika pepper and a little anchovy essence, whisk in the remainder of butter, and pass through a tammy. Put the cassolettes on a baking-sheet and place a paupiette in each. Sauce over each carefully with the prepared sauce. Bake for a few minutes hi a quick oven. Dish up, sprinkle the top of each paupiette with a little finely-chopped truffle and horseradish, and serve. 563. Grondins d la Talleyrand. —Scale and clean the gurnets, remove the fillets and cut them in convenient pieces, put them in a well-buttered saute-pan with a small onion cut in slices, some parsley, two or three cloves, a bay-leaf, pepper and salt, and a sufficient quantity of white stock and wine (Chablis or Sauterne). Cover with a buttered paper ; cook in the oven for about twenty minutes. When the fish is cooked, drain it well and serve it in an entree dish with the following sauce poured over it:—Put an ounce of butter into