THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 706 The JEtoast.—When a joint of meat is served the roast usually consists of a bird, poultry or game, accompanied by fried potatoes and salad. These are served and handed round in the same way as the joint. A separate plate (salad plate) is generally provided, and placed at the side of the large plate on which the salad is served. The Sweets.—The plates from the roast, knives and forks having been removed, small plates, so-called pudding plates, are put in front of the guests. For hot puddings or other hot sweets the plates must of course be hot. When two sweets are served the second dish is always cold. If the pudding is large it may be convenient to have it carved at the side-board, but it is more usual to have them handed round the same as the entree. The Savoury.—As soon as the guests have finished eating the sweets the plates must be changed for small hot plates upon which the savoury is served. Savouries are as a rule prepared hot, and in very small portions, bonnes-bouches, or mouthfuls. In addition to the plate a small fork should be placed at the side of each guest. The dish is handed round like the entree. Cheese.—The sweet plates are next changed for cheese plates, with a small knife placed on each. The cheese should be accompanied by dry biscuits and pulled bread and small pats of fresh butter. At this stage the table should be cleared of all glasses, spoons, &c.; the crumbs must be carefully removed with a silver scoop or napkin, after which the dessert plates aue put on the table. Dessert is next served. In addition to the dessert plate a dessert knife and fork and a finger" glass with perfumed water are placed before each guest. Clean wine-glasses are also served at this stage with the dessert wine. After this comes the coffee and liqueurs, which form the end of the repast. THE SERVICE OF WINES. The main thing, and one which needs special consideration, in serving wines at a meal is that they are at the right temperature when served out into the glasses. At many houses only one or, at the most, two kinds of wine are now served throughout .the meal, and these are either claret, or Burgundy and champagne, or champagne only. The ancient custom, which is still in vogue among epicures and gourmets of the old school, is that a different kind of wine should accompany each distinct course. Modern diners, however, have practically dispensed with the old custom, the present fashion for a recherche dinner being that a glass of good old pale sherry is served with the soup, after which champagne takes the lead, and continues to be served until the dessert, when port and old claret are placed upon the table.