284 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK for about half an hour; now put the fried vegetables with the stew, and simmer gently till tender. When done, and ready for table, dress the meat in the centre of a dish, surround it with groups of vegetables, reduce the sauce a little, and strain carefully over all. 761. Ragout a VIrlandaise (Irish Stew).—3 lb. neck of mutton, 4 lb. potatoes, 1. large onion, 12 button onions, 1^ pint stock, salt and pepper. Cut the neck into convenient pieces, trim off some of the fat, wash, peel, and slice the potatoes ; peel and slice the onions, peel the button onions and blanch. Put a layer of potatoes at the bottom of a stewpan, put a layer of meat over that, season with pepper and salt, strew over a few slices of onion : proceed thus until the meat is used up. Add the small onions, when blanched, whole, among the layers, cover the top with a layer of potatoes, add the stock, let it simmer foi; about two hours. This stew should not be skimmed, as the fat will be absorbed by the potatoes ; any scum which rises to the top before it commences to simmer should, of course, be re- moved. When done, dish up neatly on a hot dish, and sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve. The stew, properly cooked, should not look watery. A tea- spoonful of mushroom or walnut ketchup may be added where this seasoning is liked. 762. AiguiUettes de Bceuf d la Brazza.—2 thick slices of sirloin of beef, cut lengthwise, larding bacon, a clove of garlic, 2 bay- leaves, £ pint claret, \ pint stock, or brown sauce, 1 tin or bottle of cepes or morels (morilles), pepper and salt, meat glaze (No. 247). To prepare this dish successfully a fire-proof earthenware casse- role is required. Free the meat from fat, lard one side of each with strips of bacon, put the meat in the casserole, add pepper and salt, the wine, garlic and bay-leaves, and let it stand thus covered for six hours. Place it on the fire, adding the stock or sauce, let it come to the boil, skim and sfmmer very gently in the oven, or on the stove for one and a half to two hours, according to the size of the meat. When done, take up, drain, place it on a dish, glaze the top with meat-glaze. Skim the gravy, reduce well, heat up the cepes or morels in a little gravy, garnish the dish with this, and serve the remainder of gravy in a sauce-boat. 763. Filets de Bo&uf d l’Athenienne.—About Fib. fillet of beef, larding bacon, a pint of mirepoix (carrot, turnip, onion, bay- leaf, bacon, Ac.), ^ gill Marsala, 1 oz. butter, 8 small cooked artichoke bottoms, 2 egg-plants (aubergines), macedoine of vegetables, \ gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), \ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 236), | gill brown stock, a little stewed rice for dishing up, salt and pepper. Trim the fillet, cut into even-sized slices about a quarter of an inch thick, flatten and pare a little, lard them with small strips of larding bacon. Put the mirepoix and butter in a saute-pan ; when hot, lay in the fillets, larded side upwards ; season with salt and