THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 704 glasses being added if required. Coloured glasses are no longer considered in good taste. White glass, plain or beautifully cut and engraved, is fashionable. The water carafe is now much in evidence. As regards bread small rolls are usual. They are placed in the napkin, and others handed when asked for. Many people, however, ■only take wholemeal bread or dry toast: these are cut in thin slices and placed on small plates on the left hand of the guests. Even when a room is lit by electricity or gas dwarf candlesticks or lamps are often used on the table, the lights being hidden by silk shapes of red or some other harmonising tint. As regards the menu over-elaboration is generally avoided. On 'Ordinary occasions oysters or hors-d’oeuvre, soup, fish, two meat dishes, vegetables and potatoes, game or poultry ; and perhaps a salad, a pudding, cheese, savoury, and coffee will suffice. The carte du jour in a good house will, of course, comprise a score or more dishes. HOW TO WAIT AT TABLE. Every one knows how much careful waiting at table adds to the success of any meal, so that I need not here dwell upon its importance, but shall at once deal with the practical part and give the needed instructions and rules. The style of waiting, whether for a private or public dinner, or other meal, is practically the same, although the method of execution in the service may differ somewhat. To begin with, the waiter must be well acquainted with the menu and its contents, for this will guide him as to the quantity of table service, &c., needed. An intelligent waiter can well manage to serve six guests properly. He must see that each person is served with bread, butter, beverages as often as these are needed, and they must be kept at hand. Waiters must pay strict attention to the following elementary but essential rules: — See that every plate, knife, fork, spoon, glass, cup, saucer, and dish placed before guests are properly clean. Make it a practice to wipe the bottom of every dish before placing it on the table, and when found necessary the edges of dishes should be wiped with a towel or napkin before presenting same at table. Plates and dishes must be cleared with as little noise as possible. Dirty plates, glasses, &c., should never be allowed to accumulate in a dining-room. Never place a spoon in a guest’s soup-plate, coffee or tea cup, or indeed into any liquid food, because it is the custom that the guest and not the waiter should have that privilege. When serving tea, coffee, milk, or any other kind of drink special care must be taken not to spill the contents, so that the under plate or saucer is clean and dry when placed on the table.