THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 318 cook in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. Baste well at intervals. When nearly done remove the fat, add a little meat glaze to enable the sweetbreads to be nicely glazed by the time they are completed. Take up the sweetbreads, place them on the croutes, dish up and keep warm. Strain the liquor, reduce well, brush over the sweetbreads, and add the demi-glace to the liquor. In the meantime, have ready some little tartlet or small dariole moulds lined with short crust or rough puff-paste, baked a nice colour. Heat up the spinach or sorrel, flavoured with a little of the sauce and well seasoned, fill the baked crusts with this—use a forcing-bag for this to shape the puree so as to give each a dome-shaped appearance—ornament tastefully with strips of hard-boiled white of egg. Range these neatly round the sweetbreads, pour a little of the sauce over the latter, serve the remainder in a sauce-boat, and hand round with the dish. 877. Croquettes de His de Veau en Caisse (Hot or Cold Entree).—6 oz. cooked sweetbread, 6 mushrooms, 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue, 2 oz. butter, 1 small shallot, 1 dessertspoonful flour, 1 egg, a little stock, lemon-juice, chopped parsley, fried parsley, salt, pepper and nutmeg, ^ pig’s caul, 8 to 10 oval paper souffle cases. Chop finely the ham or tongue and the mushrooms. Cut the sweetbread into very small dice, or chop coarsely. Melt half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, when hot put in the shallot finely chopped, fry a little, stir in the flour, and cook whilst stirring for a few minutes. Moisten gradually with about half a gill of rich stock, let it come to the boil, then add the chopped meat, also a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and a few drops of lemon-juice, bind with the yolk of one egg. Season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Let it get thoroughly hot, and spread on a plate to cool. Make up into neatly-shaped even-sized oval shapes a little smaller than the paper cases, wrap each carefully in a thin square of pig’s caul, fasten the ends with a little white of egg, and let them stand for a few minutes to set. Butter the inside of the paper cases. Fry sufficient parsley to form little beds for each case. Melt the remainder of butter in a saute-pan, put in the croquettes, and fry a golden colour over a moderate fire, or in the oven. Wlfen done take up, drain well on paper or cloth, put on a baking-tin, brush the surface of each with liquid meat glaze, pass in the oven for another minute or two, and place them on the beds of fried parsley in the paper cases. Dish up when cold, and serve with a boat of tomato mayonnaise (No. 297). These croquettes are equally nice served hot, in which case a hot sauce, either piquante (No. 241), or tomato (No. 271), sauce should be handed round at the time of serving. 878. Donnes feuilletes de His de Vea u .—1 large or 2 small sweetbreads, k pint rich stock, 1 gill supreme (No. 210) or Allemande (No. 204) sauce, 8 preserved mushrooms, k lb. puff-paste (Chap. XXIV.), 2 truffles, 1 tablespoonful grated Parmesan cheese, bread- crumbs, k oz. butter, pepper, salt and nutmeg.