ENTREES CHAUDES BE VIANDES <HOT MEAT DISHES) 309 mashed potatoes and serve a jardiniere of spring vegetables in the •centre. 844. Tendrons de Venn a la Palestine (Tendrons of Veal Palestine style).—^ breast of veal, £ carrot, i turnip, \ onion, 1 bouquet garni (No. 2), 3 cloves, a few peppercorns, 1 quart stock, 1 glass sherry, \ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 6 small artichoke bottoms, | lb. Jerusalem artichokes, 1 tablespoonful white sauce, ± oz. blitter, pepper and salt. The portion of meat used for tendrons is situated, near the thin edge of the breast, and may, in other words, be called the gristly portion of the breast-bone. Remove the skin and bone from the breast, cut the desired portion into squares or heart shapes, and blanch them in salted water. Drain well and place in a stewpan on a bed of carrot, turnip, onion, bouquet of herbs, &c. Add peppercorns and cloves, moisten with the stock and wine. Cover and cook very slowly for about two hours, or longer. When done, take up carefully and place between "two boards or dishes, and let them cool. Reduce the stock, add the sauce, season to taste, and reduce again to half glaze. Trim the tendrons, and re-heat in the sauce, previously freed from grease. Wash and scrape the Jerusalem artichokes, cut into slices, cook till tender in milk and water, drain, run through a sieve, season with pepper and salt. Add a little butter and the sauce. Heat up and bind with a yolk of egg. Fill the artichoke bottoms previously heated, so as to give them a dome-shaped appearance, sprinkle with white bread-crumbs, put a small bit of butter here and there, place in a hot oven for ten minutes. Dish up the tendrons in a circular row, garnish the centre with the artichokes, pour the sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Note.— Spinach, green peas, or any other suitable vegetable may be served in place of artichokes. The tendrons, when cooked, should be quite soft, and the gristle portions should have become almost transparent. 845. Timbales de Veau d la Ma/rechale.—6 oz. lean veal, 3 to 4 oz. panade, 3 yolks of eggs, a tablespoonful cream, 3 to 4 slices of cooked ox-tongue, 1 truffle, seasoning, i oz. butter, tomato sauce (No. 271). Cut up the veal, which should be freed from skin and sinews, and pound it in a mortar till quite smooth. Add the panade and gradually the egg-yolks, mix thoroughly, and add, last of all, the cream. Rub the whole through a fine sieve, and put the farce into a basin. Butter a number of small dariole or timbale moulds, stamp out some rounds of tongue about the size of the bottoms of the moulds, cut out the centre by means of a column cutter, and place the rounds thus obtained in the bottoms of the moulds. Slice the truffles, stamp out some rounds, and put them in the centre of the tongue, chop up