ELEMENTARY METHODS 115 string by means of a trussing-neeclle so as to make the bird neat in appearance; tie the knots at the side. Stuffing may be inserted at the neck or in the body of the bird before being skewered or tied. In place of string a skewer can be used to fasten the wings the same as the legs. Chickens and Pigeons.—Proceed in the same manner as for a turkey. The sinews need not be pulled out, the feet should only have the tips of the toes cut off. Cut off the neck close to the body, cut the skin off the neck so as to leave sufficient to cover over the back. Fold in or twist the wings (pinions) so that the ends are brought across the back of the ibird, press down the legs and fasten with string, which, as for turkeys, should be run through the joint of the thighs. For Boiling.—Fowls for boiling are treated the same as for roasting, with the exception that the legs are cut off at the first joint. This done, loosen the skin round the legs until it can be pulled over the legs and the latter can be pushed inside the body, after which make a slit in the skin sufficiently large to pass the tail of the fowl through it. This is done to give it a better appearance. Ducks and Geese are trussed in the same way as a turkey, but the first joints of the wings (pinions) are cut off. The feet of ducks should only have the tips of the toes cut off. Stuffing is inserted either in the neck or in the body. In trussing always turn the birds back upon the body, keeping the legs firmly to the sides, pull the skin BOILED FOWL CHICKEN, TRUSSED FOR ROASTING over the tail, slit the skin and pass the tail through it the same way as for boiled fowl. 15. To Pick or Pluck Pi rcls.—Hold the bird you wish to pluck with your left hand on your lap, pull off the feathers, commencing at the top of the breast. When picked all over, singe (hold it over a flame of gas or methylated spirit) to burn off any small feathers, hairs, or down. There is another way of plucking birds, but it requires practice, else it is apt to-spoil the appearance. Plunge the bird into very hot, but not boiling, water for about a minute, then commence to pull off the CAPON, TRUSSED AND BARDED