228 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK thoroughly, and let it cook for a few seconds, then add the chopped lobster-meat, season to taste, mix well with a yolk of egg, let it bind, and use as directed. 541. Filets de* Soles d I’Americaine.—Skin two good-sized soles, take off the fillets and fold them neatly, after trimming the edges. Season with pepper and salt, and range them in a row on a buttered.gratin dish (china or plated dish). Moisten with a little white wftne, and sprinkle over two small finely-chopped shallots. Cover with buttered paper and cook' in the oven for five minutes, then pour the liquor from the dish in a previously prepared rich tomato sauce (made with tomato pulp and veloute, and well reduced). Pour this carefully over the fish so as to completely mask it. Sprinkle over some- freshly made bread-crumbs, and place tiny pieces of lobster butter (No. 391) on each fillet. Finish in a sharp oven, allowing about eight minutes to brown the surface, then send to table at once. 542. Filets de Soles d la Sezet.—Skin and fillet one or more soles, fold the fillets and place them in a buttered saute-pan. Season with pepper and salt, sprinkle with a few finely-chopped tarragon- leaves, moisten with a -small glass of white wine, and cook in the oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Prepare a sauce composed of one gill bechamel (No. 203), half a gill tomato pulp, and an ounce of anchovy butter - the latter must be whisked in. Dish up the cooked fillets, incorporate the liquor (strained) into the sauce, and pour the sauce over the fillets, garnish with very small lobster or crayfish croquettes (No. 596), slices of truffles, anchovy fillets (curled up), and mushroom- heads. Serve hot. 543. Filets de Soles d la Marcelle.— Skim and fillet one or more soles. Prepare a whiting forcemeat (No. 400-), mix it with some finely-chopped blanched oysters and chopped truffles. Season the fillets and co\ er one side of each with the prepared puree. Fold the fillets and trim them neatly. Place them in a buttered saute- pan containing a bed of mirepoix, i.e. sliced bacon, carrot, onion, bay-leaf, parsley, and other herbs. Moisten with a small glass of Chablis or Sauterne wine, and poach in the oven. When done take up the fillets, dress them on a hot dish in the shape of a circle, sauce over with veloute or bechamel sauce (maigre) (Nos. 203), made with fish stock, fill the centre with fried oysters and mussels, and serve hot. 544. Filets de Soles d la Messaline.—Fillets of soles cooked in a buttered pan with a little champagne, dressed and sauced over with a sauce composed of tomatoes and Italian pimentos, garnished with quarters of artichoke bottoms tossed in a little fresh butter. 545. Filets de Soles d la Monireuil.—2, soles, H oz. butter, % gill Chablis or Sauterne wine, the juice of ^ lemon, 1 dessert- spoonful parsley (chopped finely), 1 tablespoonful liquefied meat glaze, 1 gill veloutee sauce (No. 206), salt, pepper, and cayenne, 2 or 3 potatoes (cut into small marble shapes).