ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. {COLD SWEETS, ETC.) 1761. Gateau au Chocolat {Chocolate Cake).—\ lb. fresh butter, \ lb. caster sugar, £ lb. grated chocolate, £ lb. Vienna flour {sifted), 4 eggs, 1 oz. ground rice, i teaspoonful vanilla essence, chocolate icing. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the grated chocolate and work in the eggs one at a time. Now add the flour and ground rice, and lastly the vanilla flavouring. Beat the mixture for at least ten minutes (longer if possible). Fill a well-buttered gateau mould and bake for about three-quarters of an hour in a moderately heated oven. When done turn out on to a sieve and let cool, cover with chocolate icing and decorate to taste with glace royale. The same mixture put into a buttered pudding-mould and steamed for one and a half hour will make a very delicious pudding. 1762. Chocolate Icing.—Put four ounces of chocolate on a plate in the oven, make soft, then put it in a stewpan with half a pound of icing sugar, moisten with half a gill of water, and stir over the fire until quite hot and smooth. This mixture must be very hot, but should not be allowed to boil. 1763. Gateau Trot's Freres.—| lb. caster sugar, 8 large eggs, £ lb. butter, 1 lemon, 6 oz. flour, blanched and peeled almonds, pistachios, angelica, and glace cherries, apricot marmalade. Put the sugar in a clean basin or a copper egg-bowl, add gradually the yolks of eight -eggs and the butter ; work till it resembles a creamy substance. Add the finely grated rind of a lemon and half its juice (strained). Whisk the whites of egg till stiff and stir (fold) in carefully with the flour, which should be previously sifted. Pour the mixture into a trois freres mould ; failing this, use a fancy cake mould, and bake in a moderately heated oven from forty to forty-five minutes. Coat the cake whilst still warm with some dissolved apricot marmalade ; use a brush for this purpose. Decorate with strips of almonds, pistachios, angelica, and cherries. 1764. Gateau milefeu Hies.—1 lb. best puff-paste {feuille- tage), No. 1944, f pint vanilla bavaroise set in a plain mould, 2 to 3 tablespoonfuls strawberry or raspberry jam, 1 oz. chopped pistachios, royal icing, 1 teaspoonful ground cinnamon. Roll out the paste about a quarter of an inch thick, and cut out a number of rounds, the first being about the size of a plate and each of the remaining ones should be gradually smaller in size. Put them on a wetted baking-sheet, mix the royal icing with the 'ground cinnamon and spread the surface of each round of paste with a thin layer of this. Bake in a fairly hot oven a golden brown and let cool. Put a thin layer of jam on top of the icing and a layer of bavarpise ; the latter being previously set on the ice and unmoulded, can be cut into slices to meet this requirement. Arrange them on top of each other, the largest round at the bottom and the smallest on top. Decorate the whole according to taste with glace royale, chopped pistachios, and glace cherries if liked. Place it in a very hot oven