THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 240 and there on the surface, and bake in a hot oven for ten minutes. Place the dish on another dish with a folded napkin and serve. 581. Blanchailles (Whit'eFait).—1 quart whitebait, flour, salt, ana pepper, lard for frying, lent on, brown bread and butter. Keep the whitebait on the ice until the last moment, drain the fish from the water in a colander or sieve, spread out a clean cloth on the table, place the pan containing the lard on the fire and let it get thoroughly hot; sprinkle a good handful of flour on the cloth, put the fish on the cloth, flour well, fold and shake' gently, but sufficiently well to separate each fish ; shake out into a wire basket or wicker sieve, and plunge into the boiling lard, fry a pale golden colour (two minutes is sufficient to cook them), shake gently all the time they are cooking; when done put on to a clean cloth or paper to absorb the fat, sprinkle with salt and pepper (a little cayenne if liked), dish upon a hot dish with folded napkin, and serve with slices of lemon and thinly-cut brown bread and butter. 582. Sprats (Melettes).—Although not considered a fine fish, sprats are highly appreciated and enjoyed by many. It is an inex- pensive and dainty little fish. Sprats can be cooked in several ways, grilled, fried, pickled, or smoke-dried ; in flavour they are not unlike sardines. In fact, many so-called cheap sardines are often nothing else than sprats preserved in oil. The best and most popular way to cook sprats is to grill them. Owing to their oily nature,, they require no other preparation beyond cleaning and flouring. They are often broiled in an omelet or frying pan, but it is best to dredge them with a little flour before cooking them. They require from six to eight minutes to cook, grilling or broiling. Serve them with quarters of lemon and thin slices of brown bread and butter. 583. Melettes f.rites (Fried Sprats, No. 1).—Wipe the fish well with a cloth, dust with flour, and broil in a frying-pan over a clear fire for ten minutes, season with salt, dish up and serve with quarters of lemon and thinly cut buttered slices of brown bread. 584. Fried Sprats (No. 2).—Wipe the fish, as above, dip in frying batter (No. 35}., and coat each fish well, drop into hot fat or lard, fry a golden colour, drain on a cloth, season with salt and cayenne, serve with tomato sauce (No. 271), and quartered lemons. 585. Fried Sprats (JNo. 3).—-Wipe the fish as above, dip in beaten egg and bread- crumbs, fry in hot fat or lard, and serve as above. 586. Be if/nets d’Huitres (Oyster Fritters). —12 plumy oysters, 6 thin slices of streaky bacon, 2 oz. flour, a pinch of salt, 1 egg, \ oz. butter, frying-fat, parsley, ^ lemon. Beard the oysters, and sprinkle over with lemon-juice, flatten the bacon with a cutlet-bat, and cut each slice in two crossways, roll up . each oyster in a half-slice of bacon, and trim the edges. Prepare a batter in the following manner : sift the flour into a basin, add a pinch of salt, stir in the yolk of egg, and ipoisten with sufficient tepid water