393 COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME tongue, and a few preserved mushrooms cut into dice. Melt an ounce of butter in a small stewpan, stir in three-quarters of an ounce of flour, blend this over the fire without browning, then gradually add not quite half a pint of stock and milk. Allow it to boil whilst stirring. Cook for ten minutes, then strain, and add the minced meat &c. Season with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a tiny pinch of cayenne, also add a tablespoonful of cream and a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice, and let the whole stew very gently for another ten or fifteen minutes. Re-heat the patty cases, and fill them with the prepared mixture. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. These pates are delicious either hot or cold. 1150. Galantine de Volatile.—1 large fowl, 1 lb. veal force- meat (No. 402) or 1 lb. sausage meat, 1 hard-boiled egg, a few slices of cooked ox-tongue and liam, 2 large truffles, 2 gherkins, | oz. pistachio nuts (peeled), meat-glaze, aromatic spice, salt and pepper. Bone the fowl carefully, so as to remove the carcass completely with- out tearing the skin of the fowl (see No. 16) ; the skin of the legs and wings should be drawn inside. Slit the back of the boned fowl, and lay it out on a board, skin downwards. Season with aromatic spice, salt, and pepper, and spread the forcemeat or sausage meat evenly upon the fowl. Upon this put the tongue, ham, hard-boiled egg, gherkins, and truffles, all cut into cubes or strips ; the pistachios are also evenly distributed among the above. Having done this, put a thin layer of the forcemeat over all. Then fold in both sides of the fowl so as to give the whole the shape of a roll. Sew up with twine, and roll in a clean cloth, the ends of which are tied with string. Cook in good second stock for about two hours or more, according to the size of the fowl. When done take up, and press till cold between two weighted boards. Remove the cloth and the twine, then glaze the galantine. Dish up and garnish tastefully with aspic jelly and parsley. 1151. JPoulet en Helle-Vue.—2 chickens or fowls (trussed for boiling), 1 quart white stock, white chaud-froid sauce (No. 290), aspic jelly (No. 293), 8 large truffles, a few slices of smoked cooked tongue. Wrap up the fowls in buttered paper, and boil till tender in richly- flavoured white stock. Take up, remove the skin, and let cool. Reduce half the liquor of fowls, skim well, and stir into the chaud- froid sauce; reduce again and pour into a basin, stir the sauce on the ice until it commences to get firm, then pour quickly over the fowls so as to completely coat them. Decorate the breasts with fancifully- cut slices of truffles and tongue ; when thoroughly set, mask over with a coating of half-set aspic jelly. Dish up, garnish round the base with blocks of aspic, also some chopped aspic and tongue. 1152. Cdtelettes do Volatile d lit Gelee (Chicken Cutlets in Aspic).—Prepare a chicken farce as indicated in No. 403. When