VEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 469 this dish will not be a success : Cut the slices very thin and evenly. The fat must be smoking hot before they are plunged into it, and must be kept boiling all the time. Potatoes thus fried and carefully strained will keep good for a long time if kept in a covered tin lined with paper. They are often eaten cold as well as hot, and are highly appreciated in the United States. 1416. Pommes nouvelles sautees au Beurre.—Peel or scrape twelve to eighteen new round or kidney potatoes (small and even size). Melt 2 oz. butter in a saute-pan ; when clarified add the potatoes, cook over a moderate fire or in the oven ; they will take about twenty minutes, and should be of a rich golden colour when done. Season with salt, sprinkle with a little freshly-chopped parsley, dish up, and serve. 1417. Pommes nouvelles a la Hollandaise.—Wash, scrape, and boil about two dozen or more even-sized new potatoes ; drain, dry, and put them into a vegetable dish. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan ; add a tablespoonful of bechamel sauce (No. 202). Work up well; mix with one yolk of egg the juice of half a lemon ; season with a little white pepper, grated nutmeg, and salt; stir a little longer over the fire, but do not let it boil. Pour over the potatoes and serve. 1418. Pommes de Terre etouffees a la Haye.—Wash and scrape some large new Dutch potatoes. Drain and bake them in a hot oven till nearly done. Cut off the top of each, scoop out the interior without breaking the potatoes, and fill the cavities with a mixture of butter, cream, chopped parsley, and potato puree. Replace the tops and finish the potatoes in the oven. Bake to a golden colour and serve. 1419. Pommes Gigolette.—Wash and boil about 2 lbs. Dutch potatoes ; when cooked drain and let cool, then remove the skin and slice the potatoes finely. Toss the potatoes in sufficient fresh butter, cut up about Jr lb. ham into dice, broil this over a quick fire. Have ready a well-buttered charlotte mould, line the bottom and sides with a couple of layers of sauted potatoes, then add a layer of ham, a layer of sliced tomatoes, season each layer with pepper and salt, and proceed thus until the mould is filled. The last layer should, of course, be potatoes. Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Turn out on a hot dish and serve with tomato sauce (No. 271). 1420. Pommes frites d la Julienne.—Wash and peel some potatoes ; cut them into small shreds, similar to julienne roots ; wash well and dry on a cloth; throw them, a few at a time, into plenty of clear boiling fat; shake the potatoes about in the fat until they are crisp and of a deep yellow colour. Drain on a cloth, sprinkle slightly with salt, and serve on a folded napkin. In order to. move the potatoes well in the fat, so that they may be equal in colour, it is best to use a frying-basket, into which the potatoes are placed for frying. 1421. Pommes hachees a a Gratin.—Cut 8 cold boiled po- tatoes into small squares, put them in a saucepan containing \ gill