477 VEGETABLES {LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED column-cutter or a teaspoon. Chop the capers, yolk of egg, and anchovy fillets, mix with a gill of mayonnaise and a gill of aspic, stir over the ice until nearly set, then fill the cavities of the tomatoes, cover with a sprig of parsley, and put on the ice to set thoroughly. •Coat each tomato several times with half-set aspic, or line some little moulds with aspic, and set the tomatoes in the sauce. Have ready the lettuces, washed and divided into small pieces, season with salt and pepper, dress with mayonnaise, and put in the centre of a dish. Arrange the prepared tomatoes round the salad, garnish with sprigs, of parsley and blocks of aspic jelly. Some lobster or another kind of cooked fish may be used for the stuffing in place of the anchovies. 1472. Tomates farcies a Vltalienne.—Select eight or nine even-sized tomatoes,.remove the stalks and green parts, cut out the centre with a scoop, leaving the opening as small as possible, and, without breaking the sides of the fruit, remove the pulp from the tomatoes. Put into a stewpan one small chopped shallot, and fry in half an ounce of butter ; add two ounces of finely-chopped cooked ham, fry a little longer; next add the tomato pulp, a glass of sherry, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, six chopped mushrooms, and a small handful of fresh bread-crumbs; mix well over the fire, season with pepper and salt, and bind with one ladleful of veloutee sauce (No. 206) and two yolks of eggs ; stir again over the fire for a minute or two. Fill the tomatoes with this preparation, put them on a buttered baking-tin or saute-pan, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and grated cheese, drop a little oiled butter on top of each ; bake in the oven for half an hour. Dish up on a hot dish ; reduce a little brown sauce with the gravy from the tomatoes, pour over, and serve. 1473. Tomates farcies a la Suisse (Stuffed Tomatoes, hot, Swiss Style).—8 to 10 small ripe and firm tomatoes, a small terrine foie gras, 4 preserved mushrooms, 2 tablespoonfuls Madeira sauce {No. 237 a), 2 tablespoonfuls chopped ham, 1 tablespoonful grated Swiss cheese, 1 oz. butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, chopped parsley. Wipe the tomatoes, cut a small portion off the top of each, and scoop out carefully the pulp, taking great care so as not to break any.' Kemove the fat from the foie gras, cut it into very small dice, chop finely the mushrooms, put the ham, mushrooms, and foie gras in a basin, moisten with the sauce, add the cheese and a little chopped, parsley, season to taste, and mix well. Fill the tomatoes with this preparation, place a tiny piece of butter on top of each, and bake them in a moderately heated oven for about twenty minutes. Have ready some rounds of toasted and buttered bread, a little larger than the tomatoes. Place the tomatoes on these, dish up, and serve. 1474. Okra aux Tomates.—1 lb- fresh tomatoes, or ^ quart can of preserved ones, 1 tin or bottle of preserved okra, a couple of slices of onion, 1 oz. butter, salt, pepper, a slice of toasted bread, seasoning.