SAL ABES (SALADS) 487 1506. Salade d VJSspagnole (Spanish Salad).—Cut six small, firm tomatoes, three cooked potatoes, and one beetroot into thin slices ; put these in a bowl, add to it the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, chopped rather finely, and about half a pint of preserved French beans, cut into short pieces. Season with pepper, salt, and salad dressing (No. 1554), and serve. 1507. Salade de Tomates {Tomato Salad).- 6 firm, even- sized tomatoes, 1 tablespoonful vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls salad oil, 1 teaspoonful mixed mustard or ‘ Mustardyne,’ 1 teaspoonful chopped chives or parsley, pepper and salt. Wipe the tomatoes, scald them in boiling water for one minute, drain on a cloth, carefully remove the stems and skin, and let cool. Cut them into thin slices, and place in a salad bowl. Now prepare the dressing. Put two saltspoonfulls of salt in a basin, together with a saltspoonful of pepper, the mixed mustard or ‘ Mustardyne,’ pour in the vinegar and oil, and mix thoroughly with a wooden salad- spoon ; just before serving the salad add the chopped chives or parsley to the dressing, and pour it over the tomatoes. 1508. Salade Mirette.—This salad consists of very young lettuce-leaves, the heart of young celery cut into shreds, and hard- boiled white of egg. The whole is seasoned with mayonnaise (No. 277), and when dressed covered with hard-boiled yolks of eggs rubbed through a coarse sieve. 1509. Salade d la JMEonte-Carlo.—4 ripe, firm tomatoes, 2 truffles, \pint cooked asparagus points, 6 small artichoke bottoms {cooked), 2 lettuces, mayonnaise dressing {No. 277), seasoned with krona pepper. Blanch and peel the tomatoes, and cut them into slices, cut the truffles into thin slices and the artichoke bottoms into shreds or oblong slices. Wash and trim the lettuces, mix all the ingredients together in a basin, season with pepper and salt and a little oil and vinegar. Dress the whole in pyramidal form on a deep dish or shallow salad-bowl, garnish round the base with groups of asparagus points. Pour a little mayonnaise sauce, seasoned with krona pepper, over the whole, and send a boat of this dressing to table along with the salad. 1510. Salade de Cardon.—Trim and wash one or two sticks of cardoon, cut off the root and leaves and cut into two or three inch lengths. Boil these in slightly salted water until they can be peeled easily. Put them on a sieve to drain and cool. Cut the cardoons in halves crossways and shred each finely, like julienne roots. Prepare a little mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), flavoured with garlic vinegar, put it in a salad-bowl, and dress the shredded cardoon on top of this. Garnish tastefully with hard-boiled white of egg and shreds of gherkins. Send to table to be mixed when required. 1511. Salade de Concomhres {Cucumber Salad).—Peel thinly one or more cucumbers, cut into very thin slices, and arrange them