DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) 281 ;season with pepper and salt, moisten with a gill of white wine, sprinkle with a finely chopped shallot, place a few bits of butter here *and there, and cook it in the oven for about ten minutes. Have ready a garniture of prepared oysters, mussels, and button mushrooms. Put the sole on a dish, dress, and garnish neatly ; sauce over with Nor- mande sauce (No. 205), in which the garniture has been cooked ; garnish the sides with croutes of bread made from rasped French dinner-rolls (buttered slices browned in the oven). Serve the remain- ing sauce separately in a sauce-boat. Fillets of soles are done in the same way. They are folded and dished up in a row, one overlapping the other, and a mushroom-head placed on each fillet. The mussels and oysters are placed in groups round the sides of the fillets. Scollops are, in some cases, used as garnish, but only when mussels are not obtainable. If smelts are in season this dish should be garnished with a few fried smelts in addition to the other garniture. 554. Soles au Parmesan.—2 medium-sized soles, 1 oz. flour, 1 tablespoonful mushroom-juice, 2 oz. butter, 14 oz. grated Par- mesan, 1 gill of milk, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Skin, trim, and wipe two medium-sized soles, place them in a buttered saute-pan, season with salt and pepper, pour over them the mushroom-juice, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven until •done. This will take from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the heat of the oven.* In the meantime put the milk to boil, melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, and stir over the fire until the flour becomes of a fawn colour; now add the boiling milk, about an ounce of the grated Parmesan cheese, and a little boiling water ; stir over the fire until it boils, let it simmer for about ten minutes, adding a little more water or fish stock, if you have any, if the sauce should appear too thick; season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. The soles being cooked by this time, place them on am oblong, fiat •dish, add the liquor which remains in the saute-pan to the sauce, strain it, and pour over the fish ; sprinkle with the grated Parmesan remaining. Place the dish in the oven or under a hot salamander just long enough for the top to take colour, and serve in the same dish. - 555. JPaupiettes de Filets tie Soles a la Riche!leu.—2 large soles, 1 whiting, 3 oz. bread-crumbs, 3 oz. butter, 4 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. lobster meat, 1 oz. lobster butter, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 1 finely chopped shallot, 1 gill white wine, 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley, lemon-juice, pepper and salt, 8 small croiltes of fried bread, 8 mushroom-heads, 1 truffle, 4 oz. flour, 4 pint white stock. Skin the soles, remove the fillets, and flatten a little; put the bones in a stewpan with half a pint of water and the stock, reduce to half, and strain. Skin and bone the whiting, pound in a mortar till smooth, moisten the bread-crumbs with the cream, add to the pounded fish with the shallot and lobster-meat, pound and mix thoroughly;