483 FARINACEOUS DISHES or fish forcemeat richly seasoned and mixed with Parmesan) on the centre of a round, wet the edges of the paste, and cover with another round of paste, press the edges well together, and proceed thus until enough raviolis are obtained. Drop these into fast boiling and slightly salted water, and boil for about fifteen or twenty minutes. Take them up and drain on a sieve. Dress them on a dish in layers with tomato sauce and grated Parmesan cheese between the layers. Sauce over well with tomato sauce, sprinkle over with cheese, and place a few tiny bits of fresh butter here and there. Set the dish in a brisk oven for ten minutes and serve quickly. 1497. Risotto a Vltalienne.—^ lb. Patna rice, 2 oz. butter, 1 small onion, 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, ^ pint tomato sauce, about 1 pint good stoclc, salt, pepper, nutmeg, ^ teaspoonful saffron. Wash the rice in several courses of water, drain and dry it. Peel and mince finely the onion. Melt the butter in a stewpan; when hot add the onion, fry over a gentle fire until a light fawn colour, then add the rice; shake the pan over the fire for a few minutes, so as to fry the rice a little. Next add the seasoning, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and saffron; moisten with a little stock, and add more as the rice begins to swell. When the stock is used up gradually add the sauce. When the rice is tender mix in the grated cheese. It is then ready to serve. In preparing this dish remember that the rice should be well done, and should be neither too dry nor too moist. 1498. JELiz a VIndienne (Curried Bice).—4 oz. rice, 1 tea- spoonful curry powder, 2 shallots, 1^ oz. butter, 1 gill brown sauce, 1 tomato, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 teaspoonful cream, seasoning, loater- cress for garnish. Pick, wash, and drain the rice; peel and chop the shallots. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the shallots, and fry a golden colour, stir in the curry powder and fry a few minutes longer, stirring all the while, then add the rice and shake the pan over the fire in order to blend the rice thoroughly. Moisten gradually with the brown sauce, cream, and a little stock if found necessary. Peel the tomato, cut it into dice, and add also. Cook gently till the rice is tender. Be care- ful to see that the rice is kept moistened, as it swells in cooking; stir frequently, but gently ; season with salt, pepper, a pinch of ground mace, and nutmeg. Dish up, surround the base with slices of hard- boiled egg and a tuft of watercress between the slices of egg. Serve very hot. 1499. Ttiz a la Hong noise.—Pick half a pound of best rice (do not wash it) ; put it into a stewpan with lid. Add an ounce of butter, half a teaspoonful of paprika, and a teaspoonful of salt; mix well, cover, and place in a hot oven for ten minutes, then add a handful of mushrooms cut into dice, moisten with a quart and a half of good chicken or mutton broth, and let cook slowly on the stove or in the