THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 870 1 glass port ivine, 2 oz. cooked ham, meat glaze. puff-paste, roll each half of quail in a round piece of paste; arrange this so as to leave the foot out, brush over with egg, and bake in a fairly hot oven a nice golden brown. Place a little white paper frill upon the foot of each quail, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. ' 1068. Cailles en I*apillotes.—6 small quails, 2 small onions, 1 carrot, celery, 2 fresh mushrooms, 2 oz. butter, 1^ oz. meat glaze, ^ lb. feuilletage or rough puff-paste, a little sauce Madbre (No. 237 a), seasoning. Pluck and singe the quails, and bone the breasts from the inside. Shred finely the onions and carrots (previously prepared), using only the red part of the carrots ; cut likewise the celery (white part) and mushrooms. Fry all these in a stewpan with the butter till a light fawn colour ; stir this frequently till cooled. When done, season and moisten with meat glaze and spread on a plate to cool. Shape the mixture into small balls, and insert one into each of the quails ; shape them neatly and wrap up nicely into rough puff-paste, just like a dumpling. Place them on a baking-sheet, brush over with egg-yolk, and bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. Dish up on an entree dish on a folded napkin, and send to table with a boat of well- flavoured sauce Madere. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1069. Cailles en Chemise.—Boned quails, stuffed with a liver farce, tied up, and braised rare. Served with sauce bourguignonne (No. 306). 1070. Cailles a la Cendre.—Trussed quails barded, wrapped in oiled paper, cooked in wood embers or charcoal, the same way as potatoes ; when done remove the paper, arrange the birds neatly on a dish. Serve with a rich brown sauce reduced with Marsala wine. 1071. Cailles a la Mirepoix.—These are quails sprinkled over with white or red wine vinegar, carrots, savoury herbs, juniper berries, &c., and allowed to soak for two to three hours. Braise these on a bed of mirepoix. Serve with sauce marinade (No. 257 a). 1072. Croustades de Cailles a la Champenoise. -Braised halves of quails stuffed with game forcemeat (No. 404), chopped mushrooms, and liver. Dressed on fried bread-crusts, glazed, and served with demi- glace sauce (No. 237). 1073. JPerdreaux a ax Champignons (.Partridges with Mushrooms).—2 partridges, 4 oz. lean bacon, peppercorns, 2 cloves, 3 oz. butter, \ lb. fresh or \ lb. preserved mushrooms, chopped parsley, 1 gill stoclc, seasoning, | lb. larding bacon, a mirepoix con- sisting of a small bunch of herbs, thyme, parsley, bay-leaf, sliced onion, carrot, and turnip; brown or demi-glace sauce (No. 237),