510 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK water when needed. Take off the cloth, turn the pudding on a hot dish, dredge well with caster sugar ; pour about a gill of rum or brandy round the dish, and light the same the moment it is sent to table. 1590. Finger Pudding.—6 oz. almonds, 1 gill milk, 6 oz. caster sugar, 8 eggs, 1 teaspoonful ground cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful grated lemon-rind, a pinch of ground cloves, 3 oz. butter, 2 oz. crushed biscuits (Savoy or finger biscuits). Blanch and peel the almonds, dry and pound them in a mortar, adding the milk little by little, cream the sugar with eight egg-yolks in a basin ; when sufficiently beaten add to it the preserved almond mixture, the cinnamon, lemon-rind, and cloves. Whisk the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, melt the butter, and stir both alternately and in small quantities into the above mixture ; lastly add the crushed biscuits. Three-parts fill one or two well-buttered moulds. Steam this in the usual way for about an hour, turn out on a hot dish, and send to table quickly, accompanied with a suitable sweet sauce. 1591. Ponding an Miel (Honey Pudding).—A guar ter-pound of honey, 6 oz. soft bread-crumbs, 1 small lemon, 2 eggs, ^ tea- spoonful ground ginger, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. fiorador, 1 gill milk. Stir the honey and bread-crumbs in a basin; cook the fiorador for ten minutes in the milk, and add it to the above ; when well mixed add the rind of half a lemon, finely grated, the ginger, and the yolks of two eggs. Beat up the mixture for some minutes, butter a plain pudding-mould, and add the remainder of butter to the above mixture. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and incorporate gently. Three- parts fill the mould with the mixture, and steam from H to If hour. Serve hot with a suitable sauce or syrup. 1592. Marmalade Pudding.— 6 oz. orange marmalade, 8 oz. bread-crumbs, 6 oz. finely chopped beef suet, 2 eggs, half a teaspoonful baking-powder, a pinch of salt. Put the marmalade, bread-crumbs, and suet in a basin; mix well, stir in the eggs one at a time. Add the salt, beat up well for a few minutes, and add the baking-powder at the last. If found too stiff a little milk or cream may be added. Put the mixture in a well-buttered pudding-basin, cover it with a buttered paper, and steam for three hours or boil for 2 b hours. When done turn out on a hot dish and serve with a suitable sweet sauce. 1593. Primrose Pudding.—\ lb. butter, i- lb. caster sugar, 5 eggs, f lb. flour (sifted), the rind of a small lemon grated, \ tea- spoonful vanille essence. Cream the butter and sugar in a basin till light and of a cream- like consistency. Add the eggs, one at a time; beat well and stir in a little flour, to avoid curdling. Work the mixture for at least twenty minutes ; then add the lemon-rind and vanilla, also the remainder of the flour, and a pinch of salt.