167 SOUPS {POTAGES) lender, then rub the whole through a fine sieve. Return to the stew- pan, season to taste, bring it to the boil and stir in the tapioca, cook for about ten minutes longer, then add the cream; keep hot until required for table. Should the puree be found too thick, add a little more stock. A plate of fried bread croutons should be handed round with this .soup. 197. Pur lie de Topinambours {Palestine or Artichoke Soup).—- 2 lbs. Jerusalem artichokes, 1 turnip, 1 small onion, \ small head celery, 2 qtiarts stock {white), 2 oz. butter, 1 pint milk, 1 lemon, a handful of fried bread croutons, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Wash, scrub, and peel thinly the artichokes, put them in a basin ■of water, containing a little salt and the juice of a lemon, peel the turnips and onions, cut them into slices, wash the celery and cut up small. Melt the butter in a stewpan, when hot put in the turnip, onion, and celery, fry a little without burning, strain the artichokes and add them. Moisten with the stock and cook gently for about an hour. When tender put through a fine sieve. Return the puree to a clean stewpan, re-heat, add the milk (boiling), season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Serve with the fried bread croutons. 198. Puree de Lent Hies {Lentil Soup).—^ pint red lentils, 1 ■onion, 1 stick of celery, 2 oz. butter or dripping, pepper and salt, 8 pints of stock, 1 carrot, 1 turnip. Melt the butter or dripping in a stewpan ; wash the lentils, strain them, and put them in the saucepan with sliced onion and vegetables cut into pieces ; stir them over the fire for five minutes, taking care that they do not get brown, then add the stock, and a little salt., Let this come to the boil, then skim, and let it simmer gently until the lentils are done. Pass the soup through a wire sieve or colander. Re-heat, season to taste with pepper and more salt if needed. 199. Puree de Pommes de Terre {Potato Soup).—1 lb. of potatoes, 2 oz. dripping or butter, £ pint of milk, 1 onion, 1\pint of stock or water, salt and pepper, 1 tablespoonful of tapioca or semolina. Wash and peel the potatoes, cut them in slices, peel and slice the onion, melt the dripping in a saucepan, add the vegetables, and cook them in the fat for five minutes, taking care that they do not brown, then add the water and enough salt and pepper to taste. When this comes to the boil skim it, and let it boil until the vegetables are tender. Pass the soup through a wire sieve, return it to the saucepan, add the milk, and when it comes to the boil sprinkle in the tapioca or semolina, boil for another ten minutes longer. The soup is then ready for table. 200. Soupe au Lait {Milk Soup).—1 pint of white stock, 1 pint milk, i onion, 1 oz. flour, 1 oz. butter, small fried bread croutons, i gill cream, 1 yolk of egg. Blend 1 oz. butter with 1 oz. flour, and cook for a few minutes