448 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY HOOK flour, toss over the fire for a few minutes. Add the stock and simmer gently for about twenty minutes, skim, and stir occasionally ; when the carrots are done add the yolks of eggs, previously beaten up, also the cream ; stir gently over the fire until the eggs are set, then dish up neatly on a hot dish, besprinkle with finely-chopped parsley* garnish with a few croutons of fried bread, and serve. 1317. Souffles aux Carottes.—^ pint of puree of young carrots, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. of flour, 3 eggs, a pinch of caster sugar, salt, pepper, nutmeg, cayenne. To make the carrot puree boil the red part of young carrots in stock or slightly salted water ; rub through a fine sieve when tender. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, stir, and cook a little without burning the flour ; put in the carrot puree and let it come to the boil. Season to taste ; separate the whites of eggs from the yolks; put the former, in an egg-bowl and work the latter, one at a time, into the hot puree. Whisk the whites of egg to a stiff froth and mix gradually into the puree. Fill some buttered Ramakin cases with this mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Serve hot. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1318. Carottes a la Bechamel.- -Boiled carrots cut into neat shapes and finished in a rich white sauce (No. 202). 1319. Carottes a la Bourgeoise. Parboiled new carrots (pared or turned), drained, seasoned and finished in well reduced white stock with a little fresh butter, thickened with a small quantity of flour and butter. 1320. Carottes a l’Espagnole.—Parboiled new carrots (pared and split in two or four), finished in rich white stock, Espagnole sauce (No. 236), flavoured with a little caster sugar, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and fresh butter. 1321. Carottes a la Lilloise.—Pared new carrots cut into thick round slices, cooked in a little water with fresh butter and sugar to season; when done a liaison of egg-yolks, butter, cream, bechamel sauce (No. 202), and chopped parsley is added. 1322. Carottes a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Parboiled new carrots (pared and cut into quarters), drained, seasoned, cooked in white stock thickened with veloutee sauce (No. 206), fresh butter, a little sugar and chopped parsley, served with fried bread croutons placed round the dish. 1323. Carottes a la Poulette.— Boiled young carrots, neatly trimmed or turned, finished in white sauce (Poulette, No. 207) containing finely chopped parsley. 1324. Celeri a la Deml-f/lace (Stewed Celery in Brown Sauce).—4 heads of celery, 2 oz. butter, salt, and pepper, about H gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), a little stoch, toasted bread.