497 SALAJDES (SALADS) the shells of the lobster, fill up with the prepared salad, and range them on a dish. Wash and trim the lettuce, break the leaves into pieces. If any lobster mixture is left over put it in the centre of the dish, and upon this place the lettuce leaves. Garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. 1545. Salade d la Caroline.—4 oz. Caroline rice, 2 large truffles, 6 mushrooms, about \ pint of picked shrimps, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 glass Chablis, pepper, salt, oil and vinegar, parsley. Wash, blanch, and cook the rice the same as for curry, drain and dry, and let cool. Cut the truffles into fine shreds, and put in a stewpan with the wine and mushrooms; cover and boil for a few seconds ; mix these with the rice, add the shrimps and a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. Prepare the dressing, consisting of three tablespoonfuls of oil, two of vinegar (best French wine), a teaspoonful of salt, half a tea- spOonful of pepper, and a little French or English mustard; pour the dressing over the above, mingle well but carefully, dress in a heap in a deep dish or in a salad bowl. Ornament the surface with slices of hard-boiled white and yolk of egg, chopped parsley, a few small stars of truffle, &c. Serve separately or with a dish of sliced tomatoes. 1546. Salade d la Dieppoise.—6 to 8 artichoke bottoms (pre- served), 1 large truffle, £ head white celery, 6 oysters or mussels, | gill mayonnaise sauce (No. ‘i'll), a few anchovy fillets, 1 bunch watercress. Cut the artichokes into strips, shred the truffle, wash and clean the celery and cut into shreds, blanch and beard the oysters, or stew the mussels, cut them into dice. Mix all carefully in a bowl, and add the mayonnaise, so as to thoroughly mask the whole. A pinch of cayenne pepper, salt, and nutmeg may be added if liked. Dish up neatly in a glass bowl, or china salad dish, garnish with anchovy fillets, well wiped, and some little tufts of watercress. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1547. Salade a la Cazanova (Cazanova Salad).—Prepare some finely shredded celery, truffles, and whites of hard-boiled eggs ; season with mayonnaise sauce (No. 277) and finely chopped salad herbs and shallots. Dish up neatly in a salad bowl and serve. 1548. Salade a la Flamande (Flemish Salad).—This consists of a mixture of fillets of herrings, chopped apples, slices of beetroot, cooked potatoes, Brussels sprouts, and sprigs of cooked cold cauliflower, seasoned with ordinary salad dressing or mayonnaise. 1549. Salade a 1’Italienne {Italian Salad). — Cooked carrots, turnips, potatoes, and beetroots, cut out in half-inch thick round slices, ranged in pyramidal form in a salad bowl, with cooked Brussels sprouts, French beans, and sprigs of cauliflower. Dressed with ravigote sauce (No. 363). K K