600 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK tongue iii the middle of each, wet the edges a little and roll each piece neatly, so that the paste completely envelops the mixture. Beat up the egg, brush over the cannelons, roll them in bread-crumbs ; when dry egg and crumb again; fry in hot fat or clarified butter, drain, and dish up on a napkin or lace-paper ; garnish with parsley. 1926. Attereaux a l’Iniperiale.—3 oz. semolina or coarse- grained fiorador, % pint milk, 1 egg, 2 yolks of eggs, | lb. Gruyere cheese, seasoning, \ oz. butter, bread-crumbs, frying-fat. Put the milk in a stewpan, add a small blade of mace, 1 small bay-leaf, and the butter ; when it boils stir in the semolina or fiorador. Let it cook while stirring for about ten minutes, season with salt, pepper, nutmeg; remove the mace and bay-leaf, add the two yolks of eggs and a tablespoonful of grated cheese. Stir over the fire until the liaison of egg is formed ; then turn out on a plate or dish and let cool. The cheese should be cut into quarter-inch thick slices and into rounds about three-quarters of an inch in diameter. When the mix- ture is cold stamp out some rounds the same size as the cheese ; fasten four rounds of the latter with alternate rounds of cheese (three) on to a skewer, and proceed thus until all the mixture and cheese are used up. Beat up the eggs, dip each wooden or steel skewer shape in the egg, cover with bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat a golden brown. As soon as the frying is completed remove the shapes from the skewers, and fasten them on to silver-plated skewers, fix these on a round of toasted bread placed ready on a dish, and serve at once. 1927. Golden Such.—£ lb. Cheddar cheese, 1 oz. butter, a wineglassful of ale, celery salt, Nepaul pepper, 2 eggs, 1 table- spoonful cream, £ teaspoonful lemon-juice, i teaspoonful Worcester sauce. A slice of buttered toasted bread. Mince the cheese, and put it in a small stewpan with the butter, ale, a saltspoonful of celery salt, and half a saltspoonful of Nepaul pepper. Beat up the eggs with the cream and stir into the stewpan. Mix thoroughly and whisk the mixture over the fire till creamy and partly set, flavour with lemon-juice and Worcester sauce. Pour this upon hot buttered toast, cut into four. Garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley and send to table. 1928. Biscuits ail Parmesan (Cheese Biscuits).—3 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, a pinch of cayenne and salt; whipped cream for garnish. Sift the flour and cayenne on to a board, rub in the butter, and mix with the grated cheese. Make a well in the centre, put in the yolks, lemon-juice, and a teaspoonful of water, and work to a smooth stiff paste. Boll out the pastry very thinly, stamp out some small rounds, place on a floured baking-sheet, prick them with a fork, and bake in a cool oven for a few minutes. Before serving place a small quantity of whipped cream mixed with Parmesan and a pinch of cayenne, in the shape of a pyramid, in the centre of each biscuit.