407 COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME this place long strips of cooked ham and tongue, blanched and peeled pistachio nuts, and rather thickly-cut slices of truffles. Add another lalyer of forcemeat and roll up each carefully, tie up in napkins or pudding cloths, and cook in stock for about one and a quarter hour. When done press the galantines between two boards, and allow to get cold. Remove the cloth, coat or mask the galantines with meat-glaze (No. 247) or brown chaud-froid sauce (No. 291). Decorate to taste and fancy, dish up, garnish with cold aspic jelly round the base of the dish, and serve. 1184. Chaud-froiddeJPerdreaux {Chaud-froidof Partridge). 2 roast partridges, f pint brown chaudfroid sauce {No. 291), 1 crisp lettuce, 8 firm ripe tomatoes, ^ cucumber, 1 hard-boiled egg, 8 stuffed olives, % pint aspic jelly {No. 293), mayonnaise sauce {No. 277). Cut the partridge into neat pieces, free them from skin, and mask each piece completely with a pale-brown chaud-froid sauce. When set, run over sufficient half-set aspic to mask them. Prepare a bed of mixed salad in the centre of a dish, arrange the pieces of partridge neatly in a pile on the salad, placing the breast pieces on top. Garnish with slices of tomato, cucumber, quarters of hard-boiled egg, stuffed olives, and chopped aspic jelly. A bed of cooked rice, or a border of cooked rice, may be used as a foundation ; it will improve the appearance of the dish and facilitate the dressing. The rice should be coated with chaud-froid sauce,' and masked with aspic. 1185. Timbale de JPintade a la Marechale.—l small guinea-fowl, \ pint Espagnole sauce {No. 236), ^ onion, ^ carrot, 2 oz. bacon, 1 oz. butter, 1 bunch herbs, £ oz. gelatine, f pint aspic jelly {No. 293), ^ gill tomato pulp, 1£ gill cream, 6 stuffed olives {olives farcies), 1 truffle, tarragon vinegar, salt, pepper, cayenne. Truss the bird the same as for roasting, cut the vegetables and bacon into slices and place in a saute-pan with the bouquet of herbs ; lay the bird on top, spread the butter over it, and cook in the oven until tender ; baste occasionally. When cold remove the meat, free it from skin and bone, cut it into small pieces, and pound in a mortar till smooth. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water, add it to the Espagnole sauce, strain, and mix with the puree in the mortar. Season to taste, and stir in a tablespoonful of cream. Rub this through a fine sieve. Meanwhile mix one gill of aspic (liquid) with half a gill of cream, and pour on a plate to cool. Mix the tomato pulp with an equal quantity of aspic, and a few drops of tarragon vinegar, and set likewise on a plate. Line a fancy mould thinly with aspic jelly, set the stuffed olives at the bottom by means of a little aspic. Stamp out some rounds, stars, or any other pretty shapes of aspic cream and tomato cream (previously set), and garnish the sides of the mould with these, placing here and there a thin round of truffle. Melt the trimmings of aspic and tomato creams and mix with the prepared puree ; when nearly cold add the remainder of the cream, previously whipped, mix well, and pour into the mould. Put it on the ice to