THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 204 combs, mushrooms, hard-boiled whites of egg, and some kinds of vegetables both cooked and raw. In some cases these are fastened in an artistic manner on to skewers, or else set in various tints of aspic jelly, for which purpose special hatelet moulds are employed. Hatelets are used as a rule for cold capons, fowls, pressed beef, tongues, hams, galantines, and other meat or fish dishes. The various garnitures enumerated refer more especially to removes, releves (fish or meat), but any of them can, unless otherwise stated, be easily adopted for entrees. The following is a representa- tive description of the best known typical garnishings of dishes :— 408. A VAllemande {Godiveau or German Quenelles).— Mashed potatoes, grated horseradish, and a sharp white sauce. ^4 VA llemande is also a surname given' to dishes prepared after a typical German fashion and garnished accordingly. Served with boiled or braised meats. 408a. A VAncienne.—Boiled beans (kidney), hard-boiled eggs, and braised cabbage-lettuces. Served with a rich cream sauce flavoured with spring onions. 409. A VAnglaise does not signify any particular garnish. It implies that a dish bearing such a surname is either plain, roast or boiled, or is prepared according to a typical English method. 410. A I’Alsacienne.—Braised sourcrout, mashed peas, slices of braised ham and sausages. Served with removes only. 411. A VAlliance.—Braised spring carrots, artichoke bottoms, and fried button onions, with demi-glace sauce (No. 239). 412. A I’Andalouse.— Groups of braised spring cabbages, lettuces, and fried sausages, cut into small pieces. Sauce, Demi-glace, for removes, &c. 413. A lf Athenierw e.—Larded and braised meat, garnished with short pieces of fried and stuffed aubergines (egg-plants). Sauce, Madere (No. 237 a). 414. A la Beaufort {for Fish). Groups of colloped lobster, bearded oysters, mushroom heads, lobster coral, and suitable sauce to go with the fish, 415. A la Bohemienne.—Small marble-shaped fried potatoes, stoned olives, mushroom heads, and button onions, dressed in groups round braised or roast meats. Sauce, Poivrade (No. 263). 416. Ala Belle-Vue {for Cold Dishes).—Masked with white chaud-froid sauce, decorated with slices of truffles and red ox-tongue, tarragon-leaves and chopped aspic jelly. 417. A la Bigarade.—Finely shredded orange-peel, cooked in salmi sauce (essence of duck), flavoured with a glass of good port wine. Generally served with ducks. 418. A la Bretonne.— StewejJj haricot beans (whole or puree), brown onion sauce, flavoured with mustard, horseradish, and chopped parsley. Usually served with mutton.