247 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) sized cutlet shapes, insert a small piece of macaroni at each end of the cutlets, dip in beaten egg, crumb well, either with panurette or ordinary bread-crumbs. Fry in deep fat a golden colour, drain well, dish up on a folded napkin or dish paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. 604. Court-Bouillon.—Strictly speaking this term applies to fish, &c., cooked ‘ au bleu ’ (cooked in water, vinegar, wine, herbs, &c). There is, however, a dish, a kind of mixed stew, which is known under this name for which no corresponding term in English has ever been adapted. The recipe is as follows : 1 lb. of fisli {skinned and boned—cod, salmon, turbot, or any other suitable fish), 2 small onions, 1 oz. butter, 1 small table- spoonful flour, 1 gill claret, ^ gill vinegar, f pint stock, 2 or 3 ripe tomatoes, salt, and pepper. Peel and slice the onions, fry them in a stewpan with the butter, a light colour, add the flour, fry a little, moisten with the stock, vinegar and wine, stir, boil up and skim; put in the fish and tomatoes, arrange them in alternate layers, both being cut into slices, simmer for about half an hour, season to taste, dish up, and serve. 605. JPdte de Boissond VAmericaine {American Fish Pie). \ lb. cooked turbot, cod or haddock, f lb. mashed potatoes, 2 oz. butter, £ pint white sauce, 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 yolks and 1 whole egg, pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Break up the fish into flakes, removing the skin and bones, put it in a stewpan with \ oz. butter, stir a little over the fire, and add half the sauce and half the cheese, season to taste and heat up. Heat the potato puree with an ounce of butter, stir well, season to taste, and bind with two egg-yolks. Line a well-buttered pie-dish with a layer of the prepared potatoes, about half an inch thick, put in a layer of sauce and the prepared fish, cover with another layer of sauce, and lastly cover all with more potato puree. Smooth the surface, brush over with beaten egg, sprinkle with grated cheese and a pinch of cayenne if liked. Mark the fop prettily with the point of a knife, place the dish in a pan containing a little water, and bake thus in a quick oven for twenty minutes until the pie is thoroughly hot, and the top of a nice rich brown colour. 606. Bate de Boisson d la Marinieve.—1 sole, 1 eel, 1 glass claret, 1 onion {sliced), 12 button onions, % cloves, 1 clove of garlic, ^ oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful anchovy essence, 6 mushrooms, 6 prawns or 12 shrimps {picked), pepper and salt, i lemon for crust, 12 oz. flour, 6 oz. lard, 2 yolks of egg. Prepare a pate-crust as follows: Bub the flour and lard together until quite smooth, add one yolk of egg and a little cold water and knead into a stiff paste, keep on the ice for an hour, then knead again, roll out about half an inch thick and line the inside of a well-buttered raised pie-mould (placed on a greased baking tin), press the paste firmly against the sides, and line with buttered paper. Trim the