422 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 1221. Dinde farcie aux Marrons\(Bomst Turkey Stuffed with Chestnuts).-—1 medium-sized tender turkey, ^ lb. fresh pork, £ lb. lean veal, 6 mushrooms, 36 chestnuts, 3 to 6 truffles (if liked), 1 small onion, herbs, parsley, and spice, salt and pepper, \ gill good stock, £ lb. dripping. Draw and singe the turkey, cut off the legs and neck, wipe the inside with a damp cloth, and break the breast-bones gently. Bemove the skin, bones, and sinews from the pork and veal, cut it up very small, and pass twice through a mincing machine, or pound in a mortar. Peel and skin the chestnuts, and cook till tender in stock or water, drain, and break up small. Mix the chestnuts and meat together in a basin, add the mushrooms, finely chopped, the onion, previously blanched and chopped finely, a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley, a dessertspoonful in all of chopped olives and savoury herbs. Season to taste with pepper, nutmeg, and salt; moisten with a little stock and mix thoroughly, then add the truffles, (if liked), cut into slices. Fill the breast and body from both ends, very tightly, so as not to leave any space unoccupied ; truss neatly the same way as for roasting, tie and sew up with twine, so as to keep it firmly together. Baste with dripping, and roast it in front of a fire, or bake in the oven in a suitable roasting-tin. Cook for about one and a half to two hours, according to the size of the bird. Baste well during the process of cooking. When done take it up, untie, and dish up. Serve with gravy in a separate bowl. Note.—To make this dish more elaborate a garnish consisting of groups of chestnut puree, stoned olives, small braised onions, and mushroom-heads can be served round the dish; it will make the dish much more effective. 1222. Canard braise aux JShavets.—1 large duck, 6 rashers of bacon, 1 onion, sliced, 1 carrot, sliced, 3 slices of lemon, a small bunch of herbs (bouquet garni), 1 glass of white wine, 4 medium-sized young turnips, % pint demi-glace sauce (No. 237), 2 oz. butter, 1 gill rich gravy, salt and pepper. Truss the duck ready for braising. Line a braising-pan (brai- siere) with the rashers of bacon, sliced onion, carrot, and lemon ; place the duck upon this, season with salt and pepper, add the bouquet of herbs, moisten with the wine, and cover with a sunken lid. Put the pan on a charcoal or coal fire, place some burning embers on top of the lid, and cook thus for forty minutes ; baste occasionally. When half done add the sauce and continue to cook till the duck is quite tender. Peel the turnips, cut them into quarters, and pare neatly; blanch in salted water, drain well, and fry in butter. Pour off the butter, add the gravy, season to taste, and simmer till done, taking care that the pieces are not broken or mashed. Take up the duck, untruss and place it on a hot dish. Strain the sauce, reduce it a little, and remove all the fat that is on the surface ; pour this round the dish. Arrange the turnips round the base of the dish and serve.