176 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK little at a time, also the cream, stir vigorously with a small whisk. Pass through a fine strainer or tammy cloth, return to a clean stew- pan, add the chopped lobster and a pinch of salt, stir again, place a few bits of butter on top, and keep hot until required for serving. 232. Sauce Soubise.—2 onions, 1 gill white stock, \ pint bechamel sauce (No. 202), white pepper, salt, a pinch of sugar. Peel the onions, parboil in salted water, strain off the water, drain and chop very finely. Return to the stewpan, and stir over the fire until all moisture is absorbed, then add the stock and cook till tender. Now add the sauce and reduce to the desired consistency, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of caster sugar. 233. Sauce JMattre d’Hotel.—± pint bechamel, or veloutee (No. 206), sauce, 3 oz. butter, ^ lemon, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley seasoning. Put the sauce into a stewpan, add a little water, stir until it boils, and reduce well. Whisk in the butter a little at the time, and rub through a tammy cloth or fine hair sieve. Return to the stewpan, add the parsley and lemon-juice, season with pepper and salt. 234. Sauce Haifort, chaude (Horseradish Sauce, hot).—2 tablespoonfuls grated horseradish, % pint bechamel (No. 202) sauce, teaspoonful caster sugar, pinch of cayenne and salt, i teaspoonful of vinegar. Moisten the horseradish with the vinegar, mix with the sauce, and boil up whilst stirring. Add the sugar and cayenne, allow it to simmer a few minutes, taking great care that the sauce does not curdle; if found too thick, add a tablespoonful of cream or milk. Serve with hot roast beef, &c. 235. Sauce au Pain (Bread Sauce).—4 oz.fresh bread-crumbs, 1 small onion, 1 clove, A peppercorns, 1 pint of milk, ^ oz. fresh butter, salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. Peel the onion, stick in it the clove, put the onion and milk in a saucepan, boil up, stir in the bread-crumbs, add the peppercorns, and cook for fifteen minutes. Remove the onions and peppercorns, stir in the cream and butter, season with a pinch of salt, and keep hot until required for serving. If preferred, the onion may be cooked longer, passed through a sieve, and added to the sauce ; the cream can be omitted ; if found too thick, a little hot water can be added. Bread sauce is usually served with roast fowl, turkey, and game birds. 236. Sauce (Espagnole.—Espagnole, or Spanish sauce, is one of the grandes sauces—it forms the principal ingredient in a large number of small sauces (petites sauces), and it is advisable that particular care and attention be paid to the preparation of this im- portant sauce. The ingredients given will produce about half a gallon of Espagnole sauce. A smaller quantity can be prepared by reducing the quantities in proportion. It is, however, prudent to have at all times a supply of this sauce handy:—3 quarts of rich .stock, 4 oz, lean veal, 1 bouquet garni, 12 peppercorns, 4 oz. butter,