429 PRACTICAL HINTS ON CARVING PRACTICAL HINTS ON CARVING. Let’s carve him as a dish fit for the gods, Not hew him as a carcass fit for hounds.—Shakespeare. It is of great importance that all ship managers, stewards, and housekeepers should attain proficiency in the art of carving. The principles are simple enough and therefore come within the mastery of the ordinary housekeeper as well as the busy head of kitchen or dining-room. The two fundamental principles to be learnt and invariably observed before success in carving may be expected are— 1. To have a knowledge of the natural construction of the various pieces to be cut up. 2. To know how to properly handle the carving tools, and keep them in the right position while carving. The last includes both the position of the carver as well as that of the particular piece (joint or bird) to be carved. Meat &c. to be carved must be laid on a dish containing but very little or no gravy or sauce, nor garnishing, to enable the carver to turn it to the most convenient position required for the purpose. A proper set of carving tools is almost indispensable, and should comprise a. A solid two or three pronged fork. b. A good thin, sharp-bladed knife. c. A pair of carving scissors. A bird or a joint of meat badly carved will prove wasteful, because fewer-persons will be served than would be when well and properly carved. Anything which needs to be carved at table should be placed on a dish sufficiently large to allow the joint to be turned, if needed, without moving the dish from its position. The dish should be placed close in front of the carver. The knife used for carving must be light and sharp, and of a convenient size. Such joints as ham, veal, and beef should be cut very thin ; while pork, lamb, and mutton should be cut a trifle thicker. The carver ought also to be acquainted with the choice cuts of each kind of joint. 1242. To Carve Fish.—A silver slicer or trowel should be used for this purpose ; a steel knife applied to fish often spoils the delicacy of its flavour. Great care must be taken in serving out fish to prevent breaking the flakes, which ought to be kept as entire as possible. Short-grained fish, such as salmon &c. should be cut lengthwise, not crosswise. 1243. To Carve Sirloin of Beef.—A sirloin should be cut into thin slices, with a sharp, firm cut from end to end of the joint. At the upper portion the cut should be clean and even ; then use the point of the knife to loosen the slices from the bones. In carving the undercut remove the superfluous fat, and cut the slices from end to end in the same manner as the upper portion. Be careful always to cut down