580 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 1849. Iiosanges a la Baltimore.—% lb. flour {sifted), 5 oz. butter, 2 oz. grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese, 1 egg, 1 hard-boiled yolk of egg, a teaspoonful cream, a little milk, 1 oz. anchovy paste,. 1 tin preserved Ihx. Put the butter into the flour, mix in the grated cheese, moisten with the yolk of one egg, and work into a smooth paste by adding a little milk. Roll out the paste, about one-sixteenth of an inch thick, and make it into two strips of about three inches wide. Mix the anchovy paste with a hard-boiled egg-yolk and a teaspoonful of cream, spread this evenly over one piece of the paste, arrange a layer of preserved lax on this, and put the other piece of paste upon it. Trim the edges. Beat the white of egg to a stiff froth, mix it with cayenne or paprika pepper and a few drops of anchovy or shrimp essence; spread this thinly and evenly over the paste, and cut into even-sized fingers. Bake in a fairly hot oven for about fifteen minutes; arrange the fingers neatly on a hot dish, covered with a lace-paper or folded napkin, garnish with sprigs of watercress, and serve. 1850. Petites Croustades d la JKedicis (Little Croustades, Medicis Style).—\ loaf stale bread, 1 raw egg, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 1 tin of lax, 2 French gherkins, 1 oz. butter, small cress, 4 filleted anchovies, 1 teaspoonful French mustard, Nepaul or paprika pepper. Pare the crust off the bread and cut it into slices rather more than half an inch thick. Stamp out eight to ten ovals, about 2£ inches by 1 inch. Put the bread-trimmings through a wire sieve, and use for crumbing. Scoop out as much as possible of the centre of the ovals, immerse these in a little milk for about ten minutes, then drain, dip in beaten egg, and crumb all over, fry them a golden ‘colours in hot fat and drain. Pound the anchovy fillets, the yolks of eggs (hard- boiled), and a small handful of cleaned small cress when fine; add the butter and mustard, season with a pinch of pepper, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Fill the cavities of the croustades with this puree, place one or two slices of preserved lax on top of each, garnish with hard-boiled white of egg and gherkins in a tasty style, heat up quickly, and serve. 1851. Foie Gras a la Dumas.—1 small tin or tureen foie gras pate, stale bread for croutes, 2 oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful Madras chutney, 1 teaspoonful Senn's horse-radish mustard, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, 1 tablespoonful sherry, 1 teaspoonful mild mulligatawny paste; watercress for garnish. Remove the fat from the foie gras, cut the foie gras into oblong slices, stamp out or cut \ inch thick slices of bread and shape into oblong pieces a little larger than the foie gras. Fry these a golden colour in the butter, drain, and let cool. Put the trimmings of the foie gras in a mortar with the chutney, mustard, and the rest of the ingredients named above ; pound till smooth and rub through a sieve. Cover one side of the fried bread croutes with a layer of the prepared