THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 478 If fresh tomatoes are used remove the stems and cut the fruit into slices. Put the onion (minced finely) in a stewpan containing the butter, fry over the fire for a few moments, then add the tomatoes, and let simmer for about three-quarters of an hour. Season slightly with pepper and salt, then add the contents of a tin or bottle of okra (the latter can be procured from almost any high-class grocery store). Stew gently for at least half an hour longer, and season with pepper and salt. Dish up tastefully, garnish with neat slices of toasted bread, and serve hot. 1475. To mates sautees (Tomatoes tossed in Butter).—Cut some ripe but firm tomatoes into slices, peel and chop some shallots, fry them in butter in a saute-pan, add the tomatoes, season and fry them in the oven for about ten minutes. Dish up, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. 1476. Souffles a la To mate.—1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1 oz. ham, 1 pint white stock, 1 gill milk and cream, 1 small onion stuck with 1 clove, 6 peppercorns, 3 whites of eggs, 1 gill concentrated tomato puree, a pinch paprika pepper and salt, sotijfle cases. Melt the butter in a stewpan, mix the flour with it, and let it cook without taking colour ; boil up the stock with the onion and pepper- corns, and let it reduce to half its original quantity, which would be a gill. Boil up milk and cream together, add to the roux, and strain in the stock carefully ; cut the ham into small pieces, and add also ; stir the sauce well until it boils, and let simmer until it is well reduced; rub through a fine sieve (take out the ham), add the tomato puree, beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the mixture with the seasoning. When the former is .sufficiently cool fill up three parts full some souffle cases, and bake in a moderately heated oven from ten to fifteen minutes. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1477. Tomates a la Bock (.American Dish).—Sliced tomatoes broiled in butter, seasoned with pepper, salt, nutmeg, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley. 1478. Tomates a la Caroline.—Baked tomatoes stuffed with rice, previously stewed in beef stock, well seasoned, and mixed with a little grated Parmesan cheese. 1479. Tomates a l’Espagnole.—Tomatoes stuffed with forcemeat, bread-crumbs, finely chopped ham, moistened with egg-yolk, brown sauce, and seasoned. Braise in the oven and serve with demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 1480. Tomates a la Florentine. -Halves of tomatoes stuffed with a mixture of finely chopped chicken livers, grated Parmesan cheese, egg- yolks, finely chopped shallots, fried in oil, and white bread-crumbs, moistened with sherry wine and well seasoned. Range on a baking-