242 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK or bechamel (No. 203) sauce in each shell, place the oyster upon this, cover with more sauce, season with a tiny pinch of cayenne or Nepaul pepper. Sprinkle over with bread-crumbs, grated Parmesan cheese and a little oiled butter. Hold the tin under a hot salamander for a few minutes to take colour, or failing this put the tin in a very sharp oven for a few seconds, dish up and send to the table immediately. 590. Fricassee (VHaltres.—2 doz. large oysters, 2£ oz. butter, J oz. flour, 1 gill of white stock, £ gill cream, 3 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, salt, nutmeg, white pepper, 10 small heart-shaped slices of fried bread. Open the oysters, preserve the liquor, remove the beards; put the oysters into a stewpan, one ounce of butter, and a little oyster liquor. Season with a pinch of salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a pinch of pepper. Stir over the fire for two minutes and strain. Melt the remainder of the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, and cook a little without browning; dilute with the gravy from the oysters, the remainder of the oyster liquor and the stock, stir until it boils, and simmer for about ten minutes. Then add the cream, yolks of eggs, and lemon- juice ; stir over the fire a few seconds longer, so as to bind the yolks. Pour the sauce through a fine strainer or tammy cloth, pour it in a saute-pan with the oysters, heat thoroughly, but on no account allow it to boil. Dish up on a hot dish, garnish with croutes of fried bread and a few sprigs of parsley. 591. Quenelles aux Huitres (Oyster Quenelles).—18 large oysters, \ gill bechamel sauce (No. 203), k lb. raw chicken or veal, 2^ oz. butter, 4 oz. panade, yolks of 3 eggs, f gill cream, J lemon, meat glaze, salt, pepper, cayenne, aromatic seasoning, mashed potatoes for border. Free the meat from skin and sinews, pound in a mortar till smooth, add two yolks of eggs, two ounces of butter, and the panade, season with salt, pepper, and half a teaspoonful of aromatic seasoning ; work in about two tablespoonfuls of cream to produce a nice quenelle mixture, and rub through a fine sieve ; blanch and beard the oysters (preserve the liquor), butter eight small quenelle moulds, line well with the quenelle mixture, place an oyster in the centre of each, and fill up with the same ; put them in a saute-pan with a little boiling water, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. >Shape a dozen small quenelles (like round balls), poach them in a little stock, put them with the remainder of the oysters (previously cut in dice) in a small stewpan, add half an ounce of butter and toss over the fire for a few minutes ; moisten with the bechamel sauce and the. oyster liquor previously reduced, mix a little cream with a yolk of egg and add to the ragout, season with a few drops of lemon-juice, a pinch of salt, and a dust of cayenne pepper; have ready a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, unmould the quenelles, arrange them neatly on the border, put the little quenelles and oysters above mentioned in the centre, coat over