THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 480 the pan and let simmer quickly for ten minutes. Set to cool. Pound the foie gras in a mortar ; add to it the butter (not melted), the liquor from the truffles, and a little cream if needed ; season tc taste with salt, pepper, and aromatic seasoning, mix well, and rub through a fine hair sieve. Place this on the ice on a plate. Peel thinly the truffles. Chop the peelings as finely as possible (the latter are required for crumbing, and if found insufficient use some tinned truffle peelings to make up the required quantity). Divide the foie gras puree into twelve portions, shape them round, and place a truffle in the centre of each ball. When set cover the surface completely with chopped truffle peelings, place them on a tin or wire tray, and mask each with semi-set aspic jelly. Trim the artichokes, flute the edges with a sharp knife, and place them on a silver or china dish ; put a tea- spoonful of Tartare sauce in each, place the prepared foie gras and truffle balls in the centre, garnish with fresh parsley, keep on the ice for half an hour, and serve. 1487. Truffes an Champagne.—1 lb. fresh truffles of medium size, 3 to 4 thin slices bacon, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. raw ham, 1 oz. carrot, 1 oz. onion (stuck with 1 clove), 1 bay-leaf, 1 sprig of thyme, £ pint champagne, a little stock, seasoning. Wash and brush thoroughly the truffles, wrap up each in a thin piece of bacon. Cut into dice the ham, carrot, and onion ; fry these together with the herbs in an ounce of butter, then add the truffles, cover the stewpan for a few seconds, moisten with the wine, skim, and simmer for about fifteen minutes. Take up the truffles, remove the bacon, skim the stock, strain it, and work in by degrees the remainder of the butter, which has been previously kneaded with a teaspoonful of flour ; boil up, add a little stock if needed, season to taste. Dish up the truffles, and pour the sauce round the base of the dish. 1488. Tru ffes a Vltalienne.—Slices of truffles, tossed in fresh butter, with finely minced shallots and parsley, moistened with brown sauce and lemon-juice. Season with salt, cayenne, and a little ground mace. Heat well and serve. 1489. Buisson de Truffes a la Boy ale.—Large round truffles, cleaned and dried, stewed in Madeira wine, then set to cool; drain, and serve on an oval-shaped bread-crust, dished on a folded napkin, decorate with silver skewers stuck with slices of truffles and sprigs of parsley. 1490. Bordure de Pommes de Terre.—Wash and peel some potatoes, cut them into thin slices and then into strips about the size of wood matches. When well washed drain them on a cloth, POTATO BORDURE WITH WIRE MOULD BY MEANS OF WHICH THE BORDER CAN BE MADE.