THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 348 little butter, put the fillets on top of this. Season with pepper and salt, moisten with stock, cover with a buttered paper and cook in a slow oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Cut the truffle, mush- rooms, and tongue into cubes or Julienne strips, and heat up in a little stock, butter and sherry wine. As soon as the fillets are done take them up, trim each a little, and dress in a circle on a thin border of mashed potatoes on a round dish ; fill the centre with the prepared garnish of truffle, tongue, and mushrooms. Have ready some Bearnaise sauce, incorporate into this the given quantity of meat glaze, pour some of the sauce over the garnish and the remainder round the base of the dish, and send to table. The sauce must be rather stiff in appearance; the meat glaze has to be worked in gradually., and great care must be taken that the Bearnaise sauce does not boil. 981. May out de Volatile a la Toulousienne.—1 fowl, 2 or 3 lambs’ sioeetbreads, 1 pint veloutee (No. 206) or Allemande sauce (No. 204), 10 preserved mushrooms, 2 truffles, 1 small cucumber, and asparagios points, ^ oz. butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, mashed potatoes for border. Truss the fowl for boiling, and boil in white stock or salted water, well flavoured with vegetables, for about three-quarters of an hour; take up, let cool, and cut up into neat joints (use the carcass along with the sauce to improve its flavour). Wash, blanch, cool, and trim the sweetbreads, cut them into convenient slices, and put in a deep saute-pan or stewpan along with the pieces of chicken. Strain the sauce, previously heated and flavoured with the carcass, over this, toss the whole together until it is hot. Add the mushrooms and truffles, cut into slices; season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, shake well and keep covered, and simmer for about twenty minutes. Prepare a neat border of mashed potatoes well seasoned and finished with a liaison of egg-yolks. Dress on a well-buttered dish; decorate to fancy, brush over with egg, and bake in the oven a golden colour. Dish up the ragout of chicken, &c., in the centre, sauce over carefully, garnish with peashapes of cucumber and asparagus points, previously cooked and seasoned, and heated up in a little butter. 982. Souffles de Volatile eu Caisses.—6 oz. raio chicken (fillet), 2 whole eggs, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 gill cream, 1 truffle, 2 mush- rooms, \ oz. butter, salt and pepper. Free the meat from skin and sinews, pound it in a mortar until smooth, add by degrees the yolks of four eggs and the cream, season to taste, and rub it through a fine sieve. Chop the truffle and mush- rooms (preserved) rather finely and add to the farce. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and mix it carefully with the above. Have six to eight chine or paper souffle cases, well buttered. Divide the mixture in equal parts into the cases, so that they are about three-parts full. Put them on a baking-sheet or saute-pan and bake in a fairly hot oven for about eighteen minutes. Arrange the cases