488 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK neatly in a salad bowl or dish, mix two parts of salad oil with one part of vinegar, add pepper and salt to taste, and a little chopped parsley, stir well and pour over the sliced cucumbers. 1512. Salade de Concombre et, Celeri {Celery and Cucumber Salad),—This is one of the finest salads, though not much known. Wash some white celery according to the quantity required; cut it lengthways into fine strips or shreds, and throw it into iced water for about half an hour. Peel a cucumber very thinly, and cut in the same way as the celery. Drain the latter and put it in a bowl with the cucumber, season with salt and pepper, and mix it well with mayonnaise dressing. Heap it up in the bowl, wipe the sides of the bowl with a damp cloth, surround the salad with a border of small red radishes, garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs, sprinkle over a little finely chopped French gherkin and parsley, and serve. Ordinary salad dressing, oil and vinegar or so called vinaigrette sauce, will do as well if mayonnaise sauce is not handy or convenient to use. 1518. Salade de Chicoree (.Endive Salad).—Trim and wash well a nice endive, divide into small pieces, drain and dry in a cloth or salad basket, put it in a salad bowl, season with pepper and salt, pour over some salad dressing (No. 1554), and mix thoroughly. Batavia can be used in place of endive. Finely shredded celery, sprigs of watercresses or small cress may be mixed with this salad if liked. 1514. Salade de Chicoree au Lard (Endive Salad with Bacon).—1 head white endive, 4 thin slices of streaky bacon, salt and pepper to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls French wine vinegar. Pick, wrash, and rinse the endive, using only the white (bleached) leaves. Divide them into short pieces and place them in a cloth to thoroughly drain them. Remove'the rind from the bacon, cut the latter into shreds, and fry a golden brown in a frying or omelette pan (they must be tossed over the fire till of a rich light brown colour). Drain the cooked bacon on a sieve or on paper to free it from the liquid fat. Now mix with the endive, adding the needful quantity of salt and pepper, also the vinegar. Mix the whole thoroughly, wipe the side of the salad bowl, and serve. 1515. Salade d la Jardiniere (Mixed Vegetable Salad).— Have ready the following ingredients :—1 small or ( a large cooked cauliflower, 1 small cooked and pickled beetroot, 2 to 8 cooked patatoes (not mealy), 1 small pickled cucumber, ‘l firm tomatoes, 1 crisp lettuce or endive, ^ pint mayonnaise dressing (No. 277). Divide the cauliflower into very small portions, cut the beetroot into shreds and the potatoes into small strips, slice the cucumber and the tomatoes. Range all these ingredients in layers in a salad bowl; season each layer slightly with salt and pepper, and pour a little salad dressing (mayonnaise) over all; pile up the contents of the bowl, and arrange a neat border of lettuce or endive, previously washed and drained, round the prepared pickled salad.