458 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK letting it get brown. Add the flour (a level tablespoonful), fry a few minutes, put in the spinach, and stir well, moisten with the cream, and season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Mix thoroughly and cook gently for ten minutes. Put it on a plate to allow to cool. Prepare a fairly stiff paste with the flour lb.), one ounce butter, and two yolks of eggs; add very little milk, if necessary also a pinch of salt. Knead the paste well. Roll out very thinly. Stamp out some rounds (2 to 2| inches in diameter). Place a table- spoonful of spinach on a round of paste, brush the edge with egg or water, and place another round of paste on top. Seal the edges well, and continue thus till all the paste and spinach is used up. Drop the prepared ravioles in a stewpan of boiling and salted water, and cook for fifteen minutes. Drain them on a sieve, dish up, sprinkle with grated cheese, cover with tomato sauce and more cheese, bake in a hot oven for a few minutes, and send to table very hot. 1371. Butter Beans.—1 pint butter beans, 2 oz. butter, 5 yolks of eggs, 1 gill of rich stock, 1 tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, a few drops lemon-juice, seasoning. Soak the beans in water over night or longer. Simmer gently in slightly salted water for three hours. Strain the beans and keep them hot. Melt the butter in a stewpan, allow it to cool a little, then add the yolks of eggs and the vinegar, lemon juice, and stock. Stir these ingredients briskly over the fire until thickened. Re-heat the butter beans in this; season to taste. Dish up on a hot vegetable dish and serve. 1372. Haricots panaches a la Boulette.—± pint cooked kidney beans, £ pint cooked flageolets (both these can be procured in tins or bottles), 1 oz. butter, ^ gill poulette sauce (No. 207), salt and pepper. Drain the vegetables, cut the beans into short pieces ; melt the butter in a saute-pan; when hot put in the French beans and flageolets. Season to taste, and toss over the fire for about five minutes; now add the sauce, which should be hot. Allow the vege- tables to get thoroughly hot in the sauce, dish up, and send to table. 1373. Haricots Verts a l’Albion.—String one and a half pound of French beans, cut them into lozenge shapes, and boil in plenty of salted water till tender. Drain them and let them cool. Melt one and a half ounce of butter in a saute-pan, add the beans and saute (toss) them for a few minutes. Season with pepper, add the juice of half a lemon, half a tablespoonful of meat-glaze, and a tablespoonful of veloutee sauce (No. 206) or bechamel (No. 202). Mix the whole thoroughly and let it get quite hot. Dish up, piled up high, and garnish with triangular-shaped fried bread croutons and quarters of artichoke bottoms, previously sauted in butter. Sprinkle the beans with finely chopped parsley, and serve hot. 1374. Haricots Verts sautes.—These can either be served in the centre of a dish of veal cutlets (escalopes) or separately.