438 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK to this, and reduce a little. Dress the artichokes on a hot dish, pour a tablespoonful of sauce in the centre of each, and serve the remainder of the sauce separately. 1263. Artichauts a la Chamber)/.—6 large preserved artichoke bottoms, 1 oz. butter, 6 rounds of toasted buttered bread, 1 gill Perigueux sauce {No. 243), salt and pepper. Dress the artichoke bottoms on a sieve or on a cloth. Melt the butter in a saute-pan; when hot put in the artichokes, and fry them gently on both sides; season to taste. Arrange them neatly in the saute-pan, the hollow parts upwards, and carefully break a small egg in each artichoke bottom; put the pan in a fairly hot oven long enough to poach the egg. Dish up on rounds of toasted bread, about the size of the artichokes. Sauce over with a well seasoned hot Perigueux sauce and serve at once. 1264. Artichauts a la Lyonnaise (Globe Artichokes with Fried Onions).—Select four green artichokes, trim and cook them in salted water till tender. Drain, cool, and remove the leaves; toss the bottoms (fonds) in a little butter. Have ready some finely sliced onions, fried in butter ; fill the artichokes with this, season with pepper and salt and a little lemon-juice. Ee-heat in the oven for ten minutes. Dish up neatly and pour some demi-glace (No. 237) or veloutee (No. 206) sauce round the base of the dish ; sprinkle some finely chopped parsley on top of the fried onions and send to table immediately. 1265. Artichauts a la ALoellc.—Heat up some artichoke bottoms, the edges of which have been previously cut into flutes, place a slice of blanched marrow fat on each, dish up, and pour over a hot demi-glace sauce (No. 237) flavoured with lemon-juice and a good pinch of cayenne or paprika pepper. 1266. Bciyiiets d’Artichauts a la Viomoise.—12 very small even-sized artichoke bottoms (preserved), about f lb. chicken or veal forcemeat (farce de volaille) (No. 403), 1 lb. unsweetened savarin dough, seasoning, -clarified lard, and beef suet (in equal proportions) for frying, demi-glace sauce (No. 237), fried parsley. Wipe the artichoke bottoms with ,a cloth, fill them with well seasoned chicken or veal farce, and shape each neatly. When the farce has sufficiently set wrap each stuffed artichoke in unsweetened savarin dough, and place them on a floured board; set them aside to rise from one to two hours. Plunge in hot fat and fry gently to a golden colour ; take them up, drain well, dish up on a folded napkin or lace paper, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve with a boat of demi-glace sauce containing a good pinch of paprika pepper. 1267. Artichoke Bottoms.—Cut the edges of a number of artichoke bottoms as fancy borders, mark them over with some dissolved meat glaze into which a little aspic jelly has been intro- duced. Put a chicken puree at the bottom of each fond ; cut some hard-boiled eggs into halves, cut off the points evenly; place one half