ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) 509 and steam for about two hours ; if wine is used it should be added last of all. Unmould the pudding on a hot dish and serve with fruit syrup or custard sauce. This pudding is equally nice served cold. 1586. Ponding Prince George.—4 oz. finely chopped beef suet, 2 oz. whole meal bread-crumbs, 8 oz. Genoise cake, crumbled, 2 oz. finely crushed macaroons, 6 oz. preserved pine-apple cut into dice, 1 teaspoonful preserved cinnamon, 4 oz. preserved ginger, chopped finely, 1 small glass rum, % glass kirsch, 5 eggs, 2 oz. sugar, \ lemon. Mix the suet with all the dry ingredients in a basin. Put the pine-apple and ginger in a small basin, pour over the rum and kirsch, cover, and let soak for an hour; beat up 'the eggs well, and add by degrees to the dry ingredients. Work this thoroughly, then add the fruit, &c. If found too stiff a little fruit syrup or milk can be added. Fill one or two well-buttered pudding-moulds with the mixture, cover with buttered paper, and steam for three hours or longer. When done turn out on a hot dish and serve with a hot custard sauce or fruit syrup, flavoured with some kind of liqueur. 1587. Ponding de Pananes.—2 bananas, \ lb. caster sugar, 3 eggs, ^ gill milk or cream, 4 oz. Coombs' s self-raising flour, 1 oz. blitter. Cream the sugar and butter, work in the yolks of eggs, one at a time, add the flour (sifted), then stir in the milk or cream. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth. Peel the bananas, and cut in thin slices. Put both into the mixture (stir in gently). Have ready some buttered dariole moulds or one pudding-mould, put in the preparation, three-parts full. Steam or bake for one hour. When done turn out on a hot dish, and serve with a syrup or sweet sauce. 1588. Ponding de Marrons d la Creole.—f lb. cooked chestnuts, rubbed through a sieve, £ lb. caster sugar, \ lb. butter, 9 eggs, 4 oz. crushed macaroons, vanilla flavouring. Cream the butter and sugar in a basin ; add the macaroons and the yolks of eggs one at a time, add the vanilla flavouring, and mix in the chestnut puree. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix .the whole carefully. Fill up two well-buttered moulds, and steam for 1^ to 1J hour in the oven or in a covered stewpan on the stove. Dish up and serve with vanilla custard sauce. 1589. Ponding de Noel (Christmas Pudding).—4 lb. stoned raisins, 4 lb. picked and cleaned currants, £ lb. candied, peel cut into shreds, 1 peeled apple (russet) chopped, 2 oz. ground almonds, the rind of 1 lemon grated, f lb. suet finely chopped, ^ teaspoonful ground cloves, h teaspoonful ground cinnamon, f lb. bread-crumbs, £ lb. flour, a pinch of salt, 5 eggs, 4 gill milk, 4 gill rum or brandy. Put all the dry ingredients in a large basin, mix thoroughly, work in the eggs one at a time, and the rum or brandy. Butter one or twu pudding-moulds, fill with the mixture, tie over with a buttered cloth. Place the mould in a stock-pot or large stewpan three-parts full of boiling water, and boil for about four hours. Add more boiling;