THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 178 game, 2 shallots, 1 bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, some mushroom trim- mings, 1 glass port wine, 1 tablespoonful sweet oil. Peel and chop finely the shallots, fry in oil a golden colour, add the bay-leaf, thyme, and mushroom trimmings, chop up the carcase- of game, and fry a little in fat or butter, drain and put with the above preparation, add the port wine, cover the stewpan, and cook them for five minutes. Moisten with the stock and sauce. Stir well and let simmer for ten minutes. Skim well, strain or tammy, season to taste, add the red currant jelly, heat up and serve. 241. Sauce iPiquante.-—^ onion or 4 shallots, 8 gherkins {chopped), 1 tablespoonful chopped capers, 1 gill vinegar, 1 bay-leaf, 1 sprig of thyme, f pint Espagnole sauce {No. 286). Peel and chop the onion or shallots, put them in a stewpan with the vinegar, bay-leaf, and thyme, cover, and reduce to half the quan- tity of liquor. Strain into another stewpan, add the chopped gherkins and capers, moisten with the sauce, boil a few minutes, and serve. 242. Sauce Chasseur.—% pint Madere sauce {No. 237), ^ gill 'game liquor {fumet), lemon-juice, and '1 to 2 livers of game. Chop the liver finely and cook with the sauce and liquor of game for about ten minutes, season to taste, add a teaspoonful of lemon- juice and serve. 243. Sauce JPeriyueux.—Chop finely three large truffles, put them in a small stewpan with a glass of sherry, reduce to one- half (covered) ; add a gill of brown sauce, and one of tomato sauce (No. 271); boil for a few minutes, finish with a teaspoonful of anchovy essence and a pat of fresh butter. 244. Sauce au Bear re noir {Black Butter Sauce).—Put H oz. butter in an omelette pan, fry over a quick fire until it acquires a nut-brown colour, then add about half a teaspoonful of vinegar, and one teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 245. Sauce Genoise.—1 sliced onion, 1 shallot, clove of garlic, 1 oz. butter, small bouquet garni {No. 2), 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, 1 glass red wine {Burgundy), 1 pint Espagnole sauce {made from fish stock if desired), a pinch mignonette pepper. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and fry onion, shallot, garlic, and bouquet, add the wine, let simmer until the onions are done, then add the sauce, and let simmer gently for ten minutes. Strain through a fine sieve or tammy, add the pepper and anchovy essence, and use as directed. 246. Sauce Genoise, maiyre.—Prepare a mirepoix of 1 carrot, 4 stick celery, 1 onion, 2 fresh mushrooms, and 2 oz. bacon, all cut into dice. Melt 1 oz. butter in a stewpan, add the above mire- poix, also a bay-leaf and a few peppercorns, and fry for five minutes over a brisk fire, add 1 tablespoonful flour, stir until it acquires a nut- brown colour, moisten with 1 glass Burgundy wine and £ pint fish stock, boil up and simmer for half an hour. Strain, season to taste. Be-heat and serve as directed.